 

                        1 When I was small, I had a desk. It was weird, because I wrote on it, "When I grow up, I wanna be a singer." I, like, scribed it in. And it's still on the desk. Life at home was my dad, mom and my three sisters. You could say I had a heavy woman influence from a young age. We lived in a tiny house. I used to have a little bed in my mum and dad's room. I used to sit on the windowsill and imagine things like winning the lottery. When I was little, I knew that I wanted to entertain people. I was a proper show-off. At school, I was always trying to play the class clown. I've always been that guy that made people laugh. I used to get kicked out of class for singing Irish traditional songs at the back of geography. I could always hear my sister's music at the top of the stairs, and I used to pretend to have a guitar and I'd perform in my mirror in my bedroom. I wasn't really interested in things that other kids were interested in. They were interested in football and I was more creative. Wherever I went, my dad seemed to tell people that I could sing. It'd be like 2, 3 in the morning and I'd be singing full power at the top of my voice. My sister'd be banging on the wall, going: "Shut up, you can't even sing. Go to sleep." - Three, two, one. - We push! That was kind of, I guess, where the dream started. Oh! What'd you do that for? Ooh. It feels like we've been Living in fast forward Another moment passing by Up. up, up all night The party's ending And it's now or never Nobody's going home tonight Up. up, up all night Katy Perry's on replay She's on replay DJ got the floor to shake The floor to shake People going all the way Yeah, all the way I'm still wide awake - Here we go, London! - I wanna stay Up all night And jump around Until we see The sun I wanna stay Up all night And find a girl And tell her She's the one Hold on to the feeling And don't let it go 'Cause we got the floor now Get out of control I wanna stay up All night And do it all With you Up all night O2 Arena, welcome to the Take Me Home tour! London, are you ready? Katy Perry's on replay She's on replay DJ got the floor to shake Up all night, up all night The floor to shake We're gonna wanna stay Up all night Sing! Up all night Up all night We're gonna wanna stay Up all night LOUIS; Night I wanna stay Up all night And jump around Until we see The sun I wanna stay Up all night And find a girl And tell her She's the one Hold on to the feeling And don't let it go 'Cause we got the floor now Get out of control I wanna stay Up all night And do it all With you Up all night Like this, all night Hey, up all night Like this, all night, hey Up all night One Direction! One Direction! One Direction! British boy band One Direction has arrived to the frenzied screams of fans. Security was needed to control hundreds of fans. One Direction is taking over the music world one country at a time. One Direction. One Direction. One Direction. One Direction. One Direction. They're number one here in Australia. Number one in the U.S. One Direction are number one in more than 35 countries. Even the Beatles never achieved such transatlantic success so early in their careers. It's happened so, so quickly. It's not just unusual... And live while we're young it's unprecedented. 1D definitely set the pace for 2012, selling out their entire 2013 arena tour in mere hours. The group was forced to add even more dates after selling out an impressive six days at London's renowned O2 Arena. Whether we're together Or apart We can both remove the masks And admit we regret it From the start Oh, yeah. Yeah. Now I'm feeling good. It's nerve-racking being here now though, and actually seeing, like, where you're actually playing. Like, I sat here the other week watching Kanye West play. And now we're here. I just feel a bit nervous. All right, fellas, let's start. So first day of rehearsals. They've done the same choreography the last two years. Now I'm changing it. Heads, Will! Ha-ha-ha. - Should we start? Louis, you're on that X. I was never really a fan of boy bands before One Direction. I'm a massive boy band fan myself. Backstreet Boys, NSYNC. When people say, "You're in a boy band," I'm like, "Yeah, I am, but I'm in a cool boy band." So I'm like, "Okay, whatevs." Would he say He's in L-O-V-E? Right from the start, we were always very vocal that we couldn't follow the boy band stereotypes. Choreographed dance routines, and everything's the same. Here we go! Go, Niall! Taking the crowd with you! Love the stag. Keep the stag. Really good, like that. Keep that in. Paul, our choreographer, gets bored, I think. Niall, up that ramp. Harry, come on! It's a free-for-all. They hate dancing with a passion and it goes to a whole sort of different level. Can we just put that in? Some point in the-- That's the dinosaur. It's a bird pecking the sea. No, the bird, you dance out here, and the dinosaur's this. I love how we basically take the piss out of dance moves. And the winner: Zayn Malik. Okay, from the top. When you go on tour, the outfit you've got's the outfit you're stuck with, so I'm gonna be wearing these clothes for a good eight months now. Is this working? Can you get in? I feel weird wearing a trench coat. It's the Harry Styles look. It looks good. You look like one of those adverts. You do though. There's been times when they've dressed us all in the same clothes and we're like, "No, we can't do that." This is the: "I'm gonna rob your nan" look. This T is bad, though. I like this T-shirt. Is it not happening? They're a bit tight. I just wanna see for the look. Oh, my God. We have to be our own people. I don't think this band would've worked if we wasn't, because as soon as someone tries to tell us what to do... Now do a normal one, please, honey. It's like having five rowdy boys in a class at school. Honey, please. Harry. Come on. Harry. Harry, come on, we've got so much to do today. Please, my darling. Yeah, thank you. Love you. Come on, now. Harry. Ha, ha. One, two. Here we go. Boys, start in places. Liam! Yeah. And I'm like We've got six days here before the show at the O2 in London. We've got a lot to do in six days. Just now learning timing of everything. When we're going on, when we're coming off. Standby, ready to go. Where everyone's meant to be at different times. Steep staircase, these. The main thing for me is the stairs. I'm telling you. Whoo! Them stairs are steep. They're really scary stairs. I have actually fallen over in a show before. I tried to jump up a speaker and literally like, you know when you miss it and you do a little shin slam on the edge? Yeah, it was one of them, and it wasn't very good. Never thought it'd hurt so bad You're giving me a heart attack Whoo! Come on, let's do this one again. Yes! Nice to meet you. What's your name? Liam. I went on X Factor when I was 14 the first time. It's bad news. Simon sent me home because I was too young. Why are you here today? I'm here to be the best artist I can be. The first time I saw the One Direction boys was when they auditioned as solo artists for The X Factor. I don't know if any of you have seen my first audition, but it was horrendous. I hope it doesn't make any part of this movie. Oh, it's what you do To me... I just murdered it. I'd like to make a personal apology to Plain White T's. Hello. So tell me a bit about you. - Um, I work in a bakery. - And I was asking stupid questions about what pies are popular. You see these people that audition for the show and they come from the same sort of background as you. They just come from normal, working-class families. What's your name? My name's Zayn. And then audition day, 4:00 in the morning, I don't wanna get out of bed and go audition. So my mum physically pulled me out of bed. Imagine if I'd stayed in bed that day. Liam. I went back on the show with a bit of a point to prove. Cry me A river One massive fat almighty yes. Thank you so much. We got down to the last, like, 24 boys. I thought, I'm so close to this now. This is literally-- I'm on the cusp of making it here. The final contestant who's made it through is: Tom Richards. I could see my mom. I went: And she was going, "Yeah, yeah, yeah." And I'm like, "No, this clearly means no." I think a couple of us were crying. We were absolutely gutted when we got kicked off. I just don't wanna go home. I just don't wanna go. And then as I was, like, about to leave... Zayn Malik. Liam Payne. they just called all five of our names out. Harry didn't have a clue. I remember him saying, like: "Yeah, you kept us back because you wanna try and make us cry." "We're young boys and we're all gonna be crying." Make a bit of good TV. And he was proper having a full-on strop about it. And then I made a decision, and I did this in about 10 minutes. Why don't we put these five boys into a group? Then the most important thing for us at that stage for some reason, in our minds, was: What are we gonna wear? So ridiculous. We hadn't even thought of a name. We didn't even know if we could sing together. Niall did say, "We all need to dress a bit like Louis." Niall looked at Louis' shoes. He was quite cool. "I like his shoes. We should wear his shoes." Green polo. We like those jeans. Let's all wear those jeans. I look back on it now. If we'd have dressed like that... We first got together at Harry's dad's place. We did not know each other at all. We'd get together and sing a few songs in the nighttime around the campfire. We were meant to be rehearsing, but we actually ended up playing football. Most of the time we just spent having a laugh, really. We were like: "Let's just have fun." Let's just have fun and, like, see what happens. It was vital that we made friends before we became colleagues. The first act through on the public votes is: One Direction. Love you! Outside the studio, they've only sang once. There's now 200 fans. And I thought at the time, "This is unusual. This just doesn't happen after one performance." The crowds were starting to build outside the studio. Harry, get a picture with me! The fans were really hard-core and they would just vote loads and loads of times. One Direction. One Direction. One Direction. One Direction. What's happening? I've never seen a band cause so much hysteria so early in their career. Leading up to the final, I thought, "If I'm gonna bet on any of these three finalists, these are the ones I'm gonna bet on." The second act still in the final is: I don't think we're gonna win, but I really, really want to win. Just hoping for it. Rebecca. But they lost. We were gutted. Boys, how's this experience been for you? What have been the highlights? It's been absolutely incredible. That could have been the end of the road. I think that was the thing we were most worried about, because we just had such a great time on The X Factor and being together as a band. Zayn, what's gonna happen to One Direction now? We're definitely gonna stay together. - This isn't the last of One Direction. - Ladies and gentlemen, give it up for One Direction. Unbeknown to me, once they left the show, it was all about the fans. Literally from the second it finished, the fans made it their mission that One Direction were gonna become the biggest band in the world. This is why we have the best fans in the world. I'm gonna prove it right now. Proof. They're just amazing. They're amazing. They can always make fans laugh. They make me feel so happy. When I'm sad, they're here for me. Oh, my God! They're just genuine guys. We love them because they sing our feelings. They say what we want to hear and no boys, no one, says to us. Yes. They can't be real. Oh! They make us believe that everything is possible if we believe in ourselves. I know they love me. Even they don't know me. I know. They have changed my life. It may sound cheesy, but they have. We love you, One Direction! Whoo! I'm right in front row! Aah! I tried playing it cool You sing! But when I'm looking at you Whoo! I can't ever be brave 'Cause you make My heart race Shot me out of the sky You're my kryptonite You keep making me Weak Yeah, frozen And can't breathe Somethings got to give now 'Cause I'm dying Just to make you see That I need you Here with me now 'Cause you've got That one thing Here we go, O2! So Get out, get out Get out Of my head And fall into my arms Instead I don't, I don't Don't know what it is But I need That one thing And you've got That one thing I think our fans are dedication at its best. What they've done for us in three years is just... It's unheard of. There was this group of what I called superfans. And they were like promoters. Go on, spread the word! So I start tweeting and I literally made it my life. I've sent like 16,000 tweets. I was tweeting from Japan. That was quite mad watching our Twitter just gradually, like, keep totting up. These girls are crazy about One Direction, and I've got no idea why. I'm not a neuroscientist. As soon as Directioners listen to music and find the music pleasurable, what happens in the brain is that a neurochemical called dopamine is released and provides feelings of joy and happiness. Shivers. Goose bumps. Strong pleasure. The girls are not crazy. The girls are just excited. Oh, my God! The One Direction boys are causing hysteria everywhere. It's akin to Beatlemania. So a small group of British girls became a huge group of British girls, who then turned Europe into huge fans. America then stepped in. So in the space of months, the fans got the entire planet to support One Direction. Now I'm climbing the walls But you don't notice at all That I'm going Out of my mind You sing! All day and all night Somethings got to give now 'Cause I'm dying Just to know your name And I need you here With me now 'Cause you've got Let me hear you up top! So get out, get out Get out of my head And fall into my arms Instead I don't, I don't Don't know what it is But I need Pandemonium. So the whole world are fans of One Direction. You've got That one thing And we haven't put a record out yet. And then we released "What Makes You Beautiful." First thought was, "Could this work in America?" There's not much of a track record of any British boy bands breaking in America. Baby, you light up my world Like nobody else But once everybody heard "What Makes You Beautiful," it was a perfect storm. You don't know You're beautiful Stateside, these boys are making history. That's what Makes you beautiful They've gone straight to the number one spot. This week's number one. Best British Single. It's One Direction. Like, it just took itself off and took our career off too. It just went "fshoom." Thank you so much. Yes, they're all good-looking guys. Yes, they can all sing really well. But combine that with the style of music they were making, which was rock-influenced, so they had, like, a little edge to it. One Direction sound... There's a little hint of something dangerous. They were slightly anarchic. And that was their appeal. That's what makes you Beautiful Today is our last day in the UK for a while, you know? We're going straight into the Take Me Home tour for 10 months. U.S.A! U.S.A! The first time, it was literally just the UK that we were playing out to. Whereas now, it's all around the world. When we started getting ready for it, we just knew that it had to be good. I think we felt like we had a lot to prove. The fans have spread the word about One Direction so much that I think it might be a little bit different this time. We never expected any of that, so now there's something to live up to. And if we don't live up to it, then I don't know what happens next. You hear about bands who've-- They've come and they've gone. I don't wanna be one of those. One, two, three, four She's not afraid Of all the attention She's not afraid of Running wild How come she's so Afraid of falling in Love? She's not afraid Of scary movies She likes the way We kiss in the dark She's so afraid Of fa-fa-falling in Love Love Whoo! Maybe she's Just trying to test me Wanna see how hard I'm gonna work Wanna see if I can really tell How much she's worth What you're worth Maybe all her friends Have told her Don't get closer He'll just break your heart But either way She sees in me and It's just so hard So hard Every time I tell her How I feel She says it's not Real One, two, three, four She's not afraid Of all the attention She's not afraid of Running wild How come She's so afraid Of falling in love? She's not afraid Of scary movies She likes the way We kiss in the dark She's so afraid Of fa-fa-falling In love Love What about all the things She said? Talking on the phone so late I can't let her Get away from me Oh And every time I tell her That I want more She closes the door She's not afraid She's not afraid Of all the attention She's not afraid Of running wild She's not afraid How come she's so afraid Of falling in love? She's not afraid Of scary movies I She likes the way We kiss In the dark Kiss in the dark She's so afraid Of fa-fa-falling In love Love "Madison Square Garden. The world's most famous arena." Now that sums it up. I just don't know where it goes from here, really. It's mad. I'm really nervous. Me too, bro. Proper nervous, like. So crazy. One, two, three, four Na, na, na-na-na-na Na, na Na, na, na-na-na-na Na, na Na, na Na-na-na-na Na, na Tell me, girl If every time we Yeah, yeah Yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah If you wanna Take it slow You just wanna take me home Baby, say, yeah Madison Square Garden. No way did you ever think... that you would be coming to Madison Square Garden to see them perform. No. Here we are, hours before we head off to see our babies, ha, ha. Yeah. I'm in the mood For dancing, romancing I'm giving you It all tonight I'm in the mood for dancing Romancing Even if one member of your family is in the audience, it just adds to the nerves. For all of our families to be together in this place and be here, it's, like, amazing. Your turn! The main reason any of us lads are here today is because of our families and the way they support us. Um, you know the... - standup boys. - Cardboard standup. I want a Louis one. And then at night, I can just go and say good night. Aw. And that's my favorite hair on Liam. I just love that one. Just shed tears just looking at him. Wow. Yeah, you've only got the images. Yeah, that's all you've got. They become like someone in a newspaper in a magazine, to you. I always believed that Liam would make it, but never this big. Never in my wildest dreams would I think he'd be this big. He goes away for so long. Sorry. Heh. With The X Factor, Harry went to an audition and never came home again. - You weren't ready for that, were you? - No. As a mother, I should be taking him places and, you know, showing him things. And it's just kind of turned round, and for him to bring us here, it takes a bit of getting used to. It feels quite surreal. Please get ready. It's no-arm boxing, baby. You've gotta watch out-- No-arm boxing. Look at the time. Not just with my pants on, anyway. Hey. Keep your lens up here. Guys, Martin Scorsese. Hi. Pleasure to meet you. Nice meeting you. Hello. I've been listening to your stuff, I like it. Yeah? Yeah. That's amazing, actually. So amazing. I've been giving her stuff, and then she gives me stuff. ROCK I'm a big One Direction fan. They're gonna go all the way. They're gonna go higher. Next time you see them, we're gonna be in Wembley Stadium or Giants Stadium. That's right. And I'll be right there in the front row. Waah! It's strange going from being around your family constantly to being with these guys. But, like, knowing that there's four of your best mates, it's a great feeling to know that you're not in it by yourself. I can't believe I'm at MSG! I'm just a little boy from Bradford, and now I'm smashing it! And you sort of feel so proud. You feel like your heart could burst sometimes. All right. Let's give it our all. Come on, guys. Come on! In the back of your mind, there's always this bit of feeling that you gotta kind of be ready to pick up the pieces if it stops. And it hasn't stopped. - Three, two, one. - We push! Lately I found myself thinking Been dreaming about you a lot But up in my head I'm your boyfriend But that's one thing You've already got He drives to school Every morning While I walk alone In the rain He'd kill me without any warning If he took a look in my brain Sing it, O2! Would he say he's in L-O-V-E? Well, if it was me Then I would I would Would he hold you When you're feeling low? Baby, you should know That I would I would Would he say he's in L-O-V-E? Well, if it was me Then I would I would Would he hold you When you're Feeling low? Baby, you should know That I would Back in my head, we were kissing I thought things were going all right With a sign on My back saying "kick me" Reality ruined my life It feels like I'm constantly playing A game that I'm destined to lose 'Cause I can't compete with Your boyfriend He's got 27 tattoos One, two, three Wow! Would he say he's in L-O-V-E? Well, if it was me, then I would I would Would he hold you When you're feeling low? Baby, you should know That I would I would Would he say he's in L-O-V-E? Well, if it was me Then I would I would Would he hold you When you're feeling low? Baby, you should know That I would I would I would Would he please you? Would he kiss you? Would he treat you like I would? Like I would Would he touch you? Would he need you? Would he love you Like I would? Would he say he's in L-O-V-E? Well, if it was me, then I would Would he hold you When you're Feeling low? Baby, you should know that I would Here we go, O2! Would he please you? Would he please you? Would he kiss you? Would he kiss you? Would he treat you Like I would? Would he touch you? Would he touch you? Would he need you? Would he need you? Would he love you Like I would? Would he say he's in L-O-V-E? Well, if it Was me, then I would I would Would he hold you When you're feeling low? Baby, you should know That I would Oh, yeah I would, I would It's a great crowd in here tonight! Baby, you got me sick I don't know what I did Need to take a break And figure it out Got your voice in my head Saying "let's just be friends" Can't believe the words Came out of your mouth I'm trying to be okay I'm trying to be all right But seeing you with him Just don't feel right And I'm like Ow, never thought it'd hurt So bad Getting over you And ow You're giving me A heart attack Looking like you do 'Cause you're all I ever wanted Thought you would be The one that's Giving me A heart attack Getting over you Whoo! Baby, now that you're gone I can't stand Dumb love songs Missing you ls all I'm thinking about Yeah Everyone's telling me I'm just too blind to see How you messed me up I'm better off now Yeah I'm trying to be okay I'm trying to be all right But seeing you with him Just don't feel right Whoo! And I'm like ow Never thought it'd hurt so bad Getting over you And ow You're giving me a heart attack Looking like you do 'Cause you're all I ever wanted Thought you would be The one that's ow Giving me a heart attack Getting over You You're all I ever Wanted Yeah Every time you look like that Ow! You're giving me a heart attack Whoo Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to begin boarding Japan Airlines Flight 320. The amount of time we've been away from home just to make our band stronger and be successful is a lot and there's no rest. It's just go, go, go. Like, you fly from one place to another to another. - See you. Bye-bye. I think we're very lucky in the fact that, when we were touring this time, we get to go to a lot of different parts of the world, and you come across a place you haven't been to yet. It's just always so exciting. - Harry! - Please, Harry! Please! Harry! This is a little strange. This many photographers aren't allowed in the building in, like, England. Hey, Harry! Harry! I'm excited. 1D! 1D! 1D! 1D! 1D! 1D! How are you? You okay? Let's go. Bro, how crazy was that? I've never seen that. That's mad. That was crazy. Like, you know, all I kept thinking was, "And this is in Japan." Yeah. Monorail! Monorail, monorail Monorail, monorail Monorail Yeah It's so much cooler to be in a band than be by yourself. Just simply because you've always got people to have a laugh with, people to share your experience with. - Morning, everyone. - Good morning! Guys, gonna quickly run through the day with you just so you know what's going on. The way our life is moving at the moment, there's no way I'd be able to do this solo. I can't imagine being in a hotel room on my own. I'd be bored to death. We know that we've got a schedule to get through but we always think to have a laugh as we're doing it. Do it. That's what makes these trips a lot easier. Zip! Okay. Watch this. This is what we came here for, Tommo. Right. - Do I have to drink it now, is all? - Do it. There we have it. Just try to-- "Little Things." Little taste. Yeah, let's run "Little Things." It's you Oh, it's you they add up to Oh Break it down. I've just let These little things Slip out of my mouth 'Cause it's you Oh, it's you It's you they add up to And I'm in love with you We rarely get, like, a day off when we land in places so it's just nice to walk around and explore. Stupid enough of me, I didn't know it got that cold here. Thought it would be one of those countries that's always hot. Why? I don't know. Because I just pictured Australia. It's quite near, isn't it? Man, tell me... Oh, no. How close are we'? Or am I talking the other side of the world? Come on, Liam. It's like a soup. It's miso. What was that? Miso soup. It's miso soup. And you pour it in? You're meant to pour it into your rice, yeah? No, I think you drink it. You drink it, you drink it, you drink it. - Oh, look! 7-Eleven! Y-Eleven! Why have you done that? Said "Y-Eleven" at the same time. Well, I have to hit you as well, then. Hm. I went around wearing a surgical mask. Oh, you did? Yeah. Where'd you get one? I bought a packet of five. I have a spare one that you can have. Sick! You've got to take your shoes off, by the way. Ghana, Tokyo, London. Probably my three favorite places. I said, sit down. I said, sit down! Let's be honest, Ireland is the best country in the world. Hands down. Absolutely not. Hello. Her name is Noel I have A dream about her She rings my bell I got gym class In half an hour Oh, how she rocks In Keds and tube socks But she doesn't know Who I am And she doesn't give a damn About me 'Cause I'm just A teenage Dirtbag, baby I'm just a teenage Dirtbag Baby Listen to Iron Maiden Baby With me Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh Sing it! Oh, yeah Dirtbag No She doesn't know What she's missing Oh, yeah Dirtbag No, she doesn't know What she's missing Whoo! Man, I feel like mold It's prom night And I am lonely Lo and behold She's walking over to me This must be fate My lips start to shake How does she know who I am? And why does She give a damn about me? I've got two tickets To Iron Maiden Baby Come with me Friday Don't say maybe I'm just a teenage Dirtbag, baby Like you Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh Sing it! Oh, yeah Dirtbag No, she doesn't know What she's missing Oh, yeah Dirtbag No, she doesn't know What she's Missing Yeah, yeah We don't get to see our families as much as we used to. But we have, like, a road family. I don't want to remind you but it's 20 to 9. Twenty-five to 9. Five minutes to go. My name's Paul Higgins. And I'm the tour manager for One Direction. We're on stage in 5 minutes. Five minutes we're on stage! We were ready on stage five minutes ago. Thank you, Dad. I'm thinking of getting Paul to adopt me. I see him that much. He might as well be my father. I'll do it when there's no camera. Ha-ha-ha! The boys are very grounded, and that comes from the people around them. Lou gives us the best haircuts on a daily basis. Thank you. I love my hair today, thanks, Louise. Thank you. Stop touching me. Don't touch me. Thanks, Louise. Thanks, Louise. I tend to communicate with my stylist and we come up with a good, um, teamwork process. It looks good though, bub. Just trying to find a happy medium that works for everybody. It's five boys, you know. Louis, why are you doing that? Because they're brand-spanking new. It looks weird. Right, we're gonna do it again with the music. Line up for choreography! I met the boys first when they came off X Factor. It became quite apparent to me at the beginning that there would be no jazz hands or spirit fingers. When we do the dinosaur I know I'm meant to get on that ramp. Watch this! You're a dancer. Inside you're a dancer. Hang on a minute. I don't know how he's got patience for us. People think that we're just security at gigs, but we live with the boys, we eat with the boys, we train with the boys. Here's some of this. Oi! And I've got some of that. They're young kids. Unbelievable. Please give a massive round of applause for our ruggedly handsome, magically talented, musically gifted musical band! You're probably the youngest band on the road this year. And I think it's looking strong for the year, coming forward. It can only get better through the seasons. Our fingers crossed. We're gonna go on to have a successful time. - Got a few nicknames. - One Direction 2. Additional Direction. The Wrong Direction. It really helps having the musicians on tour with us. Banana split! Green apple! Because they are of a similar age to us, and they like similar things. Even when we're not working, the guys are like, "Wanna hang out, or go around to New Year's party," stuff like that. They're just proper kind of people. Three, two, one. Oh, my God! It's a very rare relationship for an artist and a backing band to have. Give it up for the band, everybody! It's not just those five, it's everyone who's on the road with us, - every day. - Just five normal lads having the time of their life. It's nice to be a small part of it. Now, come on. It's 25 to 9. There it is. The crown jewel. All right then, lads, tourists for the day. Get in, Niall. Ghetto. Can we do one of those pictures where you go like that? How do you do that? Where you stand like this? Like, touching the top. How do you do that? You have to get down. Is it working? Looks like you're holding it up. We're back now. Start of the European leg of the tour. Do you know what I'm thinking? We need to try one of them local delicacy things from every place. And here's the frog legs and snail stuff. Are you down? I'm not down for snails. I think we should try it in every place. Just try a delicacy from somewhere. I've tried frogs, but that's still not that weird. Like, snails is probably a bit disgusting. I wanna be last, yeah Baby, let me be your Let me be Your last first kiss I wanna be first, yeah Wanna be the first To take it All the way like this We've never toured Europe before, so because this is the first time we've done it, it actually feels like an adventure because, you know, a different country every day, it feels like we're on EuroTrip. We're in Dusseldorf. Germany! I heard Brussels is a place to meet people. My brother. Hey. We found the Belgian version of me on the streets. Just passed the ball to the best player in the world. Possibly the best ever. After you. Here you go. - I'll just follow that up. - You take the exact same shot, Louis. It's like a big lads' holiday, really. With a lot of work involved. I wanna be Last kiss I wanna be, I wanna be Baby, let me be your last I Your last first kiss Oh, your last First kiss, oh, no I Big up yourself. Can we sing it like this tonight? Because it's actually really good. Heigh-ho, heigh-ho It's off to work we go With a bucket and spade And a hand grenade Heigh-ho, heigh-ho Heigh-ho, heigh-ho Heigh-ho! Hands in. Put your hand in! - Three, two, one. - We push! One Direction! Good evening, Paris! The French fan is the best because, um, we are crazy. Vive One Direction! Good evening, Oslo! Welcome to Norway! We love you! Stockholm, make some noise! Welcome to Sweden! - Three, two, one. - We push! Good evening, Antwerp! This is gonna be good! One Direction, One Direction! Europe has been so crazy because there's a lot of fans who have been there for, you know, a year, two years, three years. And they've just waited for us to come. - Three, two, one. - We push! Berlin, make some noise! I think we're in the 50s now, like 53, maybe 54, out of 130-something shows. So we're nearly halfway there. Your hand fits in mine Like it's made just for me But bear this in mind It was meant to be And I'm joining up the dots With the freckles On your cheeks I And it all makes sense to me I know you've never loved The crinkles by your eyes When you smile You've never loved Your stomach or your thighs The dimples in your back At the bottom of your spine But I'll love them endlessly I won't let These little things Slip out Of my mouth But if I do It's you Oh, it's you they add up to I'm in love with you And all these little things You can't go to bed Without a cup of tea Maybe that's the reason That you talk in your sleep And all those conversations Are the secrets that I keep It makes no sense to me I know you've never loved The sound of your voice On tape You never want to know How much you weigh You still have To squeeze into your jeans But you're perfect to me I won't let These little things slip Out of my mouth But if it's true It's you It's you they add up to I'm in love with you And all these little things Our fans, they've been doing some different things for the shows. And they've all had these little signs they make at home and e-mail to each other on Twitter and stuff. And then they hold it up and we get to see what they've written. It's a real nice moment of the show because we are doing the same show every night. So it's nice to have that little different touch. It's nice that they take the time out to not only think of something, but they make it. And all of them put it into action together, so it's like a proper community thing. With our fans it's not just like they're fans of us. We've seen it before in hotels, people from Belgium will come over to the UK and talk with the UK fans, or vice verse- It's like we actually make people like little pen pals, which is quite cool. Best part of being a fan of One Direction is the friends you make through them. Because I feel like I've made my best friends through going to see them. We first came on the second week of X Factor, and that's how, initially, we met as friends. You get notes from countries that we've never even been to. And the crowds that come out to see us were just amazing. That just reminds us what these fans have done from the start. Away to the studio. It is weird though, isn't it? X Factor feels, like, so long away. And so much has happened in the last few years. Remember when we used to walk through here? It's quite little, isn't it? Can't believe we're here. Where's the buzzers? This is the new ghetto panel, yeah? Niall. Is this thing on? Is this thing...? Louis, Louis, Louis. - You're gonna be the next big boy band! - Boy band! It's really weird coming back. It just brings back so many memories. The good thing about us is the fans have grown up with us. People always say in interviews, "Think the fans will grow up with you?" They've already grown up with us. Sing it. It's you Oh, it's you It's you they add up to And I'm in love with you And all these little things I won't let These little things slip Out of my mouth But if it's true It's you It's you they add up to I'm in love with you And all your little things Just a natural, really, aren't I? I mean, I don't mess about, that's the main thing for me. I think the Europe trip so far has just flown by. When you think about tour rehearsals and everything, it seems such a long time ago now. I know. Do you remember when we met at boot camp? Yeah. I just saw you darting around in your beanie every day and just being like, "Hey, I'm Harry." Those were the days, man. Niall was the loudest person at boot camp, without fail. Wherever Niall was, there was a guitar, there was noise and there was loads of people around him. He was so popular. Yeah, I remember. When we first got together, there was always little clashes. Yeah. But there wasn't anything huge. Do you remember when we went to the coffee shop and Zayn didn't turn up? There was a serious conversation. I remember that. There was a serious conversation about kicking Zayn out of the band. Oh, my God. Imagine. Niall would have to be the mysterious one. Gladiator, ready! I think we individually bring something to the band. Like personality-wise, and I think that's what we all had individually that brought the band together in the first place. Here's the situation. I'm sitting here playing Xbox. And I'm kicking around... Oh! Bro! Louis is a great person to just sit and just admire what he's like. - Niall! - I'd always wondered how his brain works. Where are you? Come here, Niall. It kind of works like a weird comedian. Now this is how to do a quick and easy tea on your hand. Stop, stop, stop! Aah! Funniest thing is now is that me and Louis did not get on at all. We used to be at each other's throats while we were on The X Factor. I think there was one point where I literally wanted to whack him. He took it so seriously. We were two completely different characters. Whenever I wanted to do anything slightly mischievous, he was always the daddy. Sing every first line from the second "yeah." For "She's Not Afraid," we need to figure out something different. Only thing I've said to them is for the man lifts. That's why he got the name "Daddy Direction." On my own. No one likes me. Daddy of the group. But we've corrupted him a little bit. Zayn is... Zayn wears his heart on his sleeve. Real family guy. Listen, I'll tell you what. You're not wearing them when you're out with me. All right, Mom, I'll talk to you later. I love you too. Bye. He's got a real big heart, even though he won't admit it. I don't like it. Don't like seeing it struggle like that in the net. Terrible. Who wants to come and wake Zayn up? Oh. I hate this bit. He doesn't like to get out of bed. Zayn. Zayn, mate. Dude. Zayn. Give it up for Mr. Styles! Then you've got Harry, who's like perfect pop star. Just born for it. Like, loves it. He's definitely very charming. Can we take a picture of you? Sure. Yeah? I'll put my head through like this. He's just being Harry and he likes to go out and have a good time and doesn't want to waste a moment. - Nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you too. Mark, get the boom out of the shot! You're ruining it. What you doing, Mark? Between Harry and Niall, they're the two that really lift Hit it. the mood of the band. Harry, you okay? When you're worrying about stuff... Football! He brings you back down to earth. Niall is just, like, happy-go-lucky. The most carefree person around. Sombrero, sombrero. He just has fun the whole time. - Just does his own thing. - I kind of like have a protection over him, like he's almost like my little brother. Hold me, Niall. We all genuinely do care about each other. It's nice to know that people have your back. No! It's not on yet. When we have a row, it's like we have a row with a sibling. And you'll be massively annoyed at each other. Liam. But then we'll both laugh and that'll be the end of it. You're just back to being best mates. One, two, three, four The little sprinter, face on the floor. When we're on tour, they're still normal boys that like playing games. That's the wrong way! Won't stop me, eh? I am their dad on the road. Ow! We have a very good working relationship. The only issue I have is they're all a pain in the ass. Whoo! Nothing to see here, sir! They're pranksters. They love playing tricks on us. Back to the dressing room. Some people might look at it and say this is not very professional with all the clown acting and jumping and fighting and all that kind of stuff, but that's just part and parcel of what One Direction is. I don't even have a license! Sorry, I can't hear you! Put me down! Guys! Guys! Stop. Sorry, mate! Hey, guys! Six minutes till the biggest show of the whole tour and here they are taking bloody golf buggies. Hey, guys! Guys, come on, we gotta go! We just try and contain them. I got the key! Get to work! The one that I came with She had to go But you look amazing Standing alone So come on, come on Move a little closer now Come on, come on Ain't no way You're walking out Come on, come on Come on! Show me what You're all about Yeah I've been watching you All night There's something In your eyes Saying Come on, come on And dance with me, baby Yeah The music is So loud I wanna be Yours now So come on, come on And dance with me, baby This is Jeroen. Is this Niall? What's up, Holland? We want a sea of orange in the Ziggo arena tonight. Amsterdam. We're going orange. Orange face paint. Orange clothes. Orange... and only orange. Let's... do it. So, Hany, are you going to wear orange, then? Can't tell you, it's a surprise. Yeah I've been watching you All night There's something In your eyes Saying Come on, come on And dance with me, baby Yeah The music is so loud I've seen a few fans outside with orange on. I don't know if there's gonna be loads, but I'm hoping there will be. Every step I take I'm feeling more and more She's calling out She's looking good My heart is racing She's turning around Reach for her hand And I say Hey I've been watching you All night There's something in Your eyes Saying, come on, come on And dance With me, baby Good evening, Amsterdam! Ready, steady, clap. Everybody clap your hands. Together! Yeah! Yeah, that's the most, yeah. The Nike shop? Louis, - shall we go in here? - Zayn, shall we go in here? - Oh, my God! - Think a few fans have just spotted us. Probably tweeted. Relax, everybody. Come on. Will you all calm down now? You light up my world Like nobody else The way that you flip Your hair Gets me overwhelmed But when you smile At the ground There you have it. This is what happens. Heh. Step back. Step back, please. One Direction! One Direction! One Direction! We don't come out that often so we don't really see, like, this sort of side of it that often. So when we do, it's all a bit strange. - I love you! - Some girl was just trying to literally grab my ear. I think she wanted to keep it, but I was like: "That's mine, love, you can't have that, unfortunately. It's connected." Heh. Let's go, go, go. Where'd the glasses come from today? Somebody chucked them on stage. I put them on. These are sick. Look, they're red on the inside. Nice. Look at that. Quite cool huh? You look like some sort of sexy secretary. Let's move out, men! We've got days off scheduled. Hey, have fun going home. See you later, yeah? Have a fun flight home, you. I'll try but I'll miss you too much, Liam! See you later! Hello! I spend every single day with these lads. It's really weird to not have the other four lads around me. But I do actually look forward to going home. Lean in when you laugh We take photographs And there's no music on But we dance along Never felt like this before Are we friends Or are we more? As I'm walking Towards the door I'm not sure Sing it, O2! But, baby, if you say You want me to stay I'll change my mind 'Cause I don't want to know I'm walking away I If you'll be mine Whoa, whoa, oh, oh Won't go, oh, oh So, baby, if you say You want me to stay Stay for the night I'll change my mind Let me hear you, London! How we doing in the back? So, baby, if you say You want me to drive To KFC... I love chicken. So, baby, if you say You want me to stay I'll change my mind 'Cause I don't want to know I'm walking away I If you'll be mine Whoa, whoa, oh, oh Whoa, oh, oh, oh, ooh So, baby, if you say You want me to stay Stay for the night I'll change my mind Whoo! I like Holmes Chapel. Pretty much every other part of my life has changed, apart from coming down here. It's just exactly the same. My first kiss was down there. I kissed a girl, like, a bit further down. We were, like, against a tree. It was pretty steamy. Come on, come on. He just missed an open goal! Oh, we're gonna catch this. We don't realize how much we appreciate our family and hometown until you're gone. This is my little room in the house. Isn't that just the creepiest thing ever? For the first few nights I was here, I came in every night and I opened the door and I was like, "Jesus." I thought there was somebody in my room, but it was just me. "Oh, it's just me again." I'm pretty sure this is the only job that I wasn't sacked from. If there's any customers around, any nice-looking ladies, I just pop out a few piano skills. And just try and impress while in my glamorous Toys "R" Us uniform. All right, there we are, look. On a lunchbox. Next to Spider-Man. It's quite funny, it seems like a lifetime ago. When we get a day off, I like to kind of just be left alone to just relax and chill out. This is, like, my graffiti room. I just decided that I wanted to spray-paint the walls. It's cool, man, because nobody can tell me I can't. Could you imagine if I wanted to do this at my house at home ? My mom would be, like, "No way. You're not spray-painting on my walls. I don't think so." Got my own house. I'm like, "Course I'm gonna spray-paint on the wall." I worked at the bakery for about two and a half years. There you go. I still got it, you know. One seventy-six and your receipt. I worked with old ladies. Bye. Very nice old ladies. Barbara! Harry! Hi. She's the one who used to pinch my bum on the side. Yes, I did. Look out! I'll pinch your bum a bit more. See? You know, you meet a lot of people who kind of see like, a media perception of you. And it's just nice coming here and spending a bit of time with people who know me. Most important part of having time off: Being able to come home and see me mother, me father, my brother Greg. Lord, may Denise and Greg be united in love forever. I never had any problem going up and asking me father anything. The birds and the bees, the one-two-threes. He left here as a 16-year-old. He knows more about life than me really now. I come from a very rural background. Still live in a rural background. He's going out and seeing the world. I can't give him advice. He knows where he's at. This is the fifth day he's actually been home since he left two and a half years ago for X Factor. Yeah. - Hi, love. - Good to see you, my darling! How are you? Are you all right? Long time since I saw Louis. I know. I see you every day when I walk out the toilet because you're on the wall. Goodbye, my love. So lovely to see you. I'll get my earplugs then, and I'll come to see your shows. Yeah, that'd be lovely. I don't think we get to see him enough. There's a lot of things said about the mom's spirit and feeling towards it. But dads do feel it as well, especially at 17. You'd love to have that son around you. Your watch! Could I have a look at that watch you got on? All I had to offer him was to take him drinking and playing snooker. I didn't really have an awful lot to offer him, but that's pan' of your establishment as a young man. And that time went. I've missed it. I've missed it. You popping back in tomorrow? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's the only fellow in the family. He's gone. All right, let me get ready and then I'll be up, talk to you. Got a... Got a show today. I'm exhausted. Let's go! One way or another I'm gonna find ya I'm gonna getcha, getcha Getcha, getcha One way or another I'm gonna win ya I'll getcha, I'll getcha One way or another I'm gonna see ya I'm gonna meet ya, meet ya, meet ya Meet ya, one day Maybe next week I'm gonna meet ya I'll meet ya, I'm meet ya... One Direction just released a new video for their single "One Way Or Another." The 1D boys flew to Africa as pan of their involvement with Comic Relief. They're donating the cash they would have spent on a video to a charity that strives to create a world free from poverty. One way or another I'm gonna see ya I'm gonna meet ya, meet ya Meet ya, meet ya One day Maybe next week I'm gonna meet ya I'll meet ya, I'll meet ya And if The lights Are all out I'll follow Your bus downtown See who's hanging round... The success of the song was extraordinary. They raised well over a million pounds. And the great thing is that they saw when they were out in Africa just how many individual lives that that will make a huge difference to. One way or another I'm gonna see ya I'm gonna meet you, meet you Meet you, meet you I One way Or another I'm gonna win ya I'm gonna getcha, getcha Getcha, getcha One way or another I'm gonna see ya I'm gonna meet ya, meet ya Meet ya, meet ya One way or another I'm gonna win ya I'm gonna getcha, getcha Getcha, getcha... Pizza! Pizza! Pizza! It sounds like they're shouting "pizza." Are they? European fans, like, they're just crazy. They don't come out in the tens and hundreds. They come out in thousands. Arrivederci! Arrivederci! I just wish that I could just go along each person and just, like, chat to them. With how busy the schedule is, it's realty frustrating that you can't just stop and talk to them and tell them what they've done for us. Five minutes, we're on stage! One Direction! One Direction! - Three, two, one. - We push! Milan, make some noise! Thank you so much for having us! We've been One Direction! This one's for you. Thank you. That's what hurts the most Girl, I came so close But now You'll never know Baby, I loved you first I still get a buzz every time I go out on stage. I still come off with the biggest adrenaline rush. Then I get to come on the bus and stay up with my mates and laugh about things that we did on stage. Do you know when I taped you up in the middle of the show with the black tape? Is that what you did? I know, it failed miserably. You should have just gone with it. Thanks for your help, mate. One girl-- That is awful. Putrid. it is absolutely putrid. Own up. Own up. - Oh, my God. - Who's farted? Niall? Niall. You know, sometimes when it gets really smelly, Niall doesn't admit it. Do you know what I mean? Hold on. Who's the first to admit their farts? You should be proud of a smell like that. It was a creeper. No, it wasn't. Man, I would admit that smell. Let's call it. Niall, Niall. Whenever I close my eyes I picture you there I'm looking out at the crowd You're everywhere I'm watching you From the stage, yeah Your smile is on every face now An every time you wake up You're Hearing me say Goodbye Baby, you don't have to Worry I am coming Back for you Back for you Back for you You Lately, I've been going Crazy So I'm coming back for you Back for you Back for you You I've never been so into Somebody before And every time we both touch I only want more So tell me nothing's Gonna change, yeah And you won't ever Walk away, yeah And even though every night You'll know what I'll say Sing it! Goodbye Baby, you don't Have to worry I am coming Back for you Back for you Back for you You Lately, I've been going Crazy So I'm coming Back for you Back for you Back for you You Right back for you Right back for you Right back for you Baby, I've been going crazy I am coming Back Yes, I am coming back For you Baby, you don't have to Worry I am coming back for you Back for you Back for you You Right back for you Right back for you Right back for you Right back, back Right back for you Right back For you Right back for you Right back, back Lately I've been going Crazy So I'm coming Back for you Back for you Back for you You Zayn. Hm? Zayn. I hate to do this, dude. I just only need you for a bridge. What time is it now? You've been asleep for 10 minutes. I'm sorry, dude. No, I'll get up. All right. I appreciate it. Recording this third album has been extremely hard. We've been waking up in the morning and going straight to the studio. Then going to the arena doing a show. And then going straight back to the studio after a show. So it's been really tough for us this time. All of my 10-minute slumber. Heh-heh. We have to get "Best Song Ever." It felt like it was the next morning and you were already waking me up, and I was like, "Oh, my God." One, two, three. And we danced all night To the best song ever Give me one time short on the "ever." Best song ever Best song ever It was the best song ev-- My bad. What is it again? Best song ever Best song ever This time we felt musically stronger. But at the same time, that pressure's back on, you know? Will we match the second one? We're about to take me home. I'm naked recording. Smells like man in here. Smells like a mixture of boy and man. If you could imagine yourself being taken away at 16 or 17 years of age and then thrown into the spotlight. We're incredibly excited to announce that we are gonna be doing a worldwide stadium tour in 2014. People are constantly around them. And to hold their nerve and cool and enjoy it, and perform, it's a big, big ask. Zayn's recording all night tonight, then it's you and Louis tomorrow. There's definitely times where you're not, like, completely enjoying it the whole time. But then you kind of just have to step back for, like, a second and try and weigh out the pros and the cons. It's, like-- It's a no-brainer. I don't wanna do anything else. If you actually sit and think about it, we've done some amazing things. But to be honest with you, I'm still tying to live a normal life. That's exactly what we are. We're just normal 19, 20, 21 -year-olds, you know, just going out and mess about like any other guy at university or whatever. Like, we're not doing anything different. That's what I mean by us being normal. Our jobs just happen to be abnormal. Can't believe You're packing your bags Trying so hard not to cry Had the best time And now it's the worst time But we have to say goodbye Don't promise that you're gonna write Don't promise that you'll call Just promise that you won't forget We had it all 'Cause you were mine for the summer Now we know it's nearly over Feels like snow in September But I always will remember You were my Summer love You always will be my Summer love Bedtime for me. Bedtime for me. I don't like people saying, "You're famous." I just struggle with the word. It just gives you, like, no substance. It's not like, "He was a really nice guy" or, "He was really funny." It becomes this thing where it's like, "He's famous." And it's just a weird... I hate it. When I think about going out, I'm not bothered if it's me, by myself, like, I won't really think about it, but if I'm gonna take my mom, or, like, my little sisters, or whatever, I don't really like them to be exposed to that. Because I think it's quite weird for them to see all the people's reactions, and especially for my younger sisters. I don't want them to get confused. I want them to still think I'm the same person. One of the reasons why I don't like the word "famous" because then people use it afterwards and they go like, "He used to be famous." Or, "He's not famous anymore." And it's, like, just this weird thing of, like... Like, I was a guy before, I was the same guy during, and I'm the same guy afterwards. But people think they can label your life. I worry about meeting somebody who's truthful and is 100 percent just there because of me. I just don't like the idea of somebody liking me because of this and not because of me. And it's hard to detract and think: "if I didn't have all this, would this person like me or not?" You were mine for the summer Now we know it's nearly over Feels like snow in September But I always will remember My summer love Summer love You always will be my Summer love You always will be my Summer love You always will be my Summer love Come on, ladies and gentlemen, in we go. Show starts at 8:30. Get involved. Come on, inside. Get your T-shirts and your drinks and stuff. Get in, come on. We got a show to put on. We're going to try and fool the fans. So I'm gonna dress up as a security guard who works at the O2. Holy moly. Are you meant to be sitting there? Girls, you're looking for your seats? B three, just up here, girls. This is row B, ladies. This is your row. Thank you very much. Big fans, girls, yeah? Yeah. Are you a big fan? Yeah. Who's your favorite? Uh, Darren? Earplugs, ladies? There you go. Couple of sexy earplugs for you. Because they're not great, these boys. Ha-ha! They can't really sing, they can't really dance. What's your favorite song? Uh, "What Makes You Beautiful." Never heard that. Look at me, I'm not the greatest looking fellow, so, uh... I'm not beautiful at all, really. I seen them the other night, they're not the best. I think they're crap. Why do you like One Direction? Heh. They're perfect. They're perfect? Far from it, love. I tell you what, they're not great at all. I don't know why you even like One Direction! They're crap! All go home! I quit this job, it's crap! I'm going back to Glasgow. That is absolutely nuts. Makes me a bit uncomfortable. I'm actually scared of you. You look like a fat Russell Brand. I want to look like you when I'm older because I think you look quite interesting. One, two, three, four. I just wanna take you Anywhere that you like We could go out Any day Any night Baby, I'll take you there Take you there Baby I'll take you there, yeah Oh, tell me, tell me, tell me How to turn your love on You can get, get Anything that you want Baby, just shout it out Shout it out Baby Just shout it out, yeah And if you You want me, too Let's make a move Yeah So tell me, girl If every time we Touch You get this kind of Rush Baby, say yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah If you don't wanna Take it slow And you just wanna Take me home Baby, say Yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah Whoo! And let me kiss you O2 Arena! Oh, baby, baby, don't you know You got what I need Looking so good From your head to your feet Come on, come over here Over here Come on Come over here, yeah Now I just wanna show you off To all of my friends Making them drool Down their chinny chin chins Baby Be mine tonight Mine tonight Baby, be mine tonight, yeah And if you You want me too Let's make a move Yeah, so tell me, girl If every time We touch You get this kind of Rush Baby, say Yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah If you don't wanna Take it slow And you just wanna Take me home Baby, say Yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah And let me kiss you London, I wanna kiss every single one of you! Go crazy. One, two, three, four! Na, na, na-na-na-na Na, na Hey! Na, na, na-na-na-na, na, na Na, na, na-na-na-na Na, na So tell me, girl If every time Touch We touch You get this kind of Rush Baby, say Yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah If you don't wanna Take it slow And you just wanna Take me home Baby, say yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah And let me kiss you Are there any bears in Sweden? We need one of them big long machetes. Where are we putting the tent? Set up tent here. Over here? Yeah. And make the fire here. Let's just clear some of this. I'm on pine cone duty. To be fair, when we make tents, I'm normally the one who just pretends to be busy the whole time. Oh, it's good - that the instructions are in Swedish. - Don't need instructions, Liam. Here we go. This is the one we need. Yeah, this is the floor. What? You put it through the things or this? What you do with this? And this bit goes on there, I think. Stick the-- Clip the little silver-- I think we've done the wrong one. Looking good, lads. Because then the other bit goes over the top of it. No, you have to-- This is not going very well. That little hole. Oh, there we go. I've smashed it. Liam's nearly clocked it in about five minutes. Has anybody got a hammer? Where are you making the fire? Here. Oh, thanks, lads. Yeah. Cheers. You're not doing a tepee fire? Listen, forget what they taught you in Scouts. We're doing it the Tommo way. Now we know how to make camp fires. Louis, you idiot! Right. I think we'll just burn it like that now. Do you think if one of us wasn't in the band, though, the band would be this big? No. No. Definitely not. I don't think so either. I think we each balance each other out. Yeah. I think when we look back at this, no matter what we do after this, we'll never, ever beat this. Yeah, but isn't that scary? If the best times of your life are now, Don't you think it's a bit that's crazy. of a Benjamin Button thing, though? That we get to do it backwards. Do you know what I mean? We get to go after this and then have a proper, normal life. Just have, like, a wife and kids. Do you know what I mean? Don't you think that's quite nice? That's what I look forward to, if I look forward to anything. What's mad is that one day we won't be doing this. - I know. - Yeah. So do you think, like, we're still gonna be mates? - I think so, yeah. - I think we will as well. Do you want my e-mail now or shall I give it to you later? Ha-ha-ha. - I think we've gone through too much together. Yeah. We'll always be part of each other, like, growing up. I'm just glad that we did it right from the start how we wanted to do it. Yeah. There's been so many bands that have come and gone. And no one really talks about them anymore. I'd like to be, like, remembered for the records that we did. Do you know what? It'd just be amazing to be remembered, like, even as a mum telling her daughter: "The boy band at my time, One Direction, they just had fun." Do you know what I mean? "They were just normal guys but terrible, terrible dancers." Yeah. Are they down here? I'm excited to see what's gonna happen. Two, one. Everybody, three, two, one. So I'm gonna just get in the car up here. Come on, girls. Can't believe actually today's here. I have a present for you. There you go. Congratulations. Thank you so much. Thank you. My pleasure. Thank you. The key. Right. Are we ready? It's big, Mama! Oh, it's lovely. Oh, it's gorgeous, isn't it? We'll go upstairs. This is your room. Okay, you know what? Don't dirty the windows. Hello? Hello, sunshine. How are you? Hello, you all right, Mum? It's just so nice to hear your voice. Yours too. What's going on? I've just rung to say your house is amazing. You happy? More than happy, Zayn. It's like a dream come true. It's all right. That's why I did it, didn't I? I told you that I wanted to. I know you always used to say: "I'll always get you a house, Mum, when I'm older." I know you did, but... That's the best thing, isn't it, about what we're doing? You work so hard, Zayn, and I just... I'm so proud of you. Very, very proud of you. I can't even thank you enough for what you've done for us. It's all right, Mum. You don't have to cry. You're just happy, aren't you? Happy tears. It's all good. I'm happy. I'm very happy. Well, get off the phone then before I start crying. All right, then. Okay. Love you. See you. Talk to you later. All right, bye-bye. Bye. It's amazing, man. That's literally why I auditioned for the show in the start. Like, I just wanted to be able to give back to my mum and stuff. So it's wicked to be able to do that. It's really cool. Tonight is the biggest show we've ever done. I'm just throwing it out there. We are playing to 65,000 people tonight. It's just insane. Good luck. Heh-heh-heh. Look at the amount of policemen - we've got. - I can't get over how many police bikes there are. They've got 40 policemen on us and then they've got like 1000 policemen on the streets. It's quite scary, but it's quite fun at the same time. We literally have like a small army. We do have the army. Let's take over this place. What is that girl doing out the top of the car? With an English hat on. She is a literal rebel. I'm gonna marry her one day. Cool. Man, this place is huge. - Imposing, is what it is. - It's big. Just looking at the size of the place just gives that extra edge to the nerve in a way because there's like double the people to impress. How's it going? Wow. Hey, man. Wow, this is big. Let's have a look. This is mad. Oh. Bad idea. Wow. Nice day. Oh, wow. Oh, my God. This place is huge. This is mad. Sick. This is absolutely mad. I can't wait to get out here and play. I just wanna get on with it. Hello. It was the most exciting thing in the world. I really wish my parents were here, actually, to see it because they don't get to see a lot of us and to see us doing something like this and see what it's all about... But it's good we're getting it in the film, so then they will get to see anyway. So everyone's a winner. You know, if we'd got asked two years ago what we thought would happen, we never would've said this. When I think about how lucky we actually are to be in this position... It's, like, probably one in a million chance to be where I am. Three, two, one. We push! If one of us just didn't happen to go to our audition, then you know, it could be so different. We are definitely the five luckiest dudes. Good evening, Mexico City! Oh, my God. One of the best things about all of this, the fact that I have now made four new best friends. Mexico! We're all there for each other and I think that's why it works. It's cool, man. You don't get that if you're a solo artist. Now we're just five brothers, if you like, because we spend more time with each other than we do our own families. We just feel lucky that there's not one guy in the group who's an absolute ass. You guys have been right there since day one. And it means so much to us because none of this would happen without you. The fans completely changed our lives. We are so thankful. And I think it's important that we try and let fans know that this is a teamwork between us and them. We've got the best fans in the world. I don't think we'll ever get fully used to it because it's all just a bit too mad. We just go about it day to day, and we don't take it too seriously. And that's the main sort of thing that we all live by that keeps us, you know, as us. I could just do this for the rest of my life. I just love it so much. You know, I'd do it till I was, like, weathered and people were asking why I was still alive and stuff. Like Keith Richards. What a gig, though. I mean, we even got fireworks. Yeah, amazing. You know what, Liam? You are one of the worst-smelling people I've ever known. - Yeah. - Could we have a nod or a shake from the camera if I'm smelly. Am I smelly? Sing it! Baby, you light up my world Like nobody else The way that you flip Your hair gets me overwhelmed But when you smile At the ground It ain't hard to tell You don't know Oh, oh You don't know You're beautiful If only you saw What I can see You'd understand Why I want you so desperately Right now I'm looking at you And I can't believe You don't know, oh, oh You don't know You're beautiful Oh, oh That's what Makes you beautiful Last time, O2. Make some noise. So come on You got it wrong To prove I'm right I put it in a song I don't know why Why? You're being shy Being shy And turn away When I look into your eye Everyone else In the room can see it Everyone else, but... Sing it! Baby, you light up my world Like nobody else The way that you flip Your hair Gets me overwhelmed But when you smile At the ground It ain't hard to tell You don't know Oh, oh You don't know You're beautiful If only you saw What I can see You'd understand Why I want you so desperately Right now I'm looking at you And I can't believe You don't know Oh, oh You don't know You're beautiful Oh, oh That's what Makes you beautiful Let me see those hands. Come on, everyone. You guys sing! Na, na-na-na Na-na-na, na, na, na Na, na-na-na, na, na Baby, you light up my world Like nobody else The way that you flip Your hair gets me overwhelmed When you smile at the ground It ain't hard to tell You don't know You don't know You're beautiful Baby, you light up my world Like nobody else The way that you flip Your hair gets me overwhelmed But when you smile at the ground It ain't hard to tell You don't know, oh, oh You don't know You're beautiful Oh If only you saw What I can see You'd understand Why I want you So desperately Right now, I'm looking at you And I Can't believe You don't know, oh, oh You don't know You're beautiful Oh, oh You don't know You're beautiful Oh, Oh That's what makes you beautiful. Maybe it's the way She walked Straight into my heart And stole it Through the doors And past the guards Just like She already owned it I said, "Can you give it Back to me?" She said "Never In your wildest dreams" And we danced all night To the best song ever We knew every line Now I can't remember How it goes but I know That I won't forget her 'Cause we danced all night To the best song ever I think it went oh, oh, oh I think it went Yeah, yeah, yeah I think it goes, oh Am I better when I'm naked? Ha-ha-ha. - I like being, um, free. I recorded "What Makes You Beautiful" in my boxers. Who gets to go on the O2 stage in their dressing gown? Not many, so I'm gonna live that dream, boys. And I'm gonna go out there and rock me little socks off. Thanks, everyone! Said her name was Georgia Rose Free hugs. Free. Free hugs, anyone? Said I had a dirty mouth I love you. But she kissed me Like she meant it You'll give me a hug, won't you? Yeah. Another hug. And one more? One more hug? Please. One more? Please. And we danced all night To the best song ever We knew every line Now I can't remember How it goes But I know That I won't forget her 'Cause we danced all night To the Best song ever The most important thing is not to pull it. - Whoops! - Careful! We've got a bomb. Oh, that wasn't-- I did not pull that. Three, two, one, go! Ha-ha-ha. What happened? I've got no brakes! I've got no brakes! This is going okay! We're gonna be okay! You do realize you're not getting out of this? But you do realize you'll be good at crossing the road? Do you see it? Ha-ha-ha. I think it went oh, oh, oh I think it went yeah, yeah, yeah I think it goes, oh I think it went oh, oh, oh Musician's dressing room. When there's none of them in it, we trash it. I know You'll remember me And you know, I know You know I'll remember you And I know, you know I hope You'll remember How we danced Yeah, yeah, yeah Liam's still my favorite - I guess. - Yeah? Yeah. How's it going? Best song ever We knew every line Now I Can't remember How it goes but I know That I won't forget her 'Cause we danced all night To the Best song ever And we danced All night to the best song ever Hi, babe. Oh! I love you. Banana bombs! No! No! No! Hang on, we've got something here. Oh! Oh! Aah! It's in my finger.
