 

                        In the Buddhist year of 1974 (1421 AD) During the reign of King Rama II of Ayuthaya The Ayuthaya royal court became more powerful than Sukhothai and expanded to the east The Ayuthaya army seiged the City of Angels for 7 months Go catch the boy! Hey! Stop! Hey! Get down! Get down! Let go! Let me go! This boy is next He is the next fighter I will give you a chance little boy To save your life Let's start Your life depends on you, young boy Teean. Wake up Because of you I want to be as skilful as my father When will you be back? Is this the boy? Yes, father Cheang Kla There is a light in his eyes when he fights that reminds me of someone Spirits will fear him He has a powerful destiny His hands! When he uses a weapon he will be the best of the best I'm Cher Nung I am the leader of Pha Beek Krut pirates I am impressed with you That you fight with the crocodile unyieldingly and bravely If you want to learn about martial arts at my home I will allow you to Or if you want to go elsewhere, I will not stop you Shoot! Connect your mind and your body Fuse with the weapon and use its power That is the thing you need to practice Every weapon has a different power long and short weak and strong light and heavy The weapon is power Someone who can merge their mind and their body with it will be a great and powerful person The world and everyone will yield to their power I'm Cher Nung, the leader of Pha Peek Krut pirates who has given you a new life From now on you will always remember that you are a Pha Peek Krut pirate For the test of dexterity and cleverness Teean passes The next test is about fighting It is very good My son! This place is the place to prove the power of your mind Torture... Let me go! Help me! Help me! Help me! Don't be afraid of me You don't need to be scared I will set you free Come with me I will help you Don't be scared Don't be scared Your life depends on you Killing and compassion are the last things that a leader has to learn My brothers, my sons and my grandsons! Today, the spirit god of Fah Mansong has sent a black ivory tusk from this king of elephants to us as a sign of good fortune This special mystical object will bring prosperity to our community Now. I, Cher Nung announce that now and after, in future times I give Teean the position of second in command, after me Why doesn't dad teach me to fight? I don't want to learn dancing I don't want to go I want to be with dad You need to go, don't you know? You will be a great person Believe your mother I respectfully ask you to teach my son All of you have had a long journey Let's go in the house It is more than 3 months since Ayuthaya started to expand their power but the situation in Ayuthaya town is still not under control The heir to the throne is anxious and orders have been given to me to suppress rebellion in the conquered towns Why does Ayuthaya rush to expand its power? Does the city administrator, Ratchasena, seek to oppose the King's heir? All of this is Ratchasena's idea Power is dangerous but a person who abuses power is more dangerous This country will be aflame People will rebel everywhere The situation cannot be trusted Only you and the master are trustworthy It is in these circumstances that I will trust to leave Teean here Brother Bua I'm so scared, I have lost all spirit I leave him under your protection I will try my best as much as I can both of you need to be careful Heung Sri. Klong Kri Take us out now Yes sir My name is Pim My parents are both dead Master Bua has looked after me since I was very young And you? My father's name is Singhadachoo He is one of the four top military leaders of Ayuthaya I told my dad I wanted to learn about weapons and fighting I want to be skilful, like my father But he sent me to learn about dance How I can fight? Maen! Itch, itch. Itchy balls! Spin too Spin, spin, spin, spin, spin Gone! Gone too! Already gone Teean Do you think a person who learns about weapons will lead this country to happiness? I only think that learning about weapons to protect myself to help good people kill bad people can help this country be happy Good What you say is good Teean There are a lot of weapons in this world Which one will you use to help your people and country? You don't need to answer me now Take this Let's start business Let me go! Mother! Mother! Son! Son! Who? You there! You there! Do you really dare? Eat! Eat! Eat! Let me live I don't want to die I have money and slaves you can take if you want Okay I will give you a chance The same as you gave to me Take him to the crocodile pit! Noooo! I don't want to die! Help me! Help me! Set all the slaves free Thank you so much Teean How long will you go? Do you really need to go, Teean? If you go, who I will play with? I don't want you to go, Teean Don't go Teean... Don't be scared I will be back soon Let's hurry little master We'll be late I'm going Teean! Why do we need to hurry like this? Koon Kri! Where do you take the little master? Don't you dare try to betray the leader You're the betrayer! Little master! Get away! Release me! Release me now I tell you! I want to see my father! Release me! Dad! Dad! You will die like your master Ratchasena, you tyrant Kill him! Dad! Catch him! Look after yourself, little master Go catch the boy! Are you sure? The day I met you at crocodile pond It made me think of someone else That someone was me when I was younger That night the light in your eyes was strong A light like fire blown by the wind Today, it still shines in your eyes This is why, today I give you the position of leader of the pirates But if you have something on your mind You should go and finish it Me and the Pha Peek Krut pirates will wait for the day that you return Dear governers, ministers, statesmen and astrologers This is an auspicious time according to the heavens I, the first king of Kruttha Thep will open this ceremony to offer a sacrifice to the Sukhothai Angel and remain the figurehead of the Kruttha Thep royal family forever This is for my mother Soldiers! This is for my father! Aooya Singhadachoo! Soldiers! Father! I have returned! Your father's sword will not taste my blood Do not waste your time I have someone who waits to kill you Waiting... Now the Singhadachoo family are all dead only the son still stands alive in front of me You should hurry and finish your task quickly Father? A king who does not go back on his words must keep their promises You must keep your promise and let my family live whether I live or die The man in black who stands before you is the one who killed your father Kill him. Kill him! If you still have the energy Traitor! You deserve to die! If I'd known it was you, I would've killed you long ago I'm the one! The one who killed your father! Take your father's life back My son Cher Nung! Take him! But don't let him die too quickly Punish him and make him suffer Make an example of him and let him die slowly Teean's come to this point because of his past deeds If many of you put your hearts together to help him and show belief that he should cheat this death Then his mind can be released from torment and he can rest in peace [byagentsmith@yahoo.com]
