 

                        1 Strong storm appeared on the coast of the Philippines. Is expected to lead to the north. Her name is Jane. Jane.. Beautiful name. Sir, we are ready to diversion operations. Preparing to launch Dook Yong Tang Sa doong Kunsam en Sam kook on 12 and 14 September. Sir, if I may .. Yes. This operation will resulting in many casualties. Do we have to continue? Operation Chromite. Borrow a match. They fought for their country. Just look at the book could not be see the truth, right? Even so, our thoughts are still of this book came out, right? That leader, finally shot dead. I just want to enjoy the trip. See the blue sky But use them in the blue sky retrorika pretty to write it. Actually, it was just a lie. Do not strings attached, quickly said core. So saying, the sick slowly going to die. The sky was what is still seen very pretty? It is not like that? Buddy Pang Nam Chol Incheon I was gone. Incheon Division command chun Liu Cang operational. Pang Nam Chol General Pang Cue Cung wait your life between your car. Unacceptable, can not be tolerated, insulted, back to work! Tell France to send more troops. Press them until they want to. They still refuse, I myself which will call the president Auriol. One of the people of this australia Are they going to send the mother ship or not? Find out, and I do not accept any answer except yes. Yes, Sir. Sir. We recently received intel defenses on the island of Mido. Commander of the ruling, Ka Lim Jing. And construction was in under its control, not Pyongyang. Pang Nam Che Ka Lim Jing. Nak Dong river war how? A sea of blood. So lah. This deployment of the army now. This group of 226 combatants Incheon. Here the two forces group in the coastal entrance to the pier. There are 2048 people in the group, there are 231 coastal people, there are 427 troops to four people Incheon state support to force the pass. Kim Po, the Ha, Hua cen. This overall deployment army and artillery And port Inchoen the structure of the six-meter ravine. Certainly not going to climb to the top. If Americans from coast to crawl sign, how lifetimes? Entrance to the pier Incheon from road water, only one flying fish Here, although there are many the group will be in a key entry. Hold it this way, the connective accomplice of the enemy. Just this all. You see Cung co chan mo It makes cannon, any can not in working. Ships have dropped everything will completed, before getting hold of the sea. Oh, yes Why is not there a sea mine. Not in pairs? Sea mines, have all been in pairs nicely. Then on the map there should be a good sign. Go grab the tide in the sea mines That It was the underwriter I replied that report. In most supreme commander Reviews in places like anytime in the start? Today at 7 at the start. Park Dong Gok do not get too uptight All have been bothered, either good break lah. Already tired of sleeping alone. Inchoen in two cities This year turn out this way. The young master let me do it. What I have no hands? And instead told do not call me young master. So fast mid August will pass Kampung I would be flooded. After send this news, This even leaving. Yes. The first report of the troops Incheon see circumstances. Korea Liaison Office It KLO on the Incheon area Su Chen ce Sir, we made contact with the KLO. We must find the mines. And the exact location as the highest priority. - Do whatever it takes. - Yes, Sir. This is a direct order of General McArthur. That island eight lighthouse? Yes This one The high command Pang Nam Ce This hospital nurse colleagues. All a little caution. This colleagues, will pay attention to us. It is not like that? Pang Nam ce I am currently in Moscow to learn professor Michekov idol I Also an idol to me. Then the professor Michekov, take sister beautiful, wear fire shot at that time. At that time we were all happy students Know it is not? He said his brother Christian religion. Use pistol guess in head three times and died. Fellow Han cai san thought how? Uncle co-han if Christianity When it will be how? Of course on hold. If resistant did not hear, then what? That's how anyways uncle No, the uncle could meritorious how ... Say you'll kill him. But boy rancid how can follow the party Want to change the teachings must necessarily be finish up roots. Ce Nam Pang colleagues how he thought? Now the purpose of this? Pang colleagues nam ce. There is a god? See gods? Dewa where It be said that there is no god. It is not like that? Then the secret name of what? It was only talking about the origin of exit Fellow Lin. red Dostoyevsky Fyodor Dostoyevsky Office secretary. Long wait commander. What is wrong? Ce Pang Nam supreme commander know? Ya know. Very familiar? General Pang nam ce in No left neck wound. Already completed. Today there is no need extend the hair so. Baik begitu saja. Take it, it was a gift No, this is how can the love I, I did not do anything. Love fellow Han Cai San. Joking, quickly use the try. Yes General Kim Re Chen live .... It's a complicated truth. Let them submit or no, do not know where it is And blow just continue to put what can not? Do not talk nonsense. How many meters can not know where to blow up? Examination. All stops moving. Cue Commander Fang I download the report. Posts mines no water. Actually there is no set, I myself sure, please love map ocean. It seems colleague Park on mine water is concerned. Then how mines hold water? I came here of interest what hold it all? Is there anything I say no? That's the freedom I continue to receive reports. So what they want to see? Fellow Se Lin kuan. Is there a misunderstanding? Why all said a sea mine you angry Sorry. But did you know a rearview mirror? No. Start sending our agents related landing operations in .. Wan Song, Ge Mon Chen. Gong Shan. Make sure the transmission hijacked, send to many. Yes, Sir. Yes? Intel together with Everest in search for mines to no avail. They need more time. Without detecting the shrapnel, our fleet could not get into shallow water at Incheon. The command of the pack? Command? Connect them to the phone, said this I, say we need more time. Fellow laddie wei, the sixth of nine months of the UN force has been assembled, ready to Nak Dong river, the war on fox news. It should be from where the attack Sir. Lin said the organization bribes kua cen. Fellow Park was Mac Arthur there has been attacked? Incheon obviously not wrong. If arriving to Pyong Yang said help was a fool. Still lacking a bit of stuff. Follow me peer park. first in part of the information used to work. Did not hear anything? From the Soviet Union and China come together. Government there do not think Incheon. Now it looks MacArthur. Incheon will attack. In cheon know landed in war managed how many comparisons? 5000 to one That's not possible. But why would of Incheon attack. Want to be a hero Hah? He said they want to play the game Hero on the Korean peninsula. Wah, wah, wah ... Pentagon must have been delighted. - Sent three rancid silent, and crazy old dog. - Three people, huh? - Well, who's Moe? - Well, I'm Larry. Well, I've certainly do not want to be Curly. - Come on, gentlemen ... - Then I'm Moe. Big smile! Do you think stop in Tokyo Bay troops will gather first attack there. Wong san, Tin Wu Jin, Deng san all possible. Exit few airplanes. We lower the parachute troops chances are also high. This might also be break / Keep on Pyong Yang But Why not think of In Cheon High tides In Cheon is the worst in the world. Rise and fall on average by a height of 29 feet every day. Sometimes as high as 36 feet. We will ship stranded in 10 minutes from the point of entry. - And the port? - harbor too narrow to turn around. That's why we make 3 separate groups. Red, Green and Blue. Even if we pass, only No one landing zone in In Cheon. - There! - The landing was not the only problem. Sludge tank will swallow us. how do you expecting the soldiers to climb? Walking through high cliffs, with harsh waves. There is a simple solution. We use the stairs. - Appliances? - The most important... how do you expect to moving 75,000 troops at dawn? By simply using reference wild locations There is a lighthouse on the beach. We'll take it and there will be light. Well, I do not know about you, gentlemen, but ... He must have had a very conviction big. I will go back to Washington ... and notify the news good on President Truman. General McArthur says we do not need to worry, because we have stairs and lighthouse. We will not go to Busan, instead ... we will send 75,000 troops to In Cheon. Why? Because we have stairs and lighthouse. I think I'll drink to ... a successful attack. - Edinburgh do you want to win this war? - I think I should rnengajukan the same question to you, General. - Are you... - What do you think?! You know a lot of our soldiers who died in Busan and you file a suicide mission! Before the attack, Busan is a suicide mission! Do not attack them where they strong, attacking them where they are weak! Cut off their supply line. Forced them starve! What Mac Arthur stupid? So the troops in Nak Dong river in brought along, he even wants to come. Are they an item? so people jump went into charcoal. Hey, hey ... US defense secretary, instead there is said possibility In cheon successfully scaled back in 5000 only to one? 5000 to 1. That possibility you give in this case! This is the most military operations risk I've ever met! True it / War failed war successfully. Fellow Kao lin se kuan. Mac Arthur now you know what? I fight to win. Operation Chromite is the only way to victory. Operation Chromite ... Sweet name. You deliberately delaying the report to us. Plan. You waited until we got here all the way from Washington ... and then you are not only insulting we and the President of the United States. Then, you have a plan without notes. One plan! Why? Why are you so In Cheon interested in? Now Mac Arthur wants, the American president. So he's going to solve the 5000 appeal so we believe he was attacked from Incheon What are you after? What do you want from this? 2 days after the war broke out in Korea, I traveled the secret of Tokyo to assess the damage. I found a young man Korea alone in the ditch. Not more than 16 years. He did not have a gun, do not wear clothes. All the others have retreat. I am confused. Why are you here? I ask to her. He answered ... I can not thank the boss let I resign his command. I was deeply moved by his courage. I said I'll give whatever you want ... He looked at me with fire in the eye and said ... Give me the gun and give enough bullets. The boy and I share something. We are soldiers. Two soldiers with the same purpose. Victory. At that moment I knew I would have save the country's children. 21.00 informants prior to the date of nine months ten must get narrow street on the map Weapons soldiers, stored in the data space. Now living just space Lin kua cen Quickly please sign in. Today it's time to leave with sailing boats. Two umbrella also brought? Hello, I cang sue sui, chairman of the group You're the most important forces in Incheon. Sit here. There is what can help you. I'll take the blue city map help me take it to go ou When / Tomorrow. I know, leave the map and its detail. Until Chu cen ce will all take first Must be carefull, this Lin people there take money Sign lah. Why did they not go to sleep? I could not see the children's eyes. Wife I'm around here to buy vegetables. It finished the war as well finished, you're good either case. I know, early break During the day we get the sign in the report. Jiang Po Mong Ready keeping when changing shifts. Nan ci cen concern over the guard force. In a short period of kuo ren cao window into the office to jing lin Sung san dong po ren te and get more weapons. wu ta and Lucien che da laddie ready car steering wheel to its place. At this time we pull Po to jinn and men. Equate moment. Now the hours 16:38 minutes. After the exchange forum, should fast out of there. Again, this includes what? More respectful stands tall This boy rancid why not say hello. Why not say hello Your hands, respectfully. One of applause / Again / You You bend your hands, you're respectful. There are people behind team It is the most important as a soldier. Need professor? Now the road. Remember that, come again. Left, once again. co. Remember Let There are still a lot of things going on report, you come back first / yes go lah Fellow Yang Chang cun. Today rarely happy, drinking again. Please slowly enjoy. To the left, in the recall. Fellow Yang can cun here no matter what? All doing, all back / Yes I brought a bottle I'm talking you do not hear well? I drank vodka today try vodka Do not move! damn dog Quickly open. Please.... Seats founded Son of a bitch! It's okay, right? The map is on hold well You go first. Reng kuo. Shit. Doing it again quickly after. Ren kuo. Let's go. Come on! After that move to In choen come on lah. In choen. What is wrong? Please get out of there, they are all false, trap Nang pu Park Nam ce there anything you want to ask. you sent There are things they send all know. There was one person ... His father was moving, want but it did not commit. So now kill The father of crazy people crazy Even their colleagues also killed, and then run off to the Korean peninsula That's the guy I remember, that person looks That madman what his name? Chang right su / True Chang su rights Cang rights su Cang right su you doing here? Answer me cang su rights. How Wait Get out. Street. Yang Po tong Who The southern part to the rapid entry / Quick. Create the south sekses / Quick. Sir. A quick car ride. Sir. Fellow dung kuan lin quick getaway. Quickly blurred. Come with me. the te the The te / Quick go. Should not. No. It is basic to no good. In front of the eyes blurred. Who disconnect / I. There is still a bastard? She saw him coming in Fellow lin si kuan. I see them in the right captured weapons, siblings You brother? Please explain me Ouch why trembling. Quick release. What's your name? / Li Yong ce. Love guns at you are? Who? That person who / Uncle very large eyes Kim re sui Kim re sui Promised in this place and not in school No changing circumstances seems rather hazard. Why no sound, do not eat well? Still trembling arms in hand? Help brave little He informants In choen. Troops responsibility meal he said more or less. Go to Dong Men first Youth is not a time life, it is our mind. - Ah General Benderberg. - General McArthur. Glad to see you. Please sit down, like tea? Coffee? You put us in an impossible situation generals. Truman was consider .. Your plan. But he wanted to clarify one thing. We do not want the Chinese join the battle. When we arrived at this line. The war must end. This war will not stop only because politicians draw lines on the map. I will not approve it. This is a direct order. From Your top. - Why are you so stubborn General? - And why Truman did not? He wanted a limited war? It would not be good. Communism will not be in control with a limited war. These politicians do not know anything about the war. God, there's no point sending troops, except our victory is assured. I wondered generals, there What is behind the operation Chromite? What do you want from this? In Cheon What would be your Normandy? Huh? A magnificent stage, before your second nomination to be president? You think I want to go to In Cheon to be president? I've dedicated 50 years of my life in a war zone. I was Douglas McArthur. I won the fight, do not try rnengajariku and rnernpertanyakan rnotifku. Why are you asking themselves for this operation? Why report the name to go to war this time. I want Protect my mom I want to protect my mother pack. What are your plans after the war ended? I want good sleep. I also want it. I would have landed in In Cheon no matter what happens. Open the way for me, son. In choen I will wait for you. Come on. Uncle? Cai san What are you doing? Wait a minute. This is what the uncle? Uncle ... / Enough / Told me I This fake, you're lying. Do you hear me / Trash. What are you doing? Quick! Quick! It's doing? I wonder what are you doing Remove / Uncle. It is the most powerful, a place to escape. It's his father cai san made. It's a secret passageway and along the wall. Very useful Uncle what, you're a spy? Huh? Could see outside. Uncle you're a spy? Until the morning only quietly sit well. Uncle you crazy? why like this. All here until morning. Let me see the area in choen the person liable / Good. Who are you? Cui se laddie. This Now find this well? I.. Ever so a communist There is one word I really like Would where the fruit is still going to cook We are most sensitive students how word. But There was one day they were arrested Communists put a weapon in my hand. Tell me shoot, kill him! It was the father I I do not know what to do I had the closest relations with I had a friend kill my dad. As I doubt can not decide dad I calmly go Friends who killed father you told me. The idea of a brother Cai san you were lied to them. Uncle you just said. Turn off the lights. searched all Whatever was there. Chang sue siu where? I did not hear this name. You bastard. Make this person on the call until unconscious. Fast way. Help her uncle quickly help me. For me, he just told me not to know. This continues to be killed uncle. I AM A TRAITOR Release me was I beg please him This pack woman would want us uncovered, let her we all die I'm not going to dismantle you Obviously not going to dismantle you, please believe me. I just do not want uncle die, he will die Open the secret passage Sir. Uncle uncle ... lin ka cen You think good either, do you think it's worth? You hope all mean? Because not the same idea you actually kill someone? I'll give you a last chance. Cang sue siu where? Shoot. Fast. No. Uncle can not. Let me go. Uncle... Cai san here. Uncle... Cai san Korean peninsula where? Go! Quick says / Wait Already stop. I force jin san All clear? Who is the head of Cang sue sui I. Hear from troops cui ting laddie, have come here to help you guys. The decline in war surely In Choen War three days later, even gone Current reduction in its place appeared a flying fish You said it would be easy, there are other places? Did not see us in the chase killed Stop! - You think only you are in the chase in suicide? We also equal / boy rancid. Remove. Stop ... I had one last we have to do. Which can chun responsibility waterway him would certainly know. we kidnapped Yang cang cun You were way? The rooms here, we kidnapped cang cun up to the outside So you're driving waiting at the door outside Troops would definitely enter of the move. Eventually this is the most important part. Part I that case. I also went. Good 8:50 tomorrow comes into place. if we do not consider to have been arrested. Elsewhere Is there any problem? From this room, room x ray Who is liable? I was the right person doing it. Stop Stupid. You Yi the lien ci Enjoy. My husband .. - Come here. - Dear. She is very sweet. Do not worry I will come back alive Let's go. Had bother you Commander. What now? Han cai san Cue se cun Chui mo tung One sign Skip this han cai san you must think the nature of your own. The saying goes blood is thicker than water. You will feel asleep. Where are you going? Take her whole body X ray. No need, I myself can. There are things I want to say, here you can wait for me? OK. Hold fast stop them. Look out! They escape through the door back, all fast chase. come on Fast ... Here, come quickly! fast Let's run away. Quickly blurred. Depart. quick chase Hit-only. Grenades, grenade. quick aside quick chase They stopped! You go, I'm fine. The young master should live / Wait together go. You bastard. Do not die. Yes. We did it. older brother older brother Brother! Still no news of our group? In Wansan even succeed. What Wansan war plan. Successfully doing? Because the missing bomb. Hey ... how could explode. Why is there Do you think that a sea mine will be okay? No sound? What sound? Let me go, let me know if you like. Infateri our troops amounted 75ribu in 4 carrier representing 16 countries. Including the United States, France, and Australia. 260 warships ready in berangkatkan of Tokyo, Kobe, Seoul, and Busan. Day-H 1 regimen of marines dispatched from Busan, and join us there. We have also been recruiting Korean students of America States to act as our interpreter. Nice. Convey this message to spy X-ray them. Well, I have determined this way, contact KLO, in rnenyalakan rnercusuar Palmetto at 15th september 00.00 And guide our ships to its shores. And finally. May God be with you. Understandably. We will waiting for the next command. US naval forces have contact us, to be safe. Mine told me about the place of water. It's our job This tactic depends on us, if we can not doing so, they could not land on its shores. Do you think they will comes with full force? Yes. Let's hope so. I do not what the enemy's ability, and we lack information. That's why we're here. Liao Chang cun taken away, said that has been told. fronting on the island mao I'm sure for a while. Look over there. Pak here. All in place. Everything is assembled in place. Now at the start penalty All look good. we the law of traitors. All see clearly. Mr. Young do not be afraid, Do not lose courage. Why would you call me die young master. You're bigger than me, right? Call me Ta chu, fast. fast There should not be so. fast Da Chu Yes we Can be reborn. I'll let you be my brother. Sister Tai laddie Da chu! Silence. Sister Tai laddie. You damn. Sea of Japan, 400 Km from Jeju Island 13 September 1950 (H-2) Sir. Perk and Cassius now passes 400km from the south of Jeju Island. If we continue the path , tomorrow night would be dangerous. We will not go back. Once upon a time, I promise myself .. I believe I will live forever. Nothing gets old because life for many years. People grow old only by undergo their ideas. Year, may make skin wrinkles. But, let go of your ideas will make wrinkles your soul. This would not be My most recent military operations. Korean coast 14 September 1950 H-1 Offshore Korea 14 September 1950 22:52 AM Preparing to shoot. Preparing to shoot. Preparing to shoot. - Preparing to shoot. - Preparing to shoot. Understood, sir. Shoot! D-day. What should go to the island Ye mao? I go make sure to decline all with new safe here. Well, pray you succeed. I own intention to leave, until when not doctors could leave the task force. You can not go along with us? I will quickly go quickly return. This new cigarette in the suction wait is over. But the war ended we treat, my wife cook, drink wine again. Transmission of last contact, sir. Captain Jung advanced to the landing place. She said she would light a beacon so they have secured a landing place. LANDING PLACE 14 September 1950 23:41 AM Stop. We're friends group. LIGHTHOUSE PALMETTO 14 September 1950 23:57 AM 14 September 1950 23:58 AM Enemy at the top! Disputes will end soon. We can wait for our moment. Sir, look! In the port! God says, "There was a light." The road to In cheon already open. - Cease fire. - Cease fire. Cease fire. Berangkatkan leading unit. - Berangkatkan leading unit. - Cease fire. Let lah, come quickly. I'll make you die In cheon on the sea front. Come quickly. Chairman, we started ,. Move! You all, be prepared. Let the greatness of our country feel. Yes! Ready for war! Ready! Come on. Stop, stop! Get. Pak TMT was a bomb Mac artur know this? He would not dare to do so, we like this so this is not We have to block them. How. Of course we should do / Yes. Pang san, the way up the coast. Good Two vessels have been exploded and destroyed. Sir, may we have passed the track them, we should try to turn around? It is still receding, we can not do it Advance unit already heading landing zone. Should we continue providing cover fire, sir? - Increase the speed, as soon as possible. - Yes, Sir! Increase speed. Yang san You see position. Yes Hu men the way up front. Chairman. Chairman. Chairman. - Chairman! - Slow little. Slowly slowly dikit Do not be careless, quickly piled. There, there. Stop. Mac Arthur could certainly from the rear. Destroy the warship at the front. 2:36 3:15 transverse degrees of longitude degrees. Part alteleri ready Prepare to attack! Cang Sue siu Retreat, retreat! Quick finish! Follow me. Sir, may have been arrested Jhon and his captain. What should we do? Alert. Low tide, sir. For troops to Then a successful landing, The entire fleet needs to be enough time to pass through the narrow waterway. Sir, if we waited one hour, occasion we landings will drop significantly. - We have to take .. - I said idle, damn it. Wait for the signal. Shoot! Evade come on Pang san you hold down a little Pang san We go out Pang san. come on fast You wait here a minute. Just tell the captain Zye firing shots that fire. I think so sir. Cromite begin operations. Hey, Jang Hak Soo! You're out. Why the Communists? You say Not to let it all people live well? You bastard. People like you traitor how to make a fuss red flag people will be in vain. Cang rights su Traitor rancid. I want to kill you for the sake of the people. Up here already. Mother yesterday I went to see you In a place far not been in a hurry respectful and went home. I have no confidence backs You go from there. Mother... I for the sake of complete task Last select a country homeland. I understand the appeal of children in mother go ahead it does not serve. I really want to devote to you. Sorry. I'd be in heaven cares for you. You can leave me why It is okay. Nak, looking for your father. Search around your father. Yes, mom. This day could not be found chairman you should not be disappointed. Do not worry No matter where away Alive or not, no matter where. child you Will remain with me. Sue Siu Hak Soo! The place I was born in the south of Ma San, from childhood growing up in In Cheon. I had a superb chairman, Can shoot also can make a meal. I have one that would in his case. From now I think for one thing means. Create a nasty case of learning technology All my family were killed I communist descent. We protect the country. Said to be a lot of meters, I was there a lot of children Because I was a bit strong force Everything, berfotolah.
