 

                        Sir, Deva here! Accident case, sir. It happened in our area, I've admitted victim in BGS hospital. I'm little suspicious, can you please come down here, sir? I'll be there immediately. No need, I'll come. When did the incident take place? When did it happen?-10:40 A small collision, sir. He came across the car. Drunken driving? Old aged man? Critical stage. Sir, his name is Ganapathy. He's security guard with FSL. A small bleeding in brain. Nothing can be said as of now, sir. Did you visit accident spot? Car driver himself brought him here. Accident looks clean, sir but I smell something else. Is Jhansi in?- Yes, sir. Ganapathy has been working here for many years. Such an incident never happened earlier. The only evidence we've got is a phone call from Ganapathy. What did Ganapathy tell? He called us at 10:20. pm just before accident, he was very anxious, he told us to send police immediately and shouted about somebody. When we tried to call him back, he never attended the call. May be he saw something there and ran away outside in fear, sir. What could it be?- No idea, sir. Wasn't there anyone else with him? Since it was night shift, only Ganapathy was on duty. So, not many details. Don't know what exact it is, but there's something in this, sir. There's link between strange incident that happened here and Ganapathy's accident! A body went missing from mortuary. It was a female body.Her name was Maya. Who certified the death certificate? Other than forensic experts nobody else touched this body, sir. Did you inform Dr.Brinda? Due to disconnection in circuit all cameras are switched off except one. Ganapathy got scared after seeing something. He entered as soon as camera went dead. He went inside to check what had happened there. Only this was recorded after minutes, sir. When all cameras went dead, how could one camera be live? Most probably they may be here only. Arrange security around the campus. There must be a strong reason for security guard to run in fear. Someone may have taken the dead body. No chance, sir there's only one way to enter the mortuary. There's no other way. We can't enter security room now, sir. - Why? Pass code is changed. Called hackers team to break the code. Tell me details of missing dead body. She was chairman of Pharmaceutico Pharmaceuticals. MD Akshay Ramnath is her husband. Not only this, she had shares in many other companies. No heirs. She had one elder and one younger sister. According to reports the dead Maya has returned today from Los Angeles. Play marriage band! What's it, Maya? I don't like you.I don't like this marriage. I arranged it after you said yes, right? It was then, not now. All are watching us, don't embarrass me now. Only Maya could be so mischievous even at times like this. She made everyone around her so happy, should she meet such an end? How is Akshay?- Akshay is totally upset, father. I feel very sad to see him in this condition. Please take care of him till I come there. I'm here, father,I'll take care of him. Come soon. Guests are leaving. Shall I stay back? No. All of you go to Sheetal's house. Come back after Maya's body reaches home after post mortem. I'll stay back. Please leave me alone for some time. Why did you come without any information? I couldn't stay alone there. That's why I'm here.- No problem, right? I've fixed everything cleanly. Everything for you only. Shall we marry right now? Why urgency? I'm here only, right? Not just you, we both are going to stay here only. I feel like celebrating the happiness that Maya's dead. What do you want? - Get me anything. If you give me poison now it's nectar to me. Then, I'll give you that...deadly! A thin line... Sharply fell in my heart... Time has ripened... New vistas opened up... Brimming with truth... Your shadow has turned real... Shadow! Tell me, you're real... Many a musical instruments were silent till now... It is playing music now... I'm carrying you, O my beauty... Safely treasuring you like a book... You appeared with dew and entered my eyes... I was waiting for this day... I was waiting in the path for you... Won't our hearts merge like darkness.... Won't my desires get fulfilled... Why don't you answer the call? They're calling to offer condolences. Should I act if they feel sad? I'll act tomorrow morning. Akshay, please answer the call. I'm ACP Dev here. Tell me, sir. Can you please come to forensic lab now? Why? I gave my statement to your juniors today afternoon, right? You gave statement but this is different problem. What's the problem? Your wife's body is missing from FSL mortuary. What are you saying? Body missing? Are you playing game? Why are you getting tensed?Come immediately. I'm too tired.I'll meet you tomorrow morning. If you don't come now,we may have to come to pick you up. No need, I'll be there. At this hour? Maya's body missing.- Maya's body missing? Where? - How would I know? It is true that she's dead, right? I planned and executed it. Do you've to go now? Don't go. Could it be police trap? If I don't go now, they may suspect me. Sorry for calling you at this hour. What's going on here, sir? Prime report to us says your wife's body is missing. How could it happen here? Isn't there security here? Yes, a security guard Ganapathy was here. But he has met with an accident. Accident? - Yes. I think he saw your wife's body being taken away. He ran away in fear and met with an accident. He's in coma in BGS. I really can't understand what you're trying to say! How can it happen in a place like this? Actually incident like this had happened earlier too. Like drug trafficking, organ trafficking. They steal dead bodies and sell the stolen organs. If so, they'll not steal just one body. Is your wife having any enemy? No...no...Maya has no problem with anyone. From you? I mean your enemy... to trouble you... May hurt her... Nothing like that, sir. To disturb your family peace... - Ask family members. Then her sisters... - We inquired them. They say nothing like this. Your wife's life is insured for Rs.10 crores. You're the nominee. Moreover for her property and shares, there's no one else. It's just you. May be someone doesn't want it to come to you... I don't think there's anyone like that. Is there any problem with your land line phone? No, sir. I called your land line, nobody answered it. Then, we called your sister to get your personal number to call you. Were you not in house then? I went out to buy pain killers for head ache. You own such a large pharmaceutical company but went out at mid night for tablets... I'm surprized. I'm little tired.But okay. Sir, Dr.Brinda is here. Found anything about missing Maya's body? No. - Tell me the truth. No! Listen carefully without getting tensed. What's it, Akshay? It seems an incident has happened in mortuary. Guard who saw this ran out in fear and met with an accident, he's now in BGS, I don't believe whatever the police say, you go there and confirm it immediately, Security guard's name is Ganapathy. You've contacts in all hospitals, right? Why not inquire about Ganapathy yourself? I can't go out from here. What happened? Did they arrest you? No, just an inquiry. You check and call me. You can't smoke here. Forensic expert is waiting outside. According to your statement, your wife came back from Los Angeles today morning, right? Yes, doctor. I think she's scared of flight journey, right? She even tried meditation to overcome this fear. It's common to get heart attacks during long flight journey. Yes, there's chance. Did she have any heart attacks earlier? No, doctor. There's no way she can get heart attacks. We can say surely only after her post mortem reports are ready. Did she have any Parkinsons problem? - No, doctor. Schizophrenia? - No, doctor. Did she have fits? Family doctor gave you her medical records, right? Why are you asking me so many questions? Okay, there are records but is doctor's living with her? You're living with her, right? There's chance that many things happen in home which may not be in medical records. You may know about it. As her husbandtell me if there's anything like that. You know why I'm asking you this, I suspect it could be catalepsy. Catalepsy? What does it mean? It means...a machine sometimes shuts down immediately, our heart too stops working suddenly, at times it may start working again, you may have seen this news in paper or on TV, about dead people coming back alive suddenly, Is there any chance Maya may have regained life? There is every chance. Is there any possibility of happening this? If she did, Maya should've yelled for help. How can Maya's body go missing from here? If we think logically someone should've taken away the body. I too think so. Who would benefit from this? According to forensic science, every death is murder until it is proven otherwise. No. We can induce heart attack with stress and drugs. But it can be found only in post mortem. So, we need body for post mortem. How was his behaviour when you talked to him? How can he be? Even after years of my wife's death, I'm unable to forget her for a day or moment. His wife is dead for just hours only. Body is missing too. How cool he is! It's been long time since I saw you. How are you doing, Shakthi? How is your daughter Amrutha? She's fine. She's doing IPS in Delhi. So far? Don't you find difficult to live alone? Difficult...my daughter too is just like me. It was my wife's wish that she becomes a police officer. She'll back after training shortly, I'll arrange lunch, please do come. I'll definitely come. Keep this carefully. Where are you going? Where are they? - Please be seated inside. Please don't come out. Do you know what the time is now? You know my situation, right? Why are you wasting my time making me sit there? Please be calm, DCP is investigating. Body is missing, you're investigating. What would I do sitting here? Call your boss, I need to go home. Akshay, please sit inside. Where's your glass? Early morning at AM? Must celebrate US tour success, right? Get your glass. After I'm back from office, we've the whole night. I must go to lab. I returned home today only. Why are you leaving me alone in home? I've an important appointment. I know you're Company's director. Nobody has any right to object you from taking any number of holidays. Except me. You know very well about me, Maya. Whatever I do, I always do it sincerely. What are you saying, Maya? I've decided to fire him. Type Akshay's termination letter immediately. Don't play, Maya. I said I need to go to lab. This is my company. I've plenty of work in office. I'm your wife. The only job you've now is... To be with me only. You're free now. What? You're still like a child! I didn't make any call. Come home early tonight. Let's go out for dinner. You'd be asleep. I mean you travelled over 10 hours. Better you sleep. You're coming, you're taking me out. What are you doing here? I heard noise, so I came here. Fuse was off, they rectified it. How come the locker is open? How did the box in locker reach here? We kept Maya's belongings in this box. Check thoroughly. Cell phone is missing. I didn't take it. Did any corpse here take it away? If you had taken, please return it. - Why would I take Maya's phone? Take it out. Take it out. Empty your pockets now. My phone. That's all? What? Do what I said! Why? - I need to search you. I came here just like that... You're doing the wrong thing. Please listen to me. Please listen to me. What's this?- I don't know. I found it on floor, I kept in my pocket. Will you keep in pocket whatever you find on floor? It has your company label too. My company supplies to many hospitals. It could be one of them. It's a toxin.- What type of toxin? I don't know.- What for they use it? My company manufactures many toxins, I'm not an expert on this. I don't know anything about this. Call from my sister. Tell me, Anitha. - Akshay, I'm outside the hospital. The name of guard is Ganapathy, right? - Yes. Police information was right. He has been admitted here. Maya's body is still missing, I think police will find it soon. Are you facing any problem there? I'll call you later. Why are you changing my name? Is anyone there with you? Is your inquiry over? I'll take leave now. You can after giving final statement. Can I at least use rest room? I'll wait outside. Tell me, Akshay. I don't have time to talk to you, Bhoomi. Give me details about security guard. He's still in coma, not yet regained consciousness. Something went wrong here. Somebody knows our plan. They opened mortuary locker and took away Maya's phone. What are you saying? I don't get you. Not only that BL bottle is here, which I hide it elsewhere. Only we both know about this. Did you talk about this with anyone? Is it something I can discuss with other people? Who else do I know here other than you? Are you suspecting me, Akshay? Something is going on here, our plan mustn't fail at any cost. I don't know what to do. When will you be back? I'm scared. Leave the place immediately. I'll take care of body matter. It's late night, you go home, sir. I'll handle this case. No, this case is little complicated. Better if I'm here till we find the body. Why are you so late, Akshay? A small issue in lab. I called lab.- I went out to get samples. I kept phone in my briefcase. Sorry Maya, I didn't pick up your call. What's this fold under your eyes? Never saw it. You too got one just like mine. I think I've grown old. Already we're late, come let's go to dinner. Wear my favourite blue suit. You look very handsome in it. No, I've bought a new black suit. I'll wear that. I've grown old, right? Everyone grows old. I appear little over aged. That's why you've started coming late to home. I'm scared, Akshay. I fear you may leave me. You won't leave me, right? Why do you think like that, Maya? Whenever I hear this song, I feel like that. Why do you listen to it then? The way you're behaving with me makes me listen to that song quite often. Maya, I'll not leave you. Are you done? What are you doing? I feel like throwing up. Come quickly, we found a clue. What are you doing? What are you doing? Are you smoking cigarette? No...just a minute... Sir wants you there, come quickly. Come out quickly. What's the clue? - DCP sir will tell you. It never happened like this earlier. Despite so much security... - What you say is not right? Have you opened the lock? Lock is opened, DCP wants you there. Why did you bring me here? Sir called you. Where's your sir?- He's inside. You go. Entire building's CCTV is controlled from here. This air duct goes to roof, they broke it open, using it as fox hole, they entered the room. They cut the camera circuit and stole your wife's body. Do you get anything from it? No. - Why? Look, they changed the date also. People who stole your wife's body must have done this. This is secure door, it has pass code. Control panel has been manipulated. Pass code has been changed tonight only. Do you know the pass code? What are you doing here, Maya? - I came here to meet you. Ragini opened the door for me. Don't scold her. You were supposed to come tomorrow. - Finished my work in just one day. I couldn't stop myself from without seeing you. I saw your password. Are you following me? Forget it. Why are you using dates for password? How do you know it is date? Darling, all your passwords are dates. The day we've a fight, you use that date as password. Why? To remember it. It's better to forget few things. I like to keep memories. I'm hungry, shall we go for lunch? I'm not hungry. I'm hungry, won't you take me out? You should've told me earlier. Should I take your appointment to have lunch with you? Finish your work and come. Okay. Let's go out for lunch. Shall we go in your car? What are you doing, Maya? Shall we go on a drive? There's no doubt they used this lift to take the body. But we've to find who did it? Got any clue? Got information about footprints on staircase leading from emergency to roof top. What's your shoe size? What's your shoe size? Power trip, sir.We're checking, sir. Fire alarms are switched on. Water sprinklers are open. We're checking for the fault. Everything will be ready in few minutes, sir. Let's wait in reception till they get ready this. I can't talk to you, Bhoomi, don't call me again. Someone has used the date we met as pass code here. Bhoomi, please listen... What happened, Akshay? Can you hear me, Akshay? Some has used the date we met as pass code here. Listen to me, Bhoomi... What happened, Akshay? Maya is still alive. - Still alive? Yes, plan has misfired. She's playing with me. She's alive, Bhoomi. Maya has seen the message you sent me. How can she see now the message I sent you long back? Maya knows what we both had done together. She'll not spare you. She's playing a drama here that I'm responsible for her body going missing. Moreover Maya is not alive as per records. She can do anything. Nobody can harm her. Got it? I'm scared. We don't want anyone's property. I want only you. Don't get tensed, I need to go now. I'll call you myself after sometime. I think it's your sister on phone. Yes, sir. She wants me to go home because it's too late. Give me the phone. Why? Let it be with me till inquiry is over. We're watching his movements. He made calls from his phone. All calls were to the same number. That phone is also on his name only. Why didn't you trace that call then? We'll trace out as soon as possible, sir. Sir, we've activated security cameras. Don't know who but they've switched on fire alarms. Found this cigarette butt near wash room sensor. He was smelling cigarette. Look at this!- Tell me. BL report is here. It seems this medicine is used rarely to induce cardiac arrest. If anti-dose is not given within hours, sure to get heart attack. After that nobody can prove what lead to heart attack. How? Once it mixes with blood, it dissolves completely. Get FIR ready. Lock him in room with camera. Observe all his movements. Maya?! Who is it? Maya? Who is it? Who are you? - I'm Pavithra. From Move & Pick restaurant. Somebody left this phone here. Pavithra, that phone belongs to my wife. I and Maya visit your restaurant quite often. I'm Akshay here.- Is it you, sir? Please tell me, sir. How did you get this phone? She forgot the phone in bathroom. Found it while cleaning it. When? - May be hour back. If so, did Maya come there? Madam may have come but I didn't see her. Why did Maya go there? Can you please check the call list and tell who had called her? Call list is empty but call is connected through conference call. Conference call? We didn't order wine. You're our regular customer, right? So, this is complimentary drink from us. Can I know what this celebration is for? I've signed new business agreement. I'm going to Los Angeles in weeks. You achieve whatever you think, right? Why don't you also join me to US trip? I'll not get scared if you travel along with me. I've got everything ready to register a new patent. Just a minute. Who is he? - You don't need to know. I think you were talking about me. I don't like to tell you about it. Tell me. If I tell, you may regret. He's my lawyer Krishna Prasad. Lawyer? Isn't your sister Sheetal your lawyer? She's my company advisor. What will this man do? Sign this. Did you buy any new property again on my name? No. - Then? Divorce.- Divorce? You've become big bore to me, so... Don't play, Maya. - Am I playing with you? Did you believe it? How easily you get cheated, Akshay? You like slaves like me, right? Not everyone but only you. This is not divorce papers but insurance policy. Till now my sisters were the nominees for Rs.10 crore insurance. You're my heir to my property and business after me. I'll be very happy if you join me to US trip. You'll join me, right? Bhoomi, I'm Akshay here. Whose number this is? Police confiscated my phone, I found another phone here. Where are you now? I'm just entering flat now. Entering lift. Maya's phone went missing from mortuary. But this phone has only her call list. Then, whose phone is it? Krishna Prasad.- Krishna Prasad? I told you that Maya introduced him to me in Move and Pick restaurant. He is. Krishna Prasad is lying as corpse before me. Till now I had a doubt that Maya is alive. Now I can surely say she's alive. Because she locked me up here with a mobile phone in body bag. If we know his details, we can guess Maya's next move. What should I do now? Fly...fly...fly around the world... Birds will give their wings to us... Gift...my life is your birthday gift... Happiness is never ending like sea waves... Is there any life like this? With a life partner like her, life is taller than Himalaya... Flying high... growing up step by step.. Win laurels all over the world... Could've saved if she was brought few minutes earlier. Sir, Maya's company's full details given by her sister Sheetal. Everything is in this file. Sheetal is not just an advocate but company's financial advisor too. Krishna Prasad's name is mentioned in it. Recently Rs. lakhs were transferred to his account. But she says she doesn't know reason for this transaction. His phone is dead, can I check personally, sir? Have you arrested me, sir? You'll be under my custody till we find your wife's body. On what basis you've taken me into custody? I think you gave your wife a shot of BL to induce heart attack. May be you hid the body to avoid getting detected in autopsy. Why would I kill my wife? - You must answer that. What's the reason for suspecting me? Your behaviour,a bottle of BL in your pocket. That bottle doesn't belong to me. - But it was manufactured by your company. Your wife died with heart attack. Am I an idiot? To run around with BL in pocket after administering it to my wife. BL dissolves in blood in hours. It can't be found in post mortem also. Earlier you said you don't know anything about it. Now you're speaking like an expert. How many times you may ask about body, I don't know! You don't know or you can't tell? What do you want? Where did you meet your wife first time? Why rake up past, sir? Because you both had differences. Differences? In age..in status... In everything. Come on, tell me. It was in , 2004,Bangkok World Medical conference, I met her there. She played a prank on me in our first meet. Who is this poetry in velvet? The chirping bird in my heart... A dream that is enticing... The night sought a kiss... You hit me like a cloud of desire... You celebrated the first drizzle of kisses... Flowers are all on fire through the night... Is her body made from honey? Is she my destination? Weaved with love and passion... With a passion for search... What's this desire that is taking over my heart? Is it tune of love? You've taken over my heart... My heart is playing your music only... Her tresses are blooming flowers... Her shoulders are home to love... She's treasure of youth... Did you love your wife more or her property? Do police have right to ask any question? Tell me, how did you come to know your wife's death? I've told you everything in my statement, right sir? No problem, you can tell me also. When I came back from office, Maya was sleeping on sofa. I thought she was sleeping. But got suspicious after seeing her sleeping with slippers, so I woke her. She didn't respond. I called ambulance. Okay, when did you last see your wife? I mean when she was alive. Morning. She had just returned from US. When did she go to US? She went a month ago for business. One month! So, even if wife comes home after a month, you say you went to office without spending time with her. Am I right? Why do you suspect me so much? Maya would be having jet lag, so I went to office to give her time to rest. I loved my wife till her last breath. Loved till is past tense. Now? Did your love stop with her breath? Doctor says Maya could've got heart attack because of long flight journey. Why don't you consider it? When my men called, you weren't there in home. You said you went out to get medicine for head ache, right? Yes. You came straight here from there, right? - Yes. Where are the tablets? Why don't you believe whatever I say? Not just me, your wife too didn't believe you. 3 months ago, she engaged a detective agency to watch over you. Why should my wife suspect me? What's the proof? Payment receipt to him is here. May be she believed you had an extra marital affair. ,If her suspicion is true and if she divorces you, you won't get a penny from her property, but the question is, did the detective knew everything about you? I think he must have known. So, before detective meets your wife to tell the truth, you killed your wife. Am I right? My team has gone to Krishna Prasad's home. Krishna Prasad...? - Truth will be out in few minutes. Krishna Prasad is not a detective but Maya's lawyer. He's dead, sir. Look at this! Krishna Prasad! Ashok! What are you doing? Tell me. I'm in Krishna Prasad's office. Visited his home too. His whereabouts are unknown. Go to Akshay's home and check thoroughly. Jhansi, any news about Ganapathy? - No details yet, sir. ASI is there. Tell me, Bhoomi. I inquired thoroughly. Krishna Prasad is not a lawyer but detective. Any details about him? No, but I found an envelope near flat door when I returned from hospital. I checked it, it contained a pen drive. Did the envelop had Krishna Prasad's name? No...no...but pen drive had a folder named Krishna Prasad. I'll send the folder to you. I've sent it, check it. Did you see it? I don't know who it was but they've recorded our phone conversations too. I'll send it, listen to it. Bhoomi, Maya is going to Los Angeles for a month. As soon as she returns, I'll mix BL18 in her wine. She'll get a heart attack. I'll prove that she got heart attack due to stress of long flight journey. Maya knows everything. She may have sent us this. She's come after you now, please leave the place immediately. How can I go alone... - Try to understand me, Bhoomi. Your safety is the most important thing now. You leave the place now, I'll join you later. Won't they leave you until you confess? Don't talk illogically. We're not criminals till Maya is alive. I'll not discuss about you with anyone. No, we shouldn't have met at all. I'll do anything for you. I'm too scared, Akshay. What's that noise? Lift stopped. Stopped? Who else is with you? There's no one with me in lift. I'm scared. Bhoomi, press emergency button. Lift is moving now. You're fine, right? - I fear something might happen to me. I'm not alone here, I feel a shadow is passing me here. I'm so scared. Come to airport quickly. You go, I'll follow you. I'll wait for you in airport Coffee Day. It's raining heavily. Where are you going? I must go. I'm the officer here, you're under my custody. One person is in trouble, needs my help, please try to understand. I must go. - Who? I don't need to answer you. I must go, that's it. Just go inside.- Why should I go inside? What have I done to keep me under custody? You go in, I'll tell you. If I think I can... What man! I'm trying to tell you! Call me if there's any important news. I've sent my team to the address you gave. What had happened? Tell me. Her name is Bhoomi...Bhoomika. I went to a college as guest lecturer. I met Bhoomika there. She met me after the class. Asked me if she missed anything important. I lied to her saying yes. I came to class late today. She was very weak in chemistry. I started to help her. Without our knowledge love blossomed between us. We started to meet regularly outside. I felt my life refreshing after I met Bhoomi. I told her everything that happened in my life. When she came to know I was married, Bhoomi was very upset. After that she never met me. I almost went mad without meeting her. I couldn't live anymore without Bhoomi. How many times should I call you? Why are you avoiding me? You lied to me. - I can't live without you. Decide between me and Maya. - Look at me. We're going to live together. You're important to me. I convinced her that I'll marry her. But it wasn't as easy as I thought. Maya was watching me. She used to call times every day to know where I was and whom I met. I decided to eliminate Maya without creating any doubt. I convinced Bhoomi to accept this plan. I planned to murder Maya camouflaging it as natural heart attack. But she didn't die. At least I'm safe in your custody. Bhoomi is the next target of Maya. Save her first, sir. I can't understand one thing. You planned and executed your wife's murder so well. She's still alive... Maya is too smart! After getting suspicious about me, she followed to find where I was going and whom I was meeting. She came to know about Bhoomika. She understands very well even my smallest gestures. She may have changed the wine glass I gave her with BL . It appears logical to hear. But how can you say your wife is alive with this? No...no...sir...Maya is alive. Maya may have taken Neurolyptic medicine for catalepsy. Maya knows everything. What's neurolyptic medicine? If it is diluted in blood, it'll slowdown the activity of lungs, heart will stop working. Once it's agent gets into body, metabolism will take place, body will come back to normal condition. Isn't it risky to do like this? Not for Maya, it's just a prank to her. She hates carrying. Losing I've told you the complete truth. Please inquire about Bhoomi's safety, sir. ACP has called from Akshay's home. Found plan of FSL in Akshay's home. He has a blue print ready about how to breach FSL building security. His Jaguar has items necessary to dig earth. It has a shoe also. Size 10. One important breakthrough, sir. Found .38 revolver in his home. Three bullets are missing from it. Looks like it was fired recently. Any news about Maya's body? - Not yet found it. We're searching, sir. Ganapathy has regained consciousness, sir. Did he talk to you? - He did, sir. Hello control room, my name is Ganapathy! Security guard with Forensic laboratory. A body here...body is... Strange things are happening here, sir. I'm too scared, sir. Found these bullets now, it was fired from . revolver, the same revolver we found in your home. That's not my revolver. It belongs to Maya. Your wife is dead. - You haven't yet proved it. Body has not yet been found. You'll never find it. You killed your wife and stole her body. Maya's game plan is to make you think like that. Can't you understand this? Maya is responsible for everything. Krishna Prasad is helping her. She's playing this game with his help. Maya is still alive. No, you stole her body. You've this building's plan in your home. You confused and scared security guard. He met with an accident. When so many evidences are against you, am I fool to believe you? No sir, everything happening here is drama. Perfect drama played by Maya to trap me with confusion. Trust me, sir. This accident too is part of drama. I've told you everything, sir. Sir, please save Bhoomika. Is it? Inside dam? I'll be there immediately along with sir. Be ready. Fished out the body, sir. Maya! No one by the name Bhoomika was found in the address you gave. The flat is locked for many years. We inquired neighbours. There's no student by the name Bhoomika in the college you told us. Bhoomika is a character you created to kill your wife. Everything was your imagination. Clear the body. You people... - Reverse and get the ambulance. Clear the body. Careful...take it. Call Dr.Brinda and inform about finding Maya's body. Tell her to arrange for immediate post mortem. Deva, tell them to prepare strong FIR. He mustn't escape under any circumstances. He... - I'll take care. Come. You're lying! You're lying! You've abducted my Bhoomika. I'll not let you harm my Bhoomika. I'll not let them harm you... I'll not allow them to harm you... You can't walk, right? Your plight makes me remember my wife. You don't worry, Shakthi. She'll walk perfectly in months. More than our medicine, your care made her recovery quickly. I never expected this to happen. Why are you looking at me? You'll walk normally in few more days. You took care of me all these years like a child. Hereafter I'll take care of you like a mother. My daughter too was in car. Father! Don't fear...Sandhya... Driver of the jeep that hit us was drunk. We were fighting for life. Without any humanity, they left us to die like animals. Don't go, uncle... Save us! Mother! Father! Don't get scared, dear. - Okay, father. Mother...mother... What happened to mother? Mother! Mother! My wife died before ambulance reached us. I tried to remember the jeep's number. I couldn't. My daughter went into coma for years in shock. She told me the jeep's number after she became normal. Maya, I think this vehicle is accident prone. Last week too we ran over a man on platform, right? Is it new to us? - Uncle, please help us. I'll just check, Maya. - Where are you going? Is this important to us? We've to attend party, get going. Uncle, don't go away. - Child is witness. If we finish the child too... - She'll die anyway. We're getting late. Please save us. No more kick, I must have another full bottle. I'll tell you in detail. Bhoomika! - She's my daughter. She's Amrutha not Bhoomika. If you pick the call, answer it. It was me who stole your wife's body from mortuary. After my daughter gave car number, I traced you. I was eager to get you punished for killing my wife with drunken driving. But since accident happened years ago, it'll be very difficult to prove now that you were driving drunk. Moreover you may use your influence to get out. Body missing? You planned and executed your wife's murder so well. You said Maya is dead. My daughter was then. She asked me one thing, they hit us by breaking traffic rules, right? They killed mother, right? You're a police officer, can't you punish the criminals? I didn't have an answer for her question then. Had you at least called ambulance, my wife would be alive now. You escaped from the accident spot. My heart was writhing with revenge. But we decided to take revenge after years. First part of it is to make Amrutha act like your lover. You started believing everything after that. Including whatever Amrutha said. She came close to you to find the truth. She informed me after knowing the truth. Ever since then you were just a doll in our hands. Ganapathy ran out in fear because of me. I made you believe Krishna Prasad is detective by sending photos and voice recording. All my investigations till now were fake. Now that body has also been found. According to law you're a criminal. Look there, see for the last time your wife's body. Because in few more minutes, they'll load you too as body in van. We made you kill your wife. How you managed to escape without evidence after killing my wife, likewise we too made a plan to kill you both without leaving any evidence. Its 8 hours now since BL has dissolved in your blood. You'll get a heart attack in few more minutes. As you said reason for heart attack can't be found in post mortem also.
