 

                        [INFORMATION] [TITLE] [AUTHOR] [SOURCE] [PRG] [FILEPATH] [DELAY] [CD TRACK] [END INFORMATION] [SUBTITLE] [COLF]&HFFFFFF,[STYLE]bd,[SIZE]16,[FONT]Arial Gentlemen? Gentlemen, it's quite true.The weather continues to defy nature. Overnight the temperatureat the Arctic has risen 4.9F. Gentlemen! Another five degrees and Haifa Harbour is completely under water! It's true. New York, San Francisco, NewOrleans, Marseilles - every port's in danger. - Who is doing this? And why?- It's the work of madmen. Mad, sane... They're brilliant. They're demonstrating thatthey can control the weather! Turn wheat belts into deserts,put icebergs in the Mediterranean. - Control the weather, you control the world.- What do they want? - Why haven't they contacted us?- Oh, they will. But we're not going to wait for them.We've just had our first break. According to this dispatch I just received,our team of agents has them cornered! At any second... It was a trap. We just lost another team of agents. - They know every move we make!- They have a superb intelligence unit. How can I find that laboratoryif I keep losing manpower? - How about 0008?- Unfortunately he is not available. - International narcotics.- Please. We can't use 0008. They have a file on all our personnel. Wehave to recruit from outside the organisation. Well, ifyou'll write down the qualificationsyou believe necessary for the assignment, our computer'll give us the ideal man. Stand by computers. Derek Flint! My country awarded himthe Croix de Guerre! - Flint's wrong for this job.- Wasn't he under your command in the war? - Forget it. He can't take orders.- Derek Flint! Three promotions in a month! - And our Medal of Honor.- I said forget it! Excellent chap, expert frogman.Name's Derek Flint. We need a man who can follow regulations!We need a man who's disciplined! Flint. I don't care what these computers say.I know this man. He just... Yes, sir? Yeah? Well, uh... Well, how did you know, sir? Very well, sir. Yes, sir. Well, of course,that's your privilege, sir. Well, ifthat's your wish. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Very good, sir. Very well, gentlemen, uh... Derek Flint. Mr Cramden wants... Mr Flint? General Hawkins. Mr Cramden wants... What do you mean, he said no? I sent you... Yes, sir? But I sent General Hawkins himself, sir. Yes, sir. I'll contact Flint personally. Yes, sir. It'll be a pleasure, sir. Sir? Flint... Lower your hand slowly and smile. - What?- If he senses hostility, he'll rip you apart. Smile, sir. Thank you, Caesar. Well, sir, this is a surprise. Let me take your hat and coat. Perhaps nudes aren't your dish oftea. Have a cigar, sir. No, thank you. Breakfast, sir? - I had lunch two hours ago.- Oh, I must still be on Moscow time. - Moscow? Business?- No. Ballet, sir. - You travelled to Moscow to watch a ballet?- No, to teach. - Do you mind ifwe talk while I shave?- After you. - Flint, I'm here because...- You want something. - Don't be clever. I came here on orders.- Bonjour, cheri. Bonjour, baby. - Maybe my office is a better place to talk...- I doubt it, sir. Well, once you realise the importanceofthis project, I know you'll be interested... You know the high regard I havefor you and your organisation. - Thank you.- But I think your file on me needs updating. You see, as of late my interestsare less governmental than personal. All right for today? Excellent, carissima. Later. Now, Flint, in the pastyou and I have had our differences of... Well, discipline is a vital factor... that every citizen has got... Don't wave the flag in the bathroom.Just come to the point. Excuse me. Flint, the government needs you. Yes, well, it's good to be wanted, sir. This is the most important assignmentever offered! I hope you find a good man for your project. - Ohayo gozaimasu, Derek.- Ohayo gozaimasu, honey. Man does not live by bread alone. Later. Now, Flint, every computer designated youthe best man for the job. - That must have pleased you.- Look, I don't bear a grudge. - I know we've had our disagreements...- Sir, you know it doesn't work between us. Later, baby. - Do you want a shave, sir?- Flint, the world's in trouble! It usually is, but it managesto extricate itselfwithout my help. You're still the same old selfish, arrogant...! - Sir, you're getting edgy.- Don't tell me...! Later! Yeah? But l... Good evening, Monsieur Flint. Paul, table number one. - Thank you, Maurice.- The pleasure is mine, Monsieur Flint. Merci. Stand back, folks. Please stand back.Give the man some air. Thank you very much. Give me that candle. Why would anyone want to kill Mr Cramden? I think that dart was meant for me. It seems I have ajobwhether I want one or not. Gentlemen, the new head of ouroperations team, the man you selected, Derek Flint. Thank you, gentlemen.I accept this assignment. Oh, I'm sorry about that crude incision, sir. Thank you, gentlemen.We'll now have a private briefing. I owe you my life.The medics said four more seconds... - Three, sir.- Dammit, is there anything you don't know? A great many things, sir. Now, ifyou'll excuse me,I'll need a few hours to prepare. It worries me when he stops his heart.It's over three hours, isn't it? Yes, but it does relax him. Must be a dangerous assignment. Ladies. Sakito? You call Eddie and confirmour seats for the concert. Gina? Venison's almost ready to be hung.You'll take care of it? Leslie. - Call Freddie and postpone my fitting.- Till when? - Wednesday will be all right.- Are you sure? Of course. - Your code book.- Ifyou don't mind, I'll use my own code. - I'd rather you used this.- Mine's a mathematical progression. - 40, 26, 36. It's based on...- I can imagine what it's based on. Walther PPK with silencer.High velocity, extreme penetrating power. Yes, it's a very fine weapon. Tempered steel. Very effective at close range. But I have no need for these. They're crude. Dammit, these are the most... Stopwatch, please. When I nod, you start the stopwatch. When I indicate "stop", stop. This needle is dipped in curare.How long did it take? Three tenths of a second. Now, this contains 65 weapons. This has 82 different functions.83 ifyou wish to light a cigar. Chemical analysis ofthat dart. That's odd. In addition to the poison, there were traces of garlic,saffron and fennel on the feather. - What proportions, sir?- Propor...? Here. Marseilles. Bouillabaisse. Huh? Throughout the world in thepreparation of bouillabaisse, the proportion of garlic to saffron and fennel is two cloves of garlic to a pinchof saffron to a dash offennel. Now, only in a certainsmall section of Marseilles are these three condimentsprepared in these proportions. Whoever handled that dart was inMarseilles within the last 24 hours. Goodbye, sir. Hold it, hold it. - These are the men under your command.- I don't need anyone, sir. - You said you'd join the team.- The team isn'tjoining me. - Dammit, man, for once you'll follow orders!- This is my mission, sir. I work alone. Your mission? The US Government isinvolved too, not to mention the world! It's my show now. You're under arrest, Flint! I'm glad to see you kept up your karate, sir.These men wore Battle ofthe Bulge ribbons. - There's no ribbon for the Battle ofthe Bulge.- Exactly. They're impostors. Gridley? He's been with us... That's Gridley! Sir, ifyou look around the eyes,you'll see some scars. On the bridge ofthe nose. Plastic surgery. You've cracked.All this high living - you've cracked. In here! They're dead! ln here! They're dead! - Gridley!- This one's gone. - Excuse me, sir.- What are you doing? What are you doing! We still might save him. I've got a beat. I, uh... I'll arrange for yourtransportation to Marseilles. Oh, no, that won't be necessary, sir.I have my own jet. Yourattention, please.PagingMrDerek Flint. Yourplane is ready, sir. You said nine o'clock, Mr Flint. Yes. Thank you. Mmm. Yes. Check, please. Finest bouillabaisse in Marseilles, monsieur. Merci, monsieur. The shipment went as scheduled. I had some free time, and only here do theyreally make bouillabaisse. I thought... You thought? It is your musclethat thinks, not your brain. And this in plain sight of everyone. A harmless jar of cream.A little gift for one's wife. A harmless jar of cream? Someone in thisden ofthieves stole it and examined it. - Well, I thought...- You will leave at once. Look slowly to your right. Yeah! More! Come on, baby, come on. Come on, let's see you work hard. Come on, baby! - Hello, Flint.- 0008. - I wanted a word with you.- Yeah, my pleasure. Narcotics.A new, powerful drug. Hear anything? - No. SPECTRE involved?- It's bigger than SPECTRE. Who is it? GALAXY. - GALAXY? ls that all?- That's it. - So long, 0008.- So long, Flint. Hans Gruber, Hitler Youth Movement,escaped during the Nuremberg trials. I'm a much nicer person now. Well, I'm glad to hear it. Appenine-Tuscan kaolin. Water from the Pontine Marshes. Cold cream. - Rome? Why the hell is he going to Rome?- I don't exactly know, sir. "To buy ajar of cold cream." Cold cream. Cold cream, eh? The world is crumblingand he's buying cold cream. - Yourreport?- Mr Flint will cause no more trouble. An interesting statement, butnotfactual. The explosion. I heard it myself. The explosion was live,and unfortunatelyso is Mr Flint. Thanks to Rodney's desire forproof,we discovered there were no remains. - Why didn't you tell me?- That you were unsuccessful again? Rodney, you mustlearn patience. Gentlemen, forgive me. You are scientists.As such, you are accustomed to failure. It merely increases your desire for success.But in my business, failure is inexcusable. We've treated Flint too lightly.He's too dangerous to live. Yes. We've lostseveralgoodmen,anda valuedfriendin Gruber. - Gentlemen, I'd welcome the opportunity...- We have notyetlost confidence in Gila. Mr Flint will cause no more trouble. I havejust received the information I requested. You mean the impregnable Mr Flintdoes have one weakness? No, Dr Schneider. Four. - Madam?- Yes, would you unzipper me, please? Thank you. "Am walking into... trap." "Heading for the Exotica Beauty Factory." "If lucky, will lead to laboratory." "If not, please send flowers." I'm leaving for Rome immediately.You can contact me at the embassy. Gila? Our visitorhas arrived. - Good. Now I can silence him permanently.- Put away the gun. Violence hasn't worked. You have proof ofthat. Besides, how do you know he is alone? All right, Gila.But you'd better be right this time. It is my responsibility to deliver Flint. Buongiorno. Do you have an appointment? Well, not really, but I would liketo see the manager, if at all possible. My card. Please, I couldn't think of accepting this. Yes? - There's a man here. He's very insistent...- My name is Flint. - I didn't...- Thank you very much, my dear. You have a very charmingand efficient secretary. Mr Flint, do you alwaysbarge into people's offices? No, I'd rather be invited. Come in. I've a feeling I was expected.Have we met before? Twice before, Mr Flint.Once in New York and once in Marseilles. Oh, you must have been the blond harpist. And Gruber's friend. And you left me a little present.Ajar like this, right? - May I look inside?- Some ofthem are harmless, Mr Flint. You were right. We were expecting you. Well, here I am. Now, shall wetalk about the weather? - About what?- The weather. Of course. But not here. Personal matters require privacy. Oh, you have some little place in mind?A... a trap? You are prepared to take some risks, no? I'll answer all your questions.Is that a deal? - It's cold cream.- Cold cream. Yes, it's a deal. How romantic. Rome at night. A sky full of stars. It is marvellous, isn't it? You can almost see a whole galaxy from here. Shall we discuss it further? I thought we were gonnatalk about the weather. You won't believe me. You're too shrewd, tooexperienced to pay attention to our secret. You try me. They are controlling the weatherfrom inside a volcano. Right. Inside a volcano. Where? Where is this volcano? Not so fast, Mr Flint. There are many other details. Get some brandy. Now, tell me more about that volcano. He took the key. He's on his way. - You say you speak English?- Yes, sir. This man you described,you took him to this address? Yes. He was the one who was sitting therefiguring out the lottery numbers. Mm? Oh. Yeah. There's the building... - What's the trouble?- There's no building. - Will someone tell this idiot to make sense?- All right, now what happened? - Do you think he...?- General, I didn't have anything to drink. Now, just a minute.Nobody's accusing you of anything. We both know there was a building there. And buildings can't disappear into thin air. - So what happened to the building?- It disappeared into thin air. Great intelligence work.Your next post will be Peyton Place! You talk about discipline. - Why did you stop me from killing Flint?- Are you questioning my loyalty? No, no. I merely thought you might have felt... certain stirrings. You are romantic yourself, Rodney.There's verylittle air in thatsafe. Flint will die of suffocation. - Your way wouldhave been kinder.- Myapologies, Gila. How very thoughtfulyou are. "Have discovered locationof enemy headquarters." "Advise you send fleet thereat once and destroy it." Congratulations on the capture ofFlint.You have done well, Section Four. You willbe pleased to knowFlint's fourplaymates have arrivedatheadquarters, andare nowin the processofbeingprogrammed. - Get him back! We gotta find that location!- Yes, sir. That's it. That's... What's the message? "Will give you location later." "Am headed for... a family reunion. Regards, Flint." A... family reunion? Well, you were right. He's dead. - You will arrange for the coffin.- I've already arranged it. - It's on its way.- You were very sure. Yes. Weren't you? Send it. This photograph arrived minutes ago. It speaks for itself. He was the best. Undisciplined, but the best. He was a legend. Yes, sir? At once. Gentlemen, your attention, please.The television screen. I don't know, sir.It's on all channels. Who are they? People ofthe world, there is no need to panic. Please do notbe alarmed.We are yourfriends. Members ofthe Grand Council,youjust witnesseda live transmission, - remote-controlledfrom the Arctic region.- Get a radio fix on this. Through the inducement ofregulated tremorsalong establishedfissures in the earth's crust we are nowable to controllocal weatherconditions throughout the world. For the more scepticalamongyou,we have preparedfurtherproof. On the southern edge oflwo Jima is theextinct volcano known as Burichabi. In the Chukotskiyregionon the northeast tip ofRussia Iies the dormant volcanoknown as Amguyemska. In exactly ten seconds, we will cause these ancient volcanos to erupt with a Richterforce of4.9. Seismology reports a Richterreading of4.9 at both locations. You willgive orders to destroyallyournuclear weapons, youraircraftandyournavies. Oryou willbe inundated. Get lost! Itis our view that under ourguidance we willhave a more productive world. You havejust one hour...to transmityouranswer on anyfrequencyyou choose.We willreceive it. Between nowand thenwe reluctantlyjam allairwaves, with the exception ofyourtelephone communications. I've been instructed to have you conferwith your governments and reconvene here no later than 45 minutesfrom now... with your answers. Take over. Gila, we're approaching the island.Do you want to go on deck? Oh, no. Why force themto turn offthe waterfall? What nonsense. As iftherecould be a man like that. I believe your friend in the box therewas brought up on stuff like that. Poor heroic Mr Flint. - Report, please.- Section Four reporting. Mission successful. You have proof?. Afterall, you havemade quite a few unsuccessfulattempts. - That's true, Dr Wu, but...- Valuable time has been wasted. Several colleagues have been lost,and all through sheer negligence. Had I been in charge, Dr Wu, things wouldhave been different. Flint was only a man. Mr Flint was no ordinary man! - We have his body with us.- How unfortunate there was no other way. Report to headquarters. And congratulationson the elimination ofFlint. No! Help! Absolutely no one is getting through, sir. Gentlemen, I give you Mr Flint. Come on. Say, why does that eagle attack me? He's been trained to recogniseand attack Americans. An anti-American eagle. It's diabolical. Come on. We can't keep 'em waiting. Mr Flint, I am Dr Krupov. Doctor. I am very happy to meet you in person. - Thank you, sir.- And this is Dr Wu and Dr Schneider. - How do you do?- Dr Schneider. Dr Wu. Gentlemen... I have not hadthe pleasure of meeting Mr Flint. I am Malcolm Rodney. Oh, yes. How very smart you lookin your GALAXY uniform, Mr Flint. Don't you think so, Gila? We found this in his pocket, sir. The Americans' fondnessfor marvellous toys! A weapon too, perhaps? You are obviously anextraordinary fellow, Mr Flint. That you have come this faris a great tribute, Mr Flint. - Well, thank you.- I would say it's more of a tribute to Gila. - To Gila?- Yes. Or rather to her individuality. She has allowed self-interestto supersede her loyalty to GALAXY. - If Rodney had shown me more loyalty...- I carried out your orders. We were unsuccessful three times. - I could have disposed of Flint!- Gila, Rodney is right. As head of Section Four, you wereresponsible for every mission. But I have given my life to GALAXY. Gentlemen, it seems to me that what it comes to is this:ln a moment of extreme decision, our dear Gila made an instinctive choice.But that choice was not for GALAXY. Her conditioning is incomplete.It is our mistake. We made a sentimental misjudgment. True, Dr Schneider. True. You understand,Gila. Now, you will be taken to the... No. It's not fair. Gila, GALAXY may be served in many ways. As a woman, there is one wayin which you may best serve GALAXY. Gila! Gila! Take her to Preparation. Take her to Preparation. How often woman's animal nature triumphs! Perhaps now, Dr Wu,you'll admit that I was correct. Strength has its merits, Rodney,but I value intelligence higher. Gentlemen, Mr Flint's seemingly limitlesstalents can be of value to GALAXY. - Of course.- Yes. - I think Mr Flint has outlived his usefulness.- We will be the judge ofthat, Mr Rodney. Mr Flint, we welcome you to GALAXY. To GALAXY! Gentlemen, I thank you very much for your kind offer,but you must know that I came to GALAXY not to join the organisation, but to destroy it. You see, gentlemen? He's not worth saving. - When something is deadly, you kill it!- It is a new world we offer, Mr Flint. Gentlemen, your priceis much too high for me. You are wrong, Mr Flint. Hear us, Mr Flint. We seek no master race.We are the friends ofthe common man. Surely you must have noticedthe absence of guns here in our paradise. Violence is a last resort. It was only the unenlightened resistance ofa decadent world that triggered our actions. Under our guidance you willbecome a useful scientist. Take him to Preparation. Wait! Gentlemen, I'm sorry. But all my instincts tell me that Mr Flint's archaic sense of independence mayeventually re-emerge, with disruptive results. Dr Krupov is right. Flint will never conform. It may be best to return him to his elements. The electro-fragmentiser. I wonder what it is that always makesthe Rodneys choose the wrong side. Enjoy your defiance. It'll be the last pleasureyou have on this earth. You're a foolish man, Mr Flint. Gentlemen, the temperature in the Arcticis still rising, and so is the water level. Sir? It's unanimous. Capitulation. The fleet is in readiness? Yes, sir. Request permission to joinAdmiral Davenport in my old unit. Thank you, sir. I'll leave at once. Thank you, sir. Repeat: Mysole purpose in lifeis to bringpleasure to my companions. My sole purpose in life is to bringpleasure to my companions. All thatis asked ofme I willperform. All that is asked of me I will perform. Itis an honour to offermybodyto the service ofGALAXY. It is an honour to offer my bodyto the service of GALAXY. Repeat after me: I am not a pleasure unit. I am not a pleasure unit. I am not a pleasure unit. I am not a pleasure unit. We have to get up to thatcommunications room. My lighter... Our lighter has been fragmentised. - They are expecting me in the reward room.- Reward room? What's that? Never mind. You'll love it. Brand me. What? It's our only chance. Go ahead. - Present the unit, please.- Pleasure Unit 504. Present the unit, please. Pleasure Unit 736. Unit 736 is welcome here. Enter, 736, andgo to the firstrobing room. It's me, Anna. You're not a pleasure unit. You're not a pleasure unit. You're not a pleasure unit. Now listen, girls. You stay right herewith Gila. I'll be back for you all shortly. Where are you going? I'm going to put GALAXY into orbit. Ladies andgentlemen,the president ofthe United States. My fellowAmericans, whatlhaveto say does not come easily. Butl cannotshirk myresponsibility, nor can lkeep from you the gravityofthe crisis we are nowfacing. Itis with a heavyheart thatlmakethe following announcement: People ofallnations, all ofyou knowsomething ofthe events ofthe pastfew weeks... - Flint?!- It can't be! Of course it can. That's why he's Flint. Purple alert! - We have allbeen witness...- Purple alert. Purple alert. All units, air and naval. The mountain island,latitude 18 degrees 9 minutes north, Iongitude 11 degrees 3 minutes west.Destroy! Destroy! Commander, the bridge. Are you there, sir? Sir, stall! Stall, dammit! Flint is alive! Uh, no, uh... - No great decision...- 54, 22, 37. - Does anyone know this code?- No. - No.- Well, it must have some meaning. Communications room, Dr Wu speaking.Come in, please. Communications room?Dr Krupov. Come in, please. - Come in, please. Dr Schneider calling.- Rodney, check communications room. Communications room?Dr Schneiderspeaking. Come in. Communications room, come in... Attention. Attention. Flinthas escaped. Findhim. Findhim. There he is! Get him! - Get back! The wheel!- The steam! Somebody kill the steam! I'll get it... Get Flint! Up there! Don't, Mr Flint! You will destroy the potentialof all of mankind, organised for good. - Not for my good, Dr Wu.- Mr Flint! It would mean an end for all time topoverty, disease, doubt and frustration! Mr Flint, we have the power to doaway with excessive heat and cold! - To turn wastelands into Gardens of Eden!- All I have to do is take a bite ofyour apple? - No, thanks.- No, Mr Flint! Mr Flint! No! Ours would be a perfect world! Why? Because it's your idea ofperfection, gentlemen, not mine. It is better to surrender than todestroy this great work. Agreed? - Yes!- Agreed! All right, Mr Flint. The power is yours. Take it. Please, take it, Mr Flint.There has been too much violence. - It is senseless to take more lives.- It is not senseless to take one more life! Hey! Come on! You people out there, pay attention! - Lower a boat.- Aye aye, sir. Blankets. Bring them up to the bridge. Sir? Yes, sir? Yeah! Over a waterfall, sir.Yes, in steel drums. Yeah, that's right. In drums! D-r-u-m-s. Yes. Oh, he wrecked the whole island! He had no drum, he dove offthe topofthe island. Gotta be a world record! No, sir, I don't know his political affiliation.He is young enough to be a senator, yes, sir. I believe he's aboard, sir. Wouldyou like to speak with him? Yeah. Flint? Flint, our commander in chiefwould like to... The commander in chiefwould liketo congratulate you and your friend. Flint! I'm sorry, he's indisposed at the moment, sir. What? I can't hear ya!
