 

                        Alright? Ok? Are you ok? Ok, ok Where are the people? All here You saved one but lost two Which is more important? Our teammates or the dummies? In a fire scene We don't get to choose. Discipline is everything Discipline? Next team! Nowadays there're all high-rise buildings Fire protection systems become more important If unluckily that Upper levels are on fire It's difficult to carry out rescue As firefighters... the most important thing is to save people Enough talking You two must come and help me People now have a strong sense of fire prevention This business must take off I can give you suggestions... on the design of your fire protection systems What do you mean, suggestions? I want is you two to work for me Sure. I'll file my transfer request and join you How about you? I'm sorry, uncle But I just got a promotion Tai Kwan, think about it Isn't it good to spend your energy for a worthier cause... to help more people? Every year much farmland is turned into skyscrapers Farmers keep moving to the city Sometimes I think... not until we run out of rice in supermarkets do we know how important farmers are Today foggy weather prevails over Guangzhou According to the Observatory (Four Years Later) affected by rainstorms over the past three days, the weather is humid Today the temperature increases sharply dueto the bright sunshine and it brings radiation fog The temperature is 34 degrees relative humidity is 99% Weather is very humid Hi friend... You had chocolate again? No I didn't You didn't? It's never bothered me before but... you'll be a father soon. Cut down on junk food. You see... it melted like hell. It's been there forever uneaten. I just didn't throw it away Did you drink the vitamin shake... I bought you! What's in it? Meaning you never tried it Of course, I did You told me to drink it after meals every day. And I did After going to the doctor with me, when is your meeting? I can't go to the doctor with you I'll leave after dropping you off Haven't I told you? When did you tell me? I don't remember. But I did anyway No you didn't Did too... Did not. Maybe I didn't... They moved the meeting up Just call me when you're done, ok? Do you have problem accepting my pregnancy? Of course not. I told you I want a baby And now you're pregnant, how perfect You want it because I forced you to... do you really want it? How about resignation? Shall we discuss it tonight? We've talked about it so many times. I just want you to know... it's all for our child Yes, I know Just chute it for me. I'm not eating it anyway Remember to call me after seeing the doctor Ok Bye Take care Keung? Si Lok Long time no see Yes, it's been a while How are you? Pretty good. My company opens today, on the 40th floor Wow My business card Fire Protection Company? We take careof the fire protection systems in this building Director Mak, huh? Drop by to see me some time Of course I think your brother should be available tonight Maybe we come together Firefighters don't have plans Ask him to come only if he truly wants to Which floor? 14th. Over here You haven't seen your brother for four years, right? I got to go That's it. Wait for the next car please I'll pay you next month.. Will I run away? What do you want? Excuse us... I'm hanging UP What's with the rush? Wow, we paid $9.7 more I told you to walk one block further They take an extra 5% off You keep your hands on the calculatorall the day Just stop pinching every penny We don't even have time for a family photo Fine that you're not helping. Stop making light of my problem Mom, can I have one more? No, you can't. You've had two. We will test the fire alarm today. The bells on each floor will ring. Don't panic Director Mak Ladies and gentlemen, welcome I apologize for being a bit late I propose a toast Feel free to check out our products What takes you so long? At this hour, the whole Guangzhou is gridlocked I've just confirmed contract terms with Director Tsang and Director Wong Don't drink too much You have a cooperative agreement to sign with the Fire Department at 4pm Ok. You'll take care of it Don't drink too much, ok? Ok No problem with the goods, right? But it looks like the balance is not settled yet Ho It's the same How could they be the same? Have you got your eyes checked? I told you to get some new paint What's up honey? See? Get her some new paint What are you laughing at? It's sophisticated Very innovative This is a fire extinguishing grenadewe developed for home use it's smaller and more effective than the old one Keung, let me introduce Excuse me Mandy, Get two drinks for the directors Director Tsang. Hello. Director Wong. Hi. There couple who made it this big in just four years Keung, very well done. She hasn't said yes. I'm still courting her Looking forward to working with you Same here You used to be a firefighter It's the perfect job for you I used to think I'd be a firefighter for life We did training drills and wiped down the tools every daY Accidents don't wait We can only be prepared in the best possible ways But whenever I see... someone died in a fire I asked myself Was there more I could've done? In the past... I saved one person at a time But now... I want our fire protection systems to protect more people (Air Conditioning System Control Room) Hey guys. It's so humid. Without electricity and air conditioning mm Us QIJI] We'll fix it before sunset I'm not pushing you, but... can you get it done any sooner? Equipment in the electrical roomneeds constant temperature Blame it on the weather... for being so abnormal it's July already but still humid and fOQQY Do your best. Thanks. (Physician Cheung Kin Lok) Lam Si Lok, please come with me Dad Was there a notice ordering the occupant on 32/F to remove the bottled water? They haven't removed it? Not yet... Looks like they've stacked more Ok, I come to take a look, you continue your work Got it Sir, I decide to quit Since six years ago... you've got married I have expected you'd leave one day I hope you would understand Tai Kwan, to be honest with you... the department has confirmed your promotion It's a pity that you decide to quit at this point but I've made up my mind Day 89. 3 months already How do you feel? I start having morning sickness I don't feel like eating all day That's normal. It's strange that your husband never comes with you for check up. (To Si Lok. How's it?) he must find time to stop by no matter how busy he is I'll give him a lecture on being a father Ok. You take a break. I'll get some film. Dinner time Let's go Your flight for Hangzhou departs at 9pm tonight. You have a contract to sign I'll drive you to the airport I'll drive you to the airport Tonight? Tonight I've booked a table... go change it No way. We scheduled the meeting last week Call them to change the appointment Call them Come on That's it? Not trying hard enough What do you mean? What do you mean? Opening surprise? I need you... with or without this company Marry me? Why didn't you notify me before you test the alarms? Boss, I haven't started testing. Then what happened? How come the panel lights up on every floor? Is it a fire or false alarm? Just got a call from the main mechanical room The system server hangs because the extreme humidity today Temperature in that room is supposed to be constant always. How can it be humid? Security office sent us a memo saying the air-conditioning room is under repair today Part of the basement may not have air-conditioning We didn't expect it to be so foggy as soon as the air-conditioning is off... and walls are sweating like in spring When I was a firefighter... false alarms on a humid day were quite normal But I've never seen a whole building without air conditioning as a result Boss, We're working on it. Go find out what's wrong. Of course Now what? I've called engineering department They are sending someone over Air conditioning will resume in an hour I'll get someone to dehumidify the room But the fire system will be down for 5 minutes. Things will be back to normal after that I give you 3 minutes Ok. Got it. I'll try my best! Boss, The short circuit problem is fixed Has the signal resumed normal? Hang on Check the air conditioning room See if it's just a false alarm Ok, got it Leave it for now Check the air conditioning room first Move it... Quick Keung, what happened? There's a fire in the basement air conditioning room affecting the voltage and causing a outage But please don't worry Our backup power source is on... enough for 8 hours The alarm system reported to fire to the police Firefighters will be here any minute For your safety... I'll arrange an emergency evacuation But please don't panic, Ok? That way please Mandy Escort the guests out via staircase #1 Take the surviving kits Ok! Fire... run... Trigger the alarm One-alarm fire Jiangxi team to lift Major pump, tower ladder, light rescue unit Commander car Guangzhou International Commercial Centre, Jiangxi Road Watch out. We have a pregnant woman here... Are you ok? Can you walk? Go! Tai Kwan! Where are you? There's a fire here Your husband the firefighter? Don't worry. I'm on my way Where exactly you are in the building? What do you see? We've left the clinic. I'm with the doctor But the hallway is full of smoke Let's go now! I told you to come with me but you didn't People are bumping on each other now Get the doctor on the line Leave the building with Si Lok now We can't! The fire is too big for us to go down Come save us now The fire is getting bigger. Pass the phone to Si Lok What do we do now? The smoke is too dense downstairs. Go upstairs instead There's a refuge floor upstairs It's the safest place. You know what I'm saying? Your brother is in the building too! Don't worry. I'll be right there. See you in a bit He told us to go upstairs Upstairs, this way... This way, upstairs... Captain, Everything is ready Get on the commander car Copy that Here, 2nd floor here Chief he fire started in the basement The alarm system in the whole building broke down A trading company on 1/F caught fire Bring a team into the building and start the search and rescue Yes, Sir 051 calling control team Request raising it to a two-alarm fire Send in the second squad Water truck, tower ladder straight to the scene Are you ok? I'm fine (Tai Kwan) Keung Yes I arrived. How're things over there? I'm leading the people down the stairs. The basement is on fire If you can contain it, you don't have to raise it to two-alarm it's two-alarm already. There was an explosion on 1st floor Are you sure about the situation right now? Are you ok? It's clear of smoke or flame over here My fire system can handle it The lower floors are all on fire Don't bring people down any more I'm in staircase #1 on the 18/F ls it okay to get on the tower ladder from 15/F? Tower ladder has arrived. Start loading victims in 5 minutes Listen Listen... Wait... Firefighters will wait for us on the 15/F Let's go Go. May May. There's a fire.Get out of here. Quick... Get water! Ho, help me. Ho... Stay here. Don't go anywhere... and wait for papa to come back Seriously, don't go anywhere Ho, no! Listen to me... He owes us wages anyway We just get what we deserve. Don't stop me. May may, what are you doing? Go! My shQp... Stop it... Go! Go! Give them back... Give them back... Give them back... Boss... Give them back... Go! Ho... Mom... Mom... Go... Where is Lam-lam? Where is Lam-lam? Were you with her? Lam-lam! Ho Dong, come with me Water Captain, fire is too big Go this way Team 1 leader, bring them to the window over there and stand by Yes Firefighter 2, bring them to this window and stand by Understood? Understood! Action! Yank it! Retreat! Exit there Run... The smoke is so dense Boss, There is a tower ladder by the window Go Help... anyone... help... Go You go down first Are you insane? Let's go together! I'll be fine Take her down Keung Go Anyone here? Anyone? Yes... Help... Keung... The tower ladder is one floor down... Help... Did you say there is a tower ladder? We're on the back of the building It takes too long to drive the tower ladder here Come here... What are you doing? I'll climb one floor up and pull you guys UP What shall I do? Watch carefully. Do the same later on. Put your legs in here Understood? Did you understand? Yes! I'll go up first. If the fire comes close throw this grenade to the base of the fire. It makes the fire weaker for a while Be quick... Be quick... This way That little girl... Go save her now... Mom... No way... We can't even save ourselves... we will both die Are you insane? Are you saving them... or yourself? Mom... Si Lok, Come out now Ready? Be careful Relax. Stay still. I'll pull you up Are you ok? Ok... Go save the doctor. Quick Just like what I did just now... tie the rope around your waist Got it? Make sure your legs are tightly secured. Got it? Quick... Start pulling... Stay still Thank you... Two-alarm fire Yuexiu team to foam pod Tower ladder, major pump Major rescue unit Guangzhou International Commercial Centre Two-alarm fire Baiyun team to hose Layer Bring ring blower Breathing apparatus pod, light ambulance Guangzhou International Commercial Centre Captain The commander car is over there It's in a critical state now Mom... Let me in... She's just sent me a video... Look... Captain, The hose can't reach any further Tell people down there to bring the hose and air tanks to 10/F COPY Si Lok, Where are you now? I don't know... But I'm with Keung now Pass him the phone Your brother... Where are you? We're coming up from 10/F. How's the situation over there? We are heading to the refuge floor Will be right there. Don't worry When will you arrive? I'm on duty Don't take risk with Si Lok. Someone over there! I have to hang up. Many are injured here Take care of Si Lok for me You have equipment and a team of firefighters I have nothing Your wife is waiting for you! He said he won't be here soon Calm down, everyone. We'll get you out very soon Calling control team... I'm in a clinic on 10/F we found around 20 injured victims Arrange tower ladder to get them out immediately Calm down We will get you out via tower ladder Help us... help Help... Captain, The tower ladder is here You take the injured down the tower ladder The rest follow me to the refuge floor I can't walk any more... I think I won't make it... Without that shop... it's okay... But... I can't live without Lam-lam... without our daughter... If you have to go Let's look for her together Bo-keung Bo-keung Bo-keung! Bo-keung... don't scare me, brat... You know this place well You must know how to escape! Open it Ok! Go upstairs Ok You stay here and take a rest, I'll take a look around Excuse me. Have you seen my daughter? Excuse me. Have you seen this little girl? She is my daughter I saw her Really? Where is she? Where is she? Where is she? Where is she? Where is she? I don't know where she is Maybe someone took her out. But I'm not sure She said not sure... But I believe she will be fine Thank you... She said not sure! Why did you lie to them? What if they find their daughter's body? Why are you staring at me? Why are you staring at me? Yes. I am a doctor But I'm just an Ob-gyn I save people in an operating room. Not in a fire scene! Obviously you know If we go in we will both die I am a doctor But I'm only human I get scared too I get scared too Dong, are you crazy? We can't keep them. We've killed... Listen to me. We didn't kill anyone He was burnt to death. As long as we keep our mouth shut No one would ever know I've arrived. Where are you? Two more floors from the refuge floor The steel reinforcements inside the ceiling swelled The fire must be rampant upstairs There are more than 10 of us here What if others know? Ho... Ho... Just listen to me once... We can't keep them Dong,Dong".Dong". Dong... Listen to me, listen to me... Calm down Think about... how our boss bullied us As long as we have these diamonds We have everything You think about it These will get us in trouble Dong Dad! Why are you still here? You don't know you should leave? I came back for you! Where are you? Are you ok? We all left the building via the tower ladder Keung... Keung... It's... so great that you're safe Take good care of yourself I'll wait for you! I'll wait for you! (How's it?) I've told firefighters the situation They will be here in no time I don't know what you've done But if you leave, you will be burnt to death Captain, big trouble. Much dangerous chemical inside Don't worry Take care of yourself and your wife first Has the chemical truck arrived? Yes, it has An occupant of the building has turned himself in He stored dangerous goods on refuge floor You guys have to leave now and wait for backup support There are many people waiting in the refuge floor t's disastrous if it explodes Any way to stop it from exploding? You can't use water Any sand bags in the office Use sand to cover it Why did you pack the chemical in bottled water cartons... to make it through security's inspection? You know no dangerous goods are allowed here Go. Go Don't touch... Poisonous fumes... don't breathe in... no... Go this way... Go that way Shun, are you ok? Go find our daughter... Leave now... Get down! Crawl over there! Take a rest first I'll check if there are other exits 051 calling control team We are now in the last unit on 30th floor, East Wing Hoses and tower ladders don't reach this far Requesting escape route. Over. You cut yourself... Why didn't you save me first just now? That question again I know you have your duty But I'm your wife... I tried my very best to protect myself just to keep our baby You don't care, do you? You don't care, right? No Do you? No... No you don't This alarm goes off if I stay stillfor 30 seconds... to let others know I'm in danger In a fire scene, it only takes 30 seconds to lose one's life Saving life is my job I can't choose to save some over others I will take you out for sure Captain... the tanks are out of air Send officers 1 and 2 to do a survey, others... I've found a spot connected to the west wing if we climb up Tell your team to take victims up there How? On ropes What else can we do? The tower ladder can't reach that high Your proposal doesn't work Why not? It's against your rules, right? Listen to me. I'll take everyone out my way Listen to you? I listened and that's how our father died! We split into two teams then Captain... sent us to save the kids in a kindergarten Another team... to the elderly home to save our father I'm not convinced... he followed the rules on everything We ended up losing our father... No wonder... you two haven't met since the funeral He never mentioned it and I dared not ask... I'm ok with my father's death being an accident But if a firefighter doesn't get to choose I'd rather not be one No choice... 051 calling control team I see a tower crane in the construction siteacross the road We can use it to save people Are you the person in charge in here? Yes, officer We would need to use your tower crane Get someone up there to unlock the turntable and swing it to the building across the road It's possible, if it's on manually control But the tower crane won't be very stable on manual mode Just do it Go check out the situation over there Yes Change to manual control Yes, yes... Move the crane to the south-west Yes. Pointing to that building across the road We can try it Just be careful Copy. Everyone stand by Reporting live from the scene... a tower crane in the construction sitenear the building on fire... slowly swings towards the building... We believe it's an emergency measure instructed by... the firefighter who went in the construction site He said... he wanted us to travel together He wanted us to spend more time together Stop! Attention please We crawl on the tower crane and then go down Just be careful One after another Try not to look down. Got it? Got it I'll go first Be careful... don't be afraid... slowly... Now the firefighters are on the crane already We believe they make use of the crane to rescue people... Si Lok, Hold my hand. Come on Be careful Get out! Be careful, don't... Be careful Buddy Ho, help me... Don't jump! Buddy Ho... Don't jump! Buddy Ho... Help me... Buddy Ho... Help me... Dong! Tai Kwan Swing the crane back! Can't move it Catch it! I'll throw you the rope... You have to catch it... Now tie the rope on your hand I'll count to three and pull you up 1, 2, 3! Hold the rope tightly! Don't let go! Pull the end! Bro... it's ok... it's ok now... Sorry... Sorry Really sorry Chief, Squadron #3 finished search and rescue How did it go? Search and rescuefrom the 1/F to 25/F basically a success Most victims are evacuated Well done This way Dad, are you okay? Do you feel better that way? It's trachea problem He can't inhale any more smoke given his situation You are more familiar with this building. How is it up there? Come to my office Our isolation system should block the fire Let's go together Doctor, what do you need? I must operate on him now Do you have a knife? And bandage? Si Lok, the dummy has a surviving kit on it. There is bandage inside. Disinfectant. Ok Hello there Don't be afraid... come with me Your daughter is here! Run! Lam-lam... Help... Run, Tai Kwan! Hold her down... You go on saving him... Lam-lam... save my daughter... Save them first... Help... Come on out... Come out quick! Go... Tai Kwan... Thank you Mommy Lam-lam, Mommy won't leave you behind Move away... No... Keung... Keung... Keung... Keung... Keung... Keung... Keung, this is your brother. Can you hear me? Keung... Keung, can you hear me? Keung! I'm fine! I'm fine! Keung How's it down there? The water here is several floors deep What do you want to do? I want dive down... and see if there is any way out But the fire is big out there The water's getting hot If it boils we may miss our last chance Bro Have you ever thought that... if I didn't listen to you and... went upstairs to save dad, what would happen? Actually I knew the answer... Dad will die anyway... But I really wanted to try at least You did nothing wrong And me neither I don't want anything bad happening to you If you can open the elevator door on the first floor The water can put out the fire... We may have a chance to go out Not all of us are divers There are breathing masks and air tanks in my office Think of a way to pump up the water pressure Pour water into the elevator shaft Cut the cable and let the car fall 051 calling control team Requesting all the hoses watering the elevator shaft We climb down this ladder It's so deep... How can we do it? I'll go first Si Lok Don't look down. Just look at the ladder You try. I'll hold you Don't worry Come on. You try Don't look down. Just look at the stairs Slowly... Careful Don't be afraid Don't be afraid Your mom is over there... Tai Kwan Si Lok! Jump! Jump! Jump everyone! We're running out of time Si Lok! Jump now Come here! The water is very deep! Come down now Everyone, listen. We all dive into the water later on... and open the elevator door together And we will have a chance to go out Keung, I'll cut the cable soon Let's check the time. Let me know when you're ready Ok Why don't you come down? What does your brother want to do? There is no choice in a fire scene at all One minute We only have one chance Take a deep breath and dive Understood? 1,2,3... Lam-lam... are you ok? Dad Si Lok... Si Lok... Are you ok? Bro... Bro... ls everyone ok? Are you ok? Let's go What was it? Our baby is gone... Nothing is more important than you so great that you're safe From the moment I came in, I knew I will take you out See? Where's papa? Why hasn't papa come out? I resigned this morning Actually... you may want to think again I'm getting married. Can you join our banquet? Sure I will Has mom known it yet? Not yet You got a phone on you? Give me your phone Mine's broken
