 

                        - Good Morning. - Hi. Kosuke's behind us. Sorry about last night. I was held up. I'll make it up to you. Next week I'll contact you Good morning "Kosuke Hasegawa - In" Hello - Good morning - Good morning - How do I look ? - Mean. "Yotsuya Kwaidan, The Play" 5 and 4. Odd number. Dealer rolls! Place your bets! Hello, Sir. What is it? Your body it smells... Is it blood ? Borrowed money should be returned. But some people forget to pay it back. A loan from a blind masseur is taken lightly. I'm not a noble samurai like yourself, Sir. For me I can only depend on money. True, I am a samurai. But without money or rank I feel like I'm in a dungeon without sunlight. Sir You want to play around? Ah, sounds good. You ugly bitch. Asshole. What are you doing, give it back. Where'd you get it? A guest gave it to me. Give it back Give it back to me Sir Who's your new woman? When I'm with you time passes in the blink of an eye. You want to leave already If I'm not home before Father he won't ever let me go out again. If you had a comb like this... I'd always hold onto you, Iwa. Although my daughter wants to marry you I will not leave you my family's fortune. Since her mother's death I worked hard to raise her on my own. I won't let a sleaze like you have my precious daughter. Take this money and forget about Iwa for good. Do you think I do not know about your years of idleness ? Your despicable nature You and your shifty friends conspire to con people You'd even kill for money How despicable You give the samurai a bad name. Shame on you. What's so funny You think I'm worth so little. You're incorrigible. You brute! I'm not listening to your nonsense! you old fool. How dare you ! Careful, you'll catch a cold. Is your father still missing? Poor Iwa. You must feel miserable. As of today There's been no news for a month I'm sure he's out there somewhere. Oh, Iemon. Your father must have ridden off for some important business He's just gotten held up... and has yet to come back. It breaks my heart to see you so sad. Do not worry. I'll ask around for you. Iemon When I'm with you I feel I can cope. I feel so reassured. I want to be by your side all the time. Iwa Do you mean that we should get married? Yes I too wish for this But I did not get your father's permission Okay ? As he has no sons to continue the family's line, he should be happy to have a successor. Being the head of this household might help you find employment. You brute No one will listen to your nonsense. You old fool. How dare you ! Starting a family... Is that happiness? I guess. You're have to keep up your strength. to be able to finish this job. otherwise it just won't work out. Don't catch cold What ? Don't catch cold. This is unbearable. I'm not worthy of you. I'm extremely sorry Oh my god, I'm sorry. Sorry, are you alright? I'm fine. Let's have a break. Take a break Iwa You seem to resent me. Absolutely not Since we were married two years ago I've never looked for work... ...nor brought any money home. "I gave you a baby boy." "I've been sick since he was born." "But I'm the one who does the chores." "and prepares the meals" The resentment is written all over your face. You in here? Here, it'll relieve the pain. Thanks, I'll manage. He actually kicked you during a rehearsal? Never mind. What do you see in the man? How is your wife and kid? Do you get along ok? We have our ups and downs. You look very happy Don't be fooled. A man is easily tempted. Just to be clear. Married men don't interest me. How direct of you. Keep your mind on the job. Sometimes I wish that the play was my real life. I don't. This is unbearable. I'm not worthy of you. I'm so very sorry Women really are something... So you know all the lines! Yes, just in case. You're so prepared. Thank you very much Is your back ok? I'll go change clothes Are you ok? Alright About the performance I think I lack a bit of confidence but I but I think I'll be able to plum through that's how it is acting together Same with the others Anyway I want to understand the mood I see Please teach me I believe you're Mr. Iemon Tamiya. Who are you? I'm a nanny for Mr. Ito's daughter Ume. My name is Maki Would you accompany me to the Ito mansion? It would be in your interests if you came. Master Kihei Ito wishes to speak with you face to face. I'll leave it up to you, Grandfather Alright Ume, I'm happy for you. Sir, step this way please. Thank you for agreeing to come. I apologize for bringing you here like this. What can I do for you? What a shame a good samurai like you isn't employed! I see your extraordinary skill I'd like to propose that you become part of the Ito family. I wonder if you'd agree to be Ume's husband. But I have a wife and a child. And your daughter appears to be so young. She's 16-years old With due respect I must decline your proposition. Your honesty is very gallant. Although Ume can be childish at times at 16 year she's mature enough to be a woman. She saw you one day when she was in town and she can't shake you from her mind. She lost her parents at a young age. She's so dear to me I'd do anything for her. But Ume has never asked anything of me. Until now when she fell in... ...love. Love Yes I see the difficulty but in any case I ask you Consider it Mr. Tamiya. You deserve a life worthy of a samurai. Pardon me for being rude. But at the present, you are next to worthless. A person like you should be a dignified warrior If you become Mei's husband a position will be at your fingertips Your wife will understand. A samurai's wife would encourage her husband's career. In short You have nothing to worry about. I've figured out a plan to act safely. Please allow me to handle it. May I come in? Miyuki, I'm done for today. I'll see you tomorrow. See you then. Miyuki I hope you don't mind me telling you this. But I got into acting because I I've always worshipped you Ok You're...very courageous Thank you I'll be going. See you tomorow. It's ok now. Miyuki, are you in there? The car is ready... I have left. We're there now. "Miyuki calling" Thank you for taking me back What's wrong? You're back I just came here for some shirts. Oh. You want to take a shower? Why such a good mood? Because you've stopped by, Kosuke. We have a day off next week. Any plans? I got invited to go to Izu. For work? With those TV producers I once worked with. As soon as I'm done I'll be back. I'll be waiting for you. Wow, that's a lot of pasta you've made. Want some? "Home Pregnancy Test" "Negative" A samurai's wife would encourage her husband's career. In short... There's nothing to worry about. Welcome back How do you feel? Iemon Although it's not a sure thing... I might be offered a position. Really? If father was still here... I'm sure he would have been glad I've thought about your position. And you can wear this when you report. It has our family crest, a ying yang insignia. Where there's light there's shadow. Where there's shadow there's light. All elements in the universe throughout eternity will always have a light and a shady side. What is it? How clever. He's smiling at his daddy, Iemon. Good little boy. That's all. We're finished for the day. Tomorrow will be a day off. We'll resume rehearsals in two days at 2:00 PM. Thank you Sorry I'm still in Izu. I see. That's how it goes. Goodbye Goodbye It's me or her. I love you If it's true then marry me. After the marriage we'd go to America You wouldn't have to work as an actor. ...you could help out Dad with his businesses. He's got lots of restaurants and properties. Just as many as in Japan. We could live happier Acting is all I've known... since childhood. I won't... I won't let Miyuki have you back. Someone Someone is watching us You scared me I'm back You're back Go eat. I've already eaten I'm sleepy You've returned Maki came all this way to bring me a gift. Please thank her. Let me express my thanks for my husband's good fortune. We are extremely grateful to master Ito I hope he will continue to support Iemon's career. Thank you so much. I'll pass it on. It appears Iemon is very worried about your health So master Ito got some medicine today in Nanban and wanted it brought to you as soon as possible. Take one packet a day I don't deserve such expensive medicine... Don't worry. It's for your husband as well. We want him to be able to work his best. To do so... You must be in good health. Thank you for your kindness Iwa, we have no reason to reject their generosity. Take it I do not know how to thank you. Oh what a cute baby Tamiya, sir, perhaps you could show me my chores Master Ito awaits you. You may please go back to work. I'm fine I drank the medicine. I'm feeling the medicine seems to have taken effect. You could... ...show a little feeling. That drug you gave her... It's not fatal. Rest assured. Except... Men usually despise despise things that are ugly. Are you in pain? There, there. Does it still hurt? Welcome home. I was just nursing Ichinosuke when he suddenly got sick and threw up. I wonder if it's the medicine. Are you are trying to say the drug is poison? I dare say not. I've taken this medicine for two days now And I know I must take it but... But what? The medicine may just be working slowly It's an expensive drug. You have to take all of it. Or it would be disrespectful to master Ito I did not think you cared so much for my health. You troubled yourself to get this medication. How fortunate I am. Tell master Ito how grateful I am able for these drugs. How grateful I am able for these drugs. Kayo. Yes? Kosuke should be staying over tonight So don't bother picking me up tomorrow. Fine. But if you change plans, just let me know. I'll call you then. Ok. If there's anything I can do for you I'm happy to do it. Thank you Hey you... I need to ask you to hurry back home. I want to show you something Sorry It's very bad. About Iemon... What would have made him happy? Nothing would. You're afraid of something ? No I'm afraid. I can hear... What ? See you tomorrow. Miyuki What's she up to. Miyuki You're back. I'm not worthy of you. What? I'm not worthy of you. I'm so sorry. What are you saying? Let's sleep? We're going to the hospital To the hospital ! I'll just sleep it off. What are you saying ? We're going to the hospital. I can't find our baby. I know he's in there. I looked all over but couldn't find him. What ? You know how important this play is for both of us. We need our sleep. Or...do you want to make love? That's enough. It's all my fault. - I'm not worthy of you. - Don't come any closer. All my fault. What are you talking about? - I'm not worthy of you. - Stay away. All my fault. I'm so sorry. Don't get close to me. - All my fault - Stay away. Really sorr.... - Good morning You're really early today. Can I have your attention, everyone. We still cannot find Miyuki So we're going to use an understudy. Please let's all get ready. Is that ok with you? Sure. "Miyuki Goto - Out" Please, try to be more aggressive. Getting started When I'm with you, time passes in the blink of an eye. You want to leave already? If I'm not home before Father he'll never let me leave the house. If you had a comb like this... I'd always be with you, Iwa. It hurts It hurts It hurts Good evening It's Takuetsu, the masseur. Miss Iwa. How are you tonight? It's kind of you to visit but I'd prefer to be alone this evening Iemon will be home soon and he'll want his supper. Mr. Iemon I wonder if he'll come home tonight. Takuetsu...? Ms. Iwa! I've always desired you Leave me alone. Beautiful Ms. Iwa. Let me go. Forget your husband tonight. You see... Mr. Iemon knows about this. He said I could have you. I guess he wanted a better life. The samurai can be quite heartless. in getting promoted He sacrificed you and the baby for the wealthy estate of the pretty young lady he married. Ms Iwa. Ms Iwa You filthy animals. I caught you fornicating with my wife. Sir, this isn't what you promised! Iemon Masseur...I saw you Tricking a married woman into a shameless act. And you're the adulteress who let herself be tricked. You are all immoral. I had to punish you both. Iemon You're mine and mine only. What's wrong? Ume Will you answer. Iwa I hate you Iemon You monster. Ume There's nothing to worry about. I've figured out a plan to make things go smoothly. You're so undignified. You've already fallen into hell, Iemon. I'll have to bite off your head to show you You've now gone to hell. For the pain you inflicted on me! It's horrible There was hardly a breeze. It flew in from over there. Ok, where's the head? Well,sir... we couldn't find it. You mean...? "Kosuke Hasegawa - Out" He's late again. Ok, that's fine. You others get downstairs. Good Miyuki. Kosuke isn't here. Do you know why? No, maybe he's got a bad headache Kayo you know? No, I do not. Kayo, can you get the kimono? Good This play Make sure it goes ahead no matter what. Director Otaki Has he come yet? No, he hasn't The police came - The police? - Yes Miyuki If the rehearsal ends early tonight How about a drink? It's been a long time. If we finish early You should go home What a shame. Ebizo Ichikawa Ko Shibasaki Hideaki Ito Directed by Takashi Miike
