 

                        - Em, it hurts. - All this dust, you've gotta be sure to drink. Otherwise you get dried up. - Is that what happened to everyone else? - What? - Dry up. - You know that I don't know. - Well, how do you know I dry up? - It's just like everything else, if it doesn't stay wet it gets dry. That isn't good for us. We die like everything else. - So, everyone else did dry up? - I suppose. - Where do they go when they dry up? - Ah, probably just blow away. - That's it? - I don't know. Quit asking me, and help me find some food. What's wrong? Leif, are you gonna cough up again? Well come on and stop fooling around. - Whoever lived here... They dried up. - No, no, it's okay, that's, that's just dust. See? It has just started blowing in from outside. There's nothing to be scared of. Come on leif. We found somewhere else that might have some food. Go for it. What does that say? - Summer dress sale. What if we could fly? - What? - What if we could fly? We could get wherever we're going a lot faster and get up real high and see what's ahead of us. - When was the last time you drank something? - Uhm, lunch? - Drink some more. That'll do you a lot more good than wishing you could fly. - Where are we going anyway? - West. - Just west? - Yeah, I figure it's as good a direction as any. Maybe we'll even see some winged people. - Really? - No. Probably more of the same. Nothing. - Maybe something. - If we haven't seen anything by now, we'll never will. So don't get your hopes up. It's more important you focus on surviving. Okay? - Yeah... - Close your eyes and get some rest. You'll need it. - All right. I found this cool book. "The wonderful wizard of oz". - It's been a while you had something to read. - Yeah, I've been waiting 'till I found something that looked good. - Does it have any pictures? - Mostly words, a few drawings. - What's an oz? - Mmm. - Ah! - What? - I think i just got stung. Let's get outta here. - How bad does it hurt? - Ah, it hurts but I'll live. One sting won't kill ya, but if you got swarmed you could be a lot worse. Why don't you read it out loud? - Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with uncle Henry, who was a farmer, and aunt em, who was the farmer's wife. Their house was small, for the lumber to build it had to be carried by wagon many miles. There were four walls, a floor and a roof, which made one room, and this room contained a rusty looking cooking stove, a cupboard for the dishes, a table, three or four chairs, and the beds. Uncle Henry and aunt em had a big bed in one corner, and Dorothy a little bed in another corner. There was no cellar, except a small hole dug in the ground, called a cyclone cellar, where the family could go in case one of those great whirlwinds arose, mighty enough to crush any building in its path. It was reached by a trap door in the middle of the floor, from which a ladder led down into the small, dark hole. Today, uncle Henry sat upon the doorstep and looked anxiously at the sky. From the far north they heard a low wail of the wind, the long grass bowed in waves before the coming storm. There now came a sharp whistling in the air from the south, they turned their eyes that way, they saw ripples in the grass coming from that direction also. "There's a cyclone coming, em." Called uncle Henry. "Quick, Dorothy!" Screamed aunt em. "Run for the cellar!" When she was running halfway across the room there came a great shriek from the wind, and a strange thing happened. The house whirled around two or three times and rose slowly into the air. The north and south winds met where the house stood, and made it the exact center of the cyclone. In the middle of a cyclone the air is generally still, but the great pressure of the wind on either side of the house raised it up higher and higher, until it was at the very top of the cyclone, and there it remained and was carried miles and miles away as easily as you could carry a feather. It's a place! - Huh? - Oz! After the cyclone, Dorothy ended up in this place where the grass is bright green and there's color everywhere. And she was greeted by these people called... Munchkins! And a witch, a good witch. But there are bad witches too. One was killed by Dorothy's house, and the other, well that's the wicked witch of the west. - Witches? - Yeah, there are four of them. Two good, and two bad. Anyway, Dorothy's on this trip, like us, but she knows where she's going. - Where's that? - The emerald city. There's a wizard there that'll help her get home. - Are you hungry? - Oh, and what's a desert? The good witch kept saying that ozland is surrounded by one. - It's a lot worse than this. Pretty much all dirt. - Have you ever seen one? - When I was little, with my dad. Are ya hungry? - Yeah, a little. Do we have a home? - This is it, we're humming through it every day. - No, I mean a real home. Is that what we're looking for, where we're going? - We don't need a home. Just food, water, and a means to survive. Continuing to live is all we can hope for. - We can't live forever. Then what? - Then that's it. - We dry up... - Yeah. Hey... Quit worrying thinking about it so much. We'll keep on surviving and enjoy life while it lasts. Ready? Touchdown! - You know who could live forever? The scarecrow. A farmer made him out of straw, and put him on a pole in the middle of a field, so he could scare away crows. He doesn't need to eat, drink, or sleep. He doesn't have any brains though, he's gonna go find the wizard to get him some. - There's no such thing as a man who doesn't have to eat, drink or sleep. Or one that can walk and talk with no brains. - There is in ozland. - Ozland isn't real, it's just something someone made up to entertain people. - I know. But, what if? She's pretty. - Thanks. - You'll like this part, Dorothy and the scarecrow found this man called the tin woodman, he got caught out in the rain so he was all stiff, but they found some oil and oiled up his joints so he could move and talk again. Uhm, here! Then I made up my mind that instead of living alone I would marry, so that i might not become lonely. There was one of the munchkin girls who was so beautiful that I soon grew to love her with all my heart. But the girl lived with an old woman who did not want her to marry anyone. So the old woman went to the wicked witch of the east, and promised her two sheep and a cow, if she would prevent the marriage. Thereupon the wicked witch enchanted my ax, and when I was chopping away at my best one day, the ax slipped all at once and cut off my left leg. - Ouch. - Yeah, every time he swings his ax, he cuts off another piece of his body, so he has to go to a... A tinsmith, to get a new one made outta tin. But I little knew how cruel my enemy could be. She thought of a new way to kill my love for the beautiful munchkin maiden, and made my axe slip again, so that it cut right through my body, splitting me in two halves. Once more the tinsmith came to my help and made me a body of tin. But, alas, I had now no heart, so that I lost all my love for the munchkin girl, I suppose she is still living with the old woman, waiting for me to come after her. - That's sad. - Yeah, but he's gonna get a new heart from the wizard. - You should get some sleep, you've had none since our break. - "I shall take the heart," returned the tin woodman. "For brains do not make one happy, "and happiness is the best thing in the world." - Hey, don't go too far. - I won't. - Hey leif, I think it's time we get moving. Leif? Hey leif? - I got you. - Where were you? You scared me, don't ever do that again. - Really, I scared you? Ah, that's great! Dorothy met a lion in the woods, he would roar to scare people, even though he was a coward. - A coward? - Yeah, it's somebody who's scared of everything, so they scare other people. I heard this strange noise, so, I got a little scared and went to go find you, but, I must've went the wrong way. And the noises got louder, so i turned around and roared. It was only a bird though, an owl maybe? I sure scared it, , and you. - That's not funny. - Emri, I'm sorry, i-- - it's fine. I'm just glad you're all right. Come on. Leif, let's go. Leif, are you all right? Stay right there! - Hello? Are you alive? - Leif? Leif are you all right? What is that? - Is... Is it a tin woodman? - That's just a story. - Then what is it? - Are you hurt? - It looks like a man. Nobody got here in time to make sure he didn't rust up. I'm sorry. - It's, it's just a story leif, it's not real. I think that's the way out. You really should be more careful. Can't be fooling around and getting yourself hurt. - We wouldn't have found them if it hadn't happened. - It was nothing. It's like when you see a face in the clouds, or in the bark of a tree. It just looked like a man to you. - You thought it looked like a man too, didn't you? - Yeah but, I bet I wanna find some other people just as much as you have, we both just what we thought, looked like a man. If it was real it would've had bones or something. - Not a tin woodman. - Leif, those don't exist! - How do you know? - Because I've never seen one! Neither one of us even heard of one 'till you started reading that book. You're just seeing what you wanna see. I found a map. I think there's some bigger cities west of here. We could probably find some supplies. Do you mind helping me read some of this? I'm sorry about earlier. Tchk, tchk, tchk, tchk... Whoa, ah! Tchk, tchk, tchk... Ah! Dang witch! Tchk, tchk, uh, ah! Tchk, tchk, oh! Grah! The wicked witch has won! Now I'll never get the love of that girl that I've longed for. What will I ever do? Oh, hi good sir. Scarecrow I see. Would you be so kind as to hand me those metal legs, so I can walk again, and those metal arms so I can be back at my best? Ah, thank you, thank you. If you could just put the legs there and the arms here. I'm whole again! Now we can go get me a heart so that I can find love. And for you, Mr. scarecrow, some brains. - I already have brains. - We'll get you even more brains! What does that say? - Min... Minneola. What's there? - I don't know, but i think we're here. So if we keep going west, we should find it. - You should learn to read. - Is it hard? - It was a first, but, it gets easier. Here, try this. - Maybe some other time. Why don't you read a little more, then go to bed? - So, Dorothy, the scarecrow, the tin woodman and the lion, are going through this dark forest to get to the city of emeralds, and they have to cross this river on a raft, but, the raft gets pulled down the river. "This is bad." Said the tin woodman, "for if we cannot get to the land, "we shall be carried into the country "of the wicked witch of the west, "and she will enchant us and make us slaves." "And then I should get no brains." Said the scarecrow. "And I should get no courage." Said the cowardly lion. "And I should get no heart." Said the tin woodman. "And I should never get back to Kansas." Said Dorothy. What's your favorite color? - I don't think I have one. - Me neither, munchkins like blue a lot, and everyone in the emerald city likes green, because the whole city is completely green. - Have they made it to see the oz yet? - Not yet. What would you ask for, if you got to meet the oz? - That's tough. I'm not sure. What would you ask for? - I'd ask to see my mom again. And for him to make her okay. - She taught you how to read, didn't she? - Yeah, every night. She used to say that it was something not worth losing, because we had already lost everything else. Things were a lot different when she was younger I guess. She never talked about it. She used to say that, when i was older I would know. I guess she was wrong because I'm older and I still don't know. She didn't dry up like everyone else. She just wouldn't wake up. Then I went to go find help. But there was no one, like always. I couldn't find my way back home. It wasn't where i thought it was. - I know what I'd ask for. - What? - Comfort. - Comfort? - Yeah. I'd like to not have to worry about surviving. I mean we do now, but, it'd be nice to be able to not have to worry so much. Then we could focus on other things. - Like what? - It's like... Nothing in the world matters except this one thing, and this one thing is all that you need. But, you can't see it, you can't touch it. But I know that it's there, and that it exists. But I haven't found it yet. - Well, I'm sure the oz can help. - Yeah. I'll think of a color then. - Mine's green. I just wish there was more of it. What is that? - What does that say? - Ter... "Terroris". What does that mean? - I think terror is like being scared. - It's someone who scares people. A scarecrow. - I guess so. - So scarecrows are real. And you can't say that we aren't really seeing this. This is really something! Oh, a real scarecrow. Was a scarecrow. - He was burned. - Why would anyone start a fire near him, knowing it could kill him? - They may have done it on purpose. - Why? - Just like that witch I guess. Some people are just evil. - What do you mean? - My dad always used to say that, "evil is waiting at every turn, "and evil is what will stop you from surviving. "You have to recognize the evil "and find a way to overcome it." - So, evil killed this scarecrow. - I'd say so. - How much further 'till minneola? - Uh, we should be there by tomorrow. Did you get enough to eat? - Yeah, I wasn't that hungry. What was that? - Sounds like wolves. - Wolves? - Yeah, they won't bother us though. - Are you sure? - Of course. Fire will keep 'em away. I'm better at it anyway. - "I am oz, the great and terrible, "who are you, and why do you seek me?" "I am Dorothy, the small and meek, "i have come to you for help." "I am only a scarecrow, stuffed with straw, "i come to you praying that you will put brains "in my head instead of straw." "I am a woodman, and made of tin, "therefore I have no heart, and cannot love." "I am a cowardly lion, afraid of everything, "i come to you to beg that you give me courage, "so that in reality I may become "the king of beasts, as men call me." And the voice said: "Bring me proof that "the wicked witch is dead, and that moment "i will give you your courage, "the biggest and kindest and most loving heart, "such good brains that you will be "the wisest man in all the land of oz, "when you call tell me she is dead, "i will send you back to Kansas, but not before." Wow! What is this place? - Some kind of store I guess. - What are these things? I'm okay. Don't worry em. I'm not gonna cough up. - What'cha got there? - I wanna go, don't you? - Where is it? - It's in minneola. At royal land. Can we go? Guess it's not as much fun with no one around. - What did you expect? - I can imagine it. A great lion, a not so cowardly lion, roars, and... A woman with a beard, , like yours! Screams in terror, as the king of the beasts stands proud. And a man, spits fire from his mouth. And a dog... Balances a ball on his nose. And munchkins, emri look! There are munchkins, they're real! There's so much we don't know. What if this book is the answer, clues to what happened. - Or it's just a story based off some real things. I can see some small people existing. Ain't nobody munchkins, it's just small people. Walking and talking men made out of straw and tin, witches, and all that other stuff, it's just made up. - Okay, what about this, witch hunt? Witches have to be real at least. - I don't know. What if there's more to this world than we know? What if ozland really exists and that's where everyone is? Maybe everyone there hasn't dried up. The streets are golden, yellow brick, and there's color and life, and all sorts of wonderful things. - And wicked witches? - Maybe not, maybe Dorothy and them kill her. I haven't gotten that far yet. And what if the wicked witch did all this? What if she's no longer in oz? You said that evil would do something like burn the scarecrow. - Yeah, but I was just saying. - But, if it is true, then there must be a great wizard who can give us that one thing we really want. - Yeah that would be nice but how are you gonna get to ozland? - We can find a way. - Listen, imagining or dreaming things is fine, but don't let it get in the way. You can't forget what's really around you. Things you know are certain. - I can't help it. Are we still heading west? - Yeah, we've been going west a long time. - Since before you got the bee sting? - Yeah, and a while before that. - I didn't tell you the last part that I read. Dorothy and them leave the city to go kill the witch, and they head west, and as they get closer the witch sends animals to go kill them. The witch sent bees, and not just bees, she sent wolves and she sent crows. The other night we were surrounded by wolves and the fire must've protected us. Now there are these crows. - Leif, crows can't kill you. And that bee just stung me, and those wolves, they could've killed us if they wanted to. I just made up the part about the fire to make you feel better. - You mean we could've been eaten? - Nah, they wouldn't wanna eat us. Let's get moving. - No. If ozland is real, then the witch must be too. I think she's the reason everything is all dried up. She's the evil that did all this. - In the book did Dorothy and them kill the witch? - Yeah, but-- - and didn't Dorothy kill the only other one, so there shouldn't be any left? - But we don't know that for sure. - Exactly, we don't know any of this for sure. So let's go. - There could be another witch! One like the wicked witch of the west. And she's sending these things as we get closer. The only thing she hasn't sent is flying monkeys. - You're joking. Leif there's no such thing and you know it. - I don't know it. I didn't know that munchkins exist. Or scarecrow, or tinman. So why can't there be flying monkeys? Those will kill us. - I'm outta water. And you don't have much left either. We'll die of thirst long before some monkey kills us. Now grab your stuff and lets go. Can you check and see if you can find some bottles? It's getting really hot. We're gonna need to carry more water. - Yeah. - Did you find anything? - I just found one. - Yeah, okay, guess that'll have to work. - I'll do it. - You sure? - Yeah. - Okay. Guess I'll take a break. Thanks. - Y'all filled up? - Yeah. And uh, here's the extra. Do you have room to carry it? - Yeah, I can take it. Have they made it to see the oz yet? - I haven't read that part. - I'm not that tired, do you wanna read some of it? - Not tonight. Emri? Emri?! Emri!! - Leif, are you all right? Whatever it was, it was just a dream. - The witch sent it. - No problems, it was just a dream. - It flew right at me. - But you're okay now. Is it because we're going west? - Do we have to go that way? - I don't guess so. Thought it was a good idea for whatever reason but... I don't want it to be like this. So, if going in another direction will fix that, then that's what I want. - Really? - Of course. You're all I got. And I'm all you got. We won't survive any other way. We'll go another way. - Maybe you'll find that thing you were looking for. You know what that says? "Home is where the heart is". If that were true, the tin woodman shouldn't have had such a hard time trying to find his. - I think it means something different, home is like a place of comfort. - Did you and your dad have a home? - Yeah we had a little place in the woods. - Do you remember where it is? - Nah, I survived behind but it seemed like the animals got fewer and fewer until I had to leave. I couldn't remember where it was now if I wanted. - Do you ever wanna go back home? - You mean the one i had with my dad? - Yeah. - With him gone it wouldn't be a home. - Maybe you need to find a new home. - That would be nice. - I wish I could meet the oz. So I can go back home. And see my mother again. Maybe you can ask for a home. And that other thing you wanted. - Maybe so. - It's so hot. - Drink something. - I think I need a break, em. - Yeah, i could use one too. Have you ever seen an oasis? - Emri. Emri wake up. - What? - Hey! Hey! - Help, help, help, help! - Hi! I'm leif, this is emry. I can't believe you're real. A real life tinman! What's your name? - Ain't nothing of your concern. Loi, my name is loi. - Hi loi! Where are you going? - Help, find help. - For what? - Where'd you come from? - Home, it is my primary function. - Home, where's that? - Gone. - Do you know Dorothy, the scarecrow, the cowardly-- - eddy, Andy and Abby, help, find help. - What happened? - Emergency personnel needed at 615 Ace colonial Avenue. - What happened? - Bright flash, fire immediately followed. - The witch did it? - Witch? - Witch. - Which way? - Yeah, witch. - That way! - West? - Yes. Help this way. - The witch did it. - Can you help? - I'm sorry, I... - Loi wait. Please wait, loi! - Do not interfere! - Loi wait! Wait loi! - Do not interfere! - I'm sorry, I had to do it. - I know. I didn't want him to hurt me. - I'd never let him or anything else hurt you. - What should we do with him? - My dad did his best to help me survive. He teached me to able to help myself. Then one day he got real sick. A lot like your mom I guess. There was nothing i could do to help him. He knew it. We didn't know of anyone else so he said for that reason, I had to make sure I survived. Even though he couldn't. Day before he passed, he made me promise to bury him. He said it was something people used to do. So the next day, I found him with no breath and no more beat left in his heart, and I put him in a hole in the ground, and covered it with dirt. I guess we should do the same for him. - Yeah. I think we should. - Leif, leif? - It's so hot. - Have you been drinking? - Yeah. - Let me see. Leif why haven't you been drinking more than this? - We don't have a lot left. I didn't wanna use it all up. - Drink the rest of this, we have the extra bottle remember? We can refill yours later. Feeling better? - Yeah, I am. - Drink when you get thirsty. I know we don't have a lot, but, I promise we'll find more. - Hi... - Did you hear that? - I'm coming in just a minute, I promise. I always have about three or four... Hi, this is Dee. I've left this message in the hope that it reaches someone. I know there has to be more of us out there. My friends and I have a camp, east of here, about 10 miles. We have water, food, and shelter. There are four of us, including myself, but, we would happily feed more. If you get this message, head east and look for the brick building. There's a red x in the window. We hope to see you. - Can you believe it? - I can. - There's someone else, and she sounds so beautiful. Dee. I can't wait to meet her. - So, we are going? - Of course! - The tinman was right, we found help! - Am I imagining this? - Not at all. What if she really is Dorothy? - You know what, she could be! - Really? - Yeah, I, i couldn't explain loi and I never thought this would happen, so, why not? Maybe you'll get to meet your Dorothy. - If you get this message, head east and look for the brick building. There's a red x in the window. We hope to see you. - How do I look? - What? - Do I look good? - You look the same as you always do. - Is that good? - I guess so. - Have you gotten far enough to know if they got their wishes? - Not yet. - Would you show me how to read some of it? - Really? - Yeah, I'd like to be able to. - Let's start with something you've heard before, it should make it easier. What's this word? Do, dor... - Dorothy! - Lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with un... - Unc... - Uncle. - Uncle. - Henry, who was a farmer, and aunt... - Em! - That was an easy one. Who was the farmer's wife. Their house was sma... Small... - Small. - There were four walls, a floor, a roof, which made one room, and this room contained a rusty looking cooking stove, a cupboard for the dishes, a table, three or four chairs, and the beds. Uncle Henry and aunt em had a big bed in one corner, and Dorothy a little bed in another corner. There was no garret at all, and no cellar, except a small hole dug in the ground, called a cyclone cellar, where the family could go in case one of those great whirlwinds arose, mighty enough to crush any building in its path. Will be there tomorrow? - We should, I don't think it's too much further. - What do you think she'll look like? - I don't know. Maybe red hair? - My mom had red hair, she was tall. Maybe Dee will be tall too. - Tall, short, red hair, brown hair, either way. Tomorrow we're gonna find what we've been looking for. I know we hadn't realized it but this is what we both wanted. I guess we have your book to thank for that. Are you feeling better? - Yeah, I feel good. - Good. Drink up. We fill up tomorrow and... Maybe we won't have to worry about that anymore. Red. Red's my favorite color. And I wish there was more of it. - Maybe there soon will be. More red and green. Dee, are you here? Dee? - Hello? - Em, come here! Em, did they try-- - they're dead. - There are three graves. One of them might still be alive, maybe it's Dee. - With three dead there wouldn't be anyone to bury the fourth. She's gone. - Hi, this is Dee. I've left this message... - How are you? - I'm okay. Just disappointed. - Yeah. - What now? - We forget about this and move on. We were fine before all this. I shouldn't have let myself get excited and lead us all out here for nothing. - We couldn't have known. We both thought we could find her. - It was a distraction, one after another. It's not helping us survive. If anything, it's hurting us. - We're surviving okay. - For now, but we're almost outta water. I didn't see any in there, did you? - No. - We got our hopes up and now we're gonna pay the price. - Em, I'm sorry, I know how much it meant to you-- - just forget about it. Now get up and let's go. - Where are we going? - Somewhere other than here. I need to take a break. We have to find something soon. - Are there any creeks nearby? - I don't know where we are. I let myself lose track. Leif! Why didn't you tell me you had these? - I can explain. - Were you just gonna let us die? Why would you lie about this? - I was saving it. - For what? - The witch. Dorothy and them used water to kill the witch. You said yourself that evil is what would stop us from surviving, so i recognized that, and I was doing what i needed to do to stop it. - You're an idiot. You lied about the bottles so how do I know you're not lying about this. I can't read. For all I know you're making all of this up. The witch isn't real! What is real, is you're letting your stupid brain come up with all this crap. If there is some evil that's gonna keep us from surviving, it's you. - Em, I'm so sorry, i-- - give it up, I have had enough of this. Dreaming and thinking "what if" is fine, but you're gonna kill us over it! - No, I'm not! - We're not gonna talk about the witch, Dorothy, oz, or any of that nonsense anymore, do you hear me? - You said yourself that there's something out there that you can't explain, you can't touch it, you can't see it, but you know it exists. That's what ozland is for me. Why?! - What? - Why did you this? - I did it for our own good. - How am I supposed to know if the oz gave them-- - I said we're not gonna talk about this anymore. Just be glad I didn't burn the whole book. - Leif, stop it! Leif! Stop, stop it! Quit! Calm! Leif, calm. I shouldn't have done that. I know how much the story means to you. - Do you think the oz gave them what they asked for? - Of course. - Do you really think that? - They killed the witch and did what the oz asked, he had to keep his promise. - I hope so. - Hi, this is Dee. I've left this message in the hope that it reaches someone. I know there has to be more of us out there. My friends and I have... - I wanna go home. - I hope you get there. - It's just like Dorothy's. - Yeah, I guess it is. - Emri. There's a cyclone coming in. - A cyclone? - It is. They're real. - We should get somewhere safe. - There's a door to the cellar underneath the rug. - Come on leif, get in! Leif I know it's amazing but you need to get down here! - This is my chance. - Come on, don't be crazy. - No, I have to. - Leif come on! - No, I'll be fine, you go. - You don't know if it'll work. You'll die. - No, I won't. - Leif, please. - If I don't do this now, I may never get home. I'm going to ozland. - Leif? Leif? Leif?! Leif?! Leif! Leif!
