 

                        BadBoyz @ xRG Thanks a lot You give us your busy time From this year we have started vision of India competition We know that the eyes of world are on India now We thought that from which point our children see India To save your time our team has finalized 5 best competitors No I wanna see all of them I can also give this award I'm the principal Who else is bigger than me? To give value to award its necessary that it must be given by good hands Who is best in that field Like cricket trophy must be given by Tendulkar Vision of India trophy must be given by M.P.Amol Aartay Can i get admission? I know you are full but I can see a empty chair You all are very lucky You study in this school You are getting top marks since last 7 years Your under 15 cricket team is winning since last 5 years Your teachers keep standing, and you always keep sitting I'm feeling jealous Not to stand ahead like you, just to think like you Today you all are winners Today one thing I have seen in your competition I feel this school is very lucky Lucky by getting a brilliant student This is their India We have been told since childhood that this is my house and that is your house This is my city and that is your city This is my state and that is your state This is my country and that is your country This you and me is the biggest problem of this world This destroy whole world We can take care of our country like its our property I wish we all think like this What a world we could make Who made this? Have you heard about Projaria? He is only 12 years old Because of this disease his body looks like 60 or 70 years old man body Congratulations you have a boy just taste a bit wake up. look its so tasty Look Vidya he is not eating mixed rice he says this is patient's food its a boring food he wants chilli tell him i will also eat what is this? you got first prize in group? who give you prize? there is no taste in it i want chilli you know you'll have asthema problem in 2 mins, you'll have oxygen mask in 3 mins and in 4 mins injections look I'm also eating you are doctor thats why you like hospital food there is no chilli in it bring the pickle. i have seen it in fridge what happened? we are saying this because of your safety i was also asking for your safety you are allowed to eat spicy food whole media is asking whether he is 70 years old man or he is a 12 year old child he is from Kind Edwards school of Lucknow, and he is suffering from Projeria because of this his body is increasing with 4 times more speed Amol Aartay was also scared I wanna do MBA after political science I wanna join politics I wanna work with my dad I wanna learn from his 22 years old political experience I wanna change the thinking of this country i dont understand family and children why i only think about myself? you dont wanna finish your studies? you wanna be doctor or not? because of this dont waste your career we will consult a good doctor,everything will be fine i believe you will be a big politician and i promise you wont have any problem because of me i will talk to you for the last time for your heart patience just to tell you this that now I'm not your problem I will consult a good doctor you want this baby or not? you want this baby or not? you want this baby or not? you want this baby or not? Its very hard to talk to you how can i live with alone baby? you were only 2 years old when your papa died i'm still with you you want this baby or not? your problem is solved when you will become a big politician then i will see you on TV Projaria are of many types a child's body increase more than 4 times of his body but he looks like 70 years old he is only 9 years old till now only 40 or 50 this cases registered in this world normally these childrens are like normal childrens as they grom up, their problems increase in most these childrens wont survive after 14 years old there is no cure what is his name? there is a genetic code in every person in every body there are 3 billion codes like this you again lost Today Aarav shake hand with his father why they made Algebra? why they put X and Y between them? why they need to put Vishnu and Aarav between them? everybody wants to meet you they come here for shooting MP open this secret you came on TV with MP. our secret is revealed principal is calling you what i did? you did nothing we dont had to call MP if he did not come then media people would also not come this school has done many things for many people he is scared how will we go? from tomorrow i will come to drop you after KG class mother dont come school to drop i wont come outside car,only 3 steps inside school where you will go by escaping from Google? i have found him its bad bad manners to read someone's email nobody is here look everyone run away you go from here go quickly you did not take photo today? you are making fun of Vishnu's cough Aarav there is a phone for you No need no to tell my mother, your mother is not on the phone Aarav I have read your email I know you are very angry and you are having problem because of me from now nobody will give you any problem media or any other wont take your photo without your permission they wont come near your school do you want anything else? respect me I know MP first look at your back i wanna talk to you for 2 minutes you dont have time for old politician how will you give time to country? will you do? he will allow you to do this? I just wanna remove old slum on that same place I'm making new building for the same people I'm just giving that area to re-developers how much money you give them? Jaykrit will ask I dont have time to go toilet if you dont think about shit then how will can live fit? why are you shouting? we just got the election,let me do some work or you will be against me in next election lets do some work first he is arrested in corruption case he wanna meet you i told him nothing will happne because its a home ministry case bring him inside its a very complicated case its better for you that you dont involve in this he is corrupt or not if he is corrupted then we have to help him he give 55 lacs to become SEP his salary is only 30000. how will he recover? if he is not corrupted then i wanna touch his feet we give them the reason for corruption corruption is the biggest problem of this country disease never finish by killing patient parking lot is small scissor is ok? i think its not good by cutting parking lot I'm younger than you Pummy aunty's daughter wedding last week was also her wedding and this wedding is also her wedding that was Sheela aunty's sister wedding your marriage why they do round circles? its called 7 rounds every round has one promise that bride and groom do with each other then they call husband and wife did you do this? did mother do this? round circles she also feel headache like you, thats why she did not it seems only you have taken seriously wake up India slogan Indian peoples send you questions on email and they sleep can i send you email and sleep? today Viren also called me she has nice and beutiful daughter next week I'm going to Delhi for Rashpati.will you come with me? tell me fix date,i have to prepare of it how can it change from 10 to 11? i have to do many things is anyone giving you problem in hospital? tell me I will talk to MP mother dont wanna come i will go alone how many persons will come with you? i have 2 body guards.how old are you? i dont have any body guard now you have 3. me and my 2 body guards i'm sleepy now. i have to sleep now we will meet on 11th. be prepare these complications because you still dont have baby baby is a very big responsibility we dont have time we are always busy later you can also remain busy but you cant have a baby in future we will adopt a baby if we need in future. there are lots of childrens in world, world dont need more its your decision. but you have to understand a woman's body too if you dont give birth a baby then these complications will increase i'm telling this from my experience i wanna become dancer atleast there should be any difference between us there is a difference between us i thought i'm your best friend i thought i should go there first and see whats going on there everywhere is attack these days if anything happen to you.... i dont wanna loose you if anything happen to you. so what? you will remain safe dont go Aarav. i will give my life but i wont let anything happen to you you wanna become a big dancer why you are so eager? to do some good work so you think I'm earning some money from this work my father has lots of money. do you want it? please forgive me. i did not understand you i could not understand that you are in election because you wanna serve people i haven't seen a person so eager to serve people who do this to become public servant? do you want tea? no thanks i love colony people's tea i will have it there cancel all my appointments for next 10 days I wanna go to Betkar colony and meet the families so many peoples lived here, all died how you live here? you live on drain how can you not suffer from diseases? i wanna give you 10 times better house than this here a new big building will be made there will be a place to play. you will get pure water and no need to steal electricity if its important than this wont be removed from your hand? with in 4 days, without ticket? i will go by plane i told you many times dont call me Bum in public place why are you disturbing God? where are you both? nobody is picking up my phone since last 2 hours. to see Rashpati Bhavan with MP i dont know how dont you think we have to tell him everything? how is it? dont sign. They will throw you away today this land is yours. Tomorrow it will belong to builders this place is not yours. you all are illegal but still government is helping you i'm giving you better houses on this place what are you looking at? commentary is enough. Now its time to show batting electricity is gone why so much darkness is here? electricity is gone others area have electricity. they have cut your line the government is doing this MP is scaring you by telling you illegal place where will we go? government is scaring us they want to take over our land thats why they cut the electricity you are in politics and still you are teaching us ethics people dont have right to ask to hide your corruption, you are telling us corrupt truth will come out dont mess with media. They will publish anything will our rich politicians understand problems of poor people its not the matter that people are living here illegal, its matter that in our country alot of people dont have place to live its a matter of poor people, media will put you in trouble goverment is wake up after 20 years if we dont tell people that this property is ours, Then how people will know that they are living illegally they dont need to work hard to doubt on politicians how many times we will hear these 3 words? give vote to rich man's son and corruption will be less but i public forget that young people wanna stand on their own feet bye to all i'm going did you talk to MP? is he sending private plane? you are non-vegetarian.Eat her please i have talked to high command. did you get permission from home ministry? come up you are going to Delhi? to tell Home Ministry? media will get one more news move backwards always dont mean that you have lost if u wanna move forward than learn to step backward what are you doing tomorrow evening? i will watch Star TV serial tomorrow watch Door Darshan he is ready to go Delhi tell him everything i cant see it anymore did he ask anything from you? i'm ready.Where are you going? Delhi exact time was not fixed. He will come at anytime you are not going to Delhi come on change the clothes,you have to go to school i did not get any message that we are not going to Delhi my image will be destroyed see I told you he is corrupt he is very handsome,he cant be corrupt i made a mistake to bring him in politics he will destroy politics i wanna go to Delhi he still not come outside? after reading morning newspaper,Whole country is tensed everybody is infront of TV by finishing all work everybody is eager to see that how bad is our politician today I wanna accept all my bad work Door Darshan has a big power and I want everybody knows my reality thats why I choose Door Darshan it seems that you have to wait some more because a strange accident is happened some poor peoples take over a famous person's house let us live here go outside this is my house Sarang Desai always take side of poor people in media in our country millions of people dont have their house to live he had half bottle of scotch and then he was sleeping people has believe his thoughts seriously if they dont tell that this property is ours than how people will know that they are living here illegally he is still sleeping you are a media person and still you are beating media person from where you get this house, you are a media reporter like me i know which minister is behind you how dare you doubt me? you can doubt me, why i cant doubt on you? give vote to rich man's son, corruption will be less today i wanted to accept my bad works but whatever happened today, it would be very dangerous for country whether a person is rich or poor, if he take over someone's place then we have to stop them one day our country will be drown some people take over media people's house government stop this when these peoples take over government's property then media person stop government i send these poor people to media person's house because i thought media person will understand another people's problem when this will happen to them for send poor mans to 3 media person's house and put life in danger arrest me a soldier and a terrorist both move with guns both have power but only one difference is between them one is responsible and other is not spider man is my favourite movie as the power increase, the responsibility also increase it imposes not only on politicians, infact it imposes on all of us specially on today's media because it seems that they have more power than spider man you told us 3 days, why you come so early? what happen? he go early? ok give me his house number Aarav MP is on the line i think he is sleeping ok i will call him later Arav come on fast, look what i have bring for you ok only Bum and me are going to play ok only Bum and me are going to play this one they are playing Playstation at this age someone told me dont read someone's email tell him everything what i tell him? why are you worried? did he ask you anything? i'm worried because he did not ask anything when he was 7 years old,we told him everything he understand everything clearly that his father did not want that he will born why he will ask? what m i hiding? only 5 runs left he injured fitness problem run no Aarav thank god nothing is serious Aarav is 12 years old? soon he will be 13 have you seen his reports? his all body parts are now weak like 80 years old man i cant say anything.Suddenly anything will happen i think he should not go to school i cant stop him to go to school i bring a gift for you its a very old gift what is monkey is doing with you? this monkey is your father does he know about me? he wanted to kill me? why you did not tell him about me? i did not want to become his problem every person see dreams if a problem comes in dream then dream will be break we are problem why you did not give this gift to me before? i did not want you to share with anyone now you wanna share? you are big now now you have to decide with whom you wanna share? i dont want that he know that who are you? you have a doubt that whether i will celebrate my next birthday or not? what can i do with this gift? you have to decide until you give me permission, i wont do anything how are you? where is Vishnu? behind that tree his father is with principal nothing. thats why principal call his father did you see my dad? do you call him dad? i have to call him but sometimes i have a doubt i'm so cool and he is so angry sometimes i have doubt, he has a proof on third page there is my picture. i'm in his hand i have to call him he has a proof he has a proof? do you know that i know everything? i know that you know everything what kinda proof? she did not had 7 circles what happen? i'm thinking to commit suicide what a poor life i have. i'm a creative person what will i do with algebra and geometry? who will tell him? he takes out office frustration on me you are very lucky you both look like same? god has given me same face like him what else is common among you we both have angry temper. he can show anger on me but i cant show my anger on him we both create sound while eating he say me bad manners but i cant say him anything he is left handed and me too. he beats me from left hand and i got beat by left hand a child cant be born you also eat i'm not eating Aarav your phone Aarav wanna go delhi? i'm going to school now. i will pick up you from school i'm not free can i go to delhi after school? i wont be H K who will pack the bag? i'm saying to school that i'm sick dont tell anybody that i'm going to delhi last time everyone made fun of me MP sir will meet you in plane he send this car to pick you. we will go in this car? when we will come back? first we go i have only pack my clothes for 2 days he thinks like me i have the separate room? tomorrow morning you like mixed rice? i like it,i want it to finish soon why dont to order something else they wont eat? they will eat How? while eating if anybody shoots you... then i will die what your mom and dad do? means i dont know you dont know what your dad do? he see dreams you made that white globe or your father made it? i dont do cheating can i call? i'm taj palace. i'm having mixed rice you did not say HI DAD? a very big house for one person so many slum people can make so many houses here i know everything gate is closed we will go from that side gate lets go back to hotel so many persons are waiting for us tonight we took permissions did you eat food? you are not sleepy? yes but i have to go where? air port. boss told me your things are coming out from suitcase or its going inside? you haven't finished packing our flight id at 4 pm i'm angry you wanted to see Rashpati bhavan why are you teasing me? why you did not tell me that you dont wanna see you are taking revenge for last time? before than last time because i bring media in your school? also before than this i did not made any mistake you tell me what was my mistake? car is ready you go in that i'm still staying here for one more day what mistake i made? come with me alone without body guard them will tell you its a madness they are mad, they will kill me tell me quickly what will your body guard will do? i'm not that mad i wont let you die you are my MP? can you please tell me what mistake i made? and why you did come in Rajvati Bhawan? i will give answer for only one because i wanted to do shit urgently what are you doing? i was doing shit so comfortable this is the problem of this country government made toilets for you where are the shit go? all will go in sea fishes are in sea and shit is in sea we at fish your shit is in his stomach and my shit is in your both stomach its better to do on road tell me my first mistake i dont remember he also has glasses and and i also have glasses and he dont eat lady finger and me too nobody leaves me can i sleep? were you taking medicine on time? did you eat chilli? you wanna know everything ask her how much she will pay if i say this now i can fly in air my son is normal now he is having tea in house have you given job leaving letter to Home Minister? you must meet him you also must meet Viren's daughter its enough now until when you will play with other childrens? when will you understand father's tension? he give me calling name bastard meaning is also in dictionary my father also call me bastard with love. if next time he say me this then i will say him bastard if i'am bastard then you are not my mother's husband now you dont have any right to scold me how can you go like this? why you lied me? i never told you about abortion i just told you that your problem is solved did you ever get problem because of us? did we interfere in your life? still we wont father does not mean to give birth to baby he is gone? he did not come home last night ok you may go where is Amol? where is Amol? this hospital not parliament you wait outside are you crazy? how can he be your son? you did not want to marry so that you will not change your way to your destiny do you know because of this you wont see your destiny and if people know this then do you know what will happen? what happened to you? you are my son if anybody try to give you problem, i will kill him he is my son you are my son if anybody try to give him problem then i will kill him he is still not married and he has a 12 year old son he had an affair with a girl name Vidya you did not marry my mother is this the circus? dont try to start it again this thing moved ahead they wont leave you they are taking revenge from you you call media and tell them this is fake and you are just showing sympathy to a old boy and you are helping him drop me because in this reality show i can ask one question please forgive me he is saying sorry i was waiting for this day since so many years that you will come here i wish i would know this how can i tell this to Vidya? it becomes soft only for that boy no you have lots of time remaining you have lots of time left you have to come out from hospital soon we will enjoy together you dont wanna do shopping with grand father? we will go to America we will see Disney World you have much time left i was talking about visiting hours your time is finished you stay here at night tell everyone to go go tell everyone to go drop him at home first then where you go at night? wherever you take me first take at our house then drop sir wherever he wants what is going on there? they go together from here lets ask from your king kong he can only speak in chinese may be something can happen you did not go to house what do you want Amol? there is no fight here this is for you i made a mistake but that was my first day in school suddenly you came infront of me yes i was scared my looking you yes i hurt you but i tried alot to say you sorry do you know how much you hurt me?
