 

                        The wait... the anticipation... my mornings have... of your evenings "That which my evenings wait for your promises" "That which my nights wait to dream of you" "That which my sleep waits to be in your arms" "That which my feelings have for your desires" "Anticipation of a few misdemeanours..." of a few beautiful sins "the wait, the anticipation..." "The wait for my sweetheart, the wait for my companion..." "for my heart-throb, I wait" "Flowers make the path exude a fragrance..." "my heart however, withers away like the autumn leaf" "A sea of tears my eyes behold" My heart lies barren "For those few gusts of wind..." for those wet nights... I wait For the cloudburst For those showers "For my very own rain, I wait" "For my heart-beat, for my breath..." "to come alive, I wait" "A rain-cloud shall one day come blowing here..." "and my thirst of ages shall be quenched in moments" "Having restored you to my arms..." "time shall come to a standstill, you will see" "For the prayers that might bring about this miracle..." "for those sanctuaries that are mine for a lifetime..." I wait "For you to arrive, to have you for myself..." "so that you never return... I wait" Kaaya... Kaaya... Where have you been? "Like a mad girl, you go around everywhere bare-footed" What do you really do? What are you hiding? Let me see! You've started writing poetry again? And what's this...? The Wait The Wait! For whom? And what the hell for? An idle mind is a devil's workshop No wonder you keep thinking about worthless things "If there is anything in life, it's sacrifice and devotion" So that you may have a wonderful life after this one "A life which has no misery, no sorrow..." which has only joy to offer I keep following the Rimpochek around... so that they make you part of the monastery And you secretly go around writing nonsense on paper! Kaaya! Where are you going? The Lama Norbu is looking for you It's very important "When He wishes to punish us, He fulfills a dream of ours" I remember the dreams you used to have as a small child "Of flying higher than the clouds, of touching the Moon..." of gathering all the stars in your lap! Of grabbing the rainbow I really wish to take you higher than the clouds today "Will you do something for us, child? - Oh yes. She certainly will!" Kaaya's the one I'm asking. And she must answer me "Will you do something for us, child?" "Yes, of course. But what is to be done?" The Rimpochek has had a dream Our spiritual leader is in Delhi He has had a reincarnation He's now there in the form of a child You will bring him here from Delhi Because this monastery is his real home Lama Dorji shall accompany you till Delhi "After that, you will return here with the child" "It's him, all right" May you have a long life Be careful how you take him there Because that is where he belongs "Kaaya, it's now your responsibility to take him to the monastery" The hotel coach will drop you at the airport at 5 a.m. "Your flight to Manali takes off at 6 a.m., Madam" Come Over there. Let's go Go on! "Hurry up, sir!" Can't you see...? I'm washing my hands Who saw the body first? - That kid over there What work do you have with him? "Relax, Madam. I'm a police officer" I need to have a word with the child. What's his name? Lama. But he knows nothing about all this We have nothing to do with whatever has happened We've got to get home. We've got to take the flight tomorrow morning There will be more flights "Lama, carefully listen to what I say" That man who got killed was a police officer It's my job to find his killers So tell me whatever you saw I... - Yes? Go on Don't be afraid I saw him Whom did you see? The one who lay on the floor? I saw the one who killed him What was he to look like? - He... Yes? Speak up He... - Don't be afraid. Tell me Speak up One moment I wish to say something to you. You just don't understand We have nothing to do with this incident Please think about the child Can't you see how scared he is? He's the reincarnation of a leading spiritual leader It's very necessary for him to return home at the earliest "What did you say? A reincarnation? - Yes, a reincarnation" I'm sorry. He could be a reincarnation for you... "for us, he's just a witness" You can't leave this place until our investigation is completed It's a legal matter We have nothing to do with your legalities and your world Why don't you understand? You now have something to do with us Whether you like it or not And those that don't come to the courts on our summons... go straight to jail Which do you prefer? "Let's go, Zakir" Where are you taking us? Will someone tell me? "Shiven, let's drop them at the police station" Are you out of your mind? They? At the police station? "Let's put them up at a hotel then. - What's wrong with you, Zakir?" How can we leave them alone? Take them to your house. Ask your wife to look after them You're going to have me killed! Niloufer will have my blood We just got rid of the guests who were here for the wedding She needs a break Why don't you take them to Anna's place? She even has an air-conditioner They're folks from the hills. They'll find it hot at my place All right. I don't have a choice I'll have to do what I didn't want to Listen to me! You dare hit my sister! "My sister, you hit...?" We still aren't divorced! She continues to be my wife! "If you were a husband, you wouldn't have left your wife and kids like this!" "The next time I see you here, you're going to regret it" "Take him away, Zakir!" "Okay, move it" It's late in the night. I'll drop you home Where are the kids? - Upstairs They're upstairs and you still let him into the house? Don't tell me how to bring up my kids! "If you love them so much, get married and have your own children!" And this is my personal affair. - This is not personal It's for the law! It's a crime to beat your wife We can discuss this tomorrow... who are they? My guests They'll spend the night here I had no choice Please come I'm sorry but we seem to have welcomed you with a domestic fight "If there's anything you need, do please call me" Okay Who on earth are they? The sight of the picture on the wall almost killed the girl! It's cold Let me heat it up for you "Heat it up! You're showing a lot of affection, aren't you?" That kid... he's the reincarnation of a very learned spiritual leader A reincarnation? - Yes "He's born again. - You mean, he's born again?" "One life, you can barely lead" And you'll have to lead another Put that hand down! "And you, are you at a bloody wedding? Take off your glasses!" Watch how you stand! Put that hand down! Take a careful look and tell me which one of them it was... that you saw in the toilet Relax. Take another look. There's no hurry I'm here with you Take them away This plane's for you "I'm sorry the kid has to do all this, much against my wishes" You're not sorry at all You're actually happy to have found a witness What are we going to do? - What...? We've got to eat. It's one already I'll take them out to lunch. Have another batch ready by then Let's go Why did you change tables? "What happened, Lamo? - Look down, Lamo" Where's the boss? - Watching the match. Aren't you? "Papa, Shiven is here" We're going to win this time! What's up...? You aren't happy "Bad news, sir" It was Raj Mehra who killed R.B. Singh I couldn't even dream Raj would do a thing like this But this is the truth "You aren't making a mistake, are you?" "I wouldn't have been here, if I wasn't sure" "I've got to know the entire game, sir" Raj killed seven gangsters in encounters last year... and all seven of them belonged to the Chhota Babban gang And in the three raids Raj conducted on the Rauf gang... not even one gangster was shot. Each one of them escaped "I've been looking up the Intelligence Bureau files just now, sir" Raj has bought lots of property in the last year and half And his lifestyle is far too opulent for his meagre earnings What are you getting at? - Just that... "although Raj wears the police uniform, he works for the Rauf gang" It's such a shame! It's such a shame to be working with such guys What would you need to clear the department of this filth? The help of the people outside the department "Because they're the ones who can tell us who else is involved, sir" All right. I'll make arrangements "Tell me something, Shiven. Who else knows this, apart from you and me?" "No one, sir" Don't even tell anyone. - All right Your life could be in danger "I'm with you. - Thank you, sir" "What do you think you're doing, ass? - Go in!" Kaaya... wake up Shiven's here. He says you must leave immediately. Hurry Bring Lamo along too. C'mon "Listen, park my car in your garage and lock the garage" "What's happening, Shiven? - You needn't know anything" I just took your car and told you nothing. So you don't know a thing You know nothing about that girl and the kid Neither have you seen them nor have you ever heard about them "Do you understand? - What's happening here, Shiven?" Can't you do a thing without asking questions? Just do as I say! Listen carefully to me Steal the file pertaining to R.B. Singh's murder It contains the name of the girl and the kid Destroy the file. - What are you saying? What's happening? - Nothing I'm going away for a few days. I'll give you a call when I can But what the hell is going on? D.C.P. Sushil Mathur is part of the conspiracy There could be others too I'll explain everything when I return "You're listening, aren't you?" "Yes, I'm listening. - Be careful, Zakir" What's happening? You yourself said there was no danger in the city And I was wrong! They don't call me an encounter king for nothing A bullet has struck him "With thunder and lightning, arrive the rains" "Thunder and lightning bring the rains" "On what unknown paths do the clouds pour...?" "Come, let's enjoy the lovely season" "With thunder and lightning, arrive the rains" "Come to me, my love..." give me the lethal poison... or pray for me to live What ties are these...? That bind breath together? Heed the cry of my heart... "Shiven, what's happening to you?" I happened to doze off Know what? Sit with me on the front seat Wake me up if I doze off again Are you all right? - Go on! "Life shall be immersed in a million hues" "This lovely evening, I shall never forget" "Let there be some exchange between your eyes and mine" How much longer? - We'll be there in a little while "With thunder and lightning, arrive the rains" Take some rest. I'll fetch something for you to eat No. I've got to go When will you come to take Lama for the case? There will be no case Duck! What are you doing...? There's no one here! What are you doing? Blood! I must take you to the hospital! No! No hospitals! No doctors! - Why not? It's a bullet injury. The police will register a case... and they'll eventually find me But Shiven... - Try and understand! "If they can get to me, they can get to you too" They'll kill Lama. They'll kill you too! Where did the gunfire come from? "Who's this man? When did you arrive, Kaaya?" Why's he bleeding? Go and call Lama Norbu His body temperature is rising The bullet went right through He has lost much blood "Kaaya, I'm no doctor" I can't treat him Let's take him to the army hospital "No, we can't take him to the hospital" Can't take him to the hospital? Didn't you hear what he said? "If he dies here, the police will come here" We'll be charged for breaking the law We'll pray for him. In case he dies... we'll find some way out. - Kaaya... it's a question of someone's life It's a responsibility we can't take I know everything But you don't know that this man didn't even care for his life... to help us reach here If the people who shot him find this out... they will do the same to me and Lamo We have no choice. - Kaaya... It's all right Do you have linseed oil? - Yes Mix three parts of linseed oil with one part of milk. Apply on his wound I'm going home. I'll send you some herbal tea Let him drink it Pray for the best If he survives the night... he might live "Thank you, Lama Norbu" Thank you very much Kaaya! What's this? There's no room for this thing here "I know, father. When he leaves, it goes along with him" Relax Don't touch the kid Don't touch the girl Shiven... I have told you all that I had to I have nothing more to say "Look Anna, Shiven is in trouble" He has been accused of taking a bribe A bribe? Shiven? "Nobody is going to believe it. - I don't, either" Same with you. But the people? There are allegations against him "He must come here and explain things, justify himself" "As of now, step back, please. I need to shut the door" Look Anna... I don't want to take you to the police station I told you! I know nothing You are Shiven's sister Your brother must've told you something before he left About his travel plans... with the girl and the kid Didn't he? Anna knows nothing Wonder who stole the report from the police station Now how am I going to trace them? How am I going to trace the girl? "You will, you will" "They can run, but they can't hide" Who are they? They are monks from the monastery They are here to look you up And this is our Lama Norbu He's the one who saved your life Who else knows about my whereabouts? Only them How long have I been here? - Since the last three days I must go You can't go anywhere. - I need to go I have lots to do "If your body seeks rest, it is your duty to abide by it" Hereabouts they say that... "When there's a solution to a problem, there's no need to worry" "If there's no solution, it's no good worrying" "So, stop worrying" And have the herbal tea from time to time Ask the monk if this is tea or kerosene You can ask him once you get well "Kaaya, a bullet wound is something serious" "Lama Norbu has no doubt cured him, but this is not where he belongs" He must go back Didn't you see? He is eager to get back He will go as soon as he gets well How soon will he get well? - One month Maybe sooner. We need to have patience What are you writing? A poem Poem? Yes The valley is so quiet that I find it suffocating "When I try to pen something, chaos takes over my mind..." and breaks the silence It's really quiet out here I can hear my heartbeats Let me hear. What have you written? No Please Let me feel the chaos in your mind Shall I...? - Please Open your eyes Lend me your ears I have much to offer But I wish to offer something that belongs to me A ray of sunlight... a droplet of sky... half a cuckoo's call... and some fantasies "If you like it, ask for more" For all that I have to offer... I wish to offer something from my heart A mirror like the sky... a tinful of butterflies... a spoonful of waves... and a fistful of life "If you like it, ask for more" For all that I have to offer... I wish to offer something from my heart Time to give you medication. I'll get it Kaaya... Nothing "What's on your mind, my child?" Nothing "I was feeling scared inside, so I came out" One must have a grip over one's desires You never know when they come true The greatest joy is in seeking the truth "Everything else is a waste, dear" Everything No! Give it to me Give it to me Give it here Don't touch it again Want to play? You can play now I'll let you play this time Never again Lamo! What's going on? "Lamo, go outside. I'll be there" It was empty He was just playing with it "I thought, the gun was..." Out of question! It is about you and your ideals "Let alone play, Lamo is not even supposed to touch such things" "In fact, none of us is" And listen... as long as you are with us... I would like you... to respect our traditions and our trust I apologise Keep this where Lamo can't reach it "Deputy Commissioner of Police, Delhi, Sushil Mathur here" "We need a little help from you, sir" "Sure, sir. Tell me" Tell me... what can I do for the guys from Delhi? I'm looking for a girl She is connected to the Buddhist monastery "Sir, there are lots of monasteries around here" Which area are you talking about? "I don't know, sir. All I know is the girl's name" Kaaya Well... her full name? "No idea, sir" Whereabouts? I wouldn't call you if I knew that "I mean, which street? Lane? Telephone number?" "No sir, nothing. Because..." the folks in my department have only revealed to me... "her name, and that she is connected to a Buddhist monastery" We have lots of monasteries here. - Really? "One monastery here, one there, one right here in Manali;..." where do we go looking for her? To go looking for her is like trying to find a needle in the sand It concerns a death of a policeman. He was murdered One of us has died "Won't you help us out, sir?" Won't you make a call for us right now? "Sir, were there phones in monasteries..." I would've surely called Really? Thank you I have gained much general knowledge talking to you Now please hang up What's that? Your clothes are still bloodstained I have given them for a wash Until then you can wear these Another thing. In these clothes you can pass off as one of us Is there a telephone nearby? "You will find one at the army camp, beyond the valley" No. I need a public telephone There's one in the village But you are not in a state to go outside I need to go No. Lama Norbu has asked... - I know what he has said "All right, father will drop you halfway" "You will have to tread alone further. But, hurry up" Thanks for saving my life Thanks for what? I have only repaid you in kind Is he coming? What's the matter? "What makes you laugh? - Nothing, sir" There's surely something Tell me. What is it? Just thinking. For all the load that the poor ass takes... he gets beaten up The Creator made humans as well as asses Then why is it that humans can ride an ass... but an ass can't ride on humans? I see "So you feel for the ass, eh?" "Get off, and walk" "There's the city, and this is the road" Get off C'mon What makes you laugh again? Nothing. It feels good to look at you "When you are angry, you look like a human being" Are you all right? I'm coming over... to do what I left incomplete Have things cooled down? "No, it's heated up like never before" Don't come back Don't come to Delhi... don't even think of it How long will I continue to hide? I have to return one day "For my sake, Shiven!" "Don't make this mistake, for God's sake" "Look, the Commissioner has set an entire army after you" Have patience. Stay wherever you are And listen... keep calling me I'll inform you as soon as things cool down here "Zakir, I'm so fortunate" "In such times, I have a friend like you" When are you going back? Bear with me for a few days more What are you upto? "As long as I'm here, I think I must help you folks in some way" I'll cook food today Where did you learn to cook? Loneliness is a teacher that teaches so much Just watch. I'm going to make such a lentil-curry... that you folks are going to just relish "Wonderful. Amazing lentil-curry, Kaaya" "Shiven cooked the fare, today" It's a bit salty Looks like you are perfectly all right No wonder you are fixing your car "And you are cooking, too" Which means you can also help me a bit "Why not, sir? What do you want me to do?" Not now. Tomorrow morning Got to milk the churu Churu...? "Yes, churu. A yak" Ever seen one? I think I've seen it in a picture "So, get introduced tomorrow morning" Get up It's four. Time to milk the yak Come on C'mon... get cracking Do what? Do what? "Hold, press, pull... and draw milk" Well young man? "Your hands don't shiver while pulling the trigger, do they?" Hold it Milking is really a terrible job What are you watching? Sunrise "In the city, we hardly have the time to look at the sky" I want to hold this beauty... "in my fists, for ever" "Nothing is for ever, Shiven" "We believe that, change takes place constantly" We don't hold on to things That is why we keep statues made of butter at the doors In the afternoon when the temperature starts rising... the butter statues begin to melt It reminds us that every thing comes to an end... perishes Nothing is for ever It's time for meditation. I must leave How many times do you meditate in a day? "Thrice, as of now" I'll meditate six times a day when I'm back at the gompa "Gompa... you mean, monastery?" When are you leaving? Soon after you leave I've fallen in love with you My heart goes out to you Across streets and lanes... my heart seeks you "Across streets and lanes, my heart seeks you" My eyes pine without you My heart's fallen for you "Come to me, my love" My heart... seeks you It looks for a trace of you I've fallen in love with you What I return to you... always belonged to you What have I to lose? Of my own... I have nothing Every thing belongs to you "Without you, my heart..." is like the terrified deer... is like the hysteric breeze I've fallen in love with you My heart goes out to you What's that? A gift for you A hawk? There's a story behind the hawk. Would you like to hear it? "On a stormy night like this one, there was blowing a strong breeze" To save its loved ones from the breeze... this hawk took off to fly from one mountain to another One of its loved ones fell off on the way And she didn't even get to know That hawk went and fell among a flock of hens And it started growing up among the chickens... and started thinking it was a chicken too Whenever it looked up at the skies... it felt a desire to touch them But it thought it couldn't fly; that it was itself a chicken It gave up thinking about the skies... and started pecking around on the ground "One day, there came there a beggar" He could easily see that there was a hawk among the chickens... that had forgotten its identity He tried to reason with the hawk To forsake the ground and fly in the skies But the eagle wouldn't agree The beggar then picked it up. The eagle struggled and cried But the beggar wouldn't listen He took the bird to the peak of a mountain and flung it down The eagle began to fall... "gradually, it spread its wings..." and it could fly This is you Your place is there in the skies You must find your place Go to your room immediately! "Go away, I say!" What's happening here? "What were you doing in his room, so late in the night?" "I have done nothing wrong, father. - Nothing wrong?" You've only been doing wrong! First you thrust this stranger on us "He brought with himself a gun, bullets and everything for terror" There will be gunfire in this sacred place now. There will be bloodshed! And you hold such a man's hand in the night and mutter sweet nothings? Talking to someone is not a sin. I have not committed any sin "But you will, if you haven't yet!" I can see it clearly in your eyes! You are going wayward! "Love, marriage, worldly pleasures are not for you!" You've got to join the monastery in search of the Eternal Truth! I know that. - No! You don't know anything! You're straying from your path! I'm so ashamed! "Sir, I have something to say to you" What will you tell me? I'm the one who will tell you I've never seen anyone as selfish as you You have taken advantage of our favours "Sir, we haven't done what you imagine" Do you take me for a fool? You think I was born yesterday? I know Kaaya inside-out "When she coughs, I get to know that she's going to fall ill" Can you look me in the eye and honestly say... that you don't love her? "Yes, I love her" I never had this feeling for anyone earlier I want to give her everything I possess And what is that? Let me also hear I know the world you people live in "Consumed by greed and avarice, man deceives another man..." is a fiend all his life and eventually dies You perhaps forget. I was once part of that world I used to be a very big officer. I kicked that lifestyle to come here! Kaaya was a little child when her mother died Her death had left me shattered The sorrow I went through after being separated from my beloved... "I didn't want Kaaya to go through and thus, I brought her here" "Shiven, every love story has a tragic ending" And I don't want sorrow and grief to even cast a shadow on Kaaya But sir... - What? What? You say you're in love with her? You are a police officer. You came here wounded "Suppose you're shot dead tomorrow, what happens of Kaaya?" Have you ever considered that? Have you? "No, why must you think of that? All you want is a moment of joy" Even if Kaaya has to weep all her life! Must we stop smiling for fear of crying then? Must we stop forging relations? Because death is inevitable... must we stop living too? However much you love your dear ones... you can't shield them from their moments of hardship "Neither you, nor I. No matter how much we try" Kaaya will have to bear her share of the grief "We can't do anything about it. - We can, too!" Should we kill our desires in their very roots... we can escape grief and sorrow The desire to escape grief and sorrow is also a desire The only difference is that you consider your desire to be great... and look down upon my desire of settling down as selfishness Let Kaaya decide now... which one among us is more selfish "You, or me?" "Kaaya, your father has done a huge favour to me" He has made me face the truth. That I do really love you I want you to go with me... but your father has other plans for you You have to decide now as to what you want I'll wait for your decision She can come to the monastery anytime she wishes too. What's the hurry? We have made a very big mistake by allowing that man to stay here It has now become very important for Kaaya to join the monastery Does she love him? - I don't know All I know is that it would be best if she took the initiation now Certainly. But the walls of the monastery weren't built... for people to hide from grief and sorrow Neither is this a prison Let Kaaya decide when she wants to join us Why will she? I will! "When a child is ill, the parents decide on giving her the bitter pill" Will one stranger come and change the course of her life...? I will not let that happen "Zakir, which era do you belong to?" "In the 21st century, you're talking about being a good friend?" "Now speak up. Where's Shiven, tell us" Also tell us what conspiracies you have hatched against us Speak up! Speak Will you be a good friend or save your life? Turn around a bit... that's okay! Look at that tall Lama! Come! "Dance with me, c'mon" "What's up, feller? You look terrific" And what a body! Solid build! And look at his hair A filmi hero all the way! Like to work in the movies? Want to play hero? "Give me a snap, with your phone number, height and other details" Hurry up What happened? No photographs? No problem I'll take a picture immediately. So give me a smile... I'll shove the camera up yours if you take a picture Sister-in-law...? This is Shiven "Give the phone to Zakir, please" "Can you hear me, sister-in-law? Give the phone to Zakir, please" Sister-in-law? What happened? Is everything all right? Zakir is dead. He was killed. Murdered I'll take it Megha and her calls! - Her age to receive calls "Do you get as many as her? - Papa, it's Shiven on the line" "You're a smart chap, Shiven. You've telephoned my house..." so it cannot be tapped "How have you been? - You've made a mistake, sir" Killing Zakir is going to prove very costly for you Raj has simply got the name Encounter King People also say about him that he never misses his mark "But about you, he was off the mark" "Else, you wouldn't have been talking like this with me today" "Get one thing clear, sir" There isn't a bullet that can kill me I'm going to lead a very long life Better you understand that and also make Raj see reason "Oh sure. I will, of course" But listen to something I say Heed my advise Come here You're all alone out there What will you do? Come over We can sort it out "I'm coming, sir. Having heard of Zakir's murder..." I'll have to meet the two of you. I'm coming over Your house will soon echo with the same cries of mourning... I just heard in my friend's house What did you say? You'd shove the camera up mine? Go on. Do it... shove the camera! What? "I thought I'd make a hero out of you, but you start playing villain?" Speak! Speak! He won't speak like that I feel as if we've just been married Where was the need for this? You don't give me a bill anyway! It's ages since... My job following me here "Go on, Ratan Singh. - News is that Shiven..." "has beaten up some tourists, sir. - Then?" We've got his location Congratulations on the wedding anniversary He's going back tomorrow morning Going back? What for? What for? Because he's sensible. He's not a fool like you He has finally admitted that his world lies there And it's time you admitted that your world lies here "Make preparations. You're going to the monastery, as soon as he leaves" "If this is a sin, let me commit this sin" That's it. This much is enough for me "You can go away now, if you wish to" With the memory of this moment... I shall somehow spend my life "What will happen of you, Kaaya?" You refuse to live moments in flesh and blood And you talk of spending a lifetime with dead memories? You can't go with me... you can't live without me what will happen of you? You think you're doing a pious deed... by killing your love for the sake of your father? Wrong. You are committing a sin A sin "When I leave this place tomorrow, I won't even look back at you" I will erase your memories from my heart and soul "There is place for you in my life, Kaaya" But not for your dead memories And let me tell you one last thing. Whatever the world thinks... "this is the life for me, this is the moment I live" You can spurn this moment and keep looking for the eternal joy And turn this world into a hell But I will live this life. To the fullest With you Or without you "Whenever you miss me, sit on this camel and come to my house" Don't be afraid. We're the police Search the nearby places "Calm down. As I said, we're the police" We haven't come here to inconvenience you or anyone else I only want Shiven Tell me. Where is he? Speak Over there! Go and look! "From here, go straight to the monastery. Don't get out of there" Go! His gun is with us! Ratan Singh... You aren't escaping now! "I'll do to you what I did to your friend, Zakir" Wait there! Where the hell are you? "Come on out, you coward!" Where? - Over there Who are they...? Who? What's going on out there? Go and stop them! Move it! Don't get closer! I'll shoot! Well? Why don't you shoot? Kill me! You know who this man is...? He's a murderer! I have a warrant against him! Don't get closer. I'll shoot! Kill me "You're the one who made me a police officer, isn't it?" So you might as well kill me now What then? You want to kill her? Him? If you're still not satisfied... will you kill this little child? Are you going to kill all of them? How many people will you kill? Aren't you tired of it all? Enough. You've done enough Enough. Not anymore Not anymore! Are you crying? The Lama does not cry Thank you very much For all that you did for me So long then. Thanks for saving my life "Kaaya, everything comes to an end" And the ending has an end too The moment you were so scared to face... I was scared to face... is now looking us in the face I have come to accept the bitter truth "Till now, I kept thrusting my ideals and principles on you" And today I realise the mistake I have made And this realisation comes from my enemy From Shiven "As they say, the enemy is the biggest teacher" He's the one who teaches you to be compassionate I have come to love Shiven I don't regret the fact that everything comes to an end That we're wiped out "What I regret is that we stop loving, even while we're alive" I had stopped loving you Which is why I snatched from you your most precious wealth Your freedom Today... I return to you what is rightfully yours You may now decide what you wish to do
