 

                        1 'Kind attention viewers -' '- this story takes place before the closure of bars in Kerala' 'Don't call me a drunkard because more than the Iiquorl drank' 'Much more I have drank my tears' - FayazAham med Fayaz 'Paavada' (The skirt) MBRHDRG Greetings, I'm not a character in this movie, okay Before the movie begins and in between there is a story narration, no? In big movies it is Srinivasan sir and Renjith sir who does this story narration For example, when the movie 'Meeshamadhavan' starts Haven't you heard that dialogue said by Renjith sir? On hearing that, it is a kind of thrill I'm the one who is doing the narration of this movie But on asking who are you? What is your merit for that? What is the merit for a drunkard at this toddy shop? Even by begging or by postponing the payment, will daily drink But not only that To tell the story of 'Pam bu' (snake) and 'Paavada' (skirt) The best merit is for What a form is this? Lucky that didn't buy the wall mounting TV Otherwise would have turned over the entire wall! What is this? In the previous life was he a bat? Pillaicha, very thirsty Yeah you'll be thirsty Yesterday you were drinking like filling diesel in a tanker lorry Should have thought on that Morning you will have the thirst and giddiness Doing some stupid things and"! Pillai, hey man Pillaicha! Calling Pillai, Pillai now he will start calling my mother Hey man Pillaicha Yeah I'm coming Hell with it! To kill people What is it? That is so urgent Just lift this by holding the hand If the parents had whacked you at right time, now you won't do all this By the way let me ask, as I don't know - - does the things in this house have legs and hands? Morning TV was 'upside down' Now the fridge is lying in 'Anandhashayanam' - - as if like 'Patmanabaswamy? And the shoes, one is in 'Pala' and the other one is in 'Palli...!' Shucks! Just move back, move back My mother! Bring it, straight Only this much, very correct For this one, only" How did you manage to do this? At night, I tried to open it For what? To make a 'bulls eye' Shucks! This thing so called egg, should scold his father who invented it Look, that eatery fellow is waiting there - Which eatery guy? My..My aunt's husband! You should have consciousness as little as bed bug! Yesterday what had happened in particular Babu sir, just fire off that 'Hamlet' speech Man, who is that guy? - That one, that is our 'Paavada' (skirt) He is a peculiar character What is it sir? Babu sir, is getting intoxicated Just have a watch on him You dirty filthy lawyer what are you laughing at? I laughed since it was good Man, what a nuisance is this? The ear is getting deafening Just turn on that TV I didn't say" Sit, sit Pillaicha, let him say what is to be or not to be - Man, that bill, bill Fellow, turn off the TV Is this TV your hereditary property? To turn it on and off when you say? My sir, this is not' foot step dance', several programs will be staged Just call Suresh sir Lawyer! Pillaicha, keep quite Move off man Buddy here comes the police come fast Run and come man, come fast Like that don't blame Babu alone Those nuisance people had come and provoked, isn't it? Look lawyer on drinking if a problem is created, police can't stand watching All though it is told to lawyer, can understand where that needle is poking Sir, first of all learn to live decently Should live decently An adviser! Pillaicha, I don't like to say like this to a teacher who taught me But this kind of character will lead to a big trouble Sir, won't he listen? Don't you know? Sir, bill Look, today no need it is late at night The bad words that should be told at the right time, if not it will get bitter That was a correct hit Please don't make this son to pelt stones to a glass window Look, Pillaicha, opened it By disdaining the sleep in my life Aren't you sleeping nicely? When I was late might have thought I won't come It wasn't intentional, urgently wanted to create a fight Now I'm going, really hungry that is why Don't be happy I will come tomorrow also I'll come till I die If you die, I'll come to your grave yard and scold you And if I'm the one who is dying, I'll come in your dreams Like a ghost Enough,enough Right now I'm going You have told, haven't you? Come on get in Look, son you are already drunk, I'll drive, move to other side This is my car, what is kept on this seat is my 'buttocks I know how to reach home, with 'both' of this Come on get in man! Shucks! Hey you fellow, Paavada (skirt) We'll get you, we will deal with you! Fellow, go home Go man, you 'Paavada Babu' Get lost you 'Paavada' (skirt) My God, Car! Hey chicken! Coming to shit on other's floor! Give that cheque I'll come now On hearing this 'Paavada' (Skirt) you must be thinking what a bad name it is There are drunkards here with much more bad names That is very much inside this Kerala 'Pam bu Joy' (Snake Joy) ('A Hindu devotional Bajan') MBRHDRG With this chaired by Bharatha Desheeya Congress This 'Gandhi memorial program' has come to an end All the followers may disperse now Have slept nicely, come let's go Hold Joycha, who is this 'Reghu Pathi Rajaram?' Don't you know that? - No! He was a great freedom fighter Rajaram Mohan Roy - Then who is this 'Pathitha Pavana Sitaram?' He is the brother of Rajaram P.P Sitharam Don't create a fuss, all have got Just move back Don't create an issue Just move I say Really thirsty Just move back - Brother, give Only this one? Only cover is there, no bottle For the meeting and procession Rs. 500 and one full, that is the custom On saying that only came Who has told? Saji Payippadan - If Payippadan has told, go and ask Payippadan Today Payippadan will get the treat! My god! -Again on asking the full will you show the stomach? - Never! My god, my mother India! Keep quite, if you open the mouth, I'll smash the 'lanka' Here, take it the money to buy full Don't take everything Good bye! Good boy, okay! 'Gandhi Jayanthi - today holiday' Brother, taking a long comb okay Brother, what is the price? Rs. 5 Can you just turn that tube down? What is it, if it is 'Gandhi Jayanthi'? This bar is always open Isn't it? Get lost dog Dog? Go fellow Sorry dog, sorry! - Hey fellow! Tell that thing to stop barking I'm telling that This dog has gone mad by eating, this is a rich man's dog This thing will tear me off today! My god, Joycha, dog is coming to bite me Joycha, please help Hey thief! Who is that? - Joycha, shall we also go to catch the thief? Hey fool, they are calling us the thief! My god Thief, don't leave him! Brother, not a thief, came to drink toddy! 'Janamaithri Police Station' Father, don't you have any other job? Why taking this idiot on bail? Please pardon for this time, sir He won't repeat again Hey fellow, come out Sir, is calling you people Won't listen to anyone, he is only scared of me That is, like this Blessing in the name of Jesus, father Fellow, just move to that side What is the name of 'Pambu's' (snake's) friend? 'Raj!' 'Velakoothi Raj' (Lamp extinguisher) Sir, he is 'Velakoothi Rajan' In the playing card club, he'll extinguish the lamp and flee with money Then what? Can I extinguish the bulb? No, that's not possible Both are perfect match! Hey lady, put a sign here Sister, told you are a nurse, no? Could you marry someone with a job? Sir, that was a mistake, because of that Vijayan Who is this Vijayan? Fellows, move back! Back off from the way! Hey fellow, give the ticket, give the ticket, I say! Fellow, give the ticket! First, it is 150 Two numbers Do you have Rs. 3,00? Come on take the money Give the money here Okay, I'll give First it is 150, 150 Brother, how much is it? - 150 Can you give for 100? - Go man! 150 - For 200 can you give 2? That is not possible 150, 150 Do you have association membership? My goodness, I'm not a fan, came to sell it in 'black' That is what is said, if you want to see the ticket in 'black' You should have the membership in association Can't take the membership and all, if you want can give a first class ticket Before giving that, you will get one first class 'whack'! Don't show off man, don't show off Will fall, don't push Go man! Hey don't push will fall! What fellow? Hey fellow! Sir, will go Okay sir Sugatha! Sir Sugatha! Hey man, SP sir had called What is it sir? - For the brother in law's program there are no people On saying how can I create the people? Am I 'Brahma?' (Creator) Sir, you don't get tensed, for the time being there are 4 men inside Okay if is 4, you call them Today I'll show them! Hey man, go and get inside the vehicle For what sir? To have the feast on your '28th day function' Come on go and get inside the vehicle Come, lets have the feast! Get in fast, fellows Sir where to? - Shut up fellow! All of you get down 'Blood donation Cam p' This club's secretary is SP's brother in law On hearing the blood donation all had fled from this district If the program becomes a failure, bad name for SP and brother in law That bad name should be covered by giving our blood, isn't it? Can't poke a needle on my body I'll just"! Walk man! My dear sir, it is out of fear On seeing the ' syringe' my knees will start to shake On breaking that knees, your problem will be solved, won't it? Come on man write 'Pam bu Joy' (snake Joy) Not 'pass' it is 'Pam bu' Look, 'Pam bu' they are the doves of peace They will inject without hurting Not doves sir, they are 'witches' Even on 'Kottayam Pushpanath's ghost novels' It is more decent than this, sir! Fellow, while taking this injection, it will hurt as if like an ant's bite Long back when I was bitten by a 'mad dog' Had taken 16 injections around my 'Umbilicus' I just stood coolly May be the dog which had bitten you! Come here man, I'll break your nerves today MBRHDRG Joy? Where are the wings? What is it? The wings? Wings? Please come Which is the group? Nothing like that will go for all processions for all the 'groups' I asked the blood group ls there group for that one also? Doesn't matter, we'll check it over here Should take the sample What is this? Why are you lying in a turned over manner? Show the hand I thought it will be from the back Are you injecting on the hand? Are you that much scared? Is it for this you are scared like this? Usually while going to a hospital- -they inject like inserting an iron rod on rocks Like this for the first time This is for taking the sample To take the blood, must inject once again Since the sample was taken from the show room The original will be taken from the godown Is that also taken from hand? Yeah! Okay if it hand, okay with hand The blood group is very rare It is good to give blood as a donation - -within an interval of one or two months It will be also a help for the patients Taking the blood, okay Is it correct? By the way, doesn't this angel have a name? Sinimol What a bad name? Why didn't you like it? I'll take the burden of that Even otherwise, why do these angels have a name, man? Should see the way, she walks and comes It is like peacock flying and coming 'Mai...!' ...Le, Ie! ...Mayil (peacock) Did you ask? When the love is started, on seeing a 'crow ' will look like Kareena Kapoor This is not like that, man Then, how is it? Should see how she walks, like a swan very beauti'ful' This is not 'full' This is only a 'pint' Shucks! Stupid fellow! Joycha, this love is like putting a beer bottle inside the 'lungi' - without wearing an underwear, it is such a situation It is risk - Anyway I have decided to take the risk By the way she has told Joychan's blood is 'international blood' - - it is very rare to get isn't it, what she told? Idiot don't call 'her' it is Sinimol You should see her as a sister I was telling, regarding the matter of seeing As there is good demand, will get a good price on selling the blood On that pretext you can go and see her How is it? All though you are a 'chicken' you are really a 'movement? I'll make 'sister Sinimol' mother of my kids MBRHDRG "ls the nest of naughtiness, for dear ones it is honey" "Right from morning, is drunk like a 'Pam bu' (snake), the very smart Joy" "Right the next day after joining a job, does some mischievous tricks" "The Joy, who comes back as if like a miscalculated rocket" "He is ready for anything, has got various gimmicks with him" "if at all he lands up in any job, will bring some problems" "Without pouring water drinks a full" "He is too good to pretend, ready to give the self" "No matter what happens he is very stern" "That is Joy" "Joy, is our dear one Joy is our asset" "But still, Joy is always drunk" "Joy, is our dear one Joy is our asset" "But still, Joy is always drunk" "ls the nest of naughtiness, for dear ones it is honey" "Right from morning, is drunk like a 'Pam bu' (snake), the very smart Joy" What is that sound? Go man! That is.. Sneezing! "When there is shortage of money, won't look anything else" "Joy sells the kidney and boozes" "When calculating the money spend on booze" "Today is Joy is above 'Tata and Birla" "Where ever he sees a 'nibble' soon takes a bottle from waist and drinks" "That is Joy" "Joy, is our dear one Joy is our asset" "But still, Joy is always drunk" "Joy, is our dear one Joy is our asset" "But still, Joy is always drunk" "ls the nest of naughtiness, for dear ones it is honey" "Right from morning, is drunk like a 'Pam bu' (snake), the very smart Joy" "Right the next day after joining a job, does some mischievous tricks" "The Joy, who comes back as if like a miscalculated rocket" "He is ready for anything, has got various gimmicks with him" "if at all he lands up in any job, will bring some problems" "Without pouring water drinks a full" "He is too good to pretend, ready to give the self -" "No matter what happens he is very stern" "That is Joy" "Joy, is our dear one Joy is our asset" "But still, Joy is always drunk" "Joy, is our dear one Joy is our asset" "But still, Joy is always drunk" What happened? MBRHDRG The life of a girl, who has married a drunkard It is like the face of a 'Tamil guy' In Tamil Nadu for 'face' it is called 'moonchi' (Got dumped) Hey girl, where are you hiding? Come decently, then the number of beating will be less What is this? Is it a love letter? 'I'm going, won't come back, do not search me' 'Drink and be the way you like, enjoy and be peaceful - Sinimol' Varghese! What is it? - Hey man, Varghese what is a movement at cemetery? You also come with me, will go and check When it is mid night, certain things Fellow, who is that one? Did anyone come to steal the offering box? - Who is that? Father, it is me My Jesus, Mother what is he doing on top of a tree? Get down fellow, from the tree top No, I'm going to hang! Fellow, don't hang yourself on the tree, I say you get down I'll hang - Fellow, it is me who is saying get down from the tree When I hang..My God! Jesus! San! My sod, Son, are you hurt? What more to happen, when falling down hitting the buttocks, it's nice, no? I have told you, not to hang on that, isn't it? That was a rotten branch, didn't you see that? Then father, why can't you say that before? Yeah fellow, I will hang a board on branches, that is suitable for hanging Boy, what was that big pain to hang? Father, my wife is there, no? Sinimol She had left me and gone I hanged out of that sorrow, father Hey man, just lift this fellow My dear father Yeah, coming Shucks! Hello Hello, father this is me, Sini Yeah, where are you calling from, now? - Father, I'm calling from Wayanad Over here there is an old age home named 'Karunya' (kindness) It is managed by a monastery Yeah, I know, I know There is a need for a nurse over here - - mother at the hospital has been saying for a longtime Father, I had come here Again if I stay there it won't be good Daughter! What is the problem between you and Joy? There is a limit to bear, isn't it? Father you may ask directly Daughter you may come from there If you are not there, he will never become good To make him good we all tried so far but it didn't work out, isn't it? Now let him be good, by himself I just called to inform that I have reached here If there is any urgency, may call on this number Yeah, one minute Come on tell Hey fellow, fellow, get up Who told you to wear this one? Father, didn't get anything else Fellow, remove it My goodness! Otherwise no need Hey boy, remove the gown I say! Look father on seeing something don't get scared and catch fever Look, I'm the one who is saying, remove the gown There is nothing worn under this one Shucks! Dirty fellow! If I'm a dirty fellow for not wearing anything inside What will you call her for disdaining me? If the husbands character is bad, wives will leave and go For all this what did you do at home? That is like, any husband will have some 'misunderstanding', no? What is it? 'Mis understand-mending'! Mis understanding I have no hope whether Joy will become good Other than you, to whom will I say my sorrow? I know, now you also don't want me You don't have the time to console me Buddy as far as from what is heard, it is bit problematic Man, I didn't hear anyone else's sound Then did she talk to a cat? If it is cat, then it is okay When there is no one around will enter inside the kitchen, that's all But there is a creature that climbs on the bed, when there is no one The 'paramoul' 'Marjaran!' (The cat) I'll chop You don't be like 'Talathil Dineshan' Then what should I do? Should I keep quite? Not that, if someone comes to steal and eat must catch him 'red handed' If caught, then it is his last After all I get a holiday only on Sundays At least at that time why can't you sit at home, without drinking? Girl, it is not to drink liquor and all there is a dog lying in the well Should call 'Velakoothi' (Lamp extinguisher) and pick that up Won't you be there for lunch? No girl, I will come only after cleaning that well You close the door okay 'Jaran' (The paramour) 'Marjaran' (The cat) 'Jaran' (The paramour) 'Marjaran' (The cat) Get lost, you dog! Look, only you are there for me Joy has left, not to clean the well and the pond Has gone to toddy shop, while sitting with you like this I get bit of relief And then when you sleep with me what is that you get? Is it roasted banana? I'll end the disease of both ones, today No that, first of all I should know who he is I know you won't disdain me fully All though he drinks liquor, Joy is really fond of me Just stop that drinking liquor habit, the rest I'll manage And don't think I have lighted all this candles as a bribe, okay Shucks! What kind of a fellow am I? Fellow, what are you peeping at, on climbing a ladder'? That is because there is a snake inside this What, another snake, in a snake's house? Snake is your father What? No it is a bird, flew off Shucks! How come so early? Didn't you lift the dog? That came out by itself Did the dog climb by itself? No, someone had lifted it Today, you have returned as a good boy I'm hungry take the food Since you told you won't come to eat, I didn't prepare anything This is yesterday's fish curry, what happened? Came straight home without visiting toddy shop? To tell the truth, today I thought of drinking a bit out of sorrow What is the sorrow that you have to drink and all? Girl, I misunderstood you On hearing the conversations of yours with God I thought there is someone coming here Who else is there to come here? Not that the other person What, the other person? 'Jaran' (Paramour) Who? Not like that When saying 'Jaran' (Paramour) I'm also a husband, no? Not with the fish pot, should have chopped you with knife So that is it she is a divine one on beating me with a pot and left In my ear and eyes it was filled with fish curry, then I became 'Shasi' Father you call her and ask what a decency is that? I can't, you hear what she has to tell Yeah, father must be scared of her, I don't fear anyone I'm her husband Father, males should have guts, guts Yeah, I'm a female I lack little bit of boldness You call yourself Varghese chettan, cover the ears, when she picks up the phone I'm going to say the bad words which may deaf her ears Is it so? Hello, is it 'Karunia Old age Home?' ls there a nurse named Sinimol who is newly joined? Her husband is calling Are you this person named Joy? Without a spine? Without attending the affairs of the family and drinks liquor - - are you a husband? To create bad name for males! Every where there is people like this who are useless for money and soil Fellow, by putting a moustache under the nose, you won't become a male Since this girl doesn't have good brothers to break your bones - - that is why you show off like this Again if at all you call this girl and disturb! It is not fish curry, I'll pour melted iron in your mouth! Fellow, I say cut the phone! Hey fellow, Joy did you get her? I didn't get her but I got nicely! You remove this gown and dress like a human being and come I need to talk with you certain things I don't have an opinion that drinking is a big sin But in stead of we drinking liquor, liquor drinking us that isn't a big thing My dear father, the 'Karal (liver) Valkey's' son who died of a liver issues In stead of drinking liquor, do you think he'll drink milk water? Why not liver you also damage the intestine? You put a nipple on top of the bottle and you suck it 24 hours It is not because I think to stop drinking liquor Every day morning I have this severe guilt feeling I'll think I won't touch this liquor again But we.. -After the sun set the hand will start to shake That is like that, by adding colour, this liquor which is inside the bottle Actually do you know what it is? That is the urine of 'Satan' - Shucks! That will keep on calling Hey fellow, for drinking liquor, there is no happy ending The money in the hand will be lost, the mind will be lost The health and peace of mind will be lost Sometimes may even die Now if nothing of this has happened - - perhaps the liquor may get finished Father, to stop drinking what should be done? Tell me that Are you asking this seriously? Yes father Then, can you go to place that I tell? Will go Is it a word? Father that is a word, why because When people with knowledge say we can learn something, no? Yeah Father, can I ask a doubt? To know this much of this.. Come on ask Father you are hard core drinker, no? Shucks! My son,just go slow Shut up man Hello, where are you buddy? That is him, no? That fellow who created a quarrel at the bar Let him go as he likes Yeah, let him go but can meet him and go, isn't it? Son! Go man Paavada (Skirt) Pillaicha, he ran! I'll come now I'll show now Not to any where Only to there He and his new car Hey fellow, my car! - Son that car is different, that is not his Hey fellow, stop there Stop there Pillaicha, get in - Go, go My god, my car, not even after one hour since received from show room My god, my car Hey fellow I'll show you On seeing how you lie down, no one will say you smashed - - MLA's brother in law's car Sir, what have you done? Son! This belongs to my brother in law Certified like that by MLAI didn't see such a board in front of that car Pillaicha, on hearing this I get itching That is because of no bathing Look shut up Sorry Since Acha Poti has told revealed from that case Lucky that the politician's didn't kill me Every now and then sir creates a quarrel - - and I have to make a compromise, I'm fed up Sir, whom do you want to defeat you drink like this? No alcoholic will drink to defeat anyone Just to show, oneself that he hasn't failed himself An empty bottle If milk is filled in it, it is milk bottle If poison is filled, it is poison bottle If not if it is broken and stabbed on someone's stomach It is a bottle to kill The path of life will depend on the experience we gain in life Isn't it Pillaicha? Everyone who drinks has got this disease When telling a matter, in return will say rotten excuses and try to win Sir, one thing I'll surely say Again you can't go ahead with this drinking habits Suresh, that isn't decided by you alone Correct, correct! Look, the filthy friends like you doesn't allow sir to become good Indeed a right name, 'Gunashekaran' move back, man Yeah this is 'Kattiparamban' Man, tell correctly only then can sketch We will snatch the person Near the beverages, okay, okay yeah Hey boys, must go to beverages There is a task MW W Isn't this Kuttappayi chettan? - Yes We are from a far off place So what? - Came on knowing you are very expert in preparing biriyani There is a function to prepare biriyani for 100 to 150 people Biriyani, to prepare that there is no mood today Go and come tomorrow Look here There is stuff and all It is not done for the first time The new person is very violent Yeah, I'm coming Okay Leave me fellow! Leave me you dog! My god, leave me fellows! Leave me you dog! Leave me Hey fellow, close the mouth Turn him to other side Decently lie there idle Leave fellows Don't inject Don't inject Don't inject Father, this is a sort of...! "Myna arise from the sea Myna..." Circle, where is this class? It is in a seminary It is the students who learn to become clergy The rector father is a friend of mine When he told he wants a person to take class on Shakespeare I never had a second thought I recommended Babu sir's name But why did you drag me? That is because son Babu is desperate on living with bar and home When he takes the class, he will regain the lost spirit Then it is a cooperation with all of us, isn't it sir? Circle, I want to piss a glass of urine Can piss when you go inside My bladder will break now Just stop, stop my god Go and piss fast and come Where are you going? Hey Babu, last week there was a feature on this institution I've read that, this is a jail man, where they keep drunkards Run and escape if you want your life back De-addiction centre Sir, take the car Take the car Stop the vehicle Stop the vehicle Is there your father at de-addiction centre? Catch, catch! Don't run Leave Come, I say Take him inside, put him inside the treatment room You cheater, leave me Take him fast Take him inside Pillaicha! MW W Father, this is a sort of.. 'Hey sky, give a musical cloud" 'Hey Sky" Minimum only after 15 days only person will be send out of the compound It doesn't mean that he is full time locked up in the room Meditation, yoga, the sessions to share the experiences The classes conducted by doctors There are lot of things like that over here After waking up from sedation will get used to this atmosphere Then we'll come after 15 days to take him That is when people come to take him Some patients will feel like there is some serious mental illness Why should we create a guilt feeling to people who are normal? Then in that case, let the car be here The key Okay then Greetings sir! Who are you? Joy, Pam bu Joy! (Snake Joy) No sir, no way they have locked from outside Open the door Is there anyone? Open the door My goodness Tiger, who is banging on the door? I have nothing to loose, I'll just inject you and make you unconscious Just go and sleep did you hear? Sir, better not to act smart, a cook is locked up here for creating trouble Once you end up here, you are just finished M'! gem! Did it hurt? Get lost man - Yeah gone! When the 'tiger' comes he'll inject you Yeah next person What is your name? What? - What is your name? Professor Babu Joseph Slowly will get cured, when I came I've told I'm Lal Bahadur Shasthri! What's up Joy? Whom are you injecting today? No one today Hey man, hey man please set me free Just say this, the plantain tree without shoot, then I'll open It is 'Pappad' 'Pappad', go man, I'll open it! Hey man,just open it Hey man, didn't I say 'Pappad'? Keep quite man Don't create a bad name for drunkards, okay Sir, it is 'Urine' treatment, earlier one Prime Minister used to do like this I'm also in need of some 'Urine' treatment That is how can I sir? Hey fellow, Christ turned water to wine - - how can you turn 'urine' to 'alcohol'? That is a superb technique, since it is sir, I'll show you, okay Just fasten this like this, as and when required the 'thing' is ready Actually what is your profession? Sir, there is no job in particular - - knows driving, wielding, plum ping, cooking Taps the rubber, cleans the pond, milks cow, sells black ticket But because of this drinking, can't stay in one field Sir, I'm not the 'Jacky' that is my tutor Who is that? Sagar Eliyas Jacky I'm becoming shy Hey man Jacky My dear 'Pam bu' Joy (Snake Joy) That is me What is going on there? You will make me to take the syringe No need of injection Fellow, what is today's food? Shall I say it? Good toddy and Rabbit meat Hey fellow, just open this and free me if you can render a speech in English, I'll open it - Go man! No doubt why he is looked up, my god! - Get lost man, get lost You won't come up in life, fellow Son, Joyjust pour one more So far no one has called me son Joy! Babu sir, I feel like crying Me too What is that for'? Its not that.. When everyone calls me sir I feel like within their mind, they are changing 'one word' and calling! But when you call me Babu sir, there is a different feel Come on drink sir! Son! - Tell sir Why don't we escape from here? And then? We'll go home While going, there should be someone to wait, that is called a home So in that sense I don't have a home Are you..Coming along with me? MW W Hey fellow, where are you hiding all this? At the central jail in Kannur, people keep fridge and computer inside the ass! Sir, then a mobile phone is simple, no? 'Addiction centre of Sanjeevani'! Hey watch man, watch man! Yeah, what is it? Coming from cable's office came to repair the setter box Open it fast Are you getting cold? My god help! Hey fellow stop there! Someone help me Stop there My goodness, this guy is coming to kill me - Stop there I say Someone kill him by beating, my goodness climbing on the post Hey fellow! Come down You get lost man! Fellow, telling you to get down You get lost, you dog! I'm mad, I'll catch on this cable Hey fellow, get down You get lost My God! Father come running 'Velakoothi Rajan' has started his job (Lamp extinguisher) Father, come running Father! What is it man? One mad man has climbed on the post, he is about to catch the electric wire! Come running - Climbed on the post and catching the wire On that day the kick you gave on the chair, do it on this lock Come on sir do it Hey fellow, who are you? Get down I'm Injamin Hakk, I'm mad man, I'll hold on this wire Hey fellow, get down Hey fellow get down decently I lack decency You go and file a case Sir, got the vehicle's key What happened? Sir, you may go I'll come Where are you going? Now if there is any problem don't wait for me Sir, you escape okay Is it this one? No need to render a speech in English okay - - I've open the back door you escape through that way Hey fellow, get down what is that you want? Father can you sing a lullaby for me? Luflaby? Father I sing lullaby very well I'll whack you go and get a ladder Come down I say! Father he is escaping with a car Catch the car, lock the gate man Bye, bye! You stupid father, did you see my kids escaping with the car? Hey fools, lock the gate go and catch Babu sir! I've come! Son, Joy just pop in! Okay take the car fast Stop there, stop I say! If you follow us, will whack you inside out! Hi five! Babu sir, why don't we go for a 'urine treatment'? Come on son Joy, you may just pour it Over here give one omelette and two Dosha Come on take it fast Brother, which is this Babu sir's house? Which Babu sir'? That is.. This Babu Joseph For few years back he was a tutor in a college Has got some 'drinking habits' So, its 'Pavaada's' house, isn't it? No man, its your grandfather's My goodness, sir were you inside? Just go straight the vehicle knows the route! Sir over here when asking the route - - all are saying the topic of 'pavaada' (skirt) and blouse Do you know what the problem is? By evening all gets drunk out here No one has got a clear mind Just go straight the vehicle knows the way Straight isn't it? Yeah! MW W Hey fellow, fellow, who are you? I'm 'Pambu' (snake) Understood on seeing it From where did you get this vehicle? This vehicle is.. From where did you get this vehicle? Hey you, you cheat! The 'vaal'(sword) isn't my weapon of agitation The 'vaal' (the puke) Where did he go? So, haven't you left so far? Nope Just go out from here now -As long as Babu sir says, I'm not going anywhere It is not enough that you decide it yourself What is this? - In our native its called 'chicken curry' I don't know what is called, out here I'm asking from where it has come? In the morning I saw it standing in the compound, threw a stone Plucked off all the feathers nicely After that it was taken to fire-heath My God! What has happened to God? Son Babu, he is making a dish out of that Lalechan's chicken Isn't it? That is fine Anyway it won't shit again on the floor By the way are you planning to lodge him here permanently? Yeah! - Then we both can't remain here together Even othenlvise I was planning to dismiss you - What? More brutal than that Brutus, you and that Suresh took me for a ride! You won't know the value of eyes, when there is eyes I will go as I like, I said I'll go as I like Hey fellow, take some curry One minute there is one more thing to be done Just rocked! What is all this? Should cook beef Is there any other meat to challenge the beef? Sir, should invent a new one Do you know why? I'm mad on beef But Pillaichan won't buy it saying cholesterol is high for me Now as the Pillaichan has left, you don't have to worry on that Yeah, Pillaichan has left, just move back let me serve it If I know to make the dish, I know how to serve it You go and mind your business Don't touch my body and play I'll come after a drink Good, when you drink Outside the person who chops is waiting - Who? The person who chops What is this man? - Babu sir! Only this much sheets? What else to say? - There is no use of chopping this way and that way The thing is less, by chopping my health is wasted Sim Ply! By tapping 400 trees, it is not enough getting 8 sheets, brother What can I do? As the quality of tree is bad Whatever be the poor quality of tree, this much sheet is not enough Then is it because of my tapping? So far no one has blamed on my rubber tapping, born to a decent father If you say like that, no one will blame you, no? Because on saying, the one who has told will become - - a fellow who is born to an in decent father! My goodness, if you don't trust me, I'll go My goodness, over here on saying anything, people just leave the job, no? Brother, you come here What is it? - Come here Brother this is not tapped May be that one is left out This one is also not tapped In this raw none is tapped For the time being I can tap only this much You may let me do the job, only if you have a golden soul There is no golden soul Can'tjust chuck me out like that should get the PF and gratuity Also should need the pension Sir, when he is asking should give it that is the decent way of doing it Yes, yes So, we shall pay, this is PF This is gratuity, this is yours.. I only want my life back My goodness, he was a guy who always comes on calling This is.. - If it was a beer can be kept on the lap - - but if it grows like a beverages, what to do? But still.. Sir you don't worry let him go From tomorrow onwards I will do the tapping Are you sure you can do it? Yeah, that is sure, that's enough Pillaicha, he will handle it As soon as you came, you won the heart of son Babu What else do you know? The wars of Palazi The company is yet to see that Palazi? MBRHDRG "Poor 'Paavada' (Skirt) and 'Pam bu' (snake) became the friends" "Right from the moment they saw, they became thick friends" "There is nothing false in it, it is pure friendship" "Sing from the heart, it is very much true" "When they both joins, there is no bell or brake" "You may come to see this friendship" "As long as there is earth why do you need obstinacy?" "When we die, we go hand free, if we don't celebrate we are 'Sasi" "As long as there is earth why do you need obstinacy?" "As long as we live, we live hand free, if we don't celebrate we are 'Sasi" "Soon after the dawn breaks, swims in the brook for the whole day" "The elderly man is defeated does it with a ridiculing smile" "Intoxicates and stumbles in the field of excitement -" "- flutters the wings and flies to the limit less sky" "Intoxicates and stumbles in the field of excitement -" "The Paavada (Skirt) dove becomes the tail of 'Pam bu' (snake)" "As long as there is earth why do you need obstinacy?" "When we die, we go hand free, if we don't celebrate we are 'Sasi" "As long as there is earth why do you need obstinacy?" "When we die, we go hand free, if we don't celebrate we are 'Sasi" "The chicken that comes losing its way, it is made into a dish" "As the walking goes trembling, the loin cloth is worn as a head band" "By doing all kinds of mischief, becomes the breeze of nonsense" "At last falls on the ground and sleeps there" "During the times of no control" "By doing all kinds of mischief, becomes the breeze of nonsense" "Anyone will wish for such a celebrating company" "As long as there is earth why do you need obstinacy?" "When we die, we go hand free, if we don't celebrate we are 'Sasi" "As long as there is earth why do you need obstinacy?" "When we die, we go hand free, if we don't celebrate we are 'Sasi" MW W Won't allow to scold wife in a tasty manner The devil - Joy, tomorrow morning I must go to a place You pack two set of dress Where to? I'll also come - No need, it will be fine if I go alone Who is it? Sinimol? -Yes I'm Babu Joseph, I was a college professor Sini's Joy is right now with me I can understand everything what sir says But If I come right now, Joy will become what he was before When he leads a life alone, he'll have some more responsibility Daughter, Joy has got a good soul He'll become good Should become good Let him be good, if Joy is in a need, sir I'll be there At 'Poovarani' near Pala The beverages outlet was shifted from there This move by authorities Due to public agitation it was cancelled You don't make an issue, just move back This is a place where we regularly buy the liquor All of a sudden when this is shifted from here, what kind of a rule is that? You tell that At that time a young man he took the charge of the strike himself He diverted the route of the agitation Government do justice, give liquor to drunkards You should ride over my chest, only then you can take this lorry Come on man, ride over me! As the young man named Joy, blocked the way In the excitement of getting a hero of the strike The other drunkards embarked upon sit - in agitation The route of the agitation is changed Now the authorities are in a trap Sir, about this what have you got to say? Sir, about this what have you got to say? Stop this - We pay the price what is said making this shop run in profit - when you try to stop boozing of these people No decent drinker can ignore that I feel like crying, come on men, raise the voice, come on Will strike, will strike And at last before the determination of Joy and other people The authorities had to bend down, that sight is seen here Taking into consideration the pulse of public, this outlet at 'Poovarani' We are cancelling the decision to shift this outlet Joy is our beloved, he is our beloved What we now here is the celebration of agitation hero Joy The drunkards carry him on the shoulders In front of beverages outlet at 'Poovarani' camera man - Nitheesh Bharatwaj, Ajilesh Kumarasambavam Sir, do I have to say anything more? No need Daughter Yeah, coming What a chill! Goose bumps did you see it? Just pour, just pour a bit My hand is really lucky, come on have it Need to pour water or something like that, no? No need of that, its culture will be lost just drink in a gulp For the first time Come on don't con! Honestly, honestly Come on drink man God! How is it? As if a train has gone through the throat Hey fellow, how do you manage to drink all this? Now did you understand, by bearing what all difficulties we drink this stuff? Right from the days when son Babu's father was alive, I was here My father was also a manger of this place Get lost you..This bull had killed my father My goodness, so your father was a great hunter, wasn't he? One day as he was having his rice-gruel under this This thing came off from the nail and fell on father's head My god! On the spot he died Earlier when he comes here, it is full of singing songs and merry making What singing songs and merry making, this is Christ, no? This is not Christ or 'verb' he is a friend of son Babu He always used to come here So, do you smoke? It is son Babu's This is also for the first time, no? Where is the match box? Here Son Babu will forget this and go So, sometimes I take that and smoke once in a while There it goes Hey, match box, this guy is.. Didn't I give you the match box? Where to go and search this one? "Either today or tomorrow.." My goodness, what all things are stuffed in here Won't know if a dog delivers a baby here Here it is Pillaicho! Pillaicho, what is that box kept in that room? One box inside that room? What is that? A box? My god, that is a box which ruined the life of our son Babu What? A box which ruined his life The son Babu's life Not that by the way Pillaicho.. MW W What man? Morning itself sitting on the step? Has got a dagger and all whom do you want to chop? What is it fellow? What is it? Joy! What is it? Do you want to know it? Should I say that? Then hear it man, open the ears and hear You all have made and had hidden a box, in the room inside That is not a movie box, that is a box which ruined my life That is the coffin of my life Do you remember the heroine who acted in that? Won't remember, you have no reason to remember, no? But I can't forget Do you know what is the reason? That heroine whose respect was doomed by you people She is my mother, man! The lady who gave birth to me! ' Paavad a' (The skirt) If I were in your situation I would have done the same But there are lot of stories behind that movie, which many doesn't know People will search for adult content inside the 'Pavaada' (skirt) Can't blame also, as that movie was issued with 'A' certificate During that time when it was planned, there was no 'sleazy scene' Even the name of the movie was not 'Paavada (skirt) The hardships of life with its jaws open - At last she walks into railway tunnel In the roar of approaching train's sound we'll freeze that scene The words which appear on top of that visual Even the wayfarers which come inside a train's coupe During the journey they become a part of established interest Those who desist that stink of established interest, they are hated More enticing than a train journey the rule of men in power is disgusting It is beyond the limits of the feelings indulged by men in power Man, this is what my film is There is no use of clapping the hands - - it will get soiled in this stinking bag There is no one with courage to produce this one Hey fellow, I don't know what a movie is, how it is made and all That is not my area But my spine is very strong What is there? Hey fellow I'll produce this movie Really? Why not? Even though agreed to produce that movie on drinks Babu stood for that movie with cent percent sincerity To encourage him, there were few friends also Greetings sir For our heroine I'll call, go, go What is this man? - Not that sir, for them the rate is also less Certain adjustments can be also done What? Not that we.. While saying it is a female oriented subject it doesn't mean it is a blue film What is required here is a production controller, not a pimp We'll find some other person, I'll wait outside Advocate, shall we go? Yeah lets leave Buddy, there is a news It happened all of a sudden What is it man? Today is my wedding fixation Who is that mis fortunate? She is a teacher Teacher? Man, is there a love story in this script? Buddy, what love story which you do not know But now a small doubt have started to love - That is okay That will go Hey man don't twist your black tongue Sir, has got some stills of drama heroines How is this one? This is good, a good girl She isn't a girl, she is a mother of a child The name is Cisily For me it is the same whether it is drama or movie When she goes I have to sit at home cleaning this boy's urine and shit Then regarding the money it should be correct All that is fixed by Eldo isn't it? Sir, I have told that - Have you told? Everything should be as per what is told Since the producer is Babu sir, don't doubt on that Then shall we? Babu? Didn't drink even a black tea Nothing is required, hello Who is this smart boy? Joy Is it son Joy? At that time when the drinking liquor and creative field was going on One thing had happened What is destined to come, will come it comes calling a can Who is this in between this? Who is that idiot, coming to the frame? - Sir He is the father of our producer, Joseph chettan Not producefs even if it is Jesus Christ's father - - on coming to frame, I'll scold Some stupids, morning itself Sir, don't create a scene, god's sake I'm the one who has to decide which scene to be added or deleted When Chandra Mohan became the Hitler of the movie - Hey Pillai! Joseph chettan became the Mussolini of the house Between father and son declared a second world war Come on call him man, in front of sluts I have not come, to hear the abuse Without permission did anyone tell father to enter inside the frame? No man, in the house on which I pay the tax To see the nonsense what is done by you people, I'll get notice before hand While coming to see the shooting - - we have to follow some minimum decency This planter Joseph is not willing and does not have time to learn decency So far you have gambled with my sweat- - that was wiped off from my forehead, as money Now on that is not required, make movie or song with your own money Hey man when a junior artist was ruining the scene by taking 5 to 6 takes At that time your father had come I told something and all in that mood off If you want I'll fall on your fathers feet and say sorry Do something For what? At this old age he shouldn't be so tough - What to do for the fund? For the fund..At Madras there are some 'Marvadies' who fund movies But should pay good interest All that is not workable Why isn't it workable? We've decided and started it, we are not going back By borrowing and by taking loan on high interest shooting went ahead At that time the next tragedy happened Sir, sir what happened? My God, blood Chandra Mohan sir What happened sir? Sir, what happened? Fellow, bring that vehicle take him to hospital Sir'. My gar.! Without reaching the place where it was decided Chandra Mohan went for a ride with death MW W Whoever it is in Cinema, this death and baptism is not an issue Not even director even if the super star dies The cinema will continue its way as it is planned Whoevefs mother dies there will be people to make movies Don't include me in that category No sir, I didn't mean like that Please, leave me alone all of you The money lenders will not have such feelings and emotions If the movie is not released on date what is told, it may not end here Now what is the solution? There is a way, our cinema in the present condition There is some chance of getting an award But it won't run at a theatre for a single day, there is no chance for it Sir, which distributor will come forward to take up a movie -? - That is named 'railway track!' First of all we should change this title - -then to sell, must add some 'sleazy stuff' Our assistant director Prasad is there, no? He is a smart guy, I'll make him do all this things Later on things were done according to likes of Eldo Without the knowledge of we people or - - with the permission of your mother, he had inserted lot of scenes in it Like that, 'the railway track' had become 'Paavada' (skirt) Cisily had become a heroine of a 'A' movie! I only know the things which is heard about mother Has father thrown her out? Or has she fled because of the torture of father? I do not know anything But still, sir, I'll not blame my father Because of shame he had to flee from the native place What else can he do? Out of pain, he might have whacked and hitted her Whether she had fled or forced to flee I have lost my mother who gave birth to me! What father received is mental grief till his death His case was not something different 'Paavada (skirt) 'A' 3 plays, 4 bathing scenes!' Hey 'Paavada (ski rt)!' Not 'Paavada' man, its underwear! Like that professor Babu Joseph became 'Paavada(skirt)' Babu! With that even the marriage was cancelled as the date was fixed When he gets high with liquor, this son Babu goes and scolds her family Hey you shame less fickleness, you are named as women For the only son to enjoy majority of the estates possessed by hard work - - were taken away by money lenders Seeing that only Planter Joseph chettan died! It is said that when there is mental pain, the liquor become our friend After that son Babu was always under mental sorrow The only relief was when taking class at the college Sir, when saying this 'A' is it the 'A' of 'A' (adult) movie? No fellow, it is the 'A' of your mother's 28th day of birth! The PTI committee has received a serious report on you It is bit indecent when saying this 'mothefs 28th day of birth' Actually what I intended was 'your mother's 16th day of birth!' Your mother's 16th day of birth function, he and his memo Like that he had lost his job also, which was there When looking at the account book of that movie - Its severe loss to both of you! That is the balance for you people Sir! On that movie box, when I suddenly saw the picture of my mother! Sir, please pardon me! Joy! All though it is done without knowing To correct a mistake on which I also became a part, perhaps"! God has send you to my hands, boy! MW W Pofice? Yeah, that is it Look, here is the student Judas who ditched the tutor! Why? Is there any vacancy to take English class in any seminary? Sir, there is a small problem What is it? 'Paavada (skirt) reloaded' 'The movie named 'Paavada (skirt)' which was released years back' 'Hits the silver screen again' 'In the Indian Cinema history' 'New Paavada will the first adult movie to be released in 3D format' 'Yet it will not be a remake, it will be reloaded using new technology' 'That is being commented by the technicians of the movie' 'Under the banner Velankanni Matha production -' '- new Paavada is released by prominent producer Eldo Kunnanthanam' That I understood, tomorrow I'm not there, okay - Why is that? You may go, I'll come Who is this my goodness? Is it Babu sir? Sir, were you waiting for a long time? By evening should play 2 sets Has got little bit of sugar and cholesterol It is under control but we have to be careful - Eldo! I had come, on knowing a news So, you had known that, no? I was about to call sir For what? To discuss about our movie I wish to give 25% of profit share to sir By the way there is no reason to give like that I know sir won't ask me But still, sir I have a decency, no? With that movie you have created a bad name for me - -which won't go in a life time! I won't allow you to make money again by selling that movie This is the problem with this sir My sir what bad name is there in movie field - - which can't be removed by money? Look, I've conducted a detailed marketing study 'Shankarankutty wants a bride' 'My tuition teacher, the vehicle at 5:30' Earlier there were lot of movies like this After that the 'Adyapapam' (The first sin) got released, no? During that time and after that I think it is by 2000 - 2002 'Kinnarathubika? (Coquetting dragon flies) 'Kathara' 'Driving school', like that many more came My God! My sir, how Sachin and Sehwag scores run in cricket - Producers had made money As far as I know, this is the right time for an adult content movie Along with the earlier inserted bits and by adding new more items Shall we not launch 'Paavada' (skirt)? Shall I go? Hey you fellow! - Come on, go sir you think on it and do whatever you want Take the vehicle, man Okay sir Should file a case will get the stay from district court I'll bring the best person to contest Then what is the use of sir being a lawyer? Can't simply say I'm a lawyer once in while should go to court! Like opening the cap of a bottle its not easy to win a case If the old LLM rank holder can't obtain a stay I'll bear it Will get the stay and all easily Then what is the problem? If a person can't attend his own profession, he is not fit for it If a person is not updated, he'll become out dated As a producer - - my client Babu Joseph has got all the rights on movie 'Paavada' Without his knowledge or permission The release of the above mentioned movie, should be stayed I humbly request to the respected court Mr. Babu Joseph, I have got only one thing to ask to you What is seen in this stamp paper is it your signature? Isn't it? I've not seen such an agreement That's not the answer for my question What I've asked is whether it is your sign or not? Yes Thank you Including the remake of the movie 'Paavada' From now on all the right is given to my client Eldo Kunanthanam By giving the surety This is the agreement is signed by Babu Joseph, who is the plaintiff Shucks! One who has signed on this stamp paper Babu Joseph has accepted it is him, before the court I expect there is no need of further clarification on this case Shucks! Say something, what is it to do next? First of all if you have signed on such a document- -you should have told me But for that I have not signed on such a one Then how did that sign come? Did it come by flying from top? Hey fellow Joy, truly I do not know Then is it some kind of fake sign? If the matter of such an agreement is known Look lawyer, lwouldn't have appeared for this case MW W I have not signed in kind of agreement Someone please believe me We'll believe but the court won't believe Sir, is there any other way? Don't expect again that the movie's release can be blocked by getting stay Then some cinema association should ban or make an issue But right now Eldo is a big wig of cinema association So, no need to have that expectation If some media people make a controversy out of it We could have given an appeal For that is the media people sitting on our lap? Sir, there is a media person whom I know While telling this media people - - do you think he is the supplier of the 'Mutholi' toddy shop I know what it is on saying media and all On that day I was shown on TV isn't it? The strike at beverages There is a boy who shot that thing What is the relation between you and him? It is a relationship based on pooling out money and brought a pint I've got his number on my mobile Okay come on call him Yeah call him As far as what is heard so far, there is a good scope for a good story Can you arrange the details of the crew members during that time? I know the names of the main people Don't know how they are and where they are Not only the main crew members, their assistants also Unit boys, can we at least get the names of maximum people who - - associated with that movie during that time? Sir, in the beginning of the movie - - lot of people's names will be written and shown, no? That is correct shall we not check the titles of the movie? For that it is not CD, it is print which is kept at home Where can we put that and watch? There is a way for that Ayappa! Yeah, what is it? - Shall we start? I'm ready Look that is the first one Sir, really tempting to run the reel like this Ammfl (Mother) Pillaicha enough Ayappa, stop it On seeing the rest of the movie, Joy will pluck out the heart of Eldo Sir, my mother had a good grace, hadn't she? I know it won't happen but still shall I ask a question? I know very well what you are going to ask Not to release this movie, I'll go to any extend If it is to go till Supreme Court, okay to do that Even by selling everything what I have Son, I'll do that Boy, along with you we are also there Till now I have seen this as a story which has got a news value But now it is not the only' problem of Joychan or Babu sir This is a moral issue Whether to win or fail, I'm also there with you Unit chief- Eldo sir is a big person, now By making them hatred can't survive over here sir Shall I go? Mess chief- It has been 10 to 15 years since stopped the - - mess job in cinema I just remember a name 'Paavada' (skirt) I keep forgetting the things Camera man - I was the camera man of the movie,'railway track' After the death of Chandra Mohan I have not associated with that movie Later, it was shot by that Thangaraj He is dead Costumer - Even at that time this Eldo was a cheat Do you know how much- - money is due for me stitching costume for that movie? Junior Artist- Because of acting in that movie - - do you know how shameful it was for me? There is one associate director, one mister Prasad, isn't it? Where is he now? P.R.O - Yeah, the pimp Prasad He has left the movie, on an abuse case he was jailed for some time Assistant Director - I was the clap assistant in that movie Now by God's grace going smoothly with one or two serials I'm not interested for any kind of controversy On these comments which you have taken - -there is no gun powder to create a controversy If at all an opposite claim comes, it is by giving money or on personal grudge These comments which you have recorded - - has got only the strength to perish It is based on cinema and cinema based programs - - over here every channel survives on that If we attack a person like Eldo in a baseless manner We'll have to face the consequences of that But nothing of this is the problem - - if at all such a cheating has taken place in a movie named 'Paavada' (skirt) The main victim, the prime victim is the heroine named Cisily Where is she? She should speak authentically on this? Sir, we do not know whether Cisily is alive or not at present Then how can this program be convincing? I'm the son of that lady, who is cheated Sir, won't it be possible when I say that? In the place of salt, a pickle won't be effective I can understand the sentiments of Joy Like that, that fire work also fails But there is a loop hole on this which you all have failed If the 'sleazy scenes' in the movie 'Paavada' (skirt) - - is shot without the knowledge of Cisily Then there should be an actress who had acted on it knowingly It need not be an actress, a dupe with body without face The owner of that body, whoever it may be On coming here and if ready to reveal what has happened Then the topic of next 'talk time' will be back stage of 'Paavada' (skirt) Sir, but for that whom is it to search? For the girls who comes to do dupe on 'A' movie There won't be makeup on the face like this Like painting on the wall, will put a four coat putty on the face In between this who is going to check on their whereabouts? Brother do you know where Manoharan Thevalli is now? Who was the still photographer of that movie 'Thevalli Studio' when the digital photography came no one needs us The new guys just know to wear the pants low showing the underwear Just take the camera and click, the rest the computer will do it All though there is no use, I have not spoiled the old negatives That is at the house I've done still for hundred films, now what is left behind is all this Yeah, got it, this is the person whom you are looking for Now I remember very well, the name is Sajini something like that My Sajini in which corner of the world are you present? You may have it Okay thanks - Okay then No, no not at all busy Okay you may tell, I'll come there Sir, the presumption is some where in Bison Valley We are on the way Immediately if we get the person, we'll plan the show As far as I know, there is no one in the name Sajini, in the near by area Then who are staying here who has come from outside A widow and two daughters, they are staying at the Southern hills Brother, indeed a great help Okay then What you want there? Good that you didn't show the photo - - might have asked hundred questions -they are people from village, no? As far as what is heard this is the house Lot of people have gathered there Will go and enquire What will you ask? Will you ask whether it is the house of dupe, Sajini - - who has acted in 'A' movie? Sir, the photo is with us, no? On seeing won't we know? Correct, correct What is the celebration for'? So, didn't you know anything? This girl has got the admission for the medicine For the first time in this locality Celinammo - Yeah Panchayat president and others are coming Yeah, coming Celinamma! May be on that name over here MW W Just move back Celinamma, this is a small gift from the panchayat President, you may give it to my daughter There is yet another gift and family meet for the daughter This is a gift for the hardships which Celinamma beard to bring up 2 kids Daughter here If you could sit inside shall serve black tea Couldn't recognise We just"! Sister, we came looking for a person It was a different house What is this? Come, come Come on walk God has given her to us on our palm You have spoiled the last chance for us to win While we win, sir one mother and 2 father less kids fail in life What is built on a tear drop won't last long If we win like that, my goodness that is not required People who accept failure intentionally, they are great people Son, before you we all are too small! Shall I call Paul sir and tell that show can't be done? It is Babu, calling to know what has happened, what to say? That is... -Any how it has to be informed, sir you may call and say it Hello -You don't come to Pala, you come to studio at Ernakulam I'll be there Okay Saying we should straight away come to studio Please come Babu, without Sajini how is it possible? When one way is closed, opens 9 other ways You come my son, Joy You just come Sir, you may sit here Rajeev Sir - I'm ready Greetings and welcome to your favourite show, 'talk time' The history of human beings and sex That is started right from the days of 'Adam' From 'Valsiayanan' to 'Freud, Yung, Collin Wilson and Destin Morris' Has studied the basic character of human beings closely, but About Malayalee's pretentious morality and on lust starving Again there should be serious studies To vent out the lustful feelings in this cyber era there are hundred ways There is an old generation that is remaining here To watch the movies with 'A' certificate An old generation who peeps, hides and by covering the face with cloth They have come to theatre to watch the movie The movie 'Paavada' which is known to them - - is now reloaded to a new generation era Along with it some controversies Behind the movie 'Paavada' there are certain facts of cheating That is not known to any one This episode of talk time narrates on the fabric of 'cheating' Before welcoming today's guest, there is a small break You may call the guest Okay sir MW W Mother! On that day, don't you remember that I went on a journey? When Joy is in need of an urgency, I'll be there Neither Sini knew that Cisily is your mother nor Cisily knew Sini is your wife While chatting in a casual way, Sini told about our matters to Cisily Like that when they continued talking one after the other - - both had a doubt While we were returning from 'Thevalli Manoharan's' home It was Sini who had called me To tell all this to me Okay then Okay then thanks Okay Welcome back to 'talk time' for the majority of the viewers - - our todays guest will be a stranger Madam, Cisily Varghese Earlier which was released, now again getting ready to be reloaded One and only introduction will be enough, she is the heroine of 'Paavada' To know the relevance of welcoming a person who isn't famous On this show Cisily sister greetings Now do you think to act in an adult movie 'Paavada' Was it a haste decision of young age? I've acted in a movie which was called' Theevandi Patha' (railway track) It was not a movie like what sir has mentioned The Cisily who was a drama actress how did she become a movie actress? The actress who has acted in 'Theevandi Patha' (railway track) How did she become the heroine of 'Paavada? As several producers disdained this movie, saying its an award movie How did it become an 'adult movie?' For the answers to several questions like this We can lend our ears to the words of Cisily Varghese Please tell, how did 'Theevandi Patha' become 'Paavada? In the magical world of cinema Among the thousand stories of behind stage which happens This is only one among them, among the several victims Cisily Varghese is one of the victim Again to create an 'adult wave' 'Paavada' is going to be a pilot vechile Sister, for the last time, what have you got to say? Because of acting on a movie, I lost my family I don't have the respect of a street slut Where ever I go, people drive me off When people watch the movie inside the theatre To live was in search of a job I was begging for it If such a situation has happened for a person in your family Will anyone watch that and enjoy it? Since what god has given has got no right to destroy it That is why I didn't commit suicide I don't know to say big, big things But I know everyone has got a mother who has delivered with pain I'm also a mother like that! To everyone I have only a request Please don't re-release that movie! I've got a matured son Stripping own mother's cloths, that shouldn't be shown to any son! Never show it! That is not me That is not me Mother! It is the request of a mother Don't show that to my son Don't show it Mother! San! My Son! What we have heard is the cry of a mother who is Cisily but As we have got memory that of a lizard Tomorrow will we become big wigs on the walls with adult content? On the wall of urine shed will write the mobile number of female colleague Will mark on the nude photo of the class mate On our mobile and on our memory card it is the flowers of sex Again it will blossom, all though it is like this On few humanity is not lost On few people the words told by this lady will remain as a grief In the court of human consciousness - - expecting will write a verdict favouring Cisily Varghese This weeks 'talk time' comes to an end, good bye Paul Zakaria has given a storm, now we can move boldly to High Court With the one statement of Cisily, the play is going to change That is all okay but who will argue? No need of anyone, I have given my coat for dry cleaning Hello Had seen the program on TV Great as that program was a hit, our cinema will receive a good mileage I saved the Iakhs which was kept behind for the promotion Then by the way I've arranged a new lawyer at the High Court, okay He is bit expensive but never mind Advocate Anantha Rama Iyer Hey you filth! One Eldo Kunanthanam You go and arrange Fali Nariman Or bring Phalkiwala who is dead He and his 'Konantha Raman' Cut the phone you rascal By the way lawyer, I just scolded him for a show off Won't we win at least this case? Sir, this time we'll win We must win at any cost Your owner Once upon a time in the Malayalam movies released outside cities Like this the tendency to add adult scenes were widely spread Similar cases had reached the court in Hindi, Tamil movies recently What has happened is a violation of human rights in Cisily Varghese's case That is explicitly seen in the first sight itself The ill fate of 'Panchali' who was publicly stripped off If that is hunting on a lady in this generation Our society should be ashamed and lower its head There fore to curb the release of third rate film 'Paavada' (Skirt) To ban the release humbly requests the court to issue a verdict At the earliest My Lord, the speeches of renowned late SukumarAzhikode Many have described it as a roar of ocean But the verbal argument of Mr. Gunashekaran was" A diarrhoea of meaning less words I know he'll be tired because of it yet I've to ask and find certain things from him Requesting to grand me the permission Why is that? Did you get scared? I don't fear anyone Even the court? I fear that Towards the court it is not fear which is required, respect is required Those who fear the law, will fear the truth also Your owner he is mis interpreting the words I have no fear to tell the truth What is the name? - Gunashekaran How? - Gunashekaran Have we met before? Yeah - How? For few years I was sir's junior And after some time? Told not to stay along with you For what reason? Couldn't appear for a case My Lord As a very junior advocate K. Gunshekaran Nair - - had to appear for an important case On knowing he was drunk and ended up in a brawl His senior advocate Anantha Rama Iyerterminated his service Which is this me, can you deny that? Your owner, he is asking personal questions which is irrelevant to this case On that day's brawl, on cross examining the other accused The respected court will understand it is not personal alone His name is Babu Joseph So, you are a professor aren't you? I was You were, that is a past tense That means right now you are not a professor Did you retire or were you dismissed? Can say both has taken place Reason? Couldn't adjust with the ideology of the management Coming to class drunk, verbally abusing the students To drench the PTI committee in foul words if the ideology is like that, it is quite natural that problems will arise I have not gone to class by drinking liquor Has not gone to class by drinking liquor, what about now at the court? Come on tell are you drunk now? My Lord, if that blowing machine is kept one and a half mile away Because of this smell, its filament will get faulty Then how can you deny that, no? My Lord the accused in this case Ms. Cisily Varghese Requesting the permission to cross examine her Cisily mam, what had happened to you? Now sitting with a waist band? You aren't that much old to fall down Then how did you manage to get this one? Suddenly felt the head was spinning On regaining the consciousness I was at the hospital I don't remember anything else Doesn't remember? Won't rem em ber that is the problem By the way did you fall in recent years? Before that what was the sickness? There was only a slight trouble with Arthritis This numbness, joint pain, losing the strength Glass and spoon fall from the hand, only a slight problem like that, no? Yeah Then why did you consult a neuro specialist one and a half year back? What? Come on tell I didn't..Anyone.. Yeah when there was a medical camp near'Sharanalayam' Had consulted a doctor I don't know the name - Its not you don't know the name, you don't remember You should say you don't remember it Consulted doctor was Dr. Madhusudanan He isn't a physician forArthritis to cure it by applying medicated oil Dr. Madhusudanan who is a neuro specialist, at that time - - had prescribed many medicines for memory loss to Cisily For the memory loss disease named 'Dementia' It has got various variations, a well known disease What Cisily Varghese has told is signs of Arthritis Many among them is the classical symptoms of Dementia In a place where it was not slippery, she had fallen down It was not because of anything else In any condition of Dementia, a sick person's statement - - will not be valid before a court of law I'm reminding the respected court This is like making a goat into dog Mister, who is playing the gimmick here? Three decades back had acted in an adult movie Without saying anything took the money and left Those people didn't have the complaint and shame at that time How did it occur right now? A person who doesn't have memory to swallow that people who are - - sitting here aren't idiots Haven't you told that you don't remember the name of- - doctor whom you met? Do you remember the name of the hospital? No MW W My Lord, people who have no integrity in personal life To make easy money, certain people have fabricated this third rate trick When shame arises all of a sudden which was not there before What reminds me is that of an old proverb The speech of a prostitute on virginity My Lord, against my client, the opposition couldn't prove anything That is legally strong Because of that kindly remove the un wanted hurdles For my client Eldo Kunanthanam Kindly protect his legal rights to release his movie, 'Paavada' That is all what I have to address to the respected court Man, how is that guy? Isn't he a tiger? To give the verdict the case is postponed to next 16th I felt like laughing while sitting there Sir, the kind of questions you ask Shucks! You are still the same old use less Gunashekaran! What a pity Yeah, hello we'll win the case coolly Then the main parts of the heroine should be clearly seen on the poster On seeing that poster even the blind should come to the theatre! Then add those kind of 'sexy' sound effects in the background music Fellow, people should come to theatre running Only then we can make money Now on every board and walls that is seen - - now on there will be picture of my mother, sir! Better than to see that, it is better to die, isn't it? I'm the one who should die The reason for everything is my bloody drinking habits! The court which should stand for the truth - - right now doesn't believe my words! A drinker doesn't obtain justice, law, doesn't have integrity - - even doesn't get the dignity of a stinking dog! Keep the voice down I'm fed up of this filthy life! Sir, what is inside the heart of these judges? Is it granite or something? Why is no one seeing us when we cry out plucking our heart? Why is that, there is no value at all for our cry? Not only for the tears of a drunkard neither his life has got any value! No one gives any value on what he says and what he does Hey Joy! Okay leave it son, son go and wash your face and come Come on son, go Joy, I came to know about the case and all Leave it man - -the problem happened when Babu sir signed on that paper At least now tell to sir to stop this drinking habit Before declaring the verdict is there anything that the plaintiff has to say? Your owner, on this case the most relevant point, is the agreement- - which Prof. Babu Joseph has signed and given to Eldo Kunnanthanam Kindly requesting to - - give the permission to Babu Joseph to speak on it My Lord, a person who converts a bar to a home, a home to bar I'm sure that court will give only such importance to the words of an alcoholic! Long back Brutus has described Ceaser with a word 'ambitious' Respected Iyer sir is describing me with a word 'alcoholic' Which is hundred and one percent correct To make his statement more strong I kindly request to examine some more witness statements To express the alcoholic endeavours of a person who has lost his mind The respected court shouldn't spend more time on such activities Your owner, the movie' 'Paavada' if it is released again It is not because of the personal bad name, which is my prime concern It is the amount of dis respect inflicted on the respect of a lady Cisily Varghese That is the smouldering problem before me It is the same problem for anyone, who has got a good consciousness Cisily Varghese is also a mother The respect of own mother - - who gave birth, her respect is dragged on the streets A son's..That persons..To see that! Kindly lent ears to his words, I request respected court to show mercy MBRHDRG My Lord, don't think I'm intervening The court is not a place to stage a drama by those - - people who has lost their minds That is my stand I remain firm on that Sir, you should be firm on it, what you said Babu sir is out of mind Being out of mind, is not an appreciation Young boy if a Banyan tree is sprouted at the back - - seeing it as a shelter, it is a sign of shame Babu sir has chopped off that tree of shame Sir, he has stopped drinking liquor The point of debate is not whether 'Paavada Babu' - has stopped drinking or not, or has he come a saint! Young man, come to the matter 'Paavada Babu' has he become a saint, or when he dies will the - - corpse decay or after dying will the soul reach heaven? I know none of this is the point of argument over here But he has got a history which is like 'pickled in arrack' Sir, that is a real matter It is only out of the strength of an agreement which Babu sir has signed Eldo sir has come out with a 'Paavada' (Skirt) Which was on the attic for the reloading Sir, has told since my mother has got memory loss disease Do not give any value to what she says If that is the case A drunkard who has completely lost his mind On a signature, which he has put when he was out of mind Sir, what value should be granted? In big big hotels, there is a tissue paper kept at the toilet That agreement has got only that value! Can't simply say that the signed person was out of his mind - - and agreement has got no value What is required is evidence Right from eatery owner Kunjumon to bar manager, what they have told Sir, other than evidence what else is it sir'? Is it some kind of decoration which is arrayed during festival at Pala church? Now, if none of these aren't enough There is a certificate of treatment which father Kattuparambil - - has administered on Babu sir With the lawyer sir Where is it? Show it No, won't give in the hand There is a history earlier, when lawyer at Maloor swallowed the bullet That case was won The evidence will be handed over to people who has got clear mind This is a third rate trick to twist the facts Sir, the truth can't be easily twisted and made to break I came to know that at the 'Thatumpuram' bar If you could grand me the time to tell that, everyone will understand it The problem happened since Babu sir signed on that paper My God! Right now water got inside through the nose and mouth - - come on tell or else I'll pump water through the nine holes! I'll tell I'll tell Look this is 25,000 Sir When you come with the sign on the document, shall give balance 75,000 As the account at the bar is settled at the end of the month The bill is signed by Babu sir every day, that is the routine Sir, bill! Sign on it! Then one day when he was drunk to the core I've collected the sign on the stamp paper that was given by them Sign! I knew it is cheating but on hearing one Iakh rupees Sir, it has happened That's not your problem Suniappa! You were born five years earlier, before you had a father! In the real sense it is called as a bastard Just finish off this pig! No, no need, leave After all he has poured alcohol for a long time, isn't it? Before you get whacks from him, get up and get lost you fellow! Sir, it happened like that, pardon me Where ever you want, I'll openly say it Pardon me sir, I'll openly say it where ever you want Pardon me sir, pardon me What is said, is it true? Yes, it is true sir I'm not that much intelligent or educated But since there are lot of people who has got all that There are lot of people who get ruined because of it Babu sir and my mother are belonging to that category When my father 'Kallu Varkey' died my mother couldn't attend the funeral Behind the grave, my mother was peeping out from the bushes So that, she isn't noticed by anyone That was the last time since I saw her I was sure that my mother won't come searching for me Thinking, that foul name shouldn't affect my life Sir, kept away from me intentionally After long time, sir now only I got back my mother Now, again don't push off my mother to shame! After pushing her down and again coming to stampede on her! For the help less ones, Lord is the only one who is there to help But the Lord won't come down, no? Because of that, I find court in that position! Sir, I won't allow anyone to degrade my mother in shame Kindly don't disdain us, sir please don't disdain us! The permission to relaunch the movie 'Paavada' Eldo Kunnanthanam has not gained it in proper way That truth is understood by the court All the rights on the mentioned movie will be secured to Babu Joseph Without his knowledge or permission Any effort to relaunch this movie that will be against the law Here by this court declares the verdict Eldo sir! Sir! Regarding the case, sir you don't feel hatred towards us I had to say yet another matter personally to sir Just one minute, sir had come to movie field before I was born I watch movies other than that I do not know how it is made Yet with the little know how I have written a script and kept it ready For the sample, just hear one scene and tell the opinion, sir Hey boy, how is that, today? Sir, don't say can't.. It is my request On this scene what we are going to show is, flying balls through the eyes! That will be all most like this If I don't do this much I'll become as if I'm not born to a mother! Boy, did you break the egg shop? What is there if it is broken, its the name for Eldo's next movie What is it? 'Bulls Eye' I had to say a decision Mother has told, you had stopped drinking It is not what mother or mother in law has told, I'm going to say my decision All though even after you walked off out of obstinacy - -you have done lot of help to me Since you left like that, I got back my mother But you are the one, who left after breaking fish pot on my head For that If I don't beat back, what is the use of me being a male? Have you not gone home yet? The story isn't finished telling Then tell that fast Then what? That was a severe whack! With one whack, was hospitalised, so you can imagine Doing some nonsense and now you are walking tensed No need to take tension, Sini is pregnant If you play with males, it will be like this! Babu sir come and get inside the vehicle - Where to? To Germany while saying to get in should get inside vehicle Hey man! Hey sister who isn't seen so far, the owner of this throw is not Babu sir I do not know to scold in English But for all these years if someone is coming to your door step How much he'll be loving you? Even the court has heard what Babu sir has told And now sister is still on grudge, that is foul That poor person is sitting inside the car, without drinking a drop of liquor If you have a little bit of good soul, sister you come to that window I'm calling you for the sake of Babu sir Won't come I know wouldn't come After plucking the heart out, it is only a flower to you people I'm the one to blame for calling you sister Sir, we'll go By the way who are you? What, an un seen beloved? You sit in that glass mansion with that grudge of yours To pelt the stone and to call you, sir's dog will come again, the dog! You'll rust yourself sitting alone in this house, with tooth inside the nose At that time, you'll know the value of Babu sir Stop, STOP! Go in reverse All these years since I came here and after calling you Why didn't you come? All these years you have only scolded, haven't you? Did you say wants to see or to come along with you? Now, not remaining to ask or say I'm just taking you Sir, don't scatter all that love which was hidden all these years Just remember there is a mirror at the front Come on Joy, take the vehicle Okay we'll go Okay rig ht
