 

                        Who is this man who unleashed winds obey,... the rolling waves submit to his will? Who is this prodigious man... before whom the beasts martyred by rabies their malignancy throw off? Who is this miraculous noble who heals the sick and restores life to the dead? What do the words of this man contain... that even Satan in his pride still obeys blindly? Who was able to confound the evil of disbelievers... with a word from his lips? Who cleanses us from sins before saving the world... from the intolerable load of the evils that beset it? Ladies and gentlemen,... lords and ladies,... respectable families,... distinguished ladies:... here begins the true story of Pafnucio,... Holy Pafnucio. Mother, what are you ashamed of? And you, why do you support her? Uncover yourself. Reveal all. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name,... Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done, on Earth as it is in heaven,... Give us this day our daily bread give us this, forgive us our trespasses,... Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, Amen. They finally did it! Motherfuckers, they have made loot of it all. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be your name, come to us Thy kingdom, yourself, Lord, thy will be done on earth as in heaven, The day our daily bread give us this day, forgive us our debts, Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us and keep us from all evil, Amen Jesus. And you, poor man, are you dreaming? Are you dead? Come to us...Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven,... Stranger, you're left on your own! ...Forgive us our trespasses, lead us not into temptation,... but deliver us and keep us from evil, Amen. Hell, open your doors! Your children are coming. Gentlemen, please do not forget these children. Pafnucio, Pafnucio! Holy Pafnucio! I am Pafnucio, Holy Pafnucio. Today, a day of bright sunshine... I will be agreed on by the emissaries of the Lord,... Today, my arm,... shall be the arm of the Almighty. Infinitely pure,... His thoughts will be mine. I won't ask anything... because I possess the answer. The grace and power... gird my temples. Today I am born to eternal life. I am your will, Lord. Your will and your anger. Awake, Pafnucio, wake... hurry, because the Lord needs you. Stand up and depart immediately. Open your ears and heed my words... stop all work, and go out to the world,... all eyes, all ears,... like the eagle looming... to look for the best woman of all... because we already have the Child. When you find her, you will say... you will be the mother of the Messiah! Awake, Pafnucio, awaken. The Lord needs you. Master, Lord, everything You created,... blue sky, sand,... the wind which carries my song. I am love, against the demon... I'll fight and find... the mother of the Messiah. I'll fulfill your will... I am pleased with your very word. So...enlighten me, Lord.  My loving voice, listen... Pafnucio, open your eyes. I will make you the king of all pleasures. Just ask for it, my love. The world is in my hands. Wealth and power,... nations and popes. All I ask in return... for the kingdom I offer you... is that you produce the Messiah for me,... to be born by me. Don't despise me... and think we would both produce Him... thus sharing the joys and pleasures of the empire. Take this deal... and choose me... as the mother of the Messiah.  Well, madam, tell me:... what would you do with the child, if I were to entrust him to you? Madam, the child is not for you. Go back to frosty regions where you live. Dreams, fantasies, desires. Halt. No Trespassing. I want to see the Empress. You can't, Her Majesty's sick. I have a very important message to give her. You can't see her. Do not insist any further. Go away. The message that I bear brooks no delay. On behalf of the Empire I command you to leave. Her dignified Majesty, the Empress, has gone mad. My name is Holy Pafnucio. Holy Mother! Come with me. Her Majesty, the Empress, awaits. Please enter. Lady Empress! Lady Empress! When the moon shines on my warm bed... Maximiliano will come searching for passion. He will cover my body with love bites...  Maximiliano! In my passion flower his tongue will probe deeply,... His mighty sword will penetrate my flesh... and I'll wail joyfully to receive the wound.  Lady Charlotte, I am Holy Pafnucio and I've come looking for you to bring you the promised Messiah. You will be his mother. What are you doing here? The Empire is in danger... Hasten, gentleman, without delay, I order you... to save the life of my dear lord.  Maximilian was already shot on a mountain called "the bells"... by President Juarez. Listen to me, God! The Empire is on fire!  Frida! Frida! The Party ordered you to look for the mother... who has the people's struggle in her blood,... because the red Messiah is about to be born. He will be, like Lenin, a great leader... a bold fighter. A Titan of the future! He will be like a fist raised into space... the new Messiah... who you are announcing, Pafnucio. The sun I get in this window... will be tomorrow a sunshine set free... He will be a comrade with a fire in his speech... a red star of gleaming red.  Life! Life! The child you announce... I can't give birth to him... tied as I am to death... I sing to life. The new Messiah, Pafnucio,... comes to mend the evils. Listen, the cry of the people. Go on, singing the song. Miners' blood, there in Canaan,... will be poured out by rangers without a soul. No more chains. Turn with me, let us help!  Alert! Alert! Slackers! Back to work!  Do not listen, comrades, to his mad barking! Right is on our side! Fuck your mother...! Low range fuckass Ranger.  You'll bite the dust, traitors to the company. Back to work!  Power to the people. Mexicans, heed the cry of war! Awaken! Prepare your steel and your courage! Advance! Go forth, Mexicans, your homeland comes first! Armed Compatriots! Workers of the world!  Crazy anarchist!  Our time has come, freedom for all! May the very Earth itself tremble! You can't defeat us with arms, bastard! Don't expect scare us, mercenary wretch!  Frida! The people are immortal!  Frida! Workers of the world, unite! Judged...!  "...Today, January 4, 1906, mercenary groups peppered... Canaan town, they asked... for their just demands to be addressed. Stop. Observers say that killing the workers... will bring serious consequences. The government... is protecting foreign interests. Stop. Welcome, sir, to these lands already subjected by force of arms to His Majesty, the Emperor. Pafnucio is your name. Holy Pafnucio. Sir Holy Pafnucio, please accompany us. Captain Don Hernando Corts, illustrious ambassador of His Majesty, the Emperor Charles V, awaits. His Serenity Sir Don Hernando Corts, captain of the armies of his Catholic Majesty,... Charles V, King of Spain and Emperor of Germany, Conqueror of Ceriola and Pavia, in the thirds of Flanders, Don Hernando Corts,... armed wing of the Holy Catholic Church,... living mirror of the noble traditions of the kingdoms of Len, Castilla, Navarre, and Asturias,... witness the exploits of the Cid and Fernan Gonzalez, Don Hernando Corts, conqueror of the natives of these heathen lands like beasts, introducer of the faith,... Don Hernando Corts, awaits you, in a humble way, the person who asked to meet you. Hail, Pafnucio the Great. I know you come from far away... to these lands,... Amazing! Which I managed to conquer. The landscape you see belongs to His Majesty... Just ask these captains. What, are you announcing the coming of a new Redeemer? Faith has just been introduced in these lands. And you, man! You want to it change all at once! If my friars listen to you, they'll break your heart and bones. I like you, damnit! I swear to God it's true! If you join us, my people will make you a lord here. Fuck, I'm not lying! Speak up, bastard, answer me!  Sir Don Hernando Corts, captain of the armies of his Catholic Majesty,... and emissary of the Cross of the Divine Redeemer... I demand you bring me into the presence of Doa Marina, your mistress,... who is the reason for my presence. Sadly for me, Pafnucio. I would have been pleased to be the child's mother. My people were destroyed by the sword and by the faith. The Messiah you offer has nothing for us. The beautiful cities... shaped up for centuries,... now lie in the dust... sodden with tears. Your Messiah, Pafnucio,... is king of other cities... but not of these ruins. Your Messiah, He is not ours.  Beloved Lady,... accept the Messiah that heaven sends. From the beginning of time, I came looking for you... on behalf of the crying Indian's request.  The Gods of this land... are already buried. All that's left to me is to mourn... with such suffering...the pain of my race.  Return, Pafnucio! We are money...We are pleasure!  I won't be your slave to bind the people... or the men who suffer. I will vanquish you...! Vanquish!...Vanquish...!  Looking for Patricia Kane! Extra, extra, Patricia Kane kidnapped! Extra, extra! Extra, extra, Patricia Kane joined her kidnappers! Extra, extra! "Patricia Kane alive or dead" Extra, extra, Patricia Kane sought, dead or alive! Extra, extra! I'm Patricia! So what? Tell me, kid,... What's your advantage about me being the mother of the child...who you offer me? Don't come for blowjobs. I've already declared war... Give me righteous waves, and no wimpy children.  Don't reject him, are you drugged up? The Messiah wants you to be his beloved mother.  How can you ask me to bear the brat? I'm rotten, rotten... as is all my race.  I implore you to conceive a child... and that, after 9 months, you eject him into the world.  I can't bear children!  Your beauty is radiant motherhood,... your belly is chosen to bear the Prodigy.  ~ Leave me alone!  ~ You must!  Leave me alone! I'm dying of anxiety!  Curb your hate, bear the Messiah.  I hate life... I hate my folks! I expect nothing! You are a fool...  I won't listen, worthless liar! I hate people! I love war! Everything makes me sick, in this world!  Cry, Patricia.  I'll shut you up! I do not want the child!  He loves you...your blessed son the Messiah.  I'm no mother, but death! So die, then!  This is Mexico, oh, shit! So we dance in my land! Viva, Cholula! Goal! There are not two of Mexico. Let the fucking Hispanics die! Can I come in? Lady of the traditional dress, I came to congratulate you, your dancing is wonderful! What's your problem, asshole, where did you come from? I am Pafnucio. Holy Pafnucio, ma'am. I came to tell you that I liked your dancing. How beautiful you are! And what a nice costume! No big deal, no big deal! Anyway, thank you for your kind words. Do you drink? Not just now. Thank you very much. Let's see, give it to me more slowly. Did you really like that little dance? Yes, ma'am, a lot. You're a nice guy, but you make me think you're still pretty green. Do you know what that little dance really means? No, of course not. No one knows. The little dance that you like so much, and I've been dancing all my life, is a plague! It's what they call "nationalism", "patriotism"...I used it to get fucked! The Jarabe Tapato is for everyone and everything, yes sir! If you have a deep grief... you dance the Mexican Hat Dance. Whether they raise your taxes or lower you underpants, you dance the Jarabe Tapato. Dance here, dance there, that's enough! I am all heart, it's me who's your mother, fucker! But yes, boy, I know how to die! Long live the heroes of the fatherland! Mexicans! Long live independence! Yes, we are players, drunken revelers, bastards...! And proud of it! Lady of the traditional dress, I came to entrust you with a mission... but I think it isn't the best time. Anyway, thank you for your dance. It was wonderful! Julieta, my wife,... the death which spoils the nectar of your lips... has not conquered your beauty in the slightest,... it still radiates from your skin and your face... ...which still has not been able to display the flag of death. Could it be that the gritty Monster offers you his love? What do you want for your lady? To prevent this I will sleep with you in this cave. This will be my eternal rest. Here rest my body, free from the fatal law of the stars. Receive the last look of my eyes... the last embrace of my arms... the last kiss from my lips. Doors will seal my eternal contract with death. Come, harsh and victorious pilot... my ship, tired of fighting with the waves... wants to break down in the rocks. Here's to my lady. Oh, how marvelous are the effects of a balm. With this kiss...I die. I remember where I should be, and there I am. But where is my Romeo? My husband. With poison has hastened his death. How cruel! He left me not a drop! I feel he's still breathing. I will kiss his lips. He will kill me and save me. Beautiful, Sweet Julieta, please don't spill your blood! I need you, Julieta. You will be the mother. I can wait no longer. Sweet steel... rests in my heart, as I die! This dawn brings a gloomy peace. The sun will not show its face because of its grief. How sad an account I'll give about you, Julieta! Julieta, the sweetest and the most tragic of women! My heart, Pafnucio,... it listens to your long crying... Look no longer for the mother... among living ghosts,... illustrious corpses, like the unfortunate Julieta... or the mad empress, tied to a dead love. Do not dedicate your efforts... toward the disoriented world of Patricia... or Malinche, the tragic result... of a brutal conquest, which my people still suffer.  I need you, Sister Juana. I need you!  Direct your steps into the world of the living... to the intelligent people who have crafted science... a hymn to beauty, and are a clear source. There is the mother, Pafnucio. Look for her and you'll find her. But shun the intellectuals, slaves to money.  I'll look for her among the people, I'll find her on the land. She will be the perfect mother, the beloved mother. I love you, Sister Juana! I love you!  Let us bring forward the act, without delay, secretary,... since this case concerns the justice that I exercise. With your best handwriting, write: "On Tezclama Road, on my way to Zochicalco,... by a topped tree I found the bloody bodies of Don Rubn Jaramillo,... and his wife Epifania in an advanced state of pregnancy. Along with these lying there who were in an open marriage... there were these people, as here detailed. Do not lose your way, secretary, and write what I dictate. I found Enrique and Ricardo, and also Philemon,... All of them, as noted, were children of Doa Epifania. Specify that he who signs this, after investigating... already at the scene, in sight of the bodies,... I asked them who they were, several times. In view of their silence, the secretary shook them... ordering them three times to state whether they were still alive. When they didn't respond the corpses were inspected... since they showed the impacts of many bullets. In view of the evidence presented by these wounds... Don Rubn and his people were declared dead. In view of all this, I express the opinion that I state:... the cause of the death of these men was just death.  Gentlemen: you have killed a saint. Let's see the lady. She alone can help us. We came to see the lady. ~ Do you have an appointment? ~ No, sir. Well, in that case, go to table # 1. Come along. We want to see the lady. We have a very big problem. The lady can't receive, she's with the Agrarians. My name is Pafnucio. Holy Pafnucio. We come from that Teklama. Our business is very urgent. I see, hang on a moment. Gentlemen, in a moment the lady will receive you. If you like, you can smoke. I've already ordered them to bring coffee and food. The bathroom is over there. The lady awaits you. Come along here. Listen, lady, listen to the sad news we bring,... the sad news that we bring, is that they killed a saint. Don Rubn Jaramillo, just like all his family,... were gunned down from ambush. Listen, lady, listen to the sad news we bring, the sad news we bring, is that they killed a saint. Now I ask on behalf of injured people... that you protect the poor, when they beg you, you pay attention... because you're the chosen among women... to bring forth from your belly the great revolution. From you will be born the torch to ignite the world on fire,... enflaming the hearts of men seeking the revolution.  It's hard to believe what I hear from your mouth... But I see in faces of all that your warning is the truth. This is a crime without a name, a treason without measure,... his safety I attained so my work would get finished. All my support I gave to him, I encouraged his ideals,... I entrusted him to heaven, and I lived among his dreams.  From the top authority I attained the promise... subject to a holy oath to respect his life. "Treason, treason," I proclaim to the dead and the living,... the people's executioners killed Jaramillo. But we must prevent villainous politicians... to grant the people be destroyed by greed of the rich.  Murderers! Murderers! Get out! Show your faces! Don't hide! Murderers! Murderers! Show your faces! Cowards! Traitors! Oh, my God, don't shoot! Stop them! Murderers! Show your faces! Cowards! Traitors! Don't let them shoot! My God, prevent them killing her! Murderers!
