 

                        THE PREFAB PEOPLE What are you doing? - What are you doing, hey. - Going. Where are you going? Away. Away, where? Away, where, where? What's going mean? Don't you hear? I said where, what's going mean? - Put the kid to bed. - When I'm ready. - Where, what's going mean? - Don't shout! What's away? For good? For good. Going for good? You think you can just pack and say you're going! Wait until I put the kid down. What's going mean? I said, where what's going mean? Take it easy. Take it easy! You pack up and announce you're going. What's I'm going mean? I asked, what's I'm going mean? I asked, what's I'm going mean? Bye. What? You get fed up and just walk out on us? - Pack up and get out?! - You'll have the flat... And what about me... don't want it. Don't want the flat. You say you're going: so where do I go? If I get fed up, where can I go? Tell me! No! You think you can, no... - Let me go! - No, no... - Let me go... - Are you crazy or what? Anniversary. Nine years. Don't you want to look at it? A big mug! Hairspray! - Let's have a drink. - Let's. Haven't you a small glass? You're not drinking that? Beer. - You can't clink with beer. - Want a chaser? What? - Cola? - That'll do. Who told you to get me this? Don't you like it? - 'Course I do. - It's like shampoo. It's hairspray. Don't spray it in my eyes. Stop messing, it's a spray. Thanks. Don't want some of this? No. You need a glass for the chaser. The kid's used that. - Let me try. - If I can't, how can you? I did once when you couldn't. You're joking. - You'll never manage... - Done it... - You just can't clink with beer. - Cheers. Like it? Fine. - Asleep are they? - They're asleep... Talk to them in the factory? - Why? - Did you talk to them in? - A few days ago. - You said you would again, and they said that next week... - I told you that next week... - Didn't you go in? Why should I have when it's next week I have to. - But they said it last week... - No they didn't. You're absolutely wrong. No, I said last Monday that in two weeks I'd go in and ask again. I thought it was today you were going in. What's the matter now? The whole day I thought, you'd be - coming home today... - You got it totally wrong. - So what am I to do? - I was waiting all the week. There's the three shift thing which is no good. I can't do much about the rest because they said to come in next week. You've no idea what it's like, you say goodbye, off you go, I watch you... - you don't know... - So don't watch. Yeah, that fixes everything, don't watch you leave. Drink up. Now don't cry... Want a handkerchief? Others manage, they dress well, they do their hair push teh pram and chat with their girlfriends. But that's not for me, I can't do that. - Read something. - I can't. I can't stand being inside four walls going to the shops and back. What the hell is this for? - Don't shout, they'll wake up. - It'll last for ever... - I can't stand it. - Let's go to bed. - What? Let's go to bed. So I raised the subject and we go to bed because it's all arranged. And why am I crying now? One anniversary a year and what about the other days? I put the kids to bed... I can't do much abouit it. Forget it. You go to sleep, watch TV, read the paper, when can I tell you about... You think it's easy for me? - Where are you taking that? - Making room to make the bed. That's all the attention you pay me... - How much? - That I was... in tears for the flat and now we have one. What you know about me is what you see. You come home, and I try in a good humour, good mood, there's this dinner, that dinner, with the kids you don't have to do anything. Take them to school, check their homework, nothing. And if you take the kid, then it's to see football, you have a good time, him too, you take him for a walk you go to the cakeshop, I have to do the hard stuff, I'm always jumpy with him, always quarrelling with him and I can't, I can't control myself... All the time I have to control myself, to be patient, to be patient with you too, patient in the shops, greet everyone with a smile, I can't take it any more. Whether I'm with one kid or with both of them. You're with him when you feel like it. If you don't, you lie down, read the paper, watch TV, listen to the radio, go out. You go out whenever you feel like it you go wherever you want. I don't go anywhere... What do you mean? You always go wherever and whenever you want to. - Right, I'll make the bed... - I nearly went mad today too, because the kid wanted to watch TV. I can't watch any TV because if he's not asleep and I turn it on then he's straight out here. Either I let him watch too or if I don't want him to then I don't turn it on and I don't watch it. When you are here you turn it on, lie back and that's it. No I don't. - No? Isn't it the way it is? - What can I do? What can you do? I cook as well. Your stomach's afraid that if I go out to work, would there be food here? What's these "I cook as well?" So do others. Well, right... this is a fine anniversary. When did you last sit down with me like this? When do I have a chance to tell you what I want? The hell with it! No need to tell me for the fifth thousand time. If you once understood... what five thousand times? This is the first time I told you this. Even if it's five thousand would you understand? You don't want to understand you leave here every day, so you don't understand. Stop it... Stop it. - Easy now. - What's the matter? Is it that I'm not like this, happy and all? - You're going too much. - What am I doing? - Going on too much. About it. - About what? I got it from the first word. - You're drinking too much. - Hold him for a second. Let me spread one for him. Now, here. I'm getting a beer. There, there, it's coming. - Sausage? - What's this? Did I put it there? - Now what're you looking for? - The opener. Go ahead and eat. Put it there, Gbor. Want some? - What's the time? - Quarter to. - If I knew this was the end... - Right, hang on... I'll be right there on time. Did you wrap one up? Wait a tic. Come on, pass. This way! Who's in the middle? Look out. That's it. - Didn't touch it! - Didn't touch it! It did... you're in! That's the way! That was all very sporting... Here I am. Watch it, this way. Get it away. Who's in the middle now? Men... men... live in in a kind of society. Primitive men had a primitive society. than came serfdom, feudalism, which was the time of lords and serfs. Are you listening? Are you sleepy or what? Then came early capitalism with factories... industrialists, investors, workers. Imperialism is the most developed form of capitalism, then came socialism. What we're living in is socialism. And more developed than this will be communism when... in socialism everyone gets... or in socialism your needs... No, in socialism you get as much as what you work, with communism, everyone will get everything they need. But here we're talking about capitalism now. Because at the present... and it doesn't hurt to know this, because capitalism and socialism exist together now, and we are more developed, but economically... sometimes they are stronger. You'll learn all this in school but it doesn't hurt to know a bit in advance. I go in alone? Are you crazy? Just to say hello. Give me the whatsit at least. Let me show you something strange. So many chair, hardly any customers. I'll show you a strange natural phenomen. Do you think it's a cloud or smoke? - Well, both. - No. Smoke goes into cloud. It's smoke. Just smoke? That's why I'm leaving the place, it's boring. - You want to leave? - No, not really, it's just... When you can't tell smoke from a cloud, well then? - Can you? - Have you any beer? There is, have to look for it. Why don't you have wine? There's something in it. Can't be a fly. Wind's blown all the flies away. - It's only soot! Cheers! - Whole place was full of flies. Imagine, - I had to pay a fine. - Why? - Because of the flies. And the salt cellar wasn't full and since then there's no flies. And there's a constant wind. Now, there's a customer, coming here. I'll have to lay a table... what's the time? Doesn,t matter, the firemen are coming. Imagine, they came before and ordered, I couldn't hear them, the wind from there and I'm here. - It's a special job. - What? - What I'm doing. - You can't tell me? - Electric safety operative. - Serious? No joking? Serious, you walk around with your little thing a whatsit, and stick it into the wall. - And it's only one day a week. - Can't be. It's true. It's a responsible job... But you get 15 thousand here. Yes, but then you have to be here every day. - Are you really going? - Sure. I'll be able to go off into the woods, anything... You're putting me on... No, I thought the river is lovely here, but you can't watch it all the time. Right? True. Hello. Gbor? Go and find him. - What's wrong? - What's wrong! You said you'd just say hell, is that a hello? Leaving me with two kids for an hour and a half? - An hour and a... - Who do you think you are? you're crazy, for an hour and a half... I wasn't a minute over 20. I had a couple of words with Gyuri. I don't know where's the other, I can't be everywher! Everyone's staring. Keep it quiet. Sure, what if I'd left you sitting here like this. See? Shut up. Is this going to the pool?! No, it's not like, so to say, whatever... more that me and Robi, my husband, we haven't gone dancing for a long time. He can't really read my mood, see what I mean? I can have the desire, like when we go to a place where there' dancing then I really have the need. I'll never forget when I was a girl, it was crazy how many places I went to, just to dance. Open air places, school hops, any chance, off I went. I even dance in a competition, there were all kind of dances, I came first in the waltz. There was the twist, there was those... when a couple, who could really do it for a really long time... the we all stopped, made a circle and just clapped... And I could do it for hours, for hours... And everyone stopped and watched and I enjoyed it... What was the other one? You had to hold, the jump? - The jump? - Not the twist... And there was the madison... it won't come... and in it you had... No... Letkiss! Letkiss! That was it! I remember. That was a killer, we did it until our feet... I only noticed when I'd get home in the early hours... take off my sandals, and sweet Jesus, what my feet looked like! With the music playing, we felt nothing, see... - Fallen arches, what... - When I could barely wash. Your foot's swollen... your arches fallen. But now we're not so keen anymore. Our time's gone. Where did you go in summer? In summer? Go anywhere? In summer? Nowhere this time. - You stayed at home? - The kid's so small, well... They tie you down then. Did you go anywhere? - A lovely trip. - Where? A long one? Spain, Switzerland, West Germany, Austria... All the way to Switzerland too? Switzerland, but we ended up in Spain, wonderfull. We went to Bulgaria once with the kids. Our daughter was 3, our son 6 but it was wonderful. The children enjoyed it so much, we walked, slept in a tent, it was perfect. That's why I'm telling you, you can do it later, because the kids can manage. - The can. - True, if you can, they can. I could manage them, I had no problem with the kids. Splashing naked in the sea... If you get good weather, the seaside is the place. But not if you want to see museums or towns... When kids are small, then you have to arrange it to have lots of free time. We went to see Rila monastery, teh kids enjoyed it too. That little cottage is still so nice, It means one thing to me the house and my young days Once more we'll go to look for memories to revive a summer and a young couple That little cottage is still so nice, it means one thing to me the house and my young days The next song, if you don't mind, just this time, I'd like to sing to a real man, if there is one among you. What's the matter? I don't want a pianist, I want a man. What? I can hear voices but I don't see a man. I'll come and have a look. Here I come, boys! May I? Ladies, it looks as if standing before you here a real man. We'll soon see if you deserve that title. Now would you hold my hand tight please? Try and do what I do. I promise it won't hurt. All you have to do first is bend your knees, I'll show you how. Once, two. That's it. Let me be in love tonight Your love and kisses can't be to much Moonrays smile on us Silver light in front of us Let me be in love tonight Let me be tonight the one Who whispers your name They think we are friends for me that's not enough, just let me be in love tonight Here comes the hard bit... We've been together long two people make a pair Isn't that good! Two of us, where you are there's a house for us Now don't hesitate Let me be tonight the one who whispers your name They think we are friends for me that's not enough, just let me be in love tonight Good? just let me be in love tonight Hold tight. just let me be in love tonight - With you. - That's right. What a fine fellow! I've got a black baby Black her hair and skin Black her hair and skin and she bathes her towels so happy Black pearls on her neck Black is her body Fiery red her lips when she Charlestons My own black baby. I've got a black baby Her eyes as black as coal Black her hair and skin and she bathes her towels so happy Black pearls on her neck Black is her body Fiery red lips when she Charlestons My own black baby On the red day of Whitsun I prayed and prayed On the red day of Whitsun For you to come back The meadow was full the wild flowers blooming. I was waiting for you Whitsun roses in my hand. All my wait was in vain Autumn has arrived Whitsun roses are long Faded and gone. My smiling love No more I'll call you in Winter cold and ice only frost-flowers open. Hold me gentle, sweetheart rock me tight... my crazy heart... Hold me gentle, sweetheart rock me tight I'm with you. Hold me gentle, sweetheart rock me tight... my crazy heart rock away... Yellow leaves from the tree Fall winds carry away. And every evening I wait my heart burning for you. Fall winds carry away And every evening I wait my heart burning for you. There I stood for a while Wounded, crippled, Not a word she said in silence she fled my heart burning for you. There's a chance to go and work abroad for two years. I'm the one in the control room they thought of. It's the same work, they say just a bit more developed... ...the construction. In Romania. I'd get paid here and there for the two years. In Lei there. - Why do you get paid twice? - The law says if you work abroad... your family gets paid here so you can get that... And you go alone? The way it is... I go myself, myself, sure. It's not like it's ten years, just two years I'll be there. It's the same, I get up... Two years. We're not together for two years? I'd come home on my holidays... Holidays, two weeks? No, I think I'd get three four weeks on this, I didn't ask, and then it can be worked out. I... I don't have to say yes right away. I said I had to talk to you. I think it'd be great. It looks like, it looks like, we'd have a car inside a year... - What's in it for me... - It's great, we can move. It's nothing to me to have a car in a year or in six years and be alone for two years. - I think we have to make a move... - Don't you like it here? It'd be good for my career, because they thought of me, so, it's something serious. I mean there's 22 of us and I'm the one they asked. - Not to see the kids? - I'd be home during the... ...only on holidays but what about when they go to bed, good night kiss, I don't know, there's lots in their life... You can bring the kids over. Don't you see we'd have a car inside a year... So the problem is we don't have a car? Then you tell me why can't I finish what I'm saying? You've said it all. There's a car, the second year might mean enough money for a house maybe. Depend's if there's any reason to build a house. - If you still have a family. - Buy it for the kids. Don't... can't you think for more than five minutes? It's not five minutes! It's a lifetime! Two years. What about all those who are away for years... They never see their kids, the kids grow up with no dad. They grow up and the dad gets them ready-made. It's important how they grow up, important. Here in this trap with me or he could even... he could get more... I thought you'd be pleased. To be away from you? No, it's not about that. Living apart, that's just the form of being away. And all my salary would get paid to you. That's the only argument you have, that the money's double, and if the money's double, then what'll happen? It's not true, there's been far worse situations... this isn't a lousy situation, we're just blowing it up. There's no war, imagine if there'd be a war, that's four or five years... they managed to survive and bring up children. So for you it's natural for me to be happy to be here alone with two children and more money. Do you seriously expect me to accept that? Look, you're taking it on for two years. And what are you taking on? - Well, let's say... - That you'll be fine abroad... I won't be, no. What I'm taking on is two years, when I'm home, I could help you more, we would have a solid base... - We wouldn't be living from day to day, but... - What base? You don't see the point? We wouldn't get rich, could't buy a palace, but we'd be able to make a move. So what big difference does it make? There's nothing in life so big, it'll pass in 5 minutes. I thought you'd understand. You thought you could leave me here with two kids... You have two kids and then you don't want to raise them, just live off somewhere else. That's the point. I want more than this drudgery. And so I'm here alone with them. There's some that go West for five or six years. They have wives who are perhaps happy that the husband leaves them alone a bit. I wasn't saying that... You think they're the type that's happy to be alone? No, they live well, or love their husband so much, trust him and think of him a bit, not just of themselves. Surely they choose this for things to be a bit better. So there's no husband who loves his wife so much - to think of her as well? - That's what I'm thinking of. Two kids and it's all over!? The point isn't how soon we can have a car, - or how quickly we can pay this or that bill. - And my career? Your career? Does it matter where you push a button here, or there? - Do you want me to tell you? - What, the factory? - So why shouldn't I tell you? - Don't bother to tell me. A million times you have to rush around... wheels and all. You really think the world turns on whether you press a button or not? Yes. So I go back and say I talked to my wife and someone else can go and everyone laughs at me? What's so special for someone not to want to live alone? Anyone who will laugh is a fool. They are fools of the type who think their whole life depends if they can buy this or buy that. Look, I don't really see why you can't see that. I simply can't imagine why you can't see that. Find something else. The two of us must find something. - A hold up!? - What will we do? We could try a hold-up. You're thinking again about what to do for us to have loads of money. You can't do without it. Not for beer but for... You have that, every day you have your beer money. Don't you see we can't make a move? No car, and you can't go out on a Saturday, for two days with a tent, or whatever, with the kids. I'll take a bus or walk and be happy, not living separate... In a bus with the pack... Better with the pack and be together. Right, I'll say I won't go. That's not right either to make yourself unhappy about it. Then I'll say nothing. I'll just play dumb. Why, why are youbeing so sarcastic about it all. Don't you get it? Don't you see, Robi, that we have to be together, together and work it all out. Freedom's flowers do not bloom flowers... From the spilt blood of the dead And the tears of slavery burn Which the eyes of orphans shed. Pity, God, the Magyar, then, Long by waves of... - waves... of danger tossed - waves of danger tossed Help him by Thy strong hand He on grief's sea may be lost But no freedom's flowers bloom - From the spilt... - From the spilt blood of the dead. And the tears of slavery burn Which eyes of orphans shed. - Do it again from the beginning. - 'Neath the fort, a ruin now, 'Neath the fort, a ruin now, Joy and pleasure erst were found, There are only groans and sighs instead... Freedom's flowers do not bloom From the spilt blood of the dead... ...of the dead, And the tears of slavery burn - the eyes of orphans shed. - Say it! What are you doing? - What are you doing, hey. - Going. What are you doing? - Where are you going? - Away. What do you mean away? That, away. What's away, for food? Yes. What do you mean away? Listen, what's away. Robi, what are you doing? Don't you understand? Wait a bit! I'll put him down. Robi, what are you doing? What do you think you're doing? - What's away, listen! - Leave it out. - What's away? What's going? - Let me go. Where to? Where to, what's away? Leve me be. What do you think away is? Away for good? Not for bad. God, I can't take this, Robi! Don't do this. I don't see why away. What's away, you can't do this. You can't do this, away! Say something, Robi! Not this... What is it, tell me, you're just fed up? You're fed up? And you just say, I'm going? - Bye. - What's bye? Where do I go, tell me, what's going to happen to me? What do you imagine, tell me? Where do you imagine I'll go to? If I've had enough tell me where do I go to? Don't you see, Robi ... are you crazy? You think you can just say that you're off? No... no... no! I'm begging you, I'm begging, I can't take it! I'm afraid he may feel better alone. No one to nag him. Go here, go there, do what he wants, have a drink, don't have a drink. He has a few fixed points in his life, things that I was always on at him, football, pools, beer. Now he can do them... Problem is, he doesn't have any big needs so he's fine, really fine the way he is. He goes into a flat, he lies down, watches TV, reads the paper... and he's fine. The only thing that might bring him back is the children obviously. But it wouldn't be the same. But if it's only because of them. I know it won't be the same. I don't know what'll happen, what I have to do, what to do, how to do it. Because all the time there was tension and trouble between us for years now... what we should focus on is that after years of strife, whether we could get together again. Then we'd have to try. Whether with someone new or each of us alone. That I don't know... I don't want to, that I can't even imagine. It would drive me crazy to believe he might think of living with someone else. Perhaps it'd be best if he couldn't imagine living without the kids. These are the automatic ones. Yes please. We'd like to buy a washing machine... - A traditional one? Or... - What does traditional mean? - Automatic or semi-automatic? - Well, an automatic. - How many kinds are there? - Well there's the traditional, this is the semi-automatic for 12.900 there's the fully automatic, that's got 18 programmes, it all depends on how much washing you want to put in. - Isn't this a washer? - Yes it is. This is a Minimat 65 and this is a Midimat 85, the difference is one is 12.900, the other 12.800, this one's space saving, can take more washing. It's bigger inside. Yes, it's bigger it'll take more clothes. I can show you a brochure. Here you are.
