 

                        1 'PAPANASAM' 'Gautami' 'Kalabhavan Mani, Ilavarasu M. S. Bhaskar, Arul Dass' 'Anant Mahadevan, Asha Sarath Niveda Thomas, Esther Anil' 'Today, if you answer our question-' - Who are you? - Vishwanathan, sir Oh! Is that you? How is the station, sir? It's okay now But when it was first built... ...you should have seen the toilet flooded with water They were using newspaper then They must have used pictures of politicians they didn't like 'Now for the question worth Rs 100,000' "I close my eyes for a minute" 'This Malayalam song is from which film?' 'And who is the director?' Dead duck, Sekar No one will get this! No sir, I've seen this movie Prem Nazir acted in it Tip of my tongue Can't get the name It is from the Tamil film 'Thirumalai thenkumari' 'Azhagae Thamizhae, nee vaazhga' has these Malayalam lines in between Direction, production, screenplay, dialog by A.P Nagarajan It was released in 1970 Given a chance he'll peck away the prize money like a crow Who is this chap? Murder case Why should an accused answer Cine quiz? Can't you keep your mouth shut? This is a police station 'There are many villages in Tamil Nadu called Papanasam' 'They are all places to lose your sins' 'On January 31st 1975...' '...a film 'Cinema Paithiyam' was released' 'My mother had severe cramps while she was watching it' 'She didn't even know it was labor pains' 'Silly nitwit!' 'She gave birth to me then and there' 'Her sins saw the light of day in Papanasam, in Tirunelveli district' 'That sin is yours truly' 'My name is Suyambulingam' 'I am true to my name' 'I sprouted and bloomed on my own in this land' 'My mother left me when I was 4' 'I didn't study' 'I cleaned dirty dishes in a hotel' 'All that I studied...' '...was cinema' Super chase, brother! What 'super'? When it's a car chase... ...the hero's face ...should be shown in a close up shot Only then will the tension be built into the viewer's mind What will you achieve sitting here in Papanasam? You might as well go to Madras You can become a renowned director! So you can grab my shop in one shot? Put today's collection into my bag Let me have a cup of tea Bhai, 1 'egg dosa' and tea Karuppu...! Get me my usual items - Quick...quick...quick - Wait, brother Fritters and black coffee Wait, I'll bring it for you 'Indian politics raped' My dear chap! You'll ruin the paper's reputation You are reading both the headlines together Karuppu, may you live long! Just take the paper from him This paper news is all old fashioned, Bhai Now it's the age of digital news How will they broadcast the same news? How? First- First eat your 'vada' Hey! Can't you see we are talking? You make me look like I'm uneducated Leave it, brother The whole town knows about you What about me? In the temple receipt you wrote your name as Chumbulingam Then what's news, Bhai? Did your usual set of freebie customers come by today? 4 or 5 came The 'tiger' hasn't come as yet for its kill! Perumal the cop hasn't come on his rounds? He has got 2 new lambs for the slaughter They are waiting for Perumal sir The goats have come in search of the tiger! What's the matter? What do you want me to say? Shall I tell him? They are farmers who live at the foothills They have one son He borrowed money from a moneylender His chapter closed then To grow plantain Elephant ate up the plantains Naturally! If you put plantains in the elephant's path... ...will it help you with farming? Okay, what's done is done Now the loan interest is sky high I get it Wait, there's more! Now their son has been kidnapped They say they will give him back when the money is paid Who took him? Who else? Our 'tiger' Said he was taking him for interrogation to the police station But fact is he took their son to Tenkasi (whispers) Tell the sub-inspector He said if I do that, I won't see my son again, sir Why won't he say that? It's like complaining to the left hand about the right hand They are all thick as thieves, brother So...? There is something called court and law! Which law or court applies to a man with Satan in him? Bingo! The money lender will plead ignorance Perumal will say he never arrested anyone Quite capable Who has proof otherwise? If there were witnesses, as if they'll pounce to his defence Then there'll be 4 others sitting just like this as witnesses 'Habeas corpus' 'Whichever part of the world Nila is...' '...they have to bring her to court' 'Deiva thirumagal' What? Know what Habeas corpus is? Name sounds like a dweller near the seashore area Is he related to our Charuhasan? - Aiyo! Bhai - Eh Allah! It's a court order If a man is missing... ...and there is a doubt someone has- ...killed him Or kidnapped him This writ can be used in court The court will send an order to the police The concerned person should be brought to court And then- Like parents report when actresses go missing - Like that? - Correct! Remove all evil eyes from him, Bhai I'll chop and dump him into the boiler Good idea! What you do is... ...go straight to Tenkasi Meet a chap called Sankarapandi there Good fellow but a lawyer! He does everything If he gets a case, he'll literally be in tears Like them What case? You just heard my long story and you ask me this! About their missing son Oh! You meant that! Say your son is missing We suspect he may have been kidnapped You should find him for us Sankarapandi is handling this- You don't even have to engage him Just call the police station and say Sankarapandi is handling the case They will freak out This case will put even the police in a tight spot - Really? - Oh Allah! The poor can be helped with such a writ, huh? When policemen don't pay for their tea... ...is there any writ to collect the dues? They are writing it in the Supreme Court 'Thanks be to God' 'Tiger' is coming here Don't let him see you here Go out through the back door Here, take this money Karuppu, show them the way Go...go Did an elderly couple come in here? No Karuppu, what is today's special? Special 'idly', special 'dosa' special chutney, special stove Special hot burning coal! Everything is ready Get me 8 'idlis' and chutney...go Bhai, to please my taste buds... ...why don't you throw in some spicy stuff like 'egg parotta' into your menu? All that's left for me to do is throw a stone on your head! What are you muttering under your breath? What is the point in my muttering? Your dues are as huge as a boulder What? Tell me how much I owe you What is the total outstanding? Calculate and tell me now I don't have to check You owe me Rs 4850 Without your order of 'idlis' now But including the biscuit packet inside your cap that you flicked I'll wipe the slate clean Then we won't have any problem Wipe it clean in one go Even if you pay little by little- Why are you scared, Bhai? Take it Hey! This is between us You shut your trap Collect the entire amount today Why Rs 4850? Let's round it to Rs 5,000 What do you say? Cancel it in my commission What commission? Election commission! Which world are you in, Bhai? Oye! We are talking, right? Zamindar of Ilanji built this police station 100 years ago We are planning to demolish it And build a new police station in the empty ground next to it Then for 6 months... ...contractors, brick layers, masons cement mixers, drivers, all the laborers... ...will come here to drink tea I will get you the entire business Even if you make Rs 1000 a day... ...in 6 months it is Rs 1,75,000 2.5% is my commission What do you say, Bhai? This is 'Police' for you! Rs 18 in brother's account Jack-in-the-box! Okay, subtract it from my commission And give me the rest so I can get back to work What is your commission? Then what? The movie they played on my cable TV yesterday afternoon was God-awful! To save their sanity all of them came rushing here to drink tea 10% of that is- Are you playing the fool? I'll bring the shutters down in this shop Do the same to your pant zip first! He and his affinity to talcum powder! I'll get my turn one day ('Pasamalar' film) Why are you crying watching a movie? Go away Even the hard hearted Hitler has cried while watching films Anyone who watches 'Pasamalar' dry-eyed isn't a human being Whaaat...Hitler watched 'Pasamalar'? As soon as Chevalier Sivaji's name flashes in the title... ...you'll start sobbing Wipe your nose Very funny! You only like dances where actors move like they're playing dodge ball You aren't qualified to talk about Siva- Don't shoot off a sermon Your mouth is an AK-47 Someone wants to complain Can't you say something good? Why else will they call? Pick up the phone Why won't you pick up? Show off! We'll take care of it We'll look into it We will- Okay What will we take care of? Who was it? Our Tahsildar Sankara Subbu Cable amplifier opposite his house has gone phut it seems We said we will change it tomorrow We need to get the spare part to replace Brother, he's an old man who can't get up Only after watching the adult films at night... ...his blood pressure and sugar level stabilize Poor guy is twitching Won't his wife say anything? Catch her asking! She can't even see Blissfully unaware of this... ...'my husband watches films on yoga even at night' She tells me this very proudly How can you make fun of such an elderly man! Pipsqueak! Go now Aren't you going home? I'll go, you go now Okay, brother Where is your mother? Must be in the backyard, dad Suddenly studying so intently? Exams, huh? Yes, dad Science test Get your sums right Science, dad! Arithmetic isn't part of Science? How can tha- She is studying intently there You are making 'idli' here with the same intensity Go and bathe You are here with the front door open? What if a thief creeps in? Yes, in broad daylight a thief will walk in What do you know about modern thieves? This is how in a Kannada film- He would've been the husband And not knowing the language you would've got it wrong Done watching Tamil films Now you're watching other regional languages you don't know, huh? Cinema is a language by itself Why does it need another language? Like sign language Look into my eyes Want to say something? Understood? Think yourself to be the 'king of love'? I am your love-guru? Who else? Go and bathe instead of blessing me with another baby! Get into the shower Will you go bathe now? Selvi is burrowing her nose into Science I thought of summing up our chemistry but all in vain! (whistling) Switch on the light Why do you keep twirling that lock of hair, dad? So old fashioned Like the hook of a crane! I've been curling it for 30 years This is 'Sivaji' style Even he doesn't sport such a style He's no longer with us I meant when he was alive It is each individual's principle Can we change all that? Dad...dad? Why do you empty it on you like a flour mill? Yuck! Your neck is so sweaty And has caked white lines now! Sprinkling Cuticura powder all over you Reading women's magazines Writing accounts at the back of a cigarette packet Carrying cash in a worn out yellow cloth bag None of these can be changed Listen, my dear I roam all over the place collecting dues Won't I stink if I don't powder myself? Can't you spray scent instead? You mean snuff a smell with another smell! Not funny, dad Oh! I forgot to switch off the light Where is my precious princess? My little princess! Madam's make-up session isn't over She squeezes the entire Fair and Lovely tube in one go Then her eyes are glued to the mirror to check if she has become fair Looks like we must find her a London groom! Dad...! Muah! This cheek? Smelling awesome Heard that? Hair style is also soooper My special sugar cube! Finished hugging her? Sit and eat now Go...go Daily late for school Do you know how many times I tried calling you yesterday? Didn't get through even once Don't you know in this rain phones won't work? Why don't you get a cell phone? As if a cell phone will work Even a big phone doesn't work! How will a mobile get any signal? Even if there isn't any signal... ...we've selected a cell phone for you Yes? Second hand, right? In this house, only the kids and I are first hand! We are 3 females sitting here all alone That goes above your head Whole night watching some crappy film- My dear...dearest...darling Surrender I drop all my weapons down Unconditional surrender Happy? We believe you! Okay, my sweetheart Why did you call me at night? To go to Tenkasi Tenkasi? Don't giggle What for? I told you 6 months ago when we went shopping We should go for brands Now all the dresses are in tatters If you rub it- Dad! In PSS theatre in Tenkasi... ...in air-conditioned cool comfort we should watch a film Dad, ice cream, popcorn You just made my purse lighter by 5000 rupees! In this alone you will all be hand in glove Ladies in the house will have a long wish-list Don't you gallivant happily from morning? If I didn't... ...then you won't be gobbling 'idli' by the dozen happily Can you take us to Tenkasi or not? This is blackmai- You dug my grave ganging up together Why dig this pit here now? If all the waste is dumped here... ...it can be used as manure for the garden Compost Organic! I meant, why should you be digging it? You'll get blisters on your hand I like that! For 100 bucks he will do it for you gladly Who will come for 100 bucks? No one will touch a shovel for a rupee less than 300 Best is buy ready-made fertilizers than dig like this How can a true village belle be a traitor to nature? Come and see Earthworm What do you think of these worms? Yes! Only they feature in my dreams every night Making fun of me? You know what these worms are? Farmer's friend When kids go fishing they will look for earthworms All you have to do is dig 1 foot A clew of worms will land up like an army Where do you find them now? When farmers have washed their hands off agriculture... ...even our nation is going to the dogs If we don't go back to nature... ...we can't eat a morsel of rice Then we have to settle for cheese burger! You don't even read the newspaper properly How did you learn all this? If you're blessed with natural intelligence... ...no need to study anything If we use our eyes and notice things all around us- I have also watched the film 'Pandavar bhoomi' When did you- Oh! I showed it in my cable TV, huh? If the film maker and I think alike can anyone file a case? Must feel happy You took up the shovel to cut cost and not pay a laborer And then this sermon My dear lady! I will preach I'll climb on top of that hill and preach to one and all I've only studied up to 4th grade No parents No aunts, uncles or cousins Whatever you see here I stood on my own 2 feet And saved every single paisa This garden, my job, house, jeep and the new battery in it Self-made man I am! I'm the only one licensed to preach in this- I'm talking to you and you just walk away What's new? Has even 1 dialog changed in all these years? Oh! That's why I have to wash the dishes Wait, listen I'll change the dialog You continue with your sermon to the pit Holistic sermon! Good morning, sir Attend to your work Sermadurai Yes, brother? Is it an accident? They are measuring the place to build a new police station We'll get a brand new super police station So we can be locked up in a cool room and lie down No other door has so many holes, you see Not meant to be funny! I sent you to collect cash I went to collect Can you see that man standing over there? The chap in a cap No, one with the tie He's the engineer Doesn't he look tip-top? Instead of looking at him with a dropped jaw... ...if you had also studied ...you would be in his shoes now At least I studied up to 10th grade What did you study? I hold the title 'Padikkadha medhai' 'Unread man of letters' is a classic Sivaji film Don't I know that! Don't I have a stack of letters unread on my office table? Man of letters unread Got it? The goat to be slaughtered is grinning at the butcher! Go and attend to your work "I 'google-d' away to glory extensively He's Mr Eccentric, the one and only" "I hunted in Yahoo on the internet He's a find so unique in any planet" Bhai? Hello, sir Order 2 cups tea, please Karuppu, bring 2 cups of tea His name is Mariappan He's the new contractor His name is Suyambu Roaring business in cable TV, chit fund Land broker Good fellow That's good, brother If one fails there is a back up You see that building there? That belongs to him Don't embarrass me That small shop below belongs to me, that's all Then brother is a big shot too You look like you're doing well for yourself too! In a crunch situation, every inch of you can be pledged to a pawnbroker It's all fancy stuff Gold covering, brother That's alright A contractor has to maintain his image It is our disguise I'm in charge of only civil work The main contractor is someone else You can keep this Brother-in-law is a politician Keep it - Don't want? - No, no...thanks He gets the feast We get the leftovers Life goes on this way- Hey! What's up? Brother, your wife called She asked if you are coming for dinner Or if she should pour water in the cooked ric- New way of family planning, huh? Brother watches movies, right? - Hey! Keep quiet - What movies? He's a big time movie buff Watches 3 movies a night He loves to exaggerate! 2 movies only 2 movies in 1 night? Yes, he will go home And I'll be left all alone If the cable gets cut... ...everyone will bring the roof down Then end of the month I won't get my dues What movies do you play at night? What a question! Fashion channel in his cable TV is famous Everyone here knows all those models in that channel Bhai, you're having a dig at me in front of an outsider! We must say all this Why? Otherwise he'll think we are country bumpkins As if they will believe you! Bhai has kind of realized now Really? I can read between the lines This is sweet And this is savory Which would you like? Nothing except tea in your shop Sanmuga brother Smart Alec! I've seen this sweet since I was a kid Let's go You're spoiling my business See you later, Bhai "I am your cloud, my blushing flower Will you bloom if on you I shower?" "Mother-of-pearl conch reclining with my touch your pearls are a-shining" "Waging a war on you God of Love's statue" - Sermadurai - What, brother? My head hurts I'll go home, take rest for a while But your wife would have added water to the cooked rice Old rice soaked in water is good for a headache Brother, is the love song over? Born worldly wise, huh?! Oh no! I poured water in the rice Do I come across as a glutton? What scene today? Bathing scene or bedroom scene? Rape scene Come What is this? The children may wake up! Smells good? What's all this? At this age? If not now when then? Youth...! Right That's what they say! What do they say? That I am forever 16?! Yes...you are the talk of the town! I need to ask you something I knew you would come to the point What? You want a son That's all, no? Whaaaat? We've got 2 carbon copies of you You would love to have 1 like me now? This one here is enough No love for me? Love is there in plenty but that's not what I mean Then? We have that jeep, no? Jeep? It's too open there Not even a door What's wrong with this? Cha! I didn't mean that Let's sell the jeep And buy a car with a door Were you talking about driving a car for so long? Where are you going? Do you study this for generations how to annoy your husbands? Is this what you pin down your innocent husband and ask? When have you made time to talk to me? So you ask this when a man is in a mood to relax? You think I'll agree when I'm like this? Find someone else for all this Whaaat? No, no...not like that I won't agree at a time like this I know how to control myself is all I'm saying It is tough But I know how to I'll manage My name is Suyambulingam Remember that! You want a car? We'll get one This car... ...second hand will do? Okay...okay First...first...first! We'll buy a new car Dad! When did you come? Night Mom said you wouldn't come I had no other go but to come Why? Last night- I'll tell them We intend buying a car A Maruti car - Car? - Yes We need to research in order to book it Super, dad No need to buy a Maruti, dad It looks like a soap box Let's buy an Audi Okay...let 'Aadi' come by We can buy it with the festival discount I didn't mean Tamil month Aadi Audi car, it's so silent The chap walking in front won't hear it and he'll be run over That's what a horn is for Okay, is it cheaper than a Maruti? Dad...it's 50 lakhs - Whaat? - 5 million Even God's chariot won't be that costly This is why you should read the newspaper once in a while And that'll help me know the price of a 'jaadi' Not 'jaadi' as in a jar It is A-u-d-i Whatever! A Maruti is enough for us When are we buying it? We'll buy it Soon enough Why...? You think you can go to school in that car? Get ready for school...quick Mom, I told you about that Nature club Why do we need all that? You go to school only to study Look at her, dad What is it? Dad...we have a Nature club in school They're taking us to Agasthyamala on a trip We'll go and note down all the plants and animals They've only selected me and another girl from our school As if you live in a city First see the trees around here Daaaad...! Rani...! You must understand this Education is not just confined to books We have to know about nature that surrounds us How can we understand our country otherwise? Okay...you have a lot of concern in stock Pay her camp fees - How much? - Rs 1,800 - 1000...? - 800 - What? - Dad...! Okay There are 101 things in life which are free So how does this benefit your studies? - This is too much, dad - You think so? How long is this camp? 2 days Is there a discount for 1 day? 'Aadi' festival offer? I don't want a tour I don't want any damn thing - I won't go, happy? - Dear...dear...dearest - You ate 'dosa'? - Yes, I did Dad just doesn't want you to waste anything Is that wrong? Your father has agreed to pay Now go to school When did I agree? You said it! That's all Bye, pa I'm going...bye, ma Be careful from now on So I need not pay up? No! You hinted about last night in front of the girls They are just kids That's what you think They will grasp everything in just one glance! I didn't know anything at their age As if you know now I don't? "Hey! My crackpot dear My handsome hulk forever" "Like Kutralam waterfall's sprays imp, you ruffle my head always" "Dead or alive, for keeps truly you are Mr Right for me" "Hey! My madcap missy My lovely hunter lassie" "Like Kutralam waterfall's sprays minx, you pat my head always" "Dead or alive, I guarantee you are my Mrs Right till eternity" "Like money saved scrimpy is love so stingy, tell me?" "What you part with is pittance Is being a Scrooge the hindrance?" "Love, like money, lambkin is not meant for spending" "A million kisses only for you From your benevolent beau" "I am still a kid intact Girl, isn't that a fact?" "I have constantly 3 mothers supporting me" "Waterfalls of Kutralam in Tirunelveli unmatched by our love and care verily" "I know will fail miserably This is paradise on earth truly" Why are you freaking us out, dad? "Hey! My nutcase dear My dashing heartbreaker" "Like Kutralam waterfall's sprays Mr Naughty, you ruffle my head always" "Dead or alive, for keeps truly you are Mr Right for me" "Love, like money, darling is not meant for spending" "A billion kisses only for you From your benevolent beau" "Like the colors on the dragonfly you heap hues on me so high" "With your eyes, encore you teach me something more" "My thoughts and yours slip by a fine thread goes amiss" "Now we talk 24x7, will there be some day when we have no wore words to say?" "Like money saved cutting corners is love so stingy, one wonders" "What you part with is pittance" "Is being a Scrooge an encumbrance?" "Love, like money, dear bumpkin is not meant for spending" "A zillion kisses only for you From your benevolent beau" Why do we need this? We have 4 or 5 strutting around at home Let it be I must send something for my grandchildren If you cover it with a wet cloth, it will be quiet Not a sound I asked broker Sami to come If you come on Thursday we can finalize it Why? This house is old now Why do we need such a big house? That's why we are selling it We thought we'll give half the share to Thangaraj And deposit the rest in Rani's name in a bank Why all this now? - Did Thangaraj ask for his share? - I told him I'm doing this Then why? I didn't give you a proper dowry when you got married to Rani My situation was such That debt is still not paid Uncle I'm a businessman Good products have to be bought with money How can I get the product and take the money for it too? I am an orphan I've worked as a laborer for you Son-in-law- No, please...listen to me Only after I married your daughter... ...I am walking with my head held high in this society What are you saying? I'm the one who owes you No...nothing Listen to me please I'm not your son-in-law I'm your son, you know Give me the hen Take care of your health Godspeed, go home safe and sound Call me when you reach, okay? Get into the jeep Here he comes The future of Tamil Nadu Hold this When did you come, brother-in-law? Just now Looks like you've lost weight Not at all, dad's paunch is growing bigger by the day She's an innocent kid Feel this How's the political work going on? 2016 will be our rule, brother-in-law Who confirmed it? Malayalam astrologer, Kochunni What an odd name! Malayalam names are strange But that chap is a pro He has predicted it, right? That's why our leader is so confident - What's in your hand? - Receipt book Time we left! - I didn't bring my wallet - Don't worry, brother-in-law My sister is just kidding Would I ask you for a donation? Everyone knows about you Knows what? If you ask who donated Re 5 to KTMK party... ...whole of Tenkasi echoes your name! Wasted wastrels! Why won't their tongues wag? So it isn't a receipt book No...it's just a flyer We will protest...we will protest Protest till our last breath! We'll protest with conviction State Govt, Central govt Stop the work at the quarry We will protest, show our dissent till you shut down the quarry It is already printed here Then why say it out loud But the quarry fellow belongs to your party That was earlier Now he has switched sides So what? Very soon we will shut down the quarry But he's a family man Should have thought of that before he switched sides What will his wife and kids do? There is a big pond in the quarry You want them to fall and die in it? That's their choice But you can cultivate fish there Do you know the demand for fish? In your dreams! I'll see you, uncle Come...come See you, ma Bye grandma Happy? Oh my! What? My guru! What happened to him? Swami Varadananda is coming to Tenkasi How many times I've asked you... ...if we could go and see him in Tirunelveli? Now he's coming here Let's all get his blessing Why? He's holding a mass prayer it seems If the whole family meditates with him... ...sickness of every kind will vanish Don't be a pain So much work pending Only you will have 101 excus- - Come here, pops - What, dad? As if I wanted to sightsee and waste money! Tell me, dear You took Rs 1,800 from me What did you see? Rat Rat...? Such a huge rat! It ran into the woods Priya and I screamed I screamed out 'rat' And she yelled out 'mouse' She's studying computers, no? Come this side My neck hurts When there are so many rats playing leisurely... ...why must we pay to go and see more? It wasn't just that, dad Nature watch in the morning In the evening, we had entertainment programs I sang a song too, dad Everyone clapped So you were the star? No...no You know that music show on TV? The girl who won 2nd priz- Move and sit 2nd prize, Karthika She sang so beautifully Everyone wanted an encore Okay, you- Don't break this - Stand, continue - Okay...okay Then...a judge's son He did some magic tricks that were too good Then an Inspector General's son - A thug - What's a thug? Thug means rowdy He kept going behind girls and taking their pictures Who? Photo? Did he take of you? You...? I thought it was a voice from Heaven Keep quiet! Did he take a photo on his cell phone? Yes Come here Chapter closed! She'll nag her to death A photo in a cell phone will be shown without clothes Don't be silly, ma Blabbering away to glory! Listen to m- That's not possible, ma Look at her, dad Look at her I keep looking at her! Your mother's intelligence is always half baked knowledge Right...at least I studied up to 10th grade! As if he is an IAS officer Forever deriding me in front of the children Hey! 10th grader Honey...! You know what a thug is? Thug means silly, right? Be quiet, dad Doesn't it mean silly, sugar? - Then? - Thug means you You naughty minx! - I'm a thug? - Yes The foundation is not okay, brother? That's why rain water has seeped inside Must raise it a bit We are close to the mountains That's why rain is heavy I keep thinking I should fix it But I've got a mountain load of work Why pay a laborer for it? I'll do it for you, brother We'll do it with the construction job Wait for 10 days Our police station flooring starts on Monday I'll get it done along with it If you get it done then this can serve as a go-down for you A dry place to store cement Yes, brother There's a lorry anyway coming from Tenkasi We'll bring all the materials in it Okay, let's see - Let's close it with a tea and 'vada' - Then close the shutters quick Contractor sir - Sir...? - Yes, I meant you You must forgive me Some mistakes happened unintentionally I'll compensate for it For the amount I owe I'll pay up with interest Because what I eat from you for free... ...I have to return that favor If I die owing money to anyone then I won't get salvation - That's alright - Alright...? What the hell did you think? If you snitch to the sub-inspector you thought he will cut me off? Whatever the problem is, please discuss it calmly, sir If you dance to the tune of the outsider... ...I'll break your legs to pieces There's no burrow the bandicoot hasn't seen, you hear? Okay, okay Leave it He has himself agreed he's a bandicoot That's quite a revelation! Hey! We are talking, right? - Why are you poking your nose? - Go ahead, please talk Offerings to Hanuman is for Rama only Bribes should line only my pocket! Understood? Why are you looking at him? The sub-inspector won't pull me up Watch your step Yes, Suresh sir is a good man - Who? - Sub-inspector He's a refined man Not a man who grabs at leftovers like this Yes, I grab from people Why is it making you itch? Spoiling for a fight? I'll relieve you of your itch? - Listen to me - Don't touch me Bhai! What did he say now? He said he'll get rid of the itch If you pay him, he'll scratch anywhere is a known fact Look! The sub-inspector is here You talk with such temerity because of the money flow I have what it takes to teach you a lesson Hang on carefully to what you have, sonny It might boil over Hey! Move aside He isn't even turning back Maybe he didn't hear Boiled into vapor! I just couldn't keep yielding to his demands Not my money What accounts can I show my boss? That's why I told the S.I Ignore him A rat-snake hisses A water snake raises its hood Let him be Whatever it is he's a policeman, sir That wretched chap doesn't realize it Are we criminals to fear the police? A man with integrity should fear only God Almighty We haven't made any mistakes And we won't either Give me a chocolate, sis Go home and eat it Meena? - Meena! - Get lost Varun We met at the nature camp I didn't recognize you because of your glasses What are you doing here? To tell you the truth... ...I came to see you Mom? Maa? I'm hungry, ma Wait, dear Don't be in a tearing hurry Mom, faaast Can't you wait 5 minutes? Where's all the stuff? Akka is bringing it At least give me some snack, ma Don't be a glutton Wait, I have to take it out Here you go Where's your sister? She isn't here as yet You said she was right behind you We came together till uncle CVR's house Then I ran ahead She said she'll hit me As if she's so great! Okay, eat fast and do your homework Selvi - Ma...ma? - Selvi All the stuff we bought is in her room Selvi? Selvi? How will she hear you, ma? With head phones plugged in she'll be listening to music Selvi! - What, ma? - What are you doing? I'm coming My heart stopped for a moment Listening to music and giving me a heart attack Don't be scared No one will see this I'll delete it in front of you Is that okay? But if I should do that... ...you should do as I say I must talk to you Alone Come to the garden behind your house tonight at 11 Come without letting anyone know No, Varun I won't come Why are you behaving like a kid? I didn't come to disturb you If I had wanted, I could have shown this to my friends Uploaded it online But I didn't Why? Because... ...I like you very much I won't come I won't come What will happen to your life if this goes online tomorrow? Can your father walk with his head held high? Tell me Then you must not blame me Don't be scared It will be fine You will come I'm sure of it So we've fixed it, 11:00 p.m Behind your house In the garden You've gone to bed so early, dear Not studying? My head hurts Of course it will Wearing those damn ear phones all the time And listening to that deafening music Shall I rub some Vicks? No, ma Let me sleep Okay...sleep You shouldn't sleep without eating, dear Shall I feed you just 4 spoons of rice? It's 8:00 p.m, no? Okay Heavy rain! Think a cable will be cut? - Wash your mouth, jinxer! - With rain water? Always being negative You got an umbrella? No? - I have one - Take it and go home This is foolishness What you did was so stupid You don't know who I am I'll show you Son...? I'm asking you like I would my son We've built our family like a bee and its honeycomb Don't destroy that Whether I destroy it or not... ...is in your hands Look at this (shocked gasp) If she had submitted quietly... ...this would've been over today Because you butted in... ...this will never end It's about to begin The whole world will see this Please don't, son Don't do that We will all die Okay...I'll delete it But I want what I came for Your daughter Right here Right now I'll beat you black and blue Scumbag! So you want all other scumbags in the world to see this? Is that okay? Give it to me Give me the phone Son...? Please don't ruin my daughter's life I'm begging you I'm falling at your feet to beg you to leave us alone Don't do anything to us Don't hurt us Leave us alone Okay...I'll let her go In return... ...I want you (startled gasp) Moron! Who walked in with such muddy feet? Hey! Rani? Rani! Daaad! What happened? Tell me I'm asking you For heaven's sake, tell me 'In return...' '...I want you' Without anyone's knowledge... ...we can finish the job here Shall I upload it or not? Shall I? Selvi Selvi...! Come here I only aimed at his phone, ma Aiyo...oh God! Dad...? Dad...? What happened? It isn't working, ma This man won't come home until morning I'm scared, ma What do we- Be quiet What do we do now? - I'm scared, ma - Keep quiet Come with me Get the shovel Go...it's over there Don't just stand there Help me cover it up What do we do now? Don't know My hands and legs are still trembling I don't know from where I got the courage when I buried him It isn't wrong what we did, is it? What else could you have done? If we had told the police... ...we'd be guilt-free now What? The boy who died is an Inspector General's son If they find out the truth, then our family... ...will be ripped apart Our children's lives are our priority Oh God! I can't stand this tension It's killing me Now is the time we should be strong We have never... ...harmed anyone Nothing bad will happen to us either Dad? Dad...dad What, my dear? I found this in the room, dad - What is this? - Car keys A yellow Maruti, dad His car is somewhere here Where do I go search for it? In that- Did you search the room properly? To check- No Come with me Call your mother Come, ma Come Where were you standing? Where did that boy fall? Re-enact it in your mind and tell me There You stood there? - He fell over there? - That boy I stood here Okay...okay What are you looking at? You said he hurt his head But there isn't even a drop of blood Maybe it was an internal injury What, dear? Okay...okay It happened for the best It's hard to hide blood stains His clothes Even a thread, a button, his hair Nothing should be left behind as- Hey, get that plastic bag Take everything and put it in Not 1 item of his should be here Clean everything, you hear? Here...here, pick this up Dad, his sim- Hey...hey, wait (recollection of Tamil films watched) 'These days, police nab a criminal only by using his cell phone' 'It's a problem hereafter if our phone is switched on' 'With the help of the signal strength...' '...we can locate it within a radius of half a mile' 'He's a hacker who helps us crack cyber crime cases often' Take a cloth and wipe this whole place clean Until I come back, don't leave the house I'll lock the door from the outside It should look like no one is in the house Where are you goin- It is okay to ask Only then will you know We have to find out where his car is parked We must move it from there - Come back soon - I will How will we be alone? The very thought makes me tremble Apply the sacred ash from Swayambu Lingam temple I'll come back by tonight I won't call you If someone else calls, don't pick up Everything will get recorded What else...? Come here, my dear Dad Will the police put me in jail? I'm scared, dad What are you saying? You? In jail? Your dad is here for you As long as I am here... ...I won't let anything happen to you I promise you Understood? Maaa! - What is this? - Money I see that This isn't enough What a racket! The rate is Rs 1,000 only That is if the man applying for the passport is at home The man isn't there So the rate will be more Fish out another 1,000 Rs 2,000 is too much, sir The boy is going abroad to earn, right? Where will I go and earn? That's our Suyambu, right? Why did he come here? Sir, his house is nearby He usually goes this way He eats chicken curry and mutton curry That's why I'm not in touch with him No, same time Will begin at 12 sharp Koreans are very punctual You be there Okay, thanks 'The number you have dialed is currently switched off' Where the hell has your son gone? How many times do I call him? His phone is always switched off It's because you call him 30 times in a row... ...he switches off his phone How many times have I told you? Don't breathe down his neck and torture him like this He's a grown-up boy We must give him his space Otherwise he'll become a rebel Fine But there's a limit to that freedom Varun has crossed those boundaries long ago He has everything that can spoil a young boy Do you know how much he spent last month? Rs 58,000 He bought some clothes He bought shoes He even showed me the bill Then what? I also went to his room and saw those bills He bought 4 designer shirts And 2 Nike shoes But he has only his old clothes and shoes in the room Where are all the things he bought? So you've started checking his room too? That's why he's never at home Don't boys need some privacy? He gets bugged by your country bumpkin mindset What bloody privacy? Stuff his own parents should be in the dark about him? Only people who wish to hide something need privacy Why does he need privacy if he is above board? He's using your blind love to his advantage You don't realize that 'Swami Varadananda' 'Swami Varadananda is coming to Tenkasi' 'He's holding a mass prayer it seems' Yov! Move your car What do you want, sir? A cell phone Second hand will do Within Rs 1,000 How about this? - How much? - Rs 900 - Is it fully charged? - Yes Here Could you please fix this? I'm going to Delhi this evening For a meeting Two days How do you put this on silent mode? 'There is a big pond in the quarry' Wait for a while? I'll be right back Brother! You haven't been here since morning You'll never skip your routine! How is the collection today? They are never prompt even in the best of times It's raining today Should you ask? The picture is wriggling in their TV it seems Nothing much You are right I won't come tomorrow and day after to work Take care of the shop Where are you going, brother? To a prayer A prayer? Meditation I'm being nagged at home Badgering me- What happened to you today? Why? You came that way, you're going out this way This is my shop Don't I know how to go out? I'll be back in 2 days If you do any messing up with the accounts... ...I'll kill you Now you are back to form - Brother - What now? It's raining outside Here Rani? It's me Ma, it's dad Where did you go for so long? Dad? What is happening here? We've been worried sick Where were you? Don't leave us alone like this and go, dad Okay, I won't Enough? Don't cry Dad, what did you do to the car? Which car? Varun's car That car- I pledged it Satisfied? One rule from now on I'll tell you only what you need to know Enough if you know only that much Don't speak another word Understand? Understood? Got it? Go and get me a towel I need to dry myself You aren't tensed even one bit? Tensed about what? That boy we- Which boy? A boy never came here We didn't see anyone We know nothing But Varun- Who is he? Sit Sit down We don't know any boy by that name Neither did any boy come here That's how our mindset should be We must not be scared or tensed Or else we'll get caught I understood that today I'm coming back from my office The minute I entered, Sermadurai asked me 'Why have you changed so much, brother?' If that fool saw a difference in me... ...then imagine the others So what happened has happened Forget everything And behave normally with everyone All of you get ready We're going on a trip tomorrow - Where? - Tenkasi Why? We shouldn't be here for the next 2 days If someone asks... ...we say we're going for that meditation Which meditation? That flyer you showed me - Swami Varadananda - Yes, that holy man It ended yesterday Oh! It's over? Yesterday, today or tomorrow? Why are you confusing me? Hello, brother - Long time since I saw you - Yes, very true New bus, huh? How can I afford a new bus? This was running in Kerala It was comfortable So I bought it Going far? No...here, up to Tenkasi For a community prayer Swami Varadananda Oh yes! Heard of him My family wanted to go Here How can you pay for the tickets? It's our bus, our money Keep quiet No, we are 4 of us Just keep it No...no...no "A question, one only" "Rising within repeatedly" "Again and again the same dream pans" "God's hand or man's plans" "In the river that flows freely yesterday's water can you see?" "Yesterday has an illusive identity" "Though the tempest tries to stampede the reed by the river doesn't yield" "That iron will needed in words and deed" "Can't we hear the early morning raga?" "Won't the sky be our savior-saga?" "There is only one question" "Rearing its head in repetition" "Will the spider be imprisoned in its own tangled web woven?" "Mind is well and truly caught within the net of deceit in the name of sin" "The child protected by parents will live a 100 years in blessedness" "The good we've done in this life will kill evil, protect us from strife" "Love is our document indeed" "Our good deeds will be our shield" "A solitary question one and only" "Emerging within endlessly" "Still tormented by the same dream" "God's will or man's scheme" Rani How many times have I told you? Don't keep staring out We must forget everything I want to forget But I can't What do you want me to do? We have to forget If you're all this scared... ...we'll get caught for sure Only if you listen to me and cooperate... ...our family can escape this mishap From now on, we keep bills for everything we buy Fruits, vegetables, milk, whatever Understand? "Violence Or intelligence?" "Which will whip the other? My dear mind, please whisper" "The IQ called gray matter is a weapon that wins world over" "If a tadpole crawls on a boulder it doesn't leave any imprint ever" "Truth like the roots of a tree if out in the open, it's catastrophe" "An unshared mind locks the secret" "Our bond is priority on our planet" "One and only question Raising its head in repetition" "Continually same dream spans" "God's hand or man's plans" Madam, from the cell phone signal... ...it can be traced from Tenkasi to Tuticorin Chennai, Visakhapatnam Via Bhopal to Mumbai The final signal was traced... ...from a tower in an industrial area The phone has been switched off at that location He has some friends in Mumbai Why did he go to Visakhapatnam? Maybe he went on a road trip with friends "Just 1 question, exclusively" "Simmering within agonizingly" "In the river that flows freely yesterday's water can you see?" "Yesterday has an elusive quality" "Though the hurricane blows with speed the reed by the river doesn't yield" "That will-power is needed indeed" "Can't we hear the morning raga echo?" "Won't the sky in gladness glow?" "Is there a lining to our cloud of sorrow?" "Won't our sky burst into an orange halo?" Varun's car? 'Intermission' How was the car found? Some boys who were fishing here saw it Has it been here for many days? At least 2 or 3 weeks Did you find anything in the pond- We searched thoroughly with local swimmers There's nothing to be afraid of - Mr Selvadurai - Madam? Make sure there is no media publicity Let it be a secret We have traced Varun's last call from his cell phone On the night of August 2nd at 7:18 p.m he has called 99400 76191 We checked the tower It's a place called Sunga near Papanasam And then at 10:15 p.m... ...it went out of coverage Then the next day at 9:24 a.m... ...it was traced again to Tenkasi town range Finally near Mumbai it has got switched off Even so... ...looking at the evidence we have got so far ...I don't think this investigation needs to go out of Tamil Nadu We have to find the person Varun spoke last with Send him in Madam, from the account number you gave me, money last withdrawn ...was on the morning of August 2nd at 10:00 a.m ...in an ATM in the Tenkasi junction - How much did he withdraw? - Rs 20,000 sir Twenty- Why did he withdraw so much? Madam, I have a doubt The IMEI number of the phone that went out of range on the 2nd... ...and the IMEI # that appeared in range on the 3rd are different Would he have taken the money to buy a new phone? No...he has a new phone It hasn't even been a month since he bought it He wouldn't have changed it so quickly Sermadurai...? What is this? The tax bill to pay the Panchayat When did you get it? Why are you scratching? Do you have lice on your head? It's been 3 weeks since I told you Not that long- I'll hit you! This is Varun Prabhakar Inspector General Geetha Prabhakar's only son He's missing He came to this town on the 2nd of August There's a cell phone record to confirm his arrival This is the Maruti car he drove TN 72E 6312 This car was found in the pond of that quarry See you, Bhai You there! Give me 100 bucks I don't have that much, sir Won't you have money to drink in the evening? Fish it out I only have 20 Rs 20 is Rs 20! No discrimination in denomination when it is the Goddess of wealth! Bhai, give me a cigarette packet You're giving me Rs 20 What about the rest? This is the rest Perumal sir, you didn't drink your usual tea this morning Who has time to drink tea? We've got a wretched case at the station now I have to run around holding it by the tail What case? A yellow Maruti car was found in the pond at the quarry Which pond? I asked which pond? Not any pond here, Bhai On Tenkasi road Near Ilanji Near Arunthathiyar colony Why are you investigating it here? We have been asked to find out if anyone knows anything about it Orders from the office of the Inspector General The one above us is God, right? We must zip our lips and fold our hands And nod 'yes, sir' to whatever he says Sanmugam sir and I are in charge of this case Okay, see you Perumal, don't step into dangerous grounds This is not an issue to play around with Everyone here knows of your antagonism to Suyam If you're trying to dig a hole... ...it will only end up as your grave! Why should I lie? I saw Suyambu drive that car with my very own eyes Here Even now I saw how flustered he was when I mentioned it What is this new thing? I felt like paying...take it It'll be good if everyone who owes me thought this way Look, he's coming His face looks troubled He has some link in this case for sure Wait and see If he's scared... ...he will definitely look back Sanmugam? Tell me, sir How is Suyambulingam linked with the Inspector General's son? I don't understand Sir, Suyambu doesn't like Perumal Is he using his dislike to get him caught? Or did he see someone else and thought it was Suyambu? He may have been drunk in the morning also I know Suyambu too Even so...Perumal is a policeman He knows what will happen if he lies about such a big case Sir, look here On the 3rd of August on Sunday morning Exactly at 7:00 a.m I went to Irulappa Pillai's house... ...for verifying his son's passport That was when I saw Suyambu get into the car and drive away Girls, come here Listen carefully to me This is important Last Saturday August 2nd Where were we? In Tenkasi We attended a prayer session When did we get back? The next day On Sunday When? In the evening Where was the prayer? In Tenkasi Where in Tenkasi? Goddess Badrakali temple Why are you asking all this? So the police will come? Definitely But we don't know when The later they come, the better They still don't know what happened to the boy No evidence But they'll try to get that evidence out of us Like in the movies They will try to scare you They will pretend to be very fair They will confuse you They might even hit your mother and me But if there is no evidence at all... ...they will go away But whatever we do... ...we must not change our story Can I trust you? Dad Will the police hit you? Is that what's worrying you? Your mother beats you when you do something wrong? Like that I'm scared, dad What? No, tell me I'm scared I'm here for you, right? So why be scared? Okay...go to bed Sleep well Dear? If we say we weren't here on Saturday... ...can we really get away with it? Our cable office knows Sulaiman Bhai's hotel folks know Everyone would have seen us Definitely they would have Then how can we lie? Trusting a common human tendency None of us will remember details not important to us We have a vague memory of it That's all Let's hope for the best We have 2 ways out of this One is to tell the truth and surrender What, hahn? Do you know the repercussions? Our child's face will be flashed in every TV channel and newspaper Our family's reputation will be in ruins We have no choice I would never let you or my daughter go to jail Don't cry Listen to me Don't cry You must not cry Are you sure you saw Suyambu that day? If you ask me like that I can't say for certain When I asked you that day... ...you said yes, you're sure That day, you said Suyambu was driving that car I thought so too So I said 'yes' How will I know for sure if that was Suyambu? You saw him? Can't say for certain it was Suyambu brother But it might have been him, that's all Do you know if it was this car? If you ask me like that... ...I can say for sure it was a yellow car Can't say for sure 'this car' Are you sure about anything? Did you see? I didn't see the number But it was a yellow Maruti Zen Sir, retired professor Samikannu has bought a new house here Yes He has a yellow car too Hey! You are right I'm sure the 3 of us saw Samikannu's car that day We will decide that! What is that? We got a fax, sir You received it now? Yes, from the office of the Inspector General Inspector General's son went on a Nature club trip last month One of the girls from our town went on the same trip too Her name is Selvi Daughter of our cable TV Suyambulingam, sir Sir, I told you! Now what do you say? We don't need to think twice, sir If I bring him in and beat him up black and blue... ...all pieces of the jigsaw will fall into place Perumal, let us keep this under wraps You understand? Hold this Only if we blabber, will the truth come out 'If we say the same thing over and over again...' '...it will become true' 'Don't ask me why I insisted you should be truthful from when you were young' The truth I know is my family I'll do anything to protect it 'So what you do is...' '...don't ever deny knowing that boy' Because they would have found out already What we are changing... ...is that he never came here 'Hold on to that and no matter what they ask...' '...don't let go of it' 'Okay, my precious?' Selvi, this is sub-inspector Suresh Babu He has come here to ask you some questions Do you know this boy? I do, sir His name is Varun How do you know him? Last month from school we went to a Nature club camp He had come there, sir Is he your friend? No, not at all We were on 'hi-bye' terms Do you know anything else about him? They said he was some IG's son He told you? No...they spoke about it You said you are not friends But you remember him by name Sir, there were lots of problems in the camp because of him What kind of problems? He was following girls and taking pictures of them, sir There was a famous lawyer's daughter from Tirunelveli He tried to click photos of her And she complained about him The teachers had to come and sort it out He's a bad boy, sir Where did you see him after that? No, sir, after the camp I didn't see him anywhere He said you saw him Who? Varun? Yes He's lying, sir Did he come to your house on the 2nd of this month? - My house? - Yes No one came No...what date did you say? The 2nd of this month, Saturday August 2nd, Saturday You understood? We weren't even in town that day, sir - Where did you go? - Tenkasi There was a prayer in a temple there Who all went? Dad, mom, sister and I All four of us, sir When did you get back? The next evening itself, sir But when we came back, it was raining heavily Who asked you about the rain now? Was the prayer performed for 2 days? No, sir The prayer was only for a day Next day we stayed at a hotel And we watched a movie, sir - What movie? - Anjaan What is the problem now, sir? This boy Varun is missing He came to Papanasam on the 2nd of this month The only person he knows in this town... ...is this girl That's why we wanted to find out if he met up with her Small enquiry No, sir After the camp, I haven't seen him - You are Suyambu's wife? - Yes, sir Your name? Rani Good day Suyambu, you don't usually come home at this time After you questioned my daughter in school... ...the Principal called home and told my wife She got all flustered and was in tears She called me I called the police station and they said you were here I rushed here to meet you Come, let's go inside Have you seen the boy in this photo? No Madam, you? - This car? - It's a Maruti No, I haven't seen this car No, sir Suyambu...? Can we talk openly? Yes, sir, I feel the same way too The boy in this photo, Varun Prabhakar... ...is the only son of IG Geetha Prabhakar He has been missing for 25 days Some time back when he went for a Nature camp... ...he met your daughter, Selvi He has come here in the yellow car we showed you We found that out Our men dredged the car out of a pond in a quarry near Ilanji We have 2 reasons for coming here One...Varun knows your daughter Two, our constable, Perumal has seen you drive that car When I went to Irulappan's house... ...for passport verification ...I saw you driving that car with my own eyes What does that mean? The boy has come here But we weren't here on August 2nd We went to Tenkasi for a mass prayer And returned only on 3rd evening Enough This will do All okay now, sir? You keep that smile to yourself, you hear? Neither sir nor I told you the date the boy was here I didn't tell you the date you drove away in the car But how does your wife know that specific date? Suyambu, why are you smiling so flippantly? What he's asking is justified Answer that question I'm not being flippant, sir Why would I disrespect a policemen? She still doesn't know what has happened That's why she is standing dazed like this I told you already You went to school School's reputation will go for a toss, no? That worried the Principal who called up home and told her She has asked her the same questions you did That's how we even knew about the dates Let's go You didn't say anything about Perumal seeing you in that car Should I even answer this question, sir? Why? The whole of Papanasam knows how Perumal sir dislikes me Whatever I say, he won't believe me I'm not asking this on Perumal's behalf It is for my own satisfaction I'm not questioning that If sir is 100% sure he saw me... ...then it means he's intentionally lying Wait...wait Or he could have seen someone else like me Because on August 2nd... ...from 8:00 a.m until 5:00 p.m the next day ...we were all in Tenkasi No, sir I'm 100% sure I know it was him I saw him with my own eyes On August 2nd, from when you left until you came back... ...tell me what happened clearly Right, I'll tell you Early morning at 5:30 a.m, right? We took the first bus to Tenkasi You have a jeep, right? Don't ask Last month our jeep stopped half way through She was so mad at me So this time we took a bus Did it rain when you got back home? Heavy rain We were drenched to the skin Both our children fell sick the next day We didn't even send them to school There's something strange about saving all these bills Why? You're the first man to save bus tickets Sir, I came to this town empty-handed If I now run this house, business and office... ...as a self-made man it's because I'm thrifty I round up my account to the last paisa I'll write the accounts after looking at all the receipts I know how people talk behind my back But if I minded all that, I couldn't have built this house - What do you say? - Okay, see you How many acres is this place? 5 acres Okay, I'll take leave Did I blabber about the date? Good thing you wriggled out of it Otherwise they wouldn't have believed it at all Looking at their evidence... ...you are lying through your teeth No, sir, I'm being true to my conscience It's foolproof Something is fishy about it being so perfect If you rough him up a bit he'll cough the truth, sir He seems very casual Can someone who is guilty be so calm and composed? That's very suspicious Sir, why should we get so muddled up? We can write a report and send it to the Inspector General Let them deal with it What you say is also true Go fast Dad? Did the police believe us? I don't know Will they come again, dad? Definitely they will What's his name? Suyambulingam, madam Jamulingam? Suyambulingam Named after the deity in Uvari Swayambu Lingam Can you say for sure he drove my son's car? Yes, madam I didn't see the number But it was a yellow Maruti Was he the one driving? Yes, sir I saw him drive with my own eyes But they weren't in town for 2 days They say they were in Tenkasi, all 4 of them That's a lie, sir They have evidence to back up their version He showed hotel receipts Some bills Even a bus ticket, sir We have to check now if all that is original, madam If what he says is true- - What's that chap's name? - Suyambulingam, madam Whatever he's saying is a lie The evidence is fake Half a day is enough to find that out After all he's a school drop-out and a country bumpkin Won't we know how far his brain can stretch? We'll see But if what he says is wrong So bring the family here now I want all the evidence here We don't need to follow protocol Just do your job Whatever it is, report to me directly Sit here Sit down We left early morning to catch the 5:30 bus Why don't you have that bus ticket? The bus is owned by his friend He didn't let us pay What time did you attend the meditation? Around 8:30 a.m The morning session was over and the shrine was closed The meditation had begun by the time we reached Should have been around 8:30 a.m The prayer had started when we reached When did the prayer start after you reached? Must tell everything properly But all of us shouldn't say it exactly the same You get it? Time...when it comes to stating the time We shouldn't tell the exact time to the nanosecond You are both kids Be vague about it Must tell approximately only Your mother and I will tell the correct time Okay I don't know the exact time But it had started by the time we landed there How long after you reached did the prayer start? They will keep changing the questions and hound you Listen to it clearly, think and then answer They had started chanting by the time we reached But your mother told us you waited for a long time 'Your mother said this Your father said that' The policeman will lie glibly and get you muddled up Don't believe it and change what you said No, they had started even before we got there Come Suleman Bhai, what is happening here? I am really puzzled They won't let us in Why won't he let us in? Open the gate, hey you! We can't let you in...go - Listen to us - We want to see them You know who Suyambu is? - What do we care? - My son-in-law My daughter's husband I don't care who he is Go now No use being reasonable Break it down Why should we be scared? - Move aside - You better not make trouble Handle it calmly (overlap of angry voices) Will we achieve anything fighting with them? Then we went to a hotel and ate Which hotel? I don't remember What did you eat? 'Biriyani' What did your parents eat? All of us ate 'biriyani' But they said they ate fried rice You are saying 'biriyani' Maybe they forgot We all ate 'biriyani' I remember very well Who told you? Nothing like that They are lying Mr Suresh, what do you thi- No, you got it wrong They are lying Er...I...I'm in a meeting News reporter from a TV channel They heard we are investigating our son's disappearance And we are beating up a family It's not what we thought, madam Their stories match And they are very clear about it They answer perfectly without any confusion Especially the little girl I was shocked, madam Even the kid is so clear and confident Isn't there something wrong with being so perfect? The perfection is what has been nagging me as well, madam I have never seen it to this extent, madam But if they're telling the truth, the perfection makes sense He could have been wrong I'm sure about this But what they say sounds- They've mastered it to the last word cleverly Madam, we know they are lying Why don't we use a lie detector? How did you even become a policeman? Can we just go get a lie detector? First we have to arrest them properly Charge them with a case - Get a court order - So why don't we? How? What about the prima facie evidence? We have to prove in court we have evidence to arrest them We don't have even a small bit of evidence What we are doing right now is illegal to begin with But breaking their story shouldn't be that hard All the actors in their story must be assembled here I'll bring them Another point If the story about attending the prayer is a lie... ...then they must have been here So Suyambulingam would have gone to work Yes, madam Are there any other places that he visits on a daily basis? Yes, madam A tea shop nearby He visits everyday Office staff Tea shop owner The theatre owner Bring all of them here Let them go Make sure they leave this place thinking we believe their story Definitely, madam To be honest, I was trembling inside Don't know how I got the courage to reply? Our family deity guided us At least everything is over It's not over They will come again Will they come again? Why, brother-in-law? What's the problem? Tell me...I'll be with you until the very end I've told you whatever has to be told Don't ask anything more But I need a favor from you How long do I know him? 18 years ago, the man who helped build the thatch roof of my tea shop ...was our Suyambu He is a man with a golden heart I'm not asking for his conduct certificate Just answer to the point How many times did Suyambulingam come to your shop on August 2nd? He usually comes twice a day In the morning for a bite and a cup of tea Sometimes in the evening, he'll eat a 'parotta' or two If he is spending the night in his office- I asked how many times he came to your shop on August 2nd? On August 2nd, he came twice and ate 'vada' and tea- Wait I made a mistake August is this month? Yes Suyambu wasn't in town on the 2nd of this month He went to Tenkasi for a mass prayer - What? - A prayer, madam Where you go as a family, sit, close your eyes The way Hindus pray Bhai, you said something else first I didn't remember, sir Only now remembered the date What did he say about the prayer? He said it was inspiring He said a holy man there preached very well He sat at the shop and told us many stories about it Like narrating a film story - What stories? - All for the good What happened What is to happen What will happen It's all for the good, as in- When did Suyambulingam come back from the prayer? The next day What time? I don't know for sure, sir But he didn't come to the office He told me before he left Do you know these people? Yes, madam Did they travel in your bus together as a family recently? They even went 4-5 days ago Even before that Beginning of this month Beginning of this month- I think it was August 2nd Where did they say they were going? He said something about a holy man who preaches The program was called- 'A good family' Did they stay in your lodge for a night? Yes, sir So they are your regular customers? No, sir In your lodge so many people come and go How can you remember this family alone so well? I remembered because- - 1 double room - Rs 650 + taxes I came last month There was another man here He didn't add any tax Must have been Arunachalam I don't know all that He didn't add tax He wouldn't have given a bill Who wants a bill? (clears throat loudly) This doesn't look like a good place for women to stay Why? There seem to be bottles all around What is this? That's just mineral water Our rooms are clean Show her the room Let her check Come, madam Go and see for yourself Then I myself showed them a clean room, sir Do you know when they stayed? No, sir Did they tell you why they were in Tenkasi? No, sir Did you check their register? Yes, madam There are 2 registers Suyambu's name is registered in only one book Checked in on August 2nd at 6:10 p.m Checked out at 9:30 the next morning Why are there 2 registers? Has the cat got your tongue? Answer now I just follow my owner's instructions Those who ask for bills And those who don't Do you know this is a punishable offence? You remember them really well after so long? Sure, how can I forget a good customer? Is this your hotel? Why do you ask? Simply soooper! Where do you get tasty 'biriyani' nowadays? Yes...our 'biriyani' is the best in town Others dump a lot of 'masala' and get stingy with the meat We do it like it's home cooked - What's the lad's name? - Arogyasamy He serves, taking extra care What do you do? We live in Papanasam I run a cable TV operation - What's baby's name? - S. Pullimeena You seem to be a big-shot dot I'm the S before the dot Did Miss Pulli like the 'biriyani'? Really super Shopping? We came for a prayer session in the temple at Tenkasi You must have heard of Swami Varadananda? - Yes...sure - Program called 'A good family' We decided because we are already here... ...we can catch a movie and generally have fun Family responsibility, right? Of course See you, brother Please come again Here It's all fine that you actually remembered the customer But why get into details of how and when they came? Sir, I don't remember dates Because most customers who come to eat only complain They hardly complimen- Okay, you can go now This is really baffling If that fellow is lying to us... ...why should all these people lie? So many people have seen him on August 2nd at Tenkasi That's what even I don't understand Maybe they are all telling the truth Perumal must be wrong I think Sir, I swear on my grandmother who is on her deathbed I'm not lying I saw him driving the car If you find out I'm lying you can dismiss me Did you contact the holy man? After this event, he went to Varanasi, madam But I think he must have come back yesterday From what you say, looks like they attended my prayer session Otherwise, they can't know all this I told that story only that day I haven't said it anywhere else Won't you register names of your devotees who attended? We do But if they are late, we just make them sit It's not a big organization Could he have heard that story elsewhere? If he knows the exact sentence, then he must have come in person Where are dad and Meena? They went inside Film is ancient now This is a digital projector You can show the most amazing images in this I'm planning on starting a theater in my hometown Then a digital projector is better You think so? Then what? This is like a tape recorder This is like a CD player This gets tangled quite often 101 problems, brother This shines like glass Really? - He is over there - Come...come - This is our family - Please come in When did they come? I think it was on the 3rd How are you so sure? Who comes into a projection room, sir? They watched the movie from inside the room The day before that... ...there was some prayer session called 'A good family' Go...leave the room Our son- Geetha, what's this? Nothing will happen to him We will find him Be strong Can I ask you something? Is our investigation going the wrong way? No I don't think so What we've suspected so far is not supported... ...by even a shred of evidence But everything they've attested so far has been endorsed That's it That's the problem It seems like every step we take... ...has already been preempted and set up What I'm suspecting is not based on any evidence It's by looking at a person You have a gut feeling he is hiding something That is proof Policemen will acquire that 6th sense in a few days All the evidence here is to his advantage But he is lying Maybe this is why it is said a police officer and a judge... ...shouldn't handle personal cases This could also be a mother's troubled mind Otherwise... ...maybe I underestimated him I assumed an uneducated man is at a decided disadvantage His brain is not that of an illiterate country bumpkin Suyambu is a good chap, madam That's not what I asked The Suyambulingam we know is a village bumpkin, school drop out But his brain works better than any literate person Have you felt that way? An uneducated orphan who was doing odd jobs... ...is so well established now ...he isn't an ordinary man Tried his hand at various jobs On his own he studied cable TV techniques Not taking a dowry he married a girl from an affluent family He has 5 acres of land, madam The cable TV building belongs to him as well Has he got any political connections? Not politics, madam But he's a big time movie buff He'll speak Telugu and Malayalam according to the person He even speaks English He learned all this from movies Cinema...! Who else should we question? Buy a ticket if you haven't already You see 100s of people a day But you remember one family so clearly Let's just say you remembered them But if you remember where and why they went... ...that is something definitely to be looked into They said they came back from the prayer session on August 2nd How did you say they came on your bus on the 3rd? Madam wants to know how you remember clearly after 25 days Tell me Sir I don't know if they said so to me on that specific day You just told us about your conversation Sir, he told me that later when he spoke to me Later means when? Maybe 4 or 5 days ago Where? You don't remember me? I came on your bus when we went to Tenkasi on August 2nd You spoke to my little girl - Oh yes, I did - August 3rd evening August 3rd? Oh yes...yes - How are you? - I am fine, sir Swamiji has come So we are here to see him Good meeting you, sir Okay, good day See you, brother - Hello...come in - Brother, how are you? I'm good You're here alone? Where is the family? How can I bring them all the time? Last month, we went to Tenkasi for the meditation You must have heard of Swami Varadananda He's world famous Oh! Really? A program called 'A good family' The holy man has a family? He is very genuine He renounced everything And you're saying you took your family to see him Are you an atheist? No, don't get angry I pray to God too We came for the prayer on August 2nd Then we stayed here The next day was August 3rd Shopping How is shopping complete without a hotel and a movie? So we made a bee line to your theater Expenses that day alone literally sky rocketed! They bought safety pins for Rs 40, imagine! Can I fight with them about it? Pinned me down for Rs 40! You are too good, brother - Good day - Good day, brother Are you good? It's been a long time Long time? We attended the meditation on August 2nd And came here the day after To be exact...August...3rd? All of us came here on 3rd Really...is that so? 'Ghajini' memory I swear! Arogyasamy...? Kuthalingam Please take money from me this time Be quiet, brother As if you travel often in my bus I travelled in your bus this month on August 2nd only To Tenkasi for that prayer And we went for free So? What's in your hand? A ring Show me What is this, brother? Go do your work...go You conned me! Attend to your work I didn't see him after that, madam Didn't I tell you on August 2nd I'm attending the prayer in Tenkasi? And I'm back on the 3rd Didn't I tell you? August 4th...Monday August...? 4th, Monday What is today's date? Son of a wretched fellow! Go pay it and then talk to me Essence of Bhagavad Gita What happens around us is not for us to comprehend So there's no reason in worrying unnecessarily So leave all your worries to God And if we just do our duty... ...peace of mind This is the story Interesting story Which movie is it from? I'm telling the story of the prayer session in Tenkasi When did you go? Clean bowled! I told you and went, no? We went on Saturday August 2nd for the mass prayer Oh yes, you went to Tenkasi on August 2nd That's the story I'm sharing now This is the sub-inspector's number Not madam's number Yes, I called you Who is it? Swami Varadananda From Coimbatore 'ashram' What? CD...? We sent CDs to people who registered for a fee When I enquired... ...Suyambulingam has not registered Sir, he could have booked it in someone else's name Could be But this doesn't refute the fact they weren't in town on August 2nd Or he was in Tenkasi 'The prayer had started by the time we reached' 'I think August 2nd' 'We attended the meditation on August 2nd' 'And came here only the day after' 'But Suyambu was not in town on August 2nd' 'I went this month, August 2nd only to Temkasi for the meditation' 'Oh yes, you went to Tenkasi on August 2nd' 'I think on the 3rd of this month' 'I came in your bus when we went to Tenkasi on August 2nd' He just recreated that day You don't get it? He fitted all the pieces together and recreated the entire picture They were all pawns in his game He created it in detail scene by scene like a movie Cinema What is cinema's specialty? Visuals A particular scene or shot will be imprinted in our hearts and mind Like nothing else That's why we believe whatever we see in movies They didn't just make up going to Tenkasi on the 2nd If they had, they would've been caught saying different things They really went to Tenkasi Travelling by that bus Praying at the temple Staying at the lodge Eating at that hotel Watching a film All that is true Even though repeatedly we grilled them... ...their stories matched 100% Because all that was true Then...? There is one lie in their story Only the date They didn't go on the 2nd or the 3rd Maybe it was a day after that What do you mean, madam? Monday, Tuesday That is August 4th and 5th According to the report both the girls didn't attend school those 2 days We asked already, madam Suyambu said they had fever because of getting wet in the rain He even showed the bill All his bills are fake It's easy to get a medical bill Even otherwise he is playing around with bills Their name is registered in the lodge on the 2nd He has movie and bus tickets for the 3rd Those can't be fake Sir has an important point Suyambulingam is an uneducated fellow We underestimated him as an ordinary cable TV fellow I can see clearly what he did 'Suyamulingam took Varun's car and went to Tenkasi on the 3rd' 'He ordered a 'take away' dinner at a vegetarian hotel' 'He has put Varun's sim card in a new mobile phone' 'He has hidden it in a vehicle with a national permit' 'After that he must have dumped the car in the pond at the quarry' 'He got a bill when no one was noticing...' '...for 4 'biriyanis' in a restaurant' 'Then he bought 4 tickets for a matinee show in the theater' 'He took 4 tickets on the bus and came back to Papanasam' 'He made his assistant believe he was going the next day' 'The next day, on August 4th...' '...he boarded his friend's bus and told him about attending the prayer' 'They must have stayed in the temple from 9 a.m to 4 p.m' 'That's when he must have found out about Swamiji's CD' 'He must have booked it in someone else's name' 'And at the lodge, he must have tricked the manager somehow' '...and written his name in the register for the 2nd' 'He must have booked the room in another name on the 4th' 'MANICKAM' 'He must have eaten at some place that night' 'The next day...' '...he must have ordered food from the same vegetarian hotel' 'After checking out from the lodge...' '...he ate at the hotel where he stole the bill' 'And chatted with the owner amiably to make an impression' 'Then he went to the theatre and befriended the operator' 'He must have boarded the same Govt bus' 'And created a neat situation to chat up the conductor' 'He must have seen the CD of Swami Varadananda...' '...with his family at home' 'He threw away all the bills he got on the 5th' 'Instead he showed us the bills dated 3rd which he collected when he went alone' 'Then recently he has met the same 4 people' 'And imprinted in their minds his whereabouts on August 2nd' They don't even know what they are doing They are giving false evidence and aiding him Now we don't have a tiny bit of evidence Only this theory of mine If all this is true, where is Varun? Why did he come to see them? Only he can answer His family should answer He has driven the police force crazy No point talking to him in a courteous manner Come...come Hurry up Get into the vehicle Get in now They haven't done anything wrong, sir Go inside - Talk to him, father - Start the car Why are they taking our children? I don't know We have to somehow beg some influential person and get them back 'Thangarasu, if the police takes us into custody again...' '...you must bring the TV channel I specify' - Where is he going? - Oh God! Help us Where is my son? I swear I don't know We've told you so many times Hey! What do you think of yourself? Whatever wild tales you spin... ...you think the police are dumb enough to swallow? Claiming you were attending a meditation session... ...I know all the secrets about where you really went I need to know only this Why did my son come to see you? What is the relationship between you and him? After the camp I haven't seen him, madam Look here That's it! Everything is over There's no point in lying anymore Telling the truth is your only way out Or else... ...the way I interrogate will take an ugly turn I swear, madam I don't know Where is my son? I will kill you if you don't tell me Ma... I swear on our family deity... ...we don't know anything Sir- You- Dad...! Tell us Tell me the truth Let go of me Sir? Confess now Where is my son? You know I won't let you go till you tell me Aiyo! No, ma I swear We don't know anything Please let us go Where is Varun? I'm asking you Tell me Where is Varun? Will you open your mouth and tell me or not? Where is Varun? Where is that boy? Will you tell us or not? Till you tell the truth you'll be thrashed Varun's friend Alex is here Enough I will- IG madam asked you to stop Step aside Sir, he- Get out! Listen Suyambu, what is this? If you know something, then just spill it out I really don't know anything What is the problem? Why get thrashed like this? If you know something, just tell them They won't let you go till you do Do you know this girl? I don't know, madam We know you and Varun were together in the camp He has been missing for the past 24 days The police is looking for him There's some connection between this girl and Varun who is missing If you are frank with us it is good for you I don't know anything, sir You know The last call to him was from your phone When we asked you earlier about his whereabouts... ...you denied vehemently That's a lie If you plan on lying again... Aunty, I swear I don't know anything I called him that day But he didn't tell me where he was Okay Tell me about this girl I don't know, aunty Tell me the truth Don't, Suresh We have evidence he was the last caller, right? Yes, madam Register a case against him stating he is a criminal Yes, madam Come along No, sir I'll tell you I'll tell you now Dude, send this to me No, bro Don't ask for this alone Why? I can't give you this I have to finish a job using this After that, I'll give it to you You can start Madam, there's a huge crowd outside I don't know how they know But they've brought cameras It's being telecast 'live' on TV Ask them to clear out They are from the Press They insist on seeing you I am not interested in seeing anyone No one must get into this compound Ask for extra force if necessary Come, I say This has got out of hand Everyone clear out Perumal, you stay here I know about the video There's no need to hide anything hereafter Tell me Where is my son? We are not hiding anything Only if we know we can hide anything I need to know the truth Okay, madam What? Sir...sir Get lost It hurts Hurts? Does it hurt you if I hit your dad? What? Tell me! Tell me Tell us Tell us what happened You...! This hand This hand won't hurt If I hit them anymore, they will die If you don't want that... ...tell me everything you know Otherwise... ...I'll beat them to death Tell me Do you want them to die? Tell me If you know something... ...please tell me Careful Dad, Meena Meena? You can't go inside My baby is in there My little girl is inside Clear out of this place Why did he come to your house? I don't know I don't know anything Take me to my dad Stop crying and tell me the truth Don't piss me off I'll kill and bury you No need, dad Let's come clean If I have to go to jai- Did we get beaten up for this? That man is a demon He might harm our little Meena None of you will go to jail I give you my word If something goes wrong with my word... ...I won't be alive If one of you confesses... ...you're signing my death warrant You think our little Meena might blab- She's a smart cookie You think she will blabber? How many times we have rehearsed! Tell me...tell me I'll cut your head and your father's too Tell me I don't know, uncle I want to go to my dad Enough of this It's illegal Even God won't tolerate this What about our son? Shouldn't we know what has happened? There are a 100 decent ways to interrogate This is all too- Gawd! You call this interrogation? Who will pay for this sin? We've tortured them barbarically You got any evidence? What if this chap is wrong? Such a pipsqueak and so tight lipped! Ma...! Don't kill me I'll tell you I'll tell Dad Let me go Where? Where are you taking my daughter? Your daughter is showing us where you have buried that boy Your game is up The whole family will go to jail now Even God cannot save you Drag him into the car (raised angry voices) Why can't we see- Be quiet Don't create a ruckus here Don't scream all at once I'm talking for all of us They are not letting us go inside and meet them Sir, bless you Please let us in We want to see them He's my son-in-law We can't let anyone inside There's an order the criminals can't be seen How dare you call them criminals? What crime did they commit? Let me tell you, sir This is a policeman's conspiracy He's taking revenge What is the problem, sir? Yesterday, the police took them and interrogated them Why? An Inspector General's son is missing it seems I'll tell you...this whole town knows this is a false case I've known Suyambu for 30 years He never gets involved in troubles of any kind Very decent family They haven't done anything wrong He is an honest self made man This policeman is taking revenge on this family Who is this policeman? That man, standing next to the sub-inspector His name is Perumal He's a scoundrel The whole town knows this Suyambu confronted him He has held a grudge and is now retaliating What are you all looking at? Can a policeman do anything he wants? Leave them Let's go in (commotion) He nearly stepped on me like he was about to kill me That's why I told him That man hit my precious baby? Yes Sorry, dad I couldn't help myself, I told him Are you angry with dad? No, dad Are you angry that I confes- (gasps in pain) - No...no, honey - Angry with me? What you did was right Everything will be fine Look at your granddaughter Look at how the policeman Perumal has hit our Meena Hey Allah! They hit us for no fault of ours You ask for justice Yes, I hit you And I'll hit you again here Don't raise your hand Don't spare him How dare you! Thrash him Let's leave this place Don't run Stop! Did the police hit you? Meena, don't be scared No one can hurt us anymore Tell them Tell them what happened Tell them, dear Don't be scared 'Regarding the death of Varun, son of Inspector General Geetha Prabhakar...' '...Suyambulingam and his family from Papanasam' '...have been found not guilty' 'Following this, a police officer Perumal has been suspended for police brutality' 'Other policemen involved in this case including Suresh Babu...' '...have been transferred' 'The Director General of Police has asked Geetha Prabhakar...' '...to take leave of absence' 'Suyambulingam and his family cannot be interrogated without court permission' '...as ordered by the High court of Tirunelveli district' Dear? You saw the paper? What? Inspector General Geetha Prabhakar has resigned Poor lady! How can she be blamed? It's terrible losing a son Even if she's a top police official she's also a mother, right? We've been very cruel to her This just shows how magnanimous you are Think about it this way If because of what that boy did... ...our child's life had been ruined? You think this same lady would have felt sad for us? She would have wanted to save her own son Normal human tendency to be self-centered To each man his life is priority I've been telling my kids to speak the truth for so long Now I have taught them to lie That's what is killing me We shouldn't think about it We'll think about how to erase it from our hearts Tell me When did you move that boy? When I dumped his car into the pond Where? Let the truth... ...die and burn with me You're safe only if you don't know Understood? Dad...! The police are here What, sir? We've come to see Suyambu You want to go bash him up again? The court order is very clear Your caps and heads will roll! What, sir? What, brother? More problems? Nothing of that sort No problem, don't worry I'll change my shirt Okay, let's go She isn't an Inspector General now No authority or influence An ordinary lady A mother who cries thinking of her son unable to sleep at night Doctors gave up on us ever having a baby But then we had Varun So we pampered him a bit too much We couldn't raise him right That guilt is killing us When we thought about it without any prejudice... ...we understood something Whatever might have happened to our son... ...we are to blame completely It's our fault, not doing a good job of raising him From the day we realized this... ...we wanted to meet you We were able to only now Knowingly or unknowingly... ...we tortured your family We apologize for everything we did We are leaving this place Her sisters are in America We want to relocate Before we go... ...we just wanted closure We can't leave this land without knowing the truth What happened to Varun? Is he alive? Is he alive somewhere? Is there even the tiniest hope we can expect to see him? If not- Every time the door bell rings... ...both of us run to the door Every time the mobile rings... ...our hearts miss a beat Every boy's voice sounds like his The hope it brings Preceded by the disappointment Alternating Our life is a living hell We can't bear it We feel we may go mad That's why we decided to leave the country Tell us Only you can Can we wait for him? Okay...it's okay You don't trust us Your lack of trust is justified I understand Hereafter... ...we won't bother you Forgive us Come Sir...sir 1 minute You're really a- You're really a great man Big-hearted I'm not like that I'm a very... ...small man Selfish My whole life revolves around my wife and my girls They form my world I don't know what happens outside of that circle Neither do I dream of anything more In that small world... ...an unwanted guest entered He tried to break our lives we had painstakingly built She begged him so much She fell at his feet I don't think he understood After all he's young, you see It wasn't on- It wasn't on purpose It was- It was an accident So many times, I wanted to find you, fall at your feet and beg forgiveness 1000 times or so But I couldn't muster up courage Like I said... ...I'm a very small man I didn't have the guts I want my wife and daughters to be happy I wanted them to lead good lives And I just wanted to fulfill that To even walk to the ends of the earth to make that happen... ...seemed right to me This river Papanasam People come from all over the world They take a dip in this water to absolve themselves of their sins I belong here Native to this town We will slowly dip ourselves and wash away our sins Hey! Sir is calling you in Sir, I'll go and keep the bags in your quarters Sir, this is Suyambulingam I know...does anyone in Tamil Nadu not know him? He's a renowned TV star Signature or fingerprint? I can write You think you got away fooling the entire police force? Only till that boy's body is found, brother... ...you'll get good food Keep this in mind I'll be here for 3 years I'll sniff like a scent hound Sir, I don't think less of policemen Even now I believe our police force is the guardian deity to the people I think you and your station will protect me Don't get me wrong I'll take leave 'The police station flooring begins on Monday' 'I'll get it done along with it' Assisted by sraiyanti
