 

                        PASSENGER Scenario Cast: Director of Photography Director Andrzej Munk was unable to complete his film He died in a car accident on 20th September, 1961 We have no intention of adding what he had no time to say himself We are not searching for solutions which might not have been his... ... nor seeking to conclude the plots which his death left unresolved We merely wish to present what was filmed... ... with all the gaps and reticence... ... in an attempt to grasp whatever is alive and significant Andrzej Munk was our contemporary We shared his hopes and fears, and while not anticipating the answers... ... we may perhaps manage to present questions that he wished to pose The story begins today... ... in a place where yesterday and tomorrow scarcely exist, only the present This luxury liner is an island in time... ... and each of her passengers is an island, too Worries and ambitions fade away during a voyage A passenger isn't part of a society... ... a nation or a group - free, without a biography The world turns a smiling face to passengers... ... friendly, ready to serve... ... not too curious about where they come from, or why they are travelling But we will not observe this idyll with such cheerful indifference We shall give our attention to this passenger She is a German... ... who hasn't seen her country, or Europe at all, for years Now she is returning with her husband... ... whom she married in a foreign, hospitable continent England... the first port of call in Europe What has Liza seen? Her husband does not understand... ... why this encounter has upset her Don't call me "poor little thing" You know nothing about it My time in the camp... ... was not what you think, my dear Walter I wasn't a prisoner, I was an overseer Don't look at me like that. I didn't hurt anyone And if Marta is alive... ... it's only because of me I haven't told you much about my past. You were an emigrant You'll never understand how we had to live and obey our leaders Perhaps it's best for us both... ... if you hear it at last I was sent to Auschwitz in the summer of 1943 I took charge of a command working in a storehouse outside the camp I had nothing to do with the prisoners, only their things Everything belonged to the Reich... ... and I was responsible for seeing that nothing was destroyed or stolen There was a war on and we all lived as soldiers Some were drunk with power, but I just did my duty I always tried to help those women whenever I could I had to select an assistant from a new transport Work in my command was easier than elsewhere... ... and the treatment was more humane I saw something vulnerable and childlike in Marta I was sorry for her She became my clerk It was a pleasure... ... to watch her change back to a normal girl, a girl from freedom I hoped that one day she would be really free... ... and I did all I could to help her survive Then I discovered that her fiance Tadeusz, was in the camp... ... and as we needed help with book-keeping, I brought them together Thanks to me they met again One day she fell ill and was taken to hospital Conditions were not good there, we lacked medicines We couldn't cope Anyway, our soldiers at the front were worse off I decided to have Marta back in the block I could care for her better there... ... make sure the doctor visited her I got sulphonamide and vitamins from the SS dispensary I saved her life I didn't ask for thanks, but at least I deserved her trust She didn't want to show it When she recovered she was more withdrawn than ever Whatever it was, it was something I couldn't understand Attention! When I realised what it was all about, it was too late She went to him of her own accord She must have expected this visit I had no idea what her offence was, but I knew... ... when Untersturmfhrer Grabner came in person to claim his victim... ... nothing on earth could save her Marta was taken to the death block. I wanted to see her once more Before leaving for the Reich, I said I would like to see the death block It was awful Then I saw Marta I, an SS Overseer, was as powerless as she was Until now I was sure Marta had shared the fate of Tadeusz Perhaps Walter will be touched and repeat "poor little thing" But the response of the husband learning of his wife's past... ... that's not really important, the director probably used him... ... so Liza could recount her first, noble version of herself and Marta The second version, she will keep to herself There is a gap in the film... ... to be filled with various events taking place on the liner Munk began to film these events... ... but never completed them The motivations of the Auschwitz revelations would have been detailed We are left with fragments - happy passengers... ... Liza, staring at Marta... ... trying to be sure it is really her Under such tension Liza recalls the truth well enough I was sorry for her. How naive I was She didn't give a damn for my kindness I, a German, denied myself everything... ... I had no private life, no love, no rest from duty She, a Pole, committed for a political offence, had what I lacked She didn't need me to be happy It wasn't my doing and it wasn't by accident that Tadeusz was there Prisoners exploited our trust. Those given tasks ran the camp... ... pulling wool over our eyes Even some German foremen were in with the gang He's not here - What do you mean? - The Capo sent him to hospital - Who's this? - He can take his place - Another one of your tricks? - No, the other may have typhus Decent Germans are at the front, not hiding in a camp You stinking coward In 1936 I fought in Spain. I didn't get this uniform for cowardice - Do you know the job? - Yes, I do I let it go on In the battle we fought... ... I knew that cunning was more effective than brutality They played at love, thinking no one knew. They had no right to But I knew, and if you know what someone really cares for... ... and you can give it or take it away... ... you are the master I keep getting reports of theft Confiscated items are Reich property. Prisoners are stealing, trading... Yesterday a woman prisoner was caught lifting boots from the store Today we found some buried gold Ober, a simple soul, an idealist, was bewildered by such things Yet in the end she said something sensible "We must win the confidence of chosen prisoners and establish order "Only the best in the garrison and the best of the prisoners... "...can restore this camp's proper character" This idea was not new to me Overseer Weniger wishes to take command Unfortunately, I had moments of weakness, too... ... and Marta was able to take note Even dogs have temptations they can't resist Major, Inga's pet, was extremely fond of cheese He wasn't to know he would soon pay for that A brat! Lmpossible. I'll have a look Do you trust her? I'd better check What a lovely brat it is! Another stupid joke by the Special Command I was humiliated. Because of my weakness... ... Marta involved me in a dirty business... ... an accomplice in an effort to save a Jewish child Then the fight for Marta, against Marta, began to excite me It's my birthday today No one here remembered my birthday... ... no one gave me such flowers The roses came from the SS greenhouse Prisoners from the men's camp worked there I decided to begin the attack... ... let Marta know that I could give her Tadeusz... ... like a sweet for being a good girl Thank you, Madam Overseer, but it's impossible Anyway, I'm not all that keen to see her Still here? They're waiting! Hurry up! He's got urgent work at the Commandant's villa You know, Madam, we've got artists here from all over Europe That's his girl... sketches for a medallion He longs for her, but they can't meet, as you know I was close to mastering Marta I told her to take the numbers of those by the wire. She didn't react So then I said... ... Tadeusz She understood But for that dog, Marta would have been mine I GAVE MAN EVERYTHING I disliked such spectacles - they soiled the dignity of our struggle Of course, the punishment was necessary... Marta's gesture rather pleased me I didn't suspect that it was more than a spontaneous reaction - Gruyre cheese? - Yes The men did it Who in the men's camp could have known of Major's taste for cheese? Who would take revenge on poor Weniger? I decided to put pressure on Marta, but then... Take over command! Strength 53, two in hospital An international commission is coming. Your command looks best Choose a prisoner to answer questions - Your assistant? - She's in hospital - Typhus? - No Why not bring her to the block? Individual care... a good impression One of the two was Marta... ... but I still fought for her I'm ready for punishment I had to see her Here you see a typical barracks for women Here's one of our convalescents She is recovering, isn't she? Yes, she's had medicine since yesterday Only since yesterday? How long has she been ill? A week It's war, even our soldiers at the front are often short of medicines - How long have you been here? - About two years Is this your first illness here? Yes. I've checked her medical card No illnesses in two years? No flu? No cold? Do you get letters regularly? Of course. We don't limit their correspondence It's not against the regulations Do you allow visits by relatives? That's forbidden in every country These are political prisoners Of course, we allow prisoners to visit each other sometimes - When? - In cases of illness Has anyone visited you? Her fiance is a prisoner, too Another "political" - he visited her a few days ago Well, Marta, did he visit you? Yes Congratulations! Promotion for sure! Ober was pleased with me and my protg, She talked about promotion, maybe transfer to the Reich I rejoiced, too Marta had finally given in to me I planned to take her with me when I was moved, to be my right hand The life of the camp family rolled on, through weekdays... ... and holidays I rejoiced too soon Behind my back they behaved as though the camp barely existed Perhaps they sensed it was their last meeting... ... but what did I care about such sentiments? I should have finished her This was the moment I really saved her life this time I deluded myself into thinking... ... she'd be grateful at last Here The Commandant wishes to see you I'll deal with this Roll call! A note was found Who wrote it? Marta, step forward Translate I... too, am always close to you in my thoughts Always close to you... Louder I don't even have to close my eyes to have you near me You are within my reach I like your hands, the palm of your hand... Darling... my beloved... It doesn't matter that you can't speak to me I remember your voice Although you're not allowed to be near me... ... I can talk to you yet We can talk to each other, speak to each other Darling... it must be autumn now I lie beside you in the grass... ... among golden leaves... ... soon it will begin to rain You will shield me from the rain, you will cover my hair I walk in mud, without leaves Darling, do you... It's good that you exist I kiss your lips... ... so they won't be sad I kiss your eyes, so they will bid me "good night" The end Go back The note is stupid and unimportant I won't report it if the author steps forward If she delays she'll be sent to the Corrective Company You'll all go there if no one owns up The Commandant wishes to see you You'll stay here all night if necessary - You, too? - I've just been called She's furious. She's been named as a war criminal A broadcast from London gave details of the transports How do they know what goes on here? Why does she want us? Inga, come in. Liza, wait I didn't understand the language of the note... ... but a love letter would not have numbers and familiar German names Your duty here is finished. You're posted to Berlin You're posted to headquarters Do you know that we must discuss a painful subject first? Your command hid a Jewish child That's impossible Weniger was on duty then and admits it was possible Well, if Inga admits she was on duty... You must remember. I said it was a baby in that pram... ...and she brought a doll I don't remember It couldn't have happened in my presence Liza, how can you... Your word is enough. Your command is well-disciplined I know Liza... ...she would admit an offence An SS officer never evades responsibility I know my duty. The command must be punished if it is guilty I request they all go to the Corrective Company Very well. Prepare your report Overseer... the Blockmaster would like you to come to the command Command affairs no longer concern me Perhaps Overseer Inga, then, because someone's confessed You're all going for correction But I confessed. Please keep your word Untrue. You couldn't have written it You know I could I don't know. It was just some lovesick rubbish! No, you know it was me She forced me to it She wanted to destroy me, I had to defend myself Those last words are not very clear How did Liza defend herself... ... and influence Marta's fate... ... the fate she recounted to her husband... ... and now prefers to end unfinished? But we shouldn't ask too much of the Overseer... ... she's admitted enough Justifying oneself is only human Anyway, what is this recollection of a game... ... between overseer and chosen prisoner? An apology, an escape... ... from cruelty and evil, only too human? In the vague, unreal background, people die, silently, casually... ... anonymously, as others perform their duty... ... victims trampled into the mud, over whom she walked, unseeing Set on a liner, an island in time... ... this story can be concluded easily The brush with the past did not last long Marta, or someone resembling her... ... disembarked at the next port of call The ship sails on It's doubtful if the women will ever meet again Liza won't be challenged by truths buried in the mud of Auschwitz Nothing can disturb Liza's life among people... ... indifferent to yesterday's crimes, who even today... Film completed by:
