 

                        People would think she was happy, without a blemish on the face or voice. No one would ever believe how far she fell into the excesses of the senses and the dark calls of sex that would forever destroy the insipid pleasures of the flesh enjoyed by common people. Escaping the northern mists she left deserted shores for they were the stage of dramatic events. And the madness and rapture for blood drove her to the doors of death. Motherless, George grew up alone. Waiting for admission at the university, he moved into the house that his father, a sanctimonious and stupid old general, had in that seaside resort. He was sure that there, during winter, he would not come to torment him. He was 18 when he met that girl who looked like she was the only living creature there. She was older than him and a great curiosity started to grow in him. He started to wait for her, to follow her, to spy on her along those vast shores often hit by violent and sudden sea storms. George was paralyzed by the excitement. She had in her eyes something so evidently greedy, insatiable, that every move she made gave rise to a sense of anguish in him because he knew that under that dress, that surely once belonged to her mother, she was completely naked. Simone, in her strange fantasy, hoped he would approach her to raise the dress from behind up to the hips because just the thought of being looked at that way aroused her tremendously. But she waited in vain. George was a shy college boy with no initiative whatsoever The plates are made to sit on them didn't you know that? Do you bet I will sit on the milk plate? Do you bet I will sit on it? Do you bet? Milk is for the pussy. - I bet you won't do it - Really? Watch this. Have you ever thought it could be something quite pleasant? It must be fabulous Look From there you can't see anything, George. Come on, come here. Get closer. You wouldn't believe me... It's so fresh Look from behind It was the first time he saw that pink and dark flesh cooling in the white milk You've lost the bet Now you have to lick the milk Simone! - What happened? - I don't know, Simone - It's unbelievable - Why? Who is she? It's Marcelle, the girl from the castle next door. I recognize her. I haven't seen her in a long time. I thought she couldn't leave home It's true I remember her at mass when she was young, sitting with her parents in the reserved places. She looked like wax, unapproachable Look. What a beautiful neck What are you doing? Are you crazy? Leave me alone! - You silly... - It's true Now I know why they lock her up: she's crazy. Simone - Take them off, come on - No... they can see us - Only the seagulls can see us here - No... - Take them off... I get it, I have to do it myself There's someone! Hey you! Hey! Come here, dirty pig! You were spying on us. Aren't you ashamed of yoursef? We won't do anything to you. What are you doing? Leave me alone! I don't want... leave me Enthralled, carried away, astonished and unaware Like in front of some tides, some unrestrainable floods. As hit by a long, exhausting, sweet storm. An extraordinary, unique, unrepeatable event. caught them by surprise, helpless and innocent. Marcel was coming out of a neglected world full of nightmares and fears and they with her, in that desperate and tender embrace of humanity and nature they finally found redemption liberation from the humiliations and the damnation of the flesh You see, it's my birthday today. I come of age. I'm Honourable, I'm Mayor... I can make the laws, set free all the housewives - Well said - And you, ladies and gentlemen... eminent idiots I was born from touch glasses with us. Drink! Drink, because it will be your last toast Go back into your tombs, vampires! - I have a gift for you... - Simone the metamorphosis of life the mystery of existence... You are a hen, I want to see how eggs are laid Hmmm, so many eggs you're laying This is the biggest of all A golden egg! What if the first "chickenman" will be born? This egg one day...call you mother. It's no one... ...it's my mother Simone - Take this madame - Don't cry because you can't play with us, my darling And to think that once you were so... Simona's mother was a very good and sweet woman living in the echo of her past They said she was a great actress she already sensed the amorous plays of her daughter But when she caught her she just watched dumbfounded without saying a word because she didn't belong to this world anymore Rest in peace It is useless for you to choke her, mom - Let's steal their eggs - Oh yes. - Hey, look what I've found - What's that? In memory of the marquise Rossana of Paludepaille... and her daughter Marcelle of Paludepaille... How strange, this is Marcelle... ... and they say she's dead. Dad Sometimes I'm scared No Marcelle, what scare yous? I'm trying to win over the vile havoc of Death You should be proud of your father. Like the Egyptians I have my secret to stop the ravages of time. You know you look more and more like you mother, Marcelle She's what I loved the most She's always in these walls Yes Immortal And you've got to stay here with us too I've always loved you One day we'll get married and we'll live happily ever after What are you saying? You're not your mother you deceive me with her voice and her smile but you'll never take her place. She was strong in flesh and blood. And you're just a pale immitation Open up! Come out! Come out if you want to let your lust out. I'll take you to the stables What are you doing? You pissed yourself You're worse than a sow in heat You deserve to live in a pigsty Throw away that doll, little bitch Simone was very excited at the idea of bringing Marcelle to discover her mysterious tomb. She knew that place well because she always played there as a kid She enjoyed the pleasure of idolizing a sacred place breaking the balance shaking from the foundation that fantastic world, unreal and out of time Marcelle was already at the mercy of her will and George, unaware, was part of the debunking of her creed Trying to drive away the fears and the last doubts of their predestined victim - I don't want to come - Why not? Your father will never find out - It was a secret, I should've never told you - Why? Because I imagine what will happen in there with those boys. And it's me who'll have to pay for the consequences Don't exaggerate, we're going to have fun You're going to forget everything I can't forget Did you hear that? The bridge is trembling. Look! - It looks like it's falling down. - Don't be silly Come Even as a child I never wanted to cross it. It's going to fall down. You can see it's not falling down. You always exaggerate Let's go How long since I came here... I remember... I had to play the part of a cherub in a ridiculous drama that my mom wrote - It was long ago - Enough with memories! Time doesn't exist We are out of this world Come, here you can do anything. Cherub, with love you stroke my heart Come dance, Ghost, on your mother's tomb We are in the realm of the dead - Resurrected - We are in the realm of love Kisses, to forget I'm alive Kisses, to forget you're dead Come, come dance with us There's a place for her in this sanctuary Marcelle, what are you doing here all alone? Come with me. Why don't you get naked? Why? I can't, try to understand - My mother is buried here - Where? There are no tombs here Even if it were true, there would be nothing wrong. Even better, it would mean we resurrected her. Don't be scared No one would ever know You will feel even more alive You are so beautiful - Where are you going? - Leave me, I can do it myself Marcelle I hate you! - What's gotten into you? - Are you crazy? You are all pigs! You desecrated this place with your filth - Marcelle, what are you doing? Get out of there. - You defiled the statues! What statues? Do you have visions, now? - Everybody come, did you see statues - There are no statues - Marcelle, open up - Don't be silly, open up - Stop it, come on get out - Don't be stupid, open the door Marcelle believed she could re-enter the tomb that a few years ago her father built for her to protect her from the wear and tear of time and the horror of truth because Simone, with her reckless selfishness wanted to destoy her childhood memories It wasn't the first time she took cover in a dark place to escape the ghosts that were haunting her And every time fear worked on her like on a defenseless baby in front of other people's cruelties Come here, let's climb this tree Come on! Quick, quick! George! We left Marcelle behind She stayed locked in the cabinet. "This theater was built by Rossana du Paly de Paille" "With the goal of promoting the pleasure of lyrical art." - Marcelle, Marcelle - Are you still in there? Open up! "Here rests the Marquise Rossana du Paly de Paille with her daughter Marcelle." - They arrested everyone - We have to run away Don't do this. Answer us! "Both died on May the 22nd..." They didn't have the time to notice the tomb or they would have discovered the mystery But they were only worried about Marcelle's fate. Only the father knew the truth Marcelle, my love, stay calm Come - Honey - Marcelle, there's no more danger. Stay calm, stay calm It was just a game, now it's finished We love you. Now get dressed, Marcelle and you too, George. Quick, let's get out of here. Come on, Marcelle. Simone What are you doing? Are you crying? We didn't want to hurt you, I swear Let's be quick, George. Oh, Simone, George... take me with you don't leave me here, please - Take me away from here, forever - Yes Marcelle, we'll find a way to make you escape You between them! What an outrage! Leave my daughter alone! I'll lock you in the castle and you'll stay there forever! I know her by reputation She's a whore You wouldn't believe me when I was telling you she was shameless, see now? Before dusk those two will be imprisoned Like the others Damn bitch! Corrupted beast! Don't you dare talk about my daughter this way! Yokel! Recover yourself now, sweetie. Let's go back home Come on, get out this cemetery But I want to stay with you.... You have to hide for a few days, it's important At least until everything calms down I'll do anything to join you immediately Please, don't let the police look for me I have my revolver The first bullet will be for the policeman The second one for me With this message to his father, George wasn't looking for understanding. He already knew he would never receive that. He wanted to turn the adventure that he faced with an excitement into a huge drama. To weld the link of the chain that - he felt - would link him to more and more disturbing events. Here our life is safe from the outside world and nothing could ever change it they will never take you away from me You are the queen of this place guardian angel, Rossana - How delightfulyou are me - George...Simone The past has become an eternal present - This way... Slow To change even one small part... I'll come with you forever ... it means destroying it Take everything from me, everything - You belong to this house - I belong to it - There's no happiness outside - We are three bodies... ... but one soul. I love you Where are you going? I have to come back to the castle, madam. I come back to the stables. How simple you are! You can see clearly I'm not a madam. Come here, don't make that expression. I need a favour from you. Come on, come closer. Do you think I'm the devil, by chance? Come here, don't be scared. What are you doing? Are you trying to exorcise me? If you were the devil you would run. There's a cross. So... can I ask you this favor? Listen, I really need to see Marcelle Tell here to come to the window that faces the lake by midnight. Only you can help me. And I will be very grateful In fact I want to show you my gratitude... come here Have you made love yet? Do you know how to do it? What's making dingdong here while you walk? Come on, don't be scared I won't bite. Let's put the exorcisms aside We don't need them Will you do me that favor then? I have to tell my master Gilles, you're talking like a slave No, but I can't deceive him Stop being the saint, you silly! Don't you want to a girl like me as a friend? Every favor you're doing for me I will return it - Even better... - No, no, stop! Don't do it I know this is a sin That's not true, let me... Do you like it? Tell me. Don't you like it a lot? You can do this even if you're not married yet. It's not a sin. All the fiances do it, you know? Your priest will absolve you It's so sweet, ain't it? It's not a sin It's not a sin It's not a sin Who are you? I'm touching you I would never do it on our bed Why aren't memories enough for me? I can't forget you You ruined me Simone... I know we won't see each other again... I love you I can't hear you Marcelle - Marcelle, Marcelle - Simone, you're finally here Where were you? Don't leave me anymore Do you remember that time on the dunes with George? Yes, yes, I love you Marcelle Who's there? Who's there? Damn scoundrel I found you It's here you hide after spying on your masters I thought you were an honest and intelligent servant But you're not You are a thief and a traitor It works, strange... that's the radio I gave to my beloved Rossana How dare you touch it! Do you think you can do as you like in my house? But maybe it has gone to your head you didn't think it would hurt you took the radio to feel a little less lonely but you know we love you Breaking news The violence of young rebels, drunk and driven by a will of destruction... No! I forgot you were their accomplice You put them in touch with Marcelle You want to steal my daughter from me! You want to feed her to those pigs! And you want me to be alone, beat by this instrument you infected! Damned... And I came here out of kindness... to be a friend with you Rossana took you out of the mud And I fed you, I trained you and you just show me this ingratitude You don't feel privileged? You don't even listen to me Why are you giving me that look? Am I not worthy of your love? You are the unworthy! Gilles... Gilles, what happened? What happened? Open up! Open up! Simone was looking for George for two days and she couldn't find him she read his message and she was worried because she knew she could expect the unexpectable from him George, where are you? Where are you hiding? George! George was scared and so he looked for a bigger fear. He was desperate, but his desperation wasn't enough and neither the loneliness. He wanted to try starvation and feel the terror of the earth scoured by the hurricane George, are you wounded? Come on, stop it Don't be silly It's enough. Do you enjoy scaring me? You're not dead... I can feel it You're very much alive I'm going to resurrect you Is the corpse feeling better? I can feel good by myself To wait... motionless to vanish in the sea to become sand Why are you here? I have good news I made out with a servant of the palace I don't care at all it's her, needing you George, I would be lost without you Simone, what are you saying? You taste like the sea... Soon we will go away with her, far away. But I want to stay here forever You'll see. Her father and her uncle can't stop us anymore. She's waiting for us. We will be happy Are you sure? Yes, finally Ah, Rossana... Rossana My beloved Is it you, Marcelle? Marcelle, is it you? Answer me, Marcelle What are you doing here? Marcelle Is it you? What do you want for God's sake? Marcelle, Marcelle Marcelle... Goddamn... I recognize you I will never forget you...this masquerade Never! Do you understand? Can you hear me? What are you doing here? You are the devil. The devil. Are you teasing me? You are a monster. A demon loaded with lust. Are you trying to provoke me? I saw you, what do you think? It was you in the hall, dressed like your mother you don't fool me. Are you trying to ruin me? I thought the charm she had on you was gone forever Marcelle, you are mad. I did it because I loved her she was suffering like a wounded animal an animal wounded to death I wanted to take her away from your father. But you've won. Yes, yes, let's tear down that past that past built on fears. Go away, you evil Bitch! Be damned! Go away! You are the disgrace of this house. It was her, I swear It's always her driving me! Is this what you were hiding from me all these years? You wanted Rossana too. It's a warning sign, Simone We have to do something, now. George! Be careful, George! Marcelle! Open up! Marcelle! Marcelle! Open up! Marcelle! Marcelle! No! They killed him They killed him Go away Simone They're gonna kill you! Go away! Why? Why? Assassins, be damned! Filthy pigs! You are Hell They killed him It's all my fault They are crazy I should've known They are crazy I take your grief my darling You have to go far away I get it, that's what you want to see you motherfuckers You waited for so long Don't you want to jerk off now? Come on, this is the right time Are you scared? Come on, I won't be here tomorrow Come on, I won't say anything to your beloved wives Go away and come back when you will know how to use your dicks I am an assassin, Rossana, an assassin. My mind is failing me I hate them and I hate you too. I thought you were alive. I've lost my daughter too. You're all I've got. Open up! Open up, please! He was just a vicious beast I punished him You betrayed me all You loved everyone but me It doesn't matter No, I want to go away I don't want to see you anymore You're a monster George... Simone.... It was just a game and now it ends We love you Now get dressed Marcelle and you too Be quick, let's get out of here I'm sorry, we didn't want to hurt you, I swear Quick Take me with you. Please don't leave me here. I want to go away from here, forever. We'll find a way to make you escape with us. A witch! Just when the cruel uselessness of death was celebrated Marcelle's soul, joined with the memory of George started to live again in Simone That suffered erotic communion was now complete so much desired and so much feared that would finally free them from that ghost world that gave them the illusion of life. "... you can be saints, either in a religious sense, or in an erotic sense." -Alberto Moravia
