 

                        1 Presented by the West Bengal Government Based on the novel by Bibhutibhushan Banerji PATHER PANCHALI Horihor, the father: Kanu Banerji Shorbojoya, the mother: Karuna Banerji Durga, the daughter: Uma Das Gupta Apu, the son: Subir Banerji Auntie Indira: Chunibala Photography by Subrata Mitra Music by Ravi Shankar Script and direction by Satyajit Ray Who is that? That child! We won't have any fruit left Auntie The orchard is private property, bought and paid for It will have to be fenced in if we're to save any fruit There are so many thieves about That wretched girl of Hori's She's always taking our fruit You have to keep your eyes peeled for her I just saw her taking a guava and who knows what else? - Tell her off - What's the use? She'll take no notice of me, she's not my daughter It doesn't matter what we say; it's up to her mother The mother will be shocked when she's shamed before the village That child is being badly brought up Can I help? - It's too heavy for you - I can manage Did I forget you, Durga? Wait Come here She's doing no harm; let her stay Why should she watch you eat? Run along to your mother, dear Did you take something from Mrs. Mukherji's garden? What are you hiding? Take them back to her Then come back and sweep the yard You're spoiling Durga - I don't understand - You do You eat the fruit The fruit Durga brings you You should know better, shouldn't you? You think you can do as you please, living with us - I know you - What do you mean? You know. Don't you take things from the kitchen? Oil, salt, chillies Shall I look in your box? Lost your tongue? It's got to stop. Maybe you'd better go somewhere else I've stood it for eight years; my patience is exhausted You spoil my daughter and I get the blame for it It's too much in my old age Where are you going? Auntie Leave her alone, Durga Did you hear me? What else did I tell you to do? - Where have you been, Auntie Indir? - I was staying with Raghu Then this morning I heard that Hori has... On my way I found this child coming to fetch me So we met Go and see your lovely new nephew Let me see his face properly What a little darling What are you cooking? Pilau, korma... fine dishes One day you shall cook them, or have you forgotten how? I've forgotten A pity; I thought we might celebrate our son's birth - What about money? - I shall start work next month Landlord Ray has promised a job, doing his accounts Did you ask about pay? No, but I shan't slave as a rent collector for ever The money from that job and the fees for religious ceremonies... ...will keep the family going for now Surely you can understand that Lucky January: The boy was born and you got a job That's why I think we should spend a little... ...and celebrate his birth in style It's good for our prestige, and people will praise your cooking - Will you be paid regularly? - Why not? Ray is a good man You're no judge of that; you've always been cheated What do you mean? What about our garden? They said my brother owed them money when he was alive The garden paid off the debt If we had the orchard now we wouldn't go hungry You should hear what they say when Durga takes a few guavas What do such people matter? I am a scholar Who cares about that here? Listen to what I have in mind I am going to write original plays and poems I'll soon be in great demand The travelling players need new material Most writers are merely rehashing old stories If their stuff is popular... ...shouldn't my stuff be even more popular? Of course And as a scholar you'll be respected in the village And you will teach the boy It's not long to the festival A good match will be found for Durga We'll have two good meals a day and new clothes twice a year That's how it will be; my ancestors were writers, after all I keep alive the family tradition In two years we'll be living in comfort, free of debt The house will be repaired... and no more spinach every day Wake up, Apu; it's time to go to school Durga, wake Apu I can't make him stir There's not much milk; do you feed the cow properly? How many more times must you moisten your duster? Sit down! - What do you want? - Puffed rice, please Hand over the money, then You've netted a fine catch How many pupils now? The new boy makes nine The nine gems What are you laughing at? Go on like that and you'll end up behind a plough - You were saying, sir? - Have you seen any good plays? I did see one company Gupe, what are you doing? The next village has booked a very good company I'll thrash you They thought they'd be one up on us, but they reckoned without me I've booked the finest company anyone's ever seen May I have some of your oil? I've not put you down for a contribution... ...but I'm sure you won't forget my needs Don't forget your friend Boidyonath Wait, Mr. Chakrabarti The drummer... ...of the company... ...sounds like thunder Sude, come here and bring your slate with you Bring me his slate So this is what you've been up to Hold out your hand What are you doing? - What are you doing in the kitchen? - Nothing Nothing? Didn't I see you take something? I have no chillies, so I thought I'd take a couple Why didn't you ask? Durga, come and help me when you are free Girls of your age should help about the house, cooking, washing up... ...performing religious rites Is it right to skylark about all day? You must learn to cook, mustn't you? Are you feverish again today? Remember to drink your herbal tincture - I'm hungry - Haven't you had your puffed rice? There is rice for you in the bowl ask Durga to give you some. Help me up My back is stiff - How are you these days? - Who cares about an old woman? Just look at this - It's my shawl for the evenings - I'll buy you a new one soon Can I have a light? We can't afford so much tobacco Did you ask for your pay today? Landlord Ray has his own troubles. I might risk my job if I ask now There must be other jobs in the town You haven't been paid for three months It's the first time You're happy to let things slide Durga has not been well; she needs medicine and better food Apu needs new clothes; he's going to school in rags The house needs repairing, debts must be repaid We owe Mrs. Mukherji five rupees; she'll press for repayment You must do something You won't tell mother? She'll hear you The sweet-seller Halva, fudge, coconut cakes Ask father for money You ask Is he asking for money? Don't pander to him None today? Let's follow him to the others Let me see what you've got. Coming to play with us, Durga? Coming? If not, go home, I'll be back soon Like a sweet, Durga? Don't give them any. If they want sweets, they should buy their own Tunu, come and play What lovely beads - Who gave them to you? - Father Let me help you What have things come to, when an old woman has to patch her shawl? Durga, come here You know it's time to do your hair - Can you plait four strands? - Don't move your head Ranu can What dry hair, and we have no oil. Never mind four-stranded plaits Some people are coming to see if Ranu is a suitable bride Who are they? Ever seen a train? Don't lie Do you know where the railway line is? Over the big meadow, beyond the rice fields Let's go there Now write the word... wealth Were you good at school? You're so tiny; do the other boys tease you? I'm not surprised he's left it He gets nothing but rice, but what else can I afford? Wash your face Where's Durga? Shall I fetch her toy-box? She's not well brought up What has happened? Durga has stolen Tunu's beads Don't look astonished; she is an accomplished thief Her father bought the beads in town Tunu showed Durga This morning the beads had vanished Durga hasn't been back; anyway, are you sure she took them? Are you suggesting we've invented it? - The string could have broken - It didn't We've searched everywhere Did you take Tunu's beads? Didn't you? She's a liar Where do you suppose she got that fruit? What's the matter? What's going on? The garden isn't ours; it's wrong to take the fruit But how can you accuse her of stealing something bought for money? She's a child. Fruit has no name on it Listen to that! The rupees I lent you had no name on... ...had they? When will you pay them back? I can't wait forever When you find the beads I hope you'll return them Our fruit disappears. I complain and the mother says: Suppose the children take it; fruit has no name on it Like mother, like daughter: A pair of thieves Come here Tell Durga to come in for her meal Then came an ogress, hobble, cackle, gobble "I smell humans! Who is awake in my temple?" Lue Lotus Prince kept guard while Red Lotus Prince slept And at midnight the ogress came once more Hobble, cackle, gobble "Who is awake in my temple?" Father's home Give mother the fish Put it down Come here, I have lots to tell you No matter what people say... ...landlord Ray is a good man My three months' wages First I will say evening prayers, then I have much to tell you Today I met a rich farmer. I don't know him... ...but he greeted me and said my father knew him He said my father officiated as a priest in his household Now he wants me to perform the same duties They're having a religious ceremony next month He wants me to baptise them - They are rich - Have you agreed? If I agree straight away, they'll think we are starving Accept at once The trouble is that some people will criticize if they know Who will know? You might talk; you know what women are like I have better things to do with my time Don't be upset. The client won't run away I mustn't seem over-eager; he can wait until after the festival We'll manage on my wages until then The children need new clothes and Auntie needs a shawl We owe Mrs Mukherji five rupees We'll have to pay all that out of the wages And the repairs? We have survived the monsoon The repairs must wait, but I'll get estimates Something must be done to the kitchen Don't worry. Kitchen, walls, roof, everything will be done How many days to the festival? Twenty-one Did you take Tunu's beads? - Do you know who did? - No. Go to sleep I have another idea for a play I might be able to write it in a week You once lived in Benares; did you have friends there? I had a few Isn't there a place by the river... ...where men recite from the scriptures? It's called Dasasvamedh Ghat Let's go to Benares. Don't the orators earn lots of money? We can't go. How can we? This is my ancestral home; how can I leave it? Why not? You were away eight years before You left me at my father's and never wrote Then I did not know how sweet you are Save your compliments This is my home, too But look at it: It's like living in the forest At night the jackals prowl around There are no neighbours I can talk to You are not always here and sometimes I'm so depressed You won't understand these things You live in your work. Sometimes you're paid, sometimes not I had dreams, too, of all the things I would do Those who came before are gone am left behind, a penniless beggar Day draws to its close, night's mantle descends Row me across to the other side Hurry with the twigs, this wood is too damp to light A new shawl, Auntie? How nice What a lovely shawl, Auntie Raju gave it to me, to keep me warm in the evenings We're having a picnic; please cook something Why is it never her turn to go and fetch things? What's the matter? What's that shawl? It's a present from Raju A present, was it? You didn't ask? Why should I? I just remarked that the evenings were chilly, so he said... Would he feed you, too? Don't be angry. I did ask Hori for a shawl And as he couldn't give it to you at once, you went begging You should be ashamed Can't an old woman have whims? Whims? Don't you realize that the children often go hungry? Are you going to dress and feed them? If you're staying here, stop begging; otherwise, go away I can always find somewhere else to go Fine! Take yourself off You'd better go; you can't stay here any longer It's lovely; your husband will enjoy your cooking - When is the wedding? - I've forgotten I know when It's in two months, isn't it? - What does it feel like? - Much the same - Tell me - You'll find out It won't happen to me, I just know it won't Your mother is arranging a match, just wait and see Raju, are you at home? - Who is it? - Your old auntie I wonder whether you can take me in, just for a few days? Only a few days I get no peace at the other place, nothing but nagging Come in Tell your mother that Auntie has come to stay Bring her a chair and a bowl of water I've nowhere to go now I'm old, so I thought of you Beware, King! If you utter those words again... ...I shall cut out your tongue... ...and throw it to the jackals and the dogs! And I shall destroy you, for the good of the world! Father, do not do it, I beseech you! Durga, go and find the calf Please tie this on for me Apu, let's look for Auntie I want you to find the calf first What's that? Who gave you the silver paper? - He's been at my toy-box - You're too old for a toy-box now He took my silver paper Go and find the calf Stupid! Dressing up as a prince Anyone at home? Why have you come back? I'm not feeling very well I'd like to spend my last days in the old home What's the old home to you? The best thing you can do is leave Just a minute What are you waiting for? Let me rest here awhile Sister-in-law, have you gone to sleep? Will you give me some water? Your bowl is there; help yourself Sit down Eat it Where are we? What are those? Those who came before are gone am left behind Row me across to the other side Day draws to its close, night's mantle descends Will you be away for long? About a week. I'll call at Bistupar on the way back It's a good market town; something may turn up there Look, there's father Ask him for some money Put the cat down and go and buy some molasses Apu wants rice pudding; he's been asking for it for days A letter! Give it to me arrived here yesterday The rich farmer has lost two sons... ...so a ceremony s out of the question now ut don't worry 'll try to earn money for the repairs and then I'll return home Do not worry Whatever God wills is for the best Give my love to Durga and Apu Charity, lady Alms, good mother Bless you. One day you will be goddess of wealth Why didn't you tell me? You can't go on like this; why didn't you tell me? After all, we're not strangers Every day I hope there will be some news It never comes Five months now without news, without letters Let Durga come with me; I'll give her something to tide you over - Don't be silly - I can't take it I feel so ashamed A letter! No doubt you are worried because have not written for months Anyway, I have good news: Have been able to earn money shall be returning home soon Whatever God wills is for the best Holy Pond, Flower Garland, who prays here at noon? I, fortunate sister of my brothers Mother Goddess, counsel me, I know not how to pray May I live in happiness with my husband Mother Goddess, grant me this boon Rain, rain, go away... Any news of Hori? He says he will be back this month Why is he away so long? Have you any sago? I can let you have some If the fever continues to increase, apply cold compresses No cause for alarm; just see that she doesn't get another chill We'll go and see the train when I'm better, shall we? We'll have a good look next time Durga is worse; can you come? Sweep the yard. I'm going to look at Durga Fetch my husband; say I asked him to come - Is Durga asleep? - Yes. Run along, dear Mother sends these vegetables. I'll put them here It would fall while I was away. Couldn't it have waited? How are you? Are the children out? Where are you going now? I've brought some presents I'd have come earlier, if I could My luck turned at Ranaghat, at long last See what I bought in the market there a pastry-board and rolling pin A picture of Goddess Lakshmi, which you asked me to get A new sari for Durga After this last year I have no affection for the old home I don't know what we would have done... ...if you and your husband hadn't helped us If we had done more, perhaps you would have stayed It's not your fault, it's just our bad luck Other people live here quite happily I hope you'll settle down in the new place These fell in the storm; I thought you'd like them for the journey How kind It's only a few mangoes. I've done nothing for you in the past You're really going tomorrow? Yes. Perhaps we should have told you before Never mind. I think that leaving here is a good idea Everyone should make a move once in a while Staying in one place makes you mean; it's done that to me I'd like to go away, too; I'll see what my husband says Don't put yourself out on my account I've been confined to bed for over a month... ...so I couldn't come to see you I'm told you're moving to Benares; is that so? Yes, we're leaving at dawn tomorrow You're going tomorrow? Think for a moment, is this a wise decision? You are Rajkestra's son, Tarkalankar's grandson Your family has lived here for generations We village elders still exist. You could have asked our advice Would that have helped? Look at the house; I haven't the means to repair it Perhaps I should have asked for your help... ...but how long could that last? I have been saddled with debts for fifteen years My hopes of clearing them by selling some furniture came to nothing I wanted to be a writer; now my manuscripts are worm eaten I hoped to educate my boy, but it was not to be And the girl... she is at rest Sometimes it is necessary to leave the ancestral home In town I may earn a little... ...reciting from the scriptures
