 

                        1 Aland of people who once earned a living by fishing or diving for pearls A society that had braved many torments But when oil was struck changed it all in one fell swipe The world called it the 'Camel to Cadillac' phenomenon An abrupt and overnight leap from backs of camels into ...plush interiors of Cadillac's The most expensive of cars those days As oil changed fortunes beyond recognition... ...colorful tales of this gold yielding soil drew aspiring youths from afar 'Visionary gifts of rulers fused seamlessly with aspirations of local society Culminating in an evolution of an enchanting city with magical pull... Today's Dubai City that spellbinds the beholder Each morning, before we get into our cars we'd have got a call from back home Mother would have spoken about rains and hot breakfast The word rain evokes great nostalgia to us, Malayalis Is this earth or blissful heaven'? Or just a mrorld of illusion'? Is it the shore of a distant dream? Bewitching siren Alluring sweetheart She's a city, effervescent An ever brimful goblet Under embowed arch of her sky the sun and moons shone vibrant Unwavering gaze, caresses like waves Filling us with fervor as vast as the sea Singing, dancing in unison with all Her mesmerizing eyes merge days and nights Travelers like short lived bubbles As a rhythm of joy rises slovwy A lifetime is not enough for this ecstasy Is this earth or blissful heaven? Or just a mrorld of illusion? Is it the shore of a distant dream? No means to lure away this beloved Ever enchanted watching her loveliness Sweeping one and all with her spirited ardor Often fades away yet remains a shadow To clasp, hug and embrace in fervor From deepest of depths to be swept ashore at davm Is this earth or blissful heaven'? Or just a mrorld of illusion'? Is it the shore of a distant dream? Bewitching siren Alluring sweetheart She's a city, effervescent An ever brimful goblet Under embowed arch of her sky the sun and moons shone vibrant N aray an'ett a'? N aray an'ett a'? Switch it off please Allow us to get some sleep Satheesha Answer the phone Satheesha Answer the phone Who is this? When? And.,': No I'll inform Okay Who was it? - Dad's not well - Oh God, and...? Nothing to worry Let me ask someone else Najeeb? Venu'ettan called to say dad was ill Satheesh, I am there right now What happened to dad? He's gone We'll do the needful here But you must now take charge over there Don't tell your mother now - lsmail'kka will be here soon - I'll call you later What's happening advocate? I've informed the Company The PRO will bring his passport - Have you informed his family? - Yes, I called his son - What about the police? - The ambulance will soon be here The body must be sent back to his home tovm as soon as possible How come lsmail'bhai is here? Narayanettan and lsmail'bhai first came to Dubai in the same Pathemari/dhow It's me The guy in Gulf whom we are working for... ...kicked the bucket Can we begin work for your other client? This work will be stalled now Better to work elsewhere Did he have to die nomf?! Nuisance! Quick! Get in '56th Meeran Sahib Foot Ball Tournament' It's the last exciting fight for the 7th Meeran Sahib ever rolling trophy here When the curtains fall on the last day of this football competition... ...who will win this trophy? Today we shall know who will win this A neck to neck fight, equally matched the 2 teams are playing it out here Narayanan has scored! Em E Move away my dear We'll die together Govind a'?! You don't have to kill yourself because I asked for the money you owed me Ivvill go away for now But I'll be back if you don't pay up in 2 days That day I'll be the one to jump into this well This time we are the winners of Meeran Sahib Trophy Narayanan was our star player Oh! Let me see it? Oh! Let me see it? Not bad at all All of us can now boil and eat this for dinner Instead of working in fields and earning... ...playing football matches! This trophy can go in there! 3 daughters to be brought up Star player my foot! They won't allow us to watch the Kuthu Ratheeb (ritual) They pierce themselves with a knife and slash their tongues You'll feel faint just watching them No one eats until the ritual is over Uncle is not saying anything I asked around There's a guy Velayudhan Who ferries people from Chettuva in a Pathemaari(dhow) We must meet him Go, they must be mraiting for you Give this to sister Moideen's uncle is leaving to Persia These are offerings to God to make sure he lands safely What about Narayanan? He must have eaten from their house Didn't you? Did you eat my son? - I did mother - Didn't I tell you?!... ...he would have eaten from there This is not like going to the Chetuva mosque fair The voyage takes days maybe months... ...or not reach there at all This is the mighty ocean I am aware of it I have heard But once we reach, our families will be free of poverty If it will help our family and siblings live a better life... are prepared to cross this ocean You must take strong decisions like this in life When I was young, I've often watched... ...Ummer sahib's boat go past That day I took a decision Fathemubarak is the outcome of that I transport people from here and return with goods from there If a calamity occurs, I promise I will be among those who perish too That's a promise The whole tovm knows the fee I charge for transporting people Pathemaari will set out next Friday Get ready with both money and your minds Sir, our wage Please give quarter Anna more Why do you need a photo of this? This jewel belongs to Moideen's aunt She gave it to us to raise money for us to go to Persia Pledging this will not raise enough money, so we are selling it When we get enough money we'll buy a replica and replace it That's why we need a photo Shall I take leave? Okay mother I'm leaving Father? Shall I go? See that things are done very quietly Yes, the police can cause trouble Yonder, a league away is my home with my dear ones Oh breeze from the sea don't snuff out their flicker of flame Instead, dry their tears that stream dovm their face dry their tears that stream dovm their face Upon waves that shimmer like molten gold of Arabia With sails of dreams high aloft set sails the pathe maarillaunch - Mother! - Iliyas... - Iliyas... Nodding leaves of coconut trees bid farewell to departing men Oh little eagle of my town lead me on in my journey Silvery moonlight tell me more about those unknown shores When I return from my travels be sure to welcome me home Back with bushels of gold and pearls All from lands beyond the ocean Look This is what is left of the rice Reserve half of it Even then it will last for just one more day Who knows ow many more days to the shore Are there cool streams sweet as honey, bubbling with surf milky? Or thorny paths, scorching stones strevm aplenty along the way? How did my evergreen dreams wilt away like a bunch of blossoms Surging waves of aspirations swell to crash beyond oceans Back with bushels of gold and pearls All from lands beyond the ocean Take care of him I'll fetch some mrater Iliyas... Iliyas... Looks like a storm is brewing All of you go inside Babu... Iowerthe sails Go in all of you Fast Everyone get inside fast... Velayudhan... pull the rope... E E Pull the rope hardly... I'll do it... I see land! Come up here Ask all of them to come Do you see that rock? That is the adayalapara(identifying rock) Hide there and don't let the cops catch sight of you After sundown, you can swim across, okay'? Now jump! JumP Please stop... Moideen? VWIen did you come to know"? Any idea when they'll bring the body? Don't know anything His only desire had been to finish... ...building his house and shift there May be he felt a 6th sense that his days were numbered He was suffering from so many ailments I'd told him last time itself not to go back to Dubai I had been to their house this morning It was unbearable to see Nalini and the kids grieving I hung around for sometime and came away What can I say to console them? Let me go meet them Close the lid properly, okay? Here I'll give the kid a candy No use staring at the phone Someone must call from the other end, okay? There! Won your prize for mraiting! Of course they're here! Hope you are alright? It's Narayanan We waited so long We thought you wouldn't call How can I not call after asking you to come there? Too many people here Has mother come? Yes, I'll give the phone to her Mother Narayana! My dear son How's the pain in your leg, mother? Much better! I go to another doctor now Has monsoon set in there? Not yet We must replace the tiles on the roof before the rains The walls need plastering Sure, we'll do it Did you send some money to Nirmala 'Z Ivvill mother There is absolutely no change in Prabhakaran's condition He's bed-ridden My ill-fated daughter! What else can I say Your father's death anniversary falls sometime next week I do remember mother Narayana, hope you are okay? There is no need to slog ignoring your health, okay? I'll give the phone back to Nalini Tell me, how are things with you? I got all the things you'd sent through Moideen'kka's man I have kept aside some chocolates to take home, okay? Our Ramesh is now going for typewriting classes When are you coming back? I want to see you Me too I can't go on like this All alone You have the whole family there I am the one alone here isn't it, Nalini? When will you come? Ivvill... soon You must go meet Nirmala She has no one but us Covey my regards to all I'll call again later - Okay There's still hours to go before the Muezzin calls for prayer Are you testing the resistance of those poor people who are fasting? Serving all that delicious food right before their eyes After so many days, they won't fall for such temptations Kader'ikka, I am taking the key of the post box Yes, please take it The 3 new boys from Cheruvathoor... ...were supposed to come here -I didn't see them, son Hope they were instructed clearly to come to Khader Hotel It's amazing the hordes of people who land here from back home People back home think Aladdin's genie pops up... ...to provide them with all they wished for in life So many letters People who come to collect it must be giving you good business I don't mind if I didn't get business I just hope they don't sit here and read those letters full of woe That box is a storehouse of complaints and demands This one is for you Mammalika's new cassette has come This is from Nirmala Mother just told me All assets Prabhakaran ovmed has been sold I must send her some money right away The contents of all these letters will be the same... only names differ I have taken loans from all possible means We'll somehow raise it It will be possible My 'ammoochinga' has set his eyes on 2 acres of coconut grove - What's ammoochinga? - Wife's father Was the word ammayichan disfigured into ammochinga? What do you usually call your father in law? If he doesn't keep his dowry promises you can call him anything The new cassette has come Lord! My prayers have been answered The film Thacholi Ambu wouldn't have run so successfully Please replace it I am borrowing some detergent, okay? Very little This is for Ali Ali has gone to make a call hearing about problems back home What problems? There was a shootout at Malappuram against supporters of Arabic language 3 people are believed to be dead We met some of our people from Malappuram Why didn't they mention this? This happened today When something happens back home... ...people here are more worried than the ones back home Howlong have I been asking for a scent You're always indifferent towards my family Mammalikka? What is Fous'ithatha saying? Nothing Won't I have the desire to go home... ...and be with my parents? For my respected... ...and dear husband to read... ...this beloved wife Mites... Packing a box like this is actually an an So you are an artist, eh? Where were you? I went to the tailor to get my newpair of pants and shirt I was delayed there Hey! You look like a bridegroom - How many pairs did you buy'? - 4 shirts and 3 pants Didn't you buy shoes and a belt? That was ready long back What about sun glasses? I have one with me You can have it But you must return it to me after you come back When we go well dressed like this people back home think... ...that's how mre-'re always They don't realize they are just pretenses... A kind of revenge This is for Najeeb - This is for you - What is it? Pi sta I have only seen it in shops But never eaten them These are chocolates and this to be given at my house If I'd knovm you guys would gift them to me... ...I'd never have spent money buying them Dear friends, after 3 years of toil in this desert And going home the first time after marriage We have decided to give Pallikkal Narayanan a memento For which Mammal'ikka is cordially invited on to the dais WW ES I have also planned my trip in December anticipating all this I'll drop you at the airport before I go on duty Write it big and clear Dubai-Bombay Pallikkal Narayanan - What is your name? - Narayanan Come What's in this? Household items Clothes and such stuff Keep it here Open it Once opened it'll be difficult to repack - What is in there? - Nothing expensive - Gold biscuits - Not at all sir Really? Open it - I said open - It's difficult to... Open There are so many items You'll have to pay a heavy duty They are just small items Do you have any Dirham on you? Give me one more Okay You can go Our land is so special Nothing to beat its beauty There were so many people vying to come pick you up I avoided them saying there wasn't place in the car It's quite easy to reach Bombay from Dubai But getting here from Bombay is such a pain I stayed overnight at a place called Tanker Mohalla in Bombay Bombay is quite a weird place isn't it? Our Hamid's brother was picked up by a guy who pretended to know him... ...and stole all his stuff He was lucky to be alive People discretely spy our names on our baggage... ...pick us out and talk calling us by name At times quite shocking They say that soon we can land directly in Trivandrum Well, we can say so only after it happens Afterall it's our country That's true You can stop here Maimoona Do you remember us? - Where is Hamsa? - Gone for his job at the mill Isn't he Basheer? He looks big enough to be married Mother! Brother-in-Iamf? - He's become fat - Eats a lot brother Why did you come out here? Anyway I'm coming in, isn't it? I did tell her not to come out bother-in-law I'll hold this Smitha, my dear child - Hope you are fine, sister in lamr'? - Very fine Didn't you say you were leaving only at 8 I went a little early Don't fuss we'll go together to see him off I shut my shop for 5 days in the event of his home coming Just help me with this, These are stuff to be delivered to various friends Is that all he's got? Ask him Be quiet What is that brother? Pista nuts Give it to every one Pista? What's that? Greetings Do you know how long I've been waiting, Bala'? I was a bit busy at the shop It's festival season - Have you put on weight? - Yes a little This material is for boys Howmuch will he need? Maybe one meter Then cut what you want from this What about Ramesh? We'll give him material from what I've got for older people Here Give some to Narayanan Why does he want'? He's eating them 24:'? Let us also know what it tastes like - lsin't it sister in law -yes It's Brut Spray Brother, for you a Hero pen A saree for sis-in-law Pushpa, here's a saree for you This one for Nirmala Can't youremember once in a while that we both are lonely here Except Chandran none of you comes here We are ladies, how can we step out of the house as we like You go inside and rest Don't let Pavithran see you work Even we have given birth to few No one is so caring like Pavithran Pushpa, add chilly that's what Narayanan likes Give some tea for Sudhakaran & Pavithran When I was carrying Sudhi... my husband brought me here... and never came this way for two months Remember the priest at our temple here? He always asks about your well being? Shouldn't we give him at least material for a shirt 'Z Sure This is your 1st visit after your marriage You must give a few gifts to Nalini's relatives too If what you brought is not enough... at least buy something from here Is it gold? For whom? Give me your hand This is not for you to sell or pledge in times of difficulties I must see this on your hand the next time I come here too These letters are for people living around here I can post some of them... but fewl must hand deliver There is a packet labeled 'Naushad Kodungallur' Bring it here This is for this 'Naushad' If the others see it you won't get anything That's why I did this Mother asked me to make sure everyone in house got something I've brought the umbrella and torch your dad wanted Will you be able to help Ramesh get a job in Dubai? When did you come? A few days ago I heard you'd come nearly 2 weeks back Busy making up for lost time with your wife, eh? At home they complain they hardly get to see me I go out early morning and return late at night By the time I deliver what others sent through me... That's been my job for past two weeks I haven't been able to visit even my wife's house Here, this is for you This is the 5th or 6th time in 16 years you're coming home Every time you bring me some thing Gives quite a good feeling, okay? Will someone like me be able to earn a living there? If I ovmed a shop like this here I wouldn't want to go anywhere else Really! Where is our Velayudha'etan? You mean launch Velayudhan? He's here It was near Muscat his ship ran into trouble By the time he could get someone to repair it... ...strong winds sent it smashing against a rock He lost his launch, goods and everything else He's lost all his old glamour Can I have a cigarette please? - Look, our Narayanan - Hey, you here? Here take these You needn't buy cigarettes I just lost a buyer! Tell us, what's happening? A few days is all I have as vacation What news could I possibly have? Why don't you come visit our football court? We are conducting a tournament this year The winners' trophy can be your contribution Make it a memorial in your dad's name... a rolling trophy We'll think about it later Where are you off to novlf? Trissur, to see Jayan's film Karimbana I am also coming Ages since I sawa movie E E Narrate the story afterwards, okay? What are you two up to? Jackfruit from our own backyard Must be ages since you've seen or eaten jackfruit, isn't it? How is Prabhakaran'? Manipal Hospital is said to have the best doctors I'm thinking of consulting them Chandran was looking for you Go, make him some tea Dig where it needs to be dug Look, that area is full of weeds Dig deeper The place gets overgrovm with grass and shrubs so quickly Were you looking for me? You are hardly here and now it's time to return, eh? It's difficult to make ends meet selling coconuts and pepper I was thinking why not set up a provision shop Jalaja's family has agreed to loan me an amount I'll sell some of her goldjewels You must give me Rs 25000 Rs 25000?! You can if you try Both of us have a share in this property and house But I don't need a house for myself My wife is the only child, so their house belongs to her Not only that, our house is the result of your toil I'll do the needful Just send me Rs 25000 Will this tooth powder be enough? I've packed some beaten rice The food for your train journey can be prepared in the morning Mother, you sit quietly They will do all this This was given at Lolappan's shop This is from one of my room-mate's family here I'll keep it with other letters I have to deliver there Are you asleep? No, just lying dovm Just think of the promises you made before you landed I haven't been able to even talk to you properly I am not going because I really want to I feel like an animal being taken to the slaughter house Then why do you want to go back? That's impossible! Life of a migrant is like the jackfruit gum The stickiness will never go away Has mother gone to sleep? I'll just peep in and come Sit my son You're never able to sleep the night every time, before you return, isn't it? Can I lie dovm here with you for some time? In Dubai, when I lie on my bed I feel you are beside me like this I've to go back once more Our problems will all be solved Next time I come there's no going back This is what you said the last time you came How many families here live together in unison? I'll forget everything once I go back Back there, where is the time to think of all this? Don't run around in this condition Give me that bag We'll consult Manipal doctors too Everything will be alright Smitha' kutty See you next time okay? No need to get out there Have this Latchman?! A tea to room 106 My flight is at 5.30 am Is there a bus to the airport? There is a bus at 12 If you want to catch that... ...you'll have to come and wait here by 11.30 Don't blame me if you don't get it He is the man I told you about a m m m I am Majeed My house is at Kathiroor Can you do me a favor? Please give this to my house It's just a doll The shop opposite the bus stop belongs to my friend You can give it there This is his address I know this shop I will give it there You must do me one more favor Please don't say it was given from Bombay Say it's from Dubai Okay, I will What happened? I pledged my house, sold my wife's and mother's jewels... ...and gave it to the agent to go abroad When I reached here I found he'd disappeared My whole family will commit suicide if they come to know My daughter Ayesha had wanted a doll from Dubai... ...that blinked its eyes In this Tanker Mohalla, we get any Dubai product I earn a living supplying tea 2 paisa commission for every tea Take it easy my friend May be God has other plans for you I am beginning to lose faith in Him The more tests He puts us through the greater care He will bestow on us Hey friend! I have enough to reach the airport - Have this No please! - It's okay - Keep it What is your name? Why do you ask? As a boy I have learned by-heart the many names of the Lord I want to know if your name is one among them My name is Narayanan When you come buy me a colour photo All thekids in my class are going to Kannurto... It's just 2 days since you returned You've already bought a new suitcase?! They were selling it cheap on the subway footpath My return maybe in 2 or 3 years But my suitcase is ready I must start filling it up with goodies from tomorrow Like crows building their nests But whatever we give our families are never satisfied Complaints range from size to numbers Or she got but I didn't get, etc Neither can we give this job Where the heck were you? I went around Deira and bought a suitcase E Evil/W? E E - No, I got out early - Come with me - What for? - We have to go - Where? - Come I say What is it? We just got news from back home Narayanan's mother... It happened 3-4 days ago Come, let's go back to the room You go, I'll come later No Don't be alone here I'm alright Moidu You go, I'll come later I want to be alone for sometime Mother! Please go What is it? Najeeb had called The flight is at 3.30 am tomorrow It will reach around 9 am It will be here after noon Here Now throw That's the way Father! Mother! Father is here Mother! Father is here Father has come! Father?! Both of you are playing, eh? Don't you have to study? Hey! Narayanan'ettan! Why didn't you tell us you were coming? I arrived all these years with lots of noise and fanfare This time just for a change I thought I'll come silently You didn't utter a word even when you called 2 days back - Okay, then I'll go back - That's not what I meant It was only yesterday I decided to come home How can I inform you the day before that? - Dad, did you buy the auto? - We'll buy it by and by The ball you brought last time is inside the well I am quite fed up getting it out of the well now and then It wasn't me It was him Didn't I ask you to get that well covered with a net? Good Lord! Narayan'etta - Have you gone thinner? - No! You're imagining it E E Are you studying to make things bad? You are always with this 'lime you stopped reading all this Both the boys are with Nirmala'edathi Sathish is very fond of her. All are grumbling that you didn't bring gifts It's been only 6 months since I last came I was quite lavish then But when you come from Dubai...? I don't pick up things from the foot paths of Dubai I just mentioned it, that's all It's time to renew the 'VISA I need a big amount for that Don't tell anyone... I need a big amount for that ...I didn't come to renewthe VISA I am not going back All these days my status as a Dubai-man's wife was great Nowl can't claim even that Are you asking me to go back? The kids and I are not your only dependents Your widowed sister and her daughter too are here Howvvill they manage without your support? Chandra'etan and his family are better off than us with his shop Are you planning to open a shop here? I must find myself a suitable job How much longer must I struggle on a foreign land I am not as healthy as I once used to be I too wish to be a part of family life here Don't go if you don't want to We'll manage with what we have Don't tell anyone about this Tell people I'm waiting for my VISA I must find something to do here If you watch TVwith such high volume... ...you wouldn't know even if the groves were stolen Uncle brought the video cassette Where is Narayanan? He was out there Didn't you see him? I heard you were back only this morning What were you up to? We just cleaned up the well and covered it with a net - I was about to come to your place - Why this unexpected visit? Nothing in particular 'l'lme to get my VISA renew We heard unusual voices And there he was We went on a pilgrimage Returned only this morning Here, take this Provisions Blessed offerings I was about to call you actually Will you be here for some time? Yes My 'VISA may take some time E HWW? A good marriage proposal has come up for our Smita They have met occasionally - Where are they from? - Quite nearby The boy is employed at the secretariat in Trivandrum Heard they belong to a good family What is there to think about? Ask them to come and let's talk it over I want to be here at least forthis wedding I'll leave only after that Howlong have you been in Dubai May be 32 years He's one of the first from our tovm to go to 'Persia' In Velayudhan's launch All those who went that trip did well in life Are your wife and kids in Dubai? They are here Arun, it's the in-thing for government employees to migrate to Gulf on leave If you have any such idea better tell early enough We'll fix the marriage on the earliest auspicious day Okay Chandra? Sure, but what about other matters? Our family is of aristocratic lineage We have no particular demands But then, being the niece of a person in Dubai I guess you'll conduct it in a way worthy of you Sure Have your tea Here's your change What's the problem brother? Arun's uncle and the marriage broker met me They are backing out of this marriage proposal Everything right up to the wedding day is fixed What's the issue? They've somehow come to know Nirmala has no property of her ovm Who says so? She can live in our house for as long as she wants That's exactly the problem She can only live there It's not her ovm, isn't it? They should have enquired about all this earlier, isn't it? Nowwhen everything else is fixed...?! They do have a point I can think of only one option What's that brother? Let's give up that house to Nirmala? Give that house? What do mean, brother? I am ready to Mite off my share of it to her Your share? Remember, 15 years ago you took... ...Rs 25000 from me to open this shop You maintain clear accounts Agreed that I did take money But in all these years, do you know the mrorth... ...of provisions taken from here? I have not kept account like you Narayana... We have given Nirmala a plot of 8 cent in front of our house I'll ask her to bequeath it to you You build a new house worthy of your stature there Do you think the old house is fit for a person like you? What did all of you say all these days? That he was toiling in Dubai for the sake of his family here Now look what happened? What are you saying Nirmala? From the time I remember Narayanan has done just that It only appears like that for outsiders like you He sends money every month for Pushpa's son's education There's so much more important things to be done here But such things will not bring get him good name Chandra'etan promised to give up his share He's not willing even though am mlriting off my 8 cent to him That's why I always say adversity brings out true colors This is a deliberate game played by Chandra'etan and Nirmala'edathi Otherwise how did she know it even before you reached home'? You speak as if it's a game of football They are actually tossing our life around like a football Brother does have point She does not have anyone other than us Let the wedding plans continue and allow her some happiness Nowl'll tell you something which will make you happy as well I am going back to Dubai You spoke the truth Nalini People like me can't live here We'll bequeath this house to Nirmala Let that marriage happen. We'll build a house on the 8 cent plot A small house Moreover, my guilt that I didn't do enough for my ovlm family will clear Smitha borrowed my chain for the function She has not returned it Anyway you have to give her a gift for the wedding Now don't bother asking it back We carry our passports like our life depended on it Since I'd decided not to go back I've forgotten where I left it When is the wedding? June 12th Good Lord! I'm going out A few more invitations to be given We have already spoken to Chandran You should have seen to it earlier I didn't realize the VISA expires Chandra'etan did explain I just came to put in a request Purely for my own peace of mind I arranged everything to get my 3 sisters married But was not lucky enough to participate in their weddings Just 2 days If xme prepone the marriage by 2 days I can also participate My relatives live in different parts They have already made their travel plans and booked tickets Do I have to upset all that just for you to participate? Of course not! Your guests are most important I was foolish in asking I didn't want to have any regrets later People like me are destined only.. ...to see from afar such festive occasions There are a few houses here I must step in to invite The funny part is... ...the person inviting is never there during the wedding Em E Okay then Pull it ashore Wdiim'? E Who are you? I went to Dubai years ago in your launch N aray an an The ocean continues to provide for me I'm not like those who crossed over One person toils while the rest of the family enjoy the fruits This happens only in this part of the world Hereafter, it won't matter if you didn't come They'll feel sad only if your money-order stops coming They will forget how you sheltered them... ...from the storms and tempests in life Finally, stand like an old umbrella in some corner of your house Your life will end only like that Who cares what happens to you? I didn't see the wedding saree - Where is it? - Looks great This saree will suit Smita very well I was the one who insisted You were all very doubtful Are leaving already? Why so early? Anyway I have to leave I thought I'll a bit leave early Smith's wedding saree How does it look? Good What about for the others? Sure, everyone gets a saree After staying back so many days when I think you won't be there...? If I did stay back, they'd send me home forever I just can't my dear I have asked Sudhakaran to send me a cassette of every event It is a technology for people like us Chandra'ettan will soon be here to drop you That's not necessary There are more important things to be done here So, I'll see you my dear Bless you I thought Chandran was joking Are you going off when there's a wedding in your own house? Let the kitchen be on the north side It's convenient to have the well nearby Let not the smoke spread to the wedding dais Chandra'etan is a bit tight fisted See that the lunch does not lack in anything We must serve good food to people we've invited, okay? See that the dais is strong Can't predict when it'll rain Use a tarpaulin if necessary Clean up the entire place, okay? Place tube lights up to the main road Our guests include old people and kids As I step out on another travel Leaving behind rain soaked villages And sun kissed fields With memories of faces streaked with tears I step out on another travel As I step out on another travel Please have a drink It's very cold Hope it's okay? I got the bus late Vasanthdedathi, have you met the bride? She's in there Vanaja? Go and play somewhere else I can't hear a single word with all this noise around I'll call Nalini'edathi Did you see Nalini? She's got a call Hey! You were here, eh? Take one You boys sit in the bus Do you recognize him Narayanan's older son Satheeshan He's in 6th grade Younger one is Sudheeshan In the 4th grade Stop creating a racket Sudhakara, isn't the bus ready? Nirmala, ask them to make it fast Better occupy the bus Afterwards you may not find good seats How's things going on? How's things going on? We were just leaving Call me tonight E Him In a temple where fowers bloom... ...as a sacrifice ends... In this desert dunes... The heart burns in pain To keep the flame of survival alive... In houses perched far away... I cross this great sea... I step out on another travel Suleiman'ikka has gone home Ashraf has been told everything My brothers-in-law are pestering me to help them It will be good if you can Physical labor is a bit difficult for us in future Opening a cafeteria is not so easy All I have is a little gold belonging to Suhra And that too, they are pavmed All that will turn out right Money will come in somehow Why don't you also pitch in? To meet the expenses of Smitha's wedding and VISA renewal... ...I'll have to continue here for the next 3 years After that I must lay the stone for a house on that 8 cent plot Suhra also called to say there was an upcoming wedding Even if they are well off back home, the expenses... ...are always dumped on our heads I have to buy tea and sugar It's only the 20th and you are already running short of stuff, eh? Whose turn was it to clean the room yesterday? Suresh for cleaning and Yusuf for cooking I knew it must have been Suresh Why this hesitation to keep our domain clean? The biggest relief when back home... ...is that we don't have to Q~up to use the toilet Some people have houses with 3-4 toilets But must come back and stand in queue here The contractor is planning to put in another cot here It's quite congested as it is What will we do with one more cot? It will become a wagon tragedy If we don't agree he'll hike the rent for sure This time Suhra and the kids insisted they want to visit Dubai Just bring them here Talk of pot calling the kettle black We at least go once in 3-4 years How long was it since you last went home? Actually we must bring them here Only then will they understand our difficulties If so, then Mammal'ikka's sons-in-law must come here first You not only got 4 of your daughters married Now you must take care of their husbands also - Is Narayanan there? - He's here Narayana, it's Chandrettan - How are you'? - I'm fine What's happening there? All fine Smitha is with Arun at Trivandrum That's good They are planning to take Nirmala with them Nowthey are looking out for a convenient house That's great! She's never knovm happiness in life Arun is a good boy Arun says the rent of houses in Trivandrum are very high It's the same here Rises every other day Arun suggests why not rent out the house back home? But Arun's parents live there, don't they? Not that house, Narayana Our house But what about Nalini and the kids...? It's their house and ifthey decide to rent it out what can we say? That's right Just ask around will you? I'll pay Arun whatever is the rent in market What is it? Nothing at all I am a tenant in my own house Didn't a Malayali guy die here today? Yes, go upstairs Somebody died here today, right? Yes Narayanafletan But the body has been taken away E E E E Can I see any one of his roommate? Jose'eta You can speak to him Him H Can you give me the phone number of your house owner? Okay, note it dovm I have been here for very long but not been able to anchor myself I stay at Sharjah with a friend The line seems to be busy Would he have allotted it to someone else? What's it? When Narayanan'etan passed away... ...a cot would have become free, isn't it? 'Thought I can shift over Nowit's ringing If I'm lucky I'll get it What audacity! Like Nero playing the fiddle \M1ile Rome was burning I'll blow my top if I stay there any longer One guy has come to shift into the dead man's cot When did you begin day time duty? You look better after your daughter-in-law started cooking All your imagination It's only because you're seeing me after along time I do get my meals on time after Najeeb and his wife came Why don't you come over on Friday? Hows your house construction coming along? They've begun the final touches All the workers are from Bengal Kerala is their gold mine now Our own people are too lazy Tunes have changed It's 6 years since Najeeb came here In the time I took to build one cafeteria, he has opened 8 of them The small house I built back home took me 15 years of toil But in this short time, he has built a palatial house on the same premises Sometimes I feel, our efforts were just a waste of time We paved the way for them, didn't we? They don't have any hurdles to cross So success comes faster I have a wish to fulfill before I return home for good I want to step on the soil of Khorfakkan once more They've come to meet you, Narayanan'etan Being a Friday I knew you'd be here I am Manoj Satheesh's friend Where are you from, son? I am from Triprayar We want an interview from you for Gulf News Interview me? On the occasion of celebrating 50 years... ...of expatriation we've heard plenty of success stories But we are making a program on people like you mo... ...have not succeeded in spite of so many years here Did Satheesh say my life was a failure I did not mean that I was just joking Ask me whatever you want How did you come to this desert in the 1960's? We came in Velayudhan's launch and reached Khorfakkan Wonder who the first Malayali was to have stepped on this land? Whoever it was it wouldn't have been for sight seeing Must be someone like us on the brink of poverty... ...and with many sisters to be married off It looks like just yesterday we swam across this ocean 'l'lme passed by in the blink of an eye At least we touched shore Wonder howmany people who came for livelihood sank in this sea 50 years What did we achieve? Our homeland prospered when our people migrated here Our hard work and toil helped this country prosper What about us? But wasn't it this land that fulfilled many of our desires? Yes... and thus tomorrow I shall leave this place forever The days you spent with Nalini... ...or those I did with Suhra comes nowhere... ...near the number of days we spent together my friend We've always been together ever since we remember Wind up your stay here and... ...return home as soon as possible Must be dad Tell him I'm asleep He never stops talking, mother Wants to know every single event happening here E Em What took you so long? I was washing vessels Where are the others? They slept E E What did you make? Satheesh insists on meat There was chicken in the fridge and I made fish curry for Kuttan There was chappati and puttu Moreover left over sambhar and rice was there Moideen is coming home What shall I send you? One of your shirts you wore for a day Can you send it without laundering it? What is all this, Nalini? Nothing! Forget it Have you eaten? I was having dinner I'll call you later I got in simply just to look around - How much does this one cost'? - 500 Dirhams Don't look at the exchange rate I'll come just before I go back home I'll get you a special discount It's a general habit with Malayali's They convert Dirhams into Rupees before buying anything E E Do you recognize me? No That's not surprising But I will knowyou anywhere anytime I have been searching for you all these years I think you got the wrong person Think back 30 years, at Tanker Mohalla in Bombay... ...you placed some mone in the pocket of a young man I did not sleep that night I felt a glimmer of hope I mranted to meet you again But you had left by the time I came to that lodge What you gave me was self confidence to move on in life This is my shop and I have many such shops here in the Gulf Ayesha is also here in Dubai with her husband and kids I'm very haPPV I can't repay you ever But tell me what can I do for you? The fact that you recognized me is more than I expected Come, let's sit inside I am going for another interview tomorrow I'll leave then Who was that? Family member? No, from my home tovm I don't know him very well What did he bring? Bed sheets, blanket soap, brush and some snacks Neither a family member nor an acquaintance Yet when he came to know someone was looking for a job... ...he's come with all those gifts A true Gulf migrant What he brought today would be worth a day's wages for him What's that Narayan'etta? A gift from an old friend Who is that? Do you knowthe lights shop in the mall I work in? The ommer of that showroom, Majeed You mean Maker! KavunkaY? He's as well knovm as business tycoon Yusuf Ali How did he become your friend'? Just an old acquaintance You are amazing! Why then are you struggling like this with friends like him? I must get up early I have morning shift this week N aray an'ett a'? Switch it off please Allow others to get some sleep N aray an'ett a'? Please sit I've shut dovm shop Wonder when this will be over Why don't we go have something to eat Better go somewhere far All knovm people here Are you going? We were just... When the box Gulf is opened shouldn't the brothers-in-law be present? The box that arrives from the Gulf has a typical Dubai fragrance Is there any family on this shore mo... ...hasn't got a family member I helped go to Dubai? Hey! I forgot to mention A launch is all set to sail tomorrow It will become an issue if the police come to know Anyone can go It's free for everyone on this shore I don't want anything Once they cross the ocean they can return with gold and cash Don't let the police get you They have started from the airport It'll take about 2 hours to reach here Since the body is embalmed we can't keep it for long Why don't we do this? We knowhis greatest ambition was this house God did not give him a chance to spend a night under this roof Why don't we place his body on the verandah of the new house? True! Let his desire be fulfilled at least in that manner The one who crossed the sea He who returned to this land Satheesh my is it set up there? Brother said we'll lay him down there Uncle, why here? I thought Moideen's suggestion was right Let's not do that Moideen'ikka We will soon shift to live there Do we have to begin it so inauspiciously? Let's not do it And in case we wanted to sell it... won't even get a good price Don't Oh dear moons which came till the door and peeped... Oh dear evenings that have closed the doors in anguish And the dreams that have withered and faded half way... Oh dawns I step out on another journey... In a temple where fowers bloom... ...as a sacrifice ends... In this desert dunes... The heart burns in pain To keep the flame of survival alive... In houses perched far away... I cross this great sea... I step out on another travel Chandretta I'll... Then I'll also take leave Is this the time to watch TV? Narayanan'etan, since 50 years has been living as an expatriate How did you reach this desert in the 1960's? I travelled by Velayudhan's launch and reached Khorfakkan Reached Sharhah with the help of an Arabic friend We walked from Sharjah to Dubai Those days high rise buildings were just coming up Many of them you now see will bear the sweat of my toils too When we think we are toiling for the sake of our loved ones... ...we don't feel the fatigue We feel happy when the money sent would have fulfilled a need Most of us are here only physically Even my wife is unaware of what my job is or my salary Not because I'm ashamed, but why tell them about hardships?! When we send Rs 10000 what do our people think? Out of the Rs 20000 we earn, we send Rs 10000 But the truth is, we earn 7000 and take a loan to make up the rest I have never helped anyone expecting any favor in return If you expect returns for what you did It's not love but a kind of loan Have you ever thought that in spite of struggles you were unfortunate in life? God bestows on you many fortunes right from birth To be born as a son to a loving mother To have loving brothers sisters, their children A wife who understands you perfectly A friend who stands by you throughout your life When I think of all this I feel I am very wealthy Children see us only as guests Someone who visits them occasionally with gifts When we see other kids we are reminded of our ovm But how many kids remember their parents? Except few, can we really say that majority of the immigrants are leading a happy life Each person lives his life within his thoughts How can a person know whether he is happy or sad? It's not possible I've often felt miserable that I was not a part of my home life When Chandra'ettan fell from his two wheeler and was bed ridden When Nalini couldn't eat due to a bad throat infection When Satheesh was sick with jaundice I felt miserable that I couldn't be beside him I have cried I don't regret becoming old but... ...agonize that I am no longer healthy to continue to support my family Have you ever felt you must achieve something in life? If you are the cause for happiness of people around you If your parents sleep at least one night in peace... ...and you are the reason for that That is achievement A person's success in life is based on how much he has been of use to others I was the reason my family was brought back from poverty I redeemed loans got my sisters married... ...got my brother a means for livelihood Considering all this, have I not accomplished a lot in life? Successful man! Narayanan'etan's replies tells us he considers himself... ...a highly successful person Nowtell us, are there any more desires left in life? If ever I am born again, I want to be born again as Narayanan.. ...to the same parents, as brother to the same siblings As Nalini's husband and father to my children As friend to Moideen and to the others I wrant to be born once again... that's all To Lives that went dovm the Ocean's depths in voyages for sustenance
