 

                        What you've done to me? Why? Leave me alone! Hi Paula, calm down we're your friends, calm down, now everything is going to be ok. Let's take her away!. Calm down! It's all right calm down... Calm down! ...the boatman said to me:. pretty girls don't pay money... - I can see you're feeling better, huh? - No. - I have to make you some questions. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is Let's see... You're a dancer, aren't you?. - No. - And your friend, the other Paula, is she a dancer?. - Yes, she is - Did you live together?. - No. - I hate her. - Oh! there's just a thin line between love to hate Did you have a love relationship? - No. - Have you killed her?. - It's been you! You've killed her! - Have you been performing for long at Flamingo's? - For a long long time - But that's a porn show, isn't it? - Yes. I've performed there since I was fiive years old. - Who with? - With my father, don't you think? - A close and happy family will never be beat. - Miss Alma, Paula has died. - Oh! May our Lord give her his confort. - Are you sure she's dead? Are you sure?. I've tried it five times already and she is hard, she doesn't die so easily. - When the boat passed by... the boatman said to me... pretty girls don't pay money... When the boat passed by... - When the boat passed by... ...the farman said to me... - What are you doing here on your own? - Eh... Not much... - Sergeant Meliton! - Excuse me, madam. - What a fucking gay he is! Long, long time ago in these lands lived a Prince of Granada who fell in love with a stranger, He offered her his wealth, his lands, his heart she warned she didn't know who she was She was completely lost in the memories of her past Ignoring her, the Prince married her and took her to the most beautiful building in the palace. For many years they were very happy in that place. Until one day, when the Prince was having a bath in the main swimming-pool she leapt on him possessed by an unexpected rage, and stabbed him to death. The Prince wanted to know why was she behaving this way. She smiled, saying: I have just remembered where I have already seen a palace such as this one. This palace is exactly the same as the Devil's, deep inside hell. Thank you for coming. For many years they were very happy in that place. Until one day, when the Prince was having a bath in the main swimming-pool, she leapt on him possessed by an unexpected rage, and stabbed him to death. The Prince wanted to know why was she behaving this way. She smiled, saying: I have just remembered where I have alreade seen a palace such a this one. This palace is exactly the same as the Devil's deep inside hell. And no one heard about Paula-Paula's show ever again.
