 

                        These are books about America, its history, its geography, and its heroes But it takes a big book like this one to tell the story of American folklore. The tall tales about men doing big things in a big country. Men like Captain Stormalong, Joe Magarac, John Henry, Pecos Bill, and the fellow who towers above them all, Paul Bunyan. North America was a great big land With a great big job to be done Ajob that needed a great big man Paul Bunyan was the one Hey, Paul Hey, Paul Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan He's 63 axe-handles high With his feet on the ground And his head in the sky Hey, Paul Hey, Paul Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan My name is Cal McNab, lumberjack by trade. Reckon I was the first person in our part of the country to see Paul Bunyan. Our town was cut right out of the big timber on the coast of Maine. Should have known something unusual was gonna happen that night. A southeastern come up and the wind howled so. Thought it was gonna blow our town right off the map. Come daylight, I took a look to see what was left of the place. I spotted an odd-looking craft on the beach. That's where the howling was coming from. Hey, Ma, what in the world do you suppose that is? The howling roused the whole town and everybody rushed down to investigate. I never saw anything like it. Looks like a big cradle. Now, be careful, Cal. Well, I'll be hornswoggled, a baby. And it's a whopper. The whole town adopted him and named him Paul Bunyan. Everybody pitched in to supply his needs. They held sewing bees and knitting circles to make his clothes. Feeding him wasn't any small job either. I led the singing to put him to sleep at night. One, two... Good night Sleep tight Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan You're only ten axe-handles high But you'll get bigger by and by Good night Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan It wasn't long before Paul was big enough to go to school. He was a bright boy and never tardy. Good morning, Paul. Good morning, children. Now, everyone be seated. Will the first pupil to work the sum of five plus two rise and show the answer. That is correct, Paul. But for heaven's sake, don't raise the roof. School's out! School's out! Yeah! The boys would head For the swimming hole - Just as soon as their studies had ceased - Come on, Paul. Even though young Paul Was sometimes last He surely never was least - Hey, Paul - Here he comes. Paul Bunyan Though he loved to swim What a time he had What a problem, me, oh, my When his front was in the water Oh, his back was high and dry How about a dive, Paul? Hey, Paul Hey, Paul Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Christmas was a big event in our town. We had our tree in the town square on account of Paul. I handed out the presents. You kids ready? Well, here's something for Johnny, for Susan and for Paul... Here's a gift from the whole town. A double-bladed axe. Paul took to cutting timber like a duck takes to water. Afore long, our sawmills had enough timber to last a lifetime. That opened plenty of new farmland. And our town grew so fast it got to crowding Paul. So one morning, we weren't too surprised to find a note in the square. "And plenty of room. Love, Paul. P.S. I'll write soon." We're gonna miss that boy. I am Chris Crosshaul, straw boss of a logging crew in the Middle West. I will never forget the first time I saw Paul Bunyan. I was topping trees one morning. I looked up and there stood the biggest man I ever saw. With my double-blade axe And my hobnail boots I go where the timber's tall When there's work to be done Don't mess around Just sing right out for Paul - Hey, Paul - I'm coming, boys. Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan He's 63 axe-handles high With his feet on the ground And his head in the sky Hey, Paul Hey, Paul Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Well, he picked up his axe And he chopped a tree Clean down with his forward swing Got him another When his axe swung back That timber cuttin' thing He kept on a-choppin' the live-long day And then when it was night He walked back over the stumps he'd cut And stomped them out of sight - Thanks, Paul - Why, it's nothing. Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Well, sir, Paul cleared that country so quick, farmers had their crops in the first week. So Paul headed west for the big woods and more room. He hadn't gone far when he ran into the worst blizzard this country ever saw. It was so cold even the snow was blue. When Paul built a fire, the flames froze. While he was building a second fire to melt the first one, he heard a low moo. He looked all around, and there, under a fog bank, he found a big ox frozen just as blue as the snow. Now, that ox was mighty grateful for being rescued. They hit it right off and became real pals. Paul named him Babe. The two of them headed west but the storm got worse and they got so lost. Well, sir, they left lots of tracks behind them. And come spring, those tracks filled with water and this area became known as the Land of 10,000 Lakes. With winter over, Paul and Babe went right to work. They logged off North and South Dakota, dug the Missouri River to float the logs to the sawmills, and then, so they could look the country over and see what else to do, they built Pikes Peak. Now, that was a fair day's work even for Paul. So next morning, he overslept a little bit. Babe wanted him to get up. Hey! What's the idea? You big blue ox! Now, watch it! Watch it! Cut it out, Babe. Well, one little shove led to another. And the first thing you know they was roughhousing all over the countryside. Then Paul and Babe got into a big tug of war. They piled dirt and rocks so high, it formed a range of mountains. Today, they are called the Grand Tetons. Well, sir, all this horseplay... I mean, oxplay. made Paul and Babe kind of dirty. So Paul looked the countryside over and got together with Babe. And before long, he had built them a shower bath. They went off and left it running. And today, Paul's shower bath is called Yellowstone Falls. Shot Gunderson is my name. I'm river foreman of a timber camp near the Oregon Trail. My outfit was mighty discouraged the day Paul Bunyan arrived. We were getting plenty of timber in the river, but we couldn't move it to the sawmills, because the river was so crooked. Paul looked the situation over careful-like then he harnessed Babe with a yoke, hitched on a big anchor, and threw it in at the head of the river. Giddyup, Babe! Well, Paul and Babe They heaved and hauled And the job was quickly done They pulled that crooked river out As straight as the barrel of a gun Hey, Paul They're on their way! Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan He's 63 axe-handles high With his feet on the ground And his head in the sky Hey, Paul Hey, Paul Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Now the country began to prosper. Yep, civilisation had arrived in the great Northwest, and with it came the prophets of progress. Now, just move in a little closer, boys. Yes, sirree! Right in this box is the invention that's gonna revolutionise the logging business. If you'll step over to the nearest tree, I'll demonstrate. With my double-blade axe And my hobnail boots I go where the timber's ta... Thunderation! What's that? Yes, sir, boys. Just turn on the steam and let her go. Hey, there! Who are you? And what the sam hill's that thing? Me? I'm Joe Muffaw. And this thing is the latest model of the handy-dandy steam saw. Now, bub, if you'll just step aside, I'd like to cut this tree down. Up here, we cut timber with a big axe, like this one, and we haul it with a big ox, like that one. Look, bub. You've gotta get with the times, become modern. There's the latest invention for hauling timber, a steam lokey. With this steam saw and that engine, I can cut and haul more timber than you and that blue ox ever thought of. Is that so? You with your newfangled contraptions! You with your big axe and old fogey ways! I'll show you what I can do with this axe! I dare you to try it! Looks like a toy to me! Toy, huh? I'll show you! There was only one way to settle it. I was appointed judge. This contest to last one hour then I'll measure the stacks of timber and declare the winner. You fellows ready? Ready! Ready! Hey, Paul Keep swinging, Paul! Paul Bunyan Yay, Paul! Cut that timber, show him how Beat that city slicker now - Hey, Paul - Get him, Paul! - Paul Bunyan - Yeah, Paul! The race looked dead even. And when I went to measure the stacks, they looked dead even too. Well, I shinnied up Paul's stack first, pulled the measuring chain taut... For Paul, 240 feet, even. - Yeah! - Hurray for Paul! Numbers are here, 240, I'd say. For Joe, 240 feet and one quarter inch. Yippee! Poor Paul Poor Paul Bunyan Yep, the machine had beaten man. But don't you folks feel sorry for Paul and Babe. I hear they're up Alaska way, and mighty happy. Lots of room up there, you know. And those northern lights you see in the sky, well, that's Paul and Babe having a lot of fun, oxing around, knocking the aurora borealis out of the countryside. Hey, Paul Hey, Paul Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan He's 63 axe-handles high With his feet on the ground And his head in the sky Hey, Paul Hey, Paul Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan Paul Bunyan
