 

                        1 'Murikkal' This a well known place named 'Murikkal' This church with thousands of believers- - and festival over here is very famous This beautiful cemetery is the historical record of Murikkal church Gained everything after toiling with earth By handing over to ones beloved ones- there are several blessed souls over here, who had demised Over here, they are waiting for their children and daughter in laws Those who had left us, they are keeping fine here With the happiness of waiting Always and forever.. Amen! Mother, so for whom is this requiem? For Varkeychan's father's father Perianthanam George Wasn't he the one who- - firstly introduced machine for rubber sheet making at Murikkal? Let him make the sheet sitting there that is not what I asked Being a big family, there should be someone present for the requiem, no? See, only mother is there That is why asked for whom is this requiem conducted? Mother, that is done for the people who are alive, is it not? By the way father, this requiem is done for the people who are dead, no? Man, all though the requiem is for dead people, who gets its result? Did you understand anything? Yeah,yeah Who is he? He is from high range A distant relative of Varkeychan Makes a visit sometimes Sometimes. Yeah, understood Okay leave that, over here there are two ripe jack fruits in the enclosure I'll send that along with Saxon Father don't ridicule him like that, like before he isn't fond of Jack fruit This is Perianthanam Valkeychan Varkeychan is the main character in this story Without Varkeychan, this story will not go ahead The crux of life was served for the nation by Varkeychan At present he is on retirement life Varkeychan had an unique taste towards antiques This isn't a mere concrete piece during 1961 On August 13th German Democratic Republic had divided Berlin into two- -and constructed a wall Later when that wall was demolished- -has got this piece of concrete For us, this is only a block to throw at a dog But for Varkeychan its not like that, a historical treasure- - which has to safeguarded for years Every year for Christmas Grand children who comes to native from America As per their likes This figure like a Santa Claus Presently Varkeychan is maintaining it What a nice song Ammachi (Mother) seems like Varkeychan is sleeping well We'll come there through the other side -Okay Ammachi Come, lady Varkeychan is interested not only to antiques, okay My goodness'.! Hey lady! What is it? -Come here, now What is it? There was a ripe Jackfruit at the east, no? Crow has peeked on it So, it was jackfruit, no? Got scared Why? Doesn't it worry you? A Jackfru it covetous person You remain here itself Hey George What is it? This was here, was it? How many Jackfruits do you want? Look Kunjumol's enclosure is full of Jackfruits, no? By afternoon there is aAdimali bus, shall we...? Don't go empty handed, go to kitchen and collect from Am machi We know that Varkeychayan won't leave us empty handed Varkeychayan has got a good heart Will live up to hundred years Okay, let it be Jose, you may leave Hey Pappi, take that rope Jackfru it! Hey fellow, tie it and bring it down or else it will fall and get smashed See, whether it suits you Here Thanks a lot Ammachi Jose, now don't you have work related to Vinegar'? Why not? -The hooch for Vinegar is not enough for him to drink Shut up lady! You take that one Take the coconut also Fellow, throw it and give Fellow, rope is coming okay MW W Tight n, tight. Slowly, slowly.. Valkeychayan, has got a good heart Will live up to hundred years What is it? What is it? Before introducing Varkeychan prapeyuBeiare that" He left us Death is a clown who had got no know how of scene, how true it is Without Varkeychan, how can this story move ahead? 'Konnayi' MW W "Fellows, what is this thing coming What is this stuff?" "Fellows, what is this thing coming What is this stuff?" "Is it gold or is it some sort of hex?" "Came from that shore to this shore, what's this stuff?" "Is it some sort of stone don't know to explain what it is" "Fellows, what is this thing coming What is this stuff?" "Fellows, what is this thing coming What is this stuff?" "Got astonished, eyes got glued" "Is it true or is it a magic, getting mad" "People seeing this stare each other and ask between them, what is this?" "Is it gold or is it some sort of hex?" "Came from that shore to this shore, what's this stuff?" This is Pulimoottil family Devasi Pappan, is the male head of the Pulimoottil family What is seen here, everything is planted by Pappan What Pappan had was six sisters Pappan had lived for them, only for them This is Pappan's fourth sister Elam ma Elam ma's husband is doctor Mathew Elam ma has two children Pulimoottil hospital is run by them This is Pappan's third sister Thaiyam ma Thaiyamma's husband is brother Paile Thaiyamma also has two children Owns a retreat centre at San Francisco and Konayi They are big believers This is Lillykutty, Pappan's fifth sister Lillykutty was a nurse in Italy Right now she is there at the native place along with the family Actually the person behind this container is Lillykutty This is, sister just after Pappan, sister Agnus Who is seen beside, is second one Annama She plays the role of the mother here This is Pappan's youngest sister Kunjumol She is a studious person, does research in various subjects You call and say to everyone Okay I'll Hey fellow Girgory, where is Pappan? -We are looking for Pappan Pappan will be there at our estate, go and call him You go, I'll call and tell to everyone Manoj, take the vehicle Where is Pappan? He has gone there MW W Kunjetta, where is Pappan? This is Pulimoottil Devasi Pappan, whom we were looking for all this time Years back After the demise of their parents On leaving the own native Murikkal, had emigrated to Konnayi Pappan and sisters Anyhow even today Pappan has a special liking towards Murikkal Because, that is where Pappan's close friend Varkeychan is Once upon a time- - it was thick jungle on the mountain ranges at Konnayi Devasi Pappan, is a hero who reaped gold All these mountain ranges what is seen, today belongs to Pappan 'Paa..Va' (about Pappan and Varkeychan) Lillykutty, you have done what is promised, smart girl Look father has come Father, here - Fellow, no need of this bouquet and all Let it be father, this is only a starting, going to re-write- - the history of Pulimoottil family Annam mo, what was the expense for all this? My goodness, this is done by Lillykutty and her husband Josekutty Father, let them do it after all its for Pulimoottil family isn't it? "What is this stuff?" Here comes the male head of the Pulimoottil family Look Pappan has come Pappan let compatriots know it By the by, that person who was the descendant of Michelangelo Husband what was his name? He is a moody guy even after paying money he won't create it Later on saying the history of our Pappan and his family He agreed, isn't it husband? Yeah,yeah Lady enough of it Father, let the ceremony of purification commence Here father -Pappan for that box should be opened That's true Man open the box What is inside that? Can see after opening Must be bottle "Is it gold or is it some sort of hex?" "Came from that shore to this shore, what's this stuff?" "Is it some sort of stone don't know to explain what it is" "What is this stuff?" What a tomb? Father, what kind of a tomb is this? Fellow, this is a foreign made How is it? Did you like it? My dear Lillykutty, when you said it Never thought it'll be so nice Marvelous, feels like to lie inside that one So true Father! -Come on tell Why fellows, peeping from there? Come and see the tom b of Pulimoottil people See this and go Go fellows, go -A tomb! Father, you should inaugurate this one 'Inaugurated by Fr. Michel Kalayi', we should write that also Should I inaugurate that one? Someone from your family can do it, no? 'Three months before'.. We can start the flash back of Pappan and Valkey, 3 months back What is the use of having own hospital- - doesn't have time to treat Pappan Mathewchayan and Roychayan, they are on the rounds They will reach here now itself Is there any problem? Even other wise they are ones who look after Pappan Just a while before only they had checked Pappan and left After all Kunjumol, Baby and Roy they fear Pappan okay How many times did they piss on this chest Ladies, just shut up Yeah Philommachi, come Why sisters murmur? Just a con, its a fake sleep last time left after conflicting with Vaikeychayan He is not at all well Looks like this time Varkeychayan will be admitted Yeah, was it Philo? What had happened to him that you said? What to say Devasichaya? He is standing there Last time, on meeting him he was in good health He is prefectly all right, he is waiting outside like an Abaft tree! This is a good one What is it old man? Nothing, bit old isn't it? How is it? Will I get on asking? What? Over there, that old bottle That bottle, that belongs to Pappan out here Does it belong to him? Then I'll snatch that one What a shame it was? Hey you fellow Jackfruit I have told you several times- - all the things in here aren't for you to fix a price There will be several things like that, over here did you hear'? Last time, he had come asking for the piece of Berlin wall Hey fellow,one who survived by breaking rocks- - at Kanjirapalli and Konnayi Won't know the value of Berlin wall To possess certain things you should be lucky Varkeychava'! Mathukutty you gained weight and became like a hoax Pappan, there is a cut in your beef eating Cholostrol, has gone up like anything Yeah, very good being like that Valkeychaya applicable to you also Go man, a big doctor has come Child, you go and try to make money with the available time See you okay Go Hey man, Valkey Come here What is it? I need to discuss something, come Devasi, don't I know you? What is the problem? Fear of death What a shame! Look Devasi, why do you want to get scared? When the moment arrives, we all like a.. ...like a thistledown Will fly off like this Won't allow to nap after a booze in the afternoon Hello? What? Kunjetta! Pappan"! Pappan, just get up What is it for'? -Get up Change this dress fast What happened fellow? Get up and change the dress, we have to go to Murikkal What is there at Murikkal? It is needed to go Pappan change the dress Thaiyamma, Baby Fellow, what has happened? Just get up and come Here words bear no meaning Perianthanam Varkeychan who has attained a brave death As we all know, he was a blessed soul Ammachi"! What a funeral it was What is it? Did you drop Justin at the convent? Girgory, has taken him That is not the point Thaiyammachi, how elegantly did Varkeychan rest? Won't say he is lying dead Pappan, has great amount of grief, not talking to anyone Both was send together for the church festival at Mu rikkapali By father when both were young Whatever that was united by father, didn't go without a result Till this date had the both part each other? Varkeychyan has left, my Jesus give longevity to Pappan Whatever it is we'll go and meet Pappan Look, all have gone inside, Baby, go and call them Pappan will be saddened more My Pappan...! Pappan are you sad? Don't cry ladies Won't he be sad, what are you saying? He has not gone anywhere, he is here itself Is it not An nama? My Christ! Look, tears falling from the eyes of Pappan I can't bear this Pappan, don't cry Don't cry - What are you doing? Ammachi, come here Boy, let us sit near the Pappan at least Let Pappan get some relief if you cry like this, peace of mind will be lost once and for all Look, let Pappan sit for some time, come here Poor Pappan All of you go that side All may go, why putting Pappan into grief? Why this crying and all? Who knows? Even otherwise all the mothers are like this A matter about Pappan will worry them the most Fear is will anything happen to Pappan? Best,he is a person who has come to console Baby, you get up and go Go Baby, Baby there is nothing for me You go to that side No! Go fellow Fellow I say you go Today is it required to cook rice-gruel? All are sad, doesn't think anyone will eat anything Who has expired, Valkeychan What is the relationship of Varkeychan with this family? What relationship? No relationship at all Friend of Pappachayan, only that much Not that girl, Vaikeychayan hails from a big family The elder son has become a MLA in America -A MLA in America? Yeah, is there a native without MLA? What do you know? How many times had this Valkeychan- -come to build a relationship with Pappan? With second son of Valkeychan, Fernandus Had proposed Lillykutty of here It was Pappan who said no to it When friends become relatives, friendship will be destroyed Being Pappan's friend means, friend of everyone When Pappan is hurt, all will cry that is what is seen Uncle, is this lollypop soft or mild? I say its mild He says its soft Uncle, you say Uncle, you say what it is Say whether it is soft or mild? Get lost! Come man, we'll ask Kunjumol aunty Echayan, (brother) did you see this? This is the family tomb of Varkeychayan Look brothers, a family tomb in the name of Perianthanam family Did you notice that one? Yeah Jose! Come on tell - Don't we want a tomb in ourfamily name? Correct, I was about to say that For an aristocratic Christian, saying there is no family tomb Its really a bad mark That is true Achaya, we also need one excellent family tomb That's it Cheers "What is this?" Kunje! What is it any discomfort? Not that man, when we all die Where do they go? Some go to heaven some go to hell Pappan, will definitely go to heaven, its sure Then our Valkey will be there isn't it? Where else will Varkeychan go? Isn't he a blessed soul? Time to sleep is it? "The marriage..The marriage" MW W "This is a marriage" "A unique family which is blessed with a marriage" "Bells of prayers have echoed, now happiness will prevail" "On the alter which is filled with angels of the sky" "At the alter, both souls unites..The marriage" "Which is blessed by holy communion" "A unique family which is blessed with a marriage" "Bells of prayers have echoed, now happiness will prevail" All tough your mother has delivered six to seven, only she has got that grace Yeah, that is true The rope with which Tipu's chariot is tied But Tipu had a hoarse, no? That is history, what is not there in the history, that's what I keep here What man? Go man Anyway this Varkeychan is great When Kunjumol said never expected this much You don't coat the entire sugar here, keep some for her, okay Both of you go and have the sweet brooth of milk Aren't you coming? No, you go Finished seeing everything? Enough,enough Only this much has ended over here Don't ridicule in front of kids Fellow, I wanted to show you another thing? -What is it? After seeing it don't beat me okay What is that trick? Do you realize what this one is? What is it? Man shall I take this? If I could take care of this all these years Still again it will remain safe here Fellow, of lately I have a feeling What is it? That is not a merely a feeling Its a strong feeling That I'll be seeing her shortly But she is gone, isn't it? There itself I will go and meet her MW W Devasi, don't I tell you I'm will be expiring first among us? Now what has happened? You sit here Kunju -Yeah Will leave after sometime Let me sit here for sometime Thought of cleaning the cemetery Mothers from 'Mathirvedhi' I also joined with them Everything is a blessing is it? Father, should also have some work, no? Yeah, father has got plenty of work here Now all of you don't irritate me Father isn't it a church with historical reference Why not make it a retreat center? Have tried all that but there is no saint or anointed ones from here That's the problem Why can't father be a saint? Then there is no need to search from outside Annointed father lttiparaban's services on his memory Creates goose bumps Its a good thing to hear and all, okay Hey what is this mother scaring people Keeps on sweeping, now pulls my leg too From where did she come from now? -From the tomd By the way, Pappan's parents and all hail from here is it? Till father and mother, they are here but doesn't have the tomb No idea in which area it is situated Father, we had migrated to Konnayi long back Know that but that is good is it? Today how much is the asset? But everything is with Konnayi is it? If Pappan was from this doicese Something would have happened here By the way, that can be done even now Grand father and grand mother is here, is it not? Father, no use It has been 10 to 20 years Pappan has dealt with the money For everything there is sisters, their husbands and their children But until and unless Pappan says no money will be diverted I'll say after discussing with them Okay then, mothers what are you doing? Varkey, we are leaving man Who is this fellow? He is the younger one Told about his wedding only He was never seen in the church and all Do you know this route? Now I should grant the wedding permission is it? Let me think over it, boy you come next week Okay- By the way father the fixation is scheduled next week only Bride is a nurse, at London has got only two weeks leave Should leave soon after the marriage And he has to learn I.L.T.S Only then he can go along with her You may go but the marriage won't take place in this church My god, why is that father? Do you know the commandments? Our Lord.. He can learn I.L.T.S but on asking commandments, he just beat about bush First of all you study about God later we'll think of marriage Isn't itAmmini? Father'? That's" Then Ammini you may go call this boy also Okay then father He is really stone hearted, father Kalayi -Mother You will have to learn it fully Mother! Father, our Pappan had gone to Murikkal Seems he had told father Ittiparamban- - to sanctify the cemetery over there Who has told all this man? Tale hearer Thommi If he has said, then it must be correct But still will Pappan do,like that? Since many years I have been telling should renovate Konnayi church Whatever it is they are expatriates here Pappan has got inclination to Murikkal church Pappan has got nothing of that sort How much had he suffered to make the family wealthy? In the mist of that, church right now Pappan is free is it? From now on we shouldn't keep the mouth shut That's right Anyway while going to convent should say Emmili sister- - to have a detailed enquiry Josachaya! When did the sister daughter reach? Came now only I'll just go inside and come Okay, okay Ammachi! Daughter are you fine? Fine, where is Pappan, Am machi? He is upstairs Lilly aunty! Emmili Kutty Carry on with your job I'll go fast and meet Pappan and come Don't you want anything to eat? Will eat, let me see Pappan Will be inside this one Who is here? Sister daughter You aren't seen here of lately? Pappan is getting old Has brought this for Pappan Child, you may put it on me Child, why did Kalayi father send you here, to know what? You often visits to get some news No other job for father, he can directly ask all these matters If it is any financial help, you ask your sisters or their husbands No, Pappan that is not the matter Without doing anything to Konnayi church Pappan has told that will pay a huge donation to church at Murikkal Father Kalayi has told like that If Kalayi father has told like that, you go and ask to father Kalayi Child, does the church belong to natives its not built by Pappan, is it? Child, Pappan is not reluctant to do If at all Pappan intends, can't he convert church at Konnayi- - similar to a Basilica at Rome? If Pappan does it all by himself- -com patriots will not have any responsibility That is what he has got in his mind now if at all sisters decide.. ...Pappan won't say no to it But for sisters to decide, first of all Pappan should decide My Jose Achaya, I have no reason to interfere in all these Don't you know the character of Kalayi father? If at all disobeying what father has told, superior mother keeps nagging me I'm leaving Child, drink the tea and go Now there is no time Pappa, now I'm leaving take care of your health okay Emmili, drink the tea and go No time the bus will leave now Girl stop there Don't call her from behind Drink this and go, here Come on drink it Relax and drink Here drink some more Enough No need Echaya, the bus will come now, I'll go like that Okay fine dear My daughter should have married and lived with a family Now she is in hardships She doesn't get time to sit On receiving a God's call, can't she not become a nun? Lady we should be proud of her From Pulimoottil, there are two people who are wedded to God Lady its the prayers of those people which is the grace of this family Mother has also said, the life of this Pappan was ruined due to a God's call Our Mary at Perumali, how much Pappan loved her'? At last as she was expecting the God's call, Lord took her Shut up lady Know it is hard for Pappan but still it burps up! Shucks! Go inside you lady -My god Go, go -When kids are standing her love story Look how Ellamachi runs, how much she is scared of Pappan What is it fellow? What was it Pappan? With that Mary? MW W Hey man Devasi, what an absent-minded is this? Take the umbrella and go, man Fellow, come straight and tell Pappa..Shall we go? Pappan is ready, God has done the wonders Pappan has taken the umbrella Kunju, do don't have to strain much, there is a person to take care of me Who is that? Did Pappan marry? Yes fellow -Who Your mother's sister! Come on walk fellow Walk I say Saying has married" All can easily preach Now, the Rubber has no price here When Vanilla came Planted Vanilla, chopping Rubber Now where is the Vanilla? You chop the rubber and take it either in a van or in a lorry That is not the current problem here Here the problem is on church expansion Pulimoottil is a big family no? Let them say -Yes Until and unless Pappan says, we can't do anything, father If Pappan intends, what father has thought in mind can be easily done What is that? Yeah Don't carry out the expansion only with what is given by Pappan There are other 500 families is it not? By the way we are taken here as outsiders, is it? Then who aren't outsiders let them do it Yeah, there is sense in what Babychan has told What our church need is , this parish hall should be made bigger Poonthanam Joppan is a big trader in rubber, no? Joppan can also do it if needed Joppan will do nuts! How many rubber plantains are there for you to tap? You can also contribute a sum for church renovation Father, earlier didn't I say rubber won't fetch price, didn't you hear? Father aren't you living in this world? Church has got a plan for' cemetery renovation also Here comes again! Who is here from Muttumel family? Yeah , there is -Yeah Philip If needed Philip can also do it Will try father but not sure Look Philip is not sure Then fund for philanthropy Like before no donations are coming Look what father plans here is worth of crores Will all these happen swiftly? If required shall pay twenty five thousand for festival at church Father, really in a bad shape the believers should have money, is it? George, how come without money there is a new Benz car? My father, that is all on credit Now there is no time shall meet during the next church meeting Let me re-think whether you should be included in church committee Without Thommi, George committee can't be held by father Will see Thommi kunju, Goerge We are also coming Come Joppa Look, how insolent they are? Father did you see such kind of people are there in church committee Now did you realize why Pappan didn't do anything all these years? Now without these people's help let us see what Pulimoottil family can do Father we are deciding certain things Happy on hearing that All this is infected with pests Yeah, that's correct No one is responsible if I don't check Pappan you wait here, I will go and call that worker Call that Maniyan here Hey felllow Maniyan What man Devasi will father Kalayi bottle you? What is it to you, if I do anything? What will you do? You won't allow your sisters and their husbands to do anything What is it to you? It doesn't bother you not even as a fart You Jackfruit if you have the guts come directly Come fellow, Devasi Slowly Are you scaring me by hidding? You Jackfru it Why seems you are really happy How not to be happy? Fellow, what did you think? Careful Slowly, don't be afraid Look, like you think the cemetery at Murikkal is not hell, its heaven With lot of flowers, with lot of blessed souls And there are lot of 'thistledown' The smell of flowers will give a scent to tombs Over there I met your father and mother Saw father and mother? Yeah saw man What did they say? None of them liked your migration to Konnayi leaving Murikkal After all Murikkal is the land of your fore fathers is it not? They didn't like it They didn't like.. Can hear the conversation there Walked up to the end of the farm, can't find anyone there You talk Who is that Pappan? Its our Varkeychan you may come My god, Varkeychan! MW W My goodness You Jackfruit Go man Varkey What is going on Devasi? Is it a quarrel? Should be friends okay What is it? Should be friends Like this Over there, I saw your father and mother Pappan's 80th birthday is approaching Pulimoottil family members have decided to conduct a big family union Informing to father for the first time If we have got something to do, that's for our Pappan only That should be done when Pappan is alive In the coming family meeting all will inform their decision That is really good Not only that Pulimoottil family should have a family tomb That is also good For the Konnayi cemetery that's very important So father should come for the family meeting Come on man Thank you father Okay then On standing here after owning all these properties what is seen Man, my mind tells me What is possessed in this world or built on this eath, nothing at all In the end can be taken along with you The only possession is, my fore fathers who are dead at Murikkal What is wrong in that? For Pappan even the grand children in family are ready for anything That's how the sisters grew them up Man, on standing here I can see myself I can the Murikkal down there Can see father and mother What they created and what they left behind, can see everything This is not something of a new vision Where is Pappan? Pappan will be there in our estate Just go and call him Kunjetta, where is Pappan? Like you think the cemetery at Murikkal is not hell, its haven With full of flowers, blessed souls and with lots of 'thistledown' Smell of flowers covers the tomb Hey Kunju, those ladies will say something and this fool will obey I'm all right fellow A knot Not bad fellow Was it you? -Can we expect? By the way it seems you will reach there soon There is nothing in this fellow, its just a knot There is nothing to be afraid of, over there, over there its really fine That is not because there are angels and saints Over there one thing is not there What is that which is not there? Fear of death Over there, there is no need to wait for one more death That's true - I'll tell one thing which makes you really happy Maw" Our Mary Is it so man? During the festival at Murikkal While seen behind the idol of Mother, the same beauty At present she is ruling in the mist of angels Over there.. Like a blessed soul MW W "During the time when tender whiskers sprout" "During the time when heart throbs like a band.." "During the time when tender whiskers sprout" "During the time when heart throbs like a band.." "What was the wish while reaching the church during festival?" "On that day came by that route because of her black eyes" "She is a Christian girl" "During the time when tender whiskers sprout" "During the time when heart throbs like a band.." "Unknown.." "As the tale was unknown in the native" "Even it was unknown to breeze, even she didn't know it" "Rushed into the Manson, what was the wish behind?" "Out of the wish, only to see her once" "Whose girl is she?" "During the time when tender whiskers sprout" "During the time when heart throbs like a band.." "Without out saying..Without uttering a single word" "As the distances doesn't vanish without conveying the likes" "When she vanished like this, why such a grief like this?" "Whose name was hidden in that virtuous soul?" "What is the answer for that?" "During the time when tender whiskers sprout" "During the time when heart throbs like a band.." "What was the wish while reaching the church during festival?" "On that day came by that route because of her black eyes" "She is a Christian girl" "During the time when tender whiskers sprout" "During the time when heart throbs like a band.." What did she say and go? She is going to join monastrey Monastrey? Annamachi, of lately Pappan has got some problems What sort? Nothing to worry about But still come on tell the matter Pappan used to babble at night Now the same is followed at day time Anyway call a father and conduct prayers Will Pappan agree to that? Thaiyamma, you call our sister and ask What is to be done? Tell Pappan to come here once in a while Tell Pailee to counsel him Take care of Pappan well Should that be mentioned You listen attentively Book of testament, 47th chapter from verses 27 to 31 Teacher, bless Yacoba, lived in the Goshal region of Egypt They assumed lot of wealth over there, they bore several children Yacob, lived in Egypt for 17 years The life extend of Yacob was 147 years When the time of death approached- Yacob called Joseph and said When I die don't cremate me in Egypt Egypt is only a place where I stay To remain with my fore fathers Take me from Egypt and burry me in their grave Devasi"! Then why not? Aren't you coming? I'll obey as you say Joseph made the promise At that time Yacob bowed MW W Look Philip and all has come Beeran Ekka, give 3 strong tea Natives think, doing a big thing Yes its a big thing Janna All unitedly, Pappan's sisters, brother in laws and their children At the time when Pappan is alive, the main agenda is- -should do something for Pappan Exactly Look, father is going Look how father goes, thinks he'll get some thing now When this is for Pappan, Pulimoottil family members will- - convert Konnayi church to heaven What is the amount of wealth they possess? The current amount of wealth of Pulimoottil family is This so called Joppan and all can't even dream that Beeran Ekka, no need of tea Your tea is not required Come Eppa -lets see tea can be obtained from some where else The godfather of Pulimoottil family, Pappachayan We all wish that he should live for hundred years For PappachayamBy wishing him birthday wishes MLA -To participate in another function, I'm leaving thank you Okay fine Happy on coming Elder brother in law Francis, will give a short description On what all things we are going to do in this diocese for Pappan Hey fellow, you should remember your father Should think of mother also Should think of Mary also The Pulimoottil family that was the members of Murikkal church diocese Today, they are the part of Konnayi church Along will construction of tomb at Konnayi church We wish certain humble things should be done for the church I'll read out some of the projects Everything should be known in the name of Devasi Pappan, we wish that Firstly an orphanage for the church For that we'll give one acre of land, by Francis Annam ma Secondly, by Thaiyamma Paile New alc parish hall and catering facility Thirdly by Mathews Elam ma At the junction a new cupola Fourthly, by Edwin Kunjumol a study center for self- employment Along with that by our Lillykutty and Jose This family tomb and cemetery renovation Father is the face of diocese changed? Father don't fly more, should be decided by Pappan Just shut up man, the tomb is in our church, no? Then what is there to worry about? Without asking Pappan nothing is decided This is a big cheating If your tomb is at Konnayi, then why should I wait for you, here? I'm leaving Varkey, then you may leave after hearing this one This function is very good A farewell before death Children, have all reached? Can Pappan say? Till this day" Till this very moment. Your Pappan, Devasi lived.. That was how his father and mother wished But..it was not on the soil where they lived and died My generation shouldn't be cremated in this soil here What is saying? Philosophy This earth is no ones place of residence Is it not? We should do, what is.. Fellow, don't you hear my preaching? Pappan listens to it very well, learn from him Right now what can I do for them? For them will construct a souvenir over here Father not a souvenir should construct an adobe Not here in their native Where my fore fathers were born lived, died and finally cremated Where it was, over there This is only a place where I live What is Pappan trying to say? The family tomb of Pulimoottil family should not be erected at Konnayi Its at Murikkal Pappan what are you saying? When Pappan dies where should you be cremated? At Pappan's diocese Which means over here Here at this Konnayi, in the Konnayi church cemetery So the tomb should be constructed here, no? That is how it should be Pappachaya, if every diocese member is born and expires The rituals should be done in that particular diocese That is the rule If the diocese is against my desire Father, then I should change the diocese My Lord My heavens! My goodness, father! Should change the diocese, a demand of an ordinary diocese member But for these people, at Konnayi Pappan and family is like that Will anyone allow the goose who lays golden eggs- - to lay eggs in neighbors cage? Really great! What an act of insolence? Father, why are you silent? What is this? How to change the diocese just like that? Fellow, when Pappan says a thing, we can't desist from doing it This is not a small thing Yeah -Actually to change the diocese, father needs to sign only But a family like Pulimoottil, for the church at Konnayi to lose This is simply like cheating Ask like that Its like ridiculing father That is what is done Simply on saying will do this and that for church, we compatriots won't allow Today's meeting is dispersed, then go and tell to Pappan Can't change the diocese Members of diocese won't allow that Father, why saying like that? Baby, stop it This is a parish hall of the church if you want to oppose me- - speak outside this com pound wall Now, what father told is correct This is applicable to you also, this is not a market to speak out what you like This is a committee of the church If Pappan wants to change the diocese, let him do it For that why is George so irritated? If you have taken Pappan's favors you also change the diocese Look George don't talk rubbish Your father was the cook of Pappan don't forget that To change the diocese, father won't allow, fellows speak after father agrees Yeah, that's it Sit, we'll talk As a memeber I'll form an action committee No chance I'll speak to Pappan chettan Not workable You and your action committee Get lost you cheap fellow Come on guys, enough of it Get lost you fellow They won't get right MW W Its Ittiparam ban Praise the Lord, father Let there be praises, father After all wish of a soul that is going to die is more important, no? That letter of Devasi Pappan The letter on changing the diocese if father could sign that, will sent a person and collect it Will that be a burden father'? I'll come and give it Okay fine, that is enough Okay then Then what? Am I going to give that? Certain wishes of some fathers? Can't agree when a good family is present here Daughter, no need of that white sari keep that black sari What is this mother'? Now itself leaving to Murikkal? Fellow, did you forget about tomorrow's retreat? I forgot that in the mist of this rush Now mother" Mother sister had called now Told about special care to Pappan I'll reach here when Paile chettan's retreat is over Where is Annamachi? Hasn't woken up? Without deciding on Pappan's matter, all are going different paths That is what Annam achi, says What are you saying? Now, I'm not going Come Annamachi, what are you saying? Then I have decided that I'm not going I have not told, that no one should leave One person is lying at the other side simply babbling How many times Pappan had told he wants to go to Murikkal? Where is Edwin, Kunjumol and Elamma? Ammachi, Edwin and Kunjumol had gone to house at Punnapara Elam ma aunty to Mathewchayan's house Yeah, that is what I said Each one went after their businesses Look, the family tomb is kept outside if you all start in this manner First you all burry me there and you all close me in that tomb Am machi, its not that we have not tried The father won't agree to it Insists that the tomb should be at Konnayi My Lord, what all ordeals After the death of Varkeychayan only- - Pappan began to have such thoughts No, after the death of father and mother After losing our house and property at Murikkal Pappan has lot of grief on that Even other wise now Pappan always says about death Now if I'm not about to die, then why is this tomb kept here? Pappan, will speak to Bishop and transfer the vicar Shucks! Don't speak against God's will its not Pulimoottil people- - who decided which vicar should serve which church To go back we should get that property at Murikkal, no? Pappan needs that exact property is it? When money power increases, on giving that can fetch anything Fellow, who is there who doesn't forget oneself? Pappan, what are you saying, don't be exposed to mist come inside Get lost fellow What's he.. Hey fellow Devasi.. You are adamant that you'll take me, aren't you? Man, I have been there and I'm coming from there, no? See, I need to discuss a matter How much I try, can't be with our Mary Get lost man, he and his Mary I'm getting mad here When one dies should remain in his grave Shouldn't come after people who are alive Donkey Don't stare at me, fellow What's wrong with you, man? What is that which father has to say? Whatever you say, it is the freedom of a believer to remain in which diocese Why, does father have any doubts? All though the church is under Archdiocese The church is run by com patriots When such a big family leaves this diocese Bishop, compatriots won't allow that Look, father you do whatever you want I have told people who are to come Father what you want to say, tell to them What to do, if the rubber prices keeps falling down? I don't know No one attends to matters of church nor will pay some donations Father, who is this denier'? Darfiyau knew'! Thamburan Janney Atycoon with petrol, real estate, hooch all kinds of businesses Jonney didn't say anything Dear Bishop kindly pardon Look don't we have sentiments? Our father and mother goes through that way for evening strolls Jonney its not like that Look this Devasi Pappan and his parents Right from the days of their fore fathers had lived in that soil Then what is wrong in Pappan's wish to regain it back? Aren't they from a good family, they will give a resonable price Bishop will say the matter bluntly Thamburan Jonney plans for a villa project Has received the papers from the panchayat also Let the family members of Pappan chettan buy 10 or 15 villas Can come and settle down with all family members Bishop, you say it will give a good price also Jonney you tell the price, we'll take the property Jonney doen't have to construct villa or flat can save time also That's not possible Bishop you may pardon Jonneychan says he is not interested to sell it What a ruckus is this? If not to sell why has Jonney purchased the land? Pay the money what I say, Jonney is not interested on a deal which is a loss Negotiations and sale should be done outside the Mansion Like what is said let Jonney declare what he demands- - if its okay to Pappan let him do it Father Micheal its applicable to you also Again don't trouble me on this matter MW W Father greetings Praise the Lord Don't go in a hurry the meeting is over -Is it over? Why was that? And what was the final outcome? Told a final price for Jonneychan's flat and villa that is about to start How much is it? 50 crores My Christ for 5 acres, 50 crores? Jonney was opposing it- - othenlvise church would have purchased it long back Among us whom did Mary really love? -Get lost man Why is he so angry? Hot tempered to the core Hey fellow What is it? You just think cool head without getting angry Fellow What is it? Its about our Mary Whatelse? I saw another person, at the top? Who? Our old Rosily sister is there, no? She was the one Then she says, Mary used to write a dairy That will be present in that convent Fellow, if you intend can lift that thing Fellow, wasn't it a problem which worried us through out the life? Was it you or me whom she had loved? What if, if it is exposed through that dairy? Mad, really mad Melted a bit, no? Usually no one is allowed inside the monastrey from outside Now this is the brother of Mother Agn us, no? By the way how is Rosily sister known to Pappan? Is a distant aunt of our Varkeychan Here, in this room has kept the books and dairies of people who are dead Everything will be present here, is it? Why not? Doesn't know who and when they will become anointed At that time all this can't be searched and found out Pappan, you may check I'll sent some workers here What is it man? -Will check Move back fellow Yeah, come, come Why is it like this? When you come there is this light and smoke That is all just felt by you, its because of age What are you searching for'? Look here is the box of Rosily sister By the way Devasi, in which year is it? At that time, we were 25 or 26 years of age Yeah, the year in which you went to Kashmir for training That was the time, when we saw Mary for the last time That is..During '54 No, it was in '62 But will there be that much old ones? - Sir, how old is it? How old is it? Child, will be somewhat during 1962 Yeah, just show that one This is a thing of wonder, this cross might be 100 years old, no? Hey fellow, Devasi keep this in my house at Perianthanam Shucks! Has not come here to steal To enquire about Mary only That is correct Didn't I say its '62? Insect has spoiled this "The cloud which appears on the sky.." "Will it pour as rain on earth...?" "The cloud which appears on the sky" "Wish which is her, smoulders in the heart as it doesn't depart" "..still now memories brings tear drops in the eyes" I'm in love with you, I wish to be with you That is not in this birth, after a thousand birth "My heart leaps in search of words angel where have you gone?" "The cloud which appears on the sky.." "Will it pour as rain on earth?" I prayed deeply to Lord He shouldn't inflict wounds on my heart Heard that this year Mary is going to join Monastery A good thing Not because, there isn't money to marry her off It is a great wish of mine that she should be a nun What is Mary's decision? Everything as per the likes of father Whatever may be the wish of Ittichan Mary should get the God's call "Doesn't matter how long it takes to be with you" "I'll wait for several years, without forgetting" I really like to be a nun "The love which I had known, till you come.." But once during the Murikkal festival- -those two eyes which searches me Stop it, stop" What, two eyes both of us has got four eyes, no? Which is the other new two eyes? That's what I can't understand Will it be someone else? You don't read more..New eyes.. Lord, I can't bear this Fellow, lets read further "..will it pour as rain on earth?" I'm in love with you, I wish to be with you That is not only in this birth, after a thousand birth MW W "Wish which is her, smoulders in the heart as it doesn't depart." "..still now memories brings tear drops in the eyes" In the ministry of god this humble being should get a position of a grass Allow me to become a flower that gives fragrance to this world "Doesn't matter how long it takes to be with you" "I'll wait for several years, without forgetting" "The love which I had searched, till you come.." "My entire breath will be along with you" "Wish which is her, smoulders in the heart as it doesn't depart. "..Still now memories brings tear drops in the eyes" "My heart leaps in search of words, angel where have you gone?" Father is not here, doesn't know where he has gone Pappan you may go and come back later Why man? It sounds like prompted to say My goodness, will I tell a lie? Aren't you the son of that preacher Kunjachan? What else will be born? For that should take the initiative Shucks! This is church premises No foul talks and lies, over here Let father hide in the kitchen itself We'll think of some other means You come There is something true in what Pappan has told Told father is in the kitchen, no? My specs.. Was it father'? Father, praise the Lord Always there shall be Shucks! I'll just. Fellow, who is there along with him? Look, did you see he is talking to himself Father, but Pappan is not alone this is between them Simply don't scare me, say who is this? Valkey Perianthanam Varkey My God, Varkey is dead, is it Pappan's friend? But I can't see, can you see? I can't see Only Pappan can see MW W Pappachayan? Come inside Come sit down I'll go and call the madam Thresia, where that Berlin stone that Valkeychayan has kept on that wall? That fell down and got broken When I was cleaning everything fell down That stone I have kept it as a support forAnthurium Lady, what have you done? Her support for Anthurium! Yeah, Devasichayan Lady, what is the news regarding kids? Younger one is telling to come to America Once on leaving difficult to return After dying the cremation should be done somewhere over there How is that? When Varkeychan is here - On getting old children decides everything If they feel like burrying inside family tomb can lie with Varkeychan But in this condition" Do you want to leave to America now itself? What can I say on that? Honestly since he left there is a vacuum all over Now again his calling me Philo.. But he is here itself I'll take something for you to drink Philo, I will just go and see his room okay. 9 Poor Philouvalkey don't be sad Leave it man Gone man, gone The rope with which Tippu's chariot was tied, is missing So, that's the main thing? Man, you do remem berthat was snatched from Mysore- - in that Tanker lorry under cover Then why not keep all this in Pulimmottil? -No, no need of that What is wrong in that? There are donkies like that Baby and Girgory No doubt fellow why Jackfruit fell on your head Isn't that rope which which your Tippu's chariot was tied with? My God! Your maid has used it for tying the Jackfru it Yeah I'll return Okay I'll return What is this Devasichaya, this silent self-talk? That is a routine now By the the way Philo.. Lady is there anyone here to check all this? Now look here itself, this is a stone of Berlin wall which he valued a lot What can I do? When I go to America, I'll lock everything and go Just hold this fellow While locking up everything just put this one also This one, he has searched for it a lot, okay Philo, I'm leaving Okay then Pappan, this is the place which we have identified to set up Pulimoottil tomb In the beginning of the church it was a tomb of the foreigner Now its free, foreignefs family might have returned long back Its an eye-catching place, we've left it behind for some big families Yeah Now Pappan has got that luck But we can't do anything unless you leave from the Konnayi diocese Vicar of Konnayi, father Kalayi should sign that is compulsory Pappan this is not a minor thing Birth and death indexes should be maintained at the church Later slight corrections aren't possible- - that is the rule of the Assemblage Its Jonney's car is it? Yeah father, what's up? What to say? My goodness, was there Pappanchettan? Had told will come with the money now, later not even seen there What happened? Won't be having the cash is it? Father, next week properties set out will be commenced- - after that don't say this and that But still only for 5 acres its bit high is it? - Is it so? Yes Father its an excellent land Jonney will keep on constructing the villas and keep selling it Later won't get the property for this price, okay Why is Pappanchettan not saying anything? Wealth acquired by fraud and pimping does it last? Hey you, since father is standing I'm not saying anything Insulting decent men in the society? Kunju, just open that door let father see the decent person in society I'll open it now Don't touch on the car But still let me see can see what it is Father! Father Don't open the door You naughty guy! Who is this? Fellow, just move back Yeah its true father Father Muncipal secertary is taking rest -Wearing a sari? Move off fellow! How did Pappan see this? Did you peep your head out? Look Pappan is becoming a wonder give that property to him, fast Or else there will be more to see Yeah saw it -Yes, saw it I'll just.. Take the car you fool What father said is correct- - not only will allow Pulimoottil people to change the diocese -they should execute the things which they have promised Shut up and go man Trying to be smart -Father who is he to tell me to leave? Just keep quite, this is not a school, this is a church committee Just tell that to him Whatever it is renovate the cemetery We all know that Pulimoottil family won't invest the money Compatriots won't shell out a single penny- - then from where does fund come? Will set up an auction God auctioning the church? Not the church the cemetery of the church At the main enterance of the cemetery Ten holes Will be for ten well known families in this native Over there, they can built family tombs With that money we'll renovate the church cemetery Now you decide which is the well known family in this native See, how intelligent father is That is good, all clap hands and pass it Look, I'll say what father showed is a foolishness Suppose Pulimoottil family doesn't take up the auction, what can we do? There is no chance that they can't take up the auction By investing any amount of money they will book the first tomb itself But they are going to change the diocese to Murrikal, no? That will take place only if I sign that I won't do that before 10th of next month There is no chance that they won't participate on the auction The first tomb will be taken by them After that, Pulimmoottil family can never leave Konnayi church and go Father you are really intelligent Lord, save this intelligent person Look Mathukutty had called, told everything is done from their side Kunjumol will say by afternoon They will do what they can do Then we'll proceed with next step of paying advance, no? Do it boldly, its for our Pappan, no? You ask Jonney and fix up a date It should be done in the coming days Before the auction everything should be done Then don't we have to inform Pappan? This should be informed to Pappan first As per the wish of Pappan, we are taking the tomb to Murikkal Yeah, that's it MW W Hello, hello Kunjetta where is Pappan? He has left long ago, saying its festival We came early morning Pappan won't allow First of all let me find Pappan and after half an hour I'll call Where has this Pappan gone? Mary Yeah, Mary Deity is inside the church then who is ringing the bell? Come fellows, will check Go fast and check Note the new medicine Please wait outside Hey fellow..Devasi.. Hey fellow..Devasi.. Come on fellow, get up How is Pappan now? There is no big improvement Father will anything happen to our Pappan? Paile, only God knows who should die at what time We can pray for Pappan's life Paile -What is it father? Don't forget about the auction on 10th Then what, auction? First agree to change the diocese Pappan's present condition is very serious Aged this much, the medicines are not affecting in the body Can we take somewhere else? Jose has arranged everything in America In the present condition its too risky to shift Pappan from here There is no surety on how long the life can be sustained Perhaps like a miracle might open the eyes fast May be not Don't know what is going to happen, what I think is.. Echayan, what are you trying to say? Can't refrain from saying also What is it? Should conduct the last rituals for Pappan My God Annamachi! What happened? MW W Pappoo..You have arranged the place where you wanted to go But didn't say where Kunju should go? Pappa, open the eyes this Kunju has to say lot of things Was it for this you went to Murikkal festival along with me? This Kunju will be waiting outside till Pappan opens the eyes Pappan is all right, this Kunju won't leave this Pappan alone any where Pappan you may sleep Today I'll depart, will be joyful to see the other side of this wall On discarding the soiled cloths and old age, will take a new birth" "Today I'll depart, will be joyful to see the other side of this wall.." "On discarding the soiled cloths and old age, will take a new birth.." MW W "Holy virgin who resides inside the shelter of clouds in purity" "I leave without finding you after searching" "This humble being always seeks for you" "Kindly don't curb me by shedding tears, kindly allow me to depart." Fellows, are you all males? Shame less ones Look who is lying there, about to die? You have only started to create from where Pappan has left behind For that person, so far what could you all do? Thankless fellows with no love towards family -Ammachi! Pappan has not asked anything to anyone has asked only one thing Should go to Murikkal We must do that -Fellow, should do what Pappan has told, now! Before he departs this world, if his wish doesn't take place Look, this Thaiyamma won't be alive Echaya (brother) Look Paulachan, has called Jonney is at the godown at Athiranpuzha Then go that place Okay We are on the way to that place Jonney! Where is your Jon ney? I don't think this murder is that easy They are CID's very strong CID's Two intelligent CID's You only have to show the person From our rustic Malapuram knife to ultra modern machine gun Shucks! Scaring? Hey Jonney what are you doing? How many times called you had enough of calling you Baby you tell the matter We need Pappan's property at Murikkal That is the last wish of Pappan, Jonney don't you know that? Here, it is one crore cash as advance The price of the property as decided by Jonney- -we Pulimmottil people are ready for everything So have you really decided to purchase that? When our Pappan is on the verge of dying- - do we have to play drama here? We'll pay the money that is agreed but the property That should be for the Pulimmoottil family -Here is the agreement Write and sign and give to them Come man Look Baby What is it? That's a cliche dialogue in movies But still saying, 25 only that's enough for Jonney 50 wasn't a serious price told by me Pappanchettas property- - today Jonney will write it in Pappanchettas name But its not by seeing you people but Pappanchettan Very bold That's correct Othenlvise when I die and go up will he spare me? -No Chachan, the deal is through, Jonney will write it now Fixed it for 25 Fellows, had fixed it Anyway the deal should be through Fellows, shut up and keep quite MW W Be silent is this a market? Saxon, start the auction Shall I start? Father tell to start, the first place is for Makaliyel people We'll buy that by investing any amount of money We from Muttummel family aren't that weak either Then are we weak? Thommicha, start the auction Wait until and unless a decision is taken here on Pappan's matter Auction won't take place here Then will tell the decision the church is not interested- - on the diocese change of Pulimmoottil family If required can secure the first place in this auction Can erect the family tomb over here But that should be decided today when others snatch the tomb Later don't blame the vicar Father, that's not possible that is father's trick Then you pay the money to renovate the church Father's foul play is not possible here You fellows go and sit there What is this? -Go and sit What is this? Saxon -Yeah Start the auction Okay father Father shall I start? Come on start fellow The auction is about to start The first place" Go to hell.. What is this.. Hands off from my loin cloth Listen don't make an issue Father, we'll escape all are rowdies Is it so? Yeah will show you Let father take a decision Look, this can't be ignored What can you do? Go man Hey fellow Do you want to see this father signing on this? Man, I can also mobilize some people Go man Why father this obstinacy? The souls who love our Devasi won't pardon all this Did you see? Who and all has come Open the eyes and see All are there, no? Fatherfullfil the wish of Pappan You idiot why are you laughing like this? Take a look! What, father? Come on take a look man Has father also reached? Hey fellow! Didn't I say that? Come why is church bell ringing at midnight? Without any reason won't ring the bell Come quickly -All come running our father has left us Tell what has happened to father? Tell While desending the steps, fell down as legs slipped Just move back, give the way Let us have a glance Move back Move back from the way Let us have a glance Father! Father! Don't cry Look, on the Pappan's matter did father say anything as final? My heavens, father what happened? My Lord! To Pappam. Tell to Pappan inside the Bible For Pappan.. My God, father! MW W Annama, the wish is fullfiled Father has agreed - Is it? Father has agreed -The death is a clown who has no stage presence Proved once again That's the reason why Kalayi father who was so healthy By shocking everyone, had departed The Devasi Pappan who was lying like this, had returned back to life When everything was over, Pappan first went to Konnayi cemetery There was a person who was waiting for Pappan Pappa"! Pappoo"! Father haven't you left? Father, if you also join with me, natives will say I'm lunatic Then why not isn't Pappan mad? Madness out of love Even if on saying don't desire on anything which is momentary Pappan, aren't we living for all that? For the life there should be a meaning Right now, Pappan had created that for me Who is it? Fellow, its father Is it uncle? Our father Kalayi My Lord, is father also here? Great You say bye and come here Neverless, Pappan didn't forget his compatriots Like how Kalayi father wished Konnayi church also had developments At last Pappan and family became a part of Murikkal diocese Time to end Pappan's story of life 'After few years.) Due to old age ailments since 3 months Pappan is on the death-bed What is this lady? Today is 100th day Since our Pappan is lying in this condition Sisters prayed in one voice before the deity Lord, without torturing our Pappan, soon let him rest in peace One day God heard the prayers Like that, finally Pappan also had a God's call MW W Va Ikey! "Its always childhood for 'Pava' on earth" "For Pappan and Vakey its re-birth" "Church bells, silver parasols, do you know the past?" "Its always childhood for 'Pava' on earth" "For Pappan and Vakey its re-birth" "Church bells, silver parasols, do you know the past?" Come, will go to that side Where? Come, I'll show you a place over there No, don't fall Where is Mary man? Look, over there" Fellow, that's at the top, no? How'll we reach there? We can't reach there She is a blessed soul, she is in a height which we can't attain My goodness, has Mary left? Gone So, you Jackfruit were you fooling me? Told you had talked with her How can I be here alone without you? To bring you here I strained a lot You worthless donkey! Wait, wait "During those times, running with short pants" "During those times, both grew up together" Aren't you the Devasi Pappan? Who conquered the mountain at Konnayi Why "Of give a try? Come on tell what can be grown there? From the slope, it looks like hill is suitable for rubber Its very evident that cardamom and pepper only can be grown there Go man, its a soil meant for rubber Pepper and Cardamom Rubber I'm more experienced Rubber -Don't mess with me "During those times, smoked cigarette stumps" "During those times, smoked cigarette stumps" "During those times, tender whiskers sprouted" "During those times, when two souls were glued together" "Its always childhood for 'Pava' on earth" "For Pappan and Vakey its re-birth" "Church bells, silver parasols, do you know the past?" "Do you know...?"
