 

                        If. thank you very much. What do you say? I want you to fuck me... Harder. God, I beg you! A simple thank you is more than acceptable. I do not know how or why these Things happen, but they do. And to be frank with you, They have very few options. Unfortunately, this is one of the moments where medicine is not very advanced As I'm not your first visit that my duty as a professional is about surgery advise But you probably also know that is unlikely to lengthen its life. Sorry. A PERFECT ENDING Mason is really too much to ask call your secretary to tell me he'd stopped for lunch? Sorry, Beck. You said I had to be there to sign papers You know who is playing with Susie Clyde Listen. Do you know why her husband married her? his father owns half of Korea. and his father is my fucking balls on a silver platter in China Order. First of all, you're talking about two countries completely different Second, you know I can not stand, you talk like people Oh yeah? I asked you to come here to to sign some to sign some stocks and put in your name to get out of this damn audit What kind of problems you walk into? We'll have to do a little dear creative accounting And you have to help. So, I signed the papers and... I do not know if I'll be home for dinner It is important to have dinner with the family Sure as hell. I've been with lots of girls. I do not know because it is better with you Same time next week Jeans and sneakers. Thank you very much, Hank. It's a little bitter to lose Grows. Loser. Grows. Sore loser. I said I would be late You play tennis. You can stop behaving like children We have homework to do. I had to return the money I lost last night Oh, look at you. I said, no more weekends Vegas How much? Would it help if I told you that I fully love? I always say that the money can not be buying love. Well, except for Ace. Here Janice leaves out of this. I think you should get this Janice But then what kind of partner would you do? For, Hank. Marissa. If? Have you seen my book? No, I think I saw this morning Mr. Mason's office Do you want me to look? Oh, would you, please? Insurance. Aaron! Aaron! Do you plan to be late for this important event, as our commitment? Fiesta that my mother has planned for the last six months? You will make very happy You know, Mom, the way all the money slipped through my fingers wondering if she still loves me, then she is the only No jeans. Go and change. Here you go, dear. Oh, thank you very much Need some help here? Eh, eh, eh, eh, eh I have it. I have it. Thanks, Jess. You look beautiful. Thank you. Oh, my god. It's so late! Do not forget to breathe! One of the girls Valentina What I'm saying is that trying to convince For a nipple ring It will make everything a little more exciting. What is it about? Nipple clamps. She's just... fantastic. I'm so out of place here. Do not worry. I need a drink. Oh, my god She's just... fantastic She put a double butterfly between us Butterfly? Oh, it's a vibrator. She is amazing, right? I've been three times. Then she went down since the ceiling. No, I'm not kidding. Then you have the roof painted Yeah, yeah. Well, we have heard many stories tonight and I want to hear your story. History? If. Believe me, I have no story. Well, you have to have a story I mean... What's your pleasure? What do you like you warm? what's your fantasy You do not have to answer that? No, I'm married. Oh, Becks. No She is playing with me? What's this? Just... Can not resist? You obviously are playing. It's late, and I would like to take night Well, ladies. This is all Oh, I like your pants. Oh, thank you. Ooh, ooh, girl. It is very subtle As a double or triple bypass heart? Well, I liked it. Uh, I know, in his work, time is money But I would make up for certain times No problem. What is it? I see it when they look, they eat with their eyes even they, I mean it feels Oh, god could feel it up in New Jersey Right? The truth is that only luck... but working on it No? We keep it exciting. Work is needed by the other part Okay, um... I'll tell you something I never I told anyone. You know everything about me right? Right. I never, never... Baby, we know that you are not well you and the asshole Not that. What? Oh, for the love of God. Come on, spill. I I have never... You never come? Exactly. Mason? He is a man man. We just do it twice a year. We're both so good. OH, Becks! Oh, well, you should have to masturbate Do not say that word. What "masturbate"? I have seen many doctors, many therapists. Something is wrong with me. What's going on, Rebecca? Never had a moment of passion in my life. Damn it. Is it so bad that I want... Come to dinner tonight... find a solution I promise. I am, do your project now? You have every right, forget the damn schedule Just come at 8:00. You know what? What you need is a vibrator. No. That gives me chills. I know forget We will find something here No drugs are me No, I was I think you should seriously consider having a lover... ...That is, if you do not mind break your morality. No moral dilemma, believe me But what was I supposed to do? I look on the street No, no. I mean a woman. What? A woman's lover. Oh, come on. Just listen to me and do not listen to it OK? A woman is much more familiar as a manual Who? Wait. I'm talking about a woman, You know you have all kinds of tricks up his sleeve, used in particular situations. And as usual, I can think I have a second cousin who runs a Services company, and could interest A service company? The black sheep of the family Valentina is the best women I've ever seen. Smoke. Focus. Focus Oh, my god. no one will know. That is only for men. Are you kidding? I mean, women really do that? Oh, of course. You have to think of this as a experiment right? You hire a specific service No, no, no. That's fine. Nothing is too weird for us.. What do you have to lose? Not much at this point. Better service? Oh, hello, Shirin. No, no, I'm sure we can find someone for her. Right. Consider it done. Okay. This should be fun. this is to educate? Oh, yes. What do you have a boy virgin? Calm down, Cougar. No, is a housewife in search an adventure Shut the fuck up! I refer to a customer. Sylvie, look. This is a friend of my cousin, Well? She has never been with a woman before but my cousin has explained lesbian that women are better lovers. Yes, I tell you what And it is money. So I want this to come out really well Just think of all sites 'd get From the upper class country club So I want to do right by she okay? And besides, she wanted someone of age forgives. Now sing. This is what I sing in hearing. And then, when you make a single, I'm done with this. And what happened to his other successes? Sylvie, play fair. Now, I chose for this, and I will not disappoint me. Sylvie, do not be late. She is strict with time. You know how I hate to ask you this? but my name is molly invites me to the house of the parents of her boyfriend so it's a great opportunity I have to go, okay? Okay, is a customer chosen by Valentina is crme de la crme, All good stuff, right? Oh, honey, I love you. Christ I love you. Oh shit, I forgot - um, The client is strict with time for whatever reason do not be late Oh, shit. This is crazy. What am I doing? ? I can help? Ms.? White? If? I think he has an appointment I think that is wrong. I think it was a kind of misunderstanding Well, it has opened the door As if waiting someone and I guess you do not live here because I was here two days ago So, again, I think we have an appointment I have an appointment if... ...But someone my age... I understand. Did you expect Sylvie, his usual? My what? Want to join? Come in. Are you in the service? Oh, Sylvie. So this is your first time. You are nervous. It's perfectly natural. But... do not worry. Let's go slow and easy As you like. Miss, um... Paris. ...Miss Paris, asked someone my age. Age is a state of mind, right? Maybe for you. How many have 23? I have 29. See what I mean? You're not what I asked, and I will not pay. So do not start the clock or whatever Sorry for the misunderstanding. The woman who was supposed to had to be here has had an emergency, and she requested change I will not pay. I'm not asking you to. I'm just politely goodbye No hard feelings. Hopefully next time, be what you're looking for Mama? What happens? Come sit with me. Just come and sit me a minute will you? I'm so sorry that I have not been a good mother What's wrong, Mom? Are you going through half of a crisis or something? Are you okay? Do you have any idea how much I love you? If it had been... stronger. If only I had been there as should have been I'm sorry. Should have... We agreed to not talk about it I need to talk about it... We will never get over it. please? Some things should stay in the past, so... There must be something I can do Do not talk about it That? I want to do better affection I just want to do better There are some things that are not be arranged So no. Ah, I see. Oh, that's very cute. I like it. Yeah, well, I was not there for art Never would only for champagne Okay, I admit it was for the champagne Yes? were there for the champagne? If, and art How was it? Do you remember having seen it all? There were great pictures and spotlights There was music relaxing environment Oooh, yes, I'm in love? oooh I am by giving you these actions as part of some goods Confused? And you get it? What? It makes me sick your greed and ego together What? It was one thing you wanted to send kids to Harvard because I understand you want to be take over the family business And even give them 100,000 shares of Westridge boys. Mm-hmm. Look, we're not going to have this conversation Will you be angry?, and I will not change my mind. Look, I'm just a man Okay? I'm just the man you married. And I think, in general, I have been Jessica pretty good. I mean, she has led a good life. You owe, Mason. What? Not this shit again. You know Not again! It was a fucking night! One night! And I'm not giving this business actions Understand? This business has been in my family for 100 years. And that was the agreement between you and me, all along I love her. She's not my blood, the boys themselves. You may say I'm insensitive, but not mine For the love of god wake. This is not a kind of monarchy. Already the father he has never ever met What do you think this will do it? She already feels like a citizen second class. And I say that I love Beck. But I will not change my mind. I'm going to bed now. Do not bother with me. What? hey. Hey, Dad. We just came from there, right?, That does not help. Are you crazy? Do not do anything crazy. We totally lost So, we will die here. God. Come! Tell me everything. Nothing. Nothing happened. I was so thrown had a master plan That has always been my problem but you can not plan everything Of course you can not prepare for nothing right? There was an unexpected obstacle, appeared a devil, when step the door... I liked. What is the problem? Trust us, try again Best service. Oh, yes, Ms. White... So, let me see if I understand the same person as the last time If. And he wants exactly the same place If. Consider it done. Okay, Sylvie. Oh. Well, that's enough ego wounded I gave a shit. I do not know what I expected. All right. Valentina knows there filly can not tame So let's get down to business, Shall we? I have dildos with straps We can change. We can do a 69 double um, fingers are fine, but I prefer only two or three no fist I have a cyst. But if you want the most explosive we ecstrabang. Ecstra? They? ecstrabang... Some ecstasy and then we do it the one to the other is fucking sweet. Uh, that's not going to happen I know who you are. You who were with Paris, when I could not come. So... What did the two if not mind me asking? Sight I do not know what you say, but do not spend anything with the other girl Paris is a woman. Do not underestimate. I did not do such a thing, I do not know. and I do not know. Look, I'm sure that you take care you all each other, and that's great. But as a paying customer, I'm used receive exactly what I ordered God was right about you. Truth? Say what? She was quite poetic - Paris. She said you were bitter sweet. Well, this is obviously not work So I think it's time for you to go. Do you know? in minor league wives all is exactly the same. Hardest part of his day is trying to figure out where he sits Mrs. Weatherby lunch in the fucking right? Oh, you're really depressed, do not they? Great what if? every morning with your bran muffin Tic-tac... Wrong side of the clock I bet there's a half-empty bottle in your sock drawer right next to it some Worn discs This was a big mistake. What the hell are you going to do when we part, anyway Paris and I do not answer to anyone Nobody fucking How about you? Out. Sorry if I made you wet your pants I just I said out. You know, obviously, 're looking for something I hope you find it. And do... think of you. Why now? I mean I do not understand what you saw in Mason. I mean you thought were love with him right? As secretary attached to it for 2 years I found it quite good Okay, I understand. Well, yes, when you have a baby security also has It is like having a dog. No, that's what I'm saying. these made a good mother I mean... All I want is you bad times pass For drinking. Yeah, yeah, I've been told. You are so lucky. How does it feel? At what level? Being in love with Kelly... It... optimistic. Erotic. Delicious. Magic. Frankly mystique. But, you know, these are just words You know, I mean really I want the feel That was the plan. Asking the plan do not let you stop that witch asks Paris next time. But I'm serious, Becks, no passes the rest of your life alone Do not. I wanted to thank you for coming. Third time charming I'm a little uncomfortable here Long time What? time control. Do not worry. Receive the value of their money. That's... very good, funny, um... Want a drink? No. But... forward. No babies? I just came from the area. I like to focus on the details, try to stay calm. You take your job seriously. Yes, I know. Then... What I can do for you? Have you done this to men? This? not. Are you a lesbian? Oh, god, no. For some reason, I thought that, um could somehow be easier with a woman I want to know which is the passion. I want to know how you feel an orgasm. Well they are two distinctly different things. It will be what you want... or need But I think I should be clear. An orgasm is a physical phenomenon and I can help there. Passion is something completely different No more watches No... blouses Just... Lean back. Relax. Dad, can I have the corvette? Yes, but you know, you have to go to work for it Mama, what's wrong? Something you want to tell us No. The wedding ring? Oh, that. I, uh, I, uh, leave it in the gym I already called. And is safe and sound. Good, because worth a fortune. Those things are definitely not cheap Just... wondering if it's worth That, marry, and raise a family? Are you kidding? 'And that girl? Could not be better, you choose your own But did you... yourself chose But, uh, chicken, Mason? No, thanks. No, thanks. Well, there was a Jew, a German, and a Frenchman I can not. I'm sorry to make you waste time There's a reason you're here. I can not. So I wanted something very special but I have not decided And it took me a long time right? Yes, I know. I'll show you in a minute. See Well I do not really know if your fault or dummy, but I am angry. He wanted me to give you this. Okay. I needed that. Best service. Oh, yes. Oh, yes, of course. Used and needed glasses need inflatable elephant and gorilla. Certainly would not want to take the wrong animal Genial. Oh, uh, sorry, can you wait a minute? Best service. Yes, I am Mrs. White Yes, yes. Does my ring? I should have left it at the hotel. Yes, yes. She said she would leave on the table. Ah, well. No, no. Do not worry. these things happen. I can go get it now. Well, actually, not in the office. She said she wanted to reschedule in the same place but at seven pm and it will take What? He agreed with the arrangement. Mrs. White? confirmed? little witch. Got my ring? Well, you've got it? Bonito. It is very very expensive. And if you think I do not know what I have You must think I was born yesterday. Sorry. You are just too much. What's that supposed to mean? Nothing at all. Wait! Wait a minute. You want to come here? Sorry. It was unforgivable. I do not know why I said that. I had to get my ring. Got it back You do not understand. My husband would kill me! I could never understand as losing something so precious Beautiful, value? Beautiful, important? It is very valuable. Important? Not so much. Sorry. Want one? If. It's been a long day. As... How many? I can not talk business... Ms. White I, um... Rebecca is And, uh, I'll pay, of course I just get my ring. No... Do not. Oh, yes I will, actually. Ever... You can stop and let playing with things No, I do not. Why do you think I'm here? Nothing will happen I do not want But, unless you tell me Otherwise, I will kiss you, Rebecca That is... all Sorry. I can not. He said he signed all because of a internal investigation He is trying to ensure that if, Westridge amalgamated have to file bankruptcy, Westridge States would not be affected. If we proceed with this plan, Do you understand what you are doing? If. You will own the rights to vote and monetary value of Westridge together. You must rely heavily on If. He does. But still be able to be CEO and maintain their current lifestyle right? In much. But like the rest of the shares most will be yours and he will surrender can not do anything. Since we have exhausted all treatments, I think it's time to tell the family and loved ones Once you reach a certain progression symptoms will go faster. You will need to be prepared and as the end is nearer He will need help. I promise I will do my best to not have pain I want to make tolerable as possible. I guess dad really does not respond the question right? But the only thing is you can answer Is it worth to you? Yes, of course it is. What about Emily? You're not in love with Janice, not so. With Emily, you are the one for the other, and Janice, she is... Hey, we have a lot in common. The only thing you have in common is third generation, much wealth You're not in suits and ties are more flip flops and T-shirts with the slogan dorky. So do not do it if you're unsure. is for the rest of your life. I want you to be happy, that's all Just remember not too late. I have to say, Rebecca, has balls, I mean a solid cast iron as a rock, lady balls I... I am available. Where is it? right? I know. For dinner mom loses? Especially this one. Did I hear my name? You're not ready. Janice, I'm sorry, honey. um, something came up. Order pizza, and, um, back in a couple of hours And Janice, tomorrow night, uh, I arrange. Uh, sorry. I promise. Tomorrow. um, fun. Seriously? Uh, yeah, do not know why not as junk food. Anything. Um, Aaron, I need you to call Chez sous les meilleurs, okay? Maybe we could order pizza? I support pizza. No. Concombres pinards and la grecque with focaccia okay? Okay, my need for protein and I would fit in my Vera Wang I have to make a call. Well, honey. Yes, Aaron, I like any kind of bread. Please Fuck you. Wow, Aaron. So what was that? The spinach salad. I do not talk crazy. I'm talking about mom. That was weird. Super rare. If. It was exhausting. Well, you and the diva will so happy together Pizza! No, I hate my stomach. I have not been to the gym for a long I used to have a very good body before of children and menopause I never came across to you, though. This does not mean anything Rebecca. I... I hate it when I did this. Why did you do that? It was a birthday present from Mason. loves perfection thing we have in common. I spent my whole life trying from perfect I never felt... Good enough or thin enough, Pretty nice enough Smart. All things... we are not perfect are what they do so well about us It's who you are, Rebecca. Perfect You make me feel that way... My beautiful girl. It's official exploded. Right? It is so exquisite. Well, is sexually satisfied. Okay, okay. I'm glad you're here. I was not a fan. I've corrupted I hope you're proud Well, I feel I deserve to enjoy it It's so bad. We took our girl to school, and has earned an outstanding diving lost impressive. You know I love you, but always 've had a tree in your butt I think what I say is my humble Becks, is that... not only could be more excited Thank you. I think I would like my children. Jessica is my first. Hank Aaron and I have. Obviously Mason made Baseball fans and Hank Aaron. Byron is one of my favorite poets Do you read for me please? "'Go and ask Maude to get here Never happened to her probably My God, this act is over... Our little secret, Maude. " If. Really? So where will this go? I do not care... really. first I will not look a motive or a reason I do, I'll just enjoy until the last moment Oh, my god What? I missed dinner, I have not even called Order. Oh, sorry. Just... before you go, yo... You are so amazing. Oh, I'm in love your mouth They'll be worried. Thank you, Paris. Thank you. I do not like mom has not called, I'm starting to worry a bit Yes, never lost the family dinner Maybe... are together No, find a way to tell us something So how should we act? as if nothing had happened Yes, I think we should not say anything to mom. Or Dad, until we say so In accordance Um, sorry. I, um - I got stuck on the road by accident and mobile without battery I am - I, uh... Does Papa is not with you? No. Why? Are they not here? No, and we all know why. You all know what? Wait. Give it to me. Give it to me. What? Just... No, we draw conclusions That can not be overlooked breast. I was in the office looking potato a document for tomorrow I went through his desk and found this I know I should not have, but... has been having all these work problems He is trying to convert the company and is succeeding You know, that's what I thought was I thought all-nighters If, temperament, all day drinking I mean, Mom, you know. Let's calm down I need to listen sincerely You will not say a word What? Did you know? You will not say anything I say very seriously I'll talk to your father and... Sure, you will speak to all Do not say a word until I have spoken to him. Is that clear? Insurance. This changes everything You're right. It will. When did you know? What? What do you mean? When did you know? Well, a few weeks ago I went to see Dr. Weller. Rebecca know what happens I mean, for us, for family, for children and the company, for the love of god I think so. So, yes, then. Well... Let's fix it then, right? Let's fix it. We'll fix it before it's too late I hope you believe me and understand... when I say I'm sorry really sorry. Mason But I think we both know... It's too late. He said it was cancer, and metastases I can not believe this. Honey, are you sure If. But you need from us? Help to keep us together for them now Okay. How many people can do? Strangers. Do not do that. I know you do not like looking into, but you can live differently I mean, look at you. Seriously, you're beautiful, you're smart, you are a gem. Why this? I earn $ 200,000 a year clean. I make my own schedule... And I get to return. Return? Return? I'm a little lost here. nothing. No. What it means? I want to know why you do this. What are you doing here? I want to know. Please do not take this the wrong way, I do not expect anything really I just want you to tell me... For once in my life... and seriously. I... you... want. We will have to go through. Honey, it's time. No, we're down here. Just leave this place, Okay? I thought maybe... You need to tell what happened Because if I'm with you, I am, Like, very lost. In fact look at the last group tree ends there. We must go investigate, Do not you think? We must go investigate right? You had your chance. You had your chance. To! This is not about me, Rebecca. I want to taste. Oh, I love the way you smell. You know, I've been working for my five years I've never seen that. has not taken a client as Six weeks? And do not even try to tell me you've been busy because I know what I've been busy Must stop now for your own good I do not want to stop. I know not. But I've seen it happen so many girls same in freefall Not so. It never is. But it never ends well. I have to. Sorry Sorry. Back, girl. Damn, girl. This work of art you do, Paris is seriously impressive. Was this what you used to do? is a hobby. I love this. It's so cute. Honey, this is not a hobby. You're very talented. I'm not kidding Tell me. Well... the point is... the order of the points. In itself... What is true? nothing. But when you put one here... And here... And here... Everything is fun apparently... life as disjointed pieces Somehow, all magically together Each particle... each part... Everything comes together... to create a complete picture. He ordered me to give you this after funeral I'm sorry. Who are you? I have to say. In all years, Never has perplexed me a customer so far. Okay, so here's the truth. I watch a lot of telenovelas. So when I got your call, First I thought: 'Oh, must be Mrs. White devil ". Or you were going to blackmail Valentina, I do not recommend, crazy bitch because it's legal. My favorite is that you want to join Valentina at club No. Thank you. I needed that. And thanks for meeting me What I can do for you? When the time comes, I would You give it to Paris. is a gift. She'll know what it means. yes, but you see almost every day Why not give it to you? No, I... I could see Paris in recent days Ohh, fight lover. Forgiveness Well, well, have you lost in the shadows? I can not see you. It drives me crazy. Last night was really crazy This is important. I want her out. Did you ever think that we this because we like we are proud of our work we've had opportunities? You, if... But not Paris You really care about her, right? I'm in love with her. Yes, you are. But I hate to say, It will not be the last. I need to be his last client She trusts you, Sylvie. She trusts you, that it is I will not see Paris again He learned your husband, right? Would you like soap operas? I'm dying... cancer. I have not much time, start have some physical disorders I do not want to see me like Paris I want you to remember me well Of course you do. Remember the good things. Okay, listen to me. You have to say goodbye You have to. You know what. Look, I know you're scared. One can not simply disappear. and I do not want you to worry about Paris because I be with her I'm going to put on my back pocket Well? I take care of Paris, You have to tell her And not just for her... But for you. For you. So, as we say in the business, Women on Top. I need to say goodbye. What happens? I love you. If you really want this... I'll have this. I've wanted this all my life. And I gave my Hi, honey. Are you okay? See you at the house. Your mother hired me to work for you whenever you need me. Uh, what's this? Your mother remade his will She was busy the recent months. All this will be clear when you able to read through it. Are you well? If. I wanted to make sure that you would not need anything. She was sure that there would be some rough feelings between them. So to protect your contract interests without differentiating I've never known a woman with more character than your mother My sincerest condolences. Are you okay? I'll see you at home, okay? "My dear Jessica..." "My dear Jessica... I know this can not erase the past, but you can protect your future. When your father signed his assets I decided to redo my last will. for my three children were equal sharing the future as true brothers So what I could do in life, Now what do I protect. Just know I am with you. " "I love you... mama ". Oh, my god. Excuse me. Excuse me. Ms. Scofield? Are you the artist right? Hello. If. Did you know? No... But you know my mother. And... I want to know I want to know my mother. Okay. Look, I feel like I want chiaroscuro know their way To know who ultimately became and now Miss Scofield in the center What would you like to know? Une petit mort.
