 

                        Freedom has been under attack in every generation and our generation is no different. Who better to ask about the subject of freedom than you, John? You've been hailed as God's ambassador by the world's foremost dictatorships, Sudan, North Korea and Iran. But there are those who claim that your ministry is intolerant, that it's condescending to people of other faith. Some in Washington have even said that your crusades may even threaten the freedom of others. Diana, if I thought for a second that I could look down on anyone for their beliefs, I wouldn't be sitting here. I'm not a Republican, I'm not a Democrat. I don't belong to any particular religious denomination. And my personal history is no better than any of your viewers'. You know what kind of person I was, who I really was? An abusive, alcoholic, gambling drug addict, and I deserve nothing less than death when God came into my life. So, John, what is your opinion of the primary tenets of the Faith and Fairness Act and I quote, "To publicly declare your religious beliefs in a way that permits equal time and respect to other systems of faith"? Freedom is fragile and costly and must be defended by work and by faith. And even by blood. Lord, make me a channel of thy life, of thy truth, thy way, thy words. Pure, honest, clean. He's a trustworthy man, very meticulous. Very meticulous. He's actually the first pastor I've ever worked with that irons his Bible. I've gotten to work with him in beautiful and amazing ways. He has had quite a past, as some of you may know. I'm not going to get into that. That's something that's water under the bridge so I don't want to talk and bring up old things that God has brought him through. But let's just say he's the only guy I've ever known that buys Communion wine in kegs. But anyways, I wish I was kidding, but... All I want is the truth. He is a good man, a loving man. And I believe that he is going to bring us into the new age and the new season in America. Mr. Luther, Senator Harrison's here to see you. - I can't talk to him right now. - He really wants to see you right now. I don't know what to say. It's okay. It's fine. Just send him in. Thank you, sir. Hey, John. How are we doing tonight? Yeah, well, I just want to say, I saw your piece on "Prime Time." I thought it was very, very nice. The transparency was very moving. I know this isn't your cup of tea, John. Then why do you keep pushing when you already know my answer? I need your full support on the Faith and Fairness bill. Now your ministry reaches more people than the "Evening News" and I need you to get up there on national television and announce that you fully support this bill. I mean, this could be the turning point for the whole thing. I'm counting on my friend. You're on in two. What did God say about appeasing the masses, Don? He said, "I am the way. "I am the truth. I am the life." Not one of the ways, the way. John, this isn't about that. This is about fairness and equality for all faiths, not just yours. Look, I'm not asking an Imam to preach the Bible in a mosque, am I? All I'm focused on is preaching this book. It's not illegal to teach the gospel in this country yet, is it? I keep forgetting you're the sole proprietor of the word of God. This is a fine way to show gratitude to the people that have really helped you. I appreciate everything you've done but you don't own me. And you've been thanked plenty. This bill is going to happen. And I am offering you the opportunity to be on the right side of history. I cannot water down the gospel to advance anybody's political agenda. Not everybody believes that heaven is a gated community, John. Sir, it's time. I think I can speak for all of my colleagues in Congress when I say, "We have reached the terminal end of our patience with you." God bless. You are going to kill this thing, like you always do. - You're on fire! - All right. How are you feeling? Good? Do you need anything? You know what I'm thinking? I'm going to get you a driver to take you home. - You've got to take it easy, John. - That's all right, I'll drive myself. Listen, listen, man. This media scrutiny comes and goes, you know that. All this talk of persecution, it's going to die and who's going to be left standing? You are. Why? 'Cause you're John Luther. So forget the politics. You get back in that ring and you bring those people what they came to hear. You bring the truth, brother. Go get 'em! ...simple word of the gospel for many, many years. So please do me a great favor and let's give a really warm welcome to John Luther. Tonight... I believe that we are headed, as a nation, towards a great spiritual awakening. And yet, many are telling you that if the government can unite all faiths under this new religious reform bill, that somehow world peace will come. The Bible tells that no government can ever be true to... He's not on board. Go ahead. Why? Because mankind has a disease. It's either the world and its religions and its politicians and its pleasures or it's the Lord. Every human being that ever lived has had to make the same choice. - Get in. - Many believe that religious reform will save us from war, save us from fear and terrorism. When did it? Never! Of course not. We know that only the word of God can bring peace to the heart of man. Amen. We cannot legislate the power of God. You can't change your past. You don't have the power to do it. But if you surrender to God, he'll give you the power to change your life, and shape your future. Get rid of your gum. You'll have never had a ride like this before, I guarantee it. Good girl. Hello, sweetheart. Thank you for coming. It's wonderful that you could come. Thank you so much. Mr. Luther, do you mind if we take a picture with my daughter, real quick? She just loves this show. Oh, thank you. That's so great. Just one more, please. Big smile. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you for coming. Bye. What are you doing up? My recital is tomorrow and I need to practice. Are you coming? Sweetie, Daddy has a super important board meeting that's scheduled at the exact same time. He can't make it. Is there any way you can reschedule? I'll tell you what, baby. You go home with Mommy, straight to bed. And when you wake up, I'll be there. - Breakfast in bed? - Breakfast in bed. Only I'm cooking. Deal. Breakfast in bed. I'm going over there. What is she doing? Help me! Are you all right? They're coming! Who's coming? Young lady, what are you doing out here by yourself? Sweetheart, what are you doing? What are you doing? They're here, they're here. Who's here? Scratch his face. You going to teach me a lesson? You're a bad boy, Preacherman. Yes, Emergency, what is your report? Yeah, I'd like to report a car accident. One vehicle at marker 134. One vehicle, marker 134? - Two people. - Copy, two persons. With injuries? Yes. You're going to want to send an ambulance. Where do you think you're going? We just took his car. Ha, ha. You like that, huh? The cops showed up? Yeah. Any marks on you? Come on. Turn around for me, hmm? You're late. Get her in the car. Gone. That's what a guilty man does. Thanks again. Key to the men's room? It's for paying customers only. I'm sorry, it's company policy. Don't you know who I am? No idea. I'm... I apologize. Sir, you okay? No. I'm not okay. Thanks for asking, though. I'm Kathy with "Helping Hands." I've got some water and some doughnuts if you want some breakfast. Not so long ago, I looked just like you. The arms of God aren't as far away as you might think. I need to borrow a phone. Okay. Excuse me. Monica. John, the police are here and they're going through everything. They're talking about you like you're some sort of murderer. Where have you been? I don't know. I'm trying to figure it out. Something happened last night. A girl is dead, John. They're saying that you're involved. - They're saying that you killed her. - I didn't kill anybody. I woke up in the middle of nowhere. They took all my stuff. - My car, my wallet, my ID. - ...possibly statutory rape, child endangerment, drug possession and leaving the scene of an accident. Talk about a relapse. And I don't know how the judge... I'm coming home. No! Don't do that. They're watching for you. Is it true that you're a close friend of John Luther? Do you care to comment about the charges he's currently facing? John Luther is a fine man. This is an absolute tragedy that's happened to him. If this ever goes to trial, will you be pushing for a lenient sentence? Well, my heart goes out to his family but, regardless of who he may or may not have had relationships with, I just want to see justice served. Senator, Senator, Senator, one more comment on... You can't clean the world with soiled hands. One more question, just one... I didn't know where else to go. I don't know what you've heard. I didn't hurt anybody. I know you didn't, John. Come with me. The victim is 16-year-old Mellita Evans, a runaway, who was tragically found dead early this morning. The suspect in the alleged rape and murder of the young girl: John Luther, renowned evangelist and CEO... Did I do this to myself? It was just a matter of time, John. You're just a pawn in a much bigger game. It's about a powerful political movement based upon deceit. What's that got to do with me? John, by the grace of God, you were able to bring yourself up from the depths of degradation and form a wonderful ministry that has spoken the truth to millions of people. Now, those who believe in nothing must bring you down, must destroy you to achieve their own goals. Look, you're going to be charged with first degree murder. Now you have two choices. You can turn yourself in, throw yourself on the mercy of the authorities and hope for the best. I think you know how that will turn out. So there's a second alternative, one that you might not like very much. It doesn't matter what I like. I'm going to prove the truth. Then do that. Godspeed. Well obviously, we're all in shock here. The accusations are unbelievable but, well, you tell me. Where do we go from here? Well, what it is, is a tragedy. And the moment he comes in, I want to get him help. I want to see him restored just as, I'm sure, you do. But sometimes, out of the ashes of tragedy comes opportunity. How long have you worked with John, now? 14 years. 14 years? Ah, well, to save this organization is going to take some bold leadership. Now we have a multitude in panic, and millions of lives that are looking for a direction, and we have to speak into those lives a message of hope in these dark times. How many people can you reach on your email database? Oh, we've got a boatload. I guess I'd have to check. But you will check, won't you, Ryan? I know, I've been watching you for years now. You do fine selfless work, don't you? Well, I'd like to think God had a hand in that but I appreciate that. This might be your time to shine. Great leadership knows when to seize its opportunity. Now we need to bring this church together now more than ever. We need to rise up and resurrect this ministry and take it in a brave new direction. Are you with me? What can I say? I'm your man. Glad to hear it. - Hi. - Hi. I'd like a room just for the night. Think we can manage that. - Great. - Let me see what we have. Something wrong with your eyes? Oh, no. Just, looks like... How's the room? Good. I just need a credit card and a valid ID. ...and his disappearance has sent shockwaves throughout the entire region... Ready to go? Does this work? Yeah, that should be fine. Okay. I'll be right back. I just need to go check on something really quick. Just wait here just a moment, okay. Yes, hello. I'd like to report a suspicious person, please. His history of crime and addiction in Luther's apparently unstable early years. Sorry to keep you waiting. Amazing grace How sweet the sound Ryan, please stop. - That saved... - Please. I thought that was your favorite. Hm. All right. I'm all over it. But I got to tell you something, kiddo. I am not going to let you feel guilty for trying to take care of yourself. I get it. Nobody saw this coming, obviously. Yet, John is out running around, doing whatever he's doing. I don't get it. But I promised you that I was going to watch over you and... like you're my own. And as you know, I am a man of his word. In any event, have you even heard from John? That's my point. See? Me neither. I know how you feel. You have to believe that. And I'll tell you why. Listen... I feel the same way. But I can't stand what this is doing to you. I mean, he's left you like you're a single mother or something. No. He is coming home to this family. You have to accept this, Monica. Your husband is a fugitive. - No! - He is a fugitive. No. Well, I pray you're right. Every night I pray you're right. And all he has to do is show up, tell everybody what actually happened and we'll get to the bottom of this. But you know what, kiddo? God works all things. Thanks. I want to state for the record that I find the very origins of this meeting extremely distasteful. We should first hear the situation from John's perspective. Look. Let's just cut to the chase. We all hope he didn't do this. I for one believe the best. But we have to take into consideration not just our interests but the needs of the millions of people that have supported this ministry for years. We have a shared responsibility and, unfortunately, John Luther is the reason that we're having this meeting right now. Now, I believe he probably didn't do it. But the fact that he has not taken into consideration our needs and the needs of the ministry, I don't know. I don't know, maybe that tells us something. And if our signing some piece of legislation sends a message to Washington that we are balanced, that we are in this for the long haul, well, then I am for it. And written in this legislation for every single member of this board that complies... Earmarks. And I might add a very generous tax advantage package and, Dave, you were the one that always told us "Be prepared for the worst case scenario." Well, brother, we're here. We're here. Dave, I'm sorry but I'm with Ryan on this. The individual tax benefit alone knocks this right out of the park. In you I put my trust. Save me from those who pursue me. If I have done this, if there is any iniquity in my hands, let my enemy pursue me and overtake me. Let him trample my life to the earth. Monica? Everything just like normal. How can we help you? Hang on just a second. I know you. You're the guy from the TV. What happened to your face? You can't just let people in like that. Don't talk to him like that. Respect. Learn some respect. Owen, this is the famous preacher from the television, you know? No. Sorry it's such a mess around here. I try, but he doesn't clean up after himself... neither of them do. You scorpion woman. You are? I'm John Luther. I was assaulted near this shop the other night and I was hoping that one of you might have seen what happened. Ah, he's here for the show. So you're a preacher? Yes, I am. He's a fugitive, aren't you? I know where you're coming from. That was some madness that went down. I taped that. You taped it? We got needs too. You understand? So, my brother, you better believe, it's going to cost you. That's why I said That's why... Excuse me, sir. Ryan Morris? One and only. We'd like to have a word. Is that okay with you? With the FBI, I'd be honored. I'll tell you what you do. You get a hold of my office, they'll set up an appointment, boom, we're good to go. This'll just take a minute. Well, I'm sorry, brother. I mean, I got things to do. I will help you any way you need but I'm heading into a meeting so... We really need to talk. How can we help you? I was asked to fill in for the bishop. I think you all know that the Faith and Fairness Act is a dream that I've had for quite a long time. I've wanted to thank Warner for posting this on the... Father, thank you very much for joining us. Would you have a seat, please? So I think it's time we got started. Shall we? As you all know, the Faith and Fairness Act is very close to my heart. It's been quite a struggle. People certainly didn't believe we'd be able to pull the solidarity together that we have... I have it, Dad. I'm going to the police. Can you meet me? John? There's something you need to know. Dad, I have it. It's not that simple. You're in their way. I really thought he was one of us. He's been a big supporter of the ministry for years. That girl was adopted by a woman by the name of Chanisse Evans, two days before report of her death. They were able to bypass the waiting list and a lot of other formalities with the assistance of your friend, the Senator, the majority leader in the United States Senate. Now aside from the President, I don't know of anyone who's better equipped to withstand a bullet like this. Look, son. With Senator Harrison, it's about power and money, but more importantly, it's what he's a part of, the people he's associated with, what SUMAC is trying to do, what this legislation is bound to do, the results. Look at China, look at Russia, look at Iran, look at these other places where we don't bat an eye when they're dragging people out of their beds in the middle of the night and imprisoning them under false charges. It's oftentimes of people who think that they're just, you know, cracking down on crime. You ask the people in this country, round here, about the persecution of Christians, most times people will just smile and say, "No such thing. Not here. Can't happen." Look, I got you a room. Go, get yourself cleaned up a little bit. It'll do you some good. But before you go, one thing you need to understand above all else. And that is that the eyes of all Americans are on you now. People are looking for a symbol, for truth, for freedom, who'll stand up against a barb of thorny, powerful politicians, who'll be unbending amidst all the lies and the slanders that can be thrown at him, that will get back up when they're knocked down. And that's what you're going to do. You're going to get back up. God will decide who's found wanting. They can't silence the truth. I want you to watch this. I am going to expose the truth about that man. Right here. Hey, it's me. John. What are you doing coming here? It's too dangerous. Oh, God, I need your help. I'm... what do you need, money? Well, whatever you've got on you. John, the whole country is hunting you. It's unreal what they're saying. Can you get this to Monica? Yeah, of course. I'll be in touch. Hello? Yes, Senator, I have the President on the line. Oh, all right, put him through. - Donald. - Yes, Mr. President, sir. How can I help you, sir? I'd like to share a story with you, if that's all right? Oh, all right. Do you know that feeling you get in your gut when something just ain't right? Uh, yes, I know the feeling, sir. When I was about eight or nine, I was walking barefoot on the back porch. I heard a rattling sound, like a kid's toy, you know? There it was, all coiled up, a healthy eight-foot rattler, fangs a-drippin', the whole bit. Do you know what I did? No. No, sir. I wrapped my little nubs around it and I squeezed until that devil didn't have any fight left. Do you know why I did that? Why? Because if I did not, the safety of my entire family was in jeopardy. Do I make myself clear? Hey, uh, by the way, did you see the polls tonight? That's pretty superb, huh? I don't think you understand me. I certainly do, sir. Now in a few months, this is all going to be forgotten and you'll be in your second term. You just let me handle this. Donald, I wash my hands of this. John Luther is entirely your misfortune. John, call me when you can. I think I've found something here. Dad! Dad? Are you not true to your name? So have you had any further contact with John Luther? Ha, no. Not a peep. Are you sure? Hey, I'm on your side. The only way to be protected is to be completely honest. Yeah, well, if he said he'll show, he'll show, I mean, what more do you want? What I want is for you to give us more information of the activities of Senator Harrison. I can't speak to that. How would I know? Look, you got Luther spotters. Had it in 'im. Yeah, we're well aware of his activities. Thank you. Yeah, listen, I don't mean to be disrespectful but what do they pay you guys for? I mean, you know, prostitution, addiction, gambling, written all over. I mean, you know, we thought he'd changed, right? I mean, and we're about forgiveness and grace but I got to tell you something, I... it caused me to doubt my faith a little bit. That, my friends, that's a lesson. Yeah, you know, it must be really hard for you to have to take on all that responsibility, - especially with no advance notice. - Oh, goodness. I think people don't get this about ministries. This size, got the same nuts and bolts as a Fortune 500 company. And I'm running it. This ain't no sleigh ride, trust me. Yeah, I can imagine. Well, let's roll. Body of Christ, Amen. Body of Christ. It feels cold in here without him. I'm sorry? Sorry, are you all right? You don't look well. He's dead. He was executed. Who? Your priest. My father. What do you mean? Exactly what I said, son. My name is William. William. Can you help me? We never thought we'd see this day, did we? But miracles can happen when we, as a people, unite with one voice. Our opponents boldly stated that we could never have Christians and Jews and Muslims standing together in solidarity. But they were wrong, weren't they? Dead wrong. This is the future of our evolution in this nation, ladies and gentlemen. This is no longer a Christian nation. In fact, it never has been. But the question now becomes how can a government survive and even prosper without the steadfast unity of its own diverse religious community? It simply can't. It simply can't. And just as Martin Luther King, Jr. Faced violent opposition when he first birthed his dream of people uniting of all colors, I have a dream, too. A dream of a tradition of faith as diverse as our skins, walking hand in hand toward the light. All right. What are you doing here, John? I want to know the truth. Well, I'll make some calls. I'll see what I can do, John. No more lies. Why did you do this to me? I-I don't know what you're talking about. You knew that bill would never stand without my support. Johnny, you know, you always had moves but you could never hear the music. This is the most crucial piece of legislation since the Bill of Rights. This is heaven on earth for somebody like you. Imagine, with the flick of a switch, you could be preaching to every synagogue and temple and mosque known to man. No secrets when we have the keys. All faiths on bended knees before the throne. Whose throne? I'm not your enemy, John. The real enemy is some guy with a nuclear weapon in a suitcase, hiding in a mosque or a temple somewhere and I can't get to him because I don't have the oversight. You're saying you had that innocent girl murdered and you destroyed my life to protect the nation from terrorism? Sometimes in war, there's collateral damage for the greater good. You, like a tree that bears no fruit, shall be swiftly cut down. Will you stop it with the Christian platitudes! You called yourself a Christian at one time. I warned you, if you put your personal history into the street, - it'd come back and bite you. - I want to ask you a question. You thought you were bigger than the system, but you're not. You thought you could wash yourself in the blood of Jesus and your sins would be removed, but they weren't. The public does not take kindly to a sexual predator on the loose. I remember what the Lord said to David, when Saul was delivered under his hand. Oh, stop with the Lord! Deal with him as you wish. Lord, please protect my wife and child. Listen, if we can share the light with brothers and sisters of like-minded faith and that allows us to enter into the blessings spoken of in Jeremiah, then I am all in. But I need to know who's with me. I think we're on the right track. Good, good. All right. Well, then, who'd like to close? Why don't you lead us, Ryan? Okay. Lord God, we are so thankful. We are so grateful you allow us to enter into your throne with all these blessings you've given to us. Just be thankful that we can allow these blessings to just be distributed throughout the earth and these four walls might make your name famous in all the nations, Lord God. We are so thankful for your financial blessings, for your abundance of grace, for your showers of mercy, Lord. John! Why don't you have a seat, Ryan? Look, I don't know what to say. We hate seeing you like this. Me, especially, but you can't just barge... I'm not going to ask you again, Ryan. Fine. Your show. Your portfolios must have just skyrocketed. Anybody else want to see the next slide? Hit the button. All right, I'll help! John, stop. Phew! Now, we're talking. Look at this. Not bad. Look at those numbers. Not bad for tax money, for blood money. Was it worth it? - Again. - John. Hit the button again! Hit it again! Stop. There it is. That's what, like... help me out here, Dave, you're the numbers guy. That's like, what, a 200% increase in salary? John, be reasonable. Reasonable? Is that how you got to where you're sitting today, by being reasonable? John, your uncompromising perspective is admirable. I admire it. But your approach is not always a practical one. I built this place with my bare hands. Now you're in bed with the government. You're taking tax dollars and you don't think that they can silence you any time they want? They've got a hook in your back. And you don't even realize it because you're too blinded by ambition, greed and lust. John, it wasn't always meant to be this way. Obviously, what happened to you is unthinkable. But as far as this organization is concerned, we're here just picking up the pieces. You asked us to come here for damage control. So what good could it possibly do if we blow our entire credibility on one piece of legislation? We'd then just spend the rest of our life wandering in the wilderness without any credibility whatsoever. How many people can we approach that way? Have all of you completely forgotten? There was once a man who wandered in the wilderness and he reached more people than you're ever going to reach now. I've got him. He's heading to the southeast corner of the building towards the parking lot. I need you to do this. I think you'll want to see this. ...girl murdered. You destroyed my life to protect the nation from terrorism? Hello, everyone. I'm Diana Lucas with a breaking news report. Let me tie up a few loose ends for you here first. The footage that you are about to see has not been verified as having anything to do with the evidence in the charges against John Luther but our facts submission department has, in fact, concluded that it does appear that this is raw unedited video. Take a look. This is the President. Mr. President, are you watching the feed from CNW? I am watching it. It's unforgivable, absolutely unforgivable. Yes, sir, agreed. Should I authorize all mobile assets? No, I do not want the CIA involved. I want you and you alone to get your people out there and do so quietly. Yes, sir. Oh, he can't be that hard to find. Just... look, whatever it takes to get clear of this, we got to do that, all right? All clear. Come on. I'm counting on you, friend. I am offering you the opportunity to be on the right side of history. All this talk of persecution, it's going to die and who's going to be left standing? You are. This one needs a big smile. You asked us to come here as damage control. People are looking for a symbol. Will get back up when they're knocked down. Put the gun down. On the ground. We're United States Secret Service. I said put it down. I'm just reaching for my ID. Putting the weapon down. On the ground. We're on the same team, pal. Is there any way you can reschedule? I'm sorry, honey, but you did this to yourself. - Hi, Daddy. - Hi. I drew a picture at Sunday School. Do you want to know what I drew for you? Of course I do. - Who is it? - I'm talking to Daddy. John? Hey. John, they're dropping the charges. It's all over the news. - You saw? - The President got involved. Good. Monica, I want to apologize to you for shutting you out. You are the love of my life. If I don't make it out of this, I want you to be free. John, honey, it's time to come home. I need you to stand down. I'll kill her. Don't you think I will? I'll kill her. We thought you were dead. - So did I. - How are you doing? I'm alive. We are being flooded with donations. We're going to have the best quarter yet. And I thought you were going to be in the hospital for weeks. Ha, ha, what can I say? It's great to see you. You look great. No, I don't. We prayed for you, John. We prayed over what to do. So John, now that you've been cleared, we can reconvene as soon as possible to get you reinstated. It'll be everything back to normal. Just like nothing ever happened and we have some ideas for the next quarter that we think you could be extremely excited about. Some incredible outreach opportunities. You've got cards and letters from all over the place, more than ever before, John. It's unprecedented. The whole world is standing behind you. And, want to know what? God himself is going to take what happened to you and use it as testimony to reach millions more around the globe. Amen. Hear, hear. This is going to open doors. Excuse me. So if it comes to that, are you telling me that you will fall on your own sword over this? Diana, if you take away a man's right to speak his mind in a country founded on that very principle, you don't really have a country, now, do you? So there's really no sword left to fall upon, now, is there? Ladies and gentlemen, it's with great pleasure that I introduce a long-time friend of mine, John Luther. The American that fought his government and survived. Everybody's here to hear what you have to say, John. Let's be nice now, John, real nice.
