 

                        Thank you. Oh, that's lovely. Thank you. (GASPING) -Lady Russell. -My dear Anne. You look quite done for. I came back as soon as I received your letter. I had no idea the position was so ruinous. Unfortunately, a person who's contracted debts must pay them. -Even if he is a gentleman. -Was there no possibility of retrenchment? Unfortunately, Father and Elizabeth could find no means of lessening their expenses without compromising their dignity, or relinquishing their comforts in a manner simply not to be borne. But I have, at last, persuaded Father to let out the house. And if I can ensure that we live within our means somewhere less extravagant, then, in only a few years, we may be solvent again. In a few years? In any event, it is better than selling. At least one day I may hope to return. And where are you to go in the meantime? Is it decided? All my hopes were for a small house nearby, but Father and Elizabeth are settled upon Bath. (ALL CHUCKLING) Lady Russell. Dear neighbour, you've been in London, I hear. Sir Walter. Elizabeth. May I say how truly sorry I am that you must leave Kellynch. We are blameless, Lady Russell, quite blameless. Every sacrifice has been made, however painful. We cut off all unnecessary charities at once, Lady Russell. And even refrain from new furnishing the drawing room, which, as you know, Mama left the most frightful state. And still it is a comfort to know we've done all we could. Of course. Ah, but here's Shepherd. He's promised us some news. Is that his daughter with him? Mrs Clay's husband passed away not long ago. She has returned to her father's house. She's often with us, recently. Lady Russell. Miss Anne. Sir Walter, I have this very morning received an approach for the lease of Kellynch that I'm convinced must meet with your absolute approval. An admiral, sir, recently retired and a native of this county desires to settle in this very part of the world. -An admiral? -I should have much preferred a gentleman. The navy has its uses, no doubt, but I should be sorry to see any friend of mine belonging to it. -Indeed, Sir Walter? -Yes. It is, in two points, offensive to me. The first is being the means of raising persons of obscure birth into undue distinction, and second, you never see a naval man who is not most shockingly knocked about, exposed as they are to wind and weather till they're simply not fit to be seen. Nevertheless, Sir Walter, the admiral has a very substantial fortune, and I have no doubt of him being a most responsible tenant. (SCOFFS) And consider, Sir Walter, how he will look around and bless his good fortune to be in the home of a baronet of such a prominent and distinguished family. Yes. SHEPHERD: Then, with your permission, sir, I shall open negotiations with Admiral Croft. -Croft? -Yes. Are you acquainted with the gentleman, Miss Anne? Yes. No, um... That is to say, I'm familiar with his career. I'm not fond of the idea of my shrubberies being always approachable by the tenant. If you will excuse me, there's still much to do. (KNOCKING AT DOOR) Good heavens, Anne. -What is the matter with you? -Nothing. I assure you, I'm quite well. Anne... Who is Admiral Croft, and why did he cause you to be out of countenance so? Anne. Admiral Croft's wife is... -Is... -Mrs Croft? Indeed. And Mrs Croft is the sister of Captain Frederick Wentworth. Wentworth? I see. I see. And to think that soon he may be walking through this house. Anne, you know that your father thought it a most unsuitable match. He would never have countenanced an alliance he deemed so degrading. He was not alone, as I recall. My dear... To become engaged at 1 9, in the middle of a war, to a young naval officer who had no fortune and no expectations, you would, indeed, have been throwing yourself away. And I should have been failing in my duty as your godmother if I did not counsel against it. You were young, and it was entirely prudent to break off the understanding. Prudent it may have been and yet, Captain Wentworth has made his fortune in the war and is now extremely wealthy. Has he written to you? No, never a word. I've only the newspapers for my authority. Then...if his intentions towards you had been truly sincere, would he not have contacted you when his circumstances changed? I do not blame you, nor myself for having been led by you. But nevertheless, I think very differently now from what I was persuaded to think eight years ago. Oh, my dear Anne. You are a good and beautiful young woman. I promise you this, one day you will find someone to love you as you deserve. I'm 2 7. Before I forget, Shepherd, if you have no objection, I have a mind to engage your charming daughter as a companion to Elizabeth. Oh, Sir Walter. Well, I'm sure, sir, Penelope will be greatly honoured by such a distinction. Then it is settled. She shall come with us to Bath tomorrow. Is not Anne companion enough for Elizabeth? PENELOPE: Oh, but Anne is going to Uppercross. I received a letter only this morning from sister Mary. She is indisposed, again, and requires Anne to come and look after her. And since nobody would want Anne in Bath, I wrote back straightaway to say she should come as soon as she'd finished everything here. Well... All your hopes were for a small house nearby. Do send our regards to the Musgroves. Before you go, Anne, on no account must you forget to visit each house in the parish to take our leave. It is expected. ANNE: Is he married? I do not know that he is, and yet, so eligible a gentleman would surely by now have formed an attachment. Will he bring his wife here? And his children? I only pray that I am spared any meeting. I know my chance of happiness has passed forever, but to be reminded of it by his presence here would, I'm certain, be more than my spirits could bear. Who is that young lady, Mr Shepherd? Oh, that is Miss Anne Elliot, Admiral, Sir Walter's middle daughter. The only one with any sense. A pity, then, that we did not make her acquaintance. She is but half a mile away at Uppercross with her sister. Oh, well then, we certainly shall make her acquaintance. Is she married, Mr Shepherd? Sadly no, ma'am. Nor, I think, at her age, is likely to be. Well. It is certainly roomier than a frigate. (CHUCKLES) Such a number of looking glasses. There's no getting away from oneself. I think this room would do very well for Frederick. Let us see if he comes. Your brother seems dead set against the whole idea of Kellynch. I fear Somerset has unpleasant memories for him. There was once talk of an engagement to a girl in the county. -There was? -Eight years ago or so. We were in the East Indies at the time. He's never spoken of it, but his heart was quite broken, I believe. Well, well, well. -Frederick engaged, who would have thought it? -Indeed. -I sometimes wonder if he will ever settle down. -Hmm. So, you are come, at last. I'd begun to think I should never see you. I am so ill I can hardly speak. In fact, I do not think I was ever so ill in my life as I have been all this morning. I'm very unfit to be left alone, I'm sure. Is Charles not here? Charles would go out shooting, even though I told him I was ill. And I have not seen a soul this whole, long morning. Not one of the Musgroves has seen fit to come and see me even though Charles told them I was ill. It did not suit, I suppose. Oh, you will see them yet, I'm sure. It is still early. Or, perhaps, if you feel well enough to attempt a short walk to the great house, we could call upon them. We ought to wait till they call upon you. They should know what is due to you as my sister. I assure you I have not the smallest objection on that account. Perhaps a little air would do me good. But I really must eat something first, I'm quite starved. LOUISA: Anne. -Good heavens. How the girls are growing up. -Mmm-Hmm. The Miss Musgroves have returned from their school in Exeter with all the usual accomplishments, and, of course, they now think of nothing but being fashionable and merry... Dear Henrietta, Louisa. Oh, Anne. Here you are at last. Come, Mama cannot wait to see you. And we have such exciting news. (GIRLS LAUGHING) Welcome to Uppercross, Miss Anne. How pale and drawn you are. We must fatten you up while you are here. I myself have been very unwell. And Sir Walter and Miss Elizabeth. Oh, how they shall miss you. In any event, I'm very happy to be here and not in Bath. Oh, Mama, I hope we shall be in Bath this winter. But remember, if we do go, we must be in a good situation. Oh, yes. None of your Queen's Squares for us. -Anne, how are you? -Very well. Thank you, Charles. (ANNE EXCLAIMING) -You're getting big. -I am glad to see you've recovered, my dear. Did you ask your father? Did you, Charles? Father has many other uses for his money and the right to spend it as he likes. Charles, if it is left to you, we shall soon be destitute. Admiral Croft and his wife are to take possession directly. And I believe we have been very fortunate with our tenants. Yet it must be very hard for you, my dear, to give up your home so. Of course, when your poor dear Mama was alive, there was moderation and economy at Kellynch. But there were never balls, and the Crofts are sure to have balls and invite the most eligible young naval officers. Indeed, this is our exciting news, I quite forgot. Mrs Croft, it appears, has a brother, Captain Wentworth, and he has just returned to England and is coming to stay with them at Kellynch. It is true. The Pooles chanced to make their acquaintance in Taunton this week. It is said Captain Wentworth is the most handsomest man in the navy and quite unattached. -And has such a wealth of Spanish gold. -Indeed. ANNE: How fortunate he is. Well, we shall all see for ourselves when he comes to dine tomorrow night. Oh, Papa. I have just now received this note from Admiral Croft accepting my invitation. Anne. Are you ready? We must not keep the Crofts and Captain Wentworth waiting. MUSGROVE: Charles. Charles. Charles. Come directly. Charles. (PEOPLE CHATTERING FRANTICALLY) He fell from a tree in the garden. I've sent for the apothecary. He will be here directly. His collarbone is dislocated. (GAGGING) Charles, look after Mary. We shall be all right. ANNE: Ready? (SNAPPING) All done. With a little rest, he'll be right as rain in no time. CHARLES: Oh, thank God. And never fear, Charles, I shall give your excuses to the Crofts. (STAMMERING) Excuses? Indeed, with the child going on so well now, it would be a shame to spoil the dinner. I am really most anxious to meet our new neighbours. Indeed, it's more a duty than anything else. (STAMMERING) If Anne will stay with you, my love, I have no scruple at all. Of course. And so we are to be left to shift for ourselves with a sick child, while you go to dinner with the Crofts. Well, I need not stay too late, dearest. Just because I'm the poor mother who is not allowed to stir, because he is going on so well. He says... How does he know he is going on so well... Please. Please. You may all leave little Charles to my care. CHARLES: Well, this is very kind of you, Anne. Are you sure? In any case, I've no appetite. MUSGROVE: Well then, it is settled. (DOOR OPENING) Oh, Anne, you missed the most delightful party last night. I cannot tell you how handsome is Captain Wentworth. HENRIETTA: He is so much more handsome and agreeable than anyone I have ever met before. -Such manners, such conversation. -Such capital. Oh, and we have all been invited to Kellynch tomorrow night for dinner. Even you, Anne. CHARLES: Damn it, Mary, I'm late. Is he here? MARY: Who? Oh, Captain Wentworth, do...do come in. Forgive me, I... The door was open. I trust the boy does well? -Oh, yes. -Much better, thank you, Wentworth. Oh, Captain Wentworth, this is my elder sister Anne. -We are acquainted. -Really? But Anne has never said a word about it. It was a long time ago, you were away at school. Come, Wentworth, or the birds will all have gone south for the winter. Of course. Ladies. LOUISA: Oh, come, Henrietta, let us go with them. Wait, wait, wait for me. ANNE: The worst is over. I have seen him. We have been once more in the same room. A bow, a curtsy, I heard his voice and then, he was gone. He has not forgiven me. I have used him ill, deserted and disappointed him. And worse, I've shown a feebleness of character in doing so, which his own decided, confident temper could not endure. Once there were no two hearts so open, no feelings so in harmony, but now we are strangers. Worse than strangers for we may never become acquainted. It is perpetual estrangement. And tonight, I'm to be tested once more. Frederick. There you are. Let me introduce you to Miss Anne Elliot. Miss Elliot, my brother, Captain Frederick Wentworth. Captain Wentworth and I met briefly yesterday. Oh, Frederick, you might have told me. This must be very bad for you, Miss Elliot, to come to your home and find us here. No, not at all, Admiral. I'm happy to know that the house is in such worthy and careful hands. And what news, Frederick, of dear Captain Harville? He's settled for now at Lyme with our good friend James Benwick -who's awaiting a new command. -How exciting. Of course. I remember Captain Benwick. He's engaged to Harville's sister. I'm sorry to have to tell you that she died last summer while Benwick was out at the Cape. -Oh, no. How dreadful. -Yes. Five years they waited for a fortune to satisfy her family. Now he has it, of course, but too late. Much too late. But then I've never thought that a man on active service -should even contemplate marriage. -Have you indeed? A frigate at wartime is no place for a woman and the long separations are a sore trial to both parties. Oh, how true. There is nothing so bad as a separation. As I know to my cost, for Mr Musgrove always attends the assizes and I'm so glad when he's safe home again. But now I'm paid off and ashore, Sophy, you'll be delighted to hear that I'm, at last, resolved to settle down. Indeed, Frederick, I'm delighted to hear it. Pray, do you have anyone in mind? No, no, I'm quite ready to make a foolish match with any woman between 1 5 and 30. A little beauty, a few smiles, and a compliment to the navy and I shall be lost. Oh, come, Frederick. After all, what right has a humble sailor to expect any better? But if I am to speak in earnest, what I desire above all in a wife is firmness of character. A woman who knows her own mind. I cannot abide timidity or feebleness of purpose. A weak spirit which is always open to persuasion, first one way and then the other, can never be relied upon. Well, we must see what we can do. (ALL CHUCKLING) (PLAYING MOONLIGHTSONATA ON PIANO) (GIRLS GIGGLING) Oh, Anne, play us something to dance to. -HENRIETTA: Yes, Anne, will you? Something jolly. -Oh, yes. (PLAYING LIVELY MUSIC ON PIANO) (BIRDS SHRIEKING) Do you know, I believe that I've never seen a pleasanter man in all my life than Captain Wentworth. MARY: Hmm. He was not very gallant by Anne, though, was he? When Louisa asked him what he thought of you the other night he said you were so altered, he should not have known you again. -I would not swear he used exactly those words. -Although he was most attentive to me. It must be said he would make a capital match for Louisa. (SHARPLY) Louisa. Stuff and nonsense, Charles. It is clear he is all for Henrietta. But, my love, surely you cannot have forgotten that Henrietta has an understanding -with my cousin, Charles Hayter. -Indeed, I have not. But I cannot say the same of Henrietta. (LAUGHING) And quite right, too. For who, pray, is Charles Hayter? Nothing but a country curate. What a degrading alliance for a connection of the Elliots. Now, there you talk nonsense, my dear. He will inherit the estate at Winthrop, and the farm near Taunton, and he is a very amiable young man. Well, I do not think a young woman has the right to marry anyone, however amiable if he is disagreeable or inconvenient to her family. No, no, what stuff. If Henrietta has Charles Hayter and Louisa can get Captain Wentworth, I shall be very well satisfied. Well, what do you say, Anne? Does the Captain prefer Louisa or Henrietta? Wentworth. LOUISA: We're just going over to Winthrop to visit Cousin Charles, Henrietta's intended. Why don't you come with us, Anne. I'm sure the Hayters would love to see you again. Capital idea, Louisa, we shall all go. I know Mary's in a fine sweat to see Cousin Charles again. (GIGGLING) Catch me. (GASPING) MARY: Anne. It is nothing. Thank you. I'm well. It is really nothing. But I think, perhaps, I'd better stay here and rest a little while. -Then I shall remain with you. -No, please, I... I would hate to inconvenience you and I... I know my way to Winthrop perfectly well. I shall catch up with you directly. Please, Charles. Very well. If you insist. (PANTING) Ah, see? There is Winthrop. MARY: You had all better go on without me. I am really excessively tired. It would be very rude of us to come all this way and not call on our cousins. I will stay with Mary, Charles. If you and Henrietta want to go on and pay our respects to the Hayters. And I am sure Captain Wentworth will offer us his protection. Very well. Henrietta. It is most unpleasant, having such connections, Captain Wentworth. But I assure you, I have never been in that house above twice. In my life. I wonder where Anne has got to. LOUISA: Mary is good-natured enough in many respects. But she does sometimes provoke me excessively by her nonsense. She has a great deal too much of the Elliot pride. You know, we all wish Charles had married Anne instead. -Anne? -Oh, yes. -Did you not know he wanted to marry Anne? -No. I did not. -Do you mean to say she refused him? -Oh, yes, certainly. When did this happen? I do not exactly know, but before he married Mary. Did she say why she would not marry? Well... Papa always said it was her great friend Lady Russell's doing. He thought Charles might not be bookish enough to please Lady Russell, and so she persuaded Anne to refuse him. I myself would have no idea of being so easily persuaded. When I have made up my mind, I have made it. And I'm quite determined. Yours is a character, I see, of decision and firmness. And I honour it. Oh, look. They have brought Charles Hayter with them. Come. (GUN FIRING) Ah. There you are. We thought we might cross your wake if we drove out this way. Admiral Croft, Mrs Croft. We've just paid a visit to my cousin, Charles Hayter. Oh. Miss Elliot, you must be tired. Do let us have the pleasure of taking you home to Uppercross. Oh, no, thank you, no. It is too much trouble. Oh, no, we are returning in any case by that road and there's plenty of room. -Really, you're too kind. -ADMIRAL CROFT: Stuff, Miss Elliot. -You must come with us, indeed you must. -Oh. (GASPING) -ADMIRAL CROFT: Walk on. -Thank you, Captain. I wish Frederick would spread a little more canvas and bring home one of those two young ladies to Kellynch. He means to have one of them. There's just no saying which one. MRS CROFT: They're both very good-natured, unaffected girls, indeed. They're a very respectable family. What do you think, Miss Elliot? It won't be long, if I'm any judge. ANNE: Now I understand him. He can never forgive me. He condemns me still for the past and is becoming now quite attached to another. (DOOR OPENING) And yet... MARY: Anne. We are to go to Lyme tomorrow morning. Captain Wentworth must visit his best friend, Captain... Something or other. And has invited us all to make the trip with him. Ain't it prime? No, indeed, I'm sure I'd better stay here with the children. (QUIVERING) Am I to go without you? In my delicate state of recovery? Suppose I were to be seized rather suddenly in some dreadful way and not able to ring the bell for servants? ANNE: Quite attached to another. And yet... Still he cannot be unfeeling. He cannot see me suffer without wishing to give relief, to spare the proof of his own good, warm and amiable heart, which I cannot contemplate without infinite pain and regret. (LAUGHING) The sea. -I love the sea. -I'm sure I love it more than you do. HARVILLE: Frederick. Come on. Captain Harry Harville, Captain James Benwick, Mr and Mrs Charles Musgrove. Miss Henrietta Musgrove, Miss Louisa Musgrove, Miss Elliot. Miss Anne Elliot? Yes. Capital. Oh, my God, the air. HARVILLE: Of course, the admiralty amuse themselves every now and then by sending a few hundred men to sea in a ship not fit to be employed. -It's true. -But they do have a great many... Captain Benwick, may I say how sorry I was to hear of your terrible loss. (LAUGHTER) Thank you. There never was a love like ours. And never will be again. There were a great many to provide for and among the thousands that may just as well go to the bottom as not, it is impossible for them to distinguish which may be least missed. (STAMMERING) And yet, Captain, you are still young, and I pray you may one day rally and be happy with another. A man does not forget a woman as readily as you forget us. I will not allow a woman's nature to be more unconstant than a man's. And yet, you will allow that poetry and novels are against you. They tell us endlessly of the fickleness of women. And are they not all written by men? Yes, Miss Elliot. Perhaps they are. I see we shall not readily agree on this. I would never suppose that true constancy is known only by women, but the one claim I shall make for my own sex is that we love longest when all hope is gone. A toast. The navy. ALL: The navy. The navy. You did a good deed. Cheering up so with poor Benwick last night. I've not known him talk so much. Not in a long time. In time, we found a common interest in poetry. He reads nothing else. Day in, day out. Never happier he is than when reading impassioned descriptions of hopeless agony or sundered hearts destroyed by wretchedness. (LAUGHING) Yes. I did venture to recommend a larger allowance of prose in his daily study. It's bad for him, I know, to be shut up as he is. But what can we do? Well, he's young. And time is a great healer. Or so, at least, I'm told. Oh. -Forgive me. -Not at all. Who is that gentleman? Mr William Elliot, sir. Came in last night on his way to Bath for the winter. William Elliot? Bless me, Anne, it must be our cousin William. It must, indeed. -HENRIETTA: He is handsome. -LOUISA: He is not. Did he mention a connection to the Elliots of Kellynch at all? He certainly said he would one day be a baronet. There. It is him, it is. HARVILLE: He seems of particular interest, this cousin? Sir Walter has no sons, so his title and the estate of Kellynch will pass to the cousin. What a pity we should not have been introduced to each other. His father and Mr Elliot have not been on speaking terms since his unfortunate marriage. An introduction would have hardly been welcome. You'll hardly be able to avoid seeing each other in Bath. You'll be sure to mention our seeing him next time you write to Father. On the contrary. Do you think he had the Elliot countenance? -Captain Wentworth, catch me. -Louisa. (BOTH LAUGHING) -Louisa. Louisa, no. Louisa, no. -I am determined. I will. Louisa. Louisa. A surgeon. A surgeon, quickly. -Of course. -Captain Benwick. Captain Benwick knows where one can be found. Send him to the inn. Keep this pressed firmly against the wound. Charles, it appears she'll be here some time. Her parents should be told. But I would rather not leave her. Not tonight. Let me go. And if you wish, I'll take Henrietta and Mary with me. And not Anne? If Anne will stay, there is no one so proper, so capable. Louisa needs no other. MARY: But Anne... Anne is to stay, who is nothing to Louisa, while I am sent packing? Now, my dear, I'm sure the captain... -Am I not as capable as Anne? -Of course you are. Am I not as proper? And to be sent home without Charles, too, without my husband, in my condition, no. No, it is too unkind. I will go with Henrietta. Go on. Miss Elliot, I've been thinking whether you had not better remain with Henrietta while I go in and break it to the Musgrove's alone. Do you think this is a good plan? I do. (KNOCKING AT DOOR) I must see Mr Musgrove without delay. Tell him Captain Frederick Wentworth is here. I must speak with him directly. (MRS MUSGROVE CRYING OUT) It is done. I shall return now to Lyme and see if I can be of any... any assistance. I believe the Musgroves will soon follow. Thank you. Captain, I'm most anxious. If you would have... If you'd be so kind as to have word sent to me in Bath as to how Louisa does. In Bath? I'm not needed in Lyme or any longer at Uppercross. I must rejoin my father. Our house is in Camden Place. -You dislike Bath most heartily, as I recall. -I do. But I have an old school friend who lives there and... I have the consolation also of Lady Russell's company. Very well, then. Goodbye, Miss Elliot. Goodbye, Captain Wentworth. PENELOPE: Certainly now, with Anne here, I'll not suppose myself at all wanted. Nonsense, Penelope, she is nothing to me, indeed, compared to you. My dear madam, you must not run away from us now. It must not be. Please, Penelope. (WOMEN GIGGLING) Ah, Anne, there you are. How are you, Anne? Are we greatly missed at Kellynch? But let me assure you, Bath has more than answered our expectations in every respect. Indeed, our house is undoubtedly the finest in Camden Place. You can be sure that the acquaintance of the Elliots is most exceedingly sought after. And best of all, Miss Anne, your cousin Mr Elliot is here in Bath and is quite reconciled with Sir Walter. -Mr Elliot? -Indeed, he has called repeatedly, has dined with us once. Evidently delighted at the distinction of being asked. And clearly places his whole happiness in being on intimate terms in Camden Place. He has offered his most handsome apologies for any former appearance of neglect in his duties towards us. And Mrs Elliot? Dead. Quite dead. Certainly his wife was a nobody, while a beauty and rich, but we must make allowances, he was young and foolish. Not any more. Such elegant manners. So gentlemanly and fashionable. Indeed, I have no objection to being seen with him anywhere. (KNOCKING AT DOOR) -Ah, that will be Lady Russell, no doubt. -No. That is Mr Elliot's knock. I am sure of it. I believe you are right. The poor man simply cannot keep away from you, Miss Elliot. Upon my word, Penelope. I am scarcely aware of his intentions being beyond those of other men. How is Mary looking? Last time I saw her she was... Well, she had a red nose. -Oh, she is quite well, thank you, Father. -Good. (DOOR OPENING) My apologies for calling so unexpectedly but I could not rest without knowing that Miss Elliot had not taken cold yesterday. Oh, how exceedingly kind of you, Mr Elliot. Ah, my dear sir, give me leave to present my daughter Anne. But this is extraordinary. Our paths have crossed before, Sir Walter, at Lyme not a week past. -Not that I could expect Miss Elliot to remember. -Indeed I do remember, Mr Elliot, very clearly. How extraordinary that we should be guests at the same inn at the same time. Yes, it is. One might almost say...providential. I cannot tell you how relieved I am to see her recovering so. Yes and she will make an excellent wife, Frederick. I congratulate you. I beg your pardon? Come, sir, you're mistaken if you think you've kept your intentions towards Louisa Musgrove a secret. You mean to say you consider an understanding exists between myself and Miss Musgrove? -Of course. Do you deny it? -I do. That is, what you say astonishes me. Do you mean to tell me you don't care for her at all? No, not in that way, no. Rest assured. Well, then I fear you'll gravely disappoint both her and her family. They talk of little else. Dear God, Harry, have I been so unguarded, so thoughtless? It would appear that you have. Well, if what you say is true then I must, in all honour, regard myself as bound to her. Indeed, Frederick. I am afraid you seem to have entangled yourself. This is dreadful. What can I do? Perhaps you might take your leave of Lyme on some pretext, and await Louisa's recovery elsewhere. It is perhaps possible a prolonged absence may weaken the bonds between you. I have been meaning to visit my brother in Shropshire. Capital. -Captain Wentworth and Louisa Musgrove? -It's quite true. I assure you. Any day now I expect to hear news of the engagement. And you, child, are you reconciled to it? Oh, yes, indeed. -I wish them every happiness. -Mmm. Of course. Oh, look, there's our Mr Elliot with the Wallaces. I must admit he does have a very pleasant manner. Indeed he does. And yet... And yet? I cannot help feeling that there must be something more than immediately appears in this sudden interest in our family, after so many years. You refer to Elizabeth, I take it. She is very handsome. Well, he has nothing to gain from a reconciliation. His late wife, however unsuitable a match, was exceedingly wealthy, and in any case nothing can prevent him from inheriting Kellynch and the baronetcy along with it. Nothing except my father marrying again and providing himself at last with a male heir. Ah. No, indeed. And Mrs Clay is young and altogether well-looking. I wonder at Elizabeth, to place such a woman under your father's nose so. We must be vigilant. -Ah, Lady Russell. -Ah, Lady Cavendish. My dearest cousin, once again providence seems eager to throw us together. Good morning, Mr Elliot. I confess, I called nearly an hour ago at Camden Place and was most distressed to find you absent. My father was quite taken up with some sensational news in this morning's paper. You refer, of course, to your cousins, the Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple and her daughter the Honourable Miss Carteret, who arrive in Bath today. You are very well informed, Mr Elliot. Your father may have mentioned something on the subject. I do not doubt that he did. You do not seem anxious to make their acquaintance again. I agree. The Dalrymples are nothing in themselves, but family connections are always worth preserving. And they are regarded everywhere as good company. My idea of good company, Mr Elliot, is the company of clever, well-informed people who have a great deal of conversation. You are mistaken. That is not good company. That is the best. No, good company requires only birth, manners and education and, with regard to education, I'm afraid it is not very particular. Oh, my cousin Anne shakes her head. She is not satisfied. In one point, however, I'm sure we must feel alike. We welcome any addition to your father's society which diverts his thoughts from those who, well, are beneath him. You refer to Mrs Clay? It is possible that I do. My concern is that my father may be rendered unhappy by the connection. But perhaps I'm too fastidious. My dear Anne, you have a better right to be fastidious than any woman I've ever met. Oh, good heavens. Mr Elliot not with you? There is a letter come for you from Uppercross. If you are quick you may just have time to read it before he calls again. CHARLES: My dear Anne, I rejoice to tell you that Louisa improves daily and will soon be quite her old self. I am also told we shall soon hear wedding bells at Uppercross, although I'm sworn to secrecy on the subject and may say no more. But Mama says the local dressmakers will not answer for such an occasion. So, expect to see us at Bath next week for a fitting. Until then, I remain your affectionate brother-in-law, Charles Musgrove. Anne. Anne. Anne. Come, come, Anne, we must not be late. You cannot have forgotten we have an invitation from Lady Dalrymple. I regret I am already engaged to spend the evening with an old school friend. Not that sickly old widow in Westgate Buildings? -Mrs Smith, yes. -Smith? -Westgate Buildings? -Excuse me. And who, pray, is Mrs Smith? One of the 5,000 Smiths that are everywhere to be met with? Upon my word, Miss Anne Elliot, you have the most extraordinary taste. To place such a person ahead of your own family connections among the nobility of England and Ireland. Mrs Smith. Perhaps she's not the only poor widow in Bath with little to live on and no surname of dignity. Good evening. -Anne. -Harriet. -How are you? -I'm well, thank you. Much better. This is my nurse Mrs Rooke. -How do you do, Miss Elliot? -Mrs Rooke. I am truly sorry I've been unable to visit before this. My time has not been my own. Oh, but we are deeply honoured to have a cousin of Lady Dalrymple pay us a visit here this evening instead of calling upon her relations with the rest of her family. You will soon learn that absolutely nothing happens in Bath without Nurse Rooke hearing of it. Come, dearest Anne, tell me everything that has happened to you in the past 1 2 years. Harry. Harry. Harry. Harry. Frederick. I called at the inn but Louisa's gone back home to Uppercross, I find. A week ago, at least. Benwick took her. She's quite recovered. How is your brother? He thinks I'm as big a fool as I do. You have no idea, Harry, how I... how I curse the folly of my own pride. Had I only the good sense to seize my happiness when I had the chance again and none of this would have happened. I'm not sure I follow. I imagine myself indifferent to her but I was only angry and resentful. Too late. Too late I began to understand myself and her. Never, never have I met her equal in good sense or sweetness of character. She's perfection itself. I've never loved any but her. -We are talking now of Anne Elliot? -Of course, who else? Then I take it you have not received Benwick's letter. I shall have to go to Uppercross now. It cannot, in all decency, be avoided. I mention this letter only because it contains the news that he has proposed to Louisa Musgrove. She has accepted him. They are to be married directly. Married? -Louisa and Benwick? -Directly. Then... Then I'm free. As it happens, I'm going to Bath tomorrow. Perhaps now you'd care to join me. And whom should I chance to meet at the Pump Rooms again yesterday but Mr Elliot. Without being indiscreet, I can reveal that you were very much talked of. He thinks you a most extraordinary young woman. In your temper, manners, mind, a model of female excellence. Now, I am no matchmaker, as you well know, but a most suitable connection. Everybody must certainly consider it. And I do think there would be every possibility of your and Mr Elliot being very happy together. And, I must confess, to look forward and think of you occupying your dear mother's place as the future mistress of Kellynch. The future Lady Elliot. Oh, my dearest Anne, it would give me more delight than is often felt at my time of life. Lady Russell. Will you join us? ANNE: I cannot deny the idea of being restored to Kellynch, of calling it home again, my home forever, has a charm I cannot immediately resist. And Mr Elliot is an exceedingly agreeable man and, in many respects, I think very highly of him. ADMIRAL CROFT: Admiral and Mrs Croft come to call on Miss Anne Elliot. Admiral, Mrs Croft, I'm delighted to see you. What brings you here to Bath? I'm afraid, Miss Elliot, it is my digestion. And when your sister Mary learned we were to come to Bath, she charged us with this letter for you. Thank you. You must stay for tea. And tell me the news from Kellynch. Well, all the talk, of course, has been of the marriage. -The marriage? -Why, your cousin of course. Miss Louisa Musgrove. Do you mean to tell me you did not know? No, indeed. I only had a note from Charles that we were to soon expect a wedding. Oh, well, then I'm sure the letter we have brought from your sister will contain a full account. I'm very happy for Louisa. -I am certain she has chosen wisely. -MRS CROFT: Indeed, indeed. ADMIRAL CROFT: Oh, he's a fine fellow, right enough. MRS CROFT: And whatever Frederick may say, she has no fears of being a naval captain's wife. No, indeed. I must confess the news did come as something of a surprise to us. Even Sophy was taken aback. Really? Did he give you no indication of his intentions? No. No, never a word on the subject. But Frederick is not a man to pine or complain. No, he very honourably hoped she will be very happy with Benwick and there's an end to it. In fact, from his manner of speaking on the subject, one would never guess Frederick could have ever thought of Louisa Musgrove for himself. Benwick? I beg your pardon? Am I, then, to understand that Louisa is to marry Captain Benwick and not Captain Wentworth? Yes. Yes, that's it exactly. Poor Frederick. Now he will have to begin all over with somebody else. MRS CROFT: Miss Anne, is something wrong? No. No, you astonished me indeed. You mean, you did not know? The thing is certainly true. We have it from Frederick himself. -Captain Wentworth is in Bath? -He arrived last night. Oh. Captain Wentworth. Miss Elliot. Your sister mentioned your being in Bath. Yes, I'm lodging with the Admiral in Queen's Square. You've perhaps also heard that Louisa Musgrove is to marry James Benwick. -I have. I was most astonished. -As was I. And yet, I'm sure in time they will grow more alike. Captain Benwick will gain high spirits and cheerfulness and she will... Relish for morbid poetry. Just so. With all my soul, I wish them happy, and yet... Miss Louisa is a very good, amiable, sweet-tempered girl. Harville's sister was a very superior woman, and Benwick's attachment to her was, indeed, profound. A man cannot recover from such a passion with such a woman. He ought not. He does not. My dear Anne, I cannot say how grieved I am to have kept you waiting, but the carriage is outside. Mr Elliot, permit me to name Captain Wentworth. My cousin Mr Elliot. May I? Captain, there is a concert at the Pump Rooms tonight. I remember how fond you are of music. I must say, though, the worst of Bath is the number of plain women. I frequently observe that one pretty face would be followed by five and thirty frights. And as for the men... Oh. Ah, Lady Russell. We are at home tomorrow night to a somewhat select gathering... -We do so hope you are at liberty. -Of course, Sir Walter, with pleasure. But where is Lady Dalrymple? Good heavens, is that Frederick Wentworth? Isn't he the nobody? LADY RUSSELL: What on earth is he doing in Bath? Captain Wentworth, is the programme to your liking? I found myself at liberty this evening. Bath has much to offer those who are interested in music. So I'm led to believe. And shall you be staying long in Bath? I don't know. That is to say, I am not certain. It all depends. I see. -Miss Elliot... -Captain. (FOOTMAN ANNOUNCING ARRIVALS) (GASPS) Lady Dalrymple. Anne, Anne, Lady Dalrymple is here. There'll soon be another marriage in that family, if I'm any judge. Certainly, if the rumours are to be believed. Captain. Captain. -Are you going? -Yes. Is the first half, at least, not worth staying for? No. There's nothing here worth me staying for. Good night. My dear Anne, is all well? We are all so dreadfully concerned. Yes. I felt suddenly a little faint. But I'm quite recovered. Should we not return to the concert? Dearest Anne, I have been awaiting an opportunity to speak to you privately and now it seems to have come. -I'm sorry, sir, I'm not very good company. -My dear cousin, you are far too modest for the world in general to be aware -of even half your accomplishments. -Really, sir, -I do not think you know me that well. -On the contrary. The name of Anne Elliot has long had a beguiling charm for me. If I dared, I would now breathe my sincerest wish that name might never change. -Sir... -I do not venture to expect an immediate answer to my proposal. But I cannot, in honour, further conceal my intentions and perhaps tomorrow night at Camden Place you will feel able to make me the happiest and most fortunate of men. WENTWORTH: Miss Elliot, I am charged with an urgent commission from the Admiral in regard to your family. And since I am to leave Bath today without delay, I should be obliged if I could wait upon you at 1 1.:00 this morning. (CLOCK CHIMING) (KNOCKING AT DOOR) CHARLES: Hello, Anne, how are you? Charles, Mary. I am here to take the waters. I have been most dreadfully unwell, it is my last hope. Father, Elizabeth. SIR WALTER: Good heavens, it's Mary. Sir Walter, Elizabeth, we have come to choose a wedding dress with mother and Henrietta. She is to be married to Charles Hayter. -Who? -A mere country curate. -Father, pray, do not trouble yourself. -And dear Louisa, is she not with you? She stayed at Uppercross with Captain Benwick. -Who? -The naval captain, Father. Pray, do not trouble yourself. I suppose we shall have to invite the Musgroves tonight as well. A party? SIR WALTER: I shall be loathe to introduce them to Lady Dalrymple. Will Mr Elliot be there? I must at all costs be introduced to Mr Elliot. Well, I have not the smallest intention of inviting him, but... Wentworth. -Charles. -Hello, old fellow, how are you? I didn't expect to see you here. Where are you staying? We must go shooting one day, if you have time. -Mrs Musgrove. -Captain. Father, this is Captain Wentworth. He is related to our tenants, the Crofts. Captain, this is my father, Sir Walter Elliot, baronet. Yes and my eldest sister Elizabeth. -Thank you, we are acquainted. -Captain, please. Well. I am charged. That is to say the Admiral, Admiral Croft, has been confidently informed... that Mr Elliot... That everything is settled now in your family for a union between yourself and Mr Elliot. It was added that you were to live at Kellynch, and my commission from the Admiral is to say that, if the family's wish is such, his lease at Kellynch shall be cancelled and he and my sister will provide themselves with another home. That is all. What answer shall I give? Sir... You will please thank the Admiral on my behalf, but I must tell you that he is utterly misinformed. Misinformed? -Utterly? -Yes, Captain. Quite mistaken. -No truth in any part of it? -None. And I should be grateful to know the source of such fanciful rumours. As to that... (KNOCKING AT DOOR) Lady Russell is here. Do you remember Lady Russell, Captain? How could I forget? Anne, I received your note. Miss Elliot, if you'll excuse me I shall convey your news to the Admiral. -Good day. -Captain. Is it true? Mr Elliot has proposed? If you'll excuse me, Lady Russell, I must speak with Captain Wentworth. Captain Wentworth. Mrs Musgrove. Anne. What a delight. Excuse me. Anne, I must speak with you. Must it be now? Anne, I must ask. Is it true Mr Elliot has asked you to marry him? -Yes, but... -Anne, I hope I give no offence, but I can never forgive myself if I did not acquaint you with Mr Elliot's real character. -I only hope I'm not too late. -Good heavens, Harriet, what is it? Mr Elliot is a man without heart or conscience. A designing, cold-blooded being who thinks only of itself. His recent reconciliation with your father was no accident. He had heard a rumour in London that Sir Walter Elliot might be led to marry his daughter's companion. -Mrs Clay? -The very same. And should she provide him with an heir, of course, the child would inherit everything, instead of Mr Elliot. -But he is already rich. -Of course. He married his poor wife for money and nothing else. But what he now desires above all is to be a baronet. He cannot bear the thought of not being Sir William. Well, why, then, would he wish to marry me? Oh, his admiration for you is sincere, as far as it goes. Although it has not prevented him from courting Mrs Clay at the same time. -No. -Indeed. He has promised to establish her as his mistress in London, as soon as he is married to you. There is nothing he would not do to prevent your father marrying again. I am profoundly grateful to you, Harriet. But now if you'll forgive me, I must go. -Captain Harville. -Miss Elliot. If you have come to call upon the Admiral and Mrs Croft, I must disappoint you. They went to take the waters with Captain Wentworth. But since you are here, you may save me some time. Captain Wentworth bade me bring this note to you in Camden Place. Perhaps you would take it now. -Thank you. -Are you quite well, Miss Elliot? Thank you. Then if you'll excuse me, I'm already late for an appointment. WENTWORTH: Miss Elliot, I can bear this no longer. You pierced my soul. I'm half agony, half hope. Unjust I may have been, weak and resentful I have been, but never inconstant. I offer myself to you again with a heart even more your own than when you almost broke it eight years ago. I have loved none but you. You alone, who brought me to Bath, for you alone, I think and plan. Have you not seen this? I can hardly write. I must go, uncertain of my fate. A word, a look, would be enough. Only tell me that I am... Tell me not that I am too late, that such precious feelings are gone forever. Why, Miss Elliot, you just missed Frederick. He has just gone to call upon you at Camden Place. Anne. -Charles. -Anne, good heavens, is anything the matter? Anne. Thank you, Charles, I'm quite...quite well. You look quite done for. We shall have to get you home directly. The thing of it is, I ought to be in the marketplace now. A fellow there promised me the sight of a capital gun he's just sending off. Said he'd keep it unpacked till the last possible minute. If I do not cut along now I shall miss out. You know from his description, Wentworth, it sounds a good deal like that 1 6-bore Mortimer of mine you shot with that day round Winthrop. Do you remember? (CHARLES CHATTERING) Captain... Captain, I am...I am in receipt of your proposal and am minded to accept it. Thank you. Are you quite certain? I am. I am determined. I will. And nothing, you may be sure, will ever persuade me otherwise. Why have we stopped? You can't see? Give me your hand. I thought you might like to see your wedding present. (GASPS)
