 

                        "The following story is based on true events, interpreted freely by the imagination of the authors." Here is your camomile tea madame. - Thank you. We are currently living a historic period of decisive decisions concerning our future. - We'll see how long he'll last. He's handsome isn't he? - Handsome? He's an asshole. - Evaristo for god's sake! Don't say such things in front of the girls. - But isn't there so much freedom? Don't tell me all of a sudden I am not allowed to say what I think. Well the socialists now say ETA will leave terrorism. - Yes? They won't stop killing until we waste them all. I'm leaving, I must be at the command by 3:30. Till later Evaristo. - See you later. Be very careful. - I will, do you feel any better? - I'm ok. Make sure you're home early tonight. - Alright. No, I'm not going but we'll see eachother later as always. Hey, do you guys have any hash? - Let's see if you buy for once in stead of always asking others. - I'm penniless Urko. Here, you owe me 2,000 ok? - Don't worry, I'll pay you end of the month. Dealing drugs right?, does your father give them to you? - No, your fucking mother does. Hey Peru, don't be stupid. It's hard to believe you can behave with people this way. Leave me alone. - Let's get out of here. I'm up to here, it's not my fault my father's a cop. - None of us choose our father, that's it. - I know. But i'm sure if we didn't have this mess, you wouldn't be my friend .- Shut up, don't be stupid, we're in this together. - Yes, but... - If I didn't like you I wouldn't have gotten into nothing with you, you think too much. Let's go to Betty's place, I want to get stoned. - Me too. Stand in front of your dad's photo. Stop messing around. - Let me see! What are you looking at? It's funny to see you together, to be honest you don't resemble him that much. - I'm more like my mother. See, isn't she pretty? - Yes. This Saturday I'm going to pay her a visit. It must be a drag having your parents separated no? - No way, worse when they were together. To tell you the truth it's damn good stuff, but "El Cojo" is a bastard, everytime it's more expensive .- You need to try and understand, life is hard and everyone's out for one's own. - You think? Don't get too comfortable, soon I'm leaving for work. Poor Urkito, always the first to vomit. - It feels good to vomit. With this stuff it's easy. These guy's are amateurs. - It's always the same for who starts. Well Urko have you vomited a lot? - Yes, more than enough. Don't you say it's better to inject it? - If there's not enough money to buy a lot yes. - Of course, you've got more than enough right? Don't exaggerate, it's hard work to earn my money. - Betty, did you ask if there's any place for me? Yes, they said they didn't need any more girls, sorry. You're also going to prostitute? - Shut up, I work in a massage parlor understand? Sure, giving massages down below. I'm fed up with you, if you weren't Paco's friend you wouldn't be allowed here. - What a mess you two, what a mess. I feel great. Your wife suffers from a carcinoma in the ovaries in a metastatic phase. In a situation like this any surgical intervention may cause her to suffer pointlessly. But her pains become more and more unbearable each day. Is there no way to avoid them? - She should continue with the injections I have prescribed to her. Please understand, this is all we can do to avoid her suffering. Paco, do you have any hash? - Sure, how much do you want? 2,000 worth. Is it good? - Very good. - You know you can trust us. Here, it's best if you keep the money. - It's always me who has to play the banker. Look who's there. - Who? Mikel Orbea, the sculptor. Yeah, the faggot. - But he's alright no? Ask him if he wants to buy any hash. I know what he wants to buy. Paco we need the cash. - Why don't you go? He's better with you. You always leave me to do everything. Hi Mikel. - Hi Paco. Would you like buy any hash? Take a seat. - I'm in a hurry. But take a seat. How much do you want? - I've got no cash on me, you'd have to accompany me home. No way. Last time it wasn't that bad. - I told you I'm not doing it anymore. Alright alright. I need the money, but not like that. - You prefer to sell drugs? Yes. Hey sit down. At least allow me to buy you a drink. - Make it only one. You know, even though you're a faggot, you're a nice guy. - Well, you too, even though you're a cop's son. You are anti-military right? - Look, being Basque from Badajoz it's enough having served with them to know you despise the army. You know I don't care about such things. It's likely I'll end up in the army. - Do you want to? No. Then how come? I don't really have a choice. Would you like some? - Is it cocaine? No, heroin. I'll pass. So you're on the hard stuff ?, No less than heroin. - There's nothing like it, hash, anfetamines, LSD, none come close. - What's up?, it hits high right? More than that, it brings you peace. - Peace? Yes, peace, nonsense right ?, that peace that everyone always talks about you find just like that. Sniffing a bit of powder. And you feel, at peace. - Now I understand everything, that's why you're running wild chasing money everywhere. Yes. But don't you realize that... - Alright alright. I don't need preaching. I don't have louses, heroin makes you itch. It's a nice feeling, it's nice to scratch yourself. - Right. I know it's dangerous, but I can control myself. I'm not going to get hooked. Hi. - Hi, where have you been? Out with some friends. I'm going to the pharmacy, your mothers' pains have returned and she's out of injections. - If you like I can go. - No, let's go together, I feel like a walk. The pharmacy on the corner is open on duty. Good evening, how may I help you? - Good evening, a box of pethidine please. Do you have a prescription? I seem to have left it at home. - I'm sorry, but pethidine contains morphine and without a prescription I cannot sell it to you. - Shall I go home and get it? It's ok. Look, I am a Captain of the Guardia Civil. - Ok, wait one moment. You'll soon feel better. Paquito, go to bed. - Sleep well. If god so wishes Paquito. Good night father. - Good night, turn off the light in the hall, not like yesterday. - Sure. I probably should have told the boy off. - Why? What do you mean why?, look at the time he's come home at. He has me very concerned. Something's wrong. - At his age exercise and more sun is needed, but here, always raining, the only thing he can do is go from bar to bar. I hope he can achieve his degree, so he can be accepted in the military academy. There he'll become a man and will have no more trouble. Do you really believe that's the solution? - Of course, make no mistake. Besides, young people today have a hard time finding work. The army means a secure future. Why did you two decide to shoot up? - Money, girl. - You'll see, just a bit of powder equals three sniffed lines. You go first. - Alright give it here, tighten hard. It sets my teeth on edge. Leave it to me, I'll shoot you. Well?, can you feel it? The heart is going... thump... thump... thump... How is it? Get ready. Your turn now. I'm coming. Who is it? - Betty sends us. Hi. Come in. Cut, cut. Hi. - Hi. Quickly, I'm working. Bye. - Bye. Well done boys. Great job. - It wasn't very hard, you have a good clientele. We know what we're doing. Pilar, fetch two beers for the boys. - Alright. And, what about our commission? - Easy, take it easy. Here you are. There's more than one gram. This is very little. - Hey come on, surely you've stuck your fingernails in the folds of the customers. None of that Cojo, we're legit. - Here are the beers, they're not very cold. I need to watch my interests boys, I'm to be a father. Ok, but keep in mind we are very good dealers. Let's see where else you can find sons of cops and politicians. - You'll see, we'll do great things together. Just don't get too hooked. That's bad news. - Don't worry, we can control ourselves, we're not stupid. I'm going to shoot one up now. - Me too. What are you saying you bitch?, you're about to give birth and you want to shoot up? The baby won't come out if you keep up. - I can't resist it. You fool. - Just a small one, nothing's wrong with that. I'm going to teach you a lesson if you keep insisting. Please bring the camomile. - The bottle? Yes please. Now everyone together, I'm taking a photo. Get ready. Hello? Hello mother how are you? Everyone quiet, I can't hear. Here we are, yes 18 years old. He's now a man. I'll put him on. Paco!, take the phone, your grandmother wants to congratulate you. How are you granny? Thank you, of course I'm studying, no, I don't have a girlfriend yet. Yes, I'd like to visit you soon, maybe this summer. And you, can't you come? Alright don't exaggerate, it can't be that bad. Everything's calmer now. Yes granny, thank you very much, I'll pass you to my mother. How are you? Yes I am ok, day by day, I feel I'm much better. Yes, I have more than enough encouragement. What about yourself?, I can imagine, that's great. You have amazing memory, you never forget anyone's birthday. Very well, my regards and a hug to all. I'll pass you to Evaristo. Mother, the call will end up costing a lot. Don't worry, we all take very good care of eachother here. Ok, pray if you like but don't worry too much. Look at the bags under Paco's eyes. Yes, Paco you always have bags. Don't be silly. - Be quiet!, I can't hear anything! So they've promoted Alfonso to general ?, where have they posted him? Huesca?, nice post, I'll send him a telegram congratulating him. Can you hear me?, the line's cut. Sometimes I think the government even controls our telephones. Be careful Evaristo, you're drinking too much and you're not used to it. - Don't worry Eulalia, it's the boy's birthday! Come here Paco. Come on! - Yes, it will be great. Wait there, you'll see what a surprise Paco will give you. Soon you'll grow a beard, and you'll be able to leave a mustache as is proper. - I already have a few hairs here. Few hairs, on the subject of hair, I've noticed you seem to scratch your balls a lot lately. What's up?, have you been messing around with some whore that's given you lice? Not at all. - Let's see, man to man, how many have you had? - With none. What do you mean? Isn't it so easy these days? - Maybe in Madrid, Bilbao... Sure. There's nothing but tomboy's here. The guys are faggots. They only know how to stuff themselves with food and wine. That's them. Made pigs. - I don't know. Look son. I'm going to give you the same present my father gave me on my eighteenth birthday. - What present? Buy you a prostitute. What? - Sure, a good hooker, but one of the expensive ones. I want you to lose your virginity well. - But... Look in the newspaper and find one you like. - What's happening, for when this surprise?, we need to leave for school. He's coming. Paco hurry up. These hairs need to be stretched back a little. You look untidy, come on, go to the cupboard and put it on. We'll find some gel for you in the meantime. No, not there. the other one. Attention!, I present Captain Torrecuadrada! Paco don't move, I'm going to take a photo. Here he is, now a man. Come on Paco, give your mother a kiss. Oh it's you. - I've got a job for you Betty. But only if we go half half. Well, don't you want to?, - It's up to you. It's been a long time since we haven't made love, and now that your father's paying, I don't know, I feel like it's a rip-off. Your boy's taking his time. It looks like Betty's doing a good job. Well Betty's well served since the boy takes after me! The first hooker I had, no offense. At the start she was very playful, 'how cute', 'what a cute leg', 'who's going to eat that which nobody's eaten yet'. When I started, I didn't last very long. Then after that, slowly, I managed one and another, another, another! - Good heavens! Let's say she was left quite lively! But this isn't your boys' first time, I could tell straight away. - Be careful, sometimes appearances can be deceptive! I'm going to take this off since it's unbearably hot in this place. - The customers like the heating high! Look, there he is. - Shall we leave? Let's go. Have you payed the girl? - Yes. What do I owe you for the drinks? - 5,000. If you prefer we accept visa. No it's ok, here's a tip. - Thanks darling, maybe some time you could show me a demonstration, you haven't lost your touch over the years have you? Let's go. But Paco?, what's wrong? - Just a moment. - It must be dizziness. The heating's up very high. Girls, open the balcony doors, let some air in. - What's wrong with you Paco? - Nothing nothing. I've taken one drink too many. - If you'd like to lay down a while. No, we're leaving, it's ok I'm alright. Are you sure you're alright? - Yes, sure. We don't want to scare your mother. Watch out! We have been informed that it was the son of Captain Torrecuadrada who through an agile reflex managed to save both his father's life and his own. Francisco Torrecuadrada, how old are you? - I'm just 18. How do you feel after such a terrible incident? - I don't know, well I feel fear, nothing special. Did you manage to see the men in the car? He's so high. - I only saw the shots. As a result of this incident there have been various political protests by groups from the Basque Country, the Abertzale deputy politician Martn Aramenda has made the following declaration: At this moment... - Dad you're on TV!... my party precisely because of disagreements towards armed struggle will continue to work tirelessly in favor of this negotiating process. I read in the newspaper that the son of that captain... studies at your same academy. Yes... Do you know him? Only by sight... What a throat!, it doesn't stop yelling! - It's born hooked. I'm not joking. No shit. - Really, since Pilar hasn't stopped shooting during pregnancy... You can't imagine, the doctor knew immediately. Prenatal heroin addiction! Good thing he's a trusted Doctor otherwise... Come on wake up! Can't you hear the baby? - Yes, it's just that I'm exhausted, It didn't let me sleep a minute last night. Alright Cojo give us the merchandise, we've got to get going. That's exactly what I wanted to talk to you about. - What's wrong? Try and understand, Paco's now famous, he's in newspapers, on TV, all Bilbao knows he's the son of Captain Torrecuadrada. A few angry clients have already called me. - If that's the way things are I can be the one who gives face, I don't care. - I do. Everybody knows you're friends, they would be alarmed with you too. But... - No way. You'll have to stop for the time being. I don't want to abandon you, but I can't mess up. Give me some paper to fix this up. - You, where's the paper? - In the kitchen. There you are. It's finally stopped crying. You bitch! I told you not to do that! - It won't shut up!, ever!, I can't take it any more!, my head's going to explode! Don't you hear it?! - This is all your fault!, explode from heroin, see if I care! This is all your fault! Who got me in all this?!, who?! Imbecil! See!, you need to control yourselves! - Cojo don't try and confuse us!, we know you more than well. Let's go. Paco!, wait. Where are you going? - Bye. Mother are you ok? - No. Isn't father with you? No, he's on duty. What's wrong mother? - I can't take this pain any longer, I just can't. Have you had an injection? Yes, but it doesn't seem to help. I am waiting for your father to return so he can give me another. Where does father keep the injections? There, in the cupboard. Did I hurt you? - No, in the beginning the injections used to hurt, but now I almost enjoy them. Yes, that happens. When did you learn to give injections?, you're good at it. - Well, I can't remember, oh!, actually on a lifeguard course. Take care. - Wait a moment, stay a while with me. What's the matter Paco? Nothing, why do you ask? - For the last few months you've not been yourself. Well, I guess I'm growing up... Does that scare you?, it does because you don't want to be like your father. No, I don't want to be like him. Then tell him Paco. Tell him once and for all. - Yes, I'll probably end up telling him, everything. Excuse me mother, I'm going to the bathroom. I'll be right back. Paco?, are you still awake? - Yes. Is something wrong? Mother was in pain. Open up Paco. Your mother tells me you gave her an injection. - Yes, she was in a lot of pain. You only gave her one right? Of course. - It's very strange, five vials are missing. What's wrong with your arm? - I could come up with any excuse, but what for, sooner or later you will have to find out. - Find out about what? The vials are in that box. One of them is empty. I just injected it. But why? Have you gone crazy? I would have preferred heroin. But you know, sometimes you have to settle for the next best thing. I've been shooting up for a few months. I'm a heroin addict. You tell me like this? So relaxed? How do you want me to tell you? What's happening? - Eulalia go back to bed. - I know what's wrong with the boy. She knows? - No, she hasn't any idea. - Paco doesn't want to be a soldier. That's why he's been so distressed lately. He didn't have the confidence to tell you. - He's told me enough. He doesn't have the dignity to wear this uniform. We aren't talking about that mother. - Leave us alone Eulalia. Let's go in the lounge. I wish to speak with the boy in private. How did you get into this? Who taught you this addiction? - No one. What do you mean no body?, there must be someone. Someone must have dealt you the drugs. - Don't look for culprits. What I need is your help. But what the hell can be done to help you? You can get anything you want from a pharmacy. - You don't expect me to... If I shoot in small amounts, I can slowly quit. Bit by bit, until I can manage to stop. I can't stop all of a sudden. The man who dealt me the drugs doesn't want to sell to me anymore. I'm desperate, really father. So there was someone who sold you the drugs! - I'd prefer to forget all of that, but... Who is this individual!? What does it matter... - I asked you a question! I'm telling you that from this moment on you are no longer speaking to your father, yet with a captain of the Civil Guard! Tell me immediately who this person is! - Fine! I'm speaking with a captain of the Civil Guard!, but you're not speaking with a snitch or an informant! - Tell me the name of this individual! What are you going to do in order for me to tell you? Use the same method you use down at the station? - Idiot! I told you to leave us to talk in private. Return to your room immediately! Well, do you prefer to tell me everything now or at the police station!? - Are you going to take me handcuffed? If necessary I'll take you at gunpoint! If you have the balls shoot, because I'm leaving this house right now. - Don't move! Evaristo for god's sake! Paco, obey your father. Don't be afraid mother, we all know it's very dangerous to run when the Civil Guard says halt. But I am his son. Hey there hero! - Fuck off! What are you going to do? - If you don't mind I'd like to stay here for a while. You may stay as long as you like. But you know on what conditions. No shooting up or deals with dealers. Can you commit to that? Don't worry, I'll get clean. What I don't want is to go back home. Or be out and about at the risk of encountering my father. Okay Torrecuadrada, your son wouldn't have gotten into this unless someone would have led him. But keep in mind me must address this cautiously. It wouldn't be appropriate if this were to turn in to a scandal. Take in to account your son has appeared famously in the headlines these last few weeks, as a hero. - I am the first one interested in keeping me and my family's honour, but we cannot consent these corrupters to continue operating with impunity. No matter how they are protected by democratic laws! - Careful, careful. Don't get too sticky, you know the socialist government does its best to get along well with us. The ministry of home affairs spends its day praising us and Felipe Gonzlez as well. Things are much better than with Franco. - Yes. But that's just because of fear. Nothing else. Anyhow, what concerns me the most at the moment is my son. I want him to come home. And to find those people who've corrupted him into this. We can both agree on that. Look, I'm going to introduce you to Lieutenant Alcntara. He's been working in narcotics for years and knows that world well. Did you bring your sons photo? - Yes. Here you are. The Colonel explained to you that we must be very cautious. We'd best avoid any scandal. - Of course, I'll interrogate a few youngsters, they'll give us the leads we need. Will you show them my sons photo? Don't worry Captain, the youngsters I know have learned to keep their mouths shut. - Anyway I would like to be present for questioning. You don't mind right Lieutenant? Of course not Captain. Well, know him? - No, I don't know him. Are you sure? Look well. Yes, not at all. I don't know him. Let's now talk seriously. Don't make me lose my patience. Don't look at me! You sold him the drugs right!? - No. But you do know who did right? I know nothing I swear!, I swear!, I know nothing. It seems unbelievable, I considered you a good boy. You're going to make me angry! Where can we find that boy? - I don't know, I haven't seen him for ages. But you know him perfectly well correct? I already told you yes, but... - You know him because you sold him drugs!, isn't that so? No. I never sold him anything. - Then tell me who did. I would if I knew. But I don't fucking know. Juanra, talk with Juanra. - With who? Juanra Ramrez. You already know him. - Sure, sure I do. Let's go. How's it going Juanra? - Please Alcntara, release me. Desperately in need are we? Let me leave, I haven't done anything wrong. - We can still hold you for another twenty four hours, and up to ten days if we charge you with the antiterrorism law. But why? I can't tell you anything, it's been ages since I've seen the cops son, I mean, Paco. That's the name everyone knows him by. Look, pure heroin. Straight from Thailand. I believe you don't know where he's hiding, but you do know who sold him drugs. - He went often to Baracaldo, to Cojo's house. El Cojo? - Yes. You're not lying are you? No! No way. - Do you wish to ask him anything else Captain? I am going to release you. If you dare to mention what you've spoken about here with us, you'll pay. - Yes lieutenant, don't worry. Who is this 'Cojo'? - Captain, El Cojo and his wife are well known to us. Then why didn't you bring them in for questioning? We didn't deem it necessary. - Well I don't understand, if this person is such a notorious dealer why he wasn't brought in. Take responsibility Captain, El Cojo and his people are trustworthy. I understand Lieutenant. Anyhow I wish for them to be questioned immediately. He was always with Urko. He'll certainly know where to find him. - Who is that? He's Martn Aramenda's son. - Martn Aramenda? Yes, the politician. Paco is involved with Aramenda's son? - Yes, they are good friends, always together. Does that boy also take drugs? Of course!, and plenty of it. - Surely Urko will know where he is. May we go now?, we've left our baby with a neighbour and... - Okay you can leave, but pay attention, we may be needing more details. As you wish Lieutenant. - And be careful, I don't want you to have any more contact with my son. Don't make me personally have to blow your brains out. Take it easy Captain, Lieutenant Alcntara knows well that on more than one occasion we've been very useful. - That's what makes me feel sick, that people like you can be useful to the Civil Guard. Go on leave. Well couple!, was it a boy or a girl? - Boy. And well yes? Yes, thanks. - Take care! Bye. See you! - Bye. Well Captain what now? Should we bring in Aramenda's son? - Yes, of course. That could complicate things a little don't you think? I don't care. - In cases like these it's best to use another method. - Which method do you mean? Well, two or three experienced men in civilian clothes go out and find the boy, then take him to a discrete location and use the only efficient procedure to make him talk. Naturally those men will never identify themselves or jeopardize the body. I don't like that method. Yes it's true, I see no reason to deny it. I'm a good friend of Pacos, and was certain sooner or later I was going to be brought here. How come you were so sure? - It's just well, many people say they're being arrested and asked about Paco. Apparently those youngsters aren't as discrete as you thought Lieutenant. What are they saying? - Well that they've been beaten up. But they couldn't say anything because they don't have any idea as to where Paco's hiding. But you know where he is right? - No, I don't know. Come in. - At your command, sir. Excuse me Captain, Martn Aramenda is outside. He wishes to speak with you at once. Tell him to come in. Follow me please. It's that son of a bitch right?, Martn Aramenda. - Yes, what the hell is he doing here. Stop beating around the bush and tell me why you've detained my son. What is he accused of? What has he done? Would you mind rolling up your sleeves? Come on. I want your father to see your arms. Look, scars from the needle. Your son is a heroin addict. - What are you saying? Us fathers are always the last ones to find out. Look. What is this? Come on, tell me what this is from. Why are you so quiet. Is it true what they are saying? We can fill you in as to every detail Mister Aramenda. Your son has been addicted to heroin for months. - But, how did he buy it? He never has any money. In lack of money, they chose to deal. Yes, deal. - I can see you accuse him of serious crimes, but I advise you I am prepared to defend my son! I understand you. I also defend my son. That is the reason behind this unpleasant reunion. - What do you mean? It seems your son and mine are the best of friends. They're classmates from the academy. But from what I understand, they've only seen eachother. Isn't it so Urko? - No father. Paco and me are good friends. Such good friends that they've been shooting up heroin together for months. I believe mister Aramenda that you and I should speak privately. - Fine, but only when it's not in such premises. It's best no one finds out about this. - Yes, it's obvious we both wish to avoid any scandal. But at the moment you've mobilized the whole Civil Guard. I had no other option, my son has disappeared and I have to find him any way I can. That's why I questioned your son. - What did Urko tell you? That he knows nothing, but I'm sure he's lying. If you could talk to him perhaps... - I'm sorry but don't count on me for that. I know your kind hate us... - but I hoped you could be able to distinguish my feelings from my uniform. Why on earth do you ask me to distinguish when you are not even capable of doing so yourself. If you want to find your son look for him, but on your own, and leave your hat at the station. Sir, we've been trying to contact you for hours. - What's wrong? Eulalia isn't well. And the girls? - They're with her in the bedroom. Hi. How are you Eulalia? - Tell the girls to go and have dinner, they won't listen to me. Come on girls go and eat, I'll stay with your mother. Close the door. Have you found Paco? - Not yet. But I don't think I'll take long. You're going to try and understand him yes? - Of course. I will do everything possible to help him. Find him please. Find him soon. Do you recognize this boy? - No. Hey, that guy's a Captain of the Civil Guard. That's Pacos' father he's a Civil Guard let's get out of here. Looking for someone? Maybe I can help you, Captain Torrecuadrada. You know me? - Through references. Please sit down. It seems everyone knows me around here. - Well yes. But I've got no reason to run away like the rest. Perhaps because you have nothing to hide. Well the truth is I do hide something. Something important. - What is it you hide? Your son. Tell me where he is at once! - I won't tell you Captain Torrecuadrada. What is this, a provocation? What do you intend? I intend to simply calm you down. Paco is very well, he's completely clean. Are you certain? - Yes, absolutely. If you see Paco tell him his mother is about to die, and wishes to see him. Good. I'll tell him tonight when I see him. I know he's worried about her, but don't follow me, or arrange for someone else to, you'll make a serious mistake Captain. I'll stay there until my mother dies. - And afterwards? Leave Bilbao. Why? I want a change of environment. Besides, this isn't my land. - This land belongs to all those who desire to live in it. It's really raining, could you lend me an umbrella? - Over there take it. Yes Mikel, I have to leave. It's the only way to break away from everything. - Sure, break away. I don't want to break away from you. But you know I can never correspond to what you feel. I don't mean to be cocky. - Well well, there's no need to be like that. I just hope before you leave you can come and say goodbye. You have to return the umbrella. Yes Mikel, I will. May I come in? - Come in son. Your mother is waiting for you. I've finally managed to get the girls to sleep. Poor girls, how hard this must be for them. Are you not going to sleep? - No, I don't think I'll be able to. I'd like to stay and talk with you a while. If you want. It's funny, these last few weeks I've been so concerned about you that I almost forgot she was about to die. I'm sorry my problems have complicated everything for you. That's why it's a priority for me to leave Bilbao. - Leave? Where? That night you told me I didn't have enough dignity to wear a uniform. Remember? The truth is I've never wanted to wear it. I've changed a lot since that night. Before I was very assured, everything was clear. The sense of honour, the pride of belonging to the Civil Guard, my obligations as a father, but now all of a sudden... I don't know, I doubt everything. Was it so hard to acknowledge your son as a heroin addict? - No, not just that. Don't go Paco. Stay with your sisters and me. I've requested a transfer and soon we can all leave. No father. I wish to leave now. - At least wait a few months. I know you're an adult now and you can do whatever you like, but on this occasion, I am saying please. Please don't leave again. Fine. I'll wait a few months. You look great Urko! - I already told you on the phone I was clean! I couldn't believe it! Neither could I about you! - Well now we're like new again. Was it very hard for you to clean up? Yes, terribly. You? - Yes, but it's all over now. Urko?, are you not going to play any more or what? - I'm coming, I'm coming. Wait, well be finished soon. Wait for them too? - No way, we can go by ourselves. Hey, bring me a glass of water. - Sure. What are you going to do? - Can't you see? I'm going to prepare a shot. Urko, we'll get dressed and leave right? - Why such a hurry. Hi. - Well Urko, where did you leave the cop's son? Are you no longer friends or what? I want to buy five bucks of heroin. I thought you were clean. - You didn't last long. Stop messing around will you sell it to me or not? - Alright man don't get mad, I've got a quarter but it's 6 bucks. It's good right? Of course. - Damn. This is a quarter? Be yourself, if you're not interested... Okay. Did you get it? Come on. Damn, there's almost none left. - Yes. How many shots have you had? The same as you. - No way you've shot way more than me. Shut up. What do you mean shut up do you think I'm stupid or what? I've got to do everything because you're the cop's son and nobody can see you. - For me you can fuck off, I don't need you for anything. You can fuck off with your faggot friend that helps you so much. Are you hurt? - No, it's nothing. Sure? Yes, I'm fine. Shit, the paper? - I thought you had it. It's gone. Let's look for it. Here it is. It's all gone. We're such idiots. - Yes. I'm sorry it was all my fault. No, it's just bad luck. - We can't go on like this Urko. No but, we already tried to get clean once and look where it's gotten us. That's it. We have to confront things as they are. - What do you intend on doing? Tonight my father's eating at a friends. He'll be late. The worst of all is not the fact they've left home, but that they have a gun and plenty of munition. Do you know if your son has stolen any weapon from you? - There have been no firearms in my house for a long time. Well the danger is that they at the least have one. We have to find them before they do something crazy. - Of course. Where do we start? The last time Paco ran away, there was a strange individual who happened to know where he was, blonde, a big nose, and frog like eyes. - I believe I know who you refer to. The sculptor Mikel Orbea. I recall now that Urko told me there was a possibility Paco was taking refuge at his house. - Do you know him? Yes, he's a well known artist and a supporter of my party. Gee!, what a surprise. - Where are Urko and Paco? - I have no idea. They've ran away from home, certainly you know something. - Can we come in? Wow, I never could have imagined Martn Aramenda coming to question me accompanied by a Captain of the Civil Guard. Apparently when it comes to defense of the family anything's possible. Please Mikel, don't be silly... we need your help. - Come on Martn, the Captain doesn't understand Basque. We can't be rude with the collaborators. - Stop messing around and tell us where they are. I've already told you I don't know. Do you mind if we take a look around? - Yes, I do mind. Friends of mine. We were having a nice time, before you came and spoiled the party. - So, you enjoy yourself with boys. That's right. Hadn't you explained to the Captain the fact that I'm a faggot? Now you know, I'm a faggot. - What did you do with Paco!? Where do you know him from!? Calm yourself Captain, you're not at the station. I advise you as well to not pull your gun out here neither, things may get difficult. Don't you think so Martn? - It's best we leave. Yes. - We must continue searching for them. Mikel, please, if you are made aware of anything please contact me. They could get in to big trouble. They have a... - Don't tell him anything! We can't trust this guy. - The captain is right. Don't tell me anything, guys like me... will never have the pleasure of trust by the Civil Guard. Who were they? Nobodies, two despicable individuals. I can't believe this, I thought you were both clean. - You know that's not so easy. Don't come crying to us. We don't want problems with Pacos father. He's got quite a temper. - It's amazing that you're afraid because of that, considering the relationship you have with the Civil Guard. No more jokes. Why have you come?, what do you want? - We've come to hold you up and take all the heroin you've got. Come on Paco, did you get that toy from your father? - Ask no questions and give over all the powder you've got. Do what they're saying, they're desperate and capable of anything. - Yes, look at my hands trembling, dangerous, thinking of how easy it is to pull the trigger. Alright man, easy. You're in luck, almost 100 grams. First class stuff too. At your command, Captain. - Alcntara, what are you doing round here? Do you know yet? Know what? - El Cojo and his wife. Yes, of course. I just heard it on the radio. ETA apparently right? - May we speak in private? Well, let's go to my office. Go ahead. Look Captain... we've done a ballistic analysis of the shells found at El Cojo's apartment. - What's been found? That they correspond to the munition issued to the Civil Guard. Well, it's not that strange. Terrorists have robbed many arms from our men. Please allow me to ask you a direct question. Is your son well controlled Captain? - Absolutely, since he's returned home, there have been no problems... Anyhow, how dare you ask me such a question? - According to the reports made by certain witnesses, after the shots were heard two young boys were seen hurriedly exiting the building... one of them was blonde and with curly hair. There are thousands of youngsters with such features. Yes, sure. I can see Lieutenant that you are affected by the deaths of such valuable collaborators, but don't worry, I am responsible for my son. - Please understand Captain... I have lots of work to do Alcntara. You may leave. At your command Captain. Martn, you have a call... Haven't you explained I'm busy? Sure, but he says to tell you it's doctor Torres... Please excuse me. I'm afraid the boys may be implicated in an extremely serious matter... over the phone I can't reveal much more. Yes, we must see eachother right away. - In fifteen minutes then. I'm sorry but I must leave, I may be away some time. Anyhow, this afternoon you're due in parliament. - I don't think I'll be able to... what's wrong?, are you got trouble with your son again? - I apologize, but at the moment I can't explain anything. It's likely I will be obliged to turn in my resignation soon. Gee, look at you two, why don't you go out for some air? You've been shooting up non stop for four days now, you're going to kill yourselves at this rate. Maybe some music will liven you up a little. Another one? He's dead. What can we do? Don't leave Paco! Don't leave me alone... Mister Aramenda, I would like express my sincere condolences... - Don't say anything Captain, I appreciate you coming. Please, wait for me outside. Leave us alone, and may no one disturb us. I've spoken with the forensic, although a full autopsy is yet to be made it seems clear your son died from an overdose. - Yes... this is what I've also been told. The reports made by that girl don't seem very compromising, apart from the fact that they were apparently at her house for a number of days. Injecting non stop... I'm sure they got the drugs from that dealer duo who they killed themselves. - You have told no one that your son stole your gun right? Not yet... But I can't continue hiding it, I am committing a serious misdemeanor. No one can enter here. - I am Captain Torrecuadrada's son. Yeah right... Let him come in. It wasn't my fault, I would have helped to avoid it but... - I know, but how can you not be to blame for anything. Damn Urko, we've gone way too far... but always together... I don't understand why this time you've gone for it alone. How many deaths we have in our lives Captain... so many. Where's my gun? How many bullets are missing? - Two. That leaves five. More than enough to shoot you, and myself. It would be a heroic way to exclaim one's honour. Aren't you afraid? - No... I prefer you shooting me than putting me in jail. Where are the drugs you stole? Here, there's almost 90 grams. And this rubbish can destroy a life? - You mean the powder?, or the hat? Very funny... here is all the evidence that can be used against you... the murder weapon... and the loot of the robbery...
