 

                        One of your most personal possessions is your signature. It is the essence and the embodiment of who we are. This is San Francisco, northern California. Hometo some of the finest graffiti artists the world has known. A city famous for its beautiful skyline, steep hills, and diverse cultures. Graffiti has played a major part in this city for the last 20 years. This isthe untold story of our city's graffiti history, told piece by piece. And... When we started out around '83, there were so many cats doing graff it was lovely. Graffiti was rockin'. Frisco was wrecked. Ah man, San Francisco is a playground for graffiti. Every one I know who has come always thought it was pretty easy to get over. It is a major small city, and it has a ritch history. This is where I crush. You know, there were so many crews, so many writers, so many battles, you know, Iots of beef. I mean, nobody wanted to stop! Day and night, everyday, day and night. You gotta bomb. If you've never painted, if you've never ran from the cops, you don't know what the hell you're talking about. Sitting and home and painting on canvas is weak. Just trying to put my name where it needs to be. Give me anything; I'll put my name on it. Mailbox, tunnel, truck,train; l don't care! The name of the game is to put your name up! When I go out and do graffiti, I inherently feel asthough I am destroying, but I'm also giving something. They still consider it vandalism. If it is, it's creative. Instead of focusing on the overall look. Does it look pretty, you know, is it eye candy? Doesthe character stand out? Once they change the dynamic, you know, the next generation follows that, because that's whatthey see. Like, I mean, people say, "oh, we hate the city," you know, we don't hate the city, we love the city! This is our city. That's why we crush, 'cause it's our city. I think graffiti is part of the urban life, just like noise and buildings, and smog, and people acceptthat... It's against the law. The police department has dedicated officers just to fighting graffiti. If we catch you in San Francisco, we'll slam ya'. I put guys out undercover every night. If we catch ya', we'll slam ya'. If I catch heat while I'm painting, I'm not trying to hang out and see how the cops are going to treat me, I'm doing whatever the fuck I can to get away. All your doing is changing the color of the surface, a millimeter thick! But they're saying it's a $5000 damage, Because the building's worth $5000? It only takes two seconds to brush it over, maybe $20 worth of paint. I'm not saying it's right, I mean, graffiti's not all good. It'sthe good, the bad and the ugly. It's kinda interesting seeing the different generations throughout the '80s, 90's, and now, the 2000s. Its work given to the people who are on the street, you know, this is artwork for the people. It's not that I can't stop, I don't wanna stop. I'm just gettin' started myself! Shit. I've been in some fucking good chases. I've gotten away from most of them; I've gotten my ass kicked a few times. I got my nose broken; I got my head split open. I got, fuckin', takento jail. I always thought graffiti was dope. I always wanted my first tattoo to be a train car with graffiti. And like, luckily enough I fuckin' didn't get that, because the shit would have been wack, you know They told me, don'twrite graffiti. They said, "don't fuckin' write graffiti, you're an idiot, you're just going to get yourself in trouble there's no point in doing it, don't fuckin' do it!" and I just did it anyways, you know? Had everyone telling me I'm a fucking idiot, "why are you doing this? What the fuck is your problem?" And I just kept doing it, and doing it and doing it. Nobody you know, no one knows you. Except for, the few who know who you are. It's like some super hero shit, you know? Like, you just fly out and do your shit, come back, Iike you're just a mild mannered reporter. I can't even drive a car. In the city, my eyes are like the Terminators'. Just like scanning, like,. Scanning like, every rooftop, seeing every tag, seeing every scribe. I just want to see everything. Even if it's wack or not. "Ahh shit, they got that, ah shit, they got that!" You just look at your city like a grid, like a map, and just look at everything differently once you write graffiti. This city has always been something for graffiti. They've always had a little heart for graffiti here. You know, San Francisco's always been about it. You meet people, old-ass people, who are like, "Oh yeah, TWlST! Yeah, I love TWlST is the greatest guy! You know, like, he's the shit! We love his shit!" "Oh the horses, those are so tight," you know, people have always had Iove for graffiti in San Francisco. Late nights, early mornings, trips to go steal, trips to go paint. Someone told me something when l was a kid, and they said, Being a graffiti writer is one ofthe most quintessential things you can do growing up to have an identity." I thought it was kinda silly when he said it, but now when I look back in hindsight, it definitely combines a lot of different elements in life. Balance is important, you know. I will never stop doing it, because that's just me, you know? I'm a lifer, I'm gonna do that forever. We both grew up in Southern California, I'm not gonna say where. Having a good graffiti partner... you either have a good one, or you don't have one at all. I mean, you're better off painting by yourself if you can't trust the person your with. I really like having a good partner. Having a good partner, someone that's solid and steady, and some one you don't have to worry about, that's the best thing in the world. I mean, graffiti is basically this: It's 1. Creating some kind of letter or message, right? So you gotta design. 2. Getting the supplies. 3. Getting the spot. 4. Getting to the spot. 5. Attempting it, pulling it off, and then coming back and documenting it. And that's it. To get people to notice your shit, you just gotta go up huge, right up in their face, humongous! Like, "how the fuck did they do it? What the fuck did they do that with?" That's the approach I'm going for. We got really good at doing pieces in illegal spots. Like, full color, wild style and most times, better than the stuff you can see on a legal wall that took four hours. It's vandalism. I like vandalism! I'm a vandal! I'm creeping past peoples' windows, climbing their fire escapes. Basically walking right past peoples' heads, almost, to get to these spots. And nobody's saying shit! Most writers are total fuckin' wankers,they're just punks, you know. That's how I started. I just got sophisticated, or changed, adapted, because it's something l like to do, it's good therapy for me. It's my release in life; it's what l like to do. I walk around town with my head held high. They don't know nothing' about that.They don't know anything about it. It's none oftheir business, that's my business. I'm a writer, a graffiti writer. I write the Nom' de plume of my alter ego, all over the place. I've written on everything and chances are you most likely seen me up in the streets. I love letters I'm a letter fiend. I was a normal kid. Yeah right! I was a bit of a wild child! I was always into something, some kind of mischief, some kind of trouble. I picked up on writing at an early age though, probably fourth grade. And ever since then I've dedicated myself to the craft. At first it was fun and games, and then the addiction kinda grew. At this point, it's kinda' like a religion to me. I know it might sound strange, but it's my way of prayer. It's like a meditation in a way, a release. It's a praise to the good, and a sacrifice to the bad. It's creative destruction really; you're creating, and at the same time, you're destroying. I figure I've gone this far,there's no real reason to turn back now. The first writing styles to influence all of us, were the styles ofthe Spanish neighborhoods, known as Cholo writing. These were neighborhood nicknames announcing their affiliations to blocks and certain hoods. I came here in '82 the first time. There was nothing New York style. There was the local graf from the Latin boys. There were a lot of the Cholos doing a lot of the taggin stuff. Then they got into the Roman numerals. Then after they got into the Roman numerals, they started making their letters bigger and their numbers bigger, and they started putting 3Ds on it. Then they start fading them from the bottom. At that point, that was '81, '82, early '83. This style has sharp rigid lines, usually a block-type font. Not the graffiti we know today, that was just a little neighborhood oriented, kinda Cholo homeboy hit up. I think that everyone in San Francisco saw it, and it's a permanently entrenched part of California's history. Early on, I think that the firstwriter that we had met, out here, that was from here, but he was already really knew what was going on, he had been somewhat traveled, and seen things, and under the concept of graffiti as it is today, and his name was Rif. Rif, Rif, Rif, Rif was kinda my style. The Dug, then Slim, then Bizzare; Riftaught them all. Picture real graffiti, then picture Cholo, then something inthe middle. That was Rif. Everything that Rif was doing, that's how I wanted to be. He would go to the store and rack fifty cans of paint, and I would wantto rack fifty cans of paint, so he was definitely at that point an influence. And his styleswere just off the wall backthen. We were creating a lot of stuff based on what we thought stuff should look like, and not really knowing, and so it was really coming original and coming creative, because we didn't know what was going on. You look back at it know, it's like, "what the fuck were we doing," but at that point, it was all new. Things began to change. Influences from outside of the Bay Area began to appear. There was CUBA from Baltimore, Zepherfrom New York, bringing with them the new aesthetic, the tag. The purpose of thetag is getting your signature up on as many surfaces as possible, quickly and efficiently without being seen or caught. Us not having a subway system, we focused onthe bus lines, MUNl getting as many lines as possible. I use to ridethe 52 line. And I use to see these two tags on the back of the bus. Everytime I would get on the bus, I would say, "Damn, there's that name again, there's that name again, there's that name again." We would ride on buses in Daly City, and they would go downtown and come back, and when they would come back, they would have all these new names on it, in the same day. You know, maybe a couple of hours later. Bus hopper styles is a totally different style. Frisco hand styles are infamous. I went to Paris, and there are Frisco hand-styles in Paris, directly from Frisco. It's up there with Philly's Yeah, we got our own style, and as long as people respect that and nottryto down it, I don't got a problem. At the same time, stay off my block. This isthe first cat I ever seen, destroy the bus, ran up to the bus, told me, "Get out of the way," he just threw me to the side. He just crushed the 14! He's was the shit! But what we'd use to do, we'd just find a place where we could all get together, and we would just go bomb buses. The first person get in front of the bus, and everybody just kill it. Everything's been cleaned up. Back in the days, every one of them was bombed, throw ups on them, tags, the trains back in the days were layer upon layer. It was as bad as New York! I bombed your bus, bitch! Once I was on a 15, 3rd Street bus, and a young man was marking with a funky marker, they stink as well, and I told him it was making me sick and giving me a stomach ache, and he said, "l don't give a fuck." It's our bus, you know! Man, we own this shit, man! People say, "Oh, we hate the city," we don't hate the city, we love the city, this is our city. We hate the buses though. We hate the bus drivers. That's why we crush, because it's our city. The kids who are writing on the buses, they definitely have something thatthey marketed as, that's their own way of writing. I don't always particularly agree with the look, but it's theirs, and they do it their way. This style of tag has remained a staple in SF's history for over 20 years, and remains a vital link to our past. I first became aware of it in 1983 when the book "Subway Art" came out. I didn't really think much of it, then I saw "Style Wars" and actually recorded it on TV when I was in high school in '84. In 1983, PBS nationally broadcasted a documentary, which showcased New York's graffiti culture to the masses. Everyone saw it. Now, I watched it with my brother and cousin, and I thought that we were the only ones that seen it. But as time goes on, I realize that, I wasn't the only one watching that night. VOUGE was watching that night. CRASH was watching that night. SCHMOE was watching that night. The things that we saw were always train pieces, so a lot of style that we kind of looked up to were a lot of the train writers in New York. We never had subway cars like NewYork, so, we gravitated towards walls, but walls that were off the train tracks, because it made you feel like you were in the subway yard, you know, even though you weren't. Around this time, the media began to take notice of the hip-hop movement. And with this, a media explosion occurred, in the form of books, such as "Spray Can Art," "Subway Art," movies like "Wild Style," "Beat Street." It took America by storm, inspiring the craze that is now referred to as hip-hop. I think the connection with graffiti, and scratching, and hip-hop, and MCing and breaking, is because..., it's just my roots. They were all part of one culture. Hip-hop, of which graffiti is one leg of the four-legged stool, it's a major component, it's a multi-million dollar business, it's an art form that's in museums, it's an art form that's everywhere. It's the only art form that was ever created by youth, I think, in all the history of art. Back then was a pure time. Kids were smiling; you look at those old pictures, man, that's what they were doing. You can see it on their faces, and just out there to have a good time! Graffiti. For some people the word conjures images of illegibly scrawled messages Spray-painted on the side of a building. Authorities say some of the kids who are hooked on graffiti may end up stealing to support their habit. Stealing markers and paint cans. Paul Biango and hisfriends do burners and bombs. Those are really big graffiti's. Eventuallythey are marred by throw-ups. Those are initials of tags sprayed overthe burners. The gangs call themselves crews. Crews began to form. A crew is a group of friends that was working towards the same goal of dominating the visual landscape. The Perfect Crime, OutTo Crush, Can't Stop Us Now, Those Damn Kids, Master Piece Creators, Together With Styles. But the ones who stood out above the rest, were TMF. I think when the whole break- dancing, hip-hop movement came to California, that's when I picked up on more elaborate styles. Like, oh shit, there are these guys that are doing this big, BlG pieces, with color in it. And it was nothing we had seen before. TMF, when it first started was in school. Itwas me, BlSARO, and CYPHER, and back then he wrote DlSK, and it was three mellow fellows. It was mellow, not so much because we were mellow, but we were close friends, we were the Mellows. In school we weren't necessarily squares, but we were kinda like this new pocket of kids that were kinda half-cool because we had something up on everybody. We wanted to bethe biggest and best, along with some style. There wasn't that much outthere, so we were always constantly evolving our own style and working on what we could come up with. It's a trip, when we first started; we thought we were the shit. Well, actually, we knew we were the shit. It was kinda rolling out on whatever kind of media commercials, backthen. But they weren't really sure what it was about, but we knew exactly what it was about! It was about being down. My cousin took me on this tour of San Francisco and Daly City graffiti, and after that, man, it just flipped me overto the otherside. I wanted to be a writer, and I want to be a badass writer like those guys. The important thing was just gettin' up, gettin' noticed, gettin' recognized, makin' noise, startin' shit. It was more of a family though. It wasn't something you had to be good enough to be in, it just happened that those guys were dope. Writers now began to innovate their own particular styles, branching away from the traditional forms of graffiti, breaking all the rules. When this happened a conflict arose between the opposing schools of style. The style back then, you had the Funk, which was what TMF was doing, which was kinda more of a New York flavor to it, more of a funky feel to it. Then you had the new wave that TWS was doing. TWS, they were a popular crew, a lot of people giving them props for all the shit that they were doing, Legal pieces, illegal pieces. Those kids, they had skills, I'll give them props, the shit was tight. I think TWS is the essence of the original San Francisco flavor, where, they mastered that form, they were innovative, they were executing shit that had never been done in the fucking world. We created this crew called TWS, with me, RAEVN, STYLES, RlSKE, NORM, PlCCASO. Our concept was, every guy could pretty much handle the whole ball of wax. We could do characters, we could do letters, we could do straight letters, wild styles, whatever. And then you took that and you amplified it. We hooked up with Jim Prigoff when he was doing the book, "Spraycan Art," and he was showing me things from Paris, or from London. That influenced us to do what they were doing, and try to top that, so our stuff looked different, you know what I'm saying? Before I met those guys, I had style and I was doing full color burners. But as soon as we started hanging out, started painting together, they kind of showed me how it's done, so to speak. It was like, check it out, my pieces got longer, they got bigger, taller, more wild, the style became more complex. We started doing Ferraris up on the wall, crazy Robotek characters, stuff that normal people wouldn't get influenced on. So, we started doing different stuff, you know? It was a badass crew, man. The two dominant styles at the time were traditional Funk, based on New York style subway graffiti, and New wave which stretched the boundaries, pushed the limits on what had been done previously. These two opposite schools of style battled forthe visual supremacy of the city. A battle is settled on the walls by crossing each other out, basically taking over an opponent's work. People here are strong in the art of letterform. Toys who come up, are grounded in letterform. You know, everybody down with the Funk could not even fathom how those kids could claim to be kings in graffiti. You know, because they didn't have no letters... No letters! I think he called it "slice and shift," and it had a lot of thick bars going to thin bars, and to me it just didn't make of sense, it was too artsy and there was no structure to the letters. Letters; that's graffiti. You know what I'm saying? That's the foundation of graffiti. If you don't have letters, you're not a dope graf writer. It was like, a lot of politics going on with what side of the city chose what crew. If you were in the Richmond you kind of went with CRAYONE, and if you were in the Mission, you went with TMF. A lot of people hated on Roger, man. And all he was doing was just pushing the boundary on graffiti, and not saying that it's gotta look this one way, or whatever. Either you understand how to rock styles, or you don't, and it can't really always be explained to people. And backthen, it was just like, we weren't really feelin' their style and to kind of back that up we would just start beef about it. There was a lot of animosity, man, other than the fact that, we were the two top crews. I didn't want to beef with anybody; you know what I'm saying? But I wasn't going to back down to anything. We'd do a few pieces, but a lot of the Mission was like, "Fuck them, we'll just go write in theirs." At that point, when you're beefin' with somebody, yeah, it's just fun destroying somebody's stuff. I believe battles is like a double edged sword. It's good forthe system of pushing the element, for pushing the culture forward to do some new stuff, but it also has animosity. You know, I think nowadays, there's just really a good will among writers, but at the same time, it makes things kind of soft. When you're battling sometimes you have to get up at night, and there's a whole new... things you have to deal with, that normal artists don't deal with, period. So we're unique in that area. San Francisco rapidly became the epicenter for writing. Writers all overthe citywould visit the cityto decorate its walls. People from Berkeley, San Jose, Sacramento, Hayward, San Mateo. One who stood out was a writer from Oakland bythe name of DREAM. I remember him being a skinny kid, just hungry, just readyto start bombing. And he wound up making a name for himself. When he did that "Best of Both Worlds" piece, man, when he did that piece, bro, that was like a shockwave throughout the Bay Area. It was like, "BOOM, I'm here now! My name is DREAM!" I felt like I knew dream so much because I had been following his graffiti for so long. And thet hing that stood out about DREAM wasthat he wasn't getting famous off his characters, he was getting famous off his dope pieces. The main thing that he evertold was, "make sure your tags are always dope, because if your tags are dope, people want to see more of what you can do." His styles were just, unmatched. He was our, like, SEEN, you know? He was the pioneer of it all. I did like his work. But he had like, if I'm not mistaken, a NewYork type style going on. The reason I respected DREAM was because he came over, got up, and hit, what was on the wall spoke for itself. When I met DREAM, thatwas like, the first thing. He was like, 'Yo man, I wanna hook up with you, and hopefully do something and come back," and I was like, "Yo, that would be phat. That would be hot to represent, plus, you know we both represent the same crew, FC, and I would have loved to do a piece with DREAM. When I heard that he passed, it was sad. It was just wrong. Dream was the king with an untouchable style. In 2000 he was tragically murdered onthe streets of Oakland. We all suffered a great loss. The dude was really a very positive person and just a pleasure to be abound, and... He was just a good dude, and I miss him. I miss him a lot. DREAM was a street hustler and style technician yes, but he was revolutionary minded. He studied. He always stressed that people should know themselves, Iearn their roots and their culture. Well, DREAM should be remembered for the fact that we was a good person at heart, which is what you say, not too rare, usually, not like a mama's boy or whatever. He had a very unique style that was good to remember. You know, Mike was definitely real to it man. He did what he did, and you saw it evolve. You saw when he started, and saw it up to when it ended. You can't help but give somebody respect who put something down for that long. So many different generations of graffiti got to catch glimpse of what he did, and there's not that many people that last that long. Most people probably write for, what, a couple of years? You know, get up for a couple of years, after that they're written about in the books, but he was there for the long haul. One of the aspects of writing is going out and seeking places to paint. These are often called yards. Some of the notorious yards ofthe Bay Area were places like Crocker Amazon, Silver Terrace, Oakland tracks, Clockwork, Franklin, Walls of Fame in San Jose. However,the most notorious was a place located in SF, atthe heart of downtown, Market Street and Van Ness The Mecca for writers the world over. The spots that were dope, were like, Psycho City, number one. psycho city was the premiere place for bombers man, to go do pieces. The first time I painted it was July 4th, 1985 in broad daylight. There's a bunch of other pieces in there but itwasn't like a popular spot until Dug got his production there. I never went there with intentions that I'm gonna name this place. I think people named it cuz maybe i twas a first like uh.. Iarger burner that was there, but it picked up like how graffiti spreads man, you have a throw up here and a couple tags right here and then you get a few feet away and before you know it you have it across the way and before the whole area's covered. It was an ill spot, right on Market Street. How can you beat that? I remember going to psycho city, seeing some crazy colorful pieces and it bugged me out ' out 'cause it was a legal spot. you go there and do a piece and the next day anybody can go over you, and it kinda bugged me out. yeah it's just really raw pieces, going over raw pieces and it just seemed more competitive. it was kinda a spot on the weekends where you go and for damn sure you'd run into a bunch of damn writers. Psycho city was a really cool yard. It was pretty big. It was cool that was right in downtown. It was good. A lot of people would come do cool pieces. It was constantly changing. There was always a new burner, always a new whole wall. People came from all over. That's how I met fools from Oakland, Berkeley; Daly City even all the way down to San Jose fools came from. I mean the wall had probably 150 layers of paint on it. come on, oh their gonna bust me for graffiti, but what about all this shit. The city is circulating the word that it means to get very tuff with graffiti artists mayor Finestine took her paint brush and rollers to the mission district carrying her fight against filth and graffiti to the streets she was joined by an army of roughly 200 volunteers. police have joined the fight with an undercover task force making 200 hundred arrests. Jordan, remember when Jordan first became mayor okwhat Jordan did was went around to some of the owners of the these warehouse where they where giving the kids permission like psycho that was the end of psycho he threatened these people at Franklin auto that if you let these kids write on this we will shut you down and show the fuck did,they just like...that was the end of psycho that was the end of Franklin that was the end of clockwork the cops would just come though and started telling kids that wasn't cool anymore an then they fenced it down it really just kinda got contained in that area for so long and once they got rid of it was kinda of a good thing cause things started to spread new spots started to come up. Once they shut done psycho city in about 92-93 or so once they shut that down illegal graffiti in San Francisco exploded so as much as they where trying to put our culture under arrest all it did was put some fire under our ass to be like well we have to go back to the street we have no choice now, it also did that with style because now that your out on the street you know you have to get up quick it made people go back to their straight letters if the city was smart, at that point they probably would have left it cause it would have kept the problem to a minimum but you know they don't always see these things. ha-ha. this is Psycho City today, there's nothing left, it's a vacant parking lot you can actually go to the wall and chip away at it you can reveal the history that lies hidden in there. it's sad in away thousands of layers of stores gone white washed forever. Rest in pieces. With the closure of psycho city SF became a playground for illegal works what is commonly referred to as bombing. TMF had slowed down TWS l think had called it quits who else was painting. It really got to that point that when psycho city was closed it was all about finding the ill spot it has nothing to do with how fresh you are how dope your styles is or how many styles you have running. its you make one throw up and you just get it up everywhere in town. Twist throw-ups everywhere Jase throw-ups everywhere this whole city got pretty crushed during 93 and I think most of 94. there where kinda more the taggers, taggin you know. twist was capable obviously of doing what ever he wanted really, but thatw as just what he chose to do. Yeah they definitely set it off for a lot of kids. I remember one time when l was 15 or something I was in an abandon building downtown cause I ran away from home or whatever got kicked out ofthe house, and that night when I was sleeping there Kr and Twist came and I watched them do the throw - ups on the fire escape at 6th and Howard. Kr brought "Krink" to San Francisco and him and twist where like the ones wrecking shit with mop tags. and when we started seeing Kr and Shok and you know we new twist the whole time but he was bombing with them and these guys where going all over the place doing these beautiful throw-ups you know it really inspired us. I think that you know I was just coming from New York that was just the kind of graffiti that I knew at the time. I mean throw-ups, caught tags, hit spots, and that's just how your supposed to do it you like graffiti? ahhh, so-so depends on what it is right? yeah if it's artwork then it's cool, you know. Man I saw something really cool once, there's some guy who does like a horse... oh that's a girl. Reminisce that's her name. I remember walking around a corner and just seeing this horse grazing in the middle of some street in the tender loin. Going what the fuck is this? its like a throw up its like 2 colors you got your white your black, but its a horse. And I was like yo this is bugged out cause it's like a throw up but its not it's a character. back in the daythe big difference was people like twist and reminisce where really focused on the imagery of symbols and what not the screws the faces and horses and there was other people doing similar stuff ratherthen focusing strictly on letters. there's a lot of people painting sort of off beat stuff. I was interested in that kind of style. Back in 1989 San Francisco was struck by a major earthquake an obvious tragedy with the loss of life and demolition of buildings but at the same time it opened up vacant foundations, which would become writer's subterranean art galleries. people just started taking it to the pits where they where building all these new buildings and the area around what is now Pac Bell Parkwas being bombed. I mean it was destroyed at the time cause they knocked down so many buildings you would have thought that parts of it looked like the south Bronx. And like the pits where really like the place you'd go to see the galleries and like where it's really at. A vacant lot won't sit for more than a week before it's filled in and there's a building there where as before the same sort of little pit yards and stuff would run forever I started doing a bunch of pits around town like pits where they where aboutto do construction on and stuff but those things would run a long time so we started doing pits just because I could do a pit basically an hour or two after it got dark I could paint and be fucking done with a piece by like 11 or 12 at night and go home. the biggest change in bay area graffiti is that there are not that many kids from the bay area doing it. A lot of people have moved to the bay area form various other places and I mean it's not the hardest place to paint in then in my day when we where coming up there where a lot more people coming in the city filtering in people form out of town trying to represent Bless camethere, Jase, Giant, Some, Cycle, Felon, Sope, San Francisco has had a lot of influence from other people its a small city so people come there they do shit and everyone sees it so it kinda of expands that little gene pool. at that time 93 is what really got me to want to move to San Francisco. San Francisco was really dope then. Then I moved up there in 95 when I was 18. And coming up here when I first got here I saw a lot of creative people doing things that I had never really seen or l didn't think would be accepted in graffiti. I was in San Francisco for graduated school academy Art College downtown I came here cause of skate boarding at first cause embarcadero. I wanted to goto a big city and fuckin really rock shit. It's almost like San Francisco history in general there has always been so many influences coming here and once they leave something here it becomes San Francisco so its like a microcosm for that. a lot of people want to call this vandalism. Vandalism is throwing a brick though a window this is a study it's a craft it's a science. Every piece has a structure to it has a form. It's got movement, it's got colors it's got a flow it's got arrows, bits little do dads here and there. These are the elements that make up a piece but to have style is a whole 'nother ball game. to me having style means you have your certain esthetic or your certain type of graffiti that you work on and try to perfect. When people look at your stuff they can identify it as yours even if you write a different name or something else they'll know you did it cause they know your style. to have style means a lot man it goes a long way in this game. and id say our style is based on funk, traditional funk but everyone has their own interpretation of it. Check bizzaro and dug their styles or twist tags, they just have this style and this flow and they're beautiful and very precise but they're still very readable and almost simple in a sense. Each person in our crew has their own individual style. The burners developed and developed and every one had a burner style it was a great time I mean if you, look around there's letters everywhere there's letters on anything and everything you can think of and all you have to do is simplytakethose letters make them bigger add you know 3d to it and then you got some graffiti you take those samethings and bend them in the right places and now you got some funk and then you add some connections and you got some wild style. I still think it'sthe style capital of the us. these are your writers writers behind the scenes type fella's staples of the bay. That's just the funk style that I'm down with isthat hard train style that is based on bombing get up quick and you can simplify it to a 15 minute piece or you can multiply it to a two-hour burner. these two working class crews have continued rocking the bay area funk style for years fsc and htk hill top kids, hard times known, hailthe kings, hard to kill, halftime kreation, hieroglyphic transcendental knowledge. We progressed together we all got better together we all learned how to do every trick together every little thing we discussed which colors don't work on the wall which ones do. Yeah we've developed as a crew. so this was the flavor of SF graff, funk, up until some visitors arrived from Los Angels bringing with them there own version of style their style was pointy, jagged kind of out of place in the bay. cause San Francisco and the bay didn't have that particular style until they started coming up here and started bombing a lot. you know them kids from LA they come and climb up into these like weird little spots and paint shit that I never even would have thought of painting. Bless, Revok, Saber, I got to give those guys a pat on the back they did a lot ofwork. MSK did a lot of dope work MSK and AWR like it was really obvious when they came to town. San Francisco has this entirely different vibe then LA you know l love LA, I'm all about LA, but it was a nice break going to San Francisco cause you just run around and hop on the bus and go here and here everything was so close and there's so much shit going around and it was just great just like a graffiti vacation you know and I didn't want itto end. we come from the Los Angels school of painting and that's like basically at that point of time they spent some much time buffing you didn't want to be caught on the ground so basically you climb to remain part of the environment you climbed higher and further so that it would be harder for them to buff. And that's at the point and time period of progression that we where at in LA so we moved up here and brought a little piece of that with us. instead of painting a spot onthe street or in an alley they are above a billboard on a steel girder on the side of a bridge. there was a lot of tension going on I think between some guys coming up from LA and guys from Frisco,they really butted heads. you see sometimes somebody comes in and they paint a few good spots and they're out its like a cycle of people coming and going but there's still a lot of local cats around you know. I felt angry I felt mad I felt fucking like fuck I got to come back and to do something about this shit cause if I don't then we are going go out Like the city that just fucking anybody can come and just take over shit. And we are not having that shit here but at the same time I think it pushed a bunch of people to the next level they realized that they couldn't just sit on their ass all the time they had to be putting in work. Yo Revok is dope but he's not from here. you just have to go with the flow and just realize that this is your city your going to be here your going to remain here and your going to run shit. And if people want to come here and leave they can do that but I'm going to be here forever. if some buddy comes with a little more heart then you and is down to fucking you know put their ass on the line and put in work and make it happen, I mean more props to them you know, no matter where they're from. I think that there was a time when you know it was only locals, it was only San Franciscans here kind of in the 80s bombing and in the 90s there was a little resentment when other people would come up but eventually you know in true San Francisco fashion we all learned to live together and we where all better off because of it. it constitutes defacing public property in a rather rediculous and then again obscene form. we do want color, we do want light, we do want artistic freedom, but not at the cost of damaging other peoples property. I don't really get out of hand you know, like sometimes kids write on the windows with etching fluid on like restaurants and business, I don't like that. it's the etchings and window scratching that really screws us up cause those glass windows are really expensive to replace Iike 1500 bucks and for a small independent business like mine that's a large chunk of our change. it don't bother me personally cause graffiti is an art and its an art that is rarely respected. it depends on where its at if its not defacing property like this or if its out on a blank wall or something like that hey that's fine you know but when your defacing property like a booth or train or something like that, that's our money going back to clean that up. we get of etched glass especially on the cars that don't have camera systems and that's the most costly type of graffiti to bart. that's their way of expressing themselves maybethey have anger maybe they have issues... I don't like it in the bus you know, uh I think there is a culture behind it. well lets put it this way the way l look at it is simply this, its simply a form of un-vital vandalism for the most part teenagers and even some adults will exercise this un-vital vandalism for what ever its worth because its part of the name of the game in this permissive society as it were. back in the day the city had higher prioritiest o focus on rather then graffiti. Graffiti writing was not the issue that it is today if you got caught you where maybe hassled by the cops, released and at most a misdemeanor ticket was issued. Some examples of misdemeanors are petty theft, fraud, drug use, vandalism punishments include: community service, small fines, and in some circumstances a little bit of jail time. This is in stark contrast to the felonies crimes such as grand theft, kidnapping, rape, murder, and now graffiti vandalism thanks to proposition 21. proposition 21 was passed in the year 2000 this new law allowed any vandalism over 400 dollars in damage to be prosecuted as a felony. And it also labels groups of kids of 3 or more to be classified as a street gang. The youth targeted proposition is also being used against adults. Felony punishments are way more severe then misdemeanors and include: Loss of civil rights such as voting, serious imprisonment, and in some cases execution. and so another job for the police and the courts. Johnny Marvin is now in the hands of the law this is the first time he has been caught but his delinquent tendencies began long before in the conflicts of an unhappy home and in the hang out of a gang, which was his refuge. Now what will become of this boy? Johnny and 200 thousand youngsters who are arrested each year are Americas number one crime problem can't something be done to help these twisted young lives and set them straight. if you think graffiti is little more then fun and games for rebellious teenagers San Francisco authority beg to differ they have brought serious charges against 8 adults who police say are members of a graffiti gang who has spent years defacing this city. The group they say call themselves KUK, which stands for "Kill Until Killed." if convicted the maximum penalty is a 20,000 fine and up to 7 years behind bars. And police say since the indictments they've noticed a lot less new graffiti. they come to your house take all your shit, you got to jail, bail out, then they might throw more charges on you, you know cause they got other charges stacked you know cause these people are against you being on the street theywantyou to be locked up. You get indicted you knowthen sit back in jail for a while, get bail money up, bail out again, then they can throw more shit like another county Like Oakland or Berkeley someone else can press charges on you go back in, get bailed out again, all you have like in the back of your head is in a couple months I'm going to prison. Prop 21 is some ill shit cause when you get charged with it so it's a gang charge so all of a sudden your a gang member and that can add a year to your sentence automatically and anything over a year your going to prison. In SF right now a judge threw it out, she said that they weren't gang members, you know and since she threw it out it lost in the court of appeals and the D.A. appealed it so now that charge is back on and that enhances every other charge you have like every felony count of graffiti that enhancesthat so much. Proposition 21 is pretty much a prison dispatch charge its like as soon as you have that your going to prison. does it make me not want to do it? I guess so if I thought about it I just don't uh think about that. oh I don't think it's a just penalty at all because at the same time I see that I see on the same wall a wheat paste for the lion king from Disney productions and I see a million other wheat pastes and those people don't go to jail. well it comes down to it is malicious mischief the idea of destroying other peoples property and the idea of defacing places in the city I mean first off its personal property most of the time that's being affected second of all we have a situation where it looks bad it looks the people don't care about their property and so it is a problem and it is something we are a addressing. Well we have a graffiti unit and there are officers assigned to that unit to go after the people who are doing the tagging and the graffiti in the city. especially in like the bay this year Oakland is exceeding it's murder rates seems like every otherweek in the Fillmore someone else is getting shot and their still wasting mad money on a graffiti case. cause there is always somebody new that's come along saying lets get rid of graffiti this is how we are going to do it and then they try there little way to do it and it doesn't work and then they fail and then the next person comes and then they fail and they fail, and they fail, cause like graffiti is just a war. along with battling the law writers face the chaos ofthe urban landscape. In the late 90's one writer seemed to take more risks than anyone. The all city king known as TlE. Tie was Jonathan Lim and he was 18 years old when I met him. he would go bomb by himself ln the fucking rain and the cold he wouldn't eat he wouldn't fucking give a shit about going out with girls or kicking it or clothes or nothing. All he cared about was racking his paint, racking his supplies and getting up. I think at one point In San Francisco you couldn't go on any block of the entire city without seeing at least a couple marker tags some spray-paint tags and a hollow throw-up sometimes a hollow throw up and a filled in throw up on like every block of the city that's really not even an exaggeration. I've never seen anybody up as much as him and one person he was up like, it would take 10 writers to be as up as he was. he knew like all writers in all different crews and everybody loved him cause he was like really generous and he'd give you paint. And like give you markers and like he stole so much stuff like crazy. I'm standing inthe paint section picking my colors and all of a sudden I hear "what's up Cycle" I turn and look and there's Tie with at big duffle bag and like I'm loading paint in this shopping cart and he's like "what's going on dude?" I said "nothing just picking some colors." He's like "yo, is it all clear?" and I 'm like " I guess so dude." and he looks this way and looks that way and the isles clear and he opens this big duffle bag, big green duffle bag and just just like shoves all this paint in the duffle bag zips it and just like Runs out of the paint isle. it was on uh saint Patrick's day- night and I remember Saber was gone he was doing something l was at the house and MQ came over and tie came over they both came over together and he's like lets go bomb Iets go bomb lets go do that spot tonight and I was like man we've been painting all week Iets chill lets party one night saint Patrick's day- night lets just party one night go get drunk hang out and just relax have a good time. He was like " no, no I gota bomb." And I was like all right whatever man do yourthing just be careful. was by himself in the tender loin. He was plotting on this one rooftop he was just going to go do a fill in on or something probably on it. there was like a little drainpipe that you had to shimmy upto go up on the roof. I guess he was going up the pipe whatever and I guess it made a little noise I don't know who knows, but there ended up being a guy who lived inside this building. The guy came out you know said 'what the fuck are you doing?" then you know TlE steps back " hey you know I'm sorry I'm not trying to break in, I'm just doing graffiti." And he like showed him the paint in his bag. And the guy pulled out a gun pointed the gun at him... and the little kid put up his hands and said no wait stop don't shoot... ...and tie obviously scared as fuck this big fucking grown man is pointing a big ass gun at his head, he turned ran downthe steps you know as he was running down the stairs away form this guy this motherfucker blasted him in the back of the head. because of the fact his parents where immigrants and he was a minority and the fact that he was doing graffiti, in the middle of an illegal activity that case didn't get followed up or paid attention the way it should have been. he was praised in the newspaper as killing a robber you know, they just covered it up. And they didn't really mind that an 18 year old - young boy was murdered in the tender loin by a person who owned property, they didn't care about that. I was really hurt, and when this guy got off like it, that was you know its fucked up like its where's the justice in that? I mean if the kid was just hanging out maybe climbing on the roof with some girl to drink a beer and like fool around with some girl it might have been a different story it might have been like you know but ohh shit this kids a menace to society and his parents don't even speak English ohh my god you know you know whatever, just sweep it under the rug it's a tragedy. Oh well. his blood was there like for a week afterwards. His blood was still there a big puddle of blood. You know what I'm saying a little fucking little kid you know just turned 18. unfortunately the way it worked out his piece of history is a tragic one but at the same time he influenced all of us and he brought a lot of people together and he is now definitely a martyr for graffiti. You knowthat's TlE, TlE is a legend now. that kid could have been king well he did king SF, but you know he could have just really,... I would have liked to seen giving the proper time and influence and encouragement, I would have liked to have seen what that kid had to offer, you know? Everyday was dedicated graff and honestly I've never met anyone in kind of medium or any kind of lifestyle who has dedicated so much of their life to one thing. You know he was fully full of graffiti. I've been asked a million times why do I write, certain things you just can't explain, but I do it for the love, the love of writing. because I love painting, just simply for that in fact once they're done their done their only as good as the next one. I just... You know once it's finished I'm like "what next?" I just have to be in the act of pressing this cap. it gave me character, it gave me a sense of purpose, gave me a community, and it was all-underground. It was all... hidden out of the way. So it was really cool cause it was rebellious. you know everyone has levels of respect what will they respect, what they not going to write on. For me I have a certain amount of respect but if I do choose to put my art somewhere its really kind of yeah I know the consequences and so what. you know and its really cause I just don't care. why do I do it? Oh man what do l get out of it? Head aches. I mean the reason why I continue to do Graff is just I have this love affair with letters. I mean I love letters man that's what keeps me in it. Why do I do it? I do it for myself, and I do it, I do it cause I can. And I do it because I run this shit. This is my city its where I'm from its where I was born and raised. And it's kind of like my mark; this is where I crush. it probably,... in a lot of ways it probably saved my life you know, who knows what I'd be doing if it weren't for graffiti. you don't really choose the arts the arts chose you. You know you don't pick to choose the clarinet, the clarinet picks you. You don't choose to paint water colors or oils or.. Your medium picks you. I don't know man I dig paint, I dig spray paint so it picked me. I could be doing still life's I could be doing realist painting I could uh just be doing graphic design behind a computer. But the artwork I do speaks to like probably tens of thousands of other kids across both the United States probably Europe. and its just like on the way to work I want to see my tag. It's like me looking at me you know what I'm saying I'm alive I'm here you know. I'm fucking something and I will be something, why cause I make myself something. their not getting paid for it, you know their not getting any kind of like congratulations for it their just out there risking their lives to paint something that hopefully a few people might be ableto appreciate and that's it and I think there's some thing to be said forthat. You know? I think that's definitely something worth taking note of. Yo, like there's graffiti here it's got to be here for a reason. Instead of saying like they must have you know problems to they must be a malicious person they might actually look at the society and be like you know the way the government and society is being controlled by capitalist big business is messed up and we should do something about it or whatever. Instead of looking at the person doing graffiti maybe they should look at the cause of why that person started you know? I mean I'd no doubt still be doing art if I wasn't in graffiti but graffiti gave me a voice, it really gave me a voice. You know I didn't realize this for a long time but after I got older it dawned on me that you know I can walk up and write my message, all the other messages that we get are controlled by newspapers, and radio, and television, and billboards and print adds and magazines and all these things and they're all paid for,l could walk up for free and put my message out there and as long as your willing get arrested for it and you have that mentality you can write whatever you want and put any message you want up. You know graffiti is really the last true free speech. consider this: 98 percent of the works you have seen in this video are gone... forever. They no longer exist. It's extremely temporal just like life The tag is the essential part of writing it's the most fun the most offensive and to some the most visually unappealing part of our culture. But it's the essence. Being out late at night you experience a completely different world. Writing is a culture of experience. And it's a craft that will never vanish. So this is our writing history and it will carry on for years and years... Peace. and now were going to Paris! Yeah and now where going to Paris to do canvass bro, we maid it! is this on? Twist! I want my black book bac kyou've had it for two years now. I want, I want my black book back Barry. Barry where's my black book? You'd better have like 30 pages done in that shit. I wish there was some sort of rule where if a cop was going to give you a ticket if you guys could have a fist fight and if l could beat a cops ass, then he'd have to be like "Word, peace out dude you beat my ass." That would be so fresh it would be a totally different world. You know TMF crew would be ruling San Francisco right now, you know what I mean? in my opinion I don't like most graffiti writers and I don't have anything in common with most graffiti writers besides the graffiti. down with the funk, not a new wave punk, we make these suckers cry when we saythat shits junk, TFS with a capital T, been down for years as you can see, back in style, quick as a flash burning you toys like a bowl of hash." you know what I'm saying that wasthe anthem, the TFS anthem. you know it's a hard game you know and we are the modern forefront we are art we are it our art was created you know. Ummm... third wave of writers, I don't... I didn't know it was broken down into waves but uh yeah,, I know what you re saying. I gotta tell you one time I got busted on Broadway doing a UB40 throw up on a window and the cops said "freeze!"took down got caught and the cops said "you know what? You're that UB40!" and I said "nah no actually I was uh, throwing up and 'UB' it's a new rap group." "Don't give me that bull shit.".
