 

                        I have already taken a shower What about you? We need to be quick today I got a dinner date The same price as always, $1,000 You can go for dinner now Here is some money fortaxi What's wrong? I can't make love in a hurry No, I didn't mean that Good evening, boss Good evening, boss "Golden Basin Foot Massage Palace" Good evening, boss Sha Sha, bring some drinks to my office Okay Can you my age by touching? You are kidding me He likes dealing with student girls It's just a normal relation This guy really sucks Yeah, they're all the same nowadays Alright, I'll give you another massage later My back hufts Well, let's work on it later Discard your hand! Throw your hand away See who wins Look at it and throw your hand away Show your hand! Show it! You must have lost Look at your third card! Show your hand! Jerk! This is really great Watch out, I got AIDS You got AIDS? So what about AIDS? It only confirms your sexual prowess Is that so? Yeah We are not bad either Not there, it's here, here Don't mess around I thought you'd fallen asleep Get up No, I didn't... Let me give you a back massage Is it that bad? Thank you, Mr. Zhou Come to see me next time I've got five customers Already five? Four Actually how many? Four Only four? I've got eight How come you have so few? Pingguo, take a puff Quick I'm cutting her hair I want to buy an apaftment Stop day-dreaming Can you get me that comb? With only four customers a day? I meant at our hometown Silly girl You have a long way to go A guy who washes cars across the street The one with the long face He wants to date me tonight How can I trick him to think I'm still a virgin? Tell me, tell me Just go buy yourself a cherry Where can I buy one? Everywhere, it's cheap Tell me where? How should I know? Oh, brushing your teeth? Try some of this Oh, it dropped Don't you ever come to see me at work If my boss knows that I'm married, I'm finished I never go there Yeah right, I saw you once at the entrance You spilled on your shift You didn't flip the cover again? What are you doing in here? I want to take a shower Wait a second, let me out first Let me out Let's shower together I have already showered at work Stop messing around You'll ruin my clothes Come on That's really nice See, my bra is soaking wet Close your eyes Let's make love in bed I learned this from watching porno Shame on you Let's try it This way Slowly That's cool We haven't made love for days I can't control myself Slowly, slowly Let's change position, it's too wild Don't move, don't move I'm overwhelmed So what? He just touched you a little bit What's happening? What have you got to lose? He is one of my best customers Where did he touch you? Be smaft! If he wants to feel your tits Just give him your hands And chat with him Enough, stay out of this The trouble is not about being touched What did he do to Xiao Mei? It's not about what a customer could do to her It's about what she did to the customer! Look at this! She sliced off his toe nail with this The water turned crimson with blood Served him right! You still have the nerve to talk Let Xiao Mei apologize to him Tell him she is too young I don't need your advice You know what he said? If I don't sack Xiao Mei They will smash this whole place up Just come in and be paid Boss Stop talking I can't keep you here, go somewhere else For sure Xiao Mei wasn't intentional Shut up and go back to work Xiao Mei Shit, finished! Beijing is so big Beijing is this big... How could there be no space for a little me? How little? Just this little Let me see! Sister They're all fucking jerks! Fucking "stupid fucks" You've only been in Beijing a few months You've already learned to say "stupid fucks"! Are you alright? Yeah, I'm fine Sorry Sorry So the time forthe next poker game is fixed Bring more money with you then Get up People are coming Leave me alone An Kun We made love last night... What? Who are you? Boss, what are you doing? What are you doing? Boss! Boss, please stop it! I'm not doing this on purpose I don't want this please... Be quiet I won't be hurting you Fuck Fuck Stupid bitch, motherfucker What the fuck are you staring at? You've never seen this before? I fuck your whole family Don't fucking smash my window You, what are you doing here? Get out of here! I'll kill you! I will kill you! Are you crazy? Get the security guards You screwed my wife I'll kill you! Dare to fuck my wife Get Liu Pingguo here Get him out of here! Don't let him in again I will report you! What are you doing? Stop bashing yourself! What are you doing to yourself? You fucking dirty bitch Stupid bitch! Go away I won't We've already got enough trouble Get out Why do you want to kick me out? I won't go! I won't go! Where is your underwear? Did he fuck you like this? Did he fuck you like this? Did he fuck you like this? Mrs. Lin Why don't you take your wife to my beauty salon? You don't want to wait for the boss? Is he up to any mischief lately? You must be kidding He is a fine gentleman If he is a gentleman, we are all saints! That's not the case See you, Mrs. Lin Fuck! Who the fuck did this? I have so much to worry about Yes Alright Hey, where is my hair clip? This one? Yeah, that's it My boyfriend bought it for me Hello What are you talking about? There are more than 50 girls at my place How would I know who is Liu Pingguo? Whoever fucked your wife is a bastard What? $20,000! $20,000? You're crazy, go rob a bank You still owe me $200 What the fuck is emotional distress? Fuck you I will break your leg, asshole Go away Did you say I owe you $200? I'm not that kind of guy Thanks, I'll serve you even better next time Hello, I'm on my way Boss You didn't tell me that you're married Boss, I'd like to talk to you Asking for money again? You two make a perfect team No, it's not like that, Boss Let's talk in the car $2,000 That's the end of it Understand? I didn't come for money I didn't know An Kun asked you for money I don't care if you do or not From now on I never want to see you again Neither of you Boss, are you firing me? You don't expect a promotion, do you? Actually, it was just an one-night stand Boss, but how could that be? I never wanted... It was you who started it You had an orgasm, right? Get out of my car I got to go home Boss You can't put the blame on me! Really, if you want to fire me I will report you for rape On what ground? The stuff that you left on my skirt Who do you think I'm? Bill Clinton? An Kun doesn't know about it I will not tell anybody Boss Is that alright? Does this hurt? Not hurt I'm telling you You can lose more weight with love-making People like us We don't get laid easily We can only lay here cupping That's you not me How do you manage your problem? What problem? Infertility is not a problem! I don't want a child anyway Mrs. Lin, someone's looking for you A man or a woman? A man Where are my cigarettes? I'm telling you the truth I'm telling you my true feeling I'm not surprised at what that bastard did It's not the first time Expecting a man to not fuck around Is like expecting a dog not to look for bones But asking me for money That's not very smart I'll tell you why Even if I have problems with my husband We are still a couple on the same side I won't do anything against my self interest While we both feel cheated But if you're asking me for money as a redemption You are asking me to act against my self interest Do you understand, boy? If you don't pay, I will report him My husband screwed your wife, right? He did it against her will Against her will, and you feel bad about it? Not only that, I am hurt and depressed You are hurt? If he denies it, you'll never get your $20,000 Right? If he admits it, it would be easy You are heading in the wrong direction No matter what, he won't give you money He doesn't care much about money But he does care a lot more about face He will lose face if he gives you money Cutie, there is no way you can get that money You want to report him? It is a no-win situation for you, too What evidence have you got? Who can tell what really happened? Isn't that obvious? Unless you really love money If you're not just in for the money I can have other solutions for you Like what? My husband fucked your wife Why don't you fuck his wife? That bastard That asshole What are you staring at? It's French A gift from a customer Perfume? Perfume It's gorgeous Anyway, it's free Just eat You know how stupid the jerk is? He not only sings like shit, but filthy-minded as well I told him if he wants to touch me He has to buy me a cell phone And he really bought me one You let him touched you? Only once Look, nice phone? That jerk is calling again Let's take a picture Is the picture clear? Very clear As good as a proper camera? An Kun We don't need him in the picture An Kun Get closer Get ready Somebody is outside the window How could it be? Yeah, there's someone The curtain is drawn, how could you tell? There's really someone There's no one You fucked somebody's wife What are you talking about? Her husband even saw your butt That jerk came to you? Don't listen to him He's all bullshit I'm not talking to you anymore Get me the candle Fuck It's not mine For sure, it's not mine What if it's yours? No way, we didn't have sex back then You don't remember anything, do you? Of course we did We did at that time I'll drink your pee if it is mine Go drink it! I don't want it anyway I will get an abortion tomorrow Fucking shit What are you doing? Why are you talking like that? Stop talking about the past Don't do it It's none of your business Since it is not yours, why keep it? If you dare to do it, I'll break your leg I will do it tomorrow It's my belly, not yours Don't do that This is a chance from heaven How are you related to him? I'm his cousin He says he's your cousin Are you his wife's cousin? Yeah You can go in No, no. I'm not here to fight I'm here to tell you something You dare to claim to be my cousin? I was afraid you wouldn't let me in Of course I don't want you to come in Go away I really have something to tell you You have a cold, is it serious? Liu Pingguo is pregnant Congratulations I should congratulate you Your wife is pregnant, what's that to do with me? Let's calculate the dates On September 20, you and Liu Pingguo... Today is October 23 See, the dates match What do you mean by that? I tell you, as long as I live You won't get a penny from me I'm just talking with you Look, this is caused by you You should accept your responsibility Now, she is pregnant If you want to report me Go ahead I just want to talk to you Get out I will call security Why are you so rude? I will report you for sure You just go ahead and file your case Why ask me to pick you up? Where's your car? Flat tire Liu Pingguo is pregnant You have to accept it I've already made my decision My principle is that anything with a 70% chance Then it is worth trying We are a married couple This will never change We can adopt this baby I can't change what you have already decided Sixteen years and it's always like this I can only accept it However, we must sign an agreement If during this process you do anything to hurt me For example... You start another affair with Liu Pingguo Or to do something harmful to me All your assets will be mine Wang Mei, when I think about this I think of us as a family If you talk like that We are up against each other But I can't act like a lamb Waiting to be slaughtered by you Alright So if anything happened I'll split my assets fifty-fifty with you You think I will fall for a country girl? Pull over What? I can't stop here Pull over! Wang Mei Wang Mei Come on up here, let's talk Up here! What's your blood type? Type "A" I'm a "B" What about Liu Pingguo? She is an "O" Let's put it this way If this baby is born a "B" Then it's my child and I'll keep it I'll pay you $100,000 If it's blood type "A" You will not lose everything Because you'll have your own child If it's blood type "O" Then we'll have to undergo a DNA test What do you think about this deal? It's not right What's wrong with it? Tell me I don't think we can do it like this Earlier you denied you and my wife had... So you refused to pay me $20,000 That is one issue Now you want this child That's a different issue This is about two separate issues Your logic is wrong If you accept my deal, there's only one issue Then it's only $100,000 How can it be just one issue? You didn't even want to pay me before Because you denied you and my wife have ever... This is irrelevant It is relevant! Do you now admit you fucked my wife? Why bring this up again? There's no need to talk about this This is the key to both issues Since you want your child You have therefore admitted you fucked my wife So you must pay me $100,000 first No, $20,000 for compensation This is one issue Now Liu Pingguo is pregnant You want that baby in her belly So you must pay me another $100,000 That's the second issue We are talking about two issues! Right now, I can't tell you clearly But what I can tell you is No matterwhat, there is only one deal $100,000 total It's not $100,000, but $120,000 This is something more than just money If this is not about money, what is it about? Fuck Fuck It didn't happen, right? She disappeared There's nobody down there Nobody "Painless Aboftion" Don't move Just one moment, don't move If we don't take out the entire fetus You will have to do the abortion again You'll have to come back How could it be? What are you looking at? I did it I did the abortion Just finished Are you out of your mind? You are crazy You are so silly Believe it or not I have no appetite What are you doing? You are hurting me Wang Mei, please change seat with An Kun An Kun, like what we agreed the other day Here is $20,000 to compensate you for your distress And here is another $100,000 You should visit my place for a facial No, thanks I'll stamp it first Okay Two copies of the contract We each keep a copy For a successful paftnership From now on, Liu Pingguo becomes... our most precious thing needing protection You must treat her well Otherwise you will not see a penny It's time to make the first payment Here is $20,000, count it Let's have a toast! We'll let bygones be bygones We are good friends now Yeah, right, with a smile Always smile to our customers at work Right Harder, harder You don't need to dance I'm fine Go back and rest Go Keep up with the dancing Dance harder, smile, smile Come on, don't look away, smile Follow me Follow me Yes Okay... Dry up Get me my clothes I'm freezing Pingguo, here you are... Wait Just a second Who is that? It's me Your place is really hard to find How do you know where we live? Where is Pingguo? She's taking a shower Pingguo He is here Who's here? Mr. Lin. Oh, you two took a shower together? That is not right! What's wrong with that? What if you could not control yourself? We are married and we're not having an affair Making love too often will affect the baby Anyway, I said what I have to say Before Liu Pingguo gives birth, You'd better stop making love with her Also look, your place is filthy You should clean up regularly Open the window to let in fresh air Let me open the window Do you snore? No, never You never snore? No What? You don't snore? You snore like a pig! I bought these pills for myself Now, I'm giving them to you Take them twice a day Two tablets at a time Make sure you take them before you sleep Remember? It's called "Quiet Nights" Pingguo, come here Here are some dietary supplements for you I tried them They taste awful But you should take them anyway They are good for the baby On which side of the bed do you sleep? On the right But you should start sleeping on the left Why? My parents told me Sleeping on the left will bring you a boy An Kun, you should sleep in here I'm leaving Take it easy I told you not to take this home When did I ever snore? That's bullshit I won't take this shit You snore loudly and you don't know Take them, they're very expensive Also very useful Eat, you have them What's wrong? What's your problem? You blow your top for nothing Come on, let's put them on the shelf My belly is hurting Hurry up How come it only has six nails? It's over there The child must be mine, right? It's a gamble, either you lose or win Willing to gamble and willing to lose How do you know that I would lose? Can you stop making noises? He's kicking, that little thing You kick when your dad is near You can hear the kicking? Yes, yes The baby is kicking less than before The baby just want to greet his dad Come on baby, kick one more time You really make your dad proud How could you be so sure the child is yours? It must be my child Why don't you come over and try? See if he kicks for you or not Keep the hammer away How is it, is he kicking? No kicking, right? You are so stupid! Kicking proves nothing You'd better pray that the child's mine If you want to fix the chair, go outside The noise will frighten my baby He's kicking again, see He kicks as long as I'm near Baby... So salty, my throat hurting The eggplant you cooked was so salty The eggplant you cooked was so salty My throat hurts like hell If you let him hover around your belly again I will hit you What if this is your child? I'm talking to you Push harder, harder Spread your legs! Don't cross them Push, push Hold her legs up a bit Push Push a bit more, push It will be okay in a second Okay Okay, here it is It's a boy Comes home and closes door My daughter stays on the Internet... Dr. Zhang Here's the birth certificate with his blood type Thanks I read the news and it scared me... Dr. Zhang, there's something wrong here I'm not blood type "A", I'm a "B" Your wife must be "A" No, she is type "O" Surely someone has made a mistake No, there's no mistake Maybe your wife has been seeing someone else Dr. Zhang, you should not say that How could that be wrong? A hospital like this doesn't make mistakes Dr. Zhang I'll tell you the truth My wife was indeed seeing someone else I thought we could get it over But it showed up here again You must decide for yourself I'd like you to change this to "B" It is not possible Do this as a favour to me Because of the wrong blood type My wife might divorce me But I don't want to leave her You should clarify it and decide I don't care about the child's true identity Dr. Zhang, I'll treat him as my own My wife is very stubborn When I discovered her affair She want to suicide If she does that again Who will take care of this child? What will this family then? This is something very wrong How could I change your mind? $1,500? It's impossible I don't want to give you trouble $2,500? Even $3,000 will not do What's that? Don't confuse the others Okay, okay... I thought a thief has broken into my place You treat my place like a cash machine Taking money whenever you want I don't have enough money for you to take The device you bought is imported? How much is it? Spend carefully when you have money What if one day we got nothing left All our money is gone The cars are gone The people are gone What do we do then? I've already paid for the child As per the agreement Once Liu Pingguo leaves hospital We take the child home She will nurse him for half a year Then she will be gone Where are you going? What a cute baby! Big eyes just like his mom Here is a gift from us Thanks Such a gorgeous baby His eyes look just like Lin Dong's Like his dad, huh? No, he looks more like his mom Normally sons take after their mom Have some cake, everyone Don't wake him up You all brought him gifts? Congratulations, Mr. Lin Wang Mei, take a sip too Congratulations Thank you! Congratulation for having a son at your age It's not easy for an old man Who's old? I'm old, I'm old Maybe you should also have a baby? Why we are like their servants? Today Wang Mei is the child's mother So we have to stay in the kitchen You are the problem They want me to nurse the baby You insist on coming with me So irritating What do you mean? You are not part of this house yet Already looking down on me... Is the salad ready? It's ready. Here, take it I feels like I'm bursting My breasts are so full Liu Pingguo, could you feed him? Give him to me, just the right time You should move in tomorrow You don't have to bring anything I have clothes here that you can wear To others you are our nanny I'd ratherwear my own clothes Bodhisattva This is where I conceive my son It's a blessed place May the Bodhisattva watch over me All my desires will realize My business prospers And my family lives in peace Good morning Why do you cook yourself? I didn't wake you up since you were tired Wake me, it doesn't matter Pingguo, help me to set the table Can you manage on your own? Sure Just set the table for two What about Mrs. Lin? She went to the bank this morning She didn't have breakfast? Le Le Le Le What's wrong baby? What's wrong? Missing your mama? Want some milk? Okay, Okay You've not gone to work for days What? The same with you, right? I can run my business by phone It's the same You are not staying just for the baby, are you? You still have not deposited the money? The money is from trading my wife and child I want to look at them every day I sleep with them every night Look at this Stop fooling around Never seen so much stupid money in your life? Bitch I can see why you are the best at Golden Basin They were telling the truth, right? You think if you make a man comfortable He will fall for you then? You are better than me on this But I'm smarter than you I know you may trick Lin Dong But he does not dare to be tricked by you Because he is a man He knows how to distinguish self interest and love Mrs. Lin, you're thinking too much I'm not thinking too much, I just care a lot A careful driver drives for ever You are a woman too You need to keep a way out for yourself Otherwise you will end up with nothing On life's gaming table Your stake is much greater than mine It's done, Mrs. Lin Call me dad Call me dad Come on, put him down Let daddy give you a hug Let me wipe that off Oh, your clothes are all wet That's alright Here's my clean baby He smells so good Pretty and clean Alright Stop spinning, you'll make him dizzy Let me take him Okay Are you dizzy? Let mama take you Sorry baby, here is your mom He's confused Sit down Le Le You've been here the whole day already You still don't want to go home? You're watching me here Instead of going to work? No, it's not like that Recently I have not been working at all Just a few months apart and you can't stand it? I want Pingguo to come home for a few days That's not possible You have to keep your bargain Why don't you just leave? I'm already like an extra here Not even you What are you talking about? Think about the money you got Don't be angry, it won't do you any good As I told you the first time we met Every problem has a different solution Lin Dong signed an agreement with me If he starts an affair with Liu Pingguo again And breaks up with me His asset will be split fifty-fifty So I tell you, as long as I'm there He does not dare to do that Your wife will go back to you soon You can never control him An Kun An Kun It's me, Xiao Mei Such a nice car My throat is sore Don't you remember me? Delicious? I miss my mom What did Wang Mei tell you? Tell me what she told you? I've already explained everything to you It was just a misunderstanding Nothing happened That child is mine I changed the blood type behind your back You're just making this up You are really good at it You are just jealous I already told you nothing has happened Just think what you like Believe it or not You are so stupid Why should I fool you with that? That child is mine, you heard that? That child is mine Let's go to the hospital tomorrow To do a blood test Then we take a chance Bring the child back to our hometown Don't you feel ashamed? Is the child yours? You have no shame! You made us look awful Fucking Liu Pingguo, you've changed You are just like a hooker You are just a fucking hooker You fucking... Stupid bitch Just get lost Get lost Get lost Fucking get lost Pingguo, what's wrong? What's wrong with you? Tell me what happened Why do you stop me? I gave it to you and you don't want it? Don't you like me? What happened? It's okay It's alright An Kun What are you doing? Why are you taking the child away? Did you two conspire against me? To kidnap the child and blackmail me Are you that crazy for money? Did you devise the plot? There is nothing between her and me We even signed an agreement Did you drive An Kun to take the child away? Without the child, we can't keep Pingguo, right? I tell you If I find out you masterminded this I'll keep Pingguo here I'll marry her and divorce you Fuck After all these, whom can I still trust? Everyone is cheating on me Fucking dirty games Officer Wang? My child has been kidnapped Yes I don't know Okay Stop running Take it easy, buddy Watch your step Renovating? It's a bit messy Mr. Lin, you have visitors Please come in Oh, officer Wang I'm sorry, we are renovating Even no room for a step I don't know how to thank you this time Karaoke or seafood? Your choice! No need to thank me for now Something unexpected happened What happened? Is that kid telling tall tales again? He did not tell any new story But we performed a DNA test with your agreement The results came out I brought them for you The analytical report shows F9612 is not the biological father of C9612 His biological father is in fact M9612 You are not related to C9612 An Kun is the biological father of the child You take the report and read it carefully There must be a mistake It can't be a mistake It's not right What a test Anything can be wrong Don't get upset How could you tear it up? This is science and science can't be wrong Well, I'll see you later You'd better accept the reality of this matter I don't know what went on between you two There is nothing Okay, see you soon Bye Wrong Absolute nonsense This is my new address I know you will not come to see me But I still hope that you will come one day Hello Is this Xiao Mei? How did she die? We suspect a customer robbed and killed her Count the money I'm related to this child Please keep the money I feel he's my son the whole time But he's not Take the money back, let me keep the child He's mine We belong to each other I can give you more money Just tell me how much He's my son, I will take him with me today For the sake of what we've gone through together Let me take the child I give you three days Otherwise we'll meet in court
