 

                        MATT: So I remind you of that guy, Everyman? You put me in mind of him, Matt. I don't know that you remind me. You're not a good guy. You sit around all day, you do nothing with your life, living off God knows what. You gamble, you're divorced, a dark past before I met you. Then you're a cop and they kicked you out. I bet you don't see your daughter one day out of 20. Dad. You're right. You're right about that. I'm a bad man. What I say bothers you? You know that I know that everybody knows you took the money, even though they couldn't prove it. Maybe someday you'll cough it up. Maybe you won't. The world is filled with guys like you. Guys worried about getting what they think they deserve, and why should they work for it? But deep inside you, you've got this... I don't know, this spark, this seed of decency. I have to go. Somebody I got to see. Hey, Matt. Any time you want, you come around, okay? Now, you see, that's what I like about you. What's that? A good guy like you got time for such a bad guy like me. Ain't that something. (PEOPLE CHATTERING) I'll raise you four. SHARP: Four more white ones. WOMAN: I'll see that. DEALER: Four hundred to you, Matt. Raise. I'm out. Four to you. Okay, flip. Pair of sevens. Two pair, nines and 10s. Ladies, and the lady wins. Yes. This one is... I could lose my shirt. Sorry, guys. Get off. Son of a bitch. $20,000. I'm out. That's 20 to you, Matt. I'm going to call you. That ain't 20, Matt. What? You're four K short. That's okay, it's fine. Fine. No, that's not okay. House rules. No debts at our tables. No, it is fine, it is fine. Matt's marker's good with me. You'll get your fair share out of my cut if I... When I win. I'm sure we can come to some concession. Thank you. No, thank you. No problem. Matt? Trip eights, mate. Suck on that. Three jacks. Suck on that. I'm out. Oh, fuck! DEALER: He owes you, not us. Excuse me, excuse me for a minute. I'll be right back. He might pay, he might not. You got to stand in line. Matthew. Yeah. Hold on for a second. How can I help you? I'll get you that money right away, don't worry about it. It's not a concern of mine. I know you're good for it. Yeah. I was wondering if we could have a little chat. Sure. An associate of mine asked me to approach you on his behalf. Really? Who might that be? Is this your associate here? I had no idea what this... Motherfucker, get down. Okay, all right. Get down. Jesus. Hey, no need for that, Matt. I sent those guys. Put the gun down, let Mr. Sharp run home before he pisses on himself. Look, look, you know what? How about if I just shoot him in the fucking head? Then we got a problem, 'cause I don't give a shit if you do. Motherfucker, what you want, man? I'm the messenger. Make a right, first aisle. Mr. Conner, I won't thank you for coming because, let's face it, you were forced to come. I'm sure that doesn't sit well with you. Well, thank you for the consideration. What do I call you? You don't. You know, you should really put that thing away. Somebody might get hurt. And who will that be? Well, like my daddy used to say, "You never know till you go." Gentlemen. Blue has been with me a long time. I'm afraid he takes his job too seriously. But he is correct, you don't need to call me anything. Blue will be my intermediary from now on. I just wanted you to see me and have some inkling that the person you're working for is not some faceless entity. So let me get this straight, I work for you now? I know you. Back in the day, across the pond. Before you took on this cop identity thing. You were there, I was there. Remember how we felt about the guy that went deep into enemy territory, took care of business with extreme prejudice, and made his way out in one piece? You know what really is amazing to me? A guy that can walk into an urban territory, a five star hotel full of bodyguards, take care of business with extreme prejudice, and walk out in one piece like a fucking ghost. I guess I had my 15 minutes, but as you know, I'm kind of retired now. That's what I like about you. Do you recognize these? Your markers. Three bookies' worth. $1,235,000 and 65 cents, motherfucker. Man, you guys are meticulous. You're a smart man, Mr. Conner. I don't need to explain to you how I came to buy them, although indeed I did buy them. What you owed to others, a million plus, you now owe to me. So I guess that means if I don't do what you want me to do, you'll terminate me. Not at all. It's late, I'm tired. Blue will contact you in the near future, and when he does he's going to make you an offer. Kind of like an offer I can't refuse? You can refuse. You might want to listen to our proposition, it might be to your liking. I'll do that, I'll do that. (DOORBELL BUZZING) Shouldn't you answer that? That's your daughter, and her step-dad. (COUGHS) Is it Saturday? You don't even know what day of the week it is? Matt, what's wrong with you? Your little girl is waiting outside. She talked the whole time about how you were going to spend the day with her. Oh, sorry, man... Give me one minute. Look, man, it's my day for my daughter. This can't wait. Lose him. Man, I got a fucking emergency here. Some assholes I got to... Yeah, okay, I'll make something up, as usual. Look, I'll bring her by tomorrow. Just make sure you're here, okay, Matt? I'll be here. I owe you, man, thanks. Thanks. Yeah, sure. Sweetheart, Daddy can't see you tonight, he doesn't feel well, okay? But I'll tell you what, we'll do something real fun the rest of the day. Take a seat. Motherfucker, I ought to kill you. You don't want to do that. Why not? Because if you do, the Old Man won't tear up your markers. Man, you're confusing me for somebody who'd give a shit. Do you know him? No, not really. Bruno. Very, very bad hombre. Unfortunately, he's encouraging bad behavior from the Italians so he got to go. Well, I don't suppose I have much of a choice, do I? No, you don't. Well, tell the Old Man that he's as good as dead. That's real good. But remember, they all have kids just like you. Thank you for reminding me. (CELL PHONE RINGING) OLD MAN: We work for the government, Matt, although they're going to be in denial if any of us get apprehended. These scumbags have managed to get not above the law, but beyond it. The law for them has no meaning. That's where we come in. You know what I prefer to call our enterprise? Extracurricular justice. (TIRES SCREECHING) (CHUCKLING) Hey, what are you mad at? Look who's here. Is that your eyes causing that to happen? Just looking at me I just... Great grapes. She's good. The lemon drop kid. Come on, pal, we'll crack down together. Maybe we'll raise a few dollars. Grab that door. Hello, how are you? I'm fine, thank you. Korean? Japanese? I speak both. You speak both? I speak both, too. So, that guy was rude to you, huh? All right, sweetie, I'll pick you up tomorrow, all right? Bye. Bye-bye. Have fun. I will. All right. Bye. Bye. Hey, Dad. BECKY: I really like it down here. MATT: Me, too. It's so quiet and peaceful. Yep. I wish Mom and Steve would let me come here by myself. But they're worried about the big kids who hang out near the entrance. I think Mom's worried about their corrupting influence. Corrupting influence. Well, I suppose she's got a point. I'm precocious, Daddy. I read that in a book. Precocious. Precocious, well, I guess you know what your grandmother would say about that. "Jesus, Mary and Joseph!" Oh, my God. You asked what she'd say. You can at least, like, kind of play innocent next time. Innocent? Yeah. I'm your daughter, Daddy. You got a good point. (CHUCKLES) You got a good point. Hey, you know, yesterday I was supposed to pick you up and... It's okay. It's not okay. You know, I feel really bad. I know that, you know, I really need to be there for you and... I know that, Daddy. I saw your face, something was bothering you. Yeah, but, you know, daddies shouldn't let stuff like that, you know, get in the way of daddy-daughter relations. So I'm going to try to never let that happen again and live up to my responsibility to always be there for you. I know that, Daddy. And I'm not little anymore. Sandwich? Here, a mug that I made for you. "I heart Daddy." What does that mean, "I heart Daddy"? I love Daddy. Oh, I got it. You're not that dumb, are you? (CHUCKLING) Sometimes. I think I've proven that in the past, haven't I? You made these? Yeah. This looks like jelly and peanut butter, not peanut butter and jelly. Yeah. It's kind of a science project now. Yeah. Some jelly with your jelly? (CHUCKLES) I was thinking... Go get a drink. What, are you a fucking imbecile or what? Are you an imbecile? Give me a chance to fix it. How fucked... Shut up. Shut... Get him out of here! What the fuck is wrong with that idiot? I don't know, boss. Bobby, cocktails, will you? Hey. Hey. All these beautiful women in here and you're staring at this guy? You know, he got kind of unusual behavior. I thought he might be someone interesting. I just wondered who he is. He calls himself Bruno. What's he, the little movie star? Something like that. Wow. I wonder if I could get his autograph. I don't think you want it. You really don't know who he is? No, I don't. I'm just passing through, came in here for a drink. Well, I'm Drea. Drea Smalls, by the way, just in case you're interested. Well, I'm Matt, and I am. You are what? I'm interested. I could use a drink. Why don't you sit down and have a drink with me. What'll you have? I think I'll have what you're having. Hey, around here it's bad manners to stare. Also bad for your health. I guess I could stare at you. I don't know about that. Hey, how are you? Hey. What do you say? How are you? Welcome. You got here okay? Very well. Good, good. Good to see you again. We added a figure. Looks pretty. You got a few more of these I hope, right? So, tell me... What? What does Drea stand for? Andrea. Somewhere along the way it just got shortened. Mmm-hmm. What does Matt stand for? Matt, like, you know, usually stands for "dumb, unlucky son of a bitch." But tonight I thought maybe... Maybe. ...I won't be so unlucky. When you going to know for sure, Matt? Well, as soon as you let me know. Why don't I just tell you? I think you just did. I got more to say, come on. DREA: Wow. You cook? Yeah, man, I cook, I clean, I wash dishes, I do it all. But actually, no, I don't cook. Any man can fry a fucking egg, you know. So... So... Why don't you tell me about yourself? What about me? Well, I'd like to know anything. All my life I've been on my own. Trying to do more than just get by, you know? I'm an artist. You're an artist. Not like the kind of artist that sells paintings and stuff, I'm a graphic artist. I put together brochures and catalogs, that kind of stuff. I work freelance now, but back when I had a wherever I worked, whatever I did, there was always some guy above me thinking he could do my job better than me, telling me what I needed to do to be good enough. Hmm. And after, like, a bunch of years I finally realized what I really needed to do was grow a dick. Well, probably I would like you a lot less if you had a dick. Especially if it was bigger than mine, you know what I mean? I don't think that's possible. BRUNO: I love this guy, I love this kid. Hey, my favorite. Hi, guys. How are you? Hey, Bruno. How are you, sweetie? How you doing tonight? Better if you'll come home with me. Oh, Bruno. What are you boys drinking? Come on, give me a kiss. Give me a small kiss. Come on, give me one kiss. No, no, not on duty. Oh, stop it will you, please? This manager of yours is such a chicken shit, he wouldn't say squat if you got under the table and blew me right here in front of everybody. He wouldn't, you know that. Don't get fresh. Oh, now. Come on, come on, come on. I'm playing. I wasn't fresh, I wasn't fresh. You remember one thing, one thing. I'll fuck you in the ass with my dick if I want. Now that's fresh. I think she's got a crush on you, boss. I swear to God, I feel the same thing. I really... She plays hard to get. Bruno. Hey, hey, hey, how are you? Sit down, sit down, sit down. I was waiting for you. My friend is a North Korean gentleman, okay? He's got 2.5 million in counterfeit green. I seen the color, I seen the plates, I seen the product. Gentlemen, excuse me one second. I know it's really rude for me to just sit down like this, but I noticed that along with your powerful charisma, you kind of were abusive with that young lady earlier here. What are you talking about? The waitress, Emily? Yeah. Yeah. So I just was a little bit offended, and I wondered if you would apologize to her. To Emily? Yeah. You want me to apologize to her? You know, I would do... No, don't laugh, I would do that, I would do that, honest to God. She obviously means a lot to you. Well, yeah, she's a nice girl. You know something? You make me feel, like, embarrassed with myself. Am I blushing? I'm sorry, I didn't mean it. You know what, let me make it up to you, honest to God. Go ahead. When I fuck her in the ass, I won't wipe my cock on her drapes. That's so nice of you. It's time to go. Hold on, I'll pay you. Hey kid, kid, kid, we talk. You're not a stupid guy. What brought you here? This Korean, I do business with him, I'm a business man. I'm gonna say we got about two minutes before the cops come here. There's a score here for you. I got diamonds, I got money, I got influence, power, broads, pick one. You didn't come here for me, did you? Unfortunately, Bruno, I did. Hey... BLUE: But remember, they all have kids just like you. Use it or lose it, cowboy. Where'd you get my keys? I boosted your spare set while you were out. Made a copy and put them back before you noticed they were gone. You are a sophisticated, grown-up spy. Yes, I am. Somebody had a very busy night. Well, news travels fast, huh? It's the Old Man. He hears everything. Sometimes before it even happens. Wow. Blood wasn't even dry downtown before the Old Man knew you had pulled the stunt. He was very pleased. I say you were lucky. Well, that's 'cause you're jealous. A bonus from the Old Man. I told him you don't deserve it, but he doesn't listen to me. You're not ready again? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. You know, I tried praying to him one time. I think I'm beyond hope. Listen, Liz said you stopped by the house last week. You wanted to see me? Yeah. What it is, there's a guy called Blue, that's not a real name, that's a nickname of some kind, but he's into some bad stuff and I wanted to see what I could find out about him. Okay. Well, he's none of mine, but I'll run him. (MUSIC PLAYING THROUGH HEADPHONES) My contact left the twig in the park. This is what has the chip. It's going to Shanghai. It's got the schematics for the new fighter jet. Make sure it gets to my man in Shanghai tonight. You take care, you take care. I don't want to hear anything more about this. This ain't a lot of fun. Police officer, I want to ask you some questions. How can I help you? (SCREAMING) Get away from me, man. Who sent you? (GROANING) Who sent you? He was six feet tall. He's clean shaven. Wears a blue suit. Arrogant prick. Thank you very much for that. Hey, Matt, bottles don't shoot back. You set me up. Bullshit. Hey, easy, Matt. I'm on your side, remember? You know, the individuals that I interviewed after giving them a severe talking-to gave me a very nice description of somebody that looks exactly like you. Well, you know, they said extremely unattractive, light skinned gentleman, dressed well, but ugly as a son of a bitch. Oh, jeez, that's only me and maybe a few hundred thousand other guys in this city. You know what, Blue? They was talking about you. At the time you were probably fucking drunk. You better straighten your ass out, Matt. You got a job to do. The guy I showed you, we wanted him dead yesterday. And it's almost tomorrow. You're right. I got to get on top of my game, and I'm working on it. (KNOCKING ON DOOR) Matt. Hey, baby, how you doing? Hi, Becky's in school. Yeah, well, I didn't really come to see Becky. Steve was off today and I wanted to see him. Yeah, you should have called. Well, you know, sometimes when I do that, he kind of makes up some bullshit excuse about what he can't do and stuff, you know. That's not what I meant. It's just... Steve isn't here. He had something he needed to take care of, so I'm afraid you came up for nothing. No, I didn't. I got to see you. And you're looking good. You always could lay it on thick. (SIGHS) Do you want some coffee? I'll take a rain check on that. You know, you could stay for dinner. Steve will be home by then, and then you could talk about whatever it is that's bothering you. Yeah, unfortunately, this won't wait. Okay. (MEN CHATTERING) Is Steve around? What, do you need another favor? No, I need my balls scratched, can you help me? Steve's the man for that, he's in his office. All right. What the fuck is he doing here? What's all this? Well, this is my division. Roving task force. We get assignments, six months, a year, we go where they send us. Organized crime, drug dealers, whatever. Well, you know, it's about time you get your honors. You got passed up for a long time, so I'm glad it's finally happening for you, that's good. Yeah. That's nice. Let's walk. So I ran Blue through NCIC, both as a real name and as an aka. and the other 50% are so small that you can't even see them. Something tells me that the guy you're looking for is not small-time. Yeah, I wouldn't think so. What else you got? Well, I don't even know if I should tell you this. If it was hearsay it'd be more solid. But I did some checking around. I know a guy, a fed, real solid guy, I trust him. And he asked back and came back with somebody who knew somebody who knew somebody who used to know a guy who called himself that. Blue. Uh-huh. And what did somebody who knows somebody who knows somebody have to say? He says this Blue is a very serious man. A kind of ghost. The kind of guy that if you had his latent prints you couldn't match them to any database because they don't exist. Look, Matt, just watch yourself. I don't want to have to be the guy that tells your daughter that I had to fish you out of the river some night. You got a lot of nerve showing your face around here after what Steve did for you, you got some set of balls. If I want any lip out of you I'll rip it off your fucking face. (MUTTERING ANGRILY) What the fuck is wrong with you? Sir, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So what's the connection? Connection between what? Bruno, Ling, the Old Man. Word of advice, you've been in this game long enough. The Old Man says you do a thing, you do the thing. Speaking of which, game time. See this guy? Mmm-hmm. He's our asset in there. He owes us a favor. He's going to meet you in the kitchen. You go down that alley, third door on the left, it's going to be open. You go up to the second floor. Is there going to be any folks in there that are kind of unhappy to see me? Of course. Now, once you get past Ling's boys, you're going to come to these stairs. At the top you're going to find a private room. In that private room you're gonna find Mr. Ling getting laid. Though by the time you get to him, he'll probably be soiling his sheets. And, Matt, one more thing. Yeah? Once you've gotten by Mr. Ling... Yeah? I want you to do our asset. Man, that's just...charming. (SIGHS) (SPEAKING IN JAPANESE) (SPEAKING IN CANTONESE) Can I sit down? You really think I'm gonna waste my time with you, gweilo? Shit. Motherfucker. (TIRES SQUEALING) (PANTING PASSIONATELY) (WOMAN GROANING) (SPEAKING IN JAPANESE) Fuck! Let me take a look at that. It's in and out, man, you gonna be okay. I'll patch you up at the Old Man's. It's friendly. It's friendly, Matt, it's friendly. Just let me explain, Matt. Ain't no motherfuckers around here telling the truth, ain't that right? Matt. Can you just let me explain? Something troubling you? Who's Drea? Drea? Drea's a woman that you slept with. That's Drea. You all had to get somebody close, up and close on the inside, huh? So you just got one over on me right away. I don't think I want any of that. Hey, Matt, a wound like that, it's going to hurt like hell, man. Yeah, but you know what? I like the pain. It keeps me feeling awake and alive, you know? Something bothering you? Why didn't you kill our asset? Well, I feel bad about that. Hey, Matt, you live in a new world, man. Your world, it's old, it's dead. There's contradictions everywhere, especially here with you and me. You and me, we kill people. Now I happen to believe that they deserve it. Like Bruno. Besides helping the North Koreans flood the US with counterfeit money, he was responsible for at least 50 hits that I know of. Now, do you feel bad about what you did to him? No. No. Yet what I hear is that you left a little girl being about Becky's age, who's crying herself to sleep every night over losing her old man. Now, Bruno was a scumbag of a human being, you know, but he was probably a good dad. Always there for his daughter, like, every day. How's that make you feel now? That makes me feel terrible. You're coming back, Matt. You know that, right, Matt? You're coming back, Matt. MATT: I guess some folks would call me a dirty cop. I mean, I wasn't, like, stealing anything, but I was dirty in some people's minds. Steve, you know, he was like, you know, as clean as a Safeway chicken, man. Like an altar boy. He didn't take anything, but everybody liked him anyway. But he owed me because I'd saved his life. There was this drug money piled in a warehouse. And by this time I was gambling away most of my daughter's college tuition, my wife was about to leave me or throw me out. I had markers all over town. This money, something that if I was really dirty could have been looked at as my salvation. And then the money disappears, along with my partner at the time, Jim Mescow. Jim's never found, neither's the money. Well, the department's looking around for somebody to blame, and they didn't have to look very far. Except I really didn't take the money. I was out at the track playing a tip, trying to get even, when I lost every penny I had. So I came back and got drunker than I'd ever been, passed out in this flop pad that I had that I used to take girls to, you know. I didn't really tell Steve what happened, only that I didn't do it. I begged him for help. He owed me because I'd saved his life. So he lied to the brass and said I was with him on a stakeout. As soon as he said that, I was off the hook. They couldn't put me in jail, but they threw me off the force. And I kind of crawled into the hole that seems to be my life at the moment. You had nothing. No money, no job. You owed money all over town. How'd you survive? Well, a couple of months went by, and then one day my markers were kind of mysteriously paid by unknown persons. I had a few years after that, then a bunch of bad ones. Horses stopped coming in, the cards went bad. And here I am, in heavy debt, and once again somebody's holding my markers. What are you going to do? End this. (LAUGHING) (DOOR OPENS) You know, I married Steve to get away from all this, and it followed me anyway. How you doing, Liz? I'm okay. MATT: Good. I thought you quit drinking. Yeah. Well, I started up again. I hope I didn't have nothing to do with that. What can I do for you, Matt? Well, as you might expect, I'm here to see Steve. Right. Not me, of course. It would never be me. You used to always come here to see me, and now I don't really exist anymore, do I? That's not true. But I am not married to you now. I know. But you used to be. And I am still the mother of your daughter. You never talk to me about her. You know, you talk to Steve about all that stuff. You say, "How's Becky doing? How was that dance thing? "Does she need braces? How are her grades?" I just wish that you would talk to me about that stuff. She's our daughter. Yeah, so do I. It's a funny thing, I never was very good at marriage, and somehow it seems like I'm even worse at divorce. (LAUGHING) Hi. Hi. (SIGHS) MATT: Somebody wants you dead. What's wrong with your arm, Matt? Are you listening to me? Somebody wants you dead. Your arm, it's stiff, you can't move it, what happened? (INAUDIBLE) Someone is gonna kill you. Is it gonna be you? I don't think so. I hope not. Any more dead bodies turn up and I'm coming after you. Now I'm not asking you, I'm telling you, get out of town. I can't do that 'cause I owe you. (INAUDIBLE) Dad. Matt! Matt, come back! Matt! Dad! No, stop. Let go of me! Just let go of me. Steven, what's the matter with you? Father Maloney? Yes? My name is Steve Shacter. I'm a friend of Matt's. Oh, yes, the police detective. He's spoken of you. Wait. What's happening? I'm out. Lower your piece, Matt. No, Blue, you lower yours. You know what I sense in this? A divine sense of fate. You hold your fate in your hands here, Matt. You know, you took your life back. A week ago you were wandering aimlessly, now look at you. Yeah. Let me ask you something. It seems like you all want me to kill one of my best friends. See, that's why I got a little bit upset. Steve is a piss-ant cop making $80,000 a year who just made detective. I look at him as an innocent victim. I'm confused. Hey, Matt, Steve was working for both of the other targets. Using his new division to support them and feed them information. It's all very nice, very clean. He kills somebody for them, then he's appointed to solve the crime. Now Bruno and Ling, they were working with Steve. He's not on the take, he's one of them. I find that hard to believe. I really do. Is there anything wrong? Well, Matt might be in trouble. Do you have any idea where he might be? Where he is? The only places I can think of are the usual ones you'd know yourself. His home, the bars he frequents, places he likes to gamble. I have a few men checking those places out, but I don't think we're going to have much luck. He's dirty, Matt, he's dirty to the core. He's dirtier than you ever were. Who do you think took that money out of the warehouse? See, now you're reaching. Why? Because you know what? It just doesn't make sense. Steve got caught lying for me, lost days with pay, and the fact of the matter is, if he hadn't done that, he'd have made detective four years ago. He lied to you. You saved his life, he lied for you, that's it, nothing more. Did he tell you anything about it, us, him and me? I'm afraid I can't tell you. The privacy of the confessional and all. I understand, Father, but this isn't about putting Matt in jail, this is about trying to help him. If I knew where you could find him, Detective, I would tell you and gladly. But that's one thing I have no idea about. What did he tell you about us? I told you, Detective, whatever Matt said to me, I can't speak of such things. I understand. Well, I appreciate your help, Father. And if you do see Matt, just have him give me a call. He's got to come in. This has gone on too long. I'll do what I can, Detective. What happened? Is everything all right? I'm a police officer, the Father's had a heart attack. I need you to call 911. Of course. (GUNSHOT) Matt, as close as we've been, you have to believe me when I tell you that Steve is dirty. If you want to shoot me, shoot me in the back. OLD MAN: Conner, we need to talk. (MEN CHATTERING) (SIRENS WAILING) I need to see some ID. It's ugly here, you sure you want to see? Oh, yeah. (CLEARS THROAT) Let me ask you something, did you do that? Are you crazy, Matt? Of course I didn't. Good. Because the person that did this, I'm going to find them and kill them. Matt, you're out of this. You're on the sideline, you're a bystander this time. All right, take him down to the precinct. He's a material witness. If he wants a lawyer, get him one, but he's not going anywhere until I get a statement. Listen, put him in a cell, hold him for two hours, steam him up, treat him like shit, and then let him walk. What are you talking about, let him walk? Yeah, yeah, and then we follow him. He'll probably go after Blue, try to kill him. If he does, fine, we pop Matt. If Blue kills Matt, then we take down Blue. Either way, we're free and clear. MAN: You've come a full 180, pal. From one side to the other. You used to sit in my seat, and now you're on the other side. In deep shit. You're home. What's the matter, tough guy? You got nothing to say now? Maybe you're not so tough sitting in that seat. Well, how about if you take these off? No, I don't think I'm gonna do that. Let me tell you why. This makes me feel like there's some justice left in this world, seeing you treated like a scumbag. You don't want to take these off 'cause you know if you do I'll kick the fuck out of you. That ain't gonna happen, pal. Listen, after I'm gone, I want you to take the cuffs off of him, give him something to eat if he wants, whatever. But he stays here until Steve says otherwise, you understand me? All right? Go. You know, I'm actually starting to feel sorry for you. 'Cause you never learned a goddamn thing in your life, did you, Matt? You're still the same pathetic jerk-off who pissed away all his money at the track, and then passed out drunk in his flophouse. And you could have been one of us. Yeah. Tell Barnes to let him go. I said, let him go. Steve said to let you go. You got my gun? It's in the locker. We'll give it to you. Watch your step. All right, let's go. I want this done right. He makes us, he'll know what we're up to. But that doesn't mean shit, I want Blue. STEVE: That's Blue. Come on, everybody, let's go. (SIRENS WAILING) Let's move it, let's move it! BLUE: Get inside, man. Get down. I hope you have more fucking ammo than that. (TIRES SCREECHING) (SIRENS BLARING) (TIRES SQUEALING) Oh, no. Where the fuck... STEVE: It's okay, it's okay. I know how to find them. It's all right. It's all right. Where you going, Matt? Huh? You can't walk away from this. I know you didn't kill the priest. Oh, yeah, you're right, I didn't kill the priest. Yeah. Who did? All right, if I tell you, what are you gonna do? You gonna give us the last hit? Who killed the priest? What the fuck are you doing, Matt? You can't walk away from this! The Old Man is still holding your marker! Matt! Matt! I'm gonna kill that motherfucker. OLD MAN: Blue, shut the fuck up. We got a wild card wandering around out there. He's not a wild card. Then what the fuck is he? Huh? He's confused. He's confused. We gave him a contract he's not gonna fill, and he might well come after us. He's never gonna come after us. How the fuck do you know? Blue, he's a sick, compulsive gambler. You know what he thrives on? The action, that's it. We got him right where we want him. He's going to come to us with his hat in his hand. You understand? He's either going to end up in prison, insanity or death. Double Johnnie Walker on the rocks. I'll be over there. Thank you. Fuck that Old Man. You gonna drink that or talk to it? What are you doing here? Looking for you, stupid. You mind? I need you to know something. That whole speech I made about who I am and what I do, it was true. I mean, not the details of it, but the feelings I was talking about. Those were true. Let me ask you something. All that good loving you gave me, was that from you or from them? That was from me, because I wanted to. Because you felt sorry for me. Because I wanted you. You did that real good. Besides you, the Old Man and Blue, you know if there's anybody else involved? I have no idea. Could be just us, could be hundreds of others just like us. I don't wanna know. You're smart. It's just like these folks, man, they might tell you to kill your mama, your brother, your sister. Your child's step-daddy, you know. And it don't work for me. You survived that. You walked away. Walk away again. I ain't running no more. Tired of running. (BELLS TOLLING) Matt? Matt? PRIEST: The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want... Matt? He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth... Matt? He restoreth my soul... He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death... STEVE: You guys know why we're here, and you know what's at stake. Where's Wheeler? He's got a special assignment, don't worry about it. All right, fan out, and watch my back. What are you doing here? I came to pay my respects. You didn't have to wait for me. I see you brought the long rifle. You know it. I've already done my recon. Higher ground, on top of that mausoleum looks like the best spot right there. It's exactly what I was thinking. How'd you know it was me? Why didn't you kill Blue? See, unfortunately, Tim Wheeler knew my sad story about how I passed out in my flophouse. I think you came there. You knew I'd have no alibi. Went back to the precinct, stole the shit out of the evidence room. Got greedy, decided to kill my partner. The guy had a guilty conscience. He was going to crack, I didn't have a choice. No, I think you did have a choice. I don't think you had to steal the money and I don't think you had to kill my partner, but you're just a piece of shit, Steve. STEVE: Who are you to judge me? Who the fuck are you to judge me? I lied for you, I paid your fucking gambling debts, I got you back on your feet. Why do you think I did that? Probably 'cause you were afraid I'd kill you if I ever found out the truth. And maybe you felt a little guilty, too, somehow. You should have just walked away, Matt, when I gave you the chance. You're out-manned, out-gunned. You're not getting out of this alive. You know something? I'm not planning on it. Then why'd you come here? I came here to kill you. Yeah, well, I didn't come alone. Yeah, neither did I. Look up on that hill. (BECKY SCREAMING) I got it, I got it. Shut up! You motherfucker. If you ever want to see Becky again, then lower your gun. Go get them! All right! Let's go! God damn it, get up, get up! You're not dead. Come on, you son of a bitch, get up. (GRUNTING) BECKY: Stop! Stop, don't do it! Stop! Don't do it! Take him, I tell you! What the fuck are you aiming at? Go to your dad. Go to your dad. Let him see you. Okay. Go! Daddy! Daddy! I'm okay. You're one bad motherfucker, I'll tell you that, Matt. That's how we do it. That's how we go. Can you believe this shit? I'm gonna die in a graveyard. You want to be cremated or buried? Buried. Daddy! Daddy, I'm okay! You're cremated now, motherfucker. Daddy! Dad! Daddy, where are you? Dad! Daddy, Daddy. I love you. Let's get out of here, what do you say? Yes. You know what I really want, right? I can't really remember. I really want a dog. What kind of dog do you want? German shepherd. Really? Yeah. I told you before. Please. How many times have you told me before? Quite a few times? Yes, lots. (BECKY LAUGHING) Okay, let's ask Mommy what she says. Okay. 'Cause, you know, if she says you can have one I'll get you one. Okay. It's good to have you back, Dad. (BELLS TOLLING)
