 

                        PLEASURE Based on three stories by Guy de Maupassant Many attempts have been made to depict three of my tales I thought it would be simpler to relate them myself I've always loved the night, the darkness I'm so happy to be talking in the dark as if I were beside you... ...and maybe I am You can imagine my anxiety... ...because these are old tales for your modern times But we'll see Here is the first story One night, there was a ball at the 'Palais de la Danse' The lure of the orchestra exploding like a storm... ...crashed through walls and roofs, engulfing all Come on, ladies and gentlemen. Dance and be merry The crowd flooded in like water bursting a dam Regulars from all over Paris, regardless of class... ...came for rollicking fun... ...and debauchery There were workers... ...pimps... ...and, above all, girls From rough cotton to the finest cambric Rich old women chasing their youth... ...and poor young girls desperate to have fun and entice big spenders Elegant suits after young flesh or wilted but still fragrant blooms... ...prowled the excited crowd... ...searching and hunting From the crowd a man emerged Thin and dressed like a young dandy He looked like a waxwork A caricature of a fashion designers' dream And now, ladies and gentlemen, the great dancer Monsieur Grandval His dancing was convincing, but clumsy He seemed rusty, trying to imitate the others He seemed lost - as graceless as a terrier amongst greyhounds You're a good dancer - What's your name? - Frimousse. And you? You're gorgeous Carry on playing Come on, maestro, don't stop the music - He'll live, won't he? - Yes, he's just fainted Call a doctor, quickly At the end of the corridor You're needed, doctor - Where is he? - On the stairs - Are you a doctor? - Yes, but I'm not here to... You only have to cross the room. Someone fainted on the dance floor Remember me? Last winter in Nice. We danced together - I remember - The rain stopped us This time it won't. I'm delighted to see you again. You're ravishing Are you thirsty? Georges, champagne! I'll be back at once I can't... We're unlucky with dances These are too tight. They'll take an hour to undo I'll cut them off. Can I have some scissors? Fetch some scissors. Hurry up - Your cognac, doctor - Not now What's wrong? Don't worry. You'll be fine What happened? Where's Frimousse? I'm here You'll see her later. Keep still - Where do you live? - Rue des A... Rue des Amiraux It's the other side of Montmartre At the end of the Rue des Poissonniers You can go home to bed My word! Rue des Amiraux Hold my hat - Go and dance - Not alone Go on, quickly Come in, ladies and gentlemen Baron... It was a big, but shabby, house A house full of miserable wretches... ...and with grimy stairs I can't go any further Come on, you're nearly there - What about Frimousse? - What? She'll be waiting She can wait Is it the next floor? Yes, ring twice But your wife must be sleeping No, she has insomnia What is it now? It's nothing Come on He fainted in... ...a public place - At a ball - You knew? It's not the first time he's ended up flat on his face That's a relief Come in He ate nothing at dinner to be lighter, but had a drink to be merry Mind the steps Why is he so keen on dancing? I'll tell you why. So people think he's young under the mask So women take him for a dandy and let him whisper dirty things to them So he can rub against them with all their perfumes, powders and creams Can you help me pull off his sleeve? That's it And now the shoes. That's harder That's it If you think he'll move later to make room for me, you're wrong I'll have to sleep elsewhere You playboy So he acts the young man at balls All the time. You can't imagine the state he's in when he comes home What drives him to it? Regret. He's not what he used to be He was once greater than all the tenors and generals He still looks good for his age, doesn't he? I'll make him a hot-water bottle Are you surprised by his past? You didn't know him in his prime When I met him, I was hooked Hooked like a fish on a line He was so sweet I could have cried He took me home and I never left him Not for a day, despite everything - Are you married? - Yes, thankfully Or he would have left me like the others. I've been his wife and maid - What did he do? - He was first assistant at Marcel's The hairdresser's? Yes, by the opera house. All the actresses used it I'll get a face cloth The richest asked for Ambroise - Ambroise? - Yes, him He made a fortune in tips They're all the same. When they fancy a man, they take him. It's so easy I spent nights waiting for him He'd finally come home bright-eyed He'd say to me: "Another one, Denise" What a man! He felt the need to boast about it Some men derive more pleasure from talking than doing They called you because you were on duty? No, I was there You're probably not married, then When you are, it'll be different I hope so Men just have to hunt... But he's older now When I saw his first white hair, I did my housework with a lighter heart After two years, he was unrecognizable Women weren't after him any more So he started going to dances It became an obsession - He's calling - I'm all alone I'm sorry I told you all that... Please, don't apologize. I've learnt a precious lesson Doctor... Give me your address in case he gets worse I don't think you need worry. He could go on for years like this That's good. I want him to live long and carry on dancing The doctor had witnessed a scene from the eternal drama... ...played out every day in so many forms and settings To the 'Palais de la Danse' I didn't just write sad stories Would you now like something more cheerful, bawdy even? A fairy tale for grown-ups? It's quite a long story, based in Normandy... ...in a small Channel port The setting is not exactly residential... ...if you understand my meaning It's the story of a house Not exactly a block of rented flats... ...but how can I put it without shocking you? It was a house, but a very well kept house Men would go there every night... ...meeting in little groups They were respectable - shopkeepers, young men... They would drink and fondle the girls or talk to Madame... ...whom they all respected Too late Madame was from a good farming family... ...and saw her trade as no different to a milliner's or linen maid's There was less prejudice in the countryside Farmers said: "It's a good trade"... ...and sent their daughters to run harems as if they were girls' schools The house was inherited from an uncle The new owners closed their inn... ...and embraced this new venture They took over a business which, lacking management, had been failing They were nice people, and the staff and neighbors liked them instantly Monsieur died two years later His new position had made him lazy and fat... ...and he died of a stroke The house had two entrances On the corner was a shady caf open at night for workers and sailors Two girls looked after the needs of these clients Louise, dressed in the theme of Liberty and nicknamed 'Pet'... ...and Flora, known as 'Swing' for the shocking way she swayed her hips Looking like kitchen maids in fancy dress, they enticed men to drink Look at these curls. You have lovely hair They worked with Frdric, the waiter A tall dark-haired boy strong as an ox The other ladies formed a kind of aristocracy... ...staying upstairs in the drawing-room with their clients Fernande played the pretty blonde and Raphale... ...the indispensable beautiful Jewess I thought of you earlier Rosa only stopped drinking to sing and singing to drink - Give me another - It's the last one 'Bye, darling. See you tomorrow 'Bye, Fernande. See you tomorrow My cardigan - Hello, Rosa - I'll call Raphale All clear Monsieur Dupuis, don't get cold Above the door was a lantern I apologize, but I cannot hide it from you It will now be turned off because it must be dark for the story to start One night at the end of May... ...the first to arrive, Poulain, a former Mayor... ...found the door closed Anybody there? Hello, Duvert Poulain! - Where are you going? - Over there. Aren't you? Don't bother. The house is closed Very funny I'm not joking I'll go with you if you like, but I assure you it's closed There are sailors outside You, upstairs! You see? It's closed. So is the caf The police must have locked it I would never have allowed it when I was Mayor - That's how wars get started - Let's go. I don't like it If we were found here, we'd look... - We'd look like what we are - It's not worth it The men shouting are English. They're used to fights In their country, it's like fencing Look - It's Tourneveau - Of course, it's Saturday My dear friend, I have some sad news - We've just been to the house - It's closed, I know Where are you going now? Do you know another place? I'm afraid not. I was going back to make sure, but if you're certain... Let's go for a walk. It's a beautiful night Why were you so keen to make sure? You're forgetting I'm married with children. I only go out on Saturdays You single men are lucky. You can go when you like We don't have families But loneliness is tragic, isn't it? Worse, even Let's walk, then. It's a beautiful night Yes, it is The three men met young Philippe, the banker's son, a regular... ...and Pimpesse, the tax collector Then Dupuis, the insurance broker Then Vasse, the Judge What's wrong? Is it closed? What's happened? Why? What a shame Their walk took them to the jetty It's beautiful Yes, it's beautiful - the foam on the crests of the waves Yes, the monotonous sound of the sea It's beautiful - It's not funny - No, you're right It's typical it shuts on a Saturday Why? - It's bad news for Tourneveau - That's right I'd had such a nice dinner... ...of ceps This time of year? Obviously not picked locally Yes, from around here There are no ceps around I should know. I ate them But you didn't pick them locally No, my eldest daughter did She spent two hours in the woods picking them She spent two hours in the woods picking! What are you laughing at? My daughter knows what she's doing Oh, yes She's almost 17 I don't know what she's almost, but she's something! You're insulting my daughter As former Mayor, I say the tax collector is wrong Why? I found out many things when I was Mayor Like what? What tax collectors earn A new altercation started between the former Mayor and Dupuis... ...about tax collectors' wages and perks Insults flew and they'd have fought if the others hadn't stopped them - You're a scoundrel - I'll sue you for slander He's welcome to see his solicitor. I won't let him get away with it He's not heard the last of it How can they argue over nothing? You call that nothing? At your age, you should be in bed, not criticizing respectable people - He's only young - So I'm wrong? I didn't say that, but he's young Boredom brought out the worst in them For a Saturday... ...it's quite a day Gradually calm returned to the troubled town Only one man still roamed in hope of God knows what The house was closed for a First Communion Madame's brother was a carpenter in the country He knew his sister was doing well... ...and thought of a family reunion for his daughter's Confirmation So on Saturday morning, Madame and her friends took the express Have a nice holiday, ladies - What's this, Flora? - I'm hot. I never wear so much Where do you think you are? - I thought I was in your house - Don't be so insolent "A diplomatic conflict between Bolivia and Chile" It's so far away "There are fears of war in the Pacific" What does "Pacific" mean? It means peace - Tickets, please - They've been checked I'm checking again At Beuzeville a couple got on The man was an old farmer wearing a blue smock... ...and an ancient top hat His wife... ...wore a rustic outfit and looked like a hen - Mind the calf - Yes, yes That's what you said last time, and it fell off No longer alone, the ladies became serious to make a good impression Madame Rosa It's a fashionable tune The Viscount taught it to me. Do you understand? Your husband? How is he? Not bad, my dear He's away... ...in Paris What husband? Her husband, Pet You don't know him He's incredibly thoughtful He sends me... ...dresses and jewelry every day Even flowers We drink champagne with every meal He kisses my hands He tells me... ...wonderful things Sadly I've forgotten them As the train was leaving Bolbec, in jumped... ...a bearded man carrying a stick and wearing gold jewelry He was weighed down with luggage Julien Ledentu, traveler Madame Tellier and... So you're off to a new garrison? Don't be so rude I meant to say a new monastery You've left your pond? You'll soon meet the spit They won't come out. They must have lost their knickers Maybe they need braces Here are some braces They don't want them, but these ladies might Whatever for? To give to your lovers, of course I mean one lover per lady, obviously. The one dearest to your hearts - The heart doesn't need braces - How lovely. You deserve a reward "The heart doesn't need braces" Look at these Ready? Here are the goods Look at these garters They're silk and I have them in all colors I'd like the blue ones Here they are - Pink ones for me - Here - The red ones - There you are - Lilac ones to match my eyes - To match your eyes, there you are These are bigger, more imposing For our boss For the boss, there At Motteville the farmers got off with their ducks and umbrellas The woman was unhappy Damned hussies - just like in Paris You're right. They're worthless Are you coming? Now, my little kittens, let's try them on Really? For the last time, have some respect Fine, I'll take them back You could have had them for nothing if you'd tried them on Silk garters in all colors Free - What did you say? - I said "Free" Come on, gorgeous It's worth it Stop it It'll only take a second I'm telling you, he pinched me You expect too much for a few garters You can't get something for nothing Some men would give diamonds but still act decently, even in a tunnel Don't come knocking on my door. You'll be turned away At the next station Joseph Rivet... ...was waiting with a white horse and a cart fitted with chairs - I'm so happy to see you - Me too! Mind the present, Raphale - This is Madame Louise - Give me your case Madame Flora Madame Fernande Won't you give me a kiss? And Madame Rosa - Hello, give me your case - Hurry up - Hello, Monsieur - It's Joseph - Did you have to kiss them all? - I'm polite - What about me? - I've kept the best till last You still didn't have to kiss them We all have to fit in the cart Mesdames Raphale, Fernande and Flora... ...can sit in the front - You remember all their names? - I'm not stupid Thanks for the chairs I'm not used to carrying such a precious load It's usually wood or pigs. You know how it is Don't we just! I didn't mean any harm Julia, you can sit next to me - What about me? - Between us No. Raphale, sit here Fernande, over there And Flora at the back with Louise - And me? - Madame Rosa can sit behind me No, she's the lightest. She'll sit on Madame Fernande's lap - That's badly arranged - Watch the road - It's still badly arranged - Look after your horse, come on Green countryside unfolded. Here and there, yellow rape... ...spread out like a tablecloth... ...flooding the air with its powerful scent A sweet smell carried by the wind Amidst fields wreathed in earth's flowers... ...the cart and its even brighter blooms... ...advanced at the horse's pace At times the cart disappeared behind large trees, to emerge later... ...into green and yellow fields dappled with red and blue... ...carrying these stunning women in the sunshine Is that the service? Yes, the Absolution Is your girl there? Of course. Children need religion. They can always give it up later I'll fetch her Not now. Let's not disturb the cherubs. We'll carry on What a shame Hello, Marie - Thank you for coming - My pleasure My wife, Madame Rivet - Did I hurt you? - Not at all My wife - She's starving - I'll make you an omelet Here we go You must taste my cider. I bet you don't have anything like it in town Come on, go inside - I so wanted to see your girl - You'll see her at the meal Here comes Miss Constance Come on, hurry up - Give your aunt a kiss - How she's grown. She's so pretty There are beautiful ladies longing to meet you - Say hello to each lady - Hello, Madame Hello, dear She's so pretty She's so sweet Beautiful hair She's like her mum She's just a kitten Here's the present. Your aunt's present Take a knife and cut here. I think you're going to love it - Here's the dress - It's so beautiful Do you like it, darling? It's so kind. I see business is going well - I didn't say what business - You talk of sin after Absolution! God knows everything - Don't tear it - I'll clean her up - Lift up your arms - Strap her up first Hurry up with the pins One at a time - She's so patient - What a good girl - Just like her dad - You can say that again It's the prettiest dress What would you know? Why not just call me a peasant? City men are no match for you She knows what she's talking about Can't we have a laugh? This is a Communion, not a funeral Everyone had to fit into the limited space for that night Rivet in the workshop on wood shavings Julia and Marie in the main bedroom Next door, Fernande and Raphale Louise and Flora in the kitchen But Rosa couldn't find her cubby-hole above the stairs At the end of the corridor Good night It's so dark The village was cloaked in a deep, almost religious silence A peaceful, penetrating silence which climbed as high as the stars - Tell me - What? I feel tense I'm shivering all over It's because it's so quiet You think so? It's strange You're not sleeping? Are you afraid? What are you listening to? The silence is driving me mad I can't sleep a wink. I'm unsettled I can't sleep Neither can I But I'm all alone. I'm not used to it Join the carpenter You're mad. On a night like this? It would be bad luck - What is it? - It's me I'm coming in What's wrong? I'm scared Scared? I'm scared without mum - Do you want to come with me? - Yes, I'd like that This way you won't be scared any more Hold on Your doll? There's no need to cry You won't be scared with me You're not scared now, are you? Are you comfortable? Take your doll Sleep well... ...my darling At five o'clock, the little church bell woke the ladies... ...who usually slept all morning to rest from their busy nights The light ringing of the small bell rose to the sky like a weak voice... ...soon drowned in the blue immensity Already high, the sun shone... ...in a radiant sky still pink on the horizon... ...with the fading traces of dawn Communicants were emerging In their Sunday best, parents walked awkwardly... ...their bodies more used to the rigors of hard work The little girls, hidden... ...under clouds of snowy tulle like whipped cream... ...gathered with the nuns Meanwhile the boys, looking like miniature waiters... ...their hair sticky with pomade... ...walked carefully to keep their new trousers clean Here he comes Victoire! Here they come The glory of having relatives from far away embracing your child! The carpenter's triumph was complete The Tellier regiment followed Constance... ...walking majestically like soldiers in uniform The effect on the village was stunning - How are you? - Congratulations They're ladies from the town Want a seat? They'll sit here Thank you, Mayor - There was no need - But I'm so honored These ladies bring us the scents of the town I'm going behind You can sit there Is that the Mayor? That's right He's handsome Madame Rosa, do you think he's handsome? That's a matter of taste. I think you're better looking Nearer, my God, to thee Nearer to thee Such is my humble wish Will you save me? I will wait every day... ...there in my Savior's love Nearer, my God, to thee Nearer to thee Like the spark that spreads fire through a ripe field... ...Rosa and her friends' tears spread to the crowd in an instant Men, women, old people, young men in new smocks... ...everyone was soon sobbing Above their heads something superhuman seemed to hover An all-pervading soul The great breath of an invisible, all-powerful Being Don't cry, Madame Rosa Dear brothers and sisters I thank you with all my heart for giving me my greatest joy ever The feast was held in the workshop, on long boards resting on trestles The gaiety was still a little reserved... ...after the morning's emotion But a jolly, tipsy Rivet was giving his speech for the fourth time Ladies... ...I want to thank you Again? - You've done it - You can never thank people enough That's why I want to thank you for coming... ...to our little family party And for bringing with you... ...your beauty and youth How sweet - We have to go - Not yet. I must thank you Thank you for thanking us, but we must catch the 3.55 No, never As long as I'm alive you won't take the 3.55 After coffee, there's a nip of brandy And then another one And then dinner No dinner and no brandy. They'd never forgive us closing for two days - I understand, but... - What? I must thank you Do it later, while these ladies get ready Everybody down here in five minutes Come on, Madame Louise Watch your manners, Madame Flora Take it with you. You can eat it on the cart later Flora, don't take your clothes off. Get dressed Forgive me, but if we want to be at the station on time... Hurry up, Joseph Hitch up the cart Yes, I'll hitch up Madame Rosa! I want to thank you... Madame Rosa... ...I wanted to thank you Come here, Joseph. Do you hear? I'm telling you Listen to your sister What a rascal Joseph, I order you to come here I'm ashamed of you. Joseph, will you listen to me? Come on, it's a family occasion Shame on you Come on, Julia. I didn't do anything wrong Can't I even thank her? I didn't mean any harm - What have you done now? - Me? Nothing You were with Madame Rosa? Well, yes. I went to thank her. They've all been so kind I'm going to hitch up the cart Tell me, Marie, it was a nice family occasion, wasn't it? It's a shame to hitch up now Is that the time? I must hitch up They started their journey home... ...pulled by the lively little horse A stunning light flooded the fields covered in flowers The ladies couldn't resist How I regret my rounded arms... ...my slender legs and passing charms My soul was always faithful But I do know one thing Unless God calls me to Him... ...my confessor will know nothing How I regret my rounded arms... ...my slender legs... Listen, Madame Rosa When I came up to your room earlier, I was a bit drunk and excited Please forgive me Come on, let's not miss the train Raphale, Fernande, hurry up We won't miss it Raphale, mind your ankles with those high heels Aren't they lovely? Let's go - What a pity. We could have had fun - There's a time for everything The train isn't leaving, is it? Not without you There's room up there Here we are, Joseph I'm sad to see you leave All aboard! I might come up next month If you like, but you won't get up to any mischief, will you? 'Bye, then See you soon See you soon, Madame Rosa That night the lantern was lit, announcing the flock's return... ...and the news spread in a flash Young Philippe was kind enough... ...to warn Tourneveau, the fish curer - A sailor with a letter for Monsieur - Bad news? No, he looks happy - Monsieur Tourneveau, fish curer? - Yes. You have a letter for me? What is it? Read for yourself "Come quickly. Ship returned to port. Fish found" Good. My coat and hat You hadn't mentioned a lost ship I didn't want to worry you My napkin. Good night The ladies are back? I can't believe it - Who is it? - Tourneveau The ladies are back? - Where's Madame? - In her study Hello, Raphale. Did it go well? Yes, it was a real holiday - Where's Madame? - In her study I'm so glad to see you Come in I'm so glad to see you I'm really grateful you came back. It would have been a sad week I was getting bored Where did you take your fish? - I mean your flock - To the country The ladies will tell you. They're still moved by it all In the meantime, the champagne is on me Frdric, ten bottles of champagne for Monsieur Tourneveau Here comes the champagne - How much? - Ten francs a bottle - It's gone up again? - For you, six francs then - How kind - We don't celebrate everyday - If you were as generous in love... - Why not? You'd agree? - Today I want everyone to be happy - I can't believe my ears Frdric, I want flowers everywhere The evening was turning into a ball, a real celebration A wave of pure joy washed through the house People were still dancing at midnight You've seen pleasure and purity coming together 'The Mask' related the battle between pleasure and love Now we'll see pleasure battle death. Not a physical, but a moral death It's a little tragic, but it ends with a marriage The anecdote is told by a Parisian columnist to whom I'll lend my voice Of course it's him. I've known him for twenty years Why did he marry that poor woman? - Out of stupidity, as ever - Still... There's no "still" about it. We're stupid, so we do stupid things For the couple over there, it all came about in a strange way The girl risked everything I say "risked", but what do I know? You can never tell with women They lie without knowing or understanding it In spite of this, their feelings are genuine and their sudden reactions... ...confuse us and turn our plans upside down I was there when they first met Jean Summer hesitated between different styles, but hated nudes He didn't know the pretty girl was a model He was captivated by the way she walked... ...her childlike, sensual face, her slightly gaudy elegance... ...and her divine waist Her name was Josphine. It wasn't her fault She didn't know her fate would be decided in this gallery And what a fate! He fell in love with her She thought he loved her with all his soul What a strange thing When you love a woman, you think you can never live without her Well, he thought he loved her Endlessly promising to be forever faithful, he lived with her Time to eat Let's take a break - Do you love me? - Yes, and you? - For me, it's over - I'll kill you - I'm too young - I'll kill myself, then Women always say that But I'll do it Concentrate on lunch for now - What are we having today? - Lovely fish Wonderful Big ones? - No idea. I haven't opened the tin - Sardines, then When you're famous, we'll have salmon We'll be too old to enjoy it Such is life, my love. Old age and salmon, youth and sardines - Why do you keep looking at me? - I never tire of it You're ravishing and... And? And I like you And you love me, I hope And I love you Could you live without me? I don't think so You need to be sure I'm sure I love what you do You do the most ordinary things with extraordinary grace When you lean over When you get into a car... ...or raise your arm When you hold out your hand When you eat sardines. I've never seen anyone eat sardines like you For three months Jean didn't realize she looked like all the other models Anyway, his new style was popular I'm buying No.8 - And you are? - Monsieur Leconte - Congratulations. It's sold - Sold? Thank you You've sold You've sold, my darling You know what? We'll rent a beautiful country house But not a new one. An old farm we can do up - That's expensive - It'll be fine And trees. There'll be a tree that's been struck by lightning Not like that, then. Like this I witnessed their first argument It happens to us all. Familiarity breeds contempt To spend your life with someone... ...you don't need lust, which soon dies... ...but similar minds, temperaments and moods We were walking silently in the woods... ...imbued with the river's coolness cutting through our bodies... ...and drowning our minds in happiness Suddenly Josphine shouted Did you see that big fish? Yes, I saw it No, your back was turned True. I wasn't thinking So don't say you saw it Will you go to Paris tomorrow? I haven't decided yet Do you think walking silently is fun? Clever people usually talk What about you? It's relaxing. People talk too much about nothing You mean me? Not particularly. Everyone Be quiet, please Why? Does it bother you? Yes, you're spoiling the walk What? You didn't always say that The dreadful, silly scene began... ...with unexpected reproaches, then tears You'd be nothing without me Three months later she was fighting the invisible ties... ...of the relationship in which she was caught What time do you call this? I come home when I like Meanwhile I cook your dinner and wait for you. You think I'm your maid? - If you don't like it, fine - You want me to leave They argued all day, insulting each other and fighting You're not going out Give me that key - Give it to me - You're hurting me Give it to me Don't touch that - At least you're working - It's all I enjoy He needs more and more money He's smitten Or it's for a parting gift I doubt it. Painters can't do that You've really left this time Well done I couldn't throw her out Thank you for taking me in It's only right We won't be in each other's way We'll be fine together We both have our professions - What will she do? - What can she do? Put your things down here. You'll soon forget her I'll make up your bed by the window Don't worry. It's not your fault she became unbearable - Maybe I became unbearable first - Because you'd had enough When it starts to break down... Have a seat Maybe I was wrong Was it love or pride? Anyway, she searched everywhere for him No one had seen him She waited for him every night One night, around nine o'clock... ...Jean was working. He thought he'd escaped It's her, isn't it? I don't think he can... I should have known he was here. You've always hated me I don't want your money Or your letter Or your dismissal I won't be treated like a tart I didn't go after you You begged me, you took me So now keep me Are you going to stalk me until I die? Let me explain it to her - There's nothing to explain - Listen, my dear I have something to tell you. Don't make a scene Don't take life so seriously. It's no use He still loves you. It's just that... He still loves you, but it's the same old story His family wants to marry him off. He has to agree Do you understand now? I understand very well So no scene, all right? Don't worry about me. I can't hear a thing He says you're getting married If you do, I'll kill myself I swear if you get married, I'll kill myself Kill yourself, then You shouldn't dare me I'll throw myself out of the window It's upstairs Upstairs What? There you are When she was found with broken legs I thought he'd go mad with remorse Whether he wanted to make amends or was touched by her crazy act... ...he married her Because his life was over, all he could do was work - That's the whole story - Won't you say hello? He never forgave me for interfering. He was wrong He found love, glory and fortune Isn't that happiness? Still, it's very sad But, my friend, happiness is not a joyful thing THE END
