 

                        For a long time I watched the ocean without understanding it. I could see the enormous energy the feel of water. I was amazed at the deep blue color. I breathed the air of the vast open waters. But in reality, I saw nothing. Here in Shark Bay in Australia the cliffs whisper to me the history of the earth. They are born from the ocean of life, a vast graveyard arise billions of skeletons of sea creatures standing on the seabed have accumulated when the earth itself was only ocean. These organisms created the air that I breathe and the atmosphere that protects me. I see strong tidal cutting those tracks in the sand. I do not see that this movement is the source of all life. I see how the wind shapes the dunes. I do not see the profound relationship between the earth and the sea. I see how salt makes the earth white. I do not see what the ocean brings to life on the continents. I see vast prairies which colonize the depths as I have never seen on land. But at Shark Bay, there is more. Here lies the origin of our story, of us, humanity. It starts here with a colony of living fossils, bacteria attached to the surface of ocean life, the stromatolites. I am a descendant of this form of life, whose birth dates 4 billion years. I came from the ocean. And now, looking at the ocean, I only see us, humanity. We are seven billion people. We have formed the world in our image. On the shores of the ocean We have built large cities where we live in millions. We dug ports, flattened islands to build factories. The ocean has given us all mineral resources of the globe. We process materials, smelting steel, cutting and chopping. Hundred thousand ships crisscrossing over the seas. Everything that lives and grows on earth, eventually comes into our iron grip. We even carry the woods. We constantly digging in the ocean to nourish us. We have become a super predator. We put our lives in boxes. We ship 600 million containers, thanks to the ocean. The ocean which gave us the opportunity of globalization. The planet is ours. And how do we go from here? I am aware the consequences of my power. Overfishing, global warming, depletion of natural resources, pollution, my actions have many consequences. I know this because I am able to understand what is happening to me. How did I reach this point where I no longer see what is happening around me? To understand this, we must go back to the beginning. In the beginning the earth itself was destroyed and was plagued by violent convulsions. The melting accompanied by violent meteor impacts from the solar system. This battlefield created an atmosphere which was stormy, red of nitrogen, carbon and hydrogen. And water vapor, which probably came from ice comets of the galaxy... The surface of the earth was like a huge bubble which was heated under pressure to more than 700C. Then the fire cooled and the vapors condensed to produce the greatest of all earthly floods. That was four billion years ago. The flood covered almost all the earth's crust. The water washed over the prehistoric rocks, loaded with salt, so that it eroded. The earth was a world of salt water. This water was called the ocean. An ocean planet was born. During the Ice Age, 700 million years ago, the temperature dropped. The planet remained white 20 million years ago and then began to melt by a powerful greenhouse effect that was created by the carbon of the volcanoes. There were several ice ages which were interspersed with heat. From this period comes the vast icy areas to the north and south poles of the globe. These areas act as chillers in a huge climate machine. Close to the equator the sun heats the ocean, which seems to boil. This contrasts between the hot and cold regions generates powerful airflow. These are the winds which are essential in this story. The cold, heavy winds descend from the polar regions and collide with warm, light air of the equator. These winds, which rotate by the rotation of the earth, forming giant vortices. If the winds come into contact with the ocean, they push the water. They generate strong currents capable of moving millions of cubic meters of water through the ocean. The ocean is everywhere furrowed by whirlpools, some of which run for years. This movement spreads heat from the surface of the blue planet. The warm water from the tropics rises toward the poles. This water cools, becomes even more compact and is loaded with salt back into the depths. The water travels through the depths towards the bottom of the ocean, propelled by its own weight. It brings with it the polar cold. Ultimately, it collides against the bottom and returns to the waters to the surface, where the weather warms up. It takes 1,000 years for one drop of water to complete this ocean cycle. These flows have created a temperate climate on earth. Thanks to this, it is a living planet. When the sun is powerful and flows are rising to the surface there is an extraordinary phenomenon, so immense that it is visible from space, It is called a "bloom", an explosion of life. This life that appears, is known as plankton, "Floating life" because it cannot move by itself, instead following the currents. This "blooms" comes from the energy of the sun. They occur between the surface and the first hundred meters, to where the rays of the sun can penetrate the ocean. The tiny algae that appear form an immense marine prairie floating in the water. The biomass produced every year represents half of the vegetation on earth. Some microalgae resemble distant galaxies. They are protists - unicellular, very old organisms. Most consists of only a cell surrounded by a silicate or calcium carbonate skeleton. At this level, The distinction between plant and animal is unclear. Some of these green cells have limbs that they push upstream, to increase the surface facing the sun.. All these microalgae consume carbon and provide oxygen in return. Half of the air we breathe, comes from the microalgae. The ocean is the blue heart of the planet. The plant bloom trigger another explosion of life, of billions of herbivorous animals that feed on the sea prairie. These animals are only a few millimeters in size, often even smaller. They are classified as jellyfish, crustaceans, cells, shellfish, larvae, thousands of groups of species. The most important of these are the innumerable krill, the small shrimp that graze algea day and night. And copepods, water fleas, which are kind of jumping with their limbs to move forward. The copepods are pursued by carnivores in the plankton, especially by arrowhead predators who are voracious and armed with teeth of silicon. Every moment of life is an act of survival. Prey and predators alternate constantly and there is always a bigger predator to swallow the previous ones. This huge food chain nourishes all organisms, from small to large. The plankton is an open book where we can read the history of the ocean. For 3 billion years life evolved here in this sea prairie. Some very old species, as the gelatinous animals, can only occur in the ocean. In perfect harmony with the fluid environment they possess an elastic body which they simultaneously can absorb food and move. Sometimes, they cling to each other and form a huge chain making it easier to move along with the flow. It looks chaotic, but every living creature is organized down to the smallest detail. These explosions of life eventually disappear, consumed by lack of food sources or eradicated by an invisible enemy, an attack by a virus. Billions of viruses, whose biological role is in the regulation of any explosion of life. Nature does not support excess. At the end of the winter mackerel have left their hibernation in the depths of the ocean. They come to the surface looking for the sea prairie. As many fish species, they feed on this invisible plankton, The food chain interconnects the species. The fish have no leader, but still know to maneuver in perfect formation. Each fish is continually aware of the presence of its neighbors, and respects their distance. This self-organization is a fundamental law of the group. It allows them to hunt as a school and increase the chances to find an area rich in food. The first to find one, may guide the other with a single movement. The food chain takes another turn. The sailfish is the fastest fish in the ocean. It feeds on other fish, not plankton. The dorsal offers exceptional stability to achieve its goal. A sailfish of 100 pounds consume in his life 1000 pounds mackerel, who consumed 10,000 pounds zooplankton that grazed 100,000 pounds phytoplankton. For every pound of swordfish, must be 1000 times more of the sea prairie. The food chain is a relentless hierarchy, a pyramid structure. Some species prefer to help each other. Manta rays only eat plankton. The wingspan of six meters provides protection for other fish. They, in return, rid their host of smaller fish parasites. Others opt for the whale shark, the biggest of all fish. The traveler travels the entire ocean, also in search of plankton. it's the longest fishing trip, in search for the smallest catch. Solidarity also plays a role in this liquid immensity, 4000 meters deep, that covers two thirds of the planet. Sometimes this journey is interrupted by land... Here at Raja Ampat in Indonesia land appeared when the ocean withdrew two billion years ago. These limestone hills were once at the bottom of the ocean. As in Shark Bay, Australia, they are made of billions of plankton skeletons which accumulated in the geographical era when the ocean covered the planet. As the water receded, erosion carved the rock to a lush sanctuary. A labyrinth of 1500 islands of fossilized plankton. The archipelago of Raja Ampat. is the heart of a region rich in biodiversity. Here lives more than 1400 species of fish, and a quarter of all marine species. The source of this extraordinary diversity is again life itself. In contact with the land surface, something wonderful happened. Part of the plankton left nomadic life and settled here. The marine life decided to create a new world. That was only 500 million years ago. A revolution in the ocean. This family of plankton created the coral reefs. Coral is an animal that we rarely see. What we see during the day, is the calcium carbonate skeleton which serves as shelter, a skeleton that looks like a tree, branches or leaves. To survive in these nutrition-poor, oligotrophic waters, coral provides shelter to aalgae that feeds on sunlight. The algae are the driving force of the construction with the aim of getting the best place in the sun. Each coral struggles against his neighbors to get more sunlight, a few millimeters per year. The petrified forest is the most populous ecosystem on the ocean planet. Here you can hide, and hunt. Each has its own territory. Everything is coded to live. Even the color of the fish is an ornament camouflage or deception... Just like a beautiful maritime city, the gates are crowded. They come from far away to get rid of their parasites because only the reef provides enough diversity to ensure such a service. Millions of years of evolution have enabled each species to find a place and a role in this coral metropolis. The scorpion fish camouflages itself while the spider crabs let themselves be colonize by shellfish and becomes invisible if thay do not move. We hide from predators... Just as in any metropolis there is no spontaneous life in the reef. There are codes, social precepts which should be respected if you do not want to end up in the belly of a neighbor. Hiding has become an art for these octopuses the color and texture of their skin change to deceive their attackers. Despite the risks of this collective existence a number of species use the reef as a nursery. Of the entire ocean it is still the best place for raising a family. Cuttlefish protect their eggs by hiding them as deeply as possible in the branches of the coral so other fish can not eat them. The tentacles of the anemones are poisonous, even deadly. It is exactly for this reason that clownfish have chosen to live there. They become immune at an early age from rubbing against the tentacles. These natural vaccinations enables them to use the anemone as a refuge. For those who do not know the reef, this marvelous city is actually full of traps. The Xeniidae is no flower, but a coral. Lacking a coral skeleton, animal plankton entangles in its tentacles. At night the reef becomes even more dangerous. The living part of the coral, the polyp, is invisible during the day, and only appears at night. It hunts with his tentacles. Motionless in the reef, it uses ocean currents to catch its prey. Woe to him who drift nearby. The tentacles paralyze everything that they touch, by injecting a deadly poison. Sometimes even a digestive juice so powerful that it seems to dissolve life. The reef is a dangerous predator. Once caught, the victim can not escape from his arms, pulling it slowly to his mouth, where it will be consumed. Once a year, at exactly the same time, at the full moon of spring there is an extraordinary event, The reef is in a reproductive phase. It is striking sexual behavior. The reef makes millions of eggs. These eggs, called gametes, males and females, merging, give birth to larvae - the future of the coral reefs. This spawning occurs once in the year, it only lasts a few hours, and relies on perfect timing between all the corals of the same species. The larvae are dispersed by the flow for several days and nights. They set out to conquer a new space. The larvae that survive, fasten to new walls in the seabed, to perpetuate the vast coral city that gave birth. It is a continuous expansion. For 500 million years, coral grows, dies and grows again. They have forged an empire visible from space. The largest living structure of the planet. All fauna of the ocean is closely or remotely connected with these oases of life. In Polynesia groupers make a long journey to lay their eggs on the side of the reef. The huge gathering for these, usually solitary, animals is to protect their offspring. But this meeting is also visited by gray sharks on the prowl. During their lives, female groupers begin to change sex and become males once reaching above a certain weight and age. They spawn by leaps and bounds, mixing seeds. The females, which have been weakened by spawning, are an easy prey. The shark attack. They will kill some grouper but, paradoxically, this predation is vital to the entire species that would otherwise reproduce too fast and become too large. Again, nature does not tolerate excess. There is always a regulator hovering over another. Hammerhead sharks are formidable hunters. They appeared 20 million years ago and are top predators. The hammer-shaped head serves as a fin and promotes agility. The position of the eyes, wide apart, offers a 3D vision. They hunt fish... and other sharks. It is as if predation dictated the evolution of the species. And here we come into the picture. Here we are, man. The last link in the chain of life. We have no predator above us. We fish for all living things, Millions of sharks each year. Often, just for the value of the fins. We started here, on the other side of the ocean mirror. We occupied the emerging land. A long time ago, we built villages to protect us, as they still exist at San Blas in Panama. We can not swim like fish, So we devised boats to move around the oceans. Then we built a world like other species before us had built. To build our cities, we constructed bridges between islands, We overcame the ocean through land. We learned to dig through mountains, divert rivers and even create new islands. We built an empire even greater than the coral reefs. Our walls, our giant cities, can be seen from the air. Through our intelligence, we, the weak humanity, actually become strong. Rich or poor, half of our population lives within 100 kilometers of water. Almost the entire population Sub-Saharan Africa is concentrated on the coastline. The city of Lagos in Nigeria alone has 17 million inhabitants. There are more than 100,000 people in the slums on the coast. The population here has migrated, and has no land to claim, So they turn towards the sea. We are more than seven billion people. With every second that ticks by, there are two more people on the planet that must be fed. And we're hungry, So we turn naturally to the ocean to feed us. Three billion people are directly dependent on marine resources. For nearly a billion people fish is the only source of animal proteins. The ocean forms the core of our survival. Four million of our fishing boats depart daily to conquer the ocean. Most boats are only small boats such as this, discharged every morning on the coast of Senegal. Fishing was for us from the start a family affair, from generation to generation it was carried and passed on. Although it is a dangerous profession, when the earth runs for food, the poorest always turn toward the ocean. Total worldwide, counting indirect jobs and families fishing sustains 500 million people. Here I see the abundance of the ocean, able to feed an entire people. Since the beginning of our history We have collected natural seaweed on the coast. They have been around 3 billion and a half years. We have learned to cultivate the sea as we cultivated the land. Seaweed require only six weeks before it can be harvested. It only need sunlight and the movements of the currents. Today, in Bali in Indonesia, we cultivate seaweed and we extract a nutritious gelatine. This form of agriculture produces 15 million tons of seaweed that is exported worldwide. Brown, green and red seaweed serves all purposes, medicine, textiles, fertilizer, food. We make small farms of the sea, transforming it to estuaries and aquaculture fields. There are more than 530.000 hectares of the globe dedicated to the cultivation of seaweed, thus providing millions sea farmers their livelihood. In South Korea's Wando archipelago, there are more than 200 islands transformed to seaweed farms. These beautiful paintings are huge nets spread out in the sun, used for crop drying. Of the 30,000 species of seaweed which grow in the sea, there are around 50 edible. Here we cultivate kelp, large seaweed that can grow to three meters in length. In Asia, seaweed is a basic source of food. These sugar-sweetened leaves contain proteins, mineral salts and vitamins. We have fished for the last 40,000 years, continually improving on our equipment and technique. Once again my strength comes from my intelligence, which compensates for my weaknesses. It allowed me to imagine nets more elaborate, increasingly effective. What changed everything, was the invention of the deep sea trawl, a large network with a funnel-shaped opening like the mouth of the whale shark. Our nets are so large some 40 km long. Fishing has become an industry. It is no longer a family affair, but investment and technology. In order to increase our catch, fishermen have formed flotillas. Then whole factories went out to sea. We use probes, radar, and focus all our resources on the hunt for marine life. Each year we catch 90 million tons of fish, worldwide. Half of this catch is made by only one percent of our fishing boats. Our trawlers, our trawls and nets are so great that we do not choose our catch. We take what comes, and sort it later depending on the market value of the fish. Peruvian anchovy, Alaskan pollock, Atlantic herring, we capture it all. There is no limit to our hunting, except the set fishing quotas. But who can avoid going over it? Worldwide, 80% of commercial fish stocks are fully exploited or over-exploited. Our fishing has reached a ceiling. The biological limit is reached. How did it come to this? Through our intensive fishing millions of fish are sacrificed. This is wasteful, what is rejected after the catch, or fish who are crushed in our nets. Fish that died for nothing. As the surface stock is exhausted, I fish deeper. Our fishing trawlers are now at more than 3000 meters. I fish blind, fauna that I barely know. The fauna of the abyss, who lives alone in the dark. At that depth the light disappears gradually. There dwells life in this absence of light. And what a life! Around 100 meters below are ctenophores. These gelatinous creatures have luminous organs to deter their enemies. Deeper, at 1000 meters below the surface, in the twilight of the ocean, we find the siphonophores. They are the largest species of plankton. Some are up to 50 meters. Their bodies are not distributed, but grouped. On one side is their stomach and on the other the swim bladders they use to float. In between there is a net that they inflate to catch any food falling from the surface. Descend into the depths is like traveling in a biological time machine. There are perhaps 2000 species of live fish in the depth. A terrifying bestiary. The Viperfish can eat things greater than itself. Or Saccopharynx - deep sea eels who swallow everything that comes along. Survival is difficult at 1500 meters depth. Around 3000 meters there is no light. It is the realm of the squid, a prehistoric cousin of the octopus. This octopus has blue blood loaded with copper. The huge eyes detect the slightest variation in contrast above him, towards the surface. His vision is fully adjusted to the shadows. If debris lands on the bottom, crabs, eels and carnivorous sponges gorge themselves. Invisible in the mud, billions of bacteria break down the remains. The species here live slower, and gets older - sometimes up to 150 years old - because of the extreme pressure at 4000 m depth, at the bottom of the ocean. There is little oxygen. And yet here we are. In this world we barely know. We are here because we are afraid to run out of a substance. We are looking to feed our addiction to oil. The ocean seems to be made of water. But in reality it is an alliance between life, chemistry and geology. All waste, the corpses, particles of seaweed which originate from the surface, every tiny cell of the ocean ends his life here in the "marine snow". Over millions of years carbon, in the form of plankton, has built up on the bottom of the seas. It accumulates in thick layers and forms rocks which we call limestone and that peaks up stabbing each lower level of the sea. Sometimes it happens that such piles of corpses does not form a rock, but gradually merges into one organic substance, sticky and black. Oil! It occurs almost everywhere on the seabed and on land, where the ocean once covered the planet. We began pumping pockets in shallow places. But these supplies are running out and we look farther and deeper. Now we are exploring deposits at up to 7000 meters depth. The last oil reserves for tomorrow are found in the most inaccessible areas of the sea. This fire is burning plankton, burning life. We have 20,000 oil platforms in the seas of the world. Every year we burn the equivalent of one million years plankton. Our industrial revolution has taken the planet 100 million years to make. We transport each year two billion tons of oil aboard our supertankers, which are the largest moving constructions that exist. Oil is the main source of energy for our civilization. This energy propels me forward to all boundaries. Who else dwell that in this gigantic ship's holds a part of the biogeological history of the ocean is transported? This revolution has changed our lives. But also that of the planet. We need our transport so badly we have divided America into two to connect the seas. We created the Panama Canal, a cut of 80 kilometers through the jungle. It allows each year 13,000 ships to go faster, farther. Every 45 minutes a ship crosses the mountain. To feed the locks of my channel we created a huge lake, Lake Gatun, which stores rainwater. If there is little rain, it can entail technical problems. Raw materials, gasoline, factory ships, car transport, cruise ships, an infinite variety of vessels. We carry three quarters of our merchandise over the ocean. The flagship of all our boats is the container ship, on which thousands of identical metal boxes are transported. The riches of the world from our power plants, gives me wealth and means to turn our villages into huge cities. Here in Panama there was only jungle. Today the money is flowing with the tide. Rotterdam, Durban, San Francisco, Singapore, our ships weaving a web between the continents. The ocean brings our cities together into a single world. All sea routes come together in Asia. Of the top 50 ports in the world there are 11 in China. And the most important is Shanghai. The city lies at the end of a 34 km long bridge, on an island in the open sea, which was razed to build a deep water port. At the kilometer long wharf giant cranes are each year unloading 30 million containers which are to be changed, re-used, or stored. Who knows where our containers go and what's inside? Container transport is just a game. Empty boxes to be filled, full boxes to be emptied. We have 600 million containers on the ocean circulation. They are the link in the world we have created. The ocean gave us globalization. The demand is so great that our container fleet has tripled in less than 10 years. There are at this moment three thousand cargo ships being built in Korea, China and Japan which provide 90% of world production. Everything here is oversized. Gigantic shipyards with more than 10,000 employees renew and expand the existing units. We build ships that are more than 400 meters long, the size of four football fields. This relentless growth of the shipping industry is a reaction to another industrial need. The world factories have moved here. The ocean also made globalization of our industries possible. A single ship can bring a whole forest to the factories, which turn it into paper, boards, furniture, finished products. China is the world's largest importer of timber. Thanks to the oceans, no forest is safe. More than 500 tonnes of raw materials comes every year by sea to Shanghai. Stocks of iron ore, coal, wood, copper, rare minerals we tear from the planet. Near the harbor, other factories produce steel and chemicals to make materials that others build, compose and package for export all over the world. The lives of seven billion people is connected to this part of the world. What can fishermen still catch from the waste from the factory at the heart of this degenerate world? Our tentacle-like cities grow like mushrooms. Shanghai is a symbol of our impetuous rush. Twenty-three million people live in this megalopolis. More than 6.000 skyscrapers shoot into the air. and 20.000 new projects are in development, a frenzy of construction reaching into the heavens. Every country in the world dreams the rate of growth of Shanghai and China. The city sprawls across the country, but its fortune is thanks to the fact that it meets the ocean. The ocean planet is my planet. But if we're ever wrong? The ocean whence we came, now seems so far away. Within only 200 years we violently disturbed four billion years of natural history. We never see the beauty of life anymore, but only what it can do to our species, what it can produce for us. Everything around us is alive, and suffers our existence. We all leave our traces wherever we go. It is said that sperm whales dreams with their head upside down. But are not we all dreaming, to think that we can continue with this insane growth without any consequences? Hundreds of our ships sail continuously across the seas of our planet. The more our needs expand, the more numerous our machines are. Whatever we do, our industrial civilization destroys the natural world around it. The risk of pollution becames a threat to all our neighborhoods. Our giant engines burning tons of gas per hour. We spit everywhere polluting materials the sky and the ocean. In the polar regions the permanent ice cap melts as a result of global warming. In those regions are no factories, no machines, and yet this warming is caused by our own carbon emissions. Fossil energy, oil that we need for our civilization, heats the ocean. But the melting of the Arctic has another, more serious consequence. In the north, by melting of the permanent ice sheet, dark waters are revealed. The water absorbs the sun's heat, which used to be reflected by the ice. And the phenomenon is growing. The ocean itself accelerates global warming. In Greenland, just as in the Arctic, land-based glaciers melt. As they melt, trickling streams of fresh water flows into a salty sea.. The great movement of ocean currents, this stream that circles the globe and regulates the climate, gradually becomes clogged. What will be the consequences? None of us has lived through such a change to find out. More than 20,000 kilometers away, far away from the polar regions, Climate chaos is already being felt. It is not visible at the surface. To see it, we need to go reef diving in the tropics, such as near the Blue Hole in Belize, the second largest coral reef in the world. Corals are very sensitive to temperature changes. A difference of only one degree for a few weeks is enough to kill them. Then only a reef of white skeletons remains. These bleachings intensified recently. Scientists worry. A quarter of the corals on the planet died within 50 years. The immediate problem is not their death, but rather the impact of their disappearance. They die and leave nothing behind. The sea is a desert oasis. Further offshore, the vastness of the ocean hides something else. After the corals, the other critical factor is the health of the plankton. More and more scientific missions on this ocean are just beginning to discover more effects. They try to understand what will change in marine life. The life that feeds us. It seems that the plankton, the basis for all food chains are moving towards polar regions, where the water is still moderate. In 50 years it has moved 1200 km further north. This redistribution of plankton has effects on marine life. Every year the Cownose Ray migrates between Brazil and the temperate zones in search of food. Every year, the journey brings them a little higher, slightly more to the north. The global warming disturbs the ecology of the ocean. With this change, our fisheries change. But I know that we can not stop fishing. In Chile, where one quarter of world tonnage is fished, the sea is the income for thousands of traditional fishermen and their families. Many have large debts to pay for their boats. The commercial species are scarce, So they fish for what remains. Previously we ate no Chilean sardine or Peruvian anchovies. But now we fish more than 10 million tons each year. This is an extraordinary attack on a single species, the only one still living in these waters. Along the coast of Chile a powerful flow rises from the bottom of the ocean. It is rich in plankton and sardines flourish. This is an upwelling flow. It circulates the water and provides nutrients. Seals and birds hunt the small fish around the rising water of life. The Chileans fishing with trawls, very long tubes that are closed, collect just over 40 tonnes per load. Five hundred thousand fish in each net is sucked into the machine. Sardines live only a few years, so they reproduce rapidly. This is the last bluefish still surviving even as catches increase. But we do not eat this fish. We catch it to make flour out of it. Fish flour that we feed farmed fish. In total, 25 million tons of fish annually is grown, of which the most comes from Norway and Chile. We grow only species with a high market value, such as sea bream, sea bass and salmon. You need several kilos of sardines to produce one kilo of farmed fish. Our farms are an industry that is based on a natural food source. But what do we do if there are no sardines anymore? And as our food sources run out, we continuously push our luck further and further. The open sea is a free zone. Two-thirds of the ocean belongs to everyone and therefore belongs to the first to use it. Off the coast of West Africa shipowning thugs make poor fishermen plunder the last areas that are rich in fish. Aboard their wrecks, these men are left to themselves, refueled once a month, if they are lucky. Men and boats who seem to have no value to anyone. In Mauritania, port of Nouadhibou degenerated to a graveyard of pirate fishing. Hundreds of boats off the coast seized, abandoned wrecks, probably already replaced by other vessels. The pirate ships gather in less supervised areas, as the African sector. At sea, these illegal vessels reload their cargoes on board of authorized vessels so their catch can be legally sold on international markets. In the worst-case estimates, illegal fishing amounts to as much as 26 million tonnes of catch, a quarter of the global total. Gain dominion over the seas. In the sea, 90% of large predators has disappeared. One of the last of these, Atlantic bluefin tuna, is on the brink of extinction. Yet they are legally fished in the Mediterranean, one of the last refuges of this species, where they reproduce. The tuna are caught in a very large net that is closed like a pen. The catch is caught alive and fattened in a nursery before slaughter and sales on international markets. This fish is a luxury food source. A top quality tuna weighs 300 kilos and can sell for more than 500,000 euros. Corruption and lies prevail everywhere. The tuna fishing fleets benefit from millions of euros in European subsidies. We respect no quotas, We take no precautions for the preservation of the species. At this rate, the extinction of the tuna is a matter of a few years.. We plunder the common good because it belongs to no one and it seems vast. But what remains for tomorrow? There are, at the time, 400 marine areas declared dead, empty of food sources, or unable to sustain life. Other species are rapidly increasing in number. Jellyfish have existed for almost one billion years on Earth. They have survived all known extinctions of species. The red tuna was one of their predators. The disappearance of this tuna upsets a millennial-old balance. Scientists and fishermen find that across the ocean jellyfish are increasing. The ocean is a gelatinous mass and this imbalance is a trap that awaits us. Far from land, far away from where we live, the ocean hides another fact for us. The currents spread our chemicals, polluters of our industrial creation, all over the world. On average, there are more than 46,000 pieces of plastic waste per square kilometer sea water. That which kills these birds, comes out of our houses, even though we're thousands of kilometers away. Annually, we pour six billion pounds of plastic waste in the sea. Plastic does not degrade, but micro-fragments. What that birds eat, the fish eat, eventually ends up on our plates while we dig the ocean to fish, for our fisheries. By polluting this world, we poison ourselves, too. The ocean is so vast that we thought that it was an inexhaustible source. We were wrong. The ocean planet has actually a limit to its renewal, which we should learn to respect. That's why since the dawn of time, everything on earth respects the rhythms and limits. That is the origin of the famous law of natural balance. I would like to stay on earth. I want to be there tomorrow. I have long looked for these fish. I think I'm like them: I develop myself through consensus in a group. Even if I understand what happens to us, I can not choose the way things radically change. But perhaps that our collective consciousness can trigger a chain reaction... and save our species. I want to believe that we can react in time. Twenty years ago in Rio, people came together for a large conference on the future of the Earth. That was in 1992. In that year, our leaders voted on 2500 recommendations to protect the planet. I believed that it was a symbolic beginning of a new era. But it was actually the beginning of a long road... What has happened since? There have been other conferences, other world summits, ultimately with very little result. The risk of an unpopular decision, competition, corruption, passivity have blocked any action. But we, humanity, have in the past 20 years made an enormous leap forward. Public awareness has evolved. We are now concerned about the environment. But that's not enough. Time is gaining on us. With this rate we are moving towards a catastrophe. Even in the heart of the city Rio, overlooking the ocean, I am forbidden to enter the sea because of disgusting pollution. We had a pool built into the most beautiful bay in the world to swim, but that has become very dangerous for our health. In Rio, we have, as elsewhere in the world, a giant statue of Christ put up, a symbol of eternity, to protect ourselves. He looks thoughtfully out over the ocean, but what can he do for us? No religion or belief will save us. It is not a time to believe in heavenly promises. Only with our intelligence, we can foresee the future and prepare. We can still change direction. There is still time for a humanistic and responsible stewardship, for our ocean planet to continue. THERE ARE SOLUTIONS RESPECT QUOTAS STOP FUNDING FOR INDUSTRIAL FISHERIES PERMANENTLY BAN DEEP SEA FISHING PROMOTE SMALL-SCALE FISHERIES BUY ONLY THINGS WITH AN ECO LABEL ENCOURAGE RESPONSIBLE FISHING POLLUTION MANAGEMEN CONTINUE DEEP SEA EXPLORATION MAINTAIN THE ANTARCTIC TREATY MAKE A TREATY FOR SPAWNING AREAS 80% OF BIODIVERSITY IN THE SEA IS STILL UNKNOWN WE MUST INVEST IN RESEARCH AND PROTECTING OUR SEAS GENETIC HERITAGE PROTECT ALL ECOSYSTEMS SO MARINE LIFE CAN BE RESTORED IN 2012 THE PROTECTED AREAS WAS ONLY 1% OF THE OCEAN LET'S PROTECT 20% OF THE OCEAN BY 2020 IT IS TIME FOR AN INTERNATIONAL STEWARDSHIP TO BEGIN NOW LET'S AC With our deepest thanks to all those who already work for the welfare of the ocean. MONTEREY BAY AQUARIUM RESEARCH INSTITUTE "TUNA LOOTERS" THE TARA TEAM ALL INTERPRETING BY SIMON YAM ALL PILOTS For more information about the oceans: goodplanet.org
