 

                        [soft instrumental music playing] [birds cawing] No, no. Police won't get us. In the past, I've quite often thought about doing documentary work and, um, putting videos out and footage. I've never been able to get the opportunity because of me having past convictions and things. The authorities will never take me serious. We try and keep it secretive and all. We don't want people recognizing the faces and that. We wear a lot of camouflage gear and that. So that if anybody does come, you know, we could obviously blend into the woodlands. [jaunty instrumental music playing] Whoa, whoa, whoa. Bird off! It's an easy climb. [grunting] What's in it? - Three. - Three eggs. Are they nice? Yes, actually, fantastic. You keep your eyes open. [Birds of a Feather playing] [crowd clamoring] [song ends] I've got over a hundred eggs this year. Some of them eggs are osprey, golden eagle, and... Oh, some avocets. [wind blowing] I've got about 3,500 odd eggs in the collection. It's so simple to just not get caught. [whispering] You are a rascal. You are a rascal. Go on. Away you go. Bugger off. Bugger off. [chuckles] You'll never eradicate all crime. You'll never eradicate all thefts and breaches of the peace and murders and rapes, nor any egg collectors. The best you can do is to minimize it. [bell ringing] Why is it particularly the English that are involved in this? I don't know. It's weird. [chuckles] It's totally weird. There's no other word for it, really. Egg collecting is almost seen like pedophilia, and that's a term that I quite often hear. And it disturbs me very much, that. [Alan] When I was very young, I used to collect birds' eggs, as did most people at that time. Most young boys collected birds' eggs. I can't understand it because I was saying, I never knew any girls to do that. Nope, all boys. [Andy] It used to be quite common for kids to get involved in egg collecting. And as you get older, you know, kids mature. They find other things to do, and it's something that they grow out of. But certain individuals, I think they just become obsessed with it. I couldn't stop collecting eggs because... A bit of an addiction, I'd class it as. It could be like a drug addiction. I've never had a drug addiction, really, but it could be like that. It's a bad addiction. The ultimate thing would always be the golden eagle. 'Cause it's like, the ultimate bird in the book and used to always dream about them. You love them that much you covet them. When you find a prize there that's good. [Andy] It's strange. It's not like they go out and they take one egg from a nest. They'll take the whole clutch, and they will collect as many of that particular species as they can. Mmm. [soft instrumental music playing] Egg collectors have different passions for difference species. But there is no doubt the rare birds are the ones that are of interest. These people are not in it for the money. It's obsessionally driven. As I say, it's this trophy hunting. With a lot of rare breeding birds, they only get one breeding attempt during the year so if you take that clutch of eagle eggs or the eggs from the osprey, that's the end of the breeding season for that bird for the year. Birds like the red-backed shrike were lost in Britain because the last pairs were really targeted by egg collectors. I think if you've ever seen anyone approach a nest, you know how disruptive, how distressing it is to the birds. It will come in and fly over. It will do everything to protect that nest, its young, or its eggs. I would say you really seriously we need to look at yourself if you're into egg collecting. It was one of the biggest operations of its kind, planned by police for two years. Officers seized more than 12,000 rare birds' eggs when they raided the homes of three collectors. [Guy] In 1964, we got an act which covered the whole of Britain and made it illegal to take eggs. However, it wasn't illegal to possess eggs until about 1982. If you've got eggs now, taken in the last 30 years, we will be on your back. We will be chasing you. A serving police officer kept an illegal collection of wild birds' eggs. [female reporter] When police raided this house, they discovered wildlife photographer, Dennis Green, leading a double life. It's a matter of pride that we want to stop people from the UK going and plundering the eggs. Operation Easter started in 1993, and it has developed since that time. It now involves every single police force in the UK and RSPB. So we all work together to catch egg thieves, rather than each force working independently. One thing we will be looking for is obviously birds' eggs, which may be well hidden. In the past, we've come across them hidden in false bottoms on drawers. So they will go to extraordinary lengths to actually hide their collections. As Andy has outlined, basically treat it like a drug search. [Andy] There's still a hard core of collectors out there. These are people who are probably never going to stop, and they are people who have amassed huge collections of eggs. These people want their place in egg collecting history. There was a very notorious egg collector called Colin Watson, who had a total of seven convictions for egg collecting. And he was a fairly outspoken Yorkshireman, and he was once being interviewed by a TV crew about this. I am a conservationist at heart, although it wouldn't appear so from the hobby I pursue. [Guy] He ran this campaign of terror for over 20 years, and he rampaged around the UK, taking eggs of very rare birds. He was often seen as public enemy number one. [male reporter] I believe I'm right in saying that as many as 70 clutches of chough have been taken by this particular egg collector. They take those choughs' eggs away. And the chough's not a common bird. That puts me in a position, if I want to carry on collecting, that I have to replace some of those eggs. So inadvertently, the RSPB, by confiscating the eggs, are doing more damage than what they would if they left the owner with the possession of the eggs. Seeing Colin Watson, you'd interview him, you'd think, "Whoa, that's the man, that." You know, he's the, like, father of it all. Whoa, great, you know. I'll climb the tree and check this nest, and you'll wait at the bottom of the tree, okay? [John] Towards the end of his life, he wasn't collecting eggs. But he'd gone into just photographing eggs in nests. [Guy] He climbed up to look into the nest of a sparrowhawk, a bird of prey, and he ended up falling out of the tree and dying as a result. [Mark] Watson was kind of before my time. But in the last 15 years, I've been investigating some of the most serious egg collectors in Britain. The most infamous current collector is a man called Matthew Gonshaw. This man cannot stop taking eggs. He's totally obsessed by it. [Done, Done, Done playing] [song ends] [tweeting] My name is Matthew, and I was a convicted egg collector. I got convicted of collecting birds' eggs. I mean, Matthew came to our notice about eight or nine years ago. And since that, he's been caught, I think now, at least four times. When I got caught the first time, it didn't stop me starting again. I went out collecting again. I was even collecting when I had the tag on me ankle. At the end of the day, if someone wants to go out and collect eggs, they will. It's almost like he's putting the finger up at the authorities and the RSPB. He's like, "You're not gonna beat me. I'm gonna carry on doing what I want to do." Sometimes I think, "[omitted] the police, as well," you know? The balaclava comes off. Yeah. Golden eagle eggs from a nest on the Isle of Lewis were among more than 600 stolen by a prolific thief. Matthew Gonshaw, one of the most notorious wild bird egg collectors in the UK, is believed to have raided 170 nests over the last eight years. Uh, you know, I wanted a clutch of eagle eggs, you know, for my own gratification, if you like. [Mark] They had golden eagle eggs. There was also peregrine falcon eggs. There was avocet eggs, osprey eggs. It was a real kind of amazing moment and sad moment in one go. These were, you know, the shells of birds that should have hatched and should be flying around. And here we have Gonshaw again being really destructive to birds. They've described me as a prolific egg collector. I mean, blimey, the second lot of eggs, I only had 800 individual eggs. People like these protectionists, they like to sort of, uh, try and label egg collectors, that there's something wrong with them. They've got an egg collection, themselves, the RSPB, but they don't tell all their members that. They keep it all quiet. Most of their eggs they've got is what they've stolen off of other egg collectors. They haven't taken them out in the field. Guys show up, of the RSPB, as a house thief. When the police searched my flat, they took everything that was to do with birds. He's got maps. He's got the binoculars. He's got clothing that is camouflaged. He also has The SAS Survivor's Handbook, a handbook for elite forces. Obviously, it gave Mr. Gonshaw to some interesting reading at nighttime, including chapters on evasion, capture, and escape. [Matthew] Completely cleaned me out, basically. All my optics, I lost, my GPS. Everything. [Charlie] This is what Gonshaw used for blowing the eggs and which the DNA evidence was obtained from. "I hope it never happens again, so [omitted] off all you protectionists and wildlife pigs. The authorities are the ones which destroy the planet, along with cars and aeroplanes. I want no part with all this greed and do what I believe in." That was the telescope I had there. The guy showed up, the 50 that he stole out of my flat. I paid 750 pounds for it. I saved up a long time for that telescope. The man's a thief, just a parasite, a thief. I'd spit on him if I see him again. That's how I look at him, is a piece of shit. All we want these people to do is stop egg collecting. You know, we don't want to send any people to jail. We just want them to stop egg collecting. It's just got so bad with this man that jail sentences don't seem to be any deterrent. [Charlie] After he'd served a six-month's jail sentence in England, he was actually picked up from the jail and brought up to Scotland, where he then faced the Scottish charges and was sentenced to six month's imprisonment, but was also given an anti-social behavior order. They think that people that collect eggs have got something wrong with them, mentally wrong with them, but it could have been a lot worse. Could you imagine if there'd have been dodgy videos up here, DVDs of sexual things? They would have had a field day at that, but they found because none of that's here. [Charlie] The Scottish courts banned him from entering Scotland indefinitely for the bird-nesting season, February to September, which means for the rest of his life. I'm not aware of any other case where someone has been banned indefinitely from entering Scotland. If he chooses to go to Scotland in the bird-breeding season then gets caught, it will be the longest ever jail sentence an egg collector has faced in Britain. It could be up to five years. That would send out an incredibly strong message to anybody else who's considering starting egg collecting or, indeed, continuing egg collecting. [Matthew] If I wanted to go up to Scotland, I would go up there. What can they do? You know, if I walked into a police station, what could they do, arrest me, take me to court? If I wanted to, I could still take all the eggs I wanted to in England, couldn't I? There's plenty of good birds that nest in England. [Alan] Catching wildlife criminals is a priority for wildlife crime officers, but you've got to take account of the whole scale of crimes that are committed. I've known John Kinsley, really, since he came to light in the mid '90s in an egg collecting related case. I think he feels he's been perceived as some major wildlife criminal, but he was always at the bottom of the pecking order as far as we were concerned. My name's John Kinsley, now known as Ben Tarvie, and I'm an ex egg collector. I don't like that one because you try to get sort of a frown like that. "And I'm an ex egg collector," you know, because I came forward. So that can look in body language as though-- [crew member] You've took ten takes. Yeah, that's right, yeah. My name is John Kinsley, now known as Ben Tarvie, and I'm an ex egg collector. And this is Miller, and she's never been an egg collector. I started collecting birds' eggs at about seven years of age. And it was more like a shoebox collection and thrush eggs and blackbird eggs, local birds and working up. And I always thought when I was younger, "Oh, this is something I love doing. I enjoy doing it. I'd never, ever give it up." And then when I was about 18, I started working at a falconry center. It changed me direction because I had contact working with birds of prey and realized what an environmentally destructive hobby I was going into. I thought, "That's it. I'll never collect eggs again." And then I got into photography and started doing photography. If I hadn't have had that, maybe I might have still been collecting eggs today. I still get a lot of the same feelings with photography as I used to for the egg collecting. You know, you're going out, and you're finding the birds. You got to know when they're breeding, where they are, the best time to go and find them and that. Look at it. Look at the eggs and go, "Oh, yeah." Photograph them. But like I said now, the eggs don't interest me. I don't even get the urge for it. It's like, "oh, I'll pick that egg up. I'll take it home. Oh, I'll have a secret collection." That's well and truly gone now. Occasionally, like, if there's bird droppings on the egg or there's a mark and that, I might just turn one of the eggs slightly, just so it's better for the picture and stuff like that. And then I'll put it back how it was. And so, really, I was still collecting eggs after I packed in actually taking the shells. But I was collecting eggs as in a photography way. And that's so I can show people in the books and stuff like that. And people love seeing it. And I could leave that on my bookshelf in my house and things like that, where you can't do that with an egg collection. I am now 43, and basically I've had dead-end jobs in the past. And I'd love to be able to start a photography business, sell some of my images, and offer these images out to people who want to buy them. I've got a friend, Michael Stockson. Michael was my assistant. He was helping me to get back to work and become self-employed. When I go out with John, I find and locate nests, basically. That's it. I met him about, oh, 1987, '88. So it was coming towards the end of my egg collecting career. He was still an active egg collector at the time. I gave him my egg collection. We've been friends ever since. A true friend is someone who sticks by you and helps you out and don't inform police on you. I might stay out of trouble when I'm going out doing stuff in forests and woods and stuff. That's what just keeps you out of trouble. You got police and stuff on you, in mountains and that they not got police. All right, well, you're not doing any harm, anyway. It's just safe, it's just I feel safe and okay in mountains. Trouble attracts to me for some reason. [John] You've got to have a license in Britain for photographing with eggs of high-profile birds, including schedule one, like eagles, ospreys, peregrine falcons, and that. They've got to assess whether you're knowledgeable enough to be able to photograph birds safely at their nest. If I got caught photographing a bird at a nest without a license, and this actually occurred to me. I got a letter from a license application place. "Sorry, we're rejecting your application. There's information that's come to our attention from the police." He was predominantly, um, a photographer, but he used to associate with a number of egg collectors. I got involved in a case about 2006 where he was actually up a tree. He says he was trying to photograph a goshawk nest. And he was actually prosecuted by North Wales Police for disturbing the goshawk. The nest that he was near actually failed. Basically, the parent birds abandoned it, and the eggs effectively died. I got 12 months probation service, and I got banned from every national park and RSPB reserve in the country for one year. Because of Andy McWilliam and links to him everything, nobody will help me out now because of him. And this is what I'm fighting against. You know, so that's why I'm bringing me book out against him. You know, to show the other side. It's going to be called, Scourge of the Birdman. So he's the scourge of my life. And it's nearly 400 pages, this book, with photographs and that. Because it was my past, I'm thinking of putting it out as my proper name, John Kinsley. And then I want to move on from this. Basically, this is closure. I want to put that behind me, and I'm working forward now. So then everything that continues then will be under my business name of Ben Tarvie. I don't mind you leaving me phone numbers and stuff on there like that, you know? I know this documentary can help towards getting a license in Britain. I'm hoping to be able to prove a lot to the authorities. I just feel as though they'll see my journey, some of what I've been through, some of what I'm trying to do. They'll even see me, like, where I'm taking my young son, Andrew, along with me and showing him the right ways, trying to get him into wildlife and that. And later on, as he understands a bit more, he'll see where his dad went wrong. So I'm trying to build something now for my son, and I've never, ever going to jeopardize that again. [soft instrumental music playing] [Mark] When I was 14, there was an older boy, and he was a great nest finder. He was a god, if you like, within our egg-collecting community at that time. May the 23rd, I think it was 1976. We were just finding nests. That was stupid, really. We didn't have ropes or nothing We were just free climbing. And I found him where I'd left him. And he'd fallen from the cliff, and he was dead. Of course it sticks with me. Moments like that in life never go away. You know, they're there forever. I can go back to that day now vividly as it happened yesterday and see everything about it. Everything. It was that that then stopped me at that time. I gave my egg collection away 20 odd years ago. I met a friend in work. We got talking, we were friends. And he said, "I used to collect eggs." He just come out with it out of the blue, and I said, "Well, so did I." And I said, "Let's do it again." I'm a lot older now. I got transport. I can travel, so we started, you know, "Let's go up to Scotland, up to the Orkneys, and do the sea birds," which was phenomenal. Stuff we used to dream of when we was kids. I made contacts. Um, I joined the Jourdain Society, which is an organization which is basically all egg collectors. And it all come crashing down, as things do. [male reporter] There were dramatic scenes outside Salisbury Magistrate's Court today as the defendants left the building in no mood to talk after hefty fines. [indistinct] All were members of the Jourdain egg collector's society. After a tip off, police raided one of their meetings. It was the second largest illegal egg collection ever seized in this country. There it is. [Mark] Everybody, to have a life, must have a pursuit and must have a passion. I mean, what is the purpose of living? I live for this, for the nesting season. It gives me the drive for life. If you'll have a look. I'll just open that slightly, and maybe you can see. There's five eggs in it. You know, without passion, you've got nothing in life. Everything you see me and Michael Stockton do in this documentary is a reenactment. Neither of us collect any... Everything you see me and Michael Stockton do for this documentary is a reenactment. Neither of us collect eggs any longer. I don't like that last bit. [instrumental music playing] We're going to try and show how the egg collectors used to prepare eggs that they keep in the shell collections. If they take eggs out of the wild and leave it with all the contents in, sooner or later, they start deteriorating inside. We all know what a rotten egg is. So what they used to do was, um, hollow eggs out. If the egg sinks, that means it's fresh. That's the time when egg collectors really want it because the content will just flow out. But if the egg is floating, and it's bobbing like that, it usually means it's quite far on in the incubation period. And there could be a chick forming inside the egg. Being honest, if that's only just taken out of the nest, that chick is still alive inside that egg. And they're putting solvents in to dissolve the body. And then they'll keep poking and prodding it and putting more dissolvents in. And then they might leave it for a week, so it's rotten and emptying it. And then they'll start shaking it and pulling bits out. It's like an abortion, really. Um, would you fancy blowing this in the professional-type way and show them how they do it, yeah? Some eggs are quite... They're tougher than what you think. You don't realize it. These are the type of tools that you can buy from DIY shops. They have specialized tools for doing this. Just put the hole in the back of egg. And they're quite anal about what they do because they want everything to look perfection, even though they can't show these things off. You've got the straw here, and he's blowing air into the one hole, which is forcing the contents back-- - That's it. - Broke it. We'll have to do that again. That's through. Now, he's blaming the tools, and they always say that, you know, a rubbish workman always blames his tools. So what we'll do... I'll do this one just to show you that I can still do it, you know. So the content's out now, and all they want at the end of the day is the empty shell. They'll wrap the eggs up, put them in the box. They'll have all the eggs in the box. They'll seal the lid up. They'll hide that somewhere. And then if they're leaving that vicinity, they're driving along, the authorities could stop them. The authorities check the vehicle. There's no evidence to prove where they've been. So they've got one up on the authorities, and it's like a game of cat and mouse. They might have eggs up and down the country. And then they'll go back outside the breeding season, and they might take a girlfriend or something up, or the children on an holiday up there. And what they're actually doing is going off and they're picking all these containers up when the authorities aren't looking for them, so they can put it in their collection, put it in a drawer like that, close the drawer, and nobody else sees them. And they just go up, drool about it. Each egg has got a memory of where they've been and where they've gone and what they took. [music ends] We've got a window, let's go for it. Let's go for it. We might only get an hour but let's get that hour Yeah. Let's do it. [laughing] [Little Bird playing] I'm making an egg sandwich here, but I've made an omelet before, about a three-egg omelet, out of avocet eggs, which was quite... The eggs were quite delicious. Being free range and all that. [chuckles] I don't know what lapwing eggs are like, but I'm sure they're nice eggs to eat. This is, uh, Elmley Nature Reserve. It's part of an RSPB reserve, which means I'm not allowed. But, I mean, who would know if I ever even walked in there? I've taken quite a few good clutches of eggs out of here. I know that. I've taken little owl, barn owl, marsh harrier, avocet, redshank, lapwing, turtle dove, popchard duck, mallard. Shelduck, I've never found. They're quite... They build long borrows in the earth. Nothing in there. [sighs] People here are watching. Once, over here on the fleet we passed down there, a bloke tried to drive into me with a Land Rover. I've even had a farmer let off his shotgun towards me. I don't like any harm coming to any wildlife. I mean, all right, taking eggs might seem a bit cruel to some people, but it's not killing birds, is it? I have found quite a few eggs over here in the past. Let's put a bit of shade up for ya. There you go. Needs cleaning up, this turntable, and resetting up. [meditation music playing] [chirps] [music ends] Egg collecting has a very, very clear seasonality. So, obviously, birds have different breeding cycles, and the egg collector's calendar is based on all this. [Alan] The police officers in the different parts of the UK will be aware of where the rare birds nest. They'll be aware of when they nest, and, of course, that's the potential for catching egg collectors. [Sinnerman playing] Been collecting since I was a kid. Never been caught. It just goes on and on and on. When I was a kid, we used to fill bags up. Years ago I was just nonstop, Every single day, all day, every day. As soon as I opened me eyes, I'd be out Until it went dark. Now, my favorite eggs to collect Schedule one. Proper rare stuff that you cannot find. That's what we go for. There's a car approaching from here. I'm just checking out other cars He might be in them. Even such a protected site like this, it's surprising how much egg collecting goes on on with the cameras being covered up, eggs just going missing for no sort of real reason. If any egg collector was to come here and try and rob this nest, they would have to come in the day to work out whereabouts in the reed bed the nest is. This is a big reed bed. The birds are quite distant. They'd have to stand here for quite a while, working out where the birds are dropping in. And we would see them doing that. All the authorities don't know nothing about me. Never been hassled at all over egg collecting. I can't show my eggs to nobody. Nobody can know where they are. In case you fall out with them. Girlfriend can't know. You fall out with her all your lifetime's collection, gone. If you're into egg collecting proper you find the nest early, ready for laying. Get it, bang on, when it's just laying its last egg. There's certain birds that won't lay again. Golden Eagles, Osprey. I am doing it for the buzz really. [laughter] How egg thief proof do you think this is? They have to get past our volunteers. They have to get past the barbed wire, the fence. There's a bog out there that they have to traipse through. All right, now, you see here, the amount of resources needed to guard one nest 24 hours is incredible. They're fine. They fit the mold as dog walkers with binoculars, as opposed to egg collectors. If anyone is thinking of coming to Norfolk to commit any form of wildlife crime, I'd say, think twice because chances are you'll be investigated. And we will look to a successful prosecution. What the RSPB is doing here, it's combining professional conservationists, such as myself, with really keen birding volunteers. So in a way, it's almost a nature's army. We're creating an army out of enthusiasts, experts, professionals, and we're all working together for the same goal. And it enables the birds to hopefully produce young. The authorities can suck [beeped]. That's what they can do. Keep chasing their tails. That's what they're doing. Chasing their tails. [muffled] the RSPB. All right? [muffled] them. Catch me if you can. Whatever. Six months in jail. I have shit fear of that. [laughs] [mournful instrumental music playing] There were people coming every year to try and steal the eggs of white-tailed eagles. And the community just rose up against it, really, and said, enough is enough. So that's how Mull Eagle Watch was born. The Mull Eagle Watch Project was able to protect the few nests that were here in the late '90s and early 2000s. You know, it's gone from a single pair in 1985. And this year, it's going to be up to 20. I've got two coffees to go, Cheryl, okay? Okay, no problem. - [David] Can I get a piece of that? - Yep, mm-hmm. - How are you doing, Cheryl? - I'm doing okay. - Yeah? - Yeah, I'm doing all right. [Cheryl laughs] [Cheryl] The north part of Mull, as a community, we take a pride in protecting these wonderful birds. And what myself and my partner will do is at weekends we will walk out and go and check on the nests and make sure there's no disturbance going on. I think the biggest thing when I watched them last year, it was a true honor, I couldn't get over how that mother bird was by sitting on those eggs. And you're talking about 38 days of sitting on those eggs, through torrent weather through the winter. You know, rain, snow, wind, on the top of that tree, swaying around, there's not many people I know would sit out that long on two eggs. It's a stamina. It's a perseverance. It's a fight for survival. You know, all of that that's going into those eggs. So, you know, when people steal them, I think it's a hideous, hideous crime. I still think we should have a sign over here somewhere. Something that just says, nesting birds. - Sea birds nesting, yes. - Take care of. [Mary] When I came to Britain from Zimbabwe, I really didn't know the difference between an eagle and a robin or a blackbird or anything else. And when Mr. Sexton from the RSPB came to our house and he said to me, would I be interested in doing a bit of eagle watch, and I didn't really know what he was talking about. I had no idea. And he said it involved keeping an eye on a pair of sea eagles and trying to make sure that nobody disturbed them in any way. And so I said, "Yeah, okay." You know, it was no big deal, really. So I went down roughly to the area, and the most amazing thing happened. This eagle, it came out from some trees and flew straight over me. It must've been maybe 70 or 80 feet above my head. I could hear the wind in its wings. I could see the yellow in its eyes, and I actually get quite emotional about this because it was just the most beautiful experience. And I couldn't believe there were people who would harm these birds or would even think of stealing their eggs. We went through quite a lot of trauma in Zimbabwe. And rather than go onto antidepressants and other sorts of drugs, I found a huge amount of comfort and therapy in looking after these, or helping to look after these birds. I've looked after this particular pair now for about seven years, and I love it. I swear, they're in love with each other. They can sit really, really close together on a treetop. You can't see daylight between them. And they'll preen each other and preen themselves, and they always talk to each other. Just so human, somehow. Each year that I've done it, this particular pair have produced two chicks. That's, what, 14 chicks I've seen come into the world and fly off. It's like watching an aircraft doing circuits and bumps. You know, when the pilots are learning to fly, they go up and down, up and down. And that's just what happens with these young birds. And then, after a few days, they'll fly strongly before they actually disappear off into the wide, wide world. I'm sure an egg thief would say, "Well, it doesn't matter. Yeah, they'll lay eggs again." But it's like you say to somebody who's lost a child. In my humble opinion, it's just the same as taking a baby away from a mother. Do you think those birds haven't got feelings? Can you imagine the racket they will make if somebody climbs that tree and takes the eggs. I can't bear to think of that. I know you don't, you, the egg collector, you don't care, but you should care. This is my little lad. I mean, he's probably about three, four years of age there. And this is my friends, again, in Scotland. And I feel it's important to get young children like this as close to wildlife and that. And his mom said to me, she said, "Just because you're into birds, you know, you can't make him go into birds when he's older." I take him out and about, and I just let him do his own thing. And I think he's going to follow in my footsteps because he loves it. You know, and this is my lad, Andrew, and this is with a European eagle-owl. [I Like Birds playing] [Andrew exclaims] Some people used to shoot birds just because they wanted to put them in cases like this so they could look at 'em. Do you think that's right or wrong? Uh, are you sad? Are you sad? I know. I can understand. Because it's not nice, is it? Because we'd rather see these birds in the wild, wouldn't we? And that's so we can photograph them. Do you see all these up here? These are what all the lords used to kill a long time ago because people used to do this. I know, it's very disturbing, isn't it, for a little boy. But this is what the lords used to do. Now, I never thought you'd get upset. But it's, in another way... I never thought... Listen. When Daddy brought you in ... He's very sorry. He didn't think you'd get upset looking at things like this, right? But listen. Listen. This is called education because there's people like you that want to learn about wildlife. And they go and tell others that it's wrong. So they boycott all this, and they stop all this, so that little boys like you don't need to get upset anymore at seeing dead birds and dead animals. Because we'd rather see them in the wild. Okay? Come on. Stop being soft now. Come on. Stop it. Listen. Listen. Can you stop crying? Try and be a bit professional. I want the golden eagle egg. There's no golden eagle in there. This here, it's not a very, very good collection, but these are what the lords from the past have collected. You know, from when it all started. And it's actually really, really good field craft to find them. - Oh, is it not interesting, eh? - I don't like birds dying. You don't like birds dying, Okay. I'm very, very sorry for upsetting you. I didn't think it would do this to you, but it just shows that you understand what's going on. Okay, should we go out now? Come on, then. Let's go up there, then. You learned a lot, didn't you, because, being honest, you need to know as well. But I'm six years old. I know you are. But you need to know as well. Don't say one more thing out of your mouth, you'll make me sad again. Okay. [soft instrumental music playing] Here we are. I'll show you a picture of my dad because this has got all that type of stuff in there. That's my dad. My mum, she was, uh, quite an attractive woman when she was young. This is my mum. That's my mum when she was young. So I've got some stamps, and they're all of nature, of birds and stuff. Mostly... My dad bought most of these. We've always been a nation of collectors, haven't we? There's all these sets here, and all these that my mum got me. 1974, like, happy birthday from my mum, you know, first-day issues and all that. When my mum and dad were together there was always people, lots of people there, you know, because my mum was quite popular. She was good at handling people, as well, in her job. So she had a knack of getting on with people, which, uh, is quite a good skill to have because I haven't quite got that skill. Hold that for five breaths. Jump the feet to the hands. Bend the legs. I had a female friend of mine that was a yoga instructor of mine a few years ago. And when I got caught, of course, it was in the papers. And, uh, she was really pissed off at me, basically, and I was kicked out of there. I was told to leave. When I began to find out what yoga's really about... You live your life as a person, I started to have conflicts with myself about the taking of eggs. If you really, uh, are a real practitioner of yoga, it's about what you do in life. It's not just what you do on the mat. It's about not harming wildlife or being violent with people. Come, Boy. Come out, then. Sometimes I think I'm misunderstood, but I do fall out with people, you know? I look after my little pet, my little Boy here. I look after him properly because I love him. Hmm. [bird chirping] I think he has emotions, but I don't know if he has a conscience or not. And I think taking a clutch of eggs can distress the hen. Mothers and fathers love their children, don't they? I did fall out with my dad a lot when he got older. I didn't write him a letter from jail. So I decided I'm going to go and see me dad when I get out because I hadn't seen him for a while. And he's very old. I remember, I kissed him goodbye on the cheek, you know, and that was the last time I actually saw him because two months later, he died. My sister phoned up. Jane says, "Dad's died." So, um, I'm glad I saw him when I got released from jail. It was like me saying goodbye to him in a way. I'm getting a little bit upset, but he got found on the toilet. [chuckles] It's not unusual. They get found on the toilet when they're old. And my sister-- He got found on the toilet. But I'm glad I saw him when I got out of jail to say goodbye. And he did say to me, he said, "Don't do it anymore, Matthew." You know. I don't collect eggs anymore. The same as my mum. She didn't agree with the egg collecting, but she knew why I'd done it. [upbeat instrumental music playing] Five, six... Because you have lots of ups and downs in your life and that, I needed to get rid of some of that tension that I was having. And when I started back taekwondo, I'm finding that I'm much calmer these days because I'm looking forward to my classes. And it helps me to focus my mind. My mom was always wanting me to get me black belt. And that was another reason that when I packed in, I was about three gradings off black belt. So I felt as though I let my mom down a bit. I help him as much as I can, but I just worry about him when I'm not around. I just want to know that he has got something behind him. Say that he needs the chance. He needs the opportunity. Just add to it, like, he needs just somebody to give him a break and give him a chance. He needs someone to be behind him, to give him a break and reconsider to give him a license. I want to achieve my black belt. It's not just for saying, I'm a black belt, and I can go out and I can do this, that, and the other. It's because it's a goal. And that's what I want to do in my own life. I want to achieve goals and do things and, you know, just make a better life for myself and my son. When we started out with the documentary, I had an assistant with me, Michael Stockton. I mean, Michael Stockton is one of my best friends, but I've got a lot at stake at the moment. And I think he's just a little bit of a loose cannon. In the past, like, I've been done through guilt through association. If he went off the rails a bit while he was with me and something happened, it could jeopardize me. So sometimes, you've got to take a step back. You've got to reflect on what you're doing. I know I've done wrong and that, but I want to be able to prove to the authorities, you know, that I'm now a trustworthy person. I'm a changed character. I think in a completely different way. I'm heading in the right direction, and, you know, this is my life. And it's just basically what I want to do. [camera clicks] My fear of, um, talking to, like, documentary about this. Really, now, you know. There's a part of me that wished I hadn't even opened up about this. But because I've been honest and I've been open, and I've got nothing to hide. And things like that, you know. I've got a friend who I've known for a few years who's an antique dealer. And, um, occasionally, he gets offered to move, like, things out of houses. Somebody had got in touch with him. I don't know who it was, I just got a phone call. And he said this guy was dying of cancer. And I think he was just trying to tidy things up to save his wife having to do it when he's gone, and things like that. The bloke now is deceased. And he got this collection of eggs. Now, it's illegal to sell wild bird eggs. So this guy had give this collector all these eggs. But this collector, um, antique dealer, didn't want anything to do with the eggs. And so he gave me a call and asked me, would I be interested in taking these eggs? The antique dealer didn't really know what was there, he hadn't sorted them, and he didn't want anything to do with the eggs. But because, obviously, he was an antique dealer, he said he could have made a few quid out of the cabinets. So he wanted a small sum for the cabinets, and all the eggs came free and that. So any road, at the moment, I need, I've got no interest in eggs, except for my past. I just thought it would be sacrilege if these eggs just got thrown out and smashed. All these birds had died for nothing. I don't want to be committing any wildlife crimes. As far as I am concerned, I've just took something from a bloke that was dying, and he just, you know, were moving things on. Obviously, I'm a bit secretive about this at the moment 'cause of the legal things in it. So it's a bit of a hush-hush thing at the moment. It's, um, you know, as far as I'm concerned, it's just myself who knows about this at the moment. I'd say this egg collection is quite important. You know, I think it's, um, you know, it's touching on four figures, maybe a bit more, you know. It could be touching a thousand eggs. It might be a few more. I'd rather not say at the moment. It's just, um... I've got a feeling I'm going to end up losing this when you put this out and stuff like that. I think I'm just going to end up losing all this. I think this... I think it might have been a bad thing, me starting this here, you know, with these eggs because I don't know. I just think the RSPB will end up a blackmailing me type thing. "Oh, well, you hand over your eggs and that, and, you know, we might help you with a license and that." You know, they just... I don't know. They'll just be after a conviction. That's why I'm not going to tell them. So with the egg collection, I'm hoping to, like, photograph it, process it, be able to, like, mention about it, keep it. And now, you know, I think that was a rash decision at the time. Now, looking back on it, because I've had sleepless nights over it. You know, and then I'm frightened about getting caught with it in the future. And then I'm frightened about what it's going to jeopardize me. And then all of a sudden, everything I've built up and the steps that I'm moving forward and stuff, all that, you know, I might have burned all them bridges and stuff, you know, and that. So really, in a way, I don't want all this over me and making me ill again. It's making me ill. My son doesn't even know about these eggs and that. I mean, when we went to Dunrobin Castle, the museum there... It really taught me... How much it meant to my son about, you know, when we was explaining to him about what people did with eggs and blowing the contents out of the eggs and all these dead birds. And I'm thinking, "I've got loads of them there," you know. And I said, I don't want you to upset my son, so I don't even want my son to know about these and see them and stuff. And even though he's only six years of age now, you know, it's a strong impact that a six-year-old can have on you. I know my son would be devastated taking eggs out of nests. Or if he'd ever see me take an egg and show him what they did, he'd be devastated. This egg collection is really, really getting me down, you know having it in my possession. So I think something needs to do with it. And I'd like to open up to the RSPB, tell them about me issues. But I don't want to be prosecuted over this egg collection. I don't want it if it's going to bring me down and lower me this much. You know, I'm not an egg collector. I don't collect eggs and stuff. Eight, 12, 16, 20, 24, 25, 26. As far as I'm concerned, the law it states that it wasn't illegal to collect eggs up to 1954. So as far as I'm concerned, any eggs that were taken before 1954 are legal to have if the data card is with it, and it can be proved. Before anybody actually sees these, I want to have the time to be able to sort them out, see which eggs have got the data cards, put all the ones together, and say, "Right. They're the one's that's got all the data cards, and these are the data cards that correspond to it. These are eggs taken before 1954." Then say to the RSPB, "Look, this is what's happened. Can I keep them?" And if there is anything that's not there, you say to them, "Listen. Please take them away." You know what I mean? I don't want to be getting in trouble for something that I've not done. Going to Burford, so now it's a chance to go in and have a proper talk to these people. I'm not exactly going to say that I've actually got it at the moment. Or obviously, I've committed myself now by saying all this. I've opened the can of worms, and, you know, I need to deal with it. This has took me down, and it's made me think that I end up going to prison over it, being away from my little lad for three or four months in prison and having to explain to him, you know, letting him down and that. And I don't think I could handle it, you know, because I think then I'd look on it. And I'd think, I'd got so far, and just because this egg collection had come in and I took a wrong path and whatever and that. And I got caught with this egg collection. I'm 44 now, so it would be another five years before I could apply for a Schedule One license. I'd be nearly 50. It's pointless me even trying it This is my last chance and stuff like that, and I don't want this egg collection pulling me down. I don't know. I just really don't know how to go about this at the moment. [both] And bang. That's good. - Got it. - That's it, mate. Okay. Let's have a look, see what we've got. I think there's four chicks, by the look of it. Yeah, so four chicks, it is. Hold his leg out. Pop his leg in there. Close the ring. That's it, simple as anything. [Mark] At 20 odd years ago, after the court case and everything, I gave up egg collecting. I hate egg collectors now and what they stand for, but my passion is, um, nest recording and nest finding for the BTO. I'll have a couple of hours out every day to ring birds. [David] The British Trust for Ornithology is a charity, so basically the ethos of it is to collect information for conservation. There are a lot of different bits of information you need when you're looking to conserve a species. Obviously, knowing whether the numbers are increasing or decreasing is very important. You can look at that with bird ringing, and that's really where nest recording and the BTO's Nest Record Scheme fits in. It's a survey designed to monitor changes in the number of offspring being produced across a huge range of species in the UK each year. I think that the subject of approaching nests is a controversial one. The folk who have been able to find nests have been slightly worried about how that behavior will be perceived. [Mark] I think a lot of egg collectors would say the same thing. It's not the eggs. It's the pursuit. I'm still getting the same buzz, but without doing any damage. And...there you go. People are gonna see it as, "Oh, well, you know, he was an egg collector." Shit, I mean, most nest recorders, you know and I see a lot of them, were past egg collectors, you know? That's how they started, as a boyhood thing. It's a past that I am ashamed about, you know, in some respects. But obviously, it's given me the knowledge to find, find nests like I do now, you know? If it wasn't for that, then I wouldn't know how to do it. [David] I think we should be striving to make the most of the information that's held by ex-collectors. Quite frankly, they are some of the only people who know how to find the most difficult nests, and the data collected is absolutely vital. Those information really underpin conservation efforts in the UK. [John] I've been trying to meet with the RSPB for a long time, and today I'm actually going to sit down with Guy Shorrock, you know, and talk about a few of these issues. You know, I met Mr. Shorrock in 2006 when I was going through the court case over the goshawk. And, you know, he seemed a nice guy. I felt a lot of respect for him. But he knew that his colleague who was always fighting against me never got anything out of me. I'll go in with an open mind, and I'll evaluate how much information I'm going to tell him. And I'll soon find out whether they really want to help me move on, or they're just still interested in persecuting me and fighting against me. So, you know, we'll see how this one pans out. [indistinct chatter] ...the profile of people who get convicted of these sorts of offenses, 20 years or so... [John] Hello, Mr. Shorrock, uh, it's been a long time, no see. I don't... - You'll remember me, after, you know-- - I do, yeah. Hopefully, we're meeting under better circumstances. Yeah, that's right. How are you doing? Uh, I'm doing really good at the moment. Is there any way we could set up a meeting and I could, um, educate you a bit more about where I'm going and things like that. Absolutely, yeah. All right, then, cheers. Thanks very much, cheers. I'm putting a lot on the line today. I'm bringing me friend with me, Matthew, and I've asked him to operate my hand-held camcorder. So then, you know, I've also got a documentation of this interview. You know, he gives me his word that I won't get prosecuted for something and then this court case starts coming, I've got something evidential to back me up. Oh, are you ready? [John] Oh, hello, Mr. Shorrock. Yeah, thanks for, um, you know, giving me this opportunity. No problem. Have a seat. Yeah, yeah, let's just bring some stuff around. So what are you doing at the moment? Are you actually in full-time work, holiday? Oh, what's happened, I've been a lot of ups and downs, especially since 2007. And I've had a young boy, and so he's inspired me to go do things and that. But I was going through a lot of depression at the time and things like that and especially after the court case and even during the court case and things like that. It's not a nice environment. And, um, it got that bad at one time, - Considered taking my own life. - God almighty. See, it's still quite raw to me, this stuff. Yeah, you've got to get this thing in perspective sometimes. I mean, at the end of the day, it was-- You know, in the overall scheme of things, it was a disturbance offense. It's not murder. I know it's personal to you, but-- I'm on the understanding that you still think that I made those goshawk eggs become unviable. I work in evidence, John. It's as simple as that. So I've got, you know, you at a nest site. I've got a failed goshawk nest, and some eggs to a scientist. And all he can do is give me a date range and say, they probably fell between these days. And one of the dates that you were at the nest was sort of in that range. The problem for you was it was a premeditated visit. That's something that I don't want on my record. John, look, no dispute. I don't think anybody, me or my colleague James who dealt with it, thought for one second you meant those birds any harm. I don't think anybody did that. But this is why there's a licensing system. I know. And, you know, you put your foot over the line, and you got caught. But, you know, I have done so much more than just been a naughty boy in the past. Our perception of you is somebody who's had a bad choice of friends and has gone out with egg collectors because it gave you opportunities to get some photographs as well. There's a lot of people that are going to be watching this documentary and stuff like that. What's the gist on the-- Like, say somebody's died, and there's a collection being handed down and-- - We get this all the time. - I know. [John] I just need to know a bit more about it as well. Basically, all my job is about catching wildlife criminals. I'm not really interested in somebody who's found something in the loft. I'd like to open up on you and this and that. Um, you know, and I don't want to go to any more court cases and this type of deal. But, um, August last year, an antique dealer friend of mine actually got in touch me. And he said he's cleaning an house out for someone who died. And he said that he's got a massive egg collection, he said, with all the data cards, and it's all legal. You've got the data for all the collection? That's what I thought when I took it. - And because I want-- - Right, John, let me just cut you off. Let me just cut you off, there, John. One of the problems is with these old egg collections, we've had cases where people have got old eggs. And it's an opportunity for them to hide new eggs in there. Well, I give you my word. I've never, ever added to that. There's nothing there. You can come and check and check everything. Well, you've just got to be really careful, John, because I get the impression that your past is a bigger stumbling block in your life than it really is. I just really-- I don't think your past is an issue at all, honestly. By the same token, you have to bear in mind that you don't want it come back to haunt you. I know-- So you just can't put yourself in positions with having eggs in your house, with getting caught near rare breeding birds, whether it's in this country or in Europe. So you've just got to make sure that you're absolutely on the ball. So I can have your word that I'm not going to have me door come off and loads of hassle and that and stuff. Well, I can't give you my word because I could get down to my desk tomorrow, and some reliable source could ring up, saying you've got an egg collection in your house with somebody else's eggs hidden inside them. No, I haven't. [interposing voices] Do you think I'd be opening this up if I have, you know what I mean? I can't say I won't do my job if the information comes in. On Monday, I'll start the ball rolling on this to start moving this on and that, so as soon as because this is important to get this, like, monkey off my back and that. Well, I'm going to prove to you. Your never, ever going to have another court case with me, you know, and that. And I'm not going to let myself down. I'm not going to let my son down. And I've come so far. I've worked hard to get here. You know, so thank you for giving me the opportunity to meet with you. [crew member] Can I have a picture together? Yeah, can we have a... Yeah, yeah, so... [Guy] The thing that strikes me with John is in view of his history, his stated intent that he wants to reform and move on with his life, and it does look like he's made some genuine efforts there. He then goes and does something crazy like acquire a load of birds' eggs. Why on Earth would you do that? He is responsible for his own actions. And, um, if he wants to get into a position where he's trusted, issued licenses to photograph rare breeding birds, he has to generate that trust. And if you make bad decisions, like getting 5,000 or 6,000 eggs in your house, it doesn't really help. You know, John Kinsley is left behind now, and Ben Tarvie's moving forward. Ben Tarvie's a different person to what John Kinsley was, so, you know, let's just see what the future brings. [sighs] [soft instrumental music playing] Boy, he got a stroke. Uh, he had a stroke, and, uh, yeah, he-- He died. He was a lovely bird, friendly and he liked being around me. If I was in there in the bedroom watching telly, he'd fly in occasionally, perch on the telly, sort of like to say hello like, you know what I mean? I was very sad to lose him. I buried him. I gave him a funeral. I'm not going to just get rid of him. I buried him. Buried him. Someone in the street, someone I know... Not a friend, but knows my family and that. And he says, "Oh, you've been a bit unlucky." And I'm thinking, "Oh, I don't need you to tell me that, don't I?" You know, losing a sister and my mom and my dad all at once. I've got one sister left. We stopped talking a few years ago, but I've got bridges to build with Jane. I said some nasty things to her. She said some things that I didn't like to me, just family stuff, because she's still my sister. Hello, Jane? All right? Nice to hear ya. Oh, I'm not too bad. Are you still with Les? Yeah, good. Oh, did ya? Was ya? Yeah, I've done nothing on my birthday. I'm really pleased for you, Jane, I really am. I'm pleased that you've got Les. I'm pleased that you've got him in your life. I really am. It's hard for me because I've got no one. There's no one that I can confide in. The only person I can confide in is you because you're family. I know what I said. And, you know, what I've said, I've said. You know, I've said sorry. And, um, it would be nice if we could be, like, brother and sister again. All right, nice to speak to ya. Bye, bye. Well, I broke the ice with her, so that's the main thing. So it was a bit awkward for me, phoning up, but I'm glad I did. Mmm. That's it. All right. [soft instrumental music playing] Egging is finished with me now. I mean, my eyes are not as good. I've lost all my stuff, and uh, it's hard work. It's just bloody hard work. And it's for my well being, I suppose, but I can't really replace it. Some of the nicest things I've ever done has been egg collecting. There's always sort of like this romantic scene or setting about egg collecting, some of the places. But I've never shared it with no one. I've always been on my own. But some of the places and some of the things that I've seen have been like, you know, you could write a story. It gives an imagination of a romantic setting, like the sun setting and a big wide sort of, like, loch in the Highlands and all that, you know. And if I'd have had a girl in tow, I would have taken her with me. I would have shown her a few things, you know? I'd like to find a female. I'm getting into the latter part of my life, now. I'm in my 50s, now. So, you know, I hoping... To grow old gracefully, if you like. Slow down a little bit, not get so sort of wound up about things, I suppose. I've heard it said to me, my own worst enemy is me. But that's the way it is. [dramatic instrumental music playing] [knocking on door] - Hi, John. - How are you doing? Nice seeing you again. Come in. - Were you there for a while? - Oh, no. Oh, no. This is one of the cabinets, and I did start trying to arrange some it, you know, a while ago. How many eggs are there in the-- I don't know. I mean, that's just various lapwings. Right, and there's no dates with these? There i, lapwing cards and stuff, but I've not sorted them. And a lot of them, you can't see the marks, you know, because the eggs are so dark. It'd be outrageous to smash something that somebody can learn so much about. And this is... This should go into a museum. And I'm sure that... Well, that's what... hat's what... I mean, I appreciate, um... 'Cause it would-- It would be wrong to smash them like that, wouldn't it? Well, that's the approach... You know, we'll be contacting-- We'll start with Liverpool Museum. 'Cause each one of these birds signifies a bird that's lost its life and that, you know. So the guy who passed this over to you, you've got all his details or you could give him a call? I can get it. I can get something written from him, and he'll actually give me the person who it was that he got it from. And he's died. He actually went to his funeral. Right, I mean, that's going to be, uh, something we'll be looking at or looking for. [music continues] I'm taking it on what he says, basically, so... A lot of that is recent. A lot of it is modern. Um... And what he's doing is matching. I can see. 'Cause I was just looking at the data on the eggs. Although the numbers are the same, there's different inks, and there's names cut of of cards. Also, I recognize the insets, I've seen those before. That another collector did. At the end of the day, he's handing it over, which is, you know, what we want. [music continues] More than I anticipated. Yeah. - Thanks for your understanding. - No worries. You know, and hopefully, you know, we can leave-- Yeah, hopefully, we can leave a few things in the past. Yeah, we can. [engine revving] My name is John Kinsley, now known as Ben Tarvie, and I'm an ex egg collector. All right, the nest is just in that clump over there in the short. You've got to give everyone a chance. It's simple as that. Whatever... The past is past, you know? I definitely advise any egg collectors out there who want to give up their, um, pointless pursuit to go and get in touch with the BTO. Join the Nest Record Scheme. I mean, it is so enjoyable. It is fantastic. Take up ringing. Get to handle the birds. You know, follow the birds through. There is nothing like a joy of seeing the birds. [soft instrumental music playing] [peeping] [Mary] Oh, my God. There's your baby, Mary. [all gasping] Mary, come and say hello. Say hello to your eaglet. Oh. Oh, you're just so beautiful. Oh, bless it. I can't believe it. It's just beautiful. Bless it. All right? - [Mary] After all this time. - I know. It's the first... All these years you've been coming, and the first time you've actually seen one eye to eye. [Mary] How old is it? About five weeks. That's it, now. I can die happy, now. [chuckling] Sometimes I feel sorry for the golden eagle birds because they don't really lay again. So... They're just flying around all year. There are no chicks to feed. Nothing to do. And I can feel a bit not right with that. Because there's something bearing that burden that's riding on me. That's why I got into egg collecting, because I love birds. But my favorite thing in life is egging. Taking birds' eggs. It's just an addiction. I can't help it. [patriotic instrumental music playing] I could go up to Michael to challenge him. I'm a wildlife authority. Go up to challenge him... "I think you... I think you... I think you've got eggs in your pockets. I'll have to check you." He goes in his pocket. He pulls a blade out. It's in you. Is it worth losing your life for attacking somebody? First, never approach anybody and never challenge anybody if you think they're collecting eggs. Some girls find me a threat, and I don't mind that because it just shows that I'm red blooded. Because if a female don't find you as a threat, a bit of a threat, then it means, like, oh, he's harmless. And then they might be a little bit suspect about where your sexuality is. I will be nest finding until I drop dead, without a shadow of a doubt. I like birds more than anything. ???????????? I've just been brought up with birds. [John] That's where your knowledge is. And that's where my knowledge is. That's it. That's all I can say, really, isn't it? Yeah. In Africa, they would go to jail, and the keys would be thrown away. What about little Ben Tarvie? I've heard you've been making some big ideas of what you want to do now. So what do you want to be? - What do you want to be now? - A wildlife officer. You want to be a wildlife officer? That's a good calling, isn't it? [Andrew] No, but I don't want you being silly. I don't want you to be silly, Dad. Stuff in the room. Some of the egg thieves actually wonder whether we just want all these eggs for ourselves. Contrary to what some egg thieves may maintain, I don't have an egg collection and have never had an egg collection. [music ends]
