 

                        Hello. This is Lou Vanetti, reporting live from KBRX. I don't know if-- [buzz] [with echo] anyone out there can hear me or not. [buzz] [deep inhale] Only hours remain before the earth's magnetic field declines to zero. [buzz] And as most of you know by now, once that occurs, [buzzing] solar radiation will destroy the atmosphere. And--God be with us all. [silence and a bird cries out] [tires screech] [eerie roar grows] Turn the car off! [loud hissing] [buzzing and small explosions] [silence] I think it's gone. Start the car. [Cynthia] Damn it! We'll have to go back. [loud vibrating] [growing roar] Get out of the car now! (Shane) Come on! Jump! [scream] No! (Lou, over TV) Flights across the globe have been grounded for 24 hours as the comet Copernicus passes Earth. This will be the largest celestial object in recorded history to pass this close and is expected to create a global magnetic disturbance. When the comet was first discovered six months ago-- Good morning. Hi, Miss Penny. Hi, Cyn. Zoe, that's Cynthia's order in the fridge. So I'm taking the Science Club on a field trip to watch the comet. I heard. That's very brave of you. You're coming along too, right, Zoe? Yeah. Dad is letting me off early so I can come. Right, Dad? I suppose. (Lou on TV) ...discuss what unforeseen dangers we may be facing, we are joined now via satellite by our own Dr. James Mayfield. Hey, look who's on TV! Doctor, could you explain why you believe it's possible that the comet could hit us when almost everyone else has predicted it will simply pass us by. Wait a minute, Lou, all I said was that you can't rule it out. Having just passed the sun, gases in the comet's icy core will be heating up like a hotspring. This will affect the comet speed and trajectory in ways-- that we just can't predict. Fascinating. Now l understand the Storm Hazards Dept. has sent you to northern Alaska to observe the comet swing by. That's right. We'll be just inside the Arctic Circle where the comet is expected to pass over. Its orbital fulcrum, meaning the closest it will be to Earth, it's a very exciting opportunity for us to observe geomagnetic anomalies in the Earth's magnetic field. Thank you, Doctor. That was local astrophysicist Dr. James Mayfield via satellite from Alaska. [sizzling and roaring] [birds chirping] Getting a signal? Yep. Logging into the satellite. Ah, my last two Cubans. I've been saving them for a special occasion. That's against the law, you know. Yeah. Well. Relax, Peter we're in Alaska. Well, the U.S. Trade Embargo says that no American citizen can smoke a Cuban cigar anywhere in the world. And we're in! Showtime. You can get ten years. That's a good point. I better smoke both of them. [phone beeping] Hey, Pam. Satellite link is up. You should be getting REM readings. Copy, James. We're getting it now. (male voice) Across the globe, eyes look skyward tonight. Millions of teachers and students in every nation get the chance to glimpse something great astronomers of the past could only have dreamed of. Okay, everyone. I'd like to show you something. Just as our planet has a magnetic field, so does the comet. This comet's gonna pass Pluto by the time this guy finishes. Zoe, could you come up here, please? Hold this up for me, please. We're going to imagine that this compass is Earth. As the comet passes, the magnetic fields interact, creating intense bursts of electromagnetic waves, which can interfere with modern technology so ladies, no sulking if your boyfriend don't return your text messages tonight. [light chuckling] Yo, it's a freaking comet, not your mother undressing. Hey, move it. Leave him alone! Hey! Hey!! Hey! Hey, stop it! [glass breaks] Stop it. Stop. Stop it. You'll both be reimbursing the school for the cost of a new telescope. What? This guy started it, Miss Penny! No, I didn't! He was picking on him! It's Mrs. Mayfield now, and I particularly care who started it, you're both paying for a new telescope. I'll be contacting your parents about the exact cost. Bad enough you married my father, now I can't even get fair treatment in class? Go wait by the washroom, Shane. The data is looking a bit fragmented. Electromagnetic interference is coming on strong. Yeah, our friend Copernicus seems unusually magnetic. Where's my lighter? Viewers are probably experiencing increased interference as Copernicus reaches what is expected to be its closest proximity to Earth. Comet is at orbital fulcrum. (Pam) It should be passing over your area in just a few minutes. (male reporter) We've just gotten word that the comet has reached-- [static] Already there are five press reports of mass-- (Miss Penny) This is extraordinary. We'll continue to broadcast throughout this historic event, [heavy static] but it is possible that we may experience-- may lose our signal, and we apologize for that. --obviously beyond our control. Hey. An electromagnetic storm from the comet is affecting our electricity. Whoa, whoa! Just had a surge in the electron acceleration. The fields EM levels are skyrocketing. Radiation beIt's being pushed into the atmosphere. Pam, are you reading this? Yes. I'm measuring a radiation spike in the belt safe-zone. and rising. Hey, look at this. Wait, that's odd. I'm getting a second set of separate readings from the comet. Magnify sector LP4. [beep] I see something in the tail. Copernicus is fragmenting! We've got a piece of the comet breaking away. We can't see anything. Can you read the fragment's specs? Projectile diameter is Velocity at a second. What's the trajectory? Descending at-- It's gonna hit Earth. Use the belt electron trajectory to triangulate a point of impact. Working on it! Latitude 51 degrees and longitude 179. James, that's only where you are. [breaks up] James? Did you hear what I said? Get out of there! Notify I EW to issue an alert. Repeat, notify IEW to issue an alert. Pam, you copy? Damn it! Where's their projective point of impact? I don't know. I lost her. Maybe l can amplify the signal. Shockwave! Get back in the car! Let's get out of here! What's the point? We're dead! We can't outrun a blast! Avalanche bunker at the bottom of the hill! Right! Step on it, man! [roar] [distant explosion] [deafening roaring] Try uploading the data in case we don't make it. James. [deafening roaring] Peter! Get out of there! Come on! [shout] (Lou Vanetti) Reports of massive damage and casualties have been coming in from Alaska, northern Canada, and eastern Russia. Communication is still down throughout these affected areas. As the death toll rises, we're getting estimates that as many as a quarter of a million people may have perished in this history-making disaster. One piece of good news to report, local resident Dr. James Mayfield has miraculously survived the blast despite being within a few hundred miles of ground zero where the comet struck. He is expected to be arriving home today. James! I thought I'd lost you. It's good to be home. (Lou over TV) Mayfield is one voice raising caution... Hey, buddy. Hey, Dad! [happy chuckles] You okay? Yeah. Welcome home. Thanks. Who wants coffee? I would love one. Well, I'm sure you guys has lots of science stuff to talk about so, Whoa, Shane. Where are you going? I just got home, sit down with us. Yeah, I'm kinda tired. I feel like laying down. He got into a fight and broke a telescope. I'm making him and the other kid pay for it. Sorry. No, don't be sorry. I don't envy either one of you. I wouldn't want a stepmother for a teacher or a stepson for a student. Now that you're home, you're gonna have to play bad cop and do all the disciplining. Otherwise he's never gonna let me get close. Deal. (female voice) ... worst-case scenarios that were to happen if the comet were to hit Earth, I wonder, Mr. President, has the impact from the comet created a lasting effect, the public should be concerned with. We're still investigating that possibility. But right now, it doesn't appear that there's anything that the public needs to worry about. You gotta be joking. What? A 300-meter projectile hits the planet at 30 km per second and he's saying there's nothing to worry about? Maybe he just doesn't want to scare the public. [loud exhale] Unlike some people I know. My science advisers have reported that the immediate crisis is over. So the important thing for the American people to know is that they're safe, that they can go on about their daily lives, This is unbelievable. James, I know you went through a terrible ordeal in Alaska. But you're home now. Okay? So let someone else do the worrying for a change. Enjoy being with your family. You're right. You're right as usual. Mm-hm. The United States of America [static] stands ready to offer assistance all available citizens necessary. [loud piercing noise] What is that terrible sound? [static, shrill sound] [loud humming in crescendo] [loud thuds] An earthquake? Quick, take cover! Shane, you okay? [door opens] Yeah. What? What? (James, over phone) What do you mean it's been classified? Just what I said. All the data we collected in Alaska and uploaded to Government has been classified. And neither you nor I have the clearance to access it. In fact, we shouldn't even be talking about this right now. The whole dept's under a gag order. That tremor we just had was preceded by some kind of EM disturbance which could mean that there's been serious damage to the magnetic field. Yeah. I recorded an EM spike earlier but I didn't know what caused it. We need the comet data. Who classified it? The Administration. Great. Not even a comet hit is immune to political spin. Maybe there really was some damage to the field and they don't want to disclose it to the public. We need to find out. (female recorded voice) You've reached the office of the President's Science Adviser. Due to extenuating circumstances, this office will not be taking phone calls until further notice. [beep] [deep sigh] [buzzing] What are you doing up on the roof? T racking the sun. And why would you be tracking the sun? It's not where it's supposed to be. Why would you say that? Yesterday, the sun set behind Eagle Peak. What do you mean? It's never set behind the Peak. Exactly. [phone rings] Hello? (girl's voice) Hey! Is this Shane? Yeah, who's this? Hi, it's Zoe. I was just calling to tell Miss Penny the pastries are ready. Pastries? We're donating them for the school's disaster fund drive. So she can pick them up whenever she wants. Okay, I'll let her know. Okay. Bye. Bye. Hi. Zoe just called. The pastries for the fund drive are ready. Want me to go pick them up for you? That would be great, Shane. Thank you. Can I help you? Oh. Hi. How's it going? Good. You're here to pick up the stuff for your mom, right? She's not my mom. Okay. Step-mom. Hey. You have my sympathy. I'd die if my dad picked one of my teachers. [cell rings] Hello? Hey! My God. What is it? The sun's 10 degrees off where it should be this time of year. How can that be? Okay. In like an hour? You still meeting Kevin at the park today? Uh, yeah. Yeah, okay. Alright, okay. Bye. Here it is. Thanks. I'll be at the park with Kevin. Oh, yeah? Yeah. I'll see you there. Cool. [car door closes] Hey, James! Hey, Lou! I haven't had a chance to talk to you since the interview. So, what's this great story you've got for me? You remember how we used to come out here and watch all those sunsets? Maybe that's what you came out here for. I was out here for the babes and the booze. Do you remember how this sundial was always right on the money? Yeah, I remember. [loud music from car] [motor revs] Hey, Shane. Hey, Zoe. So what am l? Chopped liver? So, Shane buddy, l got a little problem because of you. You see this car? My dad's making me sell it to pay for the stupid telescope you broke. We broke it. Whatever. The point is, I think we can settle this little problem. How is that? Drag race. You and me. You win, I'll pay the the telescope. I win, you pay. Come on, what do you think? Not afraid of getting your ass whupped, are ya? You wouldn't win. Ouch. You hear that? Greaser-boy thinks he can beat me. Let's do it. Dr. Mayfield says his suspicion was first aroused when he noticed the sun setting behind Eagle Peak. Now, I can tell you from my own experience as I was growing up here, the sun has never set behind Eagle Peak before. And then there's our trusty sundial here which has never been wrong. Until today. [motors rev loudly] [piercing sound from radio] Ready, guys? Get set-- [shout] Shane! Get out, Shane! Shane! Shane! Get out! Oh, my God. You okay? Are you alright? [heavy breathing] What happened? What just happened? Poor Kevin. Oh, my God. I can't get reception. What about you? Nothing. What is that? [dull roar] It looks like an aurora. Here? I thought those things only happened up north in places like Alaska. Something bad's happening. Dr. Mayfield, what exactly is the problem with an axis tilt changing ten degrees? I mean, so what if the sun sets 10 minutes later? A shifted axis tilt means the Earth's axis of rotation is out of alignment with its magnetic poles. This could have serious consequences for the Earth's magnetic field. Seismic activity, electromagnetic interference with communications that we've been experiencing, This could all be just the beginning. The beginning of what? A catastrophic pole reversal. You mean like what happened a million years ago when the north and south poles changed places? That's right. Back to you. (James) Yeah! Yeah! Alright already! James, buddy, we are famous. What are you talking about? [guffaws] You don't know? Know what? Your story caught fire. My report got picked up by all the big networks. Really? Yeah. There is some weird crap going on all over this country that the government does not want to talk about but your theory makes more sense than these-- alien invasion stories so the networks picked it up. Good. Maybe it'll force the Administration to come clean. Look, any more earth-shattering developments-- I'm your man, right? See you, Lou. I'm your man, right? See you, Lou! I'm your man! Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. How are you, sir? Who leaked the axis tilt to the press? A Dr. James Mayfield, sir. Mayfield? That's your son, isn't it, General? Yes, sir. Dr. Mayfield is my son. Then what the heck's he doing leaking classified information? I'm sorry, sir. I'm not aware of his activities. We haven't spoken in nearly five years. You don't say. Maybe now would be a good time for a family reunion. Because if you can't put a muzzle on him, we will. What exactly was his involvement with this? Our Storm Hazard Research Dept. contracted Dr. Mayfield to monitor the comet's effect on the radiation belts. So wasn't this guy on the same gag order as everyone else? Yes, sir, and his research was classified, but to be honest, sir, the data he updated couldn't have revealed an axis tilt as it was collected prior to the comet hit. Don't argue semantics with me, doctor. A gag order is a gag order. I don't need 400 phone calls coming into the White House every hour about a pole reversal that's not going to happen. It's not going to happen, right, Dr. Elman? It's a preposterous thought, Mr. President. The consensus is that the Earth's axis will slowly fall back in place as it rotates. Glad to hear it. However, this sort of doomsday hysteria, is exactly why we need to keep the public in the dark right now. Your son-- Sir? Is he smart? Yes, sir. How smart is he? Too smart for his own good, sir. That's what it sounds like. You better bring him in. Yes, sir. James. It's really happening. All the telltale signs. This is unprecedented. What is? The pole reversal. Shane didn't come home last night. Are you sure? Yeah, his car isn't here, his bed hasn't been slept in and I can't reach him on his cell. He said he was going to the park last night. Oh, my God. I just heard on the radio the park was ripped apart by a major earthquake last night. Let's go! [sirens] What's going on? Dr. Mayfield. We need you to come to the air base with us, sir. Base? For what? I don't know, sir. But we have an executive order to take you to the base. By force if necessary. Go. Go. I'll find Shane. I'll call you as soon as I know what's going on. This way. Anything? Nothing. That's weird, I always get a signal here. Hey, Dad. James. I should've known you were behind this. Long time no see. Five years is not so long. I guess it justs seemed long to me. Get my birthday card? I did. Thank you. Very considerate. How's your son? He must be getting awfully big by now. Yes, he is. You probably wouldn't even recognize him. Probably not. Have a seat, James. So, you caused quite a stir in Washington. How's that, sir? Violating a government gag order, for one thing. I didn't violate any gag order. That axis shift was my own research. Don't play games with me, James. You're either on the team or you're not. Here we go. You know full well the intent of the gag order. Everything you worked on was classified. The public has the right to that information. It's not your call. You're a science rat. You don't make policy. And scaring the American public is against this country's greater good. You think you're a good soldier. You're just a lapdog for political bosses. You'd probably shoot me yourself if they told you it would serve the greater good. What am l doing here? Obviously it's not because you missed me. I had the President of the United States tell me that my son was a national security risk. So what? He wants to burn me at the stake? No, lucky for you, he wants to hear you out. Oh, you mean he wants to cover his ass. (anchorwoman) Increased electronic interference continues [static] to be reported from around the world. This new development, coupled with the increase of reported seismic activity, and the appearance of what seems to be auroras all around the globe have many fearing for the worst. Oh, my God. Are you guys okay? What happened? Where's your car? This thin skin is the Earth's crust. Spitting liquid in the core is the engine which generates our protective magnetic field. Dr. Mayfield, we didn't bring you here for a geology class. A shift in the axis tilt causes slippage of the crust around the core. Consequently, the Earth is now out of alignment with its magnetic field. And the misaligned crust is causing increased seismic activity. Yes, yes, we're aware of all that. We just want to hear specific evidence pertaining to your-- far-fetched notion of a pole reversal. I assume you're aware of beached whales, birds migrating in the wrong direction, bees swarming. Yes, creatures realigned with the magnetic field for navigation were confused, a short-lived result of the comet's temporary distortion of the magnetic field. Answer me this, then, why are polar auroras suddenly appearing in places they shouldn't? Again, temporary distortion of the magnetic field. Similar to what occurs when there's a bad solar storm. What are we talking about here, gentlemen? Aurora Borealis? Auroras normally occur when the Earth's poles attract solar particles. The fact that so many polar auroras are appearing elsewhere, indicates that new magnetic poles are developing. I saw a polar aurora here last night. We are now sitting on a magnetic pole. Which explains all the electromagnetic interference, and the seismic activity we've been having. Many strange anomalies have occurred in modern times without catastrophic consequence. These, um, fields are like, um, rubber bands. They bend and stretch and thin, but inevitably they always return to their original state. But this time the rubber band has snapped! Mr. President, the mini poles indicate electromagnetic reversal has started. As the north and south poles disintegrate, the magnetic field they support will collapse, static discharges will create electromagnetic shock waves which will fry everything electronic. We'll be thrown back into the Stone Age. The north and south poles will disappear, reemerging at opposite ends of the globe, by which point our protective magnetic shield will be completely gone, exposing us to cosmic rays which will incinerate the planet, just like what happened on Mars! Must we be so melodramatic? This is real science, Mr. President. This planet has seen many geomagnetic reversals. Just not since we've been here. As a man of science, I'm sure you can appreciate the need for thoughtful, rational discussion. However, your melodrama and sensational media appearances, gives one the impression that your intentions are perhaps more to do with self-promotion. I've had a long day, gentlemen. I'm signing off. What did you expect, James? You just told them the world was gonna end. This isn't global warming, Dad, where we can spend years dragging our feet and debating the facts. They'll find out soon enough. [birds chirping] [soft music over car radio] [piercing sound over radio] Wait. That's the same sound I heard just before the quake last night. [shrill sound] [radio wallah] [piercing sound over radio] Stop the car! [distant dull roar] Turn off the car! [thunderous booming] [sizzling] [shout] [beeping] My God. I've never seen anything like this. [beeps] Save your data everybody! [phone rings] Storm Hazards. (James) What just happened? Oh, my God, James. It was a massive 40 khz EM pulse surge. Unlike anything we've ever seen. Yes. All the cities that were hit were blacked out. And not only that. Most of the satellites in orbit got fried. What could have possibly created a surge like that? It's gotta be connected to the polar auroras. Were the hits random? I don't know yet. We lost power during the spike, which was lucky for us. Otherwise the EM surge would have fried everything. We're just getting our emergency generators going. We're pulling up data now. I'm seeing about where 40-mile wide EM waves struck Earth. Overlay the locations of the mini poles on your screen, and tell me what you see. Overlay locations of all detected mini poles. Oh, my God. All the hit areas are where the mini poles are. Then that's it. The solar particles attracted by the poles are building up massive electrostatic discharges! Pam, your office has to tell all those hit areas to evacuate, including Lindenville. The discharges are gonna get much stronger as the field fails. It's going to be hard to issue an alert with a global blackout but we'll certainly do our best. Can you run a timeline projection on your mainframe? Give me a couple of hours. It'll take a while to process the data. James? How do we stop this? I don't know that we can. We just had the first worldwide blackout in history. And you and none of your brains can explain why? What we know right now for certain is that the affected cities were struck by large electromagnetic shock waves. Just as Dr. Mayfield had predicted. General, have you been able to locate your son yet? Not yet, sir. He's in one of the blackout areas. Well, I want to speak with him as soon as he's located. Yes, Mr. President. So tell me, Dr. Elman, can you still say with a certainty that we're not experiencing pole reversal? I don't have an answer right now, sir. Are we going to see more of this? Give me the worst-case scenario. Mr. President, until we've assembled our teams, I don't want to speculate on something that's not my area of expertise. Don't try to cover your ass with me, doctor. We've got power outages across the country! American lives are at risk! So tell me, to the best of your ability, are we going to see more of this? I believe so, Mr. President. Then I have no choice but to declare federal martial law. General Mayfield? Yes, sir. You'll supervise west coast operations. Yes, Mr. President. We'll start setting up shelters in the affected areas, sir. James, thank God. Did you find Shane? Yeah, he was at the park, I've been trying to call you. Cell phones are useless. Only landlines are working. Where's Shane? One of the kids he was with last night was killed in the earthquake. Oh, no. What's going on? There's no power and I saw an EM wave in the sky. It's bad. We're gonna have to get out of Lindenville. Shane. You okay? It's happening, huh? Is the world falling apart? No, no. Just going through a rough patch. I've packed for us both. I'm not going with you. What do you mean? I'm going back to the base. What are you talking about? Why? I have an idea, and I have to talk to the President. I don't want to, Cyn, I just-- I don't see that there's a choice. You're right, there is no choice, because your family comes first. No wonder Shane thinks you don't love him. Listen to me. This is not a drill. It's the real deal. The survival of the planet depends on actions taken in the next and those so-called government science advisers don't have a clue. I have to do this. For us. We're here, smack in the middle of a mini pole's magnetic center, the most dangerous place to be right now. Everywhere inside this circle is gonna get bombarded by EM pulses and torn apart by seismic disturbances. I want you guys out of this circle as soon as possible. Go to this town here, Little Brook and wait for me, okay? What are you talking about, Dad? You're coming, right? I can't. I have to go back to the base. I don't believe it, you're abandoning us? That sucks! Try to understand, there is a global crisis going on. You think I don't know that? I saw one of my classmates crushed to death in a car last night. I know. I'm sorry. So you don't care if the same thing happens to us? Of course I do, that's why I have to fix this. We'll be okay. Leave me alone. Shane, come on! When an EM wave hits, turn the car off till it passes. The electronics won't be short-circuited as long as the power's off. If the power's on, you and the car will fry. How long will you be? A day. Maybe two. Be careful. Yeah. You too. Shane? No! No! No, no, no! Take those earbuds off. Stay away from electronics. You will get electrocuted if an EM wave hits. I'm serious. It's dangerous. Get rid of it. I'll see you soon. Hey-- I love you. (male voice over radio) All residents are advised to remain tuned to this emergency broadcast channel. Federal martial law has been declared. Lindenville residents are ordered to evacuate their homes and take shelter at Lindenville parish. Why are they telling everyone to go to the church? Didn't Dad say it's dangerous to stay in town? Oh, what's this? The road's closed. You're supposed to take shelter in the parish. We're going to Little Brook. Ma'am, we have orders to divert everyone to the Lindenville parish. That's ridiculous. It's not even safe there. Ma'am, please, just back it up. Alright? Let's go. [radio wallah with interference] Come on! [piercing sound] [distant roar] (male voice over radio with shrill noise) --ordered to evacuate their homes and take shelter-- [shrill noise] [click] Turn the car off! [growing thunder] [sizzling] [sizzling and humming] [silence] I think it's gone. Start the car. Damn it! We'll have to go back. [loud growing rumble] [loud cracking] Get out of the car now! Come on! Jump! [scream] No! [distant rumble dies away] [birds chirping] [motor starts smoothly] [gasping] [scream] I can't hold on! Yes, you can!! Don't let go!! Help! Anybody, help! Grab it! Come on!! [groaning] (James) We need to evacuate everyone from the mini pole sites. We just started rounding up people for the shelters. No, you can't do that. The plasma charges building up from the pole reversal are escaping through the mini poles. This whole area is gonna get hit worse and worse, as the field fails. Alright. I'll notify the soldiers but communications have been spotty. What about the President? Will you be able to contact him? Yeah, the emergency hotline is holding up. Good. I've got a crazy idea. I need to access Storm Hazard's mainframe. Oh, follow me. [phone rings] Storm Hazards. Pam, talk to me. I'm briefing the President in a few minutes. James, the computer projection-- it's not good. I need to see whoever's in charge. Get that. Take them in. Inside this circle is the most dangerous place in the west coast. We're here, at the epicenter of the mini pole creating the electromagnetic and seismic disturbances. We need to move all of these people outside the circle to here. Where did you get this information? My husband, Dr. James Mayfield. He's a government astrophysicist. He's briefing the President right now. I--l--I haven't heard anything about this. My orders are to keep everybody here. I know, but I'm telling you it's not safe here. Lindenville has become the magnetic center of a mini pole. What is that? Mini pole? [motor starts] No, no, no. Turn the power off. The electricity will attract the next EM pulse. You have to shut the generator down. Shut it down? I don't think so. You're not listening to me! We're in danger here! Ma'am, federal martial law has been declared. I can't just move hundreds of people because you show me some map with a circle drawn on it. You know what? Call General Mayfield. He'll vouch for everything I just said. (James) Storm Hazard's lab just ran this projection. This is what the magnetic field normally looks like. This is what it looks like now. Punctured by mini poles. This is 12 hours out. Magnetic field at zero Gauss. Gentlemen, we have two days before our planet loses its protective shield. and solar radiation burns us all to a crisp. Anyone here take issue with Dr. Mayfield's projections? No, sir. No, sir. Alright, then, so who's got a game plan to stop this pole reversal? Alright, this is the way I see it. What if we detonate a nuclear explosion of a magnitude equal to that with which the comet fragment hit Earth in the opposing hemisphere so that it pushes back with equal force? Are you crazy? How do we know it wouldn't make things worse? What about fallout? Fallout? The pole reversal completes in and then it is bye-bye planet. Does anybody else have a better idea? That's what I thought. That comet fragment hit us with the force of a 100-megaton bomb. We don't have a warhead that powerful. What's the most powerful nuke in the U.S. arsenal? We have a new 50-megaton prototype that's at the nuclear test site. We can do a double detonation to equal a hundred. [noises over radio] And? We can't get through to the general. Our communications are down. We can't just leave these people here. This place is a ticking time bomb. I suggest you find a cot and you chill. And? (soldier) Not yet, sir. Zoe! Hey, when did you get here? Just a few minutes ago. Excuse me, everybody. Can I have your attention please? Hi, I'm Cynthia Mayfield, I'm a science teacher at Lindenville High. Many of you know that my husband, Dr. James Mayfield is a respected astrophysicist. He's told me that our town is the epicenter of the electromagnetic and seismic disturbances that is happening on the west coast and that it's very dangerous to stay here. So we need to move outside the circle. The nearest safe town is Little Brook. (soldier) You want to step down from there, ma'am? How come the soldiers don't know this? Because their communications are down. They're completely in the dark. I'm not gonna ask you again, ma'am. Please, listen to me. We could all die here! Get her off of there. Is it true? If you open your mouth about this to anyone again, you will be arrested. Is that clear? Yes. And I don't want to see that map again. Release her. (general) James, you'll be happy to know that the bomber is on its way. And 250-megaton warheads will launch at 16:00 hours. [phone rings] Yes? What do you mean we lost the plane? Yes. Thank you. An EM pulse took out the bomber. The warheads exploded in midair. They have to try again. Send another plane. James, the skies are unflyable. We'll lose them all. They have to try. Send 20 planes. One might get through. James. James. You have to think of something else. Fast. There's got to be another way. (Cyn) We've got to get out of here. Why would the soldiers keep us here if it isn't safe? Because they don't know anything. They're just following their last orders. Communications have gotten so bad they can't even contact their superiors. What do you want to do? Dr. Mayfield was right when he said the comet might hit Earth. I think we should go. We're in. Come on. It's right over here. This one here. Those poor people, I feel so bad leaving them. You did everything you could, Cyn. (James) Gentlemen, I have a new plan that might just work. We're gonna detonate at the bottom of the ocean, the Mariana Trench, the deepest point in the Earth's crust. Dr. Elman? Yes, the ocean crust is thin enough that the blast could go right through to the lithosphere yes, it could conceivably push the planet back into alignment. The Mariana Trench is over 36,000 feet, deep, doctor. How do you plan on getting there? A submarine. Unfortunately, doctor, we don't have any that are operational. What do you mean? EM interference crippled the onboard computers that control the nuclear reactors. Are you telling me there's not a single sub out there? That's right. That's not exactly true, general. The Russians have an old diesel they still train on. She isn't pretty but she's running. She's on the west coast for international training. Open that bunker. Yes, sir! [emergency radio wallah] I guess they're still ordering everyone to the church. [radio interference with whistle] I can hear it. Hear what? An EM pulse tone. What's an EM pulse tone? Electromagnetic shockwave. It's a burst of electromagnetic energy coming from mini pole. That sub should be in the harbor by now. [shrill whistle over radio] What the heck is that noise? It's a pulse tone. Cut the engine, Dad. Now? Yes! Stop the car, right now! [shrill piercing whistle] Ah! What was that? [shrill whistle] [click] There it is! Oh, my God. Turn the car off, Michael! Turn it off! Everything electric has to be turned off, your cell phones, mp3 players, everything. Get rid of your watch, Michael. [distant roar] I hope those guys remember to cut their engine. Cut your engine! [many screams] Cut your engine!! Cut your engine!! I think it passed. Michael, what's wrong? Dad? Are you okay? Can you drive? Sure. James! Check the engine. We've got no time to waste. Battery and accelerator are fried. Looks like we may be an hour away from getting out of the circle. We need to get my father to a hospital. What's wrong? He has a pacemaker. I think the storm shorted it out. Oh, God! Here. How are we doing? Good. Give it a try. Okay. [motor starts] [Russian wallah] [horn honks] It is an honor, General Mayfield. Captain Yolenkov. This is Dr. Mayfield. Captain. I see the resemblance. There are two warheads in the back of that truck. [speaks Russian] So, we work together to save world, no? Yes. Dr. Mayfield will formulate the detonation sequence. My ship, she strong as ox but she's not so fast, you know. Yes. We know. The closest town is Clarksville. We passed it a few minutes ago. Maybe they have a hospital. No, don't go back. I'm okay. Just get out of the circle. [shrill whistle] Oh, no, not again. [shrill whistle] [distant roar] (general) They've gotta get out of here fast. (man) Get out or I'll blow your head off. Okay. Okay, okay. Everyone get out or I'll kill all of you! Please, my father is having a heart attack, we have to get him to a hospital. Get out or I'll put him out of his misery. Take it easy. We're going. Get out. [shout] [shout] Dad! [intermittent beeping] What are the conditions in the Mariana Trench? Expect seismic activity like you've never seen. You should warn your crew that the steam vents will be heating up the ocean causing violent current shifts. Hm. All this from rock hitting Earth? Technically, the comet fragment was made of ice, but yes. So tell me, Dr. Mayfield, you plan to detonate these bombs at one time [sigh] No. Not exactly. In order to get a I need to formulate a detonation sequence just milliseconds apart. You know, of course, that this vessel cannot outrun such a shockwave. We know. Your crew, captain. Do they know? They have volunteered for this mission, in order to save their families. [buzz] [beep] [thud] Outrunning the shockwave is the least of our worries. It's fried, Shane. You know you can't start a car without the battery. Cars in the old days didn't have batteries. They had hand cranks. Yeah, well, we don't have a hand crank, and this is a modern car. You don't need a battery to drive either. All yo need to do is capture an electrical charge so it'll help ignite the spark plugs. Where are we gonna get that from? Ever seen anything like this? No one has. We're witnessing a geological event that hasn't happened on this scale in millions of years. What creates such hell? Massive techtonic movements. How will this affect the mission? Well, it makes it nearly impossible. [metal groaning] [metal groaning] [shouts] [ringing] [speaks Russian] [male voice over radio, speaks in Russian] Dad. Dad. I'm okay. We have lost one engine. Power will be 50%. Hey. Can Shane really do what he says he's doing? All I know is Shane loves working with cars. He's the biggest greaser at our school. Better hurry up with that, Shane. Almost in position. [metal groaning] Damn it! We cannot stay at this dept very long. You have a family, captain? Of course. So we're gonna stay here as long as it takes. If we die from a crushed hull or a shockwave, what difference does it make? If we fail, the whole world dies. [beeping] This is it. We're on! Okay, I got us in the timers on the warheads! [speaks Russian] Here it comes! I'm just about done. I don't think l should be holding this anymore. Almost there. Shane! Done! Antena! Tape! Come on! We need to move away. Shane, come on! Let's go! I feel happy to die knowing it was to-- save family on surface. But I'm sad that you must die with your son. Until a few days ago, I hadn't seen James in five years. So-- [door creaks] (James) We're on. It's done, captain. Fire when ready. [alarm sounds] It will be impossible to outrun the shockwave with one engine, but at least I tried. (Shane) I think it's done. We just have to pray that one static charge has been trapped in the cylinder. [motor doesn't start] Come on, baby. [motor starts] Yeah! You're a genius! We've got the greatest show on earth here, Dad. It's a scientist's dream, isn't it? Captain! If you could take us into that volcano, the steam funnel might propel us out of the shockwave's path. The hull is not designed for such temperatures. Hm. What have we got to lose? [loud metal groaning] Hull temperature is rising. The heat is expanding the metal. [static] Brace yourselves. (President) Thanks to unprecedented cooperation between nations, we have survived the most catastrophic event to ever threaten our existence. The Earth has been healed. The human spirit has triumphed. But we will honor those lost with our resolve to rebuild, and we will rejoice in what we've been given. A chance for a new beginning. Ten a.m. Perfect time. And finally, our fragile planet owes a huge debt to Dr. James Mayfield. He's here. (Shane) Dad! (James) This is your grandfather.
