 

                        No, no! No! - Get out! - Take him! Don't mark her. We want a good price for the girl. Dog. He will give you wisdom. 20 denarii. 20 denarii. Final bid. And sold for 20 denarii! For your consideration, this beautiful young maiden. Play along, or you'll get the whip! Perfect for a house slave, or work at the temple. Who will give me 15? 15! 18! Her looks are worth more than 18. 20! 25 for the girl! 25 denarii from the lady. She's probably not worth it, but 30! Do I hear any other bids? 35 denarii! 40! 40 denarii! You'll not get a higher bid than that! Excellent. Final bid and... I will give you 50 denarii! Thank you. Take her then! My cows are worth more than she is. Sold. - Your name, sir. - Polycarp! Thank you. Bring out the next girl. Ah, you must buy. - You must. - No, no. - Oh, yes. - Pretty, but no. Melina, my dear. So, it was enough? The Lord provided. Well, I must be about my work. This is my husband Elias. So what do they call you, child? We mean you no harm. My name is Germanicus. I can pick a name for you. Anna. Welcome to our home, Anna. We won't keep you from your work. And this... This will be your room. - I don't- - You can take it anytime. Okay. It won't be like last time. You're not going... Friends! It is by the grace of God that we are all here tonight. We are gathered for a very special occasion. Anna, welcome to our home. We would have you share our work and our provisions, but not as a slave. As a member of our family. Anna, tonight you have received your freedom from slavery. Likewise, we have been delivered from the bondage of sin... and through the perfect love of God have been welcomed into his family. Yes. Welcome, child. Welcome. I, Gaius Asianius Quadratus, am pleased to offer the citizens of Smyrna the opportunity to show your devotion to Rome and our Emperor. I set forth a new proclamation that all will be devoted to our beloved Caesar by offering incense and proclaiming him as your Lord and your God. May the gods go with you, and may Caesar be exalted. Justin. Greetings, Maximus. Your presence has been missed among our garrison. Now that is hard to believe. So now Caesar's a god. The Proconsul should be more concerned about pleasing the people than Rome. He's only seeking fame and good fortune for our city. Hmm... and what if the people don't comply? Quadratus has a way of getting what he desires. He may find it's more difficult than he believes. Be careful, Justin. Times are changing. Quadratus will just make the worship of Ceasar law. He can't mandate worship. The priests call it allegiance to Rome. We must leave Smyrna. You think it will come to that? We can continue our work better if we are not in prison. But what of our work here? We can't just abandon it. Let us give this matter some time and prayer. God will show us what to do when the time comes. Well, what have we here? Nourishment that God has provided. Thank you, dear. Demetrius, time to eat. Germanicus, back so soon? I ran the whole way. There are some things worth giving your life for, but you don't have to kill yourself for a simple message. For Quadratus, when you have recovered. I'll take it right away. Eat some food before you go. Alright. Boys. He'll learn. Perhaps when he has attained my years, he will acquire some of my sensible pace. Chores are less burdensome when done in company. Greetings, Melina. Sarah. I have your order ready. Fresh-picked this morning. Thank you. That necklace has a story behind it. You should ask Polycarp about it. Why will you not share it with me? It is his story to tell. How are you, Sabina? Why, who do you have with you? This is my new daughter, Anna. Well, what can I get for you today? The usual, two loaves. And how about a piece of sweet bread, for a sweet girl? Many thanks. We love God, because he first loved us. And the love that we share with one another is the love that we have received from God himself. The perfect example of that love is Jesus Christ, who laid down his life for us, so that we also ought to lay down our lives for one another. Does that mean we have to die? Well, at the very least we must die to ourselves in order to serve one another in love. Not neglecting the widow, the orphan, the poor and the fatherless. We ought to speak of our faith boldly and without wavering. The blessed Paul taught us that we are to pray without ceasing. So let us make intercessions and supplications and thanksgiving, especially for those in authority. Even Caesar. Even the Pronconsul. That we may live peaceful and quiet lives in all godliness and holiness, as is pleasing to God, who would have all men come to the knowledge of the truth that we now hold: That there is one God and there is one mediator between God and men, Jesus Christ, who gave his life for ransom for all. And now may the grace and peace and love and joy of our God be with you, richly now and forever. Amen. - Amen. - Amen. I don't believe in the gods. I don't believe in the gods, either. I have prayed many times. My words hang empty in the air. There is a God who answers prayer. He's never answered mine. It's merely water. I suppose I'll live. Why were the soldiers here? Oh, it seems the Proconsul desires my company. Will you go? Yes, I believe I will. He's causing more trouble for himself. The Proconsul seeks the favor of Rome, however misguided. The heart of a king is like a river in the hand of God... and he turns it as he will. I shall be a moment. I was about his age when Polycarp took me in. Just as rambunctious. Germanicus? Hm? Were you a slave? No. My parents died of illness that winter. If the Christians hadn't taken me in... I might not have survived that year. Polycarp was a slave once. He was? Back when he was but a boy. I can't imagine anyone ordering him around. Someone is trying. I would have your final answer soon. If it's a different answer you seek, I fear you will be disappointed. One can always hope. One can always pray. It seems all you do is copy scrolls one from another. Don't you write anything of your own? Well, sometimes I do. Mostly I copy writings of the apostles and my mentor John. What does he need so many copies for? For those who have none. Polycarp used to travel, but now he writes, and we run. I wish I could be a runner. You must be swift and strong, like me. Perhaps one day you will be. Cicero, why the long face? Is it your parents? They don't understand. And every time I try to explain, it doesn't come out right. I'm scared. Scared to even talk about God in their presence anymore. You can't let what others think keep you silent. Has Irenaeus arrived yet? Indeed. Not moments ago. Irenaeus. How good it is to see you, my brother. Likewise. Likewise. There is a shadow approaching us quickly. We must be ready. So we worship Caesar, or else? It will be beatings and prison. If ridicule is not enough. Well, we faced persecution before, we'll face persecution again. We should leave Smyrna for a time. There are many cities that have yet to hear the Gospel. We should seek peace. Now is no time to run. We should speak truth. With boldness. God has blessed us with homes here. With livelihoods here. With friends here. God may be leading us in different paths. We must discern his plan and obey... no matter the cost. If you should choose to leave, I invite each of you to join me in Ephesus. Whatever the Lord's will is, we will glorify him in what we do. Wherever we are. Whether we are here or there. But understand this. We will not be constrained by what Quadratus says or does. Our only constraint is the love of Christ. Amen. Almighty God... Lord of principalities and powers, and every living creature. Give us wisdom for this hour. Show us the path we are to take. It's time to go, my sweet daughter. There are so many stars. Have you ever tried to count them? No one can manage that. God can. God cannot only count them, he has a name for every single one of them. He knows your name too. Mmm, dear, thank you. Oh, that smells good. It will be ready to eat soon. A great meal starts with an empty stomach, not a full one. God go with you, my brother. If you find yourself on the road to Ephesus, look for the sign of the fish. There's someone here to see you. Please, bring him in. Quadratus seeks his answer. It is not to be found within these walls. The Proconsul desires peace among our people. A desire we both share. And you will persuade them? I will persuade them. I will persuade them to worship the one true God and to worship him alone. You have my thanks. Caesar is powerful. At least give thoughts to my words. That I will. And you give thought to mine. What was that all about? I've known Maximus a long time... and despite everything I've told him... he is still convinced his gods are real. What makes your god any more real than his gods? Now, that is a good question. Those gods were made by hands of men. They have eyes but cannot see. Ears, but cannot hear. Mouths, but cannot speak. Our God sees all things. Hears our every prayer. And his word endures forever. The true God made the hands of men. Can you not sleep, my child? Come. Tell me. What is on your mind? I don't understand... God loves us. Ah, well, no one fully can. The first person to teach me about God's love was a very kind Christian woman named Callisto. She purchased me as a slave... brought me into her home and raised me as a son. Her very life was a testimony of God's love. That necklace you wear once belonged to her. She gave you your freedom? Yes, yes she did. When I came of age, I went to study under the apostle John, the disciple whom Jesus loved. He taught me much about God's love. He used to say, "My dear children," "let us love one another, for love is of God." If it weren't for God's love, I would not be here. And I suppose, then, you would not be here either. That should be enough to think about for one night. God? God of the Christians. If you are listening, thank you for bringing me here. Oh! Cicero, come here, my son. Wait here. I'm glad you happened upon us. We came to show our devotion to Caesar as a family. You're welcome to join us. We must honor Caesar, not worship him. Caesar is no god. Ah, the innocence of youth. You say that Caesar is not a god. Cicero, there's only one true god. Come lad, there's no one more powerful on earth than Caesar. No one more thoughtful, more forgiving, more generous... to those that show him their allegiance. He's only a man, not a god. The words you speak are akin to treason against Rome. There are no traitors in my house. Caesar is Lord. Now, my naive lad, what will it be? I certainly don't see your true god anywhere. Germanicus! My son. Here. I, ah... heard about Cicero today. You gave good counsel. Yeah, when pressed I turned and ran... ashamed to stand for my Lord. I thought I was strong enough to withstand adversity. We are weak. In our own strength, we fail. It is only by God's grace that we can do that which does not come to us naturally. I don't deserve his grace. None of us do. That's why it's grace. Peter denied our Lord three times the day of his trial, yet God used him mightily. I, um... I often struggle with fear. You? You struggle with fear? Why do you think I speak so much of God's grace? Why do you think I speak so much of God's love? I don't know. Because perfect love casts out fear. My weakness is a constant reminder to me... of my continual need to rely on Christ. Why don't we pray? He wants to hear from you. Why do you not act like you're worshiping Caesar? When I was a slave, I had to act all the time. I would not have others mistake... my acting as true devotion to another. We are to share God with others, not hide him. It's easier said than done. Therefore gird up your loins. Serve the Lord in fear and truth. Stop listening to the empty, frivolous chatter of the crowd. Believe in him who raised Jesus from the dead and gave him glory and a throne at his right hand. Do you claim your god to be greater than Caesar? Who created the heavens and the earth but God? And who rose from the dead but Jesus Christ? Believe him, and do his will, and keep his commandments, and love what he loves. Blessed are you poor and persecuted for righteousness' sake. Yours is the kingdom of God. You should just arrest him now. He only speaks his mind. He's harmless. I doubt the Proconsul would see it as such. In Rome they are crucifying these types... or feeding them to the lions. Perhaps we should do the same. The world is heavy when you carry it on your shoulders, child. Hm. It's nothing. Life is just so confusing. Truth is often simpler than one might believe. They intend to kill you! Well, there have always been rumors. It's not a rumor. I overheard the soldiers myself. Well... if that is so... then I shall be given a great honor. Honor? To share in the sufferings of Christ. I must go speak to Justin. Perhaps you should take Anna with you. She hasn't spoken all morning. Pray God gives me words to speak. I will. Anna, come with me. It is clear than we cannot deny our faith. But must we go out of our way to make trouble? Polycarp must heed his conscience before God. We all must. What if it's too dangerous? Surely he would not want Polycarp to be killed? Pray that Quadratus will listen, that he might relent. And if he does not, we must be ready. Anna. I would like you to purchase another loaf for the evening meal. Thank you. Hurry back. I heard a rumor that Polycarp is in danger. There has been talk of leaving for safety. Where would you go? We have friends in Ephesus. But he does not want to go. It is just a rumor. I'm sure he will be fine. Thank you! You're welcome, dear. We will be eating soon. I'll be along shortly. Perhaps if you just spoke with him... Spoke with who? The Proconsul. It would do no good. What harm is there in trying? It is not something that you should worry about. Stop. Anna! Anna! Excuse me, sir. Speak up, girl, I haven't all day. I have heard of your dispute with the Christians. How do you know of the Christians? I heard them speak. They do not dishonor Caesar, but simply cannot worship him. You must let them show their honor in a way that will not compromise their faith. I must? If you wish to avoid any trouble with the Christians. It is they who should be afraid of me! We will never be afraid of you. Get her out of here. Release her! I'm unharmed. He is a traitor! Seize him! I regret I did not have the privilege of finishing our previous conversation. I will give you the opportunity to show your allegiance right here, right now. I will not betray my God. Caesar is your god and he demands your devotion! I don't believe you understand exactly what is at stake here. I will not commit such grievances against my God. This young man is one of those that believes in an invisible god. He leads our little ones astray. We will not tolerate such insolence in our city! Take him away. Did they say when his trial will be held? Tomorrow. Ninth hour. He will be needing our prayers. Holy Father, you are forever faithful. You are our refuge and our strength in time of trouble. You are our shield and our deliverer. Will you not deliver your beloved from the mouth of the lion? May his strength be in you and in your mighty power. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Remove all doubt from his mind and his heart. Strengthen his faith, that he may speak the truth. Truth that sets people free. I pray that your love might be perfected in him. That he might have your boldness. Just as you were, may he also be in this world. For you have not given us a spirit of fear, but of power, of love, and of discipline. May he know your heart. Restore us, o God, and give us strength to endure. And let your will be done, not ours. We ask this of you now. My son in the faith, be strong in the Lord, and act manfully when your day of temptation comes. Good day, Anna. Good day. May I go with you and Elias to the trial? You know they won't let us in. Even outside, one can hear them speak. You must stay close. I can appreciate the zeal of youth, but here it is misguided. All it has brought you followers of Christ is torture and death. You can expect the same if you continue on your stubborn course. I do not fear you. You may kill my body, but you cannot harm my soul. It is in God's hands alone. Silence! I will not tolerate such blasphemes in my court. Caesar is your god and he will determine your destiny. But let it never be said that we are without mercy. Worship Caesar and live. I serve the one and only true God, the maker of heaven and earth! Silence! He desires that you would discover his glory and declare him as your Lord. That is enough! You will pay for your folly and the citizens of Smyrna will be the wiser for it. You are hereby charged with high treason against the Roman Empire for blasphemy against Caesar and our other gods! For attempting to spread these poisonous teachings to others. I, Gaius Asinius Guadratus, Proconsul of Asia... sentence you to death today in the Arena. I wield the powers of the gods in this place. Take him away. Anna! Let her go. The arena is no place for a child. It's all my fault. I only meant to help. Come, child. Germanicus did not have his life taken from him. He gave it. Willingly. He ran to meet the lions. He did. He did not fear death. Only denying our Lord. One cannot truly live... until he knows what he's willing to die for. I don't see God's love in this. Germanicus had the love in him that overcomes fear. Our sorrow is real. We shall miss him desperately. I already do. But do not mourn for him. He is alive with the Lord. Great is his reward. Spread the word. Make it official. Yes, your excellency. Is Polycarp here? No, he's at Justin's. Why? Quadratus has enticed the people to bring Polycarp to him. They're calling for his death. Go! Quickly, now! Go get Polycarp's scrolls. They're in his satchel. I think it would be safer for you at Justin's. I'm safe with you. Anna! Anna. Take these scrolls to Polycarp. He's at Justin's. You know the way? Show her out the back. I love you, Anna. You're a true daughter to me. Be careful. Friends, what brings you here at this hour? We will have words with Polycarp! Well, he's not here. Now, go home. He lies! Search the place! We will find him! He's not here. Burn the place! It's a blemish on our city! You two, that way! You, follow me! What of Elias and Melina? We cannot leave them. Polycarp is the prize they seek. He must not fall into their hands. My brother. Go, we will make it from here. I shall see the scrolls to safety myself. I would go with you further. We are safe. See to your family and the others. God's grace be with you then. I hope to join you soon. Will they kill them? I can't be sure. It's me they want. Get some rest. How can an old man get away when he doesn't even know we're coming? I'm surrounded by incompetence! Well, don't just stand there! Go find him! I want him in chains by nightfall! How long will we stay here? We shall leave tomorrow. I must see the scrolls to Irenaeus and ensure their safety. But I want you to go to Justin. Tell him my plan. Take Anna with you. - But I would go with- - No, I must go alone. No fear. They posted a reward for Polycarp. He should be warned not to return. Demetrius! You know how to get to Justin's. Be careful. Run! Run, Anna! God, I need your help. If you find yourself on the road to Ephesus, look for the sign of the fish. Thank you. Because of this, I would have you continue my work. Anna? You must not return to Smyrna! They have a price for your head! A price? Well, I'm glad Quadratus considers me a person of worth. Do you not realize they seek to kill you? Sit down, child. Catch your breath. Take the things that I have taught you... and pass them on to others. Our God is faithful. Now you must go. Jana, we will be having visitors soon. I will prepare more. They arrested Demetrius. Oh, no. Justin was not home, so I came to warn you. I am sorry about Demetrius. Let not your heart be troubled for me. It is time for me to make my stand. Look at me. No one lights a lamp and puts it under a basket, but on a lamp stand, and it gives light to many. Please, have some food. You must be hungry. I would pray before we go. We will do as you say. Oh holy Father, you are a faithful and loving God to your people. I pray for my brothers and sisters. Give them grace to endure in this hour of trial. Help me to love those men in the next room. And forgive them, Lord. I pray for Anna. Oh, my Lord. Give her peace in her heart. Do not let her become angry or bitter with you for my sake. Draw her to your heart. I thank you, my Lord, that you have chosen me to be your servant. I pray you have found me faithful. Great is your grace to me. And I do look forward to meeting you face to face, my Lord. We are ready to make our departure. Oh my God, I trust in thee. Let me not be ashamed. Let not mine enemies triumph over me. Leave the girl! We have who we've come for. Eighty and six years I have served my Lord, and he has never done me any harm. Rather, much good. How can I blaspheme my king and savior? How can you believe in only one god? There are many gods! Are you an atheist? I am a Christian. If you do not understand our doctrines, make an appointment. I shall explain them to you fully. Worship Caesar and you may yet live. If we live, we live unto the Lord. If we die, we die unto the Lord. Therefore, either way, we are the Lord's. I have wild beasts I shall feed you to! Bring them. To me, to live is Christ. To die is gain. I shall cause you to be burnt to ashes! You threaten me with fire that burns but for an hour. And are yourself ignorant of the everlasting fiery judgment that is prepared for the wicked. Why do you delay? Bring against me what you please. So be it! Away with this atheist! This is Polycarp, the great preacher of Asia, leader of the Christians, and destroyer of our gods! You are hereby charged with high treason against Rome. You shall be burnt to death tomorrow in the arena. Oh my God and Father, I thank you... that I may share in the sufferings of Christ... and in the resurrection to eternal life. He was executed, but not as they intended. There was no fear in his eyes. His countenance was one of pure joy. After Polycarp's death, many Christians decided to leave. But some remained. What man meant for evil, God meant for good. Mama! If you seek to save your life, you will lose it. But if you lose your life for Christ's sake, you will gain it. Hope... and the love of God.
