 

                        1 (Shilong, Dongguan) Unforgettable days Faded impressions of home In your diary you said I'm like an infatuated child, looking at the world But that sky above the canopy- wasn't it the same back then? That day I didn't understand your words Now I continue making a busy life for myself But I dream of being a simple person again (Wang Jiamei) Sis, no more. I'm on a diet You're already so thin and you're dieting? Mom, don't you know? Jiamei wants to be a model You... Don't speak our dialect with her Your Cantonese is poor Don't set a bad example for her How could I? She already speaks like a Guangdong girl Wang Jiamei, what did she just do? What happened? Why didn't you say anything? Don't you know she could die? Answer me! You'd better stop the bleeding, you said she could die Are you Wang Jiamei? Yes I am Miss Mak The students all call rne Miss Mak the school social worker How would you like rne to address you? D0 you have an English name? K-A-M-A, Kama I know most of the 9th grade students but I don't know you You must be a quiet girl Although you get good grades some teachers feel you don't like them Actually, I feel that some teachers don't like rne You wrote on Facebook I turned on the lights and saw the bed was bloody The two of us were rolling on the bed like pigs at a butcher's That was my first time That was my boyfriend in Dongguan We broke up Dongguan? You've been in Hong Kong a year now and you've just turned So can you tell me why you saw your classmate slit her wrists but didn't tell Miss Wu? Because I was scared Why did she cut herself with a knife? Many things are difficult to explain What is it, Officer Chong? Did you steal his girlfriend? How did you know? I heard the rumors I hitched a ride Yiu Tung Street, right? Let's go You forgot your phone Corning The last person to see the victim was Ting Tsz-chung He hasn't been home since last night We've found the landlord CSI has gone over the room with an arc lamp There are bloodstains all over the floor Are there any witnesses? There's an old lady Why don't you rest a bit? If you think of anything please let us know, OK? Mr. Ting What are you cooking? Do you need any help? Please take a picture for me Of what? Of me 0f you? Here, I'll do it OK (Looking for Mei) No, no, help me Help me, help me What the fuck is it? Pick up Stamp the receipt and give it to rne Hurry up! You're so slow I need to pee Pee? By the time you get to the customer they'll complain the meat has gone bad Move it! Move it! Get out of here! Where are you from? Huh? I'm asking where you're from, damnit This morning, police found pools of blood in an apartment in Sham Shui P0 They believe someone was murdered there It is thought that the victim was a woman A male tenant is wanted by the police He has not been located Boy-boy no PlayStation Finish summer homework first Yes See you tonight Not doing anything? Madam Law Chong Do you really have to work so hard? Huh? You'll exhaust yourself How's the murder case going? The victim is Wang Jiamei age 16, from Hunan Her mother remarried 7 years ago but she failed to get a Hong Kong visa So she moved to Shilong in Dongguan Since her stepfather's family was nearby and it's close to Hong Kong so her mother could easily come back to visit A year ago she immigrated to Hong Kong She left school before finishing 9th grade She supposedly was an assistant at a modelling company but actually was a paid escort She was killed during sex with a client Her flesh was chopped up and flushed down the toilet The killer ripped the skin off her face and carted her bones to Shek Kip Mei Market Great! So the case is closed? The killer, Ting Tsz-chung age 29 claims to be a delivery driver but he's a triad member Sells smuggled cigarettes The day of the murder was the first time he had met her There were no bad feelings between them But they may have taken ketamine before sex causing him to kill her while under the influence Don't smoke in my home You think cops can do whatever they want? Always dreaming of being a movie star or a model but she never looks in the mirror She looks just like her rotten dad Modelling is about more than height And she goes out with so many guys She's always out all night taking birth control pills I know she has a boyfriend Fine! Don't come back! Madam, the test results are back Your daughter may very well have passed away You mean she's dead? What are you saying? Sir Dead,dead,dead Perfect timing Talk to her DPC 51334 She's hostile and thinks her daughter is still alive You're crazy! Not thinks - hopes What do you want me to do? Make her believe her daughter is dead? Don't smoke so much You don't need to call Missing Persons every day They've given the case to us in Regional Crimes You're luckier than many others In Hong Kong, one person goes missing every hour Many parents don't know for years whether their children are alive or dead - Hi, Chuen - May Chef It must feel good to take your shirt off, right? You can, too Let's make a date then Hello, Manager M3)' Mr. Ma keeps asking what time you start work Does he sign my paychecks? May, you're finally here! Let's dance No way. I need to make a living Are you shy? Well I'm not shameless Goodbye, my love I don't know when we'll meet again I've given you everything Please cherish that Don't betray my love You're still awake? How come? Sisterly bonding? It's too hot Of course, all the lights are on Uncle can't sleep with the lights on Jiamei The earrings Xia gave us actually belong to her daughter She regifted them She's so cheap she wants them back? Why not? She got you a similar pair I don't want them Then throw them away yourself Don't be like that, Jiamei Come here What is it? Stop whining! What have I done to you? They don't belong to us Who says you're poor? I buy you everything you want You said you wanted to go online I got you a $3000 computer You think I have a fortune stashed away? You can't stand it anymore? Fine I'll withdraw you from school tomorrow If you want to be a model go to work and make some money Fine Stop it, Morn. Go take a bath Which one are you playing? Circles Five Circles? So bold Do you know what you're doing? Four Bamboos M3)' I need to talk to you Here, take my place M3)' What is it? I gave you a pair of earrings for your birthday They actually belong to my daughter She's been looking for them... They're expensive I gave them to my daughter You don't want me to take them back, do you? I've brought you a similar pair Can you switch them with Jiamei's? Fakes? They're the same to the kids Really? Then why do you want to trade? Are they really expensive? Over $4000, Sure... I'll give them back tomorrow Fatty What are you doing here? I came to see the Regional Crime Unit Sign in here OK Write down why you're here I came to turn myself in Young man, admit your mistakes and change What did you do? Assault or theft? I killed someone Do you understand the consequences of what you've just said? You may go to jail for life I hope you're sure of what you are saying I only speak the truth That's not him You don't need to say who it's not ls that him? Definitely not That's him, the one with the owl tattoo Prodigy Hoi After him! What the fuck! This is police business Flora, watch the car It's illegal to park here But we're on police business We'll get a ticket SIOP Scumbag Out of the way He's gone Thanks, Miss Open up Police! Open up Calm down We're just looking for someone Nothing to do with you Careful it doesn't backfire, sir Shut up Come out Let's go! No looking around Which gang are you in? I'll send someone to say hello to your boss We got our guy but trespassed onto some gang's turf They may be Sum's men We're coming down now The first game pays more than double it's a good deal Believe rne Thank you, Boss Sure, sure That's it, then. Bye bye Wolfsburg is definitely lose-burg Hoi, you're doing well Officer I've been very discreet but you can still tell I'm doing under-the-table betting? Amazing But many of your colleagues also bet on soccer It's not a serious crime like murder But your buddy did commit murder Which buddy? No need to play dumb Fat Ting admitted to it We just want to ask you some questions I won't answer anything without my lawyer here Betraying a buddy is taboo in gangs Please! It's murder! No one is stupid enough to turn himself in Officer, you look familiar You smoke Marlboro Reds, right? Have you bought from rne before? You motherfucker Yes,yes He left violin at the teacher Yes, you go, bring it back Bring it Violin Not aeroplane What are you doing? Beating a suspect? Madam, he's a witness Smokey I told you to watch your leader Where's Smokey? Sorry, I didn't recognize you when you walked by What happened, Chong? One-on-one? Why is he the only one hurt? Now you know who's better at it Did you call an ambulance? No need, just scratches Not for you for the guy inside Yes, we did We got it The fake credit card factory is the Wo's I'll say you went on an informant's clue Otherwise we'll never hear the end of it Thanks You're welcome Just stop once you get the evidence Your team may follow you but think of yourself If you keep this up you may not get another promotion Finish your report and have it to me by 5pm Yes, Madam Remember the workplace smoking ban is in effect How much longer for the ambulance? Has Ting ever mentioned his mother? She died when he was a kid I want to have sex Crazy, go jerk off Go jerk off I've done it so much I have prostate infections Asshole why don't take some AV back It's community welfare Why are you looking at my mom's picture? I know what you're thinking stay away from my mom's picture Don't you dare I'll take it, thank you Asshole Be careful of your mom You asshole You asshole You want to jerk off? I'll help you jerk off Come on You asshole Let me borrow this Fuck off Stay 8W8)' His father? N0, they don't talk much His girlfriend? Girlfriend? That's Mo-yung She's not his girlfriend Right, Lok W0 Sha Lane in Ma On Shan Thanks OK, twenty minutes Miss, do you need help? No, Big Boy's van broke down That's a lot of stuff Yeah, I'm moving and switching boyfriends at the same time Really? Give me your number I can help the next time you move That's OK, thanks It's all right, I'm a policeman I'm a good citizen, too Take care I hate people who fall all over themselves to flirt with me It's true I hate flatterers So can I have your phone number? Didn't you get it when I called for your van just now? D0 you think Ting really loved Mo-yung? That Fat Ting drives an old van His temper is short so he often loses jobs Then he has to pinch pennies He often gives her gifts I told him Chung There's no such thing as a 'freeze crew' What's a 'freeze crew'? I mean there's no such thing as a 'free screw'! You old fogey! Oh, 'free screw' I'm going to LA soon LA? In the US? Yes But he has a wife and kids I'll have a husband, too someday l\/le? You're high? Oh, Ah B is here Ah B is afraid of everyone except Mr. Ting So arrogant No, it's called being clever Cats are good judges of character Auntie, I'll bring him back to you soon No hurry Sorry to disturb you I'm in here What are you doing? Hurry, open the door What were you doing? Peeping? What is it? What is it? What are you doing? I thought Junkie was inside Forget about it You know each other? Nice Shut up Shut up OK Go home I said, go home What's going on? Go home Everything's OK Drug addicts causing trouble? Nothing OK, OK That's right,make up with your girlfriend Goodnight, Auntie Goodnight Forget about it You really want it that bad? I'll help you with my hands Sergeant, the ambulance is here Let me ask one final question Madam, ask your chief to let rne go Ting phoned you after the murder What did he say? I didn't know such a thin person could have so much fat What the hell are you talking about? They say the divers can only find whole corpses I don't know if they can find just a head May I talk to you about some things unrelated to your case? Sure That's what I like listening to the most My sister didn't quit school to help with family expenses She said she wanted to make more money I feel Jiamei was a little... Unh8PPV? I think so, too, but she would never admit it Jiamei changed after coming to Hong Kong she kept everything to herself unlike when she was little Morn has changed a lot in Hong Kong, too and she's aged a lot If you want to speak to Uncle make an appointment to meet him outside He won't say anything in front of Morn I've never seen a more cooperative witness I feel better after speaking to you Can you take a picture for me? You and me? No, take one of me Look through the lens, here Then press the red button Are these yours? No, they're my sister's She always felt she wasn't tall enough She wanted to be a model so she bought these Your music is too internet-y Mom said not to speak our dialect here But you speak it with her Pig skull You're the Pig skull Good luck tomorrow Name? Thanks OK, 1,2, 3 I heard the tabloid paid you for an interview I didn't ask you for money, though True, everyone needs to eat What did you want to ask? Do you have enough evidence to charge Ting? Rice with black beans and fish Great, thanks Mr. Siu Did Jiamei ever say whether she was afraid to die? Ting said he only killed Jiamei because she told him she wanted to die Officer, that question is a fucking difficult one Nevermind, chief We'll wait to read about it in the tabloid You should ask Jiamei's morn or her real dad Herrealdad? Yes, he does off-site betting in Hunan Every time Manchester United lost Jiamei would text to congratulate him Uncle, who do you think will win this match? That's last night's game Who won? Manchester United lost Aren't you trying to be a model? You're just sitting around Are you a star yet? Morn, stay still when you speak Your cell phone rang Which whore sent you a text message? Not a whore, my daughter Long-distance, too (Jiamei: Congrats, Dad , Man U lost) (Dad: Good girl. Work hard, stay healthy) Miss, do you have a moment? Would you like to be a part-time model? Sorry, I don't speak Chinese Miss, do you have a few moments to talk? Miss, would you like to be a part-time model? Miss, can we talk for a few moments ? Would you be interested Are you upset... that the company is not signing you as a model? You said yourself As long as you're paid, you'd do anything We hired you, but you're lazy Miss, are you interested in being a model? Please listen to rne for a moment Do you have a moment? N0 thanks Miss, a few words, please? Miss, you are so beautiful If you say you want to be a singer others may laugh at you But being a part-time model is different it's easy and pretty You just let people take photos Why aren't you doing it? I'm a talent scout now Without scouts, there would be no talent Right? Here's our business card You know how to talk That's how your guy persuaded me to audition for you I remember what he said and just repeated it Today's Pa)' That's all? You only worked two hours I can work more We target people at lunch time and after work This meal from McDonald's is on me... a first-day gift (More than just a job) (Welcome to join the McDonald's Family) I'm full - Finally, you're here. - Yes! Did you put on weight? None of your business I thought you were desperate for money Why did you quit 'MacDonald's' so quickly? It's 'McDonald's' not 'MacDonald's' Don't laugh at her She still can't get it right after two months You can't hide the fact you're from the mainland You have a harsh tongue You make a lot of money now? Finally, we're onto the real topic I'm just asking I don't want to listen to this Think about how she feels Don't talk about this in front of her sister She has her own hardships She wanted to see the band Fahrenheit in Taiwan S0 her cousin introduced her to this business Your cousin got you into the business? She wasn't even 16 then She couldn't look for a job So she found one that didn't require an interview Was a Fahrenheit ticket very expensive? But they did six concerts Jiamei, do you really want to be an escort? She really needs the money She wants to move out so she's doing two jobs Really? I asked you,really? Is it too dark? Open the curtains All right Sorry There's no need to stack them I have many more in my room Jiali and I will recycle them later make some money We'll help What's wrong? Are you worried we're not strong enough? Concentrate on finding evidence to put the scumbag away for life! The fat kid said he and my daughter took drugs Did he kill her because he got too high? Unlikely He is clear about every step of that murder Except we cannot find the body D0 you think he's lying? I don't know Was my daughter one of those? Was Jiamei a prostitute? Are you smoking in there? Pardon me Sorry I forgot you can't smoke here Give me one Here Here It's a bit strong (Missing Person) Hello Can you be my girlfriend? Of course (A Lonely Person) I can't really be your girlfriend Give it up I lied just now When I left the hotel I'd already forgotten you BYE bye Shall I wrap them up? N0, I'll wear them out $4,388, please (Stop Domestic Violence) No wonder you look so familiar That's not me How can you say it's not you? I'll cut off my dick if it's not you Look, here, too You're so popular You're very photogenic You'd be perfect for a job I have It's a public service advertisement Have you had dinner yet? You come and go as you please When do you plan on returning the toy? Don't get me in trouble It's useful, sir Find something to substitute for it I see you playing with it sometimes Don't make fun of me This is a big deal A dismembered body case That girl was amazing Only 16...taking on customers at such a young age If a person is capable of such a sacrifice selling their body so they can live another life why would they suddenly want to die? What is it? Afraid I'd catch cold? No your butt is too bright Didn't I get to the next level? Why did it die? It's my turn now Can you escape my grip? Open up You'll ruin the machine Can you give me your NDS? My sister and I love playing it Not this one Someone gave it to me Nevermind then Or I can buy you a new one to make up for all the free dates you've given rne No, forget about it You have hairy armpits? You don't like that? I like it I have them too, see? Let me play with it Sergeant How can there be so many facts? Facts are just for prosecuting You've seen so many bad guys by now how can you not tell them apart? The more bad guys you see the more you don't want them to exist Do you remember in '98 we worked together on a case The victim was tortured for almost a month before she died The medical examiner said her whole face must have been swollen Her mouth was bleeding Her body was covered in blisters All her wounds oozed pus Shut up I don't want to be reminded I'll have nightmares It's because I can't stand the gore that I transferred to the Operations Support Sub-unit I'll never forget that day Sir, there's a child here Knife Got it She's the victim's daughter Be brave Tell me what you saw I remember in court one criminal described how he tortured the victim forced her to drink urine and eat feces beat her burned her dismembered her body and cooked it While he talked the other two laughed Deep in my heart, I really wanted to believe they were not demons and would feel remorse Auntie Don't make up alibis for Ting any more We have sufficient evidence that he's a murderer Who did he kill? A 16-year-old girl When Ting was he was in a traffic accident His father drove trucks between Hong Kong and the mainland He brought his wife and son on a trip The truck flipped over Ting watched his mother die I'm looking through the old files What are you trying to do? I told you to stop investigating Take time off to be with your daughter Give me one more night I'll have the report on your desk by morning If you get sued for interrupting the judicial process I won't write letters on your behalf in case people think we're having an affair That's ridiculous Do I embarrass you? Look at yourself Your face is sagging still pretending to be young Really? Really? (Fatal Car Accident in Zhongshan) (Family of Three Involved: Mother Dies) Get up. It's after 8 already Good morning, Madam Needless to say, there's no report It's on your desk Flora Yes, Madam Fix his grammar Rush it to court before 10: Yes D0 you have a death-wish, bringing a cat here? No He belonged to Ting's neighbour, an old lady She had a stroke and wants us to find him an owner Get Sergeant Chong to take him He has no other family That will work out Ask Chong to take him home What? Give him a home? He's quite cute All right, I'll take you in Greet me first Here's the information on Lee Mo-yung you requested Mo-yung? Who is this man? Her boyfriend She was going to live with her elderly billionaire boyfriend in America but fell in love with his son The son got tired of her and let her go Don't let me see your face How embarrassing It's like those fans Oh, the ticket is gone! Where's my ticket? Here Look A ticket costs hundreds of dollars Two cost over $1000, And three hours pass just like that Want to fuck rne for just over $1000 What are you doing? Have you gone crazy? You've done a lot of research Yes, per your orders I got a private eye to find this data I'll put his bill on your desk in a few days No way! Why didn't you discuss it with me? You're so serious I found everything on Facebook I don't use Facebook You're so low-tech I don't know how to help you Flora Help me with these English letters I copied them from Jiamei's wall It looks like a password I think it means something You think I'm the FBI? It could be pinyin or something Let it go, OK? If it is pinyin there are many possibilities It needs a lot of work before it can be solved Let it go This case is closed When you have some time get a Facebook account Make some more friends How about this I'll be the first to add you as a friend I'm on Facebook, too Add rne as your friend First I've got to fix the sergeant's grammar Great choice Give me change for all of this Come on Again I have no time to play with you Come on Officer, let's call it a night I have to go I have school tomorrow School? Can police do whatever they want? Can police force others to play video games? Are you going to DEW? Fine You don't look old enough Be serious Even I went to arcades when I was underage Who hasn't done that before? You try anything when you're young I stole things when I was young Have you taken ketamine? Will it make you do things without realizing you're doing them? Play some games with rne Have you heard of Wang Jiamei? Yes, $500 per hour $800 for two The first hour can be dinner or karaoke ls this your phone number? Tonight? I'm busy tonight What is it? You're blocking the closet I need my clothes I didn't hang up on you All right Next time, then BYE bye I need to pee. I'm in a hurry Where are you going at this hour? I have a date With whom? You wouldn't know him even if I told you Come home early Your tone is so strange today I'll be there soon. Where are you? OK. Bye Take a good look at her Take a good look. Why would I chase her? Maybe you like shit What if you like shit? Sorry, Jiamei I was explaining to my girlfriend that we met at an internet cafe' We just play arcade games together But she doesn't believe rne She said she saw us strolling hand in hand That never happened, right? That's right. It never happened Your girlfriend is just concerned about you It's late. Why don't you go home? What about you? That's different You're so young Then why don't you go home? Go ahead. I'll leave soon I wanted to ask will you come back to play? I'll come if you will Mui, let's go BYE bye Actually, I don't want you to do it D0 what? Your job I don't charge you If I didn't have clients I'd starve D0 you have to put it like that? This is Kama You just called me Do you still want rne to come? Of course I can treat you like I'm your girlfriend Send rne your address I'll be right over For an extra $500 I can stay till morning All right, bye bye Don't you worry about getting electrocuted? Do people die so easily? (2009: The Wang Jiamei Case Goes to Trial) I hurt it moving stuff a long time ago I didn't ask you No,don% Didn't you always want this? Don't I don't have any condoms It's OK. I'm having my period Take care (3.Painful Steps) I saw it was light outside and knew I had to deal with her body I took a cleaver and held up her body Then I slit her throat to let the blood out About 10 or 15 minutes later when the blood stopped flowing I cut down from her throat all the way to her bellybutton I didn't know a such a thin person could have so much fat What the hell are you talking about? I saw her organs but I couldn't tell them apart which was the heart, which were the lungs I just pulled them all out cut them up into small pieces and little by little flushed them down the toilet I chopped off her head It took about 4 or 5 chops before the head fell off Then I moved onto her limbs and removed the flesh It took 4 or 5 chops to break the legs The arms were thinner just 2 or 3 chops Mr. Ting What are you cooking? Do you need any help? After dealing with her limbs I decided to remove the skin I pulled the skin off her face but I couldn't pull off the rest of the skin because there is fat under the skin I tried to cut it with the skin but it didn't work So I made horizontal cuts and removed the whole piece of skin I saw that's what pig butchers do so I did the same thing Then I got to the bones The tail bone was the hardest to cut Then the ribs I broke them with my knife tip About 20 of them Then the big toes Maybe because they were so thick they were hard to break S0 I tried to remove the skin so they would look like pig's feet not human Then I could take them to the market I washed my hands and put Jiamei's head in a plastic bag At about 10pm I took a bus to the Kowloon City Pier because even if there were police roadblocks they seldom search buses After arriving at the pier I saw there were very few people I tipped the bag with her head into the sea Dad, how many people are there in Hong Kong? 7 million Kill Cheung, that motherfucker! Does Uncle James Wong count? No, he's dead Kill Cheung, that motherfucker! How about Bruce Lee? There's no heaven, no earth, no conscience! Is he dead? Kill Cheung, that motherfucker! There's no heaven, no earth, no conscience! Kill, kill that motherfucker! How about Wang Jiamei? How do you know about her? Mom watches you on the TV news I just know someone named Wang Jiamei died Your mom watches me You can say that again She only lets me see you on the days you have ballet, violin, and swimming lessons Consequently, I just drop you off and pick you up and only see you a few hours a week By the W3Y don't keep talking about me in front of your mom's new guy He'll get jealous, you know? OK And he may be your new dad any day now I haven't seen him in a long time Really? What happened? Finish what you were saying Boss I'm not your boss Morn will tell me off I can't say anything I don't want to betray her No I'm so tired. I want to go to sleep Hi, my name is Chong Yes, I got it Yes,Yes I just roll it over my face? And it really works? My face will be firmer? You still don't sleep? Look at yourself Your hair is getting grayer The bags under your eyes are getting bigger Do you still stay awake until daylight? If I go to bed early I have nightmares I'm on a dismemberment case The girl's name is Wang Jiamei She was only 16 when she died I know I read the newspapers But why would anyone tell someone they just met they want to die? And why would that person believe them? To be honest When I was young and first started dating you I used to think you were so cute like this I loved hearing you describe your cases You were so obsessed with them and I thought they were great stories But after a while I found it so hard I just sent a text message to Jiamei's dad (Red Devils lost. Congrats) (Dad: Jiamei, did you change phones?) (Thanks) (l miss you) (I miss you, too) (Then don't wire me any more money) (Save it for a train ticket) (Come see me when you have time) I didn't dare tell him his daughter is dead because I know how it feels for a father to miss his daughter But he doesn't know he will never see Jiamei again Come on What's wrong? Don't cry People are staring Don't cry like that You're crying like a child Hello Yes Mommy has gone out for a while Why aren't you asleep? I'm coming back now OK All right BYE bye Bye I have to go Sorry to bother you so late at night In any case don't think too much about it Sheung Our daughter's birthday party is next week She wants to invite you Will it be awkward for you? If you have time, get some sleep You look like a ghost You'll scare our daughter's classmates Mister, let me pay your tab Sir A memo from our Inspector for rne to ask Ting Tsz-chung some questions to interrogate him Sir, do you know the criminal well? Your name is already on Ting's visitor list You can come at any time Please go upstairs and wait Well? Are you doing OK in here? I brought you some books You can read them when you're bored This is the most important Thank you The officer said there was something else you wanted to know What do you want to ask? I don't want to ask you anything I made it up. It was just an excuse I came specially to see you Who knew you had already put my name on your list? I don't have any friends These tabloids tell a good story and in great detail Actually, there's a question I've always wanted to ask Didn't you say you had nothing to ask me? Since it wasn't entirely due to the ketamine and it wasn't about money or personal revenge orS&M then why? I don't understand what it is you want to know On 13 May 1987 you and your parents went to Zhongshan you and your parents went to Zhongshan On the way back there was a bad accident Your mom died on site I asked your father when he was alive Officer, I've checked the oil and water Thank you The truck can be driven? Yes Please sign for it The doctor says I'm dying What am I going to do with a truck? Ting Tsz-chug said to give you everything Mr. Ting I have a question for you about your wife's traffic accident He introduced me to the psychiatrist Dr. Yeung Dr. Yeung still remembers your case He was very worried you would suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder especially because children mistakenly feel that they are responsible for their parent's death He assumed that because your morn died so young YOU grew up not trusting women Also your relationship with Mo-yung made you hate women Do you really want to know so badly Why I killed Wang Jiamei? I don't want to know why you killed her I just want to know why it happened You're overthinking it I didn't hate Wang Jiamei at all Why would I hate her? In fact, I liked her I don't hate women at all What I hate are human beings I didn't want Jiamei to be one, so I killed her You tore the skin off her face because you didn't want her to be human? But I didn't know I killed one more person Jiamei was pregnant Did she know she was pregnant? No more questions No more questions No more questions No more (Chung: Are you Kama?) (Kama: Yes, hi.) (Are you in Hong Kong?) (Chung: Why do you ask if I'm in Hong Kong?) (Kama: I can't work for you if you're not in Hong Kong) (Chung: Your signature line) ('Your face is slightly blushing,) (a red bow in your hair,) (It's exactly that moment,) (the July in my memory') (what's that from?) (Kama: The lyrics to a song sung by Sammi Cheng) (Sis and I listened to it while learning Cantonese) (Kama: Sammi is my sister's idol) (I started to like her, too) (I know she has many fans in Hong Kong) (Kama: I am envious of her) (It's sad when no one sees you) (Chung: I'd rather not be seen) (because I'm very ugly) (Kama: I'm not beautiful, either) (Chung: I'm sure I'm uglier than you.) (I'm very fat) (Kama: Let's hope we're not disappointed when we meet) (Chung: Isn't it too late for you to be up?) (Kama: I'm not sleepy when I chat with you) (Chung: M9, too) (Kama: It's my turn to ask questions) (Kama: What would you want to be reincarnated as?) (Chung: I've never thought about it) (but I don't want to be a human. It's boring.) (What about you?) (Kama: I believe in God) (We will all go to Heaven when we die) (In Heaven we can do anything we want) (Chung: My turn: are you afraid to die?) (Kama: No) (Sometimes I think it would be nice to die) (Chung: Why?) (Kama: Life is painful and hateful.) (You always have to think about how to live better) (Kama: I want to be tough, but it's not easy) (especially when I'm alone) (Chung: It's morning) (Kama: This proves the world moves on) (Chung: Kama, shall we meet today?) Comein Have a seat What's wrong? Are you disappointed to see me? No You're prettier than I imagined You must have imagined me as an ogre And me? Am I really ugW? You're... not ugly You look like Streck That green cartoon guy He's big and strong Shrek? Yeah, Shrek This is much more comfortable I like you You're gross This is the first time we've met How can you like me? Why don't I read you a verse from the Bible? Pardon me if I do badly I like this verse (1 Timothy 4:4) You? For everything God created is good and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving (1 Timothy 4:4) I really want to die I really want to die I really want to die I really want to die OK I'll help you What's wrong? Aren't you going to help me? Unforgettable days Faded impressions of my home In your diary you said I'm like an infatuated child, looking at the world But that sky above the canopy wasn't it the same back then? That day I didn't understand your words Now I continue making a busy life for myself But I dream of being a simple person again I turn back and ask the sky Can life ever be easy? Do you understand this at all? Your face is slightly blushing a red bow in your hair It's exactly that moment the July in my memory Are the trees very tall? Do you remember that day? Do you remember the day we parted? We met but had nothing to say Continue being wilful, child Laugh if you're happy Let those lost feelings enter my body again Have another drink before we search for Neverland For passengers who are going to alight midway Please get ready in advance Morn Jiamei, you're late Don't you think that joke is lame? Not so hard. It hurts, Sis Why are you crying, Sis? Aren't you happy I came? Then I'll go back (4. A Room with a View) (Mandarin Pinyin Search) (A room with a view) Daughter, what's this character mean? Shoot And this? Short What if we switched them around? In shoot, this body is only an inch tall So shoot really is short Yes This part of short FHGHHS HFFOW It's facing a woman made of straw That's right. How come it's like that? That's right; why is it like that? You see don't judge a book by its cover, OK? That one seems to be looking at us and saying hello This is our American Flamingo Over there, we have some mammals You can go look at them Wan Si-wei, it's time to eat What is your name? I'm Wan Si-wei Wan Si-wei Be brave Tell me what you saw Look at that one Officer Chong I was just passing and thought I'd stop by I never imagined you would visit us Please sit It's very tasty It's peanut, black-eyed pea, and chicken's feet soup It's good for you You run around so much It will strengthen your legs Jiamei has been dead for two years Six months after Jiamei died Jiali got pregnant I don't know what I did wrong in a previous life Both daughters are so immature hanging with the wrong crowd You have a daughter, don't you? How do you know that? I heard from your colleague Which colleague? The one who smokes a lot That's right, Officer Chong Go out with Jiali when you have time If she could date you then I could relax See, you're already making eyes at each other Another bowl of soup? N0, thanks. I'm full After this chicken's foot, I'll be completely full You're full? Good Jiali, put the baby down Take a walk with Officer Chong Go, go Another walk? I've been out all day with my daughter and ex-wife all day long I'm exhausted So there's no chance You should have told rne sooner I just wasted my breath You want me to take a picture of you again? How about I take one with you? I've always wanted to ask Who is this? Actually, we don't know who she is Years ago we were shopping in Dongguan and saw a photo salon The pictures in the window were so nice Jiamei wanted a portrait but we couldn't afford it We envied her for having such a nice photo so we begged the owner to sell us this photo The owner thought Jiamei was very strange Smile One, two, three Again Smile Smile (In memory of Jiamei)
