 

                        Part 1: THE TAPES Hi, my name is ... Are you ready? Yes, sorry. My name is Alice Endrisart. I am the owner of this house here and some other houses here in Poughkeepsie. A tenant who had lived this house ... was a terrible person. This is the house where they found Poughkeepsie tapes. Before we had the tapes Poughkeepsie, we knew that would be murder and were aware that some of them seem to be programmed, in an organized manner, but ... put your hands up on the tapes, we had no idea what we were dealing with. No idea. My task was to assist 24 hours of tapes from Poughkeepsie. I remember one night, brought home the tapes to work on them and without my knowledge, my wife saw a half hour of tape and was nearly a year until I could play it again. It was for what he had on tape. I think that torturing and kill him, excited him e. .. that these tapes are a kind of homemade porn or ... a reminder that he held for long after the murders. Definitely, he spent his time during the murders ... to exchange tapes. When looking in the garden found the body of two women ... here and there ... We found a deep hole here where they were buried a young couple and their baby 10 months. There was a body of a man there, the first tenant ... and four women, there there there ... and there. Even after the investigation Initially, it was clear ... They had all died in a cruel way. They found the tapes in this cabinet. And then ... You can imagine ... When people think of killer series, think of 4 or 5 people. Ted Bundy, Dammer, Gacy, etc.. But most do not realize that there are many more. At one point, there may be between 25 and 50 serial killers active the United States alone. This is really a very larger than most people think ... The tapes now, will be necessarily examined in order to discover a psychological profile. It is indispensable material to teach a course. There are probably hours and hours tape that nobody saw except me. For example, there are over 100 hours that are nonsense. So? Yes. - So? - Yes - Now, blow it. - What? Pop it! Part 2: FIRST BLOOD If I had to tell you something first of all would be as follows: After that we'll see ... three of you return to their homes tonight ... and decide that this is not the they want to do with their lives. Will know that there are awful people in this world that are able to do incredibly terrible things. Therefore, it is very important, you ask ... I really want to wrap my life with all these terrible things for the rest of my professional life? Is it okay if they do not want. I think something may have happened in your life right now, had a fight, lost employment, left his wife ... Went for a walk with your car and a moment comes when it says: "The next vulnerable person to see, will die. " Hello I like your doll. He said he liked your doll. - What is your name? - Suzy. I must not talk to strangers. But neither should be rude ... You know, if I were the Big Bad Wolf, could not do anything about it. Want to say something to the camera? Like what? I do not know. Perhaps you could say that ... is a beautiful and happy girl ... No. - Want to see how through the camera? - No. Look. On first inspection looked like it had been hit with an elongated object. We knew there was a girl missing, Jennifer Gorman about 80 km away that matched the description clothes found. I think something happened to my daughter. I think someone took it. / I - Who? - I do not know. He was in the garden. / I 's blood out here. Make something. Someone took her. / I If one is missing, have to wait 24 hours. / i No. There is blood, blood has out here. Call the police now! / I Obviously, you never overcomes such a thing. Do you think the pain will disappear ... e. .. e. .. things will get better. - But not ... - No. .. After all this, I wanted to change. But I did not. And if she does not escape and could we meet? I mean ... What kind of sick bastard rapes a girl? It was just a child. He was only 8 years ... What kind of goddamn monster do such a thing? That's it, right? Turn it off. This is nothing. He did not even knew what he was doing yet. Part 3: IMPROVING Hey, something wrong with the car? Yes, my car has no who go sometimes. It could take me to the next town? Sure, no problem. Climb. Do you care if I record this? I'm making a movie about my trip ... No, really. Honey, let's be stars cinema. - What is your name? - Ed .. I'm Ed Frank and her Jeanette. If you take this exit, I can leave a gas station. Okay. It is here, at right, few km of the road ... Okay. You're here? Actually, no. Where are you? I think the gas station is turning the corner ... This murder announces a new breed of killer. Almost nothing remains impulsivity, as shown Jennifer Gorman ... Here is a man who believes who is good at something. Imagine how it would do something. From the backseat of the car, get a cloth with some substance chemistry and with his right hand ... and put it in the mouth and with his left hand, without prejudice extends the camera forward and keep in front her face as well. This is not the kind of thing to happen without more ... He must have practiced often for work. The car was parked the roadside. He knew where the nearest petrol station. He also knew that was just a few meters from the road. I also knew that wilderness is between the road and post. In fact, the position of Gasoline is abandoned. But I bet he knew that too. He had a good excuse for the camera. This man is what Killer called mixed. Plans crimes an organized manner but mutilates bodies and thereby disrupts ... the scene that would be a normal crime. Wake up. Wake up. Come on. chord. Let's wake up. I a surprise for you. Wake up. Wake up. Wake up. Wake up. Wake up. Wake up ... Wake up ... Wake up ... Wake up ... You'll love this. I know. Which brings me to another point: Leave work at work. I know that after see something like this ... it's hard to get him out of his head. But you have to do it. When I was 7, my sister disappeared and was never found. And destroyed what so far had been a happy family. And I swore I would hunt down the unfortunate that kidnap little girls. And the reason why I teach is because I could never leave my work at work. Some people consider me the best researcher profiles. And gone too far ... I had a complete collapse emotional and mental ... Requiring to be hospitalized briefly in a psychiatric hospital. I'm not long for this feel sorry for me or anything. I tell you this because there is a real risk with this work. Can not think in Jennifer Gorman While his daughter is there playing outside in the garden. They must find a way to leave your work at work. Right? We received the body of a woman that was terribly mutilated ... The body had a head positioned in the abdomen ... was like a strange ritual ... Watching the skull ... The upper end of the lobe was soft ... and the skull was stiff muscle and showed marks strong. This showed that the skull was a man in a woman's body. It is about two and not a murder. After talking with friends and family, we learned that the Andersons returned from Pittsburgh to Poughkeepsie, where they lived. The distance is about 563 km. The good this is that there is only logical to choose some routes. Under the best conditions, this particular type of car can walk alone without refueling about 300 km, or slightly less ... So we went two points to 300 km and spent by each station gasoline that was on the road and we could see that showed the tapes of that particular day. It took a long time. And so we can have the first video image of our killer. What is he doing with his hand? - You are making signs. - That's right. Does anyone know what you mean? Red House. Very well. We found the second body in the woods, behind a place called "The Red House Tavern." At about 5 km away. But what should keep in mind is he made these signals before to meet with the Andersons. The time factor is important for any research especially in a murder. If we find a a fresh crime scene we have much more information to work with ... the skeleton ... Often, the killers, that prevent their capture and imprisonment are those that are very good at getting rid of bodies. The killer documented tapes in Poughkeepsie, is very, very good at it. Not only do we know that how to get rid of a body but who knows how to do it in different ways. That is, Elizabeth Jackson was kidnapped in Hanson County, to some 160 km from the site Where were the tapes. The killer used a saw move to cut the hands. Then let the trunk in Putnam County, and the head and hands County Broon. When we find bodies abandoned in this way, is almost impossible to put all together, because ... even if all counties agree, This does not happen, but even if they did, could take a 5 years to join the head and the torso of a body like that. So I see this and say: Very well, "this killer knows the bureaucracy. " The killer from Poughkeepsie, I think it's the only one who saw that best fits level. I mean, usually a killer does not evaluate a dismemberment. It has a body at home, then goes the garage to get a saw and spends several hours that can cut off the head. So next time, buy better to kill a mountains it would make him feel better, but if you really want to do it To kill ... will achieve a real mountain that cuts quickly and easily. And never again to the saw. It will change many things, try camouflage their crimes ... but never with the saw. Except this guy that repeated several times ... Sometimes using a saw or a circular saw ... This is absurd. It is likely that you fascinates kill so ... so that's why he does it. But after all the efforts to find the killer, he always shows us maneuvers on the tapes. I think he wants someone appreciate how good he is in it ... and perhaps we can think impress in a strange way. - Are you impressed? - No! After seeing what he made Cheryl Dempsey, I do not feel nothing that hatred for this guy. Part 4: CHERYL DEMPSEY - It's late. - Do you want to go there a bit / i Gone are idiots. / i How long were they? / i A week or so. / i - They return on Wednesday, right? - Yes / i Who / i What do you mean? / i most would not have to ... these things happened .../ i Dear ... think I have been so good .../ i and should feel happy but .../ i but it is good to be so good, you know. / i Yes .. / i Yes .. / i I'm serious. / i You're just nervous, do not worry. / i Hello / i Are you / i Tim / i Hello / i Hello? Are you / i - I am. Have something to eat? - Yes, go ahead. / I - Let ice cream later? - Sure. / I You'll leave the house / i should not dress like that. / i We can not be scared. / i - What flavor do you? - Anyone. Chocolate. / I Okay. / i You scared me. Not scare anyone else as well. Sorry. - I brought you an ice cream and beer. - Thank you. - Why did you move my clothes? - I did nothing. They were thrown on all sides. - Come here. - Why? You'll see. - Let's watch a movie. - What? Mmm ... I rented a few. You want me to stay a little? Maybe just a little bit. I'll sleep. - We go to bed? - Yes .. okay. - You will get to sleep, no? - Yes Good, scares me to stay here alone. I think I'd be scared too. These are things I think. I go to the bathroom. I brushing teeth and pee. - Okay. - Thank you. This weekend finished form / i tragic for two families in Reading / i Victoria and James Dempsey returned home after / i let her daughter, 19 years, Cheryl Dempsey, / i home alone during the weekend. / i When they returned, Cheryl and her boyfriend was not / i Tim, had been brutally murdered. / i I remember three days before the kidnapping, she asked me if sometimes I feel if someone watches me. In fact, said no. She told me that sometimes felt that somebody was following ... He said that might be paranoid and said to me, is perhaps ... You know, the possibility always exists. What happened? Where am I? Stay away from me! Stay away. Why are you doing this to me? Please do not hurt me! I will do what you want. I know I will. Shut up! What is your name? - Cheryl Dempsey ... - Wrong. His name is: slavery. - What is your name? - Cheryl ... No! His name is: slave! - What is your name? - My name is slave! - What is your name? - Slave! - What is your name? - Slave! Very well. Due to the bad state Tim's body, we have little hope Cheryl to find alive. Basically, the killer lost control and, again due the state of the body ... think he killed her here, and perhaps, has played in the woods. What can you tell us Tim's body? How can I be specific? - How much you want. - Okay. It is quite unpleasant. Head crushed it this way ... and he was open to the anus throat, with the guts out and decorated with ribbons and Christmas lights ... and his genitals were torn and placed in a box in the master bedroom ... Yes .. Oh, and feces was animal stuffed into his mouth. "Local Man Found brutally murdered. "/ i "Horrible murders. Demonic. " We look at the scene and we saw that everything was referring to a disorganized killer. The truth we learn Poughkeepsie on the tapes, is that this killer had this is done carefully to mislead us. And he succeeded. The strange thing is that he was able to kill and maim so and maintain your composure as I did ... in combination with its strange sense of theatricality you know, those costumes and masks, show that this man have serious mental problems. Why are you crying? Did not I tell? What? I killed your mother. I killed your entire family. I'm everything you have. Tell me! Tell me that is happy because I killed your entire family. No! No! No! No! Say! - Say it! - What? What? What is happy because killed his parents. - I'm ... I am ... - What? I'm glad that killed my parents. Say it again! I'm glad that killed my parents. You do not have parents. You are a slave. These people ... I believe ... Why? - Why? - Why? Why not enjoy them. Who do you like? You. Who? You, only you. Why? Because you are the master. You wanted me to kill? Yes .. I do not know .... Yes, I do not know. That's why I did. I did it for you. Thank you, master! Thanks! Say. You are the master ... You are the master. People come from City of Lancaster to search the woods near Dempsey's house ... hoping to find cues associated with the disappearance his daughter, Cheryl. Today I spoke with his mother Cheryl. Just wanted to say person who did this: Please catch my daughter back home. Cheryl is a good girl ... It's a good girl. Please bring her home. If there is anything I can do to help, please let me know. Thank you. Wait ... Wait ... Oh, my God. Oh, my God. I replayed that moment in my head several times ... I knew it was him. Not stopped because I was afraid. Are you thirsty? Want some water? If you remove the gag, do something for me? I want to use it. CITY OF POUGHKEEPSIE FOUNDED IN 1687 In the summer of 1993, the area was beginning to feel the effect of this man. Most killers that receive media attention do one of three things: No one realized that it is safe for a serial killer continue in that city and would leave. No rest for a second time and let cool. with his previous murders until it was captured. But this killer did something completely unique: continue killing, but change their "modus operandi". PART 5: A new "Modus Operandi" Today a third body was found on the west bank of the Hudson River. Also mutilated. It could be another victim of man some are already calling: "The Butcher of the river." After a study detailed, we conclude that the last body is the work the "Butcher of the river." What is the number of victims? We believe this is the sixth victim. Commissioner, thinks that have something to see, the fact that ... All the victims were prostitutes? What are you doing here? Waiting for a friend. Did not know anything about a man being robbed at gunpoint? It was not me. You are the master. You are the master. You are the master. At the same time we started getting information from prostitutes working in the area. The girls who were abducted were never seen again. Stay away from me. Leave me! - Help. Somebody help me! - No. - Please ... - No, he will not like. - Please help me hold it. - No, he will not like. No, no, no! Please ... no! Please! Do not hurt me! This is his punishment. The bodies of the victims parts were mutilated to cover the marks they had. All had been cut mouth to ear ... and all were raped after death. Samples found sperm in all bodies. Years ago, I was honor of interviewing ... Theodore Robert Bundy in connection with another case. But the information obtained is relevant here ... I remember that my question was: You raped her? Oh, yes. I did. Before or after? Before or after ... what? You know ... to kill her. After ... You know, Mike ... I think it has a way to distinguish it. Really? It may seem a little weird but ... murder and rape indicates that the killer may have sex with the corpse no matter if he spent a year ... decomposition and even worms, can excite you ... The next time you see a fresh body, let it ... do not talk about it ... it will come back for him. Unfortunately we never found a body sufficiently cool. But there was evidence that He actually came back for them ... for sexual reasons. Hi, we're selling cookies. Would you like to buy? Oh .. course. Why not enter? In fact, we should not. That's very clever. Has a lot of strange people out there. But I am a police officer, then everything is fine. - Okay. - Okay - You want to Coke? - Sure. Very well. Thank you. Hey, you came by bicycle? No. I live in Vron du Pont. - So you live in the neighborhood? - Yes I do not. I live in end of Saint's Row. Before leaving home, you tell their parents where they go? - Sometimes. - Yes - What is it? - What? I thought I heard something ... Oh, I left the television connected in the basement. Look, I do not think I able to buy cookies today ... Raccoons hide sometimes in the basement. Do not have raccoons here ... Of course there ... Hey, want to see the raccoon that held in the basement? Sure. It is horrible. I do not believe in you. I want to go. I'll have to buy the biscuits another day. You can go if they want. It seems that something escaped upstairs ... I'm sorry master, I thought it was time ... You should pity they have escaped. No, Master, I would never betray him. - Yes, it's all your fault. - No. .. Suddenly, we had ten bodies. Six of them had sperm matched the semen samples. So we had a problem. In the apartment of one of the victims, find a glass of water. With a fingerprint. DNA had this man. Fingerprints found the glass coincided with those of my partner ... Jim Foley. Immediately arrested him and started building the case. He had been in the city for all murders. And there were three deaths in Pennsylvania corresponding to the same standard. He had been in Pennsylvania on vacation with his family. There was a substantial alibi for all murders. We searched his car, your home. We found jewelry, and samples of blood came from the victims. At this point, since we had our man. This morning, we arrested James Foley, a local police ... as the prime suspect of Butcher murders in Rio JAMES FOLEY Suspected of being the Butcher of Rio Foley extradited to Pennsylvania State asks for death sentence / i I was the prosecutor in the case Pennsylvania vs. James Foley. Took him to Pennsylvania to hope of achieving an execution. They came and arrested my father as the Butcher of Rio It was devastating. I can not even explain. Not sleep, I dropped out of school. I became a stranger, even my friends. My girlfriend to me Unwilling to let go that our children were grandchildren of a killer. Everything changed in a second. Foley had no alibi for the murder because he was a police who spent most time patrolling alone. He had enough time to commit crimes. He also had a history by arresting prostitutes. Presumably, Mr. Foley was a regular customer. One of the prostitutes, Cindy Jackson said he had seen it in the neighborhood at the time three of the hijackings. As a defense, actually had hands tied because he kept denying declare themselves guilty anyway. I said, Jim, will you killing is not cooperating. He said to say goodbye and defend itself if I shut up. It was completely frustrating. "Guilty." / i This is my father ... Now it's over. He must be punished. Do you think he did it? Yes, I think. The court is full of victims' families, everyone wanted to be heard during Butcher's verdict Rio, James Foley. Never forgive the and I hope you did this will cause more pain your thoughts and nightmares. But I believe that his life should be forgiven ... because we are not like you. If ever there was one case required penalty death, this is the case. Please, do justice to our families. Show this monster to be police is not going against the law. I am here Live Waynesburg, Pennsylvania, / i James Foley, a police the state of New York, / i also known as the Butcher of Rio .. / i will run in a few hours. / i Dozens of people here to see protest or support the implementation. / i We were told that their last meal was chosen / i steak with mashed potatoes. / i Reconstruction. Audio recording of the execution. / i team members execution preparing the injections. / i We are ready. / i You have the right to pronounce his last words. / i You are entitled to a final declaration. / i Want to take this opportunity to pray / i damned if refusal to do so, too. / i We have now completed the first phase of implementation. / i Now completed second phase of implementation. / i completed the third and last phase of implementation. / i One of the doctors will adequate examination. / i seconds, hold the review. / i Now the third and final doctor is reviewing. / i the examination is completed. / i The superintendent informs the witnesses that .../ i death occurred this day, at 12:24. / i James Foley died because of lethal injection. / i at 12:24 am. / i On September 9, 2001. / i Part 6: A LOS When I got home, I a map in my mailbox. There was a brand that said: "A Lost." Then my phone rang ... and he I said "should come and see this." It was another body. I knew right away. When I started work, it's police and gave me a sample of his DNA. They told me I should review it immediately. I was anxious. Turned out to be a sample of DNA from the killer, James Foley. We're still not certain but apparently he was a clinical Fertility few years ago. We believe this is why we are still insecure. It is much easier to defend a guilty than the innocent even in the eyes look to the same thing. The reason is that a guilty take logical decisions. But an innocent man, however, would collapse for all know that he is innocent. Jim Foley refused to confess found guilty anyway. He kept his innocence to the end. It sucks. realized that he was innocent. Would put a newspaper advertisement and the accident occurred shortly September 11. Thus, the article about my father ended up on page six. Ex-police officer acquitted of crimes of the "Butcher of the River" After his execution. People still laugh when I say my name and I associate with the "Butcher of the River." And I say that Jim Foley Butcher was not the Rio It was proved that he was innocent. So really understand that I am associated with it and walk away. Nobody believed me until this day that proved his innocence because everyone heard about the trial and execution and all, anyone heard declare him innocent. the fault of the September 11 ... All this sucks. In any other week in the history of the USA, this would be a real national sensation ... Serial killer kills police using the judicial system. Let's ... After what happened on September 11, nobody gives a damn anything else. After 10 years or more controversy over executions I consider the crime of the century ... and no one even heard talk about it. When people know they have a serial killer in town, be on the defensive, which is going on. But when they see the killer only attacks the prostitutes, if you're not a prostitute, neglect its defense. So he created this character, the "Butcher of the River" to dissolve the fear of people an unknown murderer and therefore able to continue chasing the other. - Hello - Hello Do you have car problems? Yes, I can not turn it on. I do not know what is wrong. You want to call a tow truck? Oh, officer, thank you. That would be great. I'm standing here 1 hour. It really should not be here alone with River killer loose. I thought only prostitutes attacked. Hey, look, has a gas station 1.6 km and there is secure. Let me take you there so you do not have to wait here alone. - You do not care? - Of course not. Oh, thank you. I have many things in the car mind going back? Sure, sure. Thank you. Oh, that's how it feels when you're stuck, right? Have you ever been arrested? I did not mean it. Once arrested me for DUI, that's all. What a strange day! I think we have just the gas station. Excuse me? Was not that the output to the gas station? I think so. It should not give back? - Can I ask you a question? - About what? - Could you get around? - Why are police called me? Sorry. What do you mean? Before climbing into the car, called me a "police." Why do I call it that? Because it seems a ... Yes, yes, but ... I'm not a cop. - Are not you? - No. This is not funny. Well, I'm not trying to be. Sorry. I do not understand. Who are you then? I am the Butcher. - This is not funny. - No. It is not. You should never go a car of a stranger. - Oh, my God. - I saw that I learned a few things ... because they do not care or to you or me. Where are we going? You'll see. Please do not do this. Please do not hurt me ... I I am a good person, I have family and I will not say anything about it ... Sorry, but please know you do not want to do this. We'll see what I say ... will make a deal ... We parked by here and I rape you. But then ... course, if you're nice and do nothing stupid, do not kill you. Okay. You think I'm going to believe? Vai let me rape you no more? - Yes, leave. - Do not believe you. Why? You know ... if I had to be honest ... think any of us would like to live after what I'll do. Sorry. Please let me go ... Sorry, honey ... not I'll let you get out of here. Somebody help me! My God. Get me out! This killer knows how to play profile exactly as you want. He is a good actor can make you believe is really crying or laughing ... As an example, let me read some of these profiles. "The suspect is a man white between 18 and 25 years. " "A white man between 25 and 35 years old. " "Black man between 25 and 30 years." "Wildcat." "Highly organized." "Serial Killer". "Most likely to be your first killing. " "His first murder." "Definitely not his first homicide. " "He lives alone, probably in a very dirty ". "Your house is clean and orderly." "Sadist." "Sadist." "He must have lived in an institution much of his life. " "Highly functional." "Maybe limited intelligence. " "Very smart, probably with advanced training. " "It is very likely that there has finished high school. " "It is very likely to work in legal entities ". "Possibly it is a police or a security guard. " "It probably has some type of disability. " "Presumably, it can not maintain a steady job. " "Know psychological profiles. It is possible that work for the FBI. " Part 7: FOUND I listened to the map that the killer sent me had been done online using "Map Quest". So I contacted the FBI to see what deduzamos it. They obtained the records of "Map Quest". And there was only one download the same map that month. So, I traced the direction of IP and cross references with the Internet provider, or something I'm not very technical. My name is Captain Harvey Scroggs. I assumed the command to invade your home ... I mean, we played with all our heavy artillery. Helicopters, SWAT, dogs, bombs ... all ... Just in case ... u Archive images of the police. / u Courtesy Archive The City of Dutchess - Clean. - Clean People ask me how we find ... and I say, first, we have found ... Just find your home and secondly, we do not met, he pointed out to us. He wanted us to meet. And this is not evidence enough, without counting we did not find a single fingerprint in every house ... Here, the wall ... have a little blood ... and here ... focus the camera here, so we can see ... with consecutive numbers ... Personal ... - Guys, come here. - Come on. Come on, Sean. Come here. - Ready? - Come on! My God. Is she alive? Oh, my God. She's alive. I'd like to see a doctor. Now. Found! Of missing woman Pennsylvania held as a slave ... People kept trying tell me all these years the more likely it was that Cheryl was dead ... and that I should move on ... But I did not. I kept telling everyone that had to have hope until you know. But then I got a call. The officer said: "We found her daughter" ... and thought that meant that he had found his body ... Then I realized that was not both hope and thought ... I had never seen a human born and raised in the USA, who had shown evidence this kind of torture. She was burned, cut ... five teeth were pulled with pliers or a hammer. He had several broken bones. Many of them do not could be replenished ... and others were seriously injured for a compression device. She also suffered from malnutrition so far ... in their bodies with terrible consequences. There were also serious signs of sexual torture. Including things like puncture electricity to the genitals. and other things that are horrible even to mention aloud. During hospitalization, many injuries seemed to get worse instead of better. And do not can understand why. And I realized that was not only pain but the pain brutal had been part of his life for so long ... she did not know exist without it ... She did not know how be, if not through the pain ... She was torturing himself, when nobody was looking. I was so nervous when I arrived at the hospital. I mean, imagine not I saw my daughter for eight years ... When I got there, she was aware ... She covered her eyes and whispered "Please take me home ... please take me home ... please take me home ... " So. A week later, I took there and took it home. But she kept repeating. Then I noticed that she not referring to our house ... It was very strange to see Cheryl after all this time. During all this time that was missing, I I passed the college girl carefree mother of two daughters. It is difficult to see the girl I with the girl he loved back. After months of with Dempsey insisting / i got a interview with his daughter / i Cheryl / i I do not know ... I do not know what to say. Tell us how it feels be home again ... I do not know ... What do I say? You are happy to return to see his mother and father? Yes. Maybe ... I do not know what they want me to say ... Tell us how you feel after all this. I do not know ... I do not think so continue further with this ... Why? Because I do not know if it is Whatever I say ... You can say anything you want. He loved me ... No matter what say it is true ... he loved me ... He would not leave me ... and one day come back for me ... and take me with him ... Two weeks later this interview, / i Cheryl Dempsey committed suicide. / i ticket left after his death, / i she declared her undying love / i his "master." / i The tragedy touched again a small family in Reading, / i recent debris Cheryl Dempsey buried / i were stolen last night from his grave in Woodland Cemetery. / i It was left over a broken coffin. / i Police are investigating the possible link between this / i horrible crime and a serial killer / i that have come to haunt these shores / i known as the Butcher of Rio / i I have the feeling that He moved to somewhere. I doubt strongly that stop killing it ... I doubt that anyone know he is there ... but ... in some city ??out there kidnappings and disappearances are growing and somewhere out there ... he is responsible for it. Something I found interesting is the tapes are listed. But have 27 tapes were not found ... I wonder what those tapes would ... I wonder if he is so proud to see that someone ... or if his face became visible or ... have much on it ... Or maybe there are things worse than what we saw ... I can say that there will be someone somewhere watching him ... If this documentary are sending to the movies, he will have no chance ... You will see this movie so much times as possible. We will open the eyes of many rooms as possible, because ... he'll be there ... Cheryl Dempsey The filmmakers are deeply grateful to the families / i for sharing their stories with us. / i Our hearts are with you. / i And those who lost someone suddenly .../ i will never be forgotten .... / i
