 

                        ( THE LOVE ) ( THE LOVE ) Can you read the lowerline? No Till where can you read? DNHO And now?. BU ls it betternow orearlier? Deardoctor, do not change fast, Please give time to decide Okay Earlierone please See now No great difference Showme yourearlierspecs lt's broken Try ifyou can read this Husbands, as Christ loved church Love yourwives, similarly husbands need to love theirwives like theirown body That's enough... goodflow, this will suffice forreading l knowit by heart, when we used to Quarrel, she would make me read it a hundredtimes That's interesting, how come she sent you alone? Both eyes are dilated, it's tough without support That's alright Get someone with you next time, both eyes need cataract surgery, Will do a detailed examination Please call someone to take you if it's difficult How could you go all by yourself Papa? Blame will be on me if something happens. What was the hurryforeye test? Yeah, you don't sleep without watching TV Who's that Aswathi? Father-in-law l too have two ofthem. From dawn they are in front ofTV, never leaving a serial; missing two meals is no problem! Can't you take a rickshaw, you may fall. Stay at the reception l will ask daughterto pick you. lsn't it in Ahalya? Onlytwo months back he had an attack, brought from native place won't listen to anyone. lt's the same everywhere. Looking afterkids is easier; at least we can beat them! Don't laugh at falling leaves my dear! No worries, kept my Provident Fund for old age home, l won't be bullied by kids. -That's clever ofyou! Who's it? Thief... Who's it? Grand pa, it's me Megha Megha you scared me See howyou sleep Any thiefmight snatch your bag! Are you playing Police andthief?. Sorrybrother Just did it forfun on seeing this board. Let's go in this car, steps be careful Whywaste money dear? Let's catch an auto No wasting. Get in, come. Watch yourhead Hello Uncle Grand pa, this is Arun, myfriend. People might've mistaken me as thief and beaten... he can't see clearly. lt's dilated..You'll have irritation. Can't you see us at all? lt's like seeing through water... some forms, not clear. But not totally blind, Watch See when they'll give the specs. So difficult to look at sunlight. lt's pearcing my eye. Wearthis, you'll feel better. -No, it's fiine. Take it Uncle Though it's not clear, can keep eyes open. With a cap he'll look like JackNicholson, isn't it Megha? Who? He is a brilliant actorfrom Hollywood. He was a twisterat his age, weren't you Grand pa? These are yourdiscoveries! Then even boys ofwell to do families had just a bicycle. lf a boy and girl looked into the eye, lot of meanings were derived. Are you asleep already? l feel goodwhen eyes are shut. Not coming in Arun? No, have a match in the evening l forgot to tell. He is a known footballer He was the captain of ourschool team. Really? Very good, in which position do you play? Right forward. There's district team match in the evening, please pray. Then, why are you roaming like this? On the day ofmatch a player should get, two hours practice, least six hours rest, then to the fiield. Because of me you lost time. Ok, all the best. Bye Oh, l forgot about this. lt's fine. lt'll take two orthree days to get specs Till then it will be useful. l have spare. Where will l wearthis to? lt will be a comfort in irritation. Anyway do you think ours is just an acquaintance? We'll be seeing soon. l needto see you after l get the specs. Why? is it to knowifhe is smart? Ok. Thanks.All the best. Bye Like the waythings are.. But piercing girls is not a good habit, you see! Going around without telling anything to anyone isn't good, it's not a rural set up. lfhe gets hit by some vehicle, you can simply sit there telling see this andthat. Can't trust and employ even a home nurse He isn't a kid. Don't botherunnecessarily. l am not goingto say anything; it's a problem always when daughter-in-law says. Let me listen to the gossip ofin-law Staying alone must've changed him, he is aged, please don't mind. ljust toldwhat l needto Hello is it on speaker? Hi daddy, how are things? Dinnerover? No dear, it's onlyfiive, getting out of office Howis it there? No. Mom's cursing and goingto kitchen now Then you come and make Your mom's mood tells its noodles today lf l get, l'd kill the one who invented it. Daddy and daughterplease make chappathis. Today it's tough; don't start with each other. Where is Dad? l'm listening Grand pa is in style, wearing sun glasses Dad Yes dear Where did you get sun glasses from? That l.. Please don't..don't tell him. People at the hospital gave. Light in the eye feels a needle piercing Anyway you did the best thing. Not telling anyone you went around. lfyou wanted specs you could have toldAswathi. With work and travel she wouldn't get time. Without seeing and reading anything, how could l spend 24 hours in this room? Cable connection will be cut till Megha finishes her exams. ls that really needed? lt's fun to watch TV and skip studies. Put the TVoff. Mom's lying Dad. l am not watching TV. Please tum the speakeroff. Hello Dad.. Yes, l'm listening She is not keeping anything at heart The reason forherunrest is not all these, when you are family, husband and wife.. needto stay underone roof. Nowyou there, and she here are making some money. You need to talk and quarrel with each other That's where life begins, you know?. Look who is talking, easy to say. Why didn't you feel that when you got upset with mother?. Hello, Dad didn't you hearme? Dad, where have you gone? ln those young days our minds were not mature to know such facts Hello..Are you feeling bad? No Then why did you put the phone down? l know, you must've gone backto the past Dad, are alright? No.. l.. was thinking of going back home Why? The house and premises might've got untidy ..here alone in a room All ofus have to be like that, at such age we needto take care ofhealth At home, ifyou are in need, who will take you to hospital? Did you forget the attack? Don't you have to live afterthe attack? whywould one live thinking of such things? Backhome, it's a pleasure to live thinking all ofyou are doing well! ls that so? As you doubt there are no big problems- in ourlife. When she says l can only listen. She also is sacrificing a lot. So don't worry about us. We are perfectly okay. Please don't put it down. Hello, dear l will call you backfrom home Onlywhen speakingto me you are busy. Howlong you talk? Watch the phone bill. You are not bothered of anything. You are not bothered of anything. You are not bothered ofme having a tough time. Practice will keep you away forlong Why Grace, isn't practice needed? Next month is state selection. l have heard so much before wedding. East Bengal and Mohan Began persuading you to play- howmany offers. Haven't you understood? Didn't l tell that- We'd get married aftersettling with a job? So, l am the one who forced you to marry? You men are like this So different before and aftermarriage. Come on aren't we still in love? No, l don't want to hearyou - Don't feel bad. lt's myfate. Left my kith and kin to be with you, l must get this. Go whereveryou want. Hey, stop. How could you get the vehicle on ground? You are here, no? l learned driving here. Got a bit serious with glasses? -Yeah He was in a hurryto see you with specs. True that l wantedto see, but- my grand daughterwas in hurry! Don't bluff No l am sayingthe truth, leave my ear! Don't come up with old romantic dialogues l got you here when l couldn't spare time. Where are you offto? l have to attend tutions. You can go, l'll drop him. Carry on, let me see them play, a while. Here, thanks. -You are welcome. He's an old state player, you may please cleardoubts if any! Don't start playingwith them, motheris going to blast me. So long since l caught a ball like this. When didyou play in state team? No, l couldn't play though l was selected; it was my greatest ambition to play in state team. My son was born that time. No one to help, leaving my pregnant wife.. alone to go to coaching was not possible. Fate, what else? What happened uncle? Get hold. What happened Uncle? Get some water. Don't worry, l am playing after40 years. Shall we take you to hospital? - No, no Let not Megha knowthis. Are you alright? - l am perfectly alright. Great, the specs is intact. You are panting heavily. Only because l played afterlong. And have a number of ailments. Go and play, l am alright. Come Kid, are you coming? Grandma come. Coming... Which floor? - 8 B What is yourname? - Ria Sir, this is Saji sir's kid, this is his mother. Not mother, mother-in-law. Hello, Menon. - Hello Grace... Achu,Achu... Watchman.. come fast. -What is it Madam? Seems he has fallen unconscious in the lift. Which floor is it? Come fast. He has had an attack earlier. Achu...what's it? what has happened? Call someone... has to be taken to hospital fast.. go. Yes, Madam. MAdam, Madam, lsn't there anyone? What happened? Don't know...he fell unconscious. Take him to hospital fast. Anyway let's inform the flat l neverthought he would make it to hospital, nowit's up to almighty, lfhe has more time, we'll see. We are at hospital; he has been taken to lCU. Who are the relatives ofthe patient just brought in? Give name and details, someone must get admission card from casualty He is staying at 10Ain ourflat, we don't know anything more. He came a month back, his children will be here, he's a Menon. l didn't askhis caste, the medicines are costly we need some deposit. To open a fiile, without knowing his identity... Will take card now, please don't delaytreatment Achutha Menon, age 65, no 67.. please take admission card in flat's address, deposit the rest. Sorry Ma'am most of the people disappear afterthe patient is admitted. Name please. -Achutha Menon House name? -Thalappurath Age? -Age sixty seven. l will send you a telegram on reaching. Shift a little please - sorry did l disturb? l'm wet. Yes, l sawyou in the rain without any caution like a child. l love gettingwet in rain. Drenched, you make us wet too. Sorry.. l didn't think ofthat. lsn't he a little crazy? Are you standing here? lt's fine. Come and sit there. l like feeling the breeze when l am wet; My Shirt will get dry also. You may like that, but you'll catch fevertomorrow l like that too. What? The fever?. With fever, cuddling blanket in the bed, l like that very much. Sure, you are crazy. Didn't you speak about the same in mind earlier? How didyou get that? That l know, shall l tell what you are thinking now? You also like being in bed with fevercuddled in the blanket. Who wears anklets oftinkling raindrops? ls it the chill of flowers that showers love? Cuddling the lovely beak to share warmth, Whom is my beloved bird searching? Come close mybeauty... Which wind carries the sensuous flower smell? Did you caress my tresses? Are you the shepherdess of Jerusalem valley? Orthe trail deerin slumber on handsome chest? Come this way Come my darling The soft touch of a breeze oryou with me... Who wears anklets oftinkling raindrops? is it the chill offlowers that showers love? Skies, come down at the bosom of earth- as a tune that calls the rains Are you the petit flowerthat flows- in young sun rays kissed by butterflies? Come this way Come my darling Nowthis flowerbed today is the garden of Eden... Who wears anklets oftinkling raindrops? is it the chill offlowers that showers love? Cuddling the lovelybeck to share warmth, When is mybeloved bird searching? Come close mybeauty... l didn't think you were dozing, myfather-in-lawis admitted. Watchman saidyou were veryhelpful. What's yourname dear? -Aswathi l heard there were new occupants in 8B, couldn't come to meet. Wen l reach from office it would alreadybe seven oreight. Howis Achutha Menon now?. - Nothing can be said Can we see him once - He is critical lfyou insist one person very close to him could go in You wait here l told, one person lt's my Grand pa, l was not there when he was admitted, please Yes Why are you late? Howis that guy? ln lCU, slightly critical. ls he aged? - Sixty seven. Sittingforlong; would like to lie down Looking at the sea, doesn't feel like reading. With each newwave sea looks different. Why are you dull? Let me take a bath Who's it? - ls Auntyhere? Why didn't you put on the light? l am Megha from 10A Had attack, admitted in hospital? My grandfather lsn't there anotheraunty, aged? My mother, howis grandpa now? Nothing can be said for24 hours Megha from upstairs has come What's it child? When we come out of lCU, we were lookingforyou ... how's he? Conscious? Doctors didn't say anything They are trying. lt's the second attack Aunty here is the money you deposited. Thanks a lot. Have you come in such a hurry to give this? No, we have given phone number to the dutynurse, no point of staying there at night. ln case any emergency they'll call. Right Aunty, Bye Child -Yes? Where is yourdaddy? ln Sharjah. l don't thinkhe can come. Two months back during fiirst attack he came. Then he was in native place. That reminds me, motherwas asking howyou knew ourhouse name. That... Hi, why are you talking in here Mama? My daughter's husband. l have seen you flashing on scooter. What are you doing? - in twelfth Ok, then you'rat the right age Motheris alone there, l am going Here take this lsn't it to be taken afterfood? You gave all these Really? So did l take mymedicines? Why are you so doubtful? Who knows? Shall this be off?. Grace, what's happening? Didn't followroutine, no prayer, no good night... ...no kiss Come on, whateverit maybe, say it out... Otherwise? The attackwas forAchu Who's that? Achutha Menon? He fell unconscious seeing me in the lift, in my lap Afterabout forty years, seeing must be a shock Want water? l am alright lfyou were to meet in future... everthought howwould it be? Neverthought we'd see... my prayerhas been that. didn't have a clue it'll be like this... That's fate, with divorce, legally nowhe's nobody to you... set that straight fiirst Relationship ofblood is lower to that of action; if a son negates mother, what will that relation be? Shall we sleep? Easyto say, l know... .. when we tryto forget it gets deeperinside Didn't pray... King ofJews Nazarite Jesus, save us from immediate death, accidents, disease, fear, deeds of devil, evil thought... Before we start livingtogether take an oath on bible, Darling in the first night itself are you converting me? Unto each their own faith and religion, already forgotten ourconditions? No,just formy belief Keep yourhand upon mine Husbands yourwives... yes, come on Husbands, yourwives Are to be loved like yourown body Are to be loved like yourown body One who loves his wife loves himself One who loves his wife loves himself Let me askyou, eloping and getting married without the consent offriends and relatives, doesn't bible have any problem with it? Keep the hand Thus man would leave his fatherand mother to be one with his wife Thus man would leave his fatherand mother to be one with his wife Two ofthem will become a single entity- This consent is important. Two ofthem will become a single entity. This consent is important. l am liking this! Leave his father and mother to be one with his wife! This light is unnecessaryforthat! Leave... lt's suffocating me Howis it to be one with.. Wat's the use of getting so worked up there? Still the day is just on... They'd have called in case of any emergency Couldn't you have called? Listen, l'll give you the number. Do it yourselfthen you'll believe Fine, give the number Megha, see who's at the door Good momingAunty, come in please l went fora walk ComeAunty Came to see ifyou have news from hospital There was no special call from hospital at night, Let me ask mom, please come in Sit down please No, fine. You will be in hurry, went forwalk, just thought ifyou got any news Couldn't ask at hospital. Suresh has been keeping the phone engaged, he is upset there. Will Suresh come? Looks like. See, he is very close to his father, too attached. Not even two months since he went. Please have a seat, l'll get tea. No ljust had Please do, this is yourfirst visit No dearplease l was telling Megha to askyou, how didyou get ourdetails? The house name Chalappuram, is not remembered even by me What's it, aunty? l don't have the right to say, Suresh is my son He said his mother died when he was very small He can only say that When he was two and halfyears old l died in his mind. Daddy.. l'll give to mother Hello, l talked to the duty nurse in lCU, at day break he became conscious and asked about all ofus. Condition is better. You talk to the cardiologist, are you there? ls it off?. Aswathi is it clear?. -Yes listening l'd booked the eveningflight, thank God nownot coming in hurry. Call afteryou reach nearfather. -Yes Right theyhave brought us up like the apple of eye, and when they need us we can't be there. Sad, that's why l'm in a mind to leave Gulf and go back Don't at least when it comes to hospital bills this eaming helps us avoid begging. That is not the only thing, we miss all from life. Then, you said they are divorced Wen she saidthis much, she became very upset The love in old days is veryinteresting Boys usedto smoke to show off. Making rings with smoke was theirstyle. Girls usedto queue up forthe boy who did most numberof rings! Didn't grandpa saythat looking into the eye itselfwas love? Blunders! Heyhow's that a blunder?. Wen one looks into youreye isn't it like a needle piercing into mind? Wat rubbish! After marriage this love bursts like a bubble Look, the one who's sitting...Aunty Aunty? Call herGrandma Wy should l provoke? So smart, she came this early... This is love, you said the bubble bursts, but howeverit keeps forming.. That's true love! Didn't you go to school? Yes on myway, mothercan only come in the evening. HiAunty, meArun, Megha's friend Hello, l..l also came now. They'll allowvisitors now. Sasidhara panicker,Yohannan, Achutha menon Only one person can go in Who is Grace? He asked about Grace Afterregaining consciousness he asks about her, this is the depth of that feeling called love! This isn't it.Afterabout forty years to see his wife. What is the base ofthis anxiety and curiosity? Love! Love,That's the feeling l said, Love...got it? Won't yo forgive? What's this madam? We allowvisitors forthe patients to get relaxation. lfyou crythe others will also have higher BP! Do you feel something? Though l didn't feel, l knowthe feeling. Awave movement, inside Moving waves, how do you feel? You became romantic in no time! As ifthat old lover has regained life! Do you think that would become real? l was joking. lf such thinking happens in this situation, it's quite natural. l am open enough to knowthat. Don't you feel so? Am l getting more conscious about Achu, is that the feel? When the question is asked, the feeling is understood! The person who knewyourbody and mind before me is the one in lCU. Howeverwe try, that truth can't be forgotten. Happening before forty years orso, anyone would become emotional, forget it. Past means a bucket of ashes. l don't pocess such emotions, Also no guilt about the decisions taken in the past. The thought that he is alone makes me a bit... This thought is enough to hurt the mind and pain ln literature it is said, through a casually opened door.. ..enters Love! Do you fearthat would happen? l should be afraid only if there's a love greaterthan mine! Fortwo days l am feeling, you love me more than before. and since you sawhim you seem caring for me more and more. For Love all are selfiish... me too! Won't you wake up again with this song? Haven't you heard the nightingale's tune? wearing roses, isn't the night ready? With this song that springs from my heart, won't you wake up again? The Sun held bythe ocean has burned down. Beloved, who is the Sun burning in yourchest? The waves are tuming red, has re bloomed on yourcheeks too? Love is an unusual sweet ecstasy! With this flowing song, won't you wake up again? Athousand golden peacocks will dance in the sea, The Sun will dance along in thousand flames, Birds shall praise the union of daylight with night! Love is an unusual sweet ecstasy! With this flowing song, won't you wake up again? Haven't you heard the nightingale's tune? Wearing roses, isn't the night ready? Mymotherinlaw who was believed to be dead has started staying in ourapartment with another husband and daughter. You are meeting heronly now?. She came here recently. Daughterand family were there earlier. Though they are brotherand sister they didn't know each other. They got divorce when Suresh was oftwo and a half-years. He is very disturbed after he heard motheris here. Looks like he may catch the next flight. Though they are divorced they have stayedtogether as husband and wife for three orfouryears. When someone is visiting a diseased person how could l say no? Mother should not see father, that's his stand. 'Wat to do?' What's the reason fordivorce? ln Ludhiana she went to studynursing and got married in love. lntercaste marriage. ln the past intercast marriage was a bigthing She became a motherat nineteen. The depth oflove might have subsided afterthat. Though against it in the beginning, seeing theirpoverty mother's father supported fiinancially. lt was actually a trap. They triedto convert the child into their religion. Your's husband? Tried to baptise him, there they partedways. Since long, all love marriages are like that. They end up in tragedy. Feel bad looking at this grey beard. Oh, that's the problem. No hairto be grey on this head, so is that fine? School going kids have greyhair, and you talk about seventy! Don't count seventy so easily, let's celebrate seventy aftertwo orthree years. See if l don't put dye, l am also grey. Hey, are you afraid of the old age? Afraid? Wy? Nobody will feel getting old, ..neitherme noryou. How old do you think are you now?. About ten yearyoungerthan your exact age, isn't it so? Do you knowwhy? Because the mind is not old. But when you become ill and depend on someone like this, ...you feel you are old and ailing! Be silent,will you forsome time? Ortomorrow's news will say a haggard old man who wantedto become smart died of cutting the airpipe!! Don't need blade to kill Old man is yourfather, myfoot! Yes, it's you! Who taught you to shave? Sorry Come Why didyou stop there? Come in Son, do you knowwho this is? Yeah Then who is it? Keep quiet, will you? Let it be, we'll do it later Grace Our Son... Son, she is yourmother... Meet again like this... Dad don't get emotional. you don't have strength foranotherattack. Grace, Sit please He will be alright with you soon Son By talking don't increase dad's BP l needto talk. But l'll talk to you later. BP increasing while talking is his discovery. ln fact while talking people become relaxed. Anyway who would have thought we will talk like this in this lifetime? lsn't it so? He might've fallen out with mother, he onlyhas size. lnside, he is a small child. He still has childish temper, anger and stubbomness. Without mother, l pampered him a bit more. That could be a problem. Uncle, who askedyou to be up? Complete bed rest is prescribed. Sorry Madam, please come out. We've strict orderfrom doctornot to have visitors. Forfive minutes, she's very close to me Sorry, there we've got a complaint, please lt's fine , l will go Good Morning - Good Moming Fit enough to walkwithout help? Am not alone. There is mybody guard Good MorningAunty - Good Moming Aunty? Call Grandma She is not that old to be called Grandma, Not like you, see not a single greyhair, it's not dye no? Still she is smart. Please look afterourboyhere, l'll make a round and be back grandma. So you knowto call Grandma.Yeah? Yeah Whateverwe tell them to call, don't they need to feel the relation? Yes l felt like seeing and was coming to the flat in the moming. She is the one who told about this moming walk. We sawtwice orthrice, but we just talked. Overthese forty years when l didn't see you at all, l have neverfelt this urge to see you once. God must have extended life forthis. Achu has changed a lot, beyond recognition That's life. While living in different places who takes care of such things? Weren't you angry at me? Why? Forthis situation ofyours Not anger, in the beginning it was a kind of determination. My affection was so high you see. l roamed around in north lndia with son. Did different jobs. At last after getting settled l realised l also hadfaults. What use is it to say and remember such things? Majorpart oflife is overin vain. l was at peace thinking you might be living happilywith anothermarriage. Anothermarriage has not been in mind till this moment. How can that be? l think ofyou at least twice a day. Please don't say that. l have a family. That l can understand. l see you like that only. When son started going to school, he kept asking formother crying adamantly. Howeverhigh a fatherloves, l realised it is not enough forhim. We were ready to come back to Kerala, by then you were married. Do not avoid me at least from yourmind. ls this girl alright? ln ill health, taking fatherfor jogging l too was thinking, for school l have to call hera hundred times. She's that lazy. Then why an unusualjogging today! Some daily exercise is good. Can't you also walk in the morning? l get time to waterthese plants rarely andyou are asking to walk! Why the newspaperis always late? Buddythe bundle has to come, no? Now see the point, Gracy aunty goes forwalking Who Oh, my mother-in-law goes down to walk, didn't get it? They sneaked out to see yourmother Father, what are you up to? Haven't l been restricted to hospital and rooms? ln the moming, it's fresh airoutside. Then did you get it? The fresh air! Aren't you ashamed? l am not saying much as the girl is here. Don't you have things to study? When exams are near, is this time formoming walk and jogging? Or, is this the age to roam with your grandpa? Hanging around without a thought of studies Did you see that one? 'That one'? You meant yourmother? She has divorced only father, 'that one' still has relation and right on son. Let's see howthat one comes with such claims! l will make her hearthings! Hush, we have people close by Please don't listen to these things, proceed foroffice, and l would like a black coffee. You had a coffee in the morning, now anotherwith breakfast would be enough, caffeine is badforheart. Dad, why now, such an intimacy and affection not seen before? Do you need? Don't you make it a joke, l'm serious. As ifyou have forgotten what has happened what do you mean? what do you mean? Don't see that women again. l am adamant, not forthe sake of it, since l started knowing, l have gone through so much. We have stayed on with this will. l don't need anyrelation forgetting the past. You too. What a bother! We could have stitched long robes like those worn by Arabs and priests. lt would look like women in night dress. Though with slight difficulty here comes a smart fellow! Ourwedding is ourtrouble, why let others know about it? Mama, Megha from upstairs foryou. Where are you offto? That Menon Upstairhas been discharged from hospital and no one has visited Wen you are not well, can't you stay at home? Staying at home may cause more trouble, going this way maylet this vehicle move a bit ahead! What's the matter? lt's Suresh. He wants to talkto me in private. Asks if l could go to terrace. Didn't you saywe were comingthere? Yes No problem, let's go later. Talk to him. that's more important. Why are you tensed? Cool, cool. Howmuch everchildren grow formothers they are kids Don't lose peace ofmind getting involved in such things. He could have come here to see you; anyway l'm his half sisterand l too have the curiosityto meet him. lfherattitude is this, he would have hundred percent more ofthat to say! Be a good listener, forgive, that's only you can do. Son Whose son? Are you shameful to sayit's yourson? Don't saylike that son Called to say such a relationship and litle is not needed. Had a time when l needed mother, but why in future? Because ofyou l have shifted so many schools, so manynights devoid of sleep in tears till next day, myinferiority, inhibitions, complex.. all because ofyou. To share my emotion, l have wife, daughter andfriends, no need of a mothernow. Dead is what everyone knows ofyou. Let it be forever. Didfathertell that motherdesertedyou? Whatever l say, knowyou will not believe, with a correction both ofus won't retrieve all that is lost. lf l saymore l would onlyhurt that ailing man. l too have the same to say. Myfatheris a fairsoul. Forabout forty years he's lost everything and stayed alone. Nowifyou are starting a newbond forgettingthe past l won't let that farce happen. l won't let it happen. Don't see my fatheragain. Protect us O God ln the presence of God let me askyou, .. did motherleave us in true sense? we'll pray and come ok Where are you off to mother? lt's late already, come fast Why are you asking this now?. Don't you believe me .. or someone has told you so? No one has told. Seeing yourinteraction with her l felt you have forgotten the past. Trying to get close to her. lt's because ofyouraffection, there's nothing called Right and Wrong till eternity. Some wrongs are Right aftera while. lfwe are unable to forget andforgive, what's life all about? Have you thought what would you have done ifyou were me? Hey, aren't you having anything? Not feeling hungry why that so? Need to take tablets. Do have something at least, come on she is full with what herson has given! That's why she's not hungry. Didn't l tell you not to go? Now accept it lfyou keep thinking, get high BP and fall sick there won't be any newrelatives to look afteryou. Ria come fordinner.. Mathews whyis she talking like this? You blame me fortalking, aren't you shamelessly going behind them? Asha, stop it, enough. Daddybecause you stay inside you don't have to hearanything. Both ofyou tricked us. Before wedding you should have at least told me that she is Mama's child from second marriage. At least you should have told me How can l tell you? l came to know onlythe other day. That's what l am surprised. About this relation, Mama could have at least told that l have a brother. l'd told not to say anythingto anyone. lfyou want to build relationship with brotheryou can still do it. Best. What are you saying? lf my family comes to know about it, we won't be allowed to enterthe house. True. My sister-in-law are waiting to get some spark Silence. Can't you change the subject? Whyis such negative attitude to all? Why don't you see it as a positive development? lt's not as ifyou are teaching philosophyto students in college. lt's a question of dignity -What do you mean by dignity? Dignity is not sticking on to old social norms. lt's a fragrance that exudes from a pure and noble soul! l don't know. l onlywant to say one thing No one else should know about this relation here after. Mama don't you create any such opportunity Please don't keep broodingto be worried. Leave some to be forgotten. l am the most cursedwoman in his mind. The depth of cruelty l did to him is clearonly now. lt is not exactly that. Both father and motherare at fault. Due to the fallout and separation no one bothers about the wounds on tinyminds. Children have more love formothers than fathers. Not just as women say that they have given birth in pain, when an infant grows up a comradeship develops through laughter, play and quarrel between them. Here that friendship is with father. See, in my own body l am aware of only one leg getting wet. Ourrealisations are limited. Life is within limitations. Faults are quite natural. Life should be an extension of happiness. Life must be a continuation ofhappy events Don't think ahead. Leave fatherat his place. Forhelp, nowmale nurses are available. With extra payment they'll make food as well. Won't it be difficult to go forcheckups? Why? Aren't people falling ill and goingto hospitals there? ls this like that? Fine, people are curious to know stories ofpast. Old age is naughty. lf both ofthem decide to play silly games, remember, you have a girl to be married off. Grace, Good morning, why didyou go? Good morning Why did you turn back? ls it because you sawme? No, it's going to rain Wen naive people tell lies, it shows on the faces Did son see you? Yes What did he say? Please don't see ortalk to father. For him motheris a dirty woman who deserted herchild. He is not in need ofmotheranymore. lt is a wrong done, due to my selfishness. Wen advocate told the right for looking afterchild will be given to mother, l took him and went away before the verdict, to defeat you. Later l came to knowit was a trick played ..in consensus between my advocate and yourfatherto get child out ofyourway. Wanted to write explaining all this to you Somehowit didn't happen. He had grown singularly into my life. l keep thinking of opening up to him. There is a fear. On learning everything he mayhate me. What l have done to Grace is unpardonable by anymother. l will tell everything. Let him feel at least some affection to you. No, ...gainingthe love which Achu is goingto lose is not fiine with me What's it? Nobody's up here? Usually Dad has the paper, where is he? Pulmade tragedy, see this When you open it's full of group deaths and suicide. l hate this stuff Mustn't be awake What a sleep, father, it's past seven O'clock,get up Got good sleep only in the morning Where are you goingthis early? Thought l would go fortwo days, tidy up the premises and house. Myleave will be oversoon. Getting calls from Sharjah. As you said it would be better that you are back at your place. Would get a male nurse to serve routine food and medicines. Megha's board exams are here.. .. soAswathis's attention would be shifted to her, also you would feel betterwhile walking through the premises. Why don't you say something? You have already spoken and decided it. Good evening, Menon Good evening Right side is not friendly with me forthe last six years, with a stroke. Oh, l am sorry lt's alright. We were planning to visit you a couple oftimes. How are you now?. Better? About heart attack it is said at the most you'd be given three chances. l have one more remaining. That's just to scare people. You see, death is not instant. Everymoment we are dying. The hand shake we did became memory. The short span between two consecutive breaths contains death and life. Don't worry Achu. He is still in the hangover oflectures done in the college among students! Listen Menon, This Grace is scared to hearsuch things. She is afraid of dying. Hey, No, ljust have one wish. l should die after Mathews. That's what l pray for. lf l go ahead, Mathewwill be alone in troubles. What else am l afraid of?. l live in this body now. Do you spend time here often? Hey, l don't go out andwalk alone. Could say, children don't allow. TV and Radio will always have some match orthe other. That's right. Aplayerwould like to stay among applauses True. The one who had a goal, intoxicated in victory would love to be among such applauses. The loseris alone even in the crowd. You said it right Menon, afterlast world cup the walk Maradona did, ..bowing down, it was really touching. He was alone in that huge stadium. lsn't it? Aye, l am not worried about being alone; ifthat's the case l couldn't have lived till now. To be happy orsad l don't need special reasons. When clouds formingto rain it's a kind of suffocation But to see and getting wet in rain is joyful forme. We too are like that. Earlierwhen we usedto see rain we would be out on the bike. ln slow speedwith heavynoise we would go around on the bike. lsn't it Grace? On vacations no difference between forest and countrywe'd be offwith the bike. Now l read. Listen to music, mostly Leonard Cohen. Then mymindwouldtravel a lot. Physicaljourney is only a dream now. Then l'll show Mathew sir a very interesting place! Would wheel chairreach there? Sure, l was there the otherdaytoo. come.. He is like this Mathews.. Like children. When we reach, there will be something silly! Menon, Grace says you are still childish. Why should it change, ourpeople feel afterretirement there is just death. Then theykeep indoors without moving much Didn't say what is there to see Be slow, ifyou hearwhat is to be seen, what's the thrill? Be slow..slow Let us knowifthere's real reason fortaking so much trouble You are still lazy, she is like this earliertoo; she would be interested but not ready to take any trouble! Be careful -Yeah come on Oh, when did this happen? Really l was up here the otherday. The construction has come out. Achu where are you going, have you forgotten about the attack? l knewthis before Sorry, really sorry, l climbed here even last day. Sorry, God promise, not lying Grace, l did climb l liked Menon's attitude. You have a mind not fittingthis body, you know?. This is a different experience from top This itselfis an experience as we can't climb, You could brief us about the sight You could come, not the wheel chair. Grace come and see. Grace we have come so far, go up and see. No, l am not seeing it alone, what's the thrill? Achu, come down Why are you like this Grace? She is always the same. She rejects things that l can't have. Shrinks herworld in to my limitations. What she said is right. The thrill is to see it together. l didn't think about it. My parole is till my son is backfrom home So before l go l will make sure that you see it even ifyou have to be lifted byhead load workers. Don't be adamant, it's too difficult. That's the thrill ofit! As you say to live till the last breath, doesn't that need some thrill? Of course, l agree. l am feeling Menon's thrill very much! Before seeing and talkingto Menon l was confused to handle the situation. Reallyit's a great pleasure to meet you. l can't help telling Sir! l am kind offeeling jealous. You are lucky. Athousand golden peacocks will dance in the sea, The Sun will dance along in thousand flames, Birds shall praise the union of daylight with night! Love is a unusual sweet ecstasy! ln this nest of chill, won't we reach again? Haven't you heard the nightingale's tune? Wearing roses, isn't the night ready? Wearing roses, isn't the night ready? Shift that side please Look, one fellowhas come along Let him be there, he is sitting forsome time, quite comfortably Really it is so beautiful like a painting... See it's gone Menon get some new excitement fortomorrow Don't forget to leave him before you go ln addition increase the number and decrease the other bythe same amount, where did you take Daddy to? He's not well Down stairs..just for some time See, theyhaven't known anything. By keeping quiet, things would be worse. lt's because you are not telling strongly. Haven't l told? Howmanytimes? Such things in the old age.. You write ls there hot waterin the flask? lt's common talkin flat, about Mama's newrelation. Haven't you ended it once? Then why this new development? We don't have any such relationship as you think Then why do you have to see and speak every morning ...and eveningto make people gossip? Oh, is regularly seeing and speaking to someone a problem? Then talking to the vegetable vendor and laundryman ..Natarajan would be a problem for people. Don't mind such things. l am not alone. Daddyis always with me. As daddy is not fiit, people say you are keeping both men. What didyou say? Say it, what did you say? l haven't said, some neighbours have told Saji that you are like Panchali, with two men. Aren't you ashamed to tell me? Wo told you? Who told l am like Panchali? Tell me. How couldyou believe somebody who badmouths yourmother? ls this the man you were talking? Orthat weak man aftertwo attacks? Can't you see anything otherthan sex in a relationship between man andwoman? Wat are you saying? She said that l am Panchali. ls she saying things to be spoken to a mother? How could you teach children with this mind set? How can l teach in college if students get this news? We need to walk in front of others, that's why l told. Orwe will shift to another apartment. Afterthat you could do what you want. Was planning to tell you forsome days. We are not saying anything now All decisions are yours. Until theyhave health andyouth they would only be thinkingthis way. To understand a relation that we want, mind should be single. Like being alone in the islet. Don't get hurt with theirwords. Actually shouldn't l be suspecting and accusing you? lsn't it good enough that l understandthis mind? Because ofme you are thrown out. Nothing ofthat sort. lt's a reason to quarrel with daddy and mummy. They might want to stay separate and independent, they are young. With each day added, theywill have more trouble with aged people. Old age is a burden forall, Mathews sir. Body gettingtired and weak and diseased is common to all ages, isn't it? When taking care of parents becomes a duty, it's burden. Everyone lives fortheirown likes. We too are the same. Who belongs to each of us is decided by ourselves. Didyou see, that went farther than the first? You knowthe reason forthat? Grace, you tell ls it because it was thrown with more power?. The second one was calculated and aimed to reach farther We all are having oursecondturn in life. Need not depend on anyone. Let the mind be tireless. Can travel any distance. Not biddingfarewell. Suresh may come tomorrow. So we may not see each other. When l go home your problems would get solvedto some extent. Take, trythis once Try one more Very good! Hello, when did you come? lt's sometime now. ls no one here? Where are fatherand Megha? ljust dropped Megha and going to office. Dad is there, may be dozing l have been ringing the bell for a while. God, is he ill orsomething? Just inquire at the flat downstairs.. he maybe chatting There is no one. Come with the keyfast. Father... God, where would he be? lsn't there a mobile with him? He has kept it off. Father Could he go to some relatives? There are no relatives nearby Dad's bag and dresses are missing Could he have gone back home? Still would he go without informing? Apleasure of escape, in Menon's language, 'thrill', Good! This is not eloping, isn't this joumey onto little bits offreedom in life? We experienced the thrill of eloping long back, ...isn't it Grace? Oh, my chest throbs even today. Yet for sillythings you fell out with each other, really so sad. Listen Menon, ...in the beginning Grace did not like me at all. l still remember afterwedding it tookvery long to talk. Later l got to know.. ..herfatherpressurised forthis marriage bythreatening to suicide. Like Kannadasan's verse, God has written one person foranother. Yesterday God has written about the events oftoday. See, it's true. Hello, -Yeah, dear l am driving, how's Son? His nose is leaking heavily Give steam, is there medicine? -Yeah, giving it to him Son - Father Yes son, don't go out play and catch cold, dad will call you at night. Sir, what to say, this fellowwon't wear chappals. We have slush andwater all aroundthe house. And nowadays it's more frightening to get feverthan Cancer. Father - Son, l'm driving When are you coming? - l will call you Let me call Suresh, he will be troubled now Call from a booth. lfyou switch on the mobile there would be lot of calls. The comfort ofjoumeywill be gone. That's true. Please stop when you see a booth. Hello, Hello, son Yourmother, l and Mathew sir are in a joumey You could have told and gone l knowyou won't agree, mymindwon't allow to start without your consent There is no place left to search here lt's not to hurt you orwithout love. You see me only as yourfather. Though l can't get backwhat's lost, l consider it a fortune even to see closerand talk. Only when you see it from a different angle you would understand. Where are you now, Dad? Please rememberyou are not fit to travel. Myhealth is alright. Don't worry about that. l have kept the keyin the flowerpot nearthe door. l will call you later. Yourface says there is not much trouble Depends howwe make them understand. We'd been adamant about children obeying parents. Similarly nowwhen they are big they will be feeling strongly.. about the parents abiding bytheirwords They are not punishing us just as we didto make them learn! Exactly, want to be out? No, that'll be a taskforyou! Did you get through? She is furious, says all residents came to know and she is ashamed. Public eye is set on other people's privacy. Forget it. Have we started offto be out of mood like this? Driversir, put a song please Stop, stop didyou think we are on a prayertrip? No sir, people ofthis age.. What's wrong with this age? lsn't it Menon sir?. Put a cracking fast numberbuddy! Oh, that's done! Menon, shall we flash a small? Why not? lf Mathew sirhas a wish, done! NoAchu, it's fiive to six years since he stopped. With medicines and all... Leave the medicines fortoday; will there be anotherjoumey like this? Let's enjoy. There are no majorevents. As Menon said aren't we living nowforsmall wonders in life? Which drinkyou prefer Menon? Nothing particular, yourchoice Let's go for Martini lts okay Let's have two Martini do you like to have James bond? Oh no, not forme, Orange Juice please l neverexpected to reach such an ambience even in dream! Menon, thanks a ton! l am your man! Sing Mathew sir! O Young girl who waits on the road where sweet birds come singing.. O Golden dream that flowers when a cloud of heart's tune dissolves in to showers of chill ln the pure moonlit path, remembering whom you wait with a pleasant heart? O limitless abundant newworld, are you ends faraway? O time, this newlife as sweet as a poem is just a stage ofbad dreams lt's a charming occasion, sunny dreams, came flying to wake us up O Young girl who waits on the road No birth no deaths, good times throughout this lifetime oflove! Life like the gang offlies always wanting honey are the great moments on earth! Let's wish well and part ways, Adieu O shore ofnight! O Young girl who waits on the road where sweet birds come singing.. O Golden dream that flowers when a cloud of heart's tune dissolves in to showers of chill ln the pure moonlit path, remembering whom you wait with a pleasant heart? Life is beautiful than dreams, ifyou knowhowto live lfwe haven't seen you, these moments would have been absent in ourlives Yes, you are the man! No Sir, l'm yourman! Grace.. Grace What happened? Mathews what's wrong? What's it? Achu call someone Mathews... Driver come fast Oh God... Call someone please O God..! l can't believe this Catch the leg.. take to the vehicle.. Lift... careful lt's a transient ischemic attack. We have started medicines. As it's the second stroke only after24 hours.. ...we will knowhowbodyis responding to medicines. Only time will tell if he will recoverfrom this stage. Forthe time being it's critical. Grace, don't cry. Nothing will happen. He will recover. Defiinitelyhe will recover. Nowis the needforfaith and prayer, isn't it? Don't you have to inform daughter? No Achu lie down forsome time. You need to followup the medicines. That's alright. l remember old incidents when l see this Bible. That temper and will, there's nothing now Grace. Shall l tell you what you were remembering now?. No, l didn't rememberanything. Achu is always in that old memoryisn't it so? There is nothing newthan the old to rememberin mylife! Sister, how's Mathews? He is better now. Moving his head a bit. He is dozing now. Medicines are sedative Can she see? She is the wife. l know. That has to be askedto the doctor There is no use forsitting like here. l'll inform the room in case of anynews. Nothing to be worried. Go and rest fora while. Didn't you hearthere is nothingto be upset about? Can't you rest now?. You go and rest. Since yesterday you are sitting like this. l want to lie down a bit. But if l leave you here, won't get any sleep. Then what's the use? lf l keep awake, gaseous problem would start. Get up, l'll come. ls the phone in ourroom ringing? Patient has regained consciousness, asked forwife. Ok, thank you. Mathews sir has askedforGrace. Thank God. l was frightened. Were you frightened? No... ...yeah... Don't you know, death nevervisits those who wait forit? Where's Menon? God bless you Where's Menon? Where's Menon? Outside Call him, call him. Sister can you please call the person standing outside. More than one person is not allowed. Please Okay How do you feel? Better Like being awake aftera dream Mathew sir, ..this is the third turn afterthe second! No worries forsome time now. Even otherwise, who's afraid, ifwe feel life is complete ..then death God's blessing. it's a fortune. Why are you saying unnecessary things now?. Don't talk much. Sister is he allowed talking? Doctor said he could tell as much as wants. All systems are normal. Or he would have spoken disjointed... l don't have any problem. Abit jumbled in speech That's the effect of these medicines. Yes Even though a joke she usedto say, if l go, she would come with me. That was always pricking me inside. Nowif l go there is someone to travel along with her, that's myrelief. Why are you saying this now?. Certain things have to be said at certain times. Wanted to say since l met Menon. l am saying it from mymind. Got readyforthis trip because ofthat. Until last breath, aren't we experiencing life? ln Menon's words, the thrill unloading everything, like flying birds, not causing even a scratch to the sky... ...that's the essence oflife. don't cry, don't cry, please just don't cry thinking of death, that is the stupid thing. Like a journey, migration, death is just that. Grace did you inform daughter? No Good, orshe'll say it's the result of ourmischief. Menon l'll be out in two days. Plan the third turn... Why don't you smile, smile.. l didn't tell in the midst oftension here... l talked to son in the morning. Opened up everything, that motheris not the culprit. After knowing everything, he was ready to come here canceling the trip. ln this situation l told him not to. He wants to talkto mother... shall l call? Yeah He's going back in tonight's flight, mayhave reached airport Son... it's me, Dad Where are you? ln airport, did check in One second, l'll give to mother Mother... Where are you son? Security check is over going to board. Because you didn't call till nowthought, you won't call at all. l want to run to you and cry at yourfeet. Please forgive me Mom Telling unnecessary things, l hurt you so much. Like forgiving a child. Why don't you say something? You have not done any wrong. Fatherand motherhave wronged you. Only nowwe could understandthat. Because he loved me so much he took me awayfrom you. l want to see you. But here l checked the luggage in, so nowmaynot be able to come out. Truly l want to stay with both ofyou at least one day. Are you listening mother? You only have sounds and no words? May be you are person offewwords, sorry l am unaware of howyou are. Till nowyou were a wickedwoman forme. Ashe-monster! Sorry Thank God, l could hearyou laugh! That's enough. l have request to you. All these years, l thought fatherlived onlyforme. But now l realise his mind was waiting foryou. l expect you have understood that. He wasted a whole life; he should live at least fora short while. Excuse me sir, are you traveling by Dubai flight? Sir, this is the final call, please sir Yeah, l'll come. Mother, time is up forthe flight. l'll reach there and call this number. Take care, could you give to father? Dad, l am so happy. l know son l'm boarding. Take care Ok Reach and call Weights are kind of unloaded. He went with half a mind. He wants to stay with us at least for a day. That's mywish too. All three ofus together, at least one day What's it, Grace... oh, My God Sister, please come fast to the room. All of a sudden became unconscious... Which room? ls it a bystander?. Sister, call the doctorfast. Grace, Grace, Oh my God, sister, fast... Goodness.. how can this be... lnform the lCU and get a stretcherfast Call the doctor please.. Oh God Given CPR Sorry, she is no more. May be it is a cardiac arrest. Want to see? Lifeless body.. l don't want to see. The smiling face ofmy Grace is in my chest. Love goes on...
