 

                        LINA FILMS presents. Stepan! MICHAEL YORK in the film. The Justice of Wolves based on the novel "Mika and Alfred" by V. Kunin. A strange thing happened this morning. Driving through the city I felt as there was someone else in my can. Then I heard a voice: "Mika, you must tell people about the murders you committed many years ago. Nobody knows that you are a murderer: I looked back I was alone in the can. An hour later I was making sketches for the painting commissioned by Heidi Marx. Again I felt there was someone next to me. Then this someone materialized from my drawings, or from thin air. What name should I give you? "Alfred" would suit ma. - - Alfred. - Yes, Mika. How do you know my name? That's because I am you, Mika. The unexpected visitor did look like me in my youth. It seemed he had descended from the pages of an old mystical fairy-tale. He knew my life story perfectly but he kept asking questions about things I was extremely reluctant to recall. He asked about murders I gave him the diary that I kept many years ago. Mika! Mika! Where 's the money I gave you for your music lessons? Mom, I didn't want to upset you" I have lost it I tum inside out to pay for your music classes. And you sky them. You are from a good family, after all! Did you hear my question? Where's the money? I swear I've lost it. Milya! - Yes, Irina Petrovna.. - Give me a hand here. I can't pull on this bloody boot. A Moscow friend is coming to visit Sergey Arkadyevich. Olshevsky, the screenwriter He 'll spend the night here. Let him sleep in your room, and you can sleep in the kitchen. I was thirteen when I first saw it. That night I came up with a cunning plan to seduce our maid Milya. Can you help me take the basket to the loft? My poor boy, do you want it so much? Why didn't you tell me earlier, my dear? Suppressing desires for so long is bad for a boy 's health. Misha, why don't you say hello? Hi, Zaitseva. - Hello, Mika. - Hi, Stepan. Are you playing Athos? - Why such a sour face? - Polyakov is putting on airs. Just you tell me, Nelly! I 'll teach this kike a lesson! "This kike"? What's that? Didn't you know, Zaitseva? Polyakov is a Jew. Doctor, how is my son? He's lost a lot of blood and he has a concussion" It's too early to make any prognoses I was in a lot of pain, raving and hallucinating. It seemed like something in my head had cracked. Strange things began happening around ma. Suddenly I saw an island in the ocean. I was flying over it. Then I kind of calmed down, for the pain had gone. But I felt that my world had changed. Mommy, iris' so good you came. My dear boy. Have I changed a lot? No, darling. If it's the hair, don't worry, it'll grow. And everything will get back to normal. No, not everything. Hello, guys Misha! - It's nice to see you again! - Hi! Show us the scan three, four, five.. They put 12 stitches. Bugger off small fry! Why are you pushing us? Do you think you're tough? You're fine again, aren't you, dirty kike? I want you dead bastard! He's not breathing! Today the armed forces of fascist Germany have launched an offensive against the USSR .... Yum, I can't take Mika to Alma-Am. M y wife needs an urgent operation. So I want you to take him You 're my assistant, someone who has experience and whom I can trust. Here 'S the money for your trip and the living until you settle. Mika, my boy. As soon as we arrange everything here.. Hey you, careful with the stockings! We 'll join you in Alma-Am. - When? - You and Yura will settle down, make yourselves at home, and then mom and I will come. Mika, my darling boy! Films? Sure I've made films, both comedies and dramas. That's cool! I was in Khanzhonkov's studio. Th en the war started I was promoted lieutenant. You must've seen a lot! Then I was in hospital. They wouldn't take me back to the front. So now I'm going to Alma-Am. Lenfilm Studios have been evacuated there I say, Yum, let's go to our compartment. We 'd talk and have some wine. You 'd tell us about Leningrad and the movies. Not about this I 'd say, why not, Mika? Remember his position" What have you got in mind Alfred? You go. I'll stay here. How many years have you had these dreams of the island? Since I was a kid I 'll like to live in a place where no one would hurt me. It's bad when dreams don't come true. Little devil! Little fucker! You couldn't find a betterplace, asshole? That's my idea: You could buy a nice island. Free his hands, Sabitov and create a colony for people. Let him pack his balls! He's got no servants to help him whom you, Leo and Heidi wanted to make happy. Look 111 you, underage bitch! - Stop pushing ma. - What? That's millions of dollars. Fucking slut! Go back to your carriage! Have you gone mad Alfred? Be realistic. Sabitov, I 'll give you the light, and you Search him well You know what to look for I am being realistic I voice your ideas. [And] know who will make your dream come true. He's damn clean. - Where are your papers? - How about your papers? Shit! Who 's that madman? - How do I know who you are? - I'll show you who we are! Sabitov, take this attorney to the compartment. You, Mika. Move your ass! Me?! We 'll show you something more persuasive than papers. We've got our first order: It's worth $500,000. He's in illegal arms trade A bad guy, in general. Yum Koptev, the man who accompanied me, He 'll provide any customer with every possible weapon including ballistic missiles was lying there with his throat cut I've told you many times: Our money and papers had vanished I can't kill someone only because they 're bad. Not so brave now, are you? They should be tried in court. Look what they've done to your friend'. What court are you talking about? The legal system is corrupt. It doesn't fight crime. - Who did he leave with? - Two policemen. Rather, it helps criminals. One looked like a Kazakh, the other one was Russian" You and I will render justice. Can you describe their cloth es? Using the competition between criminals. We can't make mistakes. Uniforms like yours. What they give us an innocent man as a mark? - Any distinguishing features? - I 'd better draw them. A bad man may decide to settle accounts with someone good. We must be sure that we punish those who deserve it. - Mika. - I'm afraid. Nothing to be afraid of. All right, go ahead. There are no innocent people in these circles. Mika, you're an artist, a creative person. You sure did a sweell job. Why cram your head with administrative issues? I've recognized one of them, Ravil Shayakhmetov I've recognized the Russian too but I don't remember his mime I 'll deal with them. And you do the creative work, - Krasnov? - That's right, Krasnov execute the verdict. - Is it a deal? - Na. He's on the wanted list. Eat I obeyed Alfred. - What's this? - Kurt Kazakh national meal, dried goat milk. He contacted Stepan, my old playmate, who was a very influential person back in Russia. He gave us our first order: Could Alfred be my demon? I saw the face of the man who had invited. A tempter? The unfortunate Yum to his compartment. Though, #he is a demon. He seemed to tell me: Keep your mouth shut! Why should he need me? I answered silently: You're dead, you bastard. He could destroy all these parasites on his own. And I felt I 'd taken the order as an ordinary contract killer: An invisible fireball start out of my head. Even though I had sworn I would no longer use my... and fly upwards I don't know a proper word for it... my gift, perhaps, ... to stop hearts beating I dream about my island; My New Atlantis. Go to Alma-Am You might find your parents them. That would take a lot of money. But beware of strangers. That's why, once again, I turned myself into a lethal weapon" That girl we saw you with the other night, Misha.. And still I had doubts.. I was confused.. Go ahead with hen Look how she's staring 111 you! This is your food certificate to get food until you arrive And your temporary ID. Since you have no other papers Hera. Good luck. Take Cara. Go ahead, Misha, have some fun with hen. Let 111 least someone be happy. Are you all right, Mika?! When the train arrived 111 Alma-Am I shouldn't have done that I have never murdered on a contract I was immediately caught up in a huge police raid.. Police raid' Run! You shouldn't be sorry for them chased by policemen who looked like those. We clear the world of pests I had said good-bye ta. We 're like wolves who eat dead animals. Take him! All the USSR police seemed to have started a hunt.. What do they call wolves? Forest cleaners. -Freeze.f and I, Mika Polyakov, was their quarry. Time passed. Come on! After Leo's death Heidi no longer cared about our dream to build the City of the Sun. Stepan regularly provided me with new orders but it was increasingly difficult for me to execute them. Sorry. - Got you" - I'm not a street kid. - Hello. - Hi, it's Stepan" Take him to the police station! Have you checked everything? The client's money is on the account. Charged with armed robbery. It 's all here. That means everything 's OK.. - How old are you? - Fourteen. - You can do the job. - Good evening. - Where are you? - I'm on the spot. Fourteen 7. Mika, be careful. You know, Rymbayev, put him and other suspicious guys into our car and send them to the juvenile penitentiary. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Don't forget the covering documents economic and trade relationship between our countries.. Kikes don' t smoke pot, do they? What? What's wrong with you, sir? Are you all right? I think he doesn't get it. Crawl up h era. We 're gonna screw you, taking turns. [Help] You heard my question: Do kikes smoke pot? I don't know I have a feeling the bastard doesn't want to talk to us. Why not cut the fucker's balls off? What's the air and water temperature in winter? Come on, kike, take your pants off? But in November the air is 22 and the water is 25. Or we 'U geld you. No need ta He 'll shit blood for a week anyway. You should come here in August. Iris' paradise. - Let's see your paradise then! - And the climate here is stable. Move aside, kid'. There in the guy we 're building a pier for deep-draught motor boats. - I sea. - And on your right.. A desalination plant with a small power station" What's the name of that island? After I killed the two guys in the police car. It doesn't have a name. You can give it any name you like I was taken to a juvenile penitentiary in Kaskelen, Mika 'S Island high up in the mountains Several years of my life. F or instance, give it your name: Mika 's Island I spent there, behind barbed wire. What do you think? I 'll take it! Misha, are you ill? I like this island. - I have to go to Alma-Am. - Why 7. You said you had another good offer. - My dad's in Alma-Am. - How do you know? Or did you ?! I did I don't think we 'll find something better: I can see he's them. Don't tell anyone, all right? Though there are so many great places .. - Let's take this one. - All right. Let it be Greece. Homer may have sat on this very rock watching the sunset. Homer was blind Alfred. We've got 4 more orders. - Tell ma. - Right Las Vegas. A Russian is building a casino. He pocketed 2 billion of state money. What else? Spain" Andalusia. A prime-minister of a former Soviet republic who stole a half of his country 's budget. It 's their business. Anything else? Another skirmish in Tolyatti. Oh, no. After our island I can't even think of going to Russia. Good afternoon. Come in. We tum it down then" Please. A ski resort in the Alps. - Where 're you going? - I have to see my father: Money stolen from Russia is laundered there. - You can't go in them. - My father's there. - I said "No".f. - I know my dad's here. And invested into real estate. Good-bye. They say mountain air. Then I saw Olshevsky, father's friend, is good for health. Whom I once saw making love to our maid in our kitchen" So, we go them. - Good afternoon, Mr Olshevsky! - I'm sorry, son. The main thing is the list of the islanders I can't give you anything. I'm Mika Polyakov. You 're my dad's friend. The list is ready. We have a problem with documents. Mika? I didn't recognize you" Your folks stayed in Sverdlovsk Your mom was ill. Stepan will help us with it. Stepan, I carry out all your orders. Maybe, they have arrived I haven 't seen them. See you" What about mine? It's not about the bank account You know. Food! Sugar! You had no money when you left, and now you're buying an island I want to settle some colonists in my paradise. He's a gutless coward. There 's nothing to kill him for. Could you help me to arrange their arrival? - H ere, please. - Thank you. H ere, take this apple. Our drinks.. Are you sure you sent out all the invitations? You know I did'. - What's your dad's name? - Polyakov. Somebody is against our New Atlantis. What's it again? Sorry, I can't hear well. Has all that we've done been in vain? Sergey Arkadyevich Polyakov. From Leningrad. What right did I have to kill people? - Polyakov? - Yes. He's here. - Even they 're criminals. - Stop torturing yourself. He came 3 days ago and is in a drinking bout. The ones you've killed didn't have the right to live I 'll take you to him. They were criminals! Mika! And it weren't for us they wouldn't have been punished. You said: 'We are forest cleanersf. Forgive me, my dear boy. You know I never drank. Stepan, old son of a bitch! But when your mother died it was as if the sky. Am I glad to hear you! Misha, my dear friend! Warming your ass on your island, aren't you? Crashed down on my head. There 's no God up them. Iris' damn cold here. A very cold autumn. I can't hear you very well, Stepan" I'm in the can. Have your islanders arrived yet? Not yet What could have happened? I don't know, it was all arranged I've made arrangements. Probably something 's wrong with the papers. The whole of Lenflm is here. I pulled some strings. So you 'll work 111 the studio with the sound engineers. - And what about you? - I'll go to the front. My camera is my weapon I 'll be a reporter with the Air Force squadron" And what about me? One kilo, please. Thank you" We 'll see each other soon" Stepan! We 'll defeat Hitler, which won't take long, and I 'll come back. Au fight, dad I 'd like to meet this Hitler I did not even dare tell my father about my powers. - Alfred, is that you? - Yeah, it 's ma. M any times, though, I fantasized about being taken to Berlin, Have the guests arrived? Meeting Hitler and murdering him.. How are you? Why didn't you answer my calls? Call me when our guests arrive, the people who we've done all this for. Something occurred to me today: Being old means that you still love life but life doesn't love you any more. Come back, Mika I 'll call you" Forgive me, Alfred. Mika! When I realized that none of those I had been waiting for would come to my island; I left it. I settled down in a small seaside town not far away. My god, Misha, i'd say you're hot! To stop feeling lonely I started a diary again... Wipe away your tears, my dear friend. Don't cry for me any more. Open up, honey! It's ma. It's my husband'. Oh, my God.f. It's my husband I sought this eternal life myself and dreamt of that distant land. Hurry up, sweetheart. - Is it you, my sweetie? - Let me in right now! Run" - Is it you, my sweetie? - It's getting on my nerves! There the white snowstorms fade And the night rocks the cradle of God. - Have you lost the key or what? - Coming, sweetheart! What's taking you so long? Misha, are you a fool or what? Beyond there 's only light And it's only there that we 'll have. - Want to break your neck? - You haven't seen anything. If you rat on me, I'll kill you" forgiveness for everything. Everything! Everything is stolen! Several pairs of boots, shirts, a winter overcoat with an astrakhan collar: There is a mist-covered country Somewhere beyond the seas. Anything else? A beige suit with a waistcoat. Do you suspect anyone, Mn Olshevsky? I'm afraid; Mika! Mika! Here you are! The only person I can think of. They have arrived' is my friend 's son. Mika.. Mikhail Polyakov. Polyakov? He's spent time His father is 111 the front And Mika... - Mika? Is that a nickname? - Na. Where 's the gear? Who bought it from you? I didn't steal anything. So you didn't.. Did you read this? Semyonov and Onoprienko with their own eyes saw Polyakov, the guy from the sound shop, jump from a first floor window of the hotel with a big bundle in his hands I didn't steal. He didn't steal.. What was in the bundle you had in your hands? By the way, Olshevsky lives in the ground floor: Nice jacket! Come on, take it off? You, stinking rats, knock it off? Leave the boy alone. I won't say it twice, motherfuckers! Do you want to stab us, thug? That's an option" A knife... Shit in your pants, assholes? Show them, Lavrik! Cut their fucking balls 0. They 'll kick the bucket anyway. - I need to pee.. - So what's the problem? It's over them. It's not coming out. They beat your kidneys It's all swollen in there. Don't worry, relax, give it time, it'll come. Will you also wipe his ass? I will if I have to. And then I 'll make you gobble up the paper, bastard' I said the cops had beaten his kidneys to a pulp. Where 're you going? Do you think I didn't see? I saw You spent the night with Misha. That's a lie Misha is in jail but he's innocent. - The boy was in your bed! - Nonsense. f. - What are you talking about?! - You must go to the police. You must tell them You 're pretg/, they 'll listen to you" Please, here 's some money. What? Money? - Please! - B itch y bitch! - Wait! Where 're you going? - I know my way. You can't go in there! You 're not a detective, you're a fascist! Stop shouting! Calm down, mother! Misha could never take anything from anyone! He jumped from the first floor: That was only physical training. - Who did he jump from? - What do I care? All he had with him were his pants, shirt and sandals! If you don't release the boy, tomorrow I 'll go to the main party committee, damn it! Polyakov, take your and get out! Told you they 'd let him out. How come they let out him, but not me? That's because you 're a syphilitic. Fuck! See you soon! Misha, don't forget us. Here in Munich I try to figure out why that accident 111 school gave me such inexplicable powers I think of having a medical examination in a local clinic. But I'm afraid I 'd be taken for a monster. What else can doctors think about someone who can kill with a look? Misha! Hi there! Come with me! I'm here with a classy chick. Let 's grab a bite here and go to her place. No, thanks, Lavrik. - Why not? - -Dad's coming I had a word with the fence who bought the loot from those who set you up. He spilled out that tonight they were bringing more. - Let's tum them in to the cops. - Na I 'll deal with them myself.# Misha, I could help you with than. No, Lavrik, thanks I 'U manage. I was waiting for the two guys who saw me jump off Lida the singer's balcony. They grassed on me, saying I had robbed Olshevsky. They called me a thief yet they were the ones who were breaking into apartments and hotel rooms. Today they forced the lock of the storage room. Stay where you are, assholes! You punished the bastards well! My respects. How about working together? - Want me to draw your portrait? - No, Misha I don't need publicity. I'm not an ordinary guy. I'm a thief. And I don't want to show my mug around I 'll tell you something. They buried one of them The other one is alive Halfway. Can 't move his arm and his leg, and one side of his face. He pisses and shits in his pants. Do you have anything to tell me? Not really. - Nothing to tell you" - I respect that I 'll tell you more: I 'd never have expected that.. You 're the man of steel, Misha. Have you lost your way, captain? I'm looking for my son. His name is Misha I was told he helped someone unload a truck here. - Here, help yourself, captain. - Thanks. Here 's to us. He knows where Misha is. Let's go, captain" We'll find your Misha in no time. - Thank you" - Good luck. There's your Misha! Mika! Dad.f. Son. Dad take me away from here. I can do many things: I can't, son. Iris' wartime. The first patrol will stop you, and I won't be able to do anything I don't like it here, dad I can't, Mika I 'd take you but.. - Don't take the clothes. - Why 7. All fences are cops' informers We don't need problems. Take dough and yellow metal. That is, cash and gold. We have to fiind them first. Every thief knows: Dough is hidden on the shelves with bed-linen, and gold and jewelry is kept in flower pots. There you go. And then I saw a flower pot and the golden hidden inside. Lavrik had not wasted his time trying to convince me to become his partner in Robin Hood crimes. He called it so, in his romantic way, to our raids on the houses of the local moneybags. Good work! - You 're late again! - Downside of our profession. Wash your hands and let's have some lunch. H era. And don't stash it away. Buy something useful for the house. Misha surprised me today: He can see through the walls. You 'll stay 111 our place, Misha, won't you? There's enough room for everyone. I own the whole place. Buy him a good couch. And a wide one 111 that. Who knows who'll roll onto him 111 night I fell in love with Lavrik at first sight. The minute I saw him I liked everything about him: The stripes on the sailor's vest under his open-necked shirt, and his jacket, and the boots. And his tender approach, no foul language.. - Can he do without it? - Sura. - What presents he gave me! - Come on! - Let's drink Here 's to us! - To us! There 's only one thing I don't like about Lavrik: He reads too much. It can drive you crazy. I once tried to read one of his books I got to the 3rd page and had a headache. Gramophone is much better: You tum it on, put on a record.. What's so Robin-Hood-like about burgling the rich? I keep falling lower and lower. 'My heart's in the highlands My heart is not here...'. How about having some fresh air in the mountains? What do you say, Lilya? Let's drive to Medea. We 'll have some fun, catch butterflies, entertain the ladies. But we have to find someone for Misha. How about Sveta, the pretty Moldavian girl? She'd be a good match for Misha Misha, it's your tum to kiss! Sveta, stop gobbling. - I'm not gobbling. - I can see that. Let's go. It was a brilliant idea to come here. Let's have a drink. Sveta, who taught you all this? My step-father: He taught me this since I was 10. And then he left us, mother and me, both pregnant. - You were 10? - 12. And don't ask me anymore I love you so much, Misha I was madly in love with Sveta I liked everything about hen. Her laughter, her breasts like Fergana melons. I robbed the rich and gave the loot to the poor: That is, I gave it to Sveta. - What's taking them so long? - They 'll be here, wait. We've got company. I'm sure it was clean. Don't worry, we 'll get away through the backyard. Get in! Hold on! Are you ready? Give way! Sorry, broth er! Poor crops this year! - They're catching up with us! - Don't fret, Misha! There 's not a cop on earth who could catch me! - Can I go now? - Lie still! Your task was to make Polyakov fall for you" We need to know his every move And what have you done, bitch? - I know his moves. - So you do? - Where was he yesterday? - He was painting my portrait. He's an artist. He's a thief and his partner is also an 'artist', like him. And we have to catch them red-handed. Do you get it, bitch? If I don't know where they are and what they are planning to do I 'll put your alcoholic of a mother into a nuthouse, and your broth er will go to an orphanage. And you 'll get 2 years in prison for concealing information, and 3 more for intentional infection with a venereal disease. On the whole you're in for five years. - But I'm healthy. - So far you are. Safari.. Wait till I put you in a prison cell for a day. You 'll get the whole range from clap to chancre. Do you want to go to a concert at the club tomorrow? - When does it start? - At 730 I won't make it. Lavrik and I are going to Talagar on business. Let's do it some other time I dreamt of the island again" I saw its shore, its yellow sandy beaches and tall palm-trees I saw people. They were laughing and talking I wanted to ask them how they got to the island of my dreams. But then I soared up towards the clouds and the island vanished. Two burglars are going to Talagar on business. Our task is to apprehend them. Perhaps we should take more men? - Why do we need them? - They've got a gun. A shitty poet and a fucking artist. Don't make me laugh. Shit! Iris' here. Lavrik, maybe, we'd better leave? I have a bad feeling about this. A new life starts behind this wall. We 'll take with us our girls, a heap of books and buy a house overlooking the sea. And you were afraid stupid. Hands up! - High er! - Don't sh out. Shit! We give in. What is this? What about our house overlooking the sea? I didn't expect to see you here, Polyakov. Neither did I, Petr Alexeevich. Take a seat. Tell me honestly, Mikhail, did you kill our detective? Me? How? That's exactly what I 'd like to know. No wounds on the body, yet the man is dead. That reminded me of our first encounter on the train. We were after those who had murdered your dad's assistant. - Do you remember? - I do. So what? The point is that when we searched the train we found the body of an old offender without any traces of violent death. It seems the bandit was about to shoot you but all of a sudden he cranked. It happens. It happens.. But only when you are around, somehow I've looked through some files and came across a strange case: The death of two assholes in a police can. When they died; Polyakov, you happened to be in that can. Not only ma. Th ere was also a witness, a homeless boy. He stated that you had killed the two thugs with a look. Do you want to tell me how it happened? Two husky fellows die without any traces of violence. Don't you find it strange? Did someone check their health? Lavrlk also was healthy, and look at him now... Don't duck my questions. Why do all these deaths look so much alike? And every time you were around. Or is it a coincidence? Does anyone of your family know where you are? I have no one. Here, Mikhail, read this. This newspaper contains the news that is very sad but very important for you" "Soviet cinema suffers a loss Sergey Polyakov killed" Dad! Father! Cut the h hysterics! Want to feign it, wait until morning. Doctor will give you an enema And now sleep! Dad.f. Daddy! Open the door! I'm suffocating.. Bars.. I'm in pain! I can't breathe. - Thank you, Petr Alexeevich. - What for? For helping me to get to the Air Force school. F or taking care, for everything Misha, why did you decide to be a pilot? Do you want to be like Chkalov? No, Kulpan, I want to be like my father: Here, Mika, take it You 'll need it. Here are some documents and your drawings. Kulpan kept them for you. - Misha, take care of yourself. - Thank you, Kulpan. See that they don't steal it. Petr Alexeevich, thank you for believing in me. Forgive me for all the wrong I've done. I won't let you down" See you after the war! Your apartment was destroyed by a bomb during the siege. This one is not bad either, though there are only 2 rooms I came back to Leningrad in the early 1950-s after Stalin ordered the Red Army to be drastically reduced. At the time I no longer cared much about anything. Leaving the army I was supposed to return my gun but I didn't. One evening sitting on n bench in the park I spotted my classmate Nelly, who had unwillingly caused my first murder. You can't have seen me here. Nelly! Mika! Where have you been for so long? Let's go. Hey, what the hell? I ran out of money. Iris' hard to raise a child alone. It was my first time there. My friend Verka the Rabbit advised me to go there. Rabbit? H er nickname. She's got a funny upper lip, like that of a rabbit. Rabbi; .. Where did you get this from? Never touch things that don't belong to you! Police Senior lieutenant Potemkin. What brings you here? - Polyakov? M y classmate. .. - Stepan? - Mika! - Stepan! Hello, Athos! Look 111 you! And look 111 you! Big chap! Don 't stand there! Come on in! - Come in! - Life's full of surprises! By the way, I've been discharged I guess we both were dismissed by the same decree? - Where did you serve? - In the Air Force. I defended the icy Northern borders of the Soviet Union" - Stepan! Here 's to our reunion! - To us! Why didn't you return your gun? - What gun? - Don't give me this bullshit I've got no gun" You shouldn't mix with sluts so much. Then you wouldn't have to lie. Tomorrow bring it yourself. I'll take care of the formalities. What's gotten into you ?! If you don't, blame yourself? You 'll be canned for illegal possession" We 're very strict about it now. The underworld gives us d hard time. Come tomorrow: lunch break from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. See you" The underworld that Stepan told me about was trying to use ma. They somehow learnt about my being able to kill with a look I told them No. I enrolled in the Academy of Fine Arts, I got married. No more wine, honey. Stepan, in the 1st grade I was in love with you" I promise I was. Kiss the bride! Let me kiss you! Mika, come back here! Very interesting works. A beautiful piece. What flight of thought! Polyakov is an ex-pilot, a military officer: One can see the hand of a master: He's the best in year: Nelly, I've been invited abroad' To Warsaw! Of course, I was glad: My paintings would travel to exhibitions all over Europe. But the woman I wanted to share my happiness with wash't there. She was caught in the swirl of restaurants. Open she wouldn't come home forgetting both about her son and ma. - Where's mom? - She'll be home soon. Sleep. Mika, draw a rabbit for ma I 'll draw it tomorrow It's late now. Mika, please. .. Au #gm. - Hallo. - Mika, can you drop by? No, I can't I don't feel like it. You have to, Misha You really have ta. - Have you got anything to drink? - I'll find something. - All right, I 'll be them. - Good! Sorry I made you come here. [But] had ta. She was found in a lake. In Vuoksa. She was drunk. She drowned. She was hopeless I'm sorry. It's all my fault. The Academy, my studies.. You couldn't have protected her anyway, Misha. Take my advice: Go abroad and settle them. What are you telling me, Stepan? To settle in the West? Me? A Russian? Misha Polyakov? I took Stepan's advice and left the country where I was born and grew up, where I became an artist. My exhibitions are held all around Europa. One can say that Mikhail Polyakov is a success. My only real friend is Leo Taub, a writer: He and his wife Heidi Marx infected me with the idea of creating the City of the Sun. They wanted to build a new Atlantis, a home for writers and artists who would be happy to live and work them I believed them I was glad to donate all my royalties to their cause. Still there was not enough money. It was then that Alfred appeared. Impressive house .. Hello, darling I'm so glad to see you" Sit down" I 'll join you in a second. - Where 's the computer? - In the drawing room. You 're like a little boy. I love computer games Killing monsters.. Why do you keep speaking about killings? Who the hell are you? - Hallo. - It's me, Misha. Glad to hear you, Lea. Pick me up, please. The program was on air when I had a heart problem. Let's take a stroll in the English park Germany for Germans! Mika, I spoke about this on radio "Liberty ". About my little Jewish cousin who had to hide from German fascists in Prague cellars in the 1940-s. - Calm down, Lea. - I can't believe it happens again! I hate you! You scum! Leo! What's wrong, Leo?! Bastards! It was Leo's last words that awoke the killer in me that had been asleep for many years. Here you are. I've got an idea regarding your "New Atlantis". - What idea? - You must see Stepan" I could talk to Stepan over the phone.
