 

                        You killed the plant finally I told you so often to water it every day You're an ass. - Raj... "hurry up, or you'll be late" One more How much? - Six bucks each Two bucks less? - Ten is enough "Honey, wait" How'll I survive without you? Push it Such a weakling She betrayed me again. - Why don't you get it repaired? You do that. I'm getting late I told you to get that rose from Preeti "To Bombay VT? - It's already hired, sir" "Sir, the balance amount? - I paid you a tenner" Get lost Hello there "Get up, hurry" Follow that car Turn around Doesn't get any faster? Hurry up Faster. Overtake it "She looks very decent, sir" I don't think she can do something wrong "If anything, blame it on her good looks" Move it We might lose her Close in Turn left I can sense mockery behind love It's a devious and treacherous world I'm not one of them. I'm merely a spectator They fall in love while I bemoan They conspire while I take the risks Either I join them or I differ ... depends on the need "Lovely, isn't it?" Well...? - Shall we go home? Let's go Purple color. - Which one? "The long one. - Not that, Meghna" Why not? It'll look nice on me But that's not for sale. - I've seen it in your house Take Harish out for shopping. - Amrita! Listen... Want me to tell him? - Shut up and listen "I'll wear flowers in my hair, for the disco" A long dress and a rose in my hair. - Not a long dress "All right, a mini dress and a rose in my hair" Raj will love it. - Shut up Naughty girl. - But I'll handle Raj Nice color Not bad. - Look at this How about this? Nice. Can I try it? - You will be charged for that How much? - I'll dig Harish's pocket You won't find him. He's hardly seen these days Chacha! (Chacha - Uncle) Cha-cha-cha Cha-cha-cha That's a mantra Pick up something for a quick prediction You picked a blue dress with your left hand Your man... loves his woman dearly But you need him badly "My turn, uncle" Leather... triangular You don't need anyone You are happy all by yourself But everyone needs you Wear this This gemstone needs the warmth of your body A ring for me? Your man is still under your control Which one? Do you use this to drive thieves away? How did you enter? Through the binocular Let's see your face Why does the daylight fade away? Why not meet at nights? The nights are beautiful But you are really brutal at nights "Mr. Universe has left, so I'd better leave now" Are you through? Are you leaving? "I don't intend to, but my job makes me helpless" There are many more open windows. I'll be back You're welcome In the last three days... the two of them met twice... I've been staying at a rented flat since last three months "Here's the estate agent's visiting card, and these are... " the photographs He's about 27-28 years old Six feet tall Drives a white Gypsy "The license number is MH 02751, I guess" What happened? You know him? It's always the person you know who...! But you can't help it. Bad times "Besides, the women of today!" They have tasted flesh You can get over it. No big deal "If you say, I'll trace his house" Shall I fix him? - That's my job I even take up divorce cases These photographs will help. - That won't be necessary Your charges... and drop dead Wonder what your wife found in him What pleasure does she derive by making you miserable? I'm not dieting But I just can't eat non-vegetarian stuff I see You do cook with pleasure though. - That's for you... and your friends "Else, I'm not in favor of turning stomachs into graveyards" "Be quick on it, Harish. - Not here!" "Right here, Harish. I'll count till five" Amrita... One... two... three... four... Meghna! Take care of your husband. He's bent on killing himself What happened? - Nothing I used to have a friend... a close friend A real gentleman "He had no vices, no shortcomings" "One flaw, though. He wasn't straightforward" "In other words, he loved to lie" "Trivial lies, reflexive... " unintentional. Not for cheating anyone... "neither meant ill will, nor goodwill" He was weary of his own behavior The line between truth and lies ceased to exist Truth and falsehood are only a hair's breadth apart It was as if he had a transparent tongue "Initially it was fun, but eventually it became a habit" "I mean, the game went out of his hands" It made him dance like a puppet "Stop it, Raj. - Then?" "To cover up one lie, he had to lie again and again" Soon he lost count of the lies he told. He couldn't remember them "Gradually, he failed to give continuity to his lies" He just wouldn't remember where he left last time "He was left helpless like a spider, incurable" "It was a foolish disease, yet dangerous and hopeless" "He was distraught, yet incurable" Poor guy. - Falsehood mirrored the truth What are you getting at? - My friend... "was inimitable, a master in his art... " "could do anything. He could destroy, even kill" But he lost his stand "He wandered, ran, hid" "A few months after his wedding, his wife deserted him" That's very bad He was aggrieved. He loved her dearly "He still loves her, he said. He said, time will heal him... " but time won't snatch his memories away What about his wife? "She escaped. However, she realized her mistake" "As it happens in a story, she pitied herself" "For all he said, she read otherwise" "For all his dreams, she realized something else" She finally panicked. - I found this lying down "For my friend's lies, his wife screamed out the truth" Now hurry up and tell what happened finally "Raj, you are dragging it too far. - And finally one day... " it all came to an end. He killed himself "When we broke the door and entered, he was suffering, fighting with death" The gun was lying by his side. He had lost a great deal of blood He was dying but he had not changed He had five different stories to describe his death "First he said he shot himself, then he invented a thief... " "then a girl, a friend, vengeance, misery, accident" "He cried, he smiled and finally... he was gone" "We, his friends, were by his side till he breathed his last" We did what we could "Death meant nothing to him, he swore" "Then, it was all over" God save us from such a death. - Raj... I never heard this story from you Maybe because it's fresh "Hey, I almost filched your lighter" "You can keep it if you like. - No, I don't want it" It's a loving gesture from him. It's only a lighter... "not a diamond ring. Keep it. - All right, to please you" Well done. You must never refuse a gift Absolutely. - Always be grateful "I hate that story, Raj" "Because you are innocent, and clean at heart" Recognize me? - Who are you? You got my present? - What have you got? Some memorable photographs Maybe you'd preserve them for ever They mean nothing to me Might mean something to someone else You can't threaten me. - Oh no... the photographs weren't taken to threaten anyone I'm only looking for someone who'd appreciate my art "Believe me, there's a whole lot of buyers for such stunning photographs" Aren't you ashamed? No "However, it's quite evident in your eyes" I want the negatives. - For an extra price I want the negatives. - Certainly. I'm not running away I could help you in other ways Deep thinking is bad for hair "I wasn't thinking, I was looking at you" What do you see? - Everything I can see through your heart Guess what's on my mind? - You are in a quandary What's the solution? - Money Wow! How much? This much What for? - You laid a condition;... I shouldn't ask such questions But let me ask this much... why did you marry me? Because you are gentleman. - I'm a gentleman? "That's not true. - Really, Raj, you are a nice person" Not at all Not I... you are a nice person though "All right, I'm nice and you are evil" Amrita... do you still love me? Yes How much? This much Listen... but I'm afraid... I don't want to lose you "You will forgive me, won't you? - I don't know" "First tell me. - Okay, I'm not telling you" "Oh come on, tell me" Okay... I'm having an affair. - Who is it? I've been seeing him for three months. - You're kidding "No, really. - Really?" And Raj? - He is unaware When he finds out? - What? "What will you do then? You love him, don't you?" "Meghna, someone caught us on camera" He's following me He's trying to blackmail me. - What are you going to do? You tell me. His wife mustn't find out "Wife...? - Yes, wife" It's a sin. Why didn't you tell me before? "Come on, I'm dying and you're preaching me about good and evil" What kind of a friend are you? - You mustn't do this Just drop him. - I tried... but it's impossible You're a goner What are you going to do? I'll keep filling the blackmailer's stomach until he disappears And Raj? "This is not right, my child" Don't weep "Look, he is here to take you back" Go... go home What am I supposed to do now? Tell me I did as you told me and sent my truck down the ravine. I stand ruined now It's been a year now and I'm yet to get the insurance amount "Had the claim been settled then, I'd have got 3,10,000" "At the rate of 15 percent, I'd have earned an interest of 40,500 on it" If only I had refused your suggestion! "The truck was earning me about 22,000 every year" "Colonel, I hope you understand me" "Ms. Amrita, please. - Colonel, listen to me... " Shut up! Where's she? "No, I'll call back" "Colonel, I want your advice" After the claim is passed... I'll set my storehouse on fire and claim the insurance "What's your opinion? - After that, insure your wife... " and then kill her. - You're joking I don't have time to joke. You may leave now But Colonel... - Go away How rude "In my profession, danger lurks at every step" And the greatest danger... coincidentally... is deep sleep. You never know when The silence of the night won't let me sleep "Those who are scared of silence, panic" Confused... they run helter-skelter "But, no good" Put one more Excuse me Here you are "Whether I live or die, how does it bother you?" It's for your safety "I told you, I can be of help in some other ways" Why should I believe you? To fleece me of money... you are trying to mislead me Truth earns me money. - Why not give me the entire truth? I'll come on Tuesday to pick you up. Be ready How can I organize such a big amount at such a short notice? How? - Why didn't you tell me before... as soon as you found out? - Nothing's wrong as yet Which means you too are part of the conspiracy "To me, your life seems more profitable than your death" I wonder what I owed you in my last birth Where am I to go? I have nothing but this city Never mind "In the war of 1971, I took a bullet... " yet I brought three wounded soldiers to safety One of them was an enemy I even got an award for bravery "Snooping and spying, I do out of helplessness" But I never lie I'm helping you only because I like you Get going I sense... danger "If something happens to me, Harish... " "Meghna, nothing is happening to you" Will you save me? - I will "How? - You will be fine, Meghna" Don't worry "You are getting better, Meghna" You are incurring losses because of me Forgive me. - Take it Water Just watch. Someday I'll be worthy of you "If you love me, don't ask me. - Amrita, answer me" What's taken over your mind? Let me go. - Did anyone say something? Nothing of that sort Must I tell you everything? Must I answer every question of yours? "What's the matter, Amrita? Are you afraid of me?" No. I'm going insane What about me? - It's all over Impossible Have I done any wrong? - Why don't you understand? There's a hitch I can't stay here anymore. I'm feeling scared And what am I supposed to do? - I don't know about you But I'm leaving Amrita... Don't you trust me one bit? You think I'm crazy? Don't create a scene now. - You are creating one So why don't you come out with the truth? "Had you come a bit late, you wouldn't have met me" I'm in luck. - Had you called... I would've come over "You look quite weak, Meghna. You shouldn't have come over" Why are you packing? "Meghna, I'm going out for a few days" I don't know when I'll return... but I'm going And he? - Who? "Is he also going with you? - Oh, he doesn't even know" And Raj? - Nobody knows "Meghna, you won't tell anyone either" It's crazy "You are having an affair, and nobody knows about it" "You are leaving the city, and nobody knows about it" You are strange. - You might be thinking I'm insane He will never go with you He will never desert me for your sake So you know? "Meghna, I thought you won't be able to bear it... " "Right, I can't take it. Look here" "What's that, Meghna? What are you up to?" I don't know what I'd have done had you left "You are crazy, Meghna" What harm had I done to you? - I was supposed to tell you everything I should've told you everything Poor girl... - Exactly. I'm a fool too You have hurt me "Wretched woman, you are a thief" You are selfish. I curse you "You took me for a clown, didn't you?" "You thought I was unaware, right?" "I was wrong, I trusted you" "Harish will never desert me, even if you stake your life, witch" Whore! "The two of you broke my heart. Bitch, you tormented me intentionally" Did you think you could keep damning yourself forever? Answer me "You even tried to slip away, eh?" "Meghna, come to your senses. I haven't done anything rash" "Oh, you didn't! - Give me a chance to explain" I haven't done anything rash. - No need to explain Apologize to me "Put that gun away, please. - Scared, eh? I still have questions" Sit! What if the gun fires? - Weren't you ashamed? Did you even spare a thought for me when you stripped before him? "Meghna, I wanted to be close to you. Harish was only an alibi" "I was helpless, Meghna. - Aren't you ashamed?" Now face it. Apologize to me "I'm going, Meghna, far away from your life" "That won't satisfy me. Don't touch me, apologize to me" "I can't do that, Meghna. - Apologize" "Apologize! - Meghna, I needed you... " "Apologize. - I was helpless, Meghna" "Meghna, you needed love... " Ms. Amrita... Bloodthirsty wolf! "Amrita, please open the door" At least don't leave with an ill-feeling I want a baby Tell me something. Why do you always call when I'm eating? I see "No, she's not here" Hold on for a second. I'll ask Meghna Any idea where Amrita could be? At home. Whose call is it? It's Raj. He's very worried Amrita's missing Really? That's very strange "Don't worry. She's no kid, after all" Oh yes. As soon as I finish my dinner. In 10 or 15 minutes She never did a thing like this I don't know what goes on in her mind I know hope everything turns out to be all right Did you ask at the factory? - She hasn't gone there I telephoned And where's the car? - She has taken it She has taken the car "No need to worry. She'll be all right, wherever she is" "A few days ago, we saw her at a mountain" There was this huge stoned structure lying in ruins There was no one around till far and wide There was a stillness in the skies There wasn't even a bird in sight All that cut through the mountains was the silence of the rocks It appeared as if she was undergoing a punishment Her face was a picture of sadness She looked worried; terrified "She moved forward, to caress the rocky slopes" It was as if a rhapsody had broken the stillness of silence "And then appeared in the mountain, a wedge... " "and then it fell, divided in two pieces" Take me home. I want to go home And then I saw the soil assuming the color of the rocks And like blood that has dried up... there appeared a dark stain As if a flowing river had come to a halt Hurry up. Quick! Congratulations on your freedom Looks like your wife's departure has brought back your sleep "If you're bored to sleep all alone, after some days... " do let me know. I also run a modest marriage bureau "It's meant for cripples, but there's no harm in expansion" Your partnership is good for my business What makes you run away with your tongue suddenly? Did anyone see you coming? - You don't leave that to chance "When I got here, your wife was all dressed and decked up" "Only thing is, the redness of her dot had spread to her temple" "When I looked in her eyes, I saw your picture in it" I got the feeling that she was about to break into a smile "And then came Harish, looking for your wife" "When the door wouldn't open, he left in disgust" You say amusing things Where did you leave her? - She's happy without you... wherever she is. But we have a great partnership Isn't it? Your cooperation has made my job easy But my fee is going to remain the same Let me have the money. - Where is the body? It's not going away anywhere. I carried her on my shoulder... "put her in a car, and left her at a sand-factory faraway" Everyone will run for a glimpse of her at daybreak You will also get an invitation You can cling to your wife then and sob uncontrollably You won't come to any harm. That's my promise to you Now give me my fee. - Here you are The rest? - When the body is discovered Listen The car...? - There isn't even a scratch It's as it was Calcutta? Who told you that she was going there? There's a ticket. For tomorrow evening's flight "Actually, Inspector, this incident involving my wife... " Take a look. - I don't know Maybe you can find out Amrita was very moody. She'd go off just anywhere when she was in the mood She'd come back and tell me the stories... and really shock me. - I see. Strange woman indeed But this time...? "Inspector, whatever happens, this killer ought to be... " I have the same objective as yours She wasn't murdered at home Her body was dumped in the car And the car was abandoned in a deserted place outside the city I don't think they'll be able to catch up with him Who...? Whom? The killer. It's impossible "She was in a hurry. A tearing hurry, I'd say" She made the booking over the phone... and came personally the next day to collect the ticket "Calcutta, 9W211. "In a hurry, she even forgot to cross the cheque" Madam didn't come that day "Or else, she'd surely have paid a visit to the factory" "When I called her residence in the afternoon, nobody answered it" We were facing a financial crunch for quite a few days... payments were getting delayed... I had some outstandings too "But what can be done, sir? Such things happen in a factory" "No, she was happy-go-lucky" Jovial. Very clear about what she wanted An enemy...? She didn't wish anyone harm The last time...? When she came to the hospital With Raj. Meghna had taken ill My wife. She's okay now Calcutta? It's surprising that no one knows anything about it "I wasn't at work that day, sir. I don't know what transpired" "Maybe the master arrived in a white jeep that day. I saw nothing else, sir" "I'm sure, I didn't, sir" "No, sir... no. I saw nothing more" "I considered her to be my elder sister. In fact, she was even dearer" There was something biting her for about a month "Although she didn't tell me, I sensed it" It could even have been her financial problems "I wish she had told me. She would've been alive today, for all you know" What harm had the poor woman done to anyone? What did anyone gain from her death? And look at the police. They're out to malign her name They're looking for evidence of her infidelity "Harish, you were very close to her" "Although she's no more, you can tell me" Could she ever have cheated on me? "Raj, Amrita was in love with you" Only you They make so many stories at a woman's death Do you know why she was going to Calcutta? No. - Now that she's dead... I think I've gotten closer to you I can share my grief with you I loved her very dearly. I still do I cried a lot. But not so much as to lose my senses in grief "With time, I will overcome the anguish" Calcutta...? Rubbish! I was the one who asked her to run away I knew of a way she could escape She trusted what I said But she couldn't avert what was pre-destined "Greed, jealousy, hatred... " She mustn't even have realized when the bullet was fired and when she died She at least didn't have to suffer Humiliation is all I get What makes me angry is that... someone must have taken her body in his arms and kissed her You and I have lost her. Everything else is a lie If you could mail this on your way? Amrita... come here. Come on out "This is no time to lose courage, Raj" The killer will surely be caught. Be brave He's somewhere around! - Who carried the body away? Idiot! Don't you know? A monster drags his prey to his den? And the car? - The key was lying in her purse What difference does that make? How will I live without a reason? I can't be wrong I always knew it. And now she's dead She's dead... but she's still somewhere around Why did you? I couldn't even have imagined Why've you stopped the car? - Didn't you say it? I was very scared I didn't even touch her. - Where've you stopped the car? How can I forget it? Why didn't I think of it earlier? You were the one who took her away in the car Didn't you feel scared? - What rubbish are you talking? Meghna... I ought to have told you "It's true that Amrita and I, between us... " You carried the body away. Why didn't you tell me? What would I have said? Would you listen quietly? I wouldn't have fallen in love! Have you forgiven me then? Take me in your arms! I don't understand it. This is where I had kept it "About three months ago, I pulled it out to clean it" It was in this very box Here's the license. - But no gun? Must be somewhere around. Where will it go? Did you meet her on the day of her death? I did. She was pretty upset about her personal life She wasn't being able to take a decision "I didn't talk about it earlier, because Raj didn't know... " and I didn't want... - Why was she going to Calcutta? I don't know You'll have to go with us to the police station What...? Now look! You're making a mistake! "What have I done, Inspector? Meghna... " Where are you going? - Are you blind? Can't you see? Let's go Where's the need for this? - You can't do that! You are making a mistake! "Don't be afraid, Harish. They can't do a thing" "Step aside, madam. C'mon, move" "I'm going with you, all right. But please don't create a scene" You can't touch him! You have no right! He's accused of murder. We have to handcuff him "Nothing's happening to you, Harish! - Come on, move it" Let him go! He hasn't done anything. You're misunderstanding it "If it was his pistol, it doesn't mean he's the one who fired a shot" "Take a look at the finger-prints. - Oh yes, we will" He hasn't committed the murder! He just can't do it! "Say that in the police station. - It's true, he was hiding something" He had a guilty conscience. But he can't commit a murder He just wasn't born to kill! I'll find him for you. - All right. You come with us "Just you see! I'll find the wolf! - Don't scream, Meghna" They aren't hanging me. - I'll find him from anywhere! You don't understand! The punishment is being held up because of me! "Don't be afraid, Harish!" Raj...? They've taken Harish away! In handcuffs! "Oh yes, I know whose doing this is" There was this scoundrel who was harassing Amrita He was threatening her. Blackmail He must be the one How long could she ask you for money? How long would she keep paying him? She must have turned him down. What else could she do? She used to be very scared of getting a bad name He's the one who took her life. He must've killed her He has killed her! And we must catch him Why Harish...? Harish hasn't done it! No photos! - I'm from the press Which newspaper? - Mid-day They used to come in the afternoon. The afternoon It was never in the night. It was always in the afternoon I want to adorn my hair with flowers I ought to have known Amrita... come... come out Come Leave her alone I love her very much A night... so lost "Wherever she is, she must be drenched" It asks for the warmth of your body This is a good thing you've done "I'm told, they've locked up your husband" Who are you? The poor man is innocent "I know he's innocent, too" "And I know, who the real murderer is" Who is it? - I can't tell you that right now Tomorrow. At Gaylord's. At eleven Will you be there? Who are you? - See you tomorrow And yes. Do please carry a gift for me What? - The price to discover the secret All right. - And beware Come all alone I knew it all along. But what could I do? I could only pray that everything would one day be all right That he would return to me But all that doesn't happen "I was dying slowly, waiting for it to happen" "And when I could take it no more, I took her life" There was no other way. With someone else...? I couldn't even imagine I'd die without Harish! Please have him released "It's I who committed the murder, not him" "I was mad out of jealousy. - You will have your Harish, I promise" I have... nothing against him I couldn't take it! Harish is innocent. I'm the one who committed the murder Have your juice What would Harish get out of killing Amrita anyway? I wanted Harish for myself I couldn't share him with anyone. It was my selfishness "I'm the one who killed her, not him" When have I said that he did? - So who did...? Who could it be? Would you have a match? "No, I wanted just a matchstick... " Was it the man who threatened to tarnish her image? Could it be the blackmailer who was tormenting her? You just said you did it. - I'm mad! You're just the one I had yet to meet That wish is fulfilled too Each one is worse than the other I'm sure the killer is the man who was blackmailing her This girl is talking any nonsense What a farce he's enacting! Hats off to him "Whatever happens, I'll find him" Don't do anything without giving it proper thought "Get a hold on yourself, Meghna. Everything will be all right" Let's go. I'll drop you home Looks like your informant isn't showing up "So tell me, what am I to do?" I wonder how Harish is sleeping on the floor and what he's eating "For all you know, they might beat him up and get him to admit to the crime" What will I do then? - Let's get out of this place "I can't sit idly like this! I'm sure, he will phone again" I will meet him and save Harish It's dangerous for you to roam around freely What will you take to get lost? Harish's release. What else? What reason for the sympathy? - I can't bear to see... "the poor woman being widowed. In any case, I don't quit halfway through" So why don't you turn yourself over to the law? You've had a part to play in this episode too "In fact, your share is far bigger than mine" I can't betray you. - Have you gone mad? Meghna's looking out for you. A deal with her could be expensive for you To save an innocent is part of my profession too What are you going to tell Meghna? Why? Scared already? Have trust in me Don't interfere in my work You have your Amrita. So go home to bed "So you took money from her too? - Yes, she paid a good price" And punctually too. Not like you A good price she paid! Where did she get the money? It was my money! Mine! I trusted you and you show dishonesty? A man like you... You want to hit me? I regret! You are suspecting my intentions? But what harm can you do to me? "If something happens to me, your game is up too. Okay?" That pistol is still with me Want me to go with you? Are you all right? Hello... this is Upasana. How are you? "No, not as yet. But I'll get to know by 4 'O clock" What's she saying? - Someone's blackmailing her Amrita herself told me. - But the testimony in court... He's lying! Harish wasn't there at all "You don't know anything, but I know the truth" "Are the witnesses liars then? - Yes, they are lying" Harish didn't go to Amrita's house. - How did you get to know that? Harish was asleep at home. He had returned tired I left him and went to her. - But that doesn't mean... I went there. She was scared. She said she was leaving the city Without telling anyone. Not even Raj! But I had made up my mind I shot her. I killed her out of jealousy I had stolen Harish's pistol and gone to her house I shot her in the head I wrapped her body in a carpet and dragged it outside I then put it in a car and drove away. I... And the pistol? - Pistol? I left the pistol by the body Maybe it was in the sea... I don't remember. But that's the truth Come "This story isn't enough to prove Harish's innocence, Madam" Harish is innocent! He hasn't done anything How could he have killed her? I told you! He was asleep at home! See that man? - Who? He's the one. The blackmailer How do you know? - He took a photo. From my house That man is a beast. - I see We've found the killer! It's the blackmailer He was the one who killed Amrita. - How do you know? I know. The old lady told me. He's the one who killed her. He also took your pictures What old lady? What pictures? What are you talking about? Don't you know? Didn't Amrita show you the pictures? Maybe she was scared that you'd come back to me "Say something, Harish" Tell me everything. If you remain silent... I won't be able to do anything for you Do you miss her? No And me? Meghna... love alone isn't enough for me I realize that now To love someone is to grow old with that person I was never in love with her. Believe me You're the only one I love I know that. I always knew it I will take you away from here. With me But she said she was going away somewhere What happened then? She had even packed her bags. She was about to leave But she was killed She has gone away. And I'm the one who's trapped I'll have you freed. I'll take you home with me I'll find him and fix him "Be careful, Meghna. He's a very dangerous man" "That man is a killer, Meghna. He's not like us" "You can take Raj's help, if you wish to" This man who sent us the pictures. What could he hold against Harish? "And we still haven't got our hands on the pistol, the weapon of murder" He'll squeal. He'll tell us where he has hidden the pistol And Raj...? A man whose wife has just died... look at his face... I can't really swallow that "It's a clear cut case. There are two women, friends" One of them is having an affair with the other's husband The woman doesn't know that And suddenly in their lives comes a blackmailer The woman is scared. She wants to reveal everything to her husband "Harish stops her. In the melee, the pistol goes off in Harish's hands" It's as simple as that No. The truth isn't so simple anyway So what twist are you looking for? Want me to dump all the testimony and arrest Raj instead? And arrest the girl who's going around claiming that she committed the murder? Oh no. That poor girl... "Here, Das Babu... have some fries. And relax" I have solved the case It's locked "Careful, uncle" Look at this It's Harish's gun You? - By chance "Had you not parked your car there, we wouldn't have met" "You were involved too, I never knew" "He sent you here, didn't he?" "Finally, the two of you are scared" What am I supposed to do? Call the police? That drama you enacted in the court was fantastic What if someone believed you? "Anyway, it's good when one puts his heart into everything he does" Did you find what you were looking for? - Nothing important We found this. Don't move Bloody thieves! All of them! "Come on, hurry up" I'm not letting you off the hook I've got him! I traced him out You have to believe me now. He's got the gun too Here's the evidence. Release Harish "Arrest him, now. Or he'll escape" Come on What did you lack inside the lock-up? "What do you want from me now? - Please help me, Raj" "Meghna is in danger. She is tracking someone, alone" Meghna's history for you. Forget her "Raj, I'm innocent. I have done nothing" Really? - Meghna is out of her mind Just let me hide in your house for one night She'll certainly come to meet me. - She's fine all alone "And you, in the lock-up. - I have done you wrong, Raj" But I did not kill Amrita "And why would I kill her? I liked her, I was in... " Why did you stop? Say it. I won't mind "Raj, trust me. I didn't kill Amrita" "Harish, you were seen" People have testified against you. That's it "Who's your friend? - Don't do this, friend" Would I lie to you? - Not at all She was the one who had falsehood running in her blood Now it's running within you You did what I was supposed to do That's why I forgive you. Now get lost I won't inform the police Only this while Your gun is out of place... you have it going with that girl... then you are seen outside her house on the day she is murdered Are you sure you didn't do it? Don't try to act smart. Think of unlocking the handcuff Where did you keep the gun? - At home At home... who else had access to your gun? I've figured it out at last. Do you get it? What? - Your wife "Stop raving, okay?" The blackmailer is the murderer. - Praise the Lord "Buddy, blackmailers only blackmail people. They don't kill" Wanna bet? It's either your wife or your friend Will you stop raving? Bloody pickpocket I could die for that "You are the one who robs women, and you call me a pickpocket!" Bastard! I'll teach you manners! Hold it Why did you escape? "Why did you do this, Harish? I could've saved you" I can do anything for you "Hello, sister-in-law" "Get in, smartass" You couldn't bear to see Amrita leave without being punished What do you mean? - You only told me that... she was packing when you reached there. - I knew about your affair long before I still ignored it. - You plotted to kill her "That's when you pretended to be ill. - I didn't pretend, I was really ill" What about my gun? Only you had the access to my gun Let me go. - I should've figured it out long back Amrita wanted it. The blackmailer had made life miserable for her How was I to know that you'll be trapped? She didn't ask you for the gun. Or did she? I'm not so mean to kill that wretched female She was leaving just to escape you. - I already knew about your affair "Your lighter, meeting place... " "bed, sofa, mattress... " "your pillow, blankets, bed sheets" "Yet, for the sake of your love, I meekly accepted the facts" I could have even stripped you before Raj... "and screwed you. - Stop raving, witch" Did I send you to her? Did I lie naked in someone's arms? Did I catch you on camera? Did I inform the police? Was I sucking your blood? Was I blackmailing you? The whole world is regarding you with contempt "To save you, I was even ready to own up to the crime" And you call me a witch? Drop dead! "You will save me, eh? I need to save myself from you" "Look, you don't need to chase the blackmailer for my sake" You have tasted blood. I hate the sight of you! Get out of my car! - Shut up and drive What did you drill into her head before sending her over? Did I? Your mind's working overtime I told you to stop being silly She's hunting for you "Greedy as you are, you thought you could find something there" You would even fleece a corpse If you can kill your wife out of rage... "if you can falsely implicate your friend, I'm merely cannon-fodder" I got to be careful with you You'll be apprehensive only as long as I'm alive You are nuts. Now pay for your sins "When the police reach me, I'll lead them to you" You forced me... I'm not a murderer I'm not part of the conspiracy at all I liked that woman. - Shut up She's history I was the one who asked her to run away Are you raving? - I told her your game in detail You'd push the car off the cliff and pass it off as an accident "You'd have been happier, and she too, at the least" Schemer! Bloody traitor Even you turned out to be a cheat You are the cheat I was trying to save her from you She trusted me... she was scared She was supposed to go to Kolkata ... I'd have followed her there "Of the two of us, I'd have been a better choice for her" But you reached there before I could. Bloodthirsty wolf! Bastard! I wish I had killed her myself I wish I had not met you. - Listen to me... You are the one who destroyed my life. Get out of here You'll hurt yourself. Give me the gun. - Hold it Stop! Or I'll shoot. - It's not your cup of tea I've seen a lot of this stuff Hear this. In the war of 1971 they tried to kill me But the bastards just couldn't kill me I can stave off death. Look... don't be stupid. Give me the gun. - Hold it! He's gone! Get the hell out of here. I sense trouble You killed uncle! "Stop screaming! - Stop screaming, swine" Get the hell out of here. - You killed uncle Murderer! Murderer! Let's put him in the car "He's still breathing. - Wanna wait till the last, eh?" "Had I not been locked up with you, I'd have smashed your head" "As it is, he was old enough to die" "If we're caught red-handed, we're done for" "If the old man's destined to live, he will. Get out of here" Move it! - Shut up! Pick him up Move it! Come on Okay J.J Hospital. Turn right from the Highway "If you hear a shot, get inside at once" "Stay outside at the gate, Gaitonde" So you were driving recklessly The brakes failed There's an entire police force surrounding my house He must've surely contacted you. - How? I've been out since morning. How am I to know where the poor man is? We didn't tell him to escape. - Trust me. I'll let you know... as soon as I have any news of him Bad times drew in on us yesterday Fate turned its back on us yesterday For all the great bustle in our lives... our time's up Move Time up Move What enmity do you have with us? Why are you after Harish's life? - Why did he escape from the lock-up? You don't have even one strong evidence against him The entire case is laid on false testimonies The police is useless. And what happens to uncle now? Who's sitting in that car? "Who's that in the car? - It's them I guess, sir" They're moving They're running. Stop there! Get the jeep Hurry Run for your life "Run faster, will you?" "Not that way, fool" Run! Stop! Freeze! Or I'll shoot Night never falls in this city No dark nights ever The hustle and bustle never stops Can't see a star in the sky It's as if all the stars have come down on the roads... and lined up The hustle and bustle will stop only when there's darkness The city never stops "When we were little, we used to sleep on the roofs" The intense darkness of those moonless nights come to mind Pull over. Let me check What have you done? You killed him? Looks like the bastard has killed him "Laxman, what's to be done?" Let's take him home for dinner. - Everyday happening Get the handcuff. - Handcuff him He has confessed to the crime He did it to make life hell for you. He had access to your gun He just couldn't gauge how selfish the blackmailer was He has lost it. He keeps screaming Mentions weird names And he keeps abusing us "Anyway, enjoy yourselves" "As you sow, so you reap" "What happened, Meghna? - I'm fatigued" We're going home
