 

                        The entire country was fixated on this case. And I had never seen the level of passion and anger and rage directed at one person. And then the verdict comes in. And how could the court of public opinion, and, as I personally believe, the facts of the case, be in such shocking contrast to the verdict in the courtroom? Well, you're the prosecutor, Jeff. You tell me. Now, in your book, you talk about your 30 years as a prosecutor for the state of Florida. homicide convictions, death-penalty convictions... an almost perfect record... Until Casey Anthony. What went wrong? You mean, other than the verdict? [ Chuckles ] Not a thing. Man: Well, just ask yourself this... what kind of mother doesn't report a missing child? Right there, you know what happened. Let's listen to the 911 call made by Casey's mother, Cindy Anthony, when she learned that caylee had gone missing. Woman: Can I take your order, please? Uh, a breakfast sandwich and a... a coffee, thanks. Dispatcher: Calm down. Man: Now let's listen to tot mom Casey Anthony herself on that same 911 call. $4.68, please. Thank you. Grandma's having a nervous breakdown, - Thank you. - Even the 911 operator sounds upset. But miss Casey's not stressing at all. [ Indistinct conversations ] Thank you. Jeff, thanks for meeting me. Linda. Do you want something? No, thank you. You been following this? Are you kidding me? Me and everybody in America. Tot mom. Let's see. We'll go over here. Yeah. So, let me ask you something... how do you lose your child for 31 days and not say a peep? To, uh, save your sexy ass from homicide charges? You don't believe her kidnapping story? The nanny named zanny? There's no such person. A fake nanny for a fake job. It seems that Casey has been leaving the house dressed up every day Monday through Friday for years. She leaves the house. She waves goodbye to her parents. Linda: She drags her kid, drops her off with an imaginary nanny when she goes to work that she doesn't have, she's never had. What job did Casey say she had? Event planner, and given the event her life has become, it's ironic. And you have her up for... child neglect, lying to investigators, interfering with a criminal investigation. But, Jeff, this little girl's not coming home. Are there any forensics at all? Circumstantial. There's a smell in the trunk of the car, there's a hit on the car from a cadaver dog, and there's one hair consistent with caylee's that shows something called a "band of death." Post-mortem root banding, sure. Of course you know what that is because you're a geek. It's from human decomp. When the slp putrefies, the bacteria begins to eat away the hair follicle. Okay. Thanks. Thank you. Can I get a coffee, please? Sure. Thanks. [ Bell jingles ] This is your kind of job. Meaning what? You got the first conviction in the entire world based on DNA evidence. That was a good day. You're still the go-to guy for forensics. You're working me. Not yet. I'm feeling you out. There's a difference. Thank you. I may not be doing you any favors. No one has your expertise, Jeff. That didn't keep the boss from burying me in felony trials to wait out retirement. And you're wasted there. [ Chuckles ] Why don't you tell him that? He loves to brag about your DNA case. Lawson doesn't think I'm a team player. You're not. Well, I don't think we should have the lowest conviction rate in the entire state of Florida. Second-worst. Don't exaggerate. We're getting jury convictions in 45% of our cases. We shouldn't be trying every case that crawls through the door. Permission to ask the boss? What the hell. Maybe he'll say no. I wouldn't blame him. [ Chuckles ] That's a good-looking railroad. Sweetie, I got to scout locations Monday in Miami. Can we switch days to pick up Emma? Which shoot is this? For my new client. Oh, the mattress store? Yeah, they decided to up the ad budget and let me go for the luxury look. Did you burn the rice? It's not burned. It's toasted. What's up? I've been offered the Casey Anthony trial. [ Chuckles ] Jeff, you wanted that! Why didn't you call me? I know, but it's gonna be a lot of work and a lot of time. It could be two years before the trial even starts. Well, what about retirement? It's gonna be the last murder trial I ever prosecute. I want to go out with a bang. I'm tired of not being able to throw my fastball. Mm, I know that. And after that, then I'll figure out what's next. And it's gonna be something better than assistant state attorney. Move over. I just keep hoping they'll find caylee alive somewhere. Me, too, but that's a fairy tale. At least you won't let her mother get away with it. I'm making it a personal promise. Grace: Captain angelo Nieves from orange county sheriff's office gave an official public statement stating the FBI has provided scientific evidence of human decomposition in the trunk of Casey Anthony. You have that cable working, Mario? There. I think I got it. Man: We are outside the Anthony family home, where Casey and her missing toddler lived with Casey's parents. Protesters from all over central Florida continue to gather... You know, you think about that dad, ex-cop, homicide detective, what he must be going through? [ Indistinct shouting ] Why bother that family? I mean, haven't they been through enough pain? Can you turn that off? I don't need to watch that. Frank: Did anybody else see Nancy grace interview Cindy on the phone? Nancy tells her the FBI already proved there was human decomp in the car... from the hair. And how are we supposed to get a jury when they've already heard our evidence? I mean, Nancy grace was a D.A. She should know better. You're such an idealist, Jeff. No, I'm old-fashioned. I think a case should be tried in a courtroom. Tape's up. You guys ready? Yeah. Is this the surveillance footage from the video store? Yeah. Eight hours after caylee was last seen alive. Young love. Linda: Not a care in the world. We should see what videos they're renting. I'm ahead of you. A couple of Diane Lane movies. "Untraceable." Movie buff, what? It's about a kidnapping and a killing. With a body rotting in the trunk of the car. [ Laughs ] I just got the chills. The second movie was "jumper." It's about a mother who has to abandon her 5-year-old kid or kill him. I mean, I'm not even kidding. Of course, because when your nonexistent nanny kidnaps your child and threatens bodily harm, of course you go rent movies about it with your hot boyfriend. The defense will try to spin it as a cry for help. Uh, "she had to hide her feelings. It was a subconscious choice." She's watching movies while the entire country is looking for this babysitter and her baby. Did you see Jose baez blame law enforcement for not doing enough? Now, who is he? I've never heard of him before. And now he's on TV every night. He was a jail house referral. You need a criminal attorney, you ask a criminal. [ Chuckles ] He got a late start. He's only been practicing for three years, but the guy sure can tell a story. Yeah, but that doesn't mean anyone's gonna believe him. Good evening. I'm Jane velez-Mitchell in for Nancy grace. Tonight, bombshell video just released of tot mom Casey Anthony behind bars. Hello, beautiful. I love you. Hi. Honey, come in here. You should see this. I love you, too. Why is she crying already? Well, we haven't seen you. Cindy: Someone just said caylee was dead. That she drowned in the pool. That's the newest story out there. Surprise, surprise. You don't know, Casey, how hard it is. All I want is my kid back. She's the most important thing in the entire world to me. [ Voice breaking ] Do you still think she's okay? Mom, I know in my gut she's all right. I can feel she's coming home. This is when she's been driving the body around in the trunk of her car long enough to attract maggots and blowflies. I'm gonna love playing this for a jury. No, I'm asking you... Jose, do you believe caylee's dead? Baez: Bob, right now, it's phantom evidence. We haven't seen it. The science is going to speak for itself. Yeah, saying, "guilty as charged!" If it is what they say it is, we'll deal with it then. This guy... he's so smarmy. Which one? [ Laughs ] I got to tell you, not too many people envy you your job, consejero. Ah, "consejero." Like they have a secret handshake. Well, they don't know the Casey that I do. Well, I'm hoping to meet her sometime. I think you'd be surprised, Bob. I hope so. Do you love this? He's angling for the big story like he's Geraldo Rivera. I may have to start calling you "consejero." Please don't. Frank: This is a hot-body contest from her favorite club. She should have won. Where did you get these? Casey uploaded them to her photo account... by the hundreds. Girl likes to share. [ Knock on door ] I just spoke to oak view labs. Look at these, Jeff. Does that look like the distraught mother of a kidnapped child? I hear the FBI's running DNA tests on the father and her brother. Paternity tests? You're kidding. Feds are all cynics. All right, look, are we gonna keep looking at sexy photos, or do you want to hear about the forensics that might actually convict her? You're up. Speak. The piece of carpet that we sent in from the trunk of her car... positive for fatty acids consistent with human decomp. That nasty grease on the paper towel from the trunk of the car? Chemically identical to adipocere, or "grave wax," produced by human decomp. You really get off on all this polysyllabic dirty talk. Can you handle one more? Lay it on me, baby. Chloroform. Chloroform. Knock-out gas. In the carpet? Yeah. And not found in aisle five at your local drugstore. Oh, and I've already asked the sheriff's department to run a keyword search on the anthonys' computer to see if Casey bought it online. Sedation as a cheap babysitter. All right, any way you look at it, it's still first-degree. Mm-hmm. It doesn't matter if she gave her too much by accident. My money? She deliberately killed caylee, put her body in the trunk, and then drove her around until she could find a place to dump it so she could go and party, which she did. Paula: Jeff, how did the anthonys believe all those years of lies... the job, the nanny, the business trips? Well, Paula, people believe what they want to believe. The way you believed that you were winning the case? I did believe I was winning the case, and I think a lot of people felt the same way. The jury just needed to be able to connect the dots in the same way that everybody else was. [ Indistinct shouting ] Woman: Casey Anthony has just been indicted for first-degree murder, aggravated child abuse, aggravated manslaughter of a child, and four counts of providing false information to police. Casey Anthony could face the death penalty. [ Indistinct shouting ] [ Camera shutters clicking ] This is no different than any other murder trial, except for having so many of you fine people around. [ Laughter ] I know that Casey Anthony is public-enemy number one, but we have a court system set up for this, and we're going to use the system to search for the truth and nothing but. And when you finally hear Casey's side of the events, everyone... and I mean everyone... is gonna sit back and say, "now I understand. That explains it." Thank you. [ Indistinct shouting ] [ Teakettle whistles ] [ Jeff coughing ] [ Sniffs ] [ Telephone ringing ] Hello? Okay. What we've been told, Barbara, are a child's bones, believed to be a little girl's, were found scattered around a swampy area next to this street, only 1/4 mile from the Anthony house. The remains were discovered by a meter reader who says he'd stepped outside of the view of the street to relieve himself. Hey. We have a body. I'm coming in. And he spotted a little skull next to a garbage bag. Back to natisha at the location where the remains were discovered. What's happening there now? Are they still working? Natisha: They are still working, Nancy. There is still some light down at the location where the remains were found. They recently just put up some cones on this street so that nobody can get through. Grace: And mark Williams, what about at the home? Mark: Well, they've put some tape going back to the backyard. They've expanded this crime scene. They're waiting for a search warrant. Nobody has entered the house yet. There are seven deputies here. The street is blocked off. And it's been an interesting night tonight. [ Pen clicking ] Linda: They brought Casey here to have the chaplain tell her they found a body. There just happened to be a television and a news report playing. And a camera to record her reaction. Frank: So much for the chaplain. Are you worried about her, Frank? No. Not at all. Casey doesn't know yet. Ah, tch this. She hears the television. [ Coughing ] Please tell me you got your flu shot. Okay, look. Watch her hyperventilate. Yeah, sure. She knows she's cooked. Or she just lost her daughter. So she's either a grieving mother or a guilty murderer. No way to tell the difference. [ Sighs ] Mario: You want me to keep it running? No, Mario. Anyway, I'm mean enough not to mind watching her suffer either way. We can't use it. You're making that call? You just said, "either way." Even you think it's inconclusive. It's too bad, though. The body was just bagged and tossed? Not even buried? Well, there are snakes in those woods. Girls don't like snakes. The theory's been floated that Casey might have had help with the body. Does the FBI have a name that they want to share? George Anthony comes to mind. Well, that's ridiculous. George Anthony didn't have anything to do with this. Jeff has bonded with our star witness. No, just pragmatically, he's an ex-cop. He would know how to dispose of a body. He wouldn't put it so close to the house. Unless he was setting up his girl. Can we please stay on planet earth, here? [ Laughs ] At least he's not caylee's mystery father. DNA's back, negative for him and the brother. How much of the taxpayers' money did the FBI waste on that little joke? It took brand-new software, but we managed to hack the deleted search history of the anthonys' home computer. Were there any results for "chloroform"? Oh, yeah. Someone looked up how to make chloroform 84 times. [ Chuckles ] Wow. That is a lot of premeditation. First-degree. Do you have time codes, sergeant? Yes, ma'am. I want to know who was home. [ Laughs ] 84 times? A slow learner. [ Laughter ] Breaking news tonight in the disappearance of that 2-year-old Florida girl. The skeletal remains confirmed to be caylee Anthony. Can you imagine tot mom putting her head on her pillow every night knowing her little girl was 15 houses away inside three plastic trash bags? The skull and one of the leg bones were found just behind a log, next to the garbage bag. Now, you can see some of the hair still attached at the crown, but most of it had fallen off. It looked like a little halo around her head. Where were the rest of the bones? Scattered all over the woods. Teeth marks. Animals went to work on it. The summer floods did the rest. I'm amazed how much we recovered. So, caylee's body was there before the summer rains. Already decomposed and pulled apart. Under a couple feet of standing water all summer... just going by the depth of the muck. Frank: Fits our time-line. She was last seen alive June 16th. Cause of death? No obvious trauma. No evidence of prior injuries. She looked like a perfectly healthy little girl. Shoved into two garbage bags inside a laundry bag and dropped in a swamp. With duct tape on her face. There was duct tape on her face? It had been removed by the time I saw it. You know how the FBI can't wait. But I found some strands of the tape still on the mandible. After decomposition? Just telling you what I found. What, so, three strands of duct tape? They were separated for documentation, but traces of adhesive indicate they were overlapping. Wide enough to cover caylee's mouth and nose? Suffocation as cause of death? Frank: Instead of chloroform. There's no medical way to know that from bones. No, but common sense. Because why duct tape the mouth of a dead child? This is the smoking gun. We're as close as we're ever gonna get. I mean, this proves premeditation. Because why else was it there? To stop her from breathing. Plain and simple. I mean, that's the only thing that tracks. Jeff: I mean, I'd seen skeletons before, but I'd never seen a child's. And when I looked at those tiny little bones, I felt a physical hatred for that woman. No DNA, no fingerprints? Not after six months in a swamp. She was wearing a little shirt that said, "big trouble comes in small packages," and all that was left was the collar band and the iron-on words. All the cotton had rotted away like the rest of her. Can't we just finish the tree? Sure. When I get done with her, she's going to be the most hated woman in America. Jeff, you're such a slob. Will you stop being a maid? This is not your office. It's shared space. Exactly, so leave it alone. Your way's not better. Casey did what we said she did the way we're saying she did it, she deserves to die. Except [Clears throat] in this circuit, no mother has ever been sentenced to death for killing her own child. Then why waste time trying? No, you pick a jury that's willing to vote for death, you weed out the softies. You load for people that see the world our way. It improves the odds. And you've set the bar higher, beyond a reasonable doubt and then some. What doubt? There's no doubt, starting with her own behavior. You think it'll come back to bite us. Look, we have two aggravating circumstances that meet the state's requirement. One, we know caylee was killed by her own mother. Two, it was a cold, premeditated murder, proved by the duct tape, the chloroform in the trunk of the car, and the search history on the computer. I see no mitigation for mental illness or abuse. She's a psychopathic narcissist, but that doesn't make her mentally ill in the eyes of the court. You've got the most capital-case experience. You want to take it to the boss? Yeah. It'll be his call. He likes to go heavy. And, technically, Jose baez can't lead a capital case. He doesn't have enough trial experience to qualify. You really don't like that guy. Well, it's just he's always on TV acting like he's Clarence darrow. The guy was selling bikinis before he was admitted to the bar. And I know we're stuck with him, but now he'd have to bring on a real lawyer. It's easier, better, safer for us down the road. After they appeal the verdict, it won't be for inadequate counsel. [ Sighs ] Maybe she'll save us time and plead. [ Chuckles ] I would be disappointed. Tonight, a big breaker... a shocker in the case against Casey Anthony. Prosecutors announce they will... yes, they will seek the death penalty. Um, if they think this is going to make her plead, they are sadly mistaken. They've been out to intimidate Casey Anthony from day one. It didn't work then. It's not gonna work now. They have no witnesses, no confession, no cause of death, no DNA, no date of death. It's an unprovable case because it's not true. What was Casey's reaction? She knew this was a strong possibility. She's aware of the forces that are out to get her. Legal experts say that asking for the death penalty was a strategic error. Do you think you went too far, Jeff? Well, the jury had plenty of other options besides death. They could have found her guilty of second degree or even manslaughter. But they weren't interested in punishment. They didn't believe that she should be punished at all. Casey Anthony's trial turning into a huge dramatic production. And will Casey's attorney, Jose baez, even be allowed to defend her? Reports say he doesn't have the experience required by the Florida bar to defend a death-penalty case. [ Cellphone ringing ] [ Cellphone beeps ] Jeff Ashton. Right now? Okay, I'm on my way. [ Door opens ] Consejero. Seor. How are you? I'd like you to meet two new members of my team. Ann, this is Jeff Ashton, second chair to the state. Where's first chair, Jeff? Linda's gone home. You're stuck with me. All right, this is Ann finnell, our death-penalty expert. He's gonna need you, counselor. Good to meet you. You already know Cheney Mason. Everybody knows Cheney. I watched your trial last year with Linda. [ Laughs ] Don't remind me. I lost. You can't change the facts. So, now that it's a capital case, who's first chair? Well, forget the seating, Jeff. It's gonna be Jose's case all the way. Does judge Perry know that we're assembled? Judge Perry: Yes, he does. Good afternoon, judge. What is the problem now, Mr. baez? Finnell: The two mental-health experts we're calling as witnesses can't meet the state's deadline for discovery, your honor. We're already out of time, so, if this is a stall... we've never stalled. Ah, ah. Continue, Ms. finnell. Finnell: The doctors are key to explaining why Casey didn't report her daughter's disappearance. For 31 days and nights. I don't see why we need all this mystery here. Why don't we stop playing games? Just tell us what happened. All right. The truth is... Caylee was never murdered. Okay. She accidentally drowned in the pool on June 16th. And Casey trusted someone she never should have to take care of it. Like who? George Anthony. You know what. Bring it. I cannot wait to cross-examine your client. George woke Casey up that morning and told her what had happened. So you're pinning this whole thing on George. Casey's accepting no responsibility whatsoever, as usual. It's like you said, Jeff. You can't change the facts. [ Chuckles ] [ Bell jingles ] [ Indistinct conversations ] You look like you've spoken to Jose. The rest of the story is that George Anthony has been molesting Casey ever since she was a little girl. Every body part he could get into. And the doctors are gonna testify to this. And not just George. Casey also says that her brother started sneaking in her room to feel her up ever since she grew breasts, so around 12. Like father, like son. Frank: Okay, even if that happened... which it didn't! I'm saying, so what? Jose's going to argue that all of the bad behavior before the 911 call was about denial and suppression. Casey had to lie for so long that she figured out how to believe it. So when Casey was saying that caylee was with zanny the nanny, she believed it. Correct. And when Casey was saying she worked at universal studios, she believed it. When she took the police all the way across that complex to the wrong building, down that long hallway to an office she'd never been to, what the hell, she believed it? Maybe she's working up an insanity plea. She's got enough game to convince the shrinks. They're gonna say whatever it is they're paid to say. Particularly now that we've tied the house to the duct tape and the garbage bag and the laundry bag. I mean, adios evil kidnapper. Casey had to come up with a different story. Yes. Well, how is Jose gonna explain the duct tape and the chloroform? The chloroform is an ingredient in the air freshener that Cindy sprayed all over the car to kill the smell. Of the dead body. He's giving us that. And the duct tape? Oh, they happened to bury their pets in plastic trash bags and seal them with duct tape. So, he's gonna try to say that the tape didn't come from her face. It came from the bag. We do not have good pictures of the tape at the scene. Because the FBI rushed off with the skull. Once the medical examiner says the tape came from caylee's face, it becomes a fact and not a theory. Let me ask you both something. You've both worked a ton of sex crimes. Do you see any indication of abuse here? I don't, no. No, although George is weird. I mean, being in the delivery room when your daughter gives birth? Come on, this poor guy... come on. Frank: Doesn't matter. Even if it's true, molestation's noan excuse for murder. Case doesn't change. We need to tell George... George and Cindy. Jose may call that witness tampering. Well, I'll try not to let that keep me up at night. Go through the anthonys' lawyer. Thanks for the tip. [ George sighs ] I... I just want to say none of this is true. Casey's a compulsive liar. It's an established fact. Cindy: I don't know what's wrong with her. I'm almost wondering if she didn't develop postpartum schizophrenia. Does she have a brain tumor? She's had seizures before. She may have a condition that makes it hard to sort fact from fiction, and that's why she can't tell the truth. You're speaking professionally, in your capacity as a registered nurse? I'm not making excuses for her, Linda. Caylee was our child, not just Casey's child. I'm trying to understand. You can't. You really got under Cindy's skin. Because it's my name on the intention to seek the death penalty. You know, she's going to have to choose between Casey and caylee. And if she can be honest with the jury... it's not gonna happen. You heard her in there. Well, okay, then if not for caylee, then how about for George? Dream on. I-I think that you like him more than she does. Because he's always been on our side. He's about the truth, no matter how it cuts. He's a cop. I respect that. George visited Casey at the jail by himself one time. Let's watch the video. Mario, play from here. Hey, gorgeous. How are you doing? I look like hell. I haven't had a shower in two days. Well, you know something? You really have to keep your spirit high for this. I miss you guys. [ Voice breaking ] I love you. I know you do. I love you, too. [ Sniffles ] I love you more than anything. He's like a normal dad having normal feelings for his screwed-up daughter. I miss your hug. [ Laughs ] Your squeeze, that "papa Joe" hug. I'm sorry I've been so tough on you sometimes. I'm sorry. Dad, it's not your fault. We all do things out of love. Okay, just stop. I've seen enough. This is when they know they're being recorded. The whole family is strange. Look, you still have to call George as the first witness. The jury has to know that he's not some sort of a monster. On the upside, if Jose wants to prove the molestation, he has to put her on the stand, and that would be like a gift wrapped up in a bow because I will rip her apart. But she is an excellent liar. The jury could believe her. We don't even know what Jose is going to present! I mean, this could all just be gamesmanship trying to throw us. [ Laughs ] Well, it's working. It's got you second-guessing our star witness. I'm more upset because he's taken away the mystery. I-I was gonna use the whole 31 days in my opening, the 31 days of where? Where is caylee? Well, use it. Because it's 31 days of lies. Because cazlee's dead either way, either his way or our way. She's not with the nanny, she's not at the beach, she's not at the park, she's not at universal studios. Where was Casey? [ Laughter ] Thanks. Do you know that drowning is the leading cause of death for kids under 5? More kids drown in pools in Florida than any other state of the union, including California. There's no way you think caylee drowned, Jeff. Yeah, but it's like all her lies... just enough plausibility. Caylee loved to swim. She knew how to open the sliding glass door by herself. She could climb up the steps and get into the pool. There are home movies to prove it. But it's not what happened, or she'd have been found in the pool, not a swamp six months later. [ Sighs ] We just have to pick jurors who can use common sense. Day one of the trial of the century. That's what they're calling it. As jury selection kicks off, Casey Anthony sits in court today as juror after potential juror speaks out. I don't think I could be neutral. You couldn't get away from it. I was hearing the story like four to five times a day. I just tuned it out, finally. I haven't formed any opinion. Maybe she did it, maybe she didn't. [ Voice breaking ] Honestly? I've been praying for her, the mother. She lost her child. My wife said she's guilty. I look at her. I see evil in her eyes. I'm sorry, but that's what I think. I can't help it. We're over 100 people in, and we're not even halfway home. Dummies, skeptics, and a lot of smokers, for some reason. We're about to dump one of them. Listen to what this guy wrote on his web page here. "Book coming soon. L.O.L." Who's this? Take a guess. "Got the title, cover, and all." He was hustling. There is a lot of that going around. The meter reader... he got 15 grand from "good morning America." Two minutes about finding the body. How about abc giving 200k to team Casey for photos of that baby? They overpaid. CBS got all the family albums from George and Cindy for only 20 grand. Casey's ex-boyfriend... I read that he got four grand for a picture of caylee in the pink t-shirt. Oh, "big trouble comes in small packages." It's the last thing she wore. Look, our case is rock solid. Forensics say she's guilty. Common sense says she's guilty, and the jury is gonna say she's guilty. And do you know why? Because she is guilty. The murder trial of tot mom Casey Anthony heats up, Finally, reality hits. The consequences of murder and the brutal death of 2-year-old caylee Marie Anthony. Jeff: Baez is gonna try to use shock and awe as a tactic. You are his alternative story. He needs to obliterate you. So it's down to me or Casey now? Look, I'm not gonna tell you not to love your daughter. But you loved your granddaughter, too. So be calm, tell the truth, and when I object... and I will... stop talking until the judge rules. All right? I know Casey did something to caylee, but I just don't know what. That's the first time you've ever said that to me, George. I'm glad the trial is starting. I'll finally know the truth. I'm not gonna lie to you, George. You've heard enough lies to last a lifetime. I don't think we're ever gonna know the whole truth. Only Casey knows that. Well, I'm focused on caylee, not Casey. Me, too. [ Indistinct shouting ] [ Cheers and applause ] [ Camera shutter clicks ] [ Indistinct conversations ] Bailiff: All rise for the honorable belvin Perry junior. Linda: It's time to tell the story of a little girl named caylee Marie Anthony. Caylee lived nearly every day of her life on a quiet residential street in Orlando called hopespring drive. Baez: Hopespring drive. Where, as you can see, it looks like the all-American home. You can drive by any home in the United States and never know what secrets lie within. On father's day, June 15, 2008, Cindy Anthony took her beautiful little granddaughter to see her great-grandfather, Cindy's father, where Cindy took the last known photograph of caylee. The next photograph of caylee Anthony is taken on December 11, 2008. The story of this case is about what happened between the photograph taken on June 15th and the photograph taken on December 11th. What happened to caylee Marie Anthony? Everyone wants to know what happened. How in the world can a mother wait 31 days before reporting her missing child? That's insane. It's bizarre! The answer is quite simple. Caylee was never missing. Caylee Anthony died when she drowned in her family's swimming pool on June 16, 2008. When Casey Anthony can't get out of the corner that she has painted herself into, when her back is against the wall, what does Casey Anthony do? After caylee drowned, Casey did what she's been doing all her life... hiding the pain. She went into that dark corner, where she pretends that the situation she's in isn't the life she's living. Casey Anthony comes up with a new and a bigger and a better lie. And that all started for Casey when she was 8 years old and her father walked into her bedroom and began to touch her inappropriately. Day 21. Day 22. Day 23. Day 24. Day 25. Day after day... 31 days. No one knows where caylee is. While Casey is just gallivanting around Orlando, captured on video at a video store. Baez: Casey Anthony was raised to lie. This child at the age of 8 learned to lie immediately. She could be [Sighs] and have her father's penis in her mouth and go to school and play with the other kids as if nothing was wrong. And where is caylee? Where is caylee? Casey and George couldn't find her, so they went outside. Casey went to the left, and George headed towards the pool. When Casey came back around the corner of the house, she saw George Anthony, and he was holding caylee's body. And he was yelling, "look what you've done! "Your mother is never going to forgive you, "and you are going to go to jail for child neglect for the rest of your fricking life!" At the end of this case... When this case is over... you will have no trouble concluding that caylee Anthony was murdered by her mother, Casey Anthony. Baez: ...Someone's going to ask you, "why did you find Casey Anthony not guilty?" You're gonna say, "they couldn't tell me how she died. "They couldn't prove it was a murder. "There was no evidence of child abuse. "There was no motive. And that's why we voted not guilty." [ Indistinct conversations ] The state calls George Anthony. Now, take us to the morning of June 16th of 2008. It was a Monday. Tell us how that day began. It was a typical morning. I just did the normal-type stuff, seeing Casey go off to work. I'd blow caylee a kiss. [ Smooches, blows ] And I'd say, "jojo, see you later." She called me jojo. And she'd blow a kiss back, and then I'd give Casey a hug and tell her to drive safe. Just normal-type stuff, and that was the last day that I saw Casey and caylee together. Mr. Anthony, I need to ask you some questions about something else. Have you ever sexually molested your daughter, Casey Anthony? No, sir. Have you ever committed any sexually inappropriate behavior with your daughter, Casey Anthony? No, sir. Were you present in your home when caylee Anthony died? No, when I heard about that, it... It really hurt because if I had known something had happened to caylee... [ Sighs ] ...We wouldn't be here today. You know that sex with a child under the age of 12 is life in prison. You are aware of the possible penalties of child molesting, aren't you, sir? Objection. Relevance. Sustained. [ Clears throat ] You, of course, would never admit to molesting your own child, would you, sir? Objection. Argumentative. Judge Perry: Overruled. He can answer the question if he can. Sir, I would never do anything like that to my daughter. Well, the question is, you would never admit to it, would you, sir? Sir, I would never do anything to harm my daughter in that way. Only in that way? Objection! Argumentative. Move to strike. Sustained. Velez-Mitchell: So much astounding new video of Casey Anthony to show you tonight. Mark Edgar Stevens, body-language specialist. Mark, George takes the stand and denies ever molesting Casey. Let's watch. Have you ever sexually molested your daughter, Casey Anthony? No, sir. Mark, he looked down. "No, sir." Obviously, he knew this piece of testimony was going to come up, and he was prepared for it. But what we do when we look down is again, we're looking for our feelings. But it's also the place that we look down for whenever we're hiding ourselves from shame. And obviously, there's some shame there. We don't know what the truth of it really may be, but there's definitely some shame and some remorse going on. Yeah, hamed that his daughter's saying that he did those things. Remorse that he raised a monster. They're chasing ratings, that's all. Every network's doing it. If you can't stand watching it, then don't watch. Yeah, that's good advice. Frank: Mr. lazzaro, on the night of June 16th, when you and Casey went to the video store together, how would you describe her demeanor? The way she was every day... happy. Happy to see me. Looking back, there was no sign that anything was going on. Casey and caylee... they had a very special bond. She was a good mother. [ Voice breaking ] It was amazing to watch them together. Morales: She used to stay over four or five nights a week, almost always with caylee. I slept on one side of the bed, Casey in the middle, and caylee on the other side. You weren't intimate with Casey while caylee was in the bed, right? I don't believe so, no. Was Casey a good mother to her? From what I saw. I'd like to show you a photograph, Mr. morales. You know what this photograph is, right? I do. And you posted this on your MySpace page while you were dating Casey, including march, 2008. I believe so, yes. Why did you post this? It was just a joke. I... I found it humorous at that time. What kind of boyfriend posts a picture like this? I mean, it's a promotion for date rape. Well, we think the photo is where Casey got the idea to sedate caylee before she put on the duct tape. Why would Casey Anthony, a high-school dropout, ever try to manufacture some dangerous and antiquated gas when there is so much cheap and easy sedation available over the counter? Was there any evidence that she actually made chloroform? None that law enforcement could find. But we had such strong forensics without that. Dr. arpad vass... I'm a senior research scientist with the oak Ridge national laboratory in oak Ridge, Tennessee. When you opened the can containing the carpet sample from the trunk of Casey Anthony's car, what was your reaction? [ Chuckles ] Uh, I jumped back a foot or two. The odor was extremely overwhelming. I was shocked a little bitty can could have that much odor. Did you immediately recognize the odor? Yes, I recognized it as the odor of human decomposition. Which you have smelled many, many times before. You have filed several patents on your odor-testing inventions that you plan to sell to police departments around the country, do you not? It's not my goal to sell anything. You would stand to earn money. You get 15% of the royalties, do you not? Objection, your honor, on the basis... judge Perry: Sustained. Sir, can you tell the ladies and gentlemen of the jury what divining rods are? Uh, divining rods are antennae used to locate specific properties of specific materials. Can a divining rod be made with a coat hanger from a dry cleaner? Sure. Have you taught on this subject of using coat hangers to look for hidden graves? Absolutely. It's a hobby of mine, like stamp collecting. You also have attempted to put electronic leashes on flies, have you not, sir? Objection, your honor. Relevance. Sustained. Fireworks over forensics exploding in court today. Jose baez goes on the attack and rips holes in the prosecution's evidence. Tonight, there is a real question if Jose keeps exploiting prosecution blunders, could Casey walk out of that courtroom a free woman? Jose is always trying to make our guys look like they're in the box for money. "When you were hired..." They're not hired, they're consulted, and he knows it. Witnesses for the defense get paid, too, don't they? The man is such a hypocrite. But he's a snappy dresser. The pocket scarves. Mr. Ashton? Excuse me? Could me and my sister ask for your autograph? [ Laughs ] Sure. "To Kim" and "to Lindsay." We planned our whole vacation around the trial. You're amazing. Thank you. Enjoy Orlando. Sorry to interrupt. I know. I know. It's not about me. You love it. Admit it. I do like being part of something. You know, we've had cameras in the courtroom for 20 years. They're like pieces of furniture, and nobody watches. But now, I have millions of eyeballs watching me. It's crazy. Just don't get too used to it. Judge Perry: What exactly is the purpose of this demonstration, Mr. Ashton? The issue is whether the duct tape was in fact the cause of death. The video superimposition will show that a single piece of duct tape... and the evidence will prove that there were three... was sufficient to cover the nose and mouth of caylee Marie Anthony, thus ending her life. This is the evidence that the duct tape is the murder weapon. Mr. baez? [ Baez clears throat ] Your honor, we've been hearing a lot of testimony about chloroform as the state's theory of what caused this child's death. Then today, it's duct tape, their position being "let's throw everything against the wall and see what sticks." This disgusting superimposition is nothing but a fantasy intended to appeal to the jury's emotions. How does the state respond? The video will demonstrate the duct tape's ability to cover caylee's nose and mouth, your honor. The court will permit its admission into evidence. Okay, let's bring back the jury. Warren: Michael Warren. I'm an associate Professor of anthropology at the university of Florida. Before you proceed, Mr. Ashton, I want to give fair warning. For those of you in this courtroom who may have queasiness or uneasiness about enduring graphic images, this would be a good time to exit. Anybody else? You may publish to the jury, Mr. Ashton. Dr. Warren, could you tell us how you created this video superimposition? Yes, we took a photo of the decedent and a photo of the skull and scaled them to the same size using anatomical landmarks, like the bottom of the teeth, the edge of the ocular orbits, the top of the head, the contour of the skull. Once they were aligned, we were able to superimpose a photograph of the duct tape that had the same metric scale and adjust the size until they matched. That allowed us to overlay the duct tape on the soft tissue. Would a single piece of duct tape that we see in the video be sufficient to prevent breathing? Yes. No further questions. [ Sobbing ] You're not testifying in any way that that's what actually happened, are you, sir? No, I'm not. It's a form of speculation, since you don't know... in fact, you can't, correct? Right. Are you aware that a portion of the duct tape was found nine feet away from the skull? I was not aware of that. [ Casey crying ] Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, we are going to recess. Don't smile. Juror number three is watching you. Think she's faking it? No. I think she's genuinely feeling sorry for herself. Tears, giggles, frustration, rage. Casey Anthony's been all over the map during this trial. Her extreme, unpredictable emotional outbursts beg the question... what's real? Cheney Mason wants to see us and the judge right now. Now there's a guy who cares more about his client than he does his career. He must have talked Casey into a plea. I think that your video finally got to her. Broke my heart to watch it. Every time. Was the consejero on the call? He was not. Of course not, because a plea ends the Jose baez show. She won't even listen to the idea of a plea. Then why are we here? Because every time I try to talk to her about it, she gives me a blank look, like she doesn't even know the meaning of the word, and then she turns her face away from me. You brought us here for that? I have concerns about the defendant's competency, your honor. Judge Perry: Do you believe that miss Anthony may not understand what is happening at trial or that she can't aid in her defense? I do. Well, then the court needs to recess for a competency examination. Now, what do you want to tell the media about this thing? The truth. "A legal issue has come up." Nice and simple. Jeff: Three separate psychologists were brought in to evaluate Casey's mental state. She was tested for hours and hours. She flew through them, was deemed competent to stand trial, and on we went. If Casey had testified, what's the one question you would have wanted to ask her? About the tattoo. See, I believe that's the clearest expression of motive. Your daughter is dead or missing for three weeks, and you go and get a tattoo that says, "Bella vita"? I'd have asked her, "what does 'Bella vita' mean to you?" I would have loved to have heard her explanation for that. Woman: Lift your shirt, please. [ Camera shutter clicks ] [ Indistinct conversations ] Bobby: Bobby Williams. I'm a tattoo artist. Frank: A tattoo artist? Yes, sir. Do you know what "Bella vita" means? "Beautiful life" in Italian. While you were applying the tattoo, how was she acting? Normal. Did she seem happy? Yeah, pretty happy, for the most part. Did she mention her daughter? She said she was with her na. Thank you, Mr. Williams. Judge Perry: Cross-exam, Mr. baez. Is it customary in your business that people get tattoos to remember their loved ones that have passed? They do, yes. That's something you do quite often. Yes, sir. And did you do the tattoos on George and Cindy Anthony that they have had done to commemorate caylee Anthony? Objection. Irrelevant. Matter outside the scope. Sustained. No more questions. The state may call their next witness. Your honor, at this point, the state of Florida would rest. Woman: And the battle of the experts continues in the defense phase of the Casey Anthony trial, including celebrity pathologist Dr. Werner spitz, who consulted on the autopsies of both president Kennedy and Martin Luther King. He called the medical examiner's autopsy "shoddy." If the duct tape was attached to the face, there would have been DNA from the face on the duct tape. I think the duct tape was a later event, after decomposition. I've seen that expression before. The prosecution has argued that Casey used duct tape to suffocate her 2-year-old daughter, but the chief investigator for the medical examiner, Stephen hanson, admitted that the original placement was unclear. More fireworks expected when George Anthony takes the stand again, called this time by the defense. Baez: Now, sir, in late January of 2009, you attempted to commit suicide. Did you, sir? Yes, sir, I did. You even wrote a suicide note. Yes, sir. You expressed a lot of guilt. Is it possible... objection. The best evidence of the document is the document itself. I'll withdraw the question. Sustained. And within a week of that, you were back making media appearances? I don't remember what I did. Do you recall being on "48 hours"? Yes, sir. Do you recall making $20,000 on that appearance? You know, Mr. baez, I have been nice to you. I've tried to answer every question to the best of my ability. I did everything I could to bring awareness to everyone who fell in love with caylee. Did you make an appearance on "the early show"? I don't remember my exact itinerary. All these media appearances stopped when the allegations of abuse came out, correct? I believe that was done through you, sir. The attempted suicide... that was alcohol and pills? Yes. Yeah. The alcohol was beer, the pills were blood-pressure medication, correct? I took a large amount of different medication along with drinking beer. And subsequent to that, you had two warrants issued on your home by law enforcement, who went there and went through a lot of your things, is that correct, sir? I'm trying not to get upset. You're making me upset. Specifically, your things, things associated with you, your personal things, not Casey's, correct? I don't know. I wasn't there. Because you were doing the Larry king show? Objection. Not relevant to this case. Sustained. Six weeks after caylee's remains were found, you traveled to Daytona beach to a hotel where you intended to take your own life. Yes. Why did you decide to end your life? It just felt like the right time to be with caylee... to spend time with c-caylee. [ Crying ] I didn't want to be in this world anymore... because I believed I failed her. [ Cries ] It's not a hotel. It's a motel. Don't be a snob. Didn't people magazine call it "one of the Daytona beach seedy motels"? Instant hit after George made it famous. People are still showing up asking to stay in the same room. You got to book in advance. That's so depressing. You're a little sensitive. I just hate the pointless cruelty of it. I mean, having to watch Jose use the man's grief against him? It just... it blows my mind how effective you can be when you're not limited by the truth. George came through. Okay, he cried like a baby. It doesn't make him a child molester. George was his last move. He has to call Casey to back up what he said in his opening. Jury needs to hear it from her own mouth. I will bet you both lunch you're wrong. Oh! High roller! Casey is not gonna testify. Why don't you save it for your poker game? Are you afraid to even risk lunch? Fine. You're on. Where should we make him take us? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, why don't you win before you start making reservations? Oh. [ Laughs ] Bailiff: Raise your right hand. Do you solemnly swear or affirm to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God? So help me God. Please state your full name for the record. Cynthia Anthony. [ Clears throat ] Now, do you recall in march 2008 your doing any searches for any items that might contain chloroform? Yes. I started looking at chlorophyll. My smallest yorkie was extremely tired all the time. She would eat the bamboo leaves out in the backyard, so I started looking up how that could make her sleepy. And that prompted me to look up chloroform. I don't understand how you can get those two mixed up. I'm not getting them mixed up. If you look into chlorophyll, there's some bacteria associated with chloroform production. Some species of algae naturally produce it, for instance. Linda: So it's your testimony that you were home that day in march, even though your work records reflect something differently. It's possible. Well, Cindy, were you or weren't you? Were you home march 28, 2008, between 2:16 and 2:29 P.M.? If those computer entries were made, then I made them. You did 84 searches for the effect of chlorophyll on your animals? I didn't do 84 searches of anything, lin. Grace: Tonight, is grandmother Cindy Anthony looking at 15 years behind bars on a perjury charge? Now, listen, all of you mothers and grandmothers out there. I don't know if you feel like me, but if my little girl were facing the Florida death penalty, i would roll this sleeve up right here and say, "here, put the needle right here." I understand what Cindy's doing. What I don't understand is why tot mom would allow her defense team to set her own mother up for perjury. Do we charge her with perjury? What's the point? The aggrieved grandmother? I mean, after Casey's convicted? I get that she doesn't want to lose both of her girls, but I don't have to like her. It's like "a few good men"... she can't handle the truth. How about when Casey was seven months pregnant, and Cindy was telling everybody that the belly on that skinny little girl was bloat. Bloat! And she's a registered nurse. I mean, daughter, mother. It's like one's an expert at lying to everyone, the other's an expert at lying to herself. I just would have thought for once Cindy could put caylee first. Sergeant Kevin stenger. I'm the head of computer forensics for the orange county sheriff's department. After the keyword "chloroform" was found on the Anthony home computer, you utilized two software programs to recover the search history, did you not? I did. [ Pen clicking ] Stop it. The first, netanalysis, the second, cacheback. That's correct. Do you recognize the computer printout on your screen? Yes, that's my netanalysis report. How many times does it show the chloroform site was visited? One, sir. And now I'd like to show you the only report that the prosecution entered into evidence, your second report. Looking at the same website at the same time and date, that report says the site was visited how many times? [ Pen clicking ] And that was the same website at the same time and date. That's correct. Jeff: One "chloroform" search is still one search too many. It makes us look bad, like we suppressed evidence. Then don't mention the number. It's a detail. No. It is our only evidence of premeditation that supports first degree. Without the chloroform search history, what do we have? The duct tape. The smells in the car. The band of death on caylee's hair. The cadaver-dog hit. We have solid forensics. It's circumstantial, Jeff. We all know it. We've all won circumstantial cases before. If 94% of Florida thinks she's guilty, she's guilty. We just need 12 votes. Judge Perry: Mr. baez, do you intend to present any more live witnesses? No, sir, we do not. Will the defendant be testifying? No, sir. Miss Anthony. Is it your decision not to testify, made freely and voluntarily? Yes, sir. Steak and lobster. [ Crowd chanting "justice for caylee!" ] [ Indistinct shouting ] It's easy to be a parent when you're playing with your children. But we all know that being a parent is about so much more. It's about sacrifice. Sacrificing your time, sacrificing your love, sacrificing your hopes, sacrificing your life. You're being asked to make the biggest decision of your life... the decision to take someone else's life... If you feel the evidence deserves it. On June 16, 2008, Casey Anthony chose to sacrifice her child to live the life that she wanted. She took her child, she put her in the trunk, and she disposed of her body in a swamp. That's complete and total nonsense. She had no motive. Casey loved that child. That's all the evidence that you've heard... that Casey was nothing but a good mother. We can only hope that the chloroform was used before the tape was applied so that caylee went peacefully without feeling, but go she did, and she died because she could not breathe. Hope? They're hoping to get a conviction now? They're hoping you'll buy the chloroform? They're hoping. [ Chuckles ] You're not supposed to hope. You're supposed to prove a case beyond and to the exclusion of every reasonable doubt. Ask yourself whose life was better without caylee's? There's your answer. Baez: No real hard evidence. No DNA, no fingerprints, nothing. But she is a liar and a slut... convict her on that. The most well-documented liar ever seen in a courtroom. They couldn't find a single link from Casey to caylee's death. But yet they want to create things with fictional science. For what, the cameras? Because it's a high-profile case? No, because it's about winning, to win at all costs. The defense wants to take you on trip down a rabbit hole into a bizarre world where men who love their granddaughters find them drowned and do nothing. Where men who love their granddaughters take an accident, a completely innocent act, and make it look like a murder for no reason. George Anthony can get up here and lie all he wants and dance around the truth, but the truth is the truth... and depending on who's asking the questions, whether it's this laughing guy right here... objection! Judge Perry: Sustained. ...Or ourselves... approach the bench. Paula: I look at you... you are thoughtful, you're warm, you're good company. [ Laughs ] Thank you. But the way you laughed at Jose baez during his closing argument... do you think that affected the jury? I don't, and I apologized to the court. And so did baez. What I did was probably inappropriate. I feel badly that I lost control of my mouth and smiled and smirked when I shouldn't have. But given the absurdy of what he was arguing, I've forgiven myself for that moment of weakness. I've got to tell you, Jeff, you sound a little bitter. Look, I have never been involved in a trial where a jury was so eager to assume facts favorable to a defendant without the defense even having to prove them. But, you know, I have to congratulate Jose baez. He got them to do it. [ Telephone rings ] Jeff Ashton. Are they back? Paula: Now, the jury only took 11 hours to decide. [ Chuckles ] Don't lawyers say a quick verdict is a guilty verdict? [ Applause ] Bailiff: All rise. Judge Perry: All right. Let's return the jury. [ Indistinct conversations ] Will the defendant please rise, along with counsel? Madam clerk, you may publish the verdicts. In the circuit court... For the ninth judicial circuit in and for orange county, Florida, the state of Florida vs. Casey Marie Anthony, as to the charge of first-degree murder, verdict as to count one, we the jury find the defendant not guilty. So say we all. As to the charge of aggravated child abuse, verdict as to count two, we the jury find the defendant not guilty. As to the charge of aggravated manslaughter of a child, verdict as to count three, we the jury find the defendant not guilty. [ Sighs ] As for the charge of providing false information to law enforcement, we the jury find the defendant guilty. Velez-Mitchell: Jane velez-Mitchell, coming to you live from Orlando, Florida, the courthouse behind me, everybody's jaws are still hanging on the desk. A monumental, stunning, mind-blowing, jaw-dropping day here in Orlando. Casey Anthony found not guilty of murdering her daughter. [ Crowd chanting "guilty!" ] [ Indistinct shouting ] [ Camera shutter clicks ] Mason: And let this be a lesson to all of you who have indulged in media assassination filled with bias, prejudice, and incompetent talking heads. I hope you've learned a lesson. For the past three years, my driving force has been to seek justice for caylee and Casey because Casey did not murder caylee. And today, our system of justice has not dishonored caylee's memory with a false conviction. Grace: The defense team is inside a bar having a champagne toast right now. Now, you know what? I'm not a preacher, and I'm not a rabbi, but there is something wrong with that 'cause caylee is dead. Now, I know it is our duty as American citizens to respect the jury system, and I do, believe me, I do. But I know one thing... as the defense sits by and has their champagne toast after that not-guilty verdict, somewhere out there, the devil is dancing tonight. Jeff, what time is it? I just never imagined we could lose on every count that mattered. This case had Over 90 witnesses over 33 days. And these people were 10-to-2 for acquittal in an hour and a half. [ Scoffs ] How is that even possible? Do you remember why you wanted this case? 'Cause I thought it was worth fighting for. And did you fight? I don't know what more I could have done. Four misdemeanors... That's all we got. She'll be free in a week on time served. Come to bed. I will. I couldn't find her guilty of a crime if I'm not sure a crime was even committed. It was easier to conclude that it was an accident than that it had something to do with duct tape and chloroform. Why be mad at me that they didn't prove their case? If they want me to take someone's life, they have to prove it, or else I'm a murderer, too, and I'm not any better. Casey Anthony, who has been called the most hated woman in America, was released after 1,054 days behind bars. She was found not guilty, but she was convicted by the 13th juror in this case, the public. And given a life sentence of infamy. Is that justice, Jeff? There's justice in the courtroom, and then there's justice in a larger sense. I believe in karma, and karma has a way of balancing the scales. Look, I think the key for me, and for anyone else who's still angry or frustrated, is to let go. And to find a way to move on. Have you moved on? Yes. I don't know whether to look directly at myself or look up or...Oh. Oh, man. I don't know. It's just a little surreal how many things have changed since July and how many things haven't changed. But the good thing is things are starting to look up and things are starting to change in a good way. Which is what they say. So, this is the end of my first video log. And now, in a way, I'll have someone to talk to even when I'm by myself. It's a little scary because I hate being on camera, but I have to conquer that at some point, and it's a good place to start. This is the end. This is the end and just the beginning. [ Laptop closes ]
