 

                        Why do people use drugs? I could never figured it out... ...until Quin and Fan died It's all because of the emptiness inside So what's worse... ...the emptiness or the drugs? I really don't know Nick. The "caterer" in position in 1 minute Hello Get in the JV1889 to your right Okay Get the 3 stooges beside you to follow you They're like you. Each holding a lemon tea You three. Follow me to the car Why it always have to be lemon tea... Can't they switch to soda for once? It's here! The suspect's car is here. Get ready! It's a 7-seat silver van Plate no. JV1889 Unit A. Go now! Go Unit A has lost the suspect: He turned left onto Jordan Unit B in pursuit Go Hello Nick. I made the drop Call it a day! The suspect is on Boundary heading towards Kowloon City The suspect has turned onto Earl Street Slow down! Keep your distance. He might see you! Nick. The "caterer" is in position It's a green light! Don't stop. Keep going! I knew they would pull this! Think they are dealing with rookies!? He's staring at you Get going! Move! He's sniffing us! Don't look back! The road split ahead! Which way should I take? Stay on course! Damn! He's gone! "Client" lost in the roundabout No sweat! Unit B back in action! Easy on the turns ahead. Don't let him slip off! Copy You are the only tail in business Heads up He's turning! Take the left lane! I can't. I'm blocked. Watch it! Unit B has lost the target The target went into Kowloon City Nick. I lost my tail now - Sand Martin Bridge - Copy Not too bad We managed to stick with them this long Let's go - Back to station? - No. I got a game to go to Split it up! Get out! Hurry up! - Yes - The party's over - It's a wrap - Copy Mom! I'm hungry Just wait a little longer. Mrs. Luk is not back yet Once she pays me... ...I'll treat you to a dinner out Can you spare me some instant noodles? I'm out Take some bread instead? My salary is stalled... I'll pay you back once I get my money Eat it... How much? Deal! Quin. I've got a new number Nick? Yes. Big sister? Quin is in the ER again. Come quickly! Dear... Go home and get your father's personal things... I have a date! Get your sister to do it! - You... - Hi. Nick! Nick - Nick - How is he? Please convince him to have the operation He shouldn't stall any longer lt'll be alright Can I see him now? Over there Nurse Nurse... Just a second What do you need? I need to pee - I'll get you a bed-pan - Wait... There are women here... Why don't you go to a private hospital? It's been a really rough year My kidneys are ruined by diabetes My wife has high blood pressure and a bad cholesterol level My little daughter was born with VSD Her sister is healthy But she's a monster! Did you see her manners? Can you stand her? I can't! Take it easy. Your health comes first Your wife wants you to get a kidney transplant But I'll die faster if the operation goes badly! I don't think you have much choice When I send the little one abroad for her operation... ...I'll get mine done as well - Did the drop go well? - Yes. It did I wanted to talk to you though What is it? I've found a customer I want to bank one deal on my own Just a sec... What did you say? I want to do one trade myself I need to buy a house How much? Four sets "Hong Kong Dollars" I'm asking about the house! Pls grease me on this one I'm tired of borrowing! Who's your buyer? You taught me not to ask questions Are you sure he's cool? Just need to trust me Yeah. Right... What kind of house do you need? Can't you even afford the down payment? Good for nothing... what's that? Hey. Easy on that Hide it Get rid of the leftovers Your wife will kill me if she finds out You are kidding? Nothing go wasted! Where is everyone? They went home to get Quin's stuff What about you? I was waiting for you Do you want to go to a movie? Someone gave me two coupons! Come on... It's early. We can walk to the cinema Have a safe ride Let's see... What's you name? Jane-jane Jane-jane. Want some candy? Eat your vegetables Have some fish Do you have rats in your flat? A rat crawled into our bed last night It almost bit her! I put out some rat poison Me too! But they just keep coming back Try another brand! We can buy some after dinner Thanks Do you sell bootlegs? They belong to Mrs. Luk's son I work for Luk and he lets me stay here Would you like some tea? Do you live by yourself? Yes I broke up with my husband not too long ago I wanted to return to my parents' home But my father refused to take us in Since my husband had priors causing trouble with my folks My father disliked him and did not condone our marriage He said my husband was a worthless bum. Which is kind of true You don't need to tell me all these... You're right This couch seems very comfy You bet... you should try I don't know how such a good sofa ended up here Have some tea Yes Hey... What's up? Come pick me up at the hospital now! Let's talk again some other time. I have to go. Thank you Oh. It's nothing Go to the "kitchen"! Something happened What are we waiting for? I don't know where it is He's here Relax. He's safe! Who is he? Nick. He looks after transport You could have warned me! I almost had a heart attack! Let's go Open up! Moron... What is it? It won't clog What the hell do you mean it won't clog? Give me a cigarette Light it Hurry Magnesium? Magnesium is gray! This is potassium nitrate! It's basic chemistry! Where did you get this junk? The regular place in Shamshuipo! They screwed up big time! "Re-cook" now or we'll lose the whole batch! Son of a bitch! I'll burn down their shop tomorrow! Just shut up and give me two sets "US Dollars" now! Hurry! Pour it in! Enough! Hurry! Mix it! "Double Uoglobe Brand" It used to be morphine bricks... ...which took a long time to process Now they send it pre-made That's 99% pure... ...heroin bricks The cops call them "No.4". We call them "US Dollars" It's lethal if taken straight That's why you need to cut it. Then you get "HK Dollars" The same stuff you always dropped off Our product is high-grade The dealers will cut it further with glucose. K or Blue Devils Sometimes. Even plaster Anything goes just to boost their profit margin We. However. Only make good stuff to keep the bigger dealers coming back Know why it's shaped like this? For easy transport Wait Each weighs 350 grams This stuff is hot! The market price is $320 grand per set Don't try selling short I've thought it over You would need to learn all the ropes somehow It's time you get some hands-on experience My health is a mess I'll have to pass the business onto someone eventually I am a nerve wreck in trusting people Well. You seem to prove yourself ...and pretty smart Just remember... ...never take risks Oh... My sister-in-law... she's a good girl Guess what my wife told me just now She cried so hard when you stood her up I... What's the problem? Once we're in-laws. You can still call me big brother Just the same! She once asked me what my line of work was I couldn't answer What could I say? Drugs? When do I pay for the merchandise? No rush. Make yourself some money first Bye - I'll go up with you - I'll be fine Bye What are you doing? Feeding pigeons Aren't you afraid of avian flu? No! Are you? Quit fooling around... Dangerous stuff... Cut it out. Let's go! All used notes... ...all specially marked and undetectable Where is this batch going? Overseas... Will let you know once it's done Hey. We need picture evidence Last night was sudden: Couldn't be helped But I managed to visit the kitchen though You did?! Met the chef. He's in his 50s He has two young sidekicks You should hurry if you want to catch them Do you know we've got a new boss? I read it in the paper I went through the operation with him a few days ago And we reviewed each step together The conclusion is... We'll be able to round up your drivers... some of your clients... plus the 3 cooks you've just met... ...it's only a dozen people or so Boss said we've put in a lot of time and money Yet Quin's supplier is still unknown The main point is... Lin Quin controls more than half of the local supply It's a monthly turnover of at least $30M Where does the money go? Could Lin be backed by other people? What does the boss want? He wants to know if you're OK to stay undercover further It's 7 years now That's why he wants your opinion Is there anyway to nail everyone? Lin Quin is ill He's going to pass on more and more duties to me Even if there is a backer ...I'll probably never meet him Who knows how long it will take? It could be several years We don't mind waiting The Chief is impressed with your work. You're in line for the SPC rank I prefer cash Me too Oh. Congratulations! What for? Chief Superintendent. Ay! But that's as high as I can go Unless... Unless we can nail this entire drug supply line It's all up to you We must tie the whole network together. So that we'll have solid evidence in court And as soon as you smell Quin plans escape route We'll arrest him and close the case I suppose he must have a few passports If he ever gets to an international airport hub... ...we'll lose him for good I know... what's the hurry? I have to join a soccer game How's your girlfriend? You two still fighting? Aren't you getting married? She's pregnant. Right? - Where's the key? - I thought you had it... Gotta go... Call me C'mon: You want business or not? I'll give you $50 more Elaine is upstairs She only keeps watch! I'll fix you up with another girl! Let me know when she's available It's for you Uncle... what is it? Remember what to say? Thank you! Can you do any house chores? Yes! Go find your child a kindergarten This is no place for a little girl Find out what I need at home... detergent. Toilet paper. Etc. If you're available tonight. Come by for dinner I haven't cooked in a while Okay By the way my name is Fan Call me Nick How much do you want? I want soup too Sure... More? Less Less... okay - How's that? - That's it Good The price is largely affected by the shipping cost If the cargo is shipped C&F here. You need to pay at least 20% more We can cut corners by shipping ourselves. But it's not that easy The man holding the bag gets the ownership and blame If they get caught before the handover. You don't pay Get caught after. You pay it all Those are the rules Now it's ours I thought they stop water transport Everyone thinks so. Which makes it the safest way I have one! Me too! Hi Cal! This is Cal. The warehouse keeper This is Nick. He handles the drivers Now that you've been introduced. Try not to see each other again Use unmarked phones to arrange all deliveries Is the warehouse nearby? Mind your own business Just tell him to collect the goods once they arrive Call him when the kitchen opens for business He'll deliver to a secure spot. And you send a runner for pick up It's the same way you make a delivery! Okay Relax. He'll be in charge soon Mine is new to me... Everyone has to shield off himself Don't ask what doesn't concern you Remember. Never take risks The warehouse keeper. Chef and clients should never come into contact Only the runners get caught. And the trail ends there As "wholesalers". We don't get our hands dirty We oversee from a distance Just like me... If it wasn't for salvaging the "dishes"... ...I would never go near the kitchen There is no room for error in this trade Anyone who gets caught... does 20 to 30 years minimum Enough. Brother You sofa is comfortable Go back to sleep I have frequent insomnia Relax... Promise me Once we get married... You have to treat me better You can't hit me again What does it feel like? From head... ...to toe Ever inch of my skin experiences a rush... ...for the longest time... ...for as long as I want I'm asking about being high High... It's like all my worries disappear I can dream... whenever I want to It's a dream come true But it's not a dream... It's real... it's real! Yes... Yes... Yes... Yes... Honey Honey. What are you doing here? I've been looking all over for you Where's our kid? Where is she. Honey? Honey. Don't run away from me... Don't... honey Honey. Why so silly? Why put yourself through this pain? Honey... I have stuff on me Take some. You'll feel better - C'mon. Take some... - No... No! Take some and you'll feel better. No... No! Honey... Honey... Honey... open up! Honey. I love you very much! Don't leave me alone... Mom. What are you doing? Nick Nick... Nick My husband has found me Can I stay here for a couple of days? No! Don't shout! You tried to get me hooked! What? What did you put in the cigarette? Nothing! Why would I... Don't come here again I swear I didn't do anything I would never harm you! Listen carefully! It's not my business! Just go! Please... - Please. Listen to me... - Go away! Go! Please help us... If you don't want to help me. At least help my child! You're scaring your child Just go to rehab! But they'll take my child away! I can't live without her! I really can't help you Just tie me down I can kick it in a few days You're crazy! Go! I can do it! I really can! Bite me... bite me! Harder! Stop crying... I've been trying... but I just can't kick the habit! My husband is a junkie I urged him... to quit He said it's impossible to quit I tried to prove to him that it was possible That's how I started using It turns out that you can't quit If I don't leave him... I'll never be able to quit! Please help me! Please. I beg you Don't move! Bite it! Your mom is fine She's alright Let's go outside Sit here Thank you Don't be afraid. Go on. We'll wait for you here Nick! Check this out! Get a new car. Dad! Yours is outdated! What's this? Why are you smoking? You're disgusting! What? At least I'm not smoking weed Who taught you to smoke?! Why are you hanging out with these losers? Did you teach her to smoke? Uncle. She's the one who taught me I'm not your uncle! Can' you stop nagging for once? Let's go Give me a break Watch the road! If my kidneys don't kill me she will! Yelling wont help. Talk to her Why smokers are so stupid? Cigarette stinks! It doesn't make sense What about drugs? Why do people... do drugs? I don't know and I don't want to know We're just businessmen! It's simply market supply and demand Smoking causes cancer but there will always be smokers At least I don't advertise It's not me who got them started! They bring it on themselves They made their own choice! Why? Do you know any addicts? No... I'm just curious Let me tell you... Junkies can be the best actors! When they crave a hit... They'll do anything. Say anything! Don't ever hang out with that bunch Or they'll make you feel like... you're the one causing their mishaps They bring it on themselves If they say no. There is nothing we can do - Why so worked up? - I'm not! It's their own fault! Do I look worked up?! Bullshit Hello? No. Don't... I'll find someone... Bye! What is it? Chef's older helper is in the hospital Find a trustworthy runner to do the pick-up tomorrow Forget it. I'll do it Alright Let's cut it with... ...rat poison someday ...and kill those scumbags May. Find anything? The 9th floor looks suspicious: The windows are covered Maybe our purchase was too small for them C'mon! We asked for 40 sets! Call them again Tell them to make the delivery now. Or the deal is off What a pain in the ass We must find the warehouse today! Ask upstairs what's going on Not a thing Got any sand on your sole? I'm clean. Open up My older helper had diarrhea. He could barely walk Take a seat. It's almost ready Hurry up! Take your time Where's the washroom? Something's up! Easy. We're only taking pictures today Something looks odd. A strip of toilet paper is hanging out of 8C Keep an eye on both units! A man in his 30s has just left Unit 8C... ...in brown shirt. Khaki pants. And holding a brown paper bag Chief. Isn't his bag a little small for a delivery? Small orders are common nowadays That's how bootleggers takeover the market Well? Pull him over! It won't hurt! Sing and Nam. Check the guy out Customs Department! Hey. You! Stop there! Don't move! What's happening? We've got some sets of aka porno movie Is that all? Get him to show us the warehouse I mean No.4 Heroin How much stock and how many people are there?! Answer me! Spit it out! You scumbag... Go on! Let's see you try that again... Don't you dare! Stop it... I work... undercover for the Narcotics Bureau Our operation has been on going for years You'll ruin everything... if you make a bust now My supervisor is Miu Chi-Wah I can give you his number... you can ask him! Just tell me if 8C is a lab or a depot?! - Answer me! - Chief... Chief... If he can name Miu Chi-Wah. He may be telling the truth You believe him? Drug dealers are the slyest! We might tip them off by calling! What if he's not lying? Come to your senses! We'll take him for a liar just the same! Why should the Narcotics Bureau... take all the credit anyway? Beat him! Break him till he talks! Spit it out! You heard the Chief! Let me handle it! Ready to talk now! I warn you. Don't play games with me! Help me on this once If I made a mistake. I'll make it up to you. Big time! Okay? Okay? Okay Okay You forgot something? It's a bust! Asshole! It's the Customs! Come help quickly! Open up! Forget it! Step aside! Step aside! Break it down! Break the lock! Move! Something's happening! Chief. They're flushing the stuff down the sink! You better hurry! Someone jumped the queue! Call Miu now! It won't work! Let me pry it open! They're dumping the smack out of the window! Give it to me! Hurry! The less they find. The shorter the sentence! There are two more trays! Go get them! What about... the US Dollars? Get everything. You idiot! Stray bullet! Take cover! Move him aside! Stop bustle! Calm down! Uncle! They'll break the door soon! They are coming in! Just jump! Don't look down! Look at me! Jump! - Hang on... - Don't let go... Hurry! Over here! Don' t look down! Don't step on my hand! Grab my hand! There was gunfire upstairs! Are you okay?! I'm okay Did you identify yourself? I did But they went crazy when they saw the drugs What happened to the one who fell? He died Customs agreed not to do a composite drawing of you You'll have to think of a story I'm afraid Quin will be suspicious Do some damage control for me Sure Let's go See a doctor first What a mess... Following a tip-off. HKCED raided... ...the Chong Fei Industrial Building today ...and found No. 4 Heroin on the 8th floor ...with an estimated street value of HK$47M ...Hong Kong's 2nd largest drug seizure to date The following amateur footage shows that... ...a large quantity of drugs thrown out a window during the raid ...attempted escape through the window ...resulting one death from falling Sources suggest that... ...the deceased was allegedly a Customs informant HKCED. However. Refused to comment See this? You've got a rat! How can you not know?! Who? The one in the morgue! Your helper! The paper announced that he was a customs informant! Is that your big problem or not? You tell me! But they're my nephews... So what? They couldn't sell you out? Even brothers could kill each other for money You fool! So? If not them! It must be me then? Am I the rat?! Or he is?! Or you?! Is it you? It can't be Nick He saved my life So what? He could still be the rat for all you know? Where is the other kid? Can't find him Keep looking! He would definitely lay low after the news all out! I don't care! Just find him! I want him dead! Brother Look I swear Customs got us by pure luck It's all my fault I couldn't take their beating It's me who led them to the kitchen If you still trust me... ...I have an idea I'm listening The problem has been too many runners It seems safe But they could be runners one moment. Informers in the next! If we don't use runners. We have to do it ourselves! Yes We need no one else but the three of us It's too risky in the long run Long run? How much longer do you think we have? Everyone is using Ecstasy and K these days The era of... shooting needles is over! The heroin trade is in its twilight: It's almost over Why slow things down... with runners? We can combine the depot and kitchen... ...and speed the process up Make our money faster! My goal is to score $30M and quit I'll quit after reaching 20 I was lucky to get out I'll quit once I score another 15 I want to be alive to spend it I'm not doing this for life I don't want to get caught in my last days Over the past few years You three did the hard part I'll let you decide This is it. Nick... I'll work with you! That's right. Nick. You call the shot. It hurts again? I'm okay But bad luck always comes in a row Let's go pay tribute to the Buddha in Thailand Just hurry! Pay me... step aside Wait there. I'll pay you Boss... We can give as much as you want - Pay me... - One at a time! What is this? Does it taste good? It's medicine. Don't drink it Or your tummy will hurt. Understand? Yes Good girl Have some candy Stay away from the clinic for now If you get into trouble. Go to the rooftop and take the backstairs I'll be gone for a few days Take this You've been so kind to me I'm not going to let you down Don't worry I'll kick it this time Chiang Mai. Thailand Come over! Don't play like that! Hello Thank you Honey. Come look! What do you think? It's beautiful! We're staying here tonight You too. Okay? ...left to breathe for 6 hours Pour it Don't drink too much Thanks We're here to have fun. Let yourself go Red wine can lower cholesterol It's safe for pregnant women Don't worry Listen! Since we're having caviar. We must drink champagne I'll make an exception... and allow you kids to have a glass each Cheers! It's like grape juice. What's the big deal? I want whiskey Don't get your daddy upset! Or I'll slap your face! Cheers! Cheers! Cheers! What is this? We charge by the weight. Sir That's ridiculous! If the foreigners see us. They'll think I can't afford it No... they won't What you mean. They won't? What are we going to do with such tiny bits? We'll take it all! Now! Take it away Get rid of the scale! Sorry Sorry. Sir Order some more What an idiot! What do you take me for? Here. Eat! Drink up - Cheers. - Cheers. This one is too revealing... I should wear this Even I'd wear it! With your figure. I would definitely flaunt it! Give me a break How does it go? What a cry baby. It's just a bikini She's too old to be shy C'mon. She's still a young girl So what? She'll be an old maid soon! Tell her to be bold! What's wrong? After all these years... ...it's the first time you've enjoyed life so freely So it's a good thing Why act like I've just died? No. No. No... knock on wood Lie down with me... Knock on wood... See? Push and pull... Now it's clean! Yes Meet me at the lobby Sure Don't go Quin is waiting for me Don't go Thank you Move on! Move On! You are the rat! A fellow dealer saw great promise in a young man He made him his protg That young man... ...was as smart as you ...just as careful A few years later His cover was blown: He was a snitch all along! Why did you sell me out?! Level with me now! I risked my life for you all these years! And you still doubt me?! Why should I trust you?! The merchandise I gave you never hit the street! Did you swallow it all? Listen carefully Tell the truth. Or I'll shoot you right here! You won't believe anything I say anyway! What are you waiting for? Go ahead! Pull the trigger! Stop it! You still owe me an explanation! It went to Taiwan Which part? Say it! Kaohsiung! Phone Hello Yes? Lao-Gao Quin! What's up? I just need to know... Did someone make a delivery to your turf a while ago? No! Well... Damn it... Yes! You're well-informed It's very much like your stuff But more expensive I promise not to buy from other people Oh... something happened?! Nothing's wrong I'll call in a couple of days Send my regards to your mom Thanks. I will! Okay. Okay! Dinner! Come on! It's over! Come over and eat! Don't be childish. Sit down! It was only a routine check! I told you. Never take risks! Not bad at all... Your mark up is higher than mine What kind of clients are they? What now? Afraid I'll steal your client?! Spit it out! "Fortune comes from the land" Billions of dollars literally spring from here Other than oil and arms... ...drugs are the world's largest source of trade The Golden Triangle. The Golden Crescent... ...and Latin America are the dominant producers of opium The Golden Crescent is the borderland between Afghan. Pakistan and Iran Most of their product goes to Europe Latin America supplies to US and Canada The Golden Triangle supplies to Asia But such may change according to the market demand And guess what... The US and European markets are the most profitable How? Starting from the purchase from the farm... ...the value of the stock will snowball continuously until it hits the streets Try 1.000-fold It's not as easy for the farmers though Every acre of land here yields 1.5 kg opium per year That's about... ...US$100 a year I feel sorry for them Come here! Come here! Hey! Bye! Hello. My friend! This is General Chachai King of this region He owns one of the militias in the region I always have US$8M with him as collateral My friend You look terrible! It's your kidney! Don't joke with me How's your family? My little girl is alright But the older one... acts like a boy and rebellious I'm sending her to the US. And I'll get my operation done there as well My son is in LA He skips classes and parties everyday Let's trade our kids: You discipline mine It's a deal Nick This is Nick. My brother He'll handle our business from now on I see. He is your protg Yes UN has even done market research for us It says here... The price in Iceland was the best The market price there is US$372 per gram Ireland is US$248 US plunges most. It's doing US$120 You see There are 200M drug-users in the world Heroin-use has decreased to 11M now But Ecstasy-use has reached 8M What's happening in Hong Kong? The market is shrinking Have some tea After Khun Sa's defeat in 1995 The region has changed drastically. Col. San Pwint... ...took over the Shan State. He urged the farmers to quit... ...even made it illegal to plant opium in 2005 ten thousands of farmers were relocated to southern Burma... ...where they learned to plant rice and tea What's that field for? Someone paid US$60 per acre to plant corn! I have something to show you Half a year ago. They suddenly dropped a 2000 lbs bomb here My mother-in-law lives right there She fell out of bed when it happened Who sent you such a big present? Some joint venture among the heroin trafficking countries They're warning me The Golden Triangle is not the same anymore Thailand no longer produces Few months ago. Even Laos announced... they would demolish all poppy fields China and Burma are fighting drugs together The farmlands in this region are downsizing We don't even make up 10% of the global supply lmagine. Within 10 years. The Golden Triangle will become a tourist resort You should retire early and enjoy your life What did he say? He's getting old In this trade. It's best to deal with the drug lords in person That's how you win their trust and secure your supplies You may also see the quality of the harvest and bargain Don't trust him completely though Why trust me then? I thought it over Only a drug dealer would jump No cop would! I'll take you to another area tomorrow introduce you to another warlord Then I'll teach you how to launder money in Bangkok Like the police. We service by district East Kowloon. West Kowloon. NT. Tuen Mun and the Hong Kong Island Each district has its own network of dealers You've just met the loyal clients - Never ever... - trust them completely I know I'm annoying But we'd better to be safe than sorry You're right. You have to be alive to spend your money Look at me My time is running out... That's enough! You're worse than me I've made a donation to a hospital overseas I'll be in line for a transplant next month Where to? Don't tell me America Not coming back? Well we'll see... One more thing Don't pay Chachai new deposit You can use mine as start up I wish you success and prosperity You' re still young $30M won't do Go for $300M With $300M. You'll be set for life Of course it's all up to you Once you've made enough. Iook me up We'll go fishing Sure Don't pity that woman Women like her die sooner or later When they do. The world will be cleaner Right? Uncle What's up? Uncle So here you are You slept with my wife. Didn't you? - Get out! - I'm warning you! If you don't settle this today. I'll make your life hell Out! I hear you well Sure I'm leaving! Hell. I am not staying with you! - Listen. I know where you... - Out! - Get up! - Listen to me... Get up! He pried the door open... Listen to me... You have to listen. It wasn't my fault Stop shitting me! Look! Look at yourself! Look! You don't need to go straight for anyone... ...but yourself and your child! A carton of Marlboro Light Marlboro Light! - Hello? - There's customers! Sunny Ready to go upstairs with me? I'll give you $100 more Who do you think you are. The queen? Sunny. Elaine is upstairs. C'mon up How could you pass up a chance to earn money?! You scumbag! How can you be pimping your own wife... Oh. Shut up. Bitch! Mind your own business! Drop dead! Go away. Go to hell! And I'll take you with me! Yeah. Right! I am very scared! Un... uncle! The hell with the "UNCLE" Know who your mom is? - Excuse me -Yes What happened to the dog? It was going through the garbage That truck backed up and ran it over Leave it be. It'll die soon The number for SPCA please Nick. Listen to me... Nick... Nick You can help a dog... ...why can't you help me? That dog doesn't have a choice but you do What is it? You want to sleep with my wife again? Look at you Don't give me that poor teary look What? Everyone! Come look! This man slept with my wife! Just keep an eye on your child! She's picking up... I'd rather keep an eye on you! Do you plan to bang her again? You're not going anywhere until we settle this The last time you got laid. 10 grand This time with a discount... that's another 8 grand Bastard! Help! Help! Call 999! Don't eat things you pick up off the ground! Okay Are you taking me to school? Yes. We'll go soon. Okay? Mom. I want to go to school Take me to school Honey This is good stuff Try it! Where's the vein? It's not popping up! Inject to my neck You are bad. You sure you can handle it? I'll get higher Go on! I'm hungry Where's mom? I'm hungry What do you want to eat? Candy How about some noodles instead? Eat slowly. I'll get you some beans The materials here constitute... ...a full account of your meetings and telephone conversations since 1998 Your sentence will be at least 30 years. I can bet my head on this But if you provide us with all the names of those involved... ...you'll stand a chance of seeing the outside world before you die You may see your unborn child ...or even hold your future grandchild Otherwise. You don't even need a lawyer Let me see my wife She knows nothing about this. I have to explain! No way! Do this and I'll return the favor My confession will guarantee your promotion Quin Listen... We don't have time. Listen to me Don't say anything Once you do. We'll all be killed. I only care about the children The little one... needs an operation soon... What about the unborn one? Stop whispering! For your children's sake. You must leave I've stashed away all our money Once you're gone... Listen to me... They can't do anything to us ...stop whispering! Go! Take her away! Listen to me... Leave me alone! What are you doing?! Let her go! I know what to do You don't need to say another word Be happy when you leave here Give our children a good life Take her away Go now C'mon... let go Quin... Quin! - Let me see him - No He treats me like a... The whole thing was a set up Your friendship was a lie! Everything was fake! I know! But I don't want to be seeing shrinks for the rest of my life! I must come clean with him today! Let me think about it I need to crap Got any cigarettes? Quin I suppose you understand... ...the rules of the game Your luck ran out and you've lost I don't want to wait till the court date... ...what more is there to be said? I just want to tell your daughters that... ...I never intended to hurt them Why? Remember when we first met. You were so broke! I lent you money... so that you could have a place to stay! You remember? It was fake You had big gambling debts. The loan sharks were after you but I bailed you out Remember? It was fake! I was ambushed But you saved me! Why? It was all faked! Those were all cops! I treated you like my own brother I hand over my business to you! I've never trusted anyone but you! Why did you betray me?! What is it with you? You can't make $10M in your lifetime on a cop's salary! Why are you doing this? You think you really were selling appliances? There's no simple answer... Get out of your own delusion! You sold drugs! You ruined people's lives! I won't argue with you... Give me some more time. Just a little It's almost time for me I'm almost there After all. They all want me dead So let me die please... Please. I beg you... Please... Help me just stall a little longer Let my wife... Let my wife and children live on. A normal life Please Help me this once Please help me I've always worried that this day might come I'm sorry All the brass thinks highly of you You can resume police duties or opt for early retirement You can decide Take some time off to decide I've never walked my beat duty. Never taken a witness statement Never been to a police station either I've been a drug dealer for years When I see a cop now. I run and hide! I can't work inside the force I'd rather stay undercover You're right... you're an insider now lt'd be a waste to send you back to the station Try to improve your English and further your studies lt'll benefit your career in the long run Don't worry The brass would back you up Is it time for the meeting? Let's go Carry on The spa upstairs is great. And it's all paid for Give yourself a treat Hey! What're you staring at? I'm your child's godfather You were also banging my wife Believe what you want I want to send her to school Take her Just give me 8 grand Instead of money. How about some stuff? No wonder Fan tried to dump me! She found herself a meal ticket Brother. It's time to move on... Forget the past. Okay? What about your daughter? Take her! Keep her! She... looks exactly like her mother! I can't trust myself and what I might do to her Fine. Sign here and appoint me as her lawful guardian See. You wife signed already It's only a matter of time before you overdose Why don't you quit. And work for me It's not like I had a choice It's all Fan's fault She was the one who got me started! She was addicted even before we met I tried to get her to quit but she said it was impossible I wanted to prove it could be done That's how I got started I dug my own grave being passionate. You know She was alone and had nothing! It would be cruel to leave her! You see. I really loved her! I don't care My stuff goes overseas It's risky! If you don't take risks. You don't strike it rich! Okay. Okay... how much? The standard is 50 grand. I'll give 60 Count... count me in! - Are you sure? - Of course... What do I do now? Yes Singapore Changi International Airport Which one? The one wearing sunglasses Wait for me ahead Police! Stop there! Stand still! Officer Chan Officer Miu. Here we are again I'm sorry to have troubled you We've arranged... your return flight Here are the papers What... what do we do now? It's over You'll be executed See you in hell! Mister. Where're the pigeons? AFDC removes them As a precaution against the avian flu I never understood why people used drugs After Quin and Fan died. I finally figured it out It's all because of the emptiness inside So what's worse... ...the emptiness or the drugs? I really don't know THE END
