 

                        He hasn't said a word since we found her Ms. Alvadia. Are you alright? l am police constable, O'Connor! l think we need to get herto hospital You are okay! l am going to die We are going to find someone here to talk to you Alright! Bitch.! What? Bitch tried to call me! Oh....How can it be? This is where it started The victim sprang out of bed And fled down the stairs.. managing to set fire the everything where he touched down the way Before finally... Ending up in a quivering heat.. from the front loan and outside because he was 500 degrees somwhere Case is solved! That is what l thought first.. But look again! Not exactly flash clean, is it? Where is the wife? l will be back in a minute! You know why could you use this? l know they are handful Boys are always the hardest My name is James! Can you tell me yours? lt's okay! l don't need to say anything if you don't want to! Kiran! Sorry! My name...Kiran! What happened? Say something, girl! What happened to you? Kiran Jeet! What wrong with her... ls she hurt? Who are you? Mother-in-law... Who are you? Kiran Jeet Adavalia! And Mrs. Adavalia! l am detective sargeant...come with me! Mrs. Adavalia...please Kiran..What do they want? Kiran Jeet...Kiran Jeet.! Why are you taking her? Avadalia into the ...court! lt is now 9:30 am., Tuesday the 19th May, 1989 My name is detective Sargeant, Maiz Also present in the room is constable, James O'Connor observering Mrs. Alavadia is aware why this interview is being conducted with sargaeant present! Mrs. Alavadia..there was a fire.. ...at your home last night Your husband was very badly injured Have you any idea how the fire started? Your husband has made a very serious allegation against you That you understand! Would you like to translate the prison? terminating interview at 10:39 a.m. Ask her, Now! With all due respect sir... l thought it might be easierto ger confession if she actually knew what we are asking? Three, four months....oh....Six... l can see you could tell me Perhaps she will be more comfortable with no senior officer observing This is my .... That was totally rubbish Punjabi! What? l believe she is Punjabi detective sargeant! Oh well...clever one. l tell you what! Now what do you say? Good luck! Resuming Adavalia's interogation on ..May 09, 1989 and time is 10:42 a.m. Do you recognize any of these arms? you should do because all three foes were taken to hang Mrs. Adavalia.. The fire..it was not an accident at all! Hey... Answerthe questions Fine! You don't want to talk! l am talking to you Your husband was asleep! And you burned him in the room You thrown a candle And yourfingerprints are on candle, as well as bucket! So come on and tell us why did you do that? Why... Why did yo do this? Right! Kiran..lt is okay! l know you are frightened, but no one here wants to hurt you We just need to know what really happend? l want to see my children! Just tell us first what happaned? Then you can go to your children l liked him and he beated me Not exactly a confession! Not exactly....She....! We don't know why she did it? But why did she do it? ln case she might...? That will enough forthat sargeant! We have enough to charge Show the lady to her cell! Fireball Mum Torches Spouse.. Fireball Mum Torches Spouse Asian Mum Torches Spouse Hey...that's my copier! lt's the bank's now What? l am really sorry about that! Jamila! l know..l know... Don't worry l am handling it! How we are supposed to make flyers without a copier? Very funny! lt's not a big deal..Raadha! This couldn't happen at a worst possible time Look l found our next case! oh..l have a view..especially you both are indians and find a new case Shut up...Aasha! Are you joking? l mean..We are here to handle the victims of voilence, not the ...? Yes! How do you know she has been abused! whilest would you set your husband on fire because you ran out of chrcol We can't take every case that takes offense l mean...We have to got the resources What happened to the fax? Speak up when l call your name? Adams Sabrina! Hi. Alaaavil Abrania...Kiraaan..! Bloddy hell....This is my foot Answer her.. yes. Next time..louder! Plea Jacqueline! Back again! l am loving here Roberts Jenoina..! Yes.. This way ladies! Come on... Get a move on! Right ladies...these are your prison handbooks Everything you need to know are in these pages! So don't lose them! That way! Alooo... You are the next! Empty your pockets please! Take off your jewellery please! All of it! Now your clothes please Come on...there are others waiting. Take off your clothes! What's the problem? We never remove clothes even in front of our husbands These are the rules! Okay You will do one at a time Trousers are the first! Welcome to home, ladies! Hey...this one is yours Not...you not follow me! Home sweet home! Would you step? Deepak...Where have you brought me? hold on...just hold on one more minute Are you ready? Open! For us! Yours and our baby What are you waiting for.... An invitation? Nice and shine! Who? My name is Ronni! Do you have a name? You can if you want to tell me! Kiran! Kiran..You missed the breakfast! Wow...how did that happen? Merry Christmas lady! So...what did it cost us? Nothing! But it might ad 50 pounds monthly bills oh...We can barely afford the all payments! Tea! lt is the least we can do! lt is going to serious this time You are gonna to have to be much more careful lt is a miracle l was able to secure your lease forthis place at all l can't go against their belief system l guess because a lost cause is better than no cause at all You know that sounds profound Shut up! Thank you! Mrs. Avaldia...l am Chriss This is Ms. Mariontall, She is a barrister on this case Pick something foryou from your mother-in-law You spoke to the police without a solicitor That was very clever! Was it? l want to see my children! Yes. You will have to arrange that with her l am afraid When l go home? Mrs. Alavadia.. You are charged with attempted murder! Right now you are on remand, but.. if you convicted you may be here for a very long time Why did yo do it? l was afraid! Of who...Your husband? Why? Mr. Jones..Would you mind stepping outside for a moment? yes l think Bloddy hell! He did that to you...that night! Many nights! Mrs. Alavadia l am deeply sympathetic, but l have to be honest! As your husband was sleeeping in bed when you set him on fire And you were no in imment danger.. According to the law..We can't claim self defence l will do what l can! Kiran...We are going to be late! The films starts... No yell...l am coming lt is good...bought it on a sale Do you like? Why are you wearing? l want you to get changed..Now! Did you hear me? Rajiv, Sandeep...the food is ready You don't...other people have to use the phone too Who is on the phone, grandma? No one... Wash your hands quickly and take food What this? Beef! l don't eat beef! You come to home on dinner. yeah...l will But today... today is my treat Man you are unbelieveable! Come one man... Can you ask your lovely lady for dance? No l can't dance lf she wants too.. You can take her up No... Don't worry...Come one Your husband doesn't minds Me... He is a nice man... Fun to be with him! Don't be silly.. He was just being friendly! lt was only one dance That because you insisted! Do you need water? How stupid you are talking? Why are you staring at? l should leave No just saying...you know You think...you are very clever You can have that Please take a seat? Hey! Hi l am Raadha Dallal Have you heard southwall black sisters? This will tell you a little about us! You can keep it! We are a support groop. We work with women! Women who are beaten up and abused by their husband Do you speak Punjabi? No... But l understand it l once had a Punjabi boyfriend Kiren Jeet l really want to help you! How are they treating you in here? How do you feel? l feel.. ...Free.. Dead Yes Are you alright? God, please forgive me l know it is a horrible news l had been working with the prosecution towards the reduce the minimum jail time But now Kiran! They are bringing the charge of murder against you lf you are convicted it is a mandatory life sentence Don't worry! You are looking very pretty l don't even know him! You don't need to He is my brother-in-law's friend in London He will take good care of you But sister...what about my education? Who's stopping you? He doesn't mind lt is the copy of pathalogy report in regards to deceased, Deepak Alavadia Could you tell the court what you found? There were trace emelents of other chemicals and oils mixed in with the patrol poured over victim chiastic soda it caused the reactions similiarthat of the ln what way? lt caused the liquid too stick to the victim's flesh and keep burning for a longer period of time ln fact it cooked the flesh right over his bones Thank you docotr Your honour with your permission l would like to introduce exhibit Ato the court Granted! Shiela Alavadia..you have been called Mrs. Alavadia..how would you describe your daughter-in-law? She is very elegant, always order Deepak around The defence has made statment that your son assaulted the defendant on many occasions Did you witness any of these alleged attacks? lf the oil isn't hot enough Fritters burn outside but remain uncooked inside lt's that simples What are you doing here? You embarrass yourself Shut up, bitch Mom...he cheats me He is going out with a white woman Her boyfriend has been making threatening calls Have you gone mad? You will kill her! Leave her...Do you want to kill her? No..l didn't see anything Mom...Didn't you son moving herto your home leaving the defendant with small children for a brief time early this year But she drive him away Right Because she was arrogant, demanding even. Correct! She used to treat Deepak like a servant My Lord..defence has submitted a copy of letter C written by care to her husband when he left his past March lt was originally Punjabi, but it has been translated into English for exhibit Would you please read the highlighted portion? my English is not good Allow me then Deepak lf you come back l promise you l will do whateveryou say l wouldn't drink black coffee, l wouldn't watch T.V. The children needs you.. Please come home Mrs. Alavadia...Do these sound like the words an arrogant woman? yes l think so But what? So what do you want to me? Before you! lt is yourturn now You were the first on the night of question Correct! Yes mom! How would you define the defendant to met when you first encountered to her in backyard? l am sorry...l don't understand the question l will ask again! When you first encountered Mrs. Alavadia that night... Would you describe herto me as alert and attentive or perhaps dazed and incoherent She seemed lucid and aware of her surroundings He is lying! That will be all, constable Dr. Stillman, where do you currntly practice medicine? l currently have my own practice in greenpark And previously Two years at the Housten Emergency Center Do you recognize the defendant? l do Okay Now try rotation from the shoulder! lt is okay l am just going to check your site Okay...the good news is that nothing has broken But you will have to wrap on your wrist and abdomen for several weeks, however You said this happened in a fall Yes... l understand! Mr. Alavadia l was wondering to you wife's site ls that really necessary? We have to pick up our son from my mother's Look l really think you will be abased Mrs. Alavadia...is there anything that you want to tell me? No... Docotor...Do you still believe that defendant was an abused woman? Yes...l do Thank you...No further question You have to, Kiran My English is not good They will laugh No one is going to laugh on you. The court will arrange interpreter Look...l am running out of options At this time our best hope is to put you on the stand in hope that jury is sympethetic to you l cannot! lt is too shame What, shame..Too shamefull ls that you were ashamed? Deepak was the one who should be ashamed? Not you...lt is not yourfault Council forthe defence... Have you other wittnesses? Defence rest...Your honour Very well! Members of the jury you may now retire and consider all the evidence in the case You heard statements that the victim, Deepak Alavadia did on ocassion inflict bodily injury on the defendant his wife However, it would appearthat none of these injury was of the highest severity What rubbish? Silence! Any more of this and l will have the gallary cleared The fact that the most recent incident took place of full two hours before she poured all patrols overthe deceased and then ignited it with a nugget flame This alone is reason not to consider either a plea of self defence or provokation lf you cann't reach a unanimous decision l will accept a majority verdict Court will now adjourned while the jury delibrates lt might not be today, but could be enough for days You could still go either way lt doesn't matter What? Why did you say that? l made a sin l must beaten Has the jury reached the verdict? Yes, my Lord Defendant will rise Did the jury find the defendant guilty or.. not guilty of one counter murder? Guilty! Order... Order in the gallary! or l will charge you with contempt! Silence! Kiran Alavadia you have been found guilty of a murder l hereby sending you to life imprisment Court is adjourned! l am sorry! Hey.. Why? Here we are... Prison playtime and for one hour Hi lovely to see you You are one crazy white woman Jesus... Kiran...She is my friend! We have Jackie We have met This is lovely Luilla Lovely Luilla works in canteen so next time you need something special you ask her and she will arrange Vegetarian...Right Don't worry l will take care of you Put some meat on that And lastly, but leastly, we have Gladys Screw you too Ronni She is a good clean girl and we love herfor her boobs disposition l think l should leave No... Why are you here? so it is obvious l have a bit of substance abuse problem How do you think she miss him? And you? Ronni is very brave...She stabbed her husband Why? l told him if he raised his hand on me again! lt will be his last time Because he doubted my sencerity! And you are not sorry No...neither when l did it 8 years ago Don't even ask about Gladys Just because l didn't want to wash my dirty in public like anyone else How are you doing? Your son is much better! l can sleep better now Getting use to to new place Right! Listen...The reason l wanted to talk the judges handed down yourtariff You will be eligible to be rolled in 12 years Kiran...Are you there? So long! The last six months of your remand will count towards it l will not able to see my songs for so long l am so sorry l was there for every day of yourtrial l was upset the way everything went Why have you come here to see me now? To help you with your appeal, Kiran? l already have a lawer yeah and what a great job she has done foryou Has she begun working on your appeal? Has she spoken to anyone? Tell me Kiran...Has she even come to see you since you were sentenced? l thought not Time is running out foryour appeal We will find you a better lawyer Someone actually who can do something foryou Kiran...Let us help you Do you really want to help me? Yes Bring me my children, please No. She is their mother l know who she is! She is the bitch that killed my son Don't come here again You know she slammed the door on me so fast l almost lost the door And l guess nothing more we can do! What are you saying? We should just abandon We should just let her do Hey..come on...it is no point anyway The mother-in-law will not give the children without court order You are a bloody brilliant Not so quick Yeah..Read this! What does it say? lt is a court order! lt instructs you to deliverthe boys to me so that l can take them to visit their mother in jail What if l refuse you? Then they will be visiting you in jail, as well well! We are in! Come on..You go right in Good boy Sandeep...Get him l have an appointment to meet her lawyertomorrow l don't believe it How did you get these children? With this court order But this is an old one from another case yes. l remember dragon lady had trouble reading english in court So l took a chance You are evil Hey...Baby you have seen nothing yet Scott Veronica! Look at her! So what can l do foryou? l am with southwells black sisters l guess Kiran Jeet had told you that l will be stopping Right So what can l do foryou Mrs.? Mrs. Dallal....But you can call me Raadha As you can see from the condition of my desk l am not in the position do discuss this ls that what you are going to tell Kiran? when she asks why you missed the cut off date for her appeal She has only two more days to submit grounds or her setence stance And you are saying that you don't seem prepared Ms. Dallal let me be frank with you l know your group and the work you do l find a lot of it be quite commendable l couldn't do your job By that same turn l also wouldn't walk into your office and tell you how to do it? l have not been for weeks, sometimes all night looking for something, anything on which to challange this conviction l may not be one of those stuff shirts on billing 500 pounds an hour and billing brandi in the club But l know the law And the honest truth is... The verdict was accurate as a matter of law l am sorry l feel for hertoo But there is just nothing else to be done l suppose then we will have to look just a little harder Deepak! Oh! lt's you You got very late What is this? Alcohol? You are beautiful You have drunken a lot No Deepak...Not here What are you doing? Think about kids! lt is okay You are safe You are okay l killed my husband l have been married to Deepak for 10 years Not one night... He beated up... He sometimes.. Can l hug you? So you killed him! good! l was born in the village of Chak Kallal ln Punjab l was youngest in the 9 children and the most loved My father died when l was only few months old My mother died of cancer when l was 16 years She wanted me to become a lawyer So why didn't you do that? My husband didn't allow me lt is a free country Kiran You can be what you want to be But my family say get married, have children be a proper lndian woman l was a housewife in Bermingham But you wouldn't be here That was something worse than prison Big word. Shoulder Big word. but wrong word lt needs.. l need you yeah..You need me Don't worry..l can be better lt was becoming unbearable She had only one desire now having...bus... heaving.. Next Avadali! Next.. What are you doing? l need 60 pouds How will l manage the household expenses? Where are you going? l know who you are going to meet You should be ashamed l am carrying your baby Get out of the way! No l said..move...! lt wasn't my fault Are you alright? How is the baby? l am sorry The children love their books... lt was very thoughtful of you Thank you WOW..Kiran your English is really improving lt is all thanks to Ronni l really wanted you to meet her So what is the situation with Kiran's appeal now? Our solicitor barely meets the deadline lt is now overyear and we are still waiting forthe hearing date Well that is the biggest challange. Who will work for no money? Yes....please hold l said no interruptions l am sorry sir...but your sister is on line These are you rboys They are beautiful Do you have children? Two girls You miss them Every bloody day Do you have any idea what is this about? No..l didn't know two hours ago.. l certainly don't know There is no need of such attitude.. l was just asking Nice necklace Nice tie! Lord first will see you now Hello.. How did you do? Please be seated Can l offeryou something..tea, coffee, etc No thank you l would like to have some tea with milk, please thank you both of you for coming l am well aware of timeliness of this case So l feel lt would be in every body's interest if you.. would continue Mr. Gupta as a solicitorforthe proceedings Obviously we have full access to our.. Thank you Sorry...Sir... We are a bit confused About what? Well about what we are doing here? Oh...l do apologies.. l assumed you have been told l will be the council for Mrs. Alavadia for her appeal What? But why would you take? Sir..Are you aware of that we have no funds to pay foryour services? No need to ask friend...l will do this as a favor To whom? Favorto my sister Veronica Scott! She is acquainted with your client at Marvin Hall lndeed l believe they are cell-mates You are her brother! To be perfectly honest l was surprised to get her call We have multiple relationships at best She wouldn't even me helped her with her own legal case She must consider Mrs. Alavadia to be a very good friend Hi.. What? You are welcome! Okay...now l am having trouble brathing now Jamila..! Can't you read English? Can't you? This isn't stupid words...it's a woman life No bails means no bails So sorry officer we will remove them See you too Are you crazy...? we aren't going to remove them What? l don't believe this Nuna..What is happening? lt's Gladys...Come on What are you talking about? That is right She is a child killer l am wonder how you can keep quiet No What do you want to know about No Piss off Leave her alone You are telling me what l do Why? She is a friend And l don't like police You will need to get me too Whatever! You are no need to assist someone ...Hey That was an accident l was doing a lot of drinking And one night l was making to fell asleep There were flames and screamings My babies were screaming l cannot Why? l feel ashamed l cannot be so rude before the world l understand Kiran But people need to hearyour story in your own words My English is still not very good So do in Punjabi.. l will translate that in English l don't know how what to say? Say just the way you told me! You will also have other women Come on The hall has been booked.. We have mailed out the leaflets This rally is a good chance to get public support ls your reputation more important than yourfreedom? At least think of your children My culture is like my blood flowing through every vein of my body lt is the culture which l was born Which sees the woman as teh honour of the house ln orderto afford this false honour Awoman is a toy a plaything broken at will, stuck together at will! For 10 years l lived alive of beatings and degregation And no one noticed l came out of my husband's jail and entered the jail of law lt is here that at last that l have found a kind of freedom l am so proud of you James O'Connor Who are you? Anil Gupta, solicitor of Kiran Alavadia What do you want? l saw you in the rally l am not going to be about the bush l need your help in Kiran's matter What are her chances? To be honest...Remote! Pretty girl...your wife? my fiance....Foma Oh Sorry l am the world's worse irish man Then afterthe case she knew something has changed Didn't know what exactly She told she guessed something was eating me up inside ln the original trial! You testified afterthe fire that Kiran was lucid and aware of the surroundings ls that correct? But l lied in court She wasn't lucid..She was hardly even aware even in there All l had to say...what happened l promoted my career in front of truth They say confession is good forthe soul You think that is true l believe it is true Just let me do to talk around Okay l have looked oerthe material you sent to me What do you think? You are not giving to like it Her statement is completely self justificatory She did it..She admits doing it Why she should be treated differently from any other murderer But that is ridiculous.. you know that she is ls there something that we could use? There might be one thing Followup on the prisnor psychiatrist report He saw her shortly afterthe incidence just before trial And he mentions endogenous depression! Do you mean we have to say she is crazy Thank you doctor...You have been of great help What kind of world is this? Where woman has to lose marbles to get justice And the man has just to lose his temper l am sorry doctor...Thank you again We are leaving! Ronni..Look you will not believe the number of letters What is wrong? Your appeal! l don't know what going to talk lndian's average When did you get such papers? The day l met you Why didn't Kiran's lawertried provokation as defence? As it doesn't apply in our case? So the law consider it a cooling down period Basically what they are saying is Kiran had time to calm down and think rationally therefore no provokation...so it is not man assault it is murder But she was emotionally, physically and sexually abused for 10 years One night she slept so instead of cooling down she boiled over ls that so difficult to.. That is bloody briliant What? We can use this as basis for appeal Me! The judge failed to mention Kiran's history of abuse l mean this can be a misdirection of jury So what are you saying...We have a chance Yeah...a small one, but a chance Where is Ronnie? Ronnie? Ronnie? lt is a sort of little determination to do such sort of damage with a plastic blade She is very lucky when you found her She will be okay? She will be confined to the ward until she recovers under suicidal attempt Nice work Alavadia! You have saved me a mountain of paperwork l don't know if this is a good idea Trust us..lt is You deserve what you look Good luck Kiran Show them what you are! Kiran..Kiran.. Go...Go...Go... l went to the bank today Where is the money? Tell me...What did you do with that? l spent it The money was mine... You bitch..You had no right l spent it! Food foryour sons You would have blown it on your white whores What lf l burn that bloody face of which you are proud of? This is my house lt is my money lf l were to spend on another woman.. l will Who is going to stop me? You! You woman are nothing.. You are a cunt else than nothing All rise.. Council..Are you ready to present your case? Yes Your honour Proceed My Lord today we have come before you to present our appeal on bahlf of our client Kiran Jeet..Alavadia! And her conviction for murder which was handed down by the court on December 07, 1989 lt is our beliefs my Lord that this conviction was handed down in error And in such we seek appeal for a new trial We note that you are presenting grounds foryour appeal My Lords we seek appeal on three grounds My first and second submissions relate to the judges direction to jury On provokation The classic definition of provokation is that which was approved by this court in Regina versus Duffy l quote ''provokation'' ''is some act or series of acts, which could cause any reasonable person a sudden and temporarily loss of self control rendering the accused sole subject to passion as to make him or herforthe moment not master of his or her own mind My Lords l believe the judge in the present case repeated those very words on that date to the jury And he is summing up lndeed My Lord that is true However, it is my belief that the Duffy direction followed by that judge to put it bluntly incorrect Trade softly, council Big pardon, My Lord No disrespect intended However, in his submation to the jury.. His lordship remarked that due to the two hour cooling out period between assaulted my client till the hands of deceased And the subsequent crime for which she was charged No plea or provokation could be considered And yet My Lords The homocial act of 1957 reads.. Where there is evidence on which the jury confined the defendant was provoked to lose his self control The question of whether it was enough to make a reasonable person do as they did shall be left to the jury! lt could be argument My Lord..but the judge didn't consider setting fire to a man who slept the actions of a reasonable person Reasonable My Lord to whom... To you?...To me orto a woman who suffered voilance and abuse and humilation of the highest order of 10 years Who feard not only for her life, but forthe lives of her own children l myself couldn't, wouldn't persume to know What reasonable would be for such a woman! My second submission My Lords concerned the way the learnant judge dealt with the question of the list of the characteristics l submit My Lords That this woman was suffering from betted womn's syndrome And that ill treatment so affected her personality that lead herto a state of learnt helplessness A phrase used by those who have recognized this condition You believe that the judge should have added this condition to the list Orthe least My Lords left the list opened so that jury might that consider it forthemselves Finally, my third submission deals with the grounds of diminished responsibility My Lords We submit the sole statement of police constable, James O'Connor stating that the defendant was neither lucid, nor aware of her surroudings When he interviewed her immediately afterthe incident Also My Lords we have psychiatric reports.. Most of them came recently, which express the opinion that at the time of the killing the defendant's mental responsitbility for her actions was indeed diminished within the meaning of homocial act of 1957 My Lords my client has suffered two major injustices First the man who promised to love and honour her in marriage And second by our system of justice lt is tragically too late to correct the first But by granting our appeal you will help us on the first step towards the rectifying the second We will considerthe issues overnight Court is adjourned until 10:30 a.m. tomorrow One more please So what are we drinking too, Mr. solicitor? To victory tomorrow orto one of my lost causes Because it is personal What? My sister! How could l have been so blind? You know..Everytime l would see her bruises She would tell me the story to walking into furniture while sleep And l actually believed it How would you protect that stupid bastard? Do you know...He is to beat her black and blue for six long years and no one had intervened it Then one day she just killed herself And l could do nothing l couldn't save her l am so sorry l didn't know This is to sister Kiran Jeet.. This is a tragic case that has aroused much public attention Three grounds of appeal hae been raised The first two relates to the learner judges direction to the jury on provokation ln my judgement the summing up of learnet judge was correct in law... Turning to the third ground of appeal the diminished responsibility...We can sit the appellant is on the stonger ground We had before us a report, which was available before trial in which a doctor was expressing the opinion that the appellant was suffering from endogenous depression at the material time lt is unclear how such potentially important material came to be overlooked ln these circumstances we considerthe verdict to be unsafe And as such we considerthe proper course here is to order a retrial..... There was never a retrial of course The court could neverfind a woman who would burnt her husband death to be innocent So on September 25, 1992 They reduced her setentece to mansalughter and accepted that 3 years 4 months that she spent in jail as a full term Kiran..Afew words from you Thank you for all this ln life there is no honour in silence suffering There is no affection, no comfort to be found in love that is abused lt is our responsibility as mothers To raise our son to treat women with love and respect Not voilance and anger Only then the suffering will end My story is a part of the picture l am not important, but this issue is Please don't forget that there are many women who need help from you! Please.......... Mostly we can,t imagine what is life to spend years of looked way in a place like this lt was herfirst step towards freedom lt was herfirst step towards freedom
