 

                        Warsaw, beloved Warsaw I see you in my dreams With your joyful people And beautiful streets You call me with longing With your songs and words Oh, how I would like to see you again today Oh, my dreamed of Warsaw Oh, how I would like to see you again today Oh, my dreamed of Warsaw Thanks for the song, my boy Thanks for your heart and song Do you like it? INTERROGATION Wake up, Tonia, or we'll be late for the rehearsal Guess, my sweetie, what there is inside my soul Caress your pussycat who's a bit of this and a bit of that Partly sweet, partly mean, partly slave, partly queen Guess, my sweetie, what there is inside my soul And if you guess right, I'll say yes Yes, yes Oh, yes Yes Guess, my sweetie, what there is inside my soul Caress your sweet one's head She's a little good and a little bad I'm mysterious, exotic or a strange kind of bird Guess, my sweetie, what there is inside my soul And if you guess I'll say yes Yes! Yes, yes, yes Yes OF GREAT OCTOBER - What's the matter, Tonia? - Nothing - Where's my beard? - What a dump! Tonia! Where is my beard? My God, it's cold here Get dressed, Tonia. Let's go straight home I'm not going home. Do you understand? Get dressed. Put something on - Get away from me, please! - What happened? Go back to feeling Junia up Junia? What are you on about? - I saw - Get dressed! I'm not going anywhere. I saw what you were up to with Junia But darling, she's your best friend You were being too friendly by half I saw the play you were making for her I'll go home on my own Go, then. I don't need your lousy coat This is ridiculous Tonia. Goodbye Excuse me This is for you Me and my friend are big fans of yours Could we possibly invite you for a drink? Come and meet Tonia We'd really like it if you came with us What do you say? The Trumanillo Circus Shall we take a taxi? - Kaz, I'm going, OK? See you - See you at tomorrow's rehearsal? - Who's he? - My friend, Kaz Olcha Drink, girl. Drink! Please, I can't drink any more - Cheers! - I can't drink any more! Oh, God. I'm drunk Do you know my husband? Tell me. Listen to me! Listen to me! Do you know my husband? - Yes, I know him - My husband is the best guy ever But let's drink - Here's to my husband! - To your husband Let's have a smoke Ada, you're misbehaving Ada, you must be raving It can't be like this Hard luck Thanks for taking me out, boys! Really Cos if it weren't for you I would have cried all evening You see, we had an argument. But what for? My husband will be worried with me coming home late The name of my street is Widok. Will you remember, Widok 6? Quickly Hey! - Quickly! - We're going Here we are Come on Why did you drink so much? See you, boys Name and surname? Surname? Leave me Undress her! Excuse me. Have you seen a red handbag? It's leather with a white strap They take all handbags Get up or you'll be in for it from the head of cell But... Oh, God, what time is it? Excuse me Line up straight there. Hurry up Is there a phone somewhere that I can use? - My husband doesn't know I'm here - Calm down! I'm an artiste. I have to perform in the theatre this evening I've got a performance. If I'm late... Cell reporting. Occupants - 31. Present - 31 Excuse me Be quiet - Hey, listen. Be quiet - Let go Listen. My name is Antonina Dziwisz. Tell someone to come and talk to me Tell someone to come and talk to me. Do you hear? Be quiet or I'll bite you Stupid woman Be quiet Letter 'D' No No They're letting me out. Wake up Letter 'D'! Karmelicka Street, what number? OK, don't worry. I'll talk to them. Bye They're letting me out. Antonina Dziwisz Bye! Don't you know you can't say your surname aloud? Sorry Stay there Good morning Reporting Antonina Dziwisz I'm very pleased that you wanted to... There's a stool there You see, I'm really glad that you summoned me I've already asked the guards several times for... ...someone to take me to an officer or to somebody - Name and surname? - Antonina Dziwisz Born 1st April, 1926 in Lwow Daughter of Jadwiga and Stanislaw, yes? Yes Damn drawer Excuse me It's always getting stuck Above all, I'd like to know... ...if my husband's been informed. You see, I haven't done anything You've definitely got me mixed up with someone else You know how it is. You don't know who to look for... ...what the surname is or who it is Yeah, so tell me now about yourself But about what specifically? Everything Well, I don't think you want to hear me talk about the boys I kissed at school Why not? Go on, talk But about what? About kissing at school Look, maybe you could really tell me what's going on I haven't done anything. I'd really like to help you but... I don't know. I've been kept here for so long No one wants to talk with me. No one has explained anything... This really is a waste of time Don't worry. There's plenty of time Don't you believe that I haven't done anything? - Sorry - It's OK One thing at a time. Just like confession in church He had red hair and a big nose - You're interested in that? - Yes Who? - The one I kissed - Did you kiss him or did he kiss you? What does it matter? - When did you lose your virginity? - A long time ago Why do you need to know? What has it got to do with me being arrested? - Who was it? - Who? Oh, that one. An insurgent - Is he alive? - No He died from that poisoned homemade vodka which the Germans left - Did he rape you? - Why would he have raped me? I wanted it as much as he did You like those kind of things, don't you? And you don't? Listen. Have you been to our baths? We can give you a bath that you'll never forget I don't understand why I have to talk. Those are my private matters No, they're not. You're here to answer questions For every question I ask I want a clear truthful answer! OK. Let's go. The surnames of all the men you've slept with I don't remember surnames During the uprising and after the war nobody used their surname - That man in the Rising? - I can't remember His codename was "Boar" - That's all I remember - Continue Later we were taken to Pruszkow. I lived in an attic in a house there A boy lived there but I don't remember his name Lysiak or something. I don't remember One time I went up to the attic He reared pigeons. He was taking eggs from the nest And I came in and... Yes, go on Well, can't you imagine? Later, after you left Pruszkow Later in Lodz there was one. He was called Tarassini Well, his real surname was Gorka - And everyone called him... - Next And then there was my husband, Konstanty Dziwisz - Did you cheat on him? - No - What's it to you anyway? - I'm asking I don't mind telling you everything. I just need to know why Do you know Witold Lemanski? Yes - Did you sleep with him? - No He says otherwise - Well, if you know better... - Did you buy currency from him? No At your house we found ten golden 20 dollar coins Well, if you've locked me up because of that money... ...it doesn't make sense. I never had anything to do with that money - I only know him by sight - Have you been to his house? - I was there once - What did you do there? We drank coffee. He invited me for coffee And after you drank that mint liqueur and ate doughnuts... ...what happened then? Who started to undress who? Who told you about those doughnuts? - And do you know Major Olcha? - Yes Well? I don't know. Fairly well, I suppose He organized performances for our group at army bases And I knew him as well as everyone else from the group - Your friends didn't go to bed with him - Neither did I Here I have a statement from Corporal Sokolowko... ...claiming that he discovered you and the Major... ...in compromising circumstances on the 15th of July, 1950 Do you want me to read it? It was just that once - Major, are you finishing up here? - Yes Sign this - Can I take her out - I said yes! If I catch you lying again I'll shoot you in the face... ...so that you'll remember it for the rest of your life I'm not signing anything - What? Why won't you sign? - I'm not signing anything But this is a confession Lieutenant. Once again from the start. Her whole history Are you going to let me out? If it was up to me I'd put you up against the wall... ...and shoot you in the back of the head - Where are you taking me? - To a better cell You won't be there long Upstairs Hi What's your name? I'm Tonia Mira Szejnert Listen. What's outside this window? - A hospital - What are you in for? - And you? - Me? For kissing boys at school How long have you been here? One and a half years What do they get up to in that hospital? Murder? Good morning Cell reporting. Occupants - 2. Present - 2 Any requests? - No - Not today, thank you Good morning Good morning Good morning - Good morning - Praise Jesus Is that cupboard free? You can put it in mine - And is that bunk free? - No, but you can stay here - What's your name? I'm Tonia - Honorata Wow. Where did you get that from? From home. The farm Help yourselves Here you are. You want some? - What's wrong with you? - I'm not hungry Here you are. Would you like some? And some bread. Here you are Eat. You have to eat well If you eat well, you can get through anything Don't worry about me. I have a one-way ticket anyway What are you talking about? What did you do? The party official came to survey our land for collectivization They wanted to take my land! I took an axe to him Well, would you hand over the land which your father... ...and your father's father worked on? I had to chop him up into pieces How do you know that? From the newspaper General Tatar and Kirchmayer, for life Colonels Utnik and Nowicki, 15 years and Roman, 12 years Illustrious people, all of them - What's that? - It's wheat How could Gomulka let such a thing happen? I gather he's in jail too. So is the defense minister. It was a spying network Unbelievable What are you doing? Nothing is going to grow there, is it? Where does the path lead to? Which way do you take? I'll never meet the someone who I love Who I have been waiting for Across the peaceful river... Letter 'D' Letter 'D'! For you Please don't take me to be interrogated. I'm so terribly tired Don't be stupid. Go No, go. Otherwise we'll all be in trouble To which political organizations did you belong before, during and after the war? I didn't belong to any organization Rubbish! You must have belonged to the pre-war Girl Scouts No, I didn't belong to the movement. It never interested me Your first lover was a soldier in the National Army Yes, he was but that's better than being a Nazi, isn't it? I'll tell you. Evidently, you were drawn to the forces of reaction To the underground forces of the social right that's fighting communism You're from a Proletariat family so where is your class consciousness? - Could I have a cigarette please? - No You only think about your own arse Stuff your face and get laid. That's your moral attitude to life When others were working away for the fatherland you were just a parasite But I've been working ever since I was 16 You call waving your arse about working? What planet are you on? What system do we have? What is people's power? What country do you live in? - Name, surname, date of birth - Antonina Dziwisz, 1st April, 19... Sit up straight. How was it with Olcha? - How was it with Olcha? - I've told you - That's not enough - I don't know any more Tell me everything in detail and you will be allowed to go back to your cell It was hot. Our group was performing... - Sit up straight, head up - It was hot We had accommodation in tents And I was hot so I went out. I saw the light of a cigarette So I went over to smoke a cigarette Kazimierz Olcha was there and he asked me to go swimming We didn't have costumes so we swam naked, but it was completely dark - Later we found ourselves in a lorry - Before you said you were on the grass And later our costumes... - On the grass or in a car? - I said it was in a car You keep changing your story. Did you fall in love with him? No When did you decide to have intercourse, in the car or before? Why are you prying into my private business? - Is your husband bad in bed? - Leave him out of this Why? For money? Did he pay you in dollars? - Where did he get dollars from? - We found dollars. I don't know Sit up! Head up! Why did Olcha pay you dollars? For sex or something else? I am innocent. Why can't I get any letters? Why can't I get a pencil? I want to write to my husband. Why haven't I received any parcels? Here! Sign Did they kill her? She won't die that quickly She's OK She hasn't broken anything. She's just fainted Lift her head up Up we get. Good. You need to sit - Look. The last piece, with garlic - Leave her, she can't eat now She has to eat so she has some strength Open your eyes. Sit up. OK? Do you feel OK? Letter 'S' Hold it together Did you sign anything? What do you mean? Everyone signs Yeah, I know. But I'm innocent It doesn't matter. Guilty or not, you have to sign But I haven't done anything wrong But no one gets out without pleading guilty It's simply impossible But I can get out because I'm here by mistake What do you mean by mistake? They've got me mixed up with someone else. They'll realize But the authorities never make mistakes I'd advise admitting to everything while you've still got time Otherwise they can vaporize you Just like they vaporized Colonel Wara who refused to confess And they told his family he'd had a heart attack But I've got nothing to confess to So you'll have to think of something you did wrong But why should I have to lie? Why should I make something up? Why do they need a false confession? You must understand that it's not your business The authorities know what they're doing There's a fierce class battle going on The enemy could be lurking where you'd least expect We have to be on our guard Any weapon that advances victory is acceptable Every one. You have to understand that But I'm sitting in prison, totally innocent Why should I care about all that? Listen, it won't always be like that In five, ten years when we overcome our enemies... ...our methods will change. Then it'll be completely different Wouldn't you like your children to live in a different, just and safe world? But this can't be done without martyrs. It just can't And would you agree to be such a martyr and sit in prison, innocent? I'm an American spy A real spy? But not subjectively All my life I've always been a communist I am an objective spy I was found out and I confessed immediately I don't understand what that means It was like this. Comrades from the Central Committee... ...asked me to take a certain American around Poland He pretended to be a communist but later it turns out... ...that he was working for his intelligence and I showed him everything All our new projects - steelworks, mines, airports... He passed the information on to Washington and I helped him to do it But you didn't do it on purpose. You didn't know That's what I mean. Subjectively I'm not a spy But objectively I did the work of a spy And I have to suffer the punishment for that Konstanty! I think it's high time you had a wash Jesus, stop splashing that water. Remember you're not alone in this cell Wash Please wash yourself. Comb your hair You know they just want you to behave like an animal and not like a human Get away from me! You're behaving like they want you to My God! My God! A year ago I did exactly the same Get away from me! I told you! You've wasted all that water Yeah! So he goes, "You're better off selling everything... "...the land, the cows, the horses and we'll go to Brazil "We'll set up home there, have kids there... "...because here those bastards will take everything off you" I'd love to go to Brazil One guy was in France and he didn't like the food there at all Why? There was no brown bread just white stuff for breakfast. Who'd eat that? I'd like some white bread rolls I said, "Do you think I'd leave the land... "...my father and his father worked on their whole lives? "I'm not so stupid as to let them steal it from me." He got furious He went to the barn. Got drunk and didn't get up for two days Listen Have I told you about when we went with Kaz Olcha to Ostroda for a show? - No - Well, I'll tell you One day, suddenly, they gave us an order to go to Ostroda for a show Kaz Olcha, Junia, our wardrobe person... ...and of course this is after a performance - we got so drunk Totally wasted. Junia is tripping over her own legs There's this field. Kaz Olcha is smashed There are tanks, cars and cannons there So Junia, totally pissed, says that she wants to get into a tank She wanted to get into the tank so I wanted to as well We'd never been in a tank so I get into this tank Don't sit there on the bunk So... where was I? So I get into this tank and what do you want to do? Shoot, don't you? I was so drunk so I go, "OK let's shoot as we're in a tank. Why not?" So Kaz goes, "Let's load it", and he shows us how to load it I didn't know you have to pull a lever or something And so we fire a shot - it shakes the whole training ground We look up. An alarm has been raised - whistles, sirens, soldiers start running... ...and getting into some lorries. Others are getting dressed They must have thought some war was breaking out Eventually we stagger out and take a look It turns out the round was live and it hit the communal lavatory Shit was splattered everywhere Soldiers were running all over the place splattered in shit And getting into those lorries Of course, Junia and I stank so badly for two weeks... ...that we couldn't go on stage Have you got a cigarette? I would like to make an amendment to my previous confession All right I said I slept with those men just for the hell of it but that's not true All of those men meant a lot to me When I was giving those details I forgot about the most important thing - About love? - Feelings Well, apart from the pigeon bloke because I just felt sorry for him - You're up to something again - No, really So you're saying that apart from the pigeon bloke... ...there was a bond with all those you slept with - They all meant a lot to you, right? - Yes Can you tell me how much Olcha meant to you? - No... - Just a second For example, what would you be prepared to do for him? I've told you everything. Now I want to know why I was arrested OK Do you know what the highest form of punishment is? - I know - Are you sure? Death So let's say you had a choice - Olcha or a bullet in the head - What would you choose? - I'd prefer to live So, Olcha doesn't really mean that much to you then does he? You must understand that if you help us we'll also help you We can, for example, appeal for leniency when sentencing But sentencing for what? You have to tell us everything about Olcha Who he met with, what you talked about, down to the tiniest detail But I only talked to him about my personal affairs If I'm to talk about my private matters they won't be private any more You've already said how you slept with one guy after another One ought to be consistent But everything I've said can't hurt anyone, at worst, me How do you know that what you said could hurt Olcha? Well, I don't know how you'll use it I promise you that whatever you say will stay between us - Your husband won't find out either - Leave my husband out of this OK, I'll be honest with you But I also want you to be honest, OK? OK, I've wavered a bit, but how do I know you're telling the truth? I give you my word that I'll tell you the whole truth Well, all right then - I have your word? - You have my word But I warn you that this is a matter of public interest Olcha has been unmasked by the security services He's charged with the most serious of crimes Betrayal of his country. Spying for Western countries - sabotage - Kaz? - Oh, yes But that's impossible - You'd think so - But that really is impossible He was arrested with all his accomplices Right! How did the plot begin? But I'm telling you, there was no plot We are dealing with a plot when three people are talking in a room When a fourth person comes in they go quiet so those three are part of a plot But nobody went quiet when I entered a room You too were part of a plot. The same one as Olcha What plot? We were just a group of friends We met up, drank vodka, told jokes. Don't you have friends like that? Anyway, if you'd known Kaz you would understand that... ...he was just a cheerful, lovely guy who loved life, drinking vodka, girls And above all he's my friend You call someone who betrays their country a friend? - I believe him more than you - That's why you should be shot! That's not everything. You took part in the destruction of army buildings What buildings? Have you forgotten about the incident at the training ground in Ostroda? - Who told you about that? - Do you admit to that or not? Was it Witkowska? I was just telling a story in the cell I just made it up - a funny story to cheer things up a bit We have cast iron evidence OK. So shit flew everywhere That's what happened. But what's that got... A communal lavatory is as important to the army as a rifle You weakened the defensive power of our fatherland You were working in favor of Western imperialism We were drunk. I didn't know what was going on. Haven't you ever been drunk? If you sign a confession that you were working under Olcha's orders... ...you could save your neck But it was my idea to shoot "Major Olcha passed an agent to me from the Embassy..." - I didn't say that - But it's true. I didn't dream it up I want to read my previous confession You've already signed it I'm not signing this You know yourself that it's not true Not true? Great. I haven't been able to go to the hairdresser's here I'll give you a cold perm So is it true or not? Maybe it's true? - Yes - Clearly. Yes or no Yes! Sign this - It doesn't write - Scribble here It doesn't write Dip it in this. Here, write Damn, write! It doesn't write. The nib is broken For fuck's sake! Write, you fucking slut! BOLLOCKS Warden! To the baths! No. Let me go please. You're hurting me No! I'm frightened Faster Leave her Listen. They've taken the peasant woman You have to wash, don't you? Wash and comb your hair Not to be like an animal, you hear that? And you've got to eat a lot You have to eat because then you can take anything and you have got to sign You've got to sign and make up crimes. The more crimes the better Then our children will live in such a wonderful happy world And to every question there must be a clear, honest answer No! They'll smack us in the teeth so hard that we'll never come round Class consciousness is awakening in me Do you understand that? I was stupid enough to shoot at army installations Shooting's too good for people like me And you've got to belong to all the organizations going Quiet! You'll keep ratting on us, won't you? Yeah, go on, take it out on me. Go on. I'm used to it Communists are always the guilty ones Go on What happened? Calm down Jesus! What did they do to you? Calm down Quiet - Reporting Antonina Dziwisz - Thank you Please, sit over there - Eat - I've just had breakfast I know what you had for breakfast I'm not hungry You're being stupid and you know it You'll lose strength. What do you gain by that? You're right What nice rolls. Are they from the town? - Why isn't there a knife? - This isn't a restaurant! I want to talk with you seriously Every citizen is obliged to help the security services Think about it. Whose side are you on? That of the traitor or that of honest people? That means the fatherland that feeds you! Why are you protecting him? You said you only love your husband - Why are there no napkins? - I'm serious My mum always said talking about serious things when eating... ...isn't good for you - Listen If you cooperate with us, if you at least show some willing... ...you'll be treated much more leniently And what do I get? A lollipop? - I'm serious! - Me too! I've got a terrible sweet tooth You'll get permission to go out for letters and parcels from home - Wouldn't you like that? - And what do you get out of it? Promotion to Baths Unit Manager? Don't speak to me so informally. I'm not your friend You are important, aren't you? You piece of shit Fascist slut. I've tried to be nice to you But I'm obviously wasting my time. The Major will teach you a thing or two It's you who he should teach. You believe in all this. I'm sorry for you Major, the subject is refusing to comply Apply a knife or a coin. It really does help Bring her in Comrade, reporting Mira Szejnert Read - "I, Mira Szejnert..." - That bit And louder "Together with Antonina Dziwisz, Major Olcha's lover..." - Can't your read louder? - "I went to the meeting point... "...where a liaison officer was waiting for us "He gave the order to Antonina Dziwisz to collect information... "...in army bases for the French intelligence authorities" So? She says black and you say white Mira, why did you do that? Did they force you? Speak, did we force you? Confess, you won't get a long sentence. Just a few years They forced you I had to - I really had to - Warden, to the baths What the fuck d'you mean "you had to"? You signed it yourself. Not her So, are you going to sign? Don't be stupid. Sign and it's all over and done with. Everything The authorities aren't going to mollycoddle sluts like you, understand? Take your clothes off All of them And? You filthy little slut You think you can wind me up? If you don't sign I'll shoot you like a dog I'll count to five One Two Three Four Get dressed You fucking bastards Fucking bastards Fucking jerks. Pieces of shit Pieces of fucking shit Fucking scum You yourselves don't believe in all this bullshit Fucking bastards. Sadist! I see we have taken the wrong approach with you but you will talk It's just a question of using the right method What method can you use to force me to do anything? - You haven't got the imagination - Silence! Gestapo. Nazi If we've taken the wrong tack with you it's only because we're human Gestapo! Were the Gestapo human too? You stupid insolent whore. What do you know about the Gestapo? What do you know about concentration camps? What do you know about dying in a gas chamber? I'm tired You're not going back to the cell until you sign You can walk around a bit You'll sign everything sooner or later You've got no reason to keep on with this Of course, sooner would be better if you want save your health You've got nothing to fall back on to give you strength No great idea I suppose you think you'll be a hero No one becomes a hero out of stupidity or by chance... ...but from dedication to a great cause. What idea do you defend? You want to die. OK, but in whose name? For whom? A traitor? Only those guided by a great idea will win Those who struggle against the tide of history have to die And no one will remember them It's as if we were all in a car that's going round a corner One wrong move and we'll all crash. Understand that If at this stage when our system is still young and vulnerable If our enemies can find just one little crack... ...it could have terrible consequences Try to understand - Eat - I can't You can put the dumplings in the oven, can't you? Yes. Lift your leg higher Stop singing Don't bother me with that. It'll be late Stop singing! I haven't got time. Yes. See you later Stop singing Stop singing or I'll smash this phone on your head You stupid woman. What are you playing at? I can bring anyone off the street and they'll admit to everything I want them to Ada. It can't be like this Someone's on the phone for you - What? - The phone upstairs Stupid woman! What have...? Are you trying to make a fool of me? Nobody called There was a call. They must have hung up - What's she doing here? - She's unconscious She has to be brought round. She won't say anything in this state We'll have to start from scratch - Take care of it - Yes, sir! There... my sweet See? See? I'm scared Don't be scared - I'm scared - Don't be scared - I'm scared. It's a dream - What dream? I'm scared. It's a dream! - What dream? - I don't want to wake up! No! What's the time? Five Five in the evening or five in the morning? Five in the morning I'll tell the Major that you let me sleep And he'll replace me with someone who won't let you Why did you do that? I don't want to force you to confess I would like you to freely admit that you are guilty Guilty of what? Do you believe in all this? I would like you to understand that... ...for matters of state importance, for general matters... ...sometimes you have to sacrifice individual interest... ...and sometimes even friendship Maybe you could make such a sacrifice... ...but I really don't know anybody who would do that or talk like this And Mira Szejnert? You want to convince me that they're all pigs... ...that if they've betrayed me I should also betray them? You don't know my friends. You don't know my husband They're people who don't betray You're still very naive After all, there's no such thing as an absolute honesty In Auschwitz what was honesty for one was utter betrayal for another People are capable of doing much worse things than you think Everyone. Without exception Were you afraid? Yes. I was then - I was afraid - I'm also afraid What of? Death? No. Loneliness - Do you believe in God? - I don't know So in whose name are you enduring all this? You know, I always did badly at school As a punishment my parents sent me to work in Warsaw The whole family in Lwow died but I survived because of my punishment After the outbreak of the uprising I fell in love with this boy His codename was "Boar". At least that's what he told me I was really taken by him He had shiny officer's boots and a German machine gun He was terribly attractive One night I got away from the bakery and went to see him in the barricades... We went to this flat during a bombing. Rubble was flying everywhere And it was really wonderful, the very first time I hurried back feeling guilty that everyone was working... ...and there I was enjoying myself But when I got back I saw that the bakery was gone It was just a pile of rubble. Everyone had been killed And you know what I think? No matter what, in life you've got to mess around and do things on a whim Sensibility and obedience are not always rewarded Perhaps that's the only thing I believe I want to go back to the cell Sergeant. Here's to the birthday boy! Vodka! - Cigarette? - What my dear? What's the matter? - Shall we get her clothes off? - Who? - You know... her - Give it a rest. She stinks So she stinks. So what? Her tits aren't bad, I've seen them Morawski Give the patient a drink - It's a waste of a shot, Major - So it's a waste. So what? - Come here and help me - I'm coming Go on. Drink, little girl Go on, drink - Drink - Gentlemen Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday to you... Now she'll be sick Don't kill me. I want to live Let me go. I'm begging you. No! Leave me Name, surname. Father's name? Name, surname, date of birth, father's name? - Name - Antonina - Surname? - Dziwisz - Father's name? - Antonina - Father's name? - Dziwisz Date of birth? Date of birth? So... are you going to sign or not? This is your last chance No Shoot Do it Shoot! You. Tell him to shoot me! I can't take this any more! Do it! Please! These methods are crap First some stupid breakfast. Now some kind of theatre. What is this? A brothel or an investigation? Where's Mira? They let her out She's free Good I can't take this any more Let me out of here! Let me out! I'm innocent! Let me out! Mummy! Let me out! I would like to inform you that I'm taking over your case Does that make any difference to you? How do you feel? Warden? Come here Tonia. How do you feel? Are you all right? I wrote so many letters to you. Couldn't you reply? What's the matter? Tonia? You see. It's like this... For the first few days I didn't know what had happened I thought you'd died or had some accident... I thought I was going out of my mind Then after a couple of days a search started I was finally summoned by the secret service One of the officers explained to me A lieutenant said that you were suspected of espionage I couldn't believe it. I still don't believe it But Tonia. He showed me your confession With your own signature Tonia how could you? You were Olcha's lover? You slept with Wit Lemanski There were so many others With such coldness? So easily? Didn't you stop to think that I'm your husband? I'll never forgive you You destroyed our marriage so thoughtlessly So coldly and cynically Tonia, I hate you I hate you. I don't ever want to see you again That's all I really came here for. To tell you... ...because anyway I can get a civil divorce without your consent That's all Tonia, at least say that it wasn't... That they... Nothing? Stand here A parcel from your husband Oh, gosh! Help! Help! Murderers! So she comes over to me and gives me three packets Three packets... she comes to me with these kinds of things Look. She's woken up - Where am I? - In heaven, Princess. Heaven Am I in prison? What did you think? Of course you're in prison - What time is it? - Just after dinner And it's 1952? Maybe it is 1952. Why should I care? I'm here for life anyway Do you have a mirror? A mirror? So you can slit your wrists again? Take all the water from the siphon Kiss kiss Legs and tits Emilia Walesiak For you from the men's ward Kisses on your legs Your tits Mira? I thought they let you out Yes You're not angry with me, are you? I don't hold anything against you No Mira, what's the matter with you? Mira? You don't recognize me, do you? Dziwisz Mira Here, my Princess. Just don't tell anyone I gave it to you Lullaby, sweet Jesus, lullaby Lullaby, my baby, precious and dear Lullaby, sweet Jesus, lullaby Your mother will cradle you And wipe away your tear Letter 'D' Best wishes Cell reporting. Occupants - 6. Present - 6 Any requests? Antonina Dziwisz wishes to see the investigating officer... ...to make an important statement Name, surname and date of birth I wanted to tell you something in private We have to follow protocol with confessions. What is it? You'll regret this Leave What the hell do you think you are doing? You know fully well I can't be alone with you So what did you want? You need something? I'm pregnant Don't worry I'll say I was raped in hospital when I was unconscious Don't worry, I didn't say anything about Olcha... ...and I won't say anything about you It makes no difference Olcha was shot a long time ago You son of a bitch - Tonia - I want to go back to the cell Tonia. Listen. We have to talk Don't touch me - Comrade, you called for me - Yes. Take her back - Head of cell, come here - Wait a second! Wait a moment, will you? In a minute! Wait a moment! Stay there! Waligorska Antonina Dziwisz Dziwisz! Are you deaf? Move yourself! And the parcel? The parcel's for me That's it - Show me - Yeah, what? - Haven't you seen it? - Is it a wool sweater? It's almost new It was supposed to be old and American. You're making it dirty It's a bit too big for me - I'll buy it for 180 - For 180 you can kiss my arse News! Stalin's dead. Pass it on Listen! Stalin's dead What? - What's she doing? - It's impossible! When? It can't be true! I told you! Did you hear that? Did you hear that or not? What happened? Stalin's dead Shut up! The toilet's dirty. Clean it The towels are dirty. Change them - Surname? - Kalinowska - First name? - Maria The child's name? - The child's name? - Tadeusz - Surname? - No... no! You pigs! No! Child's name? Malgorzata, but be careful because that child is... Surname? Surname? I said surname? Please, I'm begging you Don't take my baby Listen You'll be out in three months. The child is in an orphanage Take her out I understand Hello. Operator? - Hey, be careful - Hey, come on The child is doing fine in our care. She's developing normally And her father visits her A short man... receding a bit? No. Tall and slim with glasses I can't recognize her Malgosia? Malgosia? Malgosia? I'm your mummy Come here. Malgosia? Malgosia? Come to me. Malgosia? Malgosia I'm your mummy. Do you hear me? Malgosia? Hey, come on. Don't cry. She really is your mummy Please don't cry. Mummy will be sad Daddy Daddy Daddy
