 

                        Hail Mary, full of grace The Lord is with you Blessed are you among women Blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus Holy Mary, Mother of God Pray for us sinners Now and at the hour of our death ... INTRODUCTION In the 1890s, said that prior to the death camps from France. The victims were mostly children. Pastors who spent days alone in the woods. Those who saw the murderer and survived describing it as a distortion of the shadow wrapped in a blanket. Their victims were not only killed, but inexplicably maimed. He violated the bodies and stowed in a macabre scene. In the words of the tabloid press and in the minds of the superstitious of the city, strange darkness was pure evil. But bad as the explanation does not satisfy a judge who investigated the crimes. Using the tools of science, tracing the path of death throughout the country. Evidence and developed a profile of the murderer. So when a man was in custody, guilt is established quickly. Joseph Vach was hungry for fame. Said he had been bitten by a rabid dog when child and blamed the poison in his blood for his homicidal behavior. Every crime that was charged, Vach freely confessed ... provided that their stories dark published in newspapers were hungry for scandals. ... Reduce their bellies. When finished, put the body hole in the backyard. Confession showed Vach his mental faculties are in order. It was briefly stated capable of executing. To be brought to the guillotine, he shouted the crowd held: "Behold! A victim of the asylum!" Vach collapsed and no recovered most of their senses. His body was placed in guillotine and the blade was thrown. In Vienna, Professor. Richard von Krafft-Ebing well-studied with great interest. ... No one monstrum by excessum / i, a monster diversion, but a monstrum by defectum / i monster of a disability. / I / i He tried to reveal the secrets of conduct abnormal sexual man that led to self-destruction. Explored the physiology of the brain. Studied the influence hereditary. Together clinical and historical documents. He sought personal interviews and letters and diaries of the patients. In 1886, Krafft-Ebing published the catalog of its findings. And coined the name "moral cancer." Section I MANIFESTATIONS J. H. had been diagnosed with severe neurasthenia and hypochondria. Although he confessed practice masturbation since age 14, had some associations with women ... and lived under the care of his mother anxious. She was a woman and caste high moral character. He began to lose hope unknown until this pleasure The mother of the maid had an accident. Awakened a thirst. The woman is, biologically and philosophically, a passive recipient of care and the affection of men. Occupies a position of great honor, This can be for her, a source of great pride and vanity. But as an object of desire of man, often receive their more lascivious thoughts and actions. Fertile ground for trafficking, diseases, sexual and moral corruption paraesthesia ... brothels can be found in all cities, the most a more civilized barbarism. Within these well-equipped cradle antros of addiction, men are encouraged to leave ... The ideal healthy sex change recreation, it is almost the inevitable sexual psychopaths. The sadistic impulse to women and wounded forced to the disrespect and humiliation ... He also expressed the desire defiling things repellents or less dirty. Men, on large sums of money ... refer to prostitutes ut viri Ilie ora et in earum spuerent FAEC in the urine and sometimes explerent / i / i. At the opposite end of the scale are are dominated by the idea ... submit a complete and unconditional the will of another person. As the author Leopold von Sacher-Masoch often this perversion the substratum of his writings ... Krafft-Ebing called this anomaly masochism sexual / i / i. Like nearly all other perversions the sexual instinct, masochism only takes place in ... on the basis of an individual psychopathic, and in large part, genetically damaged. Their sexual behavior often degenerates to the madness when submission to the games ... and to be silly ridiculous, so the costs of all Masculinity and personal dignity. Is reduced to the role and castrated subordinated to the powerless, the weak ... the role of women. You should already be naked and ready. There can be no mistakes today. What is this? This is a mechanical man. Neither realizes that we are here. Do not touch my dove vai, vai? - I received my "pink" today. - You should not even be here! - I need the money. - You know not! If you feel the smell of blood is not ... Well. I will go ahead. Take only what I have. I took the initiative, already know the routine. At the time of care of the face, leave me. If you do not disturb me, I can play like a piano. When you feel the smell of gum, are kept outside. Do not look for him. Do not say a word. And for God's sake, do not laugh. No matter what happens. And remember. When you hear the bell ... Everything is ... satisfactory? Despite the human experience a real physical pain and subjected to the violent whims of another person ... that only pretends to be weak. His strength was fueled by thoughts reassuring that, at the end of acts purely symbolic ... have the power restored the dignity they the natural rights of man. I'm sure you recognize the difficulties it faces. Looking for someone like me, but keep my real desire. Stealing a few nights and I'm going to the margin is that people like me. No mysteries. What kind of person? A homosexual. Continue. Well, you should know that there are other gay focus on the pier at night. But I am not satisfied to stay with just because a man is gay. I was always attracted by a very specific characteristics. A mustache. Full, thick and hard. When I finally found my ideal and invited him to my room, she ... He was not what they seemed. Make yourself at home. You want a drink or something? A glass of port. Something wrong? Nothing wrong. Because ... - Sorry, I said that a port? - A port. Sorry, but seems to only have one. This was the mustache. This drink. What we're drinking? Drink. Prisa. Prisa. I suppose in that moment, their feelings this man, his virility, has been restored? Yes, at that time I had full possession of my manhood. Then came here and Urania or fetish? Fans who dislike the most? I came here because understands people like me. I think you understand to understand better. It is not necessarily anti-natural feed feelings of affection towards the same sex. But to achieve these feelings reduces their capacity to a perversion. Morbid psychosexual degeneration. - You know nothing about me. - Really? I bet you already tried sexual intercourse with a woman. And failed. The repugnant to masturbation, with reason. Therefore, another man can do the job for you while you passively engaged. Your feelings are of lust in the palm of the hand of a gentleman. This led to the complete reversal their sexual instinct. In fact, I know nothing about you. What do I send? Section II METHODS OF TREATMEN I in your treatment, doctor. After all, is that only patients may actually be cured. No? Wetterstrand, Bernheim, and Mller Schrenck reported a success ... to replace the instinct for homosexuals straight through the subconscious. Tell me, doctor, because it has so interested in my case? It's because I am afraid of? The good doctor questioned this approach because the Hansen tried to hypnotize famous in the patient several occasions without success. It's because I do not like what causes it? In view of the most important social interests of the patient, necessary to make a new attempt. O have mercy on me? Decided to use Bernheim procedure. Patients of all kinds, from all levels social, in the sanatorium to salvation psychological demons that torment. A healthy environment and stable away from the chaos of the world. Open. Open! This is a complete laboratory human, each with a natural physiological distress. As director of one of these institutions, it is my privilege and also my responsibility to ... determine the origin of psychosis and the patient The arrangements for intensive treatment. I hate it because masturbation makes me weak and make me suffer. Have no inclination to men, because men love is contrary to religion, nature and law. I am leaning towards women, they are adorable, desirable and were created for men. It is very common for women with paranoid hysteria in the mental hospital complaining of hallucinations in sexual violation of divine or demonic beings. Sometimes all night. It is an essential duty of all doctors to ensure safety and welfare of all patients under their care. I heard a woman ask a nurse to send a letter to her. Patients have permission to send letters. I know, but she "paid" to send the letter. And he made to swear secrecy. Get a letter from his pocket because they thought that Mr. I read it. What nurse? Grath? Thought so. You J. H.? I will monitor their progress. You can go. No one is deprived of redemption, no patient should be considered incurable. In cases where patients resistant to treatment by conventional means, it is possible to alleviate their suffering ... and offer a new opportunity to the parties ablation patient's brain causing his illusions. In 15 days, the good doctor began noted signs of improvement ... as when the patient requested discreetly directing a brothel. With the complicity of several colleagues Xavier, Krafft-Ebing reports collected social activities of the patient. The patient still to join the youth ... but began to woo women, imitating the social behavior of their brethren. The patient asked for permission to practice with a young lady. You cree? I hate it because masturbation makes me weak and make me suffer. Have no inclination to men, because men love is contrary to religion, nature and law. I am leaning towards women, they are adorable, desirable and were created for men. I hate the love of my own sex and never find a man attractive. And I have to be well again, my love a virtuous woman, be happy and make happy. - Practice of masturbation in the last month? - No. - If there are any poluo night? - Yes - They were preceded by images of dreams? - Yes Describe these pictures, please. Fine images from a woman pose in a luxury ... Eager for my attention and my caresses. And his response? I knew I had lost my sexual paralysis because, as I played, I ... Dr. Goudron wondered if Treatment could resign today. How so? Why wait for that to happen? Sanford, in the bed 8, has a knife strong hidden under the mattress. Plans to use stab him tomorrow. How do you know? Maybe I can dispense treatment tomorrow, then? After the sr. has examining bed. It is a good suggestion. Talk about it tomorrow, okay? Of course. Entertainment Want to hear a story? So go listen to a story. A story say is true. It is an old encurvado, encurvado a horse ... and a girl of no importance. They say it was the old gypsy. But he was not a gypsy thing. As far as I know. So what was it? It was a great artist. Or at least that I could was a great artist. With the help of his daughter created a shadow theater. He traveled from town to town presenting their pieces on the inside. One day he was visited a very rich man. Adapting a piece of this text. Read, no? Sure. You can move freely, provided that no undermine the details of the incidents. As you wish, Herr Baron / i / i / i. The work must be submitted once. Only once. And there is no mention of unusual nature of this little drama. Reliable? She does not speak , Herr Baron / i / i. Okay. Until Saturday. A man of delicate physique and peculiar, Bertrand was Sargeant since childhood, given the silence and solitude. The details of the health of their families are not well known, but the onset of mental illness between his ancestors true. They say that as a child, had pulse destructive not explained. Destroyed what was at hand. At 9 years, he began to feel ... inclinations toward persons of the opposite sex. At 13, the impulse to sexual strongly attracted to it. He began to masturbate over. When masturbating, your imagination always creates a room full of women. I thought he played sexual intercourse with them ... and then killing them. Then, as they thought dead and wondered how they gorge. Once they began to feel the pulse practice these acts with real corpses. For lack of human bodies, take possession of animals. He opened his abdomen, ripping his and during the act of masturbation. He said that therefore, experienced an indescribable pleasure. In late 1846, he felt the first time the desire to use human bodies. The idea horrified at first. In 1847, accidentally entering a cemetery, found the grave of a recently buried corpse. Momentum, accompanied by headache and heart palpitations, she became so powerful that ... although there were people around him and is likely to be discovered ... to dig the body. In the absence of an appropriate get his satisfaction by a shovel unpacks the body. To unearth the corpses with their hands insensitive, in its enthusiasm, injuries they cause in itself. Then cut the body with a sword or knife, disseminate the gills and masturbate. In July 1848, found accidentally the body of a girl of 16 years. Thus, the first time, I felt the desire a sexual practice with a cadaver. "Covered with kisses and tighten crazy against my chest. " "Nothing that a woman living can offer in comparison with the experiencing pleasure. " Baron and Baroness picked up their rooms ... And in due time, the baron returned. Everything was ... satisfactory? This is for you. And this ... This is for your daughter. Let me explain. The Baroness and I have no children. And we worried about the prospect being alone in our old age. Undoubtedly prefer Baron an heir, a son? Baroness prefer a daughter. - Sorry, that's impossible, I ... - Before saying anything more ... Before saying anything else, This offer can not be underestimated. Am I right in believing that girl has no mother? We understand that we can offer a better life for her. An appropriate education. We can give you a position in life someone like you will never reach. And the respectable people of the city is tired of his robbery and witchcraft. I am also a man of considerable influence. And things can get difficult for people ... Reject. That night, horrible sounds were heard in the house. Cries of Baron. Cries of the baroness. E higher than this, the cries of the girl. At dawn, the man encurvado encurvado to tow the horse float ... to take the bag of gold Back to the home of the Baron. But came to the house. But what happened to the girl? She was still young. However, the lost innocence. And learn not to trust anyone. Even in man encurvado encurvado with the horse. So what's the moral of the story? Moral? There is no moral, dear. Just a story. Section III Blessing and Maledictions FOR WOMEN Nothing more satisfying to see a patient resume its place as a healthy member and well-adjusted society. I forgive one days for having sent him away? Forgive? Dear Mother, I have to thank! I do not know how I can pay what you did. But it is what I do, starting tomorrow. Endured long responsibility of managing the home. I take care of hiring someone to help you, so you can have the rest it deserves. - Oh, Jonathan, is not necessary ... - I do not want to be a burden to you, mother. Jonathan's mother watched with pride son to assume the care and control of the house. It's so good to see distracting. Although there were some doubts about the role of which is limited to convalescence. Perhaps we should not hire a new set up yet. I am sure that ... Although the woman appears to belong psychologically more sex ... a certain stage of their lives, it becomes vulnerable a weakening of his mental strength. Alone with his thoughts, his mother J. H. began to suffer from mild paranoia. And some began to develop hallucinations in the rehabilitation of their child. For the woman who comes to deteriorating mental state ... beauty and youth are cruel reminders the decline of their physical charms. Often, the patient uses to carry out free to retrieve the man's attention. Without treatment, the illusion becomes more intense, more erratic ... sex until the paranoid moves by irrational thoughts ... to commit irrational acts, which leads to a condition of increasing despair and confusion. affected by the madness of natural menopause, melancholy atmosphere / i, sex dreams .../ i delusions of persecution and physical acute paranoia. He ... He ..? What, Mom? Jonathan, please tell me the truth. What are these girls? What do you mean? They said I was cured, more than that sort of thing. - But, Mom ... - You are not a vampire, a boy is healthy! If you need blood, find a way. However, the dirty created ... - You okay, Mom? - Tell me, son. - The doctor advised me that this could happen. - Doctor? You have acted in a very peculiar. I took the liberty to seek Dr. Goudron. He thinks that may be related to your menopause. Well, Mom, I learned all about these issues. Your body will some changes for now. A transformation of your entire being. This can cause a form of hysteria, which requires medical attention. I learned a lot while I was hospitalized ... Show me your hands. Is the blood, I ... The patient considered hostile to the surrounding and comes with an aggressive attitude. And you ... Show me your hands! Show! I do not understand trying to help them? He won the love and not call you! He only wants your blood! At the peak of the disease, treatment is essential to remove the patient external factors that aggravate their condition. And eliminating a place where possible maximum tranquility. Be careful to have the best treatment available, mom. Dr. Goudron is an extraordinary man. Maybe I can visit it. I know you blood. Attracting men to women is the result a complex process of objetificao. He is bewitched by the shape of your body, the color of her hair is blond or brown. Either the shape or color of your eyes, his voice, the smell of your hair or body. These physical attributes have various reactions in man sensual and form what we call physiological fetishism / i / i / i. The woman is thus a group mobile object fetish to which men are encouraged to respond. But the nature of female desire much more difficult to understand. The woman is passive. Since it is physically and mentally normal, well-born and educated properly, with little sexual desires. Their ambitions are high marriage and motherhood. The birth of a child is achieving the purpose of his life. And no more noble sacrifice that of a woman who gives her life the birth of a child. An owner was very provincial concerned by the disinterest of his daughter by love and marriage. To instruct them as to appropriate ways For a woman, hired a tutor that would guide his natural destiny. A woman, on a rare occasion, was also my patient. Thank you for your donation of magazines. I think the most enlightening. If I may be frank, I can not help but wonder if which are completely honest in their journals. As always felt only the love of women ... physically, but never acted in response to this momentum. The closest that came with the elderly woman. Married women. When the age of 17? How do I know? I was at home during my education. Although he was totally devoted to her, can be characterized as one of their feelings ... "Awareness undefined mystique of impropriety. " What does this mean? This means you never touch, or touch. And I never told him how I felt ... Because these feelings are immoral. She did not want to pollute my innocence I did not want to pollute their marriage. So if you wanted to for months? Years. Without this love? Never married? I thought about it. For some time he wanted a family. Since normality could be a cure. But basically, I knew that life would be a lie. It would be unfair to a man my body, but to deny my heart. E. .. No traveling my illness to a child. So you really want a child? More than anything else. But prefers not to have a child risk that is ... ... Sexually invested? Therefore, to live alone? What are my options? And the passion is so pure that floods As the modesty of those that do not require anything. I love you with the sting of the old feathers With smiles, with tears of prayer And the faith of my childhood, innocent and strong. I love you even more small, for life. And so God has willed I love you even more after death. Very good! Now it's your turn to fulfill its part of the agreement. Since this agreement was even foolish? Ten questions on any topic, answered honestly. Okay. Question 1? Do you like my father? I have nothing but the highest respect for his father. Nothing else? Nothing more. Would you like me? I love you! Do you love me? As if it were my own daughter. Why do you never married? Never met a man who loved enough for me to marry him. Or never found me. - Have you met a man? - Of course ... Have to answer! - I? - You swore! No. Never. Sorry. I did not want to bother. You know ... ... A woman? Stop already with this nonsense criancice. I am sure that his father love to hear your curiosity on these issues. Sorry. Do not say anything, please, sorry. Please. I know they are young and curious and having heard terrible things those of their cousins. Was that? But we must understand that certain issues should not be done. It was absolutely clear? Despite the warning, the feeling mutual Lydia continued to deepen and Annabel. They were delivered in secret ... days spent in the woods alone ... and whispered conversations ... which contrasts with the cases permitted. You did not answer the sixth question. So I still have to do 5. - Really? - Yes, yes. Okay. Continue. Carefully girl. When you were younger, were any woman who they share a special love? Yes You came to share her feelings with her? No. It is better for both of us who have never spoken. To understand how this issue is serious, right? Okay. Not now, Annabel. Go to your room. Honey, you can not Simp ... I ask only once and respond honestly and directly, I was clear? Yes, sir. These individuals serve as witnesses. You damaged my daughter in any way? - I have not touched inappropriately, Mr. - Responding to my question. - I shall not affect in any way. - Responding to my question. - Please, listen and understand. - What is the problem? / I / i Dad? Refuses to respond? Reply what? / I / i - Okay, Annabel give answers. - Please Pere Lindstrom, if they give me a moment ... Lie, Annabel. - Please, no. - Lie. - Lydia, who ... - Do not ask for it, as I said it! Dare not touch it. Please Pere Lindstrom, everything you want to know. It is not fair ... Remains intact. Annabel, what are you doing here? Must be with the guests. Why not in my party? I do not feel well. - Sorry to disappoint her, but her father said ... - My father? What about me? You're the only person in the world is important to me. - Think you do not know that? - Annabel ... Believe me, I know what is best for us. Things are beyond our control. I received an offer of work elsewhere. I will accept. How so? - I will starting tomorrow. - No. - Yes - No, you can not. Do not do this, please, I love you! You do not know what you're saying! I love you, why do not you love me too? - Please! - Annabel ... What I feel about you is no secret. Why should we talk about it? Why we must act in response to that? Thus. Leave it as is. And that is not weak. There and back to get his guests. Smile. Try to be strong. I am stronger than you think, Lydia. I can do things you never could. I do not want to die alone and unhappy as you. Annabel. Question No. 8. To prove that I am strong? Yes Annabel, how could ... I am stronger than you. Then do something to love me. - Question No. 9. - Annabel, please stop. Do you love me? Of course, I love you. I love you. Take me. Please. It is a sad privilege of medicine, and especially in psychiatry, evidence the weaknesses of human nature. However, the doctor finds comfort the fact that the attribution of these aberrations conditions of physical or mental illness ... can save the honor of humanity ... on behalf of morality. EPILOGUE Xavier? It is you! - How are you, my good boy? - Actually, I am with my wife. Listen, do not know my treatment, I was alone hospitalized for a short period. Do not mention it much ... Dr. Goudron I attended during my treatment at the sanatorium. I was only an observer. My specialty is neuropathology. Oh, a specialist. I think that board. I did not know the status of Xavier was so extraordinary to attract the attention of a specialist. I was not the only Xavier is very young ... Honey can be an angel and ask has a vacancy in the wagon to comment? But I wanted to stay and talk to the doctor! Be nice, okay? Mr. and knew the doctor? Yes, very well. You know, in your opinion practically a child. It was an honor to have been his patient. No, he progressed to 50 years in medicine, but I think that while he lived, never understand the impact of their work. Maybe I am naive, but ... He cataloged and studied sexual deviations. On the surface, perhaps, but was much more than that. He brought the shadow more mysteries life in science. People do not see the stars more to understand this kind of behavior. Neither judges and clerics, but we will. And judges and clerics who were for answers and knowledge. In due time ... all facets of human existence is governed by a medical specialist. Every child born in a hospital, The whole world will die under the care of a physician ... Every marriage is subject to approval to ensure a medically appropriate. It will not take. So is its founder religion, right? If you prefer this ... A religion of knowledge of good and evil. What do you think? I hate masturbation. Because he makes me weak and make me suffer. Have no inclination toward men. The love of men is not religion, nature and law. I am leaning towards women. Because they are adorable and desirable were created for men. Very good.
