 

                        'FAME' 'I believe your brother has kept 3 garlands aside' 'Wanted you to send it to Goddess Shakti's temple' 'Okay, ma' Ma, close the gate Finish him off Let's scoot Come on Start the bike Quick Let's go 'A year ago's 'Wallajah F.C.C team presents the 7th cricket tournament' 'We welcome all those who are gathered here to watch the finals' 'Wallajah F.C.C. won the toss and has decided to bowl' 'They are entering the field' 'Poondi team's opening batsmen have started playing on an aggressive note' 'Superb stumping by captain Pugazh!' 'Score is 40 runs in 5 overs for the loss of 1 wicket' Venkat What are you thinking about? Go back a little 'Poondi team has set its mind on winning the trophy somehow this time' 'The ball has been swept clean over to the leg side' 'Sixer' 'The next ball lifted high by the batsman' Catch Last over Last ball 'Poondi 11 star team has scored 106 for the loss of 7 wickets' 'Chasing a difficult target of 107 runs, F.C.C team is entering the stadium to bat' 'Our Vellore District Collector Mr Suresh Babu will honor the winning team' 'He will present the winners with a trophy and Rs 15000' 'Excellent ball' Wicket 'Having lost consecutive wickets, Wallajah F.C.C. team is in trouble' 'Next batsman Pugazh is entering the field' Hit a sixer 'Well played indeed' 'That's another four' 'One more brilliant strike Sure to go to the boundary' 'We request the Man of the Series Sadiq from Wallajah F.C.C team...' '...to come on to the stage' 'Next we would like to invite on to the stage...' '...the runner-up team's captain' Our Wallajahpet town councilor Mr Munusamy will award him... ...the trophy and a cash prize of Rs 10000 To the winning team F.C.C... ...our Vellore district Collector will present the trophy and Rs 15000 cash prize - Thank you, sir - Congratulations A small request to the Collector For many years we have been using this place as our ground But this place isn't very secure or maintained properly Every now and then we see encroachment here by way of huts It is a big headache to vacate them from here I've been the councilor of this town for 15 years Often I've requested my Chairman to raise a compound wall here But he turned a deaf ear to my pleas I gave a petition to the concerned politicians But that was also in vain I'm making this plea on behalf of our town I hope and pray you will be able to solve our problem Dude, shall we leave? Call Balaji and tell him we won the match and we are heading to Pondicherry If it's liquor, he'll come in a jiffy "We are" "Just us" "Pipsqueaks" "Oh yes" "Our pranks" "Ruckus" "King of our area, always" "To Pondicherry by the sea dude, come and join our party" "No shortage of currency Pull up your collar high and mighty" "Not an ounce of worry No trace of fear really" "If friends support us we'll rock on with success" "Life is just a game Let's play to make a name" "If we strive high for a sixer we'll be Sachin the master blaster" "We are us" "Ourselves" "Lightweights" "No regrets" "Our antics" "Wildly surface" "King of our area in all ways" "We are" "Simply" "Small fry" "Nobody" "Our revelry" "Tomfoolery" "But we rule the roost happily" "Say 'no' to beard, if we have money" "Then 'Miss World' will be yours, sonny" "Our life is like the 'One Day' match" "Lose this moment, you miss the catch" "Good riddance to girls No such fancy frills" "Friends are enough No add-ons or any such stuff" "To rockets a strict no Veto flight also" "To fly high in the sky a bottle is enough as ally" "Whomever you meet don't just simply greet" "Even if God comes down we'll ask Him for a loan" "Whomever you meet don't take a backseat" "Even if Yama lands here we'll hit Him, no fear" "We are" "Whatever!" "Our game" "King in the Hall of Fame" "We are" "No star" "Our way" "Lord of all we survey" - Where are you? - In Kanchipuram Tomorrow morning I should get my money Otherwise I will be at your doorstep - You know me, right? - I'll come in the morning, bro If you're thinking of cheating me- No, bro, I'll pay it tomorrow for sure Satish wanted me to get the kit bag for practice It's right there Take it and go Hey, take this bat also 'You don't know about me Go ahead and enquire about me' What's happening there? Who's shouting? That engineer's sister has come to visit him Gita's grandma is fighting with her Okay, go inside 'Didn't you think of asking this old lady?' 'Do you think what she did was correct?' 'Please question her' No one is respecting me in this street nowadays 'You're dumping the garbage here' 'Won't you think?' Move aside, please What if the kids here get infected? You thought you could get away with this? I'll break your arm if you dump the garbage here next time Look how rude she is Hello, is this how you talk to elders? Who are you? Are you the town head? I don't talk to people who brush their teeth on the street! This is how she retorts If you dump trash in front of the house, won't people ask? That's what we usually do It's been a month since that lady came and she has never yelled at us This princess came in the morning She has been jumping like a headless chicken Hey old lady, if you address me with scant respect, I'll chop you to bits Why are you standing there quietly? Take her inside Bhuvana, come inside Whatever it is we can- Anna, keep quiet First find out who committed the mistake Instead of that you are asking me to go in How dare you come to our street and- Hey! Are you threatening me, huh? My God! You're acting so smart Let's go now to the police station What's your problem? Shouldn't dump the trash here, right? It won't happen again Please don't dump it here, okay? Tomorrow if she does it again... ...I'll dump trash from my house and hers ...in your house The whole street was buzzing with all the folks standing out and gazing Why didn't you call me? I would've come at once How did that girl look? Wondering why that question didn't pop up earlier! Even if we talk about an old lady, your antennae will rise, no?! As if I spoke to her? He did And he was too good Ask him about it What did you both talk about? Zip your lips and mind your business What did they say? They both spoke with their eyes She said 'Hi, I'm Bhuvaneshwari' He said 'Hi, I'm Pugazh' He spoke in English and took her in his bike real fast You don't pull a fast one He spoke English to a chick and whisked her away! You expect me to believe You haven't ditched that lice-head as yet? At least I have a girlfriend Just shut up! Dude, I'm taking your bike Don't use my bike Put the key down Only 5 minutes I'm telling you That girl is getting married next month! He's having a ball with her She's to blame, lands up with an itch without even brushing her teeth - You meant her head? - No, you dickhead! Bro, I got a job in TVS company under sports quota I heard this morning - This ground is lucky - Yes, bro If you had practiced a little harder, you could've got a job in the Railways I just missed it We were just joking Don't glorify yourself! Okay, bro...bye Pugazh, looks like you were mediating in the middle of the road Gita's grandma went on a tirade early in the morning Even if a beautiful girl dumps trash on a guy, he simply simpers It's a welcome change to see you support the grandma! Parents raise their kids wanting them to become an engineer or a doctor But your father brought you up to question injustice If we question public grievance and favor fairness and justice... ...people brand us fools! Owning just 1 dress and washing it every day... ...traveling from one town to another ...to address people is our movement founded by our leader Jeevanandham If I share all this with you, your brother tells me not to spoil you Strange to see foreigners in our town They are returning after checking our river water this morning - Hello, bro - What's he up to? He's jobless Das, if people get to know of this it will blow out of proportion What will happen? If anyone opposes you, you will beat them up in the quarry That's why I complained Do you think they are all fair? Election is around the corner 2.5 million is the bribe for a post Will you part with your father's money? You complained so impulsively That I smuggle sand, brew illicit liquor, sandalwood That's exactly why I've been given a post in the party Don't justify all your mistakes You know our party has earned a bad name because of you? I won't keep quiet That is possible only if you step out of this place Surprise call at this hour? Tomorrow at 10:00 a.m Finance minister Ramasamy is going to Bangalore via our town Give him the due respect At such short notice, bro? It is already 4:30 a.m Do you have any sense at all? Tomorrow if we go to him for a favor... ...won't he ask us why no one followed basic protocol? Okay, don't get upset I'll arrange for it Don't contact me with excuses of calls from chairman or minister I'll call you myself after I finish my work Sir should be here any minute Ensure everything is fine - No problems, right? - Nothing, sir Close 305 Move Don't disturb If you want to say something come to my office Please keep the flowers inside I have to lock up your shop Why, sir? If you don't pay rent for 2 years, what else to do? I've paid the rent promptly to Das If you've paid him then ask him Close the shop - Sir, this shop - This one? Shut the shop and seal it Ask them to meet me in the office, seal it now Sir, why are you asking him to close the shop? Go and ask the Commissioner Sir, please be magnanimous I've warned you many times I'll definitely pay Can't do that Leave now Sir, why are you doing this? You haven't paid rent for the past 2 years We have intimated you many times But no response What do you want me to do? We pay up promptly on the 1st of every month Ask the person you gave it to Don't talk to me Pugazh, how can they do this to us? Is that right? Okay, we are ready here I'll take care Wrap it up fast The minister has crossed Ocheri Cement won't dry according to your urgency Don't talk Focus on your work You sent the other day, right? Bro? That's what he wants Convince him and send it Won't we give it? Bro? - What do You want? - Commissioner has closed our shops Will you send it? I'll talk to him, you go Don't mess it up - Bro - What? We'll get a truck load and we won't have space to download If you change it that chap will be stressed out I told you I'll talk to him Same place Tourism bungalow Call me after the job is done But you don't under- You heard him, right? Clear out now You think we are people you can buy for a packet of 'biriyani' and a peg? It's a truck load of flowers which will wilt and dry How dare you talk to me like that! Try hitting me What audacity? I was just talking and he raised his hands Get lost! - Mother, where's he? - He's taking a shower Shower is all he needs now! Another brawl, huh? Got any brains? Don't you know what to talk and where? How does it matter which place? Our business is getting affected I can only ask him at his hot spot! What do you mean by his 'hot spot'? Ask him what his job is? His response will be politics Listen to your older brother Don't talk back What are you up to? Pretending to study? Deliver those roses at uncle's place Go Tie it properly The flowers might get hurt! He has rented it from the municipality for Rs 400 And sub-letting it to us for Rs 4000 In 1 month he's taking 1 year's rent from us That's also fine But for the past 2 years he hasn't paid the rent! That's why I went and inquired You got cocky and asked But whose loss is it? He's throwing a fit claiming because of you he has lost face I was at the end of my tether trying to placate him Finally he said pay the entire amount and take the shop Mother, give me Rs 40000 For what? He sends his men to collect the rent on the 1st promptly Ask him to pay Until then? Shall we both stay at home and play indoor games? If we want to have a shop in the market, we need the help of others If you keep picking up fights with everyone you see on the road... ...you'll be minus a job tomorrow We don't need to live with his handouts Hand- As if one weirdo isn't enough! Are you also getting ready? Get inside If you're angry with your brother why show it on our kid? Shall I show it on you? Mind your damn business I want to play, ma I don't want to go for tuition Play video games again, I'll break your hands Take him also in your tuition class, Bhuvana - But he's already going for tuition - Only in the evenings He gets up in the morning and starts playing video games Not studying one bit Both his grandma and uncle pamper him to the core Okay, sit down To get permission for meeting on this ground... ...they walk many times from police station to municipality But after the meeting gets over they just leave the place Look at the rubbish Only we have to clean up the mess afterwards Their meeting is only with the wine shop They are themselves drunk and lying on the floor Hey! Wake up We must have an order passed not to sanction meetings here We must present a petition to the Commissioner Because of them, extra liquor for 5 lakhs has been sold yesterday What can I say! Where did you go? Time is 10:30 p.m and you are not back home as yet I'm in the ground, anna I don't know what you do spending 24 hours on that ground I sorted out all differences and opened the shop Time for the load now Come to the shop soon Okay, anna I'll be there now Wait here, I'll go to the shop and be back - Selvi...Selvi - What, sister? Did you buy fish from this old lady? Yes, we did - How much did you pay for 6? - I don't know Why? How much did you pay? He was the one who bought it What, ma? How much did you pay for the fish? 100 bucks Did you trust me when I said it? You thought I was hiking the price just for you! 2 days ago I bought the same fish in the market for Rs 60 Why should it matter to us what you paid? What do you mean? If you pay 100 bucks for fish worth Rs 60... ...this old lady is expecting the same price from everyone Will you pay whatever she asks? Keep quiet, ma Whose side are you on? You had better give this fish for 60 bucks And pay them back 40 bucks What do you take me for? Asking me to return the money You go and buy it in the market Are you cheating this young fellow? Who is the 'young fellow'? Then? If you don't know the going rate in the market, how do I call you? I'll give you for 60 bucks, my dear girl Why are you arguing with this poor fellow? First return that 40 bucks to them Grandma, no need You leave now Thinks he is actor MGR supporting all the grandmas in town If you want I'll support your grandma too - Get lost! - I will bring her Pugazh, there's a bag in that room for the past 4 days - Whose is it? - Venkat's, ma He promised to come on the 5th Today is the 10th No sign of him His phone is switched off As soon as your son gets back ask him to meet me Who is this man? How many people has he borrowed from? As if borrowing from the locals isn't enough... ...he has borrowed from out-of-towners too! If he had taken us into confidence we could've tried to solve it He has a king sized ego Look how you've raised your son! Come in Know what your friend has been up to What happened? Doesn't he wake up at 4:30 a.m and go to the shop? If I tell your precious son to be in the shop at lunchtime... ...he doesn't show up It's beneath his dignity to work in a timber depot What happened? Don't know what's happening! Past 2 days so many people are at our doorstep... ...claiming Venkat owes them money My husband has given whatever money and jewelry we had Venkat has been missing for 3 days I told my husband to go and look for him He's raising his hands at me I'm scared he'll harm himself Won't he take care of himself? Be brave I'll go and get him Is that so? Did you enquire properly? Did you check with Karthi? Check and call me back I knew this was coming When we aren't there he'll be gambling away to glory As if that's priority now! You'll rush to his defense! What, da? Spoke to Arcot Babu I believe he didn't go there Shall I check with Akbar? Where could he have gone? Checked with Arakkonam boys But no one knows his whereabouts Do you know Vellore Seenu's number? Is this some gang culture? Don't have any of their numbers You go with Kalai to Kanchipuram I'll go to Vellore and check with Seenu - Give me money for petrol - Don't be so cheap You're decent, right? Give me money for fuel - What brings You here, Pugazh? - Did Venkat come here? He came yesterday Stayed in the warehouse Left for Chittoor this morning Any problems at his place? He didn't tell me when I asked him either - Why don't you come in? - No, it's okay - Pugazh, How are you? - I'm fine - Did Venkat come here? - No, he didn't Any problem? For past 2 days he hasn't been coming to our area Can you call and check with our boys? I'll check Sit down Tell me My uncle had gone to Thiruttani yesterday I believe he saw Venkat there 'Praise be to Lord Muruga' Hey! What are you doing here? First get dressed - Sit - Where to? - Back home, of course - I'm not coming - You go - Then...? Where do you intend going? Sit No, I feel terrible People I borrowed from are treating me like dirt Naturally! They will ask you You should face your problems If you run away like this- You could have at least told me 5 or 10 bucks it's alright But it's gone beyond all that I've already borrowed too much from you Sit, we'll deal with whatever hassles The creditors- Did they give you free money? You're paying interest, right? Whatever it is we'll handle it Pull over to the kerb, I'll get off Where do you intend going from here? I'll drop you at home, sit I won't be able to face my father if I go home That's okay We can handle all that Listen to me You don't want to go home, that's all? - You don't understand my plight - Will you sit? People who bought from me cheated me Gratitude, loyalty, sentiment All that's dead and gone Why are you whining? Drink up We'll leave It all boils down to money Without that mother, father, brothers, friends- Sorry, I mean everyone You gambled away all the money Why are you blaming your parents and friends? See the creditors are here That's why I told you I won't come back with you Only I know you're back in town You don't understand They will rip me apart I'll find out who they are Stretch and hold firmly Show the light here - 14 - Okay Okay, come Who are you and what are you measuring? Who are you, sonny? You are measuring our ground and you want to know who I am! Your ground? You're behaving like it is your hereditary property? Bro, they are surveyors They are here to do their job Please carry on with yours Never seen them before in our town? Pugazh, what are they measuring? They are measuring something but not giving me a proper answer By the way, who are you? How does it matter to you? Pugazh, who are they? What are they doing? I don't know, but they've been measuring for quite sometime We were sitting there When I asked them, they said they are surveyors - We don't know why - What are they measuring? Shall we go and enquire in our municipality office? Get hold of him You spoke as if the whole town is under your control? And one nonentity is creating trouble Your men were standing quietly there and watching Did I send you there just to stand and gape? If someone came, you should've hit him How could I? It was Pugazh who came Who? That flower wholesaler Sadasivan His 2nd son, Pugazh Why did he come there? I think he was drinking in that ground He saw our men and questioned them He has a knack of attracting a crowd! Who is that Pugazh? Lives in our area Little bit of a smart Alec! - Uncle, This is Vishnu - Yes, What happened? People crowded around So it became a problem Let me speak to Das My father-in-law Why bother him? We can finish the job and talk, right? Talk to him Tell me, what happened? Nothing much They are our area boys They were drinking I guess So a big crowd gathered If you are in a rush... ...you know the land near the graveyard en route to Annadhalai About 15 to 20 acres of land behind that area I can clinch it for you If you dig a bore well for 900 feet there you will get only smoke I'm telling you I need land closer to Palar river, adjacent to the highway Okay, bro, I'll finalize this Let the municipal election be over, I'll clinch the deal then Let me talk to Vishnu - Give him some money - Okay, I'll take care - Here - What's it? Money Uncle asked you to keep it for election expenses Is that so? I'm very happy Wear this one How long will you be in the same shirt? I don't want to go, that man will bring the roof down He's bound to be angry because he hasn't paid up You don't talk back I'll take care Keep going I'll join you When can you remove your bandage? At this age, instead of staying at home... ...why are you taking part in protests? - Can stay at home, no? - Forget that Someone measured the ground last night - Who was it? - Don't know Before I could ask, they got into the car and escaped From when I heard about it, I'm not feeling good They must have thought they can encroach as no one owns it That playground has been used for generations by our people You are finding fault with me protesting Only because people like me hold flags... ...some of these places are still part of our heritage Otherwise they would've plotted all of it and sold it long ago Why are you tense, uncle? As if we would let it happen! Don't know if you can deal with it I'll come back Then- I'll take a shower and come Let's lodge a complaint to be on the safe side Venkat and I are going I will send Kalai Derided all of you as lazy louts About me too? Get inside Why are you gossiping? What were you talking about? I'm really ashamed Why? That Bhuvana- Watch out She has spoken ill of us to your sister What did she say? We are all lazy louts Jobless and eating out of our fathers' savings She's right You are always behind girls This one hasn't graduated for the past 4 years He has loans all over the place Naturally she will deride us - I'm a very good boy - You're the laziest lout of the whole lot Sir, what about you? I won't fall under your category I am so busy know Everyday flower Go to the shop in the morning Full business dude Sorry miss If you come up with your stories to these tuition kids again... ...I'll rip you apart She didn't say anything about me Uncle - What happened? - That teacher is hitting me If you also join that group... ...you'll also be selling flowers by the cubit like your uncle I don't measure flowers Wholesale dealer As if you're a big Nokia dealer! What's with her? Thinks she is very witty That's why she's on cloud 9! Why do you ask to be snubbed? She's our 'desi' Simon Cowell When did I argue? All because of him Go home Watch your step Hello Mani Did you get the load of chrysanthemums? Not yet, I believe it will take another hour - What? - 1 hour Why 1 hour? I believe that military man has settled his daughter's wedding He wants us to decorate the hall Show him the designs and ask him what he wants I'll come along with you Why? Let me come please If you come, you should behave yourself I swear I'll be on my best behavior I'll be in the ground Okay, da - Like this? - Very nice Ask if she likes the design Vennila, how do you like this design? This one The rose design looks great For your complexion, this design will look good How much is this design? Why are you worried about that? Just tell me your preference I'll discuss the rate with your father For your complexion the red rose decor won't work If you choose white jasmine it will be soooper - Right, da? - Sit here Mother, you select please Won't you be quiet? I'm unable to select from this She's asking us to choose Tell me what you like What color is your sari for the evening? - This looks great, right? - I agree Go out now Out, I said 1 cigarette, bro Select one There are many designs to choose from, dear - Dude, come out - What for? - Sir, I'll be right back - Okay - Why did you call me out? - Just come - I think she is a very lucky - Obviously Your girl is talking to some stranger! He looks real smart and dressed to kill - Tell me now - Any problem? Nothing No problem You asked me to step out to see this? - What? - Come Tell me you aren't affected Nothing at all And we were like circus clowns circling in our bikes at her doorstep! - What? - Nothing Could he be a friend? How does it matter? Anyway you aren't affected at all Where are you? Who is this? Venkat, after borrowing money and now don't be unreachable Where are you taking him? Stop butting in Take your hands off me! Look, what's happening Venkat, get into the auto Don't make any trouble I got in, right? Don't rough up my friends Drag him into the auto by force Come and ask him Why did you force him into the auto? Pugazh, don't interfere My boss wanted me to bring him You talk to him directly I'll bring him wherever he needs to be taken to Hey Pugazh, if you insist then come with me Come out I'm telling you- Start the auto Take off your leg Why are you being a nag? Watch your back Let's go You're going overboard, Pugazh He is the one who lent him money That's why I sent my men Isn't there a decent way? You can't barge into a football match He pushed him into the auto I know what I'm doing Company is closed His phone is switched off No one is in the house I found out he's back I sent my men to bring Venkat and father here But you hit my men Oh! He'll hit my friend And I should fold my hands and keep quiet, huh? You gave the money to him, right? If he hasn't paid you... ...lodge a complaint or file a lawsuit Besides running behind him, you want me to waste time on a court case? So you'll use violence to mediate? Pugazh, be patient Let's try to resolve this Don't get swayed Ask him to complain Let's see if he can get even 1 rupee back Think only you know to go to the police Even he suggested that option I decided otherwise because he will feel humiliated Instead of defending him ask him to pay me instead Give us some time We'll definitely pay up He cannot leave without paying up What will you do if he leaves? Pugazh, wait How much does he owe you? He has borrowed 500000 and interest is 200000, so total is 700000 Why is interest 200000? Stay calm I don't have that much on me now I can pay you in installments You can tell him to keep my house documents as surety Then get the documents from him He'll collect it after repaying the money You are giving in to their demands It's an insane interest amount What will they do if we don't pay the interest? Please leave, I have to go through this, for the sin of having him as my son Show me that one? Isn't that beautiful? - Aiyaiyo! - What? My brother saw me If I go home now, I'm dead meat! Why? You have a bad reputation So he has told me I shouldn't befriend you I know why he's mad at me Where did you go gallivanting? Went with Bhuvana akka to the fancy store nearby Selvi, bring water Sister-in-law, get him water please You go and give him water Selvi, I asked for a glass of water Can't you hear him yelling? He's asking for water I'm stringing the flowers He asked her, right? Hey, you go I got the book you wanted for Computer Science Check if this is the one You keep it there I'll take it later Where's mother? She must have gone to consult either a sage or an astrologer She will be seeking blessings or predictions I'm going to the store Need anything? No, dear Nothing Do you want anything, dear? Dad, I want an ice cream Okay, hold this Don't buy whatever he asks As it is, he has cavities Look who's talking! Trying to dodge me? Why would I do that? Didn't I warn you not to go around with that girl? You are mistaken about her What did I think of her? You saw something and thought something else Sister-in-law Bhuvana akka's friend is getting married it seems She came with her fianc to invite Bhuvana akka Sir saw him and jumped to conclusions Why invite someone in a coffee shop? Can't he invite her at home? It's only 4 months since he joined the party You are giving him a seat I've worked for this party for the past 20 years I will contest from this 6th ward If you want to contest, can you spend that kind of money? Party head office has allocated only Rs 20000 per ward How will that be enough? If he runs, he'll spend 1000000 Can you do it? We have a letter from the head office asking us to give him a seat Nothing can be done If you want, contest in the 7th ward Acting funny? You want me to end up a pauper? If I ever step into your party office... ...hit me with your sandals I don't want to have anything to do with you That's it Leave me alone Anbu What, Das? When our party declared all shops to be closed for a protest... ...who broke the shops in the night? You and me, right? When buses were burnt, we were locked up in jail for 6 months And the police broke our legs Where were these chaps then? I am well aware of all that Just pipe down Leader, give his 'dhoti' back Takes it off happily at the drop of a hat! Give this to him Announce the candidate from the 7th ward Thinking of 'Canopy Palani' for running in the 7th ward Does anyone have any objection? We lost the Chairman post last time only because we lost in that ward How can you repeat the same mistake? Select a better candidate, bro What do I lack? I'll spend for the election by even selling my house Palani, don't think I'm finding fault with you In that ward, we don't even have 50 of our men Let's get a local candidate He needn't be from our party Okay then, suggest a person How about Vellampatti Mahesh? They have a clean 60% majority I cajoled him even last time But he refused As if you're oblivious to this If you want, you try talking to him Okay, let us think of someone else Suggest a name How about our Pugazh? - Who? - Mr Sadasivan's son That's a good idea Any hassle, he is the 1st one to show up All that won't work Be practical Why not? Somewhere from the head office, they will send in a list of names With no idea of the influence or affluence of the candidate Only we know inside out Let Pugazh contest from that ward We can win hands down What he says makes sense So you want a young novice to stand? Das, don't bring your personal anger into party decisions You know if he runs we'll win 100% Then why hesitate? Last time we lost only because of that ward Don't you remember? If you can't do it, let us know We will talk to him What are you doing here not even coming home? Just like that Your mother visited my place - What does she want? - Don't know She wanted to talk to you about something No need, if she hears my voice she will start crying Please talk Kalai, what's the score? I'll come Okay, ma - Here - What did she say? She has her own problems I believe uncle, aunt, Sandhya are all visiting us And if I'm not at home, it will seem very odd We've already given our house documents to him In another 4 months if I don't pay up my family will come to the streets And they are making wedding plans Pugazh, Das anna wants to talk to you Tell me, anna Looks like you're still angry No, not at all - Do you know why I'm here? - Yes, I know People in the party feel strongly about it I'm not interested in contesting People are fighting over seats You're being so indifferent I don't have much faith in politics or politicians People who tonsure their heads in temples... ...believe God will help them But people who vote don't even have that belief in their candidate! If we have a problem only we must handle it You seem very naive, my boy I thought only Pugazh doesn't know to use a golden chance But you are also like him! I don't want politics Tell me if there is a way to earn money Other than politics which job gives you instant cash? How do you think I own all this? Thanks to politics only Tell your friends you'll be contesting from the 7th ward Ask them to help you Don't worry, I'll take care of all the expenses How can I contest from the 7th ward? It isn't even my ward I know who should contest from which ward You can come out of your financial mess... ...only if you do something like this He's willing to take care of all the expenses, right? Can I go to him for 5s and 10s? Why are you missing a golden chance? I'm seriously discussing Don't play the fool What do you mean 'don't play the fool'? We are encouraging you If I run, who will vote for me? - Naikar - Tell me Won't you vote for Venkat if he contests? I'll vote for whomever you ask me to, Pugazh - Then you won't take any bribe - Be serious! Sudha, will you vote for Venkat if he contests? I'll blindly follow your suggestion Satisfied? She isn't even eligible to vote? Trust you to note all this! Give me 2 cigarettes No cigarettes here Let me get it from the opposite shop Why are you raising his hopes? I don't think all this will work He is negative by nature 1st time in his life, he is being positive We know he likes it We can face whatever comes our way The election is round the corner An expensive affair Keep this for now Next time I'll take on the entire expenditure, okay? Thank you They think I own the quarry Only I know I'm just a puppet I told you to ask him Ask just this time, ma You ask What are you both muttering about? - Your son wants a bike - I'll get him one soon Come up with some excuse or the other He keeps bugging me Tell him a proper date when you'll buy it Why pay from our pocket? The Assembly election is just a year away Like giving free cycle, TV and computer... ...they might also give a bike as freebie I swear you're born with the gift of the gab God knows where you get money to donate to the temple... ...or lavishly spend on wedding gifts for Tom, Dick and Hari! But if our children want something you'll come up with excuses If I don't do it no one will respect me Bloody respect! Sekhar became a councilor and built a house for himself in 2 years You sublet our rented house and we are sitting in the terrace here! Easy for you to say You are out most of the time Only we bear the brunt of the sun - Is your father in? - He's inside Can't even buy an air-conditioner Father, Palani anna is here Back again like a bad penny! Will you shut up? Palani, District collector said he would be coming over Open up the office I'll be there soon Okay, bro Did you speak to Venkat? Yes, I did How can you think he is qualified? You spoke to Pugazh That was a good move Don't be a nitwit Pugazh and Venkat make a duo They are real thick friends from childhood So what, bro? He isn't even in our ward How will the people in my street vote for him then? Our party isn't a state or central political party Purely caste oriented Only our men will vote if you or anyone else stands in your ward You won't even get back your deposit But Venkat's story is different He is very friendly by nature He has nurtured a rapport with all of them On top of it Pugazh is his second skin What else do you want? Don't worry about any of this Once the election is over I'll find you a good party post Leave now At least this time, will you occupy the Chairman's seat? For sure, bro In 26 wards in this town our flag flies uncontested We were unable to hoist one here We managed it here also We will win definitely Das, is the distribution of money and gifts going smooth? No, bro Election commission is hawkeyed! Police are swarming all over the place I am trying to do my best You're the reason for our flag flying here I just now said so to our minister Somehow stick to Venkat and make him win, Pugazh You focus on some other ward As far as this ward goes he is the councilor Bro, kindly remember to vote for our Venkat Pugazh, don't you know your word is gospel to us? That boy is already a wasted wastrel! Now he is stepping into politics, huh? At least you could have made him stand in our ward, right? Having sinned to be his parents, we would have voted for him Don't you worry about anything Just watch how we shape him up "Not passed 2nd grade duly Aspire to be a politician coolly" "A corrupt mind wants to be clad in crisp white shirt daily" "Every election you'll stand Our votes you'll demand" Venkat, bring your ward list Hello, Pugazh Give Pugazh 10 pieces - Take, Pugazh - For what, bro? Gold coin If I give in my ward no one will accept, bro Who will say no to gold? Of course they will accept You distribute it Bro, give the coins to him 'This is quite common in politics, I say' Hey! What are you doing? With the election commission hot on our heels... ...we'll be counting bars with our families! Why are you inviting trouble? Keep this for now Rest we will give you the day before election Don't get swayed over by what others give you Here you are, all yours New bike worth Rs 85000 Madasami anna 20 votes in your family All of you go and vote for the axe symbol decisively Not 1 vote should go amiss That's why you got the bike My son has been asking me for a bike for past 2 years I'm unable to get him one How ironical! Hey! Why are you unloading all this here? Where else, bro? You want to announce to the whole world? Take it to our quarry You could have allocated a ward for us We could have, friend What will you do with just a ward? No one is qualified to stand in your party is another matter Who will foot the bill? Uncle, steeped in your problem don't forget to vote for him He is part and parcel of our party Das, this is like selling ice to the Eskimos, he is our boy! Spend this time in other houses Get the best out of your party and make our boy win Alright, Arasu Glad to hear this Don't harbor any ill feeling It is your responsibility to make him win At least shouldn't you advise your son? You think he will heed my words? Don't talk to me about him My wife and I will vote for you You can be assured of that Arasu, why can't you advise your brother properly? They are canvassing for that boy Venkat How can you trust Das? This won't work What more can I say? I've been a councilor for past 2 years and attending funerals and weddings Why is Pugazh poking his nose into this? - I feel bad - They are just boys And doing this in a playful manner You're making a mountain out of a molehill Only his vote counts? My mother, my wife and I can vote Only you'll win this time Go with confidence Don't forget to vote for Venkat Aunt, vote for Venkat Let's go to that house No, let's go there She isn't even eligible to vote What if she doesn't have any vote? She can canvas for us If she does, she'll turn the voter against us, she's such a shrew Give me a pamphlet Vote for Venkat without fail Our names won't be listed here The neighbors Gita and her sister are out of town You can vote in her sister's name Ask her to vote instead of Gita My friends will be in the booth You won't face any problem You're asking me to do an illegal proxy vote Won't you do even this for a friend? Why should she take a risk for your friend? Shut up She isn't here on the election day She'll be in Hyderabad for an interview Oh! Next time Venkat will stand in Andhra Pradesh We'll let you know then Smart Alec! Let's get some crackers Announcement of Ward #3 results Ranganathan of M.P.K party has won by a margin of 200 votes Congratulations, leader In Ward #4, M.K.Munusamy M.P.K party candidate... ...has won by 500 votes, beating the T.P.K candidate Subburaj Electoral results for Ward #5 Vimala from T.P.K party has won by a margin of 68 over her opponent Geetha Congratulations Ward #6 results Kanakasabai of T.P.K party ...has won by 128 votes beating his opponent Sundaram Keep rocking! You won just like you predicted Results for ward #7 Venkat of T.P.K party beat his opponent Jayaraman ...by 647 votes Super! Congratulations, Venkat You did it! Careful (jubilation over the results) Don't tell anyone your destination - You took the phones? - I did, bro Whoever asks just comply Be it liquor or whore Whatever the demand Bring them when I tell you More than them winning, we must safeguard them That's priority Don't keep them in the same place They will track and find out Keep changing the hideout daily I'll make the arrangements from here, okay? Maintain proper accounts Leave now - Vimala, keep an eye on this - Okay, sir I joined our party before you did And you don't trust me, Das Everything is fine Leave now I have my own reasons We'll deal with it later, go Hey! Stop Why has a rope been tied here? - Okay, drop me here - See you tomorrow Hey! You got any brains? Can't you see the rope as a barricade? You're crossing over blindly You bet this is India-Pakistan border! Look closely You'll get enlightened Now you know what border it is! Razor tongue of the first order! That razor saved your life, right? Bro, this is Pugazh The electricity cable in 5th street has snapped Will you come soon? Okay, bro Why get drenched? Come inside It's alright I can manage It's okay, come in Isn't your brother at home? My anna and his wife have gone for a wedding They may have got caught in this rain Give it to me Okay, I'll leave now The Electricity Board hasn't sent anyone as yet I think the electrician is here See you, bye Get him to talk Balaji will try to worm out news from you, careful Looks like you joined the Electricity Board You are totally mistaken about that girl Very calm and 24 carat gold What's up? This is what happens when you fall in love Jolly! How indecent to read my message! Hey Pugazh What, ma? Selvi forgot to take 'kumkum' - Give it to her please - You're jobless, ma Poor child has to walk all the way back home Let me go and give it to her Good Lord! No need I've turned over a new leaf - Don't believe me - I'll be back now - Is she a child? - Yes, to me she is She will sell 2 towns in 2 seconds Why did you call me? What is this for? Give it to my sister "Wow! Beauty beyond compare" "Kidnapped by her looks extraordinaire" "Her aura rips me apart somehow Will I survive, I don't know" "Her eyes glow like the moon's beam Her cheeks like the sun's rays gleam" "Her tresses like rain I got lost in it in vain" "When she laughs" "I go to pieces in halves" "Her graceful walk" "Makes me want to stalk" "Though I am well aware 'o" "I fall into this love-mire, aiyo!" "I'm trapped in this beautiful love" "Wow! 'Beauty' gets a new meaning Kidnapped by her beauty ravishing" "Her looks pierce my heart with an arrow Will I survive, I don't know" Cooking gas? Ask one of them No, it's alright I don't want Wow! Super cool, eh?! Don't you agree? Tell her it's sooper! "A string of words to express...I think" "Seeing you, why do I sweat and blink?" "Girl, your lovely eyes of fire douse me in waves of desire" "Ahaa this moment in time new like an umbrella I bow to you" - What? - Look where the stump is! "Like a swing let me be on your ear lobe petite" "On your ear lobe let me be the swing swinging to and fro like your earring" "Arrest me by the side of your ankle Girl, like an anklet I'll gladly tinkle" "Wow! Beauty beyond compare Kidnapped by her beauty extraordinaire" "Her beauty rips me apart somehow Will I survive, I don't know" Venkat is here Ask him to come in I trusted you and sent the winning candidates with you Why did you come without telling me? Munusamy anna asked me to meet him at his place What did he say? He offered me money What did you reply? Don't get lured by money thinking you'll get a post Only 2 more days left Go, attend to them He offered Rs 200000 in cash So...? Just informing you Winning candidate of Ward #13, Das of T.P.K party Winning candidate of Ward #22, M.K.Munusamy of M.P.K party... ...have filed their nomination To choose the chairman from these 2 candidates ...the Ward representatives elected by the people ...will elect through secret ballot The electoral officer will announce the winner T.P.K member Das got 14 votes And beat Munusamy of M.P.K party by 1 single vote He is now the chairman of Wallajah municipality I declare this as the official result - Congrats - Thank you, sir I'm very happy Greetings, bro You've somehow wangled yourself into the Chairman's seat of power True, bro I owe it to you Do you remember what I told you? Of course, bro That will be my 1st task I am being tortured by my family Being a minister and incapable of even doing this I'll handle it, bro Don't worry, bro - Hello, sir - Greetings, sir Did Vimala take good care of you? Both of you please wait outside What's the progress, sir? About what? I told you about the playground How do you think I can help you, sir? A complaint has already been filed to find the encroaching party I haven't taken any action only because of you, sir If we poke our nose further the case will go up to the Collector I will ensure there is no pressure from your boss You do as you please, sir If anyone complains when you build, I'll come to the spot and stop it Build what you can within that time frame This is good enough I'll take it from here Venkat, come here Is life treating you well? What a question, bro? I am on top of the world All those who even sniggered at me are now saluting me with due respect! - Really? - I am really happy All that's fine Let me introduce you to someone Palani, step outside This is Venkat I spoke to you about him Councilor who won by the maximum margin in our district Congratulations All credit goes to my friend Pugazh, sir Okay, go ahead with your dinner, I'll join you Do you know the man I introduced you to just now? Who, bro? Son-in-law of the Education minister Millionaire in Andhra Pradesh He's coming now I'll discuss this with you later Das, I'm leaving now Call me when the party wraps up A small token from me - Why, sir? - Just accept it Why give me so much money? You are very lucky - Me? - For sure After our minister, you're the next luckiest man I've met 10 years back he was like you Family problems Financial hassles He refused to stand in the election I arranged money and made him contest Do you know what he is worth today? Can't blame him Shouldn't weigh pros and cons once you get into politics Look where my affiliation to caste, community and friend has got me? All gone for a toss Must struggle to become a Chairman Do you know how blessed you are with the recognition you've got now? Our leader wanted to know who you are I was myself shaken up Only 2 points to become a sought after politician Good or bad, we should keep hitting the headlines And then money If you have it, that's enough Everything will fall into place Just do what I say, Venkat I'll make you a big shot in politics He bought a mobile for Deepa I'll buy you 4 beers Ask him to deny this Why is Logu calling at this time of night? Someone is building a wall in our playground Is that so? Who are you? Who authorized you to build this wall here? Who are they? Don't know, the boys called me just now Do they think they can get away with anything? You don't know who I am Just clear out of here How does it matter who you are? Don't shout Does your father own this? Acting over smart Just go, I am saying it for your own good Wait, let's find out Who the hell are you? Were you the ones who measured here earlier? Yes, I did So what now? Dude, ask them to leave Or else it will become disastrous I'm handling it, right? Come this side You act funny with me you'll get it real hard Why should we clear out? Ask them to leave first Why are you pushing us away? Ask them to clear out first If anyone intends building anything here ...it will only be over my dead body! Get lost! How dare you hit one of us? Clear all this, or else you're in for trouble I won't clear out What will you do? Clear them out Chase them out of here Get him Let's get the hell out of here Let go of me Let go Pugazh, let go of him Sir, get away from here Leave this place, sir Do you know who he is? He is a minister's son-in-law Not just him If you intend doing something to this ground, I'll hit even you Das, don't just keep talking I'll let out a string of cuss words Who tried to hit my son-in-law? His friend He became a councilor because of him! Is he such a big shot? No way Just a pipsqueak That playground is his usual haunt When we showed interest in it... ...he got mad and hit him not knowing your power If he's a nobody, you should've hit back Hitting him isn't a big deal But many who belong to his caste live in that area If we harm him, they will join hands with all the other parties Then it will be a problem for our construction That's why I'm buying time Don't give lame excuses, Das The foreigner has tested that water and approved it Finalize the deal But isn't the ground water from the leather shop? You know only about the water below 30 or 35 feet He has dug 100 to 150 feet deep And has certified it We can't change the place If anyone creates problems, use money as the trump card That's not the point- - Bro, I'll finish the deal - What do you mean? Sir is prepared to pay I'll talk to Pugazh Why do you hesitate? He's saying he can do it So clinch the deal now Okay, bro This is a hockey tournament that took place in 1971 We were the winners I was in high school then The VIP presenting the award is the Sports minister The person next to him is the district collector This was taken in 1983 Foot ball tournament held all over the state This is proof to show that till date our children play in this ground All this is okay, sir But I had asked for the township's old layout Village Administrative Officer, Tahsildar, Collector I've even sent a petition to the Right to Information law We will definitely get it With all this information we can file a writ in the court But before the final judgment... ...I will certainly need the papers I had requested I'll somehow get them Uncle, will this work? What if the minister uses his power and gets a title deed as owner of the land Will we allow him to go that far? Won't we protest? Why are you worried? Uncle is saying he'll take care As if I have 2 horns! Like you I'm also a common man I know our people's weakness If a man raises his voice against a public issue... ...they'll make him a leader and put him on a pedestal like God They will give him all the responsibilities And will walk away least bothered! You must have that fighting spirit Only then you can question these mistakes and stop them too Imbecile! Uncle, why take my words so seriously? Next game is which player belongs to which team? - Delhi - Raina Raina plays for Delhi it seems! - Punjab - Yuvaraj Hey Venky, modeling for Ramraj 'dhoti' commercial! - Keep quiet - He looks very smart Showing off your car-status! I'm not showing off! Came this side on an errand Knew all of you will be here Just thought I'll drop by - Give me a cigarette - What a prompt request! Get us a pack of cigarettes You have an assistant 500 bucks for that...wow! Mahesh, go and get it You want to pull my legs, do so when it is just our gang Not in front of an outsider - What did I say now? - No decorum at all Why are you scolding him? Do you remember you got to pay the loan tomorrow? I have the money ready Give it to him tomorrow I paid him yesterday - Full amount? - Yes If I had known a councilor can make so much money... ...I would've become one myself! You could've done that Get the details of this ground from the municipality office Uncle has been asking me for it That's exactly why Das anna asked me to bring you over Why? Don't go overboard listening to that old man Your life will be wasted That man will even beg But won't let anyone help him You should come up well in life Don't gang up with youngsters And poke your nose into public issues I'll pay you a lump sum of 200,000 Back off silently I will get the municipality to change the flower shop in your brother's name Don't think I'll build a park in a corner of the ground, okay? What do you mean, bro? If youngsters in our town get good job placements... ...in Railways, TVS or Military under the sports quota ...it's is only because they practiced in this ground If you want more youngsters to come up in life... ...we need that ground We don't need a park to walk But we need the ground to play Don't talk without knowing the details Do you know who is behind this? We can't fight against them They will anyway take that ground from us We might as well get money instead of having a raw deal That's a sign of being shrewd Don't be so cheap Listen, if I am talking to you all this while... ...it's only because I respect your father Safeguard that respect If I choose to do it differently... ...I can do so without spending a single rupee I don't want to take that route That's why you are here - Are you threatening me? - Take it that way Then take your route Hey! Listen 'Venkat, where are you going?' Pugazh...? - What? - Wait We both played as kids in that same ground Aren't you attached to that ground at all? I'm saying this- Our fathers and grandfathers grew up playing in that ground How upset you were about losing your house document? Is our ground different from your house? You're doing sleaze jobs for them Selling your soul for money Get lost 'Venkat' He thinks no end of himself? Thinks people voted for you because of him? Is it enough if he tells people? Who spent the money? Don't go to that ward until I tell you Only then he'll realize Took your own sweet time to come? Where were you? I got ready because you said we could go for a movie Why is this Venkat behaving like a fool? He's asking us to help the minister seize the ground? Plus he's trying to grease our palms! How much we struggled to make him the councilor? But he seems to be scared of Das He doesn't have a mind of his own Always being brainwashed and making a mess of his life You think he will prosper because of Das? I'm pouring my heart out and you're so silent I was nodding my head! How stupid of me to think aloud to you! Ma, did you get back my ironed clothes? In comes the 'royal pain'! He promised to bring it this afternoon Maybe he has closed his shop Why didn't you collect it? I told you I'm going out Why are you shouting? Drink this I'll go check if he's still there Where is Selvi? Won't she get all this done? You think she listens to me? He won't sleep a wink if he doesn't make me work "Don't trust your eyes ever" He thinks he is MGR or what? What's wrong with my brother? Please come Sister-in-law? - Did Bhuvana come here? - No, she didn't She has been here since this morning Please come in Bhuvana Why did you come here without telling any of us? Tell me if that blockhead has left, I'll come - What, Bhuvana? - Her Uncle is here I told him she has got a job in Hyderabad and is joining next week He was against her working and said he'll find her a groom Why is he behaving like a marriage broker? Come soon I'll see you later My son is asleep and alone Selvi, deliver this basket in your uncle's house Okay Bhuvana akka - When are you joining work? - Leaving tomorrow night If you have any doubts, get it cleared right now After I leave, don't feel bad you didn't ask me How silly of me to say all this to you You need a special brand of guts Hey, wait Called me a coward? What are you doing? No...? Akka, why did you push me? What kind of new game is this? Forever listening to MGR songs Listen to 'king of love' Gemini Ganesan's songs too! I believe the opening scene in the movie is awesome - Shall we leave? - Where to? To the theater of course Should be half way through by now Oh! I see Okay, forget it We'll go for night show I believe this Bhuvana is going to Hyderabad tomorrow Why are you feeling sad? - Don't you know she likes me? - Did she say so? - No - Then? That's my question too She's confessing it to everyone in town Why can't she tell me face to face that she likes me? This is too much You're behaving like Prabhu in the film 'Chinna Thambi' - You think this is possible? - Why not? Listen to my voice of experience No girl will profess her love of her own accord - 'Why' is my question? - They just won't Suppose after marriage she doesn't get along...? Then she needs an excuse to say she never fell for you but you did Dude, congratulations! For all the times that girls have trampled over you, I swear... ...1st time you're talking sense! I knew it was a royal dig! Pugazh, look there - This is the right time - For what? - Express your love - So I should be the 1st to tell her? Don't waste time, go Kidding? You need guts to do so! Want to see my guts? Watch me now Sit down Let's see his next move I lo- What? Your 'dupatta' might get caught in the wheel 'She isn't even wearing a salwar and kameez' You usually wear a 'dupatta', right? That's why I thought I should caution yo- Thanks For what? You are drooling all over Kindly wipe yourself! What happened? Did you tell her? No, she's shy to talk in public She is shy? What did she give you? I have many kerchiefs like this - Did you tell her or not? - How could I? When I see her, I get tongue-tied Is this kerchief your way of showing your guts? Heights of love, huh? - What, Pugazh? - Tell me, Mudaliar Where's your councilor friend? Missing for the past 10 days Tell me what you want No street lights for the past 1 week I want to inform him but he's nowhere to be seen If you call the Electricity board they will send one of their men Why do you need the councilor? Of course I called them And I also went in person They are least bit bothered I'll check and get back Yesterday some of our girls came to the temple Some son of a gun made a pass at them Why are you looking at me like that? I was with you in the shop whole of yesterday Okay, Mudaliar I'll ask Venkat to meet you Pugazh, come here What, bro? They dug the sewage and left it open If I complain they give some lame excuses Water is stagnant here for the past 1 week Ask Venkat to check this out Okay, I'll let him know We all voted for him because you vouched for him How can he be so irresponsible now? We believed you and Pugazh and voted for Venkat - You took money and voted - Where do we find him? If you hadn't taken their bribe anybody can go ask him What happened, akka? They are lining up to get their daughters married to you! Where the hell is that Venkat? Where did he disappear without even doing this? Tell him directly What's the problem? All the wards in the municipality are giving free blender and grinder When we went and asked they want us to bring the councilor All other councilors are collecting the stuff responsibly Where is Venkat? We trusted you and voted for him Where do we go looking for him? I'll find him and bring him If he doesn't show up by tomorrow, you'll see our other side! 'Pugazh, this is Muthu here' Tell me, Muthu 'Where's Venkat? His phone is switched off' 'We haven't had water supply for the past 4 days' 'This isn't good, Pugazh' I'll find out and get back Where did he go? - Who? - Venkat Irresponsible! Besides pestering me on the road... ...now they've started calling me too Naturally they'll ask you You made him win He's busy with a zillion jobs He has to collect bribes from the shops Collect fees from the cycle stand and toilets in the bus stand Das is a bad influence on him Even if Das uses the restroom, he takes Venkat along! - What are you doing here? - We are just chatting Do you make fun of the girls who pass by? No, sir, we came by to drink tea Leave now, you can't hang around here He's jobless He'll show off only to us! - Why are you off-mood? - Nothing of that sort One look and its obvious What happened? No water in our area for the past 2 days Went to the municipality to inquire But no one responded properly They told me to go ask my councilor So I went to see Venkat We were just talking and he suddenly hit me Where is he now? To lay proper roads Rs 80 lakhs has been sanction- Venkat, come out How dare you barge in here! - Come out, I say - Wait, da We are discussing something important I'll join you soon You'll discuss whose pockets get lined to what % Come out right now How dare you insult us! (overlap of angry voices) Venkat, better step out Such a big shot he won't come, huh? Why are you coming out now? Go and butter him up Wait Making a scene as if he's in the parliament I told you I was coming And you started yelling I'll come over to your place and talk to you later Problem is you aren't showing up Everybody is hounding me... ...about how you're not doing your councilor's job properly He told you about the water problem and you hit him Don't judge me without hearing me out I was talking to the Commissioner And he barged in and yelled So you'll hit him, huh? If not for them, will you be talking to the any of these VIPs? I can't be defending you to everyone Come there and speak for yourself Keep your answers ready and come there (angry voices) We'll elect someone from our own ward You carry on They are angry with Das And showing it on me Resign from this post How can you say that? Do it You made me stand and win Now you want me to resign That's the main issue If you had won on your own, why would I ask? Now everyone is landing up at my doorstep My brother is also getting stressed out I'm unable to address their issues Listen, politics isn't for us Just resign What do I tell Das? Tell him what really happened Venkat is here I heard you want to resign? You think you can change your mind... ...like the games you play in the ground? Random strangers are questioning me I'm unable to answer them Pugazh also is asking me to resign The people are mad at me Not knowing how to react, I also accepted to resign People will naturally pester you But you should somehow manage You said the opposition was ready to grease your palm I gave you 2 lakhs You should've resigned then You were worried you'll lose your house thanks to your loans I paid to retrieve your house documents If you had resigned then, that's fair play If you aren't the councilor, I'm not the chairman either Do you know I've waited for 3 elections for this 1 vote? To become the chairman I sold all my property Including my wife's wedding chain and spent 6 million totally You promised the minister you'll finish the ground deal and you took money Now if you resign the post who will face his wrath? What do you want me to do? 'I can't do anything without Pugazh's consent' You come running to me when a twerp wants to resign! It's my mistake for giving you a job beyond your capabilities It isn't what you think, bro Pugazh is the main reason Venkat isn't willing to oppose Pugazh Already Pugazh is unwilling to let go of the ground and has garnered support That old man is hell bent on a court case If he resigns his job at this time, I'll lose my chairman post It's very confusing Don't know what to do That's why I came to see you - Where is Venkat? - He's in the car If Pugazh is responsible for all this, you decide what to do with him Next month when I come to Wallajah for the meeting... ...the building should be finished by then Do you get it? I'll give you time until tomorrow Tell me either 'yes' or 'no' Because Ranipet Shekhar has been asking me for a long time Only drawback, the kickback of 20 million will go to him That's all Bro, please don't make such a drastic move I'll clinch the deal for you 'TODAY' Mother, shut the gate Maaaa? Pugazh...? - Arasu - What, ma? - Come fast - Why are you yelling now? Pugazh, what happened to you? Someone hit him and ran away Who hit him? Balaji, let's take him to a hospital Balaji, start the vehicle Did you listen to me when I told you not to get into this? Do you know who hit you? Why? If you tell us we can take action No, sir I slipped and fell So no one slashed you? Honestly when I came out of the house, I just slipped and fell You don't intend telling us I'll pay that money- Doctor, just a minute - Uncle - What? - No need, Uncle - I'll just see him once Please don't If you want to do something good for him... ...stop seeing him All his classmates are working, happily settled with their families He joined you and is forever thinking about others' problems And my head is swimming with problems Please don't mistake me for saying this to you Practice of protesting for a public cause by collecting funds is long gone Today even an ordinary ward councilor comes in a fancy car You ride the same rusty cycle for the past 45 years And you owe money to the chap who pumps air into it Please leave us alone People are wondering if Venkat did this to you I think they maybe right He wouldn't have done that I know him very well Then he should have come to see you, right? Why hide? - Which ward is he in? - 1st floor, special ward I'll leave as soon as mother comes Where's Pugazh? 3rd room The nurse is changing his dressing Hello, Bhuvana Hey! Come on - How did this happen? - Nothing serious Just a gash Bro, this is- Come, bro - He wanted to see you - Please come - How are you doing? - I'm good I warned you about politics but you didn't heed my words See what happened At least from now on be on your guard I fell in love with you on first sight After that I felt like seeing you 24x7 Had I been in town that day... ...I wouldn't have let them thrash you What are you saying? You'll go daily at 4:00 a.m to your shop, right? Yes I'll set my alarm at 4:00 to come out to see you But you won't know I'm watching you You'll look at my house before you leave too I knew right then Some days you won't look at my house I'd really feel as if I missed something So I'll come over to your place with some silly excuse Where is Venkat? Where is he? Why ask us? He's missing from the day you were attacked Most people suspect he had a hand in this Don't talk rubbish Did you see him? The night you got hurt, we saw him with 'Canopy' Palani After that he just vanished into thin air Okay, sir You can take him home today - Bring an auto - Okay, bro Take that bag with you Okay, sure - Come fast - Sure Why get your hands dirty in all this politics? You've graduated in some subject, right? Either get yourself a job or take care of the shop Stop poking your nose into others' business Wrap up all this social service Palani, stop Pugazh Wait How will he stop? He loves chasing trouble! Go fast He's turning a deaf ear I know nothing Bro asked me to bring him home And I did That's all I know, Pugazh Where is Venkat? Tell me Where is he? Why are you creating a ruckus here? Wondering why I'm not lying lifeless in a graveyard and standing here? Next time you send your man make sure he does a clean job! Are you such a big shot for me to kill you? You are a trouble maker Wonder who attacked you! You wait You told your friend to resign from his councilor's post Maybe he got mad and tried to kill you - Go and ask him - You didn't instigate this? Don't play this political drama with me You think I don't know anything? Venkat has to come here by this evening, got it? Arasu, I won't be even tempered always Then it will be too late to regret Advise him Don't make it worse What the hell will you do? Hey! Get lost I have seen many 'wannabes' like you Stop this ruckus and go home Go Get down and go inside Pay the auto How much? Pugazh Come in Why are you dragging him like this? You pampered him so much and see the mess we are in! Attend to your work Okay, let go of him Let go Don't walk away like that Your husband used to rush to help people in need, no? Your son will also be in that same mess! Let go of my hand What did I do for you to be so upset with me? What more should you do? What other plans are you hatching? This mess is bad enough! Go inside Why are you pushing him inside? What happened? 'Open the door, anna' His wound isn't healed as yet He's picking another fight already! Ma, please open the door If you leave it like this, it won't work out - Where's Pugazh? - He's in his room My brother has locked him up Please wait, I'll go get the key from my mother No need, it's okay I'll come later I like your brother's courage and anger very much But I'm not bold enough to get my sister married to him No sir, you have misunderstood my brother I'm saying this only because I've understood your brother well Once he gets married he'll be fine You're saying this with blind faith in him But he's blind enough not to know his opponent Please don't get me wrong He was in hospital now If something drastic happens he will face the consequences But if my sister gets married and he gets attacked... ...won't her life be affected? I see your point of view But they are both interested in each other Attend to the baby If he gets married... ...we thought my brother will settle down in his life That's why we broached this subject If his fate is to resort to blows and bruises throughout his life... ...what can we do? Okay, sir Let's go Anna, 1 minute Please sit Anna, will you come upstairs? You are scared for no reason So knowingly you want to dig your own grave? Girls generally will want to marry a courageous man Don't be in a rush This is your life We must think a 100 times before we decide There's nothing to think This is my decision Are you happy? Ma, none of my friends drop by nowadays? No, they don't Call Balaji Okay, uncle Pugazh I'm coming, wait Where are you going? Why did you ask me to come? Ma, you lock me in and take away my phone Get the gate keys My brother and mother are driving me up the wall Don't go out, no calls, don't take the bike out If your brother knows you went out, he'll yell at me Ma, don't be silly Don't I know to jump over our gate? Open the door, ma What should I tell him if he asks? Tell him I called him out He won't mind That's the last straw! Pugazh, your brother might see you Come back soon Where did you go? Dude, let's go to the ground Uncle lifted me up Friends are all in the tea shop It has been really a long time since I went to the ground Just go - Listen to me - Give me your phone I've messaged all our friends to come here They will come now Fat hopes! Hey! What is this? Anna asked me not to tell you Were you twiddling your thumbs?! Vishnu and Das didn't spare anyone They threatened everyone Devaraj, ask your son to stop befriending him and making trouble You know what I mean! Then don't come crying to me I'm warning you because I know you Hit him Heard you call yourself Oscar Anand in town Who is he playing with? Ask him to behave himself Otherwise I'll arrest your son under a terrorist case and put him behind bars Das, are you threatening me by bringing the police along? Got it, right? What did my brother do that was so wrong? We are getting complaints of him teasing the girls on the road If he doesn't behave... ...I'll put him in jail under eve teasing We were better off They threatened your bro in the shop What does your brother think of himself? Just because a few pipsqueaks follow him... ...he thinks he can blast anyone? His good time, he escaped If you want him to be alive, I should never see him again Okay, Das, I'll ensure he doesn't mess with anyone in the future Your brother knows me only as a politician But you're aware of my past, right? - I do - Warn him then If he threatens, will you get scared? Today he'll build a factory here, claiming the water is good Then he will ask us to evacuate claiming there is granite under our houses Just keep gaping! Only because you are scared... ...they get the courage for more misdeeds If we strike back at one of them, it's enough Uncle, how did you allow them to build? They think if they build no one can do anything Even if they go to the Supreme court the case will only favor us If we wait for a verdict... ...it will keep dragging until his grandchildren run the factory In the court, the Commissioner, Tahsildar, Collector have joined hands with Das And claimed this is Govt land They are lying through their teeth They are thinking of this ground as an ordinary one The British played cricket here In 1932 in the Municipality layout it clearly says it's a public ground Uncle, are they building here without knowing all this? Of course they know But they would've assumed no one will find these records Will I leave it? I unearthed every single document The lawyer himself was stunned If we submit these records in court and get demolition order... ...Govt will bring it down without us spending a rupee! Then we can just watch with our arms folded happily Uncle, say something that's feasible please Don't get tensed Take care of the festival work Pugazh, you focus on your engagement I'll deal with this completely Hey! Stop Why did you come here? What were you doing all along? I can hear raised voices 'Wait' Our friends? I'm telling you to wait Venkat, where were you all these days? Think you're a big shot? You know who helped you to become the councilor! Take your hands off Who are you to butt in? Wait, let's talk to him (raised voices) Get out of here Get out of this place Can't you hear us? Just wait You came to check if he's still alive? You call yourself a friend! Hey! Wait Why did you come here? Let go of him Want to drink? When I said I'll resign, Das took me directly to the minister They chatted for a long time Don't know what they spoke Then they detained me at the quarry You told me to run over the old man and I did Before you hit the old man... ...he filed a habeas corpus saying that Venkat is missing If I release Venkat, he'll join with Pugazh and say he'll resign Then I'll be minus a job Your job also won't get done If you handle politics like this... ...not 30 but even after 300 years ...you won't reach the top, got it? Open the door Hey, get up Bro, leave Don't tell anyone you were here If anyone asks you, just say you went out of town Get it? Why are you staring? Do you know how much he has struggled to become the chairman? If you resign listening to some chap, we'll be really mad at you No one who has come into this room has left here alive He has to hold on to his chairman post That's why you're getting out alive Not understanding that, if you resign listening to some idiot... ...not only you But your entire family won't be alive I swear I didn't attack you I know We shouldn't give up, Pugazh This land is a cut above our own mother A mother will feed only her children and raise them But this land feeds and nurtures the whole town Only if we maintain and protect the soil where we played... ...our generation will be saved! On one side... ...greedy men demolish mountains and destroy nature On the other side, thoughtless men rake river sand and ruin agriculture Trees buried in this land many years ago... ...one fine day shine like a diamond But having been born and raised in this land... ...if we give up, how will it be? (loud lament) Come and eat Please come Lakshmi, attend to them Everyone will be angry They will be spoiling for a fight but don't speak unnecessarily (lamenting continues) Share with everyone How dare you swear at us! Leave it He said something out of anger If you allow him, he'll continue to talk What does that mean? If that man was alive, he would have submitted all the details to the court So you ran over him Looks like you'll blame me for all the 'hit and run' cases in this town! Das, why are you arguing during a funeral? He is spoiling for a fight Who is creating a ruckus? You think we don't know about the lorries in your quarry? Sonny, don't let your tongue run You think we aren't aware of what you and that minister's son-in-law do? Stop it, go now Let me speak, anna He thinks we are all fool- Take him with you Taking the common people for a solid ride - This isn't looking good, Arasu - You leave now, Das The support from his clan and friends is kindling his temper Not at all You leave If I nod my head, my men will chop your brother to pieces Then the funeral will be in your house! 'Inform your brother' What a prize catch! If your brother had seen this... ...he would have brought the roof down Here, chop him Hack him, I say Think we won't fight back? Threatening us at the drop of a hat! We don't collect others' money and eat like you do We work hard for a living Only today you have become the chairman Don't we know how you were before? If you were above board... ...why will he cross your path? My father hasn't given birth to a coward of a son Arasu, you told him not to shout and you're doing just that He only knows to threaten with violence and murder - You'll both lose respect - Get lost! You think you can get away with this? I'll kill you both Whom do you take me for? Clear out, you wimp Arasu, go home Pugazh, take him home Why are you behaving like this? How many times to tell you he's a dangerous person? Aren't you worried about our family? Is it fair on your part to do this with your engagement 4 days away? You go with him everywhere like a cow in the temple Won't you advise him? What are you saying, anna? I can't keep watching such atrocities and keep quiet Waste of time I won't talk about this to you again You decide If other people's problems are priority to you... ...don't come home Go away Go away from here You heard him, bro How many times do I repeat the same thing? Am I saying all this for my sake? I want him to be safe and happy He humiliates me Pugazh and other parties intend protesting in front of that building - is that right? - Yes, bro When they all joined hands and fought with me... ...I knew something like this was brewing When is this event? Sunday is Pugazh's engagement They are planning to protest on Monday We made this for the bride Selvi, someone is calling Pugazh Go and give him the phone Aunty, keep this - What? - Pugazh anna has got a call Tell me Anna, Bhuvana akka No need, bro It's very risky If something goes wrong, they will burn me alive I'll make sure you are safe Go ahead boldly How dare you break our leader's statue? (commotion) You seem to be celebrating the engagement like a wedding? Even the bride's family asked me this I believe their relatives are abroad They want the wedding to be conducted in Madras My brother wanted it this way That's why I decided to conduct the engagement in a grand manner Madam, call Arasu Selvi, call anna They want you in for the rituals Attend to our guests Greetings Where is your sister-in-law go? - Call her immediately - I forgot Read the engagement announcement once Anand Anna is calling you Get 2 litres bottled drinks immediately Sit next to me Will you just shut up? What is the rush? Do you know what is happening outside? They have literally organized a riot - Who? - Das's men It seems someone cracked their leader's statue So they are breaking all the shops They are coming this way When we are all here why tell him specifically? You have no idea of the danger Who are you? Why are you coming in here? Who the hell are you? How can you barge in? Keep quiet, dude Stay right here Bhuvana akka, please wait Catch him, Arasu Bhuvana, come inside We have enough problems and you want to call him? Hello You are so stubborn You don't listen to anyone My brother predicted this When everyone told you to stay calm... ...you went on fighting Yes, what do you want me to do? Won't you think about anyone? No, I won't Careful! Hey Anand! You want a feast lend us a proper hand My arms hurt Lower it down He's such a weakling! Place it on the ground Hey! Come and help us It's so goddamn heavy Just lift and go Let me go and fetch him Anand, don't pretend to lift Why this long face? From childhood I should've maintained my distance from my uncle and father Still brooding about it? Help us with the festival preparations 2 days and everything will fall in place I am trying to be aloof I'm unable to Do you know how often I have wanted to be as bold as you? I simply can't Fear The boys are coming here Don't let them see you like this They'll be upset and everything will go for a toss Das and the minister will have the upper hand We should retain our playground Think of a plan to save it 'Ladies and gentlemen' 'Tomorrow night at Wallajah bus depot...' '...a public meeting has been convened to elaborate the plans of the Govt' 'Since ministers and dignitaries will be present...' '...we request you to make it a special event with your presence' 'Our party's pillar of strength Honorable minister for education' 'Brave-Heart Mr Balaraman and our district collector' 'I request Hon'ble minister Mr M.Ramaswamy' '...to come on to the stage' 'My dear brother Das invited me to speak in Wallajah' 'I never imagined it would be on such a grand scale' 'If I elaborate on our party's achievements' '...we would be here whole of tonight!' 'When students from lower middle class strata of society need to study higher' '...they can directly contact banks which will offer loans-' 'To offer student loans to-' Pugazh went with a big gang and his friends to the playground And razed our building to the ground What do you mean? I got the information just now Round up all the boys 'I am very happy to announce I will make it happen within my tenure' Stop...stop That Inspector is looking for us If he nabs any of us he will skin us alive Call the others Tell them the cops are searching for us Tell them not to go home tonight Let them stay somewhere outside And meet up tomorrow at the temple festival venue Our people will be around The police can't touch us then Don't forget Watch your back Careful Be safe I trusted you and now it has all gone for a toss Look at them standing here like thick skinned buffaloes Till they demolished it were you sucking your thumb? We were out numbered 10 up against 100 They thrashed us like a tsunami and disappeared You claimed not 1 chap will turn up And you had chased them away Look what they have done now I thought they are just boys and my threats would scare them away Lamest excuse ever! If you had killed 2 of them... ...would they have dared to barge in here? How many of them? 100-200 good-for-nothing boys? Ask the Inspector to nab them I already did He's on the job I shouldn't have trusted you I should have done this myself I didn't want the Press and media to go on a 'ripping me apart' spree That's why I called you Now I'll take over Inspector has come Sir What happened? Not a single boy is out on the roads They have all gone into hiding He says this all the time If you file a case against them for demolishing your building... ...I can bring the offenders in And beat them up black and blue They will confess automatically Are you out of your mind? You want me to complain claiming ownership of this land? The title deed is not yet ready I'll handle that, bro Fat hopes you will! I'll bring my men from Chennai and rebuild in this same spot Let me see who will dare to barge in again! Brother...? Yes, sir I'm waiting at the High school Come soon Pull up on the left Minister has brought his men from Chennai to rebuild If Pugazh finds out, he will create trouble again with his gang of boys I can't face the minister's wrath With this temple festival as an excuse if we kill Pugazh and Venkat... ...they will be terrified of us We can close the file saying commotion during the festival Don't do anything during the festival Then? Situation isn't alright Superintendent of Police is here Problem will get aggravated, sir The minister is really mad at me I'm balancing it with his son-in-law's support If those boys cause trouble it's the end of my political career Please understand my predicament I know what you are going through Don't choose the temple as your venue When the deity is being taken on a procession in the streets... ...send in your men We will turn a blind eye Stick to the boys to be on the safe side I think we'll conduct the festival without any serious hassles Ask the boys to burst the crackers a little ahead of the procession Ezhumalai bought fireworks for just 200 bucks What does it matter where we burst? Careful, you might scorch your fingers I have told the priest to garland on our behalf Okay Why is he ignoring me? Oh gawd! Power cut all of a sudden Don't know what's happening Listen to me - Go inside - Brother...? They are building again in our playground They have pulled out all the electric cables Call the electrician Pugazh, someone has attacked your brother - Anna! - Venky Get some vehicle I told you not to get involved Did you listen to me? Heartless fellows! Call the ambulance, Pugazh Don't worry Get the car Bro, Pugazh is coming to kill you Watch out, bro Run...run away, bro Bro, leave the place Muruga, kill him Babu, finish him off Finish him off Kill him, Babu Don't hurt me, Pugazh He and the minister are responsible for everything Only because rogues like you hanker after pittance... ...they get away with their crimes Don't kill me You know why I did it If I hadn't someone else would have pitched in I've never earned a rupee in my political career so far They promised to settle me well in life if I clinch this deal for them Wanting a better life I succumbed Are we your target to satisfy your wants and greed? What do you think of yourself? You ruined our agriculture by robbing our river banks of sand On another side, you blast the mountains around our town You filled up lakes and ponds to build colleges On top of it, trying to grab our playground with your greedy hands? If someone opposes you... ...you'll resort to vile threats If we don't bow down once for all you'll finish us off You're so damn sure no one will oppose you I will make a new beginning The way I hack you to pieces... ...no one will dare aspire for another man's land assisted by harini '6 months later' 'In the riot that happened at Wallajapet temple festival...' '...due to lack of adequate evidence beyond reasonable doubt' 'Pugazh the alleged culprit and his accomplices' '...are freed by this Court of law' In this happy moment... ...I wish to share with all of you this heart-warming piece of news When I was elected as the MLA of this constituency... ...volunteer Selva gave me a petition asking for a playground here I decided I should do some good deed for the people who made me win The result is the foundation stone for this stadium today Pugazh has become a family man Anand, hereafter you are the captain You can treat- Don't shoot off your mouth How many times you've promised I'm the captain... ...and got drunk like a skunk Next morning- Acting like you are on cloud 9 Aren't you feeling jealous of us? He switches on his FM channel he won't zip his lips - His wife is 'All India Radio' - These boys are up to No good Go and attend to your work Pugazh, it seems he's the next captain "To Pondicherry by the sea dude, come and join our party" "No shortage of currency Pull up your collar high and mighty" "Not an ounce of worry No trace of fear really" "If friends support us we'll rock on with success" "Life is just a game Let's play to make a name" "If we strive high for a sixer we'll be Sachin the master blaster" "We are us" "Ourselves" "Lightweights" "No regrets" "Our antics" "Wildly surface" "King of our area in all ways" "We are" "Simply" "Small fry" "Nobody" "Our revelry" "Tomfoolery" "But we rule the roost happily"
