 

                        Since many years during this era on this earth.. ..our ancestors lived in peace and happiness. At that time from the locality of Aghori.. ..some Demons of the community of Vethal captured a location.. ..and placed it under their reigns. The Demons strength is much greater than humans. The color of their eyes is blue. When they are angered, their canines get sharper and long. The place where the Demons lived came to be known as Country of Demons. The Demons have captured 56 villages. Their king lived in a huge indifferent fort. Without his permission even Lord of death cannot enter it. In the fort king lived with his daughter Princess Yamanarani. But the king always thought about the welfare of his public. There was peace and prosperity in the entire state. Princess Yamanarani had many magical powers. When she would see an innocent and helpless person being troubled Then her anger had no limits. She would give punishment to the culprit.. ..worse than death with her magical powers. Princess married a Vethal. She had a beautiful daughter from this marriage. For the princess these happy days were no less than a dream. That was going to break very soon. The king appointed Jaltarang as his Dalpati. The moment he got this position he started showing his true colors. With the help of a priest.. ..he had done a dangerous black panther under his control. It started killing people of the village. The clouds of tyranny and oppression.. ..started spreading on a happy and prosper state. During this time only one person could help him. Our Puliveer has the strength of killing with the power of his eyes. Let me see whether he is able to save you or not. Oh God. Now call your Puliveer. Call him. Why are you laughing? Didn't you hear the sound? The power has come to save us. And you will die. Puli-the savior of the villagers. A great fighter. He was perfect in using all sorts of weapons. He was a strong man that could kill 100 enemies together. The enemy started trembling with fear on hearing Puli's name. Puli was none other than king's brother's son. Puli left the luxuries of the palace and lived with the villagers. So that he could work for their betterment. At this time a great happiness was about to come in Puli's life. Her wife Pushpa was going to become a mother soon. If there was anyone who could save 56 villages then it was Puli. Mother, why are they killing our brave people by tying them like this? Is it their fault or that of the kingdom? Dear, this is because of that new head Jaltarang. There are total 56 villages around. For years two prayers are being done here. One is Uttar prayer held at the time of sowing. And second is Paad prayer done at the time of harvesting. But after the arrival of this devil Jaltarang.. ..paad prayer never took place. Paad prayers need to be done day after tomorrow.. ..but it will not take place, son. It will take place, mother. Day after tomorrow Paad prayer will be done in Vindhyanagar. Till then I will stay with you. This Puliveer has not taken birth to be popular. But has been born to take care of people. The king and princess were totally unaware of the intentions of Jaltarang. Puli tried to tell them the truth through a messenger. That how Vethal army was torturing the public. The king and princess got worried after this information. Jaltarang became alert. He started getting scared that Puli might reveal his truth to the king. Immediately Jaltarang went to meet his unkind priest Kurvadi. He gave him a ring full of powers. And said.. I have done magic on the hair that you gave me of princess Yavanarani And by doing magic and penance in the jungle I have made ring with full powers. By pressing the ring given by the priest the.. ..green smoke started spreading in the air. That smoke slowly, slowly started moving towards the princess. Just as a bad soul enters someone's body and controls it. Similarly due to that smoke the princess came under the control of Jaltarang. With his black panther Jaltarang killed the husband of princess. The princess thought it to be a bad accident.. ..and held the cheetah responsible. Under the influence of smoke Jaltarang jailed the king. Now the royal palace was under his control. Now prayers were being done with great pomp and show in Vindyanagar. And then.. Puliveer.. You look just like a lion. Not only in looks. Don't get scared. They are not your children but mine. I will save them at any cost. If you put even a step forward then all children will be killed. Children are beautiful than heaven and they spread happiness. Which hell do you want to go after killing them? I can do anything to keep the rule in my hands. Till we are alive this cannot happen. Yes, this cannot happen. By your presence their fear has vanished. And that fear can be seen on your face. An unkind person has many weapons but a kind person has only one. And that is his people. That is it. I am going to kill you by your weapon. Even if a drop of blood comes out from children's body then I shall... If you want that no drop of blood should come out from their body then.. You will have to drink this poison completely. Without even a drop spilling and that also now. Hey, not only these children but even.. ..if you kill all the children of this village We will not let our prince die. We will not let him die. We will not let him die.. Mother, this much love is enough. Not only in this life but I can die for you in every birth. He does not have the courage to fight with.. ..me directly so that is why he is doing all this. Now will you show your bravery or drink the poison. Will you leave children if I drink poison? I swear. I believe you. Don't do like this. You are the heir of this state. We will give away our lives but you will have to be alive. Don't do like this. Don't drink this poison. Don't drink this. No son, no No.. It is the duty of king to save the last life, mother. Don't do it prince. It is your duty to listen to me. For the happiness of my people I shall accept death happily. If you go away then who will save this earth. You will save. Each one of you will love mother Earth Then there will be no need of a king. This earth is going to be mine and.. ..you are going to get mixed with this earth. Jaltarang, I am a seed. If you bury me here then another one will be born who will finish you. Dalpati, a son is born to the prince. You said it right and he is born. No, what happened? My child. Pushpa.. Prince! Kill this child. And along with people burn the entire village. The birds that saved the child were actually humans. They were cursed by priest Kurvadi. They knew that one day Puli's son would free them from this curse. They kept an egg with you and left you in the river. The princes Yamanarani wore the crown and became the queen. But actually Jaltarang ruled. On Jaltaran's request priest Kurvadi started a Mahamritunjaya prayer. Through Yamanarani on every solar eclipse He would sacrifice an unmarried born on full moon day. By doing this prayer continuously for 18 years Then she would be able to know all black magic. And if Jaltarang could make relation with her Then he would be the owner of all black magic powers. He will win over death and become immortal. And will rule the world for ages. There was sadness all over. Because of Jaltarang people's happiness vanished. At this moment a villager by the name Vimbhunath Was trying to get his village out of this problem. Once when he was washing clothes on the shore of the river. He heard a sound. That child was none other than Puli's son. Vimbhunath took him to the priest of the village. This child is in trouble from the time he was born. Alright, feed one leaf every day from this herb. Do not miss a single day.. ..as it will mean trouble. Be careful. I'm very thirsty, please give me water. He started talking! He is talking. From today, including my daughter, now I have 3 children The baby was named Magdhira.. ..and the talking bird was named Sura and he started to raise them. Hey! Father, the village fears in the name of the Demons, isn't it? Why has no one attempted to face them yet, father? You sound like a grown up man.. ..else as you used to be scared until now.. ..now that you know the truth you have many questions, isn't it? I will tell you. I bow to you King. All our left over grains and money.. ..is also being forcefully taken away by your people. We know, you have been kept in dark about it. Behind all the nuisance caused to our community.. ..is the hands of your Minister Jal Tarang. Isn't it your duty Mother Queen to look after and support us? I am Jal Tarang. I only follow the orders of my Queen. Vembunath was spared.. ..so that people would fear similar consequences.. ..if they acted against the Demons. Once when the folks of Wadyanagar did not pay the tax.. ..the Demon folks suddenly came to the village. Here take half of the money. My daughter please spare Pawanmalli. I will pay the full taxes from now onwards. I hit you! I was afraid that our Pawanmalli would get hurt so I hit you. Padmavati! The Demon's killed Magdhira's elder sister. She sacrificed her life for her younger brother. The head of the village Chinnavarma.. ..sent Pawanmalli for further studies.. ..to the neighboring state at her maternal uncle's house. Count the fruits and then keep it properly.. ..you can't do one task properly! Minister Sir, the demons have come to the village. Where is Magdhira? He is the only one that can face the demons. Leave, leave, leave me. Leave my legs. Sir, Sir.. Sir, forgive us. Forgive us. We are no good in your comparison. You are a Demon and we are just Humans. If you keep a generous heart and forgive us this time.. ..Sir, then next time we will stand in a long queue.. ..and pay off all the debt. Magdhira, here is the debt we have to pay. Magdhira's interference has saved you all this time.. ..because he caught my feet and stopped me.. ..but next time if you show any smartness to not pay the tax.. ..I will destroy you all. Sir, your name? - Vidari! Elder brother, Vidari, forgive us Vidari we.. Say, 'Long live' brothers. Long live Vidari. Vidari, forgive us Vidari Long live Brother ate goat meat.. ..and even the priest's cooked bread and chick peas. Brother, ate Goat meat and the priest's cooked bread and chick peas. Listen, just listen.. He has forgiven us and left already, Magdhira. He left! Magdhira.. The entire village is amazed by your bravery. The one who bows down also knows to strike when necessary. Today you caught the legs.. ..tomorrow you will catch the neck. That is bound to happen remember. Your blessings are necessary. I need a small help. Whenever someone comes to our village.. ..you ensure they reach here safely. Tomorrow is the big worship day.. ..it's also an auspicious day. My daughter Pawanmalli.. ..is returning to the village after completing her studies. Son, tomorrow early morning.. ..can you go receive my daughter from the river bank? That's.. "That's my duty too", isn't that what you wanted to say brother? Brother Makadhira, will Pawanmalli be light or dark skinned? She will be green! Just shut up and walk! How will we recognize Pawanmalli in so many people! Where is my Tarak Mangal.. ..she is not in the water, not on the shore.. ..may be she will come down from the sky. Beloved! Wow, she is so beautiful. Who created her? It's me beloved, your to-be Tarika. You are not a Tarak, you are a lotus. Mother told me. - What did she say? You have one moustache below your nose.. ..and one moustache above your nose. In this whole world who else can think of keeping 2 moustaches, beloved! After seeing you I have become.. ..crazy! He will become bald before that. Go away, go away from here. Friend, I will be right back. How's your business going on brother? Magadheera, I like that you are taking me on a horse carriage. Just wait and watch, there is more. Magadheera, you look even more handsome.. ..after growing a moustache and beard. You haven't grown a moustache.. ..does it mean you haven't changed? I shouldn't say this.. ..but you are a request from God.. ..and above that this sari. If you say more, I will kill you. Let it be then! Tell me, how is everything at the village? All is going very well. Yesterday itself our Magdhira caught the Demon's legs.. ..and pleaded him and saved Wadyanagar. What, caught the legs and saved the village? Why did he have to tell her that! I feel ashamed to say that I am the daughter of Wadyanagar village. Dorangi - Yes. It is futile telling her this she won't understand. Why won't I understand! Don't we have a brave heart in our village? Brother Magdhira.. ..turn the horse to the left and take a reverse.. ..we will escape from that route. Aim for the guy in center and catch his feet.. ..that's when we will be saved. He is right, first think of escaping from here. That's like it! Bravo! Way to go. In the story of the Lion and Goat, you are the Lion.. ..you proved that, Magdhira. Wow, he beat them all and chased them away. If you are so strong then why did you hold his legs yesterday? Even if an army of demons attack.. ..I will beat them to the punch for Pawanmalli. But over there in the village, everyone depends on me.. ..we have to bend backwards a little. The other name for bravery is self-resistance.. ..what can I do if someone thinks it is cowardly. Now, there is no need to be ashamed of.. ..being a daughter of Wadyanagar village. There are brave hearts there too. Let's go. The wait is over, Tarika. Now we will plan our big wedding.. ..and get done with everything quickly. Mother.. - Come dear. I am fine, mother. Father. - God bless you. Mother, we faced big trouble on our way.. ..but Magdhira saved us. We are grateful to you, son. It is my duty. Yes, father. Are you going to say anything? I cannot believe it at all.. ..the demon's sent by you were even better than the real demons. That's amazing. - Great acting. What a battle it was, they were flying around from everywhere. Magdhira, seeing you fight and your bravery.. ..Pawanmalli must have fallen in love with you, isn't it? She must have. If she hasn't, we will prepare for another round of battle with demons. Now what is your next step. North worship. Hello Chief Sir how are you? I am fine, son. Today it's quiet cold. Exactly. That is why it's important to enjoy the chill. I did not understand. - Nothing really. I was wondering if I could take your daughter to the mountain. Are you joking? - Joke? The weather is nice. I want to go and play. It was different when you both were kids.. ..now she has grown up. Malli, will you come with me.. ..we will go roam around a little and come. Here me out, son you leave. Don't waste your time. My daughter will not cross her limits.. ..and even take one step out of the door. Do you understand? Listen, look over there. What's this! She has no respect for her father. When did I not respect father's words? I did not even take one step out of the door.. ..I came out of the back side. I am going, mother. Pawanmalli How did you recognize me yesterday? By your eyes. When my sister passed away.. ..those same eyes shed tears for me. There's something in these eyes, something different. My father is rushing to get me married to that person. You have been in my heart since you went to another state.. ..how can I let you get married to someone else. Magdhira, there is some good news. In the last birth I must have done some blessings. ..my marriage has been finalized with Tarak Mangal. How suddenly? You are glowing to-be groom. You will have to keep one thing in mind.. ..you will have to be standing right in front and get me married. We will do it in a big way. - My honeymoon? Don't do that in front of me, please. Hurry up, it's just that you are young.. ..and you must have already thought of ways .to keep your wife happy. Share 3 tips with your brother as well.. ..so I can straight go to Tarak and impress her happily. You aren't going to tell me. Then can I ask you a straightforward question? Alright, ask. During the honeymoon.. During the honeymoon, milk and fruits are necessary? Why are you laughing, brother? Milk and fruits are necessary.. ..because you need some strength. Do it gently, she should not get hurt. Tarak Mangal is mine now. My lotus flower. I have been waiting impatiently for this night since so many nights. Tara.. - My beloved. Tara.. - My beloved. Sister, I have gate crashed in your honeymoon how do you feel? You are very shameless.. ..how many times did I tell you not to call her sister. I will beat you to pieces if I see her anywhere close to you. Get out of here. Sister.. - Move! Leave! Don't show our face till I have 3 kids. So should I come after the fourth? Get out! Get out! Why do you have to get angry about everything.! Son-in-law, what happened? What happened! He entered my wedding night room. A kid enters a wedding night room.. ..and sees something he shouldn't be seeing and gets scared.. ..how am I going to answer to his parents. Sister, shall I go sister? - Don't come back! Father-in-law.. - Yes, son-in-law. You take mother-in-law and go towards that side. I will take your daughter Tarak Mangal and.. Son-in-law. - What happened? It's just a cat.. ..it isn't an elephant that you are screaming. It's just that if a cat goes between your legs on wedding night.. ..it signifies bad luck. This isn't an ordinary matter. Come daughter Tarak. Father-in-law, Father-in-law. - My beloved. A cat crossed my path and messed up my wedding night.. ..oh God, what should I do now! Oh no, so when the cat went from between his leg.. ..Friday was in the 4th place.. ..the Tuesday in the 4th place was in the 7th place.. ..no matter what you cannot spend the night together.. ..for three consecutive days. - Three days! Mother, father what should I do now! Listen, is there not any other way my son is really anxious? How can I not get anxious, father! If you are so unstill here, what will you do over there. I will rock her world. She should say that. Listen, there is always a work around for everything.. ..there must be some way out for this too. You tell me, I will follow that quickly and go my way. So you want a way out? - Yes There is no way out. Son-in-law, wait for three days. No one will steal the water from the well. If necessary, can I borrow one bucket of water, father-in-law? One bucket, even if you take one mug, it will be a disaster. Move! You spoiled my fun! The sky is smiling Tightly in my arms The flute is playing Making a melody Fairies move around Colors spread around There is music all around And my and your love story And how innocent you are. And my and your loss And my and your win Your waist is raw Your wrist is raw Your attitude is raw Your ways of loving are raw Rise the love In my heart Beneath by eyelids. I will make you mine. It's a beautiful song And my and your love story And how innocent you are And my and your loss And my and your win They had the moon and the stars as their witness. Who is like our mother. I touch this great river and I pronounce you man and wife. Magdhira, what is this? You both got married already and now you are coming to seek my blessing? Alright, it's a moment of happiness. I will speak to your father.. ..in front of the village and confirm the nuptials. We need your blessings. Magdhira, you will have to lay down 9 flowers.. ..to Lord Nandanvad and complete your promise. Sure. As you say. It's you. While coming, I saw 4-5 demons on the way. So what? They were actual demons. Your father had told us not to dress like them from today. Are you serious? Magdhira, some demons have entered the village.. ..and are causing trouble. Come quickly. Magdhira, the demons entered the village.. ..they destroyed everything. Look what they did to my child, Magdhira. My child. Look what happened to my child. Magdhira. They didn't even see how old I am. Magdhira, what we will have to do now. Please tell us. Listen, listen, why don't you say something. Say something. Magdhira. The demons took away Pawanmalli to their cave. Do something, son. They went this way only, Magdhira. Magdhira, father, father over there.. Father! - Magdhira. Magdhira, I tried my level best but I couldn't save my daughter-law. Don't spare them, son. Don't.. I want to tell you about a secret.. First have some water.. You.. Sir, left you and went away.. I was orphan by birth. He raised me and kept me happy like his own son.. ..and being your son I couldn't do anything for you. What you asked me with love I could not give to you while you were alive.. ..I could not fulfill your last wishes. Father, wanted to tell me something before he took his last breath.. ..what was that? Does anyone know? We do not know, Magdhira. After our chief has passed away, only you can show us the way. Wonder why they took away Pawanmalli with them. We have been living like slaves.. ..only you can save us and my daughter. Your father was always quiet talented at disguising himself. You too like your father can disguise yourself as the demon.. ..go inside the demon cave and get victory. Listen Magdhira.. ..from today you are our chief. This job can be done by you only. I trust myself. But we normal humans have limited powers.. ..how will we win against the demons? I have a way for it. This medicine. This is no ordinary medicine. Where no man stepped foot.. ..this medicine has been taken out from special herbs of a secret cave. Drinking this makes the blood pressure high.. ..it makes the entire body very powerful.. ..and an odd intensity is developed. The strength that you will receive will be the same as the demons.. ..and we can too fly in the air like the demons.. ..and fight with full potential. But, there is a small trouble.. ..the potent that I have created last for just 8 minutes.. ..and after that he turns into a normal human. Drink and see. Wait no one will go ahead. Stay behind everyone move behind. Now you are not Magdhira.. ..consider yourself as a Demon and try to fly. You can do it, you can fly. Get up, get up, just like that. Get up. He flied without wings. If there is something that is not possible in the world then.. ..it has to be not to try something. This creation of powerful medicines by you has proved that.. ..everything is possible. Magdhira.. ..getting into the demon cave is not an easy task. Before that you will have to meet an old man called Machakuda. Only he can tell you all the secrets of the demon cave. It is said that he is 80 years old. - One hundred and eighty years! And one more thing there is a place called Kamini.. ..another demon country in the North side. That's the place from which the learned one's make medicines.. ..and once in 5 years take it to the cave. The demons suffer from blood illness.. ..and only this medicine helps them. No one knows the reason for it.. ..but this time no one has gone there since 8 years. So you can say that.. ..you have come to give the medicine from Kamini country.. ..and easily get into the demon cave. You can take anyone to help you. Dorangi and Samba will go with me. Sure, why not. He had told me that he would teach me how to love.. ..but looks like he won't let me have my impending honeymoon with my wife. Okay, okay everyone go home and sleep. We have to wake up early tomorrow. What difference does it make even if I wake up. My life is hopeless. I wonder what will happen. What happened, brother? Nothing the horse won't go ahead. He may be scared of something he saw. What did he see? What happened, Magdhira.. The people of the village had said that.. ..this is the invisible little people area. We will have to cross this mountain range soon. Where will be the invisible little people be? Let's just wish them greetings from all sides. Hello Sir, hello little people. I have a doubt.. - What? Do these invisible little people wear clothes? Since they are little, anyway they won't be visible.. ..so they may be unclothed. So even the women? What are you looking for? Demon, who are trying to fool? - Our king? Strike. -Yes. Strike on him. - Strike again. Now let me show you my aim. Give King Chakravati a chance as well. Is the aim right? Oh no. - Did it hit him? I purposely did not aim properly. - Oh great. Clap everyone. Look he has become unconscious. Hurry up, I am the King I have to reach quickly. Greetings! - Greetings! Now don't wait any longer. These demon's and talking bird who have come to wipe out us little people.. ..I command that they be killed by poisonous insects. If they bite I will die? Father, wait. After looking into his eyes, I do not find that demon to be a bad person. Let's make some inquiries and then decide the punishment. Stop rotating. Free their mouths. What to say King.. ..we are not demons. We are disguised as demons but are actually ordinary humans. We have come from Wadyanagar.. ..and the Queen of my dreams has been taken away by the demons. That is unfair. I want to save her to save my village land.. ..we are going to find the demon cave. Is that so? Soldier, pull his teeth and check. It's good that we did not kill them. Release the ties. Well done, dear your brain is appropriate to your body size. They are like small insects and making us dance. I am the King of the little people. And this is my wife flaming beauty.. And this is my only daughter Kamakshi. The demons are our enemies too. When they have hard drinks. They poke us with sticks and feast on us happily. They are evil. They are responsible for the low population of little people. Okay friends, how can we help you. I want to know the direction to the demon cave. What is the name of that person? - Machakotay No, Machakuda. Yes, we will have to meet, Machakuda We know him very well. You know him? He can see the future. No one else can tell you the path to go inside the cave and return again. Yes, exactly, that is what we want. We have very good friendship with him. Let me send my flying minister Albert.. ..and rust eating minister Peter with you. Thank you very much, King. Just because I am a girl you did not let me take part in the war.. ..but I shall go with these brave men. I request you to please give me permission, Papa. My daughter Kamakshi will also go with you. Thank you. Alpha, Bita, Kama, win the war and come. As you wish, King. Beta, this is the old Machakuda's house. Chief, chief. Chief. What's this? Why is the house moving? It's going up and down. Machakuda it's a tortoise. We called a human, but a tortoise is coming to us! It's amazing. Greetings Chief, I am king's daughter Kama. His name is Magdhira. He is in trouble. If you could help. Magdhira, only you come close to me. If you put rocks, you will find the way Throw rocks to find the way. If you change the name you will get strength. Write quickly. - Yes. Write, write quickly. Bed on Yaman is our fort. ..the cave is mine. Cave is mine. If he scares you, start urinating. You mean, if my stomach is upset.. ..will he give me a pail of water and send me out? If the sun will hide, snap the cain. The sun will hide, snap the cain. If you do all this in a correct way.. ..then you have chances of victory. Chances of victory? What will happen? Chief. He has shut the door. It would have been better if he didn't open his mouth. Dorangi, when a fool talks too much.. ..it makes little sense. When the wise speaks less, it makes more sense. Move your hands. Speak less, but a crazy one like this.. ..does anyone speak like that? He is saying anything he feels like. His bald head cannot keep the spit on it. It's slipping and falling on his face. You spoke nonsense and got yourself spitted at. Brother, our name will be written in history. I have heard of a bear spitting.. ..but for the first time a tortoise has spitted on you. I am very proud of you. Oh God, I go round about even on a small road.. ..how will I cross such a big dam! Brother, they have made half a dam in those times.. ..but earned money for a full one. Seems like they were corrupted. Looks like a road to hell. How are we going to cross it? This is worrisome. To make this will take many years. I have a suggestion. How about Suya fly's and takes us? He can take us but how will he take them? If you fall down, there will be no bones left. You are saying this to scare me? Throw a stone to find your way. Throw a stone to find your way. Is he looking for some silly thing? Throw a stone to find your way. He is rotating like the planes do aound the earth. Looking at Magdhira, I am feeling dizzy too. If my guess is right, I should throw is big rock into that hole. You can do it.. ..you have the strength, pick it up. Yes, excellent, excellent.. Alright, alright pick it up. The sound feels like the world is going round. It came down. Oh wow! I am unable to understand which direction should we go. He look over there, that is such a strange leaf. Magdhira, pick it up, it will help us to know the way. Kamak, remove the book. - Yes. Have a look.. Look it's written on it that if we make a pipe out of it and blow.. Then will air come out? - Don't make me open my mouth! By making a pipe and blowing in it.. ..a green frog will come and show us the way. What's this? After human's even frogs can show us the way? What difference does it make if a human or frog shows the way! Blow harder, brother. Look over there.. A green frog. The green frog came as soon as you blew in it. He is staring at us. Give me a hand at least. Oh God. Magdhira, don't hesitate to ask the frog the way. How do we go till the cave of the demons? Magdhira, don't scare him. Look, it is written here that.. ..a green color frog will come.. ..and if there is a man who has sworn celibacy.. ..and also devoted to his wife.. ..if he licks the back of the frog and asks for directions.. ..then the frog will give him the directions. Oh no, they are all staring at me. It was time to get cosy with Tarak Mangal.. ..and these guys are asking me to lick this frog. Don't think so muc lick it. What? - Lick it, bother. Hurry up and lick it. - Will you shut up? This is not some sweet given in the temple of God.. ..that I will lap it up quickly.. ..this is a snake eating frog. The snake won't be angry. - Don't delay this, do it fast. Lick it, lick it. - Taraka. Green frog, tell us where is the demon cave? He is showing at that direction. Oh, so is it this way? Green frog is awesome. Where is the medicine! No. Who are you? Who are you? What did you do with the princess? She is a princess. Tell me! - Who are you? Where were you when the princess was attacked by a Chetah.. ..did you go to pluck tamarinds? He is the Minister. He has saved me from the Cheetah. I am the Vethal state's Minister, Jal Tarang. It is my job to hunt the tigers. You all are? We have come from the Northern Himalaya's,.. ..from the country of Kangini. We are demons. Look, our eyes. I am the King of medicine and herbs of that county. I catch tigers and make medicine from it. Not by killing, but from the milk of the tiger. A medicine from the tigers milk. It is not only for you but for the entire community of fort of Vethal. Just keep watching how the medicine of this doctor works. Then I will take you to the fort today. Even if you don't take us even then we will come. We have done the entire search. There are only medicinal herbs and seeds in the bags. Why does a doctor need instruments? Keep it there. Magadheera, he took away the medicine of your power. Now you are just like a snake without poison. Now that we have taken up the challenge so will see what happens. It is so big. Magadheera, it would be better if you smile and speak. What is he saying? He is saying that your face should not show the fear.. ..even when death is in front of you. Who are these people? They seem to be very innocent. Then they will not do anything to us. Here. Who is she? A queen or a magician. Where have these people come from? The queen is asking from you. Three of us have come from Kangini state with medicines. Queen, I am doctor, Magadheera. Every month three people are dying of some disease of blood. You are coming so comfortably. On the way my stomach got upset. - Keep quiet. Oh God, she is seen to be roaming here and there in the palace. Tell me doctor. On her way the princess met them on mountain Baaj. Is he the prince who saved the princess from black panther? I have heard so. Thank you. What has happened now? Tell me why have you come so late? There was a storm in our Kangini state.. ..and the medicinal herbs got destroyed. So that is why we got late. How many days will you take to prepare the medicine? Make some story, brother. Yavanarani, first the herbs have to boiled and then strained. And then Vanpari leaves will have to be dried and grounded. I do not know all this. When will I get the medicine? I, I.. - We will prepare it in three days. Can you proof that everyone's disease will be cured with that medicine? What happened? Why couldn't you speak? We will make such a medicine that the disease will be cured. Okay. After taking rest for some time you can start your work. Thanks a lot Yavanarani. Tell me brother, how will we escape from this trouble? We will have to do something. What does astrology says, Beta? Good news is going to come from South. Astrology says so. Good news. He is our Sura, brother. There is Alpha has set on the top it. I got my medicine. At last we found the medicine. After seeing the medicine of power I am relieved. Sura, Alpha. Don't tickle. I feel ashamed. Try and change the medicine of power. We will hide the medicine somewhere and fill water in it instead. Magdhira, when Sura and Alpha had gone to get the medicine.. ..then got news from there. What is the news? The girl that they have kidnapped from Agyanagar They are going to sacrifice her in offerings. Pawanmalli. Where will she be? I can feel the heat of magical wand, queen. This is not an ordinary wand. It is a magical wand filled with 17 nets. Now I have just two days left with me. We are going to get amazing treasure. I think that is the jail on the top of the mountain. Walking like this and shivering I feel the entire fort is a jail. Will there be a separate jail here? Don't scare me with talks. Brother, does the queen have four daughters? Only one of them is the princess. Remaining are the servants. Don't kill me. You stay in front. Drink the medicine quickly. Drink it. Hide me. Please hide me also. What is this? There has to be some effect after drinking medicine. He is coming here. Go. I said go away. His one eye can be seen but where is the other one. When Magadheera showed his one hand. Why did the monster with one eye stopped I could not understand anything. How did you stop such a big demon? When a beautiful girl like you is near.. ..then a person gets strength in biggest problems also. Mother. What did I tell you? The medicine is at the bottom and there is water on top. I kept on saying you to drink medicine the moment you saw him. And you drank water from the top and stood fearlessly in front of the demon. Brother, I had forgotten this. So did I just drink water? Of course. Then how did he stop the moment he saw my hand. Only that one with one eye can tell about this. Greetings princess. Greetings. She is so beautiful. There is no one like her in our region. What are you looking at? Did you like my clothes? To tell you the truth I cannot see the clothes that you have worn. What did you say? Isn't it enough whatever we are tolerating till now? Don't understand it wrong, princess. I just wanted to say that your beauty put a veil on my eyes. Okay, you are invited for the dinner. I shall leave now. You came to have dinner with Yavanarani of Vethal fort. I am very happy. Start having food. If we want to have vegetable from that end. Then we will have to ride on horse and go till there. Leave that, brother. Look at the crocodile there. How has he been seated? He is dead but I am still scared. Don't spoil your stomach by eating useless things. For flying. Shall we also do like them to fly? What is this happened? It is our tradition to share happiness with guests. Let's do cheers. For flying. From where has the rain come? Hey, why are you making us have a bath if you want to fly? I am feeling very nice meeting Yavanarani. It is not easy to rule 56 villages. Yes of course. They are my people and I am, made for them. This is a matter of happiness, queen. Did you think I would say like this? People of my caste living in this Vethal fort are my public. What happened? Why have you become quiet prince? Exactly. Even in Kangini state we Demons are owners. Rest of the common people is our servants. You are right. Coming from clouds And becoming popular in parties. And one who dives in to dangerous things The one who brings earthquakes And have power to extinguish sun. And who have sky in their hands. Neither from knife or axe but you kill me with your eyes. Be satisfied by seeing me You will not be able to catch me whatever you may do. Coming from clouds And becoming popular in parties. And one who dives in to dangerous things The one who brings earthquakes And have power to extinguish sun. And who have sky in their hands. I am a river of victory. And king of the sky. If I lose then the world will be finished. You are strange and is full of pride. If you come near me then you will be finished. Mountains dance on my finger. Luck dances with eyes. No one has dared to catch me. I wear conch bells of mountains Luck is just a shadow in front of me. Just think how you will escape from my magic. Coming from clouds And becoming popular in parties. And one who dives in to dangerous things This throne is kingly And we rule the hearts. This love is willingness of God. This pride and richness is your thinking. The intentions and selfishness is of cheaters. This is my kingdom. And guard yourself. Or otherwise you may burn. Who has been able to stop the bee It will surely suck the nectar. Maybe in just a second you would be finished from this world. I am the queen of the lions. And I am a man in the battle. I am the untold story of victory. Everyone speaks about my laurels. I am crazy about the crown on my head. The talk of the way made of stones was correct. And the second is that if you change the name you will get power. That is a thing to be kept in the pocket. I don't know anything. You can meet it. Understand what I am saying. Bed on Yaman is our fort. By sleeping on bed of Yaman the fort will be ours. That means after Yamanrani sleeps on the bed That means after she sleeps this fort will be ours. Hey, king green frog why this injustice? It would have been better if Vethal would have caught me. Brother, just think it to be mint paste and lick it. Green frog, where is Pawanmalli? It is showing upwards. Oh no, is Pawanmalli dead? Stupid, she must be in the upper part of the fort. Did you understand? Are you scared? Okay, I will leave now. Malli. Pawanmalli. Your life is with me. To kill you they will have to first kill me. I will let nothing happen to you. 8 minutes are over and still nothing is known about Magadheera He must have got trapped in some trouble. On the day of marriage the priest had said that.. ..everything would be auspicious. Now I think my Tarakmangala will never be able to become a wife. Hey Dorangi, if Mangala dies then she will never be able to become a mother. But if you die then still she can become a mother. Keep quiet, black complexioned. - Okay. From the beginning I had doubt on your behavior. Tell me truly who you are. With what intentions you have come to this Vethal fort? Answer. Are 8 minutes over? Nothing, nothing just like that. You believed my joke to be true. Magadheera, fell down with just one punch. I am having doubt whether he is of Vethal community or not. Tomorrow morning bring him to the sacrifice place.. ..in front of all villagers. Have you given the power medicine? Just see the magic that Magadheera does once the effect of medicine begins. Doctor Prince Magadheera I am having doubts that you are not Vethal. Just by discussing you will not come to know whether I am Vethal or not. It will be proved with bravery. Just send your Vethals and see. You are just like melting ice Magadheera. And this Shani will trap you. I am melting ice in matters of love. But lion in matter of revenge. Puli. The medicine is showing effect. Very good. Listen, you have strength but there is lack of intelligence. When he is defeated then he is dead. The queen does not have any doubt on me. But these middlemen doubt me. Now tell with whom I should fight to prove. Shall I fight with you to prove? Or shall I fight with you to prove? Now enough. Tell me I can fight with anyone. Shall I fight with you or you? What is he doing? Why is he starting the story that is finished? Is there anyone who wants to fight with me? Can you fight with me and prove? I am not saying wrong. Not at all, queen. Oh ho. - What is it? The effect of medicine began 8 minutes ago. So our bad time has started. You fought like a Vethal and won. This was the first achievement. But according to the law here you will have to pass.. ..the test of cave to be a true Vethal. Time is being wasted in talking to the queen. If you win in this.. ..then I will undoubtedly believe that you are a Vethal. This is the cave to prove you to be a true Vethal. Sura, go and immediately give this medicine to him. In this Vethal goes from one end and comes out from another. Only a body of Vethal can tolerate this heat. But the body of a human will not be able to tolerate the heat. Do you want to see? - Leave me. Let me go. - Leave him. Leave him. Leave me. Brother, I can hear the death tune. I can't even hear that. - Why, brother? Because I am already thinking to be dead. No one can fight with the queen of this Vethal city. Great, brother. I have decided to get my daughter.. ..Manthagini's married to brave Magadheera. Mother. After finding the auspicious time I will announce. Magadheera passed the Vethal test also. Before anyone comes to know. I will have to kill Magadheera. Where is that dangerous man? Are you crying? Look, our Magadheera is getting up. - Thank God. He is getting up slowly. I cannot understand that why didn't I die in the Vethal test? How do I know? Magadheera. The washer man of Vethal fort wants to meet you alone. I found this leaf on the back of your bed. I have been eating this since childhood. Do you know what does this leaf do? This is a strange herb that gives you strength of Vethal from inside.. ..and makes you like a common man from outside. That means even I am a Vethal. Of course, you are a Vethal. Do you know who your father is? Your grandfather Karundev Nanadan came doing good to 56 villages. But he just made one mistake and.. ..that was to make that Jaltarang the head. And from that day he started showing his true colors. He started doing so by cheating the king and Yavanarani. This means Jaltarang made queen the puppet and kept her control in his hand. Not only this. In this game of Jaltarang even nature started dancing daringly to his tunes. Then is Sura one of the people who were cursed? That is why he speaks. Jaltarang acted that a black panther killed your parents. For 17 years he has been doing prayer without interruption. And this is the 18th year. Tomorrow is solar eclipse and it is the last offering. Magadheera. you will have to stop the prayer at any cost. If the prayer becomes successful.. then the entire humanity will be trapped by him and will be finished. Only you can stop this, son. Where has Magadheera gone? He is not to be seen. He did not even tell where he is going? What is this? You are keeping hand on elder brother. Are we trapped?-Yes. I am a dangerous devil. We are just actors of a drama so you.. ..can ask that person who has changed his form. Hey, you are just beggars folding hands in front of me. You play games with us. We also know how to wag tail for love. And we also know how to cut tails of those who do bad. I have understood some of this. By changing name I will get power. What does this mean? You have now become Vethal from Magadheera so you have power. Urinate when in trouble. I cannot understand anything. This means at times of trouble go for Vethal test. I went and I won. That's right. When the sun sets then break the rod. Now what does this mean? We will find out that also. Alpha, Beta, Kama you will have to go in queen's palace. Yes, yes we will go and will be victorious. Dorangi, Sama you will have to go in the jail. At any cost you will have to save my grandfather. Okay brother. Sura. You will take care of all the four corners of the fort. Sure Magadheera. Tomorrow's sun rise will bring a new light in the life of the people. That Magadheera went and met this washer man. After beating him harsh he told me the truth. Which truth? This dangerous Magadheera has come from.. Kangini country to destroy you and our country. Magadheera, you have come to destroy me. You complete the prayers. I will kill that Magadheera. So you have come here finding your death. Everyone else may run away fearing death. Even death runs away seeing the brave. Brother that on-eyed man would be inside. Why are you taking his name? I feel scared seeing him. What if he comes in front of us? Don't become so happy Magadheera. The head of this fort is in front of you. Head.. Listen, you are just head of this fort. I have come here to change your fortune. Come on tell me green frog whether we have to go ahead or back. We have to go ahead. Come on, brother. Magadheera, don't kill me. I will give you everything. Take away the throne, gold and treasure of this fort. But spare me. Spare me. Leave me Magadheera. Listen, listen to me. Just think Magadheera, even I am a Vethal. Just think.. This earth gives birth to brave people. There is no work of rebellious people here. Magadheera. By breaking this ring the mind of the queen will become corrupt. Her madness will increase. Then it will be difficult for you to save yourself. Magadheera..king.. Grandfather. I had thought that he would beat us badly. But he slept after folding his hands. In my eye I have the power to know the future of anyone. You are the blood of my king. I am his trustworthy. That is why even I was kept in the jail as a prisoner. Now order me as to what I have to do my master. Look Beta, the one who is tied there must Pawanmalli. Come on let's rescue her. Mother. Mother, wait. He is the son of your younger brother. Magadheera. Jaltarang has done magic on you. Even you do not know what you are doing. Magadheera, you can make my daughter a fool But it is impossible for you to make a fool of me. But mother. I'm, Yavanarani. I am queen of that Yaman also. Queen, wait. Hey capable child, according to Magadheera kill the person.. ..to whom I shall point my finger. As you order. What is this? We have been surrounded from all four sides. Dorangi! Our crowd has come. Very good, Sura. Attack them and save us. - Attack. Come brothers, come. Attack. What are you doing? Quickly pick me up. Be careful. - Don't get scared. We are Magadheera's friends. - Hurry up, open my hands. Hurry up and open. - I am opening. Open the hand. Magadheera. Wait. No. Give that to me. Give it to me Magadheera.. ..otherwise I will kill you. When the sun sets break the rod. When the moon will hide the sun then I have to break this magical rod. Give it to me Magadheera. Forgive me queen. To save you I will have to break this rod. No. Mother. Dorangi. Sura, you are free from your curse friend. I have given lots of trouble to this public. I will have to suffer the punishment for that. Queen, wait. The devil inside you is dead. From today you can rule for the happiness and betterment of the public. Because of me your family was cursed. I want to repent for that. From today you all remain happy. Stop. Don't do haste. Now my life is useless. Mother.. Look, no doubt you have made a mistake. But you did not make the mistake purposely. We all need your blessings. The community of Vethal has decided to go back to our dreadful island. There my daughter Manthagini will rule. I return you back the 56 villages and Vethals of my rule. Queen, Magadheera can be of Vethal community by birth. But let him live with us as a gift. Absolutely. That is why I announce Magadheera as the king of this state. Hail to king Magadheera. Hail to king Magadheera. Hail to king Magadheera. Hail to king Magadheera. Hail to king Magadheera. I have grown up among you all. Even after getting the position of king I am one amongst you. I will be the first voice that will be raised for the public. My goal is that everyone should get everything. Your happiness is my happiness. Hail to king Magadheera. Hail to king Magadheera. Hail to king Magadheera. Hail to king Magadheera. Hail to king Magadheera. How did they make Sama a dwarf? Not only Sama Dear not only him but made his clothes also dwarf. Only 11 days and one root I cannot tell more secret than this. Now you are happy Sama. Congratulations Sama. Invite me for your wife's baby shower. I will also come with children. Jhinglia, Jhinglia, call me home tomorrow. Jhinglia, Jhinglia, knock at my heart. Jhinglia, Jhinglia, call me home tomorrow. Jhinglia, Jhinglia, knock at my heart. By increasing my power call me closer. Announce this love. Let me lose my senses and place me in your heart. Draw curtains at night. I will not leave my stubbornness and move ahead. Jhinglia, Jhinglia, call me home tomorrow. Jhinglia, Jhinglia, knock at my heart. Yesterday night.. Where were you, where were you? I was with her. - Did anything happen? Everything happened without asking. An incident.. - How come, how come.. You are truly my darling. And now with you I shall dream. You winked and I was shaken. You did something about which I was not aware. My dreams just flew.. Jhinglia, Jhinglia, call me home tomorrow. Jhinglia, Jhinglia, knock at my heart.
