 

                        All you need is one guy or girl to stand up and say fuck this... and everyone goes, Voice of a Generation. Thank you, I've been thinking that. I never had the guts to stand up and say it... and all of a sudden, fuck this has a backbeat. You know, what John Lennon always said... say what you mean and mean what you say, put a beat to it... go. You only need 5% or less... to like embrace ideas and change it... you know, change the way people think all over again. There's always gonna be people who are artistically inclined who are gonna... somehow find something that brings them into the same room... where they're gonna exchange information and they're then gonna take that out. It becomes a lineage. These people find each other and this time-line grows. This is a public service Announcement With guitars Know your rights All three of them You're kickin' ass. You're doing something new... and you don't give a shit about fucking commerciality... and that's what punk is. It's really kind of a philosophical thing about how you look at some things. Originally punk meant, you know, a guy in prison who got fucked up the ass... and that's still what it means to people in prison. I think it starts with Brando in the "Wild One". The famous line from that of course was "What are you rebelling against?" And Brando turns to the camera and says, "What have you got?" The rebellious part of it was very important because... people get too complacent. Shake, baby, shake Shake, baby, shake And I think the fight against that complacency is punk rock. If you look a little back you see... it was in 50's rock and roll is really punk. Running across the mother fucking stage on one leg like this duck. Like doing this duck walk shit and some punk shit, you know what I mean? Go, my coccon There is your Mum's music and all of a sudden here comes Elvis Presley. Its always very important for like iconoclastic artists to upset things. Every culture, every century has a handful of these dudes. Guys and girls who go, "Oh no, you don't"... If you said, gonna crawl I'm on the road again The hippies were the real punks if you ask me. That was just as punk rock as anything... when everyone was against Vietnam and they were doing their own thing... and they were all having parties, taking LSD at Woodstock and all that. People were sort of united against the war... but they were united generally against the establishment. I always liked hippies, man. I mean this country couldn't go wrong with them. They're hippies. You know, they're not gonna hurt anybody. They just wanna get high, hear some music and fuck, you know. We wanted punk to wipe out the hippies... blow up the whole world of rock 'n' roll and start all over again. Too many tears dropped For one mind, to be crying When I was a kid they used to call punk rock... like, you know, like, Lenny Kay's Nuggets... you know those garage bands that he came out with... and that's what I thought punk rock was. In his liner notes he said... well, you know, some critics have referred to this as punk... and right after that you just start to sort of seeing that word a little bit. They were kind of like, you know, young kids, American kids... that were trying to copy what the Rolling Stones were doing... and some of the other English bands... and weren't really as, even as, professional as them. What I'm doing Yeah, you really got me now You got me bedside at night Yeah, you really got me now I mean I grew up with the British Invasion... but there was also really great American bands... that kinda got lost in the shuffle... like Question Mark & The Mysterions and The Standells and Count 5... you know Psychotic Reaction. You know they were very simple three-chord rock. I can't get your love I can't get affection Oh, little girls I got a reaction And it feels like this There is a school of thought that has Andy Warhol... figuring quite significantly... in some of the gruesome scratches that became Punk Rock. The Velvet's stood out from that whole hippie culture... with the dressed in black, the wraparound shades... the subject matter of the material. The literary influences, the sado-masochism, the drugs... it was so attractive and so alluring... and I just loved it because it was saying fuck off to the hippies as well. Opening peoples minds up to other possibilities... can only be done sometimes with rabid ideas. Your really trying to be polite about it in some ways... and saying "Hey, don't you get it?" And generally they don't... and you have to push the boundaries. Here she comes Up three flights of stairs Nico came and joined the band... and this was kind of the first turn she took in her career... she was a top fashion model. Everybody knows The things she does to please She's just a little tease See the way she walks Nobody understood it at the time... and that's where I suddenly got a different view of Andy... and that he had the vision of... of what PR really is and how to propel image. But the astonishing thing about Lou's talent at the time... was the literary background... but also he could sit down with a guitar... and pop up a song about almost anything. Hey, white boy What you're doing uptown? Hey, white boy You're chasing all women around But when their record came out it was actually listenable... and you know, to me, it was a beautiful record, I played it all the time. Lou Reed and his crew making this atonal music... coming from art and heroin and death in the middle of like feel good... that's Punk Rock. Kick out the jams, motherfuckers. Come on, go back That's me Feel pretty good Yes, I could get crazy The MC5 was part of an entire generation... that was in agreement that the direction the country was going in was wrong. We were the ones that were gonna have to go to Vietnam... we didn't agree with the way they treated people of colour in America. We didn't agree with the way they surpressed our cultural efforts... our ideas about things and we just wanted to be heard. Feel unhappy having a good time Doing all right Doing all right Doing all right Doing all right Yeah, basically our luck was cultural revolution by any means necessary... including rock 'n' roll, dope and fucking in the streets... that was number 1. We read in the Black Panther newspaper that Hughie Newton said... there needs to be a white Panther party... to do parallel work that the Black Panthers were doing. We said that's us, we're ready, yeah, let's go. When you get that feeling You gotta sock'em out Put that mike in my hand Let me kick out the jams Kick out the jams Gotta kick out the jams One of our songs was called "Kick Out The Jams"... and we cooked up this intro for the tune where Tyler would scream... "Kick out the jams, mother fuckers" and we knew it was a little bit wicked... and we're kind of breaking a taboo, gosh they said a bad word... but what the hell, you know, this is rock 'n' roll and it's all in good fun... but when they rushed the album out... the programmers heard the motherfucker and... they lost it, they lost it... and it effectively broke the back of the whole, the MC5's entire campaign. It's hard to think of today... when you almost have to say motherfucker. I mean, you're talking about people, a rock 'n' roll band, you know. We're on acid, you know. We're smoking 50 joints a day... you know, around, biting along with the bands for hundreds of miles... with James Brown playing on ten, in the car, you know. We had some friends up in Ann Arbour... that shared some principles with the MC5... sonically especially, and they called their band the Stooges. Gimme danger Little stranger And I'll feel you bleed Gimme danger Little stranger And I'll heal your disease I remember the first time I saw Iggy Pop... he was covered with oil and glitter... and everyone was kinda staring at him, going what the hell is this, you know? It was kinda strange, different kinda attitude... and he was kinda jumping around like a spastic, you know. Now if you will be my lover I will shiver and sing Primal beats, you know, slabs of sound... brutally, psychologically honest. Lyrics, you know... in a metaphoric, I mean, "I wanna be your dog", those kinds of things... things that he grabbed from the blues. Now I wanna be your dog Now I wanna be your dog I think the transformative experience that happened to Ig... was, and I was at the show too, he saw The Doors. Seeing the Doors changed them. They were mesmerised... what they saw in that performance gave them a whole new lease on life. I'm worth a million in prizes Yeah, I'm through with sleeping On the sidewalk No more beating my brains Beating my brains With liquor and drugs With liquor and drugs You know these were bands that weren't selling records, you know. Iggy claimed as far as he knew he didn't sell any records until he came to NY... and met this other, this newer generation of like The Ramones and stuff who were... completely informed by The Stooges, which was shocking for him. It seemed like a lot of the people who started the early... both the punk and the new wave bands in America... were the only Stooges fan in their town... the only Velvet Underground fan... and then we all moved to bigger towns and met each other... and started bands. Yeah, yeah, yeah No, no, no Baby, no, no, no You know rock 'n' roll had become this just be... denimed kind of drum solo... kind of thing, and what we wanted to do was to bring it down to 3 minutes and... put that Little Richard drag on top of it and... that's what rock 'n' roll was to us. You know... we were just trying to make rock 'n' roll. Punk rock wasn't even a thought at that time I don't think... but the seeds for punk were certainly being sown by The Dolls... and by all the bands that had come previous to that... such as The Velvets and The Stooges and the MC5. And your a prima ballerina On a spring afternoon Change on into the wolfman Howlin at the moon In England there was this thing, this controversy... because this guy said... what did he say, mock rock... which, you know I mean, I couldn't care less at the time... but I could see how it... kinda like galvanised kids who thought, like, this is the real deal... so what do you know, you old fart. Festival music from an American group like the Stones... like the Monkees were to the Beatles. A pale and amusing derivative. These are the New York Dolls. Who so fly up in the sky Faster than any boy could ever describe When I saw them and the way they didn't care about nothing... and that just really struck me straight away, you know what I mean. It was something completely different to anything else that was going on then. Every punk band that I knew in London, and I know all of them... they all had both of the New York Dolls albums. No one had told us that we had all this impact. We didn't know anything about it. Yeah, we would have moved to England and stayed here. When I say I'm a luv you'd best believe I'm a luv, L.U. V. I know that there's this thing, Malcolm McClaren managed The Dolls but... he hung around with this us for the last 2 weeks of our existence. We were like... we were going down in flames. Malcolm thought like what's the most shocking thing in America? They're really afraid of communism in America... so let's make all these red clothes and have a red party. And then for shock value... he put a big flag with a hammer and sickle in the back. They didn't sing about being communists... it was just there to irritate people and it sure did. It's so funny to think now that... you know, that communism in the States was like... was like child molesting, you know. So this was it, I mean, in America which we were such a hard pill to swallow. You know everyone was booing them. You know, "Faggots get off the stage", and you know and a lot of that stuff. We were number one man and we were way ahead of the pack... and then that's when we fell and broke our leg... and bam and everyone else just whoosh. The red and black leather show and that look was kind of the final blow. It's sort of interesting as that sort of marks... the point where glam rock died and punk rock started. As The Dolls sort of began to wind down and then eventually broke up... there were other bands coming in... that had been in kind of in the circle of The Dolls... and had been inspired by The Dolls and they started forming bands. In New York pre-75... the punk rock scene was probably just starting to bubble... but nobody knew it was going to be the punk rock scene... we were just taking notes from the MC5 and taking notes from The Stooges... and the cauldron was starting to bubble. You know everybody was so fed up with what was going on with rock 'n' roll... which was Deep Purple. These big bloated concerts where they did these organ solos for 20 minutes... or these guitar solos for 20 minutes. The Bowery was still The Bowery. It wasn't cleaned up yet. It was still fun and a little dangerous... and edgy and it was, you know, a different cultural social world back then. Also everybody was sick of the Vietnam war... which started in 1965 and went to 1975... so it was kinda like, you know, we don't wanna be political any more... you know, we want to kinda be about don't step on my blue suede shoes... which is probably the most political thing you could say... because that's about personal freedom. The Dictators are a kind of an unknown band... and they were actually the first. They came out in 74 with an album called "Dictators Go Girl Crazy". I'm a street walking cheetah With a heart full of napalm I'm a runaway son Of the nuclear a-bomb Handsome Dick Manitoba was on the cover... you know and he had this big afro and he was dressed in this wrestling suit... but inside the cover, if you pulled it out... there was a cover and they're all in black leather jackets... sitting in a White Castle hamburger stand... and that's when we said "Yes". We were into White Castles and pussy and getting drunk... and playing rock 'n' roll... and we're gonna spit out our culture and what we think is cool. I am the world's goddamn voice The world needs something to destroy You heard a lot about these groups often from word of mouth... and from other people on the street... and a lot of flyers were up... and then people were pressing their own singles, you know. It was truly alternative, cause it really was people doing it for themselves... because they wanted to express something. We were kinda like uh smashing those aisles you might say... the status quo of the guitar bass and drums... and we took them all out and then we had only two guys... and the name Suicide on top of it... and, yeah, we knew it was different. I mean Suicide were around at the time that The Dolls were around. They were pre punk, you know... and they were doing something that was so completely off the deep end. They were out like with their with their radiated glasses and radiated music. Alan Vega would come out with this motor cycle chain that was like 8 feet long... and Marty stopped playing and he would sing a couple of notes... and then he would start whipping the floor with this board, cycle chain. This completely frightened people out of the room. Bebebebebebebe He's lookin' so cute Sneakin' round round round In a blue jumpsuit I'd have to think that Suicide had to be a tremendous influence... on absolutely everybody. Ghostrider motorcycle hero At that time there was only 2 bars to play that played original music... and that was CBGB's and Max's. I opened in December '73 as CBGB's... which stands for Country, Blues Grass, Blues. I made it a policy the only way they could play here... not they could the only way they could play here... is they had to do their own music. That was the first time I had this new wave of what we call punk music... with the group Television, but they didn't sound good to me. I saw Television maybe 20 times... I think and I saw them, I think, in some of their very first shows... so I was, uh, really inspired by that whole scene very early on. There is something very French in a way for me about Television. I don't know why but... aesthetically they were very different... and their music could have extended instrumental passages... that would just lift you away and transport you somewhere. Jesus's dead to somebody's sin But not mine We had Patti here in the Spring of 75 for 7 weeks. She's one person who sort of really predates punk... as far as like being like an artist in her performance and her writing... and but at the same time she really informed punk to such a degree... and so she's very significant the way she comes in. I thought Patti Smith was the queen of the universe... I mean the number of times I've sat in front of, of her first album... turned up the all the way on my stereo. I mean I just thought this is it. This is rock that I've dreamed about. The boy licked Johnny Johnny wanted to run Johnny wanted to move But the movie kept moving as planned The boy gripped Johnny He whispered against a locker He drove it in, he drove it home He drove it deep in Johnny These records were not records that were what you would think as punk rock... they weren't sort of, you know, sped up Chuck Berry riffs... and it wasn't, it wasn't, you know, this, this kind of hammer... you know, punk rock recording thing, you know. These were more other worldly in a way. When suddenly Johnny Gets the feeling He's being surrounded by Horses, horses, horses, horses There was always an intellectual side to the punk movement. Many of those bands from that time... were picking up influences from the poets and the writers... that they had grown up listening to... Rimbaud certainly... and actually a big one was Jack Kerouac you know, "On The Road". I was sayin' let me out of here before I was even born It's such a gamble when you get a face It's fascinatin' to observe What the mirror does But when I dine it's for the wall That I set a place I remember Richard Hell walking in one night. Richard kinda walked in wearing these clothes safety pinned together... and Malcolm was totally taken by that idea of like anti fashion. He was very bright and he wrote "Blank Generation"... and when he did that and sang that with Television first... and then he started Richard Hell & The Voidoids... Malcolm saw that and took it back to London. I belong to the blank generation And I can take it or leave it each time Some of the safety pins and the stapled cuffs and things like that... were more of a necessity... of people actually trying to hold their clothes together. And then in London... we'd see these pictures of kids who called themselves punks... and they'd have safety pins all over the place. They'd rip the clothing on purpose... just so they could buy a whole bunch of safety pins... and put the safety pins and the rips all over the place. And then we'd have to hear about how they're... on the dole and they don't have any money. The Ramones were rehearsing down the hall from us... when they and in the rehearsal place... and Joey comes over and goes... "David come down the hall and hear my band", you know... and so I get down the hall... and they start, they play me a song... and I was like... "You gotta be kiddin", like, "Get a job", you know. I had no idea that they were so fabulous. I don't wanna walk around I don't wanna walk around with you I don't wanna walk around with you So why you wanna walk around with me? In the early 70's we discovered bands... like The Stooges, the MC5, The Velvet Underground... and later The New York Dolls. They're piling in the back seat They're generating steam heat Pulsating to the back beat The blitzkrieg bop Dee Dee had heard about CBGB... because Dee Dee, Dee Dee was a friend of Richard Hell. A few Sundays later we put Television in and The Ramones. They were worse than Television. One, two, three, four It was a really interesting set because our equipment kept breaking down... and we kept breaking strings and we'd get into fights between songs... so we hardly ever, you know, finished a song. I remember seeing The Ramones and hating them, I hated them. I walked out so pissed off that my friend brought me here... and for 24 hours I could not think of anything else but how mad I was... that this guy brought me to see this lousy band. The next night I was back. I'm a Nazi schatze y'know The first time I saw The Ramones... the whole set, maybe 12 songs... went by in about 16 minutes and I was thinking, like, what the hell was that. We were missing... the essence of rock 'n' roll... which was basically what we grew up... with the was the 3- minute song. What happened though was that because we were playing so fast... the 3-minute songs became 1- and-a-half-minute songs. Take it Dee Dee I can't stop it! As far as why we were playing so fast, that was the way we played. Hey ho, let's go Hey ho, let's go Hey ho, let's go Hey ho, let's go They're forming in a straight line They're going through a tight wind The kids are losing their minds The Blitzkrieg Bop They're piling in the back seat They're generating steam heat Legs McNeil and John Holmstrom had this idea that they'd start a magazine... and then they could probably get free records and free drinks... and they'd say that they were representing a magazine... and since they was no magazine that they could represent... because nobody cared about this downtown music... they started their own magazine. And John wanted to call it Teenage News, which I thought was a very stupid idea. I didn't realise it at the time... but it was from an unreleased New York Dolls record. I said ok so what do we call the magazine about comics... and fashion... and funny stuff. - Why don't we call it Punk? - And I was, like, perfect. We'll call it Punk. The first night we decided to do any kind of interviews... we went to CBGB's. Legs insisted on dragging along his friend, Mary Harron. And that was the night we met Lou Reed. It was the first time I saw The Ramones. The Ramones came out and they counted off the wrong song. One, two, three, four and they all went to the wrong song... and they threw down their guitars in self disgust and it was great. I was just like, you know, completely shell shocked but it was so... it was so, I felt like I was seeing something completely new. That was the night we met Lou Reed and I went up to him and said. Oh, we're going to interview you for a punk magazine. John said, yeah, "We'll put you on the cover"... and he said, yeah, "You're circulation must be fabulous. " I can't seem to face up To the facts I'm tense and nervous and I Can't relax I can't sleep 'Cause my bed's on fire Don't touch me I'm a real live wire And the media picked up punk rock... and started calling Television, Talking Heads, Patti Smith... everyone in New York was punk rock all of a sudden. Psycho killer Qu'est-ce que c'est None of the bands called themselves punk, or particularly wanted to be punk. The Ramones certainly didn't want to be called that. Unfortunately I think it was detrimental to us... as far as the straight media was concerned... because they assume we were a bunch of hooligans... and were kind of afraid of us. And the bands were so diverse... that I don't even know if that's what they were. You know some of these bands... I wouldn't have classified them as punk... but they have a punk attitude, like Television. You see I don't feel Television... but they are, I mean they came from the punk. Patti Smith, if you wanna take the lyric, alright... you know, some of these things in a sense are punk. The Dead Boys were more rock and roll than punk... but they certainly had punk lyrics and a punk attitude. Oh baby I need lunch When punk rock came out it was very threatening... and frightening to some people. Even Debbie Harry talks about when she would go to radio stations... people were like afraid of her because they heard she was punk rock... like she was going to pull out a knife or something. He don't Hang around With the gang no more So I remember one time seeing Blondie at CBGB's. I think it was "Heart of Glass" that they were playing... and it sounded almost like a disco song... and it sounded much more musical and much more mainstream... than any other of the bands that had played before... it sounded like something that you could actually start hearing on the radio. And what the major labels had done, it said, "Ok, new wave is acceptable. " Blondie, The Knack, The Cars... pink neck ties, snazzy suit jackets and all... but we don't want anything to do with punk. When the UK kinda blew up... which was immediately after really, or almost at the same time... there was a different vibe... and we were really, you know, my friends and I were really interested in that. Curious as to how, how does this same kind of thing... how is it expressed in a somewhat different cultural climate. My Mother called me and said, "Punk started in England"... and I'm like, "Oh, Mum". The political, social climate... at the time in the 70's was crucial to the formation of punk rock... because punk rock was talking about the dole queue... and the Winter of Discontent. The fabric of society at that time was, like, when we first started... it was, in our eyes, falling apart. We had the 3-day week, you had rubbish strikes. You know wherever you went, it was bad news. They were talking about burying people at sea, in the Mersey... because the grave diggers were on strike. I mean it was that bad. God save the queen The time was just right. It wasn't orchestrated. It was like all these elements of people... not being happy with what was going on at present. So I suppose that probably had quite a strong push for all of us to say... well, we'd better do something for ourselves... rather than rely on anybody else. God take the Queen She ain't a human being And has no future It ain't a string Well, there was no such word as punk at the time, if I remember. The first time I heard that word using in conjunction with what we were doing... was Caroline Coon, or one of these journalists... and I was quite shocked to be honest... because, you now, I thought we were kinda... you know, I didn't really know what we were doing. All I knew was it was kinda different from... the other garbage that was going around at the time. God save your mad parade 74, 75, 76, I mean the place to be, was, you know, the King's Road. It was the only place that was interesting. The one thing that would draw us to the King's Road... was Vivian and Malcolm's shop. That was the one thing you had to go and see and hang out in. I'd never seen anyone look like this ever before in my life. She had this white hair that... stuck out all over the place and these purple eyebrows drawn on. And I'd never met anyone like Malcolm and Vivian... because they looked so fuckin bizarre for a start. People like Vivian Westwood are a kinda social sponge. I don't mean she sponges, as in leech... I mean sponges as in, she soaks up what is going on. She kind of feels all the political and economic moods... and then translates it into her clothes and everything. The trousers all come with a line cloth on the back. Everybody wants to know why. It's just a line cloth... It's just a gesture of some kind of tribelism really. You could always point out that maybe it has some connection with the back... It goes right round at the back of the ass as well, I don't know. The first time I went into Malcolm's store here in England... and I saw these bondage pants, you know, that had... straps on them, where you were supposed to strap your legs together... and it seemed like the dumbest idea in the world to me. How are you gonna walk? What, just kinda bounce down the street? I thought nobody's gonna wear that... I came back to England about 6 months later... and all these kids with their legs strapped together... bouncing down the street. I don't think punk would have happened without Malcolm and Vivian to be honest. Something would have happened and it might have even been called punk... but it wouldn't have looked the way it did and the look of it was so important. Saturday afternoon people used to flip between Hackney Attractions... and... Let It Rock... and John was one of that crowd. We arranged for this meeting for him to come down to meet us for a drink... and he got the gig. He said, what are you called, and we said, the Sex Pistols... and he said, that's awful. It's so bad, I love it. I am the antiChrist I am an anarchist We'd been reading about the Sex Pistols in the NME... a gig at the St. Martin's College of Art. I think it was, the one where someone shouted out from the audience... "You can't play"... and one of them said, so what? We read the first... review of the Sex Pistols in NME. Don't look over your shoulder, the Sex Pistols are coming. And he said, "Oh look, there's a review here for this band in London... who do Stooges songs. " Nobody did Stooges songs. They do a version of No Fun and we thought oooh. And there's this fantastic line... well, we're not into music, we're into chaos. Which appealed to Howard. And it was those 2 things that kind of went ding, ding with me. You fill me so with this big temptation This kind of feeling Could destroy a nation But we successfully saw them twice the weekend we came down to London. February 1976. I said to Malcolm... "Do you want to come and play at our college?" About 100 people turned up... and I think we know that included... Morrissey, half of Joy Division and New Order. Apparently everybody in that audience started a band... all 7 million of them. Ever fallen in love with someone Ever fallen in love, in love with someone Ever fallen in love In love with someone You shouldn't've fallen in love with I can't see much of a future Unless we find out who's to blame What a shame The 100 Club Punk Rock Festival was a 2-day event... that featured bands like the Pistols, The Damned, The Clash... Subway Sect and Siouxsie and The Banshees. I think that my first reaction when I went down into the 100 Club... was I can't believe they've taken this all seriously. The formation of the bands was quite liquid, you know. One minute Tony James would be in The Damned... and the next minute, you know, Chrissie Hynde would... you know, we'd all be feeling each other out, seeing how it went kinda thing, so. Chrissie was in a early incarnation of The Damned... which she, she wanted to call it, Mike Hunt's Honourable Discharge. A charming name. I got a new rose I got it good Yes, I knew that I always would I can't stop to mess around I got a brand new rose in town They were more like an American punk band than the London bands... which unfortunately they didn't always have a great sense of humour. We used to jump from, you know, top of tall building to another tall building... to steal a flag, you know... or to get into someone else's hotel room to shit in their bed, you know. These things don't happen anymore unfortunately, you know. I remember going to see The Damned, I think... and I'm walking back with Mark P who had just started... was starting this fanzine "Sniffin' Glue". You've got to get it down there and shove it down... people's throats your ideas... and if it means being a bit violent, you know, it's ok, you know. "Sniffin' Glue"obviously was like the first Xerox copy fanzine. It was like an expression of our own thing... rather than the more glossy American magazines, you know. The first issue of "Sniffin' Glue" put Blue Oyster Cult on the cover. Then it had the Sex Pistols on the cover. Yeah, The Clash, The Damned and the Pistols were... all about the same kind of fame, stroke, notoriety... whatever you want to call it at the time... until the Pistols were lucky enough to be invited on the Grundy show... I mean, anyone could have gone on and swore. Joe Strummer could have done it. I could have... I'm very good at swearing, you know. You've got 5 seconds. Say something outrageous. You dirty bastard. - Again. - You dirty fucker. - Well fuck it. - And that's it for tonight. I'll be seeing you soon, I hope I won't be seeing you again. Good night. I've got to complain to ITV. I really can't believe the reaction that it had that... you know, people kicked their TV sets in and were outraged. The filth and the fury. I mean, you could never predict that that would go so ballistic. That's how they leapt across in the, in the old fame stakes... and they were the kind... that was the filth and the fury on the front pages and all this stuff. I am an antiChrist I am an anarchist Don't know what I want But I know how to get it I wanna destroy The passerby It went completely mad from that point on and we all like set off... I think the next day we set off on the Anarchy Tour. The Pistols, ourselves and Johnny Thunder & The Heartbreakers. I think we had like 16 dates booked and, as we went up the motorway... the dates got less and less... and I think we ended up only doing 4... and it was back in time for Christmas. Do you feel the publicity following the temps TV has been damaging? Or you think it's helped you? I don't think it's been damaging. Far from it. Whether it's helping us is another matter. You know, a lot of shit had gone down... and things came to a head between me and John... and I'd kinda had enough at that stage. Pistols Mark 2 with Sid, bad mistake. Nancy went over to England... cos Johnny Thunders & The Heartbreakers came over... and she was good friends with them and she met Sid... and it was apparently love at first sight. But they were really bad for each other, cos Nancy was, you know... on the dope for a long time. I saw that transition of what that drug can do to people... and courtesy of that Horrible girl, Nancy Spunge... I just saw him completely change. I'm too tired I'll do it tomorrow I loved the Pistols because of their... again like The Ramones... although in a very not American way... the Pistols were very incredibly reductive to emotions, anger... 3 chords, you know, just the kind of damaged... sound of rock 'n' roll being very reduced... was so beautiful to me. It became clear that lyrics were very important to these bands you know... they were dealing with... you know, every day matters... in a very... erudite and poetic fashion I thought... especially when you'd got to read... Joe Strummer's lyrics and things like that, you know. Steel shoes on the stone cold floor I hear the screws screaming In the corridor The bad news And the slamming of the door The what did I dos And the what am I here fors? I took my existing poems and read them at break-neck speed, you know... because it seemed to me that it was part of... part of the house style of punk was fast... you know, you had to be fast. There's a tower in the heart of London With a radio station right at the top They don't make the city beat They're making all the action stop A lot of the influences for the English punk scene were really... mostly home grown, really. The kind of glam bands, like the Ziggy Stardust... which was really David Bowie & The Spiders From Mars... Mott The Hoople and The Sensational Alex Harvey Band. White youth, black youth Better find another solution Tony James and I had a band called London SS. That was like kinda before The Clash... and we used to put an advert in Melody Maker every week... saying that anybody that was into The Stooges... the MC5 and The New York Dolls... should get in touch with us. Bernie brought in this kid one day... too good looking I thought to be in the band... and was an art student... and it was Paul Simonon and I thought... I looked at Paul and Mick together and I thought... "I've got to get out of this now"... cos I could see they were made for each other. It was essentially Tony James playing bass, Mick Jones guitar... and Brian James on guitar. And they formed bands like The Damned, Generation X, The Pretenders... and of course, The Clash. So don't complain About your useless employment Jack it in Forever tonight We started the first Clash album... we really didn't want to know anything and so we just did what we thought... we played our tracks that we had, a few tracks that we had... basically our set before we made our record. All across the town All across the night Everybody's driving With full headlights Black or white turn it on Face the new religion Everybody's sitting round Watching television! London's burning with boredom now London's burning dial 99999 Everyone sees the second record, given them enough rope... as a transitional record... and in that time we would go to loads of places we had never been before... and see a lot of the world that we hadn't seen before... and all that goes in towards our third record, "London Calling"... which is sort of like when we come into our own. London Calling To the faraway towns Now that war is declared And battle come down The Pistols were like really angry and loud and just yelling about it... whereas The Clash were angry and loud, but questioning about it... and whereas the Pistols would just like... scream about how, you know, something was wrong... the Clash would kinda say... well this is wrong, but what are you gonna do about it. We're a garage band We come from garageland I remember there were a lot of places that wouldn't let us play up... and down the country, universities... and was probably something they read that we had a song called "White Riot". White Riot White Riot White Riot White Riot They thought that we were some sort of National Front group... whereas really... the song was about white people getting up and doing it for themselves... as our black neighbours were doing it for themselves insofar as the riots... so it was time for the white people to get on with their own situation. Things got a bit serious after a couple of years... when Martin Webster's National Front... started coming to punk gigs and trying to recruit people. I think that's why we played the Rock Against Racism gig... just too sort of make it clear that we're actually... we're on this side of the fence, we're not over there. What people called the politicisation of The Clash... came from 2 things. I would say that Bernard said to us that we should... write about what we know about... and the second thing was the way that Joe was... and he was always thinking about things like that. Strummer thought about the world and the potential of music... as like you know, he's always making references to radio broadcasts... and, you know, this one's going out to the world. He had that kind of Woody Guthrie thing... or a kind of thing that Dylan had and Bob Marley had... and sometimes John Lennon had... where they were aware of that power, but weren't egotistical about it. And he had this sense and he knew and it was true... that something he'd think of in a small, in his basement in Ladbroke Grove... had the potential of affecting, you know, young people particularly... all over the planet. Know your rights These are your rights Know your rights These are your rights Well you're a loudmouth baby You better shut it up In July of 76 we went to London... and we played The Roundhouse. I couldn't believe it. I said, this is the audience that The Ramones deserve. This is the audience that this music needs. This is the other half. It was just like totally like... really short songs, really hard attack... no nonsense and it was just like... cut down bare to the bones, you know... and that was inspiring. There were members of The Clash, the Sex Pistols. Sid Vicious learnt how to play the guitar by listening to The Ramones... and just staying up for 3 nights on speed... and playing along to The Ramones records... and The Ramones were the one band I think that... the English punks kind of looked up to. And I remember saying to Joey, and he was like... "Oh, they really liked us in England"... but I was like but who cares, its England, you know. Why don't we just get? Why don't we have that? Why don't we have The first rehearsal I went to, we had hardly had no songs, we could hardly play, and we started with a Ramones song, Blitz, "Blitzkrieg Bop". Typical girls Get upset too quickly Typical girls Typical girls can't control themselves Typical girls The Slits were one of the best bands in the punk scene... for my money and again they were just so makeshift. We were different from other girls because of our lyrics... and because of our, the way we dressed and our attitude and everything. I need some money to borrow But surely I'll give it back to you Tomorrow We did not enjoy any other girl images that were around... so we stripped down all the conditioning and punk helped us to do that. We're emotional There was a scene already but The Roxy was where it all kind of... it was focused in on. Suddenly you had the place to play. The Roxy was really officially started on January 1st in 1977... with The Clash opening. It was a place where the groups could actually get up on stage... and play in front of an audience. Now comes the break up Make up From the make up Just like the devil's rain So musical. There was a disc jockey at the time, Don Letts. His record collection was heavily based on dub and reggae... and there was no real punk records around. It was Don diving into his collection and magically it worked. He would play the real roots culture rock reggae, the real dub... and that's how a lot of the punky reggae evolved later on. So reggae was the sort of sound track to the whole punk scene. At least it was in London. I mean no one would listen to anything else that I know of. It gave you an attitude that you could tag on to. That's how I learnt how to play, was playing along to reggae records. All the guys that were working behind the bar were living up in Forest Hill... with Don Letts, myself, we all stayed up there. Everyone always was hanging out in Don's room... cos he had all the records and stuff. Everyone that was hanging out there got in some band or another. I know Arianna came up there... some of The Slits would be up there. The Clash would be up there. That was the beauty of that scene. Everyone got a band together and everyone was in a band... and everyone you know was trying to get a band together... and you probably played with half of them. Oh bondage up yours Would they break up? Too be honest, I found some of the elements at The Roxy quite disturbing. Oh bondage up yours Oh bondage no more Oh bondage up yours Oh bondage no more I thought I was in hell down there. It was like going into the nether regions. Fifteen years For the guildford four Innocent people sent them off to jail We didn't make any money... cos the bar staff were selling spliffs behind the bar and not any drink. Certainly speed, I think, was the, the drug of choice... and when The Heartbreakers came over, they were all taking smack... and so, of course, everyone was in the toilets anyway shooting speed... and then when the smack came into the scene... that was, kind of punk was over after that. It only lasted 100 days; officially 100 days of The Roxy... because of, things went so fast in those days. By the time the ball was really going for everybody... it was just... it was starting to get a little bit cliched. Suddenly the whole country knew about it... and then everybody would turn up at gigs... with what they assumed was the punk rock look... which meant the safety pin in the cheek... and like a black bin liner for clothes... but then again, you look at the groups... none of those groups had safety pins in their cheeks... none of them had a bin liner so this was a whole tabloid thing that was made up. It became a little bit regimented later on... when everyone was kind of wearing leather jackets with studs... and Mohicans and all this stuff. Oh shit arse Arse Punk Rock itself actually got a bit nasty didn't it towards the end... especially with all the tabloid sort of... you know, all this gobbing, spitting, hate... and Sid killing himself and Nancy and all this weird stuff. For the small amount of people that... were really integral to the beginning of it... I suppose we had all moved on really. Punk inherently... was gonna have a short life span cause the beauty of Punk music anyway... was that that fact that no one could really play very good... and what happens is... that if you get into a band and you actually like playing... and you want to make music your life... or well we didn't think in terms of careers... but if you wanted to pursue that... then inevitable you got better at your craft. It is time for you to stop With of all your sorrows It is time for you to stop All of your sobbing The Pistols and The Clash... what was happening there, there was an energy there... a forcefulness there about what they were doing and determination about it... that really I could tie into... the same kind of cultural revolution and energy... that was in New York. There was a difference and yet there was a sense of... now an international community of thought. The immigration departament tried to protect us from them... denying them visas for a few days late in December... but now they're here and they're loose to Pommerland... They're the Sex Pistols, the British punk rock group... that began their first American concert tour last night in Atlanta. They had this whole hype around them... where they were the craziest band in history... and people were afraid to be in the same room as them... so the first half of the tour was cancelled... and they ended up opening in Atlanta... and the police kept warning them... that if they kept trying to piss on the stage or throwing up on stage... or raping any women, they're going right to jail. It's pretty far from what the reality was. They were, were not that crazy on stage, until they got to San Antonio... at this place Randy's Rodeo was a converted bowling alley... and there was about 2,000 rednecks there... who each and every one of them wanted... to personally beat the crap out of the Sex Pistols. They didn't help matters because Johnny was wearing a t-shirt... that had 2 gay cowboys having sex with each other... and the audience was just throwing full beer cans and food... and anything they could get their hands on at the Pistols... and the Pistols just kept going. Sid would take a full beer can right off the teeth... and spit on somebody and the crowd loved it. They'd just done the most successful thing... they'd achieved what every band wants. They came as a new band, starting in a couple of clubs... ending up the last day playing a huge theatre in San Francisco... to a giant audience and then broke up. Here's an interesting thing that happened. Punk rock. Boom. It comes out. Then the Sex Pistols break up. Johnny Lydon forms Public Image... which to me is infinitely more interesting than the Sex Pistols. You never listen to a word That I say You only see me For the clothes that I wear Some really interesting musicians came out of punk rock. Like they really wanted to do some music and all of a sudden... Howard Devoto morphs out of the Buzzcocks. He has Magazine, with a really challenging brew of music. Shot By both sides We must have come To a secret understanding They got a bucket full of grief from their fans... and you find out that punk rockers... were some of the narrow-minded people on the face of the earth. Talk about you grow your hair too long. What are you, a hippy now? And we found it in America. You try something on, you put a guitar solo in a song... the song is longer than a minute and a half. And all of a sudden, what's that? You know. Freebird? You're like... God, come on, give us a little room. No. My little girl was born On a ray of sound My little girl was born On a ray of sound We were very much connected with the whole English post-punk thing. I mean, it seemed to me they had, they'd heard the New York bands. I mean it was very similar to the punk thing. The Rough Trade bands... The Raincoats and The Pop Group and Gang of Four... and those bands were extremely powerful for us. The Fall, you know, from Manchester. I mean these were just different ideas coming out... that weren't just, you know, the it wasn't "Pretty Vacant". You can see See, see, see, see, see, see The new wave scene was probably best personified by James Chance. I remember I beat him up one night. I don't know why. He had 2 black eyes... which probably improved his looks a little. I'll tell you how I got started. It was one of the first Contortions gigs. It was in like this, this sort of hall you know... and there wasn't any stage or anything... and all these people were like just like sitting on the floor. And if there is one thing I can't stand, it's people sitting on the floor... at one of my shows... and so I just started wading out into the audience and... and pulling them up to their feet, you know. You gotta put me back In my cage And that didn't even seem to get them very upset... so I just started slapping them and stuff. You know, I really was just trying to get a reaction out of these people... and then later on we would have somebody who would come on and like... like drag me back... after I had been in the audience for a while. James Chance was doing his sort of James Brown thing... with people who really were, at the time, non musicians... and he like the idea of them making scratchy, scrawky noise. A satisfactory pleasure And it hurts more than pain I got what it takes To drive you insane By 1980 punk was really over because... one, all the New York bands got signed and were on tour... so there wasn't a scene at CBGB's anymore. Patti left the scene, Television pretty much disbanded... Blondie became new wave, if not disco. So, I don't know, I mean, at least, as far as I'm concerned, it was like, well then fuck it... I'll start a fucking band. And I wanted to challenge people... and I wanted to mess with their heads. I wanted to fuck them up. One, two, three, four. Theoretical girls Theoretical girls The new wave scene was, was really hated by most people I knew... who were into the punk rock scene. It's like, it was, I had friends that, it's not music, it's ugly... it sounds bad, it's like horrible. If you want to find what the sound of new wave was... it was truly DNA. It was truly the band that broke completely from everything... everything that was happening in punk and with Teenage Jesus... I mean, my God, I mean, that's just indefinable what the hell she was doing. A very interesting music, but not something you could really dance to. Alright, alright. - Who the hell are you? - We're the band. The band? Where's your instruments? What the... In New York, punk rock became really equated with hip hop in a way. And there was a period in the late 70's, especially in the early, early 80's... where those 2 scenes merged, hip hop and, and punk rock in New York. At least socially. Like with Rick Rubin getting involved with Run DMC... and The Clash getting involved with hip hop. You gotta fight For your right To party They had records, they had turntables. They found 2 turntables... you could take a piece of this on, and a piece of this on... and that was their instrumentation. Take the power Take the power Take the power Hip hop had a completely different attitude... because it really had its eye on... being really a communication tool... but at the same time it had no problems with going for the gold... and that was the difference I always noticed. Punk rock was sort of embarrassed by riches. Come back some day Back for a time Thanks to Glen Branca you have Sonic Youth, in my opinion. I mean for at least 2 years no one came to their fucking concerts. You know, it was their constant perseverance... and touring and getting records out... and ambition that drove them to where they are. And I know There's something down there sugar soul Back to the cross a twisted lane There something down there sugar kane But that was the point that labels just stopped paying any attention... to people who in the Sixties'd've been like Frank Zappa and Captain Beefheart. And that was when the music got very interesting to me. That's when, that's when the rubber hit the road... and all of a sudden these guys are going... "Screw ya, I'm going for the music instead of what you think... and what the genre wants". Now that the spiky hair has gone... I see that you're a well read guy... cos now you can do songs that show me you're a real artist. I can see that you're into different stuff. Oh you're a Dadaist now, ok. I'm very interested. By the end of, say... maybe mid 79... the only people playing punk music left... were the people who really wanted to be there... and so their was a big split... which means that punk went more underground... and got more intense more purist in a way... which is both good and bad... and more hardcore. The genre hardcore... it's American as, you know, fake wars and apple pie and baseball. Gotta, gotta, gotta go It's when that fuck yeah guy got a guitar. He does that in the 7:11 parking lot. What the fuck you looking at? That's his band. Ok, now he's got a guitar. Bands that I love, that I consider hard core punk... and it's probably the best way to say it... were bands like Black Flag, Circle Jerks, Dead Kennedys. They were a phenomenal band; they had so much to say. Zen fascists will control you 100% natural They've got this sick sense of humour that other people have... but they're not showing in their bands. What can I do with that? Plus, what would happen if I took the horror of Alice Cooper... but made it about real things that happen to people. Instead of vampires and monsters... police brutality. Soon I will be president Carter Power will soon go away California Uber Alles, California Uber Alles, Uber Alles I mean, there was punk and then there was more extreme punk... and people were calling it hardcore. They were surfers, they were skateboarders and, in some cases... they were very violent surfers and skateboarders... so out came the song, "Nazi Punks Fuck Off". Nazi punks, Nazi punks Nazi Fuck Off The Dead Kennedys also got tagged with that hardcore punk thing. Most people'd concur that it was kick started by the appearance of The Damned. They came here very early in April 1977... caused a sensation. The Bags came up. The Bags, The Germs, The Weirdos... The Screamers, you know. Another great band that actually never recorded... but was just one of these biggest... disappeared, undocumented legends of all time. They got me out of the pain The Screamers were one of the most important influences on Dead Kennedys. As I said, there was both... was British stuff influencing us... but also there so many things right in our back yard that are largely unknown. The Screamers show, I think... was probably my first punk rock show that I went to... official punk rock band, punk rock show. Mary Quant is not what I want How can I feel for Miss Emma Peel? Every scene needs centre... every scene needs a set of characters, a club house. I think, without The Masque... it wouldn't have grown, it wouldn't have flourished. There was, you know, a bit of... the glam rock fleet from West LA that coerced around The Germs... the art school crowd that coerced around The Weirdos. East coast, dirty cities, small, a lot of people, you know... people living high, stacked on top of each other. A lot of street crime, polluted skies... the ocean comes up to your ankle and there's a dead guy floating in it. To California, sun, fun, beautiful girls, surfing and punk rock. How can you have sun, hot chicks, surf boards, oranges and punk rock? A lot of people mistakenly think that, because it's happening in California... sunny California... where kids are at the beach, that they have great lives... but, you know, you can have a messed up life anywhere. From the East Coast To the West Coast Gotta, gotta, gotta go On the East Coast... often it's a little faster beat per minute... just cos East Coast people, like what like I am... we talk faster, we talk more... we're more in your face. "Fuck you" means "fuck you"... not, "Hey let's do lunch next week". It's on and the music reflects it. Agnostic Front could've never have come out of LA. Can't keep touch with you or me Gotta, gotta, gotta go It kind of went from punk, to the new wave, to the arty stuff... and we were really nothing about that. You know, we just wanted pure aggression. You know, we started doing the circle pits and stuff and slam dancing. Crucified Straight that arm Crucified for your sins Crucified Straight that arm Crucified for your sins Guys touching each other, sweating, flesh... pectoral muscles. Very homo erotic. You say, fellas, stop fighting, get a room. Get it over with. But lyrically now there was changes. It was bands like Minor Threat, coming up with saying... like there was a straight element... which they considered no drink, no smoke, no fuck, whatever that was about. The Straighter scene was coined, say in Washington DC... with the Teen Idols or Minor Threat. We don't drink, we don't smoke, we don't fuck. You know, it was, it was a way of self-control. It was a counter-culture to the counter-culture. Fugazi. It's one of, it's one of Ian MacKaye many bands. Lan had the Teen Idols. Lan had Minor Threat, which was a huge, hugely influential band in this country. Fugazi has a few things... they did and did not do which were huge. First off, Fugazi will not do an interview in any publication... that has ads that have liquor or tobacco in them. So Rolling Stone's like, pretty please, can we do an interview? Sorry. Can you do an issue with no liquor or tobacco? No. Then we can't talk to you. Time time time Forever time Black Flag was hanging around. They were like the 2nd generation of bands. They were... This was even pre-Henry... cos Henry was in Washington DC. This was... the first generation of the band. Keith Morris. We always had this like, go for it attitude, like... you can't wait around or somebody to do something for you. You have to do it for yourself... and I think a lot of that came out in the Black Flag music. At first Relax Get set Get your message from time Time, time When Black Flag started in 79... I think Henry Rollins joined, I think it was 1982... so Henry's comes into it. He's more an East Coast figure... you know... I think his punk credentials came more from the Washington DC side of it. There's songs about cops... there's songs about killing yourself, there's songs about depression... the women who leave, the car has no brakes... and we're flooring it and we're gonna hit something. So what? It's Black Flag. I walk by your house To see if you were at home They were the band that was smart enough to tour. Actually they got their shit together after tour. So that really helped them a lot. And helped us all a lot. Black Flag's going through; The Dead Kennedys are going through... the independent labels are all swapping records. Many, you know, independent distribution is coming along. America kind of ignites between Summer of 79 and Summer of 81 and bam. One night a band from Washington came up here... and they were a black band and they were playing. Well, they said they were a hard rock band, a punk band... and this was the Bad Brains. You see, I had people telling me I played hardcore. I never knew the fuck what hardcore was. I never even said hardcore in my life. I always thought hardcore was porno, like triple x, or whatever. The Bad Brains sound is a sound of punk rock from the Dead Boys... a combination of Ramones, Sex Pistols and Dead Boys. What you got in hardcore is the Bad Brains starting out playing punk rock... and getting faster. For some reason, if the drummer's bored, Earl... he want to go talk to a girl... he might play the songs all fast. I might be on stage looking at him, like... Dude, you're pissing me off. Man, come on. The next thing you know, it became and created like a genre, you know. The speed. The music is fast we want to try and play a little faster... but if the music gets smooth right here... we've got to make it nice and smooth. If the music is gonna get buck wow right here, then its got to get buck wow. Here you had Puerto Rican skinheads... you had Jewish skinheads, you had Black skinheads. Nobody is gonna get up on stage and be against anybody here... otherwise they would be torn off the stage and thrown out. I never really once heard anybody go "Nigger!" Actually it happened to me in England. A kid, we're playing England... and he said, "Fucking Yankee nigger, go home". Spit, spit on me and shit. I jumped down and punched him in the face. Punk was now on the news, in the news. Everybody knew what it was, or thought they knew what it was. Right around 92... everyone just curled up and... started having their stomachs scratched by Sony... and they kinda went and old people like me, are going... you know, "Back in my day we would've blown that up". And they're like, "Shut up, you old man". And I, "Ok". You pick up these punk books, you never see what's going on... between. They'll, they'll start like mentioning the Pistols... and they'll mention like DC bands like maybe Black Flag. And then it's quiet... and they always say that and then it's like nothing happened... until this little band from Seattle got formed and came the late 80's. It's like a secret history, you know. It's like nobody really knows what happened in the 80's... cause there's really not much mutation... of exactly what happened in underground music. I'll tell you what happened in those 10 years. There's bands like our who were having the roughest times of us lives... who believed in what we believed in... and still to date we're pursuing our beliefs... and everything and touring and putting out our records... but the crowds are a lot smaller, very underground, very true like always... but that's the core of the audience... the core of the people. So in the 80's you had this gigantic underground movement. Now eventually that, the underground movement would turn into... Nirvana, you know. I mean, Nirvana didn't sell 10 million records because... you know, they were so fucking great... which they were, which they were... but that audience had been building for more than 10 years. It was almost as if Nirvana had taken all the lessons of the past... and synthesised them down into their band and into their music... in a way it was palatable for the masses. The title itself... it's not about punk, it is punk. All of a sudden to have a band like Nirvana sort of come out... it, it completely was great in the way that it's very galvanised. Everything that had been going on in those 10 years... but historians can only look at it... as that moment... because they don't know really what it, where it came from. They think it comes from a void. It didn't come out of a void. Kurt Cobain and the Seattle scene tapped into a vast... chunk of American white youth... who were depressed, bummed out... and here is a guy who looks like them, comes from them... sings for them, about them and to them... and all of a sudden you have a Nirvana shirt on. There just were good, you know... and it was great because no one could understand what they were saying... you know, it sounded like about mashed potatoes or something, I remember. That's when MTV came along and really broke out. And I think they needed someone like Nirvana... who's actually a good rock and roll band to get behind... much to Kurt Cobain's displeasure because he ended up killing himself... because he had all these jerks hanging around him. He swung his guitar and the industry in one year had to go reset. You're dropped, you're dropped, you're dropped, you're dropped. You're hair's too long, you better cut it or you're dropped... and all of a sudden, Alice In Chains are signed. Soundgarden are signed. Nirvana. And they're all going multi platinum. It basically people who are... it's not rock inspired punk bands. A lot of what got big, especially through Nirvana... was punk inspired rock bands. Shortly after that is when bands like Green Day became million sellers... and bands like Rancid came out of nowhere... and that led to bands like Blink 182 and Sum 41 that we have today. Let's take some time to talk this over You're out of line and rarely sober We can't depend on your excuses Cause in the end it's fucking useless It was like ok... now the media has finally said oh punk rock happened now. Nirvana, Sonic Youth and the year that punk broke... basically was the doors... of all the major label, major record companies basically saying... "Come on in". Freakin' me out You wear a mask You're freakin' me out You wear a mask called Counterfeit, you're freakin' me out You wear a mask The core music to me is very formulaic. You have your breakdown section, a little rap thing, and a DJ guy... and like its all this and I want like this and that and "Dooh"! Because I'm a... And the crowds are bouncing. That's right It's freak, it's freak You're like, this is a no-brainer. If I was 17 this would probably be my favourite band... and the pay-off on those songs when that big guitar comes in... you can't help it... you're like, hell yeah, let's go wreck something. Punk completely changed my life. It changed my attitude to culture... it changed my attitude towards what was possible... and I think I learnt to go against the system a little bit. Punk proved to people and it is now ingrained in people... that what they thought was impossible, is not impossible. You didn't have to wait to start doing something. If you wanted to do it, you could try doing it. Punk rock gave me a platform to put a band together... and do it my way... and that was good for an 18-year-old kid. Kids are still wanting the same thing as they wanted back then. Something to express what they're feeling. They get all this information from MTV and VH1... and that's their history of rock... and they find out that, like, well it's like everything else. It's like school. You're not really getting the full story. They were introduced to it as a package. They... you know... the business turned it into a commodity, if you will. There's a lot of manufactured anger these days, if you ask me. When you can make a dollar off it... it gets uploaded into the cultural lexicon... the slang becomes your normal patois of the day. You know, grunge become... you know, Mom knows grunge now. As soon as Mom knows how to say grunge, gotta go. Back then it, it was very much considered an anti-establishment... and it seems that today most of the bands... that to form are, want to be part of the establishment. What they pay you for now is being stupid and making people stupider. It's easy for a young person today to say fuck you. I'm 43. I'm still saying fuck you. I'm like still pissed at something. You know, whatever you've got, I'm mad at it. Where's the political awakening? At this point on the planet... it seems that 80% of the people are fucking asleep, you know. Don't ask me why the cataclysmic state of the environment hasn't... galvanised and, you know, mobilised people into doing something. The more severe, the political landscape becomes... the more repressive... the more valuable that the imagination becomes. It possible that music is not really the expression of it... now as far as relating to world, what's happening in the world. People people doing visual arts, people doing literature, people doing film. You know, Michael Moore making that movie against Bush is really punk. Punk definitely had a major influence... in the eruption of militant anti-corporate activism... that first came to light over here in the Seattle protest. The actual whole Internet is a very punk idea. Because of the Internet... the record companies are losing their power to be king makers. You can go make your own records, you can go put them out yourself. You can build your own little website. You can do all these things by yourself. Fuck you to corporations, fuck you to branding everything... and fuck you to corporations having dictatorial control... over society and governments. Being able to look people in the eye and say fuck you. I don't care what you think. I'm doing what I want to do. To have that to hold onto is really important to move forwards. That's the whole idea... is to take the whole spirit and inspiration... and do your own thing with it. All you need is one guy or girl to stand up and say fuck this... and everyone goes, Voice of a Generation. Thank you, I've been thinking that... I never had the guts to stand up and say it. You only need 5%... or less to like embrace ideas and change it... you know, change the way people think all over again. It becomes a lineage. These people find each other and this time-line grows. Know your rights All three of them Number 1 You have the right not to be killed Murder is a crime! Unless it was done By a policeman Or an aristocrat Know your rights And Number 2 You have the right to food money Providing of course... you don't mind a little... Investigation, humiliation And if you cross your fingers Rehabilitation Know your rights These are your rights Hey say who I am sync; fix: titler
