 

                        200 years ago Bijapur Sultanate was ruled by Raja Hari Man Singh In those days the fear of ghosts and spirits prevailed in the hearts of people The most feared demon of all was called Saamri One day Raja Man Singh was traveling with his daughter towards Bijapur... ...when his royal chariot broke down How long will it take? Only a little while, sire - Where has Rupali gone? - She was just here Rupali, Rupali! Princess! What's she thinking of? This is Saamri's land! Don't just look at me! Go and find her! Go! Saamri! Cut him down! Kill him! Find him, find him! That demon came this way Quickly! This royal proclamation of Mughal King Hari Man Singh... ...states that Saamri using his satanic powers... ...has created terror in the state of Bijapur The accusation is that you unrobed young married women... ...and violated their honor You are accused that to slake your satanic thirst... ...you mercilessly killed young and innocent children... ...and sucked their blood You have fallen so low from the human level... ...that even Satan would shun you To strengthen your evil powers you opened graves... ...took out corpses... ...and... ...and ate them O, King, destroy this creature now! No! Entomb him in the wall King... I believe that this monster should be purged in pure fire... ...and thus be turned forever into ashes No, holy man This demon's head will be separated from his body The body will be buried in the ruins behind this temple And his head... ...will remain under guard in my palace, far from here That way, his head and his body will never be joined together I beg you, my lord, guard the head with this holy trident of Shiva Thus will all this demon's powers be rendered ineffective Hari Man Singh... ...I curse you! As long as my head and body remain apart... ...all your female heirs will die horribly in child birth And the day my head and body are joined again... ...will be the end of your dynasty! And so Hari Man Singh cut off the head of that demon... ...and kept it apart from the body The body was buried in the ruins behind Shankar's Palighat temple. The demon's head was put in a trunk fastened with chains Raja Hari Singh secured that trunk in the dungeon of his palace God Shiva's holy trident was put on top of the trunk A wall was built across the door of the dungeon... ...and the severed head was hidden from the eyes of the world A painting of Hari Man Singh was hung on the door And so the stories of Saamri's evil faded... ...into the darkness of the dungeon The river of time carried off the main players The faces of Sher Khan, Rajguru Balbir Singh and all the rest... ...became lost in the mists of time The flame of Hari Singh's life was extinguished After him the reins of the state fell to Prithipal Singh and then in the course of time, Raja Ajit Singh After him, Thakur Ranbhir Singh sat on the throne The dusts of time settled over the ancient palace... ...and it became forgotten about The pulse of life left the palace area and moved to the city This is the last remaining heir of Hari Man Singh - Ranbir Singh A grand and important man, even today But the fear of Saamri still prevails in his heart and mind Sir, these papers need your signature Give me a pen Have you paid the sawmills? Brother, dear Dayawanti, has Suman left for college? Really papa, what kind of talk is that? I've never done that and I'm not going to start now And that is why I have been rushing home I knew my little doll would be waiting for me You call me your little doll! But see how tall I've grown! Sire, the child has grown up Grown up! Papa what's the matter? What are you thinking? Nothing, my dear I was just thinking... aren't you getting late for college? OK, papa. Bye papa Bye, auntie I know the sorrow in your heart If only I could share it In this world, every father prays for his children to grow up But, me... I'm one father who hopes never to hear the sound of wedding bells Because of that accursed palace! So finally you come, your lordship! And I've only been waiting an hour What are you staring at? Just one close up You're getting obsessed about your close-ups! Naughty boy! Let me go... I don't blame you I wouldn't mind some of that myself Hey, dude! You're cruising for a bruising But why are you still just taking pics? What's your problem? Her father Doesn't he know about you two? Not yet So you're still only dreaming? Get a move on, chum Or you'll wake up and find yourself alone in bed Here's the dream girl How's Sapna? What are you gossiping about? He was telling me about his bed Bed? I don't get it... I'll explain later Hey Anand, coming to the club this evening? Yes Anand, and bring Sapna - I don't know... - Why not? I'll have a show of my own to watch I am already 45 minutes late The first question will be: Where've you been? What were you doing? Who with? I'm young and lonely You don't know how lost I am Thousands fawn on me but even so I'm lonely Yes me, yes me The moon and stars in my eyes who knows who they call today? Somebody please read their signs and come and bring me joy and more Become my... oh, become my lover, lover The business of the heart, only the heart understands What can you or I do about it? What is a dream and what is the truth? Who will know that here? Live for the moment, oh live for the moment, lover Papa, I'm back Sorry I'm late again I met my old girlfriend Nikki and she insisted I go back with her And then her parents insisted I stay for dinner Papa, have you eaten? Who is this boy? It's Sanjay, papa He's a really nice boy - If you met him... - You'll not see him again Please meet him just once. He's from a respectable family Ranbir Singh's family blood has not become so thin... ...that it can flow away in the gutters I knew it, Suman... I knew that your father's money would be a wall between us Even so Sanjay, why won't you meet Papa one day? I'm sure if he met you, all these problems would be solved No, Suman He'd just reject me because I'm poor So now I see how my own blood wants to shame me And how this man is now my mortal enemy You fool... If you burn palace lamps in a hovel... ...you won't get light, you'll burn the hovel down But if there's a fire, the must be some light Not for long In a poor man's life, even a brief light is worth much Today's love is not love, it's just the fever of youth How much? How much money do you want, to leave my daughter alone? Sorry, sir... ...true love can't be bought and sold You blacken our good family name... ...and now you argue with me! Teach him respect! Let him go, papa. Please! Stay off my friend! Come you bastard dogs, where are you running off to? We showed 'em I don't understand If Suman wants you, what's his problem? The problem's always been there, and it always will be I cannot ignore the heritage of this family But what about your daughter's wishes? This child's tears are not something that I want... ...but that vagabond will take her away from me forever But I won't let that happen I won't even let his shadow fall on her again Why can't you make this girl understand, Dayawanti Make her understand, or I dread the consequences Who... Who are you? I am asking you, who are you... ...that has for centuries cast a shadow of death on this family? How much more blood must flow? How many more will you kill? How many more lives? You can't kill her. You can't ever take my child away from me Papa what happened? Nothing, just go back to your room After today you will never meet Sanjay again And if he tries to see you, I will have him killed Don't just stand there, get out of here Those gone days I remember. Those stolen moments I recall The ones I spent with you, warm in your embrace That smile of yours, your blushes, the time of December, the wet cold What happened to those days, where did they all go? Only the memories remain Those talks I remember, the nights I remember Spent with you, holding you close Wrapping yourself around me, lowering your eyelids Still in my heart remains the softness of your lips Now you've started a fire I wonder where you've gone. Only the memories remain Suman, I love you Driver, let's go Something is happening to me... I don't want to die...! Save me! Please, save me...! Come, Suman I return your family's honor to you, sir If I wanted I could have made your lamp the light of my hut... But I feared that this flame might have burnt down your palace I'm going Wait! You may as well take this gun... ...and shoot both her and me What? I am not upset about my defeat, I am upset at your victory Because you will run from her once you know the truth The truth? What truth, papa? It's... It's a secret What kind of secret One I can't reveal But you must reveal it No, I can't tell you! I can't tell you... This secret is a curse that has cast the shadow of death on our family What kind of curse is it, to become a wall between our love? You have to reveal it Papa, my happiness depends on it Please tell us All right... Alright, if you really want to know... So be it Do you see that palace? That building is such a cursed stain on our family... ...that we could not wash it away... ...even with our own blood Every mother, every woman connected with this building... ...on the birth of her first baby becomes the immediate prey of death Papa, this is just a superstition It is not a superstition, it's the truth But, sir... Can you really believe such things, in this day and age? Look... I don't believe in things that people tell me But I've seen this with my own eyes! The day Suman was born... ...this curse... took away her mother Bharti from us Something is happening to me! I don't want to die...! What's wrong? I don't know, sir... - I can't understand... - What's happened to Bharti? Go and look! What's wrong? If, after knowing all this, you don't leave Suman alone... ...then I know that you don't love her but are her mortal enemy So you walked out on her? You loser What'll she think of you now? You don't understand Anand. I really do love Suman I can't live without her. Do you hear me? I can't live without her - But if you'd heard that story... - It's nonsense... Just a made up story Suman... What are you doing here? Sanjay... We must go to Bijapur Yes, to the old temple that's the root of all our problems No, Suman... It's better that you forget all about me For the sake of my love, I'm not prepared to sacrifice your life While I'm alive, nothing will happen to Suman I am here for you And if it comes to it, my life is yours You'll come with us? Not only me, but Sapna as well She'll be company for Suman - Does your father know...? - No... I didn't tell him... But I left a letter for him Brother...! Terrible news... - Suman is not in her room! - What...? But I found this letter there Father, I cannot live without Sanjay If this family curse is the barrier to our love... ...then we will return only after destroying it We are going to Bijapur To the old palace Suman I still say you should go back, Anand. This is our problem Why risk your life for us? You're asking for a thump, my old mate A friend is one who gives his own life if need be If there's a shadow on our family, why should we allow it to fall on you? It's no shadow... It's in your father's mind, now it's got into your head too What's up? What is it? A flat See mate, you need me after all! If this goes on... ...we might reach Bijapur in the next life! Just our luck We're dead Why's that? I forgot the jack I don't believe it! Don't worry my king! What do you think I'm here for? You just deal with the tire, and I'll be the jack Ranbir Singh! Now it's your daughter's time! She will suffer the same fate as your wife No! you can't do that...! Dayawanti! Take it away I'm afraid he's had a heart attack He needs a lot of rest In his condition he can't make the long trip to Bijapur This temple looks pretty old Indeed I don't feel like driving any more. Why don't we stay here? Alright, Suman? Yes Sanjay, I agree with Anand Besides, we're all dead tired Don't seem to be any priests in this temple I'm not surprised With 200 steps to go up and down every day Too much like hard work Look, Anand, this is odd What? This Shiva has no trident in his hand Right! With no priest around, someone must have stolen it Right mate, now we've met God, lets go and meet the saint What saint? Saint Food! I'm starving Mice are doing a dance in my stomach Suman...! What are you doing here? Tell me! What happened? It was... I saw... What did you see? I saw a corpse, Sanjay... With no head...! It was coming at me Sanjay it wanted to kill me You're talking crazy Sanjay... I heard strange noises Strange noises A walking corpse, and without a head too! Babes, there's nothing here You're tired and had a bad dream Looks like a local... He must know the old palace - I'll be right back - I'm coming Excuse me... Do you know the way to Bijapur? The palace at Bijapur. Thakur Man Singh's palace Do you know the way, sir? What happened? Strange man He was waving that axe like he wanted to cut my throat! Looks deserted to me There must be a watchman about - You two stay here - OK We'll be back Watchman! Gardener! Anyone here? I just saw a light over there - Where? - Over there Can't see anyone Let's go What is it? There's someone by the car Anand, who is she? Who are you? Say something She is dumb My mother... Mangli So who are you? Where is the watchman? I am Durjan, the watchman of this place Who are you? We're from Bombay She's Suman, daughter of Ranbir Singh We are honored After many years, someone from the family has returned Come, come inside This is the palace of her grandfather, Raja Pratap Singh This is her grandfather's picture And this is her great grandfather, Raja Ajit Singh... This is all very fascinating... But I really need sleep I'm sleepy too And here is Hari Man Singh, your grandfather's, grandfather What's up? I feel drawn towards that painting... Like he's trying to tell me something Really? Come Come on, Suman Have a good night? Great fun Lying on the royal bed I dreamt royal dreams all night long Me king of kings and Sapna my queen of beauty Suman! What is it? You! Why are you here? Food! It must be cooked Oven must be lit Durjan called me, so I came What's wrong, boss? Did you ask that man to come? Why? Without wood how will we cook? And he brings wood for the village Don't ask him here again, understand? Let's go What a beautiful lake! What a lovely place! And in such a place... ...instead of talking love, the fool is working out! Do you have to do that? Take a break Now stop it or I'm going I'm coming, miss So, what's up? Nothing at all If you come any closer... ...I might melt like candle wax Until only the wick is left You just don't understand These days it's really important to keep the body fit Always thinking of your body, never of me! If I think about you, the Indian population might explode What kind of talk's that?! - I'm off - Where? To Hell This is a jungle, not hell, some bear will eat you Big deal More fun than watching you do press-ups OK, go then, go on... Just remember to call if you need me Let me go! Sons of mice! How many men were they? I am asking you - how many were they? Just one, sire Him, one man! And six of you! Yet you return without the girl! Shame on you! Sons of pigs...! So tell me, how much reward... ...has the Sardar put on my head? Now you've made my name mud! But punishment will come... It will certainly come People are killed by bullets But I am going to kill you by making you eat bullets! I am going to kill you by feeding you bullets What will I do? Feed you bullets! But these are laxative pills Last year 12 were fed to two men They are still wandering the jungle with their pots! Clever, very clever That is all very well sir, but what will come of Murtar Singh? Murtar Singh? You have grown old, but still you sway A lot of strength in your legs, a lot of strength in the legs Give me Murtar's Singh's legs! Bring me his legs! Sardar why are you having studs put in your shoes? To squash Machar Singh He cut off my arms My name is Murtar Singh He has woken the flame of revenge in me I will beat him with my studded shoes Machar! Give me those hands! Your hands! Sardar, I have been robbed, destroyed What's wrong, Basanti? How can I tell you? I'm too ashamed to tell you If you're too ashamed to tell me, I won't be able to do justice That scoundrel, he dishonored me You mean rape! Rape. And this is the second time Who was it this time? Who else in this village except that rogue Machar? Second time! Stung by Machar a second time! Sardar if he does it again, we'll have a malaria epidemic! There'll be no epidemic We'll spray DD We will kill Machar with insecticide Make that proclamation! Shall I lay the table? Please Durjan... What do you know about this palace? It's a mysterious place, sire I've heard stories about it from my father and grandfather In the time of Hari Man Singh there was a dreadful incident... ...which still casts a shadow over this palace The tribals believe... there's a link between this palace and the ancient temple of Palighat You...? Here...? Put it down and go Put it down and go Those town folk were asking questions about the palace What do you think they're looking for? I know everything Everything...! They have come to find the treasure that's buried here somewhere Whenever I mention the treasure, your mother goes crazy My mother knows a lot about this old palace But she can't tell us, because she is dumb But I have told you many times, there's treasure in this palace, there is What makes you so certain there's anything here? If there was no treasure... ...why would they come to this lonely, desolate place? Let's take a photo of you two It's supposed to be romantic - get closer I'm too embarrassed to look in the camera Mate, have you hooked one yet? The fish here are too clever, they don't want to bite What's she saying? I think she's saying, she'll catch the fish for you - How'll she do that? - She's gone Now you're for it Let's go We don't need these fish, we can go to the market I am hungry, bring me food, food, FOOD... Is this a fish or a crocodile? Suman has brought this crocodile from the market... ...to put you off going fishing for yourself! Anand, the female race are always suspicious Rightly so Suman come down, the food is getting cold Take those photos later Coming...! That was the last photo What's wrong? The picture... What's wrong with it? Nothing at all Suman, the food's getting cold What is it? That painting... I saw a horrible face His head was cut off and blood dripping from his neck You're something else In the temple you saw a body with no head And here you see a head with no body A pretty good tale! Don't you believe me? Come on, let's go and eat Who's sitting on this donkey? It's not a donkey, it's a race horse There's a 15,000 rupee reward on his head And you'll catch him? Of course After coming all this way, might as well make some dough Watch, in two days I will grab this ass from his donkey On the river bank, Nandlal teases me It's Basanti...! The pot is broken...! Broken! Let me go. I beg you, let me go Do you beg of me, or wink at me? I won't even touch you. See, I have let you go But I will watch you dance Dance? I don't know how to dance Listen doll, don't try to be clever with me What is this? Is this an arm or an elephant's trunk? I'm taking you to Sardar, Machar Singh I will turn you in and get the 15,000 reward But what will I get? A rope around your neck Bring the bastard here I have come of my own free will... Machar Singh! - Yes, cripple...? - You've committed terrible crimes But some fun ones too! Isn't that true, Basanti? You abandoned the young and nubile village girls Broke their hearts Turned your face from them And formed a relationship with 70 year old Basanti! Whether Basanti is 70 or 16... ...in the country where Ganges flows she'll always be moist You're about to be hung, so stop beating about the bush I am beating about the bush, but I'm not beating anything else, am I? I will beat you so much that your love engine will shut down Take him off to the gallows now! Who are you to force me up the gallows? I'll go by myself There's no gallows in the world strong enough to hang me! Stop, baldie! I was having a conversation, how did you get in the middle? Wait for me, Basanti! He's run away! And so should you When I catch him again... ...I'll stamp on both your bodies with my studded shoes Who are you? Think you're Sunny Deol? I was really angry with that man. I was going to wring his neck Who are you, my savior? Please remove your hood. Show me your face You! You arrested me and now you... And now I freed you Why? It's a business, mate What kind of business? Let me hear it as well Look, I capture you and get the reward... ...free you, capture you again, get another reward and so on And what about my share of this reward? And 75 percent to you? Shall I take you to Sardar? Who'll save you then? You drive a hard bargain Agree or not? I mean, 25 percent. Alright. I agree, I agree... Now you're being sensible. Here's your share That demon wants to kill me...! Get me away from here...! No, Suman. No We came to Bijapur to prove something There is no evil curse It's just a trick to scare us off Who's responsible for this? Answer me Answer me Answer me, Durjan! You can't deny what your own eyes see, master This is not a trick by a human but a manifestation of a demon If you really want to understand this... ...you must ask the villagers to help Bijli, I need to talk to you... But you must put some clothes on I understand Hindi, these ARE my clothes Come and get me Will you stay with me? I want to keep you Keep...? But first you... Is this what you came all the way from Bombay for? It's very important that I talk with Bijli At least now I know what's important to you Are you coming with me or staying with this jungle slut? Suman, I told you, it's important that I talk to Bijli Then she's obviously much more important to you... ...than me! Let's go, Bijli Enough Bijli... I can't drink any more I was already drunk from your lovely eyes You have only drunk from my eyes... When your lips are pressed against my lips... ...then your body will really catch fire I remember those bygone days Those stolen moments... ...spent with you, hugged against my body In your arms I cuddled, you wrapped up in my hair Time has taken all but memories. Why have the dreams shattered? That past life, our happiness, romantic places, time of desires Our tormented hearts, the pounding heart beats The songs we hummed They are lost, gone with the wind. Why have the dreams shattered? Come along Stop right there! If you don't, then I swear by Kali this knife will go through you Don't, it's my brother How do you dare touch the hand of Raka's sister? Bijli? Who is this boy? This is Sanjay He wants to ask us about the palace and old temple Stay away from that palace and the old temple... ...or be lost forever in the darkness of death Death's darkness can't stop me from reaching my goal What goal? Your goal means the destruction of our village and our tribe was buried in that ground You want to raise it! To destroy it! No... City boy... Go back to your city and never come here again Or I swear by the goddess Kali, I will slit your throat You don't scare me But keep your knife sharp... ...it might be handy for cutting vegetables Oh Suman, did you really think that I had left you for that wild girl? It was to find out the secrets of the palace It was just a show for the tribals Honestly? I swear... Now do I get a smile? Just a little one...? Just for me...? I was getting some enjoyment, now even that has gone You dried up old fruit, are you giving a massage or polishing me? I am Machar Singh, my back is built like a brick wall So give me a hard slap A clap, was it a clap? No, it was a gunshot. I'm off! You guys got afraid for nothing. He's one of ours Hey friend! What news? The news is good. The reward's been doubled Really? But this time you won't be hung What will they do? Your punishment's been changed To what? This time you will be put in a live bear's cage That's great news, I haven't seen a live bear for ages A live bear! I'll be torn to shreds in that cage You'd better come up with a good plan Why, are you scared? It won't be a real bear Inside the bear skin will be your very good friend You're a true magician, just like a sheep in wolf's clothing And I will stand in front of you, puff out my chest and say... Murtar Singh, you are a dead man, for sure Surrounding me with spears Putting me in the bear cage, you're trying to kill me Hey Blackie, you open your ears and listen to me too You think you're safe inside that cage But as soon as you come out, I'll make kebabs of you... ...and sell them at the train station Idiot, it's Anand So, you're Anand And this is a real bear I'm real too I couldn't find a bear skin Couldn't find a skin? Sardar, he's run off again You'd better run off too! Injustice has been done to me Machar Singh has run away I belong neither there nor here Don't worry I will do Emperor Jehangir type of justice Even Jehangir will come to seek my forgiveness I will marry you Marriage? With you? - Both your hands have been cut off - So? It's only the hands Who needs hands to marry? After marriage, we will fly to London for the honeymoon... Air India I'll get new hands made there That's very funny! My teeth are false too, I will get new ones made there And one more thing, I'm bald, so I'll get a new wig there too Who's there? Who is it? I'll kill you... Kill you...! KILL YOU! Let me go! I'll kill him! Who will you kill? That painting I keep telling you, there's nothing in that painting Have you gone mad? Come with me Oh my foot Come on, Anand Have you gone nuts like Suman? How can a painting bleed? You saw the blood on Suman's hand? She had no cuts - Some sort of trick - And the door in the wall? Another trick? A door? I saw it with my own eyes There's an opening behind the painting And it must lead to somewhere or something You check that side... and I'll look over here There's nothing here Find anything? No A strange place No-one's been here for years Over there Trident? Anand... What could be in that box? Open it I told you there was treasure here It's a... severed head! Maybe some brave soldier's The king must have kept it securely in memoriam Tomorrow we'll get Durjan to have this area bricked up again They'll be back to take the treasure - Let's take it now - Not yet Why? Tonight... ...when they're asleep I will get my cart... ...and wait behind the back door of the palace And you can bring the treasure there Right... Right... Let's go and wait for the lights to go out Do it gently! It hurts It's a sprain She'll have to stay in bed for a few days No walking or moving at all Look here Now Suman will be able to get around I found this wheelchair downstairs It's getting late. We should try to get some rest No! No, Sangha. No! Stop! No...! Bastard...! Stop! You've killed my mother! I won't let you live...! I won't let you open the box, I won't let you have the treasure! Master...! It's a calamity! A calamity, master...! Master! What's up, Durjan? Why are you shouting so much? Master, you must stop Sangha! He has taken the head and run off towards the old temple Stop him master, come quickly But, Durjan, why did Sangha take the head to the temple? If that demon Saamri's head was found in this palace... ...then his body must have been buried near the old temple If the head and body are joined then the demon will come alive again Master, go and stop Sangha. Go! Faster! Faster! Stop, Sangha! Where's she gone? Durjan, where is Sapna? She was here What's that noise? Don't be afraid I'll be right back But first I'd better go and close the main palace gates Anand, let's check the ruins Anand - coffin What happened? Yes I am Anand, what happened? Anand, he was here... Anand he wants to kill me Who wants to kill you? Where's Sapna? Sapna's, gone. I don't know where she is What happened? Stop Sapna! Don't take another step Don't go near the demon, Sapna! Saamri! I'm not afraid of dying! Show yourself, damn you! You won't get away from me! Sapna... What's going on, Sapna? What is it? What's wrong? You seem terrified... I've just had a terrible dream! A dreadful nightmare... Dayawanti, Suman's life is in danger! I can't stay here I must go to Bijapur, today Now you've woken the demon from his sleep of centuries There will be such a flood of death, that all be washed away in it And you people are responsible for it I swear by Goddess Bhadarkali, there's only one way to escape this fate A blood sacrifice of you two to Bhadarkali Hail Bhadarkali! The one that I was dying for, he has to die today The faithless in love we must settle their account today The one that I was dying for, he has to die today The faithless in love, we must settle their account today My love your life it soon will end Death her promise, she is to about to fulfill Run, lover! Let him go I swear by Bhadarkali, Raka will cut this girl into pieces With these hands I will sacrifice her blood to the goddess If you want to save her, then you must fight me Listen! I want that city dog, dead or alive Let's search the jungle. Come on! Let's not stay here anymore Let's get out of here now. Come on, let's go Yes, Suman but we have to find Anand first He must be at the temple looking for the demon Let's go Where is your friend? Where have you hidden him? Where is my sister's killer? Speak! Let me go. I don't know Speak bastard, or I will skin you alive I said I don't know Now let me go, I have a mission to kill And so do I, as you'll find out Let go of me I said, let me go. I said, LET ME GO! Hail Bhadarkali! Before you can get to them, you have to get past me! Sanjay, get Suman out of here. I'll deal with this - I can't leave you here - Don't argue Sanjay! This demon feeds off the blood of Suman's family He'll kill her No! I can't leave you to face this alone We live together and die together Go! Go! Suman's life is at stake! Take her and get out of here! Go! Go! Get Suman out of here! A friend is someone who gives his own life if need be Papa, look what's happened Anand sacrificed his life to save us And the demon killed Sapna too No man has the power to combat this demon Only one mighty power can destroy him and that is Lord Shiva Let's go and beg for our lives from him Shiv Shankar, Shiv Shankar, simple one You are the one who gives life to all. You are the mighty preserver In the middle of the river, you are the bank Your strength created the two worlds Oh creator of all, Shiv Shankar, Shambo, Bholenath You are the giver, you are the mother and father of all Your glory shines Strong one, the strength of all, your devotee calls you Open your eyes Lord, give us your divine protection This is an old temple of yours, we have surrounded it Where have you lost your trident? How can you have lost it in front of the demon? Speak mighty one, speak God, speak Suman, we need that trident - Trident? - Yes, God Shankar's trident We can kill this monster with it And I've seen it in the palace Come Suman, that trident was here! Look there Suman, this coffin was in the old temple The old temple? Yes, but how did it get here? That trident must be here Somewhere in this palace Don't look in his eyes, Suman! Suman! Don't look in his eyes! Suman, no! What's that noise? We'll see But the demon...? While God Shiva's trident is on it, the demon can't leave the coffin Let's go Burn it! Turn this palace into ashes! Let the demon burn together with this evil palace! People of Bijapur, stop right there! You can't burn down this palace! Give me... just half an hour's grace And within that half hour, in front of this palace... ...I myself will burn that demon to ashes in front of your eyes And if you can't subdue the demon within that time, then what? Then go ahead and burn it down Come villagers... Come and burn this demon in the village square! Open it Open it! Start the fire! Let this demon burn Burn him! Son, I am proud of you You have destroyed the curse that has haunted our family... ...for 200 years! Translation: P. A. Furlough
