 

                        Barrel Industries always tries... . What will be our Villain's name? Have you ever thought when you send some date from one phone to another, then how dues they reach across the world, In this generation of Internet, Satellite phones... There are so many kind of rays lives around us, They have surrounded in our world like a breeze and has a become virtual world And this world was always around us, Everywhere, Like in shopping malls, houses, on streets in fact right now in this conference room, And as you know... Because of these rays the entire digital data travels... By the way Mr. Barrel couldn't come personally to welcome you... Perhaps he sent me his welcome photo. Now we will have to see, Can I bring this photo without any computer screen, straight to this conference room, Can I see it, Because our technology is about that, it's not a magic, projection or some 3-D technology, It has been made from those rays who always lives around you... But you can't see them. But along with our technology you can even see that... And you can touch that too. Who can wipe out difference between real and virtual world. That night was so beautiful. And that girl too. Night was waiting for dawn, And that girl was waiting for me, I am Lucifer... Sometimes you have to kill someone to save ether's life. And three Bruce Lee's friends were in the queue to give their lives. Iskee Lee, Uskee Lee and Sabkee Lee... . Then my fight was with the Big Daddy. He was the only one who could fight with me, Not a hero but villain, What should I do? All girls dies on me, I don't like unwanted guests, Bad time comes without any notice, Do you know who am I? I just killed Spiderman with Bygone Spray. Which kind of insect you are? You just speak punch lines... Or hit some punches, Both of them, People applause on one punch and my second punch screw the people. Be careful Lucifer! Don't worry my Desi Girl. Let me finish him then how about dinner, Sure! But where? Wherever you say, but not Chinese because I just had it, If your love story is over so shall we start our light, Lucifer! He have such a big gun, You guys have started again, Get up! But I can't talk on phone, Don't talk to me on phone and concentrate on your driving, What happened? Nothing! What's happening in office today? Someone has made him Jackie Chan, I really don't like to see your faces in the morning, I have come to tell you that our company got a video game contract, And this game will be release in India, But this department's previous two games were totally flopped, If this game will be flop so I will have to shut this department down, But don't worry I won't ire anyone, Because I will open a restaurant here, Where you, you and you will become waiters... I will make you main cook. Because you will server Tamil food here, Does anyone have any problem? I have a problem, And what's your problem? I don't know how to make Idly, Dosa? I can make Dusa. Your father's... Your brother's... . You're working really hard, I know you are not taking me seriously, but when my book will be enter in best sellers list then you'll see, You don't know these abuses thesis is really important for me, How necessary it is for India, How necessary it is for every Indian woman, Your mother's... . Why every abuse is like that in India, Why not like your father's... When my thesis will be complete... Then every Indian woman, will be so proud and... That's getting worse, Why this music is so loud? But I am not singing I'm speaking, Can't you lower the volume? What? Of course it could be, Shekhar! Tell us something about your new video game, Dude! it's totally a new video game and it has a new hero. Heroes are boring either they are new or old. You don't like Heroes then who you like? Villain? They have no rules all they have to win, And if somebody came to their way Just BANG! Make a game like where villain never lose. Hero always wins that's why he is Hero. I will show you to bad tomorrow, Mom! What are you doing? Make it fast we have to go school. Today Appa will drop you school. If Appa will drive then how we will reach school. But I want to tell you something you like Villains? So today I will make a game... Where Villain will be stronger than Hero. Where villain will never lose. Always remember one thing, Saaya? Saaya means shadow... Prateek! What is Lucifer? Whenever I use this computer or play any game so my name is Lucifer, I mean Miss. Boyl's computer can be connected with our computers, Miss. Boyl will ask the permission to connect our computers, We all will say No, but a fatso will say Yes, I have a great idea for our new video game, We will make the must dangerous... Hero! Villain! Why Villain? All for Prateek? What will be our Villain's name? How long we will call him Random Access Version One? It's on your front, That's why I am saying Ra-One is what? Ra-One! Ramayn's Ra-One, Shekhar! What's our hero's name? Very good and this smile is amazing, I didn't put this smile in program, You aren't? So why Ra-One is smiling in the game? This program is not learning thing by itself? Watch it carefully, This is the main part of our game, This heart is not a heart, It will have the strength of every player. After winning every level... This heart's strength will be increase, And it will become more blue. Until this heart is not attached with G-One and Ra-One's system, till then you can't kill both of them, And they won't die to brake their hearts. Or they won't die to hit their bodies, So you can kill them, But how they will die? Because they will get an Anti-Heart Gun here, and it will have only one bullet, Amongst both of them whoever will shut the target, that will be a winner, If someone will miss his target, He is gone, So this heart is their strength and their weakness too... See! In this film Villain is lust and Hero was a winner, that's why this film was flopped. Did you see Villain was so cool. He was not cool but bloody fool he was smoking cigarettes. People dies to smoke cigarettes, Look! This kid is smoking, Does your mom knows that you smoke? He is showing me knife and he is also not a kid, Don't be afraid let's break his face, Not at all... Keep this change as a tip. What else you have? I gave you everything, You didn't saw me, it's my lucky number, See! How did I scared him? But he shouldn't come back, Where are you going? You gave him everything, I am not a coward, I didn't do anything so he shouldn't harm you, Eye for an eye and entire world be blind, I am not a coward, Hold your breathes... He could be anyone in this game, We have put this Artificial Intelligence Program, with its help Ra-One can learn new things every time. New face, New moves... You won't have the same danger every time. I want to play the game right now, Prateek likes the game, I am heading to Level 3. Nobody can beat Ra-One. Other\Nise I will come to your world and kill you. Come outside I will see you. This game will be over when I will finish you. I will have to stay in lab game have some problems, You really like the game, Yes! You like that game and hug your Appa, I just wanted to say that game was so good, So why you didn't say that? We live in the same house, I can tell him tomorrow, Akashi is saying that you are not stopping, Pick up the phone! Out from the game, I want Lucifer. I will finish him, Are you Lucifer? I am Lucifer. "Why My Beloved doesn't talk to me" "Why my Beloved is angry with me" "How do I appease him" "Why My Beloved doesn't talk to me" "Why my Beloved is angry with me" "How do I appease him" "I couldn't live without him" "I couldn't stay in peace without him" "How do I live without him" Tears in my eyes. Tears in my eyes, My ears are not listening to me, Tears are in my eyes. What happen? Papa didn't met an accident, Ra-One killed him, Game's Villain! What are you saying? Mom! I said I am not going to India, Listen to me, I have to find out what happened with papa. Papa met an accident, Du you understand? We are going to India tonight, I am not going and that's final. You were right, How it's all happened? Ra-One said it... He will come out from the game and find me, Prateek! Game's first control suit for you. I have made a Ra-One like you wanted... But remember... If Ra-One has been made with a devil thought... So G-One is made by my heart, And if you will be stuck in the game so my G-One will guide you. It means Ra-One has become Akashi, Where are you? I was right, Ra-One has killed Appa, Ra-One has become Akashi. What are you saying? Where are you? |itsflight time, I am in Appa's office, You stay there I am coming, But it doesn't have Ra-One's program, Not in the back-up. We have to intercept this program otherwise how we would stop Ra-One, There is only one way to stop Ra-One. G-One. If Ra-One can come out so do G-One. We could follow those steps and can help G-One to come out, Load this program, I just Akashi coming upstairs, What happen? It was Sonia's phone call, Ra-One is coming upstairs, But I will must have to take out G-One. Ra-One is coming after you. I will try because he don't know me You go from here, But Mom! I don't want to understand Ra-One and G-One. I have to go back to India. Nu Ra-One and Nu G-One. Let's go Prateek! Why he is coming with us? G-One saved us, G-One has saved us. Okay! Bye! Thank you! You can't come like that. That's why I was saying he can't come anyway. You will have to take cover, |V|om's scarf! What are you doing? I don't understand anything, Please try to understand, I will understand it later. First you tell me, How we will pass this thing from that metal detector. Try to understand, He can't come with us, G-One will take a cool move, G-One! What are you doing? Act like Ra-One. I can't do that like Ra-One. Because I am not powerful like Ra-One. I will take you. Who made you Taxi Driver? You will lose your taxi and you will also locked up. Du you know the rules? I will take you in my vehicle. Forget his taxi come to my auto. Want to come? What rubbish? I will take him, I will slap on your face, We will take you, G-One! What are you doing? He will die. Then reset him again and press the play button, He is human not a tape recorder, You shut up! It's not a game, If someone dies here, then he never came back. He can come back, Like human change their clothes, Soul can change the body and come back, Which Page Number? Tell him to spare him, G-One! Spare him! Are you alright? Yes, I am fine, You can't touch me here, So! Where I can touch you, You can't touch me anywhere, So how would I protect you, You don't need to protect me, Why did you stop? Why don't you do something, I will have to touch you, So touch me, Who is he? That Rajni Sir was mind blowing, G-One! You are my Appa and he's Appa's friend say Hi with me, You did it? Nu! What did you say? I have a Shekhar's folder in my program, which has many phrases like these, Du you have more? If you don't understand this folder, So I can erase it, Never erase this folder, Hair are not good, I have to go Electricity Board in the morning, G-One is on stand-by. Go and keep on stand-by somewhere else. When everything will be settled then I will have to do something, why? He can't stay with us, Nu! Not at all. He is not some TV or Toaster so he could lie on some corner, He talks like human, And he looks like Appa, Du you think G-One was right about Geeta? It's also possible, that Dad has become G-One and came to protect us, Du you remember whenever we are in trouble what Appa used to say, I have charged the inverter? You want to recharge something else. Yes! |V|om's mood, Don't you ashamed! Talking like this in front of kid, Go! Sleep down! I don't sleep! I do run, Go! Do whatever you want. Now I know what I have to do with them, I will send him to asylum, He is totally crazy, Not complete, Condom! Condom! "When the night has come" "When the night has come" "When the land is dark" "When the night has come" "lightthe land is dark" "When the muon is the only |ight" "lighthe muon is the only |ight" "lighthe muon is the only |ight" "Oh My Guide" "Oh My Guide" "My concerns are belongs to you" "You are my destiny" And you're the way beyond that destiny" "Oh Guide" My Guide Like your name Now there is no other word but I still thinks for hundred times, "My beloved" It's just a small world, My beloved, I lost everything on your view, Stand by me, Stand by me, Just as lung... As you stay... Stand by me, And Darling stand by me, Come and stand by me, Stand by me, G-One! It's all my mistake, I have told Appa that make a game where Villain never lost, If that day we would defeat Ra-One, so Appa would be here today, That doesn't have any nutritional element, It's written on packet, Wow! After reading the warning on packet, Nu! with death, Sometimes I feel you are like us, Have you lust your mind, Have you done? What happen to him? Close the main door, Something is coming out from your nose. Remove it please, Why do we pray? So God could protect us, So God came out from there and protect us, Nu! He sent his angels... Du you believe in Angels? Shut up and pray, Make our game pavilion best in Mumbai Expo. I want Lucifer, Shekhar's son, He have my heart and I am incomplete without my heart, Where is Lucifer? They are gone, And their address is not in record, That will help you to remind, Why do you need it? But I can read your mind, I can change it and I can even control it, Let's go Sonia! Coming! Wife prays for her husband's longer life. Shekhar and mine have many memories with this house, That's why I wanted to come here, We will have to leave this house, Ra-One could come here anytime, Till we have Ra-One's heart, He can find Prateek, If we will destroy his heart still he won't stop following us, We will always escape from him, And if won't destroy the heart so we'll have to face the Ra-One. It's an Emotional Decision, You will have to decide it, G-One! After all I have left only. this house, Prateek and Shekhar's memories. I won't leave this house, I won't run anymore, Shekhar was believed in noble things, You won't let anything happen to my Prateek, But those who have all this thing in their program they don't do anything for others... As much you have done for us, Why you are doing this Power Yoga all day long, What's all this? Can't you see they are burning Raavan, Why? It's Dasera today, Raavan finish, Evilness over, People burn it every year this day, You burn Raavan every year, because you know he never dies, Who dies once... You don't need to kill him over and over again, You looks good in Appa's clothes, Shekhar and Mr. Ayer celebrates their kids birthday together, Everyone knows Shekhar here, Please don't make things worse, Shekhar build this game with love for Prateek, He said he will give him on his birthday, If you will give this gift to him today, From his Appa's behalf, So he will feel very good, And you? Me too... Your magic show will start there, And like always Shekhar's dance will begin here, I will dance, Shekhar can't dance, He will dance for you, Girl! You are my Chammak Chalo. You are my Chammak Chalo. Shawty! I am going to get you, You know I am going to get you, You know I will leave you let you be my Chammak Chalo. Why are you shying. Come and show me your dance, Come be mine, Come and look into my eyes, Don't show me your attitude, Want to be my Chammak Chalo? Want to be my Chammak Chalo, Want to be my Chammak Chalo. Want to be my Chammak Chalo. You are my Chammak Chalo, Give me your heart, Shawty I am going to get you, You know I am going to get you, May be I will leave you Let you be my Chammak Chalo, Why are you shying, Come and show me your dance, Come be my, Come and look into my eyes, Ra-One has reached here, You take Prateek and go from here, Why G-One didn't come with us? I think G-One scared from Ra-One. Let's get back, We need G-One, Not us... G-One needs us, But where we going? Sonia and Prateek is not the part of this game, They were nut, but you made them, I have Lucifer... In that exhibition where our game is going to be launch, Logic says that give me my heart and save Lucifer, But Emotions says save Sonia, So who will you choose? Sonia or Lucifer, Your train has left the station, I won't wait longer, You can't go there, It's children's compartment, You will save my Prateek, Of course! I am G-One. that's what I have made fur, Promise me... Now I should leave, Now only I will have to leave, You asked me once, Does Angel exists? Today I know... They really exists... . I am here, If you will be late then Lucifer... Till I have your heart you can't kill Prateek, And until you have my heart, You can't kill me, Because our hearts are not attached with our system, Nor you can die, Nor Me... . I hope it's connected with LAN, It's simple for me, I just came hereto finish you, G-One! Please don't give him heart, Why you want to die? Because I have promised with someone, G-One! I am connected with you, Are you alright? I am absolutely line, We have to win this plan and reach to Level 3. If Ra-One let us reach to Level 3, We will have to survive for 2 minutes to cross this level. Don't try to fightjust try to survive, G-One! Hold his main part, What are you doing G-One? Are you alright? We have to reach that place in human world where we left this game, Our programmed has gone so weak from Ra-One's program, Where you are, From there nor you can escape nor you can hide, Then how we will kill Ra-One? Battle doesn't win with bullets but from the heart, Now our heart... will become our strength not our weakness... You said this plan will work, You can't die... You forgot, Till our heart doesn't connected from our system, We both can't die. I didn't forgot, Lucifer forgot it. He needed a villain who you never killed. Which one is real amongst them? I didn't play till here. It's not possible. Appa would never let devil win, Appa must have left something, I have his folder, Check in the folder, Real Ra-One have his shadow. Now I will have to go. It was not the plan, This was the plan, This is the plan and this will remain the plan, If we will have to kill Ra-One forever, Where we both came from. Please don't leave me, I can't lose my Appa again, You will never lose your Appa. Good people died, but their humanity always alive, And tell Sonia... We both have killed Ra-One. You know I am happy that you people came back, Are you alright? How is Prateek? He is busy on computer all day long, He says he will revive G-One's heart, Don't snatch his hope, Just believe... By the way where is my Lucifer... I told you that G-One can return, He is here....
