 

                        Hey, go to your left! You'll hit us Hemant, sir What's wrong? Yes. Tell me, Hemant Sir, there's been an accient l can hearyou. Go on There's been a boat accient, sir A kinapping Who's been kidnapped? Your wife's been kinapped, sir I suspect Beera is invoIved We're doing everything we can. By nihtfaII, sir... Who's there? Help! My queen, why are you losing your head? Who's there? Demons and scoundrels Who are you? Why did you bring me here? You'll regret it You're making a big mistake You'll be killed Coward You're a coward l'm not scared of you Looks like she's drowning Her life isn't overyet She dies in 14 hours Beera says so Open the gate Are you blind? Open up! ''See, if you've eyes to see... ''...this gate stays closed by me ''lf your hunger is so great... ''...go elsewhere for chocolate'' Shall l fix you? Looks like you didn't like my poetry l don't like your gun either l'll sort you out ''Harmless am l... ''...a carefree monkey ''Never sad, always happy'' Poet Sanjeevani says: ''The world is innocent. For myriad flowers... ''...l am guardian ''l am protector'' ''See, if you have eyes to see... ''...this gate stays closed by me ''lf your hunger is so great go elsewhere for chocolate'' Come down. Or l'll drag you down Let's see how far he can go So you're Sanjeevani Kumar? A forest-guard? For 28 years The Forestry Department praises you You've a record for getting suspended Suspended again. For48 days ls your monkeying around thanks to alcohol? You playing decoy? l did stop you. But only to show the way You see, l can't let you go alone Who said you're coming? Didn't you read the sign? lt is written ''Dev Pratap is going to rescue his wife... ''...with me... ''...to destroy all evil'' Sir, he doesn't know the way to anywhere He could be Beera's man, sir He's always drunk. How can he show us the way? Sir, he doesn't know the way to anywhere He could be Beera's man, sir He's always drunk. How can he show us the way? Beera Age.: 32 A hardened criminaI. A man who terrorises LaaI Maati And protects it too He's why I got transferred here DSP Hemant Sinha Laal Maati District l won't salute and say: ''Welcome to Laal Maati.'' No, sir l know you don't care for all that l believe that many people here don't like the police l like such people Beera casts a long shadow Nothing happens without his say. Good or bad l came to Laal Maati to meet men who don't like us... ...to tell them that we mean business His two brothers, his front men... ...MangaI and Hariya We can be friends... ...orwe can be enemies You won't find a worse enemy than me He's the deviIfor some And an angeIfor others He's the Iaw and Iawmaker in LaaI Maati But to us, he's a pIain criminaI Beera is there when blood is shed... ...or takes revenge for any kiIIings ls he a Raavan? Or a Robin Hood? For us he's Raavan How many cases against him? They say Beera can be in ten pIaces at the same time He has ten minds. Ten faces The ten-headed Raavan Well, pick an auspicious moment at Dusshera and kill this Raavan You're wearing a uniform. Do something! Now sir is here. Something will happen I'II be the one who wiIIfinish this Raavan Be brave, Ragini Dev, sir! Stop the jeep! lnspector, don't look in the water The boatman is here Don't chew that Beera? He's headed east? Toward the rock How do you know? He told you? Beera is nuts He ties the boatman and tells him where he's heading Are we looking for him? Or is he looking for us? What else did he say? ''The police can't find... ''...their own fathers... ''...how will they find Beera?'' You want me to repeat that? l'll kill you Don't die Some water Ragini? ls Ragini with them? Did you see her? How is she? Tell me Tell me. How is she? Get up! Stay away! Let go of me Don't touch me. Let go Leave me alone Be quiet! Be quiet. Sit still Quiet! Or l'll chop you up You'll die soon enough Beera will kill you. You unlucky wretch l'm not dying Who are you to kill me? Will your enmity end with my death? Kill her Kill her or she won't stop yapping Avenge yourself Teach herwhat revenge is l'm not dying Knives are rattling in my head Sweet revenge l'm not dying A good deed. A bad A question. An answer How do you want to die? You can't kill me Die laughing and you'll laugh forthe next 7 lives lf l die, it's on my terms Hey, you girl A tear feIIfrom an eye. A spark fIickered Set burning hope aIiht SIake untamed thirst O rain, soak me tiII I dissoIve... ...into the flowing waters O let me flow Let me flow Iike water flows Quiet! You survived. Yet you cry? l'm not crying Swallow yourtears Enough crying Oryou'll find no man worse than me No man is worse than you Uncouth beast. You monster Fiend. No insults in the world are enough foryou Bravo, Beera Betterto hear swearwords than a woman sobbing What remained has been washed away Let me flow FiIIing me. BIurring time Obsessing the core of me I have nothing. What can I lose? My Iife is Yours. To sacrifice for You Even goats look before jumping. And you just jumped You crazy? Vultures won't devouryou Then why did you want to kill me? Killing you was written in my fate Some bastard erased it But your death is written in my fate You know, right? No bastard will erase it I hear the drowning come with pleas to Your threshold With sinking hearts they come... ...to drown some more Erase the Iine of the shore Flow on Overturn the mistream Let a spark fIy from the ash Let a tear faIIfrom the eye He urges you to flow on And flood the world Let me flow l think l know why you didn't kill her lf you had killed her, a case would be filed Hariya or l would only need to serve six years foryou A light flashed in my head l thought to myself, ah! He has another plan Damn l stand with a gun in my hand She's minutes from death Yet no fear in her eyes How to kill someone who doesn't fear death? This is no circus. Go! We're in a jungle. No saree shops Wearwhat we have And look savage like us l'll cut off yourtails. Go! How arrogant! Doesn't fear guns. Doesn't laugh at my jokes This will make you happy To hell with yourfood! l'm not an animal you tie and feed when it pleases you l don't want it You snobs! You first kick me, then kick the food lt's food. Be grateful. We sweat blood to get food We won't tolerate you insulting it And the way you insult me? So is this how you treat a woman? What next? Crazy woman. Even my wife doesn't abuse me like you Eat, if you're hungry. Or kill me if you think l'm a foe. Your choice Bravo! At last you eat our salt Don't worry. l won't make you pay for it. Eat up! Nothing to worry about. lt's thunder No, a pistol shot Maybe Now behave yourselves. You're in good company A police officer is here. He won't harm you. You don't harm him Where is Beera? Where is he? Don't let them run! Get them out of their homes! Beera is a calm and wise man No, sir His actions are true to his name Fearless Sir, they know nothing about Beera. l know him well His heart is clear as water He's the one who saved our land He's a poet ''The shattered cannot be restored...'' You must hear him sing Women go crazy hearing him Beera is dangerous. He's evil l salute you He's learned He isn't educated but knows everything Beera plays the drum well Praising him again? See him and you see the God of Death No escaping death Does he have ten heads? Only one, right? lsn't he a man? Get out! You're scaring us Are you a better police officer or husband? l just about survive both jobs -Really? -You don't know my wife. She's tough Does this hand hold a pistol too? Sometimes a pistol. Sometimes the wife But how? l don't think about my wife when l'm holding a pistol When my wife is in my arms, l think about nothing else She has blossomed The fragrant flower of niht Kiss the fIute with your Iips again, my love Blow a gentle melody on my deIicate body Come, my love Touch my melodlous body with your fingers Come, my love My beloved Come to me, my beloved The branch of niht... ...sways longing for you. FiII it with your being Sweet fragrance fiIIs the niht Adorn the maritaI bed Touch your Iips to my skin... ...and fiII me with your love Come to me Wrapped in mist, time waits for you Mangal, where to? Come on, photographer! Get out of that flying machine Steady on. Stand straight! Beera brother Brother-in-law... ...no trouble getting here? l didn't do it on purpose How was l to know this would happen? l gave you this watch And my sistertoo Where is my sister? Where? l don't know anything l came out and someone... ...grabbed me from behind Where did you lose her? Brother Beera, listen to me You remembered the watch But not my sister You bastards! Puff up your chests. Stand straight Look fierce Photo studio! Your photo had better get the world shaking Master, she's flapping like a bird -l won't let you take it -She'll spoil it Click! Mangal, slap her. Make her stand still A scarecrow lt wouldn't even scare crows lnspector, careful! lt's Tiwari's son Surjit, get the jeep Jeevan, get some water The first-aid box lt's a fresh wound, sir The blood has just started clotting Some water! Get the stretcher! Aren't you related to Beera? His brother-in-law? He cut my hand off. Take me to a hospital l came to yourwedding Remember? Look, my hand Will he sever mine? What's on Beera's mind? Talk Dev! Where are you? lf you don't come, they'll kill me l shout and scream so they think they don't frighten me But you know l'm not that brave You coming, aren't you? When will you come? Scream all you want. But God noryour Dev will come foryou Now quietly eat up. Give your anger a rest Shout only when you're thirsty Come on, Gulabiya Bring that tape recorder here. Shut up, everyone Beera brother, taIk. It's working Inspector, sir How are you? Not feeIing good, I hope I'm not good either Thanks to bi shots Iike you It's Beera Uneducated viIIager. poor Not a hih caste man Iike you Therefore an enemy Seen the photo? Recognise her?. We took it with great care Keep it safeIy in your pocket If your wife doesn't return... ...at least you'II have her photo Now you'II know what suffering is Namaste Anyone there? lf you want to live, tie yourself up Apologise. Say you've made a mistake Ranjha, caIIing your name... ...I turned into you I hear my name in your name Ranjha, my destiny is in your hands Burn! Turn molten Let me go home Adorn your brow with sacred ash... ...and purify yourself She could pass as one of us. Could be a Raniya or Mahua Send me home lf you wander in the sun... ...you'll turn the same colour as us. Black! She's glaring at us She'll swear at us Will you stay with us? ls that why you saved my life? Will you stay? Where is your gun? Killing me is better My Mahua. Was the question a mistake? l am bad No man worse than me Know the real mistake? You meeting the lnspector You got married. Mistake You coming to my village. Mistake Wanting revenge, abducting you. Mistake l didn't shoot you Mistake You weren't scared Another mistake But l got scared... ...forthe first time What's done is done. Nothing can be undone What's in my heart won't change l can't take my words back Will you stay with us? l didn't mean to ask. Damn, it slipped out Mahua, what if... ...you weren't married? What's nearthis bridge? Yourtip-offs are as bad as the food l suppose we'll have to make do. Well, Sharma? Eat up But don't drop anything... ...otherwise Beera will know... ...where we are What we must swallow Right, Ranjit? What did you tell him? Sir, you've got it wrong Really? How does Beera know our every move then? Wear a uniform, but loyal to Beera, eh? l can hit too, sir Just try What did you tell Beera? Talk We can't go against Beera, sir But you can work against me? Where is Beera? Tell me! Where is he? lt's easy foryou, sir You stay here for 6 months... ...then you're transferred But we must live here He's right, sir He wears a police uniform yet works for Beera You're right too, sir -l can't go against Beera -Watch it Oryou're dead This is the way -l don't know where Beera is -Tell us what you know -Something wrong -Stop! What's going on? Sugar in the petrol tank, sir To graze the cows, sir. Can we pass? We have a problem lnspector! They've sabotaged our trucks Maybe other informers amongst us Beera knows aII our pIans. Is anyone there? Mr. Hemant! The tongue? Shall l cut your nose off? The ears? Ears are good What a pleasure Do l make him bald? Well, it's yourturn next Don't shave my head Hariya lost his bet Hariya lost his bet to Mangal Said he'd go bald if we returned alive from the camp. Shave him! l saw it ln his tent A photo... ...of me A demon's photo in a king's tent Time to hit back! Hit the naiI! It isn't far Coming to DeIhi? Staring, gIaring, lording over us O jungle cat Strike it! Swing the bat Strike the baII If the smug are over-smart, we take controI Gobbled truth and Ile In songs chanted to us But when we di the singing... ...aIIdancing stopped Lying and cunning dancer Not mother to anyone Stuffed with treason Without rhyme or reason CaIIing us backward. Mocking us. O DeIhi Darkness robbed niht's jeweIs Robbed moon and star cIusters Dawn has broken. Our day has come Who has the guts to stub out the sun? Let us sit together. Open our hearts They reIish bananas and hurI the peeIs for us CaIIing us backward. Mocking us. O DeIhi We leave our necks at home, lowered as they are Corpses with drooping necks have need of short graves The age-old story of hih and low goes on and on Time to settle scores. Grab our share Our blood flows red Iike theirs peeI our skin back and see Hit the naiI! Hemant Are you all right? Don't worry. l'll get you out of here Don't lose heart, Hemant You listening? Where is Dev? Bravo! The captive freeing the caged Well? What will you do to him? Sit him on a buffalo and send him... ...straight to the God of Death Get going! What do you get out of killing? The same as the lnspector Why kill him? Because he's a police officer? He's a human being Are you animals? What has he done? Kick him punch him Shoot him. To his death Better answer her Tell herwhat you did Tell herwhat you did to Jamuniya Jamuniya? Who is she? Tell her Tell her Jamuniya is our stepsister An only child But closerthan a real sisterto us The only one in the family who didn't fear Beera one bit Beera feared her She was smart She loved Rajeshwar Tiwari, known as Guddu A right idiot. But she liked him Hers was the first wedding in ourfamily The massage lady is here Let's go You look nice in a saree See what a man l am? l came here with everyone about Dressed as a eunuch. Otherwise my brothers would have fixed you l know Judo and Karate l'm not scared of anyone No one at all? -And now? -You crazy? -Scared now? -What are you doing? -Someone will see us -Show them your karate moves -You'll get me killed -The wind gone from your sails? You're crazy Let the world see how brave you are -Damn it! -You sweartoo? Hide! My brother. Run Hey, Jamuni Open the door No, l can't open it now -Who's inside? -Only me. Who else? l'm changing Henna on your palms, staining your clothes lt isn't his fault. l asked him to come here How obedient he is l told him to come here. To prove he had the guts So he comes in a petticoat? What are you doing? -Holding hands -Who with? Don't break his hand How can l marry a boy with a broken hand? Why didn't you think of that earlier? Which hand? Don't cut his hand off Which hand? Which hand? Open your eyes, brother-in-law lt isn't time yet Two days till the wedding Be patient Oryou'll garland her with one hand. Get it? Now go Your obedient servant is waiting foryour instruction Send the goat to the sIaughterhouse. The end is near Enjoy! Enjoy the Iast niht of bachelorhood The groom won't go without his young brie CaIIthe brie! Mr. Groom, don't lose your head. Flex your muscles instead He's a goner. Another goner. The poor boy's end is near Enjoy! Enjoy the Iast niht of bachelorhood She floats in fair weather. Lihter than a feather Sourer than yesterday's curd. WeII, that's what we've heard He's a goner. Another goner. The poor boy's end is near CaIIthe brie! You're so dark No dye wiIIwork on you You're not bIack. Nor a crow No stones touch you Don't shoo him away! He's a goner. Another goner Enjoy! Enjoy the Iast niht of bachelorhood Young brothers-in-Iaw are for cuddIing parents-in-Iaw for dutifuI respecting The famiIy elders... ...are for wise counseIIing And sisters-in-Iaw are for frlendship CaIIthe brie! Father said l must pay my respects l know you're overjoyed So no pretend tears. Understand? Anyone who has you for a brother will cry forever Bi brother, get them marrled today Mr. Groom, make her a mother without deIay. He's a goner Enjoy! Enjoy the Iast niht of bachelorhood Stop! Why the hell are you here? Out! We came to bless the couple You bastards! l beg you, go away So... Dev must have had a good reason He never does anything wrong Never l did wrong Ten men held onto me and dragged me away lf l had only known that bastard... ...Guddu would run at the first sight of the police lf l knew that Jamuniya was all alone... Look for Beera Where is your brother? Are you deaf? ln what rat hole is he hiding? Police dogs have sharp noses. Sniff him out Shall l cut your nose off? This bastard... ...took herfrom wedding to police station The police station Are you badly hurt? Good! l don't have to listen to your nagging then Mangal brother... Why did l everwant to marry Guddu? Betterto be unmarried like you But who the hell are the police to have stopped my wedding? l wasn't scared At the police station they asked me: ''Your husband has run away... ''...so who spends your wedding night with you?'' They never gave me the chance... ...to beg with folded hands. They pulled my hands apart A night in hell l closed my eyes l decided not to open them till l got home l'm still pure Those dogs weren't satisfied l screamed for help The bastards took turns. All night long The bastards Pull her out Jamuniya, what have you done? Hemant Singh, get a blanket. Hurry You'll be ok Ok? No hair. No dignity But you're still alive Damn the rest And madam? Lift him Careful He was there for only 8 hours. And madam? For 8 days Stop it! l know Don't use force. Act wisely. Take my advice Advice? ls that your bright idea? A suggestion You're making me cry. l don't want to cry Give me anger. Don't take it away Don't soften me by showing me their good side l'm not weak. Don't make me weak Can't You do that much for me? Did l come at the wrong time? What kind of man is he? Your lnspector A good, or a very good man? God-like. Enough? What's he like? Don't answer. l know A great man Large-hearted. A man of high principles Does he really love you? Yes And you? l'm burning with jealousy Jealousy l'm burning Every damn thing seems on fire As though my soul were on fire Burn! Burn to ashes Burn, Beera! Burn some more So let the world say: ''No man has burned like Beera'' An uncouth man like me? How could l care foryou? l'm insignificant How can l match up to you? Orto your God-like husband Jealousy has made me all-powerful Greaterthan anyone Jealousy is the gift of the lucky few My Mahua l found you at last l searched the forest. And finally found you No biryanihere. Eat what there is. You'll fall sick otherwise Are you all right? l work forthe lnspector. A forest guard l'm here to free you Why didn't Dev come? He doesn't know the winding paths of the forest So he sent me with a keepsake What's wrong? Listen! The lnspector sent a keepsake. So you'd trust me l promise the lnspector isn't far He has an army with him. He won't spare anyone l have jumped hoops to come here and free you Jump some more Hearthis sound? Danger l hope it isn't your death knell l work forthe lnspector. But have great regard foryou These tribals love you too They'd die foryou Am l wrong? But why are you hell-bent on getting them killed? Stop your lecture! Your days are numbered. Not ours Send madam back with me. Keep the others out of it What if l don't send her back? Need l answer? The end of the world Hey, Mangal Are you scared of dying? Well, Ganua? Did his talk scare you? l am shaking with fear Shaking Our death is a joke to you people We have been beaten for so many years that now... ...our skin is as hard as stone Sticks or bullets won't touch us any more So don't threaten us with death, Sanjeevani Think it over l won't leave without madam Who said you were leaving? Eh? Who said so? He's no enemy. He's right Then go to the lnspector. Get a uniform and shoot me in the back But he's talking of peace Peace? With ten truckloads of ammunition? The spy was sent to gauge our strength What is our strength? Shall l tell you? You are our strength But you seem to have weakened Hariya lt's the truth A curse has fallen on us since she came here Everything has gone wrong. She'll devour us all She's already devoured you You said she'd die in 14 hours That became 14 days Not in 14 years will you let her go... Hit me, brother l know you're thinking the same Make him see sense Big mistake him going there Explain A mistake sending him alone. Let me talk to the lnspector You can't open your mouth without using foul language Let me go Don't take me for a child Listen to me for once l won't let you down l went where no one goes Came back from where no one escapes l told you l'd find madam. l have, sir! l deserve a medal. Gold or silver -Have you brought Beera? -His brother is here To make a peace pact Hariya Come on out l am alone Look The gun is empty We have two conditions All cases must be dropped. Take your army and go You talk like a police officer l came here to talk peace l want peace too Send Ragini back Beera will come to no harm Come out when you want to talk l'll wait in my tent Do l tell Beera you're ready for peace? Do l tell Beera you'll accept peace? l only grazed you. Next time you won't be so lucky l came to talk peace Hariya, don't run lnspector Let the battle begin. Cleanse the Iand Hemant When the net is drawn in, even rivers are entangled No way out. No desire to Iive Hemant Clap your hands! The lnspector's coming Not walking. He's running. Run! Where is Ragini? Where is Ragini? Where is Jamuniya? Where is Hariya? You won't be spared today Say your prayers lnspector? Bravo! No army today. No guns No uniform either Alone today Beera, let go of his hand Let him fall and plunge screaming to his death Where is he? What happened? You thought it was your husband What have you done to him? He's God to you l am a demon. A ten-headed demon Tell me he's all right Don't make me beg Answer me Tell me he's all right lsn't he? He was dangling... ...from a bridge. Seething with anger. Furrowed brow Hold it tight lnspector Your lnspector is in a big hurry Slithering like a snake to strike me Do me a favour l don't do favours Don't kill Dev -lf you survive, one of us dies -l'll let go of the rope Or shoot you You think l'd give you a loaded gun? Always wondered who'd take my life in the end Fire one bullet Me You The lnspector We'll all be free Release me Aim right here All over in an instant l'll die happy Laughing And if l stay... You'll stay? Here? With us? lf l don't kill the lnspector... ...you'll stay For me alone What are you doing? What are you doing? You came 14 days late. Why not in 14 minutes? You had me scared Where is he? l'm here. What more do you want? Where are you? Did you come for me? Orfor him? Let's go Beera, l'll be back Ourwar isn't over Take me home Take me home Did he raise a hand on you? Did he hurt you? No lntimidate you? Threaten you? Didn't touch you, did he? What took place between you and Beera? You were there for 14 days l know what you're asking Look at me Can't you tell? Ok. Take a lie detectortest Doesn't it sicken you asking me that? lf you're telling the truth, why fearthe test? l've lived on hope for 14 days But your 10 words now make me wish l was dead The truth always hurts -How do you know what's true? -He told me He said: ''My hands are sullied. But your wife isn't pure as gold'' -He couldn't have said that -He said a lot more Shall l tell you bit by bit? Or all in one go? And you believed him? No reason not to -l'm getting off this train -Who's stopping you? Do you want to throw me out of your life? l want to be rid of the lies l'm not lying, Dev Not you But yourface...your eyes Everything tells me you're lying All lies You shouldn't have come back Even if l knew where Beera is, l mustn't tell you l don't know why you came back lf anger brings you here, then kindly go home You're back What did you tell Dev? l can't hear a word What am l to you? A weapon to win yourwar? Slow down! l can't hearyou What did you tell Dev? What did you say? Tell me Hey, Beera Shall l let go? Let him fall and smash into bits Let the bastard plunge screaming into the jungle l could kill you foryourwife Or spare you for her Shall l let go? Or save you? What did you tell him about me? You're a lucky man Very lucky Yourwife is like gold Throw gold into fire... ...it glows brighter... ...and becomes purer My hands may be sullied... ...but l've looked afteryourwife with much respect What else did you say? Before the beast in me stirs... ...take her away Take her home Come up Tears on a joyous day? Swallow those tears No crying Stop yourtears...stop them Now l know why l'm still alive Many have tried to kill me. With sticks, bullets and bombs But l survived l get it now lf l had died, how would l have met you? Dev didn't listen to me. He said such terrible things Unpleasant things Unpleasant things? But why? He's smart. Educated He's suspicious of me Suspicious? Whateverfor? But why... lnspector! -Dev doesn't know l'm here -Cunning! What a devious way to trap me He knows exactly how to get to me Bravo! l told you l'd come back Shoot Go on, shoot Show the world who is a God. And who is a demon. Shoot Shoot me You'll have to shoot me ten times Ragini, move Even if you kill me, you cannot take what l have Move
