 

                        !!!Greetings!!! This is here's ulitimate river front here millions of yachts docks this yort belongs to Armaan Malik on last Saturday of every month, there is a game of cards so much money is gambled here by which armaan can buy an island his life talks with air armaan never opened his secrets thats why his property is worth billions he started his criminal career as a underground street fighter he loves his money and other's money he hates 2 things, other's cheat and own loyalty its not about 5000 euros, its about cheating you promised me if I will say truth you will leave me and I never break my promise one side armaan's power is getting stronger on the other side he has 1 weakness her mother died when she was born so they met like this since then omisha is with armaan she is armaan's step sister she is armaan's 50% partner in 3 years we will make this place into this I cannot give permission to make casinos in my state don't be so fast to take decision you can see sister love all cards have micro sensors Ilena phone has micro processors when Ilena gets this image, she changes armaan's cards there life goes on if this storm did not come in their life he is good for good ones if someone do bad with him then he will be baddest man on earth just now a man has bought 5 million chips if he wins then we have to pay 180 million who can sayjust 2 minutes before you have lost 5 million euros I have used 5 million to meet you I don't want you have to wait to meet me what can I do for you? I want to do something for us I have so many currency papers that I can print as much as notes I want why you are telling me this? You need a company to go to jail? You all have at least 5 casinos each in return you will give me 500 million euros you will earn 100 million euros but why we? Casinos have the best currency checker machine casino is the most safe place for fake money change the system of your casino I have used 5 million euros here who can use 5 million euros to meet someone? Can you give me 24 hours? I give you time or money, its same thing its written if you will not return my money in I have to think for whom I have to pray? You can see it blank paper I can see you in it if you will shout in this condition then your brain will damage the money which I lost in your casino those were real why you have done this? I don't know you if you knew me than you would not done that I never thought you can do this do you know why they call mangoes to mangoes? What kind of man you are? you never goes anywhere you think I'm flirt? Your previous assisstant told me you are very colorful I use it when I want where you have gone? I was fine until now, now you have come I cannot say anything she has gone, she ran away with arab we are not together now I have some work with you I have a great deal by which we can earn a lot of money this deal is impossible without 1 person whom you know from years this cant be happen without him deal is of billions and I will give you 10% tomorrow there is a big race here, armaan will come here once few fruits were talking to each other, orange said I'm like ball why banana said this? I have to make answer for it he is armaan malik she is armaan's sister Ilena I told you ranvir has a big deal for you lets talk in stands we should put money on number 4 I have put 2 millions on it he has never won any race I think you have come to race 1st time I have come here before I don't understand 1 thing, how you won this race? I gave money to all jockeys I have heard you are interested in Vikram Thapar's casinos his casinos cost 1500 million euros I will take 10% of it vikram's 5 casinos are mine now your share is in your car it means I have to win again, you have to lose when you play with me don't worry my car has all the safety systems by the way if we will die then what about his reputation? You will not ask howl know this? I knew his game is fixed, I can see more than you you are magnetic, you have taken back your money there is a party on this weekend who will stop me? I like men like you I will come at 1 am you don't waste time what you notice 1st in girl? But the girl is same god has given you assets but he did not give you brain I could say this but this is not enough in last 48 hours I remember time which I spent with you still arrow is not on target until now nobody has touched me without my permission when did I say I feel bad? Do you know each other? We just played archery and he won there are 2 reasons for this party recently we have acquired 5 casinos its looking more beautiful but it will look more beautiful when someone will wear it when you will give me ring? I think you are angry because I won yesterday today if I lost then your hot costume will be reason for it if this would not be a game then I would have killed you 3 times now I will not turn back on you is there any fruit which you never eaten? Since how long you know ranveer? First he helped me to buy thapar's casinos whether he is very nice or he wants to win my trust because I have a plan for which we have to trust each other there is deal in which there is 15 billion euro investment it will take some more days to complete deal I told you me and sonia are not together we were very happy that day because it was our last day in cyprus we were moving to bangkok where sonia's sister was waiting for us but its awkward. I'm meeting my sister after 11 years I transfer money from bank so vikram thapar killed sonia vikram just completed contract, armaan malik killed sonia I have already give punishment to thapar after so much hard work I left police job and running this club nothing is more important for armaan malik than money sonia's body is still in morgue I have taken swear until I kill armaan I will not bury sonia you never thought that you will find me here I was also shocked when I saw you in armaan's weekend party I thought you have also come to take revenge from armaan but you started to flirt with me and Ilena my sister loved you a lot and you are flirting with armaan's sister and girlfriend I'm waiting for 1 chance to kill him you love your sister and you just want to kill him I loved her the most and armaan love money the most he has taken sonia from me and I will take his money from him I know what I'm doing if you are with me then my work will be more easy you were waiting for someone else? You were meeting me in 10 minutes where did you plan to kill me? I wanted to kill you but ranveer want to ruin you you have made me sonia's sister I told you he asked me for my address he believed that I'm sonia's sister by looking at fake passport and photo he said I know what I'm doing how do you know ranveer has come here? You also don't trust me? I love money the most and its a matter of money I don't trust anyone I knew ranveer has come to ruin me I just want to confirm it what will happen in future? After finish line I will make his win into my win there are 2 reasons for too much drinking he wants to say something which he cannot say tell me how do you like me? Your heart can cheat if there were no fruits in this world then what would you eat? What is that? Its a copy, its original is in italy's church why you called us here? Its a way to take out 15 billion euros from Armaan he is armaan, he is not a fool until you will not steal shrout, armaan will not give money you will help me in it I have made a mistake I have introduced a wrong guy ranveer singh is cheating you he don't want to give profit, he wants to take sonia's death revenge after thapar he wants to ruin you you cannot imagine his plan ranveer singh gonna steal shrout of turine I will give 5 billion euros and armaan will take 15 billion after that I will take shrout and money too why you are telling this to me? Ranveer is giving me 10% and you can also give me this help ranveer, I'm with you first and last time I'm telling you don't interupt me in front of others because half of money is mine what do you think? I came to know now RD information? Killer shooted sonia's murder when RD introduced me to ranveer I knew he come here for something in fact I will get 35 billion euros remember 1 thing, he will never know we know everything about him you are making plan of making a rich person into poor person how did you guess? I have seen this expression many times on armaan's face I want that look which you showed me on hotel what are you saying? what kind of bomb? Ilena and ranveer both are in car? There is a bomb in the car, don't stop or slow down car there is a bomb in the car, don't stop or slow down car how do you know there is a bomb in car? My guy informed me vikram thapar placed a bomb in your car may be he wants to take his casino's revenge you have confidence that he will steal shrout of turen I trust him like I'm stealing it he is saying deal will be happen in ruins of antalia without weapons when this robbery will happen? Who did not heard his name? You have said thanks for coming then what you will say later? I will also introduced you to someone you have always won against my fighter, there is my new fighter in Saturday's fight like you never lost same like typhoon never lost I'm sorry my last fight was my last fight its good otherwise typhoon would force you to leave it even hollywood movie did not steal it, its gonna happen in real if someone other said this I would have killed him if your hands have power than I will give you money this Saturday you have to fight with typhoon, if you win I will be in you were listening to my brother? You want to take sonia's death revenge? Whatever you plan armaan always knows about it I made a mistake, I have introduced you to a wrong guy you best friend is cheating on you why you are telling this to me? On that day armaan put that bomb in car, not vikram thaapar did you place bomb in Ilena? yes but ranveer is also in that car what are you saying? what kind of bomb is it? Armaan forgot his talk also record in this villa he called you to save you, because you have more benefit for him we both have started this business empire, now he wants to be single owner this time I'm saved because of you, next time I wont happen you want your revenge and I want my money shrout is here this is church's main hall shrout is here these panels have sensors security guards and cameras also watching it if someone crosses shrout then it will automatically go in a compartment then steal shrout from here these walls are of steel expect this door which opens with a security code we can go in from here and steal it how we will reach there? I'm christian but I never got time to go church when this box to be delivered here armaan's fight will start and there this box will reach church real bomb squad has reached here now what we do? By tomorrow you will get your money ok you will get money in bonds in you make any mistake then I will kill you its not safe that we all go together from here YOU 90. we will come from evening flight lets go to some resort I'm going out from room, you meet me at automen fort at 12:30 PM I will say to you you have become so fruity by eating so many fruits now you will make me liquid don't say sir in this position I got you after a long time last time I was waiting for fruit to complete you eat so much thank god you are fine I saw it on news this is not real, its duplicate real shrout is in airport's locker and I have its key tomorrow deal with armaan is in ruins of antalia you give him this shrout this guy will become theif and give it to armaan and give him shrout and give it to him, until deal is finished you stay in his car after that you both go from there, after half KM eric will give you car and money then you come at airport and wait for me my omisha will do as you want and I will do as I want I trust you deal is completed and armaan has mixed poison in drinks we will die and armaan will take all money you trust everyone so easily you trusted me so easily you don't know blood relation is the biggest relation in this world at least bigger than 1 night stand Ilena put poison in your glass cheap glass is more expensive for ranveer what do you think? you can run race I can run race since 1st day I know everything I also know this shrout is fake because of me you will lose your good habit this is your 10% it was pleasure loving you according to our plan we got shrout and money after you I will handle everything we should not leave good habits nothing is more good habit than to be alive you are thinking how I'm alive? Ilena did not put poison in my glass when I came to know you have placed bomb in my glass then I decided on which side I'm you were saying you run this race? Race was always mine and it will be mine I sent RD to you to tell my plan so that you will feel you are far than me I'm sonia's sister and I have come to kill armaan do you think I have never seen sonia's sister and even I did not see her photo why did you kill her? She had to die before you she was with me, I loved her thats why I killed her. if you were at my place, you also did this don't trust him I don't trust him and I trust myself you think I killed sonia for love? I killed her for money today I will give you a precious gift you meet me here, don't meet me down who gave you this? This is fake its a normal cloth which is printed we are working together since I know you will never cheat me I don't care you also print calender, account books turn on speaker until now you have known you have become poor don't try to think how shrout and money become fake? You always called me hero what I call you now? Either I kill you and take everything from you or you give me everything and I will let you go from now your everything is mine and your girlfriend is mine too you forget race starts again where it ends when shrout is stolen then where it gone? We cannot steal that religious thing I just took a little help from god. I have informed church, its a breaking news now ranveer trust you but I don't I don't understand 1 thing when bags got replaced you give me 10% and armaan too now I want peace in my life not suicide take swear you will not meet me again we take swear to break it
