 

                        I don't like any about. - Neither do I. The president is right, they need to be told. - We go public on this thing, what did. Nobody is talking about going public. - It is secret or not secret. You can trust these people. - I don't trust any body. This Russian thing its paper whole project blow sky high. Let us worry about that when it happens. Jesus, I can't believe it happens. Let me get this straight. You're saying there's an American on the island of Svardlov, and you can not locate it. And where the hell this Svardlov? - There's a small island near the Arctic circle. Well every country has done an exploration, there claim for its own. The Russians even put their troops, time to time And now you're telling us, you've lost this man and you may've lost them to some Russians. Telling you we have a diviation with plan. A man is four days over due at the pickup point. Why don't you let us handle it. We do that kind of stuff all the time. Man had to be a mining engineer. - So why're you telling us now? Because if there is an incident We'll need all the help we can get. Gentlemen, if you follow me. - How the hell that we get ourself into a crap like this? I've engineer this thing and I will take the blame. What is this project, Jim? - The Sicilian Project. We believe it could be the ultimate defense system. I know you all familiar with laser technology, that's what we involved with. Each one of those lights is a power station. Each station, when activated... will project a beam from ground to infinity. These beams finally connect make an invisible screen, like a wall. No missile can penetrate it. - Is this theory you talking about, or does it work? Yes it works. There is only one problem. In order to install the system to make it function we need a self contain power source a large one. The success of our project is depends upon our locating a specific mineral, byzanium. Byzanium? I never never heard of it. I surprises,very few people have it. - And you think there may be some one Svardlov is that it? That's all we think. - So we sent a man in. Hope you get him out, because if you don't, if the Russians pick him up... we're going to be scraping on Kremlin next for five years. Washington Central, this is Unit 23 Requesting toll service at Jefferson Memorial. The Sicilian Project? - Yes, captain that's what KGB calls it. Would you read me that report again please? Americans interested in rare minerals, may be related to military operations. Code name, The Sicilian Project. - What could be so precious... that Americans risk this kind of adventure? Are you a chess player? I played it when I was a student. Why? Do you know Isaac Boleslavsky? Of course I know him. He was a great chess master. May be the greatest of them all. Many of the significant variations in the game were invented by Boleslavsky... and one of them was called the Sicilian Defense. All right, Marganin, lets leave it for now. We talk again tomorrow. You know, there wasn't for Dirk Pitt we were be back at square one and that mining engineer who streached out dead on a Russian island. - Who is Dirk Pitt? All of Suddenly he's involved in the Sicilian Project not never heard of him. Used to be a Navy man. After his service he took early retirement and since then he and I have tackle quiet a few things together. He works for you? - Well Sometimes he does, sometimes not. Depends on the job. Looks like something that can't be done, chances are take a crack at it. Otherwise dump down. You mean he only works when he feels like it. - Yes it right. Pardon my expression, at him but it sounds like pain in the ass. Welcome home. Good to see you. Bring a stretcher. Where are you going? See the man you brought in. - Later. How is he? - Lousy. He got a hole in him that big. We have patched him up before we left Norway, but he has lost lot of blood and was fainted flat. He still talk can he? I have to ask him some questions. May be you didn't understood me. We've to get this guy to the hospital as fast as we can. Come on, Gene. We go. The mine had been empty he said, but he was sure byzanium there once. They took out five hundred pounds, maybe half a ton that stuff. That means Russians got it. No, he said mine was worked by Americans. He found tools and equipments that was shipped from Colorado... and a copy of Rocky Mountain News with a date of 1911. 1911? - And he found a corpse frozen stiff. Someone had the burned his name into on wood and left it with the body. This is Sergeant Jake Hobart, United States Army... frozen in a storm, February 10, 1912. Are you telling me the army sent a guy up there seventy years ago to get a half a ton of byzanium? I am not telling you anything, I am just repeating which Koplin told me. What happened to you? Gave up only three hours ago. I was stopped. Sorry. The expression on your face like it look like somebody has stole your candy. I wish I could tell you. Just give me the head lines, you got the names and places. Can I even do that. I thought you were a nice, a scholar and a scientist... home at six, pipe and slippers. Now you suddenly turned into Charlie Chan. This is not funny. Who said it was funny? I said that it was funny? There is just solid five years of work they toilet flushed. Have you ever heard from someone named Dirk Pitt? Who? - Dirk Pitt. Ring a bell? No I don't think so. Why do you ask? Oh, its just a name. Its not important. Well there is little life in that old guy after all. You got to put the worm on the hook. No I can't do that part. - What kind of a fisher person are you? I'm a dynamite fisher person. I just can't put the worm in the hooky. Very Funny. I have got a bad conscience. I told a lie. - What about? About Dirk Pitt. I do know him. I met him when I first came to Washington. He was with the Navy Intelligence there. Why didn't you tell me you do not know? - I do not know. I guess you took me by surprise. I havn't heard his name for long time. You date with him? - No, nothing like that. Now, he was too high for me. What does that mean? - Just that. He takes up all the air in a room. Dirk Pitt. What kind of a name is that? Sounds like a pirate. Dr. Seagram? Are you Dr. Seagram? I must bring you back to Washington, Admiral Sandecker orders. I don't believe it. You got to be kidding. How did he know we were here? - I told him. Brilliant. We'll bring him with us next time. The Hobart file mention the name Brewster, Arthur Brewster... A con man and a minning expert. In 1910 he discovered byzanium on the island of Svardlov and he took at right to the US. army. Even then he saw it might have military possibilities. So they gave him some money and some army engineers to help... and he hired a Norwegian whaler. The ship delievers Brewster, Jake Hobart and rest of the Colorado minners to the island. Makes a date to pick him up after they have mined the byzanium. What happened? - The ship picked them up on schadule. The only problem was two days out of sailing they spot a Russian cruiser tailing them. But Brewster sticks to his plan and the whaler drops him off... on the coast of Scotland, north of Aberdeen and they started by land. Plan was to get the ore to Southampton and send it home by commercial ship. Did they make it? They gave them pretty good shots, but the Russian agents comming on their heels. They fought the running gun battle all the way from Aberdeen to Southampton. Some how, Brewster made it and he have the ore with him. What happened to the other men? - All dead, except one... a man named Southby. Matter of fact, the final report Brewster sent home to the U.S army, was only... thank God for Southby. - Then what? He put the ore in a vault and he saw how it was loaded into the ship. And on April 10th, 1912 the ship sailed. Southampton to New York? Right. Brewster started home on the Titanic. So that's where we are. Spent five years on research and development... we come from bad to worse. We need 200 ounces of minerals we can't find... and if we do find where is it? Its at the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean. But atleast we know where it is now, its now just some place its in one spot, waiting for us to come and get. You're talking about 12,500 feet under water, more than two miles down. We can't get divers down that deep. That's right sir, we can't get the divers down to the Titanic. Which leaves us with only one choice. - And what's that? We don't go to the mountain, the mountain comes to us. Are you talking about raising the Titanic? Yeah. Can it be done? The ship that big, down that deep? Its never done before, no question about that. But we did raise that nuclear submarine a couple of year ago. That was not nearly as large and was third on the depth. Admiral, I am not saying that's gotta be easy. The chance of success is low and the cost will be high. But it is not impossible. If we get full cooperation from the navy. What if you did have navy cooperation and you get the funding? We would have a chance. Lots of problems and lots of risks. We have submarsibles that can go down that deep but we do not know for how long. We've other in developing they can go even deeper. But they have not been tested so every trip would be a gamble. But if we're lucky... We could make nuclear warfare obsolete. What about a, Jim? - It would be a stunner. The biggest marine salvage operation any body's heard of. Dirk says he can handle it... I am willing to go to the president do my best to push him through. Seems we are back to you, captain Pitt. Well like Jim said... it is the biggest job with the highest stakes anybody ever dreamed of. How can you turn it down? Hey Dana! Have any time for an old friend? I don't believable this. My God. Where did you from? - I don't know. Well as you can see, nothing surprises me. I am... perfectly calm and under control. Come on, lets go have a cup of coffee. - I can not, I'm late... I've dropping somebody of. He is not good enough for you. You never thought anybody was good enough for me, including for yourself. I was right. You look teriffic. - Thank you. So to you. I thought you had left Washington so what do you do? Fooling around. - Don't give me that. You were gotta fix the world. Yes, but it was five years ago. I discovered that they had me out numbered. Not you. I don't believe that. - You can believe it. Well I got to go. It's good to see you. Goodbye. - Take care. Funny, you don't look like a scientist. How a scientist suppose to look like? I don't know, but when I would see you walking on the street, I think you... a country club tennis player. I never take you for a scientist. Well That makes us even. I wouldn't take you for a pirate. Here he comes. That did not take long. It never takes long to say no. Now it does not takes long to say yes either. - Yeah. We'll see. Good afternoon, Admiral. We're in buisness. Dirk... Good to see you again. How are you doin? - Good. Don't try to hide behind that beard... I know you any place. - It just keeping me warm. They warned me, you're the boss of this operation. As he told you what we after this time? I don't know no idea. Silent sam. That's allright, I like that, I get us there. I'll keep the coffee hot and you two can handle the tricky stuff. What makes you think there gone be some tricky stuff? - It has to be. Nobody hires you for your good looks. Sorry. This is Dr Seagram. Captain Joe Burke and Chief Walker. Good to meet you. What's operation here. - Yes, we got some nice toys. I was thinking, I may be able to speed things up by feeding all navy navigational and meteorological data... in my computer database. - I know that sounds very interesting. Good. You can reach me through out Admiral Sandecker at the office. Fine. Now If you'll excuse me, I have got three days work to do before lunch. Bye, Dirk. See you later, take it easy. Let us first set some things right. This is Captain Burke's operation... He is an extremly competent navy officer and I don't think he needs your help. As for me, I took this job on two conditions. One, that I handle a salvage end of it my way, and two, that you stay out of my way. Will you remember that? - If you're trying to make me so appear, it won't work. This project is too important. - Good, let's keep that in mind. The royal mail ship Titanic. Where is she now and how do we get her up? That is our problem. This was her course, that orange line. A southwest track from Southampton to her final radio position. Latitude at 41 degrees 46 minutes north, longitude 50 degrees 15 minutes west.that's where she sank. Did the two rescue ships report conflicting positions? That's right. You can see more clearly, here in this inlargement. The Titanic thought she was here, Carpathia had her here and Mount Temple here. So this will be our starting point right, in the middle of this triangle. So one way, or another we are in the nball park. The trouble is sir, could winned up being a demn big ball park. We're talking about miles under water, maybe more. Everything at that depth, is a mystery. That how could a wound up couple of miles from where she disappeared. Or ten. - Let's hope not. Dr. Silverstein group will be handling, the location problems. Our submarsables will work in concentric circles around that point, as targeted. Let me emphasize again the importance of security. Only those who need to know have been briefed of this operation. You will be operating under the direct control of the CNO here, through Cinclant Fleet. Any further questions? Admiral? All right, thank you very much, gentlemen, that's all. We got all the stuff from the White Star Line, engineering drawings and a complete stuctural design for the Titanic. Good. How about a crew list,yes we got that too. - And I think may be we lucked out. One of the survivors is a man named Bigalow. He was junior third officer in charge of cargo and he is living in England, some place in Cornwall. Its an odd thing you know. I had a few ships shot out under me, more than my share. Three in the war of 1914-1918 and two in 1939-1945... but all any body ever asked, me about the Titanic. And now I am doing the same thing. - And you're lucky you came to the right man. As I said, it was cargo hold number nine. D- deck on port side. You sure of that location? - No question about it. We all saw that vault, when it was loaded on board. And we saw the passenger who owned it. Not lightly to forget him... a bushy beard and eyes like a fox. Even if he had got a gun at me the way he did, I would remember him. The gun buisness. You said that happened when the Titanic was already goin down? Lifeboats in the water, only half filled... people scrambling all over. It was pitiful. I was on my way up to the boat deck to give a hand... when this crazy little fellow shoved a gun in my face. Wanted to go to cargo hold number nine... and if I wouldn't take him, he shoot me in my tracks. That's what he said. Well I was a young fellow than... Wanted to live as long as I could, So I took him. When turned down number nine was the only hold not already flooded. Once he got in there spoted what he was looking for, he was happy. When I have nightmares about that lovely ship going down I always see that crazy old man with the gun. That was the last time you saw him, there in the hold? That's right. He wouldn't leave. He went up to that vault of his, a huge thing... 8 foot square, and that he did as if he was the dog, muttering to himself. You remember what he said? - Same thing over and over. Thanks to God for... Southby. Thank God for Southby. Its must be a pretty quiet life for a man like you. God help a man who can't live by himself. We all end up in a single way, sooner or later. There he is, the owner himself. I had already missed you. What do you want a whiskey or a nice point of bitter? - Just a moment, Sarah. This is Sarah Martin Dale, a women of substance, a beauty and a worm heart. And this is Captain Pitt, of the United States navy. Retired, like myself. Retired might Early, if I may say so. Keep your hands off him sarah and give us two large pink gin. Full measure and don't skim. Sarah talk big... fact is she is frightened silly of men. Those of us who know her best, suspect she still a maiden. My God, the man's got off. Come along to the rear. This is my Titanic collection. All its left, in memories. What a lovely thing she was. Standing as high in the water as one of your skyscrapers. Longer than two football fields... And furnishing to mach the finest mentions in England. She was one of her kind, no question about it. And God himself, they said, couldn't sink her. Then in two hours she was gone... and fifteen hundred souls with her. I took the flag of her before she was gone. If you manage to bring her up again... maybe you put it back, where it belongs. Control, this is deep Quest at 8000 feet, searching section 22. Visibility fair, negative contact. Out. This is Turtle, depth 9200 feet. No contact. Out. This is Starfish at 10000 feet, conducting sonar search section 24. No contacts. Depth? - 11420 feet. 6000 pound per square inch. One of these days the water gonna squash us like bug. What are you grumble about, Marker? - There are plenty of reasons to grumble. Hang Around down here in this chunk canned Looking for what? We're looking for what ever is down here. Guys, I just spoil your fun, we're going up. Pitt's comming in. Oh Good, maybe he found what he was looking for. Marine Air Base One to Three. Three Marine. Wind direction 220 degrees with 18 knots. Roger. 220 to 18 knots. Helo three you're cleared. Any thing happened down there? - No, nothing yet. Which brings up a point, I think the sub crew should be told what they're looking for.. Helps moral. - It sounds like a good idea. Why don't we hold a briefing this afternoon? - We have a visitor. Did you notice? Yeah, I spotted a the Russian flag as we comming in. - Looks like a marine research vessel. I means its only may be got a half of dozen gun cruise men on board. They're just nosing around. They don't know not what we are looking for. - Not yet, anyway. Deep Quest, this is Star Fish. Have Sonar Contact in section 26 at depth 12700 feet. Request permission to investigate. This is Deep Quest. Negative. Maintain present depth. You are only certified to 12000 feet. We will checked it out. Here Turtle, 3475 meter depth. Section 23 searched without contact. Starfish, this is Deep Quest. request you conduct sonar search section 33 at maximum depth of 12000 feet. This is Starfish. Roger. Out. This is Starfish, approaching 12000 feet. continuing sonar search over. This is Control do not exceed 12000 feet depth limit.. Out. Lieutenant. Control, this is Star Fish. Bridge Control. - This is Bridge. Star Fish reports she is flooding. We're trying to get more information. Release the batteries pass. - Batteries pass away. Control, this is Star Fish, we fill up, we try to surface. I repeat, this is Starfish, we flooding, we try to surface. We are broken. Starfish, this is control. We lost contact. Where is Turtle? In a water 11000 feet, heading through the Starfish position. This is Turtle. We have Starfish visual contact. She is going down fast, they got to lose the weight. We have taken too much of water. - Press the panic switch, release the ball. Release the ball. - That I try. Control, Star Fish is just imploded. Request permission to surface. Yes, Klink. Yes. Come on up. Doctor Silverstein and I have Reviewed the data. Oh bullshit. I've heard that story a dozen times. While you were busy here screwing around with your computers, we been out there for five weeks, we had found nothing. Meanwhile, I just lost three men. I think they found the answer, now Dirk. Go on. The new projections based on a theory that all the reported positions were slightly off and most important. We failed to take into account that smoke stuck cracked it off the Titanic went down. We built a scale model of the Titanic, perfectly weighted and balanced in exact propation. In two hundred experiments ranged road down no more than one tenth of a degree... and it landed exactly where your submarsbles have been looking. Then we did it without smoke chimney we hit a completely different position. Four hundred times we repeated this process... and every time it landed within inch same spot. Every single time. This we read of the Titanic almost 10 miles south east lies. 10 miles. - We got to move the entire salvage operation to this new location. That's not got be too easy change, can't leave fog over 10 miles of ocean. For all we know the Titanic could be dead center in area we by passing. If it is, we'll find it if we work way back. Find it as we are back... - We better take the gamble. We can't do any worse than we're doing. I know I'm right about this new position. I'm sure of it. I hope so. Not a couple of weeks under water and the submarsble crew will come after you with a hunting spear. Looks like we passed something metalic. The metal detector gives a signal. Ok stay on it. Give us a fix. There. Just below us. - Roger, now we hoover here. Stay on the magnetometer. Report if you see anything. Wait a minute. - What, have you saw something? Yes I think so, but its got three o clock. See that funny shape there? It is clamped between two rocks. - Ok stand by, we will use the mechanical arm. Here we come. Got it. What it is? Looks like some kind of horn. May I, Doctor Bird? - Yes, certainly. Please. Presented the Graham Farley by the grateful management of the White Star Line. Now the white Star did some checking through their records and it turns out that Graham Farley... was the musician for three years on a ship, called Olympic. Then he was transferred. Graham Farley was cornet player in the Titanic's orchestra. Are you sure? - No question, its all documented. That means we're looking in the right place, atleast we're getting close. It also means that the Titanic must be in excellent condition. Wait a minute, don't break out the champagne yet. We step in the right direction, but we're not looking for cornets. That's we're looking for a ship 900 feet long we still can't find it. Where the hell is she? She disappear? Very disturbing. Are all these sources totally reliable? - Absolutely. Is such a defense system possible? Put that question to our military scientists in Moscow. They say it is feasible, but it would take very strong power source. And you say that power source locked in a cargo hold of the Titanic? All signs points to it. I believe it. Bridge, radio. - Bridge I, we hear. Captain, we picking up interference on the VHF. Roger. You take me on? - Yes sir. There's not much pattern to it, sounds like static. It is only on 1 frequency. Keep on it. Call me back when it stops. What the hell is all about? - Picking up some kind of a strange inteferance at night. Carpentar hear it too, but not as clearly as we do. They all crazy on Seacliff. They have found something. - What? I've no idea, but the big bounce in sonar. Seacliff, its Pitt. What's up? This is Seacliff. I think we're smelling something. Running through the metal detector. Good, stay out there. We are coming over. Seacliff, this is Deep Quest. We having in sight at 9' o clock. This is Seacliff. Roger. You have sonar contact with the target? Roger. Come in strong and getting stronger. There it is. Straight ahead. Bohannon, can you identify? No idea what it is, there are about ten layers of marine animals. It is a smoke stack (chimney). - Cool. Bulls eye. Looks like Seagram was right for once. Control, this is Deep Quest. We have just spoted a smoke stack (chimney). Mark our position. This is Control. Roger. Position marked. Out. What do you think? - I think may be we got a get lucky. Seacliff, anything over there? - Negative. Keep your eyes open. Lets stance this. What gives to the metal detector? - Nothing ahead. Wait a minute, what the hell is that? Its a straight drop to nowhere. Control, this is Deep Quest. The ocean floor just disappeared. We're going down until we find it again. You gentlemen, think, what I am thinking? She is down in this hole, no wonder we couldn't find her. We got something. Deep Quest, this is Seacliff. - Look at that. We getting strong signals on all equipment. - Roger, so do we. Slowly this way. The metal detector ripped of its tack. Deep Quest, this is a Seacliff. I think we're on something, right ahead. Roger. You sure on. Hold on. I think we hit the jackpot. Holly christ... Are you absolutely certain? No question. A direct report to our ship standing by there. All right, here is what we do. See that the press gets the story, only one paper... And make sure that Admiral Sandecker's name is prominent in the list of facts. Just the story Titanic? No, the byzanium too. Let's see what kind of explanation they come up with. Yes sir. This story from today's Washington Star. The Titanic, which sank on her maiden voyage on April 14, 1912, has been found... Over 2 miles down at the bottom of Atlantic. No official announcements yet, but one thing is certain... The imaginations of millions of people will be stimulated. In world history there is only one Titanic... Rumors say that the Navy plans to raise her. Why would they doing this? We do not know... but we understand that a defense plan, called The Sicilian Project... and a little known mineral, powerful than uranium... with the unusual name byzanium. This is Sandor Vanocur, in Washington. Of course I wrote that story. Why shouldn't I? The information came in and I wrote it up. That's my job. What about my job? It's look like I gave you that information. Everybody will think that. - Who cares what anybody thinks? You know you didn't tell me anything and so do I. I didn't even connnected with you. I still do not know what you up to. You trying to tell me that the story just flew inside the window? No, I am not telling you, that i have lots of sources. That's what I mean. Who told you? - I can't tell, you that. I won't tell you that. You have to. Its crictical. If there is a leak, we have to stop. What do you mean by a leak? I do not even know what you're talking about. The hell you don't. It was a secret, that's what I am telling you. Nobody know about it. Hardly anybody know about it. It has to be somebody on a inside who told you. Busby? Nicholson? How about your old friend, Pitt? Did he tell you? So what's its all about. That's what this is really about, it about Pitt. Oh christ sake... - It isn't you know it. You have been looking for an excuse to unkown ever since you met him, ever since... I don't give a demn about him. - Probably you don't, you can't get him out from your head. What? - So let us just straight once and for all. I lived with him for two years and I was crazy about him. That's terrific, its just terrific. If you were so demn crazy about him, why didn't you stay with him? Because I was stupid. I'm Sorry. I'm Sorry. I didn't mean it. Sir, after all this time not the Titanic completely rusted away to nothing? We don't think so. At a depth of more than 2 miles... There is less oxygen, the water is much colder... and there're fewer destructive marine organisms. She may be surprisingly sound. The Titanic she sank because the ice rip the huge hole in her hull. Now how she suppose to float with the hole still there? Well she can't. So we're going to pack it with special metal plates... and maker point... We're goinng to fill her lower compartment with synthetic foam. We pump in through hoses placed it position by our submarsble cruise. As the foam goes in, the water in the hole is forced out... Giving us 22 thousand tons up lift. Will all that foam bring the Titanic to the surface? No, we going need additional lift now this will be supplied by these tanks. Filled with Hydrogen gas under high pressure, an anchored to the Ttitanic's hull. Then explosives charges will be placed on the sea bottom around the hull and once they're detonated the hull will be released loose from the bottom suction... and the Titanic will comes to the surface. If and when you raise it, then what? - Then, we will hold another press conference. Thank you all very much. Are you sure you can't tell us something about this mineral, byzanium? I mean how does it fit in this whole operation? No argument. I give you all the informationn I have on that. People says its more powerful than plutonium. Is that true? I've no further comment on it. - What about The Sicilian Project? Is it really a code name for a defense system... or super bomb with biggest warhead yet? No comments. - Is it true that byzanium could fuel a bomb... a thousand times more powerful than bomb of Hiroshima? That's it, gentlemen. I've given you everything I can for now. What do you think of it, Vinnie? - Doesn't sound like any code ever heard. You know the tapes remake at a much higher intensity... than the once I've recorded and connects with the Carpentar. Yes make sure think that the signal, whatever it is, orignates here on the Denver. Demn sure it does. Any word from naval inteligence? Sandecker says we will have a report by tomorrow. What's it say about him? - Marker? He's allright. He has a good record. He served as a civilian technition in Vietnam. He got captured. Spent two years in a prisoner camp... and another one years in Japan to get over that. Married to a Japanese girl. Yes that what he said, only she was not Japanese. She grew up in Nam Dinh. Her family still lives in Haiphong and her brother in the North Vietnamese army intelligence. How the hell we missed that one? Its painted over. We were supposed to miss. So they finally let you come down with us. I thought you'd never make it. - Neither did I. There is no time like the first time. How do I look to you? Nothing like I expected. We got to have a problem with that one. - Let's take a look. It hangs from a stack. We gonna need a help. Try Deep Quest. Deep Quest, this is Turtle. We need some help with this hydrogen tank, its hangs on a stack. This is Deep Quest can do. Be right there. Well, let's do it. Make the mechanical arms ready. This is Deep Quest, we're hooked up. - This is Turtle. You pull, we push. Its moving. It feels like it stuck on something. Deep Quest asks for help. Keep the arm still. Son of a bitch, they are stuck in that window. Come on, baby. Come on, you pretty little thing. Get some Dady out of there. Come on... Indicates electrical fire on the left. Battery acid. Put your mask on. We are on to state of entangled. Acid's running out of the batteries. I was half of power on the panel. Can we break out these power lanterns? Well, knock off the power. We're going up. Bohannon, move on over here and standby Deep Quest. Roger. We are on our way. How's look down there? - Not good. Seagram picked a lousy day to go to sight scene. He is a scientist. Who the hell authorise him for sumersbile duty? How bad is it? - Or they got themselves trapped in to that sky like a cork in the bottle. We are fighting time. We lost almost all batteries power... and they are going to be running out of air. They have about six hours left. What're choices? - No choices. If we can't cut loose that submarsible... we have to bring up the Titanic. - Six hours? How we do that? Target date two weeks away. Our target date just got changed. Here's all we got to do. Eighty charges, each one containing a hundred pounds of explosives... At these key points under the hold. Why're you shaking your head? Shaking my head, I am shaking all over. Those charges are double what we planned. If anything goes wrong we loose four men. But if we do not bring him up, we lose him anyway. They got two chances to die and one to live. All right now we're going to detonate the starboard charge first. Eight seconds later, first one on the port side, another eight seconds back to starboard. We alternate the explosions all the way to holds... so we setup rocking motion like you do with a car stuck in the mud. Would it not be better to put an extra large charge right on to bow. Then we shake it loose. - Too dangerous. This way we start the right movement with less risk to the men. Carbon dioxide rising up. Can we get some more air? - No, we can not. Moving it down to save energy. The less we talk, the longer we go. - Exactly. Everybody just sit down and relaxed. Ok, arm it. Control, this is Seacliff. Explosives secured. All clear. - Roger. Control, this is Turtle. All charges secured. Seacliff, Turtle, this is Control. Get the hell out of there. Moving out. This is Turtle. Estimated arrival area, 13.05. We're leaving the Titanic. Start the countdown. - Start the countdown, I.I sir? All stations, T minus 50. Activating Hydrogenium generators. Twelve, eleven, ten, nine... eight, seven six, five... four, three, two, one. - Start. Heavens, what is it? - Trying to blast us loose. Can they do it? - They're going to blow hell out of this sub. It just laying there. Move, you bastard, move. What the hell is going on? - Late hits, last two charges just went off. Something happening. something moving down there. Isn't that a beautiful son of a bitch? It's incredible. There she is. - Yes. But where the hell is Deep Quest? The explosives must have her released. There she is. We can not did our service. Head covers just as jammed as the others. I got to need dynamite to get you out of that mass. - Yes. Yes, just forget it. Keep the pump running. We got to wait until we go to New York to get the right equipment. What happens? Where does the Carpentar gone? This, freighter have a trouble. We're in trouble. We need that ship. We can not ignore this distress call. - You wanna talk about distress? We got Navy weather forecasting a force 12 storm, the Russians are looking down out throats, we are on a ship never learn how to do but sink. That's distress. From the Russian ship. They're asking for permission to send a man over here, captain Prevlov. What's that all about? Well They're offering give us a hand in case the weather gets bad. Permission granted, Captain Prevlov come aboard. Admiral, you sure we want to do this? Why not? We might listen what he got to say. Welcome to the Titanic, Captain. Our time is precious, so I'll come straight to the point. We're offering you the safety of our ship. My helicopter can carry ten men at a time. Very nice of you. What happens to the Titanic if we accept your offer? An empty ship on an open seas. - What is the Russian word for piracy? No, it's not question of piracy. It is the international law of maraine salvage. Hell with it. We know about the byzanium. Stolen from a mine on Russian territory. You must trust me, gentlemen, what I tell you that we're determined to take back what is morally and legaly ours. Mikhail Kurkov is a torpido ship. If her captain gets no signal from me eight minutes from now... he will sink this ship, that we're standing on. What if do to get byzanium, then what? It is worthless if you do not... - A Sicilian defense system? No, its not worthless at all. If this byzanium will produce a superior weapon... then Russia must have it to guaranty the security of our people. We arm ourselves only... to protect us. The clock is keep ticking, gentlemen. All right, Prevlov, I make it fast. We knew you're comming aboard here today we knew your plan would be exactly. Dirk. This is Pitt. Bring on a surprise package. Well, I will prove it to you. Like I said, You do not have much choice, Captain. I see. Gentlemen... We have him. No water. - Sealed tight. Watch out. And here is Arthur Brewster, sank with the Titanic. All right, lets get those boxes out of there and get them open up. Just like the others, debris. Doesn't makes sense. - A dead man and seven boxes of crap. Arthur Brewster's papers. Listen, we know that byzanium existed. We know that Brewster had it. It must be some place. We worked sweat come up with nothing. Three men dead whole The Sicilian Project in the junk box. How the hell that we blow this thing? There must be some kind of answer, but I could not find what it is. I am just as disappointed as you're, Gene. I hate to quit on anything, but sometimes you have no choice. If it make you feel any better... I will tell you something I didn't want to admit even to myself. If we had found the byzanium, I am not sure we could hung on to it. I don't think we could tagged it, for defensive only and made it stick. We got the president's assuare for that. - Yes, right, but... Presidents do not stay on office forever and even if they did circumstances change. What is that mean? - I means that... if the government falls in the Middle East or somewhere... they start bombing Pakistan or some where else... it effects all of us. What this got to do with The Sicilian Project? Nothing. Maybe... I am just saying that somewhere in the world in some think tank right now... they're figureing out a way to build a byzaniumbom bomb. Why, if you knew that... in God's name why did you go along with this whole operation? Because I believed in what we were trying to do. And if it did not work defensively... if somebody was going to make a byzanium bomb... I wanted it to be us. He thinks just like you do. I don't understand that kind of thinking. You are both couple of cynics. You think its some kind of lousy game. If I thought the way Sandecker does I wouldn't started the demn project on a first place. I'm glad we didn't find the stuff. Ok? But I am not got to let you wriggle off the hooks so easy. Not now. Take a look at this. Its a postcard. I saw it. That's right. A british postcard. We all saw it. Brewster must bought it, stuck it in his suitcase never mailed it. Take a look at the fine print on the back. Come on, read it. Typical country church and grave yard in county of Hampshire near the village Southby. Southby? Twenty miles from Southampton. We were wrong. We thought it was a man, but it is a place. Thank God for Southby. And this is the one. Jake Hobart. I will get the shawls. Excuse me. Jackpot. Would you like us to dig him up? - I do not know. You will have to ask Doctor Seagram that question. It is your decision, Gene. Whether you like it or not. Wouldn't you want us to dig him up? No. What's so funny? I knew a girl once. - I bet you did. Years later I came back to her, she says, what has happened to you? I thought you got to change the world. What do you said? - I said they have me out numbered. Is that my lesson for the day? No more lessons. No more lectures. You mean the school is over? Yes, you have just graduated, professor. Boris J.
