 

                        My name is Gas-bag. I release laughing gas This gas is Nitrous Oxide. It was discovered by Joseph Eastley in 1752 This gas makes weeping faces laugh and laugh... till they drop unconscious. So get ready to laugh My sympathies, man. Every teacher who comes here, ends up like this You are the twenty-first one I,m throwing out. Don,t come back I'Ve heard all that. Just give me the final report, Murty Sir, it,s proved that the dam is cracking up Reason could be water pressure, or even adulterated cement Can,t say for sure, but unless the dam is repaired, it will burst More than 80,000 people in about 300 villages are endangered Has the ministry been informed? - They faxed. Engineers are coming When do they arrive? When do they give a report? When does work start? No. Our firm does the job. - Yes, we did build this dam But now it belongs to the government. It,s their responsibility Also the humanitarian onus, Murty. It,s a question of 80,000 lives All right, I,m coming There,s a limit! To everything! But no limit to your pranks! You have always had your way. You get whatever you want! But this doesn,t mean that you can do whatever you want! I bring you the best of teachers, and you chase them away on day one! Papa, we,re grown ups now. We don,t need anyone You do! Listen! I'Ve decided to send all three of you to boarding school See that V.P. Singh? They'Ve become so insolent! No one even says sorry! Off they go to boarding school! Once they,re away from home... they will mend their ways. - Sir, what are you doing? I,m doing the right thing. Our indulgence has spoilt them Don,t forget, sir. Over something similar... you once threatened to throw someone out. And what did it end in? Raju left home. Till today, he hasn,t returned Sir, God forbid... What,s going on? Don,t disturb us. - Can,t you see, we,re packing? Casper, hold your ball Stop being cross. Now it happens sometimes If you guys leave, how will I live all alone? You won,t send us to boarding school? - Not at all You won,t get another teacher? - Never! No teacher for you! One who repents is not a sinner Rohit, help me. Rahul,s tongue is wagging a bit too much You imp! So what were you saying? Have your laughs, you Satans! At least admit that you were wrong Not a nice thing to do, kids Now that we,re friends again, don,t I deserve something? No one can ever take us apart I want no complaints. Where,s your inhaler? I don,t know, Papa Where is her spray? How many times have I told you that she is susceptible to asthma attacks? She must always carry her spray. - Sorry sir, I forgot Keep this Uncle... you...? So how have you been? - After my sister died... the way you brought up the children is exemplary Bread is meant to be buttered. Uncle uses it to wax his tongue My nephews are so witty! - So witty! So what brings the partners here so early up? You are doing millions of people a good turn by repairing the dam But why? It,s the government,s job. The dam is built, our job is over Is it our responsibility if the dam bursts, or even if a few people die? Sure! People die every day! Bhopal or Orissa what difference does it make? You mean, let the dam go bust? - That,s not what I mean to say I mean, we shouldn,t block our money. - No harm thinking it over once again Our engineers estimate a cost of 290 million. Large amount What if I were to foot the entire bill of 290 million? Not the company How can that be? - Maybe you take it otherwise Not at all. You,re thinking like businessmen. I,m pedestrian Besides, why not pay back a little to the country where I earned it all? I wish there were more businessmen like you. We,re with you, Siddhant Your phone When is she arriving? My car will pick her up Who,s arriving, Papa? - Your governess But you promised... - I promised you "no teacher" I didn,t say "no governess" Get the car What,s going to happen now, Rohit? We,re being cheated. We,ll change the pitch Now hear this. An elephant and an ant were taking a ride on a scooter Suddenly, a truck speeded in from the opposite direction, and crash! The scooter and the truck crashed. Elephant and ant are tossed out! Poor elephant was badly injured. His head cracked up. He was bleeding The ant just got up. Nothing had happened to it Nothing at all? - Nothing. You know why? I,ll say! The ant was riding pillion. - Wrong. The ant was driving Then why wasn,t it hurt? - It was wearing a helmet The elephant wasn,t It,s very important to wear helmets while riding a scooter. Else... you might get hurt, whether you,re an ant or an elephant Why are you weeping? - Why haven,t I a Mummy and Daddy? Because you,re the most special kid Let me tell you. When God created this world, He made lots of babies Lovely little babies! Then He made people to look after the babies. Mummies and Papas Among the kids, there were some who were God,s dearest. Just like you So God decided, "I,ll look after them Myself. They,re My special babies" So He called back their Mummies and their Papas Kids who don,t have Mummies and Papas are God,s most special babies. Get it? Aren,t you too one of God,s special babies? That,s why we live in this orphanage. So near Mister God! Before Him Mother is calling you There,s a very good job for you But I,m doing this job, teaching the children in this orphanage Time, tide and life wait for no one. You too have to move ahead The beautiful world outside this orphanage, you must see Not a good thing to do, Mister God! I was two months old... when You brought me here. All these years You kept me with You Why are You sending me away? - God is never far away from anyone Your friend Mister God is the One who told me, "Anna must venture forth" "Let her see the world. Let her make a world for herself', If my friend Mister God said that, what can I do? If you ever want to return, come directly This is your friend,s house So where do I go? Didn,t you say that people go to The Heavens and become stars? Yes, they become stars. - Has our Mummy become a star too? Tell me Papa Look, the brightest star up there ...that,s Mummy Where does Mummy go in daytimes? Why can,t we see her? In daytimes, she hides in our hearts. - Can she talk to me? What do you want to talk about? - I,ll ask her to tell me a story Story? Even I can tell you stories. Which story do you want to hear? The one that Raju Chacha told you. - The one about the lion! "Listen to this story about times long ago..." "I heard this story from your Raju Chacha" "There was a lion and a lioness. And they had three cubs" "They were naughty like you. But..." But? What Papa? - "Everyone loved them" "There was a little house inside a little cave" "They had no fear, they had no sorrows" "They were Mummy,s darlings. They were Daddy,s pets" "They laughed, they sang, they were always having fun" "And they lived together" What happened Papa? Tell us "Fate laid a trap" "There came a hunter" "The lioness faced him. The hunter fired his gun" "The lioness was wounded. She screamed, she writhed" "Then she lay down" "She never opened her eyes again She had been shot in the heart" Don,t cry. This is a story "But before dying..." "she spoke her dying words" "My mate, my love..." "love my babies" "Don,t forget, you,re their father. Be a mother to them too" Papa, this is just a story! "How can a father ever know what a Mummy means?" "He didn,t know how Mummy plays with her babies" "But he learnt how to laugh, and how to cry" "He learnt how to wake with the cubs, how to sleep with them" "Time stopped for a while, and then trudged on slowly" "The wounded hearts began healing slowly" "Daddy taught the cubs how to take their first steps" "They played on Daddy,s lap instead of Mummy,s" "Months, seasons, years, came and went by" "The lion cubs started smiling, they began singing again" The rest of the story tomorrow. Now go to bed No Papa! Please! - Tell us the story now! All right. Listen "Rahul, Rohit and Rani..." "now listen to the rest of the story" "The shadow of sorrows were cast on them again" "A black lion came by" "He growled, he roared!" "As if he was about to eat up everyone!" "The cubs were so scared, they ran" "But their father held the ground" "A fight began" "The whole forest began trembling" "The monkeys sat high up on trees" "The snakes hid in their pits" "The doves flew away" "The bear ran up a hill" "The elephants ran out of fright" "Our lion had no friends left" "It was a tremendous fight" "The black lion took a beating" "Then all the cubs applauded" You,re thinking of Mummy, aren,t you? Mummy, yes. And Raju too. - If you love Raju Chacha so much... that it moves you to tears, then why did you hit him? Because he had started smoking. One can,t forgive a 12-year old... when he starts aping elders. - Forget it. What use thinking... of the ones who have departed? - Two kinds of parting, Rohit Ones who leave never to return, like Mummy. And ones who leave us... with hopes that someday they will return. Like Raju Everyone all right? Then you hold my cigar. Hold it for me, son I,m here to collect my pension, and cigars are expensive. Hold it, son Why doesn,t anyone understand when I say it with love? Manager, step out Guard, shut the door. Quick! I knew it! The astrologer told me I,ll die after my wedding! Shut up! My hands shake, my heart sinks, when I hear someone wailing Why are you shooting all the time? I,m just married! I,m drawing money for my honeymoon! Don,t shoot! I,m like your son! Tell him! Why don,t you tell him he,s like your father? Say it! Clam up. Don,t drive me crazy Put the wads in a sturdy bag. I have to carry it far. Hurry! My father-in-law isn,t rich! I,m poor! - Shut up! Everyone in the vault Move it. To the vault. - In the vault? Why? I suffer from asthma! No! - Cool down! I have asthma! No! Let me have my money! God! Do something, please! - Manager, come here Tell him to stop screaming. Else, I,ll start killing. Get it? Why don,t you speak? What was that sound? - I,m playing video games You don,t recognise gunshots? - Do you realise the consequences? What use thinking of outcomes, son? I,m nearly in my grave There,s only one way out. You can,t get out You,ll get me out If I don,t get out, the body-bags will What do you want? - Security for my old age, son Some money, and say a vehicle. - What kind of vehicle? A bulletproof jeep. A Harley Davidson and a military truck. Nothing more You need so many to make a getaway? - I,m moody! No knowing my mood! If all your demands are met, will you let the people off? Of course. I,m a man of my word. For every demand, I let one off Not one. Ten. - Who,s demanding, son? You or me? Not ten. I,ll let two out. - Fine. I,ll talk to the Home Minister But this will take some time Listen, as soon as my first demand is met, I will release one of you Say, who goes? - He! Your first demand has been met How many hijackers in there? - Only one He,s as good as a hundred put together! What weapons does he have? - Lots! Guns! Revolvers! Explosives! The ones in there are in danger! Save them! He,s in a state of shock. - Leave your names and addresses Take him to a doctor right away. - Yes sir Shekhar! My brother! My friend! A killing! After so long! Our woes will vanish, like we vanish from the police! How much did we take? - Lots. We could count all night Let,s read about it tomorrow in the newspapers It,s been months since I last saw a large currency note. Show me one! Go on. The bag is with you. - With me? Where? I gave you the bag. - I don,t have it! I gave it to you when I was removing my make-up I don,t have the bag! - I gave it to you! The bag? - Yes! The bag! I don,t have it! - You have it! Where? No...? - No! You haven,t? - No! What are you saying? Jadu! You screwed up! After all this effort! Car! You ruined it! - You did it! You took me along for nothing! - It was your idea! What a piece of creation! - What a body! I can,t take my eyes off her! - I,d love to watch her in the act! She,d make hearts skip a beat! - I wish I could have her! What a smile! - Does a car smile? I,m talking of the lady in the car. - Comedy of errors With that car on our hands, we won,t be paupers for 6 months to come If I get my hands on the lady, it,d be an end of a lifetime of penury I,m talking coal. You,re gunning for mines! We were supposed to rob a till. You drag me all the way to a bank! And then you forget the booty! Stay within your limits! There,s a landslide. The road won,t open up before daybreak Why are you cross, lady? So what if the road is closed? Open up your hearts! We have passion! We have our dreams! We are young! What more do we want? Let,s celebrate Valentine,s Day right here! Come over, ladies! What are you doing? Let,s have some music! Now watch me work a spell "Your lips say no, my lips say yes" "Yes, these are the signs" "This is called love" "Haven,t you recognised me?" "My love, I,m no stranger" "I adore your very name" "I,m not mad. I,m madly in love with you" "You'Ve told me who you are. But you tell me you aren,t the one" "This is the ring you gave me. It proves you are wrong" "It wasn,t a thorn taken out" "There was no paper I'Ve lost" "It,s written all over your heart. You,re mine, I,m yours" Are you still cross with me, Sanjna? - Who,s Sanjna? I,m Anna How long will you be cross with me? If my love is true... someday you,ll surely forgive me. - But I,m not... You,ll surely forgive me Drop it. Why are you so cross? Today is Valentine,s Day A day to love, not a day to slap someone Shekhar is innocent. On his behalf, I apologise to you Actually, you resemble his girlfriend. Poor girl, she,s dead! This hapless fellow isn,t ready to believe it Everywhere he goes, he,s looking for his lover. Forgive him Strike him not, for he,s madly in love! And this is is Casper They,re a bunch of imps! Handling children isn,t tough. After all, they,re children I'Ve taken care of forty at a time. They are only a threesome Show the lady her room I am a bit apprehensive. - Apprehensive? Why? - The trio seem too well-behaved That,s a good sign. - Bad sign A lull in the sea precedes a storm. - Yes I,m going to the site. I,ll be back tomorrow Keep an eye on the kids. Don,t let them rile Anna Storm? Cyclone? Come hither Be not afraid, Anna She ran! - She,s gone! Come on kids. How about a hot cuppa? She has cut my head off! What next? What did Gandhiji say? - Never to lie What did Lord Buddha say? - Respect your elders What did Lord Krishna tell Arjun? - Perform, without expectations What did Uncle Nehru say? - Children are divine So you,re back! - Sanjna, till you forgive me... I,ll keep coming back to you This the only purpose left in my life. You are my life Why are you after me? I told you. I,m not Sanjna. I am Anna Your Sanjna... - No! You have taken another name. Agreed. You have forgotten me. Conceded How can you forget your love? How can you forget the beautiful days? The days when we met. Remember? The sky was overcast It was drizzling lightly. I was running after the bus I tripped and I fell in the muck. I was writhing in pain when I heard the laughter. Tingling, as if... the wind had struck a guitar chord. I turned around, and there you stood With a smile in your eyes, your hair flowing in the wind I forgot my pain, and I walked up to you and I said... "lf you keep smiling like that, I,m willing to trip again and again" You smiled again, and then you tied your scarf around my ankle Do you remember the days, Sanjna? Remember this ring? You took it off your finger, and you put it on mine Have you even forgotten this memento of our love? Have you broken all ties? Soni embraced me just to make you feel jealous. And you were so furious So furious that you slapped me! I kept calling out to you! But you were in such a rage You wouldn,t even look at me. You didn,t even see that car! It was hurtling straight down. Then you and the car... no! You,re all right! How did this happen? Don,t worry! Everything will be all right God! Listen... Stop the car! Please! Help me! Someone help me! Is he mad? - Somebody! Help me! My Sanjna is injured! I have to take her to the hospital! Please come with me! Somebody! Come with me! Oh, how did all this happen? But why am I crying? My Sanjna is right in front of me! God is so kind! He has answered my prayers! You are safe! But why be so angry over something so trivial? You even refuse to recognise me? Not the right thing to do, Sanjna Yes. Very wrong. - Wrong thing to do Go to your classes I,ll come again, Sanjna Here you are Inspector. 200,000. - For two corpses Prince shouldn,t be suspected. - No one will be suspected, sir Prince, make sure you drive carefully. You ran over two people What a waste of money. - How much have I wasted? 200,000? And you blew up 290 million on Siddhant Rai,s say-so Use your brains. I accepted Siddhant Rai,s decision... because we are the ones responsible for the cracks in the dam If there,s an enquiry, we might end up in jail And we don,t want to go to jail. - How can we be jailed? We,re only 30 percent partners now If we want 100 percent of his empire, it will be necessary... not to offend Mr Siddhant Rai for some more time to come I don,t understand. - I won,t explain Madam, telegram for you She,s leaving! - She packing! Madam, are you going somewhere? She has to! Her Mummy and Daddy have met with an accident My parents died 20 years ago If anyone, mourn your mother. You have hurt her soul deeply She would never have imagined that those who have lost their mother... could pull a prank over the death of someone else,s parents You did this so that I,d go away, didn,t you? I,d rather work with those kids at the orphanage They never break anyone,s heart. Because their hearts are broken I won,t forget this favour. Thanks to you, I,m going back to my friends Please get me a car "We,re devils" "But now we,re perplexed" "We bugged you. But you embraced us" "Madam, you win. We lose" "Look, we,re holding our ears" "Forgive us. Smile, don,t be angry" "Don,t break our little hearts" "Sister, we love you" "You,re like a mother to us" "Here comes the Queen. Here comes the King" "Strike up the fanfare" "Where did the Queen come in from? How did The King come in? "There are no doors, no windows" "From somewhere comes the Queen. From somewhere comes the King" "Strike up the fanfare" "You are the Queen of the palaces. I am the King of the streets" "Let,s play Kings-and-Queens" Get lost! "Who is the wizard who works this magic?" "Who makes nature bloom? Who makes the flowers smile?" "They call it Spring" "Lovers call it love" "New friends, upon new paths. Come on, let,s all hold hands" "Arm in arm, the flowers will bloom" "When the flower has blossomed, hearts will meet" "From somewhere comes the Queen. From somewhere comes the King" "Strike up the fanfare" "A little bird stole a grain" "Your crow! Don,t you scream!" "Let,s play hide-n-seek in the cornfield!" "Wait Princess! Don,t come seeking yet" "I,ll say I love you You say, I love you" "Let,s go where the magic of love works" "From somewhere comes the Queen. From somewhere comes the King" "Strike up the fanfare" "Where did the Queen come in from? How did The King come in? "There are no doors, no windows" Sir, Murty speaking. The dam has burst Cheapskates! You call yourself humans? Is this your ethic? Look at that footage! Drown yourselves! Thousands are homeless because of us! There are countless buried under the debris Thousands of acres of crop has been destroyed There,s no water, no electricity! Such is the devastation! And none of you is willing to accept the responsibility! When the cracks in the dam were first reported... why wasn,t action taken immediately, despite my say-so? Who is responsible for this delay? I have ordered an enquiry, Siddhant. - I don,t trust you at all Select your team. If you want, call in independent engineers I want the report on Sunday Hide me somewhere! Are you here to apologise again? - Until she forgives me... I will go on asking for pardon. - Confucius says, ask for God,s mercy You should go for a confession Go and make a confession For all the laws in the world, why does none apply to love? Why is one punished more than one,s crime? Sanjna knows how much I love her! Yet, for something so trivial... Sanjna refuses to recognise me! I haven,t come to ask for anything I just want to say that unless Sanjna forgives me today... I will have to commit a sin. But this crime I am going to commit Yes, I am going to commit suicide. Maybe this is the only way... to prove my innocence, to immortalise my love Maybe we will never meet again Look! A gift voucher! - Give it to me! Come on Rani Thank You, God! You know once every 24 hours, God grants a wish immediately! You know what I just asked of God? "lf there,s an iota of truth... in my love for Sanjna, I should see her." And here you are! Without you, I,m going to die! Please forgive me! Please forgive me Sanjna! Enough! Enough of your madness! Now,s the time to put an end to this! - What rot! Are you out of your mind? You'Ve gone out of your mind! You'Ve every right to torture yourself... even to irk me. You have no right to harass an innocent girl! Harass? How can I harass my Sanjna? - Enough! Now accept the truth Accept...? The truth! Know the truth! - Truth? What truth? That she isn,t... - Listen, no! Damn him! How long will he go on harassing you? It,s very important that he comes to terms with the truth! This isn,t your Sanjna. She is Anna! Sanjna is dead! She,s dead! Jadu! No! - Yes. She was run over by a car No! - I performed her last rites! This is a lie! A lie! - True! True! True! No! Forgive me. I had to tell the truth! Listen, can I be...? - In the fire of love... Iovers will burn! He died long ago. He,s just pulling along. He,ll live Can I do...? - Go. I,ll take care of him Come on Thank you very much. Go on. I,ll take care of him Go on Moron! You hit me so hard! - I,m a method actor! And I had a score to settle with you. - You! Want me to call her back? Welcome lady, welcome! You bring us such joy! How many I be of service? How is Shekhar? - True lovers don,t die so easily Majnu, the legendary lover roams the desert for years, asking for death And where does he die? At the doorstep of his beloved Laila Where is he? Surely in the boudoir of his dreams, with Sanjna. Sanjna everywhere Tell me Jadu, where is he? - If you are so anxious to know... how he pines, I,ll tell you where. The hapless lover is at Sunset Point You...? I,m ashamed about yesterday. Please forgive me I'Ve harassed you a lot. If you ask me the truth... it isn,t my fault. Nor yours. God has played a cruel joke on me He takes Sanjna away from me, and He sends me a look-alike... to make me suffer Sanjna was lucky to have had someone as madly in love with her as you! Don,t call it love. Love is too small a word Why doesn,t death erase memories? Can I do anything to help you to tide over Sanjna? This is my tragedy. I always lost my loved ones My mother, my father, my brother, and even... Sanjna! You,re lucky Shekhar, to have possessed something you could lose There are those who never had anything to lose You have seen your parents, you can dream of them There are those who don,t even get dreams Look into my eyes, Shekhar I am afraid... I might fall in love again And I haven,t the courage to suffer again I promise you Shekhar Never again will you have a heartbreak "Promise" "This is my promise of love" "This I promise. Love is my promise" "Never let the promise be broken" "Let us never part till we live" "Unfaithful is the one who is vexed with her lover" Say it "This I promise. Love is my promise" "Never let the promise be broken" "Let us never part till we live" "Unfaithful is the one... - Who is vexed with her lover" "We are two, but at heart we,re one This I know" "I hold you in my eyes" "Let this bond never break even in death" "Unfaithful is the one... - Who is vexed with her lover" Caught you! Who is this? - Papa, he has just come. So I see. But why is he here? Papa... the tv. He,s here to fix the tv Which tv needs repair? - Not the tv. The programme The Cartoon Network isn,t showing - Sir, BBC! Not I, that is... BBC, NBC, CNN, nothing,s showing, sir! - I think you,re trying to tell lies They are lying The truth is... - Bye! Wait! If the truth has anything to do with you, you aren,t going anywhere Sir, this is Shekhar. We love each other very much Shekhar, what do you do? - A car broker If someone likes a car, I deliver. I also help you out with bank loans How much do you make? - No fixed income, sir Sometimes, I rake in six figures. At times, I have even sold my house You love Anna? To get a mate like Anna, one has to be very lucky Will you marry her? I,m free this Sunday! Are you? Anna, are you free this Sunday? Congratulations! Congratulations to you too! No time to mourn! It,s over a month! We came looking for the pot of gold! Now we,re eating crow! For your kind information, she isn,t even distantly related to Siddhant Rai She,s a governess to his kids. Just a maid! You understand? Jadu! I,m getting married! - Sweet? Potato? Meat? Pack it nicely Keep this money. I,ll be back This is worth 52,000. - Nice Keep this 2,000. Send your man with me. I,ll give him the rest Go with the sahib, and collect 50,000 Is my 50s packet ready? - Ready Go, take it Give the packet Hot samosas. All of 50. - Samosas? Fifty? Not samosas! I want 50,000 Rupees! - Are you doped? You expect 50,000 bucks out of a deal worth a hundred? Get lost! I,m ruined! Jadu, tomorrow I marry Why are you laughing? Strange are our laws. Steal and you are punished. Not for stealing hearts Wreck property and you,re punished. Not for breaking a confidence The laws need an overhaul, say what? - What kind of a melodrama is this? Not I. You,re the one who,s playing with that innocent girl You profess true love? With a stolen ring? True love? Based on lies? The wedding done, do you know what will happen once the truth outs? She,s a proud girl. She will kill herself After all that wailing over Sanjna, you,ll end up mourning Anna. For real! Listen, never lie to God. Never lie to the woman you love If you love her truly, make a clean breast of it. She will forgive you You? Here? Couldn,t wait it out for another three hours? I want to talk to Anna. It,s urgent. - Tell me. I,ll tell her I can,t tell you. - Then tell us Can,t tell you either. - How about telling me, Shekhar? If I could have two minutes with Anna... Hurry! She,s going to be late for the wedding! Say it I have something important to tell you. - Whatever it is, say it in front of us If it,s private, do it after the wedding Step back, children Rohit, let,s have a wedding like this for my doll Stop! You should'Ve understood why I slapped you Sir, I want to say something. - I don,t want to hear anything! For those who need to know, I,ll do the telling Anna, this man is a liar, a thief, a conman. Here to deceive us Even the ring he has given you is stolen. Yes, or no? If I,m not wrong, you deceived Anna. For the sake of my money Because you thought that Anna is related to me. Right, or wrong? Had you stolen all my money, I wouldn,t be as hurt... as I am to see this innocent girl deceived. What did you want to steal? What does this poor girl have? What she had, fate has already taken You should be ashamed Yes sir. Whatever you said is true. I am a liar. I am a fraud But I am not deceiving Anna. I love her truly! From men like you, not a word can be trusted "You promised..." "your love was your promise" "False promises" "You swore never to part" "To be vexed with my lover would be unfaithful of me" I am responsible for the state Anna is in I should'Ve inquired about the scoundrel before saying yes Were Destiny in our hands, everyone would'Ve changed his own fate May I take Ann Anna away with me for a while? A change might work What are you doing here on a Sunday? - We,d like to see the reason... for the collapse of the dam cited in your report The cement was adulterated. And inferior quality of steel And who is responsible? - Not to be afraid, Murty Tell us, who,s named in the report? All three of you. - This gives us a bad name Possibly the names can be changed? - No. Thousands died because of you You deserve to be punished. - Will you change it for a million? No. - Two million? Not at all. Never! Which leaves only one way to change your statement The report has been sent! Call Inspector Saxena. He,ll take care of the corpse Dial a number Babu What happened to Rani? - She,s going to be all right I want to go to Anna - For something so trivial? All of us are going to see her! We,re going! This attack was a ruse! You fooled me! Even you fooled me! - They fooled me too! This joke is no good! I don,t like this at all! Papa, you promised you,d take us! - You,re always saying "Sorry Papa"! You always take advantage of me! Job done Climb out of the car. One by one Careful Go on, Rahul. - No Papa! Rohit, help Rahul up Rahul, give me your hand Careful! Come on Rani Rani, give me your hand Rahul, Rohit, help Rani up Don,t be afraid. Nothing will happen Come on, Rani Papa, give me your hand! - Your hand, Papa! Don,t try to climb down! No Papa! Give me your hand! - No Rohit! Not for me! Go back! For Rahul! For Rani! - Papa! Give me your hand! Go back, Rohit! From now on, you look after of Rahul and Rani. Take care Come up, Papa! But who looks after of me? Come up, Papa! I,ll look after you. Just like Mummy. Forever Rahul and Rani, promise me you,ll always listen to your big brother You will, won,t you? Papa, give us your hand! BBC! Come fast! Coming! Here I am! You,ll be all right Open your mouth Any news of Anna? - Nothing Bad news. Siddhant Rai has died in an accident Some people are occupying his house forcibly The kids are in dire straits Jadu, bail me out quickly Fine So children, it,s decided that Rohit goes with Mr Vikram Rahul goes with Mr Prabhakar and Rani goes with Prince Till you have become adults, these people will be your guardians You have no other close relatives. - We can take care of ourselves, sir Who are you to decide our futures? - I,m sorry, son. The law doesn,t... accept what children have to say. - Nobody can take us apart Lawyer, just draw up the papers. Once the magistrate signs it... no one can change anything. Not even their father! As of now, their father can,t do a thing Let,s hit the bottle! Look at that little devil staring at us! If your father didn,t teach you to respect your elders, I,ll teach you Till they learn manners, no food for the three of them Don,t worry. I,m with you From now on, this room is mine Throw the kids out Will you please put Anna on the line Anna, your phone Don,t you call anyone without permission. Else... Let the kids be. Where can they go? We need servants too, don,t we? Come here Come on The poor things have been working so hard. They,re looking so hungry Come, sit Sit down to eat with us Don,t be afraid, son. Sit. - Don,t feel shy Help yourself. Go on Anna, come to us as soon as you can. Ever since Papa died... Grandpa and Uncle have been torturing us What happened, Rani? - What,s happening? Look at her! - My God! Attack! I,ll get the inhaler Grandpa, Rani... What is it? - Asthma attack! So you want this? - Yes! Drink this You don,t want this? You want it? Drink Drink! What are you doing, sir? What are you punishing the children for? Have pity on them, sir! She,s going to die! Let her have the inhaler! Punish me if you want. But please spare the kids! You want me to punish you? - For her sake! Don,t hit him! Please! Will you drink? Speak! Tell me! - Yes. You,ll give me the inhaler? Sure. You,ll drink, won,t you? He,s hitting him. - Drink up. He,ll stop No... - No? You want this? Drink it Drink... drink Papa, where are you gone? Look, what,s going on here! Grandpa gave Rahul a beating. Aunt made Rohit clean up And she even kicked poor Casper Uncle talks of taking me away to Delhi... ...and sending my brothers away to Bombay Duddu is very bad. He went to my room and he tore up my doll,s dress! I,m not hungry at all, Papa! But Rahul, Rohit and Casper are very hungry! BBC doesn,t give us anything to eat. He just sits in his room and cries! I promised to take care of everything! But I couldn,t do anything! Hush, Rani! God! I can,t bear to see the children in this state! I wish their father was here. Or Raju... This affidavit states that... except for Vikram Sinha, Prabhakar and Ranjit Kumar, there,s no one... who is a close relative of the deceased Siddhant Rai So my clients have decided to adopt the orphans, to give them... a good education, so that once they have come of age... they can take care of their estates and their businesses The details of the properties are in this document Children, come here Your Daddy was a fine man. He was a dear friend too I,m sorry. After his untimely death, you will now have to live apart They aren,t going to be apart. In these times... Delhi, Mumbai and Shimla aren,t very distant I,ll love them even more than my own Duddu Who are you, sir? I hear Siddhant Rai,s estates and his children are being palmed off So here I am. To ask for my share. - Share? Who are you? - Have times changed so much... that you don,t recognise your nephew, dear Uncle? Uncle? What do you mean? - I am Rajit Rai Alias Raju What drivel is this? You can,t be Raju. I know Raju very well You don,t know Raju at all. Because when I left home... you were in Shimla. Not here. - I have seen his photos! I was 12 when I went away. Now I,m 30. You can,t make me out by photos This must be an impostor! My wise friend seems to be a lawyer He should know that he can be sued... and sentenced for defamation Are you a lawyer? - I nearly became one! But I can prompt you about the law. - Let me take of them later Please sign these papers. - I don,t think we should act in haste If this gentleman can prove that he is Siddhant Rai,s brother... then the partition is unnecessary. - Can you prove that you,re Raju? Evidence is what you use to prove a lie true. The truth is always evident You will have to prove that you are Raju I cannot. But you can disprove me I,m coming! I,ll set wheat and chaff apart! Ask him which vegetables he liked most! Yes, ask him about the ones he didn,t like BBC, are you asking me this? I,ll tell you I hate bell plant I hate potato. I hate ladyfinger, cauliflower. I hate all vegetables Except one. - Which? Round and small... little pearl-like things - Peas - Absolutely correct! If you are Raju, you surely remember that once you fell down You were injured badly. Where did you fall from? From a cycle? From a horse? Down the stairs? Or from a tree? Step back! Not cycle, not horse, not tree, not stairs I was standing on BBC,s shoulders and I was showing off a stunt That,s where I fell from - He,s absolutely right! The injury left a mark. Show us What are you staring at? Show us! - Such times! The naked truth has to be paraded in public! Okay, we,ll show you Show them, Raju. - Show us! In front of everyone? - Yes! In front of everyone! Will you please go inside? - Why are you shy? I,m your Aunt What?! Face away! - Turned around, kids Striptease isn,t a magic show! He,s the one! Sorry to be late, kids From what has been heard and seen, you seem to be Raju But you must prove it in court. The hearing will be on the 10th Raju! You,re back! Now everything will be all right! Your melodrama won,t last long. - 10 days are enough for me You can,t be Raju Chacha! - You deceived Anna! Our Raju Chacha can,t be a thief! True, I,m not your Raju Chacha I,m not remotely related to you. But as of now you better accept a falsehood as true. Because you have no other way out If you don,t want to be separated... if you don,t want them to grab your money... you will have to take a fraud for an uncle Use a nail to draw a nail What he,s saying is true. With Jadu,s help, I got him released on bail I gave him Raju,s secrets. As of now, he,s the only one who can help us I didn,t intend to deceive Anna. I wanted to tell her all about me But I never had a chance Hey, I,m famished! Come on, aren,t we hungry children? They haven,t eaten in days! Get on with it! My tummy is aching! Peas! Cooked the way Raju liked it? Rather, as I liked it 18 years ago! Come on, kids! Taste a bit It,s very tasty You try it Casper will have it! Even he won,t eat If not for my sake, then for Anna,s sake? What,s going on? You can,t barge into my bedroom! I,m throwing out the intruders What do you mean? - Why come sneaking in? Find yourselves a place you won,t be thrown out of This is our house! Who are you to throw us out? Stop eating so much. You,re bloated. - At the seams! About to burst! - And Mummy can,t even sew you up! Mummy can,t sew! What will happen to him? You hear what rot they,re talking? - I,ll call the police! Look pal, with the police, in courts, you,ll tire yourself out! This is illegal occupancy! - It,s illegal You could do three and a half years I,ll see you! - Use mascara That,ll make you look sharper! Uncle, please get up Get up, please What is the matter? - Will you please? For a minute Yes? Did you take the chair at the head of the table by mistake? It,s mine now If you want to eat breakfast, sit over there You say you,re Raju, and we agree You say I,m not Raju? I agree. But how will you prove it? We,re enquiring into it. - Keep enquiring. We,re breakfasting Will you get up, please? - How dare you? If you won,t I,ll have you picked up. - Move it! If I touch you, you,re dead! - You too! Raju Chacha, over here. - Let me do this first Here goes... gone! - That,s what happens... when a man does a woman,s job Yes Raju Chacha Had Anna been here, it,d be sewn up in a minute! Where do I find her? I don,t even know where she is I wrote her a letter. If she has received it, she,ll surely come I,d never have known had I not received Rohit,s letter What are you doing here? Are you planning to rob the kids now? I came here to save them from being robbed So the thief now plays policeman? A thief could give up thieving. Who are you fooling, Shekhar? Me, yourself, or the kids? You can con the whole world. Not me. I'Ve come to know who you are I know what you are Don,t scold Raju Chacha He,s very nice. - Yes, were it not for Raju Chacha... Grandpa would'Ve starved us to death! - So this is your new game? But you won,t win at this game. Because I,m here If you try to hurt these kids... The accused should be allowed a hearing before sentencing You don,t know this man! After he has won your hearts, he strikes Before going to the church, I came here to tell you the truth But for a chance... - I wish to hear nothing No excuses, no apologies... - I said I wish to hear nothing What,s this new dish? - No dish! She,s Anna The children,s old governess. She arrived last night Tonight, she,s coming to me The next time... - Speak and I,ll rip your tongue out! Get lost. My right fist is stronger Did he say something about Anna? Leave our uncle to us. He,ll end up... - Just like Lucifer! What an ass you are, Prince! Why did you start romancing in public? You,re no less. You,re handsome! Inside stuff is, she likes you too. But she won,t say. Try to understand Really Rohit? - Raju Chacha wants to talk to you But he,s a bit shy. - A bit shy? Likes me? - No one else around! She likes you! You! She,s crazy about you! You want to talk? Hear that? Ringing! Pick it up! Talk! Why this distance between us? Let,s meet downstairs. Say what? She laughed! - She,s in! You,re hiding here? I'Ve been looking for you all over! Why do you stay so far away from me? - Because of him... Who? - He There,s no one here! Just you and me! Bastard! Aren,t you ashamed of doing this with your sister-in-law? They,ll end up killing each other! What,s this? Where are you taking me? - To show you magic Magic? - I,ll use magic to open the handcuffs Really? Can you do that? - Just wait and watch Raju Chacha, we'Ve handcuffed Anna. Now she can,t run anywhere You go and talk her up. We,re taking uncle to the hospital I have always taken by force, by deceit I have never asked. I never begged But today, I beg of you. Please Anna, hear me out for once After what you did, I don,t even trust myself I don,t even know the difference between truth and falsehood Give me once chance to prove that I,m honest You don,t have a past. I haven,t either If you don,t give me a chance, both of us might stand to lose a tomorrow "This is what my heart does to me" "Oh what do I do now?" "Without you, I can,t live" "This is what my heart does to me" "Oh what do I do now?" "So what if I die? I,ll give you a bad name" "They will say that you killed me" "I'Ve lost my heart to you" "Oh what do I do now?" "What if your anger turns to love?" "What if my enemies were to become my friends?" "I,d give my life for you" "This is what my heart does to me" "The match was made lifetimes ago" "Oh what do I do now?" No need to get worked up. Let him do what he,s doing How long will he go on? He,s going to be exposed in court He has no evidence, nor any witness to prove himself Forgive me, brother. Had I come a few days earlier... had you lived a while longer, you would'Ve seen... that your Raju has become what you wanted him be That,s why you slapped me. Give me this chance to atone Who are you? You don,t recognise me? Uncle, I,m Raju I was in Washington when I read the news about my brother How did this happen? I,m nearly expecting my brother to walk in any moment to ask me... where I'Ve been The kids... You,re Rani, aren,t you? You,re Rohit And you,re Rahul If you are Raju, then who is he? I don,t understand, Uncle He too claims that he is Raju So you are Raju Rajit Rai. Alias Raju Then who am I? For 20 billion, anyone can become Raju. - So that,s why you,re here? But I,m not here for the 20 billion. By the blessings of my brother... my business turnover exceeds It,s the court,s job to decide who the real Raju is Day after tomorrow is the hearing Whatever you have to say... you can say in court From the day I left this house, till this day, my activities are recorded To become Raju, you will need evidence of the days before you left this house That you haven,t More than evidence, I rely on my integrity and my brother,s blessings You recognise me! Can I have peas for lunch? Of course, sir! I,d rather that you introduced yourselves to me My name is Preeti. I,m Prabhakar,s second wife He looks like the real Raju! - So I think You thought you,re too smart? Now it,s all over You wouldn,t let me a bite. Now you haven,t any left for yourselves While we fought over it, someone else walked away with the cake I called you here to talk business What,s left to talk of? The kids go to America. The money goes to a trust And you end up on the streets. Makes no difference to me I,m just a common thief. I,ll go somewhere else Think about it! Think of something! - Between you and me, you fellows... are the bigger rogues. I,m small fry. I can,t think that big Something can be worked out! - What? What if we depose that this one is our nephew? The court will have to accept it. There are no witnesses except us What if you kill me afterwards? No, thank you I,m not running the gambit with my life at stake We can offer you a share How much? - More than what you could'Ve plundered Ten percent is too less. The risks are too high What if I,m caught in the act? Fifteen. - One-fourths, at least Very well. Then I leave Done I knew it! Scum like you can never be a gentleman But I,m not going to let you or those villains take... what belongs to those innocent children I,m going to the police! You aren,t going anywhere. I'Ve been through a lot of trouble... to get at this fortune. No one stands in my way. Not even you So he,s very intelligent! - If we depose before the magistrate... before the hearing comes up, we can pre-empt Rajit from going to court Our Raju will have become the children,s uncle by then All three of you have made sworn affidavits before me, testifying... that Raju is Mr Rajit Rai, the late Siddhant Rai,s long-lost sibling There being no other claimants before this court... I accept that you are Rajit Rai. From this day onwards, you are... the heir to Siddhant Rai,s estates, also the guardian of his children With water, or...? - Alcohol is injurious to health Pepsi will do Congratulations! Now you are our heir! So how and when do we share the booty? Yes, which company do you want? - Would you like shares? Or cash? What are you saying? - We have to pay you your share Share? What tripe! I Rajit Rai, am the sole heir to the estates of the late Siddhant Rai! Where comes the question of sharing? Not Shekhar. Raju. All three of you have sworn in court that I,m Raju What impertinence! Lmpertinence? You call me impertinent? You insult me in my own house! He,s telling me to get out! - So this is your plot? No plot. It,s curtains for you. What you forget Shekhar, is one who can make, can also break. Empty threats Empty threats are bows sans arrows. Pull all you will, but you can,t shoot Now pick up what,s left of your esteem and get out of here. Else... Present your accounts to the office tomorrow morning You fellows have swindled a lot. I have to collect Don,t forget that you are Raju by dint of our deposition Yes, we can say that we erred. - So you,ll depose in Raju,s favour? Yes You,ll make him Raju Chacha? - Yes! Get on with it. Here he comes Good you,re here! This fraud conned us into saying that he,s Raju! You must help us put him in jail! - You want me to send him to jail? Yes. - Yes? Why are you laughing? - What else? If he goes to jail... who gives me my share? - Your share? You asses! This isn,t Raju. He,s an old mate, Gaffoor We pulled off many robberies together. We'Ve even been to jail together I called him in so that... - You fellows would lose nerve... and make him Raju Chacha Stop! What,s that? Not my brand. Get lost Do you mind it, Uncle? All your life you swindle Siddhant Rai. In a trice, I take it all back Did you hear the idiom about one fell stroke? Throw these dogs out. Don,t even leave a trace of how they smelt! Not now Not the right place. Not the right time Come on. - Get out! Thanks? What for? I always fancied acting But mugging the dialogues I was to say in front of the portrait was tough Honestly, didn,t I put in a good act? I had everyone in a tizzy! Tell me, what do you want? - I'Ve worked for you for 20 percent But I know that your take here is going to be only good wishes Let me have 20 percent of the goodwill. If the kids wish me well... an old sinner will be spared a bit of embarrassment when he faces Allah Call me whenever you need me. Farewell. Farewell Open the door. Anna, please! What happened Raju Chacha? Open up Anna. Open up What happened? - She... Idea! Let,s make her laugh! Forgive me, Shekhar! "Yesterday is gone never to return" "Tomorrow isn,t here yet. We,ll see when it comes" "Only today is ours. The rest, all dreams" "The rest, all dreams" "What,s today,s programme? - Work? Or a holiday?" "Today? There,s work and work to do" "You got to go to school. You have to cook" "I have to eat. - I got to see a movie" "No pictures. You,re going to office. Understand?" "Whatever the boss wishes. I,m just a slave" "But if you say yes, the works are ready!" "By the way, what,s today,s programme?" "Where are you headed? - I,m taking the 7 o,clock train" "Any letters? - I'Ve been called back" "This is a lame excuse. - Leave me! I have to go" "The postman just delivered a telegram" "It,s addressed to someone else!" "You imp!" "Let,s get out of the house. - Let,s go for a picnic" "Let,s change the mood" "True soulmates..." "laugh and cry together" "In this whole wide world, what,s most lovable?" "Most lovable?" - "I,m the most lovable!" "Among the most lovable things, the first is love!" "The reward for finding love, is love" "By the way, what,s today,s programme?" Name, Shekhar First arrested for stealing. Age eight Here,s your police record. - So you posed as Raju to loot us? You like her, don,t you? Keep her Lawyer, get the magistrate to sign the adoption papers by tomorrow These men are dangerous! They,ll kill you! Go away! No! How can we leave you and Anna? - Don,t bother about us No BBC. We,re going together Let,s pick up Anna Now the fraud is gone! - Who becomes a billionaire? We,ll end up owning 20 billion! You don,t deserve such a lot of money I killed Siddhant. Where did this new Raju Chacha transpire out of? Not our mistake. Yours. Had you killed the kids too we wouldn,t... be facing this problem today. - That,s not difficult There,s a 2000-foot cliff right behind. I,ll dispatch them to their father Always ready to kill? Kill them. But not now. Get it? Did you see that car? - Which car? It was right here! You should meet Charles Sobhraj. - I,m the one who helped him escape You helped him? - What else? You know what happened one day? Shekhar, you here? - Trouble Anna and the kids are trapped. - You want to get out? Yes Come and see what Gaffoor and God have in store So what was I telling you? - You helped Charles Sobhraj escape Yes. One day, there was a hot altercation I say, no one can escape from Tihar. He says, "I can". So we take bets Now suppose I,m standing here and it,s Charles over there Shekhar, stand here. Come on Then you know what he did? - What? He clutched his tummy and started screaming The guard came inside the cell. Hey guards... when Shekhar screams, the two of you come in Shekhar, scream Go on, scream Come in I got his plan. So I caught both the guards like this! And I said... Shekhar run Run! Run man! That,s how Charles Sobhraj escaped? - Moron, that,s how Shekhar escaped Where,s the tape? Say it! He thought he,s the cock of the walk! - Tell us, son. Else... this one-eyed Jack will give you an eye like his! Tell us, son. - Of course, he,ll tell Rohit is a very good boy Very good boy Rohit, I worked out this lovely game. Shut you eyes and hit the ball Want me to show you? Look. Here I take aim, I shut my eyes, and... No! Grandpa! No! What,s going on? Where,s this smoke coming from? What,s going on? Shut up! Raju Chacha! Let,s go and get Anna! Run! Faster! Papa didn,t die in an accident. They killed him The proof is in this cassette I,m over here! - Careful! Give us your hands Anna, take the kids away. - No! We listened to Papa... and he left us. We aren,t listening to you. Give us your hand Give me your hand! Come on. Give me your hand! Bash him up! Our horses are eager to teach these asses a lesson! No one comes here Give me the videotape Give it to me Then Shekhar surrendered himself to the police After serving time for six months, he served an even bigger sentence He married Anna. Nowadays Shekhar and Anna... are taking care of Rohit, Rahul and Rani. And they,re looking... for the real Raju Chacha. If you know anything... about Rajit Rai, alias Raju, "Raju Chacha..." "will come" "He,ll tie up the villains"
