 

                        [ Kazoos ] Hey, hows it going, Frank ? Not so good. I cant seem to get this photon channelerworking. Well, youd better figure it out. - The colonel wants to show the system to the top brass next month. - I know, I know. [ Men Shouting ] -[LoudBang] - What was that ? - Whats that sound out there ? - [ Alarm Blaring ] Its a break-in ! Erase the access code ! X-Y-4-- [ Gasps ] [ Both Groan ] [Alarm Continues Blaring, Stops] All clear. Neatly done, Fernlick. - Its, uh, Fenwick, sir. - Oh. - Are they dead ? - No, sir. Merely unconscious. Good, good. You know how I hate violence. Mmm. Nice shine. -Uh, what next, sir ? -Well, obviously, we establish our base. - And where will that be ? - The last place on Earth theyd look. A place called... 3rd Street School. Last day ofschool sale, boys and girls. Getyour celebratory contraband right here. Shaving cream, T.P., goofy string, maps ofthe teachers houses. Ill take one ofthem maps, Hustler Kid. Hey, Diggers, lets party. Cant now. Gotta finish filling up our holes before the end ofthe day. Wont be able to dig em up nextyear ifwe dont fill em now. [ Spitting ] Hey ! Big kids bury me ! Oops. I, King Bob, in my last official act before entering middle school, hereby anoint this boy here King Freddie the Second. Mayyou boss around all ofthe kids with fairness. The king has graduated ! Long live the king ! - [ Cheering ] - [ Hail to the Chief ] Elbow up ! Eyes forward ! You call that kazoo playing ? - Ah, ceremony. - Im, like, moved, AshleyA. Saywhatyou want about their personal lives, Ashley Q The royals have such style. Keep em comin ! Lets go ! Ms. Finster, the kids are practically mad with last-day-of-school fever ! Ofcourse they are, Randall. Theyre animals living by pure instinct. Ive got a list ofinfractions a mile long: The Diggers hit a water main, - the kindergarteners are feasting on paste, - Never mind, Randall. Hustler Kid is, uh-- Did you say never mind ? Thats right, Randall. What Ive got here is bigger, much bigger. All this year Ive been holding back on the ice cream, hiding it from all those little savages. Just look at it, Randall. Im counting 1 00, maybe 200 cases ofit. What areyou going to do with all those ice creams ? Sell em back to the district, ofcourse. Think ofall the chalk and erasers we can get. But, Ms. Finster, Ive got dirt on everybody. Well, everybody except Detweiler and his pals. Come to think ofit, I havent seen those guys anywhere. Ah, forget about em, Randall. Theres nothing T.J. Detweiler and his hooligan friends can do to stop me now. Well, that should do it. Theres enough here for everyone. Good. Then its party time. Kids ofthe playground ! I giveyou ice cream ! Pull ! [ Cheering ] - Ice cream ! - Choco-pops ! - Fudge bars ! Fudgsicle ! My ice cream ! Stop it ! Stop it, I say ! You little monsters are in trouble now ! -Just waitll Principal Prickly finds out about this ! -Attention, students ! - This is Principal Prickly talking. - Ooh, that was fast. Some ofyou may have noticed ice cream on the playground. I willnotstandforthis. This ice creamshouldbe eatenimmediately. Huh ? [ Cheering ] In addition, I wantyou all to ignore Ms. Finster, no matterwhat she says... about ice cream or anything else. - [ Cheering Continues ] - [ Muttering ] This cant be happening. Furthermore, I want to inform you all that I have a fat, saggy butt... which I like to scratch every hour on the hour. Also, I want to apologize to all ofyou... for being such a mean principal, taking away hall passes, giving guys recess detention, refusing toacceptsicKnotes just causeitdoesntlooK liKeaguysmomssignature, maKingKidsstandat the wall forten wholeminutes, withnobreaK! Man, I feel ashamed ofmyselffor all the terrible, rotten things Ive done. And nextyear, I promise to-- Why, Principal Prickly, sir, what a surprise. Why doyou do this to me, Detweiler ? Doyou enjoy tormenting me ? - Doyou hate me ? - On the contrary, sir, I have the utmost respect foryou. Dont be smart with me, boy. All year long youve been pushing me, testing me. - I dont know whatyou mean, sir. - Oh, really ? How about the timeyou convinced the F.B.I. I was a Chinese agent and got me arrested ? You were giving us a speech on personal hygiene. You had to be stopped. How about the time you forged my signature and ordered a motorboat for the school ? It was for the kindergarteners. Owning a boats always been kind ofa dream oftheirs. Ive had enough ofyour pranks. This time Im really gonna throw the book atyou. With all due respect, sir, youd better get throwing, causeyoure out oftime. - Huh ? - Its the last day ofschool, sir. Ive only got 20 more seconds offourth grade left. Look. In some ways, people, this day is a bummer for me. But in otherways its the ultimate high, because every milestone thatyou kids pass is another step towards-- - Uh, Miss Grotke ? - Yes, Spinelli ? I dont mean to interrupt, but-- Oh, yes ! Be my guest. [ Kids In Unison ] Six, five, four, three, two, one-- -[BellRings] - [ Cheering ] - Whoo ! - Whoo-hoo ! [ Laughing ] Yeah ! [ Together] Scandalous ! Callingoutaroundthe world Areyouready forabrand-newbeat -Summershere - You eat paste ! You eat paste ! Andthe timeis right fordancinin thestreet -[Stops] - Hey ! No running in the halls ! Yeah, whats the big deal ? Itsjust the end ofthe school year. [ Together] The end ofthe school year ? - Whoo-hoo ! Itdoesntmatter whatyou wear - Whoo-hoo ! [ Laughing ] -Justas long asyouare there Girls, what shall we do with the rest ofthis corn chowder ? [ Sniffs ] Aw, leave it in the kettle. Itll keep till September. - [ All Laughing ] - Theyllbe dancing Dancing in thestreet - Theyre dancinin thestreet -Dancing in thestreet Seeyou nextyear, Principal Prickly. Youd better do some growing up this summer, young man. [ Sighs ] I hate myjob. Therellbelaughin singin Andrecordsplayin Dancinin thestreet Look at those hooligans. Actually, I think its a wonderful expression offreedom andjoy. Ill tell you a wonderful expression offreedom andjoy. Twelve weeks ofnothing but me at the West Side GolfCourse, and no Detweiler. I second that emotion, sir. Man, Teej, that prankwas sweet. Yeah, you shouldve seen Finsters face-- I thought she was gonna blow a gasket. Those limesicles were tasty. A tasty beginning to a tasty summer. Twelve weeks ofnothing but riding bikes, hanging out at the lake... and T.P.-ing the West Side GolfCourse. Summervacation-- the ultimate recess. Yeah, I cant wait to get to baseball camp. Baseball camp ? What areyou talking about ? Actually, Teej, Im gonna be out oftown too. Big-time Wrestling Federation has this training camp, and I gotta learn some new moves ifIm ever gonna turn pro. - But, Spinelli-- - Its military camp for me. My dad says I need to learn to be a leader. I shall be attending the Mt. Van Buren Space Camp. - Dont wanna let those science geeks get ahead ofme. - Youre all going to camp ? - Not me. - Thank goodness. The Young Voices Training Program doesnt like the word camp. They provide opportunities for aspiring singers to train theirvoices... in a rigorous yet supportive setting. But summers gonna be ruined. What am I gonna do ? Play baseball by myself? Watch reruns ? Read ? Sorry, man, but we gotta think about our futures. Yeah, we cant waste the whole summer Just fooling around like kids. - But we are kids ! - Actually, as ofthe completion offourth grade, we are technically considered pre-young adults. And nextyear we wont even be pre. But-- [ Sighs ] All right, lets make the most ofthe time weve got left. When doyou all leave ? - First thing in the morning. - Oh, man. [Chattering] Well, theres my bus. - Better get going. - Yeah, same here. Bye, Teej. Try to have some fun, okay ? Dont worry, buddy. Youll have a great time without us. I dont know, Vince. All my plans were made for six. Dont tell meyou Ashleys are going to baseball camp. Eeew ! As if! Cheerleading camp is right across the lake. Duh ! I hope its a big lake. [Horn HonKs] Ah, space camp. Wonder iftheyll let us make craters. Hey, Hustler Kid, I didnt knowyou wrestled. I dont. Im pre-management. Besides, my research tells me that kids who wrestle trade the most for contraband snacks. Which reminds me-- Wanna buy a Winger-Dinger ? All right, all the kindergarten performers on the bus first. -[AllShouting] - Me ViKing ! Me Viking ! Me Viking ! Me Viking ! Bon voyage... [ Adult Baritone ] T.J.  [Applause] Big kid sing good. - Yeah. - Yeah. - Yeah. Well, Teej, theres my transport. Why dontyou come with ? Military camps gonna be a blast ! Griswald, you maggot, getyour fanny over here now ! Thanks, Gus, but I think Ill stick it out at home this summer. Okay, butyou dont know whatyoure missing. - Hiya, Captain Brad ! - I dont likeyou, Griswald. I am notyour friend ! - Do I make myselfclear ? - Yes, sir ! Not looking for friendship, sir ! Good luck, Gus. Youre gonna need it. Man, this summers gonna whomp. Oneis theloneliestnumber Thatyoulleverdo Two canbe asbadas one Its theloneliestnumber since thenumberone [ Bird Squawking ] Nois thesaddestexperience YoulleverKnow Yes, its thesaddestexperience YoulleverKnow Cause one is theloneliestnumber Thatyoulleverdo Oneis theloneliestnumber Whoa-ohh worse than two And so, the summer season officially begins... with kids all over the country rushing offto camp. In other news, the national No Recess movement... has hit a serious stumbling block... with the disappearance ofits leader, former Secretary of Education Phillium Benedict. Benedict, fired by the president twoyears ago for his extremist views, has recently been-- No recess ? What a bunch ofhogwash. [ Yawns ] Morning, Mom. Morning, Dad. Areyoujust getting up now ? Geez, youre sleeping away yourwhole vacation. Why dontyou go play with your friends ? What friends ? The ones who abandoned me and went to camp ? Now, T.J., I know there are other boys around this summer. Mrs. Ween says Randall is available. Doyou want me to make a play date ? - A play date ? - Bye, Mom. Bye, Dad. Bye, T-Jerk. Now, Becky, be nice toyour little brother. Hes feeling S-A-D right now. - I can spell, Mom. - Well, unlike some kids, I gotta get to work. Mr. Walsh says ifI can master the Vatman 2000, Ill be assistant manager by the end ofthe summer, and you know what that means-- Ill get to drive the Floppy Burger truck. Boy, shes sure aiming for the stars. At least shes not sitting around the house, moping all summer. Going to a play date with Randall. Man, I cant believe I sunk this low. This is the worst summer ever. [ Loud Zap ] - What the heck ? - [ Loud Zap ] - Thats weird. - Hey, you! Get away from that fence ! Hey, Dad, what do they use the school for during the summer ? They lock it up. Its empty. Why ? Today, when I was riding by, I saw this scary guy and-- Im sure he wasjust cleaning up. I think something weirds going on in there-- something really weird. [ Sighs ] Mrs. La Salle was right. We shouldve sent him to some kind ofcamp. 9:32 a.m. Ugly bald guy still guarding school. [Horn HonKs] Staging area one. - Give me a hand with this. - Got it. 9:32-and-a-halfa.m. Grownups wrong. Schools not empty. [LoudZap] 9:32 and three quarters. Green glow in window again. Im going in for a closer look. [ Loud Zap ] Allright, goaheadandelevateit. [ Gasps ] Mom ! Mom ! - [ Groans ] - T.J. ! Areyou all right ? Those guys at the school, theyre doing some kind ofevil experiment ! That bonk on the head mustve rattled your little brain. - But, Mom-- - Youre feverish. You wait right here. Ill go get the baby thermometer and the petroleum jelly. Uh, Dad, Dad ! - Dad ! - What is it, boy ? Those bad guys have a laser beam and theyre lifting this safe-- T.J., did you run into the sliding glass door again ? No, but-- Yeah, but-- Gaaah ! Come back ! Your moms gonna want to takeyour temperature ! Okay, kid, we got it all in the report. Well take care of those mad scientists. [ Chuckles ] Yeah, no ones gonna levitate any safe on mywatch. Ooh, look, Artie, somebodys levitating my doughnut... with a laser beam ! -[Laughing Continues] - Gohome, Kid!Gohome! Laugh at me, will ya ? - Im gonna be a taxpayer someday ! -[Man] Haveagoodround. Principal Prickly ! Wait ! Yeah, you guys did it right. Psychology, law, waste management-- good, solid careers. Me, Im stuckwith a bunch ofpain-in-the-neck kids all year. - Pete, areyou gonna putt or grouse all day ? - Okay, okay, here goes. -[TJ.]PrincipalPricKly! - Ohh ! You gotta come quick ! Its an emergency ! Well, well, well, ifit isnt Mr. Ice Cream For Everyone. - This is that kid I was telling you about. - The saggy butt kid ? - Hey, hey, whatever happened to doctor-patient confidentiality ? - Sorry. Something weirds going on in the school. I saw these mad scientists and-- Yeah, yeah, very funny. Im not falling for another one ofyour so-calledjokes. - How dumb doyou think I am ? - Its not ajoke, sir. They have this laser beam, and-- Aw, please, Principal Prickly, you gotta believe me ! The schools in danger ! Give me a break, Detweiler. Come on. Go with the kid, Pete. - This isnt the kind ofissue you should be avoiding. - [ All Laughing ] All right, Detweiler, lets get this overwith. Looks fine to me. Now can I go back to my golfgame ? Just wait till you get inside. Youll see. Oh, the things I do foryou kids. Sometimes I thinkyou were put on this Earthjust to-- - Aaah ! - Aaah ! Aaah ! [ Panting ] 1 1 :57 a.m. Principal Prickly dematerialized... in a horrifying field ofelectricity. The cops wont listen. Mom and Dad wont listen. I gotta get the guys together. Its the onlyway. Like, I am so through with him, Melissa. He asked me ifI spoke French, then winked at me. Becky, you gotta help me ! I need a ride up to Chesterville ! Areyou kidding ? Im not doing anything foryou, you little dork. Oh, how I dream ofthe mustache fuzz onJimmys sweaty lips... glistening as he cooks in the light ofa dozen hamburger heat lamps. - Hey, thats my diary ! Give me that ! - Ah-ah-ah. Ive got copies. Eitheryou give me a ride, or this baby hits the Internet. Getyourmotorrunnin Headouton thehighway ThanKs fordrivingme, BecKy. Youre thesweetestbigsister aKidcouldasK for. Andyouare theannoyingpetmonKey I wish Inevergot! Hey, I trytoKeep things interesting. Nextreststop, pullin. Igotta taKe care ofbusiness. Get that front leg up, Biggles. You call that a pitch, Hornsby ? Come on, La Salle ! Throw it, dont aim it ! I know, I know ! Man, I can pitchjust fine when Im with my friends. Psst! Psst! - T.J., what areyou doing here ? - You gotta come back to town. Its an emergency. What ? I cantjust leave. Something weird is going on at school. - Principal Prickly got dematerialized. - Dematerialized ? - T.J., youre crazy. - Am I ? Mt. Van Buren ? Thats 20 miles away. Im not taking you there. Dear Diary, I dreamed ofJimmy again. He was rocking me so gently, -just like he rocks the grease off a basket ofhot and steamy onion rings. - [ Moans ] - Whoa ! Let me look at that. -Jerks. Hey, you kids ! Get away from that fake Martian landscape ! - Miss Director ! Miss Director ! - What is it now, Gretchen ? Ive been studying the moon with the 200-inch telescope at the observatory, and Ive detected some peculiar eccentricities in its orbit. Gretchen, maybeyou should try out one ofthese neat antigravity harnesses. The other kids love em, and look, you can even do back flips, Just like real astronauts. But-- [ Sighs ] Why do I bother ? Becauseyoure driven by a passionate desire for knowledge ? T.J. ? Vince ? What areyou guys doing here ? Youre not gonna believe this, but-- - Dematerialized ? -Just like out ofStar TreK. Fascinating. Mi, mi, mi, mi, mi  - Mi, mi, mi, mi, mi  - Mi, mi, mi, mi, mi  Mi, mi, mi, mi--  [ Whispering ] Me ? Look out, marshals ! Here comes the flying press ! [ Grunts ] Youareapathetic excuse forasoldier, Griswald! You will never be a leader ! Now, stand at attention until I return ! And do not move a muscle ! Doyou hear me ? Not a muscle ! - Thanks a lot, sis. - You owe me gas money. - Okay, Teej, whats this big secret plot ofyours ? - Follow me. Look at that. Lets get movin out. - Who are those guys ? - Perhaps theyre government agents. - Or gangsters. - Or aliens. Aliens ? They dont look like aliens. Well, maybe theyre in disguise. Yeah, ifyou were an alien, you wouldntjust walk around in your lizard skin all day. Hmm. Good point. Whoever they are, we need to take a closer look. - Well get the rest later. - Right. Ill close it up. Hurry. Man, this thing weighs a ton. Thats cause its full ofmoon rocks and alien eggs. Hey, itsjust a bunch ofpaper. Weather maps ? Test scores ? Some stuffwritten in Swedish ? - Actually, thats Norwegian. - Whatever. Its all Just dumb school stuff. You got me out ofbaseball camp to watch some guys restock the supply room ? No ! Somethings going on in the school ! I swear ! Teej, I thinkyou cooked this whole thing upjust cause you wanted us back from camp. - What ? - Hey, we understand. It must be pretty boring around here all summer byyourself. Your mind simply created an adventure because it needed some excitement. No, it really happened. I saw Prickly disappear. Well, if Prickly disappeared, then whos that ? - Come on, guys. Lets get back to camp. - Yeah. Seeya in a few weeks, Teej. No, wait ! You guys gotta believe me ! - Im not making it up ! I-- I-- -[MetalClanKing] - Aye-yi-yi, yi-yi. - [ All Gasp ] Whoa ! Whats happening ? [ Sputtering ] Okay, that right there ? That was messed up. [TJ. ] MiKey ? Mikey, you okay ? W-Where am I ? Youre in T.J.s backyard, man. Howd you guys get me here ? Hey, this is kinda comfy. Yeah, yeah. Get out ofthere, you big lummox. Okay, Teej, you were right. Something weird is going on in the school. - And Prickly must be in on it. - I saywe go to the police. I alreadywent to the police. I went to everyone. Nobodyll listen. - What we need is proof. - Proof? How are we gonna get proof? - I got a plan. A stakeout. - A stakeout ? We can stay up in my tree house and watch the school every night until something happens. - Like one ofthem TV cop shows. - Sure. The next time those laser guys make a move, well catch em red-handed. We can take pictures with my night-vision digital cam. Then we call in the feds and, bang, we got em. Onlyoneproblem-- Whataboutcamp ? Oh, yeah. Ifmy dad finds out Ive gone AWOL, hell throw me in the brig till September. Not to worry. Ill get Becky to drive you back to camp in the morning. Then at night well pickyou up again. Campers by day, spies by night. But what ifthe camp counselors notice were not there ? Leave that to me. - Call foryou, sir. - Give me that. - Captain Brad here. - Bradley. This is Colonel OMalley. - Colonel OMalley ? - Your commanding officer ! Oh ! Yes, sir ! Sorry, sir ! Ihearyouvegotasoldiertherenamed Griswald. Goodman. One ofthebest. - H-He is ? - You heard me ! Hes officer material. Ive had my eyes on him foryears. Now, pay attention, Bradley. Ive got Griswald on special assignment tonight. - When he gets back to camp, act like nothings happened. - Yes, sir ! And youd better start making his bed and spit-shining his shoes as well. Thats all for now. Carry on. Okay, Spinelli, youre next. Someones wrestling My Lord  Kumbayah  Heads are smashing My Lord  -[Phone Rings] - Kumbayah  Speak to me. - Bones are cracking, My Lord  - Yeah ? Yeah ? - Ill cover foryou, Spinelli, but its gonna costyou. - Kumbayah  Oh, like, that is such the wrong color forVince. Put the blue one on. AshleyA, you totally know how to accessorize. [ Boys Snoring ] [ Whispering, Muttering ] Infrared night vision, 200-to-1 zoom. I gotta hand it toyou, Gretch. You can see the whole school with this thing. You can make lots ofhandy devices out ofthe spare parts in a familys garage. I once fashioned a particle accelerator... out ofa broken hair dryer and a four-slice toaster oven. Tonight, the magical moment arrived. We met behind the drive-thru menu and kissed passionately... as the sound ofthe deep fat fryer faded into the night. Man, I wish I had an older sister. Laugh ifyou will. I think its beautiful. Sorry Im late, guys, but I had to wait till my mom and dad fell asleep... before I could sneak out with... the goodies. Roast beefand mashed potatoes ! My favorite ! Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. - I also managed to swipe this. - Rocky Road ! My other favorite ! Hey, give me some ofthat. Excuse me, but arent we supposed to eat dinner before dessert ? Good one, Gretch. You were right, Teej. This is the life. Hanging out with friends, eating ice cream, spying on bad guys. Its the ultimate kid experience. Too bad these days are numbered. Yeah, this is probably the last summer... well get to do stufflike this. Kinda whomps, huh ? Hey, remember that summer after second grade... when we went down to the pond every day to catch minnows ? Or how about that summerwe all carved our initials in that tree in the Wilsons backyard ? And Spinelli spelled hers wrong. Hey, I was seven. And Ss are tricky. [GusSobbing] Whats your problem ? This is the first summeryouve lived here. I know, and Ill never have any ofthose memories. [ Whimpering ] Know what Ill never forget ? That song T.J.s sister taught us... the first summer after kindergarten. Oh, yeah. Backwhen she was nice. - Howd it go again ? - [ Inhales Deeply] [ Adult Baritone ] JohnJacob  Jingleheimer Schmidt  His name is my name too  [ All ] Whenever I go out  The people always shout  There goesJohnJacob Jingleheimer Schmidt  [ Tempo Quickens ] Na-Na-Na-Na, Na-Na-Na  JohnJacob Jingleheimer Schmidt  His name is my name too  Whenever I go out the people always shout  There goesJohnJacob Jingleheimer Schmidt  Na-Na-Na-Na Na-Na-Na  [ Whispering ] JohnJacobJingleheimer Schmidt  His name is my name too  Whenever I go out  Thepeoplealwaysshout TheregoesJohnJacob JingleheimerSchmidt [Fades] Na-Na-Na-Na, Na-Na-Na [ Loud Zapping ] Well, here we are, sir. But its Just an old principals office. Why is it so important ? Because, my academically challenged young friend, it used to be mine. 1 0:41 a.m. Gang back at camp. Im goin in alone. [Man] Man, oh, man. Iveheardofsimple assignments, but this one taKes the caKe. Yuck. Hey. 1 0:43 a.m. I found what appear to be... Principal Pricklys golfpants ? Factis, youregettin realgoodat thisstuff. Yeah, youre a regular Robert De Niro. Hey, Im a man ofmany talents. - Principal Prickly ? - But wasnt Mrs. Prickly suspicious ? You kiddin ? It was like taking candy from a baby. [Laughing Continues] Double-knit polyester. These are Pricklys all right. But whywould the bald guywanna pretend to be Principal Prickly ? And wheres the real Principal Prickly anyway ? Wait a minute. Theres something in here. Help me ? It sounds like a desperate cry for help. - Then Principal Prickly must still be in the school. - Being held captive ! You know what that means, dontyou, guys ? We gotta go in there and save him. - Bikes ? - Check. - Walkie-talkie ? - Check. - Rope with pointy thing ? - Check. Good. Then lets go. I still say this is nuts. Breaking out ofthe school I understand, but breaking in ? Oh, boy ! Ms. Finsters gonna love this. [Whistling] [Groans] [ Grunting ] -[DoorbellRings] - Dang. Ten more minutes, and the pizza wouldve been free. [ Sighs ] Its 9:00 at night, Randall. - What doyou want ? - Its about T.J. Detweiler. Randall, Im offduty until Labor Day. Hes someone elses problem now. But hes got all his friends together, and theyre planning to break into the school ! A break-in, eh ? Not if Muriel P. Finster has anything to say about it. - Told you, Ms. Finster. - [ Chuckles ] I wonder ifI can get em tried as adults. Come on. Hold the rope, boy. -[Rope CreaKing] - Uh-oh. -[Snap] - Aaaah ! -[Thud] -[Groans] [ Muffled ] Ms. Finster, could you please get offofme ? [Gretchen] My, this issomewhatcreepy. Yeah. Ive never been in a empty school at night before. Heck, Ill bet no kid has. I wonderwhere the aliens went. They probably go back to the mother ship at night. Quick. In here. [Footsteps Passing] Hey, this is our old room. I hope somebodys feeding the gerbil. -[Man TalKing, Echoing] - Shh ! I hear something ! I want this system worKingnow. Doyouhearme ? Now! Were doingourbest, sir. Wevejust run intoa fewtechnicaldifficulties. Its coming from up there. - LiKe what ? - I thinK whatDr. Lazenby is trying tosay-- Oh, IKnow whathes trying tosay. Hes trying to-- - What areyou doing ? - Finding out whats what. [Men Continue TalKing] Bingo. [ Grunting ] Im stuck. [ Continues Grunting ] Curse these bodacious hips ofmine. Randall, run back to my place and get the butter. - Doyouhaveanyidea who youre talKing to, Laramie ? - Its Lazenby-- Thatphoton channeler isapiece ofequipment, liKea carburetorinyour car! Youresupposedtobe abrilliant thinKer. DoyouKnow whatbrilliant thinKers aresupposedto do ? Theyre supposed to think ! Whoa, what is all this stuff ? Well, against the farwall is what looks to be a plutonium turbine. Closerahead, youllobserve aglobalelectrode. Toyourrightis thelaserdevice wesawearlier, andofcourse, thatglowingorb-- an electronpulsegenerator. - The nerve center ofthe system. - Shh ! The bad guys are talking. - But, Dr. Benedict, please-- - No, let me make this clear toyou, Lazenby. We have a thing called a window ofopportunity. Ifwe miss the window ofopportunity, then the project fails. And ifthe project fails, then I get very, very... angry ! Th-Theymayhave apoint, sir. It seems the logistical problems are a bit more complicated than Dr. Steinheimer thought. Yes, it would be a lot easier ifwe could move the laser to a more appropriate location. This operation will be executed as planned from right here ! Have I made myselfclear ? - But, sir-- - No buts ! It started at 3rd Street. It is going to end at 3rd Street. Dr. Benedict, were ready for the test. Coming. [Scientist] Levelsaregood. - Ready ? - Ive been ready for decades. -Just do it. - Yes, sir. Initiate photon channeling. Photon channeling initiated. Set magnification coordinates .073. Coordinates set. Engage tractor beam now. [ Continues Grunting ] [LoudZapping] What are those kids up to in there ? [ All Gasp ] A little more. A little more. - Hes shooting at the moon. - I told you theywerent aliens. [ Beam Sputtering ] -[Turbine WindingDown] - Dr. Rosenthal, why did the beam suddenly-- Oh, whats the technical word for it ? Stop ? W-Well, uh, as I believe you were told before-- Told before ? [ Chuckles ] Doyou think I care what I was told before ? Ill do better next time. Next time. Isnt that cute. Rosenthal, let me askyou something. Sayyou were a teacher-- or even better, say, the principal ofa school-- and you had to deal with a naughty child who didnt know his place, who kept telling you over and over that hed do better next time. But he never did. What would you do ? Oh, no. N-Not detention. Not detention ! - Take him away ! - No, please ! I can fix it ! Dont do this to me-e-e ! All right, whos second-in-command ? - Uh, I am, sir. - Well, good. Nowyoure in charge. And ifI wereyou, Id make sure I had this machine working at full power by tomorrow morning. - Do I make myselfclear ? - Y-Yes, sir. Oh, dear, I got spittle on my lapel. Mmm. -[Vince] Wegottagetoutofhere. - Uh-oh. - What is it ? - I got that feeling. - Hold it in, big guy. Hold it in ! - I cant ! [ Loud Burp, Echoing ] What was that ? Someone had better say excuse me. [ All ] Whoa ! Fenwick, who let children into the school ? U-Uh, n-not me, sir. - Well, get them ! - Run ! - [ Men Shouting ] - There they are ! - [ All Gasp ] - Huh ? Get offour planet, alien scum ! [ Groans ] Over there ! - Get em ! Get em ! - Come back here ! Huh ? Whoa ! [ Grunts ] - Hyah ! - Ninjas ! - Hyah ! - Get em ! Ninjas ! Whyd they have to be ninjas ? [ All Shouting ] This way ! Hurry ! - Go ! Go ! Lets go ! Hurry up ! - Go ! Go ! Hurry up ! - Nowyou ! - But, Teej-- - Go ! - Haaah ! - [ Gasps ] Saveyourselves ! - T.J. ! T.J. ! - It wont budge ! [ Shouting Continues ] [ Grunts ] What theJ.P. Morgan is going on around here ? Let me go. Let me go ! Im warning you ! Im a black belt in origami ! Well, well, well, ifitaint thelittlesnoop. - What ? I aint no snoop. - [ Tape Rewinding ] [ T.J. On Tape ] 9:32 a.m. Ugly bald guy still guarding school. Heh-heh. Oops. Lets go, snoop. Youre in big trouble now. Ow ! Ow ! Watch thejacket ! Its cotton ! [MuffledShouting] Principal Prickly ! Youre alive ! - Oww ! Would you be careful ! - Boy, am I glad to seeyou. You wont believe what these guys are doing. Theyve got this big laser gun and-- - Whoa, who tookyour pants ? - Never mind, Detweiler.Just untie me. - These knots are tight. - Ofcourse. Ive been pulling at them for the last day and a half. Theyve chaffed mywrist. - Dont worry, sir. My palsll get us out ofhere. - What makes you so sure ? You dont know my friends. Theyll get help. Youll see. Soyoure saying youjust escaped from a troop ofninja warriors ? - Thats right ! - And they got a giant laser gun in the school auditorium ? - Precisely ! - Which is aimed at the moon ? Thank heavens you understand ! [ Grunts ] Ive almost got it. Careful, Detweiler. Thats my putting hand. [DoorLocK UnlocKing] Hello, Pete. Remember me ? Well, well, ifit isnt Phillium Benedict. - I shouldve known youd be the one behind this. - You know this guy ? Ah, Pete and I are old pals. Although the last time we saw each other, Pete was the one ruining my life. By the way, Pete, you like this suit ? Its Italian. Raw silk. Nice, huh ? You always were more concerned about appearances than people, Phil. Oh, Pete, come on. Theres no need to be rude. Not after I instructed my men to take such special care ofyou. Special care ? Thats whatyou call gagging me, tying me up and taking away my pants ? Had to. Otherwise, you might run offand betray me, likeyou did the last time. But, hey, look at the bright side. At leastyouve got company now. Let the boy go. He cant do anything toyou. [ Sighs ] Same old noble Pete. - Always standing up for the rights ofchildren. - You ? But, unfortunately, I cant let anybody go right now. You see, this experimental, um, night school that Im running is kind ofa secret. Im trying to show that my... [ Chuckles ] adult students can be trained... to be capable and productive members ofsociety. Well, ifyourejust running a night school, then whats that giant laser gun doing in the auditorium ? What a rude and badly dressed little boyyou are. You should teach your pupils a little respect for their superiors, Pete. But that would mean thatyoud have to know how to teach them anything at all, wouldnt it ? Geez, how doyou know thatjerk ? We went through teacher training together. - You mean-- - Thats right, Detweiler. That man is a rogue teacher. [PricKly] It wasbacK in thespringof68. A differentage. We wereallyoung, idealistic andreadyto change the world. [ Chattering ] [RocK] Oh ! Ha ha ha. Peace, Peter. Hey, Muriel, had a groovy time at the Dead concert last night. You gonna be at the teach-in Saturday ? Were gonna paint myVolkswagen. - Wouldnt miss it for the world. - Groovy. Yes, weall thought we wereprettycool. - Butoneguy was the coolestofusall. -[VehicleApproaching] Phillium Benedict was mybestfriend. He wassmart, he washandsome. Hehadjustbeennamedprincipal of3rdStreetSchool. [ All Giggling ] So, Phillium, hows it feel being theyoungest principal in the history ofthe state ? Copacetic, baby. I mean, you know what they say: Young is in, man, and old is out. Way out. Doyou like the American flag helmet, Pete ? It does go with the leatherjacket, right ? You are one groovy educator, Phil. Cool. Follow me, my man. I wanna showyou my new principals pad. Whoa ! Psychedelic principalia. Pull up a bag, bro. I wanna rap. - Lay it on me, man. - You see, Pete, I been thinkin. Were a new generation ofteachers, right ? Its time we shook things up a little. I hearyou, brother. In fact, dig this. I was meditating to that new Ravi Shankar album last night... when I got this righteous notion-- What ifwe hold all our classes outside, on the playground ? Imagine-- school, recess. No boundaries. Hey, baby, thats a hip idea, but I got a better thought here. As my first official act as principal, Ive decided... to get rid ofrecess. What ? No recess ? But, Phil, for a kid, recess is like a major play-in. Its the one time ofday they have any freedom. [ Sighs ] Look, Pete, the 60s are over. All that peace and love and freedom stuff, it was great for pickin up chicks, but its not gonna help my career. To do that, I gotta make test scores go up, and to make test scores go up, I gotta keep kids in class where they belong. Thats why, starting tomorrow, I am tuning out recess... once and for all. [PricKly] Needless tosay, Phillium splan didntgo overall that well. [ Shouting ] - [ Protester] What do we want ? - [ Crowd ] Recess ! - When do we want it ? - Now ! - What do we want ? When do we want it ? - Recess ! Now ! Be cool, people, be cool. Youre bumming my mellowness. Well be cool when you give our kids their recess back. Hey, baby, Ill do what I want. Im principal ofthe school, and theres nothing anyone can do about it. Dig ? [ Shouting Continues ] [Man] Itsnotright! - People, people, please calm down. - [ Shouting Stops ] Mr. Prickly here has informed me ofthis no recess proposal. Let me assureyou that as long as Im superintendent, this radical plan will never be carried out in this district. - [ Cheering ] - Hey, man, youjust dont get it ! Ofcourse I do, Benedict. - Thats why Im replacing you. - What ? - Prickly, from now on, you will be principal. - Who, me ? Oh, I see whats going down here. You tricked me, went around my back to the man to get myjob ! - No, Phil, its not like that at all. - Yeah, right ! Come on, Muriel baby, lets blow this scene. No, Phil, its over. I could never be with a man who doesnt love recess. Soyoure against me too. Well, fine. I dont need you. I dont need anyone ! - Aaah ! - Phil ! You okay, man ? Dont touch me ! You took my chick. You took myjob. Well, enjoy it whileyou can, Petey boy, causeyoure gonna pay. Somehow, someway, youre gonna pay. IneversawPhillium again. He quit teaching, went into politics, eventually became secretary ofeducation-- until the president fired him for trying to get rid ofrecess again. Only this time it was nationwide. So that guys some weirdo ex-teacher who wants to get rid ofrecess ? - Mm-hmm. - Okay. Now its personal. Lets see-- weather maps, some stuffin Norwegian, a FarmersAlmanac. Must be something in here thatll explain what that Dr. Benedict is doing. Ill tell you one thing hes not doing-- having lunch tomorrow at 1 2:22 with his little girlfriend. Spinelli, thats the mans personal date book. Well, its mine now, and I guess Miss Luna Pergum is gonna be at the restaurant all by herself. - Who did you say ? - The girl whose name is in here-- Luna Pergum. Must be some Italian chick. Lunaeperigeum. Ofcourse ! - What areyou talking about ? - Dontyou understand ? Lunaeperigeum is no lady. Its an event. Look. Once a month, the moon reaches the point where its closest to the Earth-- lunar perigee, which in this case happens to be 1 2:22 tomorrow afternoon. Maybe thats when that doctor guy is gonna shoot his laser at the moon and blow it up. Close guess, but I have another theory. When I was up at space camp, I observed some abnormalities in the moons position. I couldnt figure out what was causing it, but now it all makes sense. Dr. Benedicts device is not a laser beam at all. Its a tractor beam ! You mean hes gonna plow the moons surface ? Whateverwill he plant ? Not a tractor, you goombah. A tractor beam. Like from a science fiction movie. Precisely. Theoretically, ifa powerful tractor beam... were shot at the moon exactly at lunar perigee, it could move the moon into another orbit. Move the moon ? But why would anybodywant to do that ? Who knows, Vince ? Who knows ? [Banging On Metal] Here we are, sir. I cant believeyou have been creeping around in these vents. Theyre school property. Dang ! The lines dead. Hey, what did you do with the walkie-talkie you confiscated from me last week ? Top drawer, on the right. Just lookwhat Phils done to my office. I had it all nice and clean for the summer. Packs ofgum, yo-yos, my old baseball-- Hey, Ive been looking for this. Here it is-- mywalkie-talkie. Now all I gotta do is contact the guys and-- - Oh, no. - What is it, Detweiler ? I told em that guywas a nut. [ T.J. ] Hello ! Hello ! Is anybody there ? Its T.J. ! T.J., buddy, youre okay ? - Yeah, Im fine, and so is Principal Prickly. - Principal Prickly ? I dont have time to explain, but I thinkweve figured out what Benedict is up to. Hes trying to get rid ofsummervacation ! No ! Guys, dont freak out on me ! I got a plan ! All we do is-- Heh-heh. Why, Mr. Bald Guy, what a surprise. T.J. ! T.J. ! - Its dead ! - They mustve got him ! What are we gonna do ? Theres only one thing we can do: we gotta get help. [ Becky] Bow-wow ! Welcome to Floppy Burger. May I takeyour order, please ? - Becky, this is Vince. - [ Becky] What areyou doing here ? Its notjust Vince, its me, Gretchen, everybody. We got a problem ! I got a problem too-- six dweeby ten-year-olds who wont leave me alone, even when Im at work. I am a professional ! So whatever your little problem is, forget it ! - But its about T.J . - Hes in trouble, and he needs your help. [ Becky ] Well, isnt that nice ? After stealing my diary, threatening to put it on the Internet... and making me drive across the state three times, he needs my help ? Give me one good reason why I should help him. Cause hes your little brother, and he needs you. Please pull forward to the second drive-thru window. A confiscated walkie-talkie. Why doyou do these things ? Doyou enjoy tormenting me ? Doyou hate me ? I dont hateyou, Phil. I just thinkyoure insane. [ Chuckles ] Insane. Well, thereyou go again, Pete. Insulting me, hurting my feelings, Just like 30 years ago. Only this time, Petey, Im ready. You see, all thoseyears, no matter how big I got, no matter how successful, I always thought aboutyou. Howyou embarrassed me ! Howyou humiliated me ! Howyou destroyed my relationship with Muriel Finster, the onlywoman I ever loved ! - That part still grosses me out, sir. - Shh. This time, Pete, Im gonna humiliateyou. Im gonna prove to the world thatyou were wrong and I was right. - About what ? - About recess ! About freedom ! About test scores ! Ive found a way to prove my theory. Im gonna get rid of the biggest recess ofthem all. I am gonna get rid ofsummervacation. - You fiend ! - Fiend. Try to help people, thats the thanks you get. - Itll neverwork, Phil. - Well, actually, Pete, thats whereyoure wrong. You see, all I have to do is modify the moons orbit ever so slightly, and tide levels on the Eastern Seaboard rise eight feet. Move the moon over here, and the currents that warm California suddenly become ice-cold. Summer, as we know it, will become a thing ofthe past. And without summer, - [ Both Gasp ] - no summervacation. - Youll never get away with this, Benedict. - Oh, yeah ? Well, whos gonna stop me ? Wow, I cant believe my little brother... actually stumbled on a real, live evil conspiracy. - Thats ourTheodore. - You should see the crates ofsoda they left back there. And boxes ofmustard and ketchup too. Mmm, tomato-ey. Hey, thats stuffs the property of Floppy Burger International. Quityour gabbin and step on it. We need reinforcements. [Cheering, Shouting] [Cheering, Shouting] [Finster] Im tellingyou, a troop ofninja warriors... is using3rdStreetSchoolas asecretjujitsu trainingground. - Ninja warriors. Elementary school. - [ Snickering ] Jujitsu training ground ? Hey, lady, arentyou forgetting the magic laser beam ? - Im serious ! - So are we. Hey, I got an idea-- Why dontyou go home, get some rest... and well make a personal call toJackie Chan. Yeah, hes the perfect man for ajob like this. Im telling ya, something is going on in that school ! Help ! Help ! Somebody get us outta here ! - Calm down, Detweiler. - Calm down ? Were locked in a giant birdcage while a madmans trying to destroy summervacation, and you want me to calm down ? - I understand, but I-- - How can you understand ? Yourejust a grownup. What doyou know about summervacation ? Ill letyou in on a little secret, Detweiler. Every adultyouve ever known was a kid some time in his life. You thinkwe dont remember summervacation ? Riding bikes by the creek ? Catching polliwogs in ajar ? Camping out under the stars ? Well, youre wrong. Some days I sit in my office, looking out atyou kids on the playground, and I think, They dont know how good theyve got it. In a fewyears, theyre all going to be grownups, like me, and all those good times will Just be memories for them too. So go ahead, put a whoopee cushion in my chair, cover my carpet with fake vomit, make fun of my big, saggy butt. But dontyou ever say I dont care about summervacation, cause those memories are the last part ofchildhood Ive got left. Principal Prickly, I had no idea. Yeah, well, nowyou do. - So lets stop messing around. - How did you get those keys ? Swiped em off Philliums desk when he wasnt looking. Now come on. Weve got a summervacation to save. [ All Chattering ] People ! People ! Just quiet down for a moment ! Oh, man, nobodys listening. Theyll listen to me, once I introduce them to my good friend Madam Fist. Come on, Spinelli. Thats your answer for everything. I dont seeyou coming up with any great ideas, sports boy. Listen to the two ofyou. Youre not helping at all. [ All Arguing ] [Gus] Quiet! What we need is a leader. A kid with the right training. A kid who knows strategy and field tactics. A kid who commands respect. Yeah, but where we gonna find a kid like that ? Leave that to me. - [ Chattering Continues ] -[Gretchen Whistles] Please ! We have to get organized. Ah, whats the use ? Ifwhatyou say is true, all the fun ofbeing a kid is, like, totally ruined anyway. - Its like the whole worlds been turned right side up. - [ All Agreeing ] Not necessarily. All we have to do is work together and come up with a plan. - Detweilers the one who always comes up with the plans. - Lets face it-- were doomed. - [ All Agreeing ] -[Spinelli] Thats what you thinK! Kids ofthe playground, meet your new commanding officer. Griswald ? He couldnt lead a glee club. You find that funny, Bradley ? Well, Im not here to makejokes ! Im here to make history ! So ifyou wanna laugh, take it somewhere else. But ifyou wanna save the world, then suck in your gut and stand at attention. Now whos with me ? [Kazoos Playing RiverKwaiMarch] [ Screams ] Soda bomb ! Soda bomb ! [Gus] Vince, youandtheAshleys willbein charge ofunit A.  Ill take unit B. Spinelli, you get the special forces. - Special forces ? - The kindergartners. - I oweyou for this, Griswald. - Now theres one last thing I need to say. - [ Talking Ceases ] - This mission is bigger than any one ofus kids. Bigger than T.J . Even bigger than Principal Prickly. This, my friends, is about the future. - Geez, he sounds like T.J . - Shh. Hes on a roll. Years from now when kids who arent even born yet look back on this moment, theyll say, They did it. Those kids saved 3rd Street School. They saved summervacation. So, boys and girls, were goin in. - Twenty-two minutes to perigee, sir. - Very good, Fenwick. [Men Chattering Indistinctly] - Hello, boys. - Hey ! [Men Groaning] [Punches Landing] - Where now ? - The auditorium. Check. [ Inhales ] Nessun dorma [ All ] Huh ? Nessun dorma [Man] Is thataKid ? - Ma il mio mistero e chiuso in me  - Hey, kid, get out ofhere ! Aah. Anderson, get rid ofthat kid, will ya ? Ilnomemio nessunsapra -[AndersonScreaming] -No, no - Smithson, Underhill. - Sir. Sulla tuaboca -[MenScreaming] -Lo diro - Quando la luce  - Hanklin, Morrissey, Goodman, get over here ! - Yes, sir. - Right away, sir. On the double. Well take care ofhim. Dont worry about it. You sure this is gonna work, Detweiler ? Come on, Principal Prickly. Dontyou everwatch old spy movies ? This trick is pure gold. Uh, Dr. Benedict wanted to speak to us about a very important matter. Hey, you two arent guards. Run ! Im called little buttercup  Anderson, Morrissey, Underhill ? Where is everybody ? Aah, ifyou want something done right, you gotta do ityourself. - Poor little buttercup  - [ Screams ] - Sweet little buttercup, I  - [ All Shouting ] Boy, these space-age power shovels sure do a greatjob. Quick, in here. This way ! Theyre inside. We lost em. Now what ? Ammo. [ Both ] Tender. Commence phase two. Ready ? - Hey, guards ! - Huh ? [ Grunting ] You little brats ! Now ! - Intruders ! - [ Shouting ] [ All Screaming ] Scandalous ! [ Shouting Indistinctly] - Now ! - Huh ? Bombard, men ! - Get em. - [ All Shouting ] [ Screaming ] Lunch room, front office-- Here it is, auditorium. [ Loud Hum Resonating ] Uh, Fenwick, why is the power off ? Uh, perhaps we blew a fuse, sir ? Well, go fix it ! We must restore the power. Quickly, here. Hey, whathappened? Letus out! Plans working, Gus. Good. Now we gotta stop that laser beam before its too late. Thats whatyou thinK, Kid. Youbratsare done for. [TJ. ] Hey, baldy! Sayyour prayers. Its chowder time. [ Screaming ] - Bulls-eye ! - T.J. ! I knewyou guys would come back for us. - Ooh, thats gotta hurt. - Six minutes to perigee ! Quick. To the auditorium. And no running in the halls ! Emergency power system is in place. Switch on the global electrode. Power up the photon channeler. Activate the tractor beam, quickly ! Weve only got four minutes left. [PricKly] Youvegotnominutes left, Phil. This is my school and I want it back. Sorry, Pete. Yourejust gonna have to wait until I finish making the world a better place. - Now lets get this show on the road. - Dont do it, Dr. Benedict ! [ Chuckles ] Dont do it ? You think after all this planning, all this work, you can get me to stopjust by saying, Dont do it ? - What ifwe add please ? - [ Sighs ] You kids Just dont get it, doyou ? Well, let me explain this in a wayyour little uneducated brains will understand. The American public think test scores are too low. But ifa person, say me, could make test scores go up, why, everybodyd feel better. They might even elect that person... President ofthe United States. Now, doyou have any idea which countries have the highest test scores ? - Um,Japan ? - Germany ? - Tierra Del Fuego ? Canada, Iceland, Norway ! And why ? Because its snowing up there all the time. Kids dont waste their summers playing ball. Theyre inside studying. And that is why Im getting rid ofsummervacation once and for all. You got it all wrong, old man. Your plan will neverwork. Sure, maybeyour crazy laser beam can move the moon. Maybe it can even make it snow all summer. Maybeyou can get rid oflong afternoons playing baseball, or sunny days down by the lake orwarm nights camping out under the stars. But that wont stop us. Well ride our bikes through the snow. Well play kick ball in the slush, well camp out in igloos. You may take away summer, butyoull never take away summervacation. Well, I can try. Do it... now ! Yes, sir. Begin photon channeling. Photon channeling begun. Setmagnification coordinates.073. - Coordinates set. - Engage tractor beam. - No ! - [LoudBang] Hey, teacher, leave them kids alone ! - Ms. Finster. - Muriel, its you. Youre still a vision ofloveliness. Yeah ?Andyourestilla two-bit, recess-hatingprettyboy. That hurt, Muriel. But Ill forgiveyou ifyoull just come back to me. Ha ! Id rather eat playground dirt. That can be arranged, my dear. Not before I takeyou down. Take me down ? Yeah, right. You and what army ? Me and this army. The teachers ! [ Shouting ] [ Karate Shouts ] Get them ! No, no, no, no no, no, no, no No, no, no, no no, no, no, no No, no, no, no no, no, no, no -No, no, no, no, Nobody can do the -Shimmy -LiKe Ido, Nobody can do the -ShaKe -LiKe Ido, Nobody can do the -Boogaloo -LiKe Ido, Nobody can do the -Shimmy [Continues] [ Screaming ] Fire ! -Letme tellyou, Nobody -Nobody -Nobody -Nobody -Nobody -Nobody - [ Gasps ] - Drink soda, ninjas ! Halt ! Flying press ! - Nice flying press, Spinelli. - Thanks. Ive been working on it. No, no, no, no no, no, no, no You ! [Ms. Finster] Stop right there, KojaK. Its go time. -Nobody can do the -ShaKe -LiKe Ido, Nobody can do the -Boogaloo - Thanks, Ms. Finster. -Just doing myjob, Detweiler. Hurry ! Theres still time. Faster, you idiot ! Faster ! Holditright there, Phillium. Thesemesters overforyou, pal. Not so fast, Pete. You might fall asleep and miss the festivities. - Hey, Phillium, theres a spot on your tie. - Where ? [NinjaScreams] - Itsjammed. - Youre too late, Pete. This time I win. Vince ! The photon channeler. And forget what they told you. Aim it. Dont throw it. - Look out ! Shes gonna blow ! - [ All Screaming ] All my plans, my hopes and dreams... ruined. Ruined ! Getyour hands offthe suit, you classless feeb ! I am the former secretary ofeducation. Yeah, yeah. And Im the former princess of Morocco. Get in the car. B-B-But its all his fault. I was only following orders. Ill turn states evidence. Geez, what a squealer. Come on, Grotke. Ill takeyou on. My boxing againstyour martial arts. East meets West. Well see who wins. I dont know, Muriel. Im only supposed to use it for self-defense. What an exciting summer. T.J. saved the world... and Becky made assistant fry chefat Floppy Burger. Come on, Ellie. The reporters wanna talk to us about how we raised a hero. Listen, Becky, I heard about howyou saved my life and everything, and... - well, here, I think this is yours. - My diary ? I cant believe it. You realize this means you dont have any leverage over me anymore ? Hey, what can I say ? Maybe Im just growing up. Gee, youre an all-right little brother after all. But, Teej, what about the extra copies you got stashed away up in the tree house ? Oh, I wasjust bluffing about those. So, Teej, we got two weeks ofsummervacation left. What doyou saywe do em up right ? But dontyou guys have to get back to camp, work on your futures and all ? Well, weve been thinkin. And weve decided theres plenty oftime for preparing for our futures. But only a little time left forjust being kids. So, what doyou saywe head down to the pond and skip some rocks ? You guys gotyourselves a deal. Oh, boy ! My first summervacation memories. Uh, guys. - Ill catch up with you. I forgot something inside. - Okay, but hurry. - Principal Prickly ? - Huh ? Oh, its you, Detweiler. I wasjust, um, cleaning up this mess Phillium left. Guyalways wasapacK rat. Look at this. A Norwegian weather map from 1 956. Listen, sir, I never really got a chance to thankyou for all the stuffyou did. You know, quitting your golfgame, telling Benedict to let me go, helping me save the world andjunk. Oh, actually, Detweiler, Im the one who should be thanking you. - Huh ? - You did me a big favor by dragging me into this mess. See, I didnt get into teaching for the promotions or the pension plans... or so I could get to the golfcourse by 3:45. I-- I... did it cause I wanted to helpyou kids. And Id forgotten that. - Till today. - [KnocKing On Window] - Come on, Teej. - The pond awaits. - Ill be there in a second. - Hey, its a gorgeous summer day and your pals are waiting. Go have some fun whileyou can... Teej. You got it... Pete. [RocK nRoll] But dont forget ! Come September, youre mine. I havent forgotten that saggy butt comment. Hey, September is a long way off. Let thesunshine Let thesunshinein Thesunshinein -Let thesunshine - Whoa, letitshine -Let thesunshinein - Come on - Thesunshinein -Everybodyjustsingalong -Let thesunshine -Let thesunshinein -Let thesunshinein - Open upyourheart andletinshinein - Thesunshinein - Whenyourealone Let thesunshine [TJ. ] One, two, three, four. Dropyour silver in my tambourine  Help a poor man build a pretty dream  Give me pennies Ill take anything  Now listen while I play [ Echoing ] My green tambourine  Watch thejinglejangle start toshine Reflections ofthemusic thatismine Whenyou tossa coin youllhearitsing Now listen while I play [ Echoing ] My green tambourine  Dropa dime before I walKaway Anysongyou want Illgladlyplay Money feeds my music machine  Now listen while I play [ Echoing ] My green tambourine  ListenandIllplay [Echoing] Mygreen tambourine ListenandIllplay [Echoing] Oh, yeah Mygreen tambourine Illplay mygreen tambourine Ifyoulisten I willplay Mygreen tambourine [Woman Vocalizing] Callingoutaroundthe world Areyouready forabrand-newbeat Thesummersnear andthe timeis right Fordancing in thestreet -Dancing in Chicago -Dancing in thestreet -Down in NewOrleans -Dancing in thestreet -In New YorK City -Dancing in thestreet All weneedismusic Sweetmusic Therellbemusiceverywhere Therellbeswinging andswaying Andrecordsplaying Dancing in thestreet Oh, itdoesntmatter whatyou wear Justas long asyouare there So, come on Everyboygrabagirl Everywherearoundthe world Therellbe dancing Were dancing in thestreet Isaid wellbe dancing - Whoo! -Dancing in thestreet Were dancing in thestreet This isaninvitation across thenation A chance forKids tomeet - Theyllbelaughingandsinging -Laughing, singing Andmusicswinging Were dancing in thestreet -Philadelphia, P.A. -Dancing in thestreet -BaltimoreandD. C. now -Dancing in thestreet - Cantforget the MotorCity -Beep-beep, beep-beep Whoo! All weneedismusic Oh, music Therellbemusiceverywhere Therellbeswinging andswaying Andrecordsplaying Dancing in thestreet Oh, itdoesntmatter whatyou wear Justas long asyouare there Come on everyboygrabagirl Everywherearoundthe world Therellbe dancing Allaroundthe world Everyboyandgirl Dancing in thestreet -Fromyourneighborhood down to Hollywood -Dancing in thestreet -Dancing in thestreet -Dancing in thestreet Were dancing in thestreet Were dancing in thestreet Were dancing in thestreet Were dancing in thestreet By dannisis, Guatemala divx@gua.gbm.net
