 

                        Welcome to the base. Well-known as Camp of Carolina. Our house outside of house, in this forgotten country. What I can give them in this video newspaper it is the intense heat and the scent of the locals My God, yes that stinks. Mustangs Hear! - Holas! At three o'clock, give me a smile. A, two, three. Let me that I show up, my name he/she is a ngel Salazar welded Salazar, I am a Latin that not he/she could enter to USA. Hello, papichulo, what is it happening here old? Treatment of making a video. Do you know what has just passed to your video? - If? He/she put on much sexier. This is sexy, I make your video and you, one mine. Yes, you make a video on me and me, one yours. We will put everything, because this he/she can to be the last video that we make. Will it be this way? I will tell you what, let us make a treatment, you and me. Seriously. If I die in this war. I want you to keep my videos, is it well? And if you die in this war, me I will keep your videos your camera and your girlfriend's telephone. - My girlfriend's telephone? Yes, your girlfriend's telephone. - What are you about saying? You are my brother, we go, who do you believe that I am? That is a treatment. - Do you know what it likes you to me? Yes? Apart from anything. Absolutely anything. You are very meticulous. It is not about that, it is of saying the things like they are. Of that it is? - Yes. On saying how it is. You want to listen... he/she hears. here. Please, focus you in what is beautiful. Thank you. They want to listen the things as they are? Who they believe that it will be first o'clock does it get off this conflict? You. - That is correct. Not it will be Rush or Flake or "Not ask anything", here... Do you know who will be? Do you know who will be?! It will be the true. Let us go, only tell me how it is! Of what do you speak? - Learn the lesson. That was something very depressing, brother. Allow me to finish. - Ahead. I will make money for the university, for the filming school. I will be a battle combatant, for heaven's sake. And because I came to the war they have to take. So being here, I will film... what shit happens. Up to now it has not been anything. Now our squadron makes a checkup twice a day It is the whole low day the hot sun. Using 50 kilos of weapons, looking tanks and things this way. The deception is something that you always leave here. The only thing that we find yesterday was a damned rat. Come unfastened. Not wait action of Hollywood. Not there will be cut scenes, there won't be anything that he/she makes sense. Basically here... the things happen. Barricade. Control position The soldiers in those barricades make decisions instantaneous, of life or death daily The soldiers are highly in points visible for the snipers. Suicidal bombs, and he/she can to have bombs in the floor. Does he/she want soda? No. - He/she gave it to me my aunt. Only veto. He/she walks, veto of here. He/she walks. Jess. How persistent. Which the procedure is for a car when he/she enters in the position? How a driver knows Iraqi what should make? As he/she can see we have put signs, they are of alive colors very visible and impossible of not seeing. They are in English and Arabic, they inform each driver that they are in the barricades. Do they come it? Do they understand it? Statistical recent they show that half of Iraqis they are illiterate. Leave the car. Put on here. Walking. Put on here. Here, that is. Let us go, people, hurry! We go. Raise the hands. Lower the arms. Tell him/her that he/she opens the maletera. Open the maletera. Move, walking. Let us go, move! Sit down boy. The maletera. Be open! The cape. Does he/she fear the dog? - To who does the one care? He/she comes here, now. All well? Blix, the car all yours. They come, there inside. Here up, inside. Inside. We go, walking. I need you, there inside. He/she waits, here up. There inside. Here up, we go. Good boy, Kevin. He/she enters here. Everything is clear. Well, they can enter to the car and manage slowly. The soldiers low estrs are psychological the whole time. Who the bad" are and how do they differ of the civilians? That is Gabe Blix, it belongs to Virginia. Not he/she speaks a lot because he/she has their nose in the books the whole time. Gade, what do you read? Leo a book, Salazar. - It is well. About what is it? - It is on. Seriously, what do you make? What do you make now? I want to have your opinion. If you have a camera, you are part of the means and we have strict orders of not speaking with them. Don't tell me the means. We go, tell him/her what you read, you speak to me in this respect. No, you will make comments on our mission. No, this is about the truth friend. It is on what happens, the truth always, this camera never lies. Old, that is garbage. Because that is the only thing that makes the camera. - Show me the title of the book. Seriously? What does he/she say on Samarra? Anything. Anything. No, anything... It is on a type, it is a type of a country club and he/she gets drunk in Christmas Eve. And he/she throws their swig in their boss's face. All in the whole city, in all Philadelphia... What does he/she have to do with Samarra? Anything, at the beginning speaks on Samarra, but apart from that he/she is a classic, it only serves of hobby. - What? - Not judge a book for their color. - Correct. - Basically. When is the meeting? - Not you want to know it. - Yes, I want to know. Not I have anything of books, this it is literature, this is good. The meeting... Do you want him to read you the introduction? - Perfect Give me something good. Allow me to find it. The introduction doesn't belong to John Oharris, but yes of their mother. Perfect. Not you do have idea of who it is, truth? - For anything. That thought, he/she calls himself "The death he/she speaks." Well, read it in the camera. Well, there was a teacher in Baghdad that it marked... He/she waits, he/she waits, before of beginning to read it, he/she thinks on what you will say and make some expression. It continues. There was a teacher in Baghdad, who sent to a team to buy provisions, a little later the team returned, white and trembling and he/she said: "Teacher, fair now that it was in the market... ". This is a little boring, old. - Old, I not even asked to make this. Hear! I also have readings. It is well. I win, leave of here. Leave. Will find their mother. Not I do need a slave, is it well? Will I give him/her what is, you want soda? - No, I don't want. Not you should be saying me "Action" or something like that? Here we go, I am the sergeant of first James. The children are playing with him. What shit faces? Salt of there. Sally, we go. Are you clever? I am first Jim's sergeant Sweet. Again What is he/she looking? We go, leave of here. He/she hears, he/she needs security. Come here! That they don't give you food, old. No, not! He/she walks. What shit does he/she spend, old? Take away from all they, play this way with you, is it well? Why not, sergeant? My black bottom has been here for three stations, I don't trust nobody here. Does shit, make how much Flake are here? Only a couple of months. You are here a damned virgin. Not I am... - If, clear. Comely. What did you make before that? - He/she walked only somewhere around and over there. To get drunk. - If, to be about not entering to the jail. They come here, he/she looks at this wretch. - This? He/she would be kissing penises for beer if not it was in the army. You are right. She is the queen of the recruits of the army. The queen is not a joke, you will be very grateful in the day of the work. Tell me Flake, if you were not here, would it be in the jail? Yes, something like that. Do you want to return in a piece? Undoubtedly if. - That well. Not let them to kill you then. That that you/they gave you those rats, it is as eating poison. This thing? Do you believe that I want to eat this? He/she will eat this, they were about being friendly. - They don't want to be Flake. They will urinate in your back and they will tell you that it is raining, it trusts my, he/she eats that shit then you will vomit blood. He/she takes care of your life, soldier, is it well? Let us return to the base and we will give you something of eating, how's it going that? Look at it, this it is my damned one Caucasian. - It is also mine. Your you are my damned S." - I am your S" That is correct. Sergeant hear. - What? We were in this place yesterday, truth? If. I bet you to that will be tomorrow also. Because when the sun lowers. These damned ones come out of their mousetraps and they will put mines in different places. That the previous day and you can to bet your bottom that these, bird excrements smiling they are their allies. While a car you Preposition to the barricade, there are signs that indicate him/her that lower the speed or wait. Then warnings with shots if those cars don't respond to the signs. Their intent: to stop to the enemy potentials, that they fly them to them or to all the soldiers. How so successful these procedures are? Stop! Stop! Stop the damned car! Stop! Stop the damned car! Stop! Stop the car! What shit? In a period of 24 months, the troops USA has murdered to more than 2000 Iraqis. No American soldier was accused by these incidents. Move! There that to take it to the hospital. We go to the hospital. Vmonos. They have to go back. Sally, make them to go back. Move of the vehicle! ATV news of last minute. My sister! Care! Care! Hurry, doctor! Help us. Hurry... hurry, please before he/she dies! My sister! Who are you? I am their brother. What did it happen? Take to my sister to a hospital. She will have a he/she drinks. Arrive to the barricades, the soldiers arrived in waves. then they shot us. He/she makes some moments Saleema Sabah and their non born son was murdered. The doctors attempted of everything to save them. She was murdered in their brother's car when they went by the point where the American forces are. According to the army American, the driver of the car, the brother of Sabah, I ignore the signs of stops. According to the brother of Sabah, he said that they were only hurried to arrive at the hospital. because she will have a he/she drinks and the soldiers arrived in a wave toward the one so that it stops the car. Sahr Alloul, ATV Samarra. Tell him/her hello to B.B Rush and to Reindeer Flake. Flake is the one that manages the weapons, totally connected likewise. It is one of the oldest recruits. He/she discovered to their twin soul, B. B. Rush. The type sees shits, but it is loyal. They only want two you sew here. To catch or to fight. And yesterday. Flake kills its first civilian. Flake that you read? Be had something of luck? No. It is well. - Me yes. Flake, how you feel on the shooting of yesterday? It was intense. I only know that the only language that these Saddams understands it is the force. And I only come he/she is necessary to show up. - Amen to that old. But if I tell the truth. - If, I gave the truth. The truth will be this. The truth is... it was not anything as me I thought, I refer. I thought that my first shot, would make me to fly the head. But. it was as if anything, as if to kill to a bagre. You dressed how he/she didn't stop that retarded one. If, that type. Yes, but the problem is that most of... ... this damned people. when you raise the hand, they don't know that it means that they stop majority of Iraqis thinks that you are greeting What I know is that this people screamed him/her to their mother, the lungs screamed, you screamed your teat head. And that car continued coming, coming closer more. What shit more it is supposed that he/she makes that it is not to shoot? To shoot to those damned ones. - Good work. But Flake doesn't have heart when shooting one woman embarrassed in the paunch, truth? That is true, old. We Go, Salazar. what do you want him to make? he/she sheds tears and say that I sit down it. I sit down it a lot. My life has changed forever. My life has changed forever, shit. The pictures are come now as cockroaches. I have made this, I have made many things, that gives me thirst, how's it going a cold beer? Demons. So Flake. - I also want one. Flake, is not now remorses that you know that it is pregnant. Now that you know that it was to give birth, anything? In fact you don't feel remorses? One doesn't eat I should feel. - Seriously? Allow me to tell you something, when your you have a boy and a wife giving birth you will think it more than once. - He/she waits. Not you can give yourself the luxury to remorses. If you have remorses, you become weak, if you are weak, you die. It is that simple. - What do you say? When you have a boy, and a pregnant wife, you will become more human. Possibly. He/she will be an imbecile in this planet, old. Because you cannot give yourself the luxury of changing diapers. Are cockroaches, what devils does he/she spend? How we know that... - Hear! Look, point to favor, he made their work, the rules were made in USA if they cross the line, the the bush. That is not life! - Take away from him! How? - Have a damned wife. You are a damned rat! Enough, all go to the bed. Does somebody have a problem with that?! Enough, turn off the damned camera! It is well. Well, boys, have fact an excellent work and I want to thank them to each one of you. Colonel Ford, permission to speak Mister. - Ahead. We want to thank him/her for their kind words and they have had rumors on a pursuit mission. No, no... I have not listened anything on that. But. It seems that we will have to maintain the work here a little more. How so much time? The time that he/she takes soldier, for that reason is here! Now be quiet the mouth! If, Mister! I have just received orders, there is a battalion of 77 people they are caught in Baghdad. They cannot replace us until somebody replace them to them. The company Alpha will have temporarily the control tomorrow until the one I traffic it is normalized. You know Flake, I swear him, it is as that clich, when a type has that to work in their free day and things madwomen happen and he/she only thinks, demons, it should not be here. None of us should be here. Shit, old. - Because our bottom will be baleado. The only thing that you/they continue saying is: "It is well, you will leave to your house tomorrow." And the following day is the same shit, angers to house tomorrow. And continuous, week after week, they will go home tomorrow, we are still here, as ducks in cage. Be quiet, take out that camera of my face! Which is your damned problem? About what do you complain?! Because they extended the meeting. Damned surprise! Welcome to the damned army. We all want to go home! Not we can, so stop and take it as a man! You manage with an erection! Every day here is closer one day for the meeting. What did you say, Gabe? Every day here is one day but it fences for the meeting. What? That book, the one that seemed you very boring. You should read it. The death speaks. there was a teacher in Baghdad that he/she left to the market to buy provisions and after a while they returned pale and trembling. Teacher, fair when it was in the one market, I saw a woman in the multitude and when I gave the turn I saw that the death it was following me. She looked at me and he/she made a threat expression. Now lend me their horse and I will run of this city to avoid my destination. I Will Go to Samarra. There the death won't find me. The teacher lent him/her his horse and he left for the mountains it galloped as quick as he/she could and so quick as the horse he/she went. Then the teacher went to the market and me he/she saw stopped among people and he/she told me: Why you looked threatening to my servant when did you dress him this morning? That was not a threat, I said; it was only my surprise face. It was astonished of seeing it in Baghdad since he/she had a meeting with him, tonight in Samarra. Awake. They come here. - This well. Help me. Chocolate with milk? - Undoubtedly not. And dark chocolate. - Those are the three things that you found in among the rocks. Do you like Americans? Demons. Not it is good. Jdete, return me my chocolate. Not it is good. - Old demons, it is the last. Don't move! Demons, what shit you have behind of the bottom? My brain sergeant. Do you know that I think? Flake comes here, stop here. He/she looks at this soldier. Are you filming this? Everything. Wonder what I think. - What sergeant does he/she think? Not I can stop to think that Rusher didn't achieve it. Is soldier listening to me? If, sergeant. - But, is he/she listening to me? I am listening to it sergeant. - You are so silly that a bullet in your head perhaps pleases you well. Listen to me. - Jdete, I Left. As it educates your boots in the floor, this floor, this land where it is is soldier listening to me? - Yes, sergeant. But, is he/she listening to me? - I am listening to it! Then listen to me! Look at the land! Look around to your! Now respond me this. Did you dress or not this piece of furniture yesterday? Non sergeant. - Why not? Because it was not here yesterday. - That is my point, so take away from him! He/she looks, we came here whole and bet their bottom that they will return whole, is it well? Copied Sergeant. - See you with welded life. We go, let us leave of here. Demons Rush. - Be quiet. Shit! American camp, camera of security This well of garbage is not nothing else that a trap of death. We need to leave of here. A new camp, they know... To fly everything. - To vaporize each one of those bastards. You are right. Sweet was the only type that you concerned for us and they made it pieces. They kill the one who you/they should kill. Sweet would be with life, having a good time with us right now. They are killing us one by one. They make their work well! - If, they killed us. No, Sally, they have our attention. Attention, for what reason?! Jesus Christ Sally, don't you understand it? They don't want to kill us in the base. Yes, they want, but they are not able to, it is very difficult now They want to kill us here. In their territory, in their damned country! Where each movement, it is the one incorrect! It seems that none of them knew where that bomb was. You are right! Not you see them step them, they are seated in their patios, drinking that damned one you. To wait to that one of us puts them the hands above. This didn't happen again! Undoubtedly not! - There will be a damned vengeance! If! We will torture each one of those damned ones! And it was not neither one of them in the whole earth! REPORTER EMBEDDED REPORT EXCLUSIVE. Move. Advance. Take positions. Wait here. Scissors. Walking. Out! - take away from the door! Walking, now! - Move! Don't move! Below all! Now! Below! Bend over! Stop! Stop, this it is the type! Walking! We are free. We go. Look behind! Free! Move! What is he/she making? Hello, we are looking for it evidences now. - Does it evidence of what? It evidences of all that can us to help to fight this war. Can that read? No, undoubtedly not. - I will make it. Not I can, this is Iraq. Does Arabic mean? - Arabic, that is, this it is important evidence. How does he/she know that it is important? - Good, we will discover if it is important I have people that can translate this for my. They are not here now, this way that you have to leave. How does he/she know that it is evidence? Will we discover if it is evidence, it is well? Jounsey, let us take out this people of here thank you to come. - Well people walking. Move! - It is well. Move now! Is this the type? - To the floor. Bring it! Below! Hands against the wall! I have it. It is free. - Of knees. That is, below. Give me the bag. - I will put him/her the bag. It is inoffensive, why does it use the cover face? Why does it use it? Because once he/she has he/she cannot run him neither to see. Not he/she can breathe with that. Is it for sure he/she can breathe? If, he/she can breathe, does he/she listen to it breathing now? Is it sure? If, I am for sure he/she can breathe. Come unfastened! She said that the back of the gentleman it is broken, can that understand? Not I will load to that garbage. - We go, all out. Vmonos. One, two. Vmonos, move. Move, go back! Many children have that to go by the barriers to go to classes. Are we well? He/she comes here. It is well, here. Lift the arms, that is. Lift the arms! - Arms! Arms! Arms! From the camp Carolina, this it is the one first poker episode. Why don't you turn off the damned camera? - Not they do come this in the tv? When it blindfolds my program and all are stars, it can be appreciated then, how's it going that? It is well, we will make that, why don't you play once and for all? I am playing. - Not you can pay this. Sally. - Do we go, excrement head, are you or not? It is well. - He/she stops to joke. I am... it was. Away from new. It is always out. - I have two letters and they are very good. How does he/she go to Reindeer? It seems that very well. She is my favorite one, I like her. She leaves like a good girl. What do you have this gentleman? - It is pretty that of the king of swords. Not ask if he/she doesn't want that you say. Is it well, what is it happening now? Flake, what do you need? Flake needs 3 although it is difficult to leave the king of clovers. If, of sure it is it. - It is well. Look at this. - Strange boy. One. Are the letters thirsty or something? I will go ahead. - I am thirsty. What? - Did you say that you continue him/her? Which is the great thing? - No, only it is a good strategy. Do you have an Ace, at least, friend? I have an Ace and I made it with her. We have more. Of what do you speak? How more? The orders of last week. - I didn't see them. Old, we will go to Farris. - To the house of Farris. Of what do they speak? We have just been there, there is not anything in that house. How you can say that that garbage anything is not? We go, old. We will take some Iraqis, we will go to that he/she marries and we will leave our gift of war. That is correct. Well, you if that are crazy. - It turns off that damned thing. - No, have it fastened. It is outside of the registration, so it turns off the camera. It is well. - Jdete. - Relax you. They are very drunk. - I see the more things undoubtedly you. - What you say is not certain. Hold. What carajo should I see clearly? What do we make here? - What do we make here? - If, what carajo do we make? You know that we make, a new democracy. And what is it so important on that? There is a lot of importance. We only make our work, we don't should to think of it, we should only follow orders. Welcome to the army. - Don't this people love us here? - Yes, they love each other. They love each other dead and when they find out we will be dead so... meanwhile Rush and me... I have to say it, be quiet and go away of my because you don't make anything that it is worth. Not I am a maricn because I don't want to break doors, the doors already they are broken, the contained father. Do we wait an invitation? Perfect, I will wake up the sergeant and I will ask him/her that he/she thinks of it. Not you will say anything. Not I will say anything? No, you won't say anything. They know why the sergeant doesn't he/she find out this? because anything happened, because not even they could make their work. Come unfastened, pendejo! - It is garbage! - Sit down. You can find your seat. Can we play? For heaven's sake. What do you find Sally? I believe that I will leave of here. It is this way, baby. - Sally has balls. - What are there of you? Is it seriously? - Take off the hand of above. - That you joda. All drunks are, probably, taking all type of drugs. - Jodidos are. - But... If I go it is to make sure that they don't kill them. - It is this way, when you go. - They killed us. Hello affection, I don't have a lot of time but taenia that to send you this. First want you to know that I love you a lot. I miss you more to daily and I am not able to to wait to speak to you to the face. He/she was seeing the picture that you sent me of you and the boys, he/she would want to be there instead of here. The boys have been drinking the whole day and it seems that they will leave to look for problems. Not I can stop them but I will go to to make sure that they don't leave wounded. You cannot come out to to amuse here, it is very dangerous I love you, Lawyer. He/she knew that he/she was making hauls, but he/she had not made an at one time. that me toward feeling something sure. I live for their calls and their conversations. They help me to not worrying so much. But today is... Different. I am very afraid. Curse. I put the mini camera here to be able to to film us without the boys know it. Not I want them to get scared. - What will you make? - Not him you. I will be about making them reflect. the darkness and they returned. What is there of Sally? - You already know. - What is he/she making? It will go out to the base with their camera and he/she will tell them where we are. Although it is not a good history? A band of siblings losing the morals, to retaliate of a 15 year-old girl. Somebody that we could not save. Hello Rush, how does he/she go you? What do they make? Smoking. I thought that you left it. No. I never leave it. Shit that such a temperament. Some magpies in the walk. Where is your team? We go, let us think on this. To the carajo with that. Be quiet, I don't care it. My stick needs hole, right now. To no longer run me her coarse. This drinks it is wounded. All red and hurt is. And there is not anything as a back Haji that it will put me in movement. Not you speak seriously. It is seriously so you put on your team and vmonos. We go, put on your things. Go away, be quiet. Listen I never eat up. If I listen to you saying something on tonight, I will cut your head. And I will give it to the dogs. Did you understand? Yes. Good boy. Now veto of here, Shakesperare reads. Does Flake, speak to me, is a joke truth? - This is a great joke. - It Tolerates, Snowflake. A joke, we are looking for rebels and now you tell me, What carajo McCoy! I speak of the 15 year-old girl. You have to stop to consume that because it is something slippery. Not I play that thing. What do you make? You should be in another part. Is he/she giving me a rden, soldier? It is this way, release you of here. Jdete. - McCoy, didn't you enter? - We go McCoy. - Which is your excuse? - Does it excuse of what? Why do you participate of this? I have to register what happens. It is this way, you are the fly in the wall. I believe that you are a damned jackal. - You pull up the meat to the deads. - I will be able to make an appointment in that. Clear, make it, I have something more clever? He/she looks at your friends of the means that they sold their souls for a talkshow - Because that is what you are. - It is my entrance free to the cinema school. Well made, remove everything, he/she cries to cry. Care, Mc, I don't want that you trip yourself Jdete. Flake, is already enough. You already had a good time, vmonos of here. We don't still have a good time, we have just arrived. Which is your problem? Not we should be here. Are we only here, do you know? and we will find those weapons - We are looking for evidence, - What? We look for weapons of massive destruction. It is this way, I don't care what you/they say, we will find them. Not there is he/she swims here and you know it. Not you can make this. They are as weasels, the undergrowths and after one week they are of turn. - He/she is a 15 year-old girl. - It is this way. We will complete this mission, we will conquer this territory. It is a dog like everything the rest of this country. - I won't make it, friend. - Damned traitor. - I won't make it! - Be quiet, carajo. - Jdete! - Not you are supporting the troops? - What? - Are you supporting to the troops? Did I maybe fly your head? Where your balls McCoy are? I thought that you had a couple here. Jdete! How's it going your? where are your balls? - Almost in the bottom. - How's it going your, Sally? Not I can hear you. Not I can hear you! - They are here same! - That well! It is well, prostitute's children, remove this mollycoddle of here. - Take out to the maricn! - You are an imbecile. Jdete! Do you like that? Did you miss me? Did it arrive your hour, are you clever? Wait! Here, surrender. Grab him/her the hand. Grab it. He/she Waits Flake. This is their idea, they will kill her. Do you have a problem with this? Shit. - He/she wanted to give me with this. - Prostitute's son. - Prostitute's children. - Do you know that I made? The mat to all. To all. - To each one of them. - They were been. Sally, they come here, I arrive the hour. Take him/her the hand. Does it list for the walk of your life? Be quiet carajo! Not say anything! What did it happen there inside? Tell it to me! Carajo, that you speak? McCoy! - What did Rush happen? - What are you making? - What do you tell to Flakes? - Only speaking of the climate. - Of the climate? - Loose it, Rush. Go away! Go away Flakes! I will behead you like to a pig. If you move I break it. - It would be very quick. - Shit garbage. - I want you to listen to me well. - What carajo do you want? At some time you did go to Vegas? - What? - Are you deaf? - Do I speak to you very soft? - I listen to you. - Do you understand truth? - If. I will ask you another time, at some time you did go to Vegas? - If, if I have gone. - What is it said? What is it said on what happens there? - That he/she stays there. - I didn't listen to you. What passes in Vegas stays there. It is this way, I want you to think of our travel as a walk to Las Vegas. - It is well. - Does he/she understand, soldier? - If, Sr. - Do you understand me?! If, I listened to you. There is sometimes that... I swear for heaven's sake, for a boy of university, you are really stupid. Where is Flake, Rush? What carajo do you care? So that you know it, Flakes is inside. Sleeping as a bebito. Do you know like that is true? The last time that you/they sucked it to you and did you throw? - Where were you, Mc? - How that where it was? What did it pass with you? I left, it was of guard and Flake me did it put a he/she arms in the face, do you remember? It is this way. You were of guard. Did you dress something? - No, I didn't see anything. - That is good. Were you of guard, not? - It was dark also. - If, enough. How's it going the fire? did you dress him? Was there a fire? If, you didn't dress him? Not he/she could, it was turned to the house. I suppose that I didn't see it. It is good. - How's it going of the rebel? - How insurgent? Many, we had to leave of there because they left all parts. That me jodi. It was something as left of GI Joe. Not we want to be between of crossed civil fire. So the rebels they made the fire. It should be this way. Do you want to know because? Because when not us they try to kill us they are that they are killed among if. How was it informed? They called me in the dawn, in prison. What did they say? They told me that it had been a slaughter in vengeance for those insurgent Sunni, Lies. Why? I am sunni. My father is. it was a Sunni. Why would they harm to my family? Then they told me that they were those Muslim shitas. More lies. Did you go to the house? If, enter to the house. My wife was with my father... sat down there. dead open eyes... fixed. My daughter... The baby was in the corner... Farah was face up in the room. Their open legs... A bullet hole in their face. their burnt body... Such an act to my family only can to be cleaned with blood. A neighbor reports that he saw a group of soldiers from USA entering to their house. The army has begun an investigation... Lies, lies. Us not we recognize their court. This is a crime. it won't be forgotten. When did you begin to have these dreams? A couple of nights ago. Not he/she could sleep, he/she didn't want. Can you remember something? Something that has unchained it? If, after Sweet died it was shooting when it happened. They flew him in pieces and their arm key my front. - Did you dress the video? - A couple of times. Then I stopped but it followed it seeing in my head. There it is when I began to hate all. To all the Haji. Not he/she could see them and it was always angered, then he/she could not sleep and every time that he/she made it he/she had the same dream of her body burning. - Of her? - No, of the one. The body of Sweet. He/she mixes in my head. Are you publishing a newspaper? If, it leaves here of my experiences. I want to use them to enter to the cinema school. Is this part of your experience? - To Speak with You.? - If. To speak with me. I can no longer make it. There are things that you should not see and only because you make it you are part of it. That is what all make, they look and they don't make anything. They make a video so that him see people and they don't make anything. I have to be said it to somebody. He/she is becoming crazy. Dad, if it passed something, something very horrible... and you knew who is responsible. Is your duty not to say it? What did you make? Not I made anything, he/she swims at all. - A couple of my friends. - Members of your squadron? If. I hope you realize the serious thing that it is the situation. If, I realize. - Not we need scandals. - That understands it. If your brother failed, that is reflected in all. It was a crime, Sr. I believe that it should have positions. Listen to me son, him first that they questioned if this arrives to court it will be your good sense. - My good sense? - It is this way. To bring this way positions. I don't care it. I don't care it. Here I am he/she suckles in the center of Samarra to buy you a gift. I have filmed incredible things, I cannot teach to anybody because it would cause many problems, when he/she returns, all will see this. The truth on what is happening here. What the 24 hours pass. Carajo. To where Sally was? They come people. They have to see this. The body being loaded toward the ambulance, it seems to be the body of the one American soldier lost from last Friday according to evidences of videos the body was found here outside of the base of Samarra, where the soldier was abducted. Pentagon has not still given the identity of the body but sources tell us that it could be ngel's body Salazar, that it disappeared last Friday. The minister of Iraqi defense said that the details are agitators. There are torture signs and decapitation. A group linked to To Qaeda he/she has given a video that it shows the decapitation of a soldier from USA. The spokesperson of the mujahideen Shura he/she said that he/she gave the video as vengeance for the violation and an Iranian girl's slaughter for the American troops. The army of UNITED STATES has begun one investigation on this accusations. With regard to the video, the spokesperson of the army American said that I/you/he/she demonstrated: " The barbaric nature and brutal of the terrorists and their lack of respect for the human life" "We present this production, of the remains of the body of the American traitor abducted near Samarra, as vengeance to violate our sister's honor" End, Flake... What soldier's type it was your fallen friend, ngel Salazar? And tomato your time. What carajo? I was taking my time. For heaven's sake, leave you of things, I want to make this official. Soldier, how would you summarize your friend? If you participate all their and you put them an on another Which the word would be that it would summarize those parts? Generous, he/she was a generous man. It is very good word. And how was it generous? He/she was a dedicated reporter. - It used that camera. - This same one? To record their histories. Histories that arrived to the history. A lot after we are not. It was an extremely good type. Always clever. An it always marinates clever. Which your last memory is about the brother Salazar? Not I can speak of that. I understand. It is difficult. But I can speak of my brother. And the lessons that he taught me. Tell them to me. My brother Vegas Flake. Do you have a called brother Vegas? I have a brother, Vegas. Pope was betting and I call to their two children like their favorite places. He/she called us their jokers. That is pretty. That thought. Vegas was a good type, head of their local, Mike Danster a problematic one he/she rushed for president of UT and it lost, then Danster claimed a couple of hoodlums sent for him. And at the end, it was not more than a rat. He/she has to leave. What did it happen? A damned shame. Some shit clowns went to its he/she marries one night, they knocked on the door. And did they have weapons? If, it is this way. So he/she opens the door, it was in sandals and T-shirt with their newspaper. And what do you believe that he/she made? - They riddled him. - Mistaken. They requested him/her a work. - A work? - It is this way. A work because they were not able to with the rivalry. they don't pay them for not killing him, And what do they make in their door? They requested him/her a work. Did that happen seriously? Yes, that said, he/she told them that they return to the office, I will see what I can make. They left to the nearest bar, it was a shame. Not I understand. Friend listens. Clyde, the mind teacher of its group, sees my brother... Vegas. Playing billiards, he/she invites it to the room of behind and he/she tells him/her that Danster will fall. Vegas had problems with Danster, a contract of 20 thousand, my brother he/she said that he/she would make it for 10, what is there of the other type? Clyde said What is there of the other type?, my brother says Not yet I understand it. They Returned to Danster. He/she opens the door in sandals and shirt and Vegas shoots him/her in the face. It passes the body, it climbs the stairs, it kills the wife and children it left in 5 minutes. End of the history. Excellent, soldier, which the lesson would be that we have learned here today? The lesson is that when you are in a mission, of death, it should have a mixture and in that mixture it should have a joker. Vegas was a joker. - Me also. - Undoubtedly you are it. And into what Vegas transformed, the joker? It is dead, he/she died in prison. God, Saint, did they catch It? After one day the police, went to see to Clyde and they went to the bar to see Vegas. It is only necessary a rat to demolish the whole house. Why do you look at me to my? I sit down it. My he/she suckles he/she always told me that it was rude to stay looking. We go, friend, what are there of the other types? What are there of the other ones? They say that they didn't see anything. And ngel... as that lost the head. I make this video to expose the situation that it happened us and that people should know Hidden my identity so that neither the FBI or the defense department they can rake me. They already have one of my small ones and I won't take a risk. but this has to be said, for reasons of security I cannot reveal the place neither the moment neither those involved soldiers but absolutely everything what I will say is true. When it was in the Middle East, two men of my squadron they violated and they killed a 16 year-old girl. They killed their smaller sister, to their mother and to their grandfather and nobody has made anything. I put this in internet with the hope that somebody of my squadron he/she sees it and he/she helps me, please, take it to the light. - Did you dress the woman to be violated? - If, Mister. Rush she was not in fact grabbing when I left. - To make what? - To escape. Not I thought that they would really make it. Flake put me a he/she arms in the face and he/she told me that it left to watch over. How did they know it? He/she entered and it left our position. Rush took time with her, he/she said that it was meticulous. And because it assumed that it was a girl and don't woman unite? because it was younger than that, it was not so old Was a rebel not being arrested? No, he/she was only a girl. It was terrified. Not it was this way because he/she resisted to be arrested? Flake said that we went for the girl to have a good time. That novelty, when did that say? He/she said it when we played poker, I thought that he/she was joking. Did you dress Flake to violate it? No, I left. What did you dress? I listened some shots, screams. Then what did it happen? Among and I saw Salazar and he/she told me what happened Not you did dress that it shot him/her? Not but Flake aimed to the head. - Did Rush have weapons? - Yes, he/she had them. - Your you had it? - Yes, Sr. - Could not Rush shoot him/her? - Not you could make it your? I didn't shoot the girl. When he/she saw it it was alive. - No, I returned inside, Salazar... - Salazar doesn't interest me. - What did you dress? - Flake shoots him/her in the face! - Did you believe that it was dead? - Yes, it was this way. But you didn't dress him to shoot him/her. - No, but not... - Did you dress him to violate it? - No, but it is not the point. - Which is the point? Not watching over were out? Not he/she knew that to make. Not he/she wanted to see it neither to be part of that. Why don't they believe me? This is the scene of one of the crimes more brutal of the American soldiers. according to evidence in the audience, a night of July, 4 soldiers they came to this house. According to the declaration of Lawyer McCoy, Flake and Rush violated repeatedly to a 15 year-old girl. In the other room, the grandfather, the mom and the girl's sister was executed This man, the soldier Reindeer Flake, it is accused of making all the murders. their accomplice BB Rush... We were assuring the area, we revise all. That girl entered and you/he/she left of our base several times So I revised it minutely. Every time there was something strange in her. Strange? What does that mean? As if he/she wanted to make something. Him dr something more. They are the faces of angels... as that of her those that are brought near smiling and then they fly you in pieces. And the following day one of my best friends, it was murdered in a field for the one that she happened. So he/she doesn't feel there to tell me that she didn't know that that was planted. I returned to the house because he/she knew that they hid weapons and things. That old one with the back broken intent to kill me with an AK 47. Seriously me jode when I think of all that that we made for those black of the sand we came undone of Saddam, we implement the democracy, we give up our to maintain them safe and I don't look for a thank you but I want them to leave of to try to kill us. You found those weapons or after violating the girl? To violate it? That dog was thrown above. To bombard them and to kill them it is well, but non follarla. Who does say? You say that are their vaginas closed? Respond the question. This is a garbage. Am I only a rotten apple, not? The soldiers as BB and me we remove the garbage of the streets but we have that responding this garbage to be here. Allow me to tell him/her something, Mister. Making my work should be out. Finding the bastards putting them two in the chest and one in the head to make USA a sure place and to make sure that they are dead. They prosecute to types as us. They are terrorist hidden. A quick death? It is very good for these Nazi racists of shit. This storm troop needs to get undressed and to be hung of the feet. Then what is of their family, of those that it didn't kill or it set on fire. That poor girl's family would should to have bats, brands, tridents and all that and to go to the city, it is the one immortalized same monster in any movie of Vietnam. Let us kill to the whole village. Not they come the slaughters of that time the troops of that Fascist orgy very liberal until for Hollywood. But that doesn't stop that they make another movie on the 9/11 because an American life is worth much more that a life Vietnamese, Palestinian Lebanese or Iraqi, because us we are the best race. Prostitute's son. Grandiose. McCoy, we go, we want you to turn. - We go. - It is well. - He/she takes the picture. - There we go. Clever? Give me your face. You look at me, Judy. I have to get ready the face. - It is well. - My labial pencil. You are grandiose, Judy. How's it going a history of war? - Better not. We go. Not they want to hear those histories. What did you make? Did you kill somebody? We go, only one. - Do you want to listen one? - Of course. - Seriously? - Absolutely. Here they have a, when I was for the first time to Afghanistan, he/she wanted to kill for my country It was clever to kick back. To retaliate for the towers, to be a hero. I arrive in Iraq and it is a history completely different Mature very quick there because all that you see is death. And suffering and when I killed, he/she made me vomit. For the scent, the sounds and the images, come me images to the brain that you/they burn and not you what to make with them. What was he/she making there? It only followed orders garbage. Garbage. It should have a very good reason for that your friend dies in your arms. That your front flies in pieces. It should have a good reason. And I saw shits there that... Not I know like I will live with that. I went to a haul in Samarra, two men of my unit they violated and they killed to a 15 year-old girl. They burned their body and I didn't make anything to stop it This is a celebration for a hero of war, Let us go, it is a celebration! I will take my picture. He/she looks to the camera at McCoy, you look at us Judy, there we go. I DAMAGE COLATERAL Translation: atos Correction: sergioRC
