 

                        1 I'm sorry. I hope I didn't disturb you. No, that's alright. lt's just... been a really long day. What brings you to Brazil? How long do you have? About 14 hours. Well, I guess... I'm going to try to save my life. Twenty years ago, I started this company with two night watchmen and a guard dog, and now we have the chance to turn it into one of the largest privately-held corporate security firms in the country. The bank wants its money, Paul. Jericho is bleeding Tycor dry and you. We shouldn't have invested all the company's assets into one basket. Project Jericho, utilizing market-leading processing power, this impenetrable, unified threat management system decrypts and inspects data and traffic throughout all network layers. Ten years ago I never would've dreamed of anything this ambitious. That's because you weren't a careless dreamer. You know what, James? I know you've been with me since the beginning. That's enough. I know you don't like it; I think it's worth the risk. Yeah, SYS-Tek will probably buy it, so they won't have to compete with us. He'll make a fortune. He's already borrowed and spent a fortune, Ryan! It's time to consider Brazil's offer of a cash injection, or share Tycor's proprietary systems with SYS-Tek, and offer a merger. SYS-Tek plays dirty. They can't be trusted. And Ryan, if I take the BVCA's money, they're gonna own me. And if you don't, you will own nothing. They're our last hope. If Jericho works, I can sell it on the open market. We won't even need Brazil's money. So does it work? Let's go find out. Okay, geniuses, tell me something good. Well, 500 Gray Hats are about to tell us. Gray Hats? We've invited the world's best computer hackers to try and breach Jericho. They're called "Gray Hats" because they're neither good nor evil. Just somewhere in between. If they can't get in, no one can. Alright, everybody, heads up. Jericho goes live in 5... 4... 3... 2... 1- What? Are they already in? Jericho's just telling us someone's knocking at the door. Status? China is locked down, and Russia's filtered. UK denied, Germany as well. I've got Mexico boxed in, and Egypt is blocked. It's working. Each one of those chimes is $1 million in your bank account. Yeah, well, the first million goes back to the bank. Indeed, one way or another. We are going worldwide. I've got a straggler in sector four. A little late to the party, aren't you, buddy? I hate late crashers. Origin? I can't quite pinpoint it. It looks like he's using some kind of malware, maybe a botnet? China just went down. Russia is out. Where are you at? Yeah, UK is down, and so is Germany. Mexico just disappeared, and I can't see Egypt. Security breach in sectors four, three, seven. Full breech. System collapse. We're entering safe mode. Okay, what's happening? Fail-safe protocol. The system self-preserved by shutting itself down and going offline. Who is JOS620? He's gloating, sir. - Find out how he did it. - Well, he's not gonna tell us. It's a game to these people. Well, great, maybe we should've hired him. I'm sorry. I know you've all been working hard. Just find him! Call Brazil. - Ah, hey hon. - Hi, sweetie. How many people are you inviting? We are inviting 20 of our closest friends and relatives. Alright, let me just remind you this is a wedding vow renewal ceremony, not a royal wedding at the palace. Have you worked on your wedding vows? No, not yet, but I will. I promise. I saw Liz today. Yeah? She said her and David are separated. What? Why? She didn't go into it, but I think it had something to do with cheating. David had an affair? Oh, it seemed like they had such a strong marriage. I know. You just never know. Yeah. Hey, Brenda. - What you got for me? - I'm not sure how to put it. James contacted the BVCA last night. - Brazil? - They're sending someone over to evaluate the financial health and well-being of Tycor. Yeah, great, when? N ow. Tycor, we're here to keep your secrets. Your father was a very handsome man. Excuse me? And you have his eyes. Sorry, I'm Julia Santos. I am with the Brazilian Venture Capitalist Association, and you must be Paul? Yeah, you're the Brazilian? Yes, I'm the Brazilian. Why didn't the BVCA tell us you were coming? Uh, well... I think they wanted to keep my surprise visit a surprise. Actually, the truth is I was in the United States doing other business, and this seemed, how do you say, prudent? Interesting, I would think it would be more, how do we say, oh, remarkably convenient? I'm staying at the Plaza, and you can have the last year and year-to-dates financial reports sent there, and we can prepare over the weekend. Financial reports? Yes. We can reconvene on Monday. And my cell phone number is on the back of the card, if you have any questions or concerns. Nice to meet you, Paul. Did she catch you with your pants down? That's not funny. It's not funny. Oh, it's funny. She is beautiful. Really? I hadn't noticed. Yeah. But why are you so uptight? Look, if she decides that our company is not a safe bet... That is our last chance at survival. Relax, I've seen this happen all the time. As soon as you hook the client, you woo her, you court her, you tell her everything she wants to hear until she feels safe. Just, you know, only let her see your good side. My good side? Your good side. Stay focused. I gotcha, thanks. Your office is the other way. Thanks. Come on, slowpoke. You're gonna miss the warm-ups. Okay, that's tight enough. Come on, Dad. I gotta get out there. People are looking. Hey, safety first. You gotta protect yourself at all times. Alright, Coop, be a good teammate! Pass to your sister! Oh, hey hon, thank you. So, how are those marriage renewal vows coming along? Oh honey, I've been so busy at work. I'm so sorry. I'm gonna get to it. Let's go, Coop! Let's go, Rube! Quit kidding yourself. We must understand the tremendous capacity of every human being to deceive him or herself when not connected to God. You and I really don't have the anchor in our lives that we need to overcome the temptations that are shot our way on a daily basis. Know that once we start making excuses for sin, each excuse seems more plausible, and you'll sink deeper and deeper into sin and ruin. We must admit that we can't trust ourselves apart from God. Sure, sometimes God tests us, but the choice is ours. Will we choose to obey Him? Oh, look honey, there's Liz and David. Let's go talk to them. Come on. I'll be there in just a minute, okay? Okay. Hey, Paul. Listen, I haven't seen you in study the last few weeks, and we have two left. Just hoping you can join us this week. Thank you. I'd love to go, I'm just so busy. - I understand. Ok. - I wanna go. I wanna go. - Alright, it's good to see ya. - Thank you. You too. Liz! Liz! I don't know what you're going through, but I'm here for you. Do you wanna tell me anything? Just be there for me. Okay. I made lunch reservations for Friday at that new restaurant on Tucker Street. You know, the one we're thinking about catering our ceremony? I thought we should try it before we commit. I'm so worried about Liz. I wish she would just open up to me and tell me what happened. Earth to Paul. Paul. Hmm? Liz and David, I mean, having an affair is a humiliating thing to open up about. Has David said anything to you? There's a Brazilian corporation that's been threatening to invest in our company for the past several months now. Threatening? They can't make up their minds, so they sent a liaison, a spy, really just to snoop around to see if we have any skeletons in our closet. Well, will the man find anything? What man? The liaison, the man from Brazil. You mean, he's not gonna find anything, right? No, of course not. Morning, Brenda. James left your report on your desk. Oh, and the bank called, something about your car payment not being sent. Hey, do you think my tie matches my shin? Yeah, sure, looks great. So what should I tell the bank? Tell them my tie matches my shin. - This is Paul. - Oh, hi honey. I'm sorry. What's all the racket? Oh, just Cooper exercising his right to be an 8-year-old, and Ruby is... Ruby, what are you doing? Ruby, please stop. Be careful with that. Guys... Hi, you must be Julia. - Yes, is Paul around? - Yes. - He's waiting for you in his office. - Oh, perfect. Thank you. So how's that? Anyway, I was just calling to see if you could pick up Cooper's shinguards before the game tomorrow morning. We had to re-order. Uh... yeah, right, okay. I'll have to get back to you. Miss Santos, good morn... Oh! - Good morning. - Oh, please call me Julia. There's no need for formalities. - Your CFO, James, is it? - Yeah. Yes, he told me that you wanted to go over the financial reports with me personally? Yes, Julia. I don't know, I guess I just feel that I'm responsible for the good and the bad. Oh, that's admirable, and the BVCA believes that when it comes to making financial investments, a man's character is as important as his bottom line. So, how was your weekend? Restful. I'm lying. I was actually bored to death. I don't know anybody in Los Angeles, and I didn't have the first idea of what to do or where to go. Oh, come on. It's the City of Angels. We have millions of tourists every year. I mean, you could go to Disneyland, you could go to the Hollywood Walk of Fame, you could go to the beach, you could go to O.J. Simpson's house, Marilyn Monroe's house, I mean... Are you offering to be my personal tour guide? You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna have Brenda write up an itinerary for you. Your wife? No, Brenda's not my... Oh, yeah, that's my wife, Beth, and my two kids. The financial reports. Oh, I'm sorry. The financial reports aren't ready. Maybe if we just had a little more advanced notice. I understand. When do you think you will have them by? Well, we're working on them right now. We should have them by the end of the day. Tomorrow morning then? Tomorrow morning my son has a soccer game, and I never miss a game. Well, then tonight it is. I will come back at the end of the day, and we can work on them together. Do you have a problem working late tonight? Of course, it'll be fun. I mean, that's fine. Yeah, that's fine. I'll see you then. They're lovely, by the way. Your family. See you tonight. Look, I don't know what you're so worried about. I mean, owners of large companies work long hours all the time, especially when they got visitors from foreign countries. I know. It's just something about this woman. She's driving me crazy. I can see that, and I don't blame you. What is Beth gonna say? About what? Who? Julia? You don't tell her. Ryan, I don't lie to my wife. It's not lying if you don't say anything. Okay, I'm not that stupid. You and Beth are going camping, okay? It's at night, and she's asleep in a sleeping bag. You zip up the tent, you spin around, and what do you see? You see a spider crawling up the sleeping bag. What do you do? Do you yell all of a sudden, "Hey, Beth, watch out! "There's a spider! It's coming! It's gonna get you!" - No, and why not? - Because she'd freak out. Exactly, she would freak out and in the process get bit. SQ? Look, there's a saying, "What they don't know won't hurt'em." But my saying is, "What they do know will hurt them and bite them." So no spider, no bite, easy. Dude, relax. Relax. I'm sure this woman sees you for your true, inner potential. I don't know. Are you seeing somebody about these issues? - About what? - Issues, you. You have issues. - No, you have issues. - And you should see a shrink. You should, you know, somebody to give you some meds, get the edge off, help you get through the day. No, I don't believe in that. You don't know what you're talking about. Look, I'm gonna do you a big favor. I'm gonna give you my shrink 'cause he's good, a little out there, but he's good, okay? You're gonna love him, and you're gonna thank me. You got this one. See my shrink! You need a new shrink! I'm fine! Thanks for helping out, Rose. I've been so busy planning the ceremony, I'm just... l feel overwhelmed. No problem, hon. I thought all this technology was supposed to make our lives easier. I'm telling you, if you ask me, the machines we have now actually make our lives harder to manage. - Is this right? - No, you doofus, it's B! Hey, don't call your brother a "doofus." I mean, the computers, the Internet... and that thing. Don't even get me started on cell phones. Oh. I got it, C. You're right. lam a doofus. Is everything alright? Oh, I'm sure it is. Why didn't you give the financial report to Julia? I guess... I told myself I didn't want her to know we're in default with the banks, that I was up to my eyeballs in debt. I was just trying to keep my head above water. But maybe the real reason? I just wanted to be around her as long as I could. Oh. And that's why you lied to your wife about who you were with? Well, this is a good start. Yeah, from the looks of these reports, everything seems to be in order. Great. And you know the BVCA recognizes the increased and growing need for corporate security, which is why your company is intriguing to us. I'm in the business of keeping people's secrets hidden. I guess as the world gets bigger and more complicated, so do their secrets. You know, my dad left when I was a little girl, and I don't remember much about him. That must have been hard... Growing up without him. A girl accepts whatever the world puts in front of her without question. But... I don't trust men as a result. I'm afraid to get close to them in fear that they will leave. You're single? I mean, I'm just... I just assumed a woman like you would, be in a relationship. I suppose I haven't met the right man yet. I want to know what you are thinking right now. Excuse me? Let me guess. You think these reports could fool a young girl from Brazil? I thought you just said that the reports were in order. - I'm kidding. - Oh. I'm kidding. - Well, that's not funny. - I'm kidding. But they tell me what you've done, and I want to know where you're going. I want to know what is not in the reports. I want to know your secrets, Paul Tyson. I want to... know what you are hiding. Beth, honey, can you get that, pretty please? Beth? Hello? Hey, you still at home? I called you over an hour ago. - You're missing the game. - Oh! I must have fallen back asleep. Sorry, I was at the office all night with Julia. Honey, I can't hear. Hold on. What? Who's Julia? She's the liaison from Brazil. I thought I told you about her. Oh yeah, you did. You just never mentioned she was a woman. Didn't I? No. Alright, I'll see you soon, okay? Okay. Paul! Huh? Are you okay? Yeah, I'm fine, fine. What's that all about? What? Nothing. You know, l thought you might not have been up for date night tonight. Are you kidding? Come on. Oh, sorry. Well, maybe we can make it an earlier night. Sorry. Are you sure every-thing's okay? Yeah, every-thing's fine, Beth, really. You know, Matt said that you missed men's Bible study again. A lot going on at work is all. I'm just gonna go ahead and say it. It just, it seems like you've been so busy at work lately that you don't even answer my phone calls anymore. I'm sorry I missed the soccer game. It's just a game. I've got a lot going on at work. You wouldn't understand. So what do you hear from Liz and David? Nothing. Liz has just basically disappeared. I'm so disappointed in David. None of us can begin to trust ourselves apart from God. Isn't that what Pastor said? Infidelity is an outside threat, Beth. It's like a common burglar. A man should be able to protect his family. Jericho status report. What's the rush? Julia wants it. I'm supposed to meet her at noon. I thought this was for your eyes only. There are things in here we may not be ready to share with the outside. I'll get there early, and I'll proof it. Don't worry. Thank you. I'm meeting someone here in about an hour or so. I'll order then? Thank you. Appreciate it. You're early. I respect a man that's punctual. Shows his attention to detail. I brought the R&D reports, the projection analysis based on the Project Jericho roll out. I'm sure Tycor has a very bright future. Well, I have worked very hard to keep that company in the forefront. To think that you've managed all of this while raising a family and being a devoted husband, well, I've yet to meet a man like you. Thank you. It's true, too many successful men ignore their families, and somehow you found the balance. Well, my wife... Doesn't appreciate everything that you do to keep the machine running? I mean, a guy can't go to every soccer game, right? I know exactly what you mean. Ooh, wow! Can I be honest with you? Yes. I'm not sure if this report is accurate. I haven't had a chance to proofread it. It's okay, Paul. It's okay. I know that you are a very busy man. Off the record here? Of course. Every friendship is founded on trust, no? I'm not sure that Project Jericho is really ready. Paul, may I admit something to you, as you say, off the record? L... Oh, no! It's alright, sorry, I just... I'm sorry. I wasn't paying attention to what I was doing. I just... I'm sorry, I spilled everything, and I... Sit, please. This is so embarrassing. I'm sorry. I brought the R&D reports, the projection analysis based on... Oh, whoo! Ay, well, something tells me that we are not going to be getting much work done today, so I do have to wrap this up, and I'm afraid that I have to be in Brazil by next week, so... Brazil? Why so soon? Because it's home. Of course, it's home. Mm-hmm. Of course, yeah. I'm gonna print out another one of these for you. Please. Let me know. I will. Yes. I'd like to make an appointment. Mr. Tyson. Dr. Howell, thanks for seeing me at the last minute. Well, we had a last-minute cancellation. You're lucky. My last client of the night. Thank you. So you say here that you're having feelings of anxiety. What medications are you currently taking? None, I don't take any. Well, then you've come to the right place. No, no, I'm not here for that. I need help. For the last week or so I've had difficulty... How do I say this? Concentrating. I have this issue with my company, but I've been so distracted by this... this other thing, yeah, that I just haven't been able to take care of the work at hand. Other thing? I'm attracted to a woman that I work with, and I'm married. Now I see. So, how long have you been having an affair? Oh, no, it's not like that. I don't even think she knows that I think about her. So, what you're saying is that you haven't physically consummated your attraction to her in any way? No, it's not like that. Well, perhaps you've shared videos, photographs, and texts with provocative overtones? No, like I said, I think that she assumes this is strictly a business relationship. Well, that's what it sounds like to me, Mr. Tyson. The feelings of attraction to women is normal, if not downright healthy. I can't stop thinking about her. It's interfering with my job and my marriage. I'm supposed to be renewing my wedding vows in a few days. Once again, you cannot control your more base desires. I mean, if every married man that dreamt of sleeping with another woman sought my counsel, I'd be a very rich doctor indeed. - The Bible says... - Oh. The Bible, oh, I see, religious guilt, not as profitable as fantasy, but it's kept me in good shape. Paul, listen to me carefully. You need to understand the feelings that you're having are no way a threat to your relationship with your wife. As a matter of fact, if your wife had the right attitude about the whole thing, she could find it actually enhance it. I don't see myself being able to convince her of that anytime soon. I bet the emotional excitement you get from flirting with this woman just brings more vitality and passion to your marriage. You just mentioned you want to renew your wedding vows. Well, that kind of energy is a renewal in and of itself. So I'm not doing anything wrong? Wrong is not a word we like to use in my profession. No. You think for the time being there is no wrong. There is no wrong. There is no wrong. There is no wrong. - Oh, good morning, Brenda. - Good morning. James is waiting for you in your office. Excellent! Just the man I wanna see! Ok, here's what I need. I need a half an hour. No interruptions, no matter what. And I also need another copy of the Jericho report. Okay, so the bank called again about your car payment. - What do you want me to do? - I'll fix it, no worries. - Paul, we need to talk. - Yes, we do. I heard from the bank this morning. Of course you did. Were you able to buy us some time? - Yes, 5 days. - That's good. But that was 4 days ago. Time's up, Paul. If you've got something up your sleeve, now is the time to pull it out. We're gonna roll out Project Jericho. It isn't ready. I just talked to Matt... It's ready enough! I'm gonna make the announcement at the next projections meeting for the BVCA. What projections meeting? The one we're having Monday morning. Paul, if the BVCA invests in Tycor because you've intentionally misrepresented yourself, both they and the bank can bring legal action. You think you have problems now? We're talking the SOC and the FBI. Add to it that every employee here could be considered an accomplice and face jail time. It was a fluke. This JOS character just got lucky. - Paul, this is a bad idea! - James. I'm the captain of my own ship! Paul, they're taking your car away! - What? Who is? - The bank. They're repossessing it. Why didn't you get me?! You asked not to be disturbed, and they just came, and now they're towing it. Matt! How long will it take you to put together a full demo of Jericho? - I take it it didn't go too well. - How long? Well, I mean, I'd have to get all the data put together on 3D histograms. - If you want any kind of animation... - Monday morning? What happened? Don't ask. She's gonna leave if I don't do something. - Are you alright? - Yes, I'm fine. I'm just saying, just be careful. Yeah. Hey, he used some variation of a Trojan Horse to bypass security protocol. What? That's how he bypassed security protocol. What are you talking about? - JOS620. - Yeah? He got in through the back door. Well, can we close it? Probably. I'd really like to know who left the door open. The security breach is on the inside? Isn't it always? I hope not. Can I borrow your car? I'm here to see Mrs. Santos. - Would you mind dialing her up? - No problem. One moment. Thank you. Sir, there she goes right there. Paul? David, how ya doing? What are you doing here? I've been staying here since Liz and I split, you know, until I can get my feet on the ground and find my own place. Yeah, I heard about that. We saw you guys at church. It came as a total shock to Beth and I. Me too. Look, I know this is none of my business, but how did you let this happen? - Me? - Yeah, your affair. I didn't have an affair. She did. Liz? Yeah, she... She fell in love with some guy she met on the Internet. I'm sorry, we just assumed... - That it was the man. - Yeah. Yeah, not this time. Can I buy you a cup of coffee? Actually, women are more susceptible to this kind of thing than men are. I know it sounds odd, but they call it emotional adultery. I'm not following. It's the Internet age, man. Where have you been? Happily married. So was I. So was I. It usually goes this way. Maybe a woman is unhappy in her marriage. Maybe she's bored. Maybe she's just going through some kind of a mid-life crisis. The point is there doesn't necessarily have to be anything wrong in her life. The next thing you know she starts talking to somebody in her Zumba class, or it could be a co-worker in the next cubicle over. It could be just somebody she sees at a school bus stop every morning. It can happen anywhere, anytime. What could happen? She met somebody on an Internet chat room intended for people interested in investing in the stock market. - Liz? - Yeah. Come on, how did it happen? They start off as friends, you know? At least that's how Liz told me that it happened with her. Next thing you know, they're talking about common interests. That leads to more personal discussions about, you name it, intimate struggles, doubts, feelings, fears, the kinda things that should be intended exclusively for a marriage relationship. When did they actually meet? I don't even think that they have in person. The guy lives in Wyoming. But how's it an affair? She thinks, she... believes that she's gonna have a future with this guy, one... one brighter than the one she has with... with me. Hang on. I guess I'm gonna have to run back to the office. You know what the scary thing is? Is that... I had a good marriage. Imagine what would happen if someone's in a bad marriage. Sorry I'm late. What's up? You've got company. She's here? Tycor, here to keep your secrets. Hi, Beth! Don't look so disappointed. Come on, don't be silly. I'm just... I'm surprised. - Surprised? - Yeah. Lunch today at that new place on Tucker Street? I'm so sorry. Iran into David at his hotel, and I spent the better part of the day talking to him. How is he? He's holding on. I found the bills, Paul. Were you ever planning on telling me? I'm sorry, honey. I just didn't want you to worry. I will fix it. Hey, Beth. What a pleasant surprise. Hello, Ryan. I see you two are busy, so I'll just leave you two to it. Wait, honey. Look, I'm sorry. Let me make it up to you, okay? I will, promise. It's fine. Good bye, Ryan. Bye, Beth. Did I interrupt? No, no, every-thing's fine. So what's going on? You tell me. Looks like we're closing on Jericho Monday morning. Big day for Tycor. That means you found JOS. Well, not exactly, but Matt thinks he's got everything figured out. It's gonna be fine. The BVCA is gonna want it, and in less than 24 hours I'm gonna be at the bank with a commitment letter. That's what I'm talking about. The crops are saved. The crops are saved. Oh, Monday on the rollout, I wanna make sure I don't miss it. When and where? That's top secret, Ryan. You know that. Okay, whatever, send me a doughnut. Hey, Matt. Oh, a visit from the head of marketing. - To what do we owe this honor? - I hear you solved the JOS620 issue. No, I mean, not entirely. I found a hole in the security protocol and closed it, but hopefully there aren't any more. A hole, huh? Alright, well, I just wanna make sure we're definitely on for Monday morning. Yeah, we're good to go. Alright, thanks. Oh, and what time is the rollout? I got a press release I gotta put together. That's on a need-to-know basis. I mean, you're gonna have to ask Paul. I know, but he's been acting a little funny lately. Between you and me, I think there's issues going on at home. I walked in on him and Beth, and it was like World War Ill in there. Yeah, I was worried about that. So, considering all that he's got going on, I don't wanna bother the guy. Come on, hook a brother up. Alright, 9:38 a.m., but you didn't hear it from me. Got it. Thanks, Buddy. 9:38. Paul, are you about done? Almost. I have to pick up flowers for service early. We'll just meet you there, okay? Okay, I'll see you in a little bit. What is faithfulness? The world has one definition. God has another. This can be a problem when it comes to marital fidelity. We try to rationalize what faithfulness is. Jesus made a powerful statement. He said if you look on a woman with lust in your heart, you've already committed adultery. You see, we try to rationalize with thoughts like, "Well, it's okay. Everybody's doing it," and, "It's okay as long as you don't get caught." When we innocently facilitate arrangements, for instance, to be with people of the opposite sex who are not our spouse and we put it under the guise of a business meeting, that's sin. We're headed in the wrong direction. When we rationalize our thoughts about another person, we're diluting ourselves. If we find ourselves fantasizing or manipulating events, it's time to make a very fast U-turn. See, that same mind that leads us down the road of sin can lead us back to God and our spouse. We need to daydream about our spouse. We need to remember our wedding vows. We need to ask ourselves, is there something that we can do today, this week, right now to remind our spouse of the intimate relationship that we were called to have together? We need to daydream about what attracted us to our spouse in the first place. See, God tells us specifically about how to think. He says, "Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure and lovely and admirable, if there's anything excellent or praiseworthy, think about such things." What are they doing here? The bank has a lot at stake. I hope you know what you're doing. Me too. Well... I'd like to thank you all for being here. Today marks a threshold in information technology. No longer will companies, governments, individuals need to fear for the safety and the protection of their data. Now, in exactly 10 seconds Project Jericho will go live. After we demonstrate its effectiveness, it will be for sale. What? Okay, we obviously have a minor glitch. Do something right away. Thank you. Hey... Obviously, there is a mistake. Julia. Julia! Don't leave. Julia, please! Julia! Please, don't go! Julia! Julia! Julia, please. Please, I can explain everything. No, Paul, there's no time. You're just like all the other men. No, I'm not. I'm not. I'm not! - Time's up! - Julia, please don't go! Julia. Julia, please don't go. Julia, please don't go. Julia. Paul, Paul. Paul, wake up! What? Who is Julia? What? You were calling her name in your sleep. - Is that the woman from Brazil - No! That you've been spending -so much time with? - No! Yes, her name is Julia, but nothing is going on. Why were you at David's hotel? - Beth, please don't overreact. - And why do you have all those -pictures of her on your cell phone? - Will you please let me explain? No, Paul! I've been asking you to explain for weeks now! I never touched the woman. It doesn't make that much of a difference, Paul! Don't you see that? You need to get your priorities straight. You need to figure out what's going on between you and this woman. You need to figure out what you want, Paul! What do you want? Julia, just not... Julia? Seriously? Julia? Let me do something. You wanna do something? Go talk to somebody, and in the meantime you're gonna stay at a hotel until you can figure this thing out! You're either in this marriage, Paul, or you're not! I think I'm just overthinking this. I mean, he said nothing happened between the two of them, and the strangest thing is that I actually believe him. Beth, please, don't kid yourself. From what you've told me this sounds like... It sounds like infidelity. The experts might have a fancy word for it now, but where I come from, they call it unfaithfulness of the heart. But men are gonna be men, right? I just... I feel like I'm making too big of a deal of this. It's probably just harmless flirtation. You know, that's what's wrong with our generation now. One of the biggest things in the way of marital fidelity these days is rationalization. I mean, there's more to honesty than, "It's okay as long as you don't get caught," or, "It's not that bad. Everybody's doing it." Listen, Satan loses a major battle when we stop asking what's wrong with certain choices but instead we start asking what's right with them. What do I do? Trust the Lord. He is faithful. Excuse me, could you ring up Ms. Santos' room, please? Certainly, sir. Oh, I'm sorry, sir. It appears Ms. Santos has checked out of the hotel. No, that's not possible. She would have told me she was leaving. Maybe she checked in to another hotel? Did she take her luggage with her? I'm afraid I can't reveal that kind of personal... Did she take her luggage with her? I'm sorry. Please. I'm afraid I can't reveal that kind of personal information. Come on, please. Oh, look. It appears the hotel shuttle brought her to the airport early this morning. Thank you. - Julia? - The bank is here, Paul! I've been trying to get a hold of you. They've got a court order saying we need to vacate the premises. Where are you? Okay, Brenda, I will take care of everything. Just put Ryan on the phone. I don't know where Ryan is. People are jumping ship, Paul, and James is in his office right now -with the FBI or SOC! -Look, I will fix this! Ryan... Just one second. Ryan... You'd better stop it! Now earlier another CEO, Frank Devlin, from SYS-Tek, which, of course, is a giant in the field of information security, he suddenly unleashed a whole barrage of... Guys, hush! I can't hear! Cooper, you and your sister, go outside and play! We've got a couple of clips of that we wanna show you, and then we'll talk about it when we come back. Watch this. - Hello? - Beth, is that you? It's Matt. Matt! I really need to speak to your husband. Do you know where he is? Is Paul in trouble? It's not over yet. One thing Paul knew how to do is lock it down. I don't understand. What's going on? Just find Paul. Tell him I found JOS620. - Paul? - David, hey, thanks for coming. - I really appreciate it. - Yeah, man. You alright? No, I'm good. Everything's good. I just, I was thinking about Liz, you know and... her thing. Her affair? Yeah, I mean, that's just silly. Why is it an affair? What have you done? I haven't done anything. Well, who is she? She works for... She represents a company I've been doing business with, and I need them. I could lose everything. I need her. Her? Does Beth know? Look, l wasn't looking for anything, okay? I didn't mean for any of this to happen. I have a happy marriage. You know what happens when you play with fire? There's a reason why Jesus said, "if you even look at a woman..." Nobody takes that seriously. You think Jesus just liked to hear himself talk? Think it's meant to just be good advice? It's a warning, Paul. You really wanna leave Beth like me? It's complicated. Not really. You're either in or you're out. Yeah, that's what she said. I haven't done anything wrong. I know what I'm doing. Do you? Yeah. Do you? You think I'm insane, don't you? Not at all. I mean, your situation is more common than you might think, but you haven't told me why you come to Brazil. I gotta get to the BVCA before Julia gives her report. I gotta convince them I'm a safe bet. Shouldn't you be at home taking care of your wife and kids? If I can straighten this out in Brazil, the rest will take care of itself. I see. I'll tell you what, my friend, you should come to the church tonight when we land at Rio de Janeiro. Do you have something that I... Like a card, like a business card, something that I can write down the address? Can you just write on the back of that? Sure. You're gonna love it. I mean, the music is great, and the company's even better. - Maybe. - Come on, man, please. Allow me to introduce you to some of the Brazilian Christian hospitality. We'll see. Where are you going, mister? I'm sorry, English. - G Gringo? - Yes. Where you going, sir? Sir, where you going? Sorry. Okay. Oh, Lord, I just give you this whole situation. I give you my husband. I give you my marriage. Father, do a miracle. Strengthen me to walk by faith. Give Paul wisdom. Help him to go the right way, Father. I trust that you'll do this, Father. I know you will. Make our marriage stronger than it's ever been before. I thank you, Father. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. There is no wrong. You're either in it, or you're not. I have yet to meet a man like you. Sometimes God tests us, but the choice is ours. Will we choose to obey him? I'm sorry. Here we are, sir. Okay... - American money okay? - Yes. Thank you. - Have a good night. - Good luck. Please forgive me. I choose you, Lord. I choose you. Please give me the strength to be the man you want me to be. Beth, it's me. Are you okay? Yeah, I'm fine. In fact, I've never been better in my whole life. I love you, Beth. I love you, too. I'll see you soon? Okay. I wanna thank you for seeing me. I originally came here to explain, to ask for another chance, to beg for another chance, but I think what I really must do here is just apologize. I promised full transparency, and yet I concealed damaging information. I lied about the progress of our flagship product, and I allowed myself to become distracted by Ms. Santos, to the point where I ignored my responsibilities to my company, to my wife, and my family. Are you saying Julia Santos acted inappropriately? No, no, not at all. The problem... The problem was all mine, and I apologize, and I ask for your forgiveness. Thank you for your time. Paul. Julia. I heard what you did, and I would like to thank you for your honesty. I would like to offer you my personal services as a tour guide if you'd like. Thank you, Julia, but... I need to get home to my family. Hope you can understand that. She's a lucky woman, Paul. No. I'm the lucky one. I wanna see a different me I wanna change my dream I wanna feel again Like it's supposed to be I wanna change my mind I wanna fix my heart Open up my window Just to scare off the dark Who Who Who Who cares? When the romance is gone Removed it from my song Touch my lips with a kiss The Great Wall of China is 2500 miles long, too tall to climb, too thick to knock down, too long to go around, and yet China was invaded 3 times, 3 times in the first 100 years of the Wall's existence. H ow? Their enemies bribed a guard, and they simply walked on through an open gate. They spent so much effort in the building of the Wall but not enough in the building of the character of the gatekeeper. I'm the gatekeeper, and my lack of character in recent weeks allowed an enemy in. I would like you to meet JOS620. Alex? Well, actually, it's not JOS. It's Joshua, as in Joshua, chapter 6, verse 20. He hacked Jericho. Yeah, I used a horn... Actually, it was supposed to be a clue. I left a bunch of clues. In the Bible, Joshua invaded Jericho when the surrounding walls of the city collapsed, but before that he had help. He had someone on the inside. - Rahab. - Yeah. Why are you telling us this, Alex? Paul, can we get on with it? This kid is disrupting our meeting. I'd like to hear what he has to say, please. Go on, Alex. Well, at first the guy said that you always invite hackers to test the system and I'd be helping you guys out, but after a while I figured something was wrong. Okay, so, are you telling me that someone in my own company hacked our own system? Who? I don't know. We never met. I only talked to him over the phone. Paul, honestly, this is ridiculous. We are wasting these people's time. Go on. What does this prove? It proves nothing! My ringer was left on? Get off me! Let go! I should've seen it. I should've done my job, but I was distracted. For that I'm sorry. Sometimes the greatest enemy to combat is the one within. No fortress, no lock, no wall can keep you from yourself. I'm sorry to all of you. Again, I apologize. I will do better in the future. Alex, thank you. I appreciate you being here. Why'd he do it? He was working with SYS-Tek. They paid him a lot of money to convince us that Jericho didn't work, so we'd abandon it. After that, he was probably gonna sell it to them. Matt, you wanna tell him? Well, my friend, I don't know what you did, but you made quite an impression over in Brazil. What are you talking about? The BVCA wants to give us another shot. No way. - Yeah, and our wonder boy, Alex... - Yeah? Apparently, he's figuring out the missing element to our system. You've gotta be kidding me. Oh, this is gonna be amazing. Yes. Operator, I'd like to place an overseas call, please, to Rio de Janeiro. That's right. Brazil. We gather here today to celebrate the love that Paul and Beth share together as they renew their vows before God. I'm sorry, can you hang on? Marcos, come here. Come here. Come here! Hurry up. - I couldn't miss it. - Thank you so much for being here. Hey everybody, this is Pastor Marcos, a very good friend of mine. He came all the way from Brazil to be here with us today. It means so much to me. I'll explain it to you later. Thank you for being here. I appreciate it. Alright. When two people renew their vows before the Lord, it's a holy and a profound moment. It's profound because of the day and age in which we live. Certain things don't happen often. These two people right now have declared before Mighty God that, first of all, they made it. They defied the odds. Twenty years is a milestone. My prayer for each one of you is that your love would continue to grow and blossom, that you'll rely on God's strength and the support of family and friends and your commitment that you make towards one another today. Pastor Marcos, would you like to say a few words? I understand you two have written your own vows and provided copies to all those here to read along. Thank you. Sweetheart, 20 years ago I was asked to say, "I do", and I did. At our wedding ceremony, l chose you to be my wife. I promised to live with you according to God's holy Word. I swore to stand by you for better or worse, in sickness and health, to renounce all others, and give myself to only you for all the days of our lives, and I did that. Today, again, I choose you to be my wife, and I stand here today with you for better or worse, in sickness and health, and today and every day I renounce all others. I'll give myself to you and only you, and every day that we share by God's grace I will always promise to always love, to always honor, to always comfort and keep you. David, I'm sorry. Please forgive me. I love you, David. I love you, too, Liz. I love you, too. So... Beth Tyson, I love you so much. Will you again be my wife and say, "I do"? I did, I do, and I always will. We now pronounce you... Hold it. Re-pronounce. Re-pronounce you Mr. and Mrs. Tyson. I tried to find my worth In things that didn't work My confidence was broken I was hopeless But God, you have made me new You've restored my heart And turned these ashes into life Oh God, you have pulled me through And everything I was is gone It washed away for good I'm a new man in you I'm trying to walk as a new man I want you to show me who I am in you When I forget that I'm yours Now I've found my worth It is set in stone and in stone for good 'Cause God, you have pulled me through And everything I was is gone It washed away for good I'm a new man in you Oh God, you have made me new You've restored my heart And turned these ashes into life Oh God, you have pulled me through And everything I was is gone It washed away for good And everything I was is gone It washed away for good I'm a new man in you
