 

                        Los Angeles CA 9:35pm their cars to get you from point A to point B and then their cars to get you from point A to point B really fast fast cars cost big money and millions of dollars there people who do anything to win in stake there are people who take risks and never play safe yeah infamous's here the music moble who can't resist to high stakes bad hey it's Jerry who's you got overthere the excentric who plays by zone rule oh michael and his pockets driver jason the dreamer not share where's going but they all want to get fast oh yeah put him on he wants to listen up to you hey Jerry hey michael what's the deal what do you gotta for? half a million dallors says that my boy here gets there in 2 hours now LA to michael in 2 hours already been done the producer Jerry you scratch his back he will scratch yours here you want how about a million dollars our 45 what do you say? you still there? deal im sending him chirsmas present and be happy ok? ok one hour 45 45? deal deal good thing jason the new record will be 1 hour and 45 minutes in vegas tonight 1 hour and 45 minutes michael it's four hours drive think it's a school for the gods you ready to graduate yet? hey don't you take it for Jerry come on i got it shut up what your fuck is this? oh this just maybe worth it start in 10 minutes round number 2 please the war hero he fights for whatever he believes in performance training done that's me the girl next door if you let us know the race track hey mom i'll see you at lunch ok? hey where are you going i'll go hursal i told you play nice with other kids? haha i always do hi Larey Hi Natasha how's going under there? ok now great you are in good hand just don't let her wash you around that's the best part you are so bad i'll see you guys later love you love babe 1 2 3 4 this's the spot? that's what I said look im telling you man if i thing is over me oh hey they make arrival great come on guys let's say goodbye go out hi that beautiful boy and girl you are looking good young thing you got the looked look like money thanks let me show you cars this way im gonna follow you whenever you go Barles where's he? nice ass slashing base man babobabo like a bonce carlos around here i like it all right she is ready to go that's good now babe question is will she go fast no we reduce the formance to get the smart chak haha funny no seriouly depends on whoever drives the car and it's total consult you 8000 even wow then i stand then you get which pay for you got the top to net you know the net owns the spart which up to the Mail a beautiful employee that's not gonna be possible because the last time i checked i was all woman wait a minute to my friends no just the grand got it jumps to woman you got jokes how could this blue baby go she will go 20 to 25 tops go 20 to 25 then you put some bug in it may i put your money with your mouth that's very high journey then i will give you a tic tac all right get in charmes get a skip stake be skip who taught you drive like this my father take it in still a little body you know you could spot the holl that would be really hello i am ordering the car yeah have somebody in the car put the phone down all right bye you got to smash the guy i ask to stop now let me out let me out good great this woman can drive let me talk to you girl i need your help seriously well i just helped you i fixed your car let us say that im involved in a little racing organization you know about that? no i don't what do you want? next races is outside vegas you know it's like a flop crap gay stakes are high you got pay bill to buy in i don't race but the stop you pull on the string that will plow plow stuff thank you but the answer is still no don't wanna play for play? yeah you know to get your band in Barles garage i was digging in that you like a bad track on that i cheaped up we can get paid it's like a entertainment when they watched you wanna us to be your own little music play girl exactly i'll think about it don't think too long girl study long study round man like me don't hang up too ma'am thank you i like your car looks fast who own this your boyfriend? what did you say? oh waa woo take it easy man what do you want then? want your car man give me the keys ohh you want pees young man shove off gatta go that was blows still in trouble huh? something is never change welcome home war hero yeah is this uncle michael's car? look im not involed in the family business that's you to get it in michael maybe blankly isn't the family and whatever is up to now i can garantee it's no good it's the cook okay you always has been you always will be he just destroyed our family why can't you see that why you still be stupid still now here we go im not a kid anymore 4 years later and nothing's changed up to you stupid hair cut carlo jason play num 1960-2003 Brett Martin Natasha you were here honey? so you only got to beg this thing and not race you heard huh? i wanna do it so badly but i can't well sometimes i think we are afraid of things we really want them most did i say that i was afraid? no you never do just like your father i don't think he's ever afraid of anything we had you for you know huh? honey yeah he was afraid not to be head of the pack not to be the man to beat not to be the apple of this little girl's eye but he was i know come here ohh baby it's here so fast come up there okay too far away hold back why don't you put you in the back like the full man? man don't matter a race like this they get out of there first we got no power to catch up to they don't is it easy to what if you don't make a deal what happened to you unemployed man things are positive i thought it's G was modified for the race out side of vegas you must believe i lost my mind the ford of all i loved the cardily is inexpensive car for the inexpensive race we got break out horse power with the big boys we don't bring out the SL all for the race out of vegas okay now stop distracting me who's this yeah money is in play go! yeah there we are day out! move on move on they're coming yeah that's what we we talked about flank yeah thank you thanks baby cop's here run move get your fat ass into the car move come on go right there put your hands up ahh great we need him don't sit right here relax you gonna drive for me me? it's been 3 million dallors you are crazy? look i can drive but i dont know i'm not on today don't worry about just play as SL in the track i got a plan nice raft i was just about to say the same i want you to come up here and let me show you around a little bit that will be great but first i gotta get my staff you have time later i hope so baby yeah be the chance to get your money back fellow im not going man real we don't say your boss is here yo is this good i should have a gluve out 'cause this's crime i am stay with it is crimes about the stuffs here you go sir yeah listen why you try to bite a parfor man i know you tell i why no to the deal listen what i got here i got 3 of Jacks i got Aces over Kings baby oh come on man why? you cheated im just not playing for years this day is my day to shine that i can't deal with this race do you hear dear man im gonna garantee otherwise i can go broke it's a speak half me imagin you got broke am i? no what're you talking about i got 3 million on the first race if i lose chrase broke so blind pants no shoes 3 million on one race? yeah one race what's it baby? oh baby? so now it's baby look i talked to you i don't think you've talked to me oh you don't want to go public i'm tired of your crap infamouse you need to pull this plane over right now we're at 20000 feet you stop it in 20000 feet your ass will get so wild i could get my hands around ya go to hell pull over right now! get your stuff out of here you're such a bastard it's your right don't forger your hat it's hot out there oh i know he is a bastard go to hell i don't wanna hear the crack around oh what's up girls get to understand man's issues The girl is getting a management issues, She'll get her imbalanced This is crazy. I know.Look at this place.That building every five minutes goes up here looks like.. Where are we going,little brother? where we are not going.I am taking you to the hottest club in Les Vegas. () Goog evening! Hey,keep it close man. Thank you. -Jay!Hanfany, what's going on? Come see my brother Carlo. Just back from Iraq.I'm gonna show you a good time here,huh? what are we doing outside here. Get us inside. (girgling) ... ... ... Cheers! Look at the girls who are checking you out. Why don't you go and buy them a few drinks. Maybe you'll get lucky. Ok, I'll get this round. Stein! She is cute. Hey, can I buy you a drink? Hah, no, thanks.I've already had one. Let's go for a dance. No thanks. I'm just waiting for a friend. Come. Don't worry about him. -I said no.-Come on! I said no! Screw you! Jason, get the car! What's the hell are you doing? Some guy grabbed me and another guy Get him! -Hey!-Sorry! Hey, Carlo, get in the car! Go! What was that? Nothing.Let's go. Go!Go! Huh,over a girl, Carlo.You gotta to be kidding. That's him! Jay! We got a company All right.Let's see what these guys can do. Come on, come on! Jay! Jay, Jay, Jay! -You are not gonna make it! -I'll make it! I told you you were not gonna make it. Shut up! What is more important to my movie. I'll talk to A.J, you just get this guy in two weeks and three days Jerry! Just shoot him out, shoot him against the wall. Shoot him through the swords. You every single time a poker(..) What's that you say? Get off the phone,man.We get a poker to play. -Get him on the set.-Guys, what do you think of this? Nice shirt by the way You get that from your girl friend? No, I got it from yours. Get it?Get it.Good.Ok, where are we? One fifty. I love .. There are chips in the kitchen, If you want some dip Thank you. I appreciate it.You are a good guy. Thanks for taking my money. I appreciate it. -Good luck.Good luck. Yeah, tell Jerry the Enzo's windshield is shattered. It's gonna take three days to order a new one. I'll tell him. Two hundred. Now, what is it? The windshield of the Enzo is broken. Oh, come on. I need that car for the race.How much the Farrari Enzo will cost again? 1.2million,sir. How much is in the (..)? About 1.5. I'm all in. My call. I get three aces. The river is two of hearts. Oh, my god! You'd better get those aces fixed. I'll my flush(?) Hey, guess what gamble before(?) which reminds me I got to go my race. Start the engine,man. Walk it up, walk it into the field man! What plan is it? This, my big brother, is where fortunes are won and lost. Now promise me you'll be cool, especially around uncle Michael. Come on. -Hi!-Hi,Cover What's up man? -Hi,mate!-Got (..) -Yeah,of course.-Good luck (..) After we get this fortune, we can more.. Uncle Michael. Look who's coming on to us. Ah,ladies,let me just introduce you to emm, this is my nephew,Carlo. He is a war hero,back from Iraq. And I'm gonna give him a big big hug, to war hero. Good to see you! You haven't changed. Hmm, what do you want, my brother? We can just hang out these days. One for the (..) another one to the win(..) Listen,I can see the pain you are in. And I know you must have walked through some crazy,crazy (Charlie-you-don't shef)shit over there. What crap! Wow,wow,wow,let me talk to the guy. Yeah, I know,I know. But you got to remember that the universe can us to inspire all the experience to a learning proess,kid. Our days are numbered, my friend. So aren't there fun? And that is worth doing. Don't you see that? Oh,shit! This guy is tough. Carlo, I love you. Don't be a stranger. I'll be right back. Going outside. Hi there! -Hey!-How are you doing? -Good. How are you doing?-Very well. Have you seen this? -(these in.)You see these radars?-Yes, she is. Hey! what are you doing here? My little brother's racing today. So, i just came to watch. Great. Yeah. What are you doing here? Oh, my band is gonna run the performance in few minutes. -Yeah?-Yeah. Cool. I cann't wait to see it. Cool. So,emm, if you want to stick around afterwards, I'd love to buy you a drink as a thank you for saving me in the club. Emm, I thought the drinks were for free. Oh, even better. Emm, great. Ok. I guess I'll see you later. Thank you. How are you? Good,good,good. -What do you think?-Sell me that car. It's only 1.2 million dollars. Good,done! I'll pay in cash. There you go. I'm going inside. Oh,wow! Sir,bye-bye! Roger, I need to speak to you a little bit. If Mr. Braken doesn't show up before the band's perforance, are you gonna be able to go on your race with Mr.Branken running away? -Yeah.-Then beautiful,baby. Ladies and gentlemen. It is my pleasure to introduce you to my latest acquisition. Now you know Infamous always brings you the hottest stuff. Now put your hands together, and if you don't get hands, stamp your feet, for Movin', violation! Wow~~ I want to be your car tonight, so you can take me for a ride. And you can grip me like a steer,when we just fall in that tough like steel. -Moving.-I gotta the bumper that you like I get that kind of rings that shine. You...me if you like, give it fast,'cause I... Hey,hurry,hurry,hurry! She is going to be my wife. -Hurry!-Coming! Thank you! Yeah!Wow! That's what I call Rock&Roll,baby! This J.Branken, I don't know where he is. So what we're gonna have to do.. Wow!Hey! Where is the dramma beat on time! There is Jerry,baby! And at this corner, Mr. Suchan. This is here for Mr.Chan now. What do you want to bet? I will bet 1 milion dollars! Cash! 1 million dollars! Oh, my god!I can't believe it! Do you want to see what 1 million dollars looks like? I accept it. That's great! There's two million dollars,baby! The drivers, there they are! Come on! Yeah! Come on! Yeah! Oh! Yeah!There's a bloody win! Come on,baby! (cheering) Want some champaign in ice? I'll be back in a minute,all right? Oh!Jesus! I hurt my anckle. Dude.Need I help you? No,I'm fine. No,don't touch me.Please don't touch me. Oh,man!Is he gonna drive like that? -We'll work that out.-Well you'd better take care of it fast man. You want some ice? No,man,we stay ice-stone.We are cool. -How about a minic?-We cool. -A (hoggy-do)?-.. Thank you very much. You're welcome. How's you gonna drive when you can't walk? If I don't get a damn driver, I'm cooked. I'll give you 50,000 thousand. What? 50,000 thousand for you and your boys. It's not about the money. -Baby,everybody's got a price.-I'm sorry.But the answer is no. All right.150,000 thousand and we call it a contract. Natasha,look. If you want to do this, don't do for the money; don't do for us, do because what you are born to do. 300,000 thousand. what,what? You said it's not about the money. Everyone has a price. Damn.All right fine. -We got a deal or what?-Done. Kiss some ass! You want see me race today? Ahuh,I'm gonna win,win,win! The car is filthy. Jason. Hi,Michael. Hey! I want you to pay attention when I'm talking to you. Sorry. Well,you like that.It makes you happy,huh? Um-hum. That makes you happy. Yeah. How are you gonna make me happy? -I'm gonna win.-Are you gonna make me happy? I'm gonna win for you. Ok,how are you gonna do that,um? You are all messed up.Your focus is all over the place. I want you to focus. Wake up! -Ok.-I care about you,ok? I just, want you to be beautiful. I love you. We are family. Do you understand? Don't get distracted,ok? Uh-hah. Now clean up this car. Come on girls. Let's go. This is the bitch you should be paying attention to. Yes,sir! Oh,it's hurt. -It really hurts.-The pain is over though. Uh-hah,it hurts.It really hurts! It was, right? Yes,I'm gonna give you a job of acting 'cause that show is ()! Really? Talk about this. Son,you don't get it. -Hey.-Hey,bro. Everything ok? Yep,just ittle excitement for the race. You don't look so excited. I was just thinking, maybe you are right, maybe uncle Micheal is not a good guy after all. What did you say? Nothing,really. Just for the race. He likes these pep talks. He likes to win. I need to win. You will. Listen,I get to get going,right? ..finish bro? Be safe bro! Hey,what's wrong? Nothing,nothing,baby,I'm cool. Uh,you gonna win this race,right? Please,I'll smoke them. -You sure about it?-Yeah,I am. All right.That's my girl. That's my girl! All right. Be cool. Hey,big man, -Congradulations on the race!-Oh yeah,I knocked them to the start. Oh, yeah. You know I think my driver would be pretty much unbeatable than your sexy little red Enzo. Unbeatable?What is unbeatable? I tell you what, I would bet that sexy little red Enzo, your driver loses this race. I like .. One.. Not like.. Two!Come on! plentium bars.Deal? deal. okay, you are going down This is Rario,how are you? everybody, i want your attentions up on the street right now the drivers are about to take the max that your driver? that one Natasha? Matasha? Fist,I am going over to the Mr.Razio. Mr razio what is your wager? what? the bet,man, what's the wager.i bet for plentium bars what's that worth? 1.3 million dollars each. and there's four of them,what does that up to,man, that's 5.2! 5.2 million dollars for the bet! okay,now,Mr maharichi, what do you wage?Oh,hold on.what about one second out? Look I will bet that 3 millions.Ok,so good. So,what do you play,men. okay, i would give your 4 bars if you win I bet its genius. it's gonna be better from that.you lose all i want is 3 million and your driver. the driver?that's my intation,Natasha. make a deal? um? come on.deal. you wanna shake? Then shake on.ok Ok.Hoho Nervous.i'm good . i'm taking his three million So thats 8.2 million dollars,man. That is pretty gift.start the race. Ok,everybody,Let is rock and roll. drive on, man,drive! come on!girl. haha, yeap! that's mine. razio win. jason! i won, bro jason ahhh, jason!No. Get him off the car. Get him off the car Get off me ahh someone get an ambulance! is she breathing?yeah come on! get a medic, come on! ahhh,jason! michael, Ill kill you. ahhh,get off me! Get the hell out of here. gel,i want you to get the plentium and money and get what is mine,okay? hey, i have my man pick up,because later... You know,you got your lucky twice, I will find the way to get that money back. Where are you taking her? we are taking her to los angelesshould i go with her,man? No,there is no room?what is mean there is no room? which hospital? Yeap,Nats  hi,sally,it's mike.mike how's the show going? Look down,there's been an accident natasha? yeah,she is unconcious. which hospital do they take her to?i'm not sure. I can take this again. Oh,no,this is gona be OK.I promise. I will go to see anything I could do. Ok,bye daring. what's wrong? what is wrong?natasha Michael, pack has been,delieve to the house. Hold on Collo,buddy,long time So good,it is still in business? Of course,still in business. And I want you buisness. You mean,yeap, I need guns, Different business.This way Anything good?being good. Are we talk about this? No.Ok,what do you need? I need guns,animals,D4,lots of D4.(?) Lots of d4,enough c4 to burn down a house. collo I dont know what is going on.you sure no to talk about this? You gonna help me or not? Sure,I am. In fact,help yourself.come on. This is pretty. And this. I think you really need this. Prefect. I pack this.yeap,you pack that. How about this.sure you can. And for you, This is important. Yeap,pack that. And that is yours,sure.go for it,yeap. That is it.pay back.all right,my man. You don't want to talk about,right? No. Ok,look yourself. you too.make sure anything about the hair. Wise that,I mean. Looks good.thank you. He want a nice thing,right. Hi,you safe. You have a moment unconsciou from the car accident, remember the accident? Yeap. It is a tragedy. My nephew died. Where it is,its hospital. No,it is my house. Wow,it is all yours now. Excuse me? Because you look brillant with those eyes. And everything just change,just like that. You understand what I sai? Everything is so meanless. I was so boring with all these money. It is yours now. Why am I here? Make a bet. You are the bet.no, I dont belong to him.ok. No,no,no... I belong to you. It is the first day our life together. Rest of our life I mean,it is gonna to be such a beautiful story. We are going to tell gandkids So just relax,you safe. Just change close in the wardrobe, Calm down. Whatever you want,it is free of them. Ok.this is panic food. I did my reserch.I know you right here.(?) But that isnt happen. We dont eat things,change faces. I believe animal are the same creatrues Just like you and me,though. I have been disappointed by..many women. Being mad You dont gona dispointed me. Are you? Look past the judgement.see you downstairs. We are about here.(?) There are.kind of money. The print on the float,they won't accepet it. So fixed it. You don't have enough time here. Hello.michael. The good news is Currency was protected. Thoes principle Are not accepetable. that is why I burnt it all. Ei,just give me a bit more time. It is gona prefect,I dont want to give you more time. You deal to have a 8 million in possibile currency. You can creat and give me the real thing. I dont have 8 million in real currency. I just dont have it.give me a bit more time.that is all. Dead line is it. You gonna go for the money. Or I come for you. Hello. It is break it,I can't hear you. Do you hear me? Hello. Your dinner gets to surprise,sir. Hey,hey,hey... It is past you field. Go back to your room...ok. Easy,miss. No one use to get hurt. Hey,hey,just calm down. Relex,let me go. Get off me. Get something for the door.come on,come on.go. Go.go,go. Oh my god,wait a minute. What?trust me. What the hell are you doing there? What?what are you doing there? I don't know how I was there,ok? Trust me,that wasnt by choice. I was kidnap. Kidnap. By my uncle. The guy is your uncle? He killed my brother and he need to pay him back. Thanks for saving me again. You go to find a place to get rid off the car. It is a quick flu jack. They can trace us. Go up here. They said you gona.(?).what is up? They sell people staff they don't need. Like guns,cars,sex,I mean,some people got them. You gona sell people what gona inside. Michael.that is definitely inside. Wait a minute,I just to finish my points. The point is this, What is the meaning of life.michael.the meaning of life if let him go. What? Your nephew broke in and help the girl to escape. Out. He stole our money. It is  I go to take a shower Hey,you can... Hello. Mom,it is me. Thank god,honey,are you all right? Im fine,just being a little carzy. Natasha. what is going on? Mom,its a long story,trust me. I felling home torrow morning,just tell the boys I am ok. But... Mom,I love you. I love you too,honey. She is ok. Great. All right. Sounds good. Thank you. Im very sorry about your brother. I... I know sorry doesnt help. My father died in the same way. I was sitting in the stand when I was up. Sorry. Jason is a good kid,you know. He was a good kid. Yeap. You know his first kid play is on a little bottle He love the girls and the cars. Just a kid. An,action.oh,my coffee.yes,sir. Yeap,dont cut. Hold,hold,we save for one.hi,michael. Hey,michael.listen.hey jerry. I got a cool desert out off like somewhere in Russia.(?) Beautiful area and boys want a major show down. Are you in? Im a little busy,jerry. You dont want to miss it,men.I am telling you reasons,four cars.and winner take out,big date. Yeap,how big? As big as you want. 25 million, Oh,you are so crazy.I like it. Ok,make it happen. Hey,what's not gamble if you dont gamble. Hey,come on,people,time is my money. Michael,Jasons machine is broken,we cant put more money in,you dont have $25 million to bet. You have to sell everything. So sell it. It is boring of the money. I dont like to spend. We dont get the driver. Jasons died. would you shut up. We need somebody to win,michael. I know,just a bitch. Good morning. You think theyre follow us? Possibily. Well,I think your uncle may have a big problem. I mean,I overheard them talking on the phone. He owned somebody a lot of money. More than he can cover. Really. Ok,get dress. And I get a car, 290 we get some food. ok Good luck,(?) Dont forget the windows this time. I wont. Good morning,men. What the hell there. It is cool down. Hey,it is ok.we can talk. Whats the deal? Harry. Stop,what do you want? Guys,what happen? Where is mom? He took her. Who? Michael. Whos Michael. A luntaic. Why they took sally,she does not do anything Hello. Hey,tasha. Where is my mother,you bitch. Take care of her for me.all right. We not gona to kill her. No,men,dont get rid off her. Just make sure no that happen too. I got you. Michael,she is secure,all right. You give a nap about natashas mom, now let you know what we will do. Hey,tasha.thanks for coming. Do you believe in luck. I dont need luck. Do you believe destiny. Yes. Me too. When you across that finish line, first, Your mother is gonna be so safe. that's a promise. You promise? Go get them,ok. Kick their ass. I love you. Hey,let me explain whats happen last time. I dont want to hearing. I just hope you bet everything on the race. Because you gonna to lose your ass. That is cool. Cool. Men, if miss put everything into this. Think this guy to win? Can he win? This guy was world running champipion five years in a row He can drive. See who he is. Hey,bashchiam. Her telling the man to roll all the men. (?)she walking mailes. Fred.yeap. See the old mans oddish.make me out of patience. Seen, Yeap.let go for $25 million. It was cute,if you found funny when I see you walking home. Remember,I broke you one leg. We got you $100 million in this case. Dont let it down.give me something special. Who is that guy? Thats the guy killed nats father. Are you ok? Yeap.Im good. i am gonna win the race,ok? Mind if I take a look? No,offlimit,man. Let her go. Yeap. Ladies and gentlemen the pot for this race is $100 million. Come on,go.go Yeap,move. You bitch. You are out. all your baby.. You bitch.How much money did I pay for this dance. Did you pay him? Let go. So about let him go. Yeap. Prefect timing. Come on,go. roaring Have a nice rest. Ah. ah You and me.yeap. Yeap, I bet to win. Come on,come on. Come on,come on. What she doing? Get out here.let is go. what is going on? Hahaha,oh.let go. Just wanna to let go. What the hell happen.Why just stop? My mom safe. That is great. Now,michael,he is so screwed. that is worthy Yeap,take care of her mother. I already did. she is fine. Gollo. Hey,pay back. Bitch. Yeap. This bitch,let him died. He let you leave,he will died. I got 100 million reasons to say thank you. Oh,you are welcome. Let is just see somewhere to return your favour. It is why I dont need the luck. See what am i through ,dont you? Yeap,yes,I do. Guess is not much to say. Yeap. There is it. pack that for one minute. Hello Michael. The deadlines past.and I still dont have my money. Yeap,yeap. Listen,just give me Yeap, a little Michael,michael,michael You tested my patient to the limit. It is over. Yeap,it is to late. Yeap,I suppose it is. Some of my guys is outside to take you a little a ride. Ok. Ok,great,thank you for much. Hey,boss. I think you will like this. Yeap,danny said something on line. Hey,danny,jerry,you dont walk out.trust me. Two monthes ago,I don't know anything about music either. And today,I have a couple of rear. It is beautiful. So that is why you bough those cars. Um-hum,it is beautiful. It is very. Yeap,yeap. So you really think CCA is faster. Yeap, It is definitely. It fast will be a kind of Yeap,but I dhought,like the way you said,it depend on the driver. I did said that. But you remember,I am the driver. Oh,we can make a friendily little wager. Seriously? Seriously. you think you can kick my ass? All right. Good. When there are just a big kiss. You mean. Something like this. Yeap,of course. You know what,I am so gonna kick your ass. I am good. Come on. I will test it Good car, can get you from point a to point b And great,those of them to get you in trouble.
