 

                        "Tell your children - "Marijuana, america's new drug menace. "A trained medical technician will be in attendance "As certain scenes May cause undue excitement in the faint of heart. " This had better not be a stag film. "Trained medical technician" - What's in this movie? I asked the fellow to let me watch it ahead of time, But he said it would spoil the emotional impact. A real showman, that one. You haven't seen it?! Well - You're the principal, short! You're showing the doggone thing in your school. What if he turns out to be some kind of huckster? Oh, no, mr. Mayor. This guy's on the up-And-Up. He works with some federal agency. He had a letter and everything. Federal, huh? I guess it's okay, then. E- Exactly what I thought. Mah-Ree-Jew-Ee-Nah. Mah-Ree-Jew - Jew? Mah-Ree - Oh! Mah-Ree-Jew-A - Excuse me, do you know how to say this word? I don't speak mexican. Mary-Jew - Good evening. Good evening. Good evening. I want to thank you all for braving the weather And coming out tonight. Over the years, your benjamin harrison high school Has hosted numerous functions. Graduations, for example... Your annual christmas pageants... The drama club's recent and, so i'm told, Highly lauded presentation of "green grow the lilacs. " But no purpose this room has ever served Is more important than that which brings myself And my able assistant, mr. Blumsack, To your community tonight. I assume worthy parents like yourselves Have photos of your kids in your wallets, right? Can you take them out now and look at them? Fine-Looking young lad. My, she's the spitting image, isn't she? You all looking carefully? Good... For those pictures before you Are the designated targets of a deadly assassin. An assassin of youth, A new drug menace Destroying our children in alarmingly increasing numbers. Marijuana is that drug. A vile narcotic, an unspeakable scourge, The real public enemy number-One. creeping like a communist, it's knocking at our doors  turning all our children into hooligans and whores  voraciously devouring the way things are today  savagely deflowering the good old usa  it's reefer madness  reefer madness  reefer madness, reefer madness  oh, so mad  see the kids  precious kids  yes, their heads are on the chopping block  and someone's got to dare to take a stand  can't ignore anymore  it could be your son or daughter  with a deadly stick of reefer in the hand  they're heading straight for  reefer madness, reefer madness  save our kids  stealthy as a socialist, it slithers up our shores  turning all our children into hooligans and whores  this smoking bowl of evil  bears the choking stench of sin  it burrows like a weevil under tender christian skin  this  reefer madness, reefer madness  oh, so mad  pull the wool from your eyes  we're in need of righteous soldiers  for this merry wonder has to be destroyed  fight the urge of this scourge  it's destructive but seductive  so some drastic measures have to be employed  to put an end to  reefer madness, reefer madness  oh, so mad  deadly as the democrats that empty out our stores  turning all our children into hooligans and whores  teenagers across the land are glazed and oversexed  if you fail to draw the line, your babies will be next  oh  reefer madness, reefer madness  oh, so mad  tell your children  reefer madness  fight the menace  reefer madness  kill the devil  reefer madness  save the country  reefer madness  madness, madness, madness, madness  reefers made us crazy, barking  mad  Some of you may think i'm overreacting. I'll say. I think you've come to the wrong town, pal. That kind of thing isn't a problem around here. You don't know our kids. You'd be surprised how often I hear that. What makes this particular drug so dangerous Is that there are no forbidding needles or snorting powders. Children smoke a reefer stick, Thinking it to be an ordinary, perfectly harmless cigarette. The kind we all used to enjoy as teenagers. And before you can say "jack robinson," They are enslaved! But don't take my word for it. Here are the shocking, sordid facts. And judge for yourselves. The filmed presentation you are about to witness Chronicles the harper affair, A true story exhaustively documented In the fine newspapers of mr. William randolph hearst. A true story That took place in a town very much like your own. Meet jimmy harper, An upstanding young lad of some 16 summers - Well-Mannered, hard-Working, An all-Around credit to the community. Right now, jimmy's hurrying to school, Hoping to run into a very special young lady - Mary lane. Mary was a healthy young miss of good, american breeding stock, God-Fearing, civic-Minded, and very much in love. Just a harmless old turtle. See? Off you go. I thought it was a rat. Can I carry your books? Thanks. Yes, mary and jimmy Were destined to share a love that would last a lifetime. Tragically, it would be the brief lifetime Of a fruit fly. It's sweet of you to help me study "romeo and juliet," jimmy. Without your help, come exam time, I would have been on a trip for biscuits. Well, it's my pleasure. Where would you like to start? Probably the "proo-Low-Gwee. " Proo-Low-Gwee? Oh, I think you mean "prologue. " I keep getting that confused with "mon-Tay-Gwee. " That's not even a real word. I looked it up in two different dictionaries. Montague - It's romeo's last name. You are so smart. My mother says you're a boy who's going places. Uh... you don't talk about me to your mother, do you? I talk about you to everybody. Forsooth, fair juliet, Wouldst thou likest yon hot chocolate? Oh, jimmy, wherever did you learn to speak like that? It's fancy talk from "romeo and juliet," 'Cause when a guy wants to woo a girl, He needs, you know, the right language. Are you trying to woo me, jimmy harper? I need words to tell you about my pounding heart  $4 words that make a guy sound smart  well, I guess that's why they invented shakespeare  his articulations of a lover's palpitations are so keen  my bounty is as boundless as the sea  my love as deep, the more I give to thee  oh, you sound so dreamy when you talk like shakespeare  a big vocabulary  should be customary when you fall in love  la-La-La la la-La, you're a snowy dove  la la la, prodigious birth of love  la-La-La la-La, hip, hooray for shakespeare  sure as I am breathing  you can make elizabethan language fun  we are just like romeo and juliet  we're happy, young, and bubbling with love  I can't wait to read the ending  I can't, either, but i'm sure it turns out real swell  I bet romeo  marries his juliet  they have a baby  and make lots of friends  that's probably the way the play ends  you doth teach the torches how to burn real bright  hanging like a jewel upon the cheek of night  hark, what light through yonder window breaks here?  we'll be future spouses  put a plague on both our houses if we're wrong  shakespeare!  The sad truth is that if our schools Spent less time indoctrinating our children In the works of bill shakespeare And focused instead on the work of a far superior author... Well, things might have turned out differently. And the delicate heart of young love Might not have been stabbed. Stabbed and pinned to the shameful corkboard of... The reefer den! Come on, mae. Get up off your duff. What time is it, jack? Time to give this place a going-Over. It looks like the marines have landed. That bunch last night was high enough To take over the marines and the navy. Party's over, sally. What a night - I was in more laps than a napkin. Great, now the damn baby's awake. Hold your water! Hold your water! Mama's coming. Hold your wa- Ooh! Oh... oh... Damn stairs. Oh! Yeah! Look at all this weed! Pastures of plenty! Keep your ham hooks off my product. Just checking for bugs. Aah! Aah! Need a better class of clientele. At least they're old enough to know what they're doing... Not like some of those young kids you bring up here. Ah, stop squawking at me. You got more static than the radio. I'm gonna press bricks over to the five-And-Dime, Bring back a couple more kids. You got a problem with that? Well, maybe I do. You better tune me in and get my signal right. Around here, i call the shots. Jack... Oh, that's right... Almost forgot. You can't get through the morning Without a little toot, can you? See you in the funny papers. I ought to leave him  but something makes me stay  it's the stuff  i'd try to kill him  but my guy gives me love  and the stuff  sometimes he's rough  he throws me down the stairs  but deep inside he cares  he buys me lingerie  and the stuff  oh, oh, oh  oh, oh, oh  I was a student  good grades and so naive  till the stuff  a handsome stranger  some empty promises  lots of stuff  but I don't get hooked  i'm not addicted, no  I just enjoy the glow  I like to have my fun  no harm to anyone  though the fun sometimes escapes me  when jack gets stoned and rapes me  nothing numbs me better than the stuff  oh, oh, oh  than the stuff  In the latest issue of scientific american, The federal bureau of narcotics Tells us that marijuana possesses an addictive power Beyond even that of heroin or cocaine. Yes? Are you sure about your facts there? No, no. Why do you ask, mr... Kochinski. My wife's cousin had himself a problem with the heroin, And I done some reading, and let me tell you, There's nothing more addictive than that stuff. Kochinski... Russian name... Isn't it? It was polish. Actually, it's polish. Of course. I certainly applaud Your brave unwillingness to believe something Simply because it's printed in a silly magazine With the word "american" in the title. You stand as a shining example to your comrades... And the rest of us. Well, my wife might have mixed up the story. I- I think it was marijuana that her cousin was hooked on. It's bad - It's bad stuff. Bad stuff, indeed. Would that it had been mere heroin... For, ladies and gentlemen, Marijuana is an insidious master Seeking slaves not in the dark jungles of africa, But right here in each of our 48 states. after school has let out we just like to get out  to the place where jitterbugging's always in style  satchmo is a-Singing, dorsey is a-Swinging  a syncopated wonderland that brings on a smile  come and stretch your dance abilities  nobody is feeling ill at ease  when your toes are tapping, anything can happen  down at the old five-And-Dime  dancing, dancing  razzmatazz that always has you sashaying, swaying  buy your gal some jujubes, she'll be swooning  spooning down at the old five-And-Dime  if you're feeling gloomy, glide on over to me  try the finest cherry fizz in all of the land  my after-School oasis gets the hopeless cases  hopping and a-Bopping to the five-And-Dime band  you can buy yourself a pack of smokes  laugh at all my corny knock-Knock jokes  gotta take the gang out to the local hangout  where benny goodman is king  So, you really gonna give her your school ring? And how! Boy, that mary lane is one slinky piece of homework, An e-Flat dillinger, A hop and a skip to tastytown! I sure wouldn't mind taking a bite out of that tomato! Hands off, mickey! I'm hep. Here goes nothing. dancing, dancing  then enjoy some funny books  we get frisky, risky  cool off with a malted milk  we're all bumping, come jump in  down at the old five-And-Dime  Mary, I got something to ask you. Did you hear the announcement at school today? Next week, president roosevelt is coming to town. Wow! You know, my pop says He's a labor-Appeasing, supreme-Court packing bolshevik. Well, I don't know about all that boy stuff. But the important thing Is there's going to be a big dance contest in his honor. And I want you to be my partner. Dance contest? Jeez, I don't know. What's to know? I've been working on our routine. Feast your peepers on this. feel the crazy rhythm in your feet  everybody keep it "reet petite"  blazing bright as neon, maybe we could be on  "major bowes' amateur hour"  What's the wait, nate? I got two left feet, and they're on backwards. If mary sees me dancing, i'll lose her. Oh, yeah. Mickey! I'm hep. Well, I have to change into my coveralls for 4-H club tonight. I'll see you there. Hey, kid, i'm jack. I'm jimmy. Pleased to meet you. sometimes men would come to call  who stank of sin and barbasol  they'd ask kids if they felt at all  like having themselves a few kicks  Jimmy - As in jimmy cagney? Don't I wish. Girl trouble, huh? Yeah, I got just the cure. What say you and i blow this popsicle stand And find ourselves a real party. Gee, that's awfully nice, mr. Jack, But i'm meeting my girlfriend at 4-H club later. Come on, we'll have some laughs - Half-Hour, tops. Gee... I don't know. Suit yourself. Guess you're not the hep cat i took you for. Oh! Wow! You sure shake a wicked calf. Can you teach me how to dance like that? By the time I get through, You'll make fred astaire look like barney google. Come on. Well, if you're sure it'll only be a half-Hour. Kid, that's a promise from me to you. dancing, dancing  charleston till your tootsies ache  we'll be grinning, spinning  romping to the savoy stomp  we're rug-Cutting, strutting  then as a coda we drink ice-Cream soda  here down at the old five-And-Dime, yeah!  Do your children enjoy jazz music? For I am here to tell you that cab calloway, Dizzy gillespie, duke ellington, And the whole weed-Blowing, ginger-Colored lot Are merely masquerading as musicians And are, in fact, agents of evil. Reefer slows down the smoker's sense of time, Allowing him to squeeze in unnecessary grace notes, Giving this voodoo music The power to hypnotize white women Into indulging in acts of unspeakable degradation. Oh! You will find this profane music Wherever you find marijuana. Hear that? It's the national anthem of sodom and gomorrah. Faster, sally! Faster! One of them... That's it, sally! That's it! Ooh! Man, i'm starving. We got any eats? Everybody, take it on the heel! Get the lead out of your shorts! Am-Scray, am-Scray! Damn cowbell. Damn baby. Damn... stuff. Come on in, kid. Make yourself cozy. Who's that? Ralph - Used to be a college boy. Mae, this is jimmy harper. He's okay. Aw, jack, this kid can't be more than 15. Oh, 16, madam. The name's mae... And a madam runs a different kind of house. Shut up! Good baby. Oh, god. Say, who's the new fish? Oh, i'm j-J-Jimmy. Sally, why don't you and j-J-Jimmy Get better acquainted? Give him the usual. If I can't turn him on, he ain't got switches. How tall are you, anyway? Uh, 5'9". Let's forget the 5 feet and concentrate on the 9 inches. Whoopsie. No harm done... hero. Ow! I'm telling you, I want that jimmy kid out of here. He's too young - I got hooked at that age, And i'm not doing it to anybody else. Do I have water in my ear, or you giving me guff? This is my house, and I say he goes! Is everything okay? Just fell, that's all. Oh, let me light your cigarette for you, there, sally. This isn't a cigarette. It's a real smoke - Reefer. Let's share it. Oh, no, I shouldn't. Um... it's been great meeting you folks, But I ought to head over to 4-H club. I'm teaching some of the newbies how to make a potato clock. I didn't think you were such a moldy fig. Or maybe you're scared. I'm not either! Prove it. come on, jimmy, come on, jimmy  suck it down for sally  come on, jimmy, come on, jimmy  suck it down for sally  Thank you, sally, But I honestly don't think it's such a good idea. come on, jimmy, come on, jimmy  suck it down for sally  come on, jimmy, come on, jimmy  suck it down for sally  I gotta get out of here. You've gotten me all confused. take a toke of tea stick, take a toke of tea stick  smoke it, you may choke at first, but then the worst is over  don't be a chicken  don't, jimmy, don't do it, don't be a fool  No! No! No! No! smoke the marijuana  sail the sea of sin  reach a hot nirvana  tremble from within  serve your appetite  plan to stay the night  I am standing  at temptation's door  I have never  felt this way before  join the wonder dance  lose the underpants  No! someone save me  there's no place to hide  from this hellacious  magic-Carpet ride  open up your mind, let your body soar  arms and legs entwined, cry, "more, more, more"  if a year goes by, it might seem a day  if a day goes by, it could take a year  space recedes at blinding speeds  your lust is on the rise  moloch  tender virgin  fresh as morning dew  i've been eagerly expecting you  live the greater life  live the satyr life  eros beckons  feel the need increase  every fiber  burns for sweet release  live a little dream  leave a little mess  everybody scream  "yes, yes, yes"  can't you feel the flush of pulsing pagan fire?  come and feel the rush  fly higher and higher  dancing naked as the sinful adam  voodoo jungle drums  coupled with a wicked madam  till the morning comes  yes, we're waiting for your business  in this carnal carnivale  take a one-Way ticket to the bacchanal  so come on, jimmy, come on, give me reefer love  Sally: smoke the marijuana  sail the sea of sin  and reach a hot nirvana  tremble from within  yes, we're waiting for your business  in this carnal carnivale  take a one-Way ticket to the bacchanal  so come on, jimmy, come on, give me reefer love  Mary: knock, knock. Oh, therefore art thou romeo. I've been looking for you everywhere. Well, I haven't been everywhere! Well, what a thing to say. I was wondering if we could practice our steps For the presidential dance. It's only a few days away, And with you being so mysteriously busy all the time, I wanted to make sure we could get in enough rehearsal. Jimmy, is something wrong? Why? Should something be wrong? Stop hounding me. Stop hounding me! I didn't think I was. I - Oh. It's me, isn't it? You don't love me anymore. You haven't even tried to kiss me in almost a week. Kiss? Is that what you want? Let me show you a few new moves! Aah! That was your tongue! Jimmy harper, what's come over you? Mercifully, mary had no idea what had come over jimmy. But she feared the worst. the sermon today was really exciting  yahweh was mad and did plenty of smiting  with locusts and plagues and little green froggies  all that and more thundered down from the sky  I reached for your hand like I always do  but beside me was just an empty wooden pew  there's hymnals and a rosary  but they don't keep me company  the wafers now don't taste so great  they won't transubstantiate  without you near  the gospel choir sounds askew  jimmy, come back  and fill my lonely pew  a gloomy church that you're not in  can lead a girl to mortal sin  a lady asked, "is this seat taken?"  I lied, I guess  I told her, "yes"  I pray a holy shining star  shining, twinkling star will lead you home from where you are  where, oh, where you are  in a fog or lost at sea  or could it be you're tired of me?  it's a line of thought  i'd rather not pursue  rather not pursue, mm-Ooh  jimmy, come back  and fill my lonely  pew  I've got the window open. Give me a boost! Ow! Shh! Shh! How much you think is in there? If jack don't get his green, we don't get ours! Cool your jets! Hear that? We got more scratch than a sandpaper factory. This'll keep us in the straw for at least a week! That's good! Frankincense - Wow! Reefer... Madness... Welcome to club celestial. I am your host, joan of arc. No christian martyr works it harder. The many voices in my head Tell me that we have a special guest in the house tonight, James fenimore harper! Tonight jimmy will be taught the error of his ways By the brightest star in our heavenly firmament - The lord of hosts, the stranger from the manger, The hardest-Working man in the afterlife, Give it up for jesus! Aw, jesus... I got a great high cooking here. Don't bring me down. On the contrary, jimmy... I'm here to bring you up with dope. No, not your brand of dope, But the straight dope. You think those reefer fiends are cool? I don't think you realize how cool god can be. I floated down from heaven  when I heard a lamb had strayed  look at you here  your brain has turned to marmalade  i'm here to help you, jimmy  and return you to the fold  try filling your lungs with god  and not jamaican gold  satan's bold  loves to lie  don't reply  do you want to make the angels cry?  cry-Y-Y-Y  listen to jesus, jimmy  just say "no" to the marijuana  listen to jesus, jimmy  this comes straight from the madonna  listen to jesus, jimmy  i'm the face on the shroud of turin  listen to jesus, jimmy  do I need to test your urine?  satan went and conned you  he conned you, jimmy  mustn't touch his evil ganja  jimmy, don't turn your back on god  dona eis requiem  numquam fumes cannabis  aut incendes ibi inferno  you'll burn in hell  i've cured a lot of lepers  and i've risen from the dead  how you doing? is that what it's gonna take to get this through your head?  You can touch. if you insist on smoking to indulge those teenage kicks  soon you'll be floating naked in the river styx  what a fix  sulfur pools  torture tools  separation from your family jewels  rama-Lama, they're gonna cut your dingdong  listen to jesus, jimmy  gotta give it up for lent, boy  listen to jesus, jimmy  or wind up as satan's rent-Boy  listen to jesus, jimmy  don't let reefer get your keister  listen to jesus, jimmy  i'm the poster boy for easter  jimmy, let me see you  want to see you, jimmy  kick the sin and sinsemilla  jimmy, don't turn your back on god  for the lord god omnipotent  hateth marijuana, marijuana  listen to jesus, jimmy  thou shalt heed this holy omen  listen to jesus, jimmy  stop indulging like a roman  listen to jesus, jimmy  all the cherubim say you gotta  you gotta listen to jesus, jimmy  trust the man with the stigmata  jimmy, don't you turn your back on god  on god  You rock, jesus! Jimmy... Take a hit of god instead. You think you can handle the high? I got a new god now. Ooh... ooh... Hey! That's my mary jane! Think so? You don't own the mary jane. The mary jane owns you. Listen up, kid, and listen good. Get out now and don't look back. It's too late for us, but you - You're young. You still got a chance. Why do you got a steak on your eye? Just fell, that's all. I'm serious, jimmy. It's dangerous here. These days, i got me a taste for danger! Back off! You're heaped to the gills! And you - Zip it! You'll wake sally's baby. That's okay, mae. Don't worry about it. Sally, how come I haven't heard your baby crying tonight? Um... I don't know. It is a matter of public record That the addict will sell anything, Anything at all, To obtain the decadent rush of that next fix. You'll take good care of him, right? I mean, it's not true what they say About you people eating babies, is it? Care to stay for dinner? You're just kidding, right? You didn't sell your baby for reefer money, did you? It's okay. I got another one on the way. Light? 'Cause that kind of joke ain't... So where'd you get this packard? Oh, I boosted it from my girlfriend. Girlfriend? You expect me to believe Some bobby-Soxer's got what it takes To chop your suey? Sally, you're getting me steamed up like a pants presser! That's the idea, baby. Tonight, you and me are gonna break out like the measles! Sally? Sally! Sally! Keep your eyes on the road, sally! Serves him right for trying to jump over the car like that. Hey, mister, are you okay? We didn't see you there. I- I... I think he's dead. I was never here. Okay. Damn lamppost. I'm so sorry. there's blood on my hands and mud on my name  my id threw a party, and everyone came  my innocence ravaged, my virtue devoured  I can't count the strangers with whom I have showered  i've taken a life  been stripped to my essence  and to think all I wanted was swing-Dance lessons  Police! Freeze! Local police are on the lookout for a late model packard Spotted leaving the scene of a hit-And-Run homicide! Mae was right about the mary jane. It owns me. mary jane, oh, mary jane  you crumpled me like cellophane  you stir me up like beef chow mein  you wreck me, mary jane  mary jane, oh, mary jane  you've conquered me like charlemagne  pleasure intertwined with pain  you wreck me, mary jane  your toxic kisses make my heart race  faster than a cheetah  i've been stapled and spindled  my willpower's dwindled  you melt resistance down like hot velveeta  mary jane, oh, mary jane  you flushed my future down the drain  smeared me like a ketchup stain  but I need you  I love you  and i'm loved by mary  loved by mary, loved by mary lane  loved by mary lane  loved by mary, loved by mary  loved by mary lane  loved by mary, loved by mary  loved by mary lane  i'm loved by mary lane  There's only room for one mary in my life - Mary lane - With an "I," for "love. " I love mary lane! loved by mary, loved by mary  loved by mary lane  Jimmy, what are you doing here In the middle of the night? It's almost 9:00 p. M. mary lane, oh, mary lane  two words that fall like gentle rain  Did you take my car? you touch my hand and kill my pain  I love you, mary lane  Jimmy, i'm in my nightgown. you flood my world with all the colors  of the sunday funnies  the innocent splendor of kisses so tender  softer than a pillow stuffed with bunnies  Bunnies?! I don't know what you're talking about, But I like the sound of it! mary lane, oh, mary lane  will help you sing a new refrain  with you beside, we'll start again  just me and mary  you and mary  you and mary lane  me and mary lane  when life becomes a roller coaster  and I can't keep my footing  i'll love you completely  steady me sweetly  you're sweet as shirley temple dipped in pudding  sweet as shirley temple pudding  Yeah, yeah, mary lane yeah, yeah! oh! Mary lane  our hearts pound like a diesel train  the world may crumble, we'll remain  just me and mary  you and mary  loved by mary  loved by mary lane  loved by mary  loved by mary lane  loved by mary  loved by mary lane  loved by mary  love mary magdalene by lane  loved by mary  loved by mary  loved by mary lane  loved by mary  loved by mary  yeah, I love you  loved by mary lane  you got to - Got to - got to love me  loved by mary  hoo! loved by mary lane  I love you, jimmy, yeah  loved by mary  loved by mary la-A-A-A-Ne  we'll sing to the rafters  of happily afters  I love you  you're loved by  mary la-A-A-A-Ane  Who can name for me the one, all-Abiding, All-Powerful force in the world? Hmm? Principal short? What is the human condition so powerful It can stave off all that is black and evil In these confusing times? Love? Oh! In a time in which our children are subjected To a daily diet of depravity In their film and popular music? Ha ha! In a time in which the entire world Is aligned against the american way of life, A time when our economy is in a state of total collapse And a reckless lunatic sits in the white house, I am relieved to hear Our fatuous friend is so confident That love will carry the day. The correct answer is, of course, "vigilance. " Sirens. There's been something i've been meaning to give you, And I may not get another chance. Oh, jimmy. Your school ring? Is your finger swollen? Are you putting on weight? Maybe. Lately, I seem to be hungry all the time. A moment on the lips, forever on the hips. Wait. What you do mean, you may not get another chance? I have to run away - Far away. Well, then, i'm coming with you. No! It'll only ruin your life. You have no idea what i've done. It doesn't matter. I'm wearing your school ring now... Or at least I will be, as soon as you get it off your finger. And if romeo has to run away, then so does juliet. Okay. Go put on some clothes, pack a bag - I'll wait. That's more like it. I believe in you, jimmy harper! Even if you do have pudgy fingers. Goodbye, mary. You deserve better. Hey, kid. How's tricks? How'd you find me? It's all over the radio. Cops are looking for you and the packard. I drove around your neighborhood till I found it. I can't have you telling the cops Where you get your stagger-Leaf. So, what's say we head back to mae's, Where it's safe and cozy? This will calm you down for the ride. You're talkin' on a dead phone. I'm through with reefer, and i'm through with you. Don't think you can pull any tricks, 'cause it won't work. I see. Well, then, I guess there's only one thing left to do. You like brownies? Baked them myself. Well, I am kind of hungry. Thank you. this brownie is yummy  it's the greatest brownie known to man  it's chewy, it's nutty  this brownie's really good  don't offer me a macaroon  my brownie suits me fine  there's frosting on the top  and best of all it's mine  eat the brownie, eat the brownie  Let's go home. Okay. I shimmer electric  i'm a one-Man marching brownie band  I love it - My brownie  and my brownie loves me, too  it's smooth, it's sweet, it's chocolaty  it forms a perfect square  and the bestest part of all  is I don't have to share  doesn't have to share and the bestest part of all is I don't have to share  eat the bro eat the brownie  eat the brownie  eat the brownie  yeah yeah  yeah yeah  Come on, kid. Get in the car. Where we going, jack? Back where you belong. You're one of us now. That's nice. Jimmy... Wait. Careful, jimmy. Not too fast. Oh, yeah. Yeah! This weed is a triple scream and one big yell. Aaah! I need more, I tell you. More! Always happy to oblige a customer. Whoa! Make that a paying customer. Pony up, kid. I'm busted flat, jack. You bled me dry. Not quite. It doesn't come off, so don't waste your - Ow! I was saving that ring for mary. Where else you gonna get your fix - From the coloreds down the jazz quarter? Those chow-Chows over at madame ling's? They'd bounce you like a lead dime. Real gold. Smoke up, pip-Squeak. This will get you through the entire weekend. See you in the funny papers. He's really a nice guy, once you get to know him. Oh, jimmy. What have you gotten yourself into? Good boy. Ha-Tcha! Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Hey, diddle-Diddle, a cat for my fiddle. One moment, please. I need the room! I got company. You mind taking it upstairs? Don't mind taking it anywhere. Oh, yes. Oh, yeah. Hey, there. I'm ralph. Hello. My name's mary lane. I followed my boyfriend here - Jimmy harper. Have you seen him? Um, well, he just stepped out... To, uh, pick up some bibles for our prayer breakfast. That's my jimmy. Say, is this a fraternity sweater? Is jimmy hanging out with college boys? Why, yes. Yes, he is. We at phi beta... cannabis Were so taken with jimmy That we decided to pledge him early, While he's still in high school - Avoid the rush. That's the bee's knees. Wait till that susie mayberry hears about this. Let's celebrate... with a smoke. Hold on. This isn't that reefer i've read about, is it? Oh, no. Of course not. This is a special cigarette, All the rage with the college girls... In paris. P- Paris? Oh, yes. Well... If i'm going to be dating A fraternity man... little mary sunshine  with her hem cut so low  little mary sunshine  with her ducks in a row  It burns my lungs. little mary sunshine  needs a change in her life  My head feels funny, ralph. little mary sunshine  needs a man  Oh! now, come on, mary sunshine  it's time that you learned to be bad  you make a charming armful  so snuggle up, my buttercup  'cause you've been had  Ralph, i think you tricked me. now smoke it, mary sunshine  dissolve in the sweet, burning glow  come lose yourself in pleasure  when the bambalacha's gotcha  you'll forget the word "no"  Oh, I can't. What about... jimmy? jimmy's a rube  provincial and dull  don't be tricked, he's strictly quadrilateral  jimmy's a boy  i'm ready for men  let's go up and down and up and down  and down again  Mary sunshine, you are ultra-Ultra! I feel a little naughty   baby, i'll help you relax  i'll tie you up with phone cord  we'll play with whips and nipple clips  and candle wax  now, hold on, mary sunshine  let's not get carried away  just call me "mary wanna"  and mary got some scary little games to play  i'll lather you up  who, me? and give you a shave  shave!? a paddling while straddling my little slave  Hey, now! down on your knees  it's pointless to fight  save your strength  it's gonna be a lengthy night  Help! This crazy tomato's rapin' me! goodbye to mary sunshine  reefer has blown out her mind  she's now a hot-Hay hussy  don't you run, i'm not done  Can't you tell we've just begun? What's your rush? You're not having fun? No, i'm really not! mary, mary sunshine  burns for, yearns for  dirty lo-O-O-O-Ove  Shut up, bitch! Ugh! I'm not buying any of this. You ask me, this guy's getting his jollies Showing us blue movies. I'm sorry, mr. Kochinski, Do you have something to share with the group? Uh, no. We're very interested to hear what you have to say. Look, it's just - One puff, and the girl goes wacky? It's kind of far-Fetched. That's all i'm saying. Not according to mr. William randolph hearst. A recent edition of his san francisco examiner Tells us that "3/4 of the crimes of violence In this country today are committed by dope slaves. " That is a matter of cold record. Well, you can't believe everything you read. And that don't make me a commie! Mr. Hearst is a very wealthy man Who attended harvard university. Where did you matriculate? "Ma-Tric-U-Late"? It means, where did you go to college? I didn't. I see. Well, regardless, mr. Kochinski, I'm sure everyone here takes your opinions Very seriously. Given the extremity of your views, It would be unpatriotic not to. Mary?! Jimmy. Kid, it's not what it looks like. Ohh. Oh! Holy socks! Billy, don't go. Don't you want to learn to dance? Ah, eh, ah, oh! He's... killing... me! Oh! Jeez, that stupid little weed freak. Is everybody okay?! I think i've been shot. She fell down! Mae, get me some smelling salts. All right, you two blow. Don't talk to nobody. I will handle this. Go! Give me that. Mary? Mary. What - What happened? You shot her dead, kid. Jack, no. Jimmy, i don't feel so good. Shh. It's - It's gonna be okay. I promise. I feel so cold. Give me the ring. Well, looky here. Casper milky-Toast is givin' me orders. I shot mary. What makes you think i won't shoot you? Oh, jimmy - Your school ring. Oh, it glitters, like a star. we are just like romeo and juliet  we're happy, young, and -  hemorrhaging blood  did you get to read the ending?  was it perfect?  did they love until they got old?  It was beautiful. They grew up, And everyone they knew came to the wedding. Did they have babies? Yeah... six of them. That's good. I love babies. it makes me happy  knowing that we loved like romeo and -  Juliet. Mary, how could I have shot you? Coppers. Jimmy, out the back. Hurry! No, mae, i pulled the trigger. I have to face my punishment. Don't you get it? Jack was holding the gun. He's planning to frame you. Nobody move! Officer, thank god. This kid burst in here with a gun And started shooting - Shooting and laughing! I think he might have been smoking that... reefer! Just like you read about in the papers. No, that's a lie! Tell them what really happened, mae. Ma'am, do you have anything to say? Well, I - Jimmy, I - Oh. Officer, I - Mae, please! No. The kid burst in shooting... Just like the man said. Mae... no! Kid's gonna burn for this. Pity - Attractive girl. After a swift trial, James fenimore harper was found guilty Of the murder of mary lane And sentenced to death row. In his thought-Provoking book, "Marijuana, weed of madness," Earle albert rowell explains How marijuana "causes prison inmates "To fall desperately in love with each other... Just as they would with women outside prison walls. " Hello, mr. And mrs. America and all the ships at sea. Let's go to press. Flash - Tonight, jimmy "the cannabis killer" harper Walks the last mile to the electric chair, Convicted of murder while under the influence Of the new drug menace, marijuana. Shut up. Shut up! We can't just let jimmy die. Shut up! Shut up! Look, the kid's yesterday's headlines, And there's nothing we can do about it. When's jack bringing some new boys home? Shut up! Shut up! You shut up! What are you, nuts? I'm... fine. Perfectly in control. remember me, ralph? I'm about to fry  Shut up! while you and your friends stand idly by  my life is now a ticking bomb shut up! i'm gonna miss my senior prom  Shut up! Shut up! you murdered me, ralph  Shut up! murdered me  murdered you  murdered me  murdered him  Everything okay up there? It's the kid! He's in the toilet! Just flush him, ralph. Aaah! Whoa. You better cool off on the muggles, there. Just a little hungry. That's all. remember me, ralph? I've been sent to hell  a pubescent edition of jezebel  it hurts a lot to bend  but at least i've made a friend  Shut up! you murdered her, ralph  murdered me  murdered you?  murdered me  murdered them  What's eating him? Jack, I saw satan! And the kid! And satan! And the girl! And satan! That mug's wound up like an 8-Day clock. One too many giggle sticks. You'd better put your flaps down before you take off. Go get some air. No, jack! Not out there, jack! No! No! Jack! Jack! Just a little too much weed. That's all. Just an ordinary scarecrow. Aaaah! Aaah! Aaah! open the gate and abandon hope  with the ghosts of the kids that got hooked on dope  way down where it's hot  they are saving us a spot  you murdered them, ralph  murdered them, murdered them  Bad zombies! Shoo! Yah! Yah! he's losing it, jack  gee, you don't suppose  he's liable to crack and spill all he knows  he's really he's really acting weird acting weird  perhaps it's time he disappeared  he'd never be missed  I could  murder him, murder him  Jack, no! You fire that bean-Shooter, You'll have the police right back here. All right, we'll play it your way... for now. Aah! He bit me! Jack, I got me the munchies real bad. He's giving me the creepin' heebie-Jeebies! Come on, let's go get ralph a bite. He's liable to wake the neighbors with that racket. You stay. Keep an eye on him. I don't like the way he's looking at me. Shake a leg with that grub! Leg... grub... Aaaah! Yoo-Hoo, ralph! We have take-Away from dim foo's! Sally? Ralph? Where'd they go? They'd best not have skipped town. Sally. Ralph! Yah! Aah! Aaah! Blumsack. Aww. I found me a snack, it was nice and fresh  the weed made him hungry for human flesh  step away, you mug  'cause that's a brand-New persian rug  he's not gonna stop  murder him, murder him murder him, murder him  Hah! Yah! Oh! Jack: ralph... Ha ha! Oh, god. Oh, god. Mae! Don't get queer on me, now. Ow. Damn body. open the gate and abandon hope  with the ghosts of the kids that got hooked on dope  now I see them, jack  and they all want their childhoods back  we murdered them, jack  murdered them, murdered them  open the gate and abandon hope  with the ghosts of the kids that got hooked on dope pull it together. now I see them, jack  don't flip your skirt  you do the things you gotta do  in this dog-Eat-Dog-Eat-Dog world  they all want their childhoods back  we murdered them, jack!  so you murder them  survival of the fittest  before they murder you  murdered them  murder, murder, murder  murdered t the winner is  murder, murder, murder the last one left  aahhhhh  ali-I-I-Ive!  Well, on the bright side, It looks like we finally got the place to ourselves. Ralph and sally And little... what's-Her-Name are dead. Jimmy's on his way to the electric chair, And you couldn't care less! I may be a monster, but you, jack - You're the devil! So long as i'm the number-One guy. the kid's a goner  they're gonna make him pay  for the stuff  Here. Simmer down, will ya? i've seen my honor  rolled up and burnt away  with the stuff  well, it's gotta stop  Let go of me! What? I'm trying to comfort you here. I said, let go! I should show him the door  he treats me like a whore  I don't need jack no more  or the stuff  You dumb slut! That was half a jay of good mooter you just wasted. I know. Hey, what do you think you're doing With that garden hoe? Taking care of a big, fat weed. Oh, that's it. Say "goodnight," gracie. Goodnight, gracie. Oh! so, this is it, jack  last night of ballyhoo  for the stuff  Get away from me, you crazy skirt! this one's for ralph, jack  here's one for sally, too  had enough?  yeah, you're not so tough  you once had all the brains  now they're just carpet stains  you're in no shape to fight  my bid to make things right  'cause there's blood upon your necktie  your corpus is delecti  and I have been delivered  from the stu-U-U-U-U-Uff  Ohh. Good lord, man. You've sent thelma into shock! Your wife's lack of fortitude Is no fault of this presentation. I daresay our hardy pioneer women Would have shared a good laugh at her expense. So, what of mae coleman? With jack out of the picture, Mae was determined to rescue the seemingly doomed jimmy. But fate was about to intervene in a most dramatic fashion. Man: and from my vantage point, I see the presidential motorcade Turning onto halford street. The crowd is going wild! Mr. President! Mr. President! Mr. President! I need to talk with you. Step back, ma'am. But - But - Hyah! It is a known scientific fact That when under the influence of marijuana, The user becomes insatiably violent. And capable of staggering feats of strength. Unfortunately for mae coleman... She was no longer under the influence. Ugh! Oop - Aah. Mmmph. Oh. I'm... so terribly sorry. I don't know what came over me. Please, help me up. Hyah! Mr. President! An innocent boy is about to be executed! Listen to me, please! Hold on, boys! I, for one, would like to hear What the blood-Spattered young lady has to say. James fenimore harper, You have been convicted of the murder of mary lane And sentenced to death by electrocution In accordance with the laws of this great state. Any last words? Um... Well-Put. Pull the switch. Stop the execution! We have a presidential pardon! Mae, am I ever glad to see you! And you, too, mr. President. Ha ha ha! I knew you wouldn't let me die! Though I was kind of hoping You wouldn't cut it quite so close. I'm sorry, kid. But now we're gonna be okay! So, jimmy, i've heard a lot about you. Oh, and we've read about you in school, mr. President. Thank you so much for coming! I promise never to touch the reefer again. Oh, that is simply grand. You know, a little orphan girl once told me That the sun would come out tomorrow. Her adopted father was a powerful billionaire, So I suppressed the urge to laugh in her face. I think she might have been on to something! they were ready to cook my goose  at long, long last let the truth be heard  from sea to shining sea  from sea to shining sea  you have been set  our children teeter on the brink  spread the word 'cross the hemisphere  Ha ha! Not to worry, jimmy! with catchy slogans we've all rehearsed  george washington  gonna tell them the truth, truth, truth  everybody gotta know, oh, oh  what politics to despise  get wise! gonna tell them the truth, truth, truth  everybody gotta know, oh, oh  and turning your neighbors in or kin! george washington would never lie  everybody gotta know, oh, oh  that famous finger set to point  gonna tell them the truth, truth, truth  give me your tired  everybody gotta know, oh, oh  give me your poor  we're saving every youth  give me your huddled masses  from denver to duluth  Oh! Yeah! please wait for me, juliet  one day i'll get cancer or hit by a train okay. and we'll be reunited in heaven  it's time for parents to take a stand  for the preservation of this great land  and once the reefer has been destroyed  and communists and queens  when danger's near, exploit their fear  creeping like a communist  it's reefer madness, reefer madness  see the kids, precious kids  they're heading straight for...  reefer madness, reefer madness  it slithers up our shores  reefer madness, reefer madness  pull the wool from your eyes  fight the urge of this scourge  that empty out our stores  turning all our children into hooligans and whores  teenagers across the land  if you fail to draw the line, your babies will be next  madness, madness  reefer madness  when life becomes a roller coaster  you're sweet as shirley temple dipped in pudding  oh! Mary lane  our hearts pound like a diesel train  the world may crumble, we'll remain  loved by mary  loved by mary lane  loved by mary  loved by mary lane  loved by mary  loved by mary lane  loved by mary  loved by mary  yeah, I love you  loved by mary lane  loved by mary you got to - Got to - Got to -  loved by mary la-A-A-A-Ne  I love you 
