 

                        The Saragossa Manuscript Forward! Follow me! You are a prisoner. No resistance, please. Can you hear me? Wait a minute, friend, until I finish admiring these drawings. What about the enemy? Carry on the pursuit! Interesting. Very much so. Too bad I don't know Spanish. Look, this is about my grandfather. "The Count Olla Vedez who, at that time, had not yet brought the settlers to the Sierra... " Captain! They're surrounding us. What shall we do? Why don't you close the door? It's drafty! Where was I? Here, I think. "... the Sierra Morena, "a steep range between Andalusia and La Mancha. "At that time, it was populated, "with robbers and gyp" Thank you, "gypsies... "and gypsies, of whom it was said, would eat the corpses of killed wanderers. " Will we make it before dark? Before dark? Three da y s aren't enough to cross these mountains. Where will we sleep? It becomes dark very quickly. Sometimes you can find a deserted inn at the roadside, because infernal ghosts chased out the inn keepers, and when evil ghosts... So what? A traveler who comes here should be prepared for the very worst. I am not scared of them. I can handle them. Listen to Mosquito! Saddle the mules and follow me, and hurry! Sir, demons rave there and in visible hands push you into the abyss. The devils have goats' hooves, not feet. Let's go through Estramadura. The sights are prettier there. We'll go straight on and stop here, at the cork oaks, where we will have our food. Then we'll spend the night at Venta Quemada. And the next day, get supplies and prepare to cross the mountains. And in three da y s' time, exhausted but happy, we'll ride triumphantly into Castile. That's my plan and nothing is going to change it! He'll ruin us. Since King Don Philip V honored me with the rank of captain of the Walloon Guard, it is my duty to find the shortest way to Madrid. My young lord, maybe the king has honored you with a captains rank, but reason has not done the same for your brains. It would be good to quench our thirst. Water isn't good after fruit. Where is the mule attendant? I don't like all this. He has gone off with all our supplies. Sir, evil ghosts have kidnapped poor Mosquito. He's escaped! Damned rascal, I didn't like his shrewd eyes right from the start. Why didn't I listen to Brother Jerome de la Trinidad, holy monk and preacher? Mosquito! He said the officers of the guard were heretics. Shut up, stupid! I'll catch him and break his bones if he fled from fear. Don't leave me alone here, sir. Then you go. No, sir, I will not go. Well, we'll talk later. Mosquito! Two foreign ladies who are staying here would like to invite you to supper. Will you please follow me, caballero? Seor caballero, thank you for your kind acceptance of this modest supper. Appease your hunger, sir. You probably haven't eaten since early morning. Are you surprised at our meeting? My name is Emina and this is my sister, Zibelda. We live in Tunisia, but we come from Grenada, where our relatives still adhere to our forefathers' faith. Our journey is an important secret which we want to confide to your honesty. That was what we expected, seor caballero. I took a seat near you to tell you our family's story. Listen carefully. Does this lock et contain a picture of your mistress? This jewel is a gift from my mother and it contains a fragment of a genuine relic. Does it frighten you? Only evil ghosts are afraid of relics. We are Muslim, so don't be surprised at my sister. Too bad our closest relative follows a strange faith. Am I your relative? You are. Your mother was a Gomelez. We also belong to that family. I've never heard of it. Aren't you wrong, dear ladies? No. I promised to tell you the story of our ancestors, but I think it would be better if I start with my own. Sit down. We were waiting for you. Had you chosen another road out of fear, we'd have lost respect for you. You are flattering me, Emina, but I never turn off the road I have chosen. But why are you so concerned with my courage? We are concerned about you. Me? Maybe you will feel less flattered when I tell you that you are the first man we have ever met. My sister speaks the truth. We never had a brother. And lock ed up in the harem since we were children, we never had the slightest idea about your sex. But nature gave us the inclination to love. We gave each other our love. This is beginning to look interesting. My sister and I love each other dearly. Seeing this, our mother said, we would either remain maidens or marry one man Her assurance somewhat calmed our anxiety. The head of the family agreed that we could marry one man, provided he was a Gomelez. Is it... Is it me? It is. This is the idea we liked best. But my religion, my faith! Don't you like us, Alfonso? Arent we nice? It's nearly dawn. Time is too precious to be wasted on idle talk. We cannot become your spouses unless you accept the Prophet's law. You will be allowed to see us in your dreams only. But you have to keep our existence secret. Do you agree? Pass the chalice! But remember your promise. My dear cousin, why aren't you Muslim? How happy I would be, if seeing you... on Emina's lap, I too could call my self your wife. Come with me, my son. Woe to him who, in his wicked inflexibility, refuses to confess his sins. Do not spend the nights under the skies. And beware of all temptations, as the Lord has lifted His hand. I will do as you say, Father, but first... my belly requires refreshment. Think about your soul's salvation and I'll look after your body's needs. Strange things were happening last night. Did you stay in the deserted inn by any chance? I visited Venta Quemada. But I have my reasons for being reluctant to explain it to you. Devils are tempters. Beware of Satan and pride, my son! Yes, yes, beware of Satan. I am amazed at your courage Tell me, young man, who are you and who raised you up? Do you believe in ghosts? Me? Why should I? Have no fear. This one is possessed, and I am chasing the devil out of him. Pasheko! In the name of Our Lord, I order you to drive the goats uphill! Here is an example of how the Angel of Darkness is still ruling this unfortunate neighborhood. I am giving him much of my time. I think I will be able to save him. He's been making great progress lately. He milks these goats? Yes. Can you satisfy my curiosity, my son? I was asking for details of your life. You honor me, Father, and you will know everything. I come from a family who had more prominent men than wealth. My father, a colonel of the Walloon Guard, was an extremely kind and honorable gentleman. In the name of Van Worden! You'll pa y for this, rascal! A horse, bring me a horse! What are you waiting for, cowards? I have a feeling this is going to end badly. Seor, I request you grant me a moment to talk. - - Seor, I do not have the pleasure of knowing you. You'll know me in a while. Seor. After you. After you. Your coach, seor, has outrun my carriage. There is something offensive in that, and I would like you to justify it. Seor, it seems it wasn't my coachmen who outran yours, but yours who were dragging along and were left behind. I admit you are right. Too bad that you didn't say that before I drew my sword. Seor, I understand you perfectly well. Excuse me for having taken your time. Oh, don't mention it. May I? But of course, seor. I'll be getting back to my roast which may not be quite cold yet. Water! Why did he have his coach chopped up? He'd be more comfortable. After it lost the race, he couldn't look at it anymore. Water! I would have sold it. A nobleman like him never sells, he just destroys. Everything I have for a drop of water. Did you hear that? If you had water, you'd be a rich man. He's mad to start all these duels. If you have a master who likes collecting wounds, you have to be ready for anything. God damn it! I'd sell my soul for a drop of water. I have invited you all to attend my wedding, every one with whom I have had the pleasure of crossing swords at least once and whom, of course, I havent killed. You came to rejoice with me. I need your advice. Here is a letter from the may or of Bayon, asking me to take possession of my ancestral castle in the Ardennes. Should I leave the king's service or leave my heritage to its own fate? If you vote... I'll do as you advise. Please hurry, seores, or the meat will be quite cold. Farewell, my king and lord, farewell, sunny Spain, and I invite you to a feast at my castle in the Ardennes. Who will pa y? This is a great loss! This is going to ruin me! Follow me! Nothing can equal our sunny Spain. This was a stupid idea. I don't think I'll ever sing a serenade to the most beautiful seorita. Hush. True, it's not the same. I don't envy the bride and groom. Long live the bride and groom! I wish your son a prompt return to Spain. Seora, our son will be named Alfonso. Seores, continue your feast. I, a true Spaniard, have to fulfill my duties. Seora, this rain reminds me of the siege of Lerida, when I stood up to my waist in water. They were beautiful times. I was famous for my bravery then. Exactly nine months later, I was born. You told us a nice story. It seems your father is a man of honor. Have you inherited this virtue? Boasting is not a feature of a Walloon Guard officer, Father. Before you start your own story, I'll ask Pasheko to bring you some fresh mil k. No, I better start straight away. I was brought up away from home to learn the way s of a nobleman. "... and the lid flew open. I saw a skeleton coming out. "I drew my sword, but the skeleton tore off its left hand, "using it as a weapon, and fiercely attack ed me. "I was defending my self bravely "when another skeleton jumped out, "snapped off a rib of the first, and struck me with all his might. " Welcome, son! It's been so long, so many years My dearest son! You didn't forget your holy alphabet, my son? Or my sophisticated teachings? No, I've been studying hard. Show us then, son. Very well, excellent. Dear Eureko, leave manly things to men. The time has come to show you the ultimate stroke. It's extremely complicated, but once you've mastered it, you'll be one of the best fencers. En garde! Dear Eureko! I fought 130... yes, my son, 130 duels. I'll give you all my experience now. Allez! I failed again. You were the finest fencer. Don't worry, Alfonso will take over with honor. Return to your fatherland, son. Spain is the loveliest country in the world. I'll do my best to help you become a Walloon Guard captain. Thus I came here, and last night Well, dear son, I've become very interested in your story. I can also see that you received a good education. However, as you spent last night at the Venta Quemada... What was I saying? Oh, I am afraid you could have been haunted by two hanged men. I wouldn't like you to have the same fate as Pasheko. Don't be afraid, Father. My mother told me that in the old days, you may have come across possessed people, but today they are no more. What? Havent you seen the awful possessed Pasheko, whose eye the devils have gouged out? Pasheko! His story may contribute to the salvation of your soul. I will order him to begin. Pasheko! In the name of Our Lord, I order you to tell your story to our guest. I was born in Crdoba. My father was prosperous. You may leave that out, Pasheko. His mother died three years ago, and his father decided to marry a young widow. Camilla de Tormes. They were wed in Seville. A few days later, my father returned with his new wife... and her sister, Inezillia. My dear wife, my lady, I bought some mules for your coach, and for you, lovely Inezillia, a sapphire ring. You are the best husband, seor, and brother-in-law. Inezillia is ecstatic, aren't you, Inezillia? Thank you with all my heart. Do not eat fruit, Inezillia, you know it is bad for you. I am glad you are happy. Camilla, we would like to hear your songs, as we always do after lunch. Oh yes, Camilla, do sing for us! Come with me, sister, to get the instruments. I beg your permission, Father, to marry beautiful Inezillia. We will go to Madrid and start a wonderful life there. Forget it, son. First of all, it would be unbecoming for you to be your father's brother in law. Secondly, church laws ban such alliances, and thirdly I love her more than my own life. And thirdly... I do not want you to marry Inezillia. Don't worry, Pasheko. If your father won't allow you to marry my sister, there are no obstacles at all to your being her lover. Seora, Inezillia is an angel of purity, how could I Leave it to me, Pasheko, my sister will listen to my request, which I will pronounce with pain in my heart. Pasheko, Pasheko, who can resist you? Make it shot, Pasheko. Now tell me how soon after your father set out on the trip to Madrid, taking his wife and her sister along. The da y s without Inezillia were unbearable. I missed her and suffered. Manuela! In Venta Quemada? That's where you are to wait for him. Cruel gangs are roving the Sierra Morena. It's quiet since those two thugs the Zota brothers, were hanged. Will Inezillia be accompanying my father? Yes, seor. No more delay. Inezillia. We'll always be together. Can I eat at your place? And spend the night? Seor, by St. Parazito, don't do it! Have you no clean bedclothes? I am ready even for the king's court. Well? Here, ghosts rave all night. Ghosts? Even we go to the next village at night. It's scary here, at night. My friend, we'll sleep with ghosts. As you wish, seor, but allow me and my wife to leave the inn for the night. I'll keep the ghosts from stealing things. Where are you going? Seor, don't play around with ghosts. I'm scared. Then go with them, you weakling. Pasheko, the moment has come. Your father is asleep and Inezillia is waiting for you. Come on, come on, come on Everything is going well, Pasheko. Just look. Indeed. I'll tell you when the time is right. Pasheko, Pasheko. We are waiting for you. Inezillia, do you really desire a lover? You will be lovers but I will always be with you. Kiss! Hard! You love Inezillia and I love you. She will refuse you nothing, but remember my condition. Well, son, what do you think? I think you would get scared in such circumstances, too. A nobleman is afraid of nothing. Then let Pasheko continue with his story. I may hear something interesting. Pasheko! In the name of God, I order you to continue. I ran for my life from right under the gallows, and roamed far off the road all da y. I know what you want to say. Had I come earlier, there'd be a feast fit for a king. Indeed. Now the ghosts have taken over And you are spending the night in the next village. Allow me, seor, to leave you. Was there a nobleman from Crdoba and two women yesterday? Try to remember a nobleman from Crdoba. My wife left your supper on the stove, seor. On the stove. Pasheko! Make room for me right near you. I am trembling with cold. It's me, your Inezillia. Be gone, Satan! You are chasing us away? Come on, sister, we'll light the fireplace. Well, my son? I can see you now realize the power of Satan. It is getting late. I am not offering you a place here. Pasheko's screams wouldn't let you close your eyes. Go to the chapel. To the chapel? To the chapel. But I'll hear him there too. He has such a terrible yell. Son, I know what I'm telling you. Oh yes, to the chapel. You will sleep quietly there. Kneel down at the altar, confess your sins and repent. There's still time to prevent evil. I don't think I have sinned, unless I did it in my dreams. Who is there? We're cold, it is us, your mistresses. Go back to your gallows, I want to get some sleep! You sneer at us, because you're in a chapel! But come join us out in the graveyard. At your service. But tomorrow! I can see you're nervous, my son And it's not surprising. Last night, wicked spirits were up to terrible mischief. The goats were bleating. Devils may assume various forms, my son. They somehow stay away from me, Father. I can see you still have faith, but I'm worried you won't be able to keep it. I will, I will. I don't want to keep you any longer. You have a long journey. By the day after tomorrow, you'll have crossed the Sierra Morena. You'll find some supplies by your saddle. What's the shortest way to Madrid? I have never been to Madrid, my son I know, however, you have to go... that way. Thank you... Father. But remember, my son, that God has raised his arm. Seor Alfonso Van Worden? Yes, captain of the Walloon Guard. You're under arrest in the name of the Holy Inquisition. Seor, give us your sword. Gentlemen, seores, I'm a nobleman! What an incredibly noisy sinner. I hope he'll be as talkative in front of the Holy Tribunal. According to our system, we allow the prisoner the freedom to accuse himself. His confession, even though slightly forced, has its advantages, when the prisoner is willing to name his collaborators. Do you know two African princesses? The longer your silence, the worse it'll be for you. I can see I'm going to have to help you. Let's start the first trial. You're going to faint soon, but with salt and alcohol, we'll bring you round. Let's start the second trial... Alfonso! You're saved, Alfonso! Seor Zoto is coming to rescue you. Dear Alfonso! You've shown great courage, dear cousin. This is no time for kisses. By the time the guards arrive, you should be far away. This is Seor Zoto. Seor Alfonso, I have the honor of introducing my brothers, Chico... Muma and Chico. How come, Zoto? Your brothers were hanged, weren't they? You heard right. But as you can see for yourself, they're fine. But I saw them myself! What you saw were two shepherds, hung to pacify the neighborhood. This is unbelievable. Undoubtedly, it's thanks to our horses. I'm pleased to see you are yourself again. Bless you, seor. They're surrounding us. Chico, you cover us while we get to the horses. Where's my sword? My sword! Kiss me. And me. Oh, how happy I am. Are you pleased about our meeting, cousin? Cousin, this locket is horrible. It's cooling our passion towards you. Are you happy, cousin? Yes, although I must say that the end of the night I spent with you, didn't please me at all. You'd better accuse us with pleasures. It wasn't so nice in the morning. Let's say no more about it. Here's a plait made of our hair, a talisman to remind you of us. Talisman? It's widely assumed one can only love one woman. It's a fallacy. I fell in love with you both equally. My heart sees no difference. Adopt our faith. You would sit on the throne in Tunis among harems, gardens and fountains. No, no. Let's not talk about kingdoms flooded with sunshine. We're in the abyss, close to Hell. How dare you be in the company of Golomez women! Cousin, you're done for! Forgive us. Either you'll be killed like a coward with an axe and your corpse hung next to the Zota brothers at the mercy of crows and devilish powers, or But the brothers... Or you'll drink the potion from this chalice. Gulp it down! Father, you'd do the same in the name of honor, wouldn't you? What an unpleasant misunderstanding. Evil spirits take so many shapes, it's completely confusing. You're here too? You're too young to be a cabalist, though you too are carrying a rope around your neck. Don't worry. You are brave, I know, though you've not had much experience. You're Alfonso? Your mother is a Gomelez and you are a captain of the Walloon Guard. Let's leave this unpleasant place and decide what to do next. My name is Alfonso Van Worden. That's evident. I can see you have mellowed. I have a miraculous potion to restore your strength. No, no, no more miraculous potions! Where are you going, seor? To Madrid. Good. On our way we'll stop at a place where I left a good meal. Not miraculous, but sumptuous. Now listen, the books of Nach Sou Chasi contain wise Chaldean knowledge, while the verses of Shir Ha Shi Mir contain the purest beauty of poetry. In Hebrew, every letter is a number, every word a very wise combination. If it is pronounced with the right exhalation and accent, one may move mountains and drain rivers. You must know that Adonai created the world with a word... Someone played a joke on me here last night, But let's go in anyway. My horse! Unbelievable! Mine too. I don't understand. The horse follows his master. It's lucky that devils do not need food. Good, isn't it? What's good? Just asking. I am pleased to be able to satisfy your hunger. What's that? It must be your property. Then you too have spent the night here? Yes, but I won't tell you the whole story. It was a wonderful night... in spite of everything. In spite of what? I have also given my word. To whom? Two beautiful women, but do not ask for more. Let's set off. It's still a long way to Madrid. Do you know a quicker way, seor? Yes, that way. That's where the Inquisition fell upon me. You're right, it's better to avoid an ambush. Is there any other path? Of course, for a cabalist. We'll go around and come out on the one to Madrid. Seter So Har shows us the depth of the ten elements, creating integrity of taste. All this enables us to get to the powers ruling pandemonium. Must you always talk in riddles? It makes my journey more interesting. And they rule nightmares and demons, among which we can distinguish Hungarian and Polish zombies... Help! I arrest you in the name of the Inquisition! Give up your sword! Do not resist, Alfonso Van Worden! I am Don Pedro Velasquez! Are you crazy, seores? Indeed. It's not him. Who is he? Don Pedro. He look s rather similar. What are you doing here? I thought the roads were for everybody. Seores bandits! There is no road here. Get off! He must have gone the other way. Maybe he went back to Venta Quemada. I was told he was coming this way. You don't seem eager to apologize for this mistake. Stop bothering us! In that case, I will apologize to the honorable seores. A thorn. There is nothing with which to take it out. And there is no place to hide, just to examine the situation, of course. Seor Alfonso Van Worden? Some ill mannered thugs await you over there. The Inquisition? Yes. Why should the Inquisition be here? They didn't recognize you werent Van Worden? They probably didn't, if they held me up. That's what logic would dictate. And what now? You will ride to my castle, seor, a few miles away. You have a castle in the neighborhood? You didn't mention it. It just proves the beauty of modesty. What if they find me? They cannot enter my castle. We'll take the shortest route. If I too could take advantage of your hospitality, I could hope for a quiet night. Knowing the seor cabalist, I know he won't refuse shelter. Yes, of course. Thank you. I will have time to reconsider everything that's happened to me. That could drive an inexperienced person insane. The human mind is ready to accept anything, if it is used knowingly. End of Part One The Saragossa Manuscript, Part Two Enrico, the master has arrived! Has something happened? I don't know. Let's rest after the rigors of the journey. Seor, you're completely safe here. My house is at your disposal. Fifteenth century. You're an expert on everything. Curiosity distinguishes us from animals. I look, listen and draw conclusions. Seor, I am pleased to have met you and to be in your company. Good company is more precious than wealth or black magic. Gentlemen, this is not the place for disputes. Please go in. Enrico, show the gentlemen the way. You were to be here in three days time. Unforeseeable complications. Everything got mixed up. And what now? What now? I don't know. We must keep him here. I await new instructions. Who's the other one? Careful! As k no more. Go and make yourself becoming. You might have told me. You're boring me, my dear. It was not possible. I have the impression that all this is happening because of evil spirits. I'd rather blame people, seor. Someone must be after you to put you through all these misfortunes. I'm in your debt, seor, as it seems that thanks to you, I'll find the key to this riddle. I like it here. Peace and quiet. Think it all through once again. Have all your needs been met, seor? I don't know how to thank you. Not at all. Make yourself at home. Thank you. I feel fine here, I'm really well. I've thought everything through. And? It'd be best for me to go to Madrid as soon as possible. I hope I'll be able to make it in the dark. The Inquisition is still guarding all the roads. Maybe Seor Velasquez has some good advice? He's an unbeliever. What shall I do then? Wait. You have books here. All the wisdom in the world is to be found on these shelves. I particularly recommend the Spanish stories. Seor Don Pedro, I've found the answer. Let's have some wine. Perhaps this midnight oil will mark our vigil for the last time tonight. Come, seor, please, I'd like to show you something. You're sad. Let's drink this fine wine. We'll all soon come to rest in the eternal night. How could you be so careless? If he had read the end, the events which are to follow would make no sense. Luckily, I arrived in time. Strange things are happening here, seor. I've seen it with my own eyes, I even had it in my own hands. It must be all due to the evil spirits. I understand, seor, that your mind is rebelling against inexplicable phenomena, but be so kind as to explain in detail. What are you looking for, seor? There was a book here. I saw the gallows. Where has it gone? Here? There's never been a book like that here. Demons again? They are tiring, I admit. Unfortunately, the world is full of them. Incantations stop their mischief. Nonsense. Don't you believe in incantations then? No. What if I prove it? Only if I can perform them my self. Go on, seor. This is not the place for philosophical disputes. I am so glad to see you, brother. When did you get back? This is Alfonso Van Worden, captain of the guard. Captain, my sister Rebecca. Don Pedro Velasquez. Seora. I will do my best. I am glad to convince you of the power of the supernatural. Of course. From Aristotle came the principle that in the mind... Seor Alfonso, I implore you to tell me what you think of everything you've experienced since arriving here. I wouldn't know where to start. I must have been put to sleep with a potion and taken to the gallows. Then you got under the Zota brothers' gallows? And found them both hanged? Do they, by any chance, have the habit of coming down? Very often, usually at night. Your hand shows that you are possessed with love for the demons. Such people have no fear of humans. I am afraid of nobody. I am afraid for you. I am so glad they came. Gaiety and fun will pre v ail now. I am sorry, seora, but I have different plans. Whatever your decision, you won't refuse to spend a few hours in our company. Your brother is greeting a gypsy so warmly. A gypsy? You'll see in a while what a gypsy he is. Welcome, Seor Alfonso. How do you know who I am? Our camp moves from one place to another, and my daughters keep their eyes and ears open. An enchanted place. The people of the Sierra are afraid to go near. I have no reason to tell them they're wrong. It is better that most of my retinue was left outside. Seor Avadoro, in this errant life you must have encountered many unusual adventures. I have. Then tell us, and Seor Velasquez will teach us how to experience poetry without the help of ghosts. I do not succumb to ghosts, but I fear your magic power, seora. I reckon that from one end of the world to the other, the story of love is always the same. I think you will enjoy hearing about my youthful adventures. Some are surprising, I could even say, miraculous. Whenever I go back to those long gone times of my life, I hear the noise of a variety of passions and a mix ed roaring of storms. You seem wiser than others, and I have a delicate problem. Will you follow me? I am the lover of a certain young person. She tends, I think, to be fickle. When you see a woman whose dress suits this, you'll see whether she goes to church, or in another direction. Here. You'll get another if you do well. You're her husband, not her lover. I'm paying you to discover treason, not who I am. Sharpen your sight, it's time for vespers. I'll wait at the inn. Of lovers. Of lovers. - What is this? - Your beauty troubled me. Somebody suspects you of betraying him. Follow me. You will give this to Caballero Toledo. Noble caballero. My conscience forbids me taking payment from both sides. What is my fortune? We'll get married under a big chestnut tree. Nature will accept our vows. The rosy glow of dawn will bless us. I've lost Caballero Toledo s address. He invited me to a grand feast. On the other side of the square. Until we meet again. Maybe. Seor Toledo, a lady wanted me to give you this little token. I appreciate your wit, my friend, and honor. Would you like to become one of my servants? That's impossible, I was born a nobleman. I chose the position of beggar as it does not dim a noblemars jewel. An answer worthy of a Spaniard! Let's have a drink. Human life is fragile. Why these dark thoughts, seor? I am a sinner. I used to leave one mistress for another, but I concluded that I was losing too much time that way, so I started a new affair before having broken off the last, and while planning a third. Spanish women have something... insistent. I swore love to each. The punishment for breaking oaths is terrible. Indeed, in the other world. Yesterday, a friend from Malta visited. His name is Aquillar, a noble person and a good Christian. I cannot understand how, being endowed with such contradictory characters, we have lived in such friendship. Aren't you drinking? I've nearly finished the bottle. You haven't touched your glass. What are you thinking about? I was thinking of the sun which I saw today, whether I would see it again tomorrow. You doubtless will, if there is no mist. I may not live to see tomorrow. Are you planning a duel? I could act as your witness. You are the last man I would ask for this favor. Good heavens! You took up your old squabble with my brother? Shall I lose my friend or my brother in one duel? I have an ominous feeling... wait until midnight. If I die, I will come to warn you about the penalties a sinner faces after he dies. I didn't want to see you, but a voice from heaven ordered me to come. Were you killed? I was. Is there a purgatory in the other world? There is one. And that's where I am! Who died? Tell me, who died? Toledo fell unconscious. I'm sorry, but my duties are calling me. At such an interesting point! Doses of suspense are the sign of a master. All that has made me confused. I've lost the feeling of where reality ends, and fantasy takes over. You meant to say... poetry. I do not know what you are aiming at. I will tell you something that is based on the principles of geometry. Wanting to define an infinite number, I write a horizontal eight and divide it by one. If I want to express infinite smallness, I write a one and divide it b y the horizontal eight. All these signs give me no idea about what I want to express infinity... greatness... In the cosmos, infinite smallness is an infinite root of the smallest part of an atom. So I am defining infinity, but without comprehending. Well, if I do not comprehend but I can define it, I am getting near poetry, which seems to be nearer to life than we suspect. Empirical science leads to lack of faith. Only an uneducated man who sees a thing every day think s he understands it. A true researcher proceeds among riddles. He errs, but he gets nearer his goal every day. Seor Avadoro, will you finish Toledo's story? I remember he was disturbed by a voice from the other world. Yes. H is tender soul was very sensitive. So he was in deep despair. What will you do? I want to rethink my life. Seor Caballero, let me make one comment. The voice you heard yesterday said what you could find in any catechism. Do not burden oneself with premature worries. My friend, he who once heard the voice of the dead, will surely not spend much more time among the living. Farewell, my friend. Tell the lady everything without getting into detail. I have chosen you as I have a delicate problem. I would be glad to help, but I am afraid to leave my client. I can substitute for you, it won't be long. Listen. I warn you, he is a prattler and a bore. You can find something interesting in every story. You remember the seor with whom I drank wine at your inn? He is the husband of a young noblewoman. Discreetly hand this little jewel over to her. Seor Lopez Suarez? Like fortune-telling, love has its magic. This tells me you'll see me again soon. Maybe. You are kind, but the medicine is awful. I would give you a more tasty one, but the medic won't let me. Sit down. Sit down, when I tell you to. I have one soft spot and you will do me a favor. Take this instrument in your hand... and now listen carefully. I am the son of Gaspar Suarez, the richest merchant in Cdiz. You're wasting time again on romances. I'm listening, Daddy. It's time you departed for Madrid. You have to get to know the world. Daddy, I want to get married. First, pass your examination in life. These are the rules you have to follow. I forbid you to get into discussions with noblemen. The lords honor us while actually they just want credit, but cannot repay, understand? I forbid you to use the title of "Don". You are Suarez and that's that. And I also forbid you to use your sword. The habit brings more discredit than good. Last but not least, under no circumstances may you enter into any connections with the house of the banker, Moro. Moro. And I will reveal to you why. Though I am related to the greatest bankers in Spain, seeing how well you are trading with the Philippines, I will deposit a million with you for a limited partnership. I am honored. I'll try to double your deposit as soon as possible. You do not need to hurry, seor. Too bad I didn't hurry. I am Moro, the royal banker, as you know. My relative, Seor Livardez, has passed away. In his accounts, there is your cheque for a million. Will you please return the capital? I have legally taken over his estate. The million was invested. It will be doubled in the future, maybe even... I am very sorry. All right. Here is your late relative's share. And now listen carefully. Years later, my ships returned, having tripled the fortune, so I wrote to the banker Moro that I had his two million. My principal received your letter and begs to inform you that the Livardez capital was entered into the books. He will not claim any more I owe him two million! My principal does not even want to hear of it. This is an insult! I do not need his generous donation! He is insulting me! I began to claim my rights, considering my good name and that of my profession. I started proceedings. The tribunal of Seville pronounced Moro right. We are to pay court fees of 600, 000 piastres. We got no justice. Six years wasted. And the two million is supposed to be mine? That's vile! You will appeal. So you see, my son, I have good reasons to forbid you any contact with the house of the banker Moro. And then? I said goodbye and, filling my carriage with love stories I had bought in Cdiz, I left for Madrid. Pour me some more of this good mixture, good man. I feel my strength returning. These sentimental stories had softened my soul so much that arriving here I was madly in love, although I didn't know the object of my desire. Oh, sorry. Who is that? Come on in, seor. Seor Don Lopez Suarez. I came to pay my respects. I am generally known under the name of... under the name of... Don Roque Busqueros, a family from Old Castile. My father has forbidden me to use the title of "Don", and to get involved with noblemen. Senor Don Lopez, my father, in turn, ordered me to give the title of "Don" to all prominent merchants, and to seek their company. I also respect my father's will. Your attitude and the elegance with which you got out of your carriage impressed me. Is it yours, Don Lopez? Mine. Lucky coincidence! This is what I passionately collect. Here, I'll be glad to oblige. A real collector always has copies, should one get lost for un known reasons. And the third could come in handy, when the chance arises. Don... Roque, I just got out of the carriage. I am tired and hungry. Exactly. Well, Don Lopez, it isn't becoming that we eat off one plate and use the same spoon and fork. Hey, boy! He y, boy. Get another set! He y boy, get another set! Busqueros entertained me with gossip from Madrid, while I was impatiently looking forward to getting back to Buen Retiro. This depopulated park is famous in our romantic stories, and I don't even know what was telling me I would enter into some tender relationship there. Seora, I probably found what you are looking for. I lost my lock et and gold chain. Was anything written on it? You read my name was Inez, and that the original of the portrait is mine. May I comment, lovely lady, that the finder usually gets a decent prize? You're forward for a first meeting. Congratulations! You've met the son of Cdiz's richest merchant. I did not give any reason to have strangers talk to me. Lopez Suarez. Be kind enough to return my locket. Be gone! Seor Don Lopez, I've refused twenty invitations to come and see you. Well, you have to admit I did you a favor yesterday. Feigning unwittingness, I told the lady you were the son of one of the richest merchants. Though she pretended to be angry, it was only to convince you she was not at all impressed by wealth. Believe me. You are young, reasonable and handsome, but remember gold is never an obstacle to love. How shall we spend the afternoon? I want to see the town... alone! You see there was no way out of this situation. Go and say prayers, then! It was a lock et from my brother. Don't ask about anything else, unless you find something else belonging to me. Then you'll be able to demand a reward. We shouldn't be seen together. Lopez Suarez to... What? To Inez. There is charm in my eyes, comma and you, lady, are the only reason for it. I would like to put my thoughts in this letter, but they seem... they seem to vanish. Don Roque, give it back! Where? Don Roque! Don Lopez! Stop, wait! Well, a letter has to be delivered. You should be grateful to me, seor. Seora. Why did you use a man whose impertinence I already disliked, to bring me your letter? I wrote that letter for my own pleasure, and that imp stole it. Ever since I got to Madrid, he has haunted me like an evil spirit. I don't think I can be bothered with this nonsense. And what would you like to know now, seor? Seora, I wish I knew who you were and what your name is. The daughter of a man who is as rich as your father, the banker, Moro. The curse of my life. I cannot think of you under the threat of my father's curse. He crossed many seas to set up as a merchant in Cdiz. In Cdiz. Don't believe him and don't lose heart. Those little heirs are hard to get hooked, but sooner or later, their turn will come. You'll scare my dog, meddler! Now only death is left for me. Lightning, strike me! Do not be afraid. Inez loves you more than her life. Me? She wants to meet you at the same spot tomorrow at sunset. I understand that at your age, you don't feel like marriage. However, I find your excuse very strange. Your father crossed many seas to set up as a merchant in Cdiz. You're lucky, I've fixed everything. Seor Don Roque, do one more thing for me Do not go to Buen Retiro. Fair Inez won't be there, but I must sit once more on the same bench and weep over my misfortune. There's something very offensive in your words. They seem to infer some lack of appreciation on your part. Seor. Jasmine breathes the balmy fragrance, the trees grow greener as you pass under them. What will happen to a heart which you honor? I could let you cry in misery alone, but fair Inez may come, and who will repair your nonsense? What's this? To kill time, I suggest I tell you a story, in which you will find many instructive events. I always had a talent for the law. I wanted to know people and life. What is it? What's the matter? Oh, fearsome head! I thought it was one of my relatives with whom I was to have an important talk. I don't know you or the reason for this unexpected visit. I had no intention of entering your room. I just wanted to know who lives here. I am a lawyer, studying people's lives. That's different. Nothing's more pleasant than knowing what people are doing. Before you woke up, seora, your husband honored me by thinking my face was a fearsome head. And she Seor Don Roque, time is passing. Don Lopez, when a decent man is telling you a fascinating story, you should not interrupt him. No, no explanations! This woman Let me explain everything. I am the daughter of a brave officer. My name is Frasquita Salero. I attracted men, even when I was a young girl. Frasquita, Frasquita, be modest! Be reasonable, Mama! How can I be bad with such elegant caballeros? Havent you dropped something? Too bad for me. If you had dropped that little cross, I would have picked it up and kept it as a dear souvenir. Frasquita, get away from the window. Unfortunately, the young man never showed up again. My beautiful wife. My sweetness. Do you love your hubby? I do. And nobody else? Nobody. What do you have there, son? A letter for Seora Frasquita. Give it to me. I am her father. Here. A ring? What ring? "I am waiting for you and yearning for you, Pea Flor. " Frasquita, do you love me? I do. Then there are no obstacles to our love. Perfect, Don Ramino! If you go on like that with the noble Count Pea Flor, he won't be a nightmare to husbands any more. What if I put an end to his conquests? I'm afraid of the effects of such a duel. If I could have I would wait out in the islands. I'll gladly offer you 100 for such a noble cause. The count was murdered last night. Pea Flor! From the letter we found on one of the criminals, we know that you offered 100 doubloons for the crime to be carried out. I have never set eyes on Seor Pea Flor. Yesterday, two men came with a promissory note for 100 doubloons which I signed a year ago. Shall I show you? No, I am a member of the criminal court, and I am not interested in trade. That will be all. Excuse us for the inconvenience. Did you really order this seor to be killed? Why should you care? Do you know him? I would go on a pilgrimage to St. James of Campostela and even a greater distance, if I believed it could help me. A wonderful story. Yes. Since then, strange things have been happening in the house. Here are your 100 doubloons back! Don Diego! I like it. Needless to say, Count Pea Flor was only made up to upset my husband and make him go on a pilgrimage! The justice clerk s, as well as the thugs, were all paid off. Now I understand "the fearsome head". And you understand why I thought you were somebody else. Enough! I havent finished yet, seor! Later! My duties are calling me. Do you want to offend me, seor? Yes, as there is no other way to get rid of you. Your daddy will surely be glad. Now. Where was I? That same night, I found my self in entirely different circumstances. You are lucky only to be injured, not deprived of life. Easy, easy. I've taken things into my own hands. Things will work out okay for you. But it's too bad you interrupted my story at such an interesting point. So, listen. That same night... I found my self in entirely different circumstances. Well, and what next? Seor... Don Lopez. You shouldn't strain yourself, seor. It's so long. Who is it from? A child, a complete child. From fair Inez, of course. - It's done. - But what is it? You are supposed to be at her place tonight. The wedding is tomorrow! Isn't it enough? What place? Moro's house? Tell me how. The simple way. - But the house is guarded. - The old, well-known way. Take it easy. I'll take care of it. I don't know. What would you do without me, seor? Which window? First, second, third. Which one? Third! The window of fair Inez. My heart is pounding. I am moved, and please, do not bring any shame on me. My gratitude, seor, but now we have to use the ultimate means. When I clap my hands, go up to heaven! Ready? Ready! Well. Balm breathes. Jasmine does not. Oh God! Did you die? I did! Is there purgatory in the other world? There is one and I am in it! Was it stormy that night? Lightning like in hell... it must be why he got the wrong window. Seor, I found a purgatorial soul. Where? What are you talking about, man? Seor Toledo. Listen, seor. So it is the end of my penance. But how did you find out about it? Lopez Suarez told me. The merchant from Cdiz. But how did it happen? Busqueros got the wrong window. Busqueros? Ah, Busqueros! I don't know him, but ask him to come by. I'd like to know more. What do you think? The lady who gave you a handkerchief... Is she still faithful to me? Undoubtedly. Farewell then. I made up my mind to find that intruder, known all over Madrid. Please, don't stop now. Allow me, seora, to give a few moments to this man. Frasquita told her story to Busqueros, he told it to Lopez Suarez, who in turn told it to Seor Avadoro. It's enough to drive you crazy. All these adventures begin simply. The listener think s it'll soon be over, but one story creates another, and then another. Something like quotients which can be divided infinitely. I'm a captain of the guard, not a philosopher. Your math is just dead numbers. Seor, this zero, plus and minus one, gave Archimedes and Newton power equal to the gods. Very noble men. But what's the point of it? We are like blind men lost in the streets of a big city. The streets lead to a goal, but we often return to the same places to get to where we want to be. I can see a few little streets here which, as it is now, are going nowhere. New combinations have to be arranged, then the whole will be clear, because one man cannot invent something that another cannot solve. I no longer follow. Then let's keep listening. Caballero Toledo regained his former gaiety and balanced soul, and I went to look for that impossible man. I happened to meet him that same day. I like you, I'll take you as a servant. Give thanks to heaven that unlimited possibilities are opening up to you. I suppose you havent met many noblemen. I can easily prove that I was brought up as a gentleman. The fact that I'm a beggar is down to fate, not birth. That's fine. Let's go, seor. At first, your duties won't seem very attractive, as you won't be paid or have proper clothes. As for board... Are you by any chance the Don Busqueros to whom Lopez Suarez owes so much? Yes, that's me. I'd have ended this whole thing successfully if he hadn't got the wrong window, but let's be patient. Caballero Toledo wishes to get to know you. Toledo? It's a great honor for me. I found out that Lopez Senior traveled from Cdiz, and waited at the house, but having missed his son, went to town. Where to? Where can a provincial man go? To see the church. Wrong, you noble tramp. - To the tavern. - But which one? The nearest. But seor, what nonsense. You must admit, Cdiz is a more important city than Madrid. What's more, Suarez, who was short of cash, was trading, thanks to his contacts with Liv Ardez. Moro, in order to retrieve the money, had to start a case, which is still unfinished. Suarez sued Moro to make him accept not a million, but two million from the investment. The Suarez family is the greatest in Spain and you are an ill informed big mouth. Thank you for your company. I can see, seor, that you're an honest negotiator. I'm honored by what you've said. I'm Gaspar Suarez from Cdiz. My name is Moraredo. You are heaven sent. I deduced from your talk that you're a true connoisseur of life. At your service. I sent my son here, I forbade him to use the title "Don" or frequent nobles. Very wise. Or draw a sword. Understandable. Just imagine, my Lopez is now Don Lopez, and the only person he is close to is a nobleman called Busqueros. Unbelievable. And he fought him and was thrown out of the window. I've decided to have him married immediately. Do you know a young lady from a spotless family? I do. What a lucky coincidence. A reputable merchant also got angry and said he'd closet her in the monastery if she doesn't choose a husband this week. I'd love to talk to her. You'll meet her today. What in an inn? A lady from a good family? Incognito. We should hurry. He's paying. Farewell. Today, more than ever, you'll understand the value of my friendship. You know, Don Lopez, such complex tasks are my specialty. From what I gather, you know the merchant's life well. But excuse me, Seor... Moraredo. Your name is not known in merchants' circles. You know, seor... I presume the situation hasn't allowed you, so far, to try your hand at a business conducive to your abilities. The reason for my behavior, seor, is not impertinence. I came here only because my father's rage forces me to seek salvation. I respect the name of Suarez. Dear lady, I'm honored. So you intend to marry Seorita Moro. Seorita Moro? Are your intentions not serious? There's a misunderstanding! If you can kneel in front of my sister, you're not too old to duel. Draw or go out the window! What? Your honor is at stake. I forbid you to have anything to do with nobility. I only got close to the one standing next to you. You shouldn't have dueled. Mind, seor, you've got a sword in your hand too. Oh, Lopez, why on earth did you choose Seorita Moro? But you yourself were kneeling at her feet not long ago. The punishment, Seor Gaspar Suarez, always fits the crime. If your son takes my daughter's hand, it would be an honor. Although he chose to introduce himself through the window, his actions were undoubtedly due to the grudge over the two million. I'll accept it then, provided I can add another two million, and give it all to your son, along with my daughter's hand. You've done a good job. Well done, well done, seor. It's not hard to see how it'll turn out. Lopez was taken to his future father-in-law's house, and with Inez's care, he'll soon recover. And now I'd like to hear more about the other affair. Was this woman, Frasquita, so charming then? I told the story you just mentioned to a young gentleman. Yes, yes, and Lopez Suarez passed it on to my friend, who introduced me to her. You have an incredible memory, seor. Since you already know Frasquita's story, I should tell the story of her husband, and how he got to meet an unfortunate young man. Go ahead. That very night, I found my self in entirely different circumstances. Who are you? This sign shows I'm in the Devil's power. Reprobate, stop persecuting me! Persecute. What of the doubloons you paid for Count Pea Flor's head? What do you want of me? You recognize me? As you can see, the count, before his death, raised the stakes. Don't! Don't! You've given us a pleasant hour, seor. You have not disappointed me. Excuse me for telling of things which is a sin in itself, but it is a very instructive story. What happened to Seora Cornandez? She became a widow! Then she married her lover, and ever since, has led a model life. Here she is! Well? But this is Doa Iscariz. Frasquita. What can I do? I couldn't. Nor could I! The only way is She said I was her first lover. There are other women in the world. Toledo? Seor Toledo! Run! Don't panic! I must think it all over again. More carefully this time. Seor I Farewell, my friends. Your sword. He leads an exhausting life, I must say. There should be a ladder under every window. Just in case. What's up? The officers of the guard are sorting out a problem. Must have been a dilemma. There were other reasons too. Is what you said true? I never back down. If I'm not mistaken, that brave officer was your father. The chronicles of his duels mention those events. In order to avoid an argument, he dueled twice that day, wounded five in the afternoon and six more in the evening. He did right, or there'd have been an unnecessary argument! And this is the end of the story. You wanted me to tell of my adventures, and I don't think you regret your curiosity. We must part. The hour of parting... I'm very sorry... also has its sweetness. Important affairs are calling you. But you said... I don't think, seor, you've got much time left. Alfonso Van Worden, we're waiting for you. Who are you? My name will tell you nothing. Welcome to Gomelez's land. You must recognize the hermit in me, and thus guess that I am the Sheik of the Gomelez. You are here because you have not disappointed us. Well, I'm a captain of the guard. It's time for me to reveal our secret. The Prophet has blessed your love. They will both soon be mothers and continue the family line. We've been toying with you long enough to make sure that your first night in Venta Quemada will be fruitful for the Gomelez family, as you are the only male heir to our vanishing line. Everything you have been through was a planned game, meant to test your honor and courage. Your men were the ghosts and spirits? And the Cabalist? Yes. So was Pasheko. He is a Basque acrobat and he lost an eye performing some dangerous acrobatics. If you say Velasquez was also involved, I won't believe it. Yes. This heretic caused us a lot of trouble and we are putting our hopes in Rebecca's hands. In this book is everything you saw and experienced. Maybe I can put it all in some order at last. The rest you can write yourself. May Allah send the dew of happiness on your head. Kiss him, Zibelda. I will be happy seeing him in your arms. Whenever I see you, I am always afraid I won't see you again. Perhaps we won't meet again. But we want to live in your memory forever. The hour of parting also has its sweetness. But now I know everything, so tell me really who you are. Close your eyes. And when you hear your name, follow us. Now? Can we make it before dark? We can. This time we can. For sure. Where have you been? The mules have escaped. Off we go on our way And hurry! You must see to him. A nice room and some peace are the advantages of our inn. For a long time, they thought I was missing. Everybody was overjoyed to see me. Only the sheik was saddened to see me weak and my health damaged. A meal for the seor, quick. Two foreign ladies, who are spending the night at this inn, would like to invite you for supper. What's that? Where? The End
