 

                        Come on, man, it's New Year's Eve. Aren't cops allowed to have a good time too, Maurice? Wouldn't it be easier to just get the operation? Enjoy the fireworks, mate. I gotta account for those, you know. Gonna make me come up short. Again. ( fireworks whistle and explode ) ( no audio ) ( camera shutters click ) JENNIFER: Give me home office. Respectability. Punctuality. JONAS: Punctuality, okay. JENNIFER: Punctuality. Give me being on time. ( camera shutters click ) Uh, yeah, is the... ( laughs ) That's the one, yeah. What do you do again, for a living? Photo... Photographer, yeah. ( techno music plays ) ( woman screams excitedly ) All right, then. ( phone rings ) MAN ( over answering machine ): It's Mathis. Leave a message. LOUISE ( over phone ): Dad, where are you? I snuck out. Mom will kill me, but so what? It's New Year's Eve. I thought we were gonna celebrate together. Anyway, call me. I wanna see you. ( laughing ) ( crowd shouting ) ( fireworks whistling ) Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Dad. Happy New Year. Where are you? I'm at this horrible club. Nightshade. Music sucks. ( explosion ) ( car alarm blaring distantly ) ( dramatic theme playing ) FEMALE REPORTER: It's been one month since 236 people were killed in the New Year's Eve explosion at the Nightshade nightclub. Authorities still can't say for sure how far toxic contamination from an abandoned weapons facility several stories underground has spread beyond the blast site. Over 5 square miles of the city is now a quarantine zone. Everyone still living within the area has been forcibly evacuated. We are continuing to get reports that more and more people are leaving. MAN 1 ( over radio ): They can't tell us who did it. They can't tell us why. WOMAN 1 ( over radio ): I've got friends and neighbors who've already left, and I'm thinking we should do the same. MAN 2: Something is being kept from us. MAN 3: Who was responsible? ( dramatic theme playing ) You left me behind Lost inside the enemy In our hands And overnight I changed my shape To fit with something You won't let me out Keep pulling me down You kept me afraid Until now With your head Full of lies Head full of lies Stay with me Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh Head full of lies Stay with me Ooh Head full of lies When you come to mind My love is blind Because of you I am unkind With my head full of lies Head full of lies ( sniffles ) Jen? Couldn't sleep. I think I'm gonna go for a walk. Get some dawn shots. It's 5 in the morning. At least have some coffee before you go. Don't worry, I'll be fine. Go back to bed. Get your beauty sleep. Hey, hey. No pictures. JENNIFER: I used to know this city. Its people. I've spent my whole life photographing them. The government keeps telling us the city's safe. That no contamination has spread from the Quarantine Zone. But it doesn't matter. So many people have left. Fleeing from something they can't see. I wanted to document what's happening to the people here. But since the explosion, since the construction of the Quarantine Zone, my photographs are different. We're different. Is it despair? Confusion? Rage? Fear? Everything's changed. Maybe forever. JONAS: Jesus. JENNIFER: It's his eyes. They look right through you. See you later. ( baby crying ) ( techno music throbbing through walls ) ( shushing ) Don't he do nothing but scream and shit? He's got a cold, Benny. ( buzzing ) MARIA: Benny, it's Mom. Can you let her in? Benny, she's gonna get soaked. Let her in. ( breathing heavily ) ( door buzzing ) Benny. ( glass shatters ) ( Maria screams ) ( shrieks ) ( dramatic theme playing ) Jesus, you look like shit, mate. Got a little job for you, Willy. New Year's Eve. I wanna know what went down. Can't get shit from my end. Station's in lockdown. Let me see what I can do. Hey, Willy. This isn't some low-level, punk-ass street hustle. These people are serious. You watch your back, do you hear me? I'll see you around, Mathis. Well, well, Boy Wonder. Crawling out from under a rock. Lovely morning, eh, Freddy? PIERCE: Little off your patch, aren't you, mate? Put that shit out. The cap thinks the building might be dirty. Possible distribution depot. Sorry. No drugs. Place is clean. Bloke just went crazy. Threw his wife out of the window, strangled the kid. Techs say it's some kind of burn or residue. Right, I'm gonna get back. Might wanna take another hit on that mouthwash before your breath ignites. Hey, some kind of voyeur thing going on here? No, I knew those people. Sort of. I took their picture for a show coming up. News said that he murdered his wife, his baby? Yeah. Just another day in paradise. ( camera shutters clicking ) I think they're wonderful, darling. This could be your best show yet. Those poor people. I had a feeling something wasn't right with him. I never imagined how bad. EVANGELINE: Everyone's life has changed, darling. Your job is to photograph, not psychoanalyze. We're different. The city's different. And you're surprised by this? After everything that's happened? No, it's more than that. Look at him. There's something going on beneath these expressions. Something's happening to us, Evangeline. Something... Something raw. ( cell phone rings ) It's your phone, darling. Your parents called again. JENNIFER: Shit. I meant to call them. Wouldn't it be easier just to answer? What did you tell them? What you told me to. You're hibernating, getting ready for a new show. The truth, in fact. They understand. Don't we all. So you coming? I've gotta meet that street dodger I told you about. You can't work 24/7, Jen. Girl's gotta have a little release every now and then. He's got me into an underground club I wanna photograph. I won't get another chance. Again, the camera comes first. See you later. Okay, bye. HOME SECRETARY: The emergency services are still finding toxins as far away as a quarter of a mile from the blast site. Until they can assure the Home Office there is no more contamination WOMAN: Are we in danger? Quarantine must remain in effect. MAN 1: Does that mean the contamination could spread? MAN 2: Why is it taking so long? MAN 3: Are there more survivors? MAN 4: Are they finding more bodies? There are no more victims or survivors. The evacuation was effective and complete. And the focus of our efforts now is to make the area safe for people to return. MAN: But then why all this military? Why are all these heavily armed soldiers around? JONAS: Thank you, everybody. Busy day ahead. Thank you very much. More information to follow. Thank you. Minister, to be honest, I'm starting to run out of justification for our evasiveness. Well, we haven't been able to settle on the official narrative yet, have we? It sounds like we don't have the situation under control. HOME SECRETARY: What kind of spin do you think will work for the moment? JONAS: Maybe if I could see what's going on in there, I could come up with something. The only people allowed in or out are emergency services, Jonas, you know that. It's still contaminated. Hey. JONAS ( over phone ): Hey. What time will you be home? Late. Don't wait up, please. So where is this place? I'm not exactly sure. Willy's gonna show me. Are you sure this guy's okay? Yeah, he's harmless. Okay. Just be careful, all right? I will. Okay, bye. Night. You do like poking around dark corners, don't you? Can't help myself, Willy. I hear these things can get a little bit, uh, dodgy. Never been? No, not my scene. This is her. Have fun. Hey. Hello? Do you want me to get someone? Can you look at me? JENNIFER: I watch people. I watch what they do. And now... I'm afraid. There are places everywhere in this city where hostility is gathering. Fear is feeding on it. Anxiety is breeding in it. Are we all wearing masks now? Are we using them to hide from the truth? Are we pretending these plastic expressions will protect us from things we don't want to see? Or are we too scared to show our real face? Trying to hide something we don't want others to see. Right, I'm back in the office. MAN: We have another situation in the Quarantine Zone. Troops are on the way. Thought we had things under control in there. The press will have questions. So get your people briefed. We'll be in touch. What's it like in there? Request permission to enter Quarantine Zone. MAN 2: Permission granted. [WHISPERING] You cover the first floor. I'll take the rookie and sweep down here. Sir? Sir, where are you? Control. Control, I've lost my team leader. Control, can you hear me? Control? Ambulance chasing again? I saw a woman cut herself last night. Just another night out looking for trouble, eh? I don't think it was suicide. I think she was... driven to it. Driven? By what? Yeah, your mates didn't believe me either. I'll walk you out. So, what's your story? The limp. Memento. The war. Must have been young. Enlisted when I was 15. Lied about my age. That explains the booze. Pills too, I bet. I'm observant for a living. Yeah. But it's pretty obvious, actually. You lost someone, didn't you? New Year's Eve. The memory band. Daughter. I'm sorry. Yeah. Try and stay out of trouble, eh? People want to know what the weapons facility was doing there, Minister. Well, now we don't want to rush to judgment here. No one was supposed to know that weapons facility ever existed. Records were classified. It was ten floors down for chrissake. Right. And cleaned up 70 years ago, supposedly. I think you'll just wanna stick with accident, Jonas. Seriously? Oops, sorry. Didn't realize you were living on top of a chemical weapons dump until someone, and we still don't know who, blew it up. There's a dead zone in the heart of our city. How much longer do you think people are gonna be satisfied with that? And I'm afraid that's checkmate. [LAUGHS] Oh. Yes. Yes. Tell the fellas that we're having steak tonight, mate. [CHUCKLES] Willy G. Oh, Mathis. Why am I not surprised? What have we got here? Earned this shining shoes, did we? Delivering groceries? Some other honest enterprise? Oh, yeah, I almost forgot. You got some skills of your own, eh? Where's the rest? [SIGHS] Good day. So are we gonna stand around moralizing all day, or are you interested in a trade? Might have some of that information about New Year's Eve you were after. I'm listening. You know the Silver Street boys? Unfortunately. Word is, Dickie Prince was shooting his mouth off about the bombings a couple nights ago. All nudge and wink kind of stuff, of course. But it's like he knows more than he's saying. But saying just enough to keep you listening. And you've seen this nudging and winking? Well, a couple of my crew. We do odd bits for the Silver Streets from time to time. Dickie thinks my lads are too stupid to know what he's talking about. Okay. This one's a pass. But next time. What? What about my stash? Go get Dickie. Yeah, well, the bugs Want the floor-wearin' shoes Yeah, they're stompin' On your feet and makin'... So... You some kind of comedian? Come on, Dickie. I mean, we all know you're not the tightest knot on the docks, but a grungy nightclub? New Year's Eve, I mean, that's low, man, even for a piece of shit like you. Now, do you think I'm stupid, boy? Fuck. Just keep this between me and him. Leave it. I said leave it! You are stupid, Dickie. Stupid and slow. I'm gonna give you a couple of days to think things over, and then I'm gonna come back. You're gonna have the information about that night. Ain't that right, Dickie? Say yes, Dickie. I don't know shit! You fucking will when I come back, won't you? I'd get a Band-Aid for that if I were you. [DOOR BEEPS, OPENS] What's the plan? Minister's redevelopment speech at the Omni tonight, remember? Black tie. Right. So, what do you think he should say when they ask? When they ask what? The usual. "When are we going to lift the quarantine?" A little hope would go a long way, you know. I don't put much stock in the bullshit of hope these days. [PHONE RINGING] I need to take this. In private, Jonas. Yeah? Mm-hm. I saw the press conference. It's getting harder. Is it? There's a lot of pressure. People's expectations. Even my right-hand man is proving difficult to manage. You said he was pliable. You told us he would follow your lead. He's not a puppet, sir. I have to show there's progress going on in there. Have we made a mistake? I'm sorry? No, I-- I just need to know what's going on. I need to know what to say. There are very few people we can trust, but I thought you were one of them. So I'll ask you again. Have we made a mistake? No. No, sir. You can trust me. I'll manage it. MAN [THROUGH GLASSES]: I think you should see this. Blood toxicology shows abnormally elevated levels of norepinephrine. And we found significant levels of neuro-modulators in the spinal fluid. Manner of death is consistent with all the others. Was he given the antidote? Yes. And? Made no difference as far as we can see. The tissue results will confirm that. How soon will you have those? Within a few hours. Call me, immediately you get the results. Problems? JONAS [OVER PHONE]: Another speech by the minister. Attendance required. What about you? I'm headed towards the theater district. Well, wake me up when you come in later. I'll see you soon. Bye. Love you. [OPERA MUSIC AND VOCALS PLAYING WITHIN] [WOMAN SINGING ARIA OVER SPEAKERS] [SHUTTER CLICKING] No. No, no, wait! You didn't come to bed. Jesus. JEN: Something happened last night, Jonas. I saw something that made me question everything that's going on. Looks like you had a productive night. All of this is happening on the perimeter of the Quarantine Zone. Can you tell me what that is? And that? That? And that? A bad chip. Uh, a printing error. A flaw in your lens. I've checked it a million times. There's nothing wrong with my camera. Fuck's sake, Jonas, why do you always have to do this? Do what? Try to spin things. Make everything sound reasonable. Well, you know what? It's not reasonable. Those things are real. Do you realize how crazy that sounds? I've seen them. I felt them. Jen, listen to me. You're not eating, you're not sleeping. You're out day and night looking for trouble. Okay, why don't you come up with a better explanation? Make it sound plausible. Isn't that what you're supposed to be fucking good at? Good one, Jen. Things are being kept from us, Jonas. Wake the fuck up! Oh, I'm awake, all right. And frankly, wasting time with fantasists and their fucking cameras making up shit about mutant monsters from the Quarantine Zone, that's way below my-- [GASPS] I can't believe I just did that. Jen! [DOOR OPENS, CLOSES] SOLDIER: Excuse me, sir. Jonas Flack. Home Office. Doing a little recce for the minister. Wanted a first-hand look, make sure we've got our facts straight. Sorry, sir. I was thinking, maybe I could do a ride-along. Get a little perspective I could share with everyone. I'm afraid we can't accommodate, sir. You understand that I represent the Home Secretary here? Well, maybe you should take this up with him, sir. JONAS: Seems my Quarantine Zone clearance means nothing. Care to tell me why? I'm late, Jonas. I'll see you tomorrow. So they're still bringing out bodies. I stopped by the Quarantine Perimeter. What the fuck is going on? Can I give you some advice? Always welcome. Leave it alone. Just stick to what you do best. And as for the rest of it, leave it alone. Please. Should I be angry, Dickie? Should I be thinking about consequences? That little scene at your bar last night. Mr. B. I don't know what you've been hearing, but I ain't said nothing. No one could make nothing of it by me. Nothing. I've known you since you were a little boy, Dickie. You like the spotlights. You like the attention. Wanna be the big fish eating all the little fish, am I right? Sure, Mr. B. Don't everyone? But you see, Dickie, you're a small man. A man without proper wisdom to rise. Oh, you can be useful. You have been useful. Real power, Dickie. Real power, it camouflages itself. It's anonymous. Mr. B, please. One must know one's place in the firmament, Dickie. It's the spouting whale that gets harpooned. I won't tell you again. JEN [OVER PHONE]: Jonas, it's Jen. I'm guessing you're still pissed off at me. I just wanna say I'm sorry. Maybe you're right. Maybe I'm too wound up. I'm really sorry about the things I said. Really sorry about throwing the coffee. Wasn't even a fresh pot either. Pathetic. Um... Please give me a call when you get this, Jonas, please. JEN: I know what I'm seeing is real. I can't be the only one who's seeing this. Can I? I'm not crazy. My friend says you can get from one side of this city to the other without coming up for air. She talks too much. JEN: Am I losing control? Am I getting carried away with my obsessions? WILLY: Wouldn't bother with your phone. They're jamming all signals up there. JEN [OVER PHONE]: Jonas, listen. If you wanna be a dick about this, that's fine. I deserve it, but the least you can do is text me, or send me a message, anything. Please, I just wanna know that you're okay. Something is happening to us. Last chance to change your mind. Too late for that, I think. Well, this is as far as I go, so... JEN [OVER PHONE]: I think something is coming from inside the Quarantine Zone. And whatever the government tell us... I think we need to get as far away from here as we can. Before it's too late. The man works for the Home Office and he's missing. Are you going to do your job or just stuff your fucking face? Sure he's not just winding you up? Maybe you two had a little... ...post-cuddly spat or something? Here, let me take this one off your hands, Freddy. Be my guest. Seems like your kind of girl. Yeah. You're a fucking charmer, aren't you? One of our city's finest, yeah? Okay, look, we did have a fight. I was an asshole and left, but he would never just vanish like this. Okay, look-- He hasn't been to work. He's not picking up his phone. There could be many reasons. Where do you suggest I start? All right, look, let me do some checking around. Hear anything in the meantime, you give me a call. Take it from there. See if we can figure it out. [ROCK MUSIC PLAYING IN BACKGROUND] Gah! Has that prick of a cop been back? BENEDICT: What will you do when he does, Dickie? DICKIE: Mr. B! You should've let me know you was gonna visit. Well, it wouldn't have been much of a surprise then, would it? DICKIE: I see you're drinking the Chateauneuf Du Pape. I keep bottles of this fine vintage around just for you. The regulars, they just get that cheap Bulgarian crap. Ha. Appreciate the gesture, although I don't suspect your boys go much for wine anyway, do they? [LAUGHS] This lot? Hell, no. They're just chicken-in- a-basket and dumb lager boys. So, what will you do, Dickie? Eh? What's the plan when this prick of a cop comes back? Aye, well, what I'd like to do is drop him in the nearest canal and let him get the answers he wants from the slugs at the bottom. I thought that might be your instinct, Dickie. But, but-- I mean, I've been remembering what you said to me the other day, Mr. B. About the spouting whales. It's the one that swims low and silent. He's the one that rules the seas. Low and silent, Mr. B. I'm practicing what you preach. You were a good boy, Dickie. [SCOFFS] [GROANING] [STABBING] BENEDICT: I know you boys understand. TEAM LEADER: Come on, move it! These are ready for the disposal unit. TEAM LEADER: Orders are to divert to Ops Labs for examination first. [VOICE CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY OVER RADIO] TEAM LEADER: You next. [HELICOPTER FLYING] Move your men out! Meet up with the next team! TEAM LEADER: Move it out! FEMALE VOICE: You have reached the voicemail of... MALE VOICE: Jonas Flack. FEMALE VOICE: Please leave your message after the tone. JENNIFER: Hi. Not sure why I keep calling. Miss the sound of your voice, I suppose. JENNIFER [WHISPERING]: Jonas. We need to talk about your boyfriend. I know where Jonas is. In the Quarantine Zone. This dodger I know, he took Jonas there. Says you know him. Willy G? Yes. Okay, okay. So... Willy slips your boyfriend into the QZ where no one's supposed to go. Why would he wanna go there? It's my fault. I think I got under his skin about what really happened in the Quarantine Zone. Not buying the official explanations, then? Are you? [SIGHS] You ever hear of a gangster named Emeril Benedict? Small potatoes mook named Dickie Prince. Runs a gang over on Silver Street. Dickie does the odd job for Mr. Benedict. Like planting bombs in grungy nightclubs on New Year's Eve. I can think of the usual reasons. Someone didn't make the proper pay-offs. Someone had a score to settle or maybe a contract job to collect insurance on the building. What does this have to do with Jonas? Because something truly fucked is going on here! And my daughter died because of it. If your boyfriend's sneaking into the Quarantine Zone, he knows something. Government weapons dumps and barrel boys like Benedict do not sit together. Do you want to find out why your daughter was killed? Come with me. The Quarantine Zone. It all leads back there, Mathis. That's where the answers are for both of us. Let's find out together. [SIGHS] You need to go. What? Just listen to me. Just do what I fucking tell you for once. Take this. Go. Go! Go! [TRAIN PASSING] Didn't you just eat, like, an hour ago? Get up. Excuse me? I said get up, Mathis. I'm arresting you for the murder of Dickie Prince. How'd he die, Freddy? Knife. Had your prints on it. Okay. [GRUNTS] [GASPS] [GUN COCKS] You really think I fucking care? Yeah, I think you really do. Okay. [LOUD TRAIN PASSES] [GASPS] LAD: Jesus. JENNIFER: I nearly killed someone last night. I nearly became just like the people in my photographs. I have to show you what I've seen. What I know is happening. [BEEPING] It's all here on my website, in my photos. Look closely. You'll see it. [] I'm going to find Jonas. I'm going to find answers. [COMPUTER BEEPS] [] [PANTING] Just make sure we remain clear of it. Benedict, our local man, said he had a problem with a copper. Freelancing by himself about the New Year's Eve bombing. He says he had to put him out of commission. Frame him for a murder. He did what? He reassures me this'll take care of the problem. He's always been a reliable asset in the past. An asset... fast becoming a liability. I'll deal with him. Yeah, all in due course. First, get me Angela. [PHONE RINGS] [] [PHONE RINGS] You told me you could manage him. ANGELA: We need to get him out of there. KELLER: There's a team on its way. We're going to have to fix this, Angela. One way or another. Have to do everything myself. [SIGHS] WILLY G: This is a very bad idea. You know that, right? Like, very bad. It's not your problem, is it? Besides, you'd be talking yourself out of a very nice payday. Yeah. Well, there is that. [] Hello? Are you sure I can't talk you out of this? I've already got your boyfriend on my conscience, and I-- I've been in scarier situations than abandoned streets with a bunch of Hazmats lurking around. There are worse things to be afraid of. You've seen them, haven't you? Those things. Yeah. Yeah, I seen 'em. [] [BREATHING THROUGH GAS MASKS] SOLDIER [ON RADIO]: Second team moving in. Hello? Anyone here? My name is Jonas Flack. I'm with the Home Office. I can hear you back there. I just want to talk. JENNIFER: Where do they come from? What are they? You ever read that story, Peter Pan? Do you remember his shadow? [CREATURE GROWLS] [RUSTLING] [GUNFIRE] No! Hold your fire! [GROANS] [] [BREATHING THROUGH GAS MASK] [RUSTLING] [GASPING] [HYPERVENTILATING] CHARLOTTE: It's not safe here. [GASPING] Who are you? [GUN CLATTERS ON GROUND] You don't need that, you know. CHARLOTTE: There's nothing wrong with the air. [GASPING] Let's go. They'll be coming. You're not sick. Do I look sick? But what are you doing here? There isn't supposed to be anyone left. We hid. Thought we'd be safe. But then they started coming for us. There are others? Like you? Ones that didn't leave? JENNIFER [WHISPERING]: Jonas. [JENNIFER MUMBLES] I was-- I was so scared. I am so... I'm so sorry. JENNIFER: I looked everywhere. I was so scared. All the things I said, I'm so sorry. No, you were right. About all of it, you were-- You were right. I've seen them. [GROANS] Oh God. What's happened to you? The government men. They shot him. JENNIFER: What? It's all been a lie. New Year's Eve. The whole Quarantine Zone. It's all been a colossal fraud. That plastic on the buildings is to hide what they're doing. I should have listened to you. They're hiding something, Jens. Something to do with those things. There is no contamination. Not the way they've been telling us. And now they're coming after anyone who won't leave. JONAS: Getting rid of them so no-- [COUGHING] Shit. We need to get him to hospital. And how are you gonna do that? We're going... to cross the border. [CROWD MUMBLING] We can't. We're going to come out and make them see. This is crazy. It will never work! Sooner or later they'll come, and then it will be too late. You're the only proof of what's been going on here. We need to get across the perimeter and everyone'll see and they'll know. TEAM LEADER: All call signs, updating your... They've found us. Shit. Go. Go, go, go. Contact! Contact! [SCREAMS] Target down! CHARLOTTE: This way, this way. FEMALE VOICE [OVER P.A.]: Alert. Contamination risk. Alert. Contamination risk. Keep those people back. [P.A. MESSAGE CONTINUES REPEATING] [] Stand down! TEAM LEADER: I said stand down! [CROWD CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY] As you are aware, we have experienced a very serious and very unexpected breach of one of our primary Quarantine Zone checkpoints. These people were not residents of the area. They never owned a house there. They didn't work there. These scavengers and petty thieves snuck into the Quarantine Zone to take advantage of the city's vulnerability. They are seeking medical treatment at a secure facility as tests have since confirmed they are suffering from high levels of contamination. Furthermore, acting on his own initiative and without the Minister's knowledge my colleague, and my good friend, Jonas Flack, overreached his security clearance and entered into the Quarantine Zone to pursue reports of vandalism and looting. He was attacked and wounded, and is also suffering from high levels of contamination. [ELECTRIC BUZZ] Hello, Jennifer. Who are you? Hollings Keller. I'm with the Ministry of Defence. What is this place? KELLER: Somewhere safe. I'm sorry about this. It's for your own good. Where's Jonas? Where have you taken him? KELLER: Jonas is fine. His injuries weren't serious. He's recovering. Physically, at least. We've had to move him to one of our psychiatric facilities. What? Why? Where-where are the others? The little girl? Her name was Charlotte. I'm sorry. They were exposed to high levels of contamination. We couldn't save them. There is no contamination. You're fucking lying! I want to see Jonas. Where's Jonas?! I need you to calm down. Jonas! I want to see Jonas. Jennifer, you need to calm down. Don't tell me... Calm down. Calm down and listen to me. [CRYING] We need to know more about those things that you've seen. The things you write about. Your blog. We know you've encountered them. We need to know how you survived those encounters. I've no idea what you're talking about. I need to get out of these. You have no right to detain me here. Of course we have. You were trespassing in the national security Quarantine Zone. Jennifer... you can help us. [CRYING] I'm not feeling very charitable at the moment. [SIGHS] I understand. You will give me what I need. Whatever it takes. [JENNIFER CRIES] After all, I'm not entirely sure anyone knows that you're here. [JENNIFER SOBS] ANGELA: The incident the other night was indeed unfortunate. And as a result of the breach, the MOD has reinforced security at every perimeter checkpoint and significantly increased patrol within the Quarantine Zone to reassure people this will not happen again. We cannot stress highly enough how dangerous the Quarantine Zone is and how hard our armed forces are working. The public have every right to know its government have this situation under control.
