 

                        [ no sound ] [ music ] Day one in the Browning house. It's moving in day Been going at it since pretty early this morning. Uh, Stella should be home in a couple of hours, and hopefully everything should pretty much be in its place. No activity thus far. All right, house... show me what you got. [ music sting ] [ orchestral Music ] Hey, lady. Hi. How was your day? It was good, it was very good. Wow! You got a lot done. Not too bad, right? Uh-uh. So...you ready for your first night in a haunted house? As ready as I'll ever be. Oh, hold on one second, I gotta show you something. Okay. Check those out. What are they? Those are pictures of the house after the crime scene was cleaned up and there's even one of the family in there. So this is them? Yeah. It's horrible to think they all died in here. Who's bedroom was this? That was the little boy's room. I'd like you to play close attention to that picture cause I would really love it if you could decorate that room to look just like the picture while I finish the office tonight. What? Why would I do that? Well, supposedly, if you recreate the house to look like it did when they lived here, it can actually make the spirits more active. Okay, that's a little creepy. You ready to go to work? No... Can't we just enjoy our first night together? The box is already in the room. But, when it's empty... [ laughs ] Doesn't seem right. Decorating a room for a dead kid. Paul? What was the kid's name? Uh, it was Tom. Sorry about what happened to you, Tom. There's definitely something off about this place. it's like the air is heavy or something. It has a certain energy to it, doesn't it? Yeah... it's kind of exciting. Isn't it? Yeah... and a little creepy. No need to worry, little lady, I'll protect you. Oh, well that's reassuring. Ouch. You're so mean to me all the time. Oh, do you think they would let us paint the walls while we're staying here? Yeah, I think so. Awesome. Why? What color were you thinking? Well, you know how I like color, and lots of it, so I was thinking, how about a deep blood red. Blood red. Yeah, it'll match right? The ghosts will like it. Yeah, it'll probably match what the house used to look like. There was a lot of blood on the walls. You didn't tell me that something actually happened in this room. Yeah. Great, what? The guy shot his wife in this room. Are you-- Exactly where you're laying right now. Shut up. Wait. What? What's that? Oh, look, it's brain matter. Oh, my god. Night. Thanks. Oh, come on. I'm just teasing. Mm-hmm. [ music ] [ door creaking ] [ movement ] [ bang ] Paul...Paul wake up. Huh? What? I heard something moving around out there. And didn't we shut the door last night? Yeah, I think so. It's open now. Where are you going? I'm gonna go take a look. Who knows, maybe our experiences will start tonight. Nothing. I know I heard something. It was probably just the sounds of the house settling. We're not used to them yet. I swear it sounded like someone moving around out there. I looked everywhere. There was nothing there. Come here. Boo! Ah! Asshole. Ooh, what's the matter? Haunted house got you a little spooked? No, but you sneaking up on me and yelling "boo" in my ear does. Hey, where's Stella? She break up with you already? She's at work. What are these? Oh, those are from, uh, after the crime scene was cleaned up. No shit? No, why do you have these exactly? I'm putting together the house to look like it did when they lived here. That's a little sick, dude. It's supposed to make ghosts more active. You really believe in this stuff don't you? Yeah, I do. So, did you actually find out what happened here? Yeah, I did. And it was definitely the father who killed the family. There wasn't a break-in or anything like that. Those were all just rumors. The details are a little bit hazy but, the gist of it is, he shot his wife in their bedroom, and then he shot the kids in their rooms. He covered each of the bodies with a sheet, and then he shot himself. And they found his body in the living room sitting up in a dining room chair, brains blown out. Kinda weird. Ah, I got a bunch of boxes and stuff outside. Can you help me move those into the garage? Yeah. [ metal banging ] Hey, be careful with that, that's my radio. You still have not finished this thing yet? Oh, my god. All right, I'm putting it here. Collecting dolls now? Yeah, Sam. I'm collecting dolls now. It's Stella's. So, how is it? Living with Stella? Yeah... It's... it's great. I mean it's only been a day, but, she's still here. That's a good thing. What about you? You got a fling of the month? Who is it this time? Uh, Summer? August? Moon? Chelsea, yeah, her name was Chelsea. And? She was...immature. Too immature for you? Yeah, she didn't even know how to cook. I did all the cooking. Treated her like a queen. And what did this queen eat? Macaroni and cheese? Hot dogs? A little grilled cheese on special occasions? And hamburgers... Frickin bomb. You know what you need? You need to find a girl who's exactly like your mom. Somebody who'll take care of you, and will cook you three meals a day. Yeah... Which shouldn't be that difficult, seeing as your mom really was not a good cook. Better than your mom. You're mom never cooked. Yeah, that's cause she died when I was seven. That's what I'm sayin'. You realize we're getting old. It's not even 11 o'clock on Friday and we're in bed. You're getting old, I'm not. Nice try, You're older than I am. Ah, so, grandma wanted to know something. Um... I know... I know you want to write a book about the house and all, but... Why? I think it's a good time right now. I mean, everything that has anything to do with paranormal activity is huge right now. I know, but, what's driving you? Fame...fortune. Stop. Seriously, what's behind it? I want to prove to myself that I can actually finish something I start. I'm thirty. I'm a part-time ad writer for a newspaper. My biggest accomplishment has been writing an obituary. I want to be somebody that you can be proud of. I am proud of you. You are? Yes. And I'm excited to see you really excited about something. [ door shut ] Paul? This isn't funny, Paul! [ phone ringing ] Hi, mom. I'm good, how are you? He's doing good. What do you want me to tell him? Okay. [ laughs ] [ banging noise ] Yeah, you want us to be over there Sunday? Yeah, I could bring whatever you want. [ dragging sound ] Mom, can I call you right back? Yeah. Okay, bye. Paul? [ radio static ] [ whimpering ] Oh my god, what happened? Hey. Hey, Stel, are you okay? I can't stay here anymore. Please, don't go. I can't live in this house anymore, Paul. There's something bad here. I thought you wanted to have experiences. I did, but, I thought it was gonna be orbs of light, maybe...maybe silhouettes... something friendly. This is not friendly. Just, wait, wait, wait. Please, sit down. Please, just stay the night. I won't leave your side, I promise. And if you still want to leave in the morning then we can talk about it. Just don't run out like this. I'm scared, Paul. This thing could hurt us. Come with me. I can't. Why not? If I walk away from this, this is just one more thing that... that I didn't finish. Stel, I need this. So, you'd pick the house over me? I didn't say that. And that's not fair. Please. I'm asking you, just stay the night. We'll figure it all out in the morning. For me? Okay. Come here. [ music ] Stel? [ phone ringing ] Hello? Hey... hey, I just got your note. Sorry. Just had to get out of there. That's okay, you had quite a scare last night. So what time are you gonna head back over? I can't live there. I know it means a lot to you but... I'm just not comfortable staying there. Okay... Well, this sucks. I know... Can I call you later? my mom's taking me to breakfast. Yeah, all right. Okay, talk to you later. [ noises ] [ Children Whispering ] - I told you to be quiet. - I didn't do it on purpose. - If you're gonna play this game, you have to be quiet. We don't want to wake him up. - I'm sorry. - Just don't do it again. - Okay. - You ready? - Yes. - Okay, go hide. One, two, three, four, five six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Ready or not, here I come. I hear something. He's coming. [ child laughing ] I could hear you talking. Can you do what you were doing again? I just want to talk to you. Can you give me some sort of sign of your presence? Can you knock on something? Or move something? Anything? COMPUTER: You've got mail! [ laughs ] What the hell is this? [ scream ] [ phone ringing ] Sup, dude? You asshole! What the hell are you doing sending me this for in the middle of the night? I didn't think you were still gonna be a awake. That was a cheap shot. Did it make you jump? Yeah, it made me jump. It scared the crap out of me. They have this website that you can go to to make all this cool stuff. I mean, they have the...you know obviously the photo editing aspect of it but they got the audio too, I mean it's fantastic. You got the crossfades, and the delays even, auto-tuning-- [ music sting ] [ doorbell ] Hey, Paul. Hey, Skip. Here to pick up the rent. Oh, yeah. Come on in. Okay. Here you go. Thanks. Uh, Skip, while you're here, um... do you mind if I ask you a couple questions about the house? Sure. Do you wanna have a seat? Hmmm. Let's go outside, it's nice out. Can I get you something? Water'd be good. Sure. So, Skip, how long have you actually owned this house for? Um...about eleven years now. The previous tenants that lived here, um, did they tell you why they moved out? No, they had their reasons. Did any of them mention things happening in the house that they couldn't explain? Like what? Like ghosts? Why? You seen something? No, not personally. But with all the stories about this place, I was really hoping to. Sometimes, stories is just stories. Have you seen anything in the house? Well I have to say, there... there is something off about this place. Why did you move out? Oh, I never lived here. My...my parents owned it and they rented it out and when they died, I inherited it. Wait. Did your parents own the house when the murders happened? Yeah, they was rentin' it. What were those people like? I didn't know 'em that well. They was good people though. It's a shame what happened. Any information that I can get from you on those people, or any of the other tenants, I'd really appreciate it. Why you so interested in this? I'm writing a book on the house. But, don't worry, I'm not gonna use names. I'm not gonna use addresses or anything like that. This is just a story about me living in a haunted house. That's it. That's the stupidest thing I ever heard. I will tell you though... Somethin' scared those people out of this house. One lady was worried about her kid. Can you tell me how I can get in touch with her? No, they didn't leave no forwarding address or nothin'. Can you give me her name? I just want to track her down, and see if maybe, she might be willing to talk to me. That's it. Some things are just better left alone. I seem to be hearing that a lot lately. Well, maybe you should listen. Look, I gotta go. I got a delivery coming this afternoon. Thanks for stopping by. And I do have some more questions for you at another time. Skip? Yeah? Yeah, I'll be in touch. If you need anything, I'm the house in the back. [ bang ] [ strange noise ] [ music sting ] [ bed creaking ] [ music sting ] PAUL ON PHONE: Hi, is this Judy Peterson? Hi, Judy, my name is Paul Anderson. I live in a house that you used to live in. Uh, 8928 Maple Street. I was just hoping that maybe I could ask you a couple questions about the time that you lived there? Hello? What a bitch! Don't go in there. That lady's crazy. [ doorbell ] [ doorbell ] Said I was coming. I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. Are you Sue Dryer? Who are you? I'm Paul Anderson. Yeah, what do you want? I live in your old house on Maple Street. I was really hoping that you and I could, uh, talk about your time living-- Is this some sort of a sick joke? Did my husband send you? I don't know your husband. Do you people get some sort of sick thrill out of tormenting me. I just...I live in the house that you used to live in, and I thought maybe we could talk about it. Get off my property before I call the cops! Look, I'm really sorry if I upset you, I wasn't trying to. I just wanted to find out if maybe you had some strange experiences in the house. I'm looking for validation. Here, I'm gonna leave my business card in your mailbox. You can call me any time. [ radio static ] [ music ] I just don't get it. I mean, I'm trying everything and nothing is working. I'm even setting my alarm to wake me up in the middle of the night cause that's when they say ghosts are more active. Nothing. I mean, I have a lot of testimonials. But... nothing crazy you know, like, like someone getting attacked, or...or possessed. Those are the things people want to read about. They don't want to read about cabinets opening by themselves. Okay, uh, would you actually want it to attack you? No. But I do need something big to happen to me. You're out of your frickin' mind. You, sir, are obsessed. I just need that one big thing. This book. It's gotta be great. [ music ] [ door creaking ] [ covers rustling ] Mm. [ music sting ] [ music sting ] [ music sting ] [ phone rings ] Hello? This is Paul, who's this? Who? Oh, Sue, hi. Yeah, I would love to, um... uh, yeah, I'll be over in just a couple of minutes. Great, thank you so much. I'll see you soon. Okay, bye. Thank you for calling. I didn't think I was gonna hear from you. I wasn't going to, but... when you said "validation," well, I could use some to. So, um, how long have you lived there? Just over two months now. So what are you interested in, in me? I rented the house, because I had heard of the stories of it being haunted, I'm writing a book on the house, and my experiences in it. And I know that you lived there, so I was really hoping that maybe you could share some of your experiences with me. I think maybe you should leave. Wait. Please, Sue... just talk to me? I would really love to hear your experiences, and get your story. Can I? If at the end, if you don't want me to use any of this, I'll give you the tape, and...and you can keep it. Interview with Sue Dryer, former tenant of the house. I just made some tea, would you like some? Yeah, that would be great. So, did you have any strange experiences in the house? If you're referring to the house being haunted, yes, I did. Did it... uh, start as soon as you moved in? No. At first it was great. I loved the house And my son's school was right down the street. I was the president of the PTA. My husband's work was close by, and the yard was great for my son to play in. He loved that yard. He would spend hours just running around, he never got tired. So, when did things change? About two weeks in. Drawers and cabinets opened, voices... At first I thought it was neat. I've always been fascinated with the idea of ghosts. I even bought one of those tape recorders, I was starting to try to communicate with it. Did you get anything? Not really. Some strange sounds and things, but... no voices or names or anything. Thank you. But then... it got stronger. Things started happening more often. What kind of things? Doors would open and shut on their own. Shadows... and those sheets. People under sheets? You've seen them too. Did they ever interact with you in any way? I got pushed. Pushed? How? I was going down toward the bedroom, and I got pushed from behind. Was it Like a...like a shove or just a soft push? Hard enough to knock me down. I told my husband about it, he didn't believe me. I was worried about my son, I didn't want anything to happen to him. What did you do? I told him I wanted to move. And he just kept saying that I was making excuses, trying to get him to move back to Colorado. But those things that were happening were real. -I know. I believe you. It had this way of alienating me from my husband and son. It tormented me, but it never showed itself to them. So, your husband and your son never had any experiences? No. Well, my son had an imaginary friend. He's so creative. Your son's imaginary friend... Did it have a name? Yes it did, what was it? It was um... it was Tom. Um... so, what... what happened in the house after you got pushed? My husband and I started fighting about it all the time. That house killed my marriage. He even took me in for a psych evaluation. A psych evaluation? So it...it never did show itself to your husband? No. I think it purposefully did that to separate us. I think it liked torturing me. I think it wanted to kill me. Did it do anything that would give you the idea that it wanted to kill you? Yes. The day of the psych evaluation. My husband came home and told me he had enrolled our son in day care because he didn't trust me with him. We had a huge fight about it. And then, he took off. And I started screaming at the house. It was ruining my marriage. And then... everything got still And... the doors slammed shut. I felt a hand on the back of my head, and my face slammed into the floor. What happened? What did you do? I don't remember anything else. I woke up in the hospital to a restraining order. My husband thought I slammed my head into the floor because of our fight. What? He got full custody of my son. I ended up back on the psych ward for three months. That house. It took my life from me. All the more reason for your story to be told. I think you should leave now. Hey, Sue? I'm really sorry for everything that you went through. You have to get out of there now! Don't you understand? It's trying to kill you! You're hurting my arm. It'll alienate you from everyone, and then it'll come after you! If it's showing itself to you, it's only gonna get stronger! You have to get out of there! It's going to kill you! Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord is with thee, blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Hail Mary, full of grace! [ radio static ] [ loud noise ] [ dragging noise ] [ radio static ] [ "Pop Goes the Weasel" instrumental playing ] [ music ] [ radio clicks off ] Tom? [ door creaks and shuts ] Tom, is that you? You don't have to be afraid of me, Tom. I'm not gonna hurt you. Why don't you bring the flashlight out here and play, Tom? Tom? [ recorder recording ] [ recorder plays silence ] I know you're here, so just talk to me! [ recorder plays silence ] [ music ] Where are you? [ frustrated yelling ] Yeah, you're a big man! You can shoot your wife in bed, and you can kill your kids and you won't even come out and show yourself to me? [ frustrated yelling ] Where are you! [ music sting ] [ sinister music ] I Just... Want to talk to you. [ music sting ] [ tape recorder squeals ] [ electrical clicking ] [ electrical clicking ] [ squeaking ] [ traffic noises ] [ Phone rings ] Hey, Sam. Hey, buddy, just calling to check up on you. Did the guys come by and drop off your stuff or what? No, the movers said they probably wouldn't be here until tomorrow. Cool. Hey, thanks again for getting those last couple of boxes, I just couldn't go over there. Dude, you okay? Yeah, I'm fine. But I should probably get back to it so, um, I'll talk with you later. Don't be a stranger. Okay. All right, talk to you later, Ciao. Bye. [Gasps] [ music sting ] [ orchestral Music ]
