 

                        South West of France The Jews. Quickly, Papa. Quickly. South West of France Nowadays I'm entrusting you with the Locullus. The relique was in the posession of The Knights Templar for seven hundreds years. And in that time it's secret was lost. But now I'm on rediscovering that secret. And the prospect feels me with fear. I want you, as an expert, to locate his historical resting place and return it there. Make sure you are not followed stay out of comunication till you back. It's very little time. There has be the chapell to Maria Magdalena here since the Knight's Templar. And there are links to ocult symbols found on the other Templar sides. Latitude... 42,5. Longitude 2,79. Five... Hexagrame... No. Pentagrame... No. West London There is lord Martel for you, sir. I have to see you, Jake. I kept my mouth shut and your name clean. And now here you are after three years.. On a bloody television. Jake, it had to look like I disowned you. But, it was understood. I'd like to join me on the research establishment I've set up on Sacred lsland. Why? To my commands. 5 millions pounds. You give mama decent settlement before you start talking about making amens. She won't take a penny. Stay away from us. Do you understand? I'll give you an extra five mills take care of her. For both of us. Please come, Jake. At least, let me explain. I'm not even stay then I. I'm here now mom, and I don't wanna be anywhere else. I do want you to stay, but first you have to make a clean break with him. You're just an innocent lamb. I don't think lambs hacking to you finance comission of four major banks. It was the shepperd. And now you're all I have. Turn your back on him, he'll drag you down, just like... - No one tells me what to do now, mom. When you're get back, mr Martel? The tide is coming in. We need your expertize with codes. This time is perfectly legall. - What kind of codes? - Ancient codes. That's all I can say. You've loved criptography since before that photo is taken. Listen Jake, it's a challenge. Unlocking a secret, that must remain a secret. That's all I ask. And you'll get paid where you succeed or not. Still the supreme manipulator. Still my son. Sorry, friend. We're just wondering if you knew where we might find any occult stuff. You're standing on it. Europe's finest forensic scientist archeologists, astronomers, cell biologists... scholars of ancient history. All state of art. What's the use of all for? I've got to you here to evaluate the legend. And his physicall evidence. This is part of what you will you analysing. Analysing, dating... classifying, decoding. Why keep us laboring in the dark? Why don't tell us the source? Because I'm not permitted to. And why are we join by student of alchemy, of all things? We are going to turning letters to gold? Gentlemen, the wise skeptic doesn't this miss anything can may have. One symbol represents the hope of life in this world... and the breath of life in the other world. The Ankh was unchangeable with the crucifix in the early Egyptian church. It's almost the same as the symbol for Venus. Which is now the feminine symbol. What you're looking for? - Venus. There is a conjunction of all the major planets in that style next may. It hasn't happened for at least a thousand years. My project requires need a few all kinds of sciences knowledge. To achieve what, exactly? I wish I can tell you. There is some fine accounts of the knights Templar in there. They said the Templar Order still exists. But where once they cultivated silence and care for the poor. nowadays they're corupted by greed and dark forces. But this been ocult symbolism is a meaning through our history, even in churches. The Knights Templar were unlucky. Take a burnt for it. You know more then you admit to. I could share with you, my knowledge about the Templars. Please do, I'd like that. In the 18 century, the Templars form the secret masonic order. And brought their the most pretious relic here, to Sacred lsland. The Grand Master was determine to understand and harmless his power. He recruited England's finest scientist and alchemists. The highest level of the noble order of the Templars. I will strive myself for decipher the code of Locullus. Stand up, First Knight. I swear to protect you with my own life... or if not, to be punished according Roman's Ritual of Deads. No disloyalty was accepted. But the order concentrated on attaining power, rather the knowledge. So over time, the meaning of the relic and his code was lost. I've cracked the outer codes... but nowadays, codes with in codes may not be just consonance, similarly from different alfabets. Mystic jews consonance without raws... so that one group of letters could mean many things. The second part is 'Genesis'. It's a birth of creation in greek. And now PLN. Palin means 'again'. 'Born Again'. It's an alchimist term. It's symbol signifies regeneration. Life from death. The meeting is over. Is this relic a box? What is the significance of it? Lord Martel? The secure satelitte line... In your private chamber. Hello? My commander? Who is this? No telephone communication is permitted concerning the order. Where is the Locullus? As Knight Commander you took of all, never to let it out of our possesion. It is safe. - But where, where you've got brought it? Who are you? What's your rang? I don't recognize you. Well, you should. Without your Order's help, you would not have attain imense power and wealth. Have the Loculus ready. ...and in the 1980's carried out numerous asassination and masive money laundery. Illegaly masonic orders, such as P2... linked the mafia, CIA and even the Vatican. Several these secrets societies are controlled by one particular grand master... whose identity remains unknown. Washington is anxious to prevent recurence that could affect his interests. Mister Chairman sir, I make my mission in NSA to maintain total vigilance against the kind of penetration made of resource is the P2 achieved. General Demolay, has your agency have reports about powerfull secret society operating in Europe, dating back from the Middle Ages? I don't think so. Unless you mean some kind of jousty club. Dad? Dad, open up for a second. Hello? Did you find the resting place? Will you back it? They won't negociate. Destroy the Loculus. Hello? You didn't tell me what I want to know. Martel Traitor Jacob, it's me. We're out of time. But here, have you join the encryption code. The files will point to the resting place of the Loculus. I've send someone to return it, but I don't know if they succeed it. You were right, it's a sort of box or the high knew that, I don't know. There is an Order, of powerfull individuals and they want to find it. But they no longer possesed the ancient knowledge. - The Templars? But why they want this box? I can't tell you that now. It's all on that CD-ROM. But you have to decode each section separately, that's why if they capture you, you won't know the final answer. - And what you want to do with it? - Destroy it. Before they find it. This five millions sterling it's in a safety deposit box. You'll get the bank details when you'll decode. Please Jake, I can't undo the past but I've stopped just in time. It's up to you, now. I beg you. We can't allow The Order to succeed. Give me the whole picture to make my own judgement. When you'll find the Loculus, you'll understand how important this mission is. Don't save me, Jake. Don't even try. Mira. Where are you going? 'Is a full moon like to a battle stage. - Beautifull night pleasure. - Stay up till morning. - Why? - Please, it's vital you do as I ask. I can't tell you. It's been destroyed. Impossible. Who destroyed it? Take him down. MARTEL TRAITOR - You're with them. - What? Did you see them? - Who? -You must be heard. Heard what? I was meditating. Listen to me. My father is dead. Everyone is dead. They've been murdered. Come on. The headlines sudden dissapearence of billionaire Lord Martel and leading academics from Sacred lsland. Since police investigating the EU corruption scandals, where... intending to interview Lord Martel. The exclusive businessman, was recently nobiled by the prime ministre... along with several others, now accused to fraude. In the last tough hour a press conference was... Don't believe this. The Fraude Office has been investigating the disappearance of almost 2 billion pounds... alocated by the EU to the Martel foundation. We called Lord Martel... We gonna go. You go. Probably the whole work of your father's is fakes it. It's logical for the Order to cover up as fraude instead of murder. Blame one missing man and protect the people at the top. I've heard enough. Let me go. You can't imagine your home is can be safe to go to. Do they live your parents? Anyone close? This is it. How did you even know your mom will be at home? Mira, call an ambulance. Hurry up. Your father tried to warn me. Who did this? Do what Magnus Dei... Mom. Step out. Now. Challenge Star, here is Jupiter. Your 2 operatives were eliminated. I wait for other orders. - Sir, they want to actives. Remove the bodies. Destroy the location by fire. Remove the bodies. Destroy the location by fire. The subject and the operatives are all dead. No result of what we're looking for. - Who killed your operatives? - We have no idea. The son would come around this time from the prison. Why did you run away? - You've just provoked two men death. - You left my mother die. I tried the phone, it didn't work. I was the only witness, I was terrified. Jake? You've just out from the prison and you're in smellish, already? And who the hell are you? Ray Connolly. Chaplain in the prison service. Well padre, I haven't eat no junk anything since yesterday. What's this? The chaplain is a vegetarian. Talk to me, Jake. I've stopped fighting for her majesty's government, several dodgie wars ago. I'm still alive cause a way you took me inside. - I'm glad to hear it. Jake, I think there is a pattern to this murders. These technics are remarkable familiar. Piercing with stakes... burning... Roman rituals used against the Christians. Ray, wake up. I've been scrambled the message. Jacob, find the Loculus. Then you'll realize what my sacrifice has been for. Sacred geometry should lead you to the sights where the Loculus could be resting. Certain early christian buildings was sided to reflect the stars and constellation. The Book of Revelation frames everything in your search. The Second Coming of Christ... a struggle between Him and the Antichrist, a false prophet. - And what means all these images? - I'm afraid I'd never heard little about. Don't tell me. Alchemie. We could use your help. Why should I help you? Wait. And this is what lies inside the Loculus, that the Order wants to possese. All these symbols linked to Loculus... alchemie... and the Apocalypse. Palin Genesis. Reviving the dead. If we can find this document , might lead to the resting place of Loculus. lsaac Newton? The relic were performed divine service when the Apocalyps drow it now... and Venus be in a perfect position in the heavens. l, Newton, am certain of this. With an initiate can perfect the Great Work from death and putrefaction... he will have achieved eternal goal on the Underground Stream. The Essence of Life. No Divinity to call apart. I'm creating the Divine. Here... now. Alfa and Omega. Sire, I think he is failed. Magister, perhaps the conjunction of the planets was not propitious. - Perhaps next year. - Well? The Underground Stream will need to flow several centuries more... before the Great Work can be wrote. Can you be ready in 20 minutes? How did you already know when you told your father that Loculus is a box? lsaac's papers was been imaculately preserved. So I should be inspecting them very carefully when you finish. For stains and so on. Is that quite clear? Father? You two don't look like academics. I expect you're alchemist. Ray? The Underground Stream does possesed my secret relic that is shown to the book of Revelation. So what is the 'Underground Stream'? Since ancient Egypt, each master of Alchemie on his generation passed on secret knowledge to his succesor. The 'Underground Stream'. Newton was the great alchemist in scholars at his age. And a member of the Order? He spent 20 decades study alchemie for extort this relic. And failed. Are you saying the man who discovered the laws of gravitation... No, these all was just a site line. Hello? - Stop or I fire ! -Why are you spying us? The library is closed. I'd mean to tell you that lost 2 hours... but the work hard is so fascinating so I've just listening. Put your hands on your head and walk to ward doors. Did you contact the Order? - What Order? - You know what I'm talking about. The Order of Shipwriters, perhaps? They do put some fine vessels on the camp. - How can an idiot be a librarian? - How can a gunman be a priest? Jake? A reference of the Grand Master trieving the relic, in 1220th in Rennes-le-Chateau. Now, I think that's the way the Templars cause was in Southwest France. You've got a fax-copier? The relic is capable of unleashing both Great Good and Great Evil. That's why is imperative that you find and destroy it. That way the oposing forces remain balanced. One last thing: obtain Subluminal in a UV light from a forensic lab. You can research how and when to use them. The bank account details are in the next file. I bless you. Hurry. The money... Of course. Do you think I'm doing this to get rich? I'm sorry. I know you're doing at for. Will you come with me? To France? You can't trust her, Jake. Maybe you're right. But she's got the knowledge I need. I'm not staying here visiting smelly prisons. - You can't do, in case we need backup. Look, I have to go with you. You might be great in codes, but you have not milleniums to get the crypt in alchemie... I'm the ocult. The Occult is always being part of religion. Why the women talk such mambo-jumbo? - You're picked, too? Millions of people were been killed through fanatic. - Tell me millions were killed by black magic. I don't have yet enough time for that, Father. Thank you. Partner, now? Not prisoner. Partner. Made of composites wich can avoid metal detectors. We've got 20 piece of phones. We use new pass for each call. With false identity, no one can trace us. - Luminal. For what you need this. - Thanks. UV. Call on every 12 hours. With the cash you left behind, I can hire an army. Disgraced of The Cross. The Order influence this. But, the rest of the geometry leading to any relic here... Can I help you, miss? Yes, father. - We would very much like to visit the tour of Magdala. - Magdalen's Tour? Let me solve this, mr reverend. - That's my problem. It is not permitted, you know... This Tower was built by one of our predecessors. No secret compartiments. We've got all the time looking for the Templar's treasure. Crazzies with mine detectors. But you two, are diferrent. Thank you for your time, father. - Curiosity strangled the cat. - Just 'Kill the cat'. 'Strangled'. You did not do your homework. For the poors. Thanks. One of my predecessors was strangled. But no one knew why. New traceling between this site and another Templar building? No. What about The Maltese Cross? Is the symbol of the knight of St. John you have closeling to the alchemists. Rennes-le-Chateau... Malta. Jake? You're allright? Why you've asked? Did you heard someone? Have you given the message box details to anyone? Of course not. Where did they go? - I have no idee. l swear. Don't leave me here. I beg you, brothers, save me. We've gotta start with the churches. 'Malta has more churches per square mile than anywhere else in the world'. That's fuckin' marvellous. Yes, but how many is deeped in the occult? The symbol of healing and transformation. That split snakes the female energie... the male is the straight road between them... conducting energie of the spine to the brain. Emerging here. Alfa and Omega. The beginning of the end of time. Life from death. Palin Genesis. I think is something underneath here. - The Ankh. - With what is it connected? Did my father said something about the Ankh being almost the same as the symbol of Venus? Venus. There she is. At what latitude to receive Venus best? Is almost here, near Turkey. Was Asia Minor in Roman times, right? Patmos. I've been seing things. ln dreams. Have you? What I especially see, is my mother dyin'. John The Divine was banished here by the Romans. This is where he wrote the revelation. Thousand years before Christ is a cult of Venus on this temple. Sacrifices was made on this. Animals and people. Maria Magdalena was worshiped with Venus, until the church called her a whore. She stood for love, lust, penitence. The believe that she made love to Jesus, costs several thousands people slaughtered. Not far from Rennes-le-Chateau. - Listen, I feel like we've been followed. - Since when? Soon, after we left Rennes-le-Chateau. - I should fly out. Also I bring some backup. Great, I send you an encrypted map reference. We'll speak tomorrow then, ok? Bye, Jake. Venus. Venus Temple is there. What do we know about Magdalen's Chappel? Crusaders built around 1096 when they eliberated Patmos on rit to the holy land. A thousand years after John wrote revelation. Let's have a look at the night sky in 1096. They saw an eclypse in july. And this should be the view from Patmos, when it happened. A pentagram with Venus at the apex. This is it, Jake. Patmos must be the resting place for the relic when the knights meet the eclypse... and the planets in a pentagram. We are standing in the precisely apex of the pentagram. Which points true north to the fifth element... The heavens. Magdalen. Do you think that is safe to open? Let's take up, to the light. The human form divine. What is this mean? A powerfull male and female the triangles also represent body and spirit. The circle shows that all are linked no join without pain, no life without death. Hermes, messenger of heaven. And Aphrodite or Venus. Joined. Forming the hermafrodit. We've got to get away. We have to wait... Mira? Venus. Focus on a special idea. A special hope. I'am focusing on you. All of you. I breath out... you breath in. Exchange our energies. What is there? Tell me, Mira. Someone is here. Quick get dressed. We have get out from the crypt. This way. Thank God you can't shoot straight. You nearly fuckin' ventilated me. What did you expect? - Why didn't you advertise us? Because I didn't know you're down here. You could be the enemy. It's magnificent. Well, let's just take it and go. That's the weekly tour. A half hour in the chappel, then the rest of the island. They don't come here down. - How do you know? I asked at the monastery. They don't allow visitors down here. - Why didn't you say you're following us? And for a how long? The Order is everywhere. I had to be close enough to help. - How close? Today? Templar knights. Kneeling in front if her, Magdalen. Who scratched all those faces? - Sarasins. And Turks. All these images of Mary Magdalen and Jesus went lost. Perhaps all these images has been done by people who have known them. Those their faces knew. What links all of this? The sign of the Truth Cross. I think this wood was found on the cross used in the crucifixion. Disgrace another cross. - No. Mozes spearred serpent to help lsrael recover from disease. John wrote that Jesus has to be transfixed, just as the serpent was... to release his essence in healing power. The snake is the symbol for the palin genesis. The mount Hermon is on the holy land. C - L... V - S. I must look at dictionary see what we find going between. Clavis mean ' key '. And clavus mean ' nail '. I think the key... could be in more actually holds the Loculus together. The nails transfixed the flesh and also the spirit of Christ. What is that? Rust? The Luminal. I have discovered something. If you spread... and this object goes violet... then is signifies... organic matter. Organic matter? What kind? How old? Christ matter. Christ's DNA. Newton saw the picture in the Loculus. I think The Great Work was to ressurect Christ for the flesh and blood, from this nails. Which is why he related the Loculus to revelation. So the Loculus is a smoke curtain? It has no purpose in itself? We should try find out. How go the alchemists attempt to clone? The DNA must be so degrated. Not necessarily. Several ancient specimens survived because they were freezed by the conditions. So long as they never caught wet. It must it happened on the mount Hermon. Perhaps my father guessed that soon will be possible to salvage the Christ's DNA. Ressurect Him. And maybe even manipulate His genes, which is what that Magnus stop. And in the meantime The Order came looking. They can't be far behind. What now? What do we do? My father and mother, both said that this had be destroyed. How can we take such a decision? Destroy this forever... As a god creatures we don't have right to decide the faith of such holy relic. I'm not God or anyone of these creature. But I do know that enough people already died. Your father said that it could accomplish also much good. Let me take it to the Vatican. To the most trust man I know, cardinal Chisamba. His faith is beyond question. Why should the Vatican decide when the Messiah will come? Dogma has no place anymore. Man and woman can find the Divine in itself. The age of Aquarius? The age of bollocks. Of tolerance. Understanding. Is someone wants those nails then wants the power comes with them. And I won't let it happen. You're bewitched, my friend. Get away from him. You've calculated the seduction, but it failed. You do not let use by her. Come with me, side by side. Leave her. We all stay together. Ray. Open up. Stand by, Jake. Forgive me. Have you food? Water? - A bit. How long you think of leaving us here? After this story of Loculus is over, I'll be back to set you free. We still stood beside each other. - No, Jake. You stood with her. We rehydrated the cells of a freezed dried 2000 year old human sample... transferring the nuclear to host cells for replication. How about adding the external DNA into the developee embryon? We can make changes to the DNA as the host cells multiply... creating a new individual. And how can this affect its personality? Genes influencing personality can be manipulated as they grow by introducing doses of donor. Good. Who will the donor be? I'm sorry, sir, I should have realise. The child when grow up will be like me? Genetic make-up is only a part of what determines personality... education and environment are also crucial. So coercion, fright and fear... can break even the spirit of most saint child? I'am afraid so, yes. May I ask when the subject DNA will arrive? Soon. I suspect very soon. Come on, hurry up. Magdalen. Vatican The wood... and the nails, you say? - Yes. Follow me. Tell me everything. How did the Loculus come to your possesion? - Your eminence, can we find some more private? - Of course. Where did you find the box? Who gave it to you? Cotton or synthetic? Now, talk. Tell me where did you find it until the irons burns right through. Don't ask God to receive you, yet. Where did you find the box? The murder of the cardinal and the its employee were no surprise... for the Guardia di Finance who investigate the corruption. We have discovered that the cardinal and his british assistant... millions have laundered by means of a chain of bank accounts in Moscow. We will examine this thoroughly. But sergeant, how we know or your organisation deeply enough... Since the church man didn't talk... how will you find and eliminate Martel's son and the alchemist? Flying tickets. Patmos to Piraeus. From the thrash hotel of father Connolly. We will triumph... with Magdalen... queen and bride of Christ... and mother of the Merovingian line... and the Martel's. Mary Magdalen. ln Hebrew: Miriam. Miriam... Mira. What did you see.. when we made love? Please, tell me. Perhaps father Connolly was right. Maybe I've brought you into danger. We're taking every step together. Come on, Mira. Take my hand. This sand can let fill up to the passages. I think is a sort to prevent damage of the graves, in times of prosecution. Ray? Come on, you bastard. We also sit in the fall. This does not survive we. We have still even, I think. We remain here to that sand almost have passed through. Then the passages have been blocked. - Not in the high chamber there. 'If I have not return, 2 people are trapped, or even in more danger... you must help them but do not call the authorities. Keep going. Come on, Jake. Help. Come on, Jake. Save yourself. And what is your progress? - Development is normal. - Excellent. Presidents, ministers, generals, we have succesfully replace the...gene influencing behaviour and personality whith those of the external donor. But if anyone examines the 2000 years on DNA on the nails will still match with... The cells of the child and those of the historic sample... have similarities that no other human being on earth have possesed unless they are Christ's direct descendant, of course. Thank you. Leaves our now. After 300 years, The Order has reclaimed his place within science. Once more the Underground Stream flows for us. How will the Vatican be persuated that this is the new Mesiah? ln 1981 in the Vatican a prophecy was sealed... stating that a baby will be delivered to the church... during the great conjunction of the planets. Our baby will be left to the Vatican hospital door. His holiness will hurry himself proclaim prophecy. The appearance of Jesus Christ... but the might and character of a very different being. Thank you, Sister. He choose to follow Christ example of sacrifice. Your can't blame yourself of that. You must. And you know why. And the dragon stood before the woman, which is ready to be delivered... for to devour her child, as soon as he was born. The Pope has proclaimed that after 2000 year, Christ is been born again. The holy child will be educated under catholic supervision of ' Cardinal Modesto '... because of his unknown profile , until now. Cardinal? The millennium of peace has done. Few voices of the dissidents sounds does not fall in the large mass. a chain of slightly of hundreds of miles forms a clear message. A new conjunction of the planets is appeared in the night sky... of a kind not witness for 2000 years. I've been waiting for this moment. To understand why Jake and I were brought together. and why he died... saving us. You must be the hope for us all. The sign of your birth.
