 

                        FBLA members, Drop, Lock, and Bake will be this Saturday at Food Fair. Please remember to have your three baked goods, the signup sheet is on Miss Eld's door. Have a great day. Let's win! Let's go, let's win! Let's go! Let's fight! People around town, they walk towards us or walk past us with their nose fifty miles in the air acting like their shit don't stink. And acting like they're better than us. And I don't fall for that. We're not trash. We're good people. Anything could trigger me. The smallest slightest thing you'd think wouldn't trigger most people will trigger me. I think people expect me to do good things and have a better future than I do right now. I don't even know what to do anymore. Origin in childhood, A's by love of parents, family ties are treasured things and far through we may, um, youth? Something? Be tender, but our bonds with those we love still pull our hearts toward home. Yeah, I think someone just wrote that on there 'cause they didn't know how to spell. No. See, they didn't know how to spell. See, look, see, leaven or "yoth", "you oath." Remain youth, wait. And family heir and elicit. Stop it! You're gonna make me fall, I'm gonna pop your back. We lived in Rich Hill then we moved to Branson then to Ridgedale, back to Rich Hill then to Belton, wasn't it? Mhmm. And moved again from Belton to Granby then... Don't forget Lathrop. I know. And then from Granby to Raymore, then to Lathrop, then back to Raymore, and then to Appleton City, back here, then moved again, well, in the same town, but, yeah. Oh, wait, I forgot to mention that land. The Ozarks. Yeah, the Ozarks. Oh, and then we moved to Margie's for a week. Oh, yeah. Are you a little baby? You're not doing it right. It's like, are you, I can't do it. Are you a little baby? Are you a little baby? He's like, "Yeah, I think I am". Mom. Are you a little titty baby? No, you didn't do it right! Are you a little titty baby? No. Okay, the first line, "if I die young" sounds pretty bad, okay? Okay. If I die young Bury me inside Lay me down on a bed of roses See me in the river at dawn Send me away with the water Sing our song My mom, she wants to get out here and do things with us, but she can't 'cause of her problems. And, I mean, I miss her. I wish that she, you know, could actually do the things that she wanted. That's sweet. I mean, my dad, he's almost the same way, but he just ignores it and goes on with his day. And, I mean, I know I wouldn't be able to live without my parents, so far. I'm still their little baby, their little angel or whatever they wanna call it. That's right, you two are my babies. Yeah. I really do love my mom and my dad and my sister. The important thing about Appachey, it's not really a poem, it's just a biography, the important thing about Appachey is he loves to skate, he's competitive and he likes to skate. He's competitive, cool, he likes to skate, hang out and play ball. He loves animals, especially turtles and he loves his boards because every one of them has a story of how he got them. The important thing about Appachey is that he loves to skate. Stupid ass assignment. Don't know what the fuck that is. My dad left when I was six. Just walked out. Didn't even say bye. I woke up in the middle of the night and he was gone. He never came back. Get up. This is what happens when Mom goes to work. You are so lucky you did not hit me with that. Your cuteness have reached its limit for the day, knock it off. AD/HD, bipolar, OCD, ODD. That's all of them. I think. Now they're looking in to see if he has Aspergers. And he's not compliant with medication, so I don't know if medication would actually help him or not 'cause he doesn't take it right. And at 13 years old I'm not gonna hold him down and shove it down his throat. It's a choice if he wants help or not, it's all up to him. Oh, reading Patrick a bedtime story, I see. "Snail Tales", that's a good one. "Snail Tales"? I thought it was called now, now, now. It's "Kung Fu Panda: Legends of Awesomeness" up next on Nick. I bet my hair's all poofed up, ain't it? I use a lot of water so you might wanna stand back with your equipment. I'm very easy to make mad. Actually, that one there. I don't have something like that. That one's $14. I take pills for it now. Ten bucks, it's nice. But like, I'll be fighting with somebody, next minute I don't even know what I'm fighting about. I'm pretty sure I don't got no money. How old are you? I'm 15. Yeah, I couldn't sell it unless you're 18. Have to be someone 18 buy it. I had money in here the other day. I must have spent it on Burger King or something 'cause I remember eating Burger King. You have to borrow some money from somebody. Right now my mom's in prison. She's been in since July so... July, August, September, October, November, December, January, February, March, so about nine months. Yeah. Mom's not with it, I had the rest of my teeth pulled today. You had the rest of your teeth pulled? Yeah. And how many was that? Eight. Now it hurts really bad. Yup, I won't be getting my teeth pulled. Just hang it to, just hang it to a door and have somebody else pull on the other end. Negative. I'm being recorded and you're being recorded. You know how I'm being recorded? Because every call you make I'm recorded on. But this time you're being recorded by my people. I love you. I love you, too. Have sweet dreams. You, too. - Bye. - Bye. The caller has hung up. Okay. I always gotta wait for "the caller has hung up." That way I know she has hung up. But, yup, that's what it's like talking to my mom. I work with my dad. I make 20 bucks a day whenever I work a full day. He does oddball jobs and stuff. Right here is the garden we've been working on. And, I mean, it's still a work in progress, everything is, basically. Hear that lonesome whippoorwill It sounds too blue to fly The midnight train Is whining low I'm so lonesome I could cry Pretty much just dumping the water in it. But just can't bump that iron, it's gotta set real easy. Take an electric skillet, put it over there and heat it up quick, it's like five minutes, you got hot water. See, that one's steaming now, that's almost good enough. Put a little water in that tub. Then the coffee pot. And by the time this one's done, that one will be ready to go. It's steaming now so it's ready. Take the whole thing in there. When you're in a place where there's no work and you can't pay the bills and it gets shut off you learn to survive, the survival. There's other people waiting to take a bath. One minute. Minute's up, move. Go. All right. Get that bath, get that ass washed, boy. You're ready for your next school day. I don't know why he wears shorts. I guess he's just crazy like that. My little, bitty, baby twin sister. I'm not that short. Yeah, you are. She's just great. I mean, we have our times where I'll throw down and do a little bit of this. And there's times whenever she goes... "Come on, you wanna tussle?" I don't know if he thinks he has something to prove. I have no clue, but he's totally changed. Now he's Mr. Big and Bad and gonna fight everybody out there. Here, baby, tuck it under ya and then when you sit down you tuck it under you. There. My air is on and we don't have a dog. Keep that door shut. Get out of the kitchen, you'll eat supper when it's done. I'm hungry! How can you be hungry, Pac? You ate a whole can of raviolis meant for three people. So? I don't think you need anything else right now. What do you want? No. I said no, get out of my face. More. I don't think it's funny. I don't fucking care. Good. Goddamn! I never got to have any dreams or ideals about my life. I turned 17, moved out of my mom's house, started working, met Jeremy and got married. I never had a life, I never had any dreams or hopes. It just went straight from being at Momma's house to being a mother. I didn't get any time in between. Which I don't really regret it, I don't regret having my kids. Sometimes I wish I would have had time to grow up a little bit more. Instead of just being thrown from being 17 to boom, you're an adult now. But I made it. Not always made the right choices, but I made it. Get out of my freaking room! Keep this outta here! Shut up! Get out of my room then. Beat feet, hit bricks. I was not playing with you! Come to think of it I think we might need some barbecue sauce. Do we have barbecue sauce? Got some. Yeah, nevermind. We got barbecue sauce. I been back and forth from Mom to Dad. All right, bye. But like, finally I just told Dad, like, I didn't like his wife. So he kinda gave me the opportunity to go live with Grandma. Grandma? While you're, while you're out will you get me either a four pack of regular Monster or a two-, two mangoes? No. Do, you could get mango on food stamps. Yeah, but I only have like two-hundred dollars. Two-hundred dollars to hold us over. Now, that's not much for everybody to last a week, if not longer. Just please try to get one, love you, bye. I don't know. Bye. Man. I wish I di-, kept my change that I gave her back the other day. I would have kept that and got me one. 'Cause I'm tired, I wanna go to bed. Sorta. There's just half a day left, though. I'm not happy. I'm a demented little kid. Well, not little. 'Cause I got a pretty big stomach, but I'm not little, but I'm not huge. You gonna lay there and go to sleep? Probably. He has absolutely no patience. Like, five minutes to us seems like an hour to him. And I don't know, you know, what it is that makes him that way. He didn't used to be quite like that. And he flares up real easy. Mostly to me, I think. Because we kinda, you know, battle back and forth and everything and I can say one word and he'll take it wrong, you know? So then he's mad. But he's gotten pretty demanding and stuff like that. You wanna go see my new knife now? Not right now. I got one. Mhmm. Quit it. It's stuck. Oh, I need butane and cigarettes. You already mentioned that about four times. Okay. At least I got it in your system. Like I said, I don't know about the butane. Harley. What? Quit pounding. What? Shhh. Told you about that. Okay! Get crunk. I'll just get the cheap ones. Dude. Hey, man, I'm trying to find something that's 15 cents. Then I'll buy it. You light it, run like hell, and yeah, it makes one of those. All right, there's your synthetics. You guys have a good day and have fun. All right, dude, you gotta give me one package. Yeah, give me one, too. Give me one. Here, I'll race Wesley. To what? The stop sign. On your mark, get set, go! Hey, I got boots on. Hey. All right, lay down. Lay down. There, I laid down. Turn off that light. The other light, I have a cigarette. Are you fucking asleep? Yes! No. Please? Okay, all right. Get up on your pillows. There you go. There. Just because you owe me. I don't owe you anything. Yes, you do. She's on this medicine, you know, sleeping medicine and it puts her out. But, yeah. She's always cooped up in the house in her room watching TV or something. And I wish that she could actually be there to experience the world, you know? All right, here we go moment to go, get on in, got two pies left. Here we go... Who give a 100 dollar bill there for Randy Bloomfield. Hundred dollar bill there. Two hundred dollar now, gonna get three hundred. Gonna get three. Five, six. Don't let him run away with it! Fourteen, fifteen, we're getting close to the record. Nineteen hundred now, 2,000! I got 2,000 now, looking at 21, 28, now nine, now nine, 3,000, 3,000, 3,000! We all know that records are made to be broken. We got four more pies here. If we can break that four more times then wouldn't nobody challenge Rich Hill would they? Let's go after them. It's not fair. Fucking idiots didn't even give me a straw. You're lucky you got the pop. Keep bitching and I'll throw it away. How could I drink a pop without a straw? You gonna push me? No. Shut up about it. We did good, girls. High five. High five. Once I finally got here and actually started helping. Now we'll get all this shit taken home, get all these people taken home, I'll go up and get lunch, we'll veg out while we eat lunch and then my kids are gonna start deep cleaning. This straw sucks, I've broken it. No, that's how it was whenever I got it. You can have my straw. Thank you. I just want a straw. Shit. You're gonna finish your room, the boys are gonna do their room. What the fuck? This is disgusting. Can someone help me with this? Tara, I have no fucking room to clean. Yeah, I'm gonna laugh when you get in trouble. All the chores are done? That's why we're all out here playing? Appachey! He's in the shed, Mommy! I can't clean 'cause there's baskets everywhere. You can clean. You can put this stuff back where it goes, now. I can't, Mom, there's baskets everywhere! There's not baskets by the wall! What am I supposed to do with it? Get it picked up. Mom, I, I can't move both couches 'cause there's shit everywhere. So move the fucking baskets. Where am I supposed to put them? In here! Where does it look like I'm putting them? The whole goddamn couch on top of them. I fucking do it and everybody starts fucking acting stupid. Fucking ridiculous. No one wants to listen. I would get a bag and start picking up the trash on the floor. I'm tired of spending my fucking days off doing this shit. No one will fucking do what they're told to do. I work hard enough during the fucking week, I shouldn't have to clean on my days off. Shit should already fucking be done. How are you doing the face? The eyes are done? Not reddened in yet, but the outline's done. Oh, all right. Get a picture! What, what. You ain't got no pancake mix, what? Can't handle all this. Did you take one with the cigarette in my mouth, though? Yeah, I got one with the cigarette in your mouth, but you might not be able to send one to your mom with it. Trick or treat! Yeah, trick or treat. Yeah. You love us! Ain't we too old for this? Uncle Jimmy! What are you doing? Y'all out having fun? Yeah. Man there's been peeps all over the place running around here, you know that? Is there? Here, you need more. I need more. All right, Uncle Jimmy. He gave me a handful and then he gave me another big handful and said "You need more." Funny. Man, we need to hit more houses 'cause no chocolate's not working for me. I ate all my chocolate. I think. Man. Yup, I ate all my chocolate. That's for sure. That's what I go trick or treating for. I don't even check the candy. I mean, what... The worst thing they're gonna do is shove a razor blade and if they're that stu-, if they got that much stupidity in them then it's not even worth having them alive. I don't think so. I mean, who wants to kill a couple of kids? That's why I got strong feelings about rape, too. I don't like it. I'm against it. 'Cause there are some things that have happened to me that I don't really talk about, but they still happened. I mean, I ain't forgot about 'em. I I basically try to forget about 'em, don't think about it, and then it don't really, it don't come up too much in conversation. That and anybody that, anybody that rapes a kid should be murdered, should just be shot. Like, the cops should just shoot him. Is the way I feel about it. That or the kid that was raped by that person should shoot them theirself. I don't see nobody. Grandma, you're gonna have to get on my eyes. Do up around my eyebrow ring and stuff. Like that, please. You gotta kinda squat down a little. I'm gonna try not to hit the eyebrow ring. It don't matter. Does it hurt? No. Ever? We wanted to get out of Rich Hill because we couldn't make it there. So we ended up packing up and moving here to Thayer. I was so desperate when I first got here. I got this old time push mower. And I went out and mowed three yards with that and made $20. I went and bought me a cheeseburger and some football gloves. I'm so tired of moving. It's like a joke now. Moving, packing and moving. I honestly think that God's gonna give me friends and God's gonna give me people that hate me. God's gonna give me girls that like me. So I just let it all form together, I just stay to myself, and whenever I get friends, I have friends. I want you to read one of your questions here from lesson one. I mean, I hate moving, but I know if we do, we do. I have no say in what happens. They're the parents, I'm just a kid. Your cheating heart Will make you weep You'll cry and cry And try to sleep But sleep won't come The whole night through We're so much happier. Your cheating heart I think the last time that my son tried to wake me up in Rich Hill and I wouldn't wake up, that was a turning point. I remember that night. It was on the Fourth of July. Yeah, that's when I woke up, was on the Fourth. And I went out on the first of July, that night, and when I finally did come to Willie told me, Willie told me what day it was and I'm like, no way. You know, that's enough. You're gonna run a red light. Look. Yellow means proceed with caution. No, it don't. It's on your side, right? Yellow means stop and proceed with caution. Ready? Hear that lonesome Whippoorwill He sounds too blue To fly The midnight train Is whining low I'm so lonesome I could cry I'm so lonesome I could cry Thank you. Thank you, Willie. Give him a hand. It feels good to have all the bills paid for once. Caught up, pretty much. But I hate money. So this summer's gonna be a whole new ball game. Be lots of work. Get the kids some things they might want, for once. Like to take a day and take the kids down to WalMart or the dollar store and just let 'em buy whatever they want, in a reasonable amount. About $400 apiece worth of stuff. They'll love that. Each year we always try to get a strategy to do something different to better the whole, whole program of them growing up and us being a parent. I was wondering where everybody went. Just out here. Oh, okay. It's too cold out here, I'm going back in. You wanna go in? Let's go in. I was thinking about moving to China. Think about moving to China and becoming an art teacher. 'Cause paintings and stuff from China are friggin' awesome. You get to sit there and draw dragons all day. I praise God, I worship Him. And I pray to Him every night. Nothing's came, but that ain't gonna stop me. This is what goes through my mind. God has to be busy with everyone else. Eventually He will come into my life. I hope it happens. It's gonna break my heart if it don't. You wanna hear something really loud? Me and my mom used to listen to this song before she got locked up. Freedom ain't getting no closer No matter how far I go My car is stolen No registration Cops patrolin' And now they don't stop me and I get locked up They won't let me out They won't let me out Well, the first time I even found out she was in jail is one of my other daughters was down at the grocery store. And they ask her what Joanne got arrested for. And she says "I don't know, I hadn't heard anything about it." So she called me up, I was babysitting her kids, and she called me up and she said, "Mom, what'd Jo get arrested for?" And I said, "I don't know, I'm up here babysitting your kids." And she said, "Well, I'll see what I can find out." And when I, when I actually heard what it was for was the next morning when she was on TV. Yeah, it was all over the news, the internet. Oh, I know. The prosecuting attorney, every time he opened his mouth up, he said that she was a danger to society. Which she wasn't. She's always done everything she can for the kids. And she wasn't a danger to society. There's only a few people that really actually know the whole truth. I was raped. By my stepfather. The cops didn't get called, nothing happened. We, it was best to just leave it alone. They didn't even bring up charges against him. They won't. No, they said they wouldn't because there wasn't enough evidence. Yeah, there wasn't enough evidence. So she's locked up for nothing and he goes scot-free. Yup. I'm just a waitress and a mother that loves her kids. There's nothing really special about me. Never has been, never will be. It never came out until after I had already been sentenced. The judge sat there and ask me why did I try to kill my husband. And I told him because my son had been sexually abused and all he had to say was "I'm sorry about your situation." I don't understand this whole thing. How the state can take a mom away from her kids, but don't do anything to the person who hurt him so bad. He is an angry kid because of it. And right now, little phone calls, he's stronger than I am. He tells me keep my head up, "Mom, we'll get through this together." And this is a 15 year old boy telling his 33 year old mom that it's all gonna be okay. So he's, he's stronger than I am. And I give him that. So let's fight let's win the night Let's go Let's fight Let's win It's all going fairly nice. Everything's starting to come together in little pieces. I just have to stick the glue in there to make 'em fit, you know? We're probably gonna end up settling down here. This is, like whenever I'm antsy, you know... How you do it, you're like this? Wait, wait. Like this, and then... All right, move. Mom, but look, whenever I'm on defense playing safety I'll sit there and be like... I gotta show you all my battle scars with this helmet. You know, that's how you tell someone's good. Go, go Bobcats, win the show Go, go Bobcats win the show Go, go Bobcats, win the show The River, super hits, just like you like it. When you first saw me go out there for kickoff what'd ya think? I think ya did good. No, I mean, what were you thinking when I ran out down the field? There's my boy. I still think I could have done better. I seen you jump on that guy on the fumble. Where they fumbled the ball. I gotta find a job tomorrow. Do like I do. Walk around until you see something looks like it needs done. Painting or something. Pulling some weeds. I don't know. Might be able to go down and get you a little bank account, save you up some money. Trust me, I always, I always thought, you know, well, there's always next week's paycheck and I'd spend mine, not put none up. You seen my shoes, you know, what I've had to do just to get to the next day. Some of the things. So be ahead of the game. Be putting you some funds away. Then when you're out on your own you got some, you don't have to do like what I did. Fuck. Stupid. That was not the train that was there the last time we came. Man, what the fuck's up with all this ice and shit? Hey, you guys wanna see something really fucking amazing? Look at this shit. On the shoe. That did not go through. I'm trying to break all the ice, but I don't think it's gonna happen. That was amazing. You know what? Fuck it. I'm walking through it. The amazing splatter art. I'm tired. Too early for me. I'm ready to go back to sleep. Today's gonna be fun. Today's my birthday, man, I'm 16. Yeah, today's gonna be fun. I got told I dress like a hoochie. I'm not a fucking girl. Today's awesome. Come on, what's today? Nothing you could think of? Nothing? Got anything to say to me? Nothing at all? 'Sup Chi? Whatever. All right, whatever. Have you been to see the nurse? The nurse? Yeah. This morning you have? Yeah. What'd she say? She just said it was 98. So you don't have a fever. I know you don't feel 100%, but... I don't even feel 50%. We've been at school for a month and two weeks and every day except one you have shown up in this office... No, about five or six. ...to call your grandma and go home and that's not an option. I can't barely breathe and you want me to stay here and suffer through it. Harley, there is a lot of people here who aren't 100%. And they're still gonna make it work. And I need you to make it work. I barely can breathe. On your contract that I have on my desk, the contract you signed with the juvenile office, and I said... I didn't even wanna sign that! But you did. I had to. There was no choice in it for me. You're right. You have to be in school. I have to be in school, but if I can't... You played the sick card too much. I can't... You wanna go to...? You're gonna... Harley. I'm just gonna lose it. You're gonna see me lose my temper and I... You don't need to lose your temper. I cannot breathe. If I need to be treated for it, then I need to be treated. I'm just letting you know where I'm at on the situation. If you sign out and leave without your grandmother's permission you are truant. You know where I'm at on this, right? I'll walk home because I honestly don't care if they... You understand if you walk home I have to call Anthony at the juvenile office and they're gonna come and pick you up. Well, you're not giving me any more options. You have given yourself no more options. The most important thing for you is your education. Most important thing for me is my family, that's all I need. I don't need a education, I could make it out there on my own without an education. Okay. I'm just going home, Mr. Ruddert, 'cause my grandma's not here. You know what's gonna happen if you do. What? You're gonna be truant, I have to call it in. Well, you won't let me call and speak with my grandmother. That's right, 'cause you abused that privilege. Alls I'm doing is asking her if she's still coming in. That's all you did the day before and the day before and the day before. So you want me to walk out. No, I do not. Yeah, you do, 'cause you're not... You know what I want you to do, I want you to go to class. I don't want you to walk out. Damn. He's getting to the point where he's really volatile. You know, and I think we had talked about that before and stuff and it's escalated from there. What's your opinion on what we need to do about it? I would say, you know, have the meds checked first, like, 'cause I don't think they're working. It's... something has to get figured out. Right, yeah. We're doing no good right now. Yeah, yeah. If something has to be done, it could mean removal from your home. Yeah. - All right? - Okay, bye-bye. What I'm afraid of is Anthony picking me up and taking me to DYS or something. Let me tell ya, you keep walking out, he will. If you agree, you know, to go wherever, you know, for a week or something like that and have your meds evaluated then maybe they won't be so hard on ya. But if you keep walking out of school, yes. He will pick you up and I won't have any say-so in it. Yeah, all right. All right? All right. All right. Sorry. All right. Whenever I move I always say, "Oh, I don't wanna move, Dad, I have friends here," you know? God wanted us to come back here for a reason. I haven't found it out yet, but I will. My dad, he's having troubles making money. We're living with my cousins. We have clothes on our back. We have food in our stomach. But we don't have a roof over our head. It ain't ours. It ain't ours to do what we want with it. Out in the Big Bend Doing it all to ghost town baritone campfire songs Wild like a roadrunner I belong To the far out post to carry on There just isn't no work. Dates changed, plans changed and everything changes. And it all could have probably been fixed with $1500 which makes it sad. And just can't make that, I mean, you can't make that in a week or two or a month, and down there it really slowed down. He does not like to hold a steady job, he does not like to hold a steady career. And that's another reason why he isn't a top dog, you know? He wants to start to try to do new things. Like, first he was into inventing stuff and singing and then went back to inventing and now he's wanting to go dig for gold or silver or something like that, prospecting. I mean, that's my dad's thing, it's his life, he has to live it, you know? He only has one life to live. Only thing anybody wants is money. A lot of people are like that. And me, I don't care. I mean, I'm tired of money, I'm gonna go get gold. Diamonds. Whether it's Alaska or Australia or go to England. That's the solution. Can't find a job, go get some gold. Platinum, silver, whatever. Oh, fuck. Don't fuck with me. Kind of gun you got, bitch? He's jamming our radar. I got in a fight at school. A kid kicked me in the nuts, so I punched him in his face. And then I went to court 'cause they kicked me out for 45 days and I can't go to school. Assault is the charge they're using against me. So we contacted them and they wouldn't forgo the suspension so I have to go to Cass County Detention Center to finish out school. Yeah, he killed me. Fuck, yeah. All he has to do is go to school, keep his hands to himself, keep his mouth to himself, do his schoolwork and he could succeed and go on to the middle school. And the day after we had this conversation with him, again, is the day that he assaulted another student. That fucking sucks. I know how it's gonna happen already. We'll go before the judge, the judge'll lift the suspended sentence, and he'll go to detention until he goes to DYS. It's kinda like a prison type procedure. I think it'll be the best thing for him. It's a structured environment. His attitude will definitely change within the first two weeks, and they'll keep him till he's ready for society again. I do think it'll be the best thing for him, but it still breaks my heart that he has to go. That's my baby. But I've done everything I can for him. I feel bad because I'm gonna be relieved, but I don't know. He's just, he's hard to deal with. I love him with all of my heart, but I need a break. Guess they cut, they took down the clothesline pole I put up last year. Maybe one of the boys' friends will come by and have a crowbar so I could take the tire off, take the wheel and the spindle and all that off. Everything seems to be all right for today, though, except that wheel. Just waiting on the tools. Andrew wants to get a Charger, that's what he wants for his birthday. By the time he gets of age to drive no telling what I will have. Four wheel drives or probably some dune buggies. Maybe even a four wheeler. Good, maybe she has a four way in her trunk. Hey, Andrew, ask her if she's got a four way in the trunk. What? Something to take the wheel off. Mine's in Dina's van. If she got time. I forgot it was in there. No. Well, I'll just have to do it later. Come here. I don't think I like him running with this new crowd that he's starting to hang around with. He's getting distant. Getting distant. Kids are hard headed. My dad, he has goals that he wants to achieve in life and I'm kinda right there with him, wanting to help him, you know? All he really wants is someone to be proud. And I don't think that he understands that I'm proud of him whether or not he does anything, you know? Just get on it. I know that my dad's gonna end up finding a decent place. I mean, we might end up moving a couple more times, but I'm gonna be settling down somewhere. I don't know where yet, but, I will. I don't know. You can't ever plan the future. I've always thought that I could, but it don't work like that. Keep practicing. Dear Mom. I've been out of school a month. I broke my neck. Just kidding. The principal said that I ain't getting any credits for this semester so they unenrolled me. No, I don't have a girlfriend yet. Big capital letters. Love ya, from Harley. Um, what did I do with those stamps? Oh, God, please tell me... Can I put it upside down and would it matter? Does it? I'm gonna put it upside down 'cause that's what she did to this one. I'm gonna put it upside down 'cause that's what she did to this one. What I do with that other stamp? Did anybody see me, what I did with it? I took one off... There it is, okay. Got it, just in case. This one goes back in here. Thirty-one, two. Thirty-one hundred now, make it thirty-two. Thirty-one, two, thirty-two, thirty-one, are you done? We did it last year and we did it again! How about that? It's only money. Arm wrestle, punk, arm wrestle. Oh, no, it's not. Don't think so, buddy. I don't think so! Fire! USA, USA, USA, USA, USA, USA... Do you think about how it will be for your mom when she gets out? She'll have a job, she'll have a job. Hopefully. Why are you so confident? 'Cause it's my mom, I gotta have some confidence. What, you're not laughing no more? I gotta tell some jokes for you to laugh, looking at me through the lens like it's some special lens or something. It's just a special face behind the lens. Yeah, see, there you go, laugh. Boom! Yeah, I'm a smart kid. I might not be book smart, but I got a lot of street knowledge. Maybe not a lot, a lot, but I got some. Oh, this is my bus. Bye. Love you. I'll see you tonight. I'll see you all later. Are you gonna be at school? Maybe. You're gonna go back to sleep first. No man is an island Oh, this I know But can't ya see Maybe you were the ocean When I was just a stone Black flies on the windowsill That we are, that we are, that we are to know Comfort came against my will Every story must grow old Still I'll be a traveler A gypsy's reins to face But the road is wearier With that fool found in your place No man is an island This I know But can't you see Maybe you were the ocean When I was just a stone No man is an island This I know But can't you see Maybe you were the ocean When I was just a stone So here we are And I don't wanna beg your pardon And I don't wanna ask you why But if I was to go my own way Would I have to pass you by And I don't wanna beg your pardon And I don't wanna ask you why But if I was to go my own way Would I have to pass you by
