 

                        It's fresh, If you want more fresh than It so catch It by yourself In sea.. It's nothing" Now I'll sing a song 1:00.. Come out" I give up everthing" Didn't steal the milk pack.. Check It. The gossip spreaded In school, that I like aiush. They do mischieve only 500 rupees, 250 ls remaining. But I've putted new songs In It slOP do you know who ls It. She's saint maria what'll you do with this money I'll open my nail parlor, girls comes to me. Now a days boys are doing too are you gangster? Everybody ls saying that you've commited the crime and hid here. My mom has warned me, and what do you say I don't think so, come out don't tell her.. Or my fish curry ls gone. I'm warning you I know you're inside.. Come out. I told you not to entertain her. Open the door she's not here. . Sorry I need some money as soon my mom's friend will go I'll go do you know what others calls you, handsome. And you know my nickname. Once mom kicked the dustbin" Then I came In her stomach. Isn't It funny how reacting innocent. Tell me your mom's number. Don't know what happened In goa, everywhere there's dust and dirt. Don't stare at me.. Did your parents teach you that. Did you steal her bag" No I didn't but comparing with mine. She hasn't school bag" ls your mom at house, daddy? Is he your daddy. Hey bro therefore I told you not to steal.. Actaully she told me to pay we do mistake In childhood, then we learn from It. Duty ls not over when we beget them always see her alone, give her your time. Go with her like other daddys will you feel shame that you know me. Everybody pretend that they don't kniow me mom said, If you lost they way, so forget the address and number. Don't come home again. When she's drunk, she says, we both should die I wasn't angry on that fat woman, she just hit me. But you're more than It. But I can't hate you If I'll hate you, so there's nothing to like In world. I can't hate you go from here what happened sir. Didn't put off cloths but put off everything. Need goa clean, no dust, no foreign after visa ls over. Do we talk In office or here we've talked enough, lets start the work. There's much drug In goa. He's the only who brings the drug and handles the all racket. This football ls his left hand, skin ls thick not brain he handles the main business of mantu child prostitution, child traficing. Carla, this aunty makes small child seeking alms.. And we here makes the list of aunty and uncle. We're not journalist but cops we're cops so we're tied. Sometimes we don't get custody and proof... If you want cleanness, so we should be untied. I've opened it.. Next confrece will be after major arrest one month only tell me frences, It's started, are you coming, In 2 min football has come, should we wait for backup are you scared, It's one month fielding. We should catch football never heated the name? No remember It next time. Got the stuff, bringing It. Football ls going cout, but waiter isn't out. But he's coming, did you see that waiting picking up bag. Don't have time to say yes. If we lost him so game ls over. Tell me what I dc/ save the anger for rhino" If he get beat up tell us where ls stuff. Bring the other, It's dirty kevin just hit the goal. Kids are finding. Kids are finding. Will find mantu 1 crore people are smoking marijuana In India. Meth market ls strong. And 10 lac people are using heroin and brown sugar. It's government figuring, It's mean more than it. Just think, It's big market. And how did you start this. With samples.. I can stop them for 3 days, I should bring back my stuff. Are I'll sale out you both brothers kidneys. Find It... you baldy where's heroin" Where's It. That dancer.. Look our cloths. Do we lock like pick pocketer. Go.. I've problem here. Who're you.. You've come wrong place, now go I can't go, anna gave you camera bag. We've to take It back the person who gets back, who keeps It morgaged. We don't know the rules, what do we do? Get up neighbour ls gone, they were drug dealer. Is someone else that neighbour anna.. Go to vidya construction on 10th floor and ask for mantu only give him the packaged and cut my phone and throw. Where's aunty, lion don't eat grass. Please come. Have come alone. Look the daring. Hey rusy you don't lock rusy, you locks pathan. Bring It. Tell him that I've imported It form russia. I hope he'll like It. You're gone mantu nothing can save you, If you lick any ministers... If you want to save yourself, so run away.. Put this onto him who's hitting the debue, don't know who's doing it.. Can't find any link from mantu's gang. What's the name of that girl and her conenction with mantu? Don't know but all the organs are vanished. What you means? Means, kidney liver, eyes tissues. Whatever can be sold, all that they took .. Mantu ls not In organs harvesting, It's not his business. We'll see what kunal find. Look I found In flush tank what'll be with half gram, remaing they took away. Wow... government food before going inside.. If you won't open my hand so how will I eat. Eat openly" Got the link, I was thinking. Why I couldn't find the ball I just asked for food, where's 'Francesco give him phone, why're you scolding me. Franco treid to open hand caught. Vanished In 4 min with mantu's file 6 AMC people reached to hospital frankygot cut off his neck, and he lost his teeth now flora and his 7 year old son locks same. Kabir ls very cruel man intelligence agency code on civilian file I've solution on the time of bush a kid sent an email from hyderabad. We'll send on the name of kabir alawat. We'll have the request, the ip address belongs to here. And we'll work on his file In between that" On the name of white house. The mess can be big. How can we forget him I'll count 3.. No one was.. Don't kill me.. Forgive me. They both were.. I was scared. You must have give me warning" Get up I'm having tenticn of handsome who Is he, why he didn't call the cops what does It affect. The whole goa ls ours. Move there.. Where's mom. Inside... go open the door let me go found him don't know why the break our hands and legs. Because he don't cut the half ticket. To hell with mantu. Bring the heroin sample, or I'll sale your kidney.. But It's my job to sale the kidney you take my all businesses, and all the money I'll tell you the real formula of wine. By which we'll refine the meth we'll earn the trillions. Will earn trillions" Mathematics. That day was talking about the mathmetics. In this country more than 10 million are smoking marijuana. It's government prediction In this country everyday 150 people got disappear. Who never can be found, In them 10 I got" So month; 300.. Annuab; 3500.. MeansJOOO fidneys. If you get 4 lac.. 50 It's means annually 280 crore. These account ls seprate. What you were saying" What you did kevin you're moron If you hit like It. If you won't do that. 50 maybe I won't do that today I'll take out your kidneys, and sale out In market and I'll keep you alive. And I'll tell you the price of that then I'll take out your eyes. And sale out In market and keep you alive.. Then I'll tell you the price. Then you'll know whose matchematics ls better. We've got much info about file. 2000-2006 many operation got succesfull because of him from 2006-2008 he was involved In a special training" He got recommendation from many military opeartions your guaranter has come. He's no able to give interest he was trained for special assasination you made a mistake If you tell me so you'll not get beat up are you cop? Where are you? It's not online shopping, you've to come here. We don't get new life by gym and healhty food you come" You'll have brain and liver. If I tell you the guy address, so will give me back my note. Just tell me where Is he. He breaked the office, and thcrow my man.. He beat up them too, and went to organ traders. And both phones location ls city club. Have come here first time, girls are hot here. But raid often occurs sometimes cops, amc. I'm scared since morning. The bathroom became office Is she your wife, If matter ls romantic you'll get discount why' re you sweating. Dumb the tenticn hey shut up you teared up mine In lift. But you should be In jail now. Why you killed cmini's mother, you killed her. You agreed to delivery, didn't see your around. You did that too with neromi no, her body parts are raw. Her body parts are invaluable. But eyes have now age. We can earn much money by selling It. I've small demand.. You go inside for 5 years. When you come out after 5 year you'll find her standing one who talk about tomorrow never dies tomorrow and stay alive. One who talk about tomorrow who dies today you're talking about today" And I don't think about today, I just think about now. And what blunder you made, your punishment will tell you what? Your email act will cost you high are you from intelligence, what you did getting info. We got no man or drug, and c.l.a pumped us too give us all the info of mantu and rollback. Are you kidding me. Are you interested In mantu or kabir alawat both. We made the case. We raided, our men gone to hospital. We'll not tolerate If someone interfare. You just know about this case. Not about the kabir. Never hunt the injured lion she withdraw 25 thousand In his account. He was the pimp of her mother or boyfriend. Tell me what happened, he beat me a lot. That gun" Kabir alwat, name dilip sangorkar. You'll see the face soon In the lock up of amc goa tell me before this, are you finding niomi she's alive.. We've cctv footage she just withdrawa the cash from atm. If you want to meet her so tell us whatever you know they sent him to kevin for trapping mantu they killed anna.. I just know that find the dealer of kevin, advin. I'll find the whole city" No problem say them bye. Sir their work system ls easy, she picks up car toy from shop In which the drug ls contain.. No cops can doubt on kids.. Therefore kids makes everybody's work easy then that toy reached to gaming zone which ls kids playarea. Cops can't check In gaming zone there our man keeps that toy and put out the drug packet. You go there. Yes. Those puupies do much drama.. Do you work. Bring nayomi here In 1 hour. In which happiness. Whose voice was It? In the time of problem bro don't recognize If you did like this so I... did you ever think, those kids wanders after death do you ever think we do good with others.. Rich patients. And curs too It's not wrong" Nothing ls right. Where ls mom.. With god. This ambulence sent her here. Wants to meet mother? Lets go tell me where did you hid the kids. Where are other kids.. I don't know" We found the chief. What ls yiour relation with her? You've come here to die for her. You shouldn't take so seriously yes. I told you we get much mane will you see It. Maybe eyes are seeing you I'll cut out all the parts of your body too and nothing will remaing for selling out hello police, someone ls trying to kill me. Come here.. How can I give you address. Trace the phone call he's coming. Police ls coming" What I'm saying" Kill me.? Will you kill me? How can you kill me. What're you staring me? It's bullet proof. You can't do anything. Police will come, and I'll be safe. Then later I'll see you what're you doing. Nothing gonna happen by It. What're you doing" Locok hey kunal you go inside and see how many bodies are and drugs? How come doctor cut off his own eyes. Almost everybody ls dead. Hardly one or two people will go to hospital others" Sir. Make the girl sit In my car. And you come too officer. Will you let me do the last thing you did big this time. I was gone after cops called me there" Now see whole police dept knows that I know you do you know how to smile handsome? I know that new.. Will stay alone for sometime. Will you wiat for me.? Will you give me huggie" Just one.
