 

                        SUBTITLES BY : EMRE & PATRICIA KURU SUBTITLES BY : EMRE & PATRICIA KURU SUBTITLES BY : EMRE & PATRICIA KURU SUBTITLES BY : EMRE & PATRICIA KURU SUBTITLES BY : EMRE & PATRICIA KURU HAVE FUN WATCHING :) - MAY HAVE SOME ERRORS & MISSING PARTS (...) DUE TO BAD AUDIO - - Town Hall please. - Very good, sir. (CHURCH BELLS RINGING) (OFFICE DISCUSSION) - Yes, sir. - My name is Lampton, Joe Lampton. Ohh, yes you are coming to work here, aren't you ? ... One moment please. Mr.Hoylake will see you right away. Come in. We didn't expect you till Monday. Sit down. We are not accustomed to such an excess of zeal. But it's not exactly that Mr.Hoylake. I'm not surprised that you wanted to leave Dufton as soon as possible. You'll find big differences here, you know. Not only work, You'll meet a different class of people. We pride ourselves on being civilized here in Warnley. Dufton is not much of a place but ... we're not exactly savages there you know Mr.Hoylake. You think not? ...Well, what did you come to see me about? Well, I thought perhaps... you see I have to get fixed up in digs ... You shouldn't have any difficulty. - Soames, - Yes, sir - You might come in. - Right, Mr. Hoylake. You'll be working with Mr. Soames, Internal audit. He's got dig somewhere near Top. Top's the fashionable district. He's very comfortable, I beleive. Come in. Charles Soames, Joe Lampton. Lampton is the new man. - How do you do? - How do you do? He hasn't got anywhere to live. Can you help him? - I think so. - I'll leave it to you then. We'll have a longer session later on. I'll keep an hour on Monday morning for you. This is it. And that's your desk. Well, he didn't keep you long in the firing line. Joe this is Mrs. Samson, better known as June. This is Joe Lampton, greatest addition to Treasuries Department chain gang. I think I'm going to enjoy my sentence. I don't mind you enjoying, but you don't have to smack your lips so vigorously. Hot tip Charles, dog in 2nd race tonight, interested? No, but hold on a minute. Meet new boy Joe Lampton, Teddy Merrick. God may help you. I got to run. - Well Charles how about those reports ? - Well...those Stampton reports now where did I put them? Somewhere in ... - Have you tried looking under your skirt? - What do you mean? You're sitting on them, love. Ohh, really? (...) Seeing you. - She belong to us? - Where did you get that proprietorial plural? I meant the Teasuries Department. No, she's h. typist. We have our own talent. Now digs, Mabel would you get me an outside line. No dear, it's not a personal call. Look Mabel I don't wanna argue with you, just get me an outside line or I will put a tuppence in your moral little slot next time I'm passing. Constipated bitch, she think's she had shares in corporation. Warnley 4-3-1-5 It's not for you lad. But I can look, can't I ? I guess there is no law against looking at women on street. Hello, is that you Mrs.Thompson? Charles Soames here. I was wondering if I might bring Mr.Lampton to see you? Yeah, we'll be at the house long before that, thank you Mrs. Thompson. That is as good as fixed and one of the best digs in Warnley too. Is that what you really want ? A clerk's dream; a girl with a Riviera tan and a Lagonda? That's what I'm going to have. Ha,ha... Come on, let's go. Nobody ever goes to Dufton, they just pass trough it. A sunday treat of fish and chips, wrapped in a greasy "News Of The World". And chaps like me; prospect appetizing is yesterday's fish paste sandwich. You know, I was a POW at least there was a limit to the time that you serve, but Dufton it seemed like a lifetime sentence. You shouldn't be so nostalgic on your first day away of your own place, you know. I was looking at your river, kids fishing and swimming in it. in Dufton canal's like a sewer. kids never had the chance to fish or swim. And the people ... well I suppose they never had the chance either. I assume here well... it's so different. You wouldn't believe it Charles. But you made Warnley sound so special Joe, so very special . It is special. It's not Dufton. Not everybody admires the view from here. Look Joe, there's the Top, that's where the money is. that'a a lovely houses up there you know Joe. I'll have one of those. I'm going to have the lot. Ha, ha! No you're not! Not in local goverment you're not. Did you ever work it out brother? In 20 years time, you could be sitting in Hoylake's chair, and that is as high as you can go. and that means; a 1000 a year, a semi-detached downtown, a 2nd hand Austin, and a wife to match if you know what I mean. I know damn well what you mean. That's why I'm going to have the lot. Oh, no no.. Oh, by the way what you do for entertainment around here? Well, there's flicks of course. Teddy Merrick and I play snooker on Friday nights. Do you play? Badly. Oh, and then we have our amateur dramatic society "The Thespians", are you interested in theater? Yes. Look, it's only 2 weeks away. And Charly Soames here as being a part among "The Thespians" can probably still get you tickets for opening night. (PLAY) And then he went back to bed. (PLAY) Yes. (PLAY) To his own bed? (PLAY) What's wrong with you? (PLAY) Did you really think I would know the minute I saw you two together. (PLAY) There's nothing to know. (PLAY) I have no idea what you're talking about. (PLAY) You're all upset. Who is she? You should have seen her in the "Playground". Sex, terrific. Alice Aisgill. She's French. That's her husband, lucky devil sitting at the end of the front row. (PLAY) Then I refuse to go to the court room. (PLAY) You can't do that to him. But she's not married, she couldn't be? You mean Susan. Oh, Susan Brown. Yeah. She's the daughter of old millionaire Brown. He owns most of Warnley. Have a chew too. Thanks. Joe don't waste your time. Susan is out of your reach, she's way up in the top drawer. She had a couple of bad days. Finishing school isn't quite finished with her. Hello Teddy, didn't you think she was superb? I don't know what you're talking about but I thought she was super, didn't you Joe? Oh, this is Joe Lampton. Didn't you think she was a absolutely super Joe? Oh, absolutely super. I thought they were all absolutely super. Well my children, what was it like out front? And where's June? Oh, there she's talking to Bernard a foolish virgin. What dou you think out there Joe? Well that wasn't bad. Oh, dabbing, dabbing us with that phrase. Come meet some of the company. I want you to meet Alice Aisgill our leading lady. Alice, this is Joe Lampton. - How do you do? - How do you do? You're new here, aren't you? Yes, I've only been here for a couple of weeks. He's in our department. It's Susan Joe wants to meet. He has a thing for Susan. Hey Bernard, come meet Bernard. Our producer. Bernard, this is Joe Lampton. Hello June. - How do you do? - How do you do? What do you think of Charles' door effect June? It was like thunder. That's the trouble with these literal minds. The play writes instructions said crack of door. That's exactly what we got. (PEOPLE SPEAKING IN BACKGROUND) Come on Joe. Hello Charles. Hello. Was I terrible? You were very good as a matter of fact. I want you to meet a friend of mine. Joe Lampton, Susan Brown. He liked the show very much. - How do you do? - How do you do? Where's Jack? Ohh, he went to fetch his car. Oh, Charles you know that scene, the love scene I tried to remember what Bernard said. Do you think I do any better? You were fine. Hey Jenny you don't need to take that home yet, you know we will need it again tomorrow night. Why don't you leave it for Tilly? If I'd only known... You'd known what? If I'd only known you'd be so beautiful I would have brought you some flowers. There you are Jack. Here I am. You comin' for a drink, darling? Oh, we haven't been properly introduced, haven't we? I'm Eva, Eva Kent and you are Joe, aren't you? We're going after the clearance, are you coming? Oh, I'd love to but Jack and I have to go home for dinner. Oh, what a pitty. - Cyril ! - Joe this is Cyril. This is Cyril, he is my husband, beleive it or not. Cyril this is Joe. - Hello. - Hello again. Teddy was telling me about you, Teddy Merrick. I hope you gonna like it here. I know I am. You don't beat about the bush. Don't you? I would look out if I were you Jack, I think you'll find you have a rival, for Susan's lovely hand. Ha,ha.. Joe this is Jack Wales. Jack this is Joe sthg. from the terasuries. Lampton, Joe Lampton. You and Joe have a lot in common both being entrapped birdmen. Oh, that. What outfit? Wellington's. Hmm, sergeant observer ha? Yes, how did you know? Oh, I can tell. Did you ever get beyond Wellington's? No, as a matter of fact I was shut down early, spent most of the war in a prison camp. Oh, is that so? Must have been rough. Well ... as a matter of fact... Ha,ha come on Sue... 22:40 precisely. Operation Supper would begin. Ha, ha what a stinker, don't know how you all stand it. Come on Sue. Do come and have a drink with us first. Well we'd love to but you know Papa Brown, he likes you on the dot. Some other time. Good night all. Good night sergeant. You must tell me about your POW experiences but some other time. I'll remember the flowers next time. Good night. Sirrrr ! Freaking Officer. Jack Wales was a POW too. He escaped. Are you ready darling? (ENGINE STARTS) (BUS ENGINE ROARS) (MUSIC PLAYING) Hello, Sergeant. Shoping for lingerie? What size are you? 44? Listen, do me a favour, will you? I know all about you now. I know you were a squadron leader with a distinguished war record, the DSO and all the rest of it. But just do me a favour the war is over, stop calling me sergant! I'll try to remember. But sergant you're selling me short, didn't anyone told you about my DFC? Ha, ha, ha !!! (ORDERS GIVEN IN DOG RACE) And he just stood there. Watching this one, gloating over it like a bloody watch dog. All phony acts and putting on a squadron's leader act with me. Even threw the DFC at me. If we've done what ever it was he did we would have only got a DFM. Just medals, no crosses for us. Different brands of courage, don't you know. Oh, there's Charlie S., I'll see what he's on. Here, isn't that Susan's father's works? Joe you're wasting your time. These two familes, "The Browns" and "The Wales"s they are worth more brass then the rest of Warnley rolls together. Heyy, what you think about that one? Hmm, not bad...but not grade one. What you mean by that? Time I filled you in on the Lampton report on love. I 've got a full proof method for grading women. Partly money, partly background and partly J. Lampton's instinct. Now take Susan Brown. Are you offering her to me. No, seriously Susan is grade one on every account. You just have to look at her to know. Susan is not for you lad. It just so happens that I like her. You lust after her, you mean. No, no, no. It's not that at all. Well, it's partly that but not just that. She's so wholesome. And you think you'd find her wholesome if her old man didn't have a million in the bank. There are plenty of other wholesome girls in Warnley, you know. Like who? Like June? Yes, like June. Say you got you some kind of understanding with her? Me lord Nooo! June's a good kid but she's got an invalid mother. And they live of June's salary, the pair of them. So whom ever marries June marries her invalid mother too. What you and me should be looking for is a nice girl with no ties and a nice family business in background, shopping. Joe, 2, track 2. We got 4 to 1. What are you on? Grade one. I put my 2 bob on grade one everytime. In number 2 to win please. How about that baby? That one, she's grade 10. Grade 9 and over means boredom on Saturday nights, you wanna keep miles away from them. All on 4 to win, please. Now grade ones like my girl they'll be really something special in bed, you see that they have almost nothing else to do. Come on Joe, there's the bell. That Brown he must ... , you know. All those chimneys, that's money. Beautiful, beautiful brass. Belching out every minute of the day and night. Come on. You know Charles, I've been thinking about that dramatic club. You remember you said you need man, a fresh blood and all that. Did you mean it? I certainly did. Well I don't know if I'm really good, mind but I'd like to try. Oh, I get it. You're not interested in dramatics it's Susan. Ohh, I know. "You're wasting your time Joe." But do you wanna bet on it? Did I here somebody say bet ? I bet you'd never gonna get a length of a date with her. A Dollar on it then. Right then. Cut it. (BACKGROUND TALKING) Hello Susan. Hello. You know I never seemed to get a chance to speak to you. I only joined the club because of you now I here that you're not even in the new play. Somebody else has to have a chance, it's only fair. Gwen is awfully good, she will do it very well. Quiet, please. Damn... What are you doing after rehearsal. We've got a party at home tonight. Jack's gonna collect me. He should be here any minute. I thought he was back at Cambridge. He came for the weekend. Come on Joe. We're wasting time. Take your coats off. Come on Joe, speed it up. On top of the sofa there. Alice, love I want you to start at the scene where you defend your lover. It's the top of page 12. Now stand there. Here we are. "I don't see why ..." and don't forget love, there's the audience. Push it right out. From when I say go, ready ? Right! I don't see why he didn't even know my late husband, I ensure you inspector he has got nothing to do with it. He's something to do with you love, hasn't he? Really? Just what do you mean by that inspector? Oh, you are a friend of her's sir? You are, aren't you? I tell you, I didn't see anything. It was pitch dark. And the only sign of light was that old workman or nightwatchman sitting by his brassiere. (PEOPLE LAUGHING) Brazier. That's a wonderful thought. Erotic vise among the working class. Let me tell you, I am working class. I didn't mean... Working class and proud of it! You're nothing of the sort, you're a stock broker and Alice is the lover and the suspected of murder in the play. Now shut up the lot of you. Now we'll start again. When you come to the point when you say "What's the point?" I want you to make a turn, half turn towards the window. (PEOPLE TALKING IN BACKGROUND) I didn't mean to snap at you. Oh, forget it. We'll you come and have a coffee with me? No, but you may buy me a drink. Can you drive? Yes, oddly enough. Cause I never owned a car but I learned to drive in the RAF. Here, you're very touchy, aren't you? Where to? To the Saint Claire. It's quiet. (HE STARTS THE ENGINE) That's the Brown's place. Yes, I know. I walked passed it. Hmm, seems like there's something going on tonight. Susan told me that they were having a party. What a place! It's like a castle. Charles tells me that they've even got a swimming pool. They've got just about everything, haven't they? I wouldn't say that. If you really want to know I thought you would be coming the lady of the mansion over me that's all. My father didn't know engineering works or a mill. He never even owned his own house. But that doesn't mean that I can't drive a car or pronounce brazier. Who cares about these things? Some people do. It's Susan, isn't it? That was bothering you. It's Jack Wales, really. That type they make me mad. The boys with the big mouths and a silver spoon stuck in them. But they think they can take everything worth having by sort of divine rights. Calling me sergeant. It is Susan, A. could we have the same again please ? Right away, Mrs. Aisgill. You're jealous. I suppose I am. Very well, why don't you phone the girl and ask her to go out with you then? Why don't you? Hmm, you feel inferior to Jack Wales? No, I don't. I've a feeling I know I'm right. I know she doesn't want him. I suppose you think I am conceded. Young and terribly inexperienced but not conceded. Well if that's the way you really feel about her, then you must be right. Your trouble is you don't believe enough in yourself. I'll tell you something Alice. I like you, I don't mean sex, I mean "like you". I like to talk to you. I just ... like you. You look about 18 sometimes. Do you know that? You remind me of a boy I used to know in university in Paris. It must be funny being French here in Warnley. No, it's not funny. Are you very unhappy Alice? Not very... Come on... (MUSIC PLAYING) Susan, there's a telephone call for you. Then who is it ? It's a gentleman. I think he said Mr.Lampton. What will I tell him? Oh, it's allright Marry. I'll take it. Very well Miss. Susan. Hello...Susan Brown. Well hello Joe, I didn't know it was you. Saturday evening? I'd love to but .. hold on a minute. Hello Joe, I just looked up on my book, I've got another engagement on Saturday. Yes I'd love to some other time. Gosh! Here's mummy... Bye... Who's that telephoning, Susan? Joe Lampton. I met him at "The Thespians". What did he want? He wanted to take me to cinema on Saturday. But we don't know him, do we? Socially I mean. Well I suppose so. He works at the town hall Really? Ah, it's allright mummy, I told him I had a previous appoinment but only because I had. He's very nice really. What did you say his name was ? Lampton, Joe Lampton. Curious names some of these people have. Listen Alice... Tell me, but supposing you are a girl, I mean a young girl. And I asked you out, I mean would you hang up in a hurry just because your mother came into the room. Look Joe, if I had a mother like Mrs. Brown, I would hang up in a great hurry whenever she came into the room. Aren't you two coming? Where's Charles? He'll be over in a minute. I still think she was trying t give me the brush off. Well supposing she was. Keep trying, call her again. You really mean it? Ofcourse, why not? Oh, errr... well While I'm handing out advice, Do you mind if I tell you about our last scene, the bedroom one... Oh, I know I... I made a mock of it. You're not frightened of me, are you? No. Well you must take hold of me as if you meant it. I'm not fragile, you know I won't break. I'll try Alice. Is it so difficult? That we'll be another bitter gin & tonic... (PEOPLE TALKING AND LAUGHING LOUDLY) Hello Alice. I'm just telling them about Gwen. Bernard and I were talking to her after the rehearsal the other day and she said I'll take him on myself but I can't bare bandy legged man. Ha, ha,ha !!! Good evening. Bernard said you'd be here. Hello, George. This is a surprise. It's not a social call. I think you know everybody, don't you? Yes, I think so. And ofcourse Joe Lampton, my lover in the play. The war hero. Well I'm always glad to meet one of Alice's lovers. Look Alice, let me have the keys,will you? I've got to take the Citroen. Why? My ignition's gone and I've got to get over to Leeds tonight. So late? Something cropped up unexpectedly. I'll be away couple of days. (SNAPPING HIS FINGERS) But errr... What about the car for tomorrow. What about it? You know I was going to take Elspeth to Manchester to the ballet. You know I arranged it weeks ago. Well you'll just have to make it some other time, won't you? Enjoy yourselves everybody. Goodnight dear. CAR DRIVES OFF) Well I thought you said you were going to be word perfect tonight. Well I thought I would till I got on stage. Well Bernard... You know what that means couple of days hard labor with his secretary. Yeah... Does she... Shall I see you home? No. Alice, I hate to see you hurt. I'm not hurt. You sure you don't want me to take you home? I'd like to. I'd rather not. Good night Joe. Joe! Shhh! What are you doing here? I was just thinking about you. You were? I was thinking about you when I passed town hall and the thought stuck on. Like a hangover. What were you thinking about me? Nothing exactly. What are you doing here? I often come down here to do the library account. You know Susan, you're looking very pretty. Thank you kindly, sir. You think this is any good? I wanted it, but there was a waiting list. If you could wait for me for about 10 minutes, we can go and have some coffee together. I can't, I'm meeting my mother for lunch. Oh well... they tell me that there's a very good film on at the Regal. The musical? Super! Have you seen it? No. Would you like to go? Yes. When? Oh. You know Susan, you're not only pretty, you're beautiful. Tonight then. Oh, Tonight will do like no other night has ever done. I'll pick you up at your house. At 7 o'clock. No, I'd rather meet you there. Charles! Lend me some money. What for? Come on. I'm late. I'll explain to you later. All right. Hurry up! Thank you. By the way do you remember that bet I made you the other day? Which one? At the dog races. Do you remember? Yes. Well you've lost, you owe me 15 Bob. Oh, NO! Yessss! You know, you're the sort of girl I'd like to take out. Why? Well, there's you're shape and you're size and then the sheen in your hair, sort of light in your eyes. Oh but, the most important because I think you're a dear keeper. - A what? - A dear keeper. What a lovely word! What does it mean? My mother called me that everytime I asked her for something that cost more than she could afford. I'd like to meet your mother, she sounds fun. She's dead. I'm sorry. My mother and my father were both killed in an air raid. I don't even know if it was an air raid. The only bombs that ever do dropped in Dufton, probably by mistake, Anyway they had to fall in our house. Joe how awful for you? I'm terribly sorry. It's allright. It happened a long time ago. Good evening. Aren't you going to offer me a drink? Jack ! I thought you were washing your hair tonight. Waiter! You are not a hair dresser too, are you sergeant? No, I'm not a hair dresser and I'm not your bloody back ... A large Scotch for me please. Don't let us keep you ... Not at all, it's a pleasure. As a matter of fact, I wanted to have a chat with you for a long time, about your acting actually. I think you have distinct comic possibilities. Don't you agree Susan ? If you'll excuse me... If I live to be a hundred, Jack I never forgive you for this. I thought you were gonna wash your hair tonight. Well I don't know what you were thinking there but I would take that away for a start. I want to build a new administration block not a ladies lavatory. We make machine tools at Brown's, remember not silk stockings. You should never let this young man get so far with it. I only saw a sketch Mr. Brown. It looked very handsome. You come back tomorrow with some designs I can use or don't bother to come back at all! Either of you, go on - get out! - Miss Bishop! -Yes,sir! -What happened to that London call? It's engaged sir! Well will you try the other number? I must get those shares on the market before they close. Very good, sir. Hello, what are you two doing here? Susan just told me she's going out tonight. I want you to tell her not. Ohh, why? One thing, the number of guests will upset my table, another it is that Joe Lampton again. Can't you put him off for once Susan just to please your mother? No, I can't. It isn't just tonight. Mother doesn't like him, she doesn't think he's suitable. Do you? I don't know about suitable but I like him. He calls me a dear keeper. A what? You'll explain to mother daddy, I'm sure you know. Good bye... Don't be cross. You know I love you both. That doesn't get me anywhere with my dinner party. Why didn't you stop her? Because stopping her seeing that man isn't the way to put an end to it. Then what is? Don't you mind her getting mixed up with a small town nobody. Small town nobody sometimes do well enough. You saw that wrong once with one, mother. I happened to be Susan's mother, not yours. Now listen, would you stop bothering your head about Joe Lampton. And just leave it to me. Get me the town hall. I have a minute to do, I thought we might have a little chat. You picked up the work very quickly. Not quite. You're a bright lad Lampton. And you've also lover's sense. Sense enough I'm sure and not to resent what I'm gonna say to you. This is a small town, Lampton. I've lived in it all my life. I know the people, I know the business. Councillor Brown for instance. I went to school with him. You know ofcourse he's the chairman of the establishment commity. Yes but I don't quite see... He is a powerful man Lampton. That engineering works of his, built it up from nothing. Now it is the biggset of it's kind in Warnley. Ruthless, well I suppose you've got to be ruthless in business. He knows what he wants and he gets it. He can drive a coach and (...) trough that commity anytime he wants. Every councill is the same there is always one strong man, a danger man, towns officials are concerned. Mind you, no matter how influentual any councillor may be (...) but when it comes to promotion there is the rump. That's a different matter. You follow me Joe ? I follow you. I thought you would. Do you mind if I give you a word of advice Joe? It's this; find a girl, a girl of your own... Class! Is that what you mean Mr. Hoylake? A girl of my own class? Well let's say background. Plenty of nice girls in Warnley, pretty ones too. You'll find the right kind of girl Joe. You go a long way here in Warnley. You wouldn't believe this! The hell does he think he is sitting there like a phony putting the finger on me. Oh, I got the works, the chairman of the establishment commity and the rest. As neat a job of blackmail as you ever saw. You follow me Joe? Yes, he even called me Joe. If you don't leave Susan alone there will be no promoiton for you. I told you months ago Joe, I warned you. She's not for you ! I tell you, after another couple of minutes longer, I would have taken his promotion out of his mouth and shove it up his...waist coat. Fares please... Two to Warnley Theatre please. What's the matter? Nothing. Just mood. I have bad mood sometimes. Don't you? Damnable moods. Take today for instance. Here. You need a drink. No. You want me to drive you home? No, I'd like to go to Sparrow Hill. It's cold up there. But that's what I want. Somewhere cold and clean. With no people, no dirty people. Something going on there. Well you know Alice. Don't be catty darling. Alice is a very charming and very low suffering person. Alice is all woman. George is away for the weekend. He is often away for weekends. How did you meet him? I'm the teacher what you call an exchange teacher. I came over for one year in '37 and I met George. Can't imagine you as a teacher. I was a good teacher. Oh, Alice... Don't say anything. This is a very moral kind of a girl. Good morning Charles, I don't understand this, how do you know the man? (A JOB OFFER FOR JOE LAMPTON) Hmmm, seems a good job. And in Dufton. So what you gonna do about it? I don't know. See him I suppose. Chances are, my days at the Treasures Department are numbered anyway. Don't be daft! Why don't you look at it as a free trip home. Home? My home is a bomb side. This is my house. It's my house. It used to be mine too. I lived here once upon a time. A bomb fell from the sky. I know. Do you wanna see my garden? Aye. Look! Oh, they are pretty. What are they called? Flowers, they're called flowers. Ethel! Ethel, come here at once. My mother. At once, Ethel. Come here at once. If I told you once, I told you a dozen times. You must be new here. No. But you weren't here in the old days. Come on here. How many more times do I have to say? I was just looking at the house. I just don't like her talking to strangers, that's all. I'm not really a stranger. (HUSBAND CALLS THE WOMAN FROM INSIDE) Allright, allright. (ICECREAM TUNE PLAYING) Uncle Nat. Is that you Joe? Yes, auntie. Come and tell us all about it. Did you see Mr.Darley, was he nice? Oh, I haven't seen him yet. My appointment is at 4. Oh, well that's fine. I just made tea. It's nice to have you back. Just like old times. (AUNTIE GOSSIPING ABOUT FAMILY) I'm not sure if I'm going to take that job auntie. Why ever not? It isn't that I wasn't happy here. I know that. Good and thick. Nice...Like a spoon stands up in it. Well it's just that... Warnley is a different kind of a town. I mean there's a different sort of people. Got a girl Joe? I have. Go on. Here that Nat? Her name's Susan. Susan Brown. Go on with your story. Well, she's sort of special you know. Her father owns a factory. He's on the councill, Warnley councill that is. Sounds like lot of brass. He's rolling in money. You know, this is the first right cup of tea I have had since I left here. I asked you about the girl and all you tell me is about her father and his brass. Joe you wouldn't sell yourself for a handful of silver. You know I wouldn't do that. Money marries money lad. What's the good of a girl like that to you? She'll only break your heart. Stick to your own people Joe. Oh, that old fashioned all that class stuff. Things have changed since the war. If I want her, I'll have her. You sure it's the girl you want Joe? Not the brass? What's wrong with wanting both? I'm as good as the next man. I mean, I'm entitled to be in love with any girl. You may or you may not. I don't know about that. But you're not entitled to be in love with her money lad. Where are you going? You haven't finished your tea. If I don't hurry, I'll be late. I haven't made up my mind yet. If the money is good... I'll see what Mr.Darley has to say. (FACTORY SOUND) (MANAGER GIVES SOME INFORMATION ABOUT THE FACTORY) Well lad, what do you say? I'd like to think about it Mr.Darley. You stay here in Dufton? Just for the weekend at my aunts. Oh, well 24 hours should be enough. Ring me tomorrow. I remember your father well. He was a good man, was Lampton. He worked here for 35 years. (...) I'll meet him. It's late already. A. will show you out. Good bye, sir. Kind of old Darley, to think of me for that job. Well lad let's say you come highly recommended. Ohh? You've got a powerful friend in Mr.Brown he's praised you to the skies I'm told. We do a lot of business with his firm in Warnley. Something wrong? No. Tell your boss I've gone back to Warnley. Yes, but I'm afraid she's not... Who's that Mary? It's that Mr.Lampton Madam. Oh, I'll take it. Yes, madam. Thank you. Hello, this is Susan's mother. Oh, can I speak to Susan please? No, I'm afraid you can't. She's in the south of France. Can you tell me where I could write to her? I'm afraid I can't give your her address. You see she's touring. But thank you for calling Mr.... LAMPTON ! And thank you again for being very kind to Susan. Good bye. Good bye ! Charles, you wouldn't believe in this, they are playing right into my hands. They sent her away, they are scared of me. Watch it Joe! Do you want me to drop these unspeakably delicious sausages? Of meee! Who sent who away? Susan ofcourse! Susan's parents. Now how can people get to be so stupid? You know, all I have to do now is to sit under the tree and wait for the apple to drop. For a chap just has been sperated form his lady love you don't seem to be taking it very hard. Why should I care? I've got compansations. Ha,ha,ha! Come on eat. Oh, darling... It's late. Elsbeth suppose to be here any minute. Come on. Put that on. Oh, you are.. What's that word? Insatiable. That's it. That's what you are. Old man, insatiable... You want coffee? Tea. Poor Elsbeth. She lands us her flat. And we pinch her all food. You know, I hate you to put your close on. It's very sweet of you honey, but I'm too old to walk about with my girdle. Oh, you're not old. Oh, yes I am. But you already knew. I wish you wouldn't talk like that. I'm 25 and I had a lot of experience. I'm sure you have. But my love you are very old and very mature. You know, I never dreamed that it could ever be like this. So good. There never was anyone so good to me before. I'm alive now. All of me is alive. It hurts sometimes but I don't care. Why did you marry him? Let's not talk about it. You're hungry? I'm always hungry. (...) Take these through, will you? (...) Oui madam. I'll get some bred. Uh, I cut my finger. I'm alright. I like you doing things for me. I like doing things for you, anything. (CATTLE WHISTLES) I'll go and get the tea. No... You're so good to me. I'll be good for you too. I can't tell you how good. (DOOR BELL RINGS) Elsbeth! Don't be so bourgeois! Hello Elsbeth. Oh, hello dears. I hope I haven't disturbed you. I do try to be discreet but I had to come in. It was cold outside. Let me get you some tea. Hello Esbeth. What an afternoon I've had, worse production my goodness. Some of those girls, I don't know why they ever went into this sort of thing, I don't really. Don't put your daughter on the stage Mrs. W. If you give us a concert you will have some food. Oh, lovely dear. You're a lucky young man Joe. Alice is an angel, a perfect angel with a heart of gold. Cigarette? I don't blame her as you're the sort of man I like. Too many pansies around these days. I knew a lot of real men once, they are all dead now. Little mass like me carries on. Do you love Alice? Yes. I thought so. She's crazy about you. You know that I suppose. She doesn't know it herself yet. Don't hurt her Joe. Don't ever hurt her. No I wouldn't hurt her. I hope not. It's for you Joe. Thank you Charles. We've made it. "I'm having a wonderful time. Missing Warnley a lot." Dear Susan, imaginative isn't she? You know what that means, missing you. Ehh... And she's put her address on again. That can only mean one thing, she wants you to write to her. Well I'm not going to. Why not? Well one reason is she expects me to, second because I don't know what to write. You're getting pretty keen on Alice, aren't you? You worry me Joe, you can't do it, you know you can't woo two women. Not in a town this size. Do you ever think about George Aisgill? No, why should I? Becasue he's dangerous. Dangerous Aisgill? Come on... If he ever goes after you then god help you, that's all I say. Come on. Darling, will you tell me something, will you? What love? Supposing you had met me when I was 10 years younger, would you have taken me seriously? You know, I would. Imagine me as I was 10 years ago and you, as you are now. There were no lines then. Would you have loved me and wanted to marry me? Yes. But I'll tell you something What? I like you the way you are now. You'd like me much more when I was your age. I've never known anyone like you. Oh, I like to sleep with you, I mean truely sleep and wake up beside you in the morning. How is the time, ohh... Alice you're beautiful. I'd like to have a picture of you like that. There is a picture of me in the nude somewhere. You're joking. No, there really is. I was in the university at that time. And I met an artist at a party. He wanted a model. I don't suppose it was even a good painting. How often did you do this? Only once. Are you sure? Ofcourse I'm sure. I don't tell lies, you know that. You never told me. Why didn't you tell me? Because I had forgotten about it. Oh, darling you're the first. I didn't sleep with him if that's what you're thinking. Why? Why did have to do it? There are a millions of women a lot poorer than you in the world who rather die than expose themselves for a few lousy rotten shillings. Damn you to hell, I feel like, like to beat you black and blue. What's it got to do with you? It was long before I met you. I must remember your beasty little provincial mind doesn't like nudity. You stupid bitch, it isn't that at all! Don't you see that it's the idea of other people looking at you naked that I hate, it's indecent, don't you see? Oh, I understand now what makes men kill women like you. Oh, you're very brave and very moral all of a sudden. That's what you like, isn't it? Leg show and Lingerie. It's indecent for me to pose for an artist who sees me as an arrangement of lines and color but it's perfectly ok for you to kiss me all over and lay for an hour just looking at me. I suppose it gives you a thrill. A dirty little thrill. I suppose you see me as your own private dirty postcard. You can't imagine that a man could look at a naked woman without wanting to make love to her Can you? If you want to know, I can't. Elsbeth isn't rich you know. You needn't drink all her gin. Give that to her and tell her I broke the bottle. To think I ever let you touch me. Now listen, I own my own body and I'm not ashamed of it. And I'm not ashamed of anything I've ever done. If you'd mixed with intelligent people, you wouldn't be glaring at me if I've had committed some crime. Oh, some of the things you've told me about yourself, I can just see you in Dufton now. Looking at nudes in magazines, drooling over them. Saying you wouldn't mind having a quick bash, that's one of your urge, isn't it? The (...) girl's calling them shameless whores. Oh, shut up! You make a great todo about your humble beginnings. but you've never really been (...) You've never gone hungry. What do you think a POW gets to eat? Hmm, even then you didn't starve. There always been somebody to take care of old Joe. Got extra, tell me yourself. Because you got along so well with the guards. Why didn't you have the guts to escape? Like Jack Wales ? Don't mention that swine's name to me. It was allright for him to escape. He had a rich father to look after him and buy him an education. Those 3 years were the only chance I get to be qualified. Let all those rich bastards who have all the fun, be heros. Let them pay for their privileges. If you want that straight from this soldier, I was bloody well pleased that I was captured. I didn't like being a prisoner but it was a damn sigh better than being dead. Come to that! What did you do 50 years ago back in the Great War? You want some tea? I don't want anything. It was good while it lasted. I mean that. I'm sorry that it had to end like this. I'm sorry too. Good bye, Alice. Good bye. (PARTY MUSIC PLAYING) Ahh, Cinderella has arrived. Charles... Whiskey please. Yeah, whiskey... Oh, it reminds me (SPEAKING DRUNK) Good evening, Susan. I hope you had a nice holiday. Hello Joe. Have you met my father and mother? This is Mr. Lampton, mother. - How do you do Mr.Lampton? - How do you do? I've seen you at the Town Hall, lad. You know his worship the mayor and mayoress. One of our bright young man in our treasures office. Well, what are you drinking? Scotch, please. Make it a large one. By the way, weren't you at M. Hall? Yes, 551 squadron. Oh, I had very good friend in that squadron (PEOPLE SMALL TALK) You come form Dufton, don't you? It was Dufton, wasn't it? Yes, sir. Must be quite a change for you. How is canon Jones? I haven't seen him in... must be (...) years, oh, you know canon Jones, don't you? No, I'm afraid, I don't. Charming wife and terribly (...) You know J.C.Brotherton, I'm sure of that. I know him much in the same way as I know the Prime Minister. My father used to work in one of his mills as an overlocker. Now that's nice, don't you think? I've noticed this orchestra, year after year, the older the piece the happier they are with it. Well, speaking of Dufton, an extraordinary chap there, Jack C. Checking his money around allright he's well on his way to Knighthood. And drove his father to a meeting last month, he's got a large Mercedes. Father said he drove like a maniac. You know him don't you? I don't know any tally man. I don't follow you old man. A tally man is... well he sells clothes on credit, money lending at fantastic hight interest rates. It's business. You wouldn't refuse the profits, would you? It's dirty business. Henry are you aware of it or not but this is our dance, good night Mr. Lampton. Well I'll see if you're gonna risk it with me. Come on Sue. See you later, sergeant. Don't worry about the way the world runs, lad. Enjoy it, while you're young. Hmm... Joe, if you are free I coud see you the dance after next. Joe, why didn't you write? You didn't write either. Only postcards. I was waiting for you to write. A girl can't write first. She can't if she has any pride. Why did you go away without letting me know? I had to, they sent me away. Don't you believe me? Oh, I believe you. But that's why I didn't write. Because I knew how hopeless it was. Why? You know it's hopeless Susan. Tell me Joe, please. Well you saw them there, when I met your parents, the way they were needling me and you couldn't do anything about it. I wanted to, really I did. One day they will say you mustn't see that vulgar person again. They wouldn't dare. I won't ever let them come between us. It's useless Susan. You know it is. Let me kiss you. Just this once. Don't you care about me? Maybe, it's because I care too much. I love you Joe, I love you. I love you too. Do you really? Oh, Joe how much? Very much. No! I'm sorry Joe, really I am. Gosh I'm hot! You shouldn't be hot. You've nothing on. Is that better? Is that what prim Joe wants? No, that's not what Joe wants. You know what Joe wants. It's what all the Joe's want. Oh, Joe. You know sometimes when you kiss me, I feel as if you're not really here. I'm here allright and I can prove it. Seriously Joe, there's something wrong, isn't there? Don't you like the way I make love? Ohh, I like it very much. It reminds me of a good set of mixed tennis. That's not a very kind thing to say... I sometimes don't feel very kind. - Why? - Your mother and father, were they kind to me the other night? I can just see your mother now. Saying "You mustn't see that vulgar Lampton boy again or whatever his name is, the one with the bulging shirt and the chromium cufflinks." And then there is you... You lead me on so far and then you stop me. What do you think I'm made of? It's not that I don't want to. It's just... I suppose I'm scared. I do love you Joe! I'd do anything for you Joe, anything! Except what any girl would do for the man she loves. Joe how much do you love me? Very much. About a million pounds worth. Joe be gentle with me. (ELSBETH SINGING) Oh, let's face it darling, he was a brute, a coarse brute! Oh, I know it's hell ride this minute but the way I look at it, he's the looser. Come on Susan, I think we'd better be going now. I don't want to go. I don't ever want to go. Is isn't super Joe? Now we really belong to each other. Really and truely "till death do us part". Wasn't it wonderful? Wasn't it absolutely the most wonderful thing that ever happened to you? Wasn't it Joe? Yes... Come on let's go. Must we really go? You know, we must. Besides your mother... Poor mummy if only she knew. That's quite a thought. Joe, do you know I don't really feel any different. I thought I would feel terribly different but I don't. Joe, do you feel different? You don't really want to talk about it, do you? You're not really sentimental, are you? No, I'd rather not talk about it. Joe, do you know something? I do belive you are a (...) aren't you? I expect I am. Do I look different Joe? Do I? No. Hey, come on Joe, what are you waiting for? I think I'll hang on for a bit, I've got some work to do. But it's Friday! You can get along without me. For the last few day you've been lower than (...) belly. What's the matter with you? Nothing. You won't be sitting pretty. You always said that Susan was (...) Yes, everything is going my way. Ready chaps? You two go ahead. I won't go tonight. What's the matter with him? What's wrong Joe? I tell you, nothing's the matter. I just don't happen to feel like boosing. Come on Teddy, call me later Joe if you feel like it. Nothing has changed. Nothing at all. - I don't care about them. - I don't either. I couldn't do without you. I love you Alice. I love you. Remember what was it you once said, loving friends you said. Let's be loving firends. I didn't want to fall in love with you. I tried to fall in love with Susan. What are we gonna do? I don't know. It's been hell these last weeks. I want you all the time. Not just stolen meetings. Oh, Alice listen, couldn't we, I have a fortnight starting next month on the 15th. Charles says, he knows of a cottage belongs to a friend of his. We could have it for a few days for next to nothing. And there will be nobody for miles around. Just us, together. Oh, Alice couldn't we? No, I've never done this before. Next time I do it, I tell you, it's going to be legitimate. Darling you sound like a lawyer. I feel more like a (...) gate porter. Hmmm, not very flattering. Oh, it's nice here. - There... - Thank you. You know something? Hm, hmm ? (...) If I really were a young bride. I'm feeling rather shy myself. Oh, but it's a good feeling. Yes... No, no I don't want to smoke and I don't want to drink. Because cigarettes and drink, they dull you. I want every minute of these 4 days. And I want them sharp and clear. (SEA AND SEAGULL VOICES) Alice, you and George do you still... tell me I want to know, do you? Very well, the answer is "Yes", sometimes. But Joe, you don't know about those things. They are not as simple as that, it's all mixed up. You don't love him. No. You and him, well it's not like us, is it ? No, it's not. You're such a honest person. Why the hell do you have to be so honest? Darling I'm glad you're honest. I love you for it. Do you have to go tomorrow? You know I have. You know, I used to think it was a lot of romantic nonsense, one man, one woman, not long ago I would have said a man could be happy with any one of a 100 women. Oh, I know you're my woman Alice. My rush. All the love I get now and forever more. And you've got all the love I ever have to give. You've changed so much, Joe, you know that. So have you. Yes, I've no more defences. How have I changed? Oh, I don't know how to say it. You're stronger now. More sure of yourself. I was so angry with you at first when you wanted Susan. Seemed to want things for all the wrong reasons. And you didn't see how you were damaging yourself as a person. You weren't proud to be you, just to be yourself. But you're proud now, aren't you? Oh,yes, now I am the proudest man in the world. You've got so much Joe... Everything. You don't ever have to pretend. Just have to be yourself. This above all to them ownself be true and... and it must follow as the night, the day (...) You're educated as an (...) Alice, I love you. Oh, I've something for you. Oh, no it's much too nice for me. I want you to have it, to remind you the happiness we had. You talk like a requiem. This is only the beginning. Are you sure? I can't live without you. I've tried and I can't. I need you. Do you really mean it? Do you want me to divorce George? Yes. But would you? Hmm,hmm... What's so funny? You. I'm freightened. Nobody was ever meant to be as happy as I am now. Can't last, it's like a bubble, that's going to burst when I get on that train tomorrow. That train. (TRAIN WHISTLING) Change your mind Joe, come with me. No, it's best as we arranged. I'll take the next train and see you when I get back from Dufton at Elsbeth's. It's only 10 days. It's only a lifetime. We'll work it out so that we can spend the rest of our lives together. Give me a cigarette, love. I have a feeling that this is all what we gonna have. This is only the beginning. (TRAIN CONDUCTOR WHISTLES) Please walk away now darling. Walk away, don't look back. Think of me. Yes... Mr. Aisgill, what can I... Sit down. What can I do for you? Cigarette? Nice case you have there. You know why I am here. Alice told me she wants to divorce me. Well I'm not agreeable. You haven't any choice. She's my wife and she's going to remain my wife. I want to make it quite clear to you. She has no grounds for divorce. Everybody knows the way you treat her, that's about you and your women. But nobody can prove anything. The difference between you and me is that I haven't been indiscreet enough to leave evidence lying around. Meaning what? Just this; If she brings an action of divorce I'll fight it. I'll smear you both across the headlines. It will make fine reading, Elsbeth's flat, the naked bathing in Dorset and all the rest of it. How did you know? I make it my business to know. It'll break you because you can't stand a scandal like that and you know it. And you won't get Alice either. Because I still won't let her go. You can't hold her. Maybe she can't divorce you but she can leave you, you can't stop her from leaving you. Can you keep her? I can keep her because I love her. She's 10 years older than you and she hasn't a penny of her own. If she leaves me, I'll sue you for enticement. Then you won't be able to support even yourself. You got everything pretty well worked out, haven't you? I have, there are no loop holes, get it clear from now on you'll leave Alice alone. Understand me? Why won't you let her go? Why? Because she's my wife. That's why. You trying to tell me you still love her? I'm not trying to tell you anything. I've let you off lightly. There will be no more warnings. Say that again. I said, June and I decided to go steady and I wanted you to be the first one to know. That's just wonderful. Oh, Joe show some enthusiasm. Well I seem to remember you wanted a girl with no responsibilities and a small family business in the background. Well that don't seem to matter much anymore. Oh, what about the invalid mother? Oh, I get it. She's died and left you a large insurance policy. Hah, Joe... No seriously, what about her invalid mother? Well don't seem to matter much either. (PHONE RINGING) June is a fine kid, you couldn't have done better Charles. As a matter of fact, I'm thinking about settling down myself. That might be June. I'll be right with you Joe. Hey, Joe, it's for you, Mr. Brown. Who ? God allmighty Brown, that's who. He wants to talk to you. Tell him my mother sent me touring on the Riveria. Ohh, no Joe, come on quick, he's waiting. Oh, let him wait. Joe, what's got into you lately? I had enough threats for one day. Come on! Allright, I'm coming. Yes? Are you sure it's me, you want to speak to Mr. Brown? Oh, yes. What did he want? He wants me to have lunch with him at the conservative club at 1 o'clock. Sit down. You're late. We'll have the game soup. First time you've been in this club, is it? This or any other Conservative Club. My father would turn in his grave if he could see me now. Who would mind? But we are not bound by our fathers. I've got a proposition for you. You're a clever young man, you don't want to stay in the Town Hall for the rest of your life, do you? Now is the time that accountants can do well for themselves. Now, I'm willing to set you up in business. Buy you a partnership. Well, what do you say? There's a catch somewhere. Not a catch but a condition. I'll set you up on condition that you never see Susan again or communicate with her. Now just what's so funny about that young man? Nothing I could explain. If you agree I'll make you a rich man. You'll be a damn sight better of than you'll ever be in local goverment. Well, what do you say? Are you trying to buy me off? That's right. I'm buying you off and I'm paying a damn fine price for it. Come on now, use your head. You want to improve yourself, you want to get in among the money. Allright, I don't blame you for that. But you're not getting my brass through Susan. You wouldn't talk to me like that I if I were Jack Wales and had a rich daddy behind me. I don't give a damn for Jack Wales. A nice business merger between the two families. I don't barter my daughter. You tried to barter her now. That's enough! I told you my offer, it's the best chance you'll ever have. Now take it or leave it but get this into your head, if you refuse it I'm going to break you. And what's more, I shall run you out of Warnley! Everybody wants to run me out of Warnley. Let's say you kick me out and I take Susan with me. She's in love with me you know. Susan's too young to know her own mind, she'll do as I tell her. If she disobeys me I'll cut her out without a penny. You mean throw her out. If necessary... I thought that might interest you. No! ... I say "No" to your bloody rotten offer! Wait a minute! Now I'll tell you what you gonna do. Sit down. You're marrying her with my concent, right quick. Am I? That's right. But I don't understand. Don't you? The reason's very simple. Well, I'm glad you have the grace to blush. But why didn't she tell me? Chicken again? I'll be turning into one soon, we'll have the pie. I'll have scotch please, a large one. She didn't tell you because she didn't want you to wear her out of her sense of duty. And I didn't tell you because I wanted to try you out. Hmm. There's no need to laugh like that young man. It isn't the way I planned to have my daughter wed. Now listen, you're gonna throw up your job at the Town Hall. I need somebody to reorganise the office, I want some effiency in that side of the business. Well? ... How about salary? Naught, if you don't make a success of it. And that's just one of the matter to be cleared up. If you don't, it's all off. You've been too runny about it already. Leave off Alice Aisgill. Now, I'm not gonna have my daughter hurt anymore and I'm not gonna have my son in law in the divorce court either. Not on account of an old whore like that. There's no need to talk about her in that way. I use words that fit. Now get done with her. I'll not gonna have it put off anymore. Bring coffee for two. I'm driving over to L. I'll drop you off at their house, Susan wants to talk to you. But... I've got to get back to the office. I told Hoylake you are taking the afternoon off. You can fix just about anything, can't you? Just about. I'll tell Miss Susan that you are here. (BIRDS CHIRPING) Joe! Joe isn't it wonderful? I'm so happy. And now we are really going to be married. Why didn't you tell me about the baby? I don't know, you seemed so strange lately. As if you didn't like me very much. But it's allright now, isn't it Joe? Yes, yes it's all allright now. Joe, people have told me even daddy said that you, you were having an affair with Alice Aisgill. How could you? She's so old! Just an old whore like her, that's what you mean, isn't it? Well, it's all over now. So just forget about it. How do I know that? Because I'm telling you. Listen Joe, if you so much as look at her again we are through. I don't care about the baby or anything, I mean it! I won't be second best! Promise me, you never ever gonna see her again! I can't do that. I'm going to see her just one more time and tell her about us. You could write to her. I'm going to see her! Joe, you do love me, don't you? May I come in? Oh, hello Mr. Lampton. I suppose now I better call you Joe. The sooner we get on with the arrangements the better. We decided on a white wedding inspite of the circumstances. The first thing I require from you is the list of the guests. (DOOR OPENS & CLOSES) Darling I thought you would never come. You're so late. Come on. Got a suprise for you. Come on, open it. Oh ... You don't like it? Yes, I like it very much but... If you don't like it you can change it for another color. What's wrong, you look so serious. No, I ... I like the color. Oh, Alice... Alice sit down. You won't me be hurting my feelings. I'm not touchy about things like that. I'm going to marry Susan. Everthing's fixed, even the date. I'm going to marry her. I put her in the family way. What did you expect me to do, run away? No, but that doesn't mean you have to marry her... I've got to marry her! You'll be telling me next you love her. Look Alice, please. Please don't let us have a scene. We were loving friends remember, right from the start you said we were only loving friends. It wasn't possible anyway you and me, you know it wasn't. Well, George wouldn't let you go. If you had taken him to court, he would have thrown more muck at us than either of us could stand. I would have lost my job. Of what could we have lived on? You're a timid soul, aren't you? I suppose you're going to work for Brown. Yes. You've done very well for yourself Joe. Finally, you've got everything you wanted, haven't you? There's something you would never understand Joe, these people are the top. They are the same as anybody else. but you had it inside of you, to be so much bigger than anyone of them. You just had to be yourself, that was all. With me you were yourself, only with me. Try to understand what you have done. Look Alice, I'm going to marry Susan. Allright, maybe I do love you, but I'm going to marry her. Now please don't make it any more difficult for us both. Oh, to hell with you! You think our love is just like a layer of dirt, that I can wash it off? I believed in our love. What else have I got? It's all I had to believe in. You ask me not to make it difficult. But I'm not like you, aunt in Dufton, why should I make it difficult for you? Because it won't do you any good, that's why. I'm going to marry Susan. Don't say it again. Please don't say it again. I think we need a little drink. Look Alice, I wish you face facts. I never loved anyone else. But there's just, isn't any future for us together. That was a pretty speech. I suppose you worked that out before you came, didn't you? I'm never going to see you again, that's what I came to tell you. I'm going now. Noo... Good bye Alice. Are you allright Mrs. Aisgill? (...) I've never seen her like that before. She'll be allright, she knows her way around. (CHURCH BELLS RINGING) - Good morning. - Good morning Mr.Lampton. Oh, Miss Beth I'd like to get everything outstanding settled as soon as possible. Starting with (...) how about the P. appropriation account? Oh, it can wait. Oh, Mr. Lampton I would like to congratulate you. Mr. Hoylake told Gladys. Well you know how these things get about. I hope you'll both get really happy together. Thank you very much. Did you hear about the accident? (OTHER WOMEN SPEAKING IN BACKGROUND) Have you set the date of the wedding yet? No? What accident? (OTHER WOMEN SPEAKING IN BACKGROUND) No, not definately. It's Alice Aisgill. She's dead. (OTHER WOMEN SPEAKING IN BACKGROUND) It will be the wedding of the year I'm sure. - Who's dead? - Alice Aisgill. (OTHER WOMEN SPEAKING IN BACKGROUND) Well, I hope so. Miss Brown, if you don't mind my saying so, will make a lovely bride. She ran the car off the cliff at Sparrow Hill. I heard she was drunk. What's that? Alice Aisgill, Mr.Lampton. They say that the car was bent like that and blood all over the place. What was she doing at Sparrow Hill, anyway? Oh goodness knows, she's been drinking allright? Probably didn't know where she was. There he is! Joe, congratulations laddy, couldn't have happened to a nicer chap. He was trying to tell me about it, the other night you know, weren't you Joe? Come on R. bring that through now, we've got a suprise for you Joe. Come on R. quick! Well, unwrap it! Oh, come here! Look Joe, champaigne! (TEDDY SINGING THE WEDDING MARCH) It's the real stuff, you know. Hellooo! There you are Joe. Well, you'll be leaving us, are you? Marrying into big business. Well, well, congratulations. What's the matter? We were just talking about the accident Mr. Hoylake. What accident? Alice Aisgill's dead. Her car crashed last night. Noo... Nasty business. I met Dr.Everett, he told me. You knew her well, didn't you Joe? Yes. I knew her. Would have been so bad if she died out right. Good looking woman too, it's hard on Aisgill. Is it true that they didn't find her till this morning? I am afraid so, she was terribly mutilated. I heard it was a farm laborer who found her. I heard she was crawling about the rood in her own blood. It wasn't bad thinking about her. Appearently she's been struck by the steering wheel. What's the matter? (CHARLES ASKS) You low rotten (...) You murdering little fancy man! Are you happy now, you swine! You got rid of her nicely, didn't you? You don't understand. You bastard, you bastard! You dirty filthy bastard! She was in your way, wasn't she? Get out of here you filthy little blood sucker! Oh, Joe, how could you do it to... She loved you so, how could you do it? I said what's you name dear? Ehh. What's your name? Jack Wales. And what do you really sell? I told you, I specialized in ladies underwear. Ha,ha,ha! Oh, you're a devil Jack, you really are. Come on Mavis, let's go. Oh, go away. We were allright till you came. Look I couldn't help being late, you see I was working over at the factory love. Look you bloody well stop that, you're coming along with me. Leave her alone! You stick to your own class! You come walking in here, you and your money think you can buy the place, I've seen your type before you know. Now just keep out of this! I told you to leave her alone! Look I warned you, I'll slash your bloody (...) Take your hands off her! He's not really my boyfriend, not really Jack. Just beacuse he has taken me out a couple of times, he thinks he owns me, he does. He don't know how to treat a girl proper. He's not like you Jack. Hey, boy! Same again. You don't want any more to drink, really you don't. Don't I? What you need is some fresh air. Come on. Alice, Alice... It's Mayvis, is my name. Oh, you,'re wonderful. Oh, you're really are. Oh, you've such lovely hands like a gentleman. Oh, shut up! Jack, I've always wanted to meet someone like you. I always have. You wouldn't pass out on me, you mustn't go to sleep. Jack, come on Jack let's go. Are you allright now Jack? I... Now you turn left remember and go straight on down the canal. Have you enough for a taxi? Oh, god they have woken up. Good night Jack. It's been lovely, really it has. (TRAIN PASSING OVER) (ANOTHER TRAIN PASSING OVER) (CHILDREN VOICES) Joe! Joe! Time to come home, Joe. It's allright love. Everything's allright now. I've murdered her... Hushhh, hushhh... I killed her... Everybody knows I killed her. Don't take on so. I wasn't planning but I killed her. Nobody's blaming you Joe. You don't see it now but she would have ruined your whole life. Oh, no, nobody will ever blame you Joe. Nobody but me. That's the trouble. (ORGAN MUSIC PLAYING) I require and charge you both... (CONTINUES WEDDING VOWS) I will. (BELLS RINGING & PEOPLE CHEERING) Joe, wasn't it absolutely the most wonderful wedding? Now we really belong to each other "till death do us part." Darling, you're crying. I believe you really are sentimental after all. SUBTITLES BY : EMRE & PATRICIA KURU kuruemre@yahoo.com
