 

                        Such a nice song, Who sung it? My mom sung it... Where is your mom? She is dead! I am Harya speaking... Why did you call me in the middle of night? Vikram Rathore is alive Let me talk to boss quickly! Wake up! Vikram Rathore is alive! What is this nonsense? I am telling you the truth! Where is he? He is in mumbai I have found the grave Take him out! What is this? My brother... From whose name entire Dayankar area scares He survived from his attack Where are you Vikram Rathore? Find him! Put the knife down! Otherwise I will shoot you I don't care who you are... Put the gun down otherwise... Please! Put the gun down! Get in! You don't worry! Take anything you want... This is Inspector S.K. Verma I don't care who you are Put the gun down otherwise... Put the gun down! Steal his watch, chain, ring but... nothing should happen to him Drop your knife otherwise I will shoot you We won't go from here without meeting Inspector S.K. Verma... Call S.K. Verma first... Who are you? Call Inspector S.K. Verma I am Inspector S.K. Verma They have robbed my house first... In fact they have taken my uniform Get the stuff out and divide it We have 35,000 cash and I am taking 5,000 aside because it should be a round figure I made the plan so I will take 5,000 extra So this jewellery worths 15,000 It means 15,000 are yours and 15,000 are mine and 15,000 goes to Krishan Who is this Krishan? You have forgotten Lord Krishan? You steal from the people when the time comes for donation so you don't want to participate But listen! I will take the jewellery You are very smart Fine! You can keep the jewellery These 15,000 belongs to Lord Krishan Lord Krishan! Here is your share You don't need it! May I keep it? This 15,000 is mine And the jewellery is mine It's stolen stuff If you will go to sell it in market you will be caught. Think! You are my friend that's why I will buy it from you But I will give you 10,000 Give me 10,000 These 10,000 are yours... You have forgotten 5,000 Now what is the total of 10,000 and 5,000 Whose plan was that? Who will give 5,000? I gave you 10,000 forjewellery Who will return it? When will you pay 7,500? I will pay you later. When? Do you have change? You lie alot Get two cup of tea Don't think and go! Bring it two What's going on here? Where did you get this money? Move! Look at my husband! Don't worry! Yesterday you have returned the money to Shiva Next time I will also give you the share Please take care of me! Stop this sound! Shiva! Our ball is here Come kid! Get your ball and have some breakfast Is it hot? Take some breakfast for your parents Hold it! After today! If your ball will come inside then I will boil you in hot water and I will tear you up like potato Why God made kids? Why you are so quite? You didn't shout to see the kids? My friend has become quite I was late I told you at 10 but I will be there at 11 One minute! Even I can hear police siren Do you feel something like that? I think my ear is not working I will have to go to doctor But listen we won't go to Dr. Deva He don't keep wallet and don't wear watch as well and we have stolen his gold chain last time Thief! My bag! Sorry! One minute! I have never seen you before in this area But I have seen you You saved that fat man's life But you haven't seen what happened next You don't looks like from Mumbai No! I came from Patna! You came here for shopping It's my cousin's wedding Near the station! In Malad! Next to Orlen Church? Backside of mall Give him your number Sorry! You will give your number to some stranger... My name is Shiva and her name is Paro Our combination is good And by the way you don't need identity for love but heart Who told you that I love you? Your smile said it... If she smiles so you think she is in love with you Not yet? If you will think about me in 24 hours so think that you love me otherwise I will think that was one sided love... He was really over confident Who? Shiva! Who shiva? Who was saying that I will think about him in next 24 hours. He is correct! You are thinking about him... We have done lot of shopping? Yeah! Shiva was right! I can see him everywhere I think I am also in love with Shiva I can also see him everywhere What happen? Kids came to my way If hundred black cats came to Shiva's way so I don't care but these kids are the father of demons They ruin your every job You come from back side, I will go from front side I didn't think about it Very good! You relatives have no values of tradition and culture They touched your feet and just ignored me They doesn't know you that's why... Look at this! This is called culture This is called tradition Why you are standing like a stick? Touch her feet again Why you are touching my feet twice? I am not done yet Learn it! This is called culture Go inside and have some food Feel it home! Shall I press your another foot? No! You also go... You really are... You were thinking about me from 24 hours Your friend was also thinking about me No! I wasn't thinking about you She said something! If somebody need me then tell him that I am in the room upstairs What do you think? That girl will fall in love with you in first meeting Tell me one thing! Nor you have charm like Shahrukh nor looks like Hrithik nor cuteness like Aamir khan neither body like Salman Khan You have forgotten Khiladi! Really? What so special in you? Show me! Shall I show you? How did you like it? You have shown your speciality Now I will show you my speciality Look! This is called tradition and culture Get up! You have touched my feet this morning Why do you need to touch them again? Tradition! Do me a favour? There is a mall nearby. Bring me the nappies packet Traffic is really jam, I am really upset I will there in half an hour Where is my phone? What's going on with me Just for the sake of girl You are searching diapers Kids who are dangerous than demons Why does God made kids? I am barking like dogs here and you are not answering me You were speaking Yes! I thought dog is barking I am really angry Catch him! He is my boss I am not with him I don't know him Why did you tell them my name? You were going to sell your own daughter No! Actually it's a sunny day that's why I have put my daughter in this box Where do you live? Malaad West! Fine! I will come to check everyday And I don't found this girl at home She is your daughter Grow her like a father Fraud woman! We thought we made her fool but who became fool? By the way who was that woman? Ask your daughter Come here! Who is your papa? You! This house is very nice Did you like it? It's bathroom is good as well Go and check it! Okay papa! What a love between dad and his daughter? How she could be my daughter? You should know where did you open your account? It's not my account it's someone else fixed deposit Now look what you papa will do? Sit! I am really angry I am asking you for last time Tell me! Who is your dad? You are my papa She is playing game with me Come! Let's play hide and seek Don't come out until I don't call you go and hide inside Before both of them will bother you leave from here You will die after 100 years I was just thinking about you What's this? It's third hand! We can't afford second hand Where is Shiva? He is gone to bring the cake Today is his daughter's birthday Really? So fine! I will go after having the cake You sit! I will call Shiva I don't know when will he come He doesn't know that you are here Today is your daughter's birthday! Birthday? Yes! Inspector has come to eat the cake What? Bring the cake fast Wait! Sir! Here comes Shiva you really love your daughter I will be back I will come everyday And if you will make any problem What did you say? I spoke to myself I can't tolerate this tension I am leaving Is shiva inside? Yes! Shall we play hide and seek Go and hide yourself... Okay papa! Why does she say Okay papa What's the matter? Nothing! Who is in the bedroom? Nobody! So why did you stop me? You are prepared so early to visit the bedroom? Let's go! Leave me! Let's have some love Where? On the streets At station! It's really loud! No feelings! I have brought my parents to introduce you I have come to tell you that we are going back to Patna but you... You have finished everything Look! I can prove, What else you will prove? Listen to me! We don't want to listen anything Shiva! Go from here! Take Chinky and run Go! Otherwise they will kill you Who are you people? Why you want to kill us? Run! Chinky! Look at this fugitive! How he is trembling to see his death That day he touched his moustache and said... I am not afraid of death It's easy to say... but many people are scared to face it Come! Whoever thinks that I am afraid he is dead Rathore! Vikram Rathore! I am not scared Death afraids from me Death doesn't have balls... so he could face me that's why death is following me from six months to take me along Death will have cross your dead bodies I swear to my daughter If one of you will stay alive or I will die one minute earlier than you then shave my moustache first then bury me Is anybody left? What I says... I do it... How is Chinky? She is fine She is faint because of shock Don't worry she will be conscious in few moments Serious injuries, But we are trying our best I know... You have many questions in your mind How suddenly so many problems came to your life Or who is that man? Who is fighting between life and death in I.C.U You don't need 100 years age to live 100 years Just do one thing in single day with whom people should remind you for 100 years I didn't said it but that man said it He is alone equal to 100 armed police officers There is a small city Devgar near Patna Baap Jee named goon was ruling that city Police uniform just helped to cover your naked body I was the one amongst those helpless police officers Why did you came here? Bark! My wife is missing from 2 days Your wife is missing You didn't treat her well Your dick is not working What's your wife age? You should be careful with woman in 2 ages When she is 17 then danger increased and when woman becomes 30 So she will become hot Even people steal the mango from their own brother's garden Papa! Mom is there There! Somehow find my wife Do you know where is she? No! Do you suspicious to someone? No! We will find your wife in 2 days But my kids... Like I said! You will get your wife... Go home! Money! You need money? Give me the money What are you looking at? Don't worry! One day everything will be fine You need a cab? Where to go? I want to go Balki Chawk Fare is 500 Balki Chawk is so close No arguements in Baap Jee's world I don't want to go! You have asked for cab Give us the money Give it to them! Don't talk to them You have brought your daughter only Where is her mom? To see her I think Her mom will be very hot She is coming from next train You listen the mom's song I will be right back You have come to show your wife's photo Do you know who am I? You have beaten Bheema Bhai Get up! Wear your clothes Give me the money You have taught them good lesson But who are you? New A.S. P of your city Vikram Rathore! Don't be afraid! Take this money and give it back to those people from whom they have taken it If you will ever seen here again Sorry! I couldn't come to recieve you It's okay! Papa! She is tired, What should I do? Make her sleep! Okay papa! Your wife didn't come Papa! Let's go! I am getting late for school You haven't dressed up the hair Teacher will be angry on me Your wife is also... passed away... No! Let's go! What happened to your wife? How are you? Minister Uncle has come Dance show was great Now I want more fun What kind of fun? I want to catch the people with your police officers Whoever I will catch that police officer will remove his clothes Control your anger! Actually he is abnormal If he will play with you for a while so what's the big deal And by the way police job is to serve the nation You want to play And unload your revolver and keep it back And stand quite Are you happy now? Remove your shirt! Do something! Police officer's uniform has removed Remove your pent! I am feeling shy! Now the next will be officer with moustache What happen? Prepare the file and write down A mad person jumped down and died Take minister's signatures for the witness and if you need! Then take this mental's father signatures Honest police officer's uniform also pays it's duty Remember! Dasera is not reason of village happiness but you What are you saying? They are celebrating Munna's death more than Dasera When Baap Jee and Titla will die they will celebrate the festival everyday I think Titla's people are hiding in this crowd Spread our men everywhere You are attacking from back like cowards Attack me from the front if you dare... I ha When death comes to my face So I should not seems scared My hands just rubbing my moustache and I shall have a smile on my face Where I was? Here! I am Shiva! I am Vikram Rathore! And I don't know you Go from here I will die I have through a stone If you don't love so why did you jump Stop the discussion and help me I don't know how to swim Do you love me or not? If I will survive then I will love You are shiva shiva shiva Yes I am I am I am Tell me! Will you take me for shopping every week after marriage You will do shopping for my funeral Help me! Don'tjump upon me He told me everything You don't worry Along with Shiva Now I will also take care of Chinky Shiva! Yes! More stronger this time It's already 12. He didn't come yet I was waiting for his show Nothing! Vikram Rathore didn't come yet He told me at 12 What he says... He never do it If he is gonna do it so he won't spoke it You are so scared that you are talking on phone I was waiting in Godown to kill you I was coming to your godown but... I just saw your wine factory and I couldn't distribute the wine in public I thought I should burn your factory I have blown up your factory I won't spare you He does first then speak... Your phone! You left your food godown now what are you doing at burned wine factory It's good! Your men survived from my bash If you will touch my godown so I will cut your hands Even public is touching your food stock If you are the son of one father so don't go from there I am coming What did you said? Now he will stay there Here! Son of one father Now you prove till tomorrow 12 that you are the son of one father What's gonna happen tomorrow? Tomorrow at 12 your brother in law will be beaten on streets I have made a plan to get beaten up your brother in law from public How would you go alive from here? I will show you right now What are you looking at? I ran, jumped... I must had a plan... You son of the steel! Get up! Don't angry me You were right! Your shiva has chopped me in pieces But may I tell you what will I do? Sir! Beat us little bit We wait everyday I am not in mood Don't do it! Beat us little bit! You son of the steel! Let's go! What I says... I do it What I don't say... I definitely do it...
