 

                        'My name...' '...is Marco Polo' 'Italy is my motherland' 'Approximately for 25 years...' '...I have travelled through Persia, China, Burma, India' '...and Singhalese countries' 'Venice, Italy 13th century A.D' 'After seeing the wonders of Asia...' '...and buying valuable memorabilia' '...I reached Italy' 'But Republic of Genova was in the throes of a terrible war' 'The King and the people were trembling in fear of losing' This amazing article...paper! Discovery of the Chinese We no longer need to write on leaves and textiles anymore In our present predicament... ...we don't need these fancy gifts Marco Polo We need an escape plan Because I don't have a male heir... ...I was compelled to comply and bow my head to our enemies You have travelled around the world You were granted an audience by Genghis Khan's grandson Kublai Khan With your worldly knowledge... ...hoping you would help us with an escape strategy ...we invited you here Then you must learn more about the mighty Kakatiya emperor... ...who became the supreme ruler of the Telugu kingdom Who is that mighty emperor? Rudramadevi 'The Kakatiya reign that spread fame in all 8 directions...' '...is not a kingdom to be trifled with' 'From Kalinga in the East' 'Karnata in the West' 'Madhyadesa in the North' '...Kakatiya kingdom extended till Kanchi in the south' 'With Orugallu as their capital...' '...the Kakatiyas ruled providing prosperity and plenty' Praise be to Goddess Kakatamma consort of Lord Shiva, destroyer of evil King Ganapati Deva's wife, our queen will deliver a royal heir This news will be announced shortly If our queen gives birth to a daughter... ...king of Devagiri's army will lay siege and enslave us again 'The hell we suffered when they held King Ganapati Deva captive is enough' If the same situation arises we might as well die We only want a prince to be born! God Rudralinga Bless our queen with a little prince Guardian deity Ellamma! Let our queen be blessed with a baby boy Guardian deity Ellamma! Bless us with a little prince My dear brother Hari Hara Deva Look how high the expectations of the people are They want our old cousin to have a son If it's a daughter... (scornful laughter) ...it will be a case of empty expectations! What you said is absolutely true King Ganapati Deva is not destined to have a male heir Only a girl baby will be born With the help of buried treasure... ...to complete building the 7 walls of the fort ...as an incarnate of Goddess Shakti ...that girl child will save our entire kingdom Women...! To satiate the desires of men and to serve their every need... ...Lord Brahma created this beautiful angel called 'girl' Not to rule a kingdom Keep aside the king's horoscope Check if my master's horoscope predicts he will ascend the throne The Kakatiya throne belongs to us Find the auspicious date for our coronation Murari Deva Ask the feudal chieftains who favor us to be prepared As soon as his daughter is born if the king renounces his throne... ...at least his life will be spared Otherwise he will set foot on his journey to Heaven Your words echo my thoughts, brother My lord, unaware of the fact you are the local thieves here... ...they are afraid of king Singhana of Devagiri who is our neighbor If he lays siege on our land... ...we will be wiped out Dust to ashes! 'Devagiri kingdom' To close the chapter of the Kakatiya dynasty... ...get our troops ready for action Sharpen your weapons which will slash even eye lashes to pieces! Heighten the spirits of cavalry and elephantry with spirits! Make them mighty and strong If a daughter is born to king Ganapati Deva... ...he and his people will be broken hearted Right then let the death-bell toll That ring is the invitation for us to advance and attack I will gift the Kakatiya Kingdom... ...to my 2nd grandson, Mahadeva Soldiers, get ready to fight 'Kakatiya kingdom' Good news, my lord Queen Somambadevi has given birth to a beautiful girl baby You indeed gave me good news But this is not the wish of the people They wanted a male heir When this news reaches our enemies' ears... ...they will probably be happier than us Shiva Devaiah, even before you gave me this good news... ...I got the news through my spies Our enemies of Devagiri are sharpening their swords to attack our people it seems Our allies and feudal chieftains are eyeing our throne with interest We can stop them temporarily But what will become of our kingdom without a male heir? Should my people be enslaved again? What will be the future of my clan and my kingdom? Only if there is no male heir should you be scared What are you saying? Your Majesty! The gender of the baby is known only to my wife who was the midwife... ...our queen, you and me This child born as an incarnate of Lord Shiva as Rudra... ...let us name her Rudramadevi To our people we will introduce him as the prince Rudradeva You want me to lie and deceive my own people? To avoid danger, we should forget the word 'impossible' Not only to our enemies and our own people Even the new born baby should never know she is a girl Heir to the Durjaya dynasty The future prince of the Kakatiya kingdom Sri Sri Sri Rudradeva The little prince Long live prince Rudradeva Long live our future heir to the throne Long live our little prince Can you hear that? The sound of people cheering Heir to the throne and our enemy is born Rudradeva! The scriptures cannot go wrong Birth and death are God's will God writes, huh? Your death is written in our hands 'Unable to kill the new born baby they killed the astrologer' He wasn't even lucky enough to wear this pearl necklace Ganapati Deva has a son? A new enemy is born for our Devagiri dynasty And to top it all, he is named after Lord Shiva as Rudradeva My father Jaitugi, king of the Yadavas... ...brutally killed Rudradeva, Ganapati Deva's uncle They have named this child after him! This feud has been spouting hatred for 2 generations Is he extending this enmity to the third generation? Ganapati Deva has not forgotten anything Shall we wage a war, Your Majesty? Happiness is half the strength To Ganapati Deva, his male heir gives strength equal to the mountain Let us be calm for a while The chance to dethrone Ganapati Deva has slipped from our hands If you are scared of the new male heir... ...what can we do, Your Majesty? Army chief Do you think I will be scared of the Kakatiya male heir? No Not at all Right before my eyes my grandson is growing up like a hungry tiger's cub Mahadeva First tell our prince, knives are not used to cut nails Knives cut necks as well as nails! Grandfather, whenever the time is right, Orugallu fort is mine Kakatiya crown is also mine 'Secret hide-out in a dense forest' Bravo! Rudradeva Your swordsmanship is noteworthy at this young age Like Karna's armor and ear-ring... ...this armor and sword will be your strength To me Shiva Devaiah's order is like Lord Shiva's command! Rudradeva, to combat your enemies... ...and protect your kingdom your training ends today Life will now teach you how to uphold justice and Dharma Your coronation awaits you Let us now proceed to Orugallu Welcome, prince of Kakatiya kingdom The dove Shiva Devaiah has taught to fly... ...has flown into the fortress after 14 years Tomorrow or day after this bird will be sacrificed by our sword or spear (Holy chant) Salutations to my father Long live prince Rudradeva Rudradeva, these princes are here to greet and welcome you... ...from our neighboring kingdoms Veerabhadra Chalukya Prince of Nidavartyapuram Hail Veerabhadra Chalukya Long live Veerabhadra Chalukya On the banks of our river Godavari... ...we have heard many stories of your valor Will you consent to clash swords with me? Prince of Vardamanapuram Son of Gona Buddha Reddy Prince Gona Ganna Reddy Welcome Gona Ganna Reddy Hail Gona Ganna Reddy Prince, it seems you are a brave warrior Are you prepared for a duel with me? He is 2 years younger than you But in warfare tactics... ...he is the bravest of the brave Gona Ganna Reddy Really? Challenge The way you swirl your sword... ...looks like you will be my only rival in this kingdom, Ganna Reddy Gona Ganna Reddy Prince, you are wanted back in Vardamanapuram at once Your father's younger brother Lakkumaiyah Reddy has sent word Leave immediately I take leave, prince We will meet again in 'The festival of the Brave heart' I take leave, sir His father, Gona Buddha Reddy has passed away unexpectedly Vardamanapuram is in a state of shock This news is so distressing Even a warrior has to face distress Do not get dejected, young prince If we roam around the streets of Orugallu... ...you will feel relaxed and rejuvenated - Come with me - What? Outside the fort? I am not allowed to step out Permission? That too for you? It won't be interesting if you are bound by rules always But if Shiva Devaiah gets to know? We'll be back before he finds out Come quickly My dearest friend...! This waterfall jumps in joy just like us and weaves its way I also grew up amidst these trees and creepers But do you know how happy I feel roaming around with you like this Is this what you came running to see, prince? Did this beautiful sculpture lure you here? Poets and sculptors have varied vivid imagination With unlimited imagination and aesthetic sense... ...they create women in wonderful poses Woman? Then what...? Did you see the beauty of her upper torso? Only Rati, the Goddess of Love is blessed this way Only the apsara Menaka has such a petite waist like this Urvasi's full lips Graceful curve of Rambha's neck All these sculpted together is this beautiful work of art There is no other girl as beautiful on this earth Girl...? Then...? Instead of a female, can a male possess such graceful curves? 'Will you skinnydip in the river with us?' Outside, in the open? When girls bathe together... ...why can't we boys do the same? Climb up Come, my dear prince Rudradeva...! Mother? Amma? Ma...? Mother There is no difference between you and me, right? Why are you dressed like this then? Why did you raise me like this? Come, dear Ma...? Oh! My dear child 'Not just your upbringing' 'Even raising you like this is essential for the history of our kingdom' To stop the annexing greed of neighboring countries... ...to retain the resources and cultural heritage of our land ...instilling fear in enemies ...we should be a strong and very powerful kingdom Satavahanas Ikshvakus Vishnukundinas And after the Chalukyas of Vengi... ...our Kakatiya kingdom is the most powerful Enemies on all 4 sides are Yadavas of Devagiri, Seuna Pandyas Tribes from Turpu Hoysalas We are surrounded by scheming and self centered allies These power-crazy crafty foxes thrive here In our kingdom known for its righteous rule... ...common people will suffer much more than our soldiers If our enemies had got wind of our heir-apparent's gender right then... ...our Kakatiya kingdom would have merged with the dust long ago Noose for kings And handcuffs around people's wrists ...our culture and lineage would have perished 'To infuse fear into our enemies' minds...' '...confidence in the hearts of our own people' '...we were forced to lie about your birth and upbringing' As a child it was easy for us to convince our subjects Now that she has attained puberty... ...is it right to make them believe she is a boy? Till date we were able to achieve what we had planned Now whatever maybe the repercussion... ...we have to face it We shall announce in the assembly Make the necessary arrangements You took a bold decision for the welfare of our kingdom I shall remain as Rudradeva till that goal is fulfilled '10 years later' King's kith and kin Hari Hara Deva and Murari Deva's brother-in-law Nagadeva... ...is coming to tame the mad elephant Come Come Face me Like tugging the sari off a woman... ...he thought it easy to tame an elephant Is there no brave man in Orugallu to tame this mad elephant? How can that be, Prasad Aditya? Of course there is Our valiant prince Rudradeva Even if you don't remember... ...we haven't forgotten Fearless and courageous As brave as a lion and one who knows all the tricks All that is mere folklore We haven't seen the valor of our prince face to face Despite being your kith and kin Even the people of our kingdom... ...have not set eyes on prince Rudradeva it seems Will our prince appear at least today being a special day? Will we be blessed by his august presence? We want Rudradeva The young prince We want to see our prince Rudradeva, our future king Your Majesty It is the king's duty to fulfill the wishes of his people Prasad Aditya Ask Rudradeva to come 'Already this elephant is wild' 'If I feed this brew, I dread to think of the prince's plight' Our future king prince Rudradeva Bravest warrior on earth Welcome prince Rudradeva Long live prince Rudradeva! (loud cheers) Chief minister My eyes perceive Rudradeva as a lion Long live young prince Rudradeva (continuous cheering) Our future king Prince Rudradeva Long live! The bravest of the brave Long live Long live! Who told you the Hindu God of love Manmadha has no form, Ganapamba? Look over there Perfection in form and skill is your brother Rudradeva To prevent young girls like me from abducting him... ...did he stay behind in his fort all along? Muktamba is on a poetic spree I am his sister And I hardly see him, except during festivals or special events (overlap of voices) Where on earth are the guards? When girls fall all over him... ...isn't it their duty to restrain them? Are you angry about them falling all over him? Or sad you are unable to?! Did you notice this, chief minister? Look at the attention he is receiving from all the girls here? We must fix the perfect alliance for him at once Otherwise like the 'gopikas' drawn to Lord Krisna... ...how many girls will flock towards our prince? Wonder how many zenanas we may have to build Prince of Kakatiya kingdom Rudradeva Long live! The curiosity of Rudradeva's whereabouts And his enigmatic appearance to be considered on one hand After my grandfather King Singhana died... ...my brother Krishna Bhupathi ascended the throne on the other hand We were forced to play a waiting game We cannot wait any longer First we should ride rough shod over our enemy using our intelligence Rising from the highlands of Devagiri... ...the rivers Krishna, Godavari, Manjira flowing into Orugallu land ...are our new weapons Stop the rivers that serve as life source flowing into the Kakatiya kingdom Build dams Sacrifice those who restrain your efforts to the Goddess of that dam Without water, instead of falling at our feet... ...will the Kakatiyas die hiccupping? Wait and watch With just the wave of my hand... ...how I, Mahadeva, will reduce the Kakatiyas to tears Without even a drop of water we are facing severe drought We are suffering without water to drink or even 1 square meal a day It's better to die in war than in this gnawing hunger We are ready to die Why are you retreating, prince? We will fight! But not to die To make our next generation live Afflicting our lands with drought, hunger and thirst... ...Mahadev of Devagiri has stopped the flow of the rivers He can stop the rivers But can he stop the rain by fencing it? Will raindrops not fall? Won't leaves sprout? Will our land not be lush green? Rain water is enough for us We will store rain water in reservoirs To save rain water as per Kakatiya lineage... ...in the name of King Ganapati Deva 'Ganapa Samudram' In the name of the king's sisters 'Paiyamba Sagaram' and 'Raja Samudram' 'Rudra Samudram' in the name of our prince The task of building reservoirs has begun We are dying of thirst here And you claim digging a well will provide us water That is the reason we are organizing... ...canals to be dug and channelized Water will be provided for agriculture Until this water scarcity is solved we abolish all taxes Until we are able to stand on our own feet... ...we have no time to think of war After that, the battlefield is never too far Only if you live that long! Don't dig lakes Dig your own grave first Not just water Our king Mahadeva will destroy every blade of grass Long live King Mahadeva! Mahadeva's men have sneaked into our land You dare stop our water? We will gather the blood of your Devagiri conspirators... ...we will wash our hands in our Kakatiya waters Even if a hundred Mahadevas arise... ...one prince Rudradeva will do to destroy injustice Long live Rudradeva Prince of Kakatiya! (cheering continues) Well done, Rudradeva For a valiant man like you... ...laying siege once is not enough Let many obstacles befall you because of me Only then will the taste buds of our enmity enjoy the flavor Soldiers of Devagiri entered our city yesterday How do we know Mahadeva won't attack our fort tomorrow? Orugallu that stands without protection... ...even God cannot save! True, even God cannot save our land that lacks protection King Ganapati Deva, my father's wonderful dream... ...was to fortify and strengthen the Kakatiya defenses He wanted to build 7 walls around our fort Let us start to complete the 7 walls to our fort now 'The son who excels his father' You are a fine example of this, Rudradeva Armor for the warrior Fortified walls for the kingdom Your deed will be etched in history This will not find a place in history The king himself was unable to finish building the walls of our fort Wonder why our prince is in haste or what spurns his anger? Is all this even possible, prince? When ambition is strength and hard work is in each breath... ...'impossible' does not even exist Walls made of stone, gravel, sand, iron, thorn... Shell lime and sand plaster And finally bamboo Finish building these 7 walls with immediate effect Your wish is our command Hit hard Heave-ho! Strike it strong Heave-ho Pull with force Heave-ho! Speed up Heave ho! Dig deep Heave ho! To raise funds to build the 7 walls... ...there are 2 special features in this festive event Whoever scales up this bronze pillar... ...that represents the magnificence of our Kakatiya dynasty ...will be awarded the title, 'Brave heart, bravest of the brave' The second feature Gona Varada Reddy, son of Lakkumaiah Reddy... ...and Anamika Devi, daughter of Yelikikona Reddy of Adavoni ...will be united in matrimony graced by his Majesty Not just 2 hearts 2 kingdoms will merge to become one We offer our wedding gifts as a royal fund Bravo! Lakkumaiah Reddy! Instead of contributing from your treasury... ...you burden the people God's will that will end well Let the contest for the Brave heart begin I wish the same too First is the contest Only then the wedding After the wedding, we get the real gold Fake gold for the treasury Son Varada, even if you eat mud this title is only for you Let the contest begin Come I am your husband No matter what! Come, dear Is there no brave man in the entire Kakatiya kingdom to scale this pillar? Bravest of the brave in Kakatiya land Long live Brave heart! Praise be to the bravest of the brave in Kakatiya land Amazing Warrior, your feat is unparalleled Who may you be? State your name and your origin And claim your award Not answering is equal to disrespecting the king We give you another chance because you are the winner Answer! Who are you? kOtai Sandiveera (cheering) (cheering continues) 'The way you swirl your sword...' '...looks like you will be my only rival in this kingdom, Ganna Reddy' 'Gona Ganna Reddy!' Like his father and my brother Gona Buddha Reddy... ...I thought Gona Ganna Reddy would be an ally of the Kakatiyas But he is getting ready to oppose us He changes into a robber and grabs the riches and lives of minor chieftains Yes, indeed kOtai Sandiveera A lot of people seem to know about me Many who have seen me face to face are no longer alive Long live Brave heart! Be quiet Scaling this pillar, scratching your back Stamping mud Do you call these a challenge? Amulet on my hip thread! Can't one who is equipped to milk a tiger do the same to a cow? Tell us straight to our face Why did you come here? I will tell you My father's brother betrayed my father and killed him I let him live The king who was supposed to protect... ...failed in his duties I ignored that as well They branded me as a robber because I fought for the poor I let that go as well If injustice happens to me, I will not shed a tear But if I see it happen in front of me... ...I will not let it go! A girl is being coerced into marrying the prince in front of the king? It will not happen! Gona Ganna Reddy! What is it, Varada? My wicked cousin Like a jasmine stuck to the mouth of a lizard... ...why do you want this wedding? Why do you keep falling from this pillar? Amulet on my hip thread! If you are half baked in everything like this... ...you cannot even father a goat-kid! You half baked warrior! A half baked warrior is still a warrior! My son-in-law went half way up That is enough for me He will please even his wife only halfway Is that enough too? Prince, Gona Ganna Reddy is now interested in my daughter Anamika He has come here to abduct her now Not only Anamika but also the throne of Kakatiya Shut up, Hari Hara Deva Eligibility for a king is not just having an heir But to be a brave warrior! Has no one ever told you the throne is for the courageous - Ganna Reddy! - Gona Ganna Reddy!! Yes, of course Robber Sandiveera Opposing the king is an unpardonable crime Why would you not say so? How would you know the difference between right and wrong? For you to step out of the fortress, an elephant must get mad and trumpet! Every chieftain here is a mad elephant They trample the people Even if you turn a blind eye to these mad elephants... ...I refuse to do so - What arrogance! - Forgive me My body is full of arrogance Are you playing with words? I am a hunter who knows how to play The hunt is ours Prasad Aditya Soldiers Surround him 'We'll protect our brother' My lovely little lion cubs You threaten these people with your tiny catapults! Bravo! We won't show any concession for you as children, move back Admirable indeed! Your love and concern My dear cubs, I will manage Run along 'We are retreating only because our brother says so!' 'We will even give up our lives for our brother' Gona Ganna Reddy You were right, I am not interested in this royal alliance But Varada Reddy is a half baked warrior He won't let you take me away If you are brave, then defeat him Then I will come with you of my own accord Your wish is my command, prince Today is my wedding day and the day of his death Both by my hand only I have been waiting to kill him for so long Anamika, get ready Brave men, encircle Ganna Reddy! We couldn't handle Gona Ganna Reddy when he was standing face to face How can we nab him now? You must save my son somehow The only brave and fearless man who can oppose Gona Ganna Reddy... ...is my dear friend Veerabhadra Chalukya Where is your leader, the looter Sandiveera? I have dedicated my life to kOtai Sandiveera I will not tell Kill me You killed the chieftains Gona Ganna Reddy, you are not a human You are a savage beast But you will not escape from my clutches I must kill Gona Ganna Reddy In order to kill him first you must be alive Gona Ganna Reddy! I am going back to save Varada Reddy Do not assume the hunt is over It has only just begun Without discerning the gender... ...we can be carefree and get intoxicated with ambrosia This Kaumudi festival is ours We can unlock the secret desires from the chambers of our heart Gona Ganna Reddy is extremely handsome Warrior who is the bravest of the brave He came to save me But most unnecessarily... ...he carried away Varada Reddy For our enemies, Rudradeva is like a wild elephant Only for teenage girls he is the God of love To marry the prince... ...is the dream of all the princesses of the neighboring lands Of course Wonder how many will compete Wonder how many cat-fights will be waged! Victory or heavenly abode?! We should wage a war for him 'This Kaumudi festival is not to indulge in idle chat' 'To let all our secret wishes embedded in our hearts to fly free' 'If we miss this opportunity...' '...this happiness cannot be experienced for another year' She is more beautiful than the milky moon Who is this heavenly damsel? "Full moon flower Play with us forever" "Bathed in silver light let's share stories all night" "From the palace, a koel solitary along with her brood voluntary" "Her youth springing, from her prison she winged to fly to a new horizon" "Is she reading this youthful hymn in the still of the night in the garden?" "Full moon flower Play with us forever" "Bathed in silvery light let's share stories all night" Who is this enchanting enchantress? She gives a new meaning to beauty "Clouds tease a dulcet display of fresh raindrops at play" "Waves orchestrate a rhapsody Waving and weaving melody" "Is this the veena strumming in silence a sweet soft humming?" "Where is the scent of the soul which abducted my heart whole?" "Is it the chilly air tingling from the dewy waterfall singing?" "Is it the climbing creeper bearing the jasmine flower?" "Is it the flute that plays lilting music always?" "Is it the waves of joy filling the heart with a blissful feeling?" "I am not 'me' now really" "A poetry crossing the boundary" "Full moon flower Play with us forever" "Bathed in silver light let's share stories all night" "Full moon flower Play with us forever" "Bathed in milky white moon light let's share stories all night" 'There is no other girl as beautiful on this earth' 'My dear friend...!' Such a beautiful girl cannot exist on earth Friend? It is true This statue has life and is bathing in the river The petite waist of Rati, the consort of God of love The alluring curves of Rambha the celestial nymph Lips as red as they can get Urvasi's features Menaka's graceful form Tilotamma's divine face Who are you? Which 'swayamvara' should I win to make you my wife? Which kingdom should I capture? Oh! It is customary to first introduce myself I am Veerabhadra of the Chalukya dynasty I hail from Nidavartyapuram For further details... ...shall I ask your prince Rudradeva to speak on my behalf? Are you in such a hurry? I will ask the same Kakatiya prince... ...to snip the tail of temerity of youngsters like you Jaganmohini the enchantress Wherever you may hide... ...you cannot escape from my clutches We thought king Ganapati Deva needed 7 births to build 7 walls of the forts But in just 7 months... ...2nd wall has been built and the 3rd is also ready Your Majesty! Wherever they are digging to build the walls of the fort... ...they are unearthing treasures 'With the help of underground treasures...' '...the half-finished walls of our fort will be completed' 'As an avatar of Goddess Shakti...' '...this kingdom will be saved only by that baby girl' When precious gems were unearthed while building the 7 walls of the fort... ...whether really a girl was born to the king ...a seed of doubt sprouted in the minds of the Deva brothers Who was the enchantress Nagadeva saw? Why is Rudradeva still unmarried? Along with questions danger also arose Our prince to be married? Why? Is Rudradeva like Bhishma a sworn bachelor? Or is he not eligible like Shikandi? This is not my question Our people are indulging in idle gossip To stop these rumors... ...this is the best opportunity My elder brother's opinion You have proved yourselves to be partners My mind is enthralled with your care and concern for royalty Prince Rudradeva's wedding has been finalized long ago Our prince will marry Muktamba the daughter of Jayabasena The wedding was fixed in my presence long ago As well-meaning relatives of the king... ...you should grace the occasion and conduct the wedding Like a barren woman blessing a pregnant lady... ...should they oversee the wedding? Secret tunnel to the ladies chambers The Kaumudi festival where the enchantress appeared... ...and this royal family are linked in some special way - Uncle, I found it - Found what? An underground passage to the zenana in the palace Is that so, Nagadeva? Where is that tunnel? Uncle, how eager you are I won't tell you Until I finish the job, you'll put me on a pedestal calling me Chanakya Then you'll insult me by calling me all sorts of names Okay, you don't have to tell us the way But listen to me Go through that tunnel If you see the enchantress, enjoy her as much as you please Kill Rudradeva before he gets to the wedding stage We are the ones organizing the wedding The entire marriage hall is surrounded by our men Rudradeva is in your hands in the zenana The wedding hall is in my hands The entire royal family will be wiped out including Ganapati Deva Hereafter I am the emperor of the Kakatiya kingdom Hari Hara Deva Princess, you're in such a rush? If I come early, you say I rush If I come late... ...you say women take all day and night to get ready True Women are not the reason for the delay in getting dressed Men are to be blamed Your friend himself hasn't arrived as yet Then? If one must sit majestically next to a beauty like me... ...even a renowned prince must take extra care in getting dressed My guess was right My enchantress is here First I must send the prince to hell And then taste a slice of heaven Prince, here I come So you are a woman? You got away fooling everyone You have enacted this play for 25 years because women have no right to rule? If I kill you now this secret will die with you But if the secret is brought out in the open... ...the entire Kakatiya kingdom will be ruined Prince Rudradeva is not in the palace Veerabhadra, some danger has befallen the prince Close all exits and entrances Warriors, send word to Prasad Aditya Priest...? If the auspicious time is nearing tie the sacred thread to this sword This wedding must definitely happen as planned Look! My brother is coming What happened, friend? Nothing, I came by another way He has a long lifeline He escaped from Nagadeva's clutches (Holy chant) Don't lose heart, brother The newly married couple will go to the royal premises In the name of Gona Ganna Reddy... ...the obstacle we have created will be Rudradeva's death knell Long live Prince Rudradeva! For your wedding, the bandit Gona Ganna Reddy... ...has sent this toy elephant as a gift The target is ours Blame is on Gona Ganna Reddy The royal family will be totally destroyed thanks to him Long live Brave heart! Long live kOtai Sandiveera You thought I'd be far away and not come here? I am like my mother tongue I'll be here and everywhere I would be the last person on earth to hide and fight You lesser mortals equal to my amulet! It is not in my blood to be a coward My war is only with Rudradeva And only face to face An auspicious event is happening here With only the scent of sandalwood Not blood splashed all over That's why I am sparing you Go If you use my name in a wrong manner... ...I'll string your intestines and garland the fortress walls Veerabhadra Chalukya, if the crime must be exposed... ...don't let Gona Ganna Reddy cross the fortress walls Go...go All the incarnates of God Shiva and Goddess Shakti as witness Let me tell you now Rudradeva, put this on record The sword I have sharpened will fly in mid-air and target only you 'Intermission' 'It became evident to everyone that danger lurked for prince Rudradeva...' '...and the Kakatiya throne in the form of Gona Ganna Reddy' 'The sword that I have honed will directly target...' '...only you!' 'In order to catch that murderer-' Gona Ganna Reddy! 'Veerabhadra Chalukya left no stone unturned' Come out if you have the courage 'To make the enemies believe the might of the Kakatiya elephantry...' '...the entire land's sugarcane yield was heaped inside the fort' 'To give the impression of a strong army...' '...enormous piles of leaves serving as plates were strewn outside the fort' 'This was a clever ruse to dupe the Devagiri spies by Shiva Devaiah' 'Falling for this ploy, the king of Devagiri...' '...instead of direct combat' '...looked for ways of deceptive combat' Hari Hara Murari Deva brothers I revoke your powers till I know your part in the Ganna Reddy conspiracy 'Hari Hara Murari brothers used a female as decoy' Madanika, Rudradeva is strong in every aspect But only one weakness- Hidden in the zenana My lover Nagadeva died in his quest to find out the truth Even if you wanted to investigate personally... ...after the attempted murder ...you were barred from entering the palace As the dear friend of Muktamba I'll secure a firm hold in the palace And find out the secret My dear prince...? You've come clad in your armor even to the bedroom? Instead of tussling with kisses... ...does the prince indulge in fighting with knives? Muktamba Forgive me for appearing like this on such an auspicious night I have taken a righteous vow for the welfare of the people Till it is fulfilled, I cannot touch a girl As my wife if you agree I will continue with my vow If you don't approve- How can you even ask me? I am born for you Will I ever say no? Until your vow is fulfilled... ...I accept this abstinence gladly 'Even if Rudradeva got a reprieve on the personal front...' '...he had to face a danger of a different kind' 'He brandished his sword bravely and entered the battlefield' 'Victorious, he occupied Vengi and Rajamahendravaram' 'King Veeraganda Gopala and Kalinga king Narasimha-I were overpowered' 'Telugu kingdom was saved from being annexed by the neighboring lands' 'This victory was inscribed in the temples of Draksharama and Bheemeshwaram' I swear on Godavari river If my people suffer I will not spare your lives 'Our spy sacrificed his life for this cause' 'But Madanika will find out the Kakatiya secret before she dies' Bravo Madanika! Well done You've proved you are a true Devagiri girl I will capture the Kakatiya army And I will chop Rudradeva's head The day to parade his severed head... ...is not too far away You are caught now Gona Ganna Reddy I will arrest you and put you behind bars Men put their swords back in their sheaths when they see me But a man hasn't been born as yet to imprison me I'm not Abhimanyu to get caught in the 'Padmavyuha' I am like Lord Krisna The father of 'Chakravyuha' Will you die? Or will you join me? Long live Brave heart kOtai Sandiveera 'kOtai Sandiveera accumulated numerous allies' 'Kotagiri kings in the west Muthukur kings in the south' 'The Naganoors in the north to the Kalingas in the east' 'He reigned supreme with his death chapter' 'While everyone was progressing towards their respective goals...' '...Madanika started unearthing the secrets of the palace one by one' 'She sent news to Devagiri now and then also' 'The 7 walls were fortified to prevent enemies' This is the correct figure of the Kakatiya army? Till now canvassing wrong figures... ...Shiva Devaiah deliberately deceived all of us This news is enough for me to raze... ...the 7 walls of the fort to the ground Rudradeva! Your fort is mine And also the Kakatiya crown! I fulfilled my promise The girl who asked for it...? It's almost the end of January You neighed just like this when she came here last Friend...you've come alone Where are your guards? Everyone says you've fallen in love and become a lunatic I came alone to find out how true the rumor is You are happily married to Muktamba, my dear friend But I am all alone in solitude You've come at the right time My beloved will come now You must get her family to consent and conduct our wedding If I should do that, you must win a challenge Even though you are head over heels in love... ...prove you haven't forgotten to cross swords The loser must heed the winner's words I'll win my love's hand by defeating you Rudradeva, look at Muktamba once If she continues this vow, the physician says it may kill her (Holy chant) Wearing this armor is a weary load I have to remove it Will you help me? Even the plants here will have eyes If you remove it, won't your life's secret be known to all? That means... ...you know my secret? How? When? On the day of the engagement Won't a girl recognize another girl's first touch? You knew before the wedding? And still- Why did you bow your head and marry me? For you to walk with your head held high I let you tie this protection thread I don't think of this as a big sacrifice You are the epitome of sacrifice You don't bear the weight of your armor alone But the burden of this kingdom I did not save only you But millions of people too You have understood my plight so well I bow my head to your good heart From this moment, I accept you as my daughter I'll also get you married so that your life is not ruined An ideal match from the Chalukya clan... ...will be your perfect spouse My wedding is not priority When do you intend marrying Veerabhadra? This birth is for my people My next birth is for you Poignant philosophical lines Touch your heart and tell me you don't love me Why do you betray yourself by not having the guts to answer? More than your life and your personal desires... ...more than our friendship and our love when the people matter more to you ...I can't bury my love within me and still stay with you Goodbye I am not destined to be married in this life I will remain as Rudradeva always For the people of Kakatiya, you sacrifice your comforts To meet face to face such a noble woman And to serve her I am indeed blessed Don't worry about me Focus on your duty The man who ensures the people of Kakatiya hear and sleep soundly The man whose name makes men like you wake up quaking in fear That man Rudradeva... ...is not a male But a female Rudramadevi! 25 years We've been taken for a royal ride for 25 years! Ganapati Deva! Just watch how we expose this tremendous secret For divulging such earth shattering news... ...how do I, Madanika, get rewarded? Will you leave me with just this gold jewelry I am wearing? We knew you were the spy of Mahadeva rather belatedly You must lean only to one side even if you're a spy and courtesan If you play a double game this will be your fate! This revelation is our most potent weapon like the one created by Brahma Shiva Devaiah! They have probably come to pay their respects in person They are kith and kin after all King Ganapati Deva is about to proclaim a revelation of vital importance Proclaim? What? Do you intend building another new temple? Color the fort walls? Be silent and listen to the king - Sure - So be it My dear subjects and chieftains Crowned as prince by me And while seated in my assembly... ...he spread the glory of Kakatiya reign in all 8 directions I hereby announce the coronation of prince Rudradeva as king Long live, future king of Kakatiya kingdom, Rudradeva! Long live! Long live! What did I just hear you say? Crowning ceremony for Rudradeva? The prince will become the king? Is that all or is there more? Conform to the norms of respecting the assembly We will announce what we intended to say Resppppect! You be respectful first Then there is plenty of respect we have to show in return The person you thought was prince Rudradeva... ...is not a male But a female Yes...by birth a girl Rudramadevi We announced a girl baby to be a boy... ...for the welfare of the people For our country's protection For the Kakatiya reign to prosper in the future Rudramadevi was raised as prince Rudradeva And he regarded you as his own children Rudramadevi who made Kakatiya period a golden one... ...on the full moon day in November ...we will express our gratitude by crowning her as queen With this, the court is dismissed What was dismissed is not the court But their royal bloodline Rudradeva 'Shiva Devaiah realized the secret was exposed' 'So he himself divulged the secret' 'And played a shrewd political game' The wishes accumulated for 25 long years... ...you foiled in just 1 second, Shiva Devaiah Don't think this is over Cleaning the house spic and span does not conform a festival A proclamation does not constitute a coronation We will show you our skill and expertise "In the zenana, a statue lo and behold" "Eyes flashing desire multi-fold" "A stage of youthfulness Perfect and peerless" "A peacock dancing gracefully in a jungle joyously" "Bevy of roe deer aglow fragrance bestow" "Lands far and near will laud your beauty, dear" "At dusk under the jasmine bower, a time to garland, capture the rapture" "This beautiful damsel, zestful enjoying life in its bounty plentiful" "Maiden like a swing beckoning Unbidden, pulse quickening" "A joy forever in the ladies chamber" "A peacock dancing gracefully in a jungle joyously" "Like a parasol of silver" "From the cloud's veiled cover" "The moon shines bright as ever" "Like the breeze walks with the river" "In the drizzle of dewy powder" "At leisure we will saunter" "Crossing armies and boundaries without any adversaries" "Gently blows the cool breeze" "Lightning riding the blue skies ruling breadth and lengthwise" "What is the defending armor for a girl's dream to flower?" "In this heart and mind swing a zillion swings breathtaking" "When day and night dance in delight" "In the zenana, a statue captivating" "A peacock dancing in a mood tempting" (Holy chant) We don't want a lady to be our ruler Very well said indeed For a woman to be seated... ...this is only the right place Hey Ambadeva! How dare you humiliate my own daughter in front of my eyes? I will- Why trouble yourself, my king? One command from you I will chop his head and bring it to your feet Prasad Aditya Cut our heads too along with Ambadeva's head then! It's better to die than be ruled by a woman Because a woman didn't know the place she should be in... ...don't we know how many wars were initiated? Like the war between Lord Rama and Ravana... ...and the Kurukshetra war ...who was the reason? A female, right? Have we not seen kingdoms fall because of women? This land must not face such a predicament again We oppose We don't want a woman in power! We don't want We object stron- People of our Kakatiya kingdom Stay calm Silence! Without the strength of His consort Shakti... ...fearing He would lose His mighty power ...even Lord Shiva shared half His body to Goddess Shakti To a woman who is considered one half of Lord Shiva... ...what is wrong in giving our throne? Why? In what way is a woman inferior? Not Sita, but Ravana was the cause for the war against Lanka It was the Kauravas and not Draupadi who initiated the Kurukshetra war Every man who disrespects a woman Whoever he may be... ...he digs his own grave to destruction! Don't seal our lips with anecdotes from the past Even if we brush old stories aside... ...can history be changed, Uppalasoma? Have you forgotten Satakarni of the Satavahana dynasty... ...who prefixed his mother's name Gautami and stabilized his rule? Why? Even after looking at Rudramadevi's golden rule... ...don't you have faith? She abolished taxes With foresight she built lakes for agriculture She distributed agricultural amenities to one and all She built maternity hospitals specially for women All creature comforts Prosperity and peace in plenty She ensured you had access to all of this This is tomorrow's history Chronicles for the future Like Vikramarka period And Shalivahana era People will acclaim and pay tribute to Rudramadevi's reign! Hari Hara Deva, Murari Deva and Ambudeva After 1000 years if history records your name and mine in its annals... ...remember the sole credit goes only to this lady My dear subjects We are striving to start a new chapter in History Until yesterday... ...you cheered for prince Rudradeva Why? For what? Today why are you opposing Rudramadevi? Only because she is a girl As soon as they knew a woman is ruling our land... ...they robbed our houses and set our fields ablaze We women are scared to even step out Religious shelters are being targeted all over the kingdom Many religious leaders are being killed Of course (multiple voices in assent) It is the conspiracy of a few minds If that is so, why didn't it happen when Rudradeva was our prince? Because men symbolize fear And women are inferior For 25 years you hid the truth because of this same fear? Despite our unstinted support to your reign all these years... ...we have lost faith in the Kakatiya rule We will ourselves rule over our territories independently Our Kamba land is independent from today Muriki land will not pay taxes to Kakatiya kingdom from now on Our Baga land is also independent If we cheer a woman ruler... ...what happens to the prestige of our Renadu region? Let us split! Let us split! (multiple voices in dissent) Beloved subjects of my kingdom Feudatory chiefs I did not come to the throne as Rudradeva to rule our kingdom I shouldered this responsibility for the welfare of the people 'You took a bold decision for the welfare of our kingdom' 'I shall remain as Rudradeva till that goal is fulfilled' You are overlooking my reforms as Rudradeva You are merely looking at my female form of Rudramadevi Will not a woman who transforms her house... ...be able to reform her kingdom? I will not ask you such a question I leave it to each one of you to decide If me being a woman is the root cause of your problem If it will give you immense happiness if I cease to exist... ...I do not want this throne If you think being Rudradeva all these years was a crime... ...I will accept whatever punishment you mete out to me Let the elders introspect and announce their decision Whatever scriptures we look into carefully... ...befitting punishment for Rudramadevi's crime ...is death sentence However because she is a lady... ...we make an exception and exile her from the kingdom She should renounce any link to royalty And live as a commoner She must never use any weapons The punishment should be brought into effect immediately 25 years ago, the danger we feared forced us to take this bold decision That danger has now boomeranged as an earthquake, Your Royal Majesty A mere female? Has a girl been the one subjugating us all these years? This Kakatiya secret that has been revealed to the world... ...am I aware of it only now? Did Madanika sacrifice her life for us? Is this how skilled you are in spying? Offering of blood for the mighty sword is done This war against the Kakatiya kingdom... ...should make the Kurukshetra war pale into insignificance It should exceed the piles of dead bodies from Ashoka's Kalinga war My dear brave warriors! Beat our war drums Everyone's mother is Goddess Ellaiamma This brave Goddess Poor soul! She sacrificed her head to her own son Parasurama You are the same You have forsaken everything for the welfare of your people Queen of Orugallu You've now laid your head on the lap of this Goddess Scars are a natural consequence of war These wounds are not from your enemies But from your own kith and kin Come, let's go to Nidavartyapuram I'll place a throne in my heart and make you my queen If that's what my father had wanted... ...he would have raised me as a girl My parents brought me up this way for the welfare of my people I need to fulfill my father's desire The lives of my people should blossom anew Even if the enemies cross swords you want to shower flowers on them? Don't you want a life of your own? Don't you love yourself? You are here in my life to love me That's enough But Rudramadevi and Orugallu kingdom... ...cannot be separated by anyone Your speech gives me goose bumps Brilliant! Like a woman behind every victorious warrior... ...I will be behind your bravery Tell me what I should do With my army, shall I wage war against Hari Hara and Murari? My father is still on the throne Don't forget that There is a greater danger than these internal thieves Stop Mahadeva the king of Devagiri who is attacking us with his army Go up straight west and stop him in his tracks Fight so that he does not cross our boundary You will hear news of his death soon Your Majesty! More than the enemies of Devagiri... ...we have to escape from the schemes of your kith and kin Your game is over, old man! We have found out the tunnel inside the palace itself That will be the victorious way for the army of Mahadeva Have you joined hands with the enemy? We even chop heads for the sake of the throne What does it matter if you join hands... ...or fall at others' feet? Shiva Devaiah! Our first enemy is your intellect I will- His heart gave out before my sword could be troubled Throw his corpse to feed the crocodiles in the moat To the winner is this Kakatiya kingdom 'On one hand the greedy chieftains fought between themselves' 'The problem of Sandiveera still loomed large on the other hand' 'The Kakatiya dynasty was almost in shambles' 'Blood of the innocent flowed like a river' 'The land was in chaos without a proper ruler' 'People who shunned Rudramadevi...' '...were oblivious of the fact she would protect them like their mother' 'Shiva Devaiah who held his breath under water opened his eyes' (voices in despair and uproar) "The kingdom is in dire straits" "Caught in anarchy, look what awaits" "Every direction every place stream of blood in a maze" "Our protecting deity shower us your mercy" "Why...o' why?" "Why this vow of silence, Rudramadevi?" "To win over generations of enmity come to save us from this calamity" "In our own deity's kingdom atrocities demand a ransom?" "In Rudra's realm rivers of blood stream" "You are no other than Rudra's mother" "To wreak vengeance with fervor For the enemy to surrender" "To flourish or to perish?" "Save us from this catastrophe" "Rudramadevi" We don't want chieftains who crave for power We want Rudramadevi who supports her people to be our queen Rudrama, you are our savior Take this weapon! Victory to queen Rudramadevi! Rani Rudramadevi may you be victorious Your Majesty, Shiva Devaiah is alive Rudramadevi like Goddess Kali is all set to wage a war against us People are supporting her I'll meet you later if you are alive Narrow escape! If she wields a weapon... ...Rudramadevi can kill thousands with just one stroke How do we stop her? Only soul who can stop Rudramadevi is Mahadeva Open the underground passage Pave the way for the world's greatest war 'Praise be to Goddess Shakti' 'Long live Eradicator of evil' 'Praise be to Mahishasura Mardhini' 'Long live The ever-powerful Shakti' I underestimated the 7 walls of the fort Stones rain upon us when the 1st stone-wall was broken When the bamboo wall was crossed waves of fire blaze round us What a spectacular wonder this is! What does the 5th wall have in store I wonder? Don't fret, brother This is an iron wall We are here Just wait and watch how Rudramadevi's game ends Well done, brother You rightly said our enmity is equal to that of the snakes Though just a girl, she has taken the form of a mongoose The way she twirls her sword it may even reach our throats Who will finish Rudrama's game? Look who is here to quell Rudramadevi's bravery! Gona Ganna Reddy is here Kakatiya war has reached its climax We have all become friends Now whom can we join hands with? We are not here to join hands with anyone, Uppalasoma! With great pleasure we are here to watch everyone die Rudramadevi is in the clutches of Gona Ganna Reddy Gona Ganna Reddy in the clutches of Mahadeva As soon as Hari Hara and Murari Deva kill Mahadeva... ...we shall aim our sword at whoever is remaining In war, it doesn't matter who is the bravest warrior The one who wields the final blow is the victor He is a warrior of acclaim He has positioned his army... ...in the eagle formation to thwart his foes Like an eagle can tear a snake apart... ...Gona Ganna Reddy will kill Rudramadevi Long live Gona Ganna Reddy! Long live queen Rudramadevi! As long as there is breath within me... ...I will not let even the shadow of Yama, the Lord of death touch Rudramadevi Like Virabhadhra is the guardian to the Goddess Kali of Orugallu... ...Gona Ganna Reddy has become Rudramadevi's protector If Ganna Reddy and Rudramadevi see us- We should raise the white flag of truce Why are your knees trembling? To murder or dethrone Rudramadevi... ...Gona Ganna Reddy is not a puppet! I am the Kakatiya people's asset I ruthlessly killed every feudal lord who tried to loot this land I stopped Anamika's wedding so you don't join hands to gain power I robbed your treasury... ...to prevent you from forming an independent army of your own I returned all that wealth as treasure troves to build the 7 walls For Rudramadevi's army to be strong and mighty... ...I motivated every youngster to become ...not a robber like me, but a brave warrior I was the 1st person to know Rudramadevi's life-secret I was also the one to slit Nagadeva's throat when he found out the secret I foiled your sinister plans of destroying Rudramadevi's family And I saved this kingdom Branding me as a robber is not your dishonesty mask Responsibility offered by queen Rudramadevi as a royalty mark You deceived us with your masquerade - Betrayal - Treason The enemy cautions us how to plan a war He also decides which weapon to use To your crimes and schemes this itself is the right verdict The diamond shield that guards the dignity of the Kakatiya kingdom... ...is Gona Ganna Reddy Hey! Gona Ganna Reddy You escaped my clutches too many times My father slaughtered your father like a dog I will kill you today and make your Anamika mine! And Rudramadevi too- Shut up! I said I had marked another auspicious time for you to die That is now This moment Rudrama! Their story is in your hands The auspicious time of death is not marked for us but for you Rudrama Let us fight Rudramadevi! Mahadeva is the most monstrous demon You could have killed him yourself Devagiri Mahadeva is the foremost enemy of the Kakatiya kingdom If I killed him it is not a big deal The Kakatiya people who dreamt a male royal heir will protect them... ...their expectations should be met by a woman In no way is a woman any less brave This is the time for people to realize it So Rudrama must kill him This must become history My father must not see your corpse But your defeat Beat the drums of victory (Holy chant) 'Of your own accord you ended your life as Rudradeva' 'Now I will end your life as Rudramadevi' Kill Mahadeva Don't spare his life Kill Mahadeva A war is between the armies of 2 lands 2 kings should combat But not between the subjects of 2 kingdoms Chief minister! Without thinking twice, cut him into pieces Stop, Veerabhadra Even if the enmity is Ganapati Deva's... ...only Rudramadevi must put an end to it Who is your enmity directed at? On our own motherland? If we keep fighting internally what will be the fate of our kingdom? Thanks to our disunity... ...foreigners from Alexander to Ghazni have tried to rule us They plundered our wealth In the end we became slaves to a slave king Qutubudin Aibak We were divided and ruled Did we not learn from our mistakes? Mahadeva If those who drank the same mother's milk can bond as brothers... ...drinking water from the same river can't we live as brothers and sisters! Our duty as ruler is to ensure our subjects are happy Forgive me, Your Majesty All these years claiming to forgive my father... ...you disrespected us in the most arrogant way Today in front of everyone... ...I forgive you Long live, queen Rudramadevi Mahadeva, where did you jump from? You stand here today like a beggar asking for alms How strange is your fate Amulet on my hip thread! Instead of dissecting you to pieces... ...forgiving you is a bigger punishment Rudrama, I'll be with the people Always I will protect them You sacrificed the throne to be a friend of the people in all ways Long live Ganna Reddy! Gona Ganna Reddy! My dear Anamika This is not the right time- Keep quiet Amulet on my hip thread! 'Queen Rudramadevi's journey of triumph did not end with this' 'Continuing the progeny and her bravery was heir apparent Prathaparudhra' 'History will always trumpet her glory' "Born in our brave soil India was a woman akin a cheetah" "With Goddess Kalis scimitar seated on a lion she snarled to conquer" "As Sambavi and Bhairavi she destroyed evil in forms of fury" "Like the Goddess Adi Parashakti avatar of Divine Mother Shakthi" "Like Vishnu as Parasurama with an axe Ferocious as a lion when she attacks" "An everlasting beacon of light Brave heart day and night" "Rudramadevi as Bhadrakali inscribed her name in HIS-story!" "In directions 8, a torch to guide your fame is acclaimed far and wide" "Examples of the kings bravery Embellish sky-high his story" "You are our life's lamp, we revere You are our dawn everywhere" "In a land which extols the scriptures no place ever for woes or remorse" "Like lashes to the eyes, our protector Beloved king, our shield and shelter" "Treating all girls like his mother Most dignified king ever" "In directions 8, a torch to guide your fame is acclaimed far and wide" "Examples of the kings bravery Embellish sky-high his story"
