 

                        I believe in the playground. It's my favouritest place in the whole wild world. But two yesterdays ago a bad thing happened when we was playing there. Some big boys took my brother's binky and buried it in the sandbox. Binky bye-bye. They maked my brother cry. So I said: "Dilly, this is a job for the Bobfather." You come to me on the day of this wedding, and ask me to take care of the boys who made your brother cry? No. Dil just wants a new binky. That's it? A binky? I don't get to squeeze no one's head or pull no one's hair? - No. - Binky, peeze!. Dumb baby. Can't even make a good wish. All right, kiss my ring. Go send the next one in, and tell him to bring a sponge. Nine, eleven, twenty... Chuckie!. You're not supposed to look at your feet when you're dancing. But I gots to, Susie. They just keep getting all tanglied up. Faster, Phillip!. We gots to get to the peoples on top. - I gots dibs on the feets. - Phil, Lil... The Bobfather wants to see you now. I can't believe Angelica saw that movie last night. I can't mother and merger at the same time. She only saw a scene or two. It couldn't have made an impression. Bobfather, we founded this in our crib. That's what you get for wiping your boogers on Cynthia. So that's where I left them! Let's give a round of applause to this week's number one newly-weds: Mr and Mrs Lou and Lulu Pickles! Let's show these whippersnappers how it's done. I didn't get these plastic hips for nothing! Think you'll ever tie the knot again? 'Cause I got a cousin who's lookin'. Big bones, broad shoulders... And she can eat her weight in cheese! Thanks, Betty, but cheese gives me hives. So does dating. Boy, Lou and Lulu sure can boogie. You're like family to me, Finster. Name your wish. Gosh, Bobfather, I don't know what to wish for. Just pick something already! I don't mean your nose! Come on, Chuckie. Granpa Lou's throwing the gardener. I'll take that binky. There you go, Drooly. It fell off a truck. See, Dilly? You got your wish. - I'm really happy for you, Pop. - Yeah, Lulu's a great lady. Yep, she's a keeper! 'Course, no one will ever replace your mother. It's her love in here that helped this old geezer love again. Now it's time for a special dance for all the kids and their mums. Mummy just loves dancing with her handsome boys. Angelica! Wait, Angelica! I think I know what I want to wish for. I'd kinda like to have a new mummy. Sorry, Finster, game's over. Besides, I'm wanted on the dance floor. But that's my wish. It's getting late, Chuckie. What do you say we head home? Chuckie, what are you doing up? I was just looking through some of our old things. Remember your Wawa? Your mummy made it for you. Oh, Chuckie, your mum was an amazing woman. I bet she's in heaven right now looking down on us. I've been missing her so much, Chuckie. Maybe we could use a mummy's touch around here. Huh, little guy? You got to love the lnternet. Behold the future of dating. What are they doing? My daddy's helping your daddy catch some dates in a net. - What are dates? - Big raisins that make you poop. - What is it with you babies and poop? - Where do you want us to start? Wow! My own web page! "Chas Finster. Bureaucrat. Bachelor." - Are you sure this is gonna work? - Look, you already have 1 2 dates. That's triple my lifetime record. Look at this one. She loves sunsets, long walks on sandy beaches and "is not allowed in the state of Kentucky". I don't know about this, Stu. Let me put it to you this way. Dates is for people like Mr Chuckie's dad who don't got no wife. But why does Chuckie's daddy need a wife? What I have to put up with! 'Cause if his daddy gets a new wife, then Chuckie gets a new mummy. I'm really gonna get my wish? Yeah, so long as you stay in my good flavour. I didn't know she had a good flavour. Guys! I'm gonna gets a mummy! I bet she's gonna be clean and cuddly and nice. - Sounds great, Chuckie. - I hope she's not too clean. Get off your derrieres and get this show on the road! Tout de suite! I love the sound of panicked scurrying feet in the morning. Don't you, Jean-Claude? It moves me deeply, Madame. That Reptar is a nuisance He's a thorn in our side The way things are going Our village will be fried That Stu Pickles! I want that nincompoop inventor here within 24 hours, or another head will roll. I'll take care of it personally. Kira! Madame LaBouche wants her Pickles. Now! Hello? - Hello? - Mr Pickles? This is Kira Watanabe from EuroReptar. Sorry to call so late, but the Reptar that you designed has broken down. My boss is having a fit. Reptar's a hit? That's great. We need you to come to Paris on the next flight. Paris. Oh yeah, the city of lights. Madame kindly recommends that you... Come with my family and friends? Okey-dokey. Here... HeLLo? Mr PickLes? Are you stiLL there? Hey, Dee, we're going to France. Oh Stu, I'm too tired to dance. France! I'm going to France and you're not. I already learned how to parsley-voo-francy. Which, for your information, means "speak French". No one likes a show-off, Susie. We're headin' out, babies There we go Get your stubby legs moving No time to pick your nose We've got stuff to do Let's take Spike too We're on our way to France Don't forget our underpants We're heading out, babies We're on our way Here we go on a big exciting trip We're heading up, up, up, up, up Hang on to your diapies Don't lose your bib Get moving babies I hope we're all packed We don't know when we're gonna get back No time to worry 'bout getting stinky I hope you remember to pack your binky We're taking off. Whee! We're on our way to France, Paris - How do you work this thing? - I don't know. I think I'm gonna scream. Guess Robosnail thought he could fly. Press a button, get a mummy! I never saw a mummy button before. Let's see what kind of mummy your button gots, Chuckie. Hey, I wanted to press the button, Lillian! You want the button, Phillip? You can't handle the button! Oh look, a toy that was already broken. Unfortunately, the union forbids me from picking it up. That's a job for your mummy. Somebody got up on the wrong side of the bread. - Let's try again. - No, let's not, Lillian. I'll just wait for the Bobfather to bring her. Whenever that is. Let's go ask her. She just sneaked behind that curtain. - Hey, what's the big idea? - Hi, Angelica! For feet's sake! Can't you see this is the 'no dumb babies' section? Sorry, but Chuckie was wondering when his new mummy was coming. I'm...working on it. And I almost had a good one, but I got so hungry I had to sit down. - Maybe you need a nap. - Or cookies. - Or cookies. - And ice cream. - Which happens to be in that kitchen! - Be right back. Come on! Where they going? There's lots of neat stuff down here. Like a hairy toothbrush, a 'tato chip. Somebody must have losted their lunch. Finster! Look, Phillip, party hats. Thanks a lot, diaper bags! I smell a ripey diapie. Come on, sweetie. Time to get changed. I want a mum that will last forever I want a mum to make it all better I want a mum that will last forever I want a mum who will love me whatever I want a mum to take my hand and make me feel like a holiday A mum to tuck me in at night and chase the monsters away I want a mum to read me stories and sing a lullaby And if I have a bad dream to hold me when I cry I want a mum that will last forever I want a mum to make it all better I want a mum that will last forever I want a mum that will love me whatever Forever No one else is being picked up by a guy in a Reptar suit. I was just thinking the same thing. Welcome to Paris. I've been asked to take you directly to EuroReptarland. Out of my way! The prettiest, smartest girl gets the front seat. So why is she in such a hurry? My tummy is all bubbaly. Don't worry, Lil, I gots your baggie. Lookie! Reptar's house! Pokyo sure looks different on TB, huh? Pokyo? Don't you know nothing? This is Parrots! You babies are as dumb here as you are at home. Wee wee. 'Cept him. He's speaking French already. Welcome to EuroReptar. Yeah, Reptarland! Et voiLa! Our Parisian pied-a-terre. Pretty posh digs! The beds are quite comfortable. Yeah? Incoming! So is the floor. It's the most beautifullest potty I ever seed. I'm a diapie man myself. A potty that squirts you back! I don't know, you guys. I squirt myself enough already. We're off to the boutiques. It's time to meet Ms LaBouche, the woman who made all this possible. Shall we? - It looks like you, me and the kids. - Oui, oui, mon ami. Come back! Seems kind of odd to have a Japanese theme park in the middle of Paris. It's a new century. Just go with ""Le flLow"". Bonjour. Welcome to EuroReptar. And one of you must be Mr Pickles. That would be moi. And this is my good friend Charles Finster. - And this is my son, Chuckie. - Hi, Chuckie. I like your bear. What sweet children. Is this your first time in Paris? Well, France, yes. But I've been to Paris, Texas, a number of times. Reptar's head! Wonder if the Bobfather had anything to do with this. Come on, Chuckie! It's a wadey pool! - They look hungry. - Must be lunchtime. ...just don't leave no fingerprints. Where did those filthy little bookends come from? What have you done to my priceless collection of koi fish? I told you to get the piranha. Call the dog catcher! The exterminator! Do something! Oui, Madame. Kira! Come along, children. Madame, Mr Pickles is here. Oh, good. Send in the clown. So, if it isn't the brilliant designer. - I wouldn't say brilliant. - Neither would l. Let's take the babies to see the Princess Parade while they get better acquainted. The kids would love that. See this face? I never want to make this face again! Now get to work. Sure. Mechanical expertise is my middle name. Then your first name should be "l have no". Sorry to interrupt your episode, but it's the boss on the phone. Monsieur Yamaguchi, so nice to see you. I"m stepping down as president ofl Yamaguchi Industries. I"ve begun a search flor my repLacement. Splendid! I accept. You are one ofl many under consideration. But I have made millions for this company! The candidate shouLd not be concerned onLy with money. They must understand what it means to bring joy to chiLdren. In flact, they themseLves must have the heart ofl a chiLd. I must have one in a jar somewhere. In fact, I'm engaged to a wonderful man with a baby thing all his own. CongratuLations, Madame. I Look florward to the wedding and seeing you with your new flamiLy. We"LL discuss the promotion then. Goodbye. What now, Pinocchio? Years of clawing my way to the top gone to waste. Why am I not some child's tender mother?! Why?! Why?! Why?! Because you hate children and men find you to be a heartless shrew? There has to be a spineless little man with a brat of his own out there. Bonjour? My chocolates are in her little American stomach! Get them back! - Open wide. Say, "aah". - No, wait! You have five seconds to come up with a reason why I should not lock you up for ever and ever. Because I can stick five raisins up my nose, and sing real good and... - For ever and ever is a long time! - Tick tock... I know where you can find a spiny little man with a brat of his own. I think I just made a friend. Isn't this neat, Chuckie? There's something weird about a guy in a ponytail and a dress. Golly, Kira, you're a natural. I have a beautiful little girl to thank. Kimi. She's almost two. So's my Chuckie! Not a girl, I mean, but you know... Look! The Princess is coming. Once upon a time there was a mighty dinosaur named Reptar. Everyone ran away from him except the beautiful princess. She was not afraid, because she could see that Reptar was not vicious. He was lonely and unhappy. So she promised to take care of him and keep him safe and loved for ever and ever. For eber and eber... My mummy says Mr Chuckie's dad is so desperate that he'll marry the first lady that plops the question. Excellent! Now run along before you give me lice. Hey! What do I get out of this deal? - Why should I give you anything? - I don't know... I could accidentally tell someone why you want to marry Mr Chuckie's dad? An extra scoop for cunning. Tell Auntie Coco what you desire. Let's see. Not much. Just my own float in the Reptarland parade with matching ponies and my own fashion show and to be the flower girl at your wedding. And who said Americans are greedy? I'll take care of it, Angelique. Find out where our guests are dining tonight. Love is on the menu. This place gots the biggest babies I ever sawed. That's got to be one stinky diapie. When I came to France, I had dreams of bouiLLabaisse, crepe suzette, chicken cordon bLeu. Well, I had dreams of eating with a fork. Pass the squid brains. It's Karaoke time! Well, do-re-mi! Bad girl Talkin' 'bout the sad girl Bad girl Talkin' 'bout the bad bad girl - Eat all the cookies in plain sight - Chewin' - Pickin' on the dumb babies - Always have to be right They're so easy to trick and tease 'Cause they don't know a thing, baby When I seed the magic sprinklies in my hand, I knowed she was the one. You mean you want the Princess to be your new mummy? Yup. She's everything I've been wishin' for. She's real nice, she loves Reptar. And bestest of all, we could live happily forever after. Stewart, what a surprise! Everyone, this is Madame LaBouche. MademoiseLLe. Who is this devastatingly handsome man you are trying to hide from me? That's my good friend Chas Finster. Enchantee. Bonsoir, MademoiseLLe. Call me Coco. And that adorable misproportioned ragamuffin must be your son. Madame LaBouche! - Hi, Kira. - What?! I'm sorry to interrupt, but these need your signature. - Can you join us for dinner? - You're much too busy, Kira. That's too bad. That must be Kimi! - Who? - My daughter. Of course. So, Kimi, do you and your mummy and daddy live in Reptarland? Not exactly. It's just me and my mummy, and we live in Paris. But I gets to come here all the time. - You met the Princess? - Sure. Lots of times. She lives in that castle on that bowlcano and comes out between 'splosions. Now we know where to find your new princess mum, Chuckie. Chuckie? Sorry, I stopped listening after 'splosions. Would Kimi like to come to the park with me and the kids tomorrow? What a coincidence! I planned to spend the day with her there myself. - But, Madame! You never... -...tire of taking care of Kimi. So, it's a date! It'll just be you and me and that adorable swarm of infants. Wow! Robosnail! I think I'm in love. Hi, Robie. Why didn't you follow my design? I used paper clips and rubber bands for a reason! I love their fries, but this is advanced robotics. - It looks pretty complicated. - Actually, it's not. You just put on the gear, and anything you do, Reptar does. It's so simple, a child could work it. Right, champ? Sorry! Did I say child? I meant young adult. Bonjour, everyone! - Ready to go, mon cheri? - Let me just get Dilly settled. And how is this precious gherkin today? You're just a lawsuit waiting to happen, aren't you? Mon cheri, I could listen to your fascinating health history all day. I'll tell you about my sinus drainage when I get back from the restroom. Would you mind holding Dil? - Of course not. - This should be good. So, we meet again. How delightful. Kira! They're staring at me, and this child is leaking from the mouth! - What do I do? - Just smile and be nice. Hello! You are not horrible. Let go! Do you know how much I paid for these lips? I don't think Dil likes that lady too much. Stop it, you dripping urchin! I don't think she likes Dil too much, either. She's not a very nice lady. She's too pointy. - He's crying. What do I do now? - Comfort him. Gently bounce him. According to Lipschitz, Dilly just gave you a gift. Why wouldn't he? After all, children, they are my life! I have that poem taped to the refrigerator! - Pardon? - "Children Are My Life", a classic. "Dappled laughter, patting feet"... "Joy and wonder, heaven's treat", it's one of my favourites! "Joy and wonder, heaven's treat", it's one of my favourites. Oh dear, they're getting fussy. - Take them to Ooey Gooey World. - Ooey Gooey World? Ooey Gooey World! What a great idea! Behind the couch is a Land ofl smudge A home to wrappers, toys and fludge Gummi bears, baLLs ofl hair... Kira, remind me to eliminate whoever wrote this hideous song! Look! No hands! Look! It's so soft and squishiful. Yeah, it's good stuff. Let's stock up. And eggsackly how am I opposed to find the Princess with my glasses all googlied up? Here. Thanks, I guess. Look, the castle! Let's go see that Princess, Chuckie! They said to keep your hands and feet inside at all times. - That didn't stop her! - I'll show you the short cup! Kimi, no! You guys! - What are you waiting for? - Great. Another Tommy. Kimi! Madame, the babies are gone! Finally. What? No! Wait! Get them back before Wheezy finds out! Security, we have an emergency situation! Lifle is a party Let"s get it started, get it started, get it started tonight Lifle is a party Get excited, you"re invited There"s a party tonight All this goo is giving me a diapie rash! Imagine everyone in the worLd Out in the street tonight Everbody"s gonna rock aLL day To start it by party time Lifle is a party Let"s get excited, you"re invited There"s a party tonight Lifle is a party, oh yeah I told you I knowed a short cup! That was the longest short cup I ever tooked. Zere zey are! - There's the Princess! - lsn't she beautiful? Oh, no! She's gone! Go get her, Chuckie. She's right inside. You're right, Tommy. I'm gonna do it. But what if she doesn't like me? Go ahead, Chuckie. You'll never know unless you try. Go ahead, Chuckie. ALLez-hoop, little baby. Ze babies have been apprehended. On our way back to Ooey Gooey World. At least we didn't have to walk back. Look, mon cheri. I think he likes me. Oh, La! Ca va pas, non! Chien! Va-t"en! We're both lactose intolerant, love kids, and she finds bureaucrats fascinating. - Who doesn't, you babe magnet! - Just be careful, Charles. - You shouldn't rush into anything. - I won't, don't worry. First I have to see how Coco and Chuckie get along. He and I are a team, you know. - Tommy? - Yeah, Chuckie? Do you think someone like me could ever learn to be brave Iike you, my daddy and Reptar? - Sure. - But how, Tommy? You could try thinking of something else next time you feel a-scared. I tried that once, but I just thought of something scarier. Why don't you try thinking about stuff that makes you feel good? You mean like my Reptar nightlight or my Happy Hippo blankie or my favouritest moon rock? Or... Or a new mummy? Next time I see the Princess, I'm gonna be brave. Sweet dreams, Chuckie. What's this? A gold inhaler? Gee, most hotels just leave mints. "Chad, you take my breath away." "Forever yours, Coco." "Chad"? Ifl you"ve been chased around by a Kung-Fu choppin" cLown He"LL come sLidin" to the rescue Ifl your rickshaw"s been attacked by a Samurai pack - He"LL break up the party - Ifl he"s not on the potty You don"t have to worry He"s got flists ofl flury His masterfuL karate kicks turn dragons into chopsticks - Here comes Chuckie Chan - Here comes Chuckie Chan He"s aLways ready when there"s danger at hand - Here comes Chuckie Chan - Here comes Chuckie Chan MartiaL arts expert ofl ReptarLand - I am! - Yeah, that'll be the day! He makes bad guys say they"re sorry with the sight ofl his hand - Here comes Chuckie Chan - Here comes Chuckie Chan MartiaL arts expert ofl ReptarLand Go, Chuckie! HeLLo? Chuckie! You've got to get ready. Angelica says we're gonna get to see the Princess in a show with Reptar. - This could be your chance. - I'm gonna meet the Princess? I'm gonna meet the Princess! Gee, Tommy, maybe I should take her a present. Something real nice, so she knows how much I want her to be my mummy. You want a princess to be your mum? - What about Coco? - Who? Mr Chuckie's dad's girlfriend. The Reptarland lady. That lady's not the Princess. I'm gonna get the real Princess for my mummy. Listen up! I'm supposed to ride in my own parade on a float with pink tarnations and ponies and you better not mess it up for me! I know somebody who needs a nap. Viens ici. Viens ici. Cheri, cheri, oui. C"est Ca. Bon appetit, petit chiens. The show's gonna start! Who gots the cookies? - Right here! - Yum! - Yeah, tasty. - Looks like a booger. Bonjour, mes amis. Let me show you to your seats. Thank you for the inhaler, Coco. Whenever I wheeze, I'll think of you. Who said Americans are not romantic? How is Coco's favourite boy? He must be excited about the show. Eating this goo is making my tummy bubbly. I thought you could only do that in the bathtub. Hi, Mr Chuckie's dad's girlfriend. How's my float coming along? We're waiting for the ponies. I still get the float if Mr Chuckie's dad marries a princess and not you? What?! Why do you ask? 'Cause... Well... The Finster kid is planning on getting a princess for a mum. Let's face it, lady, you're no princess. Not a princess? Well! - If the tiara fits, wear it. - I smell trouble. Oh, the Princess! She's beautiful! Reptar, he's no ordinary monster He's a lizard with a heart of gold Don't believe the lies you've been told He's a fire-breathing child to me I see sweetness when I look into those large yellow eyes He's got a sensitive stare One that can hypnotise He may be rough on the outside I hate it when they sing. He's the kindest monster I've ever met See how nice his head stays on? Reptar, I'll protect you Reptar, I'll hold you And I'll be there for you, Reptar and never go away Reptar, I'll protect you Reptar, I love you I'll be there for you, Chuckie forever and a day For eber and eber... I'll be there for you Wow, he's sharing Wawa! Forever and a day! Madame LaBouche? - That lady's the Princess? - She can't be! Bravo! Bravo! Isn't she talented? Gosh, you guys, I think Chuckie and I are both in love. - Say brie! - Brie! Merci. I'm delighted that you've met someone special here in Paris. But aren't you rushing things? Marriage is a big step. Why wait, Deed? They're two crazy kids in love. My tummy's not been this happy in forever! Looks like it's time for dessert. Get us something good, Dilly. Sure is gonna be great having my princess mummy. - lsn't it? - Of course it is, Chuckie. Then how come I don't feel so good? Well... Maybe this thing is too tight. Do you see those sticky fingers? Jam-covered mouths? Dirty little faces? Disinfect them! What are you doing with that mangy thing? Give me that! How dare you defy me! You babies are in trouble now. You are going to be mine, you will do things my way! Jean-Claude, take those wretched dustmops away! I will not have them ruining my wedding day! - You babies will miss the wedding. - And don't forget the big mouth. My pleasure, Madame. Take your hands off me, you big bully! - I'm the flower girl! - I feel your pain, Mademoiselle. Unfortunately, you just got ""Le boot"". But what about my float and my matching ponies? - Madame LaBouche! - Burn this hideous moth-eaten toy. I never want to see it again. Notre Dame, and move it. You cannot go through with this. - You don't love Chas or Chuckie. - Which is which again? I can no longer stand by and watch you destroy their lives. I will tell Chas the truth, there's nothing you can do to stop me. Except throw you out on the kerb. Au revoir! Looks like our little mouse is up for the chase. Step on it. I'm sorry, guys. If I didn't want a princess mummy so bad, we wouldn't be in this terrible place. It's not so terrible. I mean, at least we gots Reptar to keep us company. I decided I don't want a princess mummy no more. I don't need the magic and sparkly dust. Alls I wants is a real mummy like you guys gots. I want a mummy who smiles and talks nice to me and tucks me in at night and tells me stories. And...who loves me. Come on, Finster, don't cry. I can't help it, Angelica. I feel bad. My daddy's marrying a lady who doesn't like me or my Wawa or my friends. Actually, Finster, it's sort of my fault. - What do you mean, Angelica? - Let me see, where do I start? Mr Yummyhoochie told the French lady you can't have joy without a heart. She had one in a jar, but she needed a spiny man with a kid. I said you wanted a princess mum, and she promised me a pony float, but she made it all up! I helped that lady trick your daddy into marrying her! You did? But... Bad yucky! Bad! Pipe down, Drooly! Dilly's right! That's one of the worstest things you've ever done! I know it was bad. Even for me. Sometimes I just can't help myself. I'm sorry, Chuckie. You guys, I can't let that lady marry my daddy! It's like you say, Tommy: "A baby's got to do what a baby's got to do." And we gots to stop that wedding! How are you gonna do that, Chuckie? Actually, I was hoping that you had an idea, Tommy. Finally we get to see an authentic Parisian landmark: Notre Dame. You seen one church, you seen them all. Wake me if you spot a hunchback. I wonder where Jean-Claude is with the kids. I can't start without my little guy. What do you think you're doing? Just practising tying shoes. Children are so easily amused. SacrebLeu! Thank you for flying Air Angelica. - I told you we could do it, Chuckie. - If we could just find the door. There's one. Hey, you dumb babies, wait for me! - Tommy, we forgetted Angelica. - You say that like it's a bad thing. - We gots to go back. - I don't know if I can, Tommy! I barely know how to go forward. Wait for me! Do you know how hard it is to run in a flower girl dress? I'm opposed to be at that wedding! Take me to the church! Reptar's boogers look just like Angelica. Hold on, Angelica! Good catch, Chuckie! This is not the parade I wanted! Keep that Kira out until after the very last "l do"! - Goodness! Here comes the bride! - Without the Wedding March? - Without the flower girl? - Without Chuckie? - Go, go, go! Start. - Coco, Chuckie's not here yet. - Darling, we'll tell him about it. - I want to share this with my son. That is what videotape is for. Go ahead! Bonjour, everyone. I'd like to welcome the family and friends of Monsieur and Madame... Let's begin! - What you drawing, Kimi? - It's a green thumb. - It's a pickle with legs. - It's Reptar. - Right! - No, I mean, it's really Reptar! - How do we get out of here? - I think it's that way. No, that way. Or that way. As long as you're sure. Hiya, Reptar! Kimi looks like a bug from here. Let's pick her up! I've never been on this ride before! Hey, pipsqueak, get your own float! Going somewhere, my reptilian friend? You babies cannot hide from Jean-Claude, Super-Escargot! Charles would like to recite a poem to his bride. It's our favourite, remember? I'll have you babies for lunch! But not without the proper sauce. - You want a piece of me, sluggy? - Move over, pipsqueak! I'll show you how it's done! - Stop wobbling, Chuckie! - Don't tell me, tell my feet. My shell! Stop, in the name of France! Look, Chuckie! I think they want us to stop. So do l! Okay then, don't stop. "Squeaky giggles, wiggly toes" "Teeny tiny button nose" - "Rosy lips and soft wet kisses" - What?! Madame, the babies are on their way to the church. What? You bumbling idiot, you disgust me! Auntie sends her love. Come on! Give it some gas! No offence, but could somebody maybe open a window? Okay. Hello, guys! 'Bout time you tinkleheads came to the rescue. Tag! You're it! Babies go round and round I'll launch them from the ground They will go flying now Their mummies have a cow Look, up in the sky! - It's a nerd! - It's a pain! It's Angelica. What's the big idea? Are you pottyheads trying to get rid of me? That was the big idea. Can you see the church? There it is! Chuckie, you're my hero. Hang on, you guys. I think I got a wedgie. "Grasping fingers, dimpled chin" "Pudgy bellies, velvet skin" Enough poetry! Marry us now! - Look, Chuckie, we're almost there! - Yeah, there's the church. Hello, my toddling tourists. This is where your tour of Paris comes to an end! We gots to beat Robosnail, or that mean lady's gonna be your mummy! Over my dead potty! En garde, babies! Out of my way, slugface! - You did it, Chuckie! - Yeah, I did! Now let's go save my daddy. - For better or worse. Next! - For richer or... -...poorer! Sickness... -...and in health. Must we repeat everything? Dear Lord, I skipped a section! Hurry, Chuckie! - Look what I found. - Papie clips and bubber bands! I'm coming, Daddy! - Go, Chuckie, go! - Hurry! You can do it, Chuckie! If anyone objects to this union, speak now or forever hold your peace. I gots to be brave. I gots to be brave. No! Chuckie? He said his first word. He's talking! No! Chuckie! Chuckie! It's okay, it's okay. Daddy's here. And so is his new mummy. Come here, little boy. No! No! No! No! Madame! Our kidnapping plot has failed! Ignore that unemployed fool. Coco, the wedding is off. You are not the woman I thought you were. Hey, lady! Looks like your plan to trick Mr Yummy-sushi didn't work! Pretty flower girls should be seen, not heard. I would like to hear what the little one has to say. But listen good, 'cause I'm tired of telling this story. That koo-koo lady told her boss she had a kid's heart in a jar, and she was gonna marry Mr Chuckie's daddy so she could be president. - Listen, you traitor! - Miss LaBouche, you are dismissed. Dismissed? But no one fires Coco LaBouche. Coco LaBouche fires others! Coco LaBouche is EuroReptar. Off the gown, you revolting carpet mice! Listen, lady! Nobody messes with my dumb babies 'cept me! I see London, I see France! I see Coco's underpants! Take a picture! This is the last time you will see Coco or her underpants! Bad dog! Bad dog! Coco! Wait! Go get him, Spike! Looks like Spike found himself a little patootie. Come here, my little pumpkin pies! - Smile for the camera! - What a holiday! Chuckie? I have something that belongs to you. Thank you, Kira. Chas, I am so sorry. I wanted to tell you about Coco, but... No, no, no, it's my fault, Kira. I guess I got caught up in the romance of Paris. I'm sorry, little guy. "Oh, how my heart beats wild" "each time I hold my precious child" Wait! You know that poem? It is my favourite. And now the bride and groom wiLL cut the cake. Be careful, Kira, the knife is very sharp. Wasn't the wedding beautiful? I'm glad I didn't have to return the toaster oven this time. Let me put it this way, Bobfather. We've been back home for a bunch of yesterdays, and you still haven't delivered the goods! You gots your mummy wish, so what do I get, Snotfather? Angelica, you show him no aspect! You can't talk to him like... Angelica... You come to me on the day of my daddy's wedding to ask me for Cynthia Chateau and the matching ponies and a bunch of this stuff that I can't never get you. There you are! Come on, the grown-ups are giving away all the cake! Cake? Game over! Wawa's a really nice bear. Thanks. My old mummy gived it to me. - Do you ever miss her? - Sometimes. But then I 'member that she's up there watching me from heaben. I guess I'm lucky. I got two mummies to look after me now. There's my little guy. Kimi? Sweetheart? May I have this dance? Chuckie, would you like to dance with your new mummy? Let me at that cake! Hey, lady, ever hear of a thigh blaster? Cynthia! That frosting flower has our names bitten all over it! Who do you babies think you are? I'm Tommy, and this is Lil... - And she calls us dumb. - Give me that cake right now! - Good frow, Dilly. - Prepare to meet your caker! What you doing? Hey, Susie! Cakey! Well, Tommy, I guess this is how it's gonna be from now on.
