 

                        In pursuit of dreams, I run even today My desires remain far, far away In search of dreams we run on and on Do we see them? Do we perceive? In pursuit of dreams, I run even today My desires remain far, far away In search of dreams we run on and on Do we see them? Do we perceive? In pursuit of dreams, I run even today My desires remain far, far away In search of dreams we run on and on Do we see them? Do we perceive? Christ's Grace Jesus protects this house Oh Lord! Has she returned so quickly? Chey! Alleluia! Good morning sir Yes? l am from Murdoch marketing company with some products for the kitchen - Look here - Sir? The only 'product' of my kitchen has gone for her driving lessons lf she sees me here with you l may as well join a meditation camp You can go - Sir? -Aiyo! Sh...! What is it, dear? lchaya(hubby), Lucy speaking What are you up to? l...er...am watching Shalom (Christian) channel on TV By the way, l'll be back after shopping at the supermarket Jesus! Does that mean you'll be here only after 2 hours? - Yes, lchaya - Chey! Listen! Wait till l return before you go out, okay? Come quickly, okay? - Heard me? - Okay, lchaya - So, you are from home appliances, eh? - Yes sir Well, come in Let me have a look - Sir, casserole? - No Sir, if you are really interested l have a small side business too CDs of some new movies Only Rs 100 - ls that so? - Yes Where? Let me see Sir, are you a businessman? No, in the police force Deputy Superintendent of Police Benny Tharakan Selling pirated movie CDs is your business, eh? Sir?! Be quiet! So convenient coming in with evidence, like this Non-bailable offence, understood? Please don't betray me, sir l desperately need the money Please sir l'll do anything you ask me to Do have only movie CDs? lsn't there any other kind? Other kind? Don't you have adult movies? Yes or no? Take it out Wait here Let me find out first whetherto send you off or not Aiyo! lsn't that me? Christ! lt's me! You!!! Reporter, Bharath Vision Jesus! My dear sister, don't get me into trouble l've just got back into service After 2 suspensions and 2 meditations Please, l'll do whatever you want me to Sir, answer that call Must be from the TV channel Hello? Venu, that's my name A well known camera man of a well known TV channel l know you, sir l've met you - So, further introductions not needed - Not at all lf prime time news today decides to air... ...your antics with that chick what will be your opinion? Aiyo! l no longer will exist Tell me sir, what should l do? Rs 3 lakhs, in notes of 1000 Send it with that girl Okay, sir Okay Why has no one taken this? We don't want any lOUs, sir Just give us our salary This is not an lOU Just a security Look, only 2 minutes left Go and begin the news telecast By then the money will be here Money that's not come since 4 months do you think will come in half an hour? On its way Then l'll read the news after it arrives Or you do it yourself, after all you were a lion in Bharath Vision, right? Yes dude, l was indeed, a lion When l started my own channel l became a cat Okay, don't read, you pig l'll do it, give me that coat No need to remove the coat l got the money Here, Rs 3 lakhs Did you see how we got the money? Here's Rs 3 lakhs, take your dues lf anything's left, leave it there itself Bro, l have to go read news Please keep my 40 aside Brother, where's mine? A Bharath Vision lD card? Are you back with that channel? l went for an 'operation', dear My old card came of use, that's all Stop your chatter Come with me Were you going to explain all that happened, to them? You can as well air it on news time! Let everybody here be aware! Great! Remember the way you followed ethics so strictly? When it didn't work, you quit Bharath Vision to start a new channel As the head, you are resorting to 3rd rate tactics, to pay the salaries... ...and that too mimicking a decent guy, like Venu sir Go and tell Venu everything! You can get married to my dead body He'll kill me! l've not made it a habit, right? This was only the first time Sir? What is it? Minister Kunjumoideen will land at 1 :00 PM None of us will be there to coverthe event Select some good channel and just reproduce their content lsn't that what we do every time! Hey! Also include an 'it seems' in every other sentence What's that sir? Like...the Minister is involved in the sex racket case 'it seems' Or...there is a chance he'll resign 'it seems' Like this, we include 'it seems' in all matters, we are not sure of Understood? - Yes, now l do - Then go What a big media star you were Rs 1 .5 lakh salary and... ...post of chief operating officer What went wrong at Bharath vision? Conceit! l have only myself to blame A kind of smugness, dying to be pricked! Oh Lord! lt's Venu! Would he have somehow come to know what l did? Aiyo! Would Benny Tharakan have talked to him, about it? Will the Town Hall be free tomorrow? Why? To keep my dead body for public viewing Hello? What's up dude? ls it? He doesn't know! Aren't you ashamed to go cover a silly 'lathi charge'? Oh, you call itjust time pass, eh? Definitely not! You are itching for kudos! Returning from Delhi after 5 years just a cheap trick to say you are back Ow! He's swearing!! He can't be idle even for a day without taking up some work Probably needs the money He? The money he earns for each assignment of Reuters and CNN... ...no camera man would get even after 3 or 4 years of toil When sensitive issues crop up channels in Delhi bid for his services including the Rory Peck Award This is not for money Just to show off, that's all! For which channel could it be? Certainly not, for Bharath Vision Look here Suraj Renuka Ma'am has come lf you confront her, you'll need to look out for another job Her attitude is 'Just take a leap if you cannot' l will take it up, not with her but with CEO Vijayakumar sir She separated me and my wife allotting different shifts without a word to us My shift is from 6:00 AM to 6:00 PM and hers, from 6:00 PM to 6:00 AM l have been gazing at stars the whole of last month - Be quiet, dude - Get lost, buddy When she joined as junior reporter l was already here, as sub-editor Now she claims to be executive editor! Arun, come here On the run down, first item should be Minister Kunjumoideen and sex racket The women's activist Sharada and the retired old DySP Ramarajan l want both of them on phone connected to me, right time lf you come up with stories like unable to connect, and so on, l'll blast you! - Revathi? - Ma'am Greetings, I am Renuka The news, headIines Minister Kunjumoideen has aIso been impIicated in Vadakara sex racket case... ...says retired DySPRamarajan In Kuttikanam adivasi zone, Land mafia faked 420 documents The news in detaiI Minister Kunjumoideen's part in the case is now a topic of controversy The girI who'd been harassed had named the minister too in her originaI statement This cIaim by DySP Ramarajan, the officer who was investigating the case then... ...has sparked off these fresh controversies Arun, didn't you get connection? l am trying, but not getting through You'll get it from me if you don't get it, right now Get lost from here if you can't, dude! The minister who was in Delhi since the Iast 4 days, wiII be here... ...in Nedumbashery airport by afternoon...is the latest report Sir may I? Yes What's it, dude? l have a complaint You or your wife? So this game was with your approval, eh? Dude, I'll know even if a leaf moves in this place Sir, it's been a month since anything moved at all! Sorry, she takes the decisions She can, but she'll have to bear my mother's curse What's your mother's role in this? Mother wants to die, only after she sees her grand child That's being greedy, isn't it? Didn't she get to see you, as a baby? - Look here sir - lf you want to change shifts, go ask her ls she Goddess of Chottanikkara to bow and beg favors from? Go and ask her directly, useless! Why use me to test your sharp tongue? - Sir, can you help? - No! Oh, there she is! The she-devil! We don't pay a salary for couples to coochy-coo during work There's no question of changing the shift time May be, on humanitarian considerations...? l don't see such considerations when you force TAM rating on me Do you think l am a machine? l've lost out an entire life! Don't forget that! Hello? Is it? Did you see? No, I will come Sir The minister is in the guest house, women activists and party members too We can expect something hot You take over the news, I'll come 'live' Did you see that enthusiasm? Focus channel got Venu to shoot for them You mean Reuter's Venu? Here? He's come from Delhi and is here since a week, to testify on some old case Must have accepted this job having free time on his hands Oh Lord! In today's lathi charge once, just one beating... ...may this queen of Jhansi receive on her head, please God! - What's it, dude? - Nothing, sir - Preetha, did you see Venu sir? - ls Reuters Venu covering this? - Why is he here, for this lifeless story? - Our Vice President requested him, come Where the heck is this man?! Must be hanging around somewhere The Minister will soon be here Nothing will happen till l get out of here We cannot be too sure, sir Your own party members will stir up problems That's also part of politics Creating and solving problems You guys need your guns and lathis l need to use my tongue, just watch Don't get excited Stop your slogans Stop! Stop, I say Stop, l say Don't you understand? l have only respect for the women folk of this land Listen to what I have to say... ...after which you can shout dissent or block my way! Please! Please...please...please! Okay, stop Let him say his piece Don't bother asking me I will tell you everything All this hullaballoo is simply because of the statement of a retd DySP, 6 years later Let the police investigate I am prepared to co operate Do you want me to step down during the period of investigation? Let my party or chief minister demand I am prepared for that also To counter a false accusation What more should l do? How is it? Enough? Mohammed, what is the schedule for this evening? Renu, don't try to barge in He subdued everyone with just 4 sentences Don't think you can play around with this news, the whole day today Chey! l came because l heard Venu was covering this for Focus TV You can expect fireworks when he's around Move aside all of you Move! See you later Move Come on finish off all these sons of guns!!! Charge! Get lost you! Start the car See that shoe and that bare foot - Shoot both, dude! - Okay Da! You are totally useless Get lost, you...! Sorry, ma'am Venu sir? There won't be any more further issues, will there? What? l mean the other one? Did he see me throwing my shoe? Well, if he did, let him! - Here, go and serve it - Thank you, sir TaIking diplomatically and calmly the event passed off uneventfuIIy But someone threw a shoe at him and party members turned vioIent Chey! Who could it be? Did you see the rhythm in those shots? Oh! One second, turning on a single leg a180degree pan, a shot with amazing impact! Wouldn't you have got it using both legs for 2 seconds? Sure you will But it can be shown only in your cheap, crappy, sub standard channel All good channels will cut them, edit them Whatever l shoot, will not give them a chance to edit - Oh! For sure - Look there, my boy Chey! They chopped the scenes, those vagabonds! Smart boys don't need an excuse to edit Yes, Venu here I came, created an issue and shot those scenes for you Now, using my footage, you are teaching your boys editing, eh? Rascals! With no sense about rules of continuity! What? Sorry? You can stuff your sorry under your leg...arms... ...I'll take it when l need it! What is it, dude? Giggling away to glory,eh? Twin screen play writers What the heck do you know? Venu, they are my friends They have 5 super hit films to their credit They've come here for my sake To discuss a program for my NBI Channel lf you have anything to say direct it at me, not them I will tell this not only to you, but to them also I didn't jump up from the middle of my dinner, to wield a camera As a gold medalist from film institute I refused to step into the film world...why? My ambition was to shoot visuals that were authentic, not manipulated Understood? Humph! Cinema my foot! Looks like, a gas bag sprouted hands and legs! Like army stories narrated by tea shop owners with big moustaches Sure! Army stories indeed Kargil war! Who covered it for the Defense Ministry? Him The terrorist attack at the Taj hotel, Mumbai Who covered the commando operation for CNN channel? Was it Azhagappan? Not azhag-appan Your appan (dad)! Very good Oh, it was you, sir? ls he in? Sure, come in Venu, look who's here Hey, Somarajan sir? When l called Rishi said you were here Don't worry, I won't stay for long and trouble you So my perjury, led to something good Yes, l got the fax today My lPS is confirmed lt was only for you l've surfaced here after 5 years Just to change my earlier statement Thanks Thank you When l packed up and left l swore l wouldn't return But my return has resulted in something good! Don't you know him? Superintendent of Police Somarajan sir of Special branch - Was suspended for a brief period - Along with a criminal case He was the defendant and I was the petitioner News continues Headlines Minister Kunjumoideen is aIso impIicated in Vadakara sex racket case... ...says retired DySPRamarajan In Kuttikanam Adivasi zone Land mafia fakes 420 documents The news in detail Did the vehicle, for a second slip into reverse gear? This vehicle does not have a reverse gear It can only take an U-turn, if you want Venu Come on, take an U-turn Anyway these guys don't know anything What if there's scope for a story? - Should I? - Go ahead Sir Please, sir About 5 years ago... After nearly 7 days of fasting and in very poor health conditions... ...sociaI activist and poetess Radhadevi has been arrested and admitted in hospital Demanding immediate soIution to the Chambakara issue... ...Radhadevi announced soIidarity with the citizens protest and started her fast Venu sir has come! Did you get it, sir? The police refuse to allow us in Here's the Commissioner's permission lf she's conscious after an hour and cooperates, take her interview also - Let's go to the casualty - Me? You want me to shoot this lifeless interview? To just focus on her mug watch it and die of boredom? Get lost, dude! Go do it yourself Sir, the permission is in your name, Reuters Venu lf you are not there the police will block our entry You can go after it begins You arejust harassing me Come! lmpossible! lt's not for an interview We must tell the public about her condition Didn't I tell you that you can't meet her? Why not? Not possible, that's all Let me see if l can Who is this fiery maiden? Renuka, junior reporter of Bharath vision A beginner's enthusiasm - l must see how you will - Let me go You useless, behaving atrociously, eh? You...! Hey, that was great You arrogant girl! You! You dare lay hands on a policewoman You fool! Aren't lady-police assigned to deal with women? Why do you interfere? Throw him into the police van, the dog You dare to lay hands on media persons, you pig?! Let me go Kill him, this son of a gun - That's Venu sir - You mean, Reuters Venu? Sir And then? What? You saw DySP Somarajan pushing away the reporter Renuka And then? Very calmly and full of respect, l asked him Sir, is it right to do such things to a girl, that too, to a media person He said who are you to ask me such...come here And gave me a slap And a kick here...here on my chest l don't remember anything else Note it down The certificate is ready You go and take that How are you? Are you in pain? Sure, l'm covered by insurance He asked, if you are in pain - What? - Pain Pain, yes it is paining This thing blocks and l'm unable to hear Removing that is not going to help He'll never be able to hear again l hope there is nothing seriously wrong, doctor Ear drum is totally damaged He'll have to use a hearing aid Explain it to him gently Okay? Look here, just take it easy What? Don't get agitated You'll be a little upset on hearing this But how can l tell you this, in any other way...? Doctorjust said... What's this, dude? Like some melodrama in cinema With broken words, it is cancer lts blood cancer, brother... Tell me whatever it is you dumb fellow! l'm not dumb You are the one now, deaf Your ear is gone forever, dude Hereafter, we must fix that thingy A hearing aid, that's what l meant So, this is a goner! Once, the artist Van Gogh chopped his ear off, for his lady love My dear girl, l've just lost it for you without love or any such moonshine Be grateful, okay? Gratitude - That thing which you said... - Gratitude? No, this love lt can happen even now and everything will fall in place - Will that happen? - lt's already too late - Then go get a taxi - Okay Get lost, dude and stop weaving stories Venu! My God! You should have seen them after that incident lt wasn't love, they just took off on a high! l, was the reason forthat love to begin Since l am not there in the rest of the story l'll say, okay good night Good night And then? And then... Where were you? The press meet is about to begin, I'll call you back Hey, it's urgent lt's an exclusive Needs to be shot immediately What is it about? I'll explain Come quickly I am waiting outside Monacha, I've got an exclusive, l'm leaving Shouldn't I come to cover the event? This is being covered by Venu sir Reuters Venu, accompanied by, Renuka Come, get in - What is so exclusive? - l'll tell you everything Which is this place? Guest house of Kelvin Joseph He is the guy who is funding Rishi's new channel Didn't you say we have something exclusive? Yes, there is no one else here Only 2 of us, exclusive literally, come - Come on, I say - Venu Let me go Come What are your intentions? Dishonorable ones, of course! Sure! Go climb a wall! Oh! That! No! Please no...not before marriage lsn't that what you mean? Well, l have no such inclinations Then? Why that disappointed expression, when l said that? Aiyada! Disappointment! Do you know to cook? - Sure, to an extent - Okay - Where's the kitchen? - Over there What do you prefer? Tea or coffee? Before that, by the way have you heard my song? Song? Music track, karaoke ln our future lives, very frequently we have to face 2 gigantic issues Your cooking and my music! Let's begin our interaction from that point As rays of the fading evening sun, Iay sprawIed on the shores unrestrained Swinging your littIe tender arms, dear On a littIe boat you rowed, my baby dear Tear drops never fell but brimmed Eyes that glistened with tears unshed Memories, like a wick of lamp burning not feeling the heat of the flame brightening Oh, why did you Ieave me and go My sweet littIe chirpy red sparrow I wait on these shores for you on and on My desires like roots spread far and yon As rays of the fading evening sun, Iay sprawled on the shores unshackled Swinging your tender littIe arms, dear in a boat you rowed away, my baby dear As the wheels of time and age Turned around on earth's heritage As flowering trees and young LaureI grew and changed beyond recaII As before my eyes this littIe stream faded out of sight, never to be seen I turned into a golden sand boat that didn't have water to go afIoat lAs rays of the fading evening sun, lay sprawled on the shores uncontrolled Swinging your tender little arms, dear in a boat you rowed away, my baby dear Adorned in anklets on feet so pretty Bangles aplenty on hands so dainty A garland, you once gave me with blossoms of Mimusop's Elengi Festivities, dance of warfares Long over are the temple fairs A sentinel I stand in a tempIe forsaken Like a burnt out black stone lamp alone As rays of the fading evening sun, Lay sprawled on the shores unrestrained Swinging your tender little arms, dear in a boat you rowed away, my baby dear As rays of fading evening sun, sprawIed upon the shores unrestrained Swinging your tender little arms, dear in a boat you rowed away, my baby dear As rays of fading evening sun, Iay sprawIed upon the shores unrestrained ISwinging your tender IittIe arms, dear in a boat you rowed away, my baby dear Go climb the wall! Cruel fellow! And then? Why mood off, sir? A kind of sadness? He's sad that he can't have a baby Haven't you heard? Sorrow of being childless What do the doctors say? No use! No use at all! How can a baby be born when we didn't have a chance? Cruel she-devil Witch, hellcat! Cheater! Da! You don't say anything l will, she cheated me also l will tell you, the rest of the story lt was when, l quit Bharath Vision and started my own channel, the NBI lt was 2 or 3 days before its launch The day before these lovers tired after love making... ...decided to get married at the registry office Well known NRI businessman and MaIayaIee Rajan Kartha nominated... ...as Rajya Sabha member from Kerala as decided by Democratic party central powers State party president and possibIy future Chief Minister, Bharathan Pillai... ...overcoming objections of other parties in KeraIa... ...vouched for Rajan Kartha's nomination When KeraIa does not have a singIe candidate or MP... Rishi, this is a good omen Which one? Our channel is taking off, at a time when the situation is heating up with news Our channel won't have any dearth for news That's true, but actually it's not the way you think it is, Jose'aettan From today, all channels will focus on Rajan Kartha and Bharathan Pillai But we will wake up in 2 days with an exclusive story that'll divert viewers All other channels are baffled What's the story? We'll just decide what to air We have 2 more days, right? There is 1 which could be most exclusive, we can't ignore that Venu! Ah! Has the bridegroom arrived? Don't you know him? Venu Who doesn't? - Kelvin Joseph's partner - l know him Don't splurge all your money on him although he may convince you Come We are getting married tomorrow But not inviting you, it's a registered marriage Rishi did mention it, congrats! Thanks Give it to me Dude, it's only a signature tomorrow Don't take way Renu, for another month She is my sub-editor Come down to earth dude, just beginning and thinks he's already a channel bigwig Go, go Dad wanted a proper wedding Find someone else then, to stand well decorated and smiling...shall we? l just mentioned dad's wish Let's find someone for dad then Will your mom allow it? God! What a thorny tree Am l a thorny tree? Am l not a flower, hmmm? Hey! Can't you wait till tomorrow? l've reached limits of my patience, dude! Rishi come here, l'm reiterating what l've always said l'm not investing, to strut around like a channel owner, it's only for business l have no allegiance to any particular religion or party Ratings, commercial value of news, that's all Also, l'm giving you the freedom you've always wanted Correct! Even otherwise who are we indebted to? A man comes home, freshens up waits for his kids to sleep, views TV... ...for 2 hours, the programs and news for which we have toiled and sweated Ask him to get lost, l say! Sheer attitude problem Let's see you like this always, okay? Sure, if this attitude shifts... ...l swear l'll work for you, for your channel, for what you pay! Renu, its Manilal here A shocking exclusive! l got this information, just now Okay, Mani Venu, something important, come Rishi! Can your channel go on air today, tonight? We are on to an exclusive which nobody may get Yes or no? Yes of course! Listen, we are going on air tonight itself, get everything set The promos have to start by today evening, 6:00 PM NBI will be launched tonight at 10:00 with news, that's going to shock Kerala Promos have to start on internet and FM Radio Rishi, seeing the promos, people will wait for the shocking news... ...but what if the info is wrong? We already have 4 other stories that will shock, we'll start with any of them Forward this now itself to play up Okay What is that? Usually used in surgical procedures lt will enter any body organ or even the intestines, to shoot But why, for our purpose? AV details will be, clear as crystal, high resolution Have you prepared your introduction lines? Let's shoot it here in the vehicle itself Do we have to? lt must be your face before the visuals You won't get any benefit otherwise Okay Ready, rolling In India, peopIe worm into political and Iaw making infrastructures of this country... ...out of sheer power of money, one such shocking scene, we invite you to witness Candidate for Rajya Sabha, Rajan Kartha and Bharatha pillai Democratic party president... ...caught in the act with crores of money changing hands, watch it! I hope we get to see all what was just said - Camera - Sir Here, take it - Pan rights - Okay, sir - Okay sir? - Okay, fine Sir, this has come back after repair Where shall we put it? lt was taken from the office room Keep it back there Why does he still have this old fridge? Can't he buy a new one? That's our Bharathan Pillai sir Such humility and modesty Varghese, l am feeling very tired Shall we meet tomorrow? Okay, sir Okay, leader Okay, we are leaving Okay, everything as we'd already planned He is Kartha sir Come, come - Greetings - Greetings - Varghese, don't allow anyone in I didn't have much hope till the decision was made Party members protested so vehemently They raise a hue and cry only here, none of it reaches Delhi Isn't that why I extended my hand, when you asked? Now, where is that stuff which must reach my hand? Oh that, yes! That is ready True, it's the key to your fridge l took it by telling Varghese, it needed repair The entire amount you've asked is here, count it This will cover only the Rajya sabha seat The crown of a central minister is on its way, don't forget that I shall continue remembering it like this, all the time, isn't that enough? Sure Sir is returning Get the camera Renu, take it Come Where? What is it? Sign off, it should be with Pillai's house as a back drop This is Renuka, with cameraman Venu from Bharathan PiIIai's residence Come Police! Don't drive off immediately! Go straight ahead, there is a round about, take a right and ask there Now take off! Hey! Come here Who are you? Why are you prowling around here? Nothing Who was in that vehicle? They asked for directions and I told them Hello? Chief lnspector, Anthony What is it? You wanted to see me? l am right in front of your house We've caught a man who looks suspicious Looks like a journalist What? A journalist? Reuters, BBC Delhi based Not any local channel eh? What were you planning? Look sir, this is wrongful confinement How can you hold me like a criminal? l am a media person with a national rating Okay! How many policemen know what Reuters means in our town? Please wait outside Venu, sit please No thanks What was the information? What did you see and shoot? Open your mouth and tell me, you...! Hey, be quiet! What you've guessed was the information we got Later, we realized it was false How? Kartha sir came in with nothing in his hand He did not carry any briefcase or bag which could contain money - Sir - What is it? Police chased and caught the van We've got a wireless message And? The van belongs to NBI, a new channel lt is all set to launch tonight Flash news is appearing on TV right now Nothing was found from the vehicle Only the driver was there So the van was allowed to go NBI, News Bureau of lndia Launching tonight at 10:00 PM With explosive news Tonight, at 10:00 PM Will their news shock us? Come on, tell us lf it is something like that you can demand and we'll fix a deal l'll lavishly give it all to you lts only 5 minutes more, tell me l don't know l really don't know, sir Varghese, get an ambulance ready So as to reach here, in just 2 minutes Hello? Yes, Bharathan Pillai Who was it? - Don't know, got disconnected - Call him back Now it is switched off Greetings, good evening NBI, News Bureau of lndia No need for introductions for news, that's true and authentic ln the same way NBI without introductions From this minute, for you, from today As a brand new channel, naturally we come to you, with exclusive news Confessions, we have seen them many times on channel screens But here is a secret which will shock Kerala, truth brought by a priest ln 2003 there was a sensational... Sorry Venu Sorry for the inconvenience Varghese, drop him wherever he needs to go Sorry What the heck did you build up to? Was it only me? Who asked for an ambulance? lf the news was true we had to shift stuff from here What will l do with that cash? That was the reason Who is this priest? Who knows? A sinner who is not penitent deserves to be punished Rishi What happened? Where is Renu? You returned together, didn't you? We waited for you till the last minute When you didn't come, we aired another story Tell me what happened? l sent her off at 9:00 PM With the footage we shot And then? Do you think she could be hurt? No! Don't panic! Nothing will happen to her Why don't we air this issue now itself? Rishi look! Candidate for Rajya Sabha, Rajan Kartha and Bharathan pillai Democratic party president... ...caught in the act with crores of money changing hands, watch it! How can your program on confessions have any effect... ...when such explosive news is being aired? This channel was a dead baby even before it was born Even a launch program couldn't be done confidentially... ...and l've wasted my money Enough, just wind up now This is Renuka, with cameraman Venu from Bharathan PiIIai's residence - Sir - Where did you drop her? Sir, at the over-bridge Another car came and she got into it Let's go to Bharath Vision Move man You are finished!!! You are no more! Over! l'll just think you died after turning insane! Hello? Venu, you dragged and threw me down from a very great height l called to let you know my happiness A deep wound and the sharp pain When it heals, only l'll feel it But be sure, you also will know it Democratic party after its meeting... ...decides to strip Bharathan PiIIai's presidentiaI position They have aIso requested vigiIance... ...to start investigations against Kartha and Bharathan PiIIai Oh that was a terrible thing to do! Doesn't matter Forgiven lf l was 1 day late, l would've had to stand in a queue at the family court l've forgiven! l will not forgive! She ruined my NBI He wasn't referring to you Bharathan Pillai would have been a Chief Ministertoday Today he's just a state committee member The rotten corpse! lts 5 years since we heard anything about NRl, Rajan Kartha - Da! - What is it, da? They are all his people Send them away, quickly l'm hungry, where's your bike? Da? Did you pay salary to your staff? - Yes l did - How did you manage? Did you get a windfall? You refused to loan me So l sold you How? We got incriminating footage of that DySP Benny Some youngster shot it at some resort l showed him the footage and threatened him, mimicking you Rs 3 lakhs Stop! - Stop! - Don't punch me Stop the bike! Aiyo! l'll kill you Can't l use your name a bit? This has a different name You want to see...? Will an action do? - Have you gone away? - l am here l will use you also Don't do that l am not like that What's happening? Police! Why are you dancing in the middle of the night? We were just exercising Exercise? Middle of the night? Put them both in the jeep Wait! l will come by myself Do l have to repeat it to you? You'll face consequences if you lay your hands on me Tomorrow, all channels will carry your stupid face, as its cover story Beware! You are playing games with Reuters stinger Venu, got it? You may be big people, but when you play such public games, what shall we do? Oh, so what shall we do? Sir? This is his usual drama Any time police catch him or gets into any other issue... ...he will immediately say that he's big-wig of a channel He's nothing of that sort Does video coverage, of weddings Da! l will come Walk quickly, man! Come in Move aside! Francis! Get their bikes to the police station Put in a liter of petrol also, okay? Get up, l say Get up What's happening? This man is a nuisance He brought the bench from the veranda to sleep here Lock me up Or, l will sleep here l always sleep at ten after a glass of milk Go This is sheer menace and l already wrote out the FlR! lf you want to get out get someone to bail you We don't have anyone, sir We are orphans We are from the public orphanage Sir? Please switch on that fan Do you hear him? Switch on the fan Who is it, middle of the night?! lf it is anyone important ask him to call tomorrow, l'm off to sleep Hello, who is it? lsn't this the number of Venu stinger cameraman, of Reuters? Who is it, sir? ls it from the orphanage? Hello? l am advocate, Manilal What is the case? Counsel, it was a mistake Please ask him to overlook this My police pal, see what happens when you confront me, at midnight? - Did you see now? - Heard now? Thanks a lot Venu? l've been trying you from last evening but couldn't get through Who are you? l am advocate, Manilal l have something to tell you What is it? lt's about an exclusive However important it is l'll see you tomorrow... ...when l am fresh Come let's go! So tell me, what is this exclusive, all about? An exclusive like this won't ever occur in the history of news channels again A story that has to be shot risking life l've risked my life many times Forget that, come to the point l will, but before that, l want a firm affirmation from you This exclusive info was got from a particular channel The story has to be covered, only for them Their reporter will accompany you Do you have any objections? Once l disclose information You can't go back on your word Mr lawyer, l do follow certain ethics lf l give my word, it is forever So you agree? Agreed But l'll be the one to decide what to do and how to do it Okay, agreed Now l come to the actual point What you have to cover, is a murder The murder planned, is on behalf of a well known politician of Kerala Sorry! l cannot do this Hey! Venu! Please! A life is more important than a piece of news Since we have info, we have to try and save him lt may lessen the news value, but ratings mustn't depend on blood spilt Venu, let me explain lt's not my urge to make money by 'live' coverage of a man's death He can't be saved by anyone even if it's reported to the police Because, Bharathan Pillai still dictates, even though, he's not yet Chief Minister - Bharathan Pillai? - Yes This murder will take place on his behalf We can't prevent it, can't we at least make sure the culprits don't escape? Okay, so who is the victim? A man in Bharathan Pillai's group We don't know who or what... What rubbish is this? l can only assure you this information is 100% genuine Tell me the place, time and date and who is the reporter, coming with me Renu? This woman?! Find someone else! Lawyer, drop me back! Venu, listen to me You can't go, you agreed... ...l disclosed info because you claimed to have ethics Did you tell me beforehand this useless creature was coming? You only said some reporter Didn't l warn you to disclose info only aftertelling him everything, Chey! Think it's not Renuka, but a stranger X or Y, with a professional approach l am totally professional! Such a risky job, l need someone who gels with me Petty personal issues mustn't come in the way... ...of this exclusive with such strong social impact We don't have any option, but Renuka Venu, you can insist on whatever conditions you want Please Please Venu! Okay These are my conditions l'll be the sole decision maker Reporter X or Y is not allowed to make any suggestions Sure A DSNG van, without any crew must be at my disposal Okay Visuals l 'UP' has to be aired, unedited With no interference in it, whatsoever Agreed My remuneration alone, is Rs 10 lakh - Here, it's got more than what you've asked - Let it wait, there are more conditions Visuals must accompany a scrolling script... 'Visuals exclusively covered by cameraman Venu' No intro or sign out by the reporter Agreed You have 12 hours to plan and prepare, Renu knows the details Okay The baton has now shifted into your hands Venu...Renu? Shake hands on this Not necessary! What's this? You'll be working together hereafter Be professional Venu please? Keep the cash in the car You have neither an intro nor sign off Why the hell are you tagging along? Suppose you run away with the footage as a revenge for the old grouse? There is only 1 creature on earth who'd do such things, and that's you! l forgot to tell you, DSNG receives poor signal at the crime spot Even if it did, we cannot go there with the van, right? Oh, you are right Okay, now both of you can chart out a plan Not 'both' of us Only me! - Shall l suggest something? - No! - Listen first - Not necessary Don't get into a fervor and try to save the victim You must be so blood thirsty! Cruel she-devil! Murder will occur even if we interfere and finally we'll become defendants - Are you sure? - Very sure Then l will surely interfere, l don't care if l'm accused, you'll also go to jail Come on, be serious You want me to be serious? Really? lf l did, you'll be lying in ICU, very serious There are arrears in plenty against you No need to contribute, be quiet and just allow me to do my stuff To hell with you! Lean back and sit without touching me, especially your bust! You dirty...chi!!! Turn left This is the club house Here? ln such an open area? Disputed property Government acquired 15 years ago, not even a watchman will be here What time is this crime scheduled for? Between 8:00 and 9:00 PM ls it a favorable time? Like they fix in weddings? Come here Are you scared to be alone? l am going up there A little Then wait right here After some time, yourfear will increase lf you make a sound, l'll kill you with one blow! Hey! What is it? A rat! Rat?! l'll stuff cloth down your throat! Not a sound from you! Don't scare me, you she-devil!!! How did you come up? l too learnt martial art Kalari, for 6-7 years Look...a car Let me go, don't kill me l begged forgiveness at his feet Take me to him You are great man Sir will come to meet you here Don't hurt me, please Let me go Leave me Let me go Don't harm me Leave me, aiyo! Don't harm me, sir Didn't l confess everything? Will your confessions give me back, all what l lost? My image, position, the days l spent idle at home, since last 5 years Suguna, to you, wasn't it just an itch on your tongue? When you betrayed us to the channel you knew very well... ...it would cost me and Kartha our political careers Let me at least have the joy of deciding your end Sir, don't kill me Take him away and hang him Hello, Venu? Ready? l am going to upload the footage of the visuals You have to 'UP' it with the scrolling script and your logo Okay When you switch on, l'll go watch TV in some place, any editing, remember...?! Okay Venu, there won't be any interference from us Yes! Venu's footage will come now UP the scrolling script along with it, okay? Get ready with camera DSNG crew and everything We've got to be in front of Bharathan Pillai's house l am going to that restaurant to watch TV l want to see if they have messed with my visuals Be right here, till l get back A true and shocking incident that occurred a few moments ago Prompted us to air this speciaI buIIetin BrutaI visuaIs we have never seen before Democratic party Ieader Bharathan PiIIai's CrueI revenge against party member Sugunan Don't harm me, sir Didn't I confess to everything? My image, position, the days I spent idIe at home since Iast 5 years Suguna, wasn't it to you just an itch on your tongue? Don't kiII me Take him away and hang him From the pIace of incident this is Renuka with camera man, Venu Get down the way you came up Sure, give me the bag l will throw it down From the pIace of incident this is Renuka with cameraman, Venu You...! lsn't it them? The camera man and reporter? Sir, this is really amazing Did the 2 of you really shoot this? - ls his body still hanging there? - May be, let the police enquire - They must have shot it, hiding - No dude, he shot it right from the front They wouldn't be alive if they'd been caught by those thugs Sir, we are on our way to Bharathan Pillai's house lf Pillai resists arrest we'll have to use force We've sent our forces to the club house Once the body is traced and identified we'll immediately go in and arrest, sir Look! Bharathan Pillai's house Police have come to arrest him After watching visuaIs of Bharath Vision's exposure You are seeing here the frenzy of peopIe We also know only what was shown on TV Police have already gone to the place of the incident Let us trace the body first after that we'll take necessary steps Will there be any arrests, sir? We cannot say, at this juncture We'll let you know by and by Move! Arrest the murderer Stop! Stop! What do you want? Pelt stones till l die? Go ahead Do it, kill me No need for police and courts You have the right to punish me Before that, you have to know certain truths You don't have to say any darn thing! We saw everything on TV Just answer the police when they question you Varghese! Look! There's the dead man! Whatever l have to say is here, for you to see, 'alive' lt was him, it seems who l killed and then hanged What more can l say?! Ask him whatever you want Mr Suguna, what do you have to say? l don't know anything, l too saw it on TV, Pillai sir will tell you the rest Mr Pillai, what do you have to say? l don't understand why that girl and cameraman have enmity to me l also have no idea how they created such visuals l am not a technical expert You remember, 5 years ago the same team hunted and... ...pinned Kartha and me down with a bribe charge, using visuals l couldn't prove anything then Break and destroy Bharath Vision! Come, dude! Damn his hidden camera!! Wait there! You can't go after creating controversies Go, get into the van without gaping, you idiot Don't let them go Come on, climb Abu! Van! Move Burn it up! Turn right, we'll go to Bharath Vision Turn right lt's saferthere What? Turn right We'll go to the studio Don't utter a word What do we do at the studio? Move aside Where is he? Come l don't know what happened The original footage... Enough! Stop - l was just talking to the home secretary - Later - Let me discuss this with my legal advisor - We'll get him to the police station, come Move aside! Get down! Today, some shocking visuaIs of a brutaI murder that stunned... ...the conscience of KeraIa were aired by Bharath Vision But soon after that, within minutes the man who was claimed to be killed... - l am Venu - Where are you? -Are you in your apartment? - No, at the studio l am right beneath your apartment Right below my apartment?! Don't you dare go there! l'll kill the 2 of you You went to favor Bharath Vision Exclusive it seems! Go, take her also along l can't do anything for you Tell me where the keys are, vagabond! Only you can go in, not her l'll decide that, now tell me where is the key, useless! On the window sill Don't open the door to anyone, l'll be ruined if anyone knows you are in there Look, you don't broadcast this, okay? l'll kill you, if you do! Get inside, you...! Oh Lord, am l fated to die without a drop to drink? Protestors from Bharathan PiIIai's house were uncontrollable by the time... ...they reached the Bharath Vision studios PoIice arrived and stopped them whiIe breaking the glass and trying to barge in... ...and on charges of telecasting false news ...they arrested CEO and 1 of the directors, Vijaykumar His granny's information! He has to be kicked, the pig! lt was I who got the information Not Vijaykumar, sir What? lt was l who was informed Tell me, who gave the info to you Come on tell me Go on lt was the lawyer, Manilal So he was the one who betrayed, eh? He is innocent l know very well Not innocent (actor) ldavela Babu (actor) How can you trust him? ls he God, or your dad? He's my cousin, all exclusive info l've covered, were based on his tip-offs His info was always true including the bribe case Manilal will not betray Pillai deserves a bouquet He retrieved all he'd lost on a single night At the same time, made us go into hiding Yes, now l can hear Mr Bharathan Pillai, the incident at the cIub house being proved faIse... ...are you now claiming that the bribe case charged on you ...and Kartha 5 years back was totally baseIess? Didn't the truth come out by itself? Now let the central committee decide what l should do l've suffered for 5 years, in spite of not having committed a single crime The people and party members who rejected me then, are now with me l'm sure the central committee will realize this Thank you High hopes! l didn't hang that fellow to get an award for good behavior Let them bring it back All what they took away The 2 of them are in a pathetic state Must be hiding, not knowing what to do Renuka along with camera man Venu Dude, this is simple straight math Anyone with an ounce of brains can decipher this move, let alone Venu The credibility he'd destroyed l managed to get back Now to ruin their trust and careers l'm taking the same route, a silent chase Sir, but isn't there a risk? Will he not come after you again? Of course he will But not immediately, Varghese They will not get out until this noise dies down l too gain time that way, because by then... ...l'll occupy the chief minister's chair Let them come after that - Here, use onions - l don't want your onions Don't show your craving - l never asked - l won't give, even if you ask Shhhh! Someone's knocking Some one's outside Sure, there is someone Greedy devil! Thanks Ask them to come in Burn it all up, dude! Sir, this is Venu's l-Pad All the visuals are in this So we've got all the original footage - Yes sir - Good! Settle their accounts Having been proved that the visuaIs were faIse... PoIice have charged a case against Venu and Renuka And they are on the Iookout to find them The sooner they are... Switch it off, l say! Says the city poIice commissioner What do we do now? Think! lf you get a brainwave, tell me We need to know the legal consequences Shall l call Manilal? Who am l, to ask permission? Your husband? My phone was lost in that DSNG van lf you give me your phone, l'll call him Call him with the speaker phone switched on l want to hear what he says Okay Don't tell him about this place Stand near me and call Hello? Mani, it's me Renu Where were you? Couldn't you call? l was so worried Don't ever be caught by the party men or police All of them are in a frenzy Tell me, what can happen to us, at the most? lf you are caught it will be a big problem Once arrested, you won't get bail for 40 days l'll tell you a way out, because l'm concerned about you The 1st one, who's caught gets 40 days in lock-up When the 2nd person surrenders, it'll be forjust 1or 2 days You will surely get bail, being a woman Why take a risk? Get him caught somehow Tell me the place, l'll take care of the rest Don't glare at me, he likes me He must've said that, to save me Your Mani...l'll...! You and your people are all of the same kind, cheats! Didn't you move away from me, to talk in secret? l've been told the FlR has not yet been written Yes Tell me, you want to be defendant or a witness? There's not much time isn't it, Anthony? Yes, sir Let's say, you trusted Renuka and aired the visuals from Bharath Vision You neither knew anything nor did you entrust Venu this job, that's all Bharatha Vision can continue functioning as usual from tomorrow What do you say? Where are they? Venu and Renuka? They are on the run Don't you know? We have decided not to run after them Sorry sir, but l'm running after them Was it for this show-down he was brought to the police club? No sir, the commissioner wanted to question... - No! - Sir! You never asked me why l was running afterthem?! l have my doubts, as to why they wanted to create a footage... ...of a man being killed when he actually was not So l thought l'll ask them directly Benny You must find them, quickly Time is running out, for me and you! You heard that? Today's 10:00 PM news has to be neutral But stress on, Renuka's thirst for exclusivity and popularity Okay, sir And Venu, just a camera man who covered, what she asked him to See that you protect him lf possible, we'll drop a bombshell An exclusive interview with Venu ls it to be here, in the studio? You...! Go get yourtext ready for the evening news! Go, all of you Dumbo! But not when he doesn't get his pay! SP Somarajan sir is calling Sir? Rishi, Police may raid your studio Their intention is to catch Venu Come, we have work to do lf they begin to shoot take away the camera Return it only after removing the footage - lndhu, is the sound ready? - Ready VCR must be in position Only the indicator must be seen Don't allow anyone to enter or exit What is it, sir? - Where is Venu? - Which Venu? How many Venu-s do you know? lndhu? Call Venu What is the problem, sir? Don't harass him, innocent chap! Sir, there's Venu What is it sir? This...!!! What is it, sir? Are you making fun of me? Where is he buddy, the Reuters stinger? Why would he be here? He must be at Bharath Vision studio Don't play your games with me l'll deal with you good and proper Tell me! You must know His 1 and only friend, right? Sir, leave his collar Look, it's going on 'live' Live? Mr Rishikesh, as a responsible channel head shouldn't you be helping the police? Get lost, you useless!!! Sure, l'll help you catch him, you...!!! How can you behave like this? Sudhi, cut Rishi's audio Now onwards it will be a shower of swear words! Ouch! Okay, let me know if you get info This is my number, here Okay, see you then Sure Sir, watch out, these rascals might put a camera even into our inner wear lndhu, audio on The competition for excIusive news may have put Renuka into this jeopardy What you saw now, is how, based on past events... ...police are treating the entire media community This is what DySPBenny Tharakan wrote, just before he Ieft the studio I'II deaI with you outside, you dog! In case you don't see me on this channeI you can concIude, I'm in poIice custody We are on to fresh info about the teIecasting of faIse news issue The poIice who are on the Iook out for Reuters stinger camera man Venu ... ...in connection with the controversiaI murder footage, wiII join us on Iine now Hello Venu? Sorry, our technicians wiII soon connect us Hello? Venu? Can you hear me? Send me at Ieast a bottIe of brandy, you fooI! HeIIo? I'm going insane, there's nothing to booze, you miserIy vagabond HeIIo - Can't you hear me? - Yes, I can, teII me Venu What actuaIIy happened that night? What eIse, it was just a drama by that PiIIai I must be kicked in the butt for faIIing for that...! Hello, Venu? You vagabond! In this situation what have you got to say? There are unscrupuIous fellows amongst us, who use personaI phone caIIs ... ...of even their cIosest paIs for excIusivity If that attitude changes we can be free of such issues Thank you, Mr Venu A short break before we move on to other topics Sir, Kakkanad, Skyline apartments Sir, we've traced his hide out Skyline apartments, at Kakkanad Very good But we couldn't trace the floor he occupies We'll enquire if any media person resides there and search that first Da! l've favors saved up, to return to you! You sold me, on 1st chance you got, right? Forget it, your phone call was traced and police have located you Somaraj sir informed me, they'll be there right now, so go away from there Where will l go at this time of the night? Just move from there forthe time being l'll find another place and call you Where are you going? Police have traced us here They'll be here at any moment Oh Lord! One minute, l'll go to the john and come l can't bear it any more What? Please stop! What for? What? What is it? l want to pee Oh! This will be our ruin! Couldn't you finish it at the apartment? You locked the door and took off before l could, didn't you? Get off Please Chey! That was an ambulance Where is the bike's key, you...!? Here You were trying to get me caught, right? l did that, so you wouldn't leave me and go You cheat! Don't lie l know...you didn't go to pee Chey! Get lost da! You dare say, 'get lost, da' to me? Didn't you start the bike to go off and let me get caught? l thought l'll be ready by the time you come back Why did you lock me up in the flat? So what? Yes l did!!! To trap you, now what about it? Sure, l too did the same One of us must give ourselves up We can't live like fugitives, under pressure l am not giving myself up without finding a solution to this Then drop me at the police station and go Don't start being sentimental, okay? Sentiments?! Sure l don't have any Remember? Only popularity mania, right? Look, no flashbacks, okay? Pouring oil on troubled waters! You are a reporter, me, a camera man That's all, now get on the bike Unless this is solved we are not surrendering A hideout is ready, take the 1st left after the Alpuzha Nedumudi bridge After about, 1 .5 km you'll see a wooden gate l'll be there, with Abu Okay Who was it? Rishi Hi Come dude, this summer house belongs to a friend, he's in the USA Come l'll come back tomorrow morning What? l'll be here in the morning with clothes and a hearing aid Buy all newspapers you can lay hands on l have news for you Bharath Vision has denounced both of you Vijaykumar presented it on the late night report Tell this to her tomorrow - lt's not over - What else? News from Delhi, yourjob at Reuters has been terminated What else? Nothing much Bharathan Pillai is being considered for CM post The central committee is meeting Swearing in may happen soon - Okay - See you, dude Abu These clothes are for them Da, give me those newspapers - These are clothes for both of you - Thank you Here's your hearing aid Rishi, the original footage is missing from the DSNG van Without that how can we prove the truth? That's how they planned it The screen play was fool-proof From the time we passed info to the restaurant drama, a neat script! Written and directed by Bharathan Pillai lf so, Rajan Kartha must be the producer He's here in Kochi since the last few days Almost from the day you came from Delhi Didn't you say, swearing in of the CM will happen shortly? We have time only till then, Rishi Now Sugunan must be made to talk, isn't it? Yes Ouch! Oh mother! What happened? He hit me and took off Some rascal! Aw, my hand Hey! Aren't you Sugunan sir? Just give me a hand, brother Let's go to the hospital - Ouch my hand! - Gently, take care - ls it still paining? - No, it's better now Sir you are very smartly dressed Don't you wear Khadi usually? lt is to avoid TV Nuisance! Look! That's the vehicle that hit me Really?! l'll find out right now Don't step out, you'll be recognized l'll go find out - What's all this? - Exactly what we also want to know! Are you the Lasser of modern times? Then he'll talk, our Sugunan -Lasser Okay We saw you being killed We showed it to the public also No confusion about this at all! But after some time you reappeared alive - Public became confused -And so did we We are not going to clear that We are going to increase it On the same place and rope you will swing, hanging dead We'll shoot it very smartly and show it to the public The public will go mad What must they believe? l swear, l have not done anything intentionally l really thought they were going to kill me l did tell Manilal, about the bribe You guys flashed it, as hot news lt was only recently Pillai sir came to know it was l who had informed l fell at his feet, cried begging his pardon He asked me to pass 1 more info to Manilal That a murder would happen, on behalf of Pillai sir After l did that, he asked me to leave But the next day... Sugana, come with me Bharathan Pillai sir, is asking for you Hello, take this What is it, sir? What are you doing? Leave me What is it, sir Stop it! Don't harm me Didn't l confess everything, sir? Confession to the holy person in a church will do you good But what's inside my chest is not a holy heart, Suguna - Ready, sir - Lift him now How is it? lsn't it okay? Leave me, I say Go, hang him! After you left they returned Shibu, this is an antidote Make him inhale it, he'll wake up They took me to Pillai sir's house When people turned nasty He asked me to come out l was only a dupe sir, a dupe of the person who was to be, actually killed Dupe? ln that club house there will be an actual murder ln the same place almost in the same manner Who? Who will it be? l don't know, sir But l know for sure it's on the 12th night How do you know this? l heard Pillai sir's assistant Varghese, tell my captors... ...that they must leave the club house as soon as the deed was done That their tickets have been booked for the 2:00 AM train, on13th morning That they should return, only after Pillai sir, was sworn in, as Chief Minister Abu, go drop Suguna at the nearest hospital - Do you know who's going to die? - No lt's you Pillai wants to frame us with that crime Don't try to run and escape Even if you try, they won't allow you Remember, we haven't met We'll be there on the 12th We want to shoot that event Go, don't be scared Nothing will happen to you -Abu - Yes, sir Here, ask that lawyer Manilal to meet me before noon tomorrow He started all this, right? Mani, l have to see you urgently Come tomorrow afternoon - What is it? - l'll tell you We've found a way out of this mess You have to stand by us Sure - What did you think? - Poor fellow Yes He's a great actor, noticed his tears without a drop of glycerin? Cheat! We did not get him, dude Pillai threw him at us, a bait What are you saying? lt's the next scene in Pillai's frivolous drama Believing his story, Renuka and l will go on 12th, to shoot the original murder Pillai, Kartha and their boys will wait Because it is we who are going to die Simple Gosh! This is getting more and more complicated lf we remain free, they are clueless as to the extent we'd go, to prove the truth So we have to be eliminated forever They will make us, fugitives forever Police, government and the media We have no option but to go to their butcher shop on 12th This is a trap for us, as well as our only way to escape lf we win, we can regain all we lost As well as ensure, Pillai's political funeral - lf you lose? - Death Like your usage, 'it seems' they committed suicide On 12th we are shooting the incident, whatever the risk Look at the irony of it However priceless, this exclusive we shoot now is, no channel will air it! Except for his NBI Ours is a small channel... ...if you intend giving it to some gigantic one, please let me know We don't have to trouble ourselves unnecessarily Only l will be going, to shoot this What if l come? You want to sign-out, as usual Just forthat, you needn't come This is an issue involving my credibility l will come! Whoever objects, l'll come! Go, let me plan this out l have been tolerating innuendos for last 3-4 days l don't want considerations Nor do l even expect it You don't deserve it also l don't need to convince you of that The 1 who was supposed to be convinced, has never come forward l am not interested in a reconciliation talk Me too Then? This is a social issue which involves me too l cannot stay away whatever you say This is to make you stay away from death, you...! After all, he did have you in his heart, for some time He is now going into the arena of death - What? - Nothing Tell me, Rishi What is happening? lt's not Sugunan, who will die lt will be you and Venu Do you really want to go now? lf l don't go after knowing this l won't exist anymore, Rishi l thought we had time, that when l get a chance, l could explain l expected such a chance, when l set out with him on this venture Since that is no longer a surety... l'll tell you the truth, l never betrayed you That day, fearing the police when Venu sent me off in the van l was on my way to our...sorry, your studio But... Abu make it fast, its already 9:15 PM lt has to be edited and aired by 10:00 PM Renu, be assured l'll reach you there in 15 minutes Mani! Success! l'm on my way to the studio with the footage Renu l know, l was there nearby lt's all a mess now and Venu has been caught by the police Now, they'll soon be after you Aiyo! Oh God! l am right behind you, a black lnnova Stop and get into my car, that will be safer -Abu, stop here - Renu, time is...? Abu, just stop! Get in, quick! Mani quickly, it has to be aired at 10:00 PM Be on Bharath Vision's pay roll and get the story for NBI Channel, eh? But l am no longer your staff l resigned 5 days back We've not got any such resignation And even if there is, l've not accepted it Mani, stop! l want to get out He will not, because if he does this footage will go to Bharathan Pillai Drive us to the studio, dude! He has taken Rs 2 lakhs from us for this story How can this become NBI's launch story? My mistake sir, l didn't know she had committed to NBI l will return that money today itself...sir, please! That's all over Nothing more to discuss Sir, but... lt's not money alone Once you did this story, he'd bargained and fixed senior editor's post for you Mani, l don't want any post Get me that footage back This will come only in NBI lt will not lt can come in any other channel, but never NBI l am sitting in the chair Rishi discarded and left How can l let this explosive story, be launched by Rishi? Mani, forthem it's channel war To me it's a question of trust and my life Mani please, tomorrow Venu and l are getting married Sir, please! You don't talk anymore l will not air this without your permission But l'll use this to make sure NBI is not born Simple, l'll just hand this overto Pillai NBI will remain, a dream to Rishi And Venu is in police custody l won't be able to even guess in what state, he will return You have time till Pillai attends this call Sir, no l beg you Sir, it's her future that will be affected - Hello? - ls it Bharathan Pillai? Yes Sir... l became 'all alone in one single night' With nothing left, l had only Bharath Vision, as an option for survival Renu, 5 years you have... Oh God! - Venu must be told... - Don't, Rishi He must not know this now He won't take me along otherwise l know his concern, for people he cares for, please don't tell him Okay, l won't What is that secret meet there? Will that she-devil betray us, in this also? Da! Don't be so mean Are you on her side or mine? This is why we say you should also be there Your cousin is risking her life for this Convince her not to, she refuses to listen to me Venu, is there some other way out? You tell us Mani, let Venu explain Today is the 10th Day aftertomorrow, it is12th Only if we convincingly shoot our act, that we are going to die... ...Pillai and Kartha's intentions can be proved But how and who will shoot this? lt's impossible to shoot in the club house or surroundings Then? Come, l'll explain half a kilometer away, on top... ...of the pavilion, cameras with telescopic lenses, will be set up Rishi's camera crew will operate them Pretending to cover Sugunan's murder we will reach the club house, on12th night We'll get surrounded by them and a little struggle will ensue A little action sequence by me And finally, we get caught lf Kartha comes, we can expect a cinema style dialog l'll have a voice recorder in my pocket After shooting what we want you and Abu should interfere Don't delay my friend, or we'll never come out alive! l agree, sir Can l tell you what l fear? Those who fear need not come Didn't l warn you? Let her tell her opinion Yes, Renu? ln case we are not able to pull this off, Pillai and Kartha... ...will escape for ever We can't take a chance That is what l'm also coming to, silly - This will not be exclusive to NBI - What? We will allow 2 more channels to shoot, without our involvement That's why l asked, Manilal also to come Go climb a wall!!! lt's impossible! This is exclusive to NBI Dude? Don't say 'no'! l've pinned all my hopes on this and planned a lot for its success Does our friendship have the value of, just an exclusive? l have not gained anything with this friendship, l've only lost - l will do this story alone, if not... - lf not...? lf not, don't expect anything more from me Then so be it! You are not doing this story Abu! Start the vehicle Rishi! Didn't you hear me? You can take it yourself, sir Rishi? Please! ls your father dead? Everybody thinks only of their own benefits This is not the 1st time Abu can operate my camera Lawyer Mani, 12th is day after tomorrow Tomorrow we set up camera at the stadium Fix up a couple of more channels and let me know Park it near the north of the stadium When it gets dark, we'll be there Abu, don't wait, it'll take time Come only when l call you Okay, sir - What is it? -A mosquito Mosquito?! This is field limit, whatever happens don't move away from this limit Find all possibilities and fix the limit - Venu, there's a car! - l saw it too, you useless! Bharathan Pillai! Rishi has cheated us lt's not what we thought, lets escape Be quiet girl! Venu, it will happen today! The camera is gone Now what's the point? Whatever happens you won't die, enough? Without getting into trouble come with me, you shrew! l was in a hurry to die sir So, l came here today itself There lies your camera, how will you shoot and show it to the public now? Call that lawyer Call Manilal Call that lawyer! Don't! Take it away, there mustn't be even a small scratch on the body They have to be hanged Not murdered but as suicide Why do you need a binocular camera to shoot such a near event? Not binoculars, a microscope is enough for a worm like you What are you glaring at? Where are your contraptions witnesses, 2-3 channels, etc? People ready to jump to save you from death, where the hell are they? When you sent him away l knew, you'd smelt trouble Stop lecturing and call that punk Pillai waves from 1 .5 KM away and now hiding in the kitchen l'll give you a sound sla-! Why should l hide, Venu? lt's you who are still in hiding Venu, Manilal is trapped l heard his phone ringing He's here somewhere Lawyer, don't hide Come into the arena, you pig Come out! lt'll be awkward only if have to see them, ever again Son of a mongrel! l don't have any cinema dialog l will go away after just 1 , okay? This is not revenge, if it was l'd have had time, only for that in life This isjust a precaution! Allow me to rule and live peacefully, dude Taking cameras into people's bedroom, bathroom and calling it media activism! This is the only medicine for all that, okay? credibility and life, commit suicide Shall l hang them, sir? Do you have anything to say? l don't, but she has...a sign-off After all we are going to die, right? Go ahead! Look somewhere and say it From the place of events this is Renuka with cameraman Venu More cameras? lf there are cameras here ask your people to bash them up Don't panic, these are last minute tactics to escape Hang them both! Freeze! -Are we on time? - Perfectly on time! What other contraptions do you want to see? Open your eyes wide and look! Lights on! See, how many cameras! No other channel Only NBI Because, this is an exclusive for his channel Arrest them Lawyer, when Rishi stormed off angrily, what did you think? That we had parted ways? He had ajob here which needed 24 hrs When l learnt that it was you who had fixed up a story for her... ...at Bharath Vision, l knew it was you, who was their pimp You want to give him a couple? You can't, once we are out of here That's not my job But l want to! Excellent! That was personal Come on, get going Come, my girl With 7- 8 cameras around, you signed-off looking, where there was no camera! Smart girl! Come Come on, say it now This is Renuka with camera man Venu - With camera man Venu? - This is Renuka, forever! SubtitIed by Latha & rekhs Subtitle ripped by VYTO. Encoded by ViZNU.
