 

                        Hide well Your hair might show Hide well Your hair might show Pull yourselves together Otherwise, the ghost might get into your bodies It needs a body to live in Here we go What happened? - The ghost is here - Really? Can we see it? Not everybody can Even if you do you can't probably tell But we can ask Ask what? Ask what'll be on the finals How will the ghost know that? Because it's the ghost! You're unbelievable! - It hurts! - Where'd you come from? Why didn't you go to the other world? Revenge? Where are you now? - You're such a joke! - I was so scared We should've studied instead - That's right! - God! What are you doing up? It's my sister Eun-seo - What's wrong with you? - I can't believe you! Shut up! Eun-jung you wanna be a witch? You should be studying for the SA You got into college illegally for Christ sake - Ouch! - Go to bed! - You too! - Okay I'm so telling mom on you! - She's so bitchy - No wonder she has no man Tell me about it She has trouble sleeping lately I wish the ghost took her away Wanna try it again? If we don't send it back It will eat you alive! Come here! I'm the virgin ghost! The Ghost Don't remember Take it to your grave Hey! You had your fun, didn't you? You looked so funny struggling for life Knock it off, will you? I can't believe you can't swim Didn't the army teach you? For 2 years in the army I did nothing but cook There's no comparison You swim more than study You like water that much? Anxiety of the present time that dominates our society stems from the identity crisis that we all suffer We live in the world that changes so fast that we fear a great deal for the unpredictable future which leads us to feel the loss of our existence It's also related to value issues We are no longer sure what values count In other words We have lost ability to tell which values are What? We don't know what should be devaluated what should be held important what should be ignored We lack conviction on this matter Employment of Graduates Getting a job is war Pretty bad Look at me when I talk to you You still have two years left Why are you so worried? That's pathetic The good times are over I need more than a degree to get a descent job That's because we have four seasons We have to change clothes every season Fed up with four seasons? Is that why you're leaving? Not really It's the spirit of challenge For the betterment of life! See you! - Where are you going? - To find my umbrella! Does swimming help? Yes, it's so soothing As is a mother's arms Is she still the same? I'm sorry this is the last time I eat cookies with you Not relieved? I know I stained your career That just broke my heart Your brain waves are normal but the heart could relapse Don't forget to take your medicine Don't be harsh on yourself As time goes by your memory might come back It's okay I'll consider it an umbrella I forgot on the bus Leave it open For your late father You forgot, didn't you? I'm sorry, Mom You think of me as one? In this big house I'm always alone waiting for you all day long And you're leaving me? What for? Why do you wanna go abroad? I can't believe this Your father and I struggled to make a living We're well off now, so what? Your dad is gone And you're leaving me too Yeah! It's my fault It's all my fault Please understand me The decision didn't come easy Then why are you leaving? Everything is unfamiliar here I thought I might as well start all over somewhere else What about me? You couldn't care less? Is that it? - Mom - Why bother calling me that? I'm begging you not to leave and you're turning a deaf ear I can't believe you're my daughter! I got accepted I've spent so much time trying to find my memory I just don't wanna waste any more time I hope you start living for yourself Hide well Your hair might show Hide well Your hair might show Hide well Your hair might show What are you doing in there? We're playing hide and seek Close the door! Okay I have to change for school Come on out, will you? I'm telling you She was in the locker! What, she was a ghost? Come on there are no ghosts If not, what was she? You must've been hungry This will help you I'm serious! I know you like fooling me but you're taking it too far You know her? You lived in a perfect world One that your father created He passed away and you needed someone to take his place Someone you could hate So you were there when the accident happened? That's not important Eun-seo said she had seen something odd Now she's dead What? What about you? Seen anything bizarre? I don't know If not, fine Why didn't you find me sooner? We go to the same school I saw you in my dream Not wearing makeup? You wouldn't leave the house without it on - You're gonna get drunk - You think I am? Not yet Strange, isn't it? I don't get along with anybody at school But you're different As if I'd known you for a long time You sure you didn't know me? I came back to school this year Remember? Yeah, that's right Which is better? Living like now Or knowing the past Which do you think is better? - Later! - Bye Can you help me with the project? It's due tomorrow Haven't finished it yet? No, please help me But I have a date - You do? - Sorry, Maybe next time Having mixed feelings about leaving? You've become sensitive Try not to think about it What's that? A present! I thought it was cute Looks good on you Why are you so nice to me? You're the only person I can count on I just want us to remain good friends Am I proposing here? I bought it because it was cute I was gonna ask you to treat me to a movie for it I guess it's off Okay, let's go tomorrow How about during break in between classes? We get discounts Tomorrow it is! Good night You shouldn't stay out too late It can be dangerous Did you drink? There's something... Did You eat beforehand? - Yes - Don't drink on an empty stomach What's this? A friend gave it to me You must be tired Go to bed When'd you cook all these? I woke up early and couldn't go back to bed I cooked them for you Help yourself Fish soup Try some Fish is good for your system Go ahead Gosh, I forgot! I tried it on because it was so pretty It's okay You can have it - Can I? - Sure Worried about me, aren't you? Looking back I was in the wrong I'll change now I mean it Stop worrying about me and take care of yourself Okay? Here You should kick that habit You didn't like the necklace? Sorry What's wrong? You okay? - I really saw her! - Saw what? The girl by the exit! She sat in front of us She was dripping water Didn't you see her eyes? She glared at me Didn't you see her? - If you did, you did - I saw her! She reached out to grab me - You hit me on The shoulder - Jiwon! Cut it out, okay? It's hard for me as it is now So please! We're looking for MIN Jiwon We're late for class Are you MIN Jiwon? You know OH Yu-jung, don't you? What's going on? Just asking a few questions Did she tell you she felt her life threatened? Anything like that? What is this? Tell her what it's about first! She was found drowned KIM Eun- eso died with her lungs filled with water, too They were your friends from SangRim High, right? Don't remember Don't remember Jiwon! Are you okay? It happened in the darkroom last night No injuries, but she's said to look drowned It was a natural death I can't remember but they were my friends I can't just ignore it - I can't believe she's here - Tell me about it You got some nerve! It's your fault! They died because of you! - Eun-jung, stop it - You're to blame! Let go! - Eun-jung! - Get out of here! Yearbook, SangRim Girls' High SHIN Mi-kyung KIM Eun-seo OH Yu-jung MIN Ji-won KIM Eun-seo Sungbuk Pyungchang 252-56 What are you doing here? Stop pretending you don't remember! You think you'll be better off abroad? Let's see if that's the case Wait! What did I do? Please tell me About my past You stayed out of touch after that trip And weird things started happening recently What happened then? You were the leader You'd always pulled off things Eun-jung, right? Eun-jung, I don't remember I really don't Sorry about last night Mi-kyung is at the hospital So I thought it was you Mi-kyung's at the hospital? Everybody seemed crazy As if they'd been haunted So I thought you were the reason Not me I don't know anything Maybe it's my fault In fact, I hated my sister I even called out a ghost to trick her She couldn't sleep at night But I didn't care That night my friends and I were just having fun There are no ghosts She died of a natural cause It's not your fault - What's the matter? - Never mind - What's the matter? - Never mind How could I not care? Is it your friends? I thought you were leaving so you could forget Do yourself a favor and forget about it Forget about it? What's that supposed to mean? You're hiding something aren't you? No, I am just saying Forget it! You wouldn't believe me anyway Who could do without water? But she neither drinks nor touches it She's so afraid of a water demon You know she's asthmatic don't you? It's me, Jiwon Recognize me? We're friends from high school So were Yu-jung and Eun-seo Can you recognize me? You turn me off You think we liked you? We took advantage of you because you were rich She comes to me too Yu-jung and Eun-seo saw her Who is it that you see in your dreams? Something's happening You know what it is, don't you? Tell me, Mi-kyung Who do you see at night? Su-in - Su-in? - Su-in Su-in? Who's that? It wasn't me I didn't do it You didn't do what? Who's Su-in? Su-in She's gonna kill us I didn't do it, It was you You did it! Who's next? Come on, stop it Why not? It's fun Who? Su-in! Are you sure? Wow, it's gonna be fun Jiwon? Dissociative amnesia Symptoms and side effects MIN Ji-won I'm sorry about earlier - I was just worried about you - Tell me Who are you? What do you mean? I don't know I don't know who I am It's like playing hide and seek But I don't know who it is When I wanted to remember nothing happened Now I'm so scared Knowing my past It scares me It reminds me of old days You wanted this doll so badly Then again we couldn't even afford this What's wrong? What happened? Gosh, you're sweating Are you sick? You don't look good You don't sleep well, do you? It's not good for you Don't be sick If you're sick, I'm sick, too HAN Su-in Hide well Your hair might show Hide well Your hair might show Take the SAT for Eun-seo And I'll be your friend You're not good enough to be my friend If you show up again I will kill you! Got it? No way It's not true It can't be Look, Su-in You gotta do this for me No? No? So hard! You're such an artist But you're smart enough to go to any college What do you wanna study? - Sociology - Sociology? My dad would say no if he were alive It doesn't really interest me Then why? I can't tell you What do you wanna be later? I wanna be you Without you, I could never When we were little we didn't have any friends because we were too poor Now you're rich and have many friends Thanks to you, I I didn't have friends? I'm not like you Listen carefully We're different I'm not who I was Don't even go there Understood? There isn't much to offer you You're Su-in's friend So make yourself at home - I will - Good Here You look better in person As pretty as Su-in said She bragged about you a lot You were her only friend She even liked you more than me She wouldn't invite you over because she was ashamed how poor we were I couldn't blame her I'm sorry I didn't come sooner Don't be silly I thank you for being my girl's friend She's so bad Where's she now? I only wish to know The phone is switched off - We need To talk - Let's go - It won't take long - I have nothing to say I know it's hard but this isn't like you What's like me? How much do you think you know about me? MIN Jiwon, sophomore sociology major That was me when I came to So I decided to live as her and happily But I'm so lost now You said you didn't know Where'd you get this? How could you? What did I do wrong? Why won't anybody tell me? Tell me, Tell me now! It's a good luck charm you gave me when I enlisted You said you'd be in college by the time I got discharged studying sociology like me But you didn't recognize me when I came back I was relieved, though Because I never thought of you as more than a friend You'd lost your memory but you looked brighter than ever I even thought it was a blessing in disguise I can't pretend any more You told me about your friends but I never met them Don't take it too seriously Must be a sheer coincidence No Two of them are dead And Mi-kyung is at the hospital Something's happening to me, too I might end up Was it four of you? Who took pictures then? Calm down and listen to me This doesn't help I have to ask Mi-kyung It's too late Ask her tomorrow No, I have to see her now She's the only one who knows the truth Let me out! Let me out of here! Let me out! Let go! Let go! Let go of me! No! Let me go! No, don't leave me alone She's here to kill me Let me go, Please! It wasn't me It was Eun-seo She told us to keep it a secret It was Eun-seo! SHIN Mi-kyung, room 404 I need to see her What's it regarding? It's urgent Please let me see her So you see the ghost? Is it here now? Crimes break out every Be grateful to be alive by the end of the day She was in a nut house for God's sake The case has been closed Let it go, okay? I don't expect you to believe But I don't care It's my own business What should we do? We should find her Su-in I'm sure she's there waiting for me How did we meet? When you were a junior in high school I saw you crying in the rain for your father had died I couldn't just walk by so I bought you some warm soup Since then, you waited for me every night in the alley Somehow you got my number and kept calling I did? You asked me to buy you a necklace once you got into college So that necklace? Yeah, that's right Why didn't you tell me so? Because it's not a good memory for you - Come on - Okay No way we're taking her How'd she find out? She threatened to rat on me if we don't take her It would be so awkward Let's take her We can use her to carry bags and take pictures Don't tell your mom, okay? Come on! Yahoo! Yahoo! One, two, three! Hey! - Do It again - The angle isn't right You can swim, can't you? Happy Birthday! Eun-seo, help me! Jiwon! It was my fault Because of me I'm sorry, Su-in I'm so sorry We need you to tell us what you said before It's been almost a year Why didn't the body decay? It's the arsenic in the water It prevents decay And fish can't live in it Detective Jiwon will be okay, right? Eun-seo didn't want it known how she got into college And Jiwon is amnesic A further investigation is needed but she should be okay Now you can leave without the burden You want me to? No But that's what you want Take care Jiwon Where'd you go? I've been waiting for you I'm sorry You're so concerned about me and I've been too selfish I'm not leaving I won't I'll stay with you and make up for what I put you through It's all over now We will live happily What's over? It's only begun Mom Mom? You You still think you're me? You realize who I am? Then you must know who you are The fishy smell from you it's so disgusting! I became your friend out of pity and you had to play me! You like living as me? You think I'd let you forever? No No I tormented you every night so I could get my body back I know who I am I'm MIN Jiwon No, you are not me! You're HAN Su-in! No! I'm not Su-in, I am... What do you wanna be later? I wanna be you You should kick that habit Not wearing makeup? - Who do you see in your dreams? - I saw You in my dream Don't remember Take it to your grave - What's this? - A friend gave It to me You asked me to buy you a necklace once you got into college Can I have it? Stop worrying about me and take care of yourself Don't be sick If you're sick I'm sick, too You've never lived upon your will You think you could be me in my body? You're so pathetic And I had to suffer for you! All the pain I've felt You should feel it, too Now I want my body back You're right I've never lived upon my will Even me being you Not any more You You were my only friend I'm sorry, Jiwon Hey, there Thank God I came back Mom? After your father died she drank nonstop You two didn't quite get along But who could imagine I'll change now From now on I'll never leave you alone
