 

                        It was a time when china was divided between three kingdoms, Wei, Wu and Shu The country was plagued by constant war while its people suffered from hardship and famine It was from this turmoil that a hero would arise His name was Zilong of Shu Kingdom I vow to guard Phoenix Heights. To my death I vow to capture Zilong alive today we only have one life to live I, Pingan shall dream big and aspire after success Just as a dog needs to find a good master so had I chosen to join Liu's forces It was there that I met Zilong Your home village? Changshan Your name? Zilong How long have you been away from home? Almost two years Why do you want to join Liu's army? To bring peace to our land and start a family Do you think we can win? I believe that man can prevail over destiny "Changshan Zhao Zilong" This is the frontline of Liu's army Cao's army is much stronger and determined to eliminate Liu Liu rushes the fortress fortification while we wait for backup forces I am here Then where is Changshan? It must be here Changshan's not there at all You fool... You should know more about your own country Changshan is here This bread is tasteless I am from Changshan, too we are now here If we fight for our Lord Liu and make a circle on this map Peace will finally come to our country And we can return to Changshan as heroes can we really encircle so much territory? Young man, you stick with me your brother And I'll lead you to complete that circle Brother How long have you been in the army? Five years Do you ever miss home? who wouldn't? But I've never been back A man must dream big And aspire after great achievements I swore not to return home unless with glory Brother..... consider this a gift to you For me? The map is in my heart "when the fort falls Annihilation follows" -Look, what's in the box? -How would I know? And who is that man? -what's the matter? It's Pingan! -strange things happened A wooden box was left outside the front gate And there's someone sent by Lord Liu Is he the reinforcement? Does he look like one? How many people did he bring with him? He came alone Alone? The main force of Cao's army will attack us within the next few days so they won't wait long Cao's army will attack us tomorrow what should we do? ...... There must be four thousand men in the Cao's camp Definitely not less than eight thousand How can you be so sure? At ten men per cooking stove Cao's army has lit over a thousand stoves to cook a meal That makes ten thousand troops? I didn't want to scare you with the numbers Then we are doomed Cao's ten thousand men is nothing Cao is a master in the art of war but he is skeptical by nature His troops could have traveled 25 miles a day But now they're traveling only 8 miles a day It is obvious that he has his concerns what concerns would a dog like Cao have? He is afraid of someone in our army who is that? Liu's Military Advisor zhuge! Battle and chess are similar Instead of hanging onto every chess piece and playing defensively One must know when to sacrifice a rook to take the opponent's king so to live, we must give up this camp can we win? would I come to die if we can't win? Like playing chess it's better to lose the rook than the game we shall head off their attack by hitting them tonight But we only have one thousand men It can't be done except tonight I predict that at midnight tonight there will be a thunderstorm This presents us a great opportunity But do you have enough courage to act on it? we the Changshan soldiers are made of courage But what if it doesn't rain? should there be no rain at midnight tonight I shall be beheaded Zhuge! Hurry to the Cao's camp before it rains ambush at the left of Cao's camp Another 490 of Tiger unit wait in ambush at the right of Cao's camp The remaining 20 Changshan soldiers will be the commando unit we will force our way through Cao's camp with the rain as signal when the enemy is in disarray because of the storm we will cut down the enemy's general flag and sap their fighting spirit Then Dragon and Tiger units will attack together Despite their numbers, we shall have our victory Life is like a game of chess It takes only a single move to win The battle is over I shall be off to rescue other places My Changshan brothers, attack! Attack! "Vanguard" I will kill the vanguard's leader Brother Brother, I'll help you Brother.... The leader has been killed Dragon unit! Attack! Tiger unit! Attack! I shall launch another attack Zilong has never told anyone about helping me And I received all the credit The defeat of Cao's forces enraged Cao. He decided to personally lead a massive army He vow to defeat Liu As Cao's army was drawing near Liu was chased to Phoenix Heights with his people Liu's blood brothers, Generals Guan Yu and Zhang Fei were sent to cover the people's retreat My people are suffering because of me. Advisor, what is your suggestion? My Lord Liu, a proper result can't be obtained from my divination Our success in killing the Cao's vanguard earned me the trust of the Advisor And the important duty of protecting Liu's family was assigned to me Finally, the opportunity to prove my might had come As for Zilong, I sent him to assist the refugees -Brother, what should we do? -Let's go back the way we came Brother, are you sure? we need to be more careful Back the way we came I said! Yes, Brother! I saw a Cao army unit coming after us My Lord! Cao's forces shall be here in no time we must close the front gate at once The gate can't be closed! Your wives and child have yet to arrive we must protect the people Brother shut the gate! Cao's army is approaching, save yourself! come in quickly, we're closing the gate Zilong! Brother! Brother! we were attacked by Cao's soldiers where are the two ladies and the young lord? I've lost them Brother, Zhang Fei! How dare you to defy me? To kill him, you'll have to kill me first stop it! Brother, Zhang Fei! You brat! Your skill was outstanding, young man Brothers, lay down your weapons My people are suffering because of me I am to be blamed for all this I'm willing to go look for the young lord on behalf of Pingan Bestow my armor upon this young man Young man we will clear the way for you Great! Eat well and fight with a full stomach Brother, don't worry about me I have nothing to lose I came with nothing and shall leave nothing There's nothing to worry about I want you to complete the circle without me Promise me you'll finish it? You coward! Don't talk rubbish! Remember, ride swiftly and carefully Bring back the young lord I believe that man can prevail over destiny Go, bring the royal family will we have the chance to see each other again? when our missions are accomplished we shall meet again Behold, I am the great General Zhang who dares to challenge me to a duel? My little granddaughter Cao Ying, One day you shall be a leader Therefore you need to study the art of war Cao Brother Zhang Fei, let's go sir our vanguard was attacked and had to withdraw They killed Liu's wives but failed to find his son I'm counting on you capture that man! Yes, Lord Cao Regardless of my success or failure in rescuing the young lord Please spare Pingan of any punishment Cao Ying, there is no mercy in war Everyone you see down there are nothing but chess pieces I would rather fail everyone in the world than to allow them to fail me send out a chariot to catch the man! Grandfather! stop! what is your name, mighty warrior? Zilong of Changshan Zilong One day, you will be captured by me Only if you live long enough Zilong made a name for himself with the rescue of the young lord we must gain big credits I envied him Finally Changshan had its hero He returned to Changshan with glory Zilong was invited by his townmen Zilong, our hero He returned to Changshan with glory. we have something special for you Yes, it's very good This way please Here comes our mighty warrior! I am zao Zilong! watch out for my sword! Beware of my spear! wretch How could you drop our great hero Zilong? It's alright, it happens How can Zilong lose? At least it shouldn't happen in our hands continue with the music why don't you eat? who knows when I can cook for you again? Lord Liu said our country will unite soon My work will be done then I'll come back for you And we'll never be apart again I'll wait for you come, let's eat "East west south North" "May we meet and never part again" I made this for you carry it with you It means no matter how fast or far you go You'll always find your way back to me Zilong was both brave and wise And never lost a battle against Cao's army Finally he became one of the Five Tiger Generals And earned wide respect and praise from his people The world long united must divide The long divided must unite All the three warlords wished to become the Emperor of a unified china Liu became the emperor of his newly found shu Kingdom The country had been more chaotic than ever At His Majesty's command The title Forward General is conferred upon Guan Yu He is to lead 1 00 thousand troops To guard against sun of Eastern Kingdom of wu Guan Yu, at His Majesty's service At His Majesty's command The title Right General is conferred upon Zhang Fei He is to lead 1 00 thousand troops To guard against Cao of Northern Kingdom of wei At His Majesty's command The title Left General is conferred upon Ma He is to lead 50 thousand troops to guard xichuan At His Majesty's command The title Guard General is conferred upon Huang He is to lead 50 thousand troops To guard zhongjun At His Majesty's command The title of Flying General is conferred upon Zilong He is to lead the rest of the army To go on the north expedition against Cao I hereby further bestow upon General Zilong The title chief Vanguard He and his troops are to set off today for the northern expedition against Cao Zilong of Changshan at His Majesty's service Pingan of Changshan at His Majesty's service The Five Tiger Generals went off in service of Liu and his people Over the next twenty years Only to fall one by one First the brave Guan Yu Next, the strong Zhang Fei They fought valiantly against the enemies of peace soon the only Five Tiger General left standing It was zao Zilong Our late Emperor Liu had ascended to heaven amid his great agenda Over the years I've launched numerous northern expeditions but all in vain The Five Tiger Generals Guan Yu, Zhang Fei, Ma and Huang Have all passed away one after the other For which, I should have been punished by death However, I assist our young Emperor To follow late Liu's will To continue with the northern expedition And to fulfill our late Liu's dream of bringing peace to our country At His Majesty's command The title Dragon General is conferred upon the son of Guan Yu The title Tiger General is conferred upon on the son of Zhang Fei Together they shall depart today for the northern expedition against Cao How dare you cut in before me? My father is Guan Yu the head of "The Five Tiger Generals" I should be the one to accept the General's seal I am older and a better fighter than you I should be the one A better fighter than me? Are you really? Do you dare to fight me? Alright, let us fight and the winner shall bear the General's seal stop! Uncle Zilong! The leadership of our forces should never be belittled I have fought hundreds of battles since I began serving the late Lord Liu And I have never been defeated How can I be excluded from the expedition? General Zilong is the sole survivor of our great "Five Tiger Generals" Also you're no longer a young soldier should anything go awry Not only would your reputation be tarnished But our troops would also be demoralized After years of trials and tribulations Just on the verge of success in unifying the country I must be included in this northern expedition Zilong, at our age we live by the great memories of our past Do you really want to risk losing them all By going on this expedition? After all these years of battle my memories of the past have long faded I want to recover those distant and blurred memories On the battlefield where they were lost Prime Minister this is my very last battle I vow to unite the country for Liu's Kingdom Zilong of Changshan at his Majesty's service General, if you insist on going to battle Then you shall be accompanied and assisted by the sons of Guan and Zhang Zilong I have two pouches for you when you come across the first fork in the road Open the first pouch Open the second pouch when you run into extreme difficulties Zilong of Changshan at His Majesty's service Pingan of Changshan at His Majesty's service General's oath has been repeated many times But nothing has been done we have never served together in the same unit since Zilong became one of "The Five Tiger Generals" But I have always been watching him from a distance "Guan Yu" "Zhang Fei" "Huang" "Ma" This memorial tablet is reserved for you I've tidied up this place long ago As I knew that you would come we rarely met but I truly hope This is not the place where we meet next time Brother.... should I fail to return would you please rest my armor here? Already thinking about retiring from your career? I haven't even started mine yet Brother, how long have we been in the army? "The Five Tiger Generals" And 32 years and 4 months since the time we left Changshan Do you still remember what you asked me when I first joined the army? I remember I asked you why you wanted to join the army And you said that you wanted to bring peace and start a family And yet it hasn't happened Not yet I've always been regarded as the one who has achieved the least within Liu's army This is your very last battle can you give me the chance to finish this last mission together with you? would you? Prime Minister instructed The first pouch should be open when we come to a fork in the road Prime Minister said Units of the two young Generals and General Zilong Are to split into two groups and go separate ways All troops shall proceed together to seize Cao's six counties How can we split our forces? Zilong at His Majesty's service Though the stone-paved road is broad it's easy to be ambushed May I suggest that I take this road while Zhang accompanies you on the rear Allow me Guan, I fear that you will be too slow and fall behind enemy lines Your kind offers are appreciated How dare you intrude our border? At the presence of General Zilong of the "The Five Tiger Generals" I suggest you "surrender" The Five Tiger Generals" such antiquated fame! Zilong, unless you're eager to die Do you still belong to the battle field? I suggest you go home And tend to trophies from your past victories son! How dare you! stop! I will go! Three of you, go fight with your brother Back off! watch out! General Han the commander has ordered that we must follow the battle plan Did you lure General Zilong into our trap as l ordered? Yes, commander Deng, quickly find another route Yes, General! Deploy the war chariot! Fire! Fire! The enemy has encircled us and we can only escape westward why is the enemy lying in ambush in these desolate mountains There must be a traitor amongst us cut the nonsense! Tell me, what is to our west? Phoenix Heights withdraw to Phoenix Heights! Yes, General congratulation General for your success I assume by now you have already diverted Cao Ying's attention For me to attack Cao's six countries I've ordered Guan and Zhang to proceed in capturing Cao's six counties without you Please hold until back up arrives Once they have succeeded their troops would come to your aid zhuge has found out that Cao Ying has mastered her grandfather's strategy And she is as scheming as her grandfather General only needs to delay Cao Ying Guan and Zhang shall capture Cao Ying General! How could Prime Minister zhuge treat you like this? General! General! How can he do that? I can't believe it why am I treated this way? Prime Minister zhuge has always followed his military agenda Brother.... Over all these years what have we been fighting for? Here they come! commander, you have foresight General Zilong has chosen to make his stand at Phoenix Heights General Han, send my order to the forces in the six counties They are to adopt a defensive strategy and never attack so that they cannot spare time to rescue their beloved General Zilong To triumph over the Liu's army we need to break their spirit what better way is there than to defeat their "lnvincible General" Once we capture General Zilong we shall take advantage of the victory Your military strategy is most impressive. I remain at your service! Dispatch the cavalry and launch an attack immediately Yes, commander Retreat! we should never have underestimated our old General Zilong commander, perhaps he was not wounded by my son Don't speculate By hiding, it doesn't mean that he is hurt By appearing, he could still be wounded Either way, we will find out soon enough I won't let your sons died for nothing My sons..... Your family has made such great contributions to the Kingdom of Cao I shall request His Majesty to bestow an honorable title on you My General, please take care of yourself Though you have lost four of your sons today In return you've gained a daughter Please take me as your daughter I don't deserve such honor Father! My commander How could I possibly repay your great kindness war is cruel but the soldiers are innocent same goes for the enemy soldiers send the bodies of the enemy soldiers back to Zilong Cao Ying is truly sinister Now she has managed to weaken our soldiers' spirit what should we do? she definitely lives up to her grandfather Cao's expectations Not only with her military skills but also with her scheming Brother! Zilong.... I want to give Cao Ying a gift for her thoughtfulness Here is a gift from our General to the commander in return for her kindness Our General Zilong said that years ago He took your grandfather's sword and kept it Today, General Zilong rewards you with it on your grandfather's behalf Hope you can learn from the past and not lose this sword to him again Take him! Envoys should never be harmed in war Poised as a mountain and unpredictable like the ying and yang Grandfather, General Zilong is truly a great opponent commander! Good news for you The commander of Cao's Kingdom requests a duel with General Zilong of Liu's Kingdom Get my steed ready General! we can stall no further once we show a sign of weakness Minister zhuge probably don't know we have been surrounded by this many enemies Let's hope we can stall the enemy until our rescue force arrive General Zilong, I am sure, You have been waiting for aid from Guan and Zhang Here is a small gift as a token of my gratitude for your return of my grandfather's sword "Guan" I wished to return the remains of Guan and Zhang to you But what was left of them were bits and pieces far beyond recognition I should have killed Cao Cao last time It's all my fault Even if I don't have a single man left Cao's army will never be able to take over shu Kingdom My grandfather regretted he'd never captured you Today I shall assume his challenge in honor of him Don't panic! Your big brother will save you Zilong! commander! Your fighting skill does not match your grandfather come back when you are ready -General! -Go get a chair Zilong...... General...... Go quickly and check on Cao Ying. Go now! Allow me to remove your armor so that I can pull out the arrow I've never taken off my armor during battle If I do, my troops will know that I'm hurt And they'll be unsettled Do not let Cao Ying know about it Go and check This is the map in your heart Zilong, we've indeed come very far Do you still remember? You said that you will make yourself live in the hearts of the people You had also said that by the time we complete a circle on the map we shall have peace in our country But after years of battle and now that we're back at Phoenix Heights Do we have peace in our country? Father, are you willing to give me a hand? Commander, I am willing to pay you my debt of gratitude Great. Grant my father one hundred of our finest horses I vow to kill the enemy till my very last breath Zilong, will you surrender? Surrender? They're preparing for the next onslaught General, we are sorry that we cannot serve you as long as we wish You have always taught us that it's an honor for a man to die in battle I will not forget to repay you for your outstanding leadership we will charge downhill to take down Cao Ying we have lived as Zilong's men. And shall die as Zilong's ghosts General, we await for your command! If I can't lead you to victory I shall not let you die without honor Listen Go and fight for our Great Kingdom of Shu I shall follow closely behind I would rather fail everyone in the world than to allow them to fail me Long Live the Great Kingdom of Cao Long Live the Great Kingdom of Liu! I vow to guard Phoenix Heights to my death It was me who informed Cao's army. And helped Cao Ying to lead you to Phoenix Heights They promised to make me a General in Cao's army I'm sorry it was me who've betrayed you since you have betrayed me why did you save me while I was fighting Cao Ying? why? You have always called me brother Yet I've gained nothing! You've what it takes to be a great general But I am getting nowhere I've accomplished nothing all these years You asked me about what we are fighting for I fought for myself what I want is simply that when I return home when the folks of Changshan think about Zilong. They will also think about Pingan You think I made this far In fact, we have both been going around in circles I only believe that fate in within my control In the end, we are all bound to fate Therefore all victories and defeats no longer matter what is victory? There is no victory without a defeat Brother.... Take this armor off me It is time for me to proceed with my last mission Do you blame me for treating you as my competitor? No, you'll always be my beloved brother with blessings from the Buddha, I vow to capture Zilong alive today Tell the Prime Minister that I have recovered the long lost memories of the past To people of Changshan, please tell that I have only gone around in a big circle in my lifetime Brother Please sound the drum for me one last time when our missions are accomplished we shall meet again Zilong! That was the last time I saw Zilong Years later, the three Kingdoms were finally united Not by Wei Not Wu or Shu But under a new "Jin" Dynasty How many things before and after" "All melt into gossip and laughter"
