 

                        Rhinoceros Horn, an ancient medicine used to strengthen the heart. remove heat|from blood and remove toxic substances. The Book of Jim. Volume Sixty-Seven records: In Jim Dynasty, the scholar Wen Qiao came upon unfathomable waters|at Niuzhuji in Wuchang, He set alight a rhinoceros horn|for illumination. while... thousands of phantasms with ferocious appearances presently levitated along the waves,|scaring lives around them to death. Known as illumination|with Rhinoceros Horn in history, Let's get all the brothers together|and take a group photo!, Great! Come on! Everyone all together it's very auspicious!|Let's take a photo! Come on, Auntie Cheung, Take care... Ah Wong. put it there. Take care. Don't run into others. Ah Shi, Where's Ah Nin and Ah Ngau? So scared he had to go to the toilet!|He ran! Yes! He's gone to the toilet! Don't cry! Who else would I marry if not you? Tell him to pack some medicine|to settle his belly on the way, What about Ah Ngau? There are so many pretty girls|in the provincial capital, What if one catches your fancy? No, I won't. Let's get into position for the big group photo! Come here. take a photo... Come here...take a photo. All of you get closer together, Kids sit in front... Get a bit more closer. Ready... Wait up! Don't forget about me! Hurry up! Wait for me! What have you done? My God,,, Ah Nin. what the hell are you doing? We are taking group photo; however.|we are unable to be united now! It's inauspicious. Young master,,, I'm so sorry! It's ordained our business venture|will be a "smash hit"! May the winds and waters be with us all the way! Ling Gi, I have to go, Flying and flying, butterflies are playing, You're the only one in my heart, Take care. God! Why do you get back? I still have 2 pillows leaving in the room! Be quick!, Hurry up! The boat's going to sail, Why linger? Get on the boat, I forgot my pillow and quilt, I'm taking them, But you have already taken so many things. And you're still lingering. Remember. take care. (Lau's Residence ) It's for you. The family situation is far worse from before. You have to keep your money to|start your business, Never buy me any present. It's not expensive, but represents my heart, Let me help you. The rope is too short. It doesn't matter,|Putting it on my wrist will also do, Remember. you promised. No more than three years! I will come back!,|These few years'd be hard on you though. Don't worry about me!|I'll take care of the household and wait for you to come back. See you... See you! Take care... See you! Take care! See you! Young mistress,,, What's wrong with you? FOUR YEARS LATER (Sin Cho Tong Medical Shop) We have a customer! I have a consignment of top grade bezoar, Tell your boss to come take a look. Mr, Kwan. you have been cheated! It's fake. What? Our Benefactory have fake medicine?|It is impossible! I'm just telling it like it is, Top grade bezoar should have a coat|of "dark gold" on top. with turtle-shell cracks, and there should be a fragrance|when you sniff it. not the smell of typha! What are you doing here? Young master,,, Natural bezoar is actually the gallstone of cows. Just like an ordinary stone, it won't change its texture or lose its color|when put into water. I will show you if you don't mind, Boss Lau's apprentice is professional, Thank you so much, Mr Kwan. I'm Lau Shing! Nice to meet you. The one you praised is Ah Ngau,|He's still an apprentice, but he's a smart kid, He'll soon be behind the counter. Not that fast, Maybe 2 or 3 years. Ah Ngau, you didn't disappoint me|and our young master! Ah Ngau, The esprit des corps of|"Sin Cho Tong" is truly impressive. No wonder even Miss Susie|of the western medicine factory can't stop praising Mr Lau's shop! I hope the collaboration will be a great success! Let me prepare the contract. Thank you very much. Good bye. Take care. Alright! We're back to the village tomorrow, You check the stock in the warehouse tonight. I'll bring some night snack here, Yes! Thank you. young master! Go to work... Brother Shing, You really want to return|to the village so urgently? I'm worried something may be amiss! But sister-in-law makes no mention in her letters! Look. It's nothing special, Should return, familiar land,,, bitter heart. red wife... Sister-in-law might just be suffering from anemia,|with a bit of arthritis, Let me put together some medicine and|send it to her, and she'll be fine in no time! No, Should read what it implies. "Red wife" "bitter heart" "solitary life" "unfamiliar land" "should return" "familiar|land" "Ling Gi" happiness on sight! Your sister-in-law said she feels lonely... and said Ling Gi wants to see her dad so much Obviously Wai wants me to return! But if you go. what about "Sin Cho Tong"? Why don't you stay here.|and I'll go visit sister-in-law instead? I haven't seen my wife|and daughter for four years. I've set my heart on going back this time And I have to meet a guest tonight,|Sorry for leaving all of you. We have a customer! Boss. please. Mr, Lau. you're late again, Come here... Mr, Lau. please... drink as a punishment! You have been eager to lose|virginity with Mr. Lau, Boss Lau is leaving tomorrow! Mr, Lau. please help me. Kill two birds with one stone. No... Don't let them filled with sorrow forever. Come on,,, Mr Ho. my nose is accustomed to the smell of|medicine. it's not used to the scent of perfume. Wow! A sage,,, Whether it's drinking or business you're the tops! Come on, top man. have a few more drinks with me! I will as long as I'm able, but I won't try to fool anyone when I can't go on, Mine is wine and yours is tea. Oh, I made a mistake. Drink some more... Let me drink with Mr. Lau. Young Mistress! Young Mistress! You're here! This place seems not suitable for you. I want to give Mr. Lau a farewell dinner myself, Why are you leaving? I'm not leaving for good.|I just want to go back to the village for a visit. as to take the opportunity to see|if there are any prospects for our business, If there are prospects back there,|you wouldn't have had to return? Young mistress! Call me Susie. You're always my best partner of business! Without your help in these past few years. "Sin Cho Tong" would not have been|blossomed like today, "Sin Cho Tong" will never|have made so much money, I'm really grateful|for everything you've done for me. If it wasn't for the business.|would you still be willing to stay here? Would you stay for me? Ah Shi! Young Mistress, I want money, you want him, Our purposes coincide! My God! It catches fire! Don't rush around! Take away the stock.,, Herbs first! Somebody take Chinese angelica|on the 2nd floor... Open the cabinet and take ginseng|and stags' pilose antler! Open the door! Open the door... Ah Fook!, Are you all right,,,Ah Fook? Open the door! Open the door... The front door is locked! What're you doing? Go away! No,,, it's dangerous inside! But my colleagues are all inside! Follow him right now! There's no way out at the back... Don't block my way. There's a door at the back! Can't get in here. Go up there! Go to the balcony! Balcony... Hurry up... Help me,,, Ah N in! Help! Ah N in! Help,,, Ah Fook!, Help! Help! Some people here! Hold the rope tight! Grab it tight! Young master,,, Ah Chung, at the back! Ah Chung! Ah Chung... Ah Chung! Help,,, Ah Ngau! Help! Some are still here! Help! Help! Some people are still here! Help! Help... Young master! Young master... Young master! Captain! This case is suspicious, Someone deliberately started the fire! Who? Who started the fire? Who started the fire? Who?... Quit putting on an act!|You're the one who started the fire! What do you say? My boss is called Lau Shing. I never know why he did that. He set fire right there, Fortunately I ran swiftly,|otherwise I was already burnt alive. Iron Dragon Prison What then? I ask you what then! I'm innocent! Innocent? After being here for so long, as soon as I hear someone say he's innocent. I can tell straight away|if he's telling the truth or not. I'm really innocent! Innocent? I believe that you are stitched up. my lord you cured my god-grandmother's|illness for no repay! As she says, "as you sow. so shall you reap"! I promised my god-grandmother to repay you|if ever I had the chance! Fine, You let me go then, I have a wife and a daughter, We haven't met together for as long as 4 years, Let me go. To be honest... Paying back has nothing to do with letting you go. It is police's duty to catch you, I'm responsible for watching you. I can let you eat well and sleep well. With me, you can live here for 5 years. Please help me to hire for a lawyer.|I'm going to court! Can you help me? Do you know any lawyers? Your case has 7 deaths involved. You'll have a hard time finding|a lawyer who'll touch it, And even if you find one,|what are you going to pay him with? Your fortune's on hold-all your assets|have been frozen! Hey. that doesn't mean you should|just curl up and die! I know a good lawyer who speaks good English, and most important.|she has never lost a case yet! But... The question is,|whether she will fight for your case or not... Fight! Of course I'll fight! Yes! Yes! How about taking the case then? You crazy? No way, no way! But it's a case of injustice!|The man was framed! Win the case, and you'll make your name! What if I don't win? He will be executed. I'll have his death on my conscience|for the rest of my life! No way! You must fight, You'll lose for sure,,, Go to hell! Go to hell... Hey...what are you doing? I s that you or me who is the cricket? What do you stab it for? You also! Stop! Sorry,,, Stop arguing,,, Where're you going? I'm going for a pee! Don't follow me, Dad. help!!!. Dad. help!!!. Dad. help!!!. Watch my father's cremains! No,,, Damned girl! Do you know you've pissed all over my burial spot? The spot's called "Ravens Descending on a|Field"! The feng shui would have ensured generations|of our Lam family to be great court officials, even Prime Minister. for all posterity! Now you've ruined everything! I ask you. do you know what you've done!? Dad. of course I knew what you were up to! That's why I went so far to pee How can my piss possibly go from here,,, You,,, That's right! Even pissing standing up,,, ...the best I can do is reach this far! There's no way anyone could piss|all the way to your raven's nest! Stop talking! It would be perfect to make you dumb. Talk or I'll cut yours off and feed the chicken! What do you know about feng shui? I don't scold you of peeing into here,,, but the dirty! The urine ruined it's spiritual aura! And this is why crows fly everywhere. This "Ravens Descending on a Field".|Let me tell you... It's an extremely moving spot. It either stops moving. or if it moves... it shakes the entire world. Ultra prosperous spot, Your granddad hadn't been buried here, Otherwise, you wouldn't just be a lawyer.|you'd be the Minister for Justice! So what do we do now? It's all over! Now that the feng shui's been destroyed,|there's no future in whatever we do! Forget about lawyer,|you wouldn't even get to be a chef. Hey hey hey. I got to be a lawyer entirely on my own hard work in my study! Look. I'm a graduate of Law School|with First Class Honors. with a license to practice signed|by the Chief Justice himself! Are you telling me all these signatures came That's right! Siu Chin became a lawyer by her own hard work! Stop talking or you'll have your tongue cut off! With your mediocre talent, Will you be really a lawyer? The mother of the great sage Mencius moved house|3 times to find a good environment for her son, Your father moved house dozens of times,|I can't even remember the number, before I found this place with good feng shui,|not to mention a superb burial sport for our|ancestors, all for your benefit!|And you dare tell me you don't believe in it? That's right too! As a lawyer, Siu Chin must believe|in some sort of feng shui. Sure sure! I believe it! Without feng shui. how could you have conned money|out of so many people to bring me up? You damned girl! You've intended to anger me! Do you think you really are able? Which part of you looks like a lawyer? You've practiced law for so long.|and I've yet to see you shine! Listen, You...try it... Let's see you really do something great|without relying on my feng shui! That's right! Take on that big case and win it! Show him! Fine! I'll show you! The "Sin Cho Tong" case. I'll take it And see if I'm capable of being a lawyer, If I lose... I'll let you cut mine off and feed the chicken. What are you doing here? Stop arguing! Stop arguing... Are you all right? After a couple of visits, it'll seem like home! My lord, this is the lawyer I told you about, Go sit down. This little girl's really a lawyer? Don't judge her by her small size, my lord. Looks!|she's actually older than she Most important, she's a First Class Honors|graduate from Law School! Wai She looks like a cosmetologist more, Girls love beauty. You said she's experienced and has never lost? Sure, She's really never lost a case--doing divorce! I am not lying, What about murder? You can't say she's ever lost a case|if she's never fought one before! Get away! Get out of here! My lord... And you. get away! Look at yourself, Lawyer? Never gets lost,,, But you've been putting on make-up! Be cleverer if you want to fool me! Did you or did you not kill anyone? Does anyone believe me if I say no? As long as you're innocent.|then you have nothing to fear, Whoever the lawyer representing you. be it a man|or a woman. be it someone tall or short, the case will go in your favor, Mr Lau. if you have no other questions,|shall we begin? Hello. I'm lawyer Lam Siu Chin, I'd like to see Judge Hung. please. A moment. please. I'm sorry, His Honor regrets he can't spare|the time to see you. Hey... I have no idea why the young master would|do something like this, If I didn't see it with my own eyes, I wouldn't believe it myself, Pang Shi, what are you talking about? We've been friendly like brothers|and I've treated you well. Why did you frame me? Why? Tell me! Tell me! I'm Lau Shing's lawyer. I'd like you to help. and appear in court as witnesses for the defense, Sure! We were in the same trade,|after all, Sure I'll support him! We work in the same trade,|but I have to tell the truth. After drinking with us for a while,|Lau Shing left on his own, Whether he started the fire or not I can't for sure. Can't win, Why? It's too hard to win! Much too difficult! Master. didn't you tell me, however difficult the case is,|there's still a way to win it? This case is different.|because it's hard to fight against money! Money can make the crooked straight, and turn black into white! Please work on it, You're welcome,,, I know what to do next. You better come up with something quick|to help Lau Shing! There's one more person! Who? Susie! But she's gone missing and can't be found! This woman, vanishing all of a sudden|for no reason. I wonder if there's something fishy going on! We're dead! We're dead!|Tomorrow's the last day of the trial! Mr lord'll die for sure! Defendant's attorney,|how much longer do we have to wait, for your so-called "very important" witness to appear? Who is it? Lawyer Lam, Big Brother Lau is innocent. You must save him! Who are you, anyway? Big Brother Lau said. he and I would always be the best partner|of business, Susie! Big Brother Lau is truly innocent! He did not set fire to "Sin Cho Tong"! Because I was there when the fire started! That's great! At last.|somebody could testify to Lau Shing's innocence! So. tomorrow morning at 9.|you must take the stand and testify for Lau Shing, Cursed luck! It started pouring down|all of a sudden, It's good news you're back! Susie's turned up! Turned up? Where? Susie, Real soon, she'll be here real soon Your Honor. Please just give me 1 0 more minutes! (Justice ) I've already given you many tens of minutes,|going against all precedents. We can't wait any longer. Please. Your Honor. I beg of you,,, On the charge of murder by arson, I find the defendant Lau Shing... guilty! It is the judgment of this court|that the trial is now over! The sentence will hand down in 5 days. Siu Chin. time for master-stroke! I've really tried everything I could think of! Your father taught us. think outside the box! If nothing works,|approach the problem from another angle! Then go ask my father for help! Hey! She is there! Open the door! Try it... Wrong person! I studied for over a dozen years. and only now do I realize|I've been studying bullshit! All I learned is totally useless! These couple of months. I've worn out my shoes running around everywhere. and couldn't even find a single witness|to help our case! I may just be a lawyer, and even if my client is sentenced to death. it should be no skin off my nose. I can always leave with ease, but we're talking about a human life! Will you do me one last favor? Sure, I'd like you to give my ashes|to my wife in my village. I know my wife will be devastated. She's waited for me all these years, only to find I'll never return! And my daughter, I don't know if she'll even remember me. I'd rather she didn't,,, I haven't finished your case yet!|We still have 5 days, I'll appeal all the way to the highest court! I'll always support him! Pang Shi, what are you talking about? Hello? Lawyer Lam, Susie? Without your testimony,|Lau Shing will die! You've condemned Big Brother Lau to death!|He's been given death sentence! How can it be so soon? I've yet to make an appeal! It's too late! Too late! The execution's tomorrow! Hello? Susie. Fong Lik. Now listen to me good, I must save Lau Shing! Take a puff! It's good for you! If you want to see your wife and daughter again. remember this; listen to every single|word the executor tells you! Offender. bend your head! Lau Shing. kneel and kowtow in devotion. Silently recite the location of your home village, Lung Ping Village,|Kwai Fa Lane. Lau's residence,,, In 7 times 7 of 49 days:|return home to reunion with your family. Lung Ping Village, Kwai Fa Lane,|Lau's residence,,, When I say run, you run. and don't look back!, R un! Lung Ping Village Lau Shing! Lau Shing! Lau Shing! You dare come to see me? Why not? Could you escape if not me? Needless to say! You said you were going to appeal.|but didn't even show up in court! You almost cost me my life! You think it was on purpose?|I couldn't get to court! I almost died myself! You didn't want to help me at all! I didn't want to help you? If I hadn't worked out an escape plan,|would you be here now? Now I've broken the law despite being a lawyer!|I've left my father behind to run with you! And you dare be so ungrateful? Why don't you go to hell? Be a headless ghost! Because of you,|I cracked my head and lay in a coma for days! If only I'd be in a coma for more days|so I needn't save you! I'm sorry, Thank you, Needless to say, Get changed! Your hometown's really spooky! Today's the Ghost Festival! ( Lau's Residence ) There seems to have something,,, Flying and flying, butterflies' are playing. Dad is working hard and the sweat keeps falling, Can you hear? Moon is bright and dad has a wish, My love for you will never perish. Moon is bright and dad has a wish Ling Gi? Are you Ling Gi? Ling Gi,,, Ling Gi? Are you really Ling Gi? Don't be scared. I'm your dad. Flying and flying, butterflies' are playing. Dad is working hard and the sweat keeps falling, Moon is bright and dad has a wish, My love for you will never perish. Daddy... Ling Gi Daddy... Ling Gi Where's mommy? Who are you? My name's Lam Siu Chin,|you can call me Sister Siu Chin! Why are you following my dad around? Because I'm your dad's lawyer! Then when are you leaving? That's a lovely doll you have there, When I was little.|I had a doll that looked just like yours, but then it got bitten by a dog.|and the whole head came off. I cried for days and days! You mean like this? Can't sleep? Why don't I tell you a bedtime story? Well. go sleep, good girl.|I'll blow out the candle for you. Don't! Are you scared of the dark? Don't blow out my candle! Where's the jade pendant I gave you? Bastard! I didn't write these letters! He peculated public funds, and this awful handwriting belongs to Pang Shi!|He made it all up to deceive you. I never hurt my right arm, so why would My business never failed! It's Pang Shi that bastard. He wants you to sell all our properties! Help! Dad,,, Dad. come here! Help! Dad,,, come here! Who puts off my candle,,, Help! Dad,,, come here! Who puts off my candle,,, Ling Gi, what's wrong? Bad Dream? Daddy! Don't disappear! Daddy's right here! Silly girl! Ling Gi, did you have a bad dream? Go away! I don't want you here! Ling Gi, why are you so rude? She blew out my candle! It wasn't me. The wind,,, Go to sleep, Ling Gi. Good girl. Please don't mind.|My daughter was born a little prematurely. so she's had breathing difficulties since|she was small and prone to asthma, That's why I mixed powdered rhinoceros horn|into candles. to ease her breathing while she sleeps, Good girl. Go to sleep, Ling Gi. (Lau's Residence ) Peculated public funds? Dare you! You dare to set fire, You dare to owe the money lost in gambling, Anything else? Go tell me! Hold him up. I've got money...|Just let me go back to my village! Would you like some help? Wow! It's so beautiful! I've never climbed so high before! Do you come out here often to look at the view? I used to think it was beautiful before, but now I've lost all feeling about it. That's only because your emotions|are different now, I used to be a physician, Now, I'm just a fugitive down on my luck. I s that a seashell? This is the horn of a rhinoceros. We physicians often carry one around with. How to use it? Please show your hands, Apart from massaging pressure points, it can also be used to scrape out toxins, It's heard you'll see ghosts|when you light it up, And it goes quite well with medicine, too! I'd like some "medicine" too! Wow! It's not water. you know.|Mind you don't get drunk!, Why are you laughing at me? I'm not drunk! I've even thought of what else|you can use the horn for! See? You can use it to pretend|to be a rhinoceros! And you can open another hole here|and use it as a telescope! And,,, you hang it up, and whenever there's a wind.|it'd make beautiful sounds! Why don't you give it to me? I love it! What's written here? Wai had those words carved on it, Life's so strange. Two people can be total|strangers there whole lives. or go through life and death together, This is what we called karma. That's called "be it a thousand miles apart,|fate draws you together;|an eldritch flame links us, heart to hear. " The poem goes "be it a thousand miles apart,|fate draws you together; without fate,|you pass by without meeting", The verse before "an eldritch flame links us|heart to heart" should be "unlike the phoenix.|we fly not wing-to-wing". I s that? You're drunk. No, I'm not! I studied abroad, If I'm really drunk.|I'll start talking in English! I love you, My husband can't marry you, What's the matter? Wai talked to me! Wai,,, Wai, Are you drunk? I'm not drunk! It's true! She really did talk to me! Then what did she say? It's fine now, Who are you? Where's your mother? I don't know you. Why talk to you? Girl. don't be scared of me. Actually, I know your father. Are you all alone in the house? I don't know you. Why talk to you? Has your father come back? I don't know you. Get away. Go away! Lau Shing! Nobody inside, Lau Shing. where are you? You can't hide! Daddy! You've seen your daddy. haven't you? If you see your father. tell him to come look for me. Otherwise, he doesn't have a chance! You really don't know the one|who met you yesterday? Sure, But he looks familiar. I doubt if he is the police|from the provincial capital, The police have come. you better go straight home after|I board the boat, Hide somewhere if necessary, What do you want to do|when you're back to the capital? I'll use the letters forged by Pang Shi|in your name as evidence, to prove he's been swindling money from you,|and lying through his teeth! Then, I'll do my best to locate Susie. because she's the only eyewitness|in your case, Then I'll go to the warehouse to see|if there are any clues. Don't worry,|I must be back once I have news. Do you have money, anyway? Yes, I have, Go take it out! Yes, Let me go home first, Brother Foo, Go! Watch out! What are you doing? Burning his own village brothers|to death like that! Ah Chung... We have been working for them for years. I can never imagine young master would burn his village brothers all of a sudden, Pang Shi, You bastard! Why did he have to murder Ah Ngau? Pang Shi, You shut up! He was the one who started the fire! Ah Ngau, you had a miserable death... I miss you so much,,, Offender. bend your head! Lau Shing. kneel and kowtow in devotion. Silently recite the location|of your home village, Lung Ping Village, Kwai Fa Lane,|Lau's residence,,, I n 7 times 7 of 49 days:|return home to reunion with your family. What is insufficient in life|will be made up after death, When I say run, you run. and don't look back!, Run! Don't worry, wife of C hung. mother of Ah Ngau. I'll carry out their funerals, Lau Shing. I was the one who took your head, Did you know I was innocent? There are 99 names on this|"spirit-summoning banner". A good number of them may have been innocent.|just like you. Innocent. And you still took their heads? We Chun family have been executioners|for 5 generations, I was simply doing my job. It is not up to me whom I kill. All I know is. by our ancestral rule. I cannot kill more than 1 00. I am the 99th? Yes! This is our karma. You've already taken my head.|What more do you want of me? The 1st slash, I'll remove your spirit. The 2nd slash. I'll destroy your body, I am here to ease your passing into the next life, Am I not already a ghost? It is said: "After he withering of the shadow|before. but before the arrival of the shadow there|after. the intermediate shadow appears. " For 7 times 7 or 49 days after a person's death.|he becomes an "intermediate shadow", After the final 7 days have passed,|I will ease your passing from this earth, after which I shall put away|my blade and withdraw from the world, And if I don't go? The "intermediate shadow"|dies a death every 7 days. After 7 such deaths. it must depart. Otherwise, it will turn into a lost spirit that is condemned to endlessly|relive the moment of its death, Then where will I be going? "Men have thousand considerations.|but the heaven only has one". Good people have a paradise they can go to. Everything is up to the heaven, At the end of 7 days.|in the hour before sunrise, go to the temple.|and from there you'll be shown the way. So I've only got 7 days left? These are the last 7|days you stay in the world, and are the most difficult ones. Your spirit is out of your body, and your head and body will be apart, Wai, Wai, why don't you answer me? So many things|I promised you still haven't been done! You have to give me a chance,,, Once the sun goes down,|another day is gone! I only realize now that there's a time|limit for everything,,, including love, I want to love, but I can't! we only have 7 days left! Wai, please, get better! Ling Gi, if the white color of|your mom's nails fades away... Let her take this dose of medicine, Do remember, "Almond. red flower and yellow grass, steamed in wine for wounds and bruises". Ling Gi, Ling Gi, pay more attention, You take care of yourself|and mommy after I'm gone. Can you hear it? What? Dad. You're awake! You are all here, very good. Susie hasn't disappeared -- she's dead! You're really something!|None of us able-bodied people have found her. and you know she's dead simply by lying there! You've just been dreaming. idiot! Who says I've been dreaming? And a very long dream it's been. too! You've been in a coma for a month and 1 5 days! What a month and 1 5 days? You fell into a cage on that day, Ah Chat saw you and took you back. What could it have been,|if it wasn't a dream? It wasn't just a dream she had. it was a nightmare! I was not dreaming! Watch out. Open the urn|and you'll see if I was dreaming or not! How can a whole person fit|into such a small urn? Enough talk. We'll know the truth when we open it! I've already seen it. so count me out! Go! You coward.! Take a look! There's nothing,,, Nothing,,, Ghost,,, Oh my God! It's too horrible! So I wasn't dreaming, was l? I understand now!|Your astral body had come out! Impossible! I spent the past month with Lau Shing! He's a ghost, and you were in astral form. Ghosts. spirits, it's all the same,|No wonder you spent the time together! Now you have really met a ghost. Did you see Lau Shing again? When was Lau Shing executed? The 1 3th of July! Today's already the 28th of August! After he died in 7 times 7 of 49 days,|Lau Shing will,,, There're still,,, 2 days left. What? So only 2 days left!? How come you've been away|so long for some wine! Coming,,, You're a real beggar.|living in a hovel like this! Sure, Where's the money? I'll pay it when|I get the title deed and sell the house, That's barely the interest!|What about the principal? Sure! What about the principal? You'll probably have to sell this one as well! Sell it, Brother Foo. I don't owe you that much! I say you do! I'll calculate the sum in any way! You loser! In my eyes, you're less than a dog! Go eat it! Before I started selling my house I used to sell medicine! Ling Gi, Ling Gi, Daddy. I told you to watch the fire|but you have gone to sleep! And you've let the water all boiled away! Tell me,|what do I have to do to make you listen? Dad has told you many times, It's only you who cares mom if I am gone, Don't you want mommy to get better? You still don't know what wrongness you have! I have to punish you! Dad. don't hit me... Why do all herbs lie behind? You didn't make medicine for mom? So that's why mom has been sick for long, I must beat you up! Dad. don't hit me...dad! Ling Gi, Come out! I won't hit you again! Ling Gi? Ling Gi, Ling Gi, come out, Don't bother my mom. Go away... Don't bother my mom. Go away! Go away! Go away! Ling Gi, don't be scared... This is for you, Wai, Days before you came back mommy had already committed suicide and died! Daddy. you too,,, on that day when you came back. I knew you were already dead! Ling Gi, are you Ling Gi? I was frightened that day. It's because I could only see you... in places where candles are lit... just like mom. Ling Gi, are you Ling Gi? Wai? I am Ah Shi, Uncle Shi, Wai, Ling Gi, Daddy. Daddy. Daddy! Where are you? Help,,, help me, dad! Ling Gi, do you know what a title deed is? You've grown much taller now, Do you remember Uncle Shi? It hurts,,, Don't cry! The title deed is vital for us. How can you forget where you put it? Let me go! Try hard remembering it! Stop! No,,, Don't cry,,, you'll become ugly if you cry, Think about it! It hurts,,, Don't waste my time! Stop! Ah Shi. please... Ah Shi! Ling Gi. just tell him, Tell me! Ling Gi... Where the title deed is? No, uncle... Ling Gi,,, Get up! Ling Gi,,, Ling Gi. run! Ling Gi! Where is dad? You'll see him when you light the candle. Where is the candle? At the front yard. Quick! Light the candle! Don't force me. I hate to hit women. Pang Shi, what have I done?|Why do you keep compelling me? You've done every evil deeds you can ever do. Aren't you afraid of being thrown into hell? Then I'm going to get there with your daughter! Light the candle and find daddy out, Ling Gi! No! If I'm not sworn to take no more than 1 00 lives,|hundred deaths on your part would not be enough! I'm sparing your life for the moment.|so I can see your head fall to the ground|back in the provincial capital! Follow me! Dad is gone... Any candles left? We're all out of candles, Lau Shing! Lau Shing! Just one hour left, You won't make it. Daddy! Lau Shing! Lau Shing... Lau Shing... Daddy... Lau Shing! Lau Shing... Daddy... Lau Shing! Daddy! Can you not go? No, Chun Bo said... If I don't go. I'll become a lost spirit and can go nowhere, Daddy. where are you going? I'm going to look for mommy! Take me with you to look for mommy! It's not time now, You still have your lives. I promise you, We must be together some day, You're wrong. Those who commit suicide will be condemned|to hell, without any chance of reincarnation, You accumulated virtue in your life,|and you'll be human next life. You'll never see her again! Lau Shing. time to go! Don't go, daddy. please. Don't go, Siu Chin. there're so many things I owe you, Will you do one last thing for me? Don't worry,|I'll take care of Ling Gi for you! Chun Bo, thank you. Now I've decided to search for Wai, Ling Gi, follow what Sister Siu Chin says, Don't let me worried, Understand? You're my hope, Siu Chin, Daddy! Daddy... Lau Shing!
