 
 Good evening. These uprisings, The citizen revolutions we've been covering From the middle east over to north africa, Have been popping up like thunderstorms. a situation is unfolding in libya. Witnesses are hearing gunfire and blasts From rocket-propelled grenades. you have these moments When an old world dies And a new one is not yet born. And this is a very dangerous And perilous moment. the whole region Seems to be on fire right now. Now it's syria. Syria exploded. thousands of syrians have lost their lives In the conflict between forces Loyal to president bashar al-assad And fighters opposed to his rule. the insurgency has taken a turn Towards a much more significant islamic radicalization. -Isis... -Isis... -Isis militants... syria's newest conflict-- It's war within a war. for three years, we've been watching the bloodshed in syria. The same images of war and violence Seem to spread across every channel And every headline. The result is fear. Fear of terrorism, fear of islam, Fear of the middle east. Drowned out was the coverage Of the million syrians Who have been forced to flee their country, Creating the largest refugee crisis since world war ii. As filmmakers, we immerse ourselves in humanitarian issues, Living the reality we are attempting to understand. And in , we created a nonprofit To help bring these stories to life. We hope to do this with the syrian refugee crisis, To take the time to hear from refugees firsthand. When the world is turning away And they've lost everything, What does their future look like? It took over a year to make it possible, But with jordan's approval, The un agreed to register us And give us a tent inside a refugee camp in jordan. It was the first time that has ever been done. of all districts, where to put you? We don't want to put you in a congested area, 'cause that would just be crazy, so we're staying here. The project that you're doing I don't think has been done before In a refugee camp anywhere in the world. for want of a better term, as a sociological experiment Or as a piece of research, In terms of how refugee camps operate and run, I think it'll be very useful... In a way that will help unhcr and other agencies Understand the dynamics And the life and the beat of a camp. Your interactions with people May not always be positive and good. Just be sensible. we were traveling to jordan, A country that has taken in An estimated . million syrians In just four years-- The equivalent of the us providing refuge For half the population of mexico. And jordan is a small country, About the size of indiana. On its northern border Is the second largest refugee camp in the world. Just seven miles from syria, It's providing shelter to , refugees. Am binsawir. Do you have any kind of id, identification? These are the documents. we were going to be living in za'atari For the next month. Aside from paying for what we received, We were registered in the same way And given the same supplies as refugees. It would be up to us to figure out How to navigate life here. I'm gonna get so lost around this camp. - is this home? -Yes. We don't want to anger anyone on our first day. Is there a problem? right off the bat, we had some anger and confusion About zach and me filming women And what we were doing next to the kitchen Where the women hang out. But once we promised we wouldn't film anyone without permission, Things quickly calmed down. Right away, people came to help us set up our tent. We couldn't tell if they were refugees or aid workers, But it turned out they lived in the tents and trailers Right next door. Ah. -It's like-- -so, like this? Here, you hold the shovel. Okay, watch me. You want to try? Yeah. Yes, very good. Very good. I think they're making fun of my hammering skills, But you know. Okay. -Oh, it needs a cylinder. -Yeah, yeah. He has a solution for you. He could us something like-- They call it a melon. It looks like a melon. He's our neighbor. Yeah, he said that we are neighbors, and we should-- He will give us-- he will give us-- Oh, look at this. Good thing we all forgot toothpaste. So that's helpful. he's teaching you how to use them. I know how to use that, raouf. Oh, this is... oh, uh, mice can open this And they start eating. Let's put this back inside. Let's see what we know. this is za'atari camp. It's about / miles by / miles, And it's broken into districts here. And then our tent is here in district . These camps like za'atar exist all over the world In different countries. Wherever the camps are, they have to follow the laws Of that host country, Even though many are set up and managed By the united nations. In za'atari, the un works With over nonprofits to run the camp. It's a massive operation to provide tents and trailers, Trucks of clean water, daily food distributions, Hospitals and community centers, And even school up to the th grade. Za'atari is patrolled by the jordanian police, And they have the final say on security in the camp. Why are they telling us it's too dangerous now? That was just security... That stopped by our tent. And... They're saying it's too dangerous For us to stay overnight. So... Um, the one person we can talk to Is the local district leader. Just gotta pack our stuff up And go to his tent. Is there any way you can ask security To let us stay overnight in the camp? Do you have any idea why they would've changed their minds? after all of our planning, Security changed their mind, And we couldn't stay overnight in the camp. Good-bye, district . It was for our own safety. We had to head to the town of mafraq, About seven miles from za'atari. It was disappointing, but it actually showed us A completely different side of the refugee crisis in jordan. % of refugees here live outside of camps, In urban cities, Relying on jordanian generosity. But in a country with high unemployment and limited resources, How long can people continue to welcome in new refugees? We had a hard time finding anywhere to stay. The city was so crowded with syrians, Rent prices had tripled Since the war began three years ago. Luckily, ibraheem found us a storage room In the back of an office building Where we could spend our nights for the next month. -Thank you. -We're making some tea for you. it wasn't long Before people started coming into our tent To ask us questions Or just say hi. Right away, we were a new source of amusement For raouf and his friends. Oh! Yeah! It really started to feel like a routine. Every day we'd leave from mafraq late a night... And then be back in the camp again By a.M. one of the first people we became close with Was this guy named ismail, and it was-- It was wild, because ismail looked just like my dad in college. And even acted like him. They both love to cook. What? You're a master. Beautiful. Even had a very similar sense of humor. Before the war, ismail was studying At a university in damascus to be a french teacher. And as soon as the war started, he had to flee the country, Leaving everything he knew behind. He was one of the first refugees in za'atari When it opened two years ago. Why did you decide to leave syria? Was there a particular-- Like, when did you choose to? Was there a reason? Something that happened? every month, tens of thousands of people like ismail Attempt the journey out of syria. % seek refuge in egypt, lebanon, Iraq, turkey and jordan. With % of syria's infrastructure destroyed By the ongoing violence, Families often spend their entire savings on guides Who will smuggle them through the war zone And eventually over the border in the middle of the night. We can proudly say that when they come here, That is when they can actually breathe And actually relax and sleep. It's important to see people, Check those who need immediate assistance. The very first, um, step Is that of receiving water. They've been traveling, :, -- : Yet again another step in a long journey towards safety. The second thing is the vaccination. They need full protection. these services rely on international aid And private donations. Sadly, the un has only received A little over half of the funding That donor countries have promised for this crisis. They're astonished, like, how americans want to live the same like-- astonished in a good way or-- -Not in a good way. -Okay. thank you for inviting us to your home. And actually, we haven't even seen many of these types of food. Could they explain to us what they are? and this is olive oil and thyme. - Aww! so, where did you learn to do all of these hanging crafts? Does it cost a lot to make these? with jordan's high unemployment rate, It's almost impossible for refugees To get visas to legally work. But inside the contained space of the camp, Jordan is more lenient, Allowing more informal business to start. This is how um ali sold her vase to an aid worker. The law also prevents refugees from leaving the camp Unless they have a jordanian sponsor. But in order to make a living, Syrian refugees overcome this barrier By partnering with jordanians, Who bring supplies in and out of the camp. Syrians are finding ways to work and be productive By any means possible. Here you have , people in front of you, And all that they're begging for Is to be recognized as human beings And not be just served some assistance Which may not always be adapted to what they want. people were showing us That they have a different concept of the space, A different concept of how their settlement should look like. We were building a camp. They were building a city. in just two years, syrian refugees Have developed a multi-million-dollar economy. At the center of the camp is a thriving market street Jokingly named the champs-elyses. We're riding on a donkey Through the champs-elyses. With over , business, You can buy almost anything. The un has never seen a camp's economy Expand so quickly. Many camps forbid this kind of growth. But syrians were determined to rebuild their new lives. And the un has even begun to embrace this vision, Putting za'atari in a league all of its own. In addition to this bustling economy, : -- :, Our neighbors are investing in their homes. They're moving trailers to be near family And building makeshift houses That have bedrooms, gardens, Private bathrooms, and even fountains. This kind of growth in za'atari is remarkable. But without the workings of the city to support it, It can only go so far. In za'atari, there are no household-level water And sewage systems. And the electrical grid is completely overloaded. there are limits to what we, As humanitarians, can do. We are good as humanitarians, As we are, as the system is, To provide first aid. But we don't have the capacity to work On medium- and long-term strategies. We can pretend it, but we don't have it. nonprofits and the un Don't have the expertise to set up a city. They need support from city planners and private companies To effectively run za'atari. But the world hasn't stepped up To support jordanians, the un or syrians To pursue this kind of vision. Currently, za'atari remains a short-term solution For a long-term problem. as we headed into mafraq, It was almost too much to think That za'atari is only a fraction Of the refugees in jordan. Most syrians live outside of the camp. And one was our neighbor ghoussoon. Like so many of the families here, She's the head of her household. One in four families are led by a woman :, -- : Because so many men are still in syria. When did you make that journey? Did you make it by yourself from syria to mafraq? It's not easy. From a gender perspective, Many women are expected to stay inside the home. Of course, if you have a female-headed household, The woman doesn't really have a choice. She has to leave the home to find Some kind of support for her family, Financial or otherwise. Wow. Incredible. even now, when you have to provide For your whole family, Um, is there ever, you know-- Would you ever think about going to za'atari, Where they give you free food or they give you, uh... Different services? ghoussoon arrived in jordan Before the refugee camps were set up. She chooses not to relocate to za'atari Because she believes she can build A more traditional home for her kids outside of the camp, Where they can go to public jordanian schools. Hey! Who drew on this? What is this? We have graffiti on our-- -Oh, yeah. -I can't tell-- at least it's a heart. It says "raouf's tent"? No, really? Does it really? It says "raouf's tent"? -Raouf? -Abdel raouf. Did you do these? Thank you. My man raouf, let's get inside. It's cold. Yeah, it's cold. Aren't you freezing? Did you clean-- You cleaned the-- : -- :, Aw, raouf. Raouf, sit on the mattress. I appreciate that. Dude, this kid is the man. Did you go to school in syria? What grade were you in when you left? So, uh, what do you want to be When you, uh, grow up? You want to be a doctor? Nice. Have you always wanted to be a doctor? He wants to help the injured people. You want to help the injured people? Like, the people back in syria? There's a lot of school before you can become a doctor. And you're willing to do it all? Yeah? Wow. Well, maybe-- can you be my doctor when I'm-- : When you're a doctor? I would love to have a doctor. it's been almost two years now, And raouf still doesn't want to go to school. He says he doesn't want to go Until he's back at home in syria. We've been trying to convince him to start again, , -- But the sad truth of it is, Only half of refugee kids are getting an education. What's up, raouf? Hey. Are you gonna go today? -He doesn't know? -He doesn't. You don't know? Well, you have-- what time is it? -It's almost :. - minutes. Why don't you want to go today? Why don't you go? They'll help you find your class, raouf. Right when you walk in-- And we can even walk with you down there, if you want, And then, when you walk in, The organization will help show you where you class is, And you're all registered, So you won't have anything to worry about. No? Raouf, like, why don't you want to go to school? Because you can go to school if you want to go. Why don't you eat right now, then let's go? I promise you, you could be there in ten minutes. Why don't we go? We'll prove you wrong. I had no idea that it was, like-- It's trauma-based. Not, like, it's-- I mean-- I think there's so many factors involved now. But he's just scared. And, like, he has a reason to be... Yeah, no ten-year-old should ever have to live with that. Jesus. You can have some water, raouf. Your life is way more complicated than we thought it was. What's up, buddy? Did you beat zach at soccer? You beat him up? Because it's, like, a combination Of, like, a lot of things that all come together at one time. It's, like, always just right under the surface, Where you meet so many people Who are just, like, always so friendly, Always talking. You don't even notice anything's wrong at all. And then you just hear more about-- It's, like, one fact about one person. And that is something that I could never even imagine. I don't really want to talk about it. within minutes, the failure of the peace conference in geneva , miles away set off a camp-wide demonstration. The refugees were voicing their disapproval Of the ongoing war in syria And showing support for those left behind. And even though these protests will eventually disperse, The fighting just seven miles away rages on. this is the tip of the iceberg In za'atari. It's where you can see and feel the conflict, actually. You hear the fighting. : -- :, ...Which we are not-- at times, our offices here have shook Because of the closeness of mortar fire. You never get a mental break from that. You're always thinking about who's still at home. People are trying to build a normal life, But are finding it tough. and what is this again? And why is he lonely? Is this a man who lost all of his children? yes. Do you know anyone who's like this, Who lost all of their children? what do you do at the women's center? So, you need to teach us So we can-- so we can make-- the center was clearly a home away from home for her, A place where she had friends, Community, access to help. She'd even begun to work alongside the jordanian staff, Teaching art. it's a very, very important point-- Opportunity out of crisis. : And that's something we're underestimating. I mean, we're focusing so much on these responses. Yes, we have to make sure that people are warm, Have proper shelter, food, water, and so on and so forth. But we're forgetting that it's really an opportunity To have time to develop and think And learn things. In that sense, We have obligation to invest in the human capital Which this presents. "arr." No, you're saying it, "argh." I can't roll my rs. "arr." Sean cheats. Yes. Ha ha! What is that? Have you ever seen an outfit like this? This is really difficult. How do you say "difficult"? -- sitting there in the tent, -- We realized just how vulnerable raouf and his friends really are. -- Watching them play these violent video games on their phones-- -- At first it seemed like nothing. -- But for these kids, it's their reality. -- It's a reality that's knocking on the door right across the border. -- Extremist groups like al-nusra and isis, -- They want to prey on and exploit kids -- Who don't have access to education, -- , Kids who are in desperate situations. -- When we think about the people we've met in this camp-- -- Raouf's family... -- -Ahh! -Okay. :: -- Ismail... -- All of our friends here-- -- They have chosen peace over war, -- To leave the fighting, -- To leave the extremists like isis, -- Who they've even renamed "daesh", -- An insulting name derived from the word "to trample". -- -Hey! -Hey! -- to help the kids here, ismail and his friends -- Volunteer at one of the many children's centers in the camp. -- Very good, very good. -- just like the women's centers, -- These children's centers are designed for trauma. -- They provide safe spaces, -- Running simple activities that promote healing -- And help prevent children just like raouf -- From slipping too far behind -- Or not returning to school altogether. -- These centers don't replace schools, -- But instead gets kids ready to go back to them. -- after four years of the war, -- The burden of refugees in countries neighboring syria -- Has reached a breaking point, -- Forcing them to often effectively close their borders -- To those fleeing the violence. -- . million people remain displaced -- From their homes inside of syria. -- This is the moment where countries all over the world -- Need to open their borders to syrians in need -- And to support host countries, like jordan, -- Who have already welcomed so many, -- Yet do not have the resources -- To provide the dignity refugees deserve-- -- The housing, jobs and education, -- That will not only help stabilize the region, -- But help save an entire generation. -- The world has been so wrapped up in the violence, -- We have forgotten that this dignity -- Is what creates lasting peace. -- Today is the last day, but-- -- We hope that, too. No matter what, -- We will--we will come and visit again. -- No, not at all. And I think-- -- Especially--I think it was in conversation with you-- -- We talked about how there's-- -- There are good and bad people in every society. -- And that's the same in the states as it is here. -- Before we came, we had no idea what to expect. -- We didn't know if we'd be welcomed -- Or if we'd booted out of the camp. -- But we've been, from the very beginning, -- Felt like people have, you know, welcomed us in -- And, over time, have become very close friends with all of you. -- What we've really come away with is, you know, -- We're not just syrians and americans, -- But we really are neighbors. -- And when neighbors are in need, -- Hopefully they can come together and help each other. -- it was humbling sitting there on that last day, -- Being surrounded by people who have overcome so many obstacles, -- But despite everything, still have hope -- And generously opened their homes and hearts to us. -- We're headed home, but our friends are not. -- On average, refugees are stuck in camps -- For years. -- :, It would be a tragedy to lose the potential of this population... When they are the solution, The ones who will rebuild syria, Or will work to rebuild their lives In countries that provide them homes. This isn't just the story of the millions fleeing war Or the neighboring countries who have welcomed them in. This is a story about breaking a cycle Of distrust and violence, About creating understanding. Because, as neighbors, How we choose to respond to this crisis Will affect all of us.
