 

                        'Salala Mobiles' If there were mind reading machines... ...what would we do? If you were a male you would try to read a woman's mind If you were a woman you would try to read anotherwoman's mind This story is about such a machine Afsal is a lazy handsome guy He has no ideals in life Forthe same reason he is innocuous Very innocent Good boy Mom Safi is his only kin She prepares excellent biriyani and chicken Would make his son eat them and would sell for others too Afsal has an uncle at Salalah in Oman Salaudeen Safi's brother Afsal has no particular work to do Safi is worried about Afsal's slothful nature He has studied up to plus 2 Work-shy Afsal sits at home in style Who suffers He and his mom Safi To make Afsal industrious Safi tried many times Afsal...Afsal How could you sleep like this? Get up I would now make you... My God! Has the well dried up? Finally when her brother came on leave last time Safi shared her concern with him It's very difficult to deal with him He is awake only when he eats He found his only nephew... ...sleeping at 11 AM like a raft in a lake He realized that it is time to counsel him Finally the opportunity came Sister - Shall we go? - Ready Ok Mom, I am going On the day Salaudeen returned after leave... ...he asked Afsal to accompany him to airport Because he got a ride and there is a possibility uncle would get him mutton... ...from the Arabi hotel near airport Afsal got into the car Delicious! - Afsal - What uncle? Can you simply sit like this? We are in a car now Shouldn't you do a job? Job...that... Will you come with me to Salala? I will take you with me - For a paid job? - No man for a merry life Paid job is a slave work What he said is right Then what about a small business here Business is a good idea But for funds? We can manage the funds - Then we can start - What will we start? It must be profitable What about a mobile shop? Very profitable There's a great demand That... I like only that When one does the job he likes the job Agree, but on one condition My God Will he ask me to marry his daughter? Look here man The shop should be named Salala Mobiles What? Sa...Iala Sa...Iala Salala Salala Mobiles I have toiled there to earn my wealth The money I give you to start the business is my sweat We didn't get anything from our country except debts Arab's Salalah gave me everything Arab's Salalah Afsal thought about Salalah in gratitude The money to start his business has come from Oman's Salalah city Let the shop have uncle's favourite name Salala Mobiles Go up...go up Thus uncle who returned to Salalah sent money to Afsal to start business Without much delay near a local parallel college... ...he started his 'Salala Mobiles' shop Afsal found an intelligent, trustworthy well behaved assistant for his shop His was his playmate a technician... Who has studied mobile repairing through correspondence course He is Binoy Right...? - How is it? - Bring your head That's mom During the first week of the shop two incidents happened Both the incidents happened on the same day That day morning a person came to Salala Mobiles Praise Lord Shiva Hail Lord Sankara Praise Lord Shiva Those who cognised virtues, materialism and... ...pleasures of life will not have any jinx Oh Lord...it's your cosmic dance Hail Lord Sankara Hail Lord Sankara For saying Sivaji Ganesan's dialogue we would not give a penny You may go This is not a dialogue brother This is my Lord's hymn On His mercy shall I predict yourfuture? Future...! I have a good future Why don't you try? Brother...you would get a novel machine - He says you are robot - Go man Listen to my soothsaying carefully This boy would soon get a machine A machine that would make you hear the mind of others What is he saying? He says you would get some machine A machine that would help you to read minds He is a fraud Your translator is not right I would whack you man - Let him talk - I am telling you the truth I swear on my Lord You would get a machine that would read the mind of human beings I asked you to go - Make some offering - Offering? Give 50 Rs top up free Same day evening second incident happened Opposite to the shop across the road is the bus stop That day evening a beautiful girl was waiting at the bus stop Afsal had just one glance of the girl But he was bowled over She never knew it She was doing a degree course was waiting at the bus stop My God! It is hard time for moon 'There is insufficient balance amount in your account' She is coming here - Recharge - For how much? 100 rupees Number Perhaps Afsal would have given her the entire shop It's his good fortune She asked for 100 Rs recharge - Is it recharged? -Yes, thank you From that day Afsal came to shop only to see her On all working days at morning and evening... ...he had a comely glimpse of her On holidays and when ever she availed leave he was like a corpse Love kills Hi Munna Salala Mobiles Munna Munna... - What sir...? - Do you have iPhone? - iPhone...? - Ya Alas...we don't have Bad luck It's ok...no problem We have lots of other stunning models sir Don't sit dreaming like this brother Try to increase the stock Else business wouldn't flourish People come asking for iPhone Why have not we received stocks ordered - Not come - Why? Could she be indisposed Friend at what time you... Here...she comes Hey please consider once Wait...Iet me tell you Abdul Manaf... Goldbrick, rich and wanderer Schoolmate of Afsal and Binoy He is a big nuisance for girls Afsal...how is my girl Which one? Did you not see her The girl I was talking to - I did not see - But I saw You ogling her But it's of no use man She is inclined to me She wants to marry me soon She is close to our family One Sunday me, dad and mom would go to their house On the next Sunday she and herfamily would visit us Thus we go there they come here it goes on Then wedding anniversary - Birthday, picnics -And mom's funerals He doesn't have holidays By the way Binoy do you have new clips of Dhanyashree? Even the old ones have no demand He is asking for new ones Every one has a crush on her - Whom? - Dhanyashree man When I see her on the screen... Oh Binoy...! Then ok Afsal We would meet in the evening I have promised to meet her Manaf What is the name of your girl man? Is it not enough if you know her name in the marriage invitation? Let us also know man Shahana Shahana Shahana...! Shahana Manaf Damn it He says Shahana Manaf Shahana what a beautiful name But Manaf... Whether Shanhana or Shavarma you must eat to satiate your hunger You talk to her man My Allah I can't do that Then she would become Shahana Manaf That's for sure Top up for 100 rupees Whom does this lovely girl call to exhaust the amount You did a top up just yesterday Go man Do it fast - Will you call today also - Will call for ever I may require a top up tomorrow also What about the day after? - Today I would tell her - What? That she is everything to me How will you tell her? I would wait for her at the bus stop And would tell her when she comes It would not happen man - Why? - She's coming towards us - Are you not telling her? - Go man - For 100 - Is it top up? Yes Brother she wants top up for Rs 100 He would come now 'Will you call today also?' 'Will call for ever' She is topping up daily Don't knowto whom she is talking - To me only -You? Yes Exactly at 11 PM she would call me Afterwards till dawn it is a great pleasure How nice! These nights should stretch for ever What do you say Afsal? But today morning I saw her ignoring you That that is because Yesterday we had a petty sulk To set that right I mean... I know how to set that right Is it? Oh God... - Hello Hari - What nonsense have you done? You said you would come yesterday That I wanted to come there Sorry Did you avail leave? You need not come to Coimbatore Don't get annoyed Tomorrow I would surely come - Ok - Damn it! You would come Was that Hari...? He would have availed leave trusting you Finally he would lose his job Anyway tomorrow I would go to Coimbatore What work you have in Coimbatore? If it had been Bangalore... I would have also accompanied you I have to get some stock There you would get mobile applications and games at cheaper rate Try if you can get some clips of Dhanyashree? Why do you need Dhanyashree? What's your problem? Now are you not the lover of that beautiful girl? But... Lover is also an human being You... Is she Shahana Manaf? She is Shahana Afsal man Shahana Afsal Why do you stare at me as if you would burn me down? It would be a case of sour grapes foryou man Gandhipuram bus stand... Hari... Shall I get on? Sorry, don't get annoyed Forget it I am tired We can get rid of tiredness Before that we have to go to a place Today I can't man There is a friend nearby whom you should meet - He is a Tamil - I am damn tired Let's go He would be useful for you What use? That Tamil guy is an engineering drop out He is a brainy guy He makes software and games on his own efforts And you can get it for a fair price There's great demand for his items at our shop You come... If you buy something I would also get some commission - So that is the reason - Let me also live man Where are you taking me friend? Hari is taking Afsal... ...to a guy who is going to change his life To Alagarsamy "Come on..." "You are Alagarsamy Cell phone God Alagarsamy" "You can read the mind of the world Great Alagarsamy" "Ride on wi-fi Alagarsamy Shower mercy Alagarsamy" "Cell phone God Alagarsamy" "You can read the mind of the world Great Alagarsamy" - Who is it? - It is me Hari... Open the door Welcome! Oh God! Come on Come on... It's ok...come... Hello boss Come man Come Mr.Hari How is life going on...? Is it jerking or is it bright? It is bright like Tiruvannamalai lamp Very good Who is this new person? - He is my friend Afsal - Greet you (Vanakkam) Greetings He has come from Kozhikode - From Kozhikode...? - Yes... Then I withdraw Vanakkam Welcome you...! (Swagatham) Welcome May I knowthe purpose of your visit? He owns a small mobile shop there He has come to get some stocks for his shop I told him all your products are super He also wanted to see your products To see my products this is not a museum After seeing he would buy the ones he likes Yes So he has plans to buy - So he is my customer - Yes...yes Nice to meet you I am Alagarsamy Please take your seat - Sit down - Thank you sir See Mr.Afsal Martin Cooper might have invented cell phone... ...but what tricks can be done in cell phone was invented by me Android guys duplicate Apple - But who does Apple copy...? - Who...? It is me...Alagarsamy He would tell lot of lies That's his... - Just showthumbs up - But this is excessive What is going on between you both? Nothing, I just said you are great It is true! See Mr.Afsal... I don't showmy applications to ordinary guys I have certain qualifications I would ask 2 questions Only if I get satisfactory answers I would showcase my products That is you must listen to his questions carefully and then answer him That's what he means Is it right Question number 1 Why do people buy cell phones? That is why does... I have understood Reply People like to talk They should talk easily whatever may be the distance That's why people buy phones What he says is... He also talked in Malayalam I can understand Question number 2 Why do people change cell phones? Why do people frequently change cell phones? I'll tell that To go in for latest trends people change cell phones frequently Is that right? See Mr.Afsal... Very good Both your answers are good ones But the answers are different People buy cell phone to play To play...to play using applications to play games... ...to play in another person life Why sometimes we play in our own life Have you understood? Because inside all of us there is a playful mode Question number 2 Why do people change cell phones frequently? We do many private things and we share many secrets The only witness for all our deeds is cell phone If a person who knows everything... ...about us is with us for a longer duration will we not get a fright That is why, we throw it away We change the cell phone and get new ones Do you get my point? You are a cell phone shop owner You must know this psychology Now I will show my items Now he will show his items This is Alagar's Vehicle parking reminder Where is my bike in this lot? What would I do now? Using this application you can easily identify... ...where you have parked your car or bike Your bike is here Alagar's Parking reminder This is Alagar's burning flame light This is a two in one application You can use it as a cigar lighter... ...and also as a candle light for romance This is Alagar's electric shock application If persons you don't like touch your phone it would give an electric shock "During Mondays..." With an out dated phone he is... It's all super products Vehicle Parking one and electric shocker anyway I would purchase Thank you Along with that... I would give 'burning flame' free (ilavasam) Take it with you Who is llavarasan? Not llavarasan Free..free (ilavasam) - Thank you - Free...free We are hungry! Can we go and have some food! Can we booze and have food! Ok...we can booze and then have food! When I talked about booze see how cheerful he is! Come...come Let's go...go Location change! What? Go man... Yucky... Brother, when one falls in love more than love what is important is courage That is important! I don't possess that! - My God! Alagar sir is crying! - I have that Courage! What? Courage to steal another person's drink! - Not that - Then keep it here! I kept I have courage to love but I don't have a lady love! Afsal...do you have a lady love? That...not yet! Brother...you are so lucky! Look at me... Although I have a lady love I am in a fix! Oh my god! Alagar sir... You marry her with courage! I am there for you! Not just me... He is also with me -Yes - You both are here... But if I go there I would not be alive! The marriage can take place only if I am alive! This friend does not understand me! Look Alagarsamy! Why is he rude...? That shows his clean mind! Clean? This fellow doesn't even shave his beard! - Come here man - What! 'Drinking not good'! Did you buy this T shirt out of yourtips money! Yes Then why do you preach! Remove the T shirt! - Go...go man! -Why are you afraid sir! That's what...I don't know! I can't understand! Sir...a guy who loves must be fearless! Especially a talented genius like you Genius...genius Should never be scared! With the kind of intelligence and talent you have surely you can get... ...the girl you love It is for sure! Brother, I was baffled! With the ease of opening a liquor bottle you brought clarity to me! I should give you something! Don't be scared I would not kiss you! I would give you something else! Come on Come with me...! Hari...! He will clear empty bottles and reach by bus! You come! Can we start...? Put on this and hear... Bill shows glucose man What Senthil? Am I such a fool! Not like that I knowyou would think before you act Your commission is ready Next week when I come there... - I would call you - Why so much delay? Boss is in station Next week beginning he would go to Madurai - Then I would come - Is it so...? Your cash is safe here! How is it Afsal? - This one - This is cell phone tapping! This technology eavesdrops another person's conversation Using this one can find out easily who is talking to whom! Will he know we are over hearing? What Afsal? He will not know! But if we want we can intervene we can intervene and talk! There is such a facility in my software! I will explain There is a small mistake in our cell phone technology! Using that glitch I invented this software! If this goes out to market you don't need any other entertainment! No TV serials, cinema... One can stealthily hear other's conversations! What could be more entertaining than this! Suppose you doubt a guy, that he is stealthily talking to another person... ...using this tapper you can hear him talking! 'Exactly at 11 Pm she would call me' 'Afterwards...till dawn it is a great pleasure!' Is this very costlier? Price...? Price for a machine that lets you read the mind of another person! There can't be a price for this Is it priceless! I have raked my brain for 1 year to invent this technology! I am going to gift it to you! Free! - Take it - Free? "Cell phone God Alagarsamy" "You can read the mind of the world" So far no one has called me a genius! You have a place in my heart! Thank you sir! Let this Alagar amazing cell phone tapper... ...give you boundless joy! All the best! Can we start? This looks like a fraudulent one! Don't take unnecessary risks! If someone finds out You will land in trouble! This software can't be traced! - Who told you? - That guy Alagarsamy! This was invented by him! He would have told you under the influence of booze! Don't you have better things to do? When we talk on phone sometimes don't we hear cross talk! That is unintentional! But this software does it intentionally! - That's all - Still... We can just test it! What is wrong with you man? It is very easy to load this Can load this through Bluetooth USB After installation if you send a message from that phone to another phone... ...and once the message is opened this software would get installed in that phone Looks like some virus! I am not for this! So good night... Will meet at shop tomorrow morning Binoy...biriyani is ready! - Go after eating biriyani! - I will wash hands and come! You also come Afsal! Come - Afsal - Lost my hunger mom! Satish...! Afsal...very unusual You have come early! - A person is waiting - Not for me alone! Binoy...give me flexi for Rs 50! Master...you look smart today! Don't poke fun on me! No master a glamour is always good! There are lovely girls in your class! Master...how do you manage not to lose control while taking classes! What did you say...? I am a teacher! I teach them Just teacher student relationship! I don't look at them in any other way! They are all my students! Hereafter don't make such comments lacking culture to me! You guys come with an uncouth face! Forgive me master! Brother...give a flexi 50 for master! What man? Master...number please! What happened! It has come Shall I get you? Where is it? Let me see... - What GB is this! -What GB you want? - 16 would do for me! - This one has 64 GB! Does this have 64? - Is it a dual sim one? - Yes! - Camera - It has the best camera! Okay What's your name? - Chetan - Chytan...? (pun- Devil) Chetan! - In which school are you studying? - Model school - In which class? - Seventh... Do you go to school carrying mobile phone? That... You go to school to study and not to play with the phone! Will your dad not say anything? - That... - Forget about it - What is this model? - Samsung galaxy grand! - What is it boy? - Samsung Galaxy grand! I knowthat! You tell me Who is the Kozhikode collector? Who...? Who is Kozhikode collector? Master...Ieave him He is a small boy! Why should we leave him...? Can there be any one who does not know the name of Kozhikode collector? He does not know He is going to school carrying a mobile phone! At your age we carried slate and pencil! Those days we went for studying! To study and come up in life! And not to play games like you - I also... - Come this side... Are you going to school with mobile phone? What is your class teacher's name? - Class teacher's name is Sada... - He will not know He doesn't even know class teacher's name! No point in talking to you Should blame those who sent you to school! - Master - What's your dad's name? - I know that! - He knows to bicker What is Africa's capital...? - Master - Damn Africa! My god...he doesn't know Africa's capital! Why should he know Africa's capital sir? - Should he not know? - Should he know! - Then should he not know? - He should know He is going to school with mobile phone! Are you trying to scare me by staring! - I don't want mobile - Stop dear... - Don't go...wait - Go man What did you do master? - What man? - I have lost a business! What did I do...? New generation is nation's wealth! I would not allow any business that would ruin the new generation! This nation is spoilt Present day parents are to be blamed! They lead a life with no morals or values Then who will the children emulate! Even teachers look at students with an evil motive! To whom...I am talking! Useless fellow! The message has come! Looks like a blank message! That is a different one You would get now! I have recharged for Rs 100! - Buy I asked only for Rs 50 - It is an offer If you charge Rs 50 flexi you get another 50 free! Anyway that is good! It would last for some more days! Who will I call? Binoy...you need not worry! We shouldn't earn money ruining the younger generation! That will not be helpful! Hail lndia What did you do in his phone? Tonight we will know about it! 9656... This is his number! Put it on speaker It is all imaginary girl! My love for you has increased only! No...you are lying master Of late you don't show any interest! No darling Nothing of that sort! - He calls her darling...! - Stealer...fraud! Today in class all the time you were staring at Saritha's chest! Look...don't make charges against me! I have looked at only one chest! - Whose...? - Should I say that? Tell me Was it Saritha's...? Look girl I would... 'What I would' you would do nothing! I don't teach just Chemistry! What dress are you wearing? - Frock - What's the colour? Yellow... I am also wearing yellow! What an ideal match it is! What do you say now? This seems to be good! Did you hear? - Why are you silent? - I just turned over the bed! - Are you lying...? - Hm... I am also lying! Brother...is it possible to intervene? - Dear! - I am going to sleep Me too My God...who is it? Snore! Has her sound changed...? Hello...Iet's not talk now - Greetings - Master! Shall I call the fraud to the shop? -Why? - Just to mock him! - No...don't do - Just for fun! If he comes to know we are tapping his phone... What fun we will have...? I only when he doesn't knowthat! Idea 30 recharge! - Forfifty - Hundred! - Fifty - Thirty For 110 recharge! - Thirty - Fifty - For hundred rupees! - Vodafone! - Fifty - Fifty five For Fifty - Hundred - 110 - Eighty five! - Twenty! - Hundred - Twenty Fifty five! - Are you late today? - Who is late? No, thought you didn't get the bus! - Who thought...? - No, I just thought... For hundred rupees! Get in guy... Seeing you the guy is baffled! Binoy...don't do... That would benefit you No...don't install it in her phone! Why is she so special? Yes...it is like that... That phone shouldn't be tapped! In case she calls Manaf at night daily? Is there a betterto way to know about it! Tell me - Manaf - Don't tell me anything! I would nowtap her phone! In this rain both of us would get drenched and... Not required! Let him not be impolite to me... Tell him! I would smash and kill him Why are you not talking anything girl? What kind of a man are you...? Your baby is in my womb But you still support that... Even if you kill me I would not Hang up the phone you dog 'Exactly at 11 PM she would call me' Was it a bluff by him? Don't cry like this...dear! I can't bear it dad! Dad... (Vapa...) Never mind Forget it I would take it as my destiny! Yet...what mom does even God may not like Because you both are not in good terms What can I do for that dear! Even those days she was very obstinate! Especially towards me it would be to a higher degree! Stubborn and obstinate...! Dad...you are an innocuous person and put up with her! May be now I could... But the thought that Shajahan and... ...you would be put into troubles I... But what has happened now They don't want to invite you even for the marriage! That's what mom and uncle say! They don't even allow me to visit you! It is 4 months since I met you I can't bear this dad! Don't cry my princess! Look...don't cry! Those with the name Shahana shouldn't cry! Why? Shahana means princess in Arabi! Do princess cry? I am not a princess! I am Vadavarakara Syed Ulvi's daughter! I would cry when I am in distress! You are a real princess girl! Afsal's princess! Oh my girl... Why are you not talking! Kavi...I am scared to sing in stage But you are not alone Me and Shini are with you - Even then - No excuses Don't force me You can only sing it properly We would also support you If you want I would sing it for you now You hear me and learn I can't do it in stage This is really bad If I get on to stage it would be worse This is very bad! Then you sing in detail On stage we shouldn't look awful Just a minute Let me have some water "Like the melody of the damp wind Like the shower of dry frost" "ln grief stricken night's company Come...come...gently...gently" "Like the melody of the damp wind Like the shower of dry frost" "ln grief stricken night's company Come...come...gently...gently" "Rain taps a mellifluent rhythm on the sash bars of the window" "ln moonshine the mind blossomed I turned as the cherry red bloom" "l would sing the soulful song Dear, come to hear the song" "Come...gently...gently...gently" "Like the melody of the damp wind Like the shower of dry frost" "ln grief stricken night's company Come...come...gently...gently" "This house lady would write in petals romantic odes" "The anklets would wriggle in mind realise it in your dreams" "Like clouds hiding behind blue sky there is someone behind my eyes" "The smirky grimace and the gentle cuddle was a boon" "l would sing the soulful song Dear, come to hear the song" "Come...gently...gently...gently" "Like the melody of the damp wind Like the shower of dry frost" "ln grief stricken night's company Come...come...gently...gently" "At day break that showers dampness with withered leaves spread on the path" "The sun rays appeared lazy and was like an embrace in cold" "Like a colourful butterfly come near me and bask in delight like a breeze" "Memories flowed in the chill weather and I turned as a river" "l would sing the soulful song Dear, come to hear the song" "Come...gently...gently...gently" "Like the melody of the damp wind Like the shower of dry frost" "ln grief stricken night's company Come...come...gently...gently" "Rain taps a mellifluent rhythm on the sash bars of the window" "ln moonshine the mind blossomed I turned as the cherry red bloom" "l would sing the soulful song Dear, come to hear the song" "Come...gently...gently" "ln the damp wind..." "Gently...gently" "Gently...gently" "Gently...gently" Oh my girl... Take me to your realm "Like the melody of the damp wind..." "Like the shower of dry frost!" Which song is this? That... I think this is Shiraz's music! Oh...how! This is surely not that stuff... This is an emotive song by a beautiful girl! Today she may not come! Singing songs...her throat would have dried up! Devil...don't say anything with your malefic tongue! Who is the devil...? Any way it is not you... Don't waste time Take out the thing! Tell me it's worth! Whose one is this? - It's a big shark's -Yes - What...? - Don't you know... He is known as 'big shark'? We got this mobile from the stomach of a shark we caught this morning! From sharks' stomach...? We have heard about Wi-Fi mobile! First time I am hearing about a mobile from stomach! (Vayiru) Which brand is this! It is not brandy It is a mobile phone! He asked about the make...? If you ask such details we would blink! Our Veppur Sulaiman had a similar old phone! Yes...yes he had one! Last month he went to sea and has not returned so far! - Hasn't come yet...! - Is it...? Forget it... What price it will fetch? Must get market price any way! Then you sell it in market! Mohammed brother... If you don't want it is ok! We thought it would help you guys! Jaffer...Iet us check in Gulf bazar... Oh yes... He is not the only guy running a mobile business here! You are right! Jaffer...it seems we are lucky! We are lucky! Mohammed brother! Gulf bazar is on this side! Is he teaching us about gulf bazaar! - Leave that here and go! - Say so... Will sell it to some gullible guy! The singer is going... "When I lay my net in the lake oh girl... did you rattle your bangles" Seems the Salala mobiles guy has an eye for you! Go...girl! Do you have an eye on him? Even if you don't need you go there often! Don't drip saliva like a dog Like a brave man go and tell her You go dog... Shall I give you a kiss - No... - I would give Where? In forehead - No... - In eyes? - No... - In cheeks? Shall I give there? What is this Kumaretta? - In neck? - Give Kumaretta Shall I give...? I will give! - I want it - Shall I give? Give her Kumaretta! - Who is it? - May be your son How is it man now...? These days one can't talk anything in mobile phone safely! I have already tapped that phone Thus via Nilambur along with... ...this girl is on herway to Ooty Chill wind is blowing I want to tell you something privately What is it? Today I would make you eat unripe mango... - Mango...? - That... That is...radio mango's Mango! Someone is regularly tapping my phone sir! When it is tapped were you talking to your husband? No... There is no doubt your phone is tapped by your husband! Chief minister is now popular due to his public support Meet the public programme! But before parliament election the government must fall I have met all the 15 MLA's All of them are ready! Are you sure...brother? We are spending money It is a risky affair! It is certain... Tomorrow Chandrasekar's government must fall! Done...including me 12 MLA's will vote against motion! Government will fall! Hello...is it news channel? 'Greet you...' 'Welcome you to breaking news!' 'ln today's vote on...' 'No confidence motion' Chief Minister Chandrasekaran's government proved majority!' 'Ruling party MLA Hameed Maranjeri indulged in horse trading...' '...and instigated other MLA's to vote against motion!' 'Pending inquiry he is suspended from party!' Anyway I need police protection! My phone was tapped and on the basis of those information I was expelled from party! This is what CM says... Is any law being followed here? C.R.Chandrasekaran has engaged agents to tap my phone! From where will you make wedding purchases? Mom says it would be from Trissur! Why is it from Trissur! She says that would be convenient! When are you going for purchase? Day after tomorrow! From Kodungallur uncle would come! Kavi, you hang up - Why Shahana? - Someone else is on this line! Trying to hearwhat we talk! May be your illusion Yes may be your illusion No, I am hanging up 220 full talk time! Do it fast Why do you call me often to say this? I like her and... I have candidly told hertoo What is there to get annoyed on this? If one can't express one's love no use in having a tache...! Don't call me again to talk about this He seems to be a strange guy 'Greet you' 'Welcome to news bulletin' 'lf you are making a cell phone call...' '...remember a third person from this town is also hearing you' 'The phone tapper is not yet identified' 'Reports say a group is behind this phone tapping' 'Though public have lodged many complaints...' '...police are yet to taken any action objections are raised on this score' Everywhere phones are tapped Of late phone tapping prevails widely in Kozhikode What's your opinion on it? I don't know about phone tapping My hut is leaking and can't stay there But you are asking about phone tapping What's your name? Is it Ameer? Along with camera man Ameer from Kozhikode fish market Mohammed Phone tapping What is it? It is a downfall for a cultured society It has even intruded into a teacher's privacy - Phone tapping is an issue - Tapping does happen Oh my God! If all the people use iPhones tapping would become impossible Should we continue this? - Why do you stare at me? - Shouldn't we continue? We must nab these criminals soon Phone tapping has become an issue in state assembly today Under these circumstances the pressure on us will increase CM called me today morning Even if we nab the culprits he asked me to handle them softly He has some gratitude towards these phone tappers Because they saved his government from falling These phone tappers could be his party men or sympathisers of his party That's what he suspects Whoever they are we shouldn't show any lenience Before they tap our phone- We know, they are already doing it, sir A constable from North station one R.K.Kumaran... ...has made a complaint that his phone was tapped '- Kumar'etta - Shantha' From where this would have started? What would be their motive? Politics? Treason? Could it not be a terrorist outfit, sir? Maybe But shall I ask you something? Could it be done by a single guy? One person Try this It has good clarity Is it ok? Why do you merely look at time, Afsal? My girl would come now let her see me once man She will live for 100 years Why are you in a hurry? I am here My girl is a real princess 'Shahana means princess in Arabi' But yourfriend is not that lovely Manaf, have you studied Arabi? Arabi? Why should I learn Arabi? Nothing Talk something princess One minute Me? - What did she say now? - Oh nothing She said she can't call me at night daily She has no money to top up daily Now she has asked me to call her daily at night Binoy, did you recharge? Keep the change with you Can adjust later, okay? "Reached my heart" 'It's burning in heart' - Hello? -Yes - I am Kanagan here - What? Who is it? You called me and just say Kangana No, I am Kanagan staying in upstairs Oh Kanagan, what is it man? There is nothing to worry Why should I worry? No, I am going to tell you something that would worry you - Is it about, dad? - No, not that I told mom and uncle that I don't want this marriage But they don't listen to me My God! It is a misery foryou But as a dad I have only one thing to say Don't stop your studies marry after completing studies Of late one can't say about present day boys It would be better for girls to be educated and employed Then only you would be saved Do you understand dear? Dad, seems mom is coming I am hanging up Hello? Hello? Hello, this is me Manaf Why are you not talking? Morning you said you would talk if I call you? I was waiting for this Shahana, talk to me - Who is it? - Your dad Did you get only my sister to propose love? Your bandicoot dad Usman had stolen coconuts from our grove My uncle still has those details with him - Does he still have that? - Not only that You have a sister what is her name? - Salma - Oh Salma? How haughty is she? Long ago when I just talked to her she made a big issue Finally didn't she elope with an awkward looking fish seller That's a lesson foryou guys Brother, shall I hang up? Stupid, if you hang up, I would kill you You and your dad put up a fence encroaching our land when we questioned Your dad and his gang pelted stones on us Were you also not with them? - No brother - Brother? Damn it How will I become your brother? Sorry sir I wouldn't call Shahana again Dirty fellow, if you hang up, I would sever your hands Listen what I say The other day when I met sister she inquired about you -Who inquired? - Sister asked about you -Who inquired? - Salma sister -About me? - Shall I hang up No...no don't hang up What did she say, tell me Manaf She said if she had married you, her life would have been ruined The right guy for your sister is that fish seller If I see her face, I would vomit Whatever it is she is the daughter of a bandicoot Do what I say Come to my marriage and see my wife If you want have sumptuous biriyani and go Shameless fellow Will you laugh, when I abuse you? Are you a human being? 'Here comes fence encroacher bandicoot Usman's son Mr.Abdul Manaf' What Manaf, are you sick? Sick? That's because yesterday till dawn me and Shahana were- - She or her brother? - How do you know? That is the grapevine in Kozhikode now It is there in paper and FM too Excuse me Do you have iPhone? No, it is available only in specific stores Sir, we have many other latest models Samsung, Blackberry LG, Nokia - Sir, S2, S3- - No, I don't want anything Please leave me alone Better to shut man Dad, anyway you couldn't attend brother's marriage It's not because I couldn't come but your mom didn't invite me If I had attended without invitation, she would have embarrassed me Where is Shajahan? Is he with his wife? Exactly Is a music band arranged? Uncle, has arranged for Qawwali Is it? Will my princess sing? No Dad, mom is coming I am hanging up "Up above the moonlit castle in a swing hung by rainbow ribbons" "Oh my pristine beauty you swayed in swing..." "...oh you are my Aisha" "You woke up from romance and bloomed..." "...on the pathway where Allah's messenger comes" "You braced up for proximity" "You are so precious, world, materialism Rahim Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Ali master...Ali master Ali in every breath" "Ali master...Ali master Ali in every breath" "ln day dreams..." "...beneath the mango tree seeds were planted" "Heart...heart...heart" "ln new moon's sky rays the heart rejoiced" "Heart...heart...heart" "The new bride girl burst out like a new seed" "Like a moon in woods would adorn flowers and pearls" "You woke up from romance and bloomed..." "...on the pathway where Allah's messenger comes" "You braced up for proximity" "You are precious" "Up above the moonlit castle in a swing hung by rainbow ribbons" "Oh my pristine beauty you swayed in swing..." "...oh you are my Aisha" "Noor Mohammed, blessed light of Allah" "Noor Mohammed, blessed light of Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Noor Mohammed, blessed light of Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah" "Like the angel my desire and love vanished" "Heart...heart...heart" "Oh heart's dream, flower nurtured by cupid God" "Heart...heart...heart" "Oh heart's corsage, will you not adorn love?" "Will you not grasp without being told when protector comes to know?" "You woke up from romance and bloomed..." "...on the pathway where Allah's messenger comes" "You braced up for proximity" "You are precious" "Up above the moonlit castle in a swing hung by rainbow ribbons" "Oh my pristine beauty you swayed in swing..." "...oh you are my Aisha" "You woke up from romance and bloomed..." "...on the pathway where Allah's messenger comes" "You braced up for proximity" "You are precious, world, materialism Rahim Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" Phone tapping is an intrusion into an individual's privacy It can be used both for good and evil In our city in the last one and half months... ...about 32 phone tapping cases have been registered - Is it not, Vincent? - Yes sir In Nadakkavu station alone 13 cases The rest in town and Chevayur stations There may be cases not registered also Looking at the reactions in TV channels there should be more complaints We understand from inquires the complaints made to channels would be around 50 There are chances for it to increase further What we need to do immediately is in this tapping case I mean to find out, when and what time it happened Also how did they know their phone is being tapped? We must find out this too This information may have a pattern We must cling on to that Sir, what about help from cyber cell? Are you a cop? First use your cognition then think about cyber cell - Okay, and sorry, sir - Damn with your sorry Tapping case complainants have come, sir Let's interviewthem and get the info Come...come Your thing has arrived Really? A second hand iPhone set - Like to see? - Show me...show me iPhone Traverse Beautiful man Good to look at A party brought it from Kuwait What a beautiful smell? - Do you like it? - How much is it? - Ten thousand rupees - Only 10,000 rupees? Ten thousand very cheap man I am sorry, I forgot my specs Count it - Sir, here is your discount - I don't want any discount I want only phone Oh my God! I got it...I got it Your cash, 500000 is ready Okay...okay To identify you say code word 'Elder-younger brother' The guy who gives you cash would say 'Trump Jack' Place, Standard Bakery Mithai street Tomorrow morning exactly at 11 AM Okay thanks, I would reach there Brother, what if we interpose? Go there and you would be Just sufficient to say the code 'Elder-younger brother'... ...we would get 500000 But we would be killed Looks like it is some conduit money - We would lose our life -You are a timid guy This is god's gift I am not a fool like you You may not be a fool But you are a timid fellow That is why you waffle and can't talk to the girl Should tell her with determination Binoy, you may go Go home, go man I said go Timid fellow He claims he is a lover Binoy, halwa(sweetmeat) is good - From where did you get this? - Ask to your son Will there be a man like him? Daughter is admitted in Baby Memorial I understood that when you beat around People like you are our support If I am in a position to spend 300000- Rama, we are also not in such a position I will somehow manage to repay Good joke Even if you work for a lifetime will you be able to repay? Sister, please don't abandon us If Sowmya's dad was alive will you talk like this? - Is she not your brother's daughter? - Rama, don't talk about sentiments To give you 300000 I am not running a bank On this score don't call again -Where is Standard Bakery? - Go straight and turn left What is the price of Jilebi? 6 rupees per piece - Milk peda? - How much do you want? Just inquired Milk peda is 10 rupees Black Halwa? Are you not a local guy? 'Elder-younger brother' 'Elder-younger brother' 'Trump jack' Come Wait Come here man Come Come here Come man Okay, it is very hot Take it carefully Thanks 'Elder-younger brother' Is he mad? 'Elder-younger brother' Where is Standard bakery? Go straight, turn right and then take left From there 2nd left - Right...? -Yes, that is the route Seems this is inextricable Yes, sir? Sowmya admitted for operation Let me check First floor Room number 7411 - Thanks - Okay '100 rupees top up' Who is it? I came to see her - Who are you? - I am her brother - Rama? - She is my mom Where is she? She has gone to pharmacy to get some medicines You do one thing When mom returns hand over this bag to mom Take care, this is for sister's operation - Okay - Got it? - Brother, your name? -Afs-chandran That means you are mad Is it? Else will you donate the entire money? Yet, how could you do it? I can't bear it? What? You greedy fellow I gave her only 300000 for her operation Balance amount is with me Take your 100000 You have lot of debts Try to clear them My dear chum you are a hero Real hero Don't prattle man, go home Razak, it is foolish to say it is costlier 3 crores in that area is a best price Don't expect more than that Besides who would give this price? I would give Will you give? - What did you say? -You said you would give Did I say I would give? You only said just now Did you speak or some spirit? Don't foil the deal Ashraf, don't fool me over the phone Whatever you say I would not agree to this Ashraf, who is it? Your father Your dad Oh my God! She is coming - Hundred - I know Do you know my brother? No, but why? I thought I sawyou, it was my brother's marriage That was not us Oh? Okay, thank you Are you fine? Whole night your phone was busy What is it? Until dawn with whom are you flirting? Tell me and go girl - Manaf, move away - Let me also know With whom you are flirting? Is it confined to night calls or-? You? - Take off your hands - Oh does it pain you? I wouldn't allow this in my shop Go man Afsal, that means you get offended No, Afsal Let me go My God! What is this? How dare you hold her hand? Let him go - What is this man? - Go home Go home You move away Why are you staring? Is this Pooram festival? All of you go Go from here You go to your shop Go to your shop Are you intimidating him? You go to shop Were you hurt? It is not like that Vincent This case is more complicated than what we assume Normally in tapping cases business men or politicians try to get information But in this case victims are different people from all walks of life Not only that reason behind tapping can't pinpoint the motive Besides neither the tapper intimidating... ...nor using the leaked information to his advantage is not reported There are no complaints too All victims have merely complained their privacy is intruded What if we go for a movie tomorrow? I can't bunk the classes board exam is approaching Seriously studious Are you not serious about our affair? - Of course - I am also serious That is why I am studying seriously Must settle in life quickly and marry you soon That must be done quickly When people of same age fall in love there is a problem Do you knowthat? Yes, boy would hunt for the job And the girl would study course after course and give him sufficient time But I can't do that I can't study too - Just want to get through 12th - Lazy girl, you need not study I would study Next year, I would appear for Merchant Navy exam If I get that, I am safe They offer me super salary It would help my home and it would be easy for us too - But shouldn't you go to sea? - It's not for fishing Girl, I would take you also with me - Take me now - Don't flirt - Will meet tomorrow - Then give me a kiss - See you tomorrow - Where? Old bus stand near beach at 4 p.m "Noor Mohammed, blessed light of Allah" "Beloved Allah Apostle of Allah" Why have you not gone to sleep yet? I know what you do here But I have great faith in you That you wouldn't do anything forgetting Almighty Hearing what others say... ...it would be more interesting to overhear others talk But it would fill up lot of muck in our mind Mom, that- Later it would become impossible to clean up It would become like the bottom of a burnt up vessel My present worry is not about that My son doesn't have the courage to tell a girl about his love That bothers me a lot Meet her soon and tell you like her Now switch off this and go to sleep Okay mom 'What is important for love is courage' How come you are here? I came to inquire about a route To where? Route to your heart This software or virus has to reach other mobile phones... ...or must be made to reach other phones - How can we do that? - Through SMS Mutual messages spread the virus But our findings say most victims doesn't have any acquaintance Yes sir Making a tapping software is not very expensive Our country's cell phone technology especially GSM... ...is best suited for such techniques A good programmer could have developed this Someone with access to many mobile phones would have spread this We didn't pay attention to one thing, Vincent What sir? Maximum complaints registered area's mobile shop guys Large number of mobile phones are accessible to them Let us trail them It's your mom, man - What mom? - Afsal - Binoy here mom -Where is my son? He is here He left without breakfast What is the breakfast? - Dosa - Oh? Did you have breakfast? - Hmm - What? Tea and hotdog What is there to shudder? I would make him eat Don't worry, Afsal she may be sick Or she would have gone somewhere After I spoke to her candidly I did not meet her at all Her mobile is also switched off I feel very hard inside Just want to meet her once 'Culture hero' is coming If we ask him may get some details 50 rupees flexi Master! - Do you teach Shahana? - Might be I don't ask girl student's names We know about that But couldn't see that girl for 2 to 3 days Why do you want to meet her? We have to give her balance 400 rupees Since we didn't have change she said she will collect later and left She didn't come to classes for 2 to 3 days I would inquire and tell you Thanks master The other day because of her didn't you and Manaf pick up a quarrel No...no That happened because Manaf held the girl's hand and a tussle ensued Is it not Afsal? - Did you top up? - Will do now - What? - Top up - Hail lndia - Same to you "Yaa Allah..." "Peace be upon him" "Let prophet Mohammed bring peace upon him" "Peace be upon him" "Let prophet Mohammed bring peace upon him" "Peace be upon him" Are you going for a walk? - Hello Astrologer - Who is it? - Brother, this is Nambiar - Oh greet you - Why at this midnight - Must fix an auspicious time -At this time? - I need it urgently - This is a request - What's the matter? My daughter is in labour She wants caesarian to be done Want an auspicious time for that Auspicious time for caesarian? If born at an auspicious time, the child would have a good future Tell me a time that would bestow regal fortune - This is not right - Don't say like that I can pay you any amount as fees When you say this, give me 10 minutes time I don't want any fees Who is that? I can tell that for free Best time for caesarian American time Morning 11 a.m Is that okay? Afsal, I asked her friend Kavitha What that poor girl will do, if mom and son compel her Anyway stopping her education and taking her away was mindless Next month is her marriage she is going to marry her cousin The boy is somewhere in gulf - Where is she now? - At Kodungallur That's her mom's place Where are you going? I asked where are you going? To Kodungallur Tell mom - Are you mad...? -Yes, I'm mad "Oh Shahana, in this lovelorn life I would search you" "ln this grief struck ghazal in my blazing veins..." "...beloved you turned as my chum" "Oh Shahana, in this lovelorn life I would search you" "Oh Shahana, in this entire lovelorn life I would search you" "ln this grief struck ghazal in my blazing veins..." "...beloved you turned as my chum" "Shahana...oh Shahana" 'Save me...save me' He is going to uninstall He is going to kill me Don't do it man You...why did you betray me? We have carefully examined all victim's mobile phones This is the test report This tapping programme or software is a virus That's the findings Either from phone to phone via Wifi, bluetooth or through messages... ...this virus can be transferred Otherwise a message from an infected phone could transmit this virus Especially in android windows phones this virus can be transferred Not only that from where this tapping is done... ...will not be available in this virus programme code Only one thing that bothers me is this Who is behind this? A group or an individual? What is it? Who is it? It's me, Manaf It's long since I see you here I came to meet Afsal No one answered the call so I was returning Nothing can be heard in the kitchen Afsal is in his shop Do you know his shop? Yes, I know Okay Sir, where is the commissioner office? - What's the matter? - I have an information Tell me, mom Your old friend Manaf came to meet you I told him you are at the shop Did he come there? This is a good joke I saw him en route Okay, you hang up Get his name and address and let him go Yes, sir You stay there You shouldn't go out of the city You should be present here If what you said is false, I would nab you then - Okay, sir -You may go Leave me Manaf, you stupid Idiot, you are going to die Stop it...stop here Did you see Manaf? He came here in the morning - Why do you want him? - Asking me? That dog had hit Mohammed brother with his bike and ran away That too in front of commissioner's office Police commissioner's office? Yes, he told me this guy was coming fast from the office Now he is admitted in GH Tell him, if he hides, I would nab him Come on guys 'Manaf came asking for you' 'Your old friend Manaf came to see you' 'That too in front commissioner's office' You quickly shut the shop and go Let me go to house Why have you come so early? Are you hungry? Shall I get you lunch? Don't fill your stomach with water Dear, if you simply cry like this will you get what you want in life? Should you not be brave? Dad, I am not able to say what I want and what I don't need in life This is everybody's problem Most people ruin their life because they are timid Anyway it is bad At least before you left Kozhikode... ...you should have told the boy that you like him You should have told him openly I did not have the courage dad I was not sure I always like Afsal But I had no courage to tell him about this Shahana Who is it? Shahana Enough, this is enough for me I have read your mind I am satisfied Shahana Are you hearing me? "Noor Mohammed, blessed light of Allah" "Beloved Allah Apostle of Allah" "Noor Mohammed, blessed light of Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah" "Up above the moonlit castle in a swing hung by rainbow ribbons" "Oh my pristine beauty you swayed in swing..." "...oh you are my Aisha" "Noor Mohammed, blessed light of Allah" "Beloved Allah Apostle of Allah" "Noor Mohammed, blessed light of Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" "Apostle of Allah Beloved Allah" 'Ajay Chacko and his team...' '...arrested Afsal and produced him in court' 'But for personal reasons complainants either did not appear...' '...or changed their earlier submissions' 'Who was behind this a group or an individual...' '...the honourable court raised this question' 'Since prosecution could not produce any conclusive proof...' '...Afsal was released unconditionally after 3 months police custody' 'Shahana declined to marry and returned to her dad' 'When Afsal's custodial inquiry was going on...' '...she met him along with her dad' 'After unconditional release Afzal married Shahana' 'Thus Shahana became Shahana Afsal'
