 

                        Leave me, Please leave me Salim Sorry for the delay doctor. Requested MRI report is ready. Wait a minute, Who is calling at this time? - What is it brother? - Good morning sir, can you please come down and move your car? Hello, I'm at Pondicherry with my friend - Pondicherry? - Yeah Pondicherry, What do you want? - What's it? - Can you please ask your wife to move the car Watch your words? Who are you to give orders to my wife? Mind your words brother, she is my wife and not yours First cut the call I can't move the car now - Where to? - ARTICO hospital - Okay get on sir - It's late for my exams please - Come sit in the front - Sit here - Thanks bro - Can I sit here? - Sit down Mr Perfect - What's this? - Tablet Did I say it's a cutlet? In such a big hospital with a reputed pharmacy, I can't believe this. What you don't understand? You didn't give me the prescribed tablets - More than that it's all dead - Dead? You don't understand, It has expired What's this? All these have expired Do you want to taste them? How careless you are? It's side effects could even kill me. Should I teach a pharmacist? I can take this to the consumer court You know, right? - Sorry Doctor for being late - That's OK - Doctor? - yeah Could've said that earlier itself Take care while giving medicines - OK doctor Got tensed unnecessarily I had gone out What happened? What happened! Look where he jumps? You always watch these Buffalo's fight With you here, can I watch Midnight hot? Instead we could see some Chef show At this age, What are you gonna do learning to cook? You are talking too much, Did you see that boys photo? Which guy? - The one your dad kept in your chemistry book The chemistry didn't work out That's why didn't touch it Honey, Show her that photo I must have no in-law troubles They are not alive, is that enough He shouldn't go out with his sisters And cant have possessive brothers They are all headaches He is a loner He must be well educated He's a doctor at ARTICO hospital Here, this is the groom as you expected Have a look and tell This guy! Like I have the grooms photo, Does he have my photo? Then, We should give it, right Oh, That's why he was blushing on seeing me - Good morning doctor - Greeting sir - Did you take the MRI scan? - Yeah doctor It's normal Why is last months income is very low? Take file number 103 Don't worry that this medicine is costly? I'll give you a cheaper medicine Get those It'll have the same effect Have it for 4 days You don't have to stay in the hospital Muthu, Help him to get these medicines Like this he does as he wishes, Never thinks about the loss for the hospital - Maria - Sir - Is the patient report for room 230 ready? - Yes sir A stout lady in Blue jeans enquired about you About what? Is your full name was Salim How many years you work here? And if you would smoke OK, Thank you Salim An important thing, come here What is he thinking now? Don't go Don't go He's gone Why did you call me? A girl enquired about you She was tall and chubby What's happening? She was enquiring a lot Like what? How does Salim gets along with women Is he a serious guy or playful She asked, Are we in any sort of relationships? Thanks Madam I'll leave With women... Be careful! - Hmm - OK Madam Salim! Salim! What were you doing in this room? This is a danger zone Wait a minute Salim, an important thing A beautiful girl enquired about you What did she enquire? "How about Dr Salim? What is the relationship between him and Sahee Do they have anything between them What will he do in Sahee's room" were all her enquiries Why did she ask this to you? She should have seen you and Sahee That's why she would have enquired Our Sahee is like a question paper Looking at her we'll get questions and doubts Sir, a while back this girl enquired about you - She - Yes sir - When did she go? - Just now - Where - This way to the parking lot I'll leave Saami The speed he's leaving looks like he'll finish his marriage right away You all seen him right Is he good He's awesome If you don't want I'll take him Why won't we do that? Matter.. Sorry it's the Doctor What shall we do? - Wait - Start the scooty soon Is there anyone left to enquire You have enquired a sweeper how many times I go to the bathroom That's a lie Asked when you'll go home So, you've enquired the sweeper too Got myself trapped OK, Did you leave the watchman? I asked if you would smoke Is that a mistake? How could I marry without enquiring If you're a doctor should I believe you? There are pseudo doctors and sex doctors All those fake marriage news in the paper scares me How about without any enquiry? They even say 1000 lies to get married Shouldnt we at least enquire 5 people This is my diary What for? This has got all the details about me Read it, if you don't have the patience please do give me a call This is my number To enquire about me don't roam around the hospital and strain yourself From the moment I saw you, I lost my sleep Even in my sleep, my heart throbs for your face You fell upon my gaze And became a part of my life In a wink of my eye From the moment I saw you, I lost my sleep Even in my sleep, my heart throbs for your face Have to live a life of intimacy, With you lying on my shoulder When you walk away from me, you make my heart wounded Looking at your eyes, clasping your fingers I'd like to sleep on your lap When I melt in your love, My lips will bloom a flower Flying like a bird without wings in this eternal world In this rain I get drenched, Melting into you From the moment I saw you, I lost my sleep Even in my sleep, my heart throbs for your face Wanna hear your words filled with smile everyday You are my world in the place of no relations When the heart is a cage, I only want you inside Like an object shadow on the surface, We must live together Lips are smiling, Loving the nature Living my life for you and only you From the moment I saw you, I lost my sleep Even in my sleep, my heart throbs for your face - Hello Salim, Where are you? - I've come sir Oh Salim, come here Come on man, Good evening Sir is waiting for you He's Mr Devraj, does lot of social works just like you Just like you, I am very interested in social activities I appreciate your service But I don't get much time I am a member of Annai Saradha trust I collect donations whenever I find time Your donations would help the children's education - How much do you want? - It's your wish Thanks sir Don't get excited There's more to come This is for you too What's this? - What Devraj Don't forget me later This 50 lakhs is for you What do you want? Didn't I say, Salim is very sharp Look, you got to do me a favor This is a advance for that In the heart operation your gonna do tomorrow the patient must die The patient is my brother Don't ask why It's small family problem Salim I'll take care of the formalities If you do this small help, you can go places in just a day Leave me, Please What, are you scared? For you your life is precious, It'll be the same for others as well You have come to the wrong person Reddy If I see you again at the hospital You'll die Salim, That money You'll never get back donations To bring a juice they take this long useless fellows What's this? Orange Juice This is what you ordered Did I say I have memory loss - Sorry - When did I order, when are you bringing it? It's fresh juice mam, that's why it took a while You should have said that when I ordered I'm not paying to eat at the time you serve Call the manager, right now What's it? What's it Nisha? Half an hour to serve a juice They would have delayed it in the Kitchen What would he do about it? You shut up! Not brave enough to question him I don't like this hotel Let's leave - You eat and come - Nisha I'll wait in the car Excuse me sir What is this? - 5 Rupees - I know Tell me Salim Why are you doing like this? This is what you got from a patient you treated in the emergency If we check them in OP it's a minimum 300 in our hospital Do you know? Tell me Salim - I know sir - Then why She fainted just in front of the hospital That's why I brought her in For that will you just charge them 5 rupees They only had 5 rupees You could've waited till the relatives arrived She doesn't have any relatives Sir Am I running an orphanage here? This is a Hospital You may go now Some problem at the operation theatre Saaminathan Sir called for you Hello, Sir is in an emergency operation Hello, who are you? I'm the receptionist I need to talk to Salim, can you give the phone to him Wait a minute madam Don't know what I'm gonna do marrying him? Hello, I'm doctor Saaminathan Salim told you to get the invitation and go home, After... I don't like you - Welcome - Greetings - Are you fine? - I'm good How is your health? - It's good - Sir -Salim, How are you? - I'm fine Sit down Sire, My marriage invitation You like Nisha, right? I like her a lot Did Nisha say anything? Nisha is a bit short tempered She shares her views right on the face You have to adjust with her Hereafter, ensure you have a work life balance and do things as her wish. I've told a lot about you to Nisha's dad Don't let me down Okay Sire Nisha - Groom is here - Where is my towel? Towel.. - The groom is here - Where is my towel? - It's inside Nothing is at the right place I'm at peace only when I leave this house I told you to switch on the heater Why didn't you? Do you think I'll just keep quiet I'll show who I am - Is the Salad I asked for ready - Sorry, I've only made Dosa You do as you wish and just apologise Who wants your apologies - Hey I'm sorry I am apologising, right? What?, Can't you come down to get our wedding invitation? I was upset sentimentally In the operation theatre everyone else can answer the call except you You won't talk, right Don't get angry, I took off today for you Let's Go out Why is he honking like this! Do you know to drive? Do you have brains? I was honking for a while Do you think you own the road He was talking to you So slow! There is no one in the road, No signals, no police, Why don't you go faster No use talking to you Yeah tell She just rings me up to frustrate me Why don't you try Six packs like Surya? It'll look nice on you - Do you like Surya? - I like the six packs Let's hear about the tortures men goes through in their love life Yeah Muthukumar I fell in love by mistake She tells me to take her places not letting me to work and spending all my money And she lies a lot "That her friends lover took them places and blaming for not taking her anywhere" These women are all nuisance Always understand the girls wrongly Adding to that speaking about them like this publicly All men are useless In public touches like this are common You touched me intentionally You bloody.. If I slap you - What happened Nisha? - She is causing unwanted trouble here They were molesting me Salim We did it by mistake and she is scolding us for apologising OK leave that's nothing They are all acting OK leave - Am I making a scene - He apologised leave it Should we leave it if they apologise? - Whats the problem? - Nothing sir - That's nothing sir - Are they causing any trouble? Let's not make this big Please leave sir They did it by mistake Please leave it I came out with you I should blame myself They molested me intentionally You are apologise to them Is this why you brought me out Nisha, Please listen to me Nisha, look.. One minute.. Please come in for me To watch the movie Is what they showed not enough I stopped it so that it won't grow bigger Nisha, every one is looking at us These guy could cause trouble for you later If we do anything it would become a problem This is the last time I'm coming with you I came out with you! You please go and watch the film Auto, Go to Mylapore - Please listen to me Please go sir I put my trust in her, ruined myself, got cheated Oh great Shiva She tantalized me, changed my ways and estranged me oh great Shiva On facebook, she put up her photo and waved out to me She tantalized me, changed my ways and estranged me oh great Shiva Falling in love for us is tension, Calling you her boyfriend is her passion Over the phone she'll torture you If you trust her forget about your future I put my trust in her, ruined myself, got cheated Oh great Shiva She tantalized me, changed my ways and estranged me oh great Shiva I thought she was born for my love But on someother guy's bike she goes I don't have the six pack she asksfor If I try for it, I'll only be heading to the grave Welcome She said you won't come as you have some important operation She is upstairs Nisha, the groom is here Nisha - What? - Today is your birthday? Yeah You could've told me about it I didn't feel so You are a saint If I say it's my birthday Anyhow you wouldn't react No Nisha! This is you first birthday after our engagement I'm happy Even you express your happiness like a sick person Shall I take you out somewhere? Here is the sweet you asked for Sir After 4 months she has asked me to get her sweets Even though there are small gaps Saaminatha... Why is he roaming around in the car park? He doesn't smoke Has he lost something? - What are you doing in the dark? - Nothing, just thinking Nothing! Did Nisha say anything? Tell me Did she say anything? If she says anything its better.. It's 4 days I saw her She doesn't attend my call Is this a problem It happens in everyone's life I don't get anything I think I'll remain a loner till death Salim, Love is like driving the car in a highway It would be a fast fun ride If you loose control it will finish you Or you'll finish the one coming opposite to you Controlling yourself is your responsibility What happened now? Meeting her will sort all this That's why, I've invited her friends for a treat and asked Nisha to come along She'll come, Just thinking what to say to her Shall I make you a write up What is there to think? Are you gonna write an exam? You are going to meet your loved one Like the way you miss her, She too would be missing you You always just concentrate on your work Just think, She is gonna be there just for your love Think what to do next Do as I say It will work well If you meet her She will look like she is angry Don't get petrified Just kiss her - Before everyone Just try to pacify her and enjoy the day Before he gets married she 'll become old I've got the sweets for my wife, I'm leaving now - She won't take it in the wrong way - She won't, She will be very happy Give me a call once you are done A doubt in everything Wait, we are waiting for another person Hello, Police station Nisha, will your man be here? Or has he failed again During love if he is like this What will he do after marriage - Yes sir - Is Dr. Salim here Sir, is at a operation Please wait for a while - Hello - Is Salim not there - Where is he? - He hasn't come out of the operation theatre You called me, right? - Yes sir What happened? Okay Excuse me sir You've got a call Hello! What's the time! - Sorry Nisha - Sorry! Did I ask you to treat my friends? You invited them They waited for long You can't attend my call You insulted me before them Why do you want to get married? Why torture me? I am critical too Look there Look in her hand Look in her legs Looks to be a brutal one I had a look You would've to come to the station - Sure I'll leave Sir have searched thoroughly, Body isn't here Do you identify her? Come let's go It's not their daughter You go - Please come sir Please go Narmadha! Doctor! What happened? Get some water Get up Mam Get up Mam Who is it at this time? Sir, I checked as you said A white BMW crossed the check post at 7 I asked them to check who drove the car in the toll gate cam Then... I'm Thambidurai My daughter is like a child Very loving girl She doesn't even think to hurt an ant To her... They have burnt her... What will I tell her dad? We are all poor people? Just 3 years more Then, I'll take care of you Tell dad not to work anymore She was telling me We put our heart and soul to make her study We made her stay in a hostel as our native is far away Let my daughter open her eyes and identify who did this We shouldn't let them go Don't worry They'll find who they are Your daughter will survive I'll save her You be brave The God's are all dead To me you are the God Please save my girl some how - Hello, yes sir - Salim, Who is that patient? - I don't know sir - The police enquired you, Is she your relative - No sir - OK, Who'll pay the fee Still the admission fee hasn't been paid Is the fee a big thing or her life For these cases the government hospital are the right place Case with money are private and problematic cases are for the Government? If money is the problem I'll pay it Do you know the hospital rules? - This is not the time for rules I've to save this girl - Why? Because, I'm a doctor OK, I'll tell this to the MD You talk to him - Hello Sir - How is that patient? She is still unconscious, Will call you if she gets conscious Okay, Thank you You came late You saved a girls life You forgot your wife You never bother that I'm waiting for you All that is fine Will you sleep leaving the door open Salim, You know I love you Salim, Where are you? I'm home I came home late Why is MD angry on you - He wants to meet you urgently - Will come and explain to you I need to talk to you An important thing Can you switch off the phone and sit I think you're still angry with me Sorry, The mistake is mine Have coffee I'll be back I'm not interested in this marriage I've lost interest - In the marriage - To be clear, with you I've lost interest in you Did I do anything wrong? - You don't do any, that's your mistake You are not by my side when I need you If I want you at 5 you're available only at 6 You are a man of rules, principles and ethics Never speak a word in anger You don't drink or fight There is no pepper and salt Straight forward Very honest For others you are the right choice for me You honesty makes me very scared I'm restless Just take a tablet and sleep Everything will be fine when you wake up You can't treat this problem with just a tablet Don't be in a haste Take the invitations I'll talk to you in the evening After deciding I am not for the marriage What would I do with this trash I thought over for 2 weeks to come to this decision From the moment I saw you, I lost my sleep My heart longs for a life with you We ll live forever together From the moment I saw you, I lost my sleep My heart longs for a life with you Have to live a life of intimacy, With you lying on my shoulder When you walk away from me, you make my heart wounded Even in my sleep, you are in my dreams Unable to forget your love which ends my life Floating in the surface, flying in my dreams Drenching in rain of love - Where is the patient? - Shifted sir Shifted? Where? - Don't know sir - Hello sir - Where is the patient I admitted yesterday? Her relatives told they'll treat her in another hospital She just has her parents Tell me the truth Was payment the problem? Nothing like that They took her to another hospital - Which hospital? - Don't know sir Our ambulance right? - No, Some private ambulance Sir, MD invited you to the party today evening Tell him I'll come Last year, The profit of our hospital is 140 crores In that 10% 14 crores, I'm gonna gift you for making the hospital grow Next year our target is 300 crores And the share for you - 30 crores This is your hospital If this grows You'll grow I'm gonna gift Reddy a BMW car It costs 83,60,347... - Thank you sir After the party you must go home in this car Jain, a free seat for your daughter in our college For Sahee's co-operation A small house in Neelangarai I mean a flat A gift will come for all those who have come for this party Salim is gonna leave us Sorry Salim You're dismissed This is the prize for the business that Salim made for the hospital Very good human being Service minded And an example doctor He deserves it Honoring Salim's goodness This will be Salim's farewell party - Cheers! - Cheers!!! What is this? Where are you going? This is not right Stop the music What did I say? This is your party Stay.. Drink.. and pay for all this What do you say? This is Salim's party He's to pay, right? What? Where is my bag? Where is my bag? Be careful! Rascals! No one likes a person to be himself We must learn to be as they like And that's called adjustments Or we are unfit to live in this society They all can beg. One who is against the society is all good guys What's happening here? No parking! Look.. Who is wrong here? Those who have parked at the no parking are right But I'm bad Who are you? That's my bike What's that? What? Have I become good like you all? Now Am I good? Stop! Tell! Tell it! Who are you to fire me? I'll throw you all out of my circle I'll chuck you all out See! See here! Sorry brother Sorry Get up Get up! Hey This is One way Not your way What's that? Why have they kept it? Why? Rules are to be followed You're a police! Why police? If you don't follow the rules who will follow it then Sir, please tell Getting drunk, he is teaching us rules Take him to the station, We'll teach him our rules there I didn't talk anything wrong Sir won't do it again Sorry Sir - I didn't call you Sir, he looks educated and innocents Let's leave him Go and do your work - Sir.. I'm a doctor - Doctor? Do you've a ID card Yeah Why are you looking like this? I missed it on my way Missed it? Only if you had one can you miss it Doctor means you must be treating someone Not teaching rules in the middle of the road That too to a police man If you are educated, will you question the police? For people like you bashing you will teach a lesson for others Sorry, I did it by mistake I told you to go and sit Go and sit! I got to leave It's an emergency Shut up and sit I'm telling you keep irritating me Look what I am gonna do Preaching rules to the police All this should have come before you talked Hello uncle - Hello - What is the problem between you and Nisha - Nothing We are giving out invitation and all of a sudden she is telling to call off the marriage Whom you are talking to You can do nothing Call anyone you want Whoever it is tell him to come here I can't give you the phone Just once An important call sir Go sit down Go! What's the noise there? Ask them to come in What happened? He isn't attending - He called me - Men would be like that Catch him! Accused is here Come sir Go to Anna Nagar Be quick Get down Get down! You thought police are cowards I'll kill you here Get down! I'll make you go to jail for sure I'll show you who I am What are you looking at? The phone looks costly You took this phone and ran away, Let me see what have you got in that phone You have an affair with women too Which area pimp is he? - he is my father in law You said you are not married My marriage is next week The marriage is done I'll put an end to you It'll take 2 years for you to come out Non Bailable case as well. It'll minimum take 3 months to come out I'll inform your father in law No sir! Please! This is my life! He isn't attending - hello I'm G3 Police inspector Will you get your girl married to an accused? Don't shoot me! I'm a family man Only during my training days I have ran so much For 10 years I 'have not even jogged for a while But he made me run No one should know about the pistol I'll show him who I'm Never spoke a word in anger You don't drink or fight There is no pepper and salt I'm not interested in this marriage You can't come out of jail for 2 years Salim.. you think you are Gandhi You idiot! Now you got to know what happens if you oppose me Hereafter it's all about what I do in operations I'll be there at 10 Don't sleep For a car, you play around with lives and you're the best doctor That too twice It's all for the service I rendered, I can make you jobless forever Another word, I'll postmortem you alive Stop the music Salim I thought you won't come back You just keep coming back Get me a small It's a small right? Take him out! What, take him out? Are you running a hospital? That's a mafia group You play with patient's life and call me a trouble maker From birth to death all you need is Money! Money! Money! Salim! Salim! Stop! You know about them Then why all this anger? How did you get a gun? This is not right please listen to me You don't panic I didn't do anything wrong I swear I have never done anything wrong to anyone Here, no one likes a person who is right He says I'm not fit for work She says I'm not fit to live with her What are you saying? The Invitations! She dumped me long back They are chasing me where ever I go It's like going mad A policeman wants me to get arrested just because I spoke rules to him - This gun? - It's his Instead of living 2 years in jail I want to live a night as I wish bye Saami Dad Your mascara memerizes me Your wild talk flatters me Does my mascara mesmerize you Does my wild talk flatters you Hey you bewitching beauty You're the minister for my alliance Hey you dashing man You're the moon of my night Your mascara memerizes me Your wild talk flatters me Does my mascara mesmerize you Does my wild talk flatters you I feel a shock, I feel a shock, I feel a shock I lose my breath when you collide with me The wind blows, the wind blows, the wind blows, I start to sweat just by looking at your stare You're a sea that's rough I'm a boat that floats on it Lips of sugar, Body of fire, total glamour That causes fever Your mascara memerizes me Your wild talk flatters me Does my mascara mesmerize you Does my wild talk flatters you On your sexy hips, I find myself addicted to A little up and I let myself slip, And caused death of this man On a hot night the moon is bright To beat the heat, reduce the sweat, use me as a cooler Arrogance, arrogance, arrogance, Your beauty has an arrogance Lose it, lose it, lose it Lose your inhibitions Gold silver diamonds are what this statue is cast of, In front of you, alive Your mascara memerizes me, Your wild talk flatters me Does my mascara mesmerize you Does my wild talk flatters you Hey you bewitching beauty, You're the minister for my alliance Hey you dashing man, You're the moon of my night Your mascara memerizes me, Your wild talk flatters me Does my mascara mesmerize you Does my wild talk flatters you Hey! how did you come in? Look who it is? Leave me! Please! Go! Minister Dhavapunniyam's son guru has been kidnapped at gun point by a stranger Flash News Minister Dhavapunniyam's son guru has been kidnapped at gun point by a stranger He is been locked up in the 15th floor of white palace hotel Police forces are in full swing to rescue him Till now there is no reason stated behind his abduction Sources have said they could hear bullets sounds over there Do keep listening to us for more news and information Move the vehicles from there More police forces have been deployed for the minister's son Evacuate the guests safely Get the full details of all those who stayed with the ID proof Arrest anyone whom is a suspect Enquire who the witness is I must meet her immediately Have you seen him before this? No sir This hotel has CC Cameras right? Can you identify him in that? Surely sir Zoom in Go to camera 4 Zoom in that person Go to camera 2 He's the one He's the one - Zoom in Look if his face is registered clearly in any other camera No sir, This is all we have here In such a big hotel you just have 7-8 cameras Our guest are important Vip's They don't like having many camera's Why because they ll get to know what they do Johnson! I need to talk to him immediately Why have you imprisoned us Do you know, who I am? If anything happens to us You won't get away Better leave us! Every minute I'm here The danger is for you not for me Leave me Leave me! This is the important place Second wing this is your area - 3rd wing take all the tall buildings near the hotel to your control -4th wing take over the Stairs Hello! Guru! Hello Guru! Talk - Hello dad - What happened? You're safe right? Can't you be careful Are you hurt? - yeah dad - Why are you crying? You dad is the minister of this state You are born to rule Be brave I'm there But Guru you don't talk with him I'll take care, Don't act in haste Be patient He's playing not knowing the after effects Who is he? What have you done to him? I don't know dad I've never seen him before How does he look? He looks decent Give the phone to him I'll talk to him He's listening dad Hey, Who are you? You know who I am, If anything happens to my son, That's it Wherever you are, I'll make you disappear Who is the one dealing this case Call him immediately What happened? - It's connecting What the hell are you guys doing there? Why don't you come and join us in this hell Hello, this is Home minister Thava punniyam Sorry sir, I thought it to be a wrong call If anything happens to my son You know about me, right? Rescue him quickly, How long will it take? We have to talk and only then decide When will you talk? Talks are in place sir We have lost all our respect as they think police are for their service Connect a call to him What are you all doing? Who are you? Do you think we have no work? What do you want? Respect I need respect I'm Chezian DCP, crime branch The head of this operation, who are you? What do you want? I need a cup of tea What happened? What did he ask for? He needs a cup of tea Sir, we've got his photo Police have published the photo of the kidnapper Any information regarding him can be addressed to the police department The informer details will be confidential and a sanction would be rewarded for the information. This is more than what I expected I never thought your life would have so much value Sir This is Dr Reddy. I know about the guy whom you are looking for His name is Salim He too is a Doctor You don't worry We just found the guy We can find the motive We've sent extra police force just in case he is a terrorist We can easily rescue your son - Good, you've found me - I don't need your appreciations Who do you work for? Which group? Sir, Salim is just a name If this name makes you think so You can call me Vijay, Antony Instead don't just imagine things, That's wrong You don't advise us on the wrong deeds You don't know the wrong your doing Send them down first I'll give you half an hour Best joke You are giving me half an hour I'm giving you half an hour, Siluva, the rowdy of north Madras should come here Why should he come? I can't Send them down first What are you doing there? Don't panic, I aimed near his legs Now I'm aiming at his legs I should never hear the word impossible I got a call from there What's it? He has asked to bring Siluvai - For what? - I don't know If they don't bring Siluvai He'll shoot it seems I thinks this might be serious How dare you slap a police? What do you think of yourself? Have got the call from minister, Wanted you to come over there What do the police think about themselves How can you arrest me? What do you think of yourself? You're educated right Do you know the rules? He has no one and is an orphan So I accepted for the marriage then I didn't like him, so ditched him I know nothing more I knew he would do something mad That's why I called off the marriage Because I said no he has started acting weird I'll take care of everything What's the room number? No.. no you shouldn't go there He has a gun He has a gun.. I know Salim very well You know he loves me - he'll listen to me - You're taking unwanted risk Just be cool Commando, Salim's lover is coming up Do keep an eye on her I doubt her as well Salim I'm Nisha Salim, do you hear me? Are you mad? Will you do anything if I call off the marriage? Salim you are committing back to back mistakes I've lost all my respect because of you Please listen Leave them! Just open the door Salim Salim Siluva is here Don't allow any press members Siluva is here I need to see the boys No chance We did what you said Now you do what I say You can't see them Maybe you can talk to them You've 30 seconds Your time starts now - Hello - Is this Guru - Yes sir Have no worries We'll save you Answer me in yes or no's Does he have anything other than the gun? Just tell us We're there Don't worry Guru! Guru! - No sir the 30 seconds I gave is over Salim, tell us what your problem is I'll try to help you to my best Target on gun point sir please listen Don't complicate things Weapons are never a remedy Don't try to brain wash me Do what I say? Home minister should come here now Bloody rascal, I thought you were innocent Now your playing with us Waiting for order sir Don't think that you can achieve everything through this act Don't underestimate the police, If you wanna live release them This is my last warning too Another time you say the minister won't come here. No one will be alive here Shoot Target missed sir Sorry sir Who asked you to pass the order Is killing him important to you? Do I look mad to you Emergency Some one fell from the top floor Some one fell from the top floor One of the hostages has been pushed to death the moment there was a sniper shot fired Hostage has been taken in an ambulance to save his life I asked you to bring the minister And you are planning to kill me You underestimated Salim, Mr Chezhiyan If you want the remaining 3 alive minister should come here immediately Everything has an end You too have one I'll get you and kill you dammit Good luck sir Salim has asked for a direct talk with the minister and hence wanted the minister to comedown to the spot immediately With one hostage dead the minister has agreed to get on to the spot to keep the other 3 hostages alive There is been lot of questions surrounding the incident It's been said just to bring down the minister one of the hostages has been killed Who is Chezian here? - I'm Chezian sir What does he want? Why did he ask me to come here? I'm here now Now ask him to release my son Call him! No, you won't deal this I'll talk to him Hello, this is the home minister What is it? What do you want? Ask what you wish You are fighting with the government I'll give you as much money you need Now send my son down You won't get into any trouble The government is in my hands You'll understand I think I'll settle a amount that you wouldn't have dreamt of But release my son - Sir! - I'm talking over here Why are you disturbing? - It's been disconnected long tome back I'm chezian For now I'll talk to no one other than you Why? Because I'm doing what you say Don't even dare to stand in front of me You don't scare me As you are hot now I'll give you a hot news for you From yesterday night a life is slowly fading out If you go to the address I say You can save that life We are not gonna get scared for your dramas Do you want the address or not - What's it? - We searched the house, there is no one here You playing, there is no one at the house No.. I tied him up in the fridge Water.. Water He had tied up a person in the fridge He is conscious. Bring him here Which hospital are you taking me to? Not hospital We are going to the hotel I need no food Take me to the hospital keep quite for a while Have you done anything properly Trusting you will only take me to hell Tell me what happened What are you doing staying alive Fear for his life, uttered the truth Don't you have brain? What's the point in looking stout and arrogant You should have grown some brains What did you say? - Sir - What? - DIG Kumaravel is here Tell him I'm coming Nothing should happen to the boys Can you come by for a minute Please wait outside What did the Chief Minister said? - You can do anything without hampering the political party's reputation So you mean to say even at the cost of my son's death To shout like this why did you go there? I need my son safe That's it I don't mind about party's reputation No sir He didn't mean that Your son should be rescued safe and the party name should not be spoiled as well I too know all that Don't ever try to do something which would affect his safe rescue If so then you all will face the consequences Tell this to your CM Sir, Salim? I'm Narmadha's dad I don't know where my daughter is I need to see her Everyone say they don't know They said you treated her Even though I have got no money Take any organ from me I've got no one other than them All I need is my wife and daughter back I need to talk to Thava Punniyam - Sir - What's it? Why do you hang the phone while talking? That's wrong You know who I am and why I have got you both here Listen to me I'll send you home royally With loads of money Go to foreign and enjoy your life Why get into these unwanted stuff You can have these conversations with social evils like you Do you think this is a political meeting? Just listen to me If you talk anything I'll slit your son's throat Where have you kept Narmadha and her mother? You got to confess the truth about your son and his actions to the media I must see it Understand! Or you won't see your son alive Narmadha? I've never heard that name before Where will I go and search her? So you don't know her... Come to the hotel entrance Alert the rescue department Quick Spread the net Catch it! What do you want? You want us to find Narmadha and her mother You've got police to do that Group of boys have got courage to abduct, rape and deform her face with acid Who is responsible for this? You You just watch and let things happen Now watch this too Switch on the speaker Thava Punniyam You've got a nice name You must bring Narmadha and her mother here You got to confess everything to press and media More quicker you do, keeps your son safe Else every 10 minutes he'll have his fingers chopped off Go GO! We are in a critical stage Please tell me the rescue possibilities Attacking is the right move Causing no harm for the boys what plan do you have? I've a attack plan But.. We can't assure the safety of the boys Looks like you guys will kill my son You must say, as you've speaking with him for a while By now you must be able to guess his mind What do you think would be his next move He's not a psycho or a terrorist Looks like a good fellow He's determined So... If he doesn't get his demand he'll kill the boys For that You want me to confess everything to press and media, Just keep your mouth shut Why is he not picking up the phone? If not he may lose his position, keep him informed All are waiting for our leader's political career end But the leader believes in our support Please come here Very difficult situation for the minister, right? What is he going to do? That's not a problem sir Just 6 months or a year - His son will come out of jail, - I don't understand Sir he becomes 18 only after 3 months So the case will be filed as child accused A year or 2 he'll get out So sir is planning to accept it Silence Remain Silent! We've very short time Please co-operate with us Addicted to drugs, my son and his friends are responsible for a girl's rape and murder I feel ashamed and guilty for that I got to know this truth just a few minutes back To bring this truth only Salim has took them as hostages According to me what he did is not correct, He could have addressed to me or to the law and order Even though he did it in a wrong way but has a got a good cause in it I always want everything to happen abiding the laws So in my son's case, law and order will take its action Criminals would be punished I would not get into this investigation for sure, Thank you Have furnished all the information to the police One by one please. Every question would be answered You've been murdered There is no one to question this? There is no one to question this? Do kill me as well and bury me along with them Even if the world washes its hands on you And drags you to the streets Until the end fight it out Don't lose heart at any moment Who is good And who is bad Is there a righteous one in this world, You tell me Let bygones be bygones Let bygones be bygones Even if the world washes its hands on you And drags you to the streets Until the end fight it out Don't lose heart at any moment Tonight 2am I'll release 2 boys For my safety, Guru will be with me I need a car for me to leave from here Tonight by 2 AM me and guru will be leaving the hotel After our car crosses Thiruvanmaiyur No one should follow us If anyone does Guru won't be alive That is not possible We won't accept what you say The car will be ready at 1.50 AM But handover the boy here I know about you and your politics I wanna finish off the deal mutually, Do understand and speak officer First bring him out, then I know how to get my son out of it Please Salim listen to me, Minister's son is just 17 years old He is gonna suffer a lot in juvenile prison, He is a small boy, Please don't do anything to him Understand! -40 Years I've never stood like this before in my political career of 40 years But today all went for a toss in front of press and media I am dead From that minute I am dead He should die, I want him to die The moment I get my son back, I want the news about his death Understand? Don't bow down to an immoral person Don't lose yourself for measly propositions Don't just be a face in the crowd Don't shun away when there's any wrongdoing You may lose your life, let it go There's no injustice in that God is on your side, why worry Let bygones be bygones, Let bygones be bygones, Throw it all away Even if the world washes its hands on you And drags you to the streets Until the end fight it out Don't lose heart at any moment Salim is calling someone from his mobile - Who is that? - Saami how are you? Salim, How are you doing? Yeah I am okay saami, Can you do me a small favour? Tell me There is an ATM card in my hospital room Do withdraw the money and hand it over to Annai Sardha orphanage If possible you go and handover it Poor children they'll be waiting for my arrival Do convey my sorry to Nisha Poor girl, I think I got too much angry I don't know whether I'll be alive by tomorrow There are quite a few pigeons at my home Not sure what they ate for the past 2 days Do handover them to someone who can take care of them They've been living with me for quite sometime Don't lose just while leading your life, Don't pass away having lived just for yourself Don't let the scars bring you tears Your tears won't melt away time Even if a wild elephant stamps you Stand your ground and live on You fall like the rain You will rise like the tide Even if the world washes its hands on you And drags you to the streets Until the end fight it out Don't lose heart at any moment Who is good And who is bad Is there a righteous one in this world, You tell me Let bygones be bygones Let bygones be bygones Throw it all away Even if the world washes its hands on you And drags you to the streets Until the end fight it out Don't lose heart at any moment Take my car We've got the car like you asked for Even if a wild elephant stamps you Stand your ground and live on Don't be a passer by And just be a burden to this world Even if a wild elephant stamps you Stand your ground and live on You'll fall like the rain And rise like the tide Even if the world washes its hands on you And drags you to the streets Until the end fight it out Don't lose heart at any moment You don't worry Sir, We can rescue him safe Guys at last you made him sit on the ground We devised the plan with that vehicle to rescue your son But we didn't expect him to ask for your son's car What's the point in having so many policemen? He just walked away We've been silent because it's your son I know how to rescue my son Get down - Are you alright? - I am fine Daddy - Where is he? - He dropped me and went off I am at ECR but don't know my exact location Hey call those guys He has dropped my son at ECR Do tell our guys over there to pick him up If they could find his car on the way ask them to crash it My next news I hear should be his death news Sir it was not him who drove the vehicle, it was your son - Are you alright? - I am fine Daddy - Where is he? - He dropped me and went off I am at ECR but don't know my exact location You just stay there our guys will come and pick you up in five minutes To be continued...
