 

                        "This film was shot in Sicily. In Montelepre, where Salvatore Giuliano was born. In the houses, roads, and mountains where he reigned for seven years. In the house in Castelvetrano, where the outlaw spent his last months, and in the courtyard where his lifeless body was found one morning. " In the year 1950, on this fifth day ofJuly, in Castelvetrano, on the Via Fra' Serafino Mannone, in the De Maria courtyard, lies a male corpse, apparent age 30 years, lying in a prone position, with the left leg extended and the right leg bent at nearly a right angle. The right arm is extended with clenched fist, and the left is under the chest. The left cheek lies on the ground. You mean "rests" on the ground. Very well. Correct that. He was wearing the following: a white cotton undershirt, a brown leather belt with gold buckle and pistol holster, a pair of canvas, khaki-colored trousers, striped cotton socks, civilian sandals with crepe sole. From the right ring finger I have recovered a white metal ring with a single diamond. In the trouser pocket I found a ten-lire bill, and a photograph of an as yet unidentified person. No pictures. Reporters and photographers may enter now. Easy, easy. His undershirt is soaked with blood, but there's little on the ground. It must be underneath him. Carnemolla, take a picture from above. Pinciroli. - Your Excellence. - Let's keep the photos to a minimum, and get rid of them quickly. Gentlemen, that's enough now. Time to go. You heard him. You, too! Gentlemen, close the windows. Ever since the Allies'arrival in 1943; there had raged in Sicily a passion for separatism. MIS was the separatist party that wished to unite the region; and EVIS was its military arm. The Americans; the English; landowners and the Mafia supported the movement. Many died in skirmishes between separatists and offiicers of the law. On September 30; 1945; the first CLN government ordered the arrest of the leaders of the independence movement.: Finocchiaro Aprile and Varvaro. We should have achieved independence before the war ended on the mainland. Then the government would have been faced with a fait accompli. Now it's useless. The situation gets worse every day. Either we give up, or we stage an insurrection right now. Who's going to stage the revolution? A bunch of kids? Right now there are 37 bands of outlaws in Sicily. Thirty-seven! They have enough weapons to fill an arsenal. And they're not all escaped convicts. Most of them are victims of injustice, ignorance and poverty. They're just waiting for a chance to get back to civilian life. That's enough. You know most of us are against what you propose. - Talking has gotten us nowhere. - All right then. We set up an independent combat unit and absolve the party of all responsibility. Enough of this crap! Who did Garibaldi use to liberate Sicily from the Bourbons? He used the picciotti. And who were they? Escapees and bandits. Sir, we'll have to walk. That was the agreement. As long as it's not too far. No, it's nearby. October 1945. Case Vecchie di Sagana; a few miles from Montelepre. Representatives of EVIS seek out the outlaw Giuliano to offer him the rank of colonel; the battle flag of EVIS; and the promise that his name would be cleared once the separatists have won. - Where's Turiddu? - Inside. Let's go. Salvatore Giuliano was then 23. He had become an outlaw at 21. Caught delivering two sacks of grain to the black market; he fled; killed a carabiniere; and managed to reach the mountains. Go on in, sir. Turiddu is expecting you. Pinuzzo, come here. Good morning, Don Pie'. - Where are the others? - In back of the house. Good morning. - Who's he? - Don Pietro di Borgetto. - And the others? - Separatists, like him. They've hired Giuliano to fight for the independence of Sicily. Picciotti; we're all going to be soldiers now. Italy let us burn, and now we're going to answer with fire. We've made Giuliano a colonel, so he can fight the Italian tyrants to gain our freedom, and so you can go back to your homes as free men. Sicily, wake up. Your shameful slumber has lasted far too long. While you've slept, all has been lost, even your honor. Now the trumpets ring loud and you must no longer sleep, because sleep would mean death. White roses of Sicily, you'll be stained red with our blood. But our sons and our sons' sons will live in a free land and will lift their gaze to the heavens and smile at the future. DEATH TO THE FASCIST PIGS WHO SUCK THE BLOOD OF THE SICI LIAN PEOPLE LONG LIVE I NDEPENDENCE AND FREEDOM - Have these things taken away. - Where to? We don't know. To the cemetery. When will the body be identified? We don't know yet. The magistrate will decide that. Where is the man who was with Giuliano? Why are you asking me? Ask the carabinieri. He was shot in the heart. The carabinieri were waiting in the courtyard. He came running in and they shot him. What about the four shots in his side and back? He got those earlier, during the chase. - But how did you know - - You were saying? How did you know that Giuliano would be in Castelvetrano? An informant told us ten days ago that Giuliano was in the area. The same informant said Giuliano was going to escape to America in a plane on its way from Tunis. The carabinieri had been waiting on the Via Cangini since 10:00. So you even knew Giuliano's exact route through the streets? You'll be given all the details at the press conference. Two men appeared at the end of the street. One of them was Giuliano. The carabinieri ordered them to stop, and the two outlaws tried to run. The carabinieri opened fire and shot him dead. And Giuliano didn't shoot? Of course he did. Bullets were flying everywhere. - And the carabinieri weren't wounded? - Not one. - Do you live here? - Yes, sir. So you heard last night. What happened? Three revolver shots. - Only three? - Yes, sir. And after a while, a machine gun. But they said the street was full of outlaws and carabinieri shooting for an hour. It's not true. It's all a lie. The chase, the shoot-out, all that racket - what time did that start? We didn't hear anything. Just three revolver shots, and about a half hour later, a machine gun went off. - And you didn't see anyone go by? - No, no one went by. You didn't hear Giuliano go by, followed by the carabinieri? Just three revolver shots and the machine gun. Could I have a glass? One for me too, please. What did you think of Giuliano? - Took from the rich, gave to the poor. - That's it? Yes, sir, that's it. Where are you from? - Rome. What do you know about Sicily? The only thing we know for certain is that he's dead. The eyewitness accounts conflict with the official version of the facts. However, if this outlaw lies dead today, we can thank the carabinieri. Carry on. This is the plain around Montelepre; with one town after another.: Giardinello; Torretta; Carini; Partinico; Alcamo. Andjust a few miles away; Palermo. The long mountain range of Sagana; Monte Calcerame and Monte d'Oro. Giuliano's kingdom; protected by omerta, passion and terror. Montelepre lies at the foot of the mountain. You can see people in the streets and hear their voices. From the terrace ofhis house; Turiddu receives signals from his mother. The town is full of carabinieri; but they can't lay their hands on the outlaw. A field radio warns the colonel of any enemy movement. Mortar fire and heavy machine guns protect the small army of outlaws and separatist fanatics. From the mountaintop; all movement is monitored and countered. Giuliano's guns are trained on the long; white; dusty roads. On the other side of Sicily; the eastern side; in 1946; a company of soldiers quickly defeated the separatist rebels. But the king of Montelepre remains enthroned in his kingdom. What are you doing? Close the shutters! - What's going on? - They say the soldiers are coming. Let's go and see. Why couldn't they give me advance warning for once? The whole town knows before we do! Of course. Giuliano has a radio, and we can't telephone Palermo. - Sir, you're expected at town hall. - Send Tomasetto and Comito. Please come in, Major. These will make fine accommodations for our headquarters. I'll inform the mayor right away. Even the smallest Italian town can be a museum. - At your service, Major. - Come in, Marshal. I need to house 300 soldiers. - Where will I put 300 soldiers? You can commandeer spare rooms in private homes. Allow me to advise against using private homes, Major. This territory is rather hostile. We'll discuss the territory at some other time. First we have to find housing for the men. There is a warehouse, but it's a ways out of town. Valle, go with the marshal, and take two men with you. - Yes, sir. - Forgive me if I insist, Major. Perhaps we should send someone ahead to let the townspeople know. - To avoid surprises. - Enough with the complications. Go. Of course, Major. Now I see why they never get anything done in this place. Keep close to the wall. It's safer. You have to understand the major. We northerners are out of our element. - So are we, and we're from here. - Let's go. Open up.! - Who is it? - We have wounded men here.! Over there. Lieutenant. Hear ye, hear ye! By order of the army, a curfew is now in force. No one may go outside without permission from the authorities. Don't shoot unless I do. Tell the others. These lunatics are serious. Damn it! I survived a war, only to get killed by savages in this godforsaken wasteland! Why are they shooting? Are they outlaws or partisans? Why doesn't Italy just give these people their independence? Why did they send us down here? One plane would take care of them. Lieutenant, take them all back. Boys, we're retreating. Hear ye, hear ye! By order of the army, you have one hour to get water and shop for food. In May 1946; Sicily was granted its independence. Separatism had not been in vain. In June; King Umberto II left the government. The Italian Republic granted amnesty for all political crimes. Even those who had fought for EVIS were free to return to their homes. The attorney is expecting you. You can come in. - Our respects, sir. - God bless you, sir. God bless you, sir. Bless you, sir. What do they want from me? Do they think this is the carabinieri barracks? Didn't the prince write in his letter that we should come here? - The prince sent us to you. - The prince! Now that you're friends with the prince, you think it's going to be easy. My dear boys, we'll have to determine your standing in the eyes of the law. All these men here, sir, are sure to receive amnesty. - You have no common crimes? - Only political crimes. We assaulted the carabinieri barracks and we were at Monte d'Oro. So Colonel Giuliano gave you an honorable discharge, eh? Didn't he give you an Iron Cross? Giuliano gathered us together and told us that EVIS was no more, and that those who had only committed political crimes could go home. While he stays in the mountains. What was this Giuliano hoping for? Even if the separatists had achieved a free and independent Sicily, they wouldn't have kept their promise. He was an idiot to believe them! Giuliano fought for Sicily, and sooner or later his name will be cleared too. He has connections. Let him keep dreaming. If up until now he's been an outlaw in the mountains, from now on he'll be an outlaw in the streets, until they catch him. No one can catch Turiddu. Not until it suits certain people. First you squeeze the lemon, then you throw it out. Kidnappings for exorbitant ransoms; robbery; extortion; blackmail. These were the activities of Giuliano's band after the dissolution of EVIS. How much of the loot went to Giuliano; and how much to the Mafia? The protection of the "honored society" was expensive. A wall of silence is Giuliano's most powerful weapon. Fierce and continuous surveillance is not enough to break down the wall protecting the outlaw. All this bread for one day? It's for three days. Who is this bread for? Giuliano pays you well for it, eh? All this water for one day, huh? This time you got lucky. You can all go home. Get out of here. Donna Maria! Marshal, knock before you enter. My daughter is sick! What have I done, Marshal? - Move. - What did I do, Marshal? Captain, I know all these people personally. They have nothing to do with Giuliano. We're wasting our time. Marshal, the entire town is mixed up with Giuliano. Do you know how many people have died? Besides, I don't question orders. Get inside! - Marshal, what are you looking for? - I know he slept here last night. - Go get him, then. - Shut up, or I'll arrest you, too. You might as well. You're arresting the whole town, you cuckolds! Hurry up. I'm waiting. - Let's go. - Move it. Marshal, he's my only living nephew. My husband's ill. Look at him. He's bedridden. Have a heart! This boy's father is with Giuliano, so he's coming with us, or he'll end up shooting at us. Enough! Let's go! - Back inside! - Let them go! Get back inside. Take them away. Hurry up. Giovanni! Get out here. Hurry up! You, get down here. Hurry up. Come on. Let's move it. Come on. Let's go. Hurry up! - These are the men going to Palermo. - Yes, sir. Antonino Terranova, son of Giacomo. - Here. - Step out. Giuseppe Traina, son of Salvatore, and Salvatore Traina, son of Giuseppe. Here. - Step out. How long will we have to pay for the sin of being born in Montelepre? Francesco Paolo Morello, son of Francesco, step out! Murderers! They're going to kill them! They're taking them to Palermo. They're murderers! Brigadier. Rosario Terranova. Block that street with two squadrons. Quick! Move! Get back. My son! Blood of my blood! Does the magistrate wish to proceed? Of course. Make way, please! Please! Ma'am, do you recognize your son? Yes. Salvatore Giuliano. I gave birth to my son 28 years ago. My son! My Turiddu! My Turiddu! for an autonomous Sicilian government. The people's party is victorious. A few months earlier; a farmers'movement had arisen; espousing agrarian reform and the occupation of feudal land. Hey;you. Come here. - Do you know me? - Sure. You must come with us. Turiddu Giuliano wants to talk to you. - Me? - Yes, you. - What does he want? - To talk to you. - Where is he? - At the top of the mountain. - What about my goats? - Take them back to town. - Where will I leave them? - Take this money and hire someone. Listen: Not a word to anyone, and come right back. - What are we still doing here? - Just wait and be quiet. - You know how to use this? - No, I haven't done military service. I'll teach you. This is how you load, and this is how you shoot. You do this to fire again, and this way it won't shoot. Got it? Let's go, boys. Stay here with the others. - What did Giuliano say? - Tomorrow, May 1 st, we're going to Portella della Ginestra to shoot at the communists. - Why? - I don't know. He said the day of our freedom has come at last. That's what he wants, so that's what we'll do. Comrades, friends, workers, every May 1 st, fascism or no fascism, we've always come here. There used to be only a few of us, but now we're a force to be reckoned with. And we proved it in the election for the Sicilian parliament, with a well-deserved victory by the people's party. That was a great first victory, but it was only the beginning. And they'll have to do more than just give us land. They have to give us seeds, tools and plows! We need tools, roads and houses. They have to give us running water and electricity in the countryside. We have to bring civilization to the rural areas. We want our children to learn to read and write, to defeat the shame of illiteracy. Because of our ignorance, we are the victims of injustice. We are all victims of the establishment. We want our children to learn to read - Was this one there? Yes, he was there too. He was next to me. He told me to start shooting. He saw I wasn't shooting and said, "Idiot, why aren't you shooting?" Go on. He snatched the gun from my hand. He said, "You idiot! You're 20 years old and you can't shoot a gun!" He told me to go back to town and never show my face again. - How much did Giuliano pay you? - Nothing. How many times do I have to tell you? They only paid those who shot. I want to go home! I didn't do anything, Marshal! Let me go home! I didn't do anything! I didn't kill anybody! I want to go home! I didn't kill anybody! Don't waste your tears. You can thank Giuliano. Then arrest him, and not us poor shepherds! Quiet! In July of 1950; Salvatore Giuliano was just a name on a tombstone. Since the long-ago days of Portella della Ginestra; other crimes had been added to the list of the band's activities. Giuliano had continued to kidnap; blackmail and kill. A hundred carabinieri and policemen had died fighting him. Between 1947 and 1949; the government replaced dozens of politicians and four top police inspectors; but the outlaw was unstoppable. Only a few reporters had been able to reach him; to the astonishment of the public at large. On August 19; 1949; at Bellolampo; at the gates of Palermo; six carabinieri died in an ambush and 11 more were wounded. The government adopted extreme measures and instituted the Outlaw Repression Corps; headed by Colonel Luca. After 11 months; a large number of the outlaws in the band were captured or killed; and Giuliano met his end. The only one left was Giuliano's right-hand man; Gaspare Pisciotta. Ma'am, we know that Gaspare Pisciotta is hiding in this house. If you love your son, tell him to come out. - What's up there? - Another attic. - Sir, we've checked everywhere. - Nothing. All right. Let's go. Give me that. Let's go. Take all your men out. We're not moving. Sooner or later, your son will come out. Ma'am, I'm a policeman, and I catch my outlaws alive. Pisciotta, come on out! We know you're here! Son, come out, for your own good! I want to make a declaration that will interest the world at large. I'll question you in good time. Silence! Your Honor, recent newspaper articles suggest that we should question the defendant as soon as possible. Defendant Gaspare Pisciotta was questioned in Palermo by the delegate at the inquiry before the court of appeals. I didn't say that my client, Gaspare Pisciotta, should be questioned. I said that he intends to say things that I know nothing about. Pisciotta, is this statement strictly relevant to the case we are now trying regarding the massacre at Portella della Ginestra? My attorney will advise the court as to what I want to say. These matters have nothing to do with the case we are trying. Your Honor, if you don't read it, how can we determine that? - Quiet, please. - Just read the letter. Quiet. Take your seats, please. "Dear Sir, as I see in you a conscientious and honest man, and as I trust you implicitly, please allow me, as time is of the essence, to inform you of the following: As I discussed and confirmed with authorities, it was I who killed Giuliano. I reserve the right to discuss the matter in court in Viterbo. " As you can see, this has nothing to do with our trial. "Finally, in the evening, Giuliano gathered us together and spoke. He said we would shortly all be leaving with him to go to Portella della Ginestra, where, the following morning, we would fire on some communists gathering there. But, unless my memory fails me, he never explained why he intended to carry out this criminal deed. " I'm reading your deposition because these are your words. - I don't remember anything. - What do you mean? You even signed it with an X. Do you recognize this? All X's look the same. Did you sign it before the judge or not? I'm innocent. I don't even know where Portella della Ginestra is. I said those things because I was afraid they would beat me. I demand we ask the defendant how he was treated prior to questioning. Quiet. Were you friends with the men behind these bars? Were they your friends? Did you know them? I don't know anybody. I've never known anybody. You were born and raised in Montelepre. You must know someone, if only as a neighbor! I was raised in Montelepre, but I don't know anybody! Very well. Get out of here. The boy learned his lesson well. Another X. You were first questioned by the carabinieri in Montelepre, and in Palermo you confirmed your confession before the judge, right? I don't know anything. I've never been to Portella della Ginestra. That's not true. That's not what you told the judge. I'm innocent, Your Honor. I confessed because they beat me. I'm innocent! All right! Go back to your seat. The entire time I was in jail, I was never mistreated. After 110 days of lying on my cot with my hands and feet bound, I only asked the marshal to change my position on the cot. All of us in the cage are innocent! I don't know them. We were all afraid of the carabinieri. I add my demand to that of my colleagues. I demand an inquiry into the treatment of the defendants prior to questioning. Thejudge then wrote in his verdict.: 'Abusing those who are at the disposal oflaw enforcement offiicers is repugnant to any man of conscience; but there are certain admissions; certain stories; that no amount ofbeating could induce a man to make up. Furthermore; there is a pattern in all these depositions; proceeding from an initial full and free admission of the facts to a categorical denial. This began with the arrival in court; on June 13; 1950; of Giuliano's memoir; in which he stated that all the picciotti were innocent; and that their declarations to the police offiicers had been made under duress. In the memoir delivered to the court; the strategy for their defense was clearly outlined. " Giuliano's statements won't be enough to clear you of the charges. Your own confessions, as well as numerous eyewitness accounts, are against you. How can you not understand that this attitude of categorical denial can only make your situation worse? Who fired the shots at Portella della Ginestra? When the time is right, I'll talk. You were so brave when you kidnapped people right in the middle of Palermo. You were a real expert in kidnapping. Let's see if you can exhibit some of that courage and be a man. Tell us which of these men joined Giuliano in massacring women and children during an outing in the country. I kidnapped people, but I never made a mother cry. I won't implicate anyone, but I strongly hope that those who were at Portella will come forward one day and confess. Will you please tell us who is guilty and who is innocent in those cages? If you wait too long to talk, it won't help you any. As the trial progresses, Pisciotta, Mannino and I will try to help the court. Do you want to tell us who took part in the massacre? Absolutely not. When the time is right, I'll talk. All right. Go on. Quiet. The court is in session. Defendant Gaspare Pisciotta is sick. This is the text of the letter he addressed to the judge: "My liver is enlarged, my eyes are yellow and I have jaundice. I need absolute rest. I can't take part in the hearing, but I give my consent for the proceedings to go on without me. If, in the meantime, certain persons whom you know should come forward, please have someone advise me of it. In that case I will come to court, on a stretcher if necessary. " May I say something, Your Honor? - What is it? - I must speak to you. Approach. Your Honor, I have to unburden myself of the weight I have in my stomach. The time has come to talk. The men who followed Giuliano's orders and shot at the farmers are: Giuseppe Genovesi, Giuseppe Cucinella... and Giovanni Provenza. The other men who shot at Portella are either dead or still at large. I heard this from Terranova, who said Giuliano told him. He won't talk, so I'm talking. Go back to your seat. Terranova, come here. Take him away, quickly! Clear the courtroom! Quiet! I'm innocent. Your Honor, I'm innocent. Even though I'm ill... I've come here to tell the truth... about the massacre at Portella della Ginestra. A document exists containing the names of all the men who, on Giuliano's orders, took part in the massacre, and the names of those who were behind it. That is Giuliano's real memoir. The memoir in the judge's hands is completely false, and Giuliano was forced to write it. In it Giuliano omitted the names of the men behind the massacre, writing a bunch of lies in their place, telling me nothing about it and destroying his comrades' lives! That's why I killed Giuliano. But there is another memoir, the real one, that I myself delivered to the carabinieri, with whom I was collaborating, because, Your Honor, I wanted to avoid this scandal. But it's too late now. Since I now know they're trying to screw me over, I make the first move! Gaspare Pisciotta, do you realize what you are saying? I said that I collaborated with the colonel of the carabinieri, and that prior to that, the police gave me a free pass, allowing me to come and go. Your Honor, we can't sit here and listen to this mumbo jumbo. I can prove what I'm saying. I came here to defend something, but not myself. We were all loyal servants of the separatists and the monarchists. They're in Rome with their seats in parliament, and we're in jail! Murder, kidnapping and blackmail - now it all becomes political. I collaborated with the police. We were all informants. Outlaws, police and the Mafia - they were an unholy trinity. I demand that the defendant show proof of his assertions, so we can put an end to this scandalous outbreak, intended solely to distract the court from the defendants' true crimes. Your Honor, I request new testimony on behalf of Gaspare Pisciotta. I, defense for Mr. Pisciotta, move to subpoena General Luca as witness so he can be deposed as to the following facts: First, whether, as head of the Outlaw Repression Corps, he established a direct relationship with Mr. Pisciotta while the latter was a fugitive from the law. Second - What was your relationship with Salvatore Giuliano? Certain informants arranged for me to meet Giuliano. That was on December 23, 1949. Did you meet Gaspare Pisciotta? I saw him during that meeting. Your Honor, I request that the witness be asked why he saw fit not to arrest the two outlaws, Giuliano and Pisciotta, during this meeting. I'm sorry, Counsel, but the question is not relevant at this time. Then I would like to know whether the witness informed the ministry before or after the meeting. This question is also irrelevant. At the end of my term, I notified the ministry of internal affairs, and I was told not to persist with this initiative because of the formation of the Outlaw Repression Corps. But the meeting with Giuliano took place after the formation - Counsel, quiet, please. In fact, although I was no longer inspector general of the police force, I continued my investigation. For this reason I went to Sicily once, where my meeting with Giuliano was arranged by intermediaries. Did Giuliano give you the memoir regarding Portella della Ginestra? No. After two months or so, Giuliano sent me a memoir, which I sent to the authorities in Palermo. This is the same memoir that this court received. It was missing the names of the 12 men who allegedly participated in the massacre at Portella, nor was there mention of anyone behind it. I believe I can deny the assertions of the outlaw Pisciotta. I'm not an outlaw! Quiet, Pisciotta, or I'll have you removed from the courtroom. Can you name the intermediaries? Of course. One day I was invited by a confidant of the commendatore to attend a meeting between a certain police officer and Giuliano and Pisciotta. When the inspector met Giuliano and Pisciotta, they embraced like friends. We can't hear you. Speak up. I said they embraced like friends. Where did this meeting take place? We'll have to put up a plaque. In a house in Castelvetrano. There was talk of sneaking the band out of the country. Had Giuliano perhaps grazed in someone else's pasture? Had he killed someone? How could you think he could actually sneak them out of the country? Your Honor, they embraced. Whether it was an embrace of love or hatred, I don't know. Have you ever heard talk of a memoir of Giuliano's? Yes, several times, but I was never able to get a hold of it. Pisciotta maintains otherwise. Following Pisciotta's lead, I sent one of my men to meet an individual on the road between Castelvetrano and Mazzara del Vallo. That person was supposed to deliver the memoir. My man went to the meeting and met the individual, who told him he had burned the entire memoir. General, were you informed by your men that Gaspare Pisciotta had a pass signed by Inspector Messana? At the time I was told nothing. When my headquarters were disbanded, I contacted Verdiani. I asked him to give me the names of his confidants, because they could have been useful to me. But Verdiani refused to help me. He said he didn't have confidants. So I had to start all over again. Thus began the rivalry between police and carabinieri; and other state law enforcement agencies. And now the carabinieri contacted the Mafia; whose relationship with the outlaws is hard to define. It's unclear whether they were one and the same thing; or whether the Mafia spawned the outlaws. The commander will see no visitors. - What news do you have for me? - Nothing doing. Then why did you come? Marshal, believe me: Giuliano is hiding. And none of us know where he is. He's cunning. He doesn't trust anyone. I'll pass this on. Actually, you will. Come with me. Marshal, if this is a friendly conversation, fine. If you want to behave like a cop, then I don't know anything. I don't know whether your friends have informed you, but it was explained clearly to them. If you want to go, good. If not, we'll start with you, and your friends will follow. Wait a minute. Let's discuss this calmly. Have a seat. It's in our interest to help you. Ever since Colonel Luca came, our business has been bad. There are too many carabinieri around. Giuliano has become a deadweight even for us, but we can't give him to you the way you want him. Don Nunzio, we have to capture Giuliano. Then take our advice. If you want Giuliano, first we have to get rid of the others. There are four of them left. We can give you one right away: Franco Mannino. I'll tell him Giuliano sent you to take him to his hiding place. He trusts me like his own mother. All right? You decide, Marshal. When you're ready, you want him dead or alive? - This is the friend. - Good evening. Are you happy? Is the colonel happy? Cut it out. You know very well what will make him happy. First the others, then Giuliano. Marshal, don't be greedy. We can't do any more for you. In our world there are only a few men who want to help you. We can't give you Giuliano, nor can we give you anyone else. - What about our agreement? - What agreement? Our lives are on the line! In that case, I'll let Mannino go. So now I'm the one you want to see dead. Where's Don Nunzio? It's time. Let's go. Marshal, you won't need that. - Where is he? - Come in. Hello. He'll take you to Turiddu. Good evening. Don Nunzio, it's getting late. Let's go, boys. Quick. You have to get in here. - I'm not doing it. - Get in there, damn it! Giuliano wants to see you and I'm responsible for you. Go on! You too. Where are Mannino, Badalamenti and Madonia? - Why are you asking me? - Only you knew where they were. Aren't you going to say anything? Tell him they made us do it. Tell him someone sold them down the river. Take them to the one who made the deal. They're the ones who have to talk. They'll talk. You'll all talk. Let's go! Go on. Kill me. Are you waiting for Giuliano to come back? He's not coming back. Neither are Mannino and the others. The carabinieri got them. The two of you can thank me that you're still alive. Don't you see that the Mafia and the carabinieri are in cahoots? I've been in touch with the police since 1947. The police are powerless these days. The carabinieri hold the cards. Sooner or later, they're going to get rid of all of you. Or at least you, because Giuliano will save his hide. You can bet that the Mafia won't give Giuliano up. They could have turned him in or killed him on dozens of occasions. Why didn't they do it? They're scared because he has too much in writing. You idiot! Giuliano has been preparing his escape for ages! He's going to screw all of you, and you'll be the first! You're a real snake. First you betray Mannino and the others, and now you want to poison my relationship with Giuliano. And you're a na:i:ve bastard. If you were smart, you'd go right to work for the carabinieri, without wasting time, while there's still something to bargain for. You could do it. You know everything he knows. Know what I mean? Play this card while you can. In return you'll get your freedom. Listen to me, Gaspare. It's either you or him. Don't you get it? They're digging your grave! Think about it. Why isn't Giuliano here? We've been waiting for hours. He's making a deal with them. You don't believe me, do you? I have proof. And I'll show it to you. You can talk to the marshal, to the colonel, to whomever you want. Do you believe me now? He could be here in De Maria's house, but he could be in another house. I'd better go in first, alone. - Were you asleep? - It's after 12:30. - Your bed's not ready, but - - That's all right. Thanks. Good night. Turiddu. Don't turn it on. Come in. - Well? - I'm not coming. Sit down. Read it. It says you've cut a deal with the carabinieri. Whether it's true or not, if I can't trust you, who can I trust? And you believe it? - You have to go inside. - Who are you? Carabinieri. Don't argue. Come on. Hurry up. Perhaps we shouldn't have let him go in there by himself. What have you done? Go upstairs. He's wounded. Go with him. - He's dead. - Close the window. What are we going to do? Mr. De Maria, Giuliano's clothes. Quickly. Go! Dress him. Get out or I'll kill you. Don't leave the building. We want you at our disposal. I didn't take Giuliano's memoir regarding Portella della Ginestra. I don't know what was in those papers Giuliano always carried with him. I don't know what happened to those papers. Marotta might know. He was the one who brought Giuliano and Pisciotta to my house. He saw them regularly. He even came to my house and saw Giuliano the night he died. Your Honor, I'd like to point out that when he was questioned, Marotta denied this. Put Marotta on the stand again and let's see who's telling the truth. Mr. De Maria is a victim of Giuliano, of the Mafia and of the lawyers defending him. Pisciotta, quiet! With your permission, I'll just be going. I'd like to point out that Mr. De Maria maintains that, contrary to your own statement on the matter, you conferred with Giuliano at his house on the night ofJuly 5th. - That's not true. - Yes, it is. When I came home, you were saying good-bye to Giuliano. You had been gone an hour when Gaspare Pisciotta arrived. And what's more, a few days after Giuliano's death, you and I were discussing the matter, and you yourself told me that that fatal night you had brought him the letter that warned him against Pisciotta. Deny it if you dare! It's true. I went to his house that night, but I didn't take any papers. If I had, it would mean that I knew in advance that Giuliano was going to be killed that night. In any case, at my house that night it was you, me, and Pisciotta. I didn't take the memoir. If logic tells us that you didn't take it either, that leaves only the third man. Pisciotta, who took the memoir? In July 1950, Giuliano's memoir, the real one, containing the names of those who ordered the massacre at Portella della Ginestra, was no longer in Giuliano's possession. With my approval, Giuliano gave it to a man we called "the little lawyer. " I wasn't lying when I said that the carabinieri have the memoir. I put them in touch with the little lawyer. Who is the little lawyer? I'm not at liberty to say. Captain, would you please give us the name of the little lawyer? I don't know his name. I was told to go to a certain place, to meet a man on the road between Mazzara del Vallo and Castelvetrano. My superior instructed me to stop the car in that spot, get out on the driver's side, and open the trunk. A man was supposed to walk by and say hello, and I was supposed to greet him in return. - Is that how it went? - To the letter. The man who approached me was lean and elegant, with typically Sicilian black hair. He told me he had nothing for me because he had burned it. I want the name of the little lawyer. I asked Pisciotta many times to give me his name, but he always refused. Pisciotta, why don't you make the grand gesture we've been waiting for? Come now. Tell us that name. Why should I be the one to say it? It'll be the word of an outlaw against his, and he'll deny it. The carabinieri were never given the man's name. Is the little lawyer Mr. De Maria? Is it Marotta? Come on. Take a good look. I know them well, and they have nothing to do with the little lawyer. Believe me, Your Honor, I'm sorry you have to work so hard to find out who the little lawyer is. I'm sorry I can't help you. I'll never reveal that name. If you like, just imagine that I don't know it. Portella della Ginestra is but one episode, one that produced tons of print and publicity, but after an excruciating judicial inquiry, after the long months of this trial, no one understands the true nature of that tragic event. Because, Your Honor, to understand how an outlaw can become pivotal at election time and throw the parliament and government into turmoil by his actions, we must have the courage to expose the sad life of poverty, of ignorance, of servitude to a feudal system endured by these poor people, the many faces of political manipulation, the face of the Mafia. We must have the courage to expose it all. Stand for the court. In the name of the Italian people, the Court of Assize of Viterbo finds: Gaspare Pisciotta, Antonino Terranova, son of the late Giuseppe, Frank Mannino, aka Lampo, Francesco Pisciotta, aka Mpompo, Antonino Cucinella, son of Biagio, Giuseppe Cucinella, son of Biagio, Nunzio Badalamenti, Pasquale Sciortino, Francesco Gaglio, aka Reversino, Angelo Russo, aka Angilinazzu, Giovanni Genovesi, aka Manfre, Giuseppe Genovesi, aka Manfre, Vincenzo Pisciotta, aka Mpompo and Salvatore Passatempo guilty as charged of the massacre of May 1, 1947, at Portella della Ginestra. I hereby sentence: Gaspare Pisciotta, Antonino Terranova, son of Giuseppe, Giuseppe Cucinella, Antonino Cucinella, Nunzio Badalamenti, Pasquale Sciortino, Frank Mannino, and Francesco Pisciotta to life in prison. I hereby acquit Vincenzo Sapienza, Domenico Retti, Antonino and Vincenzo Buffa, Gioacchino Musso, Antonino Terranova, son of Salvatore, Giuseppe Di Nervia, Giuseppe Sapienza, son ofTommaso, Giovanni Russo... - You're free! - Antonino Gaio, Francesco Di Nervia, Giuseppe Di Nisa, Pietro Locullo and Giuseppe Sapienza, son of Francesco, of the charge of complicity in the massacre at Portella della Ginestra, as they acted under duress to avoid real danger and in fear of serious harm to themselves. Counsel, why did you talk to me of acquittal? I saved the life of the colonel of the carabinieri when they wanted to have him killed. I am a man of conscience. I'm not an outlaw. I came here of my own free will to see justice done. The outlaws are those who call themselves honest men. But this isn't over yet. One day they'll hold a trial over Salvatore Giuliano's death. Then I'll tell everything I didn't tell here. Wake up. Wake up. Gaspare, aren't you going to make coffee this morning? Good morning. - My father didn't hear the alarm. - I'll make it right away. - Have some coffee with us. - I can't. I'm on duty. Very well. Would you like a cigarette? It's against the rules, but I'll take one. Good day. Guards! They're calling for help in cell four! - What is it? - Pisciotta is sick. Commander. What is it? They're asking for help in Pisciotta's cell. Call a doctor, quick! I've been poisoned! Brigadier, Gaspare Pisciotta is sick. Get a doctor, quick! Call the infirmary. Nino! - What is it? - Gaspare is ill. Help us. I've been poisoned. I drank coffee and took my medicine. - What is it? - He says he's been poisoned. Hold him down. Let's get him out. Gaspare is dead.
