 

                        Everybody! It's here! It's here... Hey, what's here? It's here Hey, what? Hurry up What's here? It's here... It's here... Come on... Hurry up, come on... Mum, I want to go Go on, be careful It's here... To the left Right a little West, face west Do you know which way is west? I said west Just face east East, east Flint... Flint, the paper's here, read it for us! Garlic & Onion, just wait a moment Wow Leftovers You two must be stupid It takes a month to get here from the Capital It becomes old news What's interesting about it? Come on, let me see what's interesting There's a new literature scholar He's from the Capital Take a look, here's how he looks like, just like this Looking like this? Doesn't look smart at all The chillies this year are much spicier than last year A few people even died from eating them The government has new guidelines... One A prosecutor can only hit the drums lightly to avoid disturbance to the current case Punishable by caning 30 times Two Drunk driving carriage will be fined 2 dollars Serve 6 months suspension and confiscation of horse Three... Flipping heck, do the words have to be so small? Garlic... Take this further away Still further More I'm really getting old Even further The government is into the red, all workers will... reduce their wages accordingly through the hard times You can see that far away? Excellent eyesight Amazing! What's good eyesight for in this tiny village Don't be so pessimistic Your talent won't go wasted But what should we do about the cutback? Oh, it's gone The rope snapped, this is fate The newspaper is gone I can't quite remember what it says Why don't we forget about it and see what it says on next month's paper, alright? Hey, dinner time, dinner time Let's go, let's go... That's west Right from the oven, fresh and soft These are for you two Thank you Here it is I've added some rose extracts to these buns I've saved these for you girls Will we get fat eating these? Of course not Then why am I eating them! Yeah, I've lost my appetite and weight lately My husband complains I don't look good skinny Lost weight from where? Hey, Rouge You are really losing face for your husband Look at how thin you are People will think he's starving you Exactly! If there is nothing on your body Men can't get up by themselves Just look at you You are just bag of bones Flat as a plain Your husband would have more fun hugging Onion and Garlic back in the village hall Never mind Just get us the fattest bun to boost our weight With sausages Yeah... No problem Wow... Darling You girls should be careful of heart attack What do you know! Off work so early? There's nothing to do That's right I'll let you catch up with these beauties I'm going to watch some chess Okay Hey, Rouge Being the head of guards doesn't earn that much And Flint doesn't even help out at the shop Just hang around all day and being lazy I don't know what you love about him? No... not this move Move the bishop, then the knight Move your rook out, then checkmate... Hey, you play this game You sit down No, no, sorry, you carry on En passe No... you should move this! Gosh, you are stupid Alright, come on... No... I shouldn't, you just carry on The thing is, he's too thin and not in a good way either Look at Jim, he's thin too but looks so much better Never you mind Idiot That's the way I like him Gosh, I can't pull the needle through such a big hole What're you doing? I'm free, so I'm doing some sewing Free? Why don't you shave off your beard, you messy In a couple of days, a couple of days A couple of days? You haven't shaved in 2 years You don't have to work so hard on the dough No one's here, why don't you use your superpower? Look, you are at it again I've told you thousand times We are normal people and they don't have superpowers You have to remember I know Wow, how does a normal person have such strength? Roaches, I hate roaches Smells good What is it? Who wouldn't know you've got superpower if you take the hot steam basket out bare handed Use a cloth Be careful, you know You, be careful, you know Come... My back is killing me Darling, why don't you soak your feet first Then I'll give you a soapy massage Oh... yeah, right on Darling How tired are you in a grade out of five? Understand What the hell? Darling Are you happy here after all these years? Do you like it here? So why don't we settle down and buy a house Decorate it however we like? Really? You mean after all these years We can finally have our own home? Are you alright? That felt good That scared me After all these years of work I've saved up a little money I think we can buy a small house Hey, what are you doing? Add that to mine, I think we can buy a bigger house Darling, where does the money in that come from? I save up from jobs Would that be your own private stash? I was forced to accept the money from people I helped I see... So are there anymore piggies? No... Are you sure? Of course not Don't lie to me Why would I lie to my husband? A house that will change your view on the world Mr and Mrs Flint It's bright, cosy in the winter, breezy in the summer Spacious master bedroom, plus huge balcony The ideal place to live What do you think? Just so-so Worse than so-so Hey, why don't we look over there Alright Honey... It's awesome... I really like this place, it's good It's great! We'll haggle for a better price, right? We'll have to act our lives out, alright? Right What do you think? It's only 30 dollars! This is the only one? Yeah, a sea view is all you got There's nothing here, what's good about this place? It's low density, very private This is the only house in the area And no one will find us if we die This place has got excellent feng shui But my shifu said water is not good for me With this view, it'll drown me! Exactly But this house is built with best materials Really? Yes Look Gosh, this is just chalk Exactly. How can anyone live here? Darling, let's go Why isn't he stopping us from leaving? Maybe you lowered the price too much? It must be your acting! Please wait What now? Too much What is it? We've saved 10 The chimney you just broke needs at least another 20 to fix, it's costing us more I never knew we have so many things You've never read these books, let's throw them out Why don't you throw me out? Since when have I got such a bright top? It was a birthday gift from me, you don't remember? Of course... You've never worn it The colour is too bright for my subtlety You, subtle? I'm subtle Darling It's been ten years since we've retired Put all the money in There are too many hostages The Pest Four will kill without warning, we should wait Get Gazer Warrior This is strange How come it's so calm? Are the guards all gone? Hey, bro, take a look Isn't that the lantern... ...that calls for Gazer Warrior? Since when are we afraid of anyone? Hey, wait a second This hostage isn't right for you What about me? Go find someone else Bro, is she right for me? Who cares Evil Ant Poisonous Snake Aren't you tired? Devil Scorpion Why are you laughing? Why have you chosen to practice this style of kung fu? What's wrong with this? The problem is... You look like a cockroach Deadly Toad Deadly Gazer Gazer Warrior! Gazer Warrior! Gazer Warrior! Geezer Warrior, this windmill is for you It's not Geezer Warrior It's Gazer Warrior I see, Gazer Warrior Gazer Warrior Captures the Pest Four Please, don't scare my child, I beg you... What are you screaming about? A drunk man has... ...to beat his child and kick his wife He needs a lesson Please don't hit him Get out of my way Please stop, I beg you Get lost Don't hit him Smells nice Gazer Warrior? Does Gazer Warrior have such a curve? It's a woman Poke! Kick! Punch! Are both of you alright? Yes Thanks for saving our life, you're a heroine I'm Aroma Woman, serve and protect our sisterhood Aroma Woman? Right Your mask is so pretty Sorry, mask cannot be touched by anyone Where did you buy it? It's custom-made Is it expensive? Discounts through connections... He's fine, he's just got hit by my Aroma Palm Wow, sexy ladies What's happening? Aroma Woman Saves Woman from Abusive Husband Aroma Woman! Aroma Woman! Aroma Woman... Gazer Warrior is the best! You are not the best, we are Gazer Warrior is the best in the Universe! Faceoff between Aroma Woman and Gazer Warrior Aroma Woman! Gazer Warrior! They're making a move... Oh, a mosquito You must attract them a lot, smelling so nice Yeah, my scent does attract them a lot It's so noisy Do you hate noise? Why don't we go somewhere else? Where to? It doesn't matter, as long as you are there Hey? Your voice? It hurts my throat using that voice all the time I hope you don't mind when it's just the two of us Are we switching places? You are as fast as I am I haven't introduced myself yet, I'm Flint What about you? My name is Rouge Why are you laughing? Awesome Really? Of course Idiot You are winning too much, I'll go bust Can I play? Yeah, awesome! Over there That's Chan from the fruit stall He wants me to save his cat from trees Oh, that one She sells honey She has a lot of secret to tell... I've been seeing her too She just need someone who listens Oh... Gosh, I'm tired I just want a simple home Me too Why don't we... Once we take off our mask we are like everybody living the lives of ordinary people Whatever happens, we'll stay together Forever and ever, through all difficulties Do you agree? I do What's so funny? I've got this mask tan line because people keep calling me for help at noon Be serious, we're getting married It looks more obvious on my dark skin It's okay I've done some research Honey and dough can whiten the skin My face depends on you now, my darling wife What did you say? My face depends on you now my darling wife Hubby Why don't we go home and pack now and look for our home first thing in the morning The first thing we do after marriage is packing? Why don't we get a room and have some fun? Awesome Where is it? We've been searching it for years It's not easy looking for an ideal home We must pay our dues When will we get there? We are superheroes, but I'm scared of height We'll see it, once we reach the top Hurry up then, I want to reach there before it turns dark So many mosquitoes I'm dying to pee... I told you to go before climbing but you had to hold it! I can't hold it in anymore! I'm right beneath you, don't do anything stupid We are here How nice! Here we are, that's Rainbow Village Let's stop looking, it looks good Alright, let's go Hey, it looks so far, how long do you think it'll take? With our super speed, maybe 2 to 3 days What? I'm not walking, you piggyback me I'll take a nap Your life's so difficult Your reward So hungry... Chicken thigh... Once we take off our mask we are like everybody living the lives of ordinary people Deadly Gazer! Stop messing around, I need to get to work We just bought a big house Don't you think it can fit more people? You want a housemaid? I want a child It's alright, maybe you're tired Tired? I just got up It's alright, maybe you're just nervous? We've been married for years, why would I be nervous? Take a shave then, maybe it's draining your power Why are you against my beard all the time? Why don't you get a shave? Darling, maybe you should see a doctor I'm fine Kidney dysfunction Quite serious Very serious Hey, don't be so loud, patient confidentiality Get lost! Why are you standing here? How does it sound when you take a piss? Oh... normal, very normal, more than normal Give me more details It's sounds like... That's not right! It's... That's it Definitely kidney dysfunction Keep quiet! Hey, there's nothing to see! I'll give you some prescription medicine Doctor, we want a child Aren't you a bit old for a child? No one hears you Let me take your pulse Do you two want boy or girl? Boy Girl If you want a girl, you have to do this... At this rate, will it snap? If you want a boy, then do this... Never tried it Then you must! Alright But... Mrs. Flint... What is it? You've got a healthy body, but your pulse is weird For example while other's pulse beats 5 times yours just beats once This shows your metabolism is slowing down Even if your husband's kidney is fixed the chance of a child is still very small So it's your fault It just mean your lives are getting routine and plain You two need to find something new and exciting so your pulse beats like this... Then it'll work What does that mean? Use your own method! Doctor, you know... About my kidney problem can you not tell anyone? What are you implying? I'm professional I don't go round telling people, you've got a problem! Alright... enough... thank you... Only I know you have a problem I know, I know You know you have a problem... Thank you No one else will know Where the hell is the code of patient confidentiality? Flint, drink up the hot medicine This medicine is very effective for kidney How do you know? You've got the same thing Garlic, as we are in the same situation how can we find more passion find and create some excitement in our lives? Just don't think about it The best we can hope for is that nothing ever happens in our lives Every decade stays the same This is called... stability! Only a few people understand true stability Stability is an attitude Flint, Flint There's a massive... Massive what... Massive group... It's exciting! Exciting? Awesome Awesome May I ask why you have come to our village? Who's in charge here? I am Flint, the head of guards of this village I'm special agent Hall I'm here to assist Bai Xiao Clan I've heard of Bai Xiao Clan It sells tea! Bai Xiao Clan has existed over a century Their job is to sort out the different sects of martial arts Their new Grandmaster Blanc has suggested to rearrange the ranking of all disciplines and sects What's with the small writings... So ten days from now, they'll hold a ranking event here There's something I don't understand Our village is so faraway with nearly no facilities How did the government decide to give us... such a wonderful event? This is a faraway neutral place It will help to reduce the friction between different sects Plus, we have arranged for everything to be done All you need to do is the arrangement for hospitality This is going to be busy as hell! That's not true It is our time the repay our country Now that it needs us We should cooperate Everybody The country has chosen our village to host this Ranking Event It is such an... Honour! There would be tens of thousands of tourists We'll be rich There won't be many people This is not an open competition It's by invitation only That's good Looked crowded but not crowded, that's hard to find! Villagers are not allow to watch That's even better A competition that no one watches How mysterious and exciting is that! It's... it's not that exciting... Oh, never mind... inspector! Let me find you a place to stay, please... Both the fish and chicken taste good, delicious Something is wrong What's wrong? Let me think for a moment We should leave! It's your fault, why didn't you tell them not to hold the event here! We don't look for trouble, but it is looking for us We should just leave Alright, let's pack Okay Hey, but we've just moved and decorated... Right, we've only just moved in, and if we disappear it'll look suspicious You're right This event is just for ranking It won't be real fights, right? Right They'll leave after a couple of days We've retired for so long, no one will remember us That Blanc guy is newly appointed He won't care for us... Alright, we don't need to leave! Are you sure? Of course We're just normal people, living ordinary lives Right? Right We should just act normal Then everything will be fine You think too much Am I right? Right You are so smart Nothing you've thought about can go wrong They just can't leave soon enough Awesome But there will be a solar eclipse in 10 days Why would such a big event happen on such a bad day? Don't be so superstitious! I don't care I think we are so lucky We've been getting along so well I have never had a fight with you But do you think we lack passion? Should we have a fight? Yeah, how should we start? You don't know? Are you stupid? You just keep going on and on, it's so annoying You want a fight, here it is! Can't you just let me eat my dinner peacefully? What's wrong with you? I always have to clean up your mess What now? What's with the long face? You're not going to cry, are you? Hey, darling Hey... I'm just trying it out on you Don't cry We are just playing, right? I've really scared you Time out, we'll never try this again? I'm just acting We're fighting... I have to play my part Your acting is good Do you think this life style is more exciting and fun? Well, It's beating faster But not yet fast enough... Come on, let's try it on What? Here? Yeah, come on, sit up! Really? Hey, no! It's always me who clean up the mess Go to our room... Come on... I want to try and have a boy tonight So what do I have to do? You just have to lay down, and I'll take care of the rest I'm the original Crane Master I'm the Real Crane Master I'm the original! I'm the real one! Fight! Make a move! Hey... can you two please stop this? Hey, who the hell are you, bastard! Ouch! You... My head hurts... Ouch... I'm dying... Please, spare me my life What's the point of arguing here? You two are so good Why don't you leave the fight on stage? Laughing at your husband's pain, you are so mean! Oh, right Darling! Darling! Are you alright? It's okay... I was so worried Your acting is quite over the top Me over the top? Nobody recognizes us Yes Not only does nobody recognize us they keep calling me bastard Bastard, bastard I've also heard people calling you granny Who called me granny? Who called me granny? Are you happy when people calls me granny? I've got to work Who's calling me granny? Puffer fish balloons, large and curvy Pearly The balloon is so big, it's cute Hello You hold on to her The balloon might take her away Bye Flint Panda masks Hello Doesn't this look cute? This mask is much more fun, right? Tell your parents to buy one for you... Miss, how may I help you? You look like someone I know Who? Gazer Warrior Huh? Gayer Warrior? Who is he, never heard of him? I only said you looked like him I'm Phoenix Bleu, an apprentice, and you are? I'm Flint, the head of guards of this village Alright, I'll call you Flinty Hello! My name is Kong... King Kong Is there problem with your eyes? No I'm Phoenix Bleu Hello, Phoenix Would you know if there are places to stay? Excuse me, I'm an official here Which sect are you with? Grandmaster of the Golden Gate Kong... King Kong! Oh, there's no record of you, Grandmaster Kong It's under King There's no record of that either I'm not here to compete, I have special approval I'm here as a spectator Oh... I'm a very important VIP A spectator then Hey... Garlic and Onion! Take them to an inn Would you be interested in looking for an inn with me? Not interested That's alright But it will be the best and most expensive inn The best place left is their home But it's more expensive than an inn Expensive is good Here's your document Take them home with you Alright... see you... He must be some spoiled rich kid I don't like this type of guys Well... What type of guys do you like? I like Gazer Warrior I met him once when I was a kid... That day... Geezer Warrior, this is for you I absolutely love him Really? Your eyes look very similar But he doesn't have as much beard Well, do you like my beard? It's not my thing I'm hungry, are there any local delicacies? Alright, let me take you out for food! Do you eat snakes? No, I don't Scorpions, it's the best here This place looks alright just lacking some style The colour is so bland If this is my place I'll make it much more vibrant, it'll look so much better Exactly! Tea is ready Come on, drink it Please sit Have a cup of tea Hey, Rouge, where's your husband? Busy working, of course Right... So many people have come for the event Flint must be busy serving the guests Yes, busy of course What are you saying, why don't you come out with it? It's nothing... It's just that I saw your husband He was walking around with a girl that dressed in blue laughing and joking I haven't seen him so happy for a while Didn't you say a lot of guests have arrived Nothing wrong with him serving a guest Yes I see... Do you remember Nancy? Her husband was the same He looked so good and honest Out of the blue he ran off with a young girl! That's why my mom always reminded me All men think with their upper body! It's the lower body! Right, with their lower body, lower body Flint and I are getting on really well He won't cheat on me So, what else has your mom taught you? My mom also told me if a man has another woman when he gets home, he won't want to leave any traces So the first thing he'll do when he's home Is to take a bath! Bath? Yes Darling, I'm home! Hey, you bitches, no... Fatties, no... Don't let me disturb you. I'm taking a bath Of course he needs a bath after a busy day. He stinks Yes, yes Also, when a man has cheated, he'll be extra happy and he'll display this happiness unintentionally Falsetto! Yes, my husband is very talented He can sing bass, alto and soprano A man will also feel younger if he's cheating and will be super hyperactive The water must be cold he's making weird noises! You know what men love to do when they feel younger? Dress up! Darling Where's your beard? How is it? Do I look handsome? Very much! Let me cook tonight, you girls just talk Flint... You look so happy. Something good happened? No, of course not Since you are cooking, can we stay for dinner? You girls are so hard to invite, of course! Oh, yeah... Don't you girls need to cook at home? Leave, go home! Let's go... Why have you shaved? Didn't you say it's a mess? Why didn't you shave last month or next month Why today? Yeah, why... But why can't I shave today? Because I don't like it today Oh... you want a fight, right? You are really good today Let's listen! Wow! It's a little fast Hey, do you want to try for a boy or a girl? Try in hell! Hey, are you coming tomorrow? To hell I will! Do you want dinner? Go to hell! What the hell? The Ranking Event is about to commence Welcome the Grandmasters of the Five Mountains Phoenix is waving at me Now I present the organiser of this Ranking Event Grandmaster Blanc of Bai Xiao Clan Welcome to this Ranking Event More and more sects of martial arts have developed It's messy and non-coordinated Some has been good, some has been disastrous which has caused many friction Before the old Grandmaster retired he has hoped that I can hold a Ranking Event so we can fairly and properly decide which sect is the best at different disciplines Let the Ranking Event commence And now... It's lunch time! Great! Let's get to work Where's the food? Hey, where is the food! It's gone! What? Why? The food we prepared was all eaten Why don't you tell them to cook more? The chefs all quitted because of the pressure! This is the last chicken wing, I saved it for you This wing is mine! Wow... Have they just been released from jail? Lunch is here We're saved So many chicken wings let's share Share Have some tea Thank you, darling Hey, I'm just here to see if there's any good-looking guys I'm the good-looking guy This is Grandmaster Blanc of Bai Xiao Clan... And my wife My name is Rouge Hello, Madame Your cooking is so good Just look at all of them getting along Food can really change this world Can I have some more rice? I'm sorry, he already took the last bowl Grandmaster, if you don't mind, it's yours Thank you Excuse me He shows such grace even when fighting for food So charming Who does he think he is? Dressing up matching colours to his name Is he crazy? Hey, have you finished looking? I haven't eaten anything yet, I'm hungry Make me something to eat Alright, it'll be quick! Hey, pass me some ginger... Phoenix, how are things? The girl in blue? They are so happy Go away! What did you do? Who's she? She's an apprentice, Phoenix Bleu You know her very well? Not really... we just met Flinty You okay, granny? I'm granny, and he's Flinty! It's going to start I have to go Bye Flinty... and Granny Bye Mrs. Flint Bye... Hey! I don't like her Why not? Phoenix has done nothing... I don't care, my instinct tells me I don't I don't like her But... That's all That's all! Alright... I'm going back to work Clean your face, you look like a coal miner Freestyle fighting commences! Green Mountain, 368 Roaring Power Punch What do you think? Not bad, right? When's he going to stop? Just watch Are all of you nervous? Hope you get a good ranking What's the use of getting a good ranking at this place? It's not going to turn us rich Stop explaining to a granny. What does she know? Hey! Don't call me granny, it's not polite You are so granny-looking, what else should I call you? Go and get us a fruit platter, but remember apples need to be sliced The oranges need to be peeled You? What? Just go and get it granny To hell with you You are all idiots! Mrs. Flint... What fruit do you want, I'll get it for you in one go No I'm really sorry that they are causing you trouble It's alright, I'm just here to help my husband Hey, but they don't seem to be too happy Maybe they are tired after such a long trip Grandmaster, you are so young and handsome and polite. You're a gem! You're welcome I'm just doing what the old Grandmaster has hoped So why don't your apprentices enter the event? For fairness all of our apprentices... ...are not allow to enter That's like "always the bridesmaid never the bride" Through generations, our teaching has been to serve all sects of martial arts with all our hearts See... Yes! Yeah! All sects of martial arts have gathered, I'm so emotional Why is there a need for different sects? Do they really need it? Do they have to have it? I'm not the one who decides the sects If they can give up their sects and become one that'll be the best thing ever happened Didn't realise you have such hidden depth Phoenix is looking at me You do change the topic pretty fast So do you fancy her? Yes Then you have to think up some strategy I never use any strategy on girls Phoenix I fancy you, do you fancy me? No, I don't How could that be? Wow! That was a real eye opener You're welcome I really can't think of anything, what have you got? In the game of love it is all about who fancies who more Thank you for your guidance What should I do next? You need to get attention... ...without making the first move And when she does, you'll mean that much more Flinty! Are you alright? Flinty, I've got some dates... ...from home for you to try I think there's something wrong with him Just be careful of him Here, try one Let me feed you. Don't get your hands dirty Hey, it's working She has noticed you, now walk on, go Wow! Excellent punch! There's no way he could have dodged the punch Why so? He threw a punch straight at him Then an uppercut and ends with a hook He saw it coming His face was distorted but couldn't dodge in time Wow, Mrs. Flint, that was insightful Talk in so much details, do you practice martial arts? My neighbours are a couple, they fight all the time I've learnt all these from them Look... Mrs. Flint Have a bun Mrs. Flint, are you alright? Have another one Wow, your hands are so cold. Aren't you feeling well? Mrs. Flint, it happens when I travel, thank you How come? Let me warm them up for you No, it's okay Let me warm them up Mrs. Flint, please stop The winner of freestyle fighting is Red Mountain Yes! Let's move on to the next event Palm Power Contest! Grey Mountain What were you doing with that blue thing? Nothing, just watching the event Did you two have to be so close? Feeding you? I haven't washed my hands after going to the toilet! Wow, you are a crap liar I don't care, I don't want you so close to her Stop talking about me You were rubbing your hands with that white guy You think I didn't see it! Hey! What? Alright, I think something's weird about him His hands... So if you just want to rub his hands again Don't say it's weird! Are you throwing yourself all over him because he's handsome and rich, granny! Granny? Hey, am I getting better at starting a fight with you? What are you doing? Let's not fight like this Let's do some real fighting Hey, are you for real or just messing around? Of course I'm messing around Come out Hey! Look at you, you are just leading me on I won't come out! Come on out No I won't! Just a little Alright, a little bit It's a curler! That was mine! No, that's mine! Don't be so shocked That was my apprentice's "Yellow Mountain Palm Two" He hit it once, but the power comes out twice So we win this, thank you You're a liar. That was obviously my apprentice's "Black Mountain Before n' After Palm"...yeah right? Stop fighting! It's actually "Grey Mountain Ping Pong Palm" Yesterday, I hit out, that was the "Ping" And that was... Can you stop lying? That was obviously my "Green Mountain..." Look what you've done to the event Why is it my fault? You don't think it's mine, do you? Darling, I beg you Please don't let your imagination run wild, alright? Why don't you go home, cook something, wait for me and have a romantic dinner for two, alright? After dinner, we can, you know What? You know... Just stop asking, it'll be a surprise This again? No, that doesn't work I've got something new Really? Be good, just go home These are for you This is the first time you've ever given me flowers If you like it, I can buy them for you everyday It's more romantic if it's only every so often Alright... Hurry up, it's an all chicken feast We can go back to our room afterward for a surprise Slow down, there are plenty more surprises What other surprises have you got? Big surprise Look How can anyone live here? The decorations are alright? Hey, you've mud all over my floor It's alright It's not mud It's dog poo Hey, that's my dinner, stop eating it! Put them down! Don't break my bowl This is our special wine Hey, be careful with my plates and mugs! This tastes alright You come with me! What are you playing at? I thought it's the two of us, why all these people? Listen to me, it's because they were fighting over the results... Hello, Mrs. Flint The flowers are from her What are you trying to do to me? I can forget those weird guys but you invited her? Like I was telling you The Five Grandmasters were fighting over the results So I asked them to stop for my sake They said they'll only agree if I pay for their dinner So I invited them home Yes! Right... I invited Phoenix personally Why are you bullying me? I said I don't like her, and now you take her home! Mrs. Flint She's alright, why are you being so dramatic? I'm dramatic? I'm not playing this game. Fighting is not fun! They are fighting, what should we do? We'll finish up and leave Right... I'm telling you, if she doesn't leave, I'll leave Mr. And Mrs. Flint, I should go! Hey... You're such a disgrace I'll go with you Flint, if you leave this house right now... Then never come back! Phoenix, thank you The doctor said our lives are too routine My wife needs some big excitement to have any chance to have a child Can you help me, just play along, alright? Flinty, I don't understand Do you have to upset her so much? If it's not exciting enough, it won't work for her Really? I won't lie to you I have to go Flinty, I have something wanting to ask you Come on, I'm in a rush Are you Gazer Warrior? How do I know? Just don't ask Good bye, Flinty Good bye Thank you Darling What are you doing? There's not much time... Why are you back? Child... Are you crazy! I can kill you! Wow! It's beating fast! What are you doing? Awesome! What are you doing? Let me go, psycho... Phoenix and I tried very hard to convince you Your pulse rate is perfect to have a child, come on! Hey! Our own child... What we want most is a simple home Now we have our own home all that's missing is a child Darling My superpower eyes can see through you You always want to be a mother Now's the time Darling But can you see during all these years that we retired how happy I am, how much I want to thank you? Even though I don't have your superpower I can still see through you You miss two persons Aroma Woman and Gazer Warrior Darling, I love you Darling Hubby... Why don't we come out of retirement! Awesome I have a reliable source The Ranking Event Does that Blanc really think he's a Grandmaster Got us up this early in the morning And no apprentices, who'll buy breakfast for us? Grandmaster Blanc Look everyone There's a solar eclipse Has any of you... heard of Extraction? It's an evil technique to improve one's martial art by stealing others memory It is the most evil of all martial arts There's only evil people There're no evil martial arts Legend has it when an eclipse occurs it's the best time to complete the practice for Extraction Apart from the solar eclipse memories of martial arts experts are also needed Minds into one Blanc, we both knew you were up to something Stop using this voice It hurts your throat, and it doesn't sound good Alright So darling How did you figure out Blanc was up to something? It's from the answer he gave me But why would he tell you the truth? Sometimes the answer is from the body language I praised him being young and ambitious He answered with his hand stroking his nose That means he felt ashamed by it Same as when you lied about being out with a girl I asked why doesn't Bai Xiao Clan enter the event He told me something about teachings and generations But his waggling finger sold him out The waggling of finger is to emphasize his own word Make himself believe what he was saying Just like you lied when you invited those bitches to stay for dinner Amazing At that moment, I couldn't hide my curiosity either The touching of nose is very inconspicuous Hey! Why don't you stop making an example of me? And, his hand is unusually cold I know Because he thinks about running all the time so all the blood is at his feet, his hands are cold Wrong! What? Practicing Extraction will lose body temperature and become a cold blooded animal! Darling, you are better than Sherlock Holmes Never would have thought this event would also attracts the infamous Mr. & Mrs. Incredible This is fate! Blanc, you are young and talented, come to the light come to the light We can help you fight your internal demon Turning others' martial arts into my own is my talent Why can't I practice this? Looks like he's too far into it We have to finish him Darling... Wait a second My hands are really itching Let me warm up first Poke! Kick! Punch! It's fun to kick villain's ass Aroma Woman, I miss you Gazer Warrior, I miss you too Hey! What? Maybe you should go on a diet You nearly broke my leg when you stepped on it Alright, no more supper from tonight Still want more? Let's finish him off I wonder what it'll be like with all your seven... ...of your powers together? Darling! If Gazer Warrior is Flint then Aroma Woman must be Mrs. Flint Darling, wake up! Darling, wake up! Darling... Darling... Gazer Warrior is gone forever Darling... Darling... Darling... Darling... Darling... Ying and Yang, black and white, water and fire They are all about balance When balance is broken, it will lead to self-destruction Teacher, I have not lost balance, I will not lose balance Deadly Gazer? Darling... This is fun, I want everything Darling! Go, darling Go, darling Darling, look how much nonsense we do Doing nonsense is good Darling I am so happy you are with me in this life You are the one I love You are also my best friend This is what I dreamt of I really want to have a child with you We'll have to remember each other We'll be husband and wife again in our next life Let's hold the talk, we've still got a chance He takes whatever make contact with him This tree is thousand years old, it can take him down Teacher, look at me. Look at how powerful I am Darling, are you alright? Do you recognize me? It's me, your wife Darling, darling How can I not recognize my gorgeous wife It's alright Wait a second What's the matter? Awesome! Even my "old eyes" have gone, everything is clear now My wife looks so beautiful up close. Awesome! Didn't I look beautiful up close? You looked like a mess Darling Honey What's happening? What is this? Barbecue? All of you who practice martial arts are so naive! I was hoping Blanc can help me... ...overthrow the Emperor I guess he's just crap too It's alright Now I have gathered all the martial arts secrets I can train up a large and strong army instead Go in... hurry up... As for this village because of the plague, no one survived The Five Grandmasters must be honoured to have you two die with them Kill them! King Kong? I'm not a Grandmaster I'm... Royal chop? Your Majesty? Are you hurt, Your Majesty? Your Majesty Wise leadership, Your Majesty All this has nothing to do with me It was all Blanc's doing I don't know him that well, Your Majesty You are so thick skinned I like you more for that Take him away, I'll deal with this personally I am innocent, Your Majesty Your Majesty! Wait... This is the antidote to my Aroma Palm Rest a few more days, then they'll be fine Granny! Granny! Here Let him enjoy this for a few more days Yes! No! Who's the granny!? Flint Your Majesty Please stand You two serve and protect this country Taught me how to chat up girls, you shall be rewarded Thank you, Your Majesty Your Majesty Mrs. Flint, what are you eating? Blanc has extracted so much and became this This must be good for us, it's fresh Hey, don't be so selfish, leave some for me Oh, okay Do you worry when we fought for our lives? Of course! It's beating fast! Let's go home Great Hey, this still has some taste left in it While it's still fresh, Your Majesty Go on, put it in your mouth Flint, Flint Are you sure the baby will come today? If not, why don't we play Texas Hold'em Poker! Poker! I'll hold your head down... Help me! This hurts! This big? Is it a boy or girl? Just wait, let me take a look Didn't have time! Awesome Let mommy play a game with you Aroma Woman, mommy It's my turn, it's my turn Let me play with him Gazer Warrior, daddy
