 

                        Stay back! Or she'll die! What's going on? She appears to be of high rank Kill me! You've violated her? Nothing like that The magistrate's daughter may consider us- An beneath her notice- Magistrate's daughter? A hostage so that we can negotiate Appeal by force? Succession of bad crops Farmers are dying The magistrate won't even attempt to hear our pleas I understand But even if you succeed You'll be punished For abducting his daughter We're prepared Even to die? The formers of 8 villages are desperate Please! Don't interfere No need to sleep in the open Let me stay here tonight Get out! A pretty girl to add interest Well I'm here - I'll enjoy the show Damn you! Fool! Why do you attack me? If you're not careful- You'll lose your life for nothing Sir... Magistrate! Your daughter has been located In a mill near the bridge She's being held by 3 farmers - Jinbei, Gosaku, Yohachi Jinbei, Gosaku? Is Aya safe? They've abducted her as a means of making an appeal For them, she's a valuable hostage They wouldn't dare harm her in any way Stupid farmers! Everyone to the mill at once Hurry! Yasugoro! To the mill, hurry! Kikyo! You're wanted. Let's start out! Why should I? It's an emergency. We need your help! To fight farmers? That's more your job You won't need me Will they punish Jinbei? They would most likely behead him If Aya is released- No difference Stupid farmers It won't help in bringing about a reform Jinbei has been kind to me since I was a child Is there a way to save him? I don't think so Relax. Don't be so nervous Shut up! Trying to catch us off our guard Aya Suspicious fellows So careful And yet you leave the door undefended Not very smart Father! Again not very smart All of you leaving the girl unguarded Gosaku, stay with the girl Yohachi, at the door Now that's a better tactic Next thing is to eat Have you any food here? Talking of food at such a time Can't fight if hungry There's some millet in the bucket Make some porridge They've come Father! What'll we do? It's all up to you I'll watch here Don't worry Stay near the girl Stop! Don't come any closer If you want to live, release Aya We refuse We won't return the girl Until our appeal is heeded Think you're strong enough to see this through? We're prepared to die But your daughter will die first Maybe this will help to open the eyes of the clan officials I understand Let's settle this now Your appeal will be given a fair hearing So free Aya Do it promptly and you'll be pardoned Do you hear me? Our demands - will they all be granted? I don't want the whole clan to hear about this Return Aya. I won't punish you Does he - really mean it? What's so funny? What happened to your determination? Afraid of punishment? I suppose that's human nature You laugh Do you for once think you'll go unpunished? Fear of death has weakened your resolve You doubt my father's word? Believe him if you want But can the rest of the farmers do the same? He's right, you know Without the hostage, we have nothing Well just be killed like dogs They've always deceived us with trickery It won't happen this time Want Aya back? Bring a written promise! To reduce taxes. Signed by the Lord himself! Don't kill them! Capture them Don't' allow the hostage leave so easily The situation is as it was before Who are you? A roving Samurai named Shiba Why did you help the farmers? Why? Perhaps because I spent a night under the same roof Kill him! Magistrate This may endanger Aya's life Let's leave temporarily We'll leave You're Shiba? I won't forget you How very kind But take care of your own neck That's my suggestion Magistrate Aya Let's retreat The farmers of 8 villages are carefully watching the outcome This may lead to a rebellion Let's ask the clan for reinforcements And make my disgrace known to everyone? No, this must be settled locally In 10 days the lord of our clan Will be passing through here Shut up! That's why it must be settled quickly Call Kikyo Heita! Are these 3 men the burglars? They killed 2 menservants Then they're sentenced to death? We aren't afraid Merely for slaying a couple of farmers The sentence could be revoked Think you can kill a Samurai? He wants our reassurance Has there been anyone we together couldn't overcome? Kikyo Take these three with you If they try to escape, cut them them So that's it A case of using poise to quell poison Let them out Hurry up! Wait, who's that? A vagabond Samurai whom we caught loitering His name? I believe he said it was Sakura Good swordsman? Didn't put up any resistance, can't tell Test him Get up! What, what're you doing? Sudden execution without trial Trial's ended Leave the cell What? Letting me go already? Let me stay longer A roof over my head. No worry about food imbecile! This isn't a hotel! We could provide better accommodation I must say that's generous of you You seem to hold a lot of rice in your storehouse I feel hungry This won't last very long Tell them we'll send more Mosuke We drew lots Don't say anything Be careful The mill is surrounded, isn't it? I'll slip in somehow Don't worry Are you awake? Many thanks What's wrong? Where's yours? It's all right There's only a handful of millet left I'm sorry but that's all You must be hungry too We're used to being hungry You helped us. I'm sorry we cant' offer more Why don't you eat? Not appetizing? You're accustomed to a life of luxury Never had millet porridge before? Nevertheless - farmers don't' even have enough to feed themselves! Yet, they've offered - This porridge to you Better have some, eat it Then maybe you'll realize why all this has happened The guest seems to have had enough Give you the rest Ever seen the starving scene? I picked this up For better or for worse, it brought me here Give it back to you Seem to be heading for the mill What made him do that? Reckless fellow! Food robber, maybe Come on, hurry up Yohachi, hand me my sword Going outside? A group of tough looking Samurai It won't be like the last time If it looks hopeless, forget about us Never mind, I can take care of myself When I leave, lock the door behind me Watch the back, guard the girl, understand? That's the fellow, 5 Ryo reward Wait, let me go first Not bad Are you also a burglar? Don't be foolish, that's one thing I've never tried Seeking a reward, right? Partly that But you see - I like to fight Especially when I meet someone strong Do you know why the magistrate wants me killed? His daughter's been abducted Because he wont' heed the farmers' appeal It's a case of 3 farmers fighting for justice Is what he says true? Something like that What? You knew, yet come? Had to come I'm sponging on the magistrate, you know I quit! I'm originally from a farm myself From this moment, I'm on the side of farmers Traitor! Do you want to return to jail? Be quiet You won't see this Samurai back there Instead of that jail, I'm moving into this mill How about it? Will you let me stay? Sure. You're welcome But we're facing a food shortage Food? I happened to pick up some food on the way That's great How about you? Care to enjoy some porridge for a change? No thanks I prefer good food, wine, plenty of it We've got a strong ally He's brought food Is that the girl? Here's food. Don't eat it all at once Say, isn't this Mosuke's wrapping cloth? Mosuke? One of us A farmer? Where did you find this cloth? Yes, where? I - picked it up Damn, killed by the magistrate's hirelings Someone spying? The magistrate's begun gathering roughnecks We must be careful That makes 12 in all Rather thin, are they strong? We may be thin, but we're strong enough Good, you should be able to kill farmers Be clever, make it look like the work of prowlers Sounds interesting The p-pay is 2 Ryo? When the job's done Be on your way As for you, go fetch a certain woman A woman? We'll use a hostage too To teach the farmers a lesson You found her so quickly, I'm amazed! I get around It cost a lot of money to buy her back Tell the magistrate Get the palanquin This is Gosaku's daughter. Sold to a brothel 3 years ago You're from a farm too Traitress! Selling farm girls is my business Those who sell and those who are sold Are worlds apart Dog! Dirty snake! What? Stop! She's a hostage Just look at what she's done to me The palanquin Leave at once But Go! Bitch! It's Father's writing What does it say? This Samurai is named Sakura Together with Shiba, he's on our side Do whatever he tells us I didn't come to give orders I offered to maintain contact between the mill and you You're most grateful for your help Thank you How's Ine? Has she recovered from her illness? She's determined to avenge her husband's death Ine- You shouldn't be here I intend to follow after my husband and die too What are you saying? But I won't die Until the man who slew my husband is You see, Ine- I mean to say- In other words, it's just that I - If I can be of any help, please let me know Sakura! Who are you? What have you against the farmers? We're here to crush worthless worms Calling the farmers worms? What do you think you are? Vermin with two sticks that you call swords No need to waste words on vermin like you Ill just destroy you Ine- are you all right? Yes Sakura! You will continue to help us, won't you? Of course, I'm ready to risk my life for your cause Ouch! It hurts! It's me, let me in Stupid I've something to report The magistrate has hired more killers To make it look like prowlers attacking the farmers The lord returns in 4 days The magistrate is worried How many fighters? As long as we 3 continue to hold out They'll never be able to overcome the farmers This is our petition to the lord We've something for Gosaku Show your face I'm Gosaku. What do you want? Father! What are you doing with Yasu? What do you want? We're going to show you how we treat dogs Watch our skill Stop! Yasu! Stop it! I'll kill them! I'll see that everyone of them die You can stop them Just return Aya Don't torture Yasu anymore! Well, then, send Aya outside No, father! You need her to save the farmers Let them- let them kill me Yasu She's bitten off her tongue What are you doing? Aya Keep away from me Why did you do that? I'll treat her as they did Yasu Aya Stand back Leave Gosaku alone But this will ruin- all your efforts Never mind. It's too much. We can't endure this anymore Take one stop closer, and she'll die You're like animals now Can't leave her here What will you do with her? Only one thing to do, let her go The farmers must not be punished Otherwise, the girl stays Wait! You promise? I can't simply forget this An example must be set Someone must be punished How? With 100 lashes I'll take them Shiba, don't be deceived by him This is a promise made between Samurai I understand Everyone here is a witness Be sure to send him back safely I promise that too A Samurai's pledge Why should you do such a thing so willingly? The farmers acted bravely A Samurai can do no less Father, stop it, he's had enough It's too cruel I did as you asked, and didn't kill him He's the one who saved me Aya, don't weaken Mother would have - made you stop too This is justice Father- Consider your rank Shiba The tank But Throw him in Take him away What a fool! Magistrate, you lied to me Wasn't it a promise between Samurais? Slay the 3 farmers Did you not promise to let the farmers go free? I will never do that Shiba's in a torture as well, he'll die soon What's a promise with a dead man? But between Samurais - He's no Samurai But that's - It's for the best Those scheming farmers must die I can't use my own men The job's yours I'll reward you Well, are you willing? We could use the money Get the petition Petition? Meant for the lord I understand Too bad - but we have to do this Can't find it? Never mind, it won't make the slightest difference Many thanks. Where's the petition? We have it. Rest assured Let me have it It can't be handed over easily, we have it safely stored away It's not here What! We could attach the petition to Junbei's body and display it when the Lord passes the way Still, we don't intend to be unreasonable How much do you want? A nice round sum. 100 Ryo All right, then I'll pay it here tonight We'd prefer a less conspicuous place I see, it'll be taken to the forest By whom? They've been murdered Eventually we'll all be killed We may talk big but we still have no power We are farmers only! Are you giving up the fight so easily? But - We must bow to fate Listen to me, all of you Jinbei's been killed Shiba has been cruelly deceived He's suffering Are you not angry? I'm going to the magistrate's place You're not going alone? One's enough I can't let Shiba die I must rescue him Sakura Wait, don't go alone It's like going there to be killed Nevertheless, I must go If you should die, I - I - Ine! It's like this - Ine, I'm the one who killed your husband Please forgive me Are you the magistrate's messengers? We were sent by him And his message? Kill! What? Who are you? Gods of Death With such a consequence You're in a sorry state You're satisfied to be a good Samaritan? Meanwhile Those 3 farmers were killed Jinbei and his friends have been killed What did you say? They're dead Is that true? That's why I say you're a fool Quiet, be quiet, won't you? Don't cry out Don't be afraid, just look at my face It should tell you whose side I am on Do you know that those 3 farmers have been killed? Jinbei's dead? That's right The deceitful magistrate murdered them, that's how he is I've come to save the Samurai in the torture I hope you'll understand Magistrate, I'm here to avenge the farmers! Where are you? Show yourself! You're Shiba? Sakura's outside Help Woman Come here A little more Just a few inches more You can't escape far in that condition That mill is your best bet! Miss Shiba Hurry Have no fear. You'll be safe in this room Thank you Leave by the back gate later Aya Why? Defying your father? Helping the farmers? Shiba, hurry Hurry I'm grateful Aya Why are you helping me? I don't know Just- I see things differently now Many things differently I wish I could go away with you Aya, goodbye A strange destiny This is like our home now We won't be in the way here Quiet Does it hurt? Wet towels should sooth it I'll go get some water Jinbei's petition It must have floated down from somewhere Jinbei's spirit must have sent it here You did a good job Accept the reward Kurahashi Saved me from paying out 10 Ryo for nothing What about the petition? The farmers may have it Then again, it may be in Shiba's possession The Lord is coming Dispose of the remaining 3 by then What are you thinking about? Maki! I had hoped - with you - So you've come So you are here I'm joining you Thought you liked luxury good Changed your mind? The magistrate does not trust me anymore He set his mad dogs on me You've become a vagabond like me? The clan's best swordsman Ouchi He'll be coming to this district tomorrow He'll help the magistrate They'll try to get us Interesting Any future plans? You're too calculating You don't calculate enough Try some of our potato porridge It's me I thought you might be at this mill My group's been wiped out You escaped? That's right The sole survivor? The sole survivor Let me stay with you from now on All right Porridge's ready I hear the magistrate is searching for a petition Petition? I have it, but why? Are you meeting the magistrate? Who, me? Ine- I thought you'd come You came to see Ine, didn't you? Where is she? Will you come with me? Where's Ine? Whether she lives or dies depends on me Take me to her What do you want? Where's the petition? I don't know What do you think you're doing? She doesn't - Talk! She - We'll make her talk Wait! Ine doesn't know Do you mean you do? Where? Tell us and you both will be freed And you'll be given 5 Ryo reward Go somewhere and start a new life You love each other Tell us Nothing must happen to disturb the procession of the Lord If anyone tries not to obey He'll be slain Don't try to explain Can't even handle a few Samurai and farmers? You're incompetent You needn't appear to greet the Lord I'll take care of the Samurai in the mill myself Look, they're coming Halt, make ready The fools Attack! Withdraw. Lure them out, set it on fire! Let's go on, Sakura! I feel ashamed It just couldn't be helped Nevertheless, I think- No, you mustn't. Let's go You said you would make me happy I meant that but I've got to- Please! Let's go on together! Don't leave me alone! No! I was about to desert a friend! Sakura! I won't be able to live without you! Ine Try to be happy Sakura I love you! Sakura Kikyo I like you Don't be a fool Do it Understand? Then go Shiba I've done you wrong Shiba, I deserve to die Kill me Too busy Then leave this to me Who wants to die first? I'll take him on Better let me do it I'm the least tired No, this began with me I'll finish it What is it? What's wrong? Sakura, take care of Kikyo What will you do? Shiba? Meet you later Where are you going? Look! This is Jinbei's petition Take it to the Lord There's time What's the matter? This is your chance Remember Jinbei! If you seek a better life, this is your opportunity Don't let it go by Afraid to risk your life? What would Jinbei say? How about you? Will you go? Go with this Go! Wait! Die! Suffer like your victims did Wait, don't kill me! Wait! Let me go! I can't allow him to live Please! Not possible Kill me then No matter what he has done, I'm still his daughter Let the farmers - see your disgrace Well, where will you go? How about yourself? Let this decide
