 

                        1 The best employee award goes to Mr. Sharath Please welcome him on stage All the best! Sir What is this man? You are smiling as if you are giving a love letter... That is my resignation letter Sir.. Urgh!! you r resignation lette r.. Have you gone mad? You got the Best Employee award just yesterday and today you come with a resignation letter Are you still in the hangover of yesterday's party I am not sure about you, but I am out of it Okay! what are you going to do after resigning? Sir, I want to make a film... What? You want to make a film? Do you think changing a career is like having different items for breakfast each day Sir, you always end up talking about food!! What did you say? Nothing at all! It has been my passion and since childhood I have dreamt of making a film one day So you are firm on your decision '(es Sh... Okay then! Come to the point... Will you give me a role too? As soon as I say I am making a film there are two things everyone ask me who is the hero or will you give me a role too? It is as simple as asking for a little extra coriander that's it.. Hey! What are you thinking about? Are you wondering which role I should be given It's just super man... Follow your passion -Thank you Sir All the best!! - Okay Sir... I need your blessing Sir -Hey it's fine... Thanks a lot Sir... Hey, what are you looking at like this This guy says he will make films quitting such a rewarding career ls he a director? Ifl knew that he was a director Even I would have asked for a role And you are one who waits for such things! Why? Do you want the film to be a flop even before it starts? Sir, did you resign? Yes... - Oh! If the building lam in is so tall... there are other buildings which are taller! I got a bit philosophicall! Just that my future was looking far brighter Hey, do you know something, yesterday along with my parents I had gone to watch a Darshan's movie... - ls it? The dance and fights were super! I like Puneet very much! Hey, Even I like Puneet... Nobody refuses an Appufilm in our house since my mom is a big fan ofAppu... My dad has had it if... he does not take my mom for an Appu movie my dad's food is stopped! I think this is what is 'generation gap' in our childhood... watching a movie was... only after pleading and begging for an entire year only after pleading and begging for an entire year Take this ten ru pees... this is because you cleared your exam... Go watch a movie and enjoy!! I never thought you would clear your exams Oh! my God...Panduranga... Sorry! Sorry! it's very old you see... I had forgotten... that is why I made a mistake My dad never gave me money... He would always give it to my sister and ask her to take me along... Come child! -Yes dad... Take this... take him for a movie... Okay dad... Do you know why? He was worried which kind of movie his son would watch He had such faith in me! Brother! please give us two tickets Do you not see the houseful board? more than half the movie is over... Hey! leave it... come let's go shopping Keep quite... you can go shopping any day but I get to watch a movie only once an year Brother! please do something and give us 2 tickets Give them the tickets of those who left the movie midway and went away I will give, but in black... fifty rupees for a ticket! Hey... to see only half a movie... will you buy in black? -Whatever, give the money Wait... why do you hurry? - Make it quick I never wished to watch 'those' kind of movies like my dad thought I only wanted to see an entire movie... whenever I watch one Thanks to my late Iateef sister... my wish was never fulfilled! Dude... -what.7 What happened in the first half? I will tell you... Will you buy me popcorn? Hey! he is a dumb guy will you buy Pepsi too? Sir...Sir...l missed the first half... At least will you tell me what happened? What do I know... get lost! What next dear... Did I need to come here to buy others popcorn... I would have do it at home itself The reason for my becoming a director today is my late Iateef sister Tell me why? I have become a director today because of the imagination bug that always troubled me wondering what happened in the first half Sir...l missed the first half of the movie what is the story sir? Hey! Do you want me to tell the story here! I will chop it off!!! She is my only wife... Gowri Why? seeing her do you feel ours is a child marriage? As the proverb goes... Much fame in a small stature!! She isjust like that... Na ma ska ra... How long to wait? It's already late Ohl... it got just a little late... I don't have much time, I have to go elsewhere too to show houses Come in... I am coming...just a minute... Sharath... where are you? You told you would come soon after resigning.. you are yet to come! I have seen a place for our new office Come quickly... I have messaged the address This is the living room... This is the place... See for you rself... it's big... Come, when will you sign the agreement and give the advance? Let's see the place first and then I will do everything Come, let's see upstairs... We opened an office... called SurabhiTalkies... Oh! are you wondering why a guy who... wanted to make films open an office.. I opened this office-cum-cinema studio so that all facilities and requirements to make a film are under one roof He is my friend Sorojit... though he got ajob as a software engineer through campus placement... the company had not asked him tojoin due to recession he helped me a lot in setting up my company We started hiring new people to SurabhiTalkies First among them was Gunashekhara... He had already worked with other directors as an assistant He is Manjunath... Graphic expert... We recruited him because he would be helpful in post production works and our other projects too The first work we started in this office was the graphics job Wow. Supex... super... Thank you... thank you... Apart from doing graphic works for other Kannada movies we started to prepare for our own movie too by the by, we named the movie 'Mareyalaare' While naming the movie so... I never thought that Mareyyalaare would give me memories that would last fora lifetime... I had learnt about film direction like Ekalavya... But Gowri had done a course infilm making and had worked with good directors too Thus it helped us a lot that she was the associate director of our cinema as soon as scripting was finished Everyone began thinking about who would be the hero... The story is just superb Sir... I do not think this story is made into a movie in any South Indian language, let alone in Kannada... Sir, who do you think could be the hero Sir Didn't I tell you, everyone would ask Who is the hero or will you give me a role too... Even if the story is a hero in itself I feel that the movie will come out well if there is a good, attractive face and an equally good acting... We can show how manage to get a good face but how about acting? Whatever it may be, I feel that it would be best to have a known and familiar face Hmm... I too feel the same... it's better to have a known face We are anyway there to teach acting! Let's go and have a look at our heroes... Why do you think he is nodding his head for everything we say... He is from Assam and he does not know Kannada dear... What happened? We can't rewind everything for you wait a little boss!! We have a humble request, in case there is someone who seems similar to your favourite hero in what we are going to show now... please do not feel bad thinking who is this guy portraying our hero in such a manner instead kindly go out of the theatre mu nch on some popcorn and return Can I have your order please.. Ahh... we are waiting for someone we will order in some time... Excuse me Sir, are you still waiting for you r guest? We are about to close our buffet lunch Hmm... we are still waiting I think it will take a little while Hmm... Okay... Our first meeting, sorry, sorry... a meeting which was a trial of our patience was with Jayanth... this rhyme came across our minds while waiting for him... After waiting till eternity... are you... Jayanth? Coming to the point Having kept us waiting for 4 hours for Iu nch he was all smiles while coming in... You got it wrong! It was not for us... it was for the waitress in the hotel Here comes the second line of my rhyme... Are you giving her a broad smile... It's us waiting for you here... Sharath and Gowri, right? Hi! Please sit down... How are you? - Fine.. We thought you would make it for Iu nch but now I think it's late for buffet... Hey! I am done with lunch... In that case, shall we havejuice? Can I have your order please.. 2 Watermelon... and for you Jayanth? Can I please have your order.. Bear... I mean clear Soda.. Hmm... there is a cinema... We like your movies a lot The reason we wanted to meet you was... basically we are from a corporate field would you be interested... if we call you for a store opening or a product launch? It depends. Whom? Who invites and for what? You will be invited only where the payment is right... Then, it's okay Do you have anything else to ask? Because... I wanted to... ...go out with my friends for a party Nothing else Jayanth... that's it... Thanks for your time. Thank yo u.. Sharath, you were talking about things other than our cinema When we had come to see a hero... why? Hero...and him? If we cast him as a hero in our project, a cinema that will get done in four months will take four years... that's it! And all that is when... we have waitresses in every scene! Okay then... shall we leave? Order cancel... He is our Platinum Star Preetham... He does not ask about the story and waste time He has a short and sweet formula... Look, if the movie is a love story shot in Chikmagalur or Jog and has a few rain scenes then... it is sure to run for a 100 days And adding to this ifa rabbit or bird is killed in the end, then it's surely a super hit! Oh! are you making a new film? Look! Only I will select his costumes and it will only be me who will select his heroine Ahh...yes...yes... And finally only you will be the audience! He is our actor-cum remake director Partha.. After acting in a couple of Hindi movies and getting a photo clicked with Amitabh Bachan the one and only hero who thinks that he is the Amitabh Bachan of Kannada is him He does not know that here... Everyone is an amateur in front of ourAnnavaru (Dr. Rajkumar) In yesterday's function... Just because another hero came you forgot me? Shall we go? He is shouting like mad Who is he when com pared to me? You call me and run behind him? Sir, is he also not a star like you? That's exactly why... I walked out of the function without telling you Sorry Sir, but we had to take care of him too Sir... Okay... you may leave now Shall we go? - Yes... let's go This does not seem to work out -Yes... come let's go You are no good -These stars are a headache The number you have dialled is out of coverage area! Hey Ranga! call those who were waiting outside Sir... they saw your anger and went away without informing just like you Did they go away? Let it go Hi Lincon, I am Sharath... - Hi She is Gowri - Hi... Oh! Sorry it got late There was lot of traffic. Lot of vehicles you see Was he saying sorry... or go to hell... we didn't understand anything But the one thing we understood was anything that the hero says is always rig ht in this industry What is this? ls everyone like this here? Keep quite Sharath! It will be bad if he hears this ifyou comment like this will you make a movie without a hero That's also true... come let's go He is from America... He's come from America... He is throwing many tantrums... Go back my dear child... Let the Kannada film world remain good... He listened to the story and drove me mad by asking the same question n-number of times Ah! Do you want to know what it was? Listen to it from him... lam a true Kannadiga I can't tell it in his American style ls this story... really written by you? Yes, it's he who has written it... Have you written this story? Yes, I have written this story -Okay...Okay After answering to this question started our board examination... It means the extent to which we know the technicalities of making a movie We didn't feel bad because it was a board examination We felt bad because the one who was taking our exam was a dumb head in himselfl We plan to make this cinema using digital technology We are using digital camera for the first time in Kannada film industry Post production becomes very easy with this approach Since we have our own production and post production studio the task is going to be very easy But editing machines will be different in this case I mean, we will need to use Mac machines and the software that will be used will be FCP but it's fine -Ugh... FER! Yeah.. okay.. fine.. lam sure you know it all well and that you will manage it all very well too But still... did you write this story? Ha, yes.. it's me, thank you Because it is really awesome you know.. He's come, he's come from America... he is throwing many tantrums... go back my dear child... let the Kannada film world remain good... Sharath Khadri Sindhu Lokanath Gowri Sharath Story-Screenplay-Choreography-Dialogues-Direction Sharath Khadri Sir, if we go by what you say Can't we cast anyone ofthem as our hero or does it not set fine? If we have to tell this in Uppi dada's style one does not have any time sense and the other does not want a story we can't bear the other's anger we are left withjust one... and none of us can understand his American accent at all... Justa minute Hello, tell me... No, we are still discussing... Ha, we have not decided as yet lwill let you know Certainly, thank you Who is it Sharath? The lad of the land, not of this land but America's Oh! is it Lincon? What does he say? Nothing much, he wanted to know what is up with our plans Sir, among all these people... he is the only one who called back to ask what happened... Why don't we make him our hero Sir? Two of his earlier film have flopped He has got behind us for he has got a very good story And also because his life and career can get settled Whatever it is, he is good looking... and I am confident of getting him to act But his accent is a problem... We can get someone else dub for him Okay.. let's see Heroin Sir, I know ofa good modeling agency... While working with a director earlier he would regularly take me there In that case, do one thing Go to the modeling agency and explain our character in the film if they give any profiles, get them We will keep auditions later... - Okay sir... Uh? what happened? What happened? Are you a normal human? If it were anyone else in your place they would have already learnt Kannada, show me your feet... Hi... - Hi lam Shelly and you... Guna... Ohl... no.. no... Gunashekhara... Gunashekhar So... what do you want from me? We are searching for a heroine for our movie Okay Our director wants only a fresh face... So I told about your modeling agency... So, what kind ofa girl do you want? I surely knew that you would ask like this So I have come prepared to tell you in detail What kind ofa role is that of the heroine and which kind ofa girl do we want for our cinema... All that is fine... But what kind of a girl do you want? OurGunashekhara was all out and super excited to explain the character of our cinema heroine to Miss. Shelly He kept talking for long... But she was asking just one question... Okay, all of it is fine... but what kind ofa girl do you want? What kind ofa girl do you want? Do you want a girl with commitment or without commitment? Madam, what kind of a question is this? Ours is a new team... We are attempting to make a new kind ofa story We surely want a girl who is fully committed Shooting will be for 40 days, she should be with us... What? For40 days is it? Yes... yes... Okay, I needed just that... One second.. Show these photos to your director... if you like any of them, do tell me... I will arrange for a meeting with them... Okay madam... - Okay... My dear Gu nashekhara... what is this Baywatch here? Sir, I explained everything and told her in detail... I also told her that it is for the role ofa village girl... Look here! I think you told her that our village girl will be in swim suit... Oh my God! no Sir... If you wish I will take you to her... Madam, It looks like... our assistant director did not tell you what kind ofa girl we want... No, he told everything clearly... What did he say? He said he wants a heroine with commitment We have sent photos of girls who are ready for it... Wait a minute! what does with commitment mean? It's just that... a girl who is ready for anything... Thisjob is not yet done... You people do not have any commitment Audition # 1 Sweety... Audition # 2 Charu Audition #3 Manasa Audition # 4 Sindhu Dude.. are you done with it? Will you show us faces in the audition or... is itjust this? Sorry Sir... Hey Gunashehkara... What kind ofa cameraman is he... and what kind ofa model? Wait! I will take you to task after the audition Madam? Had I not told you... that the role is ofa village girl I had asked you to wear Indian costume, is it not? Oh! this is Indian saree, look at it Q w aw.! Has the Indian costume become like this? Do you need help? - No.. no. I will manage Try it out... I love you more than my life... don't leave me... It's very difficult for me Perform it in your style itself it's not a problem Shall I do it in my style - Yes, do it... I love you more than my life... Don't leave me... that's it... Please don't leave me... I love you more than my life... Hove you... Beautiful! deliver the line 'how is it possible' in anger... How is this possible? Keep practicing this... It's coming out beautifully... Do well, all the best -Thank you so much... Was an age limit not set for the heroine audition? Sir, she is the heroine's mother... In the last film her ice cream bill itself ran up to 50,000 How long will it take? shall I start? Who is the director I say, who is taking so long for an audition... Such a waste of time... ls he jobless? Please keep aside your fan... No... it's not possible... There's not even an AC here... How is this possible? Hey, how is this possible? Sir... what is this? She is like the heroine ofa horror film... Should I shoot her too? Should her audition be done? She is an influence candidate please do it Oh! it's all my fate... How did it come out? is it awesome? I will give you a tight slap, how is it possible... uhh? Ahh... what's this boss? How is it possible, How is it possible... How is it possible... Don't leave me and go, I love you You are the love of my life dear... Don't leave me and go, I love you She is our Lincon's girlfriend She has come because of his influence... He had requested me to a large extent That I take her as our heroine... Since I truly value art a lot... lam surely not going to be bogged down by such influence... That's why I conducted a proper audition But as that cameraman said... She is actually a horror film heroine and so she got rejected You are the love of my life dear... Don't leave me and go... I love you In case you leave me I will punch you You are the love of my life dean... Don't leave me... Hove you... In this manner, our heroine audition reached a stage... Next day, we saw the audition videos once again and... Shortlisted Sanju Gowda and Sindhu Loknath As decided earlier... We rejected Lincon's girlfriend, Charu Look... as we talk about her Hello... How did Charu's audition go on? I hope you liked her... Lincon, to tell you the truth She does not suit our story... Come on come on Shaxah. The chemistry between is very good We love each other.. okay.. And it looks very nice on screen, Sharath Lincon, what I say is... Let's not get personal matters into the cinema Very soon we will be selecting a new heroine Will let you know when we finalise Oh hello.. Sharath Excuse me.. hello.. hello.. Sharth... look, what is this? What's it? - Looks like tattoo marks on Sindhu's hand Hello... - Sharath... it's me Sindhu I had come for you r audition yesterday Smdhu... Are you busy? can we speak? I have called to ask... What happened of the audition results? Nevertheless, you re shortlisted... But... I was looking at your photos on the internet What are those marks on your hand? Oh!.. that... actually... They are tattoo marks I had got done while in college Those that are called 'Hachche' Are they permanent tattoos? hmmm In that case it will be difficu It... It will not suit the role of our heroine Moreover, if we try to cover it up with makeup There are a few rain scenes too... I don't want to take any risks Oh! actually I am ready to get plastic surgery done It will take just around 15 days Just because of one tattoo... Please don't tell that you will not select me I realised that you are putting in a lot of effort for this project When I saw you selecting the heroine through an audition to work with such a good team I would be more than eager I want to be part of your team So please consider me... No" no... no need of was: surgery Ahh... we have not decided as yet I will let you know when we decide lwill let you know Don't do any such thing... I will call you fine... Telling you the truth.. I was actually scared.. When I heard of plastic surgery After I told this to Gowri and Gunashekhara We decided to cast Sindhu as our heroine Because our team needed this kind ofa committed girl Oh! not the film industry kind of commitment You guys are no less... You are returning our favour to us Come in... Anyway, the heroine is now finalised What happened to the other character artists? Sir, I asked all the artists... - Hmm... They all askjust one question which is Who is the production manager of your cinema? Who is a production manager? Sir, the one who manages the conveniences of all the artists And brings them on time is a production manager... The one who gets us permissions for our locations is him... If said in simple words... The one who coordinates shooting arrangements is a production manager In case artists face payment problems they do not grab our collars Instead they grab the collar of a production manager Ohm. But in our production... Artists will not have to face any such problems Can't one of us handle all these affairs and other necessary sundryjobs? Sir, all that is not possible Sir... A card is needed... a card... A union card to become a production manager Oh! is it so? Sir, you don't worry about this I will get someone If you want to you can select Fine..let's do like that - Okay Sir... Na ma ska ra Sir... What is you cinema budget estimation Sir? According to union rules... 60 - 70 people are needed for shooting Set aside 1 or 2 lakes for a day... For location permissions... We will need this, is it okay? Upon meeting these production managers For the first time I realised How difficult it is to make a cinema It's not their fault either The system is such... They only helped me understand it, that's it... When this was the scene and we were confused about whom to rope in and whom not to as our production manager An acquaintance of mine introduced me to Costly Swamy... Na ma ska ra Sir... Hello... - Hello Sir... Phase come... Sir, what were you doing earlier? I was working in a mobile company Sir... Were you getting your salary properly? Yes Sir... why? Then why on earth did you want cinema and films? You could have continued to work comfortably and peacefully Don't get scared! This is his style... This is how he tells to all freshers Fine then, what else can I say when you have already decided? It's all your fate! Are the hero and heroine fixed? Yes Sir.. we have finalised We plan to make Lincon our hero and a new girl our heroine Then who is the music director? The music has come out very well Sir... Shall we get the lyrics done from Jai Kulkarni himself Sir, Jai Kulkarni may be #1 in lyric writing but... Getting him to write a song And extracting work from him... I know its difficulty the best! Is it so? why do you say so? Oh! that is because... Once I had given him a tune to write a song He had not written the first two lines of the song And had written fill up the blanks This is what happened He had written everything... But for the first two lines When I asked him why he had done so It's me... or it's you... It's me.. or it's you...is what He asked me to write and go on... Not just this... We come across so many such characters Once a producer had come He himself was the hero of the film He didn't know even a sound of music... And he insisted upon me giving him the music fast... I told him... Look... Female chorus is pending... You come in the evening... See for you rself and finalise it.. That man came in the evening... He listened to the complete song and appreciated it... Do you know what he told in the end... - hmm.. Where is the female and where is the chorus? I was stunned... I didn't know what to say. I looked around and kept mum Such people also come to us Sir... Hello... - Hi... When the music started coming out well... Our search tended towards finding a good cameraman Once the shooting is done All the work that is done in a studio Must be done in the place where I ask you to... But there is this studio of our own Hey! it will not work that way It must be done in the place I ask you to Oh! is that so... Okay... I will leave - Thank you... Hello... Please sit... Star hotel accomodation is compulsory boss for me and my team... What do you mean by team? -Uhhh... Just 8 members... In a 5-star for 8 eight people? -Ya Sir Thanks a lot... Should it be shot in digital Sir? Is that not the new technology? Don't you know to shoot in digital? Reel is better for us Sir I myself have a camera... I will do it only if shot with my camera Story is very complex Sir I have done it all in Tamil, Malayalam, Telugu Sir... Do you understand Kannada? Will you do a Kannada movie? We shall do it very well Sir... Will you do it in digital? We shall do it very well Sir... Look! it has to be done quite differently We shall do it very well Sir... After listening to his 'Pannala m', 'Pannala m' Like we say Familiarity breeds contempt. We ropped in a cameraman from Chennai, and not Bengaluru... What you are going to see now is The photoshoot of our 'Mareyalaare film Strictly for only those who can laugh Yeah.. we will start. Lincon, get a little makeup done... Na ma ska ra Sir... My name is Naveen He is from America He's come... he's come from America... He is throwing many tantrums... Go back my dear child... Let the Kannada film world remain good... Don't touch my hair... What happened Lincon? He is overdoing the makeup... It's all fine Lincon... No.. It's not awesome.. Look here... here... see... Hey! whatever...do as he says boss Okay Sir... - He will do it Lincon.. he will Shall we start the photoshoot? Shall I do like this? No..No...we have planned it all No..No... shoot as I say Shall I turn like this? Uhh... it looks good Fast..fast.. Please take one break Sir.. Next. shall ljump? Uh... you want to jump? Why does your hero behave so? Does not listen to what is told What had we discussed yesterday... What's happening now Sir Please adjust a little and finish it off You do it Lincon We will do it in another dress, will you change the costume? Yeah.. good idea Shamh. Shamh. Shaxafim. - Shara. Shaxafim. - Shara. Shamh. What did you do now? I did makeup... - No It's not awesome.. See here... see... Do it as he says boss... You don't worry Lincon Come here.. I will tell you... What's it Sir...? Am I a makeup man or a director? Please pay attention and do it... Ayyoo! he shouts Sharath, Sharath Even before I touch him Sir... How can a makeup Iighther than this be done Sir? Sir... I am telling you a truth... Even a pinch of powder is not spent since morning In the makeup ofthis guy Will you do this? - Ha... Can you act? -Yes, but why Sir? Act as ifyou are doing makeup - Ha.. Don't bother to even touch him - Okay Sir... okay Sharamfiharafim. Didn't even touch him Sir... He says he will do makeup, but he is not touching me Hey... makeup man... At least give a little touch up Ohh! do it yourself Sir... What's this mess int he morning and no payment too Just a waste of time and effort for me Wait Lincon, I'll bring him Hey.. wait... stop... Shara... What's this? it's very tight! Hey.. it was all fine when the measurements were taken Lincon No, now there is a little pau nch, no... I am fit Yeah.. come on.. Photographer yeah.. Now... Shall I do like this? That will not be nice Sir No, it will be good, you do it -Sir, your face will be hidden Hey, hand should be seen, my hands are awesome Now... this... no... no Oh, don't want Sir... - Okay.. okay, ready Sharath, your photographer isjusttoo much Lincon, you say something to the makeupman and now to this photographer What is this Lincon? - Everyone is dumb! Sir... get back a little -This looks awesome.. Sir, come ahead a little Get back Sir Put your leg ahead - Oh... okay ya.. Smile Sir... - One angry look This is not angry Sir.. It's sarcastic No.. it is... Sharath, don't you have an axe? Our cinema subject is not so Lincon Sir.. you are a lover.. No problem in using it in a photoshoot, get it There's nothing of that kind in the cinema It looks awesome.. Sir, raise your hand a bit One leg like this Touch up... Will you do a bit as I say Hey, no... you have to do as I say Because I am awesome.. What's it there... on that side in the hand? Looks like paralysis... This is tattoo, tattoo.. Oh is it? who gave it? I got it myself Charu got it... Shall I do like this... like this? Lincon, there are a few dumbells there... Pick them up and give a pose, you will look super Super for this fit body ls it fine...? Oh! super... it's all our fate - Thank you Justa minute Finally... you never got me an axe Sharath I didn't get one of your America kind... I will get it next time... Sharath, I am sweating a lot Makeup, makeup.. - Hey makeup Hey makeup... Hey makeup... Oh! please spare me Sir Hey makeup... - Makeup Hey Sharath, how has the photoshoot come out? Have the photos come out well? I have to see the photos, show them... Which photos Lincon? Unable to bear your torture the photographer ran away... And that makeup man Ran away midway in the shoot unable to bear your torture... Photographer and I had planned what not for your photoshoot... and you behaved so... And the costumes, we had bought so many Lincon You never wore any of those but for the ones Charu got No, no, Charu gave them, they were awesome and so I wore only them... Ya,then right from the introduction up till the climax Wear the same clothes If you behave like this, I will take you to task during shooting What... will you hit me? Have you not seen my fights, stunts and punches in my films... If you give punches in movies, lwill punch in real life What happened Sharath? I dreamt that I had fought with Lincon It's tough shooting with him After what happened in the photoshoot, I too feel the same... He does not listen to anyone Shall we do one thing Shall we look for another hero Telling him that finances did not get arranged and so the shooting got postponed... Best thing to do...we will do that go to sleep What, did you say finance problem? But was it all not fine till now, Sharath We too didn't know this would happen Funds had to come in from one source It's getting delayed a bit... Then will this project not take off for sometime It can't be done immediately... It will take quite some time for funds to be arranged When it gets arranged we will surely continue So I think it is best that you take up someother project No... No... No... No, I like this script very much In fact it's awesome. It's really awesome. I have to do this project okay! I certainly have to do it Yes... I know... When we start the project later We will surely do it with you No.. no.. at this point of time In this stage of my career... Such a script is very important It boosts my career up I have to do this script Shara... Otherwise... Give me the story and subject I will get it done from someone else How can the script and story be given to someone else It can't be given like that In fact, I will ask the one's who do the movie to put your name In fact I will try to get them pay you for it lam not doing this project for money Lincon The story can't be given like that What do you mean by you can't give I will make a few changes in the story and make it in my name Else somehow try and arrange for finances lwill let you know Give me some time - Okay Do that. When he asked for the story I got very angry and scared too It felt like being stuck in Trishanku swarga Then we felt like taking the suggestion of our music director Sarjun... Hello... - It's me Sharath Yes Sharath, tell me Sir, it's seeming very difficu It to work with Lincon We thought about dropping him from the project But he is asking for the story itself Sir, actually he is a big nail in the shoes He is one who will take your story and Get a movie done from someother producer Can't trust him... hmm Sharath, the industry and media know that you are doing a movie with him If you drop him midway, it's you who will get a bad name Be it gain or pain... Do the movie with him and finish it off We will see what to do further - Okay Sir Going by Sarjun's advice And deciding to somehow do the film with him We told him that finances got arranged somehow and we are doing the movie Hi... lam the fashion designer of 'Mareyalaare' movie Hello... Shall I show you the costumes? Ha... okay show them See... this is a waistcoat Party wear shirt... He's come from America... He is throwing many tantrums... Go back my dear child... Let the Kannada film world remain good... Instead ofthis... If you wear a dress with butterfly wings Wouldn't it be very nice... ls it so Charu... - Ha... Wow... No need of all these Make a dress with those butterfly wings for this song... And you have worked out so much and become so fit... If you wear a tight formal shirt and a waistcoat over it... You will look... I'll really look awesome. right? But, in which scene shall I wear it Charu? Ha, shall I wear it in the scene where I go in the bus... It will be good... All the people will be in different poses... I mean, they overflow from the bus... Suit and boot for a scene on a bus... Why not? But Sharath had told me something else Tell him that... Charu, I mean I have changed it now, simple Okay, I will discuss with Sharath once... Ha... do it... do it... He's come from America... He is throwing many tantrums... Go back my dear child... Let the Kannada film world remain good... Hello, tell me Shilpa... Sharath, I don't know If you, Lincon or... Or Lincon's girlfriend is the director Why Shilpa, what happened? Look, I have designed dresses as told by you But both of them are asking for something very different... Their talk is meaningless For a scene on a BTS bus... Your hero wants a blazer and coat Will someone who wears a coat and boot travel by BTS bus? Shilpa, I am getting what you say... But we are inching closer to shooting We can't fight wuth him at this stage Just make a couple of dresses as he says... If we overshoot the budget, please don't worry... Give me the bill, I will take care of it. Okay.. Okay.. as you wish.. Every director wishes That his film comes out very well... Upon which if it is his first film... Only the one who experiences it knows it best... Every scene should be perfect to the tee... I too had the same wish It can be called determination So I was getting rehearsals done for every scene With a bandage around her hand... Sindhu was doing rehearsals in spite of the pain I didn't tell you why there is a bandage around the hand, right? For the sake of a role... This girl for plastic surgery done... The scene on this side was very different When Lincon was told about rehearsals I don't need rehearsals, I will do it all on the sets Taking to him always ended up with such things Change the script, not this dress not that dress... Make my girlfriend the heroine I used to get fed up But going by Sarjun's words... I used to think offinishing the job, though tough He's come from America... He is throwing many tantrums... Go back my dear child... Let the Kannada film world remain good... I know what you are thinking about While shooting this scene Has the cameraman forgot switching on the lights, isn't it? No boss... This is how we sat when Lincon was chewing us raw In darkness... Amidst all of this, we reached the muhurta day... Amidst all of this, we reached the muhurta day... I am sorry - It's okay Sir, for how many days have you planned the shooting We think it will go on for 40 days Sir, what kind ofa story? It is a usual love story... Sir, will you tell us where are your locations? We plan to shoot in Singapore, Malaysia and surroundings, isn't it Sharath? Simple role, village girl Sir, can we get a byte of yours? Oh! why not, will do... Hey, move aside... Sharath is a new director and You are an experienced actor... What's the reason for you acting in his film? Though Sharath is a new director... His story ls very good... It's really awesome I liked his story very much Then, technically he is very sound Hi... Hey, who is that villan kind of guy, come aside... So? -What did you liked about the project? Story written by the director was good It's a village backdrop I liked the script He's come from America... He is throwing many tantrums... Go back my dear child... Let the Kannada film world remain good... Since you have an American accent I have heard that a few directors Avoid getting dubbing done from you Are you doing this movie yourself? Or is anyone else dubbing foryou? No, no, I will be giving voice for this film myself I mean, what is this... In America they say I have an Indian accent And in India they sayl have an American accent No.. it's not awesome Thankyou Sir, even I know the story very well I will tell you, take my interview Who are you? - Assistant director of this movie Hey, get lost! Hey, non-assistant director Sir... If you want to give an interview Come to the front screen from the back screen Become a hero, understood? Sharath, I... Don't like this food Everyone is telling it is tasty They are relishing the food Lincon No, my philosophy is That which is yummy to eat And has an awesome taste ls not good for the body We could have got animal fodder for him He is a mad man, he is a mad man What... what? Oh! nothing, I wasjust thinking what to get you? Hey, no... don't think too much... Get me ragi porridge, that's it But, from where do we get it now? I want ragi porridge only... I have only that for Iu nch Sharath, get that for me I will arrange for it somehow Don't worry Lincon, you sit down Production, he wants some ragi porridge, please get it for him boss Where are you dude, come fast How long to wait for you... Come here right now Shooting is about to start, come fast - Sharath What is all this? Iam not liking any of these clothes, okay Look, do one Mug... Give me some other clothes for this scene But, we had discussed all this with you earlier And decided upon the clothes for every scene And then chose them Lincon, right? But now I am not liking any ofthe clothes Sharath... I want to... Wear something different But all ofthem are Set aside for other scenes and songs Lincon I don't know any of that Sharath Get all the clothes that have been bought for the movie I will choose one from that All ofthem are in our office And we are shooting near Kanakapura It will take at least 2 hours To go and get them from our office We will have to stop shooting thill then You know what? I don't care Until you get me all the clothes... I will not come in front of the camera Hey, shooting has stopped, come fast ls everything ready? Ha, take it, take the clap... Action, Mareyalaare, Scene # 45, Shot#1,Take #1 I have been waiting So much for your gift Your gift never came Hey, cut, cut, cut... Sharath Everything was coming out good. What happened now? I had told you I wanted a pink color envelope for this scene No.. this is not happening How does a envelope matter Lincon? Let's finish the scene Sharath, I have discussed this scene with Charu And Charu has told that Pink envelope will look very good here Get it... What to do now? Only 5 minutes is left for the callsheet to get over Let him goto hell Let's somehow arrange for a pink envelope Hey, get that pink envelope that he is asking for... Why on earth did I ask our director to cast him I don't know He doesn't listen to anyone He does not listen to our director too If this is the case, it's all over Excuse me... Don't look at me and deliver dialogues I feel co nciou s.. okay Look that side and say them... Hold it, any problem? Haa... clap... Mareyalaare, Scene #25, Shot #1,Take#1 Amen... Why... what happened ? It's been many days that I have left my town Our town, the lake... The people, I am missing all ofthem very much Why do you miss them so much, don't Why despair, I am there for you Beautiful shot, cut Sharath, He came... he came... Sharamfiharafim. If we consider a scene... It should come awesome -True... Your heroine is not acting anything, okay! If Charu were to be there, this scene would have really been awesome lam the director, right? The scene has come out very well... You don't bother about all that Let's prepare for the next shot It's a scene where... You are holding Sindhu's hand and pacifying her What Hand, do I have to do all that? Don't worry, it's getting late, come let's take positions Come... Hey clap boy, come here and you prepare the lights Action I love you... - Ha A little softly Lincon... Take another take, softly I love you Sharath, Sharath... Sindhu and my chemistry is not happening If Charu would have been there, it would be awesome Let's talk about all this later Lincon The heroine can't be changed now Please cooperate, okay? Thanks Shara... Since it started raining heavily In Chikmagalurall ofa sudden We had to change schedules We started looking for new locations in Bengaluru itself Hello... - Lincon? How come you are here? - Hi I actually thought of coming to the office itself You had given your house address So I came... - Come in, sit... Thank you... Just a minute, I will call Sharath Sharath, - Coming Lincon has come ls it? - Yes... Why? - I don't know Wait Hi Lincon -Hi Sharath, I have something important to speak to you Ha... - Hope you don't mistake No,tell me See Sharath, let's change our current heroine, okay Charu and I are the perfect couple for this story... So, I think that's the best Shooting has started Lincon Moreover, everything is coming out well We can't do like that now I have seent he already shot portions Everyone has done very well I think we should not disturb the shoot now Look,I hope you understand... If Charu is in front of my eyes my performance will be super, okay And in fact it will be awesome Come on Lincon, you are a good actor Even if we place a stone in front of you you will act beautifully You are a very good actor, an awesome actor you see... Ya... okay... 'om By the by, I forgot to tell you We have seen new locations and I will give you the new schedule soon ls it okay? - Yeah... okay... fine Hope you don't have any problem Did you come to tell just this Oh, thank you... thank you I will inform you about the next schedule All the best He is throwing many tantrums... Go back my dear child... Let the Kannada film world remain good... We selected all locations and prepared the new schedule We decided upon the locations and scenes for the next one week I called up Linconto tell this I never thought that it would be our last phone call Hello... We have planned the schedule for next week I called to tell you this Aaa... before that You have make the script changes that I had told? Our conversation did not stop Not only that, it started to turn into arguments You must be wondering what kind of script change did he ask for I will tell you, listen to it There was a character in my cinema It had shaped up very well It felt like Nobody would forget that character after seeing the movie He feared and felt that That character would gain more prominence than the hero Or I don't know ifthat was his way Of torturing me for not taking his girlfriend as the heroine Nevertheless, I had lost patience Look Lincon, this is becoming a torture The costume change, the enevelope color change that you askfor Repeatedly refusing the heroine And now you say that you don't want a character itself I don't like all this one bit lfl make the changes you askfor My movie will not come out the way it should I can't make the changes that you ask for Even if it turns out to be a flop A director should be content that he made a movie the way he wanted to So I have decided I will make the movie the way I want it I can't make the changes you say If you have any problem, tell me right now What? How can you do that? See, you have to make the changes I have told I am the hero of this movie And moreover it affects my image. Okay Even I am telling you the same. You are the hero of the movie, not the director I cant: sit and argue with you Listen to me now I can't continue with you in this film I cancel the shoot So horrible. I painted my fate on my bare soul.. To add beauty to that picture I held a pen of colours ls it wrong to get on to the path that heart desires.. Have my desires become a mirage? Discarding what is with us... And getting drawn into... The wave of everything new... Did the apprehensions of the... People who pulled back become true? May all sorrows be mine while treading the thorn laiden path Why should my beloved go through pain I have lost the light within me I have become a puppet in the hands of destiny ls it wrong to get on to the path that heart desires.. Have my desires become a mirage? When the sweet of happiness is offered... Everyone gmhers around... Like a group of bees... My companionship is not desired when in grief... Everyone mocks and laughs towards the one who has lost... Will this darkness not fade and ray of light emerge? I will face it and fight... Where is the spring of opportunity? Is it wrong to get on to the path that heart desires.. Have my desires become a mirage? I painted my fate on my bare soul.. To add beauty to that picture... I held the pen of colours... ls it wrong to get on to the path that heart desires.. Have my desires become a mirage? When we were going through the deepest and longest Darkness in the abyss of our life A person who came as a ray of hope was Mahesh Did you feel that I was being very philosophical? That is what is called life When, how and whom... It changes someone, nobody knows... By the by, we met Mahesh when... We were looking for a creative designer For our company SurabhiTalkies The handsome guy who came from Byadagi is charming... lam in an interview Will call you later... Okay... bye Hello, Mam... Mahesh here.. Ya, I am in your office I am downstairs... Okay, Mam... Mahesh, please come... -Yes Mam May I come in Come in, please sit Hi Mahesh, my name is Sharath Which place do you belong to? What Sir? Everyone has listened to it, but for you The background music when I came in for the interview The handsome guy who came from Byadagi is charming... this is it trapped me with his sight the handsome guy who came from Byadagi is charming My caller tune itself declares... That I am from Byadagi How many times to tell you that I am in an interview Put down the phone, you brat! Sorry Sir... On looking at your resume You seem to have very good experience in film graphics But we are looking for only a small A creative designer for a pamphlet and poster only If we have to tell you about ourselves We were going to do a movie called 'Mareyalaare' But since the hero didn't cooperate We had to stop the movie midway. We lost quite a lot of money It might be difficult for us now to hire a big graphic artist like you But in the future ifwe ever start Film graphics and animation I will certainly inform you. I hope you understand Yes Sir, let me know when there is an opportunity Oh... sure... What happened Sharath? - Nothing at all... Mahesh had called... -What did he say? He says he is searching projects for us Are we also looking for any film graphics and animation projects? Ha, an animation project has come our way but its a very samll budget project I feel we should accept it I too feel the same We can rope in Mahesh for that project and we can take SurabhiTalkies forward too Even after all this we have to get back to life We too did it but with a small twist I got back to my corporate career and Gowri started looking after SurabhiTalkies To push forward our Surabhi Talkies Gowri started looking out for advertisement and other graphics projects Hi, madam... Come in Mahesh... please sit Now our charming prince I mean Mahesh officiallyjoined our SurabhiTalkies team All the best Oh sure, thank you mam Thank you... -You are welcome Upon seeing the memories of our Mareyalaare movie Mahesh approached producers for not only graphics jobs. But also asked them if they will produce ourMareyalaare movie Sir, actually we are people who do graphics I came to meet you because we came to know that your film has graphicsjobs Graphics jobs are done in Chennai. Let's see the next time Sir, we also have a film project called Mareyalaare Script and heroine are already selected and we are looking for producers It would be nice ifyou would be interested ls the heroine finalised, who? Is she ready for everything? Is she ready for all kinds of dresses and scenes? Is it that stopped project? Who will do that stopped project? Ha, I will give graphics jobs too I will produce Mareyalaare also but there is one condition only my son should be made the hero Papa, will you make me a hero? We got the project madam We can start work from tomorrow ls it? Very good Mahesh.. -Yes ma'am Did you show our work? Did they like it? They did not see any work madam... They saw the visiting card and gave the project What? They saw the visiting card and gave the project? Yes, madam... Namaskara Sir... - Ha, Namaskara Sir, this is our visiting card We came to know that you are making a film Yes.. - So we thought we could... ask you for the graphics work If we see you r name it looks like you are from our region You are from North Kamataka, right? Ha, yes Sir... yes... Sir, shall I show you the demo reel of our company? Hey, all that is not needed when you are from our region You just get on with work now -Yes Sir... This is how it is here... They often say that you are from our region and such and give projects As SurabhiTalkies was growing we re-employed Gunashekhar for advertising project works Though I had got back to my corporate life since my heart and soul was here I often came to SurabhiTalkies Just when everything was about to be set Just when everything was about to be set Director Kumar is about to start a new movie He has also decided to give the title 'Mareyalaare' for this film According to him the title 'Mareyalaare' is a perfect fit for his film He plans to start this movie from the next month Prior to this a film called 'Mareyalaare' had started shooting and stopped midway When director Kumar was asked about this he told that he does not know anything about that stopped project There is also new that Mr. Kumar is about to get Bollywood stars for this film How is this possible? Our title can't be taken like this Sir I have got 'Mareyalaaree' title renewed just a few days back I will call the film chamber Sir, I am calling from SurabhiTalkies We have renewed 'Mareyalaare' title Please check and tell me Speaker phone... Ha, Mareyalaare is in the banner of SurabhiTalkies Its renewed Sir, why do you get tensed? Iam searching for producers for Mareyalaare Someone or the other will su rely come forward I know that you are searching Mahesh I also know that there are many who have told that they do not like to take up stopped projects We can't keep quite becasue of that Everyone is forgetting Ma reyalaa re Look! That's why they are going to take our title now Now, the most important thing is to keep Mareyalaare alive That's correct, but how can we do it now? We can't produce the film too We havejust started growing One idea... Summing up our Sandalwood experience can a film be made? I mean.. what I am trying to say is Considering the making of Mareyalaare Let's make a film on the basis of the true incidents What we get from it is we will get to tell our people about Mareyalaare too and we will also get to tell about the sweet and bitter experiences that happen in our industry Instead to making this... we can make Mareyalaare itself, right? It's not like that... Mareyalaare is a very glamorous subject We are talking about a real subject in this Let's put real characters and give them real costumes What do real characters mean Sir? Real characters mean... Gowri will do Gowri's character Mahesh will do Mahesh's character Gunashekhara will do Gunashekhar's character Sir,you mean I will act? I feel scared Sir... Come on Gunashekhara, you don't take on tension We will not give you very big dialogues, okay? But camera team budget and... expenses of the entire film may be difficult Let's do like this We are getting advertisement projects It will be useful for that also and for our film Let's buy a digital camera In Hollywood that is how they are making movies now Mahesh... To reduce cost, let's reduce the number of shooting days Let's plan neatly There will not be any stars, so no budget tension We will also have date flexibility For the cameraman... Let's do one thing let's ask the cameraman of Mareyalaare to act as the real cameraman So for this film Let's make Mareyalaare associate cameraman Ravi the cameraman We can do it Our editing job for advertisements Shivu is doing Let's get editing done by him S, mush? Let's give a new misuc director a chance If anyone asks let's say we didn't have money to rope in Rahman that's it I feel its a risk It's going to be no risk and only fun Sir, title...7 We are going to tell a story about Sandalwood It will be good if we keep it with a tint of comedy in it Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma... How will it be? It's nice... It's awesome... What English is it? You will not understand all that. Come on Sir... Okay, let's try and see... Yes... yes... In this way Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma was born and its work also started I requested Sindhu to act in this movie Hello... - Hello... Sindhu, it's me Sharath... Hi, how are you? You have called after so many days Yes, I plan to make one more film I think this is what is called the circle of life There was a time when she asked me to give her a chance Now it is such that I am asking her if she will act in my film... Which one? ls it Mareyalaare? No.. Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma This is what we experienced in Sandalwood when we came in to make Mareyalaare Your role is of Mareyalaare heroine in this I mean, we will show how did you got into our team and the experiences you and we had during the making of Mareyalaare This may become a little of a controversy too If you are telling the facts as they are it will be nice If it becomes a controversy, let it be lam surely ready to work again with your team Thank you... In that case I will discuss dates with you soon and arrange for shooting, okay? Thanks He is our new music director Keertan A 22-year old software engineer Even he is very crazy about music and cinema Are you saying we are getting only such people Are you saying we are getting only such people ls cinema is my tattoo and my cloths? The switch that gives a shock is this touch... ls cinema is passion and pitch of my life? The craze of the immature heart the sketch.. Is it cinema? A will be the winner among hundred ls what the rest get a complete zero... ls this Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma... ls this Sandalwood... Sa Ri Ga Ma... Hey Director! How much ever of cycling you do a hit cinema will not come out... It will run only for 3 days... how many ever stunts you do... Why do you get mocked at like this? By keeping an item song that the producer asks for Giving a script that suits the image of the hero Leaving all creativity back at home How can I give a hit cinema? Don't disturb... lam going to get my wife prepare ragi balls! Hey Producer... The film you did was of high budget All cheques are bouncing now Boss, when it will go to Oscars? Paying attention to collections? Why do you come like this to become a pauper Selling all property for the sake of cinema Downloading the film audio myself Staring at an empty theatre with crossed hands I lost everything and left my own town Don't disturb lam going to rear cattle leaving behind everything ls this Sandalwood... Sa Ri Ga Ma... ls this Sandalwood... Sa Ri Ga Ma... Hey, heroine... When will you get an offer and come on the big screen? How much ever talent you have... how long should we wait? With lot of affection for Kannada language and leaving offers of all other languages all I got was an item song In the name of costume all I got was just a two-piece... Sister, shall I give you an idea? Go and just get married... ls cinema is my tattoo and my cloths? The switch that gives a shock is this touch ls cinema is passion and pitch of my life? The craze of the immature heart the sketch.. Is it cinema? Building a castle of success in it and putting in hundreds of immemorable marks ls this Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma... ls this Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma.. Hey folks, that's it, finished As it all started... controversies also sprung up My name is Arun lam from 'Ramayan' newspaper in Gandhinagara Anyway, let's come to the point Tell me.. It looks like you have shown about Kannada film heroes in detail... lsit Sir? Sir, nothing like that lfsjust a normal cinema It's true that its based on true stories We have not taken any names and targetted them It is a real story about Mareyalaare cinema, is it? In a way, yes... In fact Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma is is culmination of all our experiences when we tried to make Mareyalaare cinema You mean, making ofMareyalaara. -Yes you can say so Ha, okay Everyone is telling that in this film the fact that Mareyalaare film stopped due to the hero is being told in detail How correct is this? Why analyse all this now Sir? We are going to make a good movie and we only request people to watch and enjoy this film Regarding this, with you writing all this in your paper people will not come to theatres to watch the film, isn't it? Sir, anywaym off the record... Whatever it may be, you have made a very good film So all the best, good luck Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma has landed up in a controversy This cinema is a culmination of all my experiences while I ventured into the making of Mareyalaare, says director Sharath Khadri... What is told about our Sandalwood stars in the film has brought mixed reactions We believe that in the film Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma you have been mocked upon What do you have to say about it? Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma? I don't know all that lam coming back from Bangkok now, after a party Amidst all this controversy we will have to see if it releases but its audio is a super hit Are you ready? Sir, is it true that you are talking about your experiences of Mareyalaare film in this movie? Yes, it's true that we are showcasing our experiences of Mareyalaare movie ls it true that you have mocked upon our heroes in yourfilm Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma? Look, in this movie we have not taken any names or told anything about anyone Why did you leave the corporate field and plunge into movie making? Why are you asking this now? This is a question you should have asked a year and half ago About whom all have you spoken in your film Sir? As I told you earlier We have not spoken about any hero or taken any names In all what do you feel about Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma? Will you tell in detail what kind ofa movie it is? We have attempted to make a normal comedy cinema Yes, it is a movie that is a compilation of all my experiences in the film industry But we have not hurt anyone or made fun of any person In case anyone feels that there are resemblances, then it's not my fault You say it's a comedy but there are other types of controversies around it! You are the ones who have created this controversy and that's why I amspeaking to you There is no controversy in this Please don't tell anything that will create a controversy This is a common comedy cinema We have tried to make it such that everyone likes it, that's it We heard one more thing It seems that you have targetted one particular person in yourfilm Its not about anyone Sir When it is a story there are certain things We have only spoken about them Since it is based on the film world many people are curious that we might have spoken about someone or the other Watch the film If everything is told now, nobody will watch the film When have you planned the film release? We have; see... there are few more things to be done Once that is done, we will release the film soon Towards the end what I would like to say is This is a story of my experiences in the film industry It's a comedy film, everyone will like it Everyone please watch the film and enjoy it Sir, have you heard about the movie Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma Yes madam, we have heard of it The songs are super and we are waiting for its release What would you like to say about the controversy around the film Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma It is... newcomers are trying out something new New comers, youngsters... Basically we should encourage it... the reason being Its wrong to pass opinions prior to doing something or knowing about something We have no right to pass such opinions lfa good effort is made is it not our duty to appreciate it, while being from the film world Or... here... the film world should progress, good movies should be made, or when we think good work must be done when a good effort is made we must encourage it If it is a good effort and good cinema let's all clap together and nurture them Let's encourage, right? Do you have any message for this new team? Newcomers, educated people... educated class is coming into the cinema industry A good atempt is made I wish you, your team and your film All the very best After so many controversies Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma has released today Come, let's see what the audience has to say about it Oh! Sir you are all here Shall I take your byte too? No issues, take it of the audience first we will be here Okay Sh... There are no superstars in Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma why did you want to see it? Poster design was super and so I came I will come again We liked the music of the film very much That's why we came What do you say Sir? I came because this guy dragged me to it The film was super, else he would be punched ls this Sandalwood... Sa Ri Ga Ma... What do you say madam? The tattoo mark song was super It is really superb, surely 100 days lam going to but the next show ticket Response of the audience is super It looks like everyone has liked this film Like the audience have already told we wish the movie runs for 100 days Sir, congrats... you have finally won Where is your producer, not seen here? Oh! Heroine is also coming with the producer What is the producer feeling about this success? What are you asking them madam... it's already written 'Flying Machine' on the T-shirt She will only fly from now on It's after so many days that I am seeing Gowri smile like this Do you say happy ending? No, no, it's a happy beginning We signed Sindhu for Mareyalaare again Mahesh started getting phone calls from producers Hello... I had to talk about Mareyalaare film Call you r director dude You can cast anyone as the heroine It's not a problem for me Okay Sir, okay, one second... Ha, tell me... ls it Mahesh? Call you director and fix a meeting Let's start Mareyalaare again One second Sir Hello... Now, do you ask who is the hero of Mareyalaare ls cinema The switch that gives a shock is this touch ls cinema is passion and pitch of my life? The craze of the immature heart the sketch.. Is it cinema? A will be the winner among hundred ls what the rest get a complete zero... ls this Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma... ls this Sandalwood Sa Ri Ga Ma...
