 

                        (Wild Blood) Milan, April 20, 1945 five days before Liberation Stop or I'll shoot! Shoot? Can'tyou see my uniform? Who's in command here? Lieutenant Valenti, . Osvaldo Valenti! Look! . I have to go through. We don'tcontrol anything beyond this street, Think Osvaldo Valenti knows how to wage war only in films? We can't cover you. . I have to parley, . Don't move! Stop! Hands up! Behind your neck! On your knees! - Get his weapons. - Don't move. . I have to get a photo in my pocket. . Don't move! It's just a photo, One hand. Slowly! I have to see this person. And this? - Why do you call yourself Taylor? - It's my code name, Like the actor Robert Taylor, why? . Just because., . . Keep talking, This is Vero, the unit commander. - It's an honor, - Keep talking. Where's Luisa? Does he have to keep that thing pointed at me? So? Where's Luisa? - Hotel Regina, she's safe, - She's not, She's in danger if other partisans find her. - I'll get her. - You're not leaving. Write a note, I'll go. You afraid I'll run? I came here of my own free will, on my own two legs., . - Shows what gall you've got! - Why? You and Koch torture partisans at Villa Triste, and you ask why? - That's not true! - No? I know the rumors, but I'm here to set you straight, I've been to Villa Triste, but because I'm an addict, Not the same thing as torturing partisans! They also say Luisa danced naked to excite the torturers. Golfiero! How can you believe that? You know Luisa, - Then how did this start? - Koch's girlfriend, Desy., . She's obsessed with Luisa, imitates her make. Up, clothes..., Could even be mistaken for her! Believe me, she hasn't done anything, I hope you can prove that. Listen to me, She's absolutely no part ofthis, she hasn't done a thing. She's pregnant. We lost a child five years ago, this one's a miracle, A pregnantwoman doesn't dance naked, or torture partisans. They might not believe me.,, but you're in movies, you know when a guy's telling the truth. . Have you got a razor? . What for? Do we still have that German's uniform? Are you crazy? Excuse me,, . There's a German officer here, he says he has a note from LieutenantValenti. I send him up? . Don't you recognize me? . Golfiero! Are you crazy coming here? Why that uniform? You must come with me, right now! - Where's Osvaldo? - He turned himself over to us, - He wants you to do the same, - Is this a joke? Is this the moment for jokes? With what I'm risking? Take only what's indispensable, there's no time to lose. What do I take? Not all that! You can't come wearing jewels, take them off! Hurry! - I can't leave them here, - Then bring them, The film,, . . Osvaldo's film, . Are you crazy? At leasta couple,, . SCIENCE, WILLPOWER, FAITH, CAN LESSEN THE EFFEC OF NON. BENEFICIAL FORCES OF NATURE Don't look. Keep walking! Are you alright? See what a great German officer? - You should have been an actor! - Cutthe crap. Rome, summer 1936 Kitty., . "These rose petals... are like drops of blood on the snow.,," . Hello? . Sandokan, are you insane? - What is it, Sturla? - Are you being an acrobat? Get moving, we're late! I know I'm late, I'm coming. . Sturla? . What? . Do you know why God created cats? . Get moving! So Man could caress a tiger. Whatare you saying? Make way, Audiles! Move aside! "These rose petals... are like drops of blood on the snow., . A horse! A horse! My kingdom fora horse!" Stop! My dears, thank you, I love you all, Bravo Osvaldo, that's good, We'll do another. Everybody get ready! Clapper, . Camera! . Rolling! Richard III, 94-4 take two. Action! Excuse me Osvaldo, could you explain? You always have me dubbed by Augusto Marcacci or by dear Sandro Ruffini! You know it's not me who wants you dubbed. What's your opinion? They say I sound like a mother hen. My face is okay, my voice isn't, it's a cackle! Like a broody hen, Valenti doesn'tact, he cackles! Come on, ready., . Another. "Mirror, ., Mirror on the wall, who's the fairestof them all?" - You, of course! - I'm nothing. We don't count for a thing, here, little actors in a little country that makes little films. You're numberone, the best. We should go to America, to Hollywood..., Forgetautarchy! Here we make films, in America they make movies..., Mail? . Anything decent? . They're lining up! Like? Like., . This. She might be okay for you, not for Sandokan! Then this one, Much better. You'rea fan of mlne? Yes, sir, I've seen all your films. Good. - What's your name? - Manfrini Luisa, First name first, then surname, we're not in a barracks! - Manfrini doesn't ring right, - It's my parents' name, Fine, but not for an actress. Manfrini, no way..., Makes you think of good people, workers who till the land, laborers ofthe race ofthe Audiles., . Those who have to hear orders, listen, audire., . Followers, lackeys, people like that.,, You are beautiful, no doubt of that. But why then, instead of marrying the druggist's or the notary's son, instead of producing Audiles for II Duce and the King, why did you leave everything and come to Rome? I came here to become an actress. What does being an actress mean? Playing different parts, learning to be many other people., . Is that what they say at the local drama society? What should I say so as not to be laughed at? Surely you're not offended? No, but maybe you can say better what an actor is, so I'll know, You know how many women come here? How many of them are willing to do anything? Beautiful like you, maybe more so, beautiful whores,, . So? Mostly they're so primitive, modest, that their willingness depresses me, I send them away with no test. It might be quicker if you say what you need and I'll see if I can satisfy you, Hello, may I have a word? Miss, I mean you, may I have a word? I don't believe this! - May I? - Keep your hands off me. My name's Golfiero Goffredi, I'm about to start a film. - Get lost, it's nota good day, - No, listen to me! I told you not to touch me! - I want to offeryou a part, - In what film? "LostWoman". Never heard of it, never saw it announced, In fact it's my first film, I have to produce it myself, Doris Duranti should have played the part, butshe's close to a Minister, he forbade her to work with me. - Why? - Fascists don't like me. It's mutual. . I'm just a lowly extra. . I know, I saw you. . In what? . In the "The Sultan's Son". You were weaving the princess's veil. . I didn't even speak! . You spoke in " Meridian Fury". - How can you remember that? - You spoke well. If you're not the friend of some Fascist Party head who forbids you..., . I'm no one's friend. . Good. But first we'll need a screen test, In your office or maybe your house? What? I just want my actress! Silvestro, good evening, Whata beautiful home. . Would you like something to drink? . Yes, please. Excuse me, my Lord Count, Dinner is served. Thank you, Silvestro, You can go, thank you. Excuse me dear, no offence intended, but the knife in the mouth is just too much, it's not done. First, back straight, no elbows on the table, ever, Hold yoursilverware like this. See? It's very simple. Try it. What's this got to do with cinema? You'll have to enchant the smart set. They mustn't think they're watching a peasant girl. People will identify with you, Becoming a star carries great responsibility. Want to turn me into a grande dame? I don't wantanyone to make you feel awkward. . Thank you for lending it to me. . Keep it. She was German, she brought the cold with her. I'll give it to you, I'll send the costume designer to pick you up tomorrow, I want him to study you, so he'll know what's good on you, And your hair, I don't know..., These bangs... you have a nice forehead, you should show it. Maybe you'd look best with your hair undone, I can't believe this is happening to me, Don't think about it, sweet dreams. What iftomorrow I discover it's not true? It's all true. Come upstairs, don't leave me alone, Tomorrow morning I want you to repeat everything, word for word. Offto bed now. Too fast? It's not the smart set way, ., Darling, go to bed now, it's best, The key's not there, I gave it to him, Who's "him"? Your fiance, he's waiting upstairs, Good foryou, a big fish this time... . What are you doing here? . You were out late. . Who invited you? . You. Anyway, you don'tenter a girl's room if she's not there, You're right. I brought this so you'd forgive me, Itdoesn't look very attractive, but that's not my fault. Your porter couldn'tfind me a glacette. What do we drink to? I'm not drinking, Alright, You've already had a drink with the guy who brought you home? Who is he? That's my business, You're right. We do it and then you leave. Then I'll leave, Hurry up, we had a deal, Sure, we had a deal, Are you crazy? The portertold me you're two months in arrears, How dare he! Consider ita loan, pay me back when you're famous, We won't be seeing each other again, Why not? I'm not one of your girls, your beautiful whores. Are you the girl of the guy who brought you home? No. Go to sleep, I'll take care of this. I still have half an hour, who'll face Vero? I'll do your half an hour. Go on. Wouldn't it have been better if you'd gone upstairs that night? Forgive me! . Is my car ready? . I'll call foryour "handsome" car. I love "handsome", not "beautiful", like D'A nnunzio says! "Handsome" car! - Any mail? - Yes, sir. Thank you. . What's going on in there? . There's a private party, A party to honor the new actress, Madame Luisa Ferida. Madame Luisa Ferida? There's no invitation for Mr Osvaldo Valenti? I'm afraid not. Amilcare, King of the Audiles, look again. Of course, sorry, it must have come this afternoon. Stand in for me, I'll accompany MrValenti. Good evening, Maestro. Do you know the song "Isn't It Romantic"? - But it's American! - Who cares, it's lovely! - Alright, - Thank you, Good evening,, . May I have the honorofthis dance? Certainly. You've become very sophisticated, Mademoiselle Manfrini. I no longer have an Audile name, I'm Ferida now. I know, it's in all the papers! Grand idea, magnificent sound, There's the idea of the feral, of blood, of a soul in ferment, of a ferocious animal., . It was Golfiero's idea, he says it suits me better, Good for the Count! It certainly suits you. Like all fags, he knows women well. Loosen your hold, please. You're beautiful, much more than I remembered. You're very kind. Too bad you put on all these airs, you don't need to, Look who's talking. You're teaching me humility? No, I'd just like to see the girl I once knew, She's gone, no more fresh flesh at a pimp's disposal, Still biting, eh? I have a room in this hotel, Esenin's at the Hotel Astoria et d'A ngleterre in St. Petersburg. We've danced enough, I'll say goodbye. Tell me, lovely Luisa, who are you with in the wee hours? Who, ofthese, do you sleep with? With all of them, Stop this. Not with the director, everyone knows women disgust him. Could you be producer De Cupis's girlfriend? You know, in intimate moments, he dresses as a candy striper? Maybe you do it with Falieri, the young actor. I know who the lucky one is! Attilio Cardi, the Director General of Motion Pictures! II Duce's right. Hand man, the great craftsman of Italian cinema! Absalom! . Where do you think you're going? . My shift is over, But the King of the Audiles has no shifts, . But he has a house, . With no one waiting for him! Speaking of which, Alcibiades, might you have a couple of fleshy lovelies to send to my room? There's already a woman waiting. What? Don't turn the lighton, We have unfinished business, Here, this is yours. What is it? We're even, now I can leave. Get up you two, we have to leave. Wake up, we have to getout of here. Do as he says! Come on! Go! Where are you taking us? We have to change hideout, Milan's no longer safe for you. The Germans are negotiating a surrender! . Soon it'll be over, . It's not the Germans or Fascists. . The problem is our own people. . What do you mean? That to save yourskin, we have to risk our own. We have the order to shoot you, but your friend insists on a trial. Maybe he's hoping you'll make it. Uncle! . You prepared the place? . Yes. Don't tell anyone about these two, Noteven if other partisans ask you, . Why, who are they? . Don'task questions, The less you know, the better, Is it true you've already condemned us? Do as they say, I'll do all I can to help you, What can you do? Vero scares me, he has a madman's eyes. He knows you didn't do anything, - Osvaldo didn't either! - Not now! The Ninth InternatlonalFIIm Festlval involves the partlclpatlon of 17 countries, Includlngthe actlve, healthy and Industrious part of Europe. The Propaganda Mlnlsterof the Relch, Hls Excellency Goebbels, recelved by the Mlnlster of Culture, by the Presldent of the Blennale and the FIIm Festlval, Count Volplof Mlsurata, and other personalltles, has arrived In Venlce to attend the Inauguratlon of the Festlval In the evenlng, theopenlng fllm was shown In the Festlval Theater. A great number of critlcs, Intellectuals and ladles crowded the elegant hall The smart set and personalltles of the FIIm Industry, gathered for thls exceptlonal artlsticevent, flnd Idealrelaxatlon on the magnlflcent beaches of the Lido. . Did any mail come? . Yes, just a moment, Osvaldo, I hope you don't mind, I invited this lady. Good evening, welcome aboard, The envelope? It's here, take it yourself. Careful, Why did you take so long? Did anyone see you? No one knows I'm here. Good, Cardi hates me, he does all he can to keep me from working, I can't stay long. . Why? . There's a party in my honor. Go then, have Sturla take you back, Don'tyou want to know who won? Who gives a damn! I certainly didn't nor did you, or you wouldn't be here, Nice! "Best Actress: Luisa Ferida", good for you! What do you see in thatstuff? Want to try? You don't have to sniffit, just put it on a mucous membrane. Tongue, gums, mouth..., Any mucous membrane, Does anyone besides Sturla know about this recording? Word ofhonor, no, Leave it, you may go. No. That way. Show her in. My dear, You're so lovely! What elegance! What's that old thing doing there? Whatan honor! You've never cared to visit the Ministry, . I have to ask a favor, . Can't we talk about itat home? No, it's a formal request. I'm listening, YourMinistry didn't approve Goffredi's film. The banks won'textend credit, why? It's a beautiful film, and a greatopportunity for me. He's an anti. Fascist, and never misses a chance to show it, Now he demands we finance him? He demands nothing, He's an artist, he's not involved in politics. Then why doesn't he produce his own films? If your Minister won't do anything, I'll see II Duce himself. Golfiero's script! Who did thatscribbling? II Duce! Don't you recognize his handwriting? . He likes correcting homework. . He has nothing better to do? Listen, Forget Goffredi, he was asking for it, Our best directors wantyou, Golfiero is completely different. You have lots of proposals, important films, great directors., . Chiarini wants you for his next film, also Poggioli..., Blasetti too, I might add, . And the male lead? . Osvaldo Valenti. Isn't he the actor,, . Who performs,, . Like that? . Turn that off right now! . Slut! Whore! It's despicable, how could you have spied on me? Letgo of me! SLEEPING BEAUTY Guys.,, Dalmazio.,, - Is it done? - Not yet. Do you know what it means to disobey orders? Itsays here they've been shot. They turned themselves in, we won'tshoot them without a trial, For two degenerates? For two torturing murderers? There's been a trial, . The sentence is right here. . No, a proper trial. With a prosecution, a defense, witnesses and a desire for truth. If they're the scum you say, they'll get what they deserve, Vero, is thatwhat you say too? Yes, It's time. The date for the revolt's been set. All Fascists, except for a few fanatics, are surrendering. Many are entering the Resistance. Great men, honorable men! Listen, Taylor, after the war what do you think will happen? All the pent. Up hatred, pain, the thirst for revenge, the settling of personal scores? But we don't want a bloodbath, it's not the solution. The solution would be to make Valenti and Ferida pay the bill? The bill will be paid by the bastards, the assholes, the leaders, those with responsibilities, Make a good example and save the others' lives. What will decide who the assholes, the bastards, the leaders are? Gossip? You're right. It would be appalling if innocent people were condemned. But if all they say is true, if they really did the horrible things they're accused of, you, Taylor, honestly, what would your position be? If someone proves to me they did those things, I'm ready to shoot them myself! Even you aren't so sure they didn't do anything. How did you find out? Silvestro, It's horrible! Why do things like this happen? I'd have preferred Capri, but Ventotene will do, We have influential friends, we can even reach II Duce. No way! Be a hero! You feel important going into exile like the real anti-Fascists? What do you mean? I'm sorry, I don't mean it. I don'tthinkthose things. The Podesta is down 3,000, Monsieur Duval, 3,000, plus my own 15,000,., over 22,000, So, Mr Ambassador,, . So, whose deal is it? It's very late, are you coming to bed? These gentlemen have offered me the chance to regain my losses. Go on to bed, I'll open. Three thousand. Here, Cards. I'm pat, Two, Patspeaks, All of it, Do you have a pen? Excuse me, I never accept checks. - And so? - It's a rule of mine. Having to dominate the world, why not learn languages? Forget it, He said no checks. Wait, sir. I'll wager my place in that bed, - I don't understand, - Come on, you do. Alright, Women never betray me, Monsieur, That's life, I'm truly sorry. You won? What do you think you're doing? I'm coming to bed, Think I didn't understand? Now you just waltz in here? So? . I won, didn't I? . But if you'd lost? I should have lost. I wanted to, you whore! One more, one less, what difference? . Are you crazy? . Where did you go this morning? - What fucking dick did you go to? - I went to Gaeta to see Golfiero. What? Think I'm stupid and don't know about you and that fag? Whatare you thinking? And this? It's a picture on the set, we were shooting, You keep it in your purse like a fiancee? Like some girl with her soldier. Boy's picture? That faggot! Fucking queer! You're jealous! - You're jealous, darling. - Never! You're jealous! You fell for it, you scamp, you were afraid! What an idiot! Didn't little Golfiero tell you about the sublime art ofham acting? You're jealous and don'twant to admit it. Valenti isn't jealous! Sandokan has no rivals. Shut up, Don't ruin everything, Let's have a baby. Would you light the candle? You'd better stay away from her, . Why? . Because her uncle will kill you, When this shitty war is over, I'm going to marry her. Pontine Archipelago, summer 1940 I love you, Feel it? . I can feel it moving. . It's him, Kim. . How do you know it's a boy? . I know. So he won't be French, or Spanish, or Italian. He'll just be Valentian, or Feridian, or even better Sandokanian! Turn it up! Ma'am, Sandokan come here! What is it? Llsten. An hour... marked by destlny... rings In the sklesof our Country I can just imagine the scene, ., - Whata pompous third-rate actor! - Let me listen. The declaratlon of war has been dellvered to the Ambassadors... But why? He's scared Uncle Adolf will glom it all. He needs a few deaths to gettossed some scraps. What will happen now? The Germans have already done everything, We're racing to the winner's aid, It'll last just a few days, you'll see. It'll all be over before the baby's born, ...and Western reactlonary democracles which In every era have hlndered our march and often threatened the very exlstence of the Itallan people I Itallans I Run to take up arms... and show... your tenaclty... your courage... your valor I Sturla? As soon as she's asleep, get rid of all this stuff. Of course, don't worry. What are you doing? I brought your meal. Leave it there, thank you. Calm down, Go away. Get out! Please, do something. Go away! Forgive me, for before. Do you have a boyfriend? No. But there's someone you like? Maybe there is, I like Piero. Who's he? One ofthe boys outside, the one with curly hair. Does he know? No. He has to take the first step, Women always take the first step, What's your name? Irene. I want to give you a gift. For when you marry Piero. They'll think I stole itfrom you. Wear it when no one can see you, on your wrist orankle. Thank you! In more than twenty years, Fasclst Italy had truly achleved Incredible feats. Where once were bogs, malaria, death, Fasclsm, wlth just the manpowerof our Natlon and superhuman wlllpower and energy, had brought Ilfeand created, In the mldst of ageless swamps, provlnces and cltles. Once grander and wlder opportunltles were restored to the Country, the new People's Italy marched toconquer an Emplre In the heart of Africa But In 45 days of Intrigue, of cowardlce, of re-emerglng fllth, all was lost I Your attentlon. His Majesty the Klng and Emperor has accepted the reslgnatlon submltted by Hls Excellency Cavaller Benlto Mussollni. Italy vanlshed, engulfed by theabyss of betrayal On the 8th of September, wlth the enemy advanclng, restralned only by Hltler's soldlers, the Natlon's flag was shamefully lowered In theoccupled terhtories. But oneday, slnce surely there Is a God of Italy, from the mountaln of Gran Sasso a "stork"took fllght and the Man of our Destlny was restored to us I 0ut of so much undolng, the young Republlc was reborn. The best sonsof Italy, wearing agaln the gray-green of four Wars, to the prodlglous volceof the One who leads us, readlly reply: Agalnst all, we shallwln! THE END There are many empty seats, those of the profiteers who yesterday applauded the head ofFascism and who now turn their backs. You, the best, remain. Italian Cinema will rise again with you. Rome cannot be defended much longer. That's why we've decided to transfer everything to Venice, where, with our German ally, you will resume yourwork, Cinecitta will rise again on the lagoon, De Sica, Blasetti, Rossellini, Soldati are missing? So much the better, Italian cinema can do without them. Thank you, you can go. Would you come with me? I have to talk to you, Do you intend to hide too? Me, hide? I know they run to the Vatican as soon as they leave here. Good! I'll finally be offered the good roles, It's the end of the line, it's over. I don't know how or when, but it's over. Now that II Duce regains command of the " men without blemish"? II Duce is the Fuhrer's hostage, he accepts the role of puppet to salvage what he can, It's notencouraging to hearyou talk like this, Cardi. The Director General of Motion Pictures! This is a friend talking to you, Afriend? Luisa's, not yours. You can't imagine how I detestyou, I'm sorry, I thought you be resigned by now. I keep an eye on you, I know who you are. Agambler! You live far beyond your means you're in the usurers' hands and you've never had a Party card, Maybe because itembarrassed them, But they gave me this. Always a braggart! You're right, I'm an addict, A squanderer, a gambler, a rake, But above all I'm an actor, maybe that's the worst thing. I incarnate other's fantasies, I representwhateveryone would like to do but doesn't dare. That's why I always get the bad. Guy parts, Since that's howyou all see me, I've become a bad. Guy. Forten years I've been shooting a film, "Wild Blood", it's a Sicilian expression, What is it? It's my shit, That's right, Shit, blood, money, sex., . What we want to hide, whatwe don't want to know, what our prudish and conformist little films don't show. There are those who'd like to be a hero, like our Duce, others a gentleman, like you who loves Luisa, but spies on her. And some like me, who feel a delightful lust in self. Degradation, in sinking into and transforming everything into shit. Here I am. And Luisa? How does she fit? It would have been better if she was like you, Women are born to have families, to grow old by the fire, to be safe. But unfortunately, she's like me, I'm notcoming to Venice, this is my letter of resignation. After that speech? Here I've named you as my successor, You'll make an excellent Director General, Take it to the Minister. But if you say it's all going to pot! Listen to me carefully. The General Director is treated like a Minister, His work obliges him to move around. In otherwords he can travel, with a diplomatic passport, and no restrictions, I don't see your point, The General Director can plan a visit to Spain. You can get to South America. You're still in time and you can save yourselves, you and Luisa. I'm speechless. You're suggesting I escape? We've said itall, My respects to Madame Ferida, What will you do? I'll watch your star shine ever more brightly in the heavens. "Your Excellency, wlth thls letter I communlcate my reslgnatlon as Dlrector General of Motlon Plctures, a declslon I am forced to make for reasonsof health. At the same tlme, Ideslre to Indlcate In Osvaldo Valentl, bearer of thls letter, a worthy candidate, who has the necessary prestige, determlnatlon, personallty and expertlse to flllthe chalr whlch sadly I must vacate. Respectfully, Attlllo Cardi. Rome, 0ctober 4, 1943, XXI Fasclst Year." Venice, October 1943 Valenti! Excellency! - Whata pleasure to see you, - You appeared like deities, I bow to you, Remember Prince Junio Valerio Borghese? . How are you? . Much better for seeing you. . I see you're busy, . Letthem wait! I was told you were coming, let's have a drink, Don't be offended, the journey was long, I'm going to bed, You're a lucky man, We have to get moving, take back the initiative. We can't act like Mussolini and leave everything in German hands, If today there were no units like the 10th, that fight, that keep their word, know what the Germans would do? They'd reduce us to a pile of rubble like Poland, Holland and Hungary! I totally agree. If you gentlemen will excuse me, ., Don't get up, please. My daughter would so like Mr Valenti's autograph. . What's her name? . Valentina, in your honor. "To Valentina, Osvaldo Valenti." Thank you and forgive the intrusion, The girl was an excuse, she wanted that autograph herself. She drools over an actor and didn't even realize the hero of Alessandria was sitting right here! This shows something, that today's heroes are you. Popularity travels faster than any venture. What did I tell you? An idiot! People need to identify with someone, Don't underestimate popularity, it can be very important, if you put itat the service of a just cause, What's the film? It's not a film, it's my uniform, Lt, Valenti, 10th MAS Flotilla, this is for real, You joined? Are you mad? What's the war to you? I'm giving Borghese a hand, he says men will follow me. It's better they join up with the 10th than with the Fascists, What would the difference be? The Fascists just want revenge, they have it in for Italians, For the 10th, the enemy's still the Anglo. Americans. You've always despised politics! Borghese does too, at least we'll get something going with him, What do you need to getgoing? If you think I enjoy making these stupid little films and playing cards with the Germans,, . Then it wasn'ta great idea to come to Venice, No. Get out, The other way. Because you didn't want to do anything to help me. To change things, to make films that aren't so stupid. Instead, you hang around depressed, turning down scripts. . You call these scripts? . It's work! They're arguing, ., Yes, first they argue then they screw. But it's been a while now that they just argue. Yes, they're mediocre scripts, poorly written, but Alfiero Corazza lets you do what you want. What kind of director is that? I want to do real films. Here we're leads, in real films we had supporting roles. At least they were good roles! I'd say... this uniform cuts a damned good figure, Perfect, you look like Borghese's double. . Do at least one favor for me. . Oh Heavens, justsay the word! Leave, cease this and torment me no further, Is this the favor you promised to concede me? . I won't prevent you from pursuing, . But with bad grace! You shouldn't tend to my grace, you should just tend to your own. "Satisfy", Not "tend to", "satisfy". The line is: "You shouldn't tend to my grace, you should just satisfy your own", it's awful if you repeat "tend". Sorry. Sorry, I got mixed. Up, Don'tworry, it's nothing, Alfiero, another one. . Would we like to do another? . Yes, "Don't tend to my grace, you should just satisfy your own." . Certainly, dear, . Good girl, Let's take it from the top. Take yourstarting positions, Move! - Another one! - Ready to shoot, . Camera! . Rolling! Clapper, Good. Action! Is this the favor you promised to concede me? . I won't prevent you from pursuing, . But with bad grace! You shouldn't tend to my grace, you should just tend to... Satisfy,, . Sorry. I can'tget it today! You should justsatisfy your own! As for me, itwill be my care to satisfy the wants of the Minister in case he'd like to have a nice blow job! It's the only reason I'm on this set, the only reason I'm an actress! Do something, make him be quiet! Corazza! Are you nuts? You can't talk to her like that, she'll stop the film! - Whata ghastly tragedy! - Why be such an asshole? - These are the films we can do! - And that's okay with you? You snap to attention for the firstcocksucker around? That's your attitude? Great, They probably won't touch you, you scare them.,, The 10th scares him, let him try to tell me anything! Put it down, it might go off, It might go off, ., I knew we shouldn't have come here, that it was a trap, we should have stayed in Rome, In Rome they've even started filming again, Who knows with what means or film. Rossellini is making a film on Rome, Roberto Rossellini, a former assistant of mine! He's in Rome making his film with Anna Magnani and Aldo Fabrizi, Magnani and Fabrizi, vaudeville actors, it's a comedy? I don't think so, Magnani and Fabrizi... The was no role for Valenti, they had to take Fabrizi! . What's he playing? . A priest, I think, A priest? I've never played one, no one ever offered it. They don't think Valenti can play a priest, Alfiero dear, please, in the next film will you let me be a priest? Isn'tall thatstuffbad for you? Be quiet! Whatare you doing? Stop! Stop! Take the uniforms off those bastards, look for two clean ones. So we can getthrough the road blocks, Go! Go, Luisa. Put her next to Piero, The curly. Haired guy. Sergeant? Come here, I have orders to check everyone, See these stripes? Do you know who I am? . You're Osvaldo Valenti. . Lieutenant Osvaldo Valenti, At your command, Move the blockade, let us through, Let them through, Stop! Hands up! No tricks, come on! Achilli, don'tyou know me? It's Vero. Get down. - Vero, I have to talk to you, - What is it? . Are they Valenti and Ferida? . And ifthey are? - It says here they've been shot, - Right. Maybe it's not true and someone's wasting time. I have orders to deliver them to the CLN. Turn them overto me, it's best, I said I'd deliverthem. Hug the wall, there may be snipers. Do as he says, Excuse me, Ma'am, Captain Arrivabene is here, or rather, Count Arrivabene, who's asked to see you. Hello, I'm Leonardo Arrivabene, I'm to deliverthese, - Who from? - There's a note, "Luisa, follow this officer. G." Golfiero? He's my cousin, Stop! Around the corner! Are you alright? - Where's that bastard? - Must be the last house, Stop them! Stop that car! Stop! Grab his legs. Grab his legs, careful. What happened to you? I had no news, They freed me after July 25th. I crossed the lines and joined the Allies, They parachuted me into the North to do undercover work, If I can't trust my cousin., . He's risking, you could report him. . You know I'd neverdo that, . That's why I'm here, I'm here to take you away. - What? - I want you to come to Milan, You can't have anything more to do with these people, . It's too late, . No! People like you, you haven't disappointed them, . Just imagine., . . But you have to leave Venice. Rome has been liberated, you could hide in my home. Would you hide him too? How can I, the way he behaves? He compromises himself, struts around in that uniform! . He takes part in the clean-ups! . That's not true, - The 10th doesn'tdo clean. Ups. - Of course they do! Don't you see what's going on? Don't you realize you're with a gang of crooks? Osvaldo would never hurt anyone. He's just irresponsible. I'm not here for him. I'm here for you. How could you think I'd dump him? Open your eyes. Have you ever been in love with anyone? What do you mean by that? If you'd loved someone, you'd know, Love is for housemaids! Ferida, come with me, Taylorwants to see you. No, you stay put. Follow me. They keep saying I'll pull through, Of course you will, The strange thing is., . I can't feel anything any more. They must have loaded me with morphine, Vero? You have to give them a regulartrial, - Or you'll answer to me. - Okay, I promise, I won't let you do my next film! I got it. Where've you been? Hurry! . How many did you get? . Four. Now three, What the fuck do I do with three? You should have taken much more! It's not my fault ifthere's none around, Besides, the bastards want to be paid in gold. There's nothing around anymore! There is one possibility, - What's that? - In Milan, in the hospitals, There's more action, but it's a nasty environment, How do I get inside a hospital? Get admitted? We need to organize a visit to the wounded, . If Madame Luisa came., . . Are you crazy? Whatare you thinking? The wounded need morphine! And me? I don't? Didn't you see how the fuck I was? Leave us a moment, Out! Want to preach me another sermon? Do you realize what you're doing? When will you stop? You're an idiot, petty bourgeoise, justan extra! You disgust me! You make me sick! Then why don't you get the fuck out? Where the fuck do you think you're going? Letgo of me! Son of a bitch! Don't touch me! Forgive me, Hello, Pietro Koch, Special Police, Italian SS. Ma'am., . "These rose petals are like drops ofblood on the snow," Wonderful, the great Valenti, you're my idol, You're both my idols, Ferida. Valenti, the bestactors in Italian cinema! Since when are you in business for yourself? No Pietro, I took it for you. Look. It's yours, It's yours, Good boy, Mom... - Lovely sweet face. - Did you film Dusnella? Yes, Luisa, doesn'tshe look like you? Yes, it's true, she does a little, You're her idol, she imitates you, Desy, come here, let the original see you. Come on, don't be shy! A pleasure, Marchi Dusnella, Desy. When Luisa gets a headache, she can be her double, She's good at it! To Dusnella, the woman for a headache! And to Pietro Koch, who's got a real head... for a target! Great! Agiant of life and of the screen. To Luisa Ferida, the most beautiful woman in Italy, The most beautiful in the world! Cheers! . Satisfy a curiosity of mine. . At your command, Where do you keep the prisoners? What prisoners? The ones you torture for the Nazis. Want to film them? Come on, come with me. . Desy, feed them, . With what? What do you mean 'with what'! This. So? It's what we eat too, Move, feed them! Delicacies. Too bad Madame Luisa doesn't wantto see them. They'd have loved it. They'll have to settle for her double. Let's see if they fall for it. Know who's feeding you today? The most important actress in Italian cinema, Luisa Ferida! Do you know who's with her? The most important actor in Italian cinema, Osvaldo Valenti! Do you want to film them? Want to film them? Come on, you have that thing..., I've nothing to hide. Film. Come on, a big hand for Luisa Ferida and Osvaldo Valenti! A big hand! Why are you with this scum? You're an artist! Get out! Why are you with this scum? - Shut up! - You're an artist! Get out! Shut that violinist bitch up! Shut up! You have to shut up! I wake up at nlght wlth nlghtmares. I feelmy body doesn't belong to me. Idon't recognlze It lhaven't menstruated In two years. Don'tworry, dear, things will normalize with the pregnancy. - What? - You're three months pregnant. Are you happy or not? Let's see, how's your homework coming? 6 times 7 isn't 41, it's 42, Audile! Close the doors, Excuse the inconvenience, we're justchecking documents. Any dangerous outlaws hiding on this tram? Sister, should I check underyour skirts? Just joking, ., Lady, are you hiding something? Of course not... Excuse me, sir. There was a little shaving cream on your neck. Thank you. Notat all. Do you mind if I sit next to you? Please do, Thank you. Excuse me, Lieutenant, . Speak, divine child, . Are you Osvaldo Valenti? I was Sandokan, Giannettaccio, Henry and Genghis Khan! A cruel Turk, a wicked Baron, a murderer and a seducer, I've never been a priest. Right you are! Valenti is my name, Born in Constantinople and died a thousand times in a thousand places! Can I have your autograph? And ifl were illiterate? - What's your name? - Ginevra, . You? . Itala. What a nice scent of school, of virgin flesh., . That's enough, back to your seats, Nothing is more squalid than the vanity of actors, Are you making a film? I'm aboutto startfilming a beautiful movie. I'll be acting alongside my wife, Luisa Ferida, it's entitled "Wild Blood" and it'll be directed by the greatest of all Italian directors: Golfiero Goffredi, What's the story about? It's a love story. Two men love the same woman and so they hate each other, They fight a war one against the other, The woman loves them both and doesn't know how to choose, she can't, it wouldn't be right. Each ofthem is a part ofher. - Good and evil? - No, too easy. Good and evil are merged, both men are good and evil. She too, is good and evil. How does it end? Like all fairytales: The good guys come, the bad guy dies. Enough, go back, I can't reveal any more, Go sit down. Audile open up, we'll getoffhere! It's a nice ring, but., . Let me show you something, Of course, maybe Desy... It might be exciting for her to have one of Luisa Ferida's rings. I'm coming, Hello, Madame Luisa! Hello, Look how nice the lady is, she's giving you this ring. What? Is it really for me? Yes, Thank you! Your face is floury, There, I thinkMadame Ferida never gives anything for nothing. Who knows whatshe wants in exchange... Who knows what you want in exchange. How beautiful you are. You're both so beautiful! Clean.,, Like that, Yes, undress her, Undress her, Beautiful... Luisa and my little Desy, You're so beautiful! . Put that gun away. . What? Can't you see it bothers her? Sure, I will. There, it's gone, I don't want to keep it..., What is it you won't keep? Not in this world or in this life., . What? Who? The baby, I don't want it anymore, You're expecting a baby? I don't want it. I won't give birth to another like you. The baby? It's safe inside me, My father..., always wanted me to have a child, A child of yours would be so beautiful. Achild, ., I could have had one only with you. What will you call him? Golfiero, like you, When you're healed, we'll run off and have ten more children! You're rich enough, Ten... Milan, April 29, 1945 Bring in the prosecuting witness. Where did you disappear to? The defendant must remain silent, Witness Sturla has earned our trust, Thanks to him, we arrested Minister Buffarini Guidi. If these are the people working for you., . Fabulous! The defendant must try to maintain proper behavior. Go ahead. For a long time I associated with big shots, The opium. Filled ones! Silence, or I'll clear the courtroom, Go on, Shitmanikov, say whatshots you got for the big shots! You have to shut up! So? I did., . They made me do., . I didn't do anything, I never tortured anyone. You're not being accused, just give the facts. I don't have it in for anyone., . We want to know if this man was a Fascist, Clear question, clear answer. Did you understand the question? It's not that he's a Fascist. He's Sandokan..., The Pirate ofMalaysia. Silence, or the trial will resume behind closed doors! I'll clear the courtroom! We're in a court oflaw, not a cafe. I'll ask you again. Was Valenti a Fascist or not? What should I do? What do I do? Tell me! Tell them what they want. - Up, let's go, I'm taking you away. - Where? I'm freeing you. Get moving, before I change my mind, We have to pack, my film.,, Just one! Vero? You know what doubles are? Imagine we're not Valenti and Ferida, that Valenti and Ferida have escaped to Argentina and are safe, We're their doubles, two misfortunate doubles, with nothing to do with this. Ever thought of that? We're all doubles. Go, you're free. Go. The sign, We placed the sign, Wantto check? No. That's it, ., We have carried out justice..., EXECUTED OSVALDO VALENTI AND LUISA FERIDA (Wild Blood) Translation Charlotte Lantery OMBRE ELETTRICHE. Roma
