 

                        In Army... They give mutton before the war Tell me the english of mutton Mutton! What do you mean? Hindi and English word is same I don't want to do it I don't want to involve in this matter I gave my word, If you won't do it then... You want to send this truck back to bank I have no family member I am with you and that Power Tony is also with you Don't think about it Just Accelerate it... Collector send me... When C.M. Comes so we can meet you He is Mr. Krishnan Vice Chairman of I.B.P... Who doesn't know him? C.M. Really likes our Kebabs Sir! Everything is in your hands C.M. Have a new requirement She needs more land for Heart Institute in Bharat Nagar Complex C.M. Wants to announce before election It's an emotional matter so clear it immediately Sir! Dr. Ahmedi is about to land He will provoke the issue of Bharat Nagar land... He will abuse I.B.P Collector is my junior Let's cancel his speech This Ahemdi has stopped your Dam Project You never forget your insult Let's meet in evening Who is he? He is suppose to come here Finish it fast Do you know him? He was my teacher in America What? Ask him not to come here If he will come here he couldn't go back alive You are already facing many problems don't create more problems Stop him! Learn some english and become a Manager Doctor got life threatens every week If will tell him then he will laugh on me They have cancelled the Hall's permission Where are you going? You are welcome in our city It has been said that you have a problem with Chopra Will you perform a stage show with Tina... If she will make hunger fast with me Do Progress! But in the name of I.B.P and progress You through Bharat Nagar people 50 miles away from their houses then you make those Bharat Nagar people guard and stand at I.B.P's gate Is this a progress? They can't live with you here They are black, Their clothes are dirty They can't speak english What kind of progress is this? Only Mercedes runs and... cycle not What is your next movie? My next movie is about love What are you doing? You shouldn't touch the human's feet We lost the hall Collector has cancelled the hall permission... They have become very smart So what we do now? Shall we cancel it? We won't cancel it... How are you? So what will you do about my warning? Warning! Who gave you the warning? You are not telling us Now what we suppose to do? Tina came from Bharat Nagar What will you do to know that who gave the warning? So what about hall? Last time where I have attend your Union Meeting that Bharat Nagar Police Circle? That's Morchaa wala's bedroom I want to shit over there Morchaa wala gave election issue to I.B.P Department If you will speak against I.B.P means you are against them Trust me! You have a natural beauty People will forget Priyanka Chopra get few snaps in swim suit and watch Read it! Dhable is inside! They are talking about his analysis You told me to wait outside If I will ask you to jump in wall so you will jump You decide it first Fix the screen As you can see the people You will put the people effect later Who changed the plan Turn off the camera What are you looking at? They are changing the plan over and over again Where? Police station! He is talking on phone I missed you alot in New York That Sub Inspector from Crime Branch came again We thought we should give you the news Supreme Court has rejected his bail It's a fraud of 40 crores Your father will be imprison for 8 years You must have got the call from the lawyer Now come at station Do you have warrant? Sir! You are a rich man Why you are getting involve? Your photo published in news papers. Do you want me to print your photo? For harrasment case Tell me may I? Such an arrogant person Why did you left New Work? Have you seen the timings? He let Madam get up from the seat god save us from this collusion We send the offer from the centre She refused us for them Dehli is 2 hours away but we got news in 2 minutes They have blocked the way to hall How we will go? Our people is in danger They have entered inside as much as they can I am sorry for late Weather is not well outside... How he is doing? Can I take him to Dehli? If we will remove his life support Do you have something else belongs to him there was another man in the truck Police has just arrested that driver and they are saying he was drunk while he was driving It was not definitely an accident In fact Shalini got the warning She got warning? What you done with warning? If you will speak then people will listen Media will listen They will also know that how do they plan and kill the people if you will speak anything against I.B.P You tell me what he was fighting for? I am not a doctor Ask to Airline how to move him to dehli Are you okay? Police force were deployed there How some truck can ruin something in front of police Why they are claiming it accident why police is not investigating like an attack Who has been protecting? I am demanding... that C.B. I should get the inquiry of attack on my husband Did you speak with them to release me? I have spoke with them He said he will get you release soon After deducting diesel amount if you will give me 30./. So it will be fine My husband is fighting for his life and until he is fighting till then I will keep repeating this question and until we don't get answers... till then we won't leave this city Come with me to police station I don't want to go anywhere You can't force me Let's go to the village We will meet you there. Come soon! You don't need to come onjob from tomorrow My husband is in coma We are fighting for his life He is alive We don't have time for all these discussions Before Dehli get involve we shall take some action I mean I.B.P is in final phase So what should I tell them? That Krishnan is very busy and he won't do it... Yes! He is standing in front of me You talk to her Briefing is in ten minutes, S.S. P Chauhan will be there C. M's Political advisor Mr. Avasti will be also there I want that night's wireless report station diary And another man was in truck Is he got arrested? But we can't give anyone investigation detail in public What do you mean? It's C. M's inquiry You have no choice Check for the dinner These are the signed statements Sir! I will get the fan for you Some Shalini is waiting for you since morning So everything was fine before the accident Yes! Doctor came out and everyone was very happy suddenly truck entered inside And you have requested to send more force Sir! I had weak force there was a V.I. P Movement in the city There was a riot after accident I mean I requested to send more force But you have requested the force before accident Crowd Control! But youjust said it was peace there If it was a peace then why did you request for force? There was something out of control No! So? It's department's internal matter Inernal Matter? Sir! Because of less force truck entered to Chowk and I will take the responsibility But I don't have orders to answer in public Call your S.S. P! If I would get notice that you will call me here then... I would go for vacations... You are the mistress of Vinod! I can't see anything There is no light You should have died where the light is Take it! See? Take him to morgue He is alive If we will take him to hospital Really? He is Baba Ramdev! He will make dead body dance Call me if he will dance What happen? He was talking about cable license then he said he have a tape He said Jackpot! Do you know about him! Did he told you something? Tell me if you know something He was a fool Dhamle! Ask your brother when he will give In hindi If you don't know english This inquiry is just a waste of time In this state expectingjustice is a foolish thing Give me one chance I will take you to dehli with chartered flight Home Minister also wants to meet you consider on my proposal You will take me back to dehli They don't want to take doctor but me... You work with Doctor I was his student After marriage I walked behind him with a flag till 4 years We couldn't resettle a single family then I have started my own work But... Who cares for your work here? People needs Messiah... to kill or die If you have so much anger so what are you doing here? What will I do? Some realjob Or you will wait sitting here that when Messiah will open his eyes and call your name Get your clothes I wanted to talk to you I am leaving I will talk to you tomorrow You were shooting there... We will show that footage in commission We will prove that everyone was from Morcha there that night I want your footage from that night To show the commission I don't want to get involve You don't care if they have killed a person like your brother Or it was an accident Wherever you came from England, America! Go back! It's India, It won't suit you Why? Do it whatever you want but do it now I want that footage Tomorrow is his birthday... They all will come there again They have called me to shoot the video Show that footage to that Madrasi Be careful! Otherwise they will set the inquiry that why you didn't control the government's shuttlecock You have to win Sir! Junior says that everything was fine Boss says that crowd was out of control How do somebody write a perfect report Then write down the same that police communication was bad and recommend to buy some wireless sets and thatjunior is accepting his mistake he is ready for punishment Make him your bait And don't make it more complicated Finish it! There is only one tender in Art Institute file Send other tenders... I have remind them many times They are not taking seriously Turn the car. Bharat Nagar Police Station Who is Incharge? Call him! Sir! I will have to check from previous records check the date of this application It's one week earlier If you didn't check yet If you have checked... and you have stopped from higher authorities then it's their mistake and it's your mistake again that you didn't inform me in written Finally it's your mistake Where is the station diary? What are you shooting there? Scene is here... I am shooting the entire thing you don't pick up my phone these days I will get you some mutton... [Skipped item nr. 69] Now what do you want? I have got some money for Kumod's wife I am going back tonight From that side come out! You were sleeping or dead? Now listen! Money is not everything And you have no idea about life But life system is not like that... How do police can suspend c.M. O's inquiry We got orders from c.M. O Mr. Kaul has signed it We will have to go from back door I can't assure your safety Then call more force On VIP duty... c. M is coming Nothing! Everything is over When your next train is? Who is in Jodhpur? Then how come you are here? It was a girl's matter In Rajpoots... everything works... One day we got news... that her family member is coming to kill me My father said that take this money he opened up the back door and he said... Want to escape or fight? Who is kuku? My papa! Grandma doesn't likes today's time Yes! What should I do? Stay there! And don't open the door Who was that? She told me that doctor's life is in danger Bharat Nagar! Are you mad? How are you? Ma'am called me... Little bit more! Home Minster is here Now let's go it's his prayer's time How is beena? It's her 5th month... Mr, Krishnan! Help me! My life is in danger! What you are showing me? Sir! I don't know I am also watching for the first time What was the date? Of what? When they have attacked him? Who changed the plan? I have told you But you said no Now he will change the plan thousand times. Leave it on me Last time if you won't give up then till then I would have killed Doctor Have patience Turn it off! Sir! It will also work He is talking about to kill someone Sir! He is our reach! Don't let him go! Sir! You said to finish the report soon I have done it, We will talk later I have got few more evidences What were you saying? C.M. Has planned with Desh Nayak and killed Dr. Ahmedi Inquiry commission was just a game Did you aware that? Tell me! People are around Are you mad? I won't listen your nonsense one more second You are already listening Now you will do it You will contact Dehli You will tell them that you got this evidence And you will recommend that Governer shall ask c. M's resignation And Government of India shall start criminal case against him Who are you? Who you are to giving me this order? Krishnan! I will ruin your career and future You won't do anything You know that I will never talk to you like that without assurance That Heart Institute's Land requirement that doesn't come from c.M. O You also know where it comes from It's a prime location land It has been offered in cheap prices and you approved it Only one company filled the tender Garima Developer You approved it Your father in law is the 23% Share holder of the company but still you approved it I don't know anyone else smarter than you Show your smartness and do it like I said, Otherwise c.M. Shall go or not but I will must send you back This is not the right way We will sit tomorrow There is no tomorrow nor I drink Don't play this game with me I have played this game alot I am warning you There is a message from Principle Secretary Mr. Kaul... got strong evidence that Dr. Ahmedi's accident wasn't only accident It was an attack c.M. Was involved in that attack She was directly involved He wants... that he shall hand over all those evidences to Government of India He is just asking the protection If this matter will reveal after that college announcement then it will be not good for you Send it Mr. Kaul was also saying that If we shall inform the Home Minister if something will be leak then... I will do it... He is calling Home Minister You have two minutes Election is near Dehli will get I.B.P and you will get ticket That's yourjustice This c. M could become P. M... We could go beyond china...
