 

                        You majored in Pharmacy? Only for two years Then I studied medicine for four more Why did you switch faculties? I found life in the pharmacy boring You don't get to meet many people But it's comfortable work Yes, but it's always the same old faces I like meeting a wide variety of people To gather new experiences? Yes, to see faces come and go How would you describe yourself? I'd say I'm a cheerful person Why do you think you're cheerful? I'm gauging from my friend's reactions when they're with me They seem to enjoy themselves Do you play any sports? - Sports... - Can you draw? I can play basketball What position do you play? Centre Do you prefer drawing with paint, pencils or pastels? Drawing? Pencils, mostly - You prefer pencils? - Yes Do you prefer triangles, squares or circles? Circles A circle? What colour would it be? I'd like it to be clear Clear? And what size? - About the size of the bottom of a glass - The bottom of a glass Do you keep any pets? I used to have a cat You had a cat... Can you sit up straight, please? Turn to the left OK. What hand do you use for surgery? - My right hand - Can I see it? Stretch out your arm Spread out your hand Clench your fist Clench it harder. Hold it steady That's fine - What was that for? - What does DDT stand for? - Pardon? - What does DDT stand for? DDT...? Do we have to know that here? What does it stand for? Is it the pesticide? 'Destroy Dirty Things' Or is it 'Deep Down To You'? Take this note to Dr Prasarn in the emergency ward - Don't peek at it, Doctor - OK - Is there...? - I'll be off, then See you Sorry I kept you waiting A cup of tea? Doctor... I brought you a small gift You shouldn't have Thank you very much Is it beef or pork? It's crispy pork Keep it in the freezer so it stays crispy longer Thank you again Excuse me... ...this is my first day here... Are you sure you want me in the emergency ward? Aren't you used to it from the army camp? Not really. We rarely saw serious cases there And when I see blood I get... You get what? Excuse me Pardon me, Dr Prasarn asked me to fetch you Koh, this is Dr Nohng - Hello - Hello To fetch me or Dr Nohng? - I'm not sure - Then please take Dr Nohng there - Aren't you coming, too? - Of course. Just give me a second - How's Nook? I haven't seen her lately - Busy selling T-shirts. I want a new girl She might find a new guy first Imet a cute girl while I was out drinking with Dr Prasarn - Whereabouts? - A place right behind the hospital There are pubs behind the hospital? Didn't you know? I pass by everyday and haven't seen any What time do you pass? They open after 9:00pm No one's around that late Everyone's gone home by then So he got her number and called her up How did it go? Well, she also gave me her number, and it turns out she liked me more Really? When I called her, we talked for over two hours Who's prettier, her or Nook? Dr Nohng, aren't you sore... ...from walking so stiffly? I'm used to it This way, Doctor Dr Prasarn, this is Dr Nohng whom I recommended Did you see a lot of patients yesterday? Not really. It feels busier today Are they construction workers? - Yes, a couple of brothers - Really? - They're cute, huh? - They're OK - Our hospital's giving away glasses? - Like the ones in star Wars You're right! The same style - I forgot I've left someone in my room - Who? It's OK, I'll go back to them after my rounds They're going to plant a lot more trees This is where they'll set up the stage For the Buddhist holiday? There is alms-giving in the morning In the morning Hey! I forgot to turn it off. Hey! Turn off what? This thing clipped to my pants What are you talking about? We're done It's kind of like... - Like what? - ...playing the same scene over Damn it At first it wasn't so bad - You wanted to be an actor, right? - It's only been five takes All together What's wrong with my eyes? I'm checking if your brain's response is normal My brain? Yes Do you have dreams often? Well, Idon't really know Since I fell out of bed the other night... ...I've been like this Your leg is sore? My leg is sore and my joints ache I see The other night... ...I dreamt about a flock of chickens When I was a boy, a young boy... ...I was naughty and mean-spirited, I used to break their legs for fun I'd go visit my friend's farm... ...and break the legs of his chickens... ...because their clucking sound really bothered me In my dream... ...they told me that they wanted me to suffer Despite the fact that I've offered prayers for them for many years You can communicate with chickens? Their spirits came and possessed me I guess they wanted revenge I ran away, but they chased after me They kept chasing me. I was so scared I grew wings and turned into a chicken I always sleep on my side and hug a bolster pillow In my dream, I was woken up... ...and they kicked me out of bed I landed on the floor and all my joints were aching Do your joints still ache? Now and then. That's why I came to see you - Do you eat a lot of chicken? - I guess so I really should try to eat less to reduce my bad karma But when I collect alms, I must accept what's offered Can you excuse me for a minute? Where are you going? - I'm going... - You haven't finished my check-up I'm going to quickly pop next door Excuse me Wait for me here. Don't go anywhere Mr Chai. Mr Chai Mr Chai I need to speak with you Over here, please It's about the money I lent you It's been a while The new school term has just started... ...and my son's school fees are expensive Why won't you look me in the eye? Something doesn't sound right Would you swear to it? There's a monk waiting in my office Let's go see him Swear to what? Swear to keep your promise, Mr Chai How could you forget? Don't make me swear. I'm afraid of monks Don't be so silly We're not talking ghosts and goblins here! You didn't seem afraid when you borrowed my money Sorry about that Please excuse me - Everything in order? - Yes There's a lot of uric acid in poultry It collects in your joints, if you eat too much Let me run some more blood tests - I hope you don't mind... - Yes? I sense confusion inside your heart Confusion? About what? About money matters, you know? Boil these roots and drink them to help you forget What is it? It's an herbal potion handed down from my ancestors It helps regulate menstrual flow... ...cures fainting and dizzy spells But it can't treat everything I have this itchy rash Can you treat it? You have a rash? On my body and my arms Excuse me. Let me see This arm? - Doctor? - Yes? Can I also have some sleeping pills? You have trouble sleeping? My dreams keep waking me up Dreaming is normal. Everyone dreams I need some medicine for the other monks... ...and for the villagers who live near the temple I can't do that. They have to come and see me themselves Why? Just write the prescription You know, when to take the pills... ...kids or adults, before or after meals Just write it on the packet I really can't do that It's against the rules If someone found out, I'd be held liable Right now, I can only prescribe medicine for you How about this? At least give me vitamins for the temple boys, OK? I really can't Why not? Well, they need to see me in person I know you can, but you won't, right? I can only treat patients that visit me, otherwise I can't prescribe anything Hey, Sakda... ...tell the doctor about your condition... ...your asthma condition That's not me. That's my mother His mother has had asthma for a while Sakda, describe your mother's condition Nine... Slowly One more time. Ten... Very good And lower your arms Now the third position. Stand at ease, hands on your hips We're going to slowly squat down Squat down until your thighs feel taut Now, slowly stand up. Good Squat down Stand up We'll do this fifteen times... ...to strengthen our knees Rinse your mouth Oh, use that cup and spit in the bowl You've never been to the dentist, right? Yes, this is my first time I can tell Just a little more I'm gaining merit by giving a monk a free dental check-up What merit? I'm just like anyone else I'd like to be normal, but some mysterious force has a hold on me It keeps me cloaked in saffron robes that I can't seem to shake off I used to dream of being a DJ... ...of owning a comic book store Being a DJ sounded fun I turned on a radio show from the city, and it was playing pop music - You listen to American music? - Yes, I listen to modern music I wanted to request a song, but I didn't have a phone... ...so I sent a letter instead and introduced myself The DJ replied and invited me to dinner Over dinner, he asked me to be a DJ, but I turned him down I don't know why. I always wanted to... You know, I'm a singer A singer? Really? - What kind of songs? - Mostly Thai country music. It's a hobby I don't listen to much of that Open up You're the one on the bulletin board? On the board? Yes You won some kind of prize, right? - Yes - Dentist of the Year Let me cover your eyes Ouch! Sorry Is this a check-up or a concert? I'm still waiting What? Let me play. Just for a bit Excuse me, Doctor Would you like to have lunch? No, thanks, I'm not hungry yet Is there something you wanted to see me about? Doctor... ...can we get engaged? Is everything all right? No, it's not Doctor... My stomach is rumbling Are you trying to torment me? Have you ever been in love? Well...not exactly Then you won't understand how I feel I feel as if my heart's on fire I can't eat, I can't sleep - It's like... - I understand I once knew a man... I once met a man at the Farmer's Market - Are you interested in that orchid? - Yes It's an auspicious plant that will bring you luck It also glows in the dark - Glows in the dark? - Yes I have a picture I can show you Can I help you? - How much? - It's a wild orchid. 25,000 baht I bred it myself. Its form is very distinct It's not hard to grow. It doesn't like direct sunlight It prefers to be in the shade You saw I liked it so you jacked up the price, right? But it also glows in the dark I have pictures I can show you Here you go It costs too much Look at the picture. Can you see? Excuse me, how much is this? Which one? That one is 250 baht - 25,000? - Yes It must be an electric orchid! I'm not feeling so good, Doctor But if it makes you happy... ...please continue with your story I'd like to... ...but I'm afraid it will upset you It's too late for that, Doctor I thought it might make you feel better It's not as if I'm going to marry him You're not? Why are you laughing at me? This is why I love you so much From the very first time I met you. Do you remember? - That day... - Then he came to the hospital... Please, Doctor, listen to me first - That day you wore... - He came to look at a wild orchid Wow, how amazing It's the rarest wild orchid in Thailand We have several orchids here... There are many types, but this one is priceless - Are you tricking me? - No, I'm serious - It's a sin to lie - I'm serious I'd like to buy it to breed at my farm I thought you said it was priceless Look at the roots, Director They're not so pretty. Twining all over People don't like it so much It seems to lack form and order Can you see? Perhaps my wife might like it Right, Doctor? These are photos taken at my farm Feel free to visit anytime Well, I wish I knew more about orchids Who's there? Are you Dr Toey? Yes Noom talks a lot about you What has he said? Come down here What are you doing? Careful, it's slippery I'm making a mud pack... ...to take care of my legs What's wrong with them? I fell off a motorbike and broke one Now one leg is longer than the other Really? Let me take a look Right here Look at the fish nibbling at my feet They're tickling me Try it and see Here, bite on this Be careful nothing pulls you down It's hard to access Can you drive in? The waterfall has seven levels. We have to go on foot - We park at the base and walk in - There's parking there - But we'll leave Pa Jane behind - No way! You'll have to carry me up Or send her back to Nong Kai You have two choices, wait at the base or go home to Nong Kai - I'll stay with you - Send her to Nong Kai You've been with me for so many years Here, Doctor, this is the waterfall he's talking about - What are you doing? - What? Put it away - Let her look at it first - Don't look at it - Is there something I should know? - It's a trick she uses to sell her bags Buy one and I'll throw in one for free Deal? A few miles past the temple there's a sign and a statue of a cow - Doctor, look at this old photo - Pass an intersection... What? Where did you get that? Just keep driving Who's the girl with long hair? It must be Pa Jane Keep your eyes on the road Is that a tattoo on your arm, Noom? He doesn't like to talk about it. It's too painful My father asked me to get it A tattoo of what? You got a rose tattoo for your dad? No, I just got a tattoo as he asked Just a small one Don't lie and act embarrassed You're always on my case A red rose, too, Pa Jane They don't scrimp on the topping It smells good It's really sweet You're so attentive. How come you don't have a boyfriend? Who says I don't? Really? The fortune teller said so One or many? It depends on which one you ask Many boyfriends from all races A long time ago, Doctor... ...two farmers came across a young monk The monk asked them... ..."Would you like to be rich? You've suffered for so long" The farmers told him they did... ...so he told them to go down to the lake All this from here to there used to be a lake When the farmers got there... By golly! It was full of gold and silver They rushed to stuff their bags full Suddenly, a solar eclipse occurred... ...and the sky went dark They kept gathering gold in the dark. They got so rich But one farmer was greedy... ...and he came back for more - They say thieves robbed his house - Then what? They shot him dead That's the result of being greedy How cruel This is a powerful place No matter what people do, no matter what we do... ...something always watches us Like you coming here... ...it knows all about you. I know as well Know about what? Come on Just let him know your true feelings... ...or you might miss out But he does smell nice What? But sometimes, I just want to be alone No way. Then it won't be exciting Otherwise why did you give him the orchid? I'll open it for you Have you looked in his bedroom yet? Do I have to? Of course! You judge a man from his bedroom and his desk I'd have to wait for him to fall asleep first... ...before I could look inside This way. You have to slide it open Sorry. My room is a bit of a mess It's not that messy I wasn't expecting company today. It's not often I get visitors It's always a mess - Please sit down - Thank you Have an orange You think it looks OK hanging there? Will this one glow in the dark as well? After you Are you tired? A little bit Better? Where's Pa Jane going? She can't stay out under the hot sun Come on, Mom Mam! What are you thinking about? Come here, Mom Mam! If you secretly liked someone, what would you do? I'd hide behind a pillar and peek out at them But then how would they know that you like them? I don't know But that person isn't you, I just need your advice I can't decide what to do Why? What's wrong? I don't know what to say Is it a man or a woman? - I'm just joking - That's a strange question It was a joke. Don't take it to heart I'm not accusing you of anything! - That was mean - I'm only kidding Is the orange peeled? It's all crushed - It's completely squashed - Have another So, go on. You secretly like her...? But I don't dare to confess my love Could I do anything to help? smile, your smile makes me happy smile just once more Just a glance, I'm standing here Waiting for your smile Just a simple smile from you Teeth, so clean and white lickering in the shadows, shining in my heart To you no one compares Please brighten me with your smile smile and it will be mine Please brighten me with your smile Can you feel me smiling back? Love is the answer Love and concern The tenderness of your smile Inspires me as always My guitarist smile, your smile makes me happy smile just once more Thank you very much Thank you very much A round of applause for Ant Let's bring him upfront He wrote the music on all my albums Give him a big hand I wanted to watch you sing, but I couldn't go, it's not proper Why not? The fair was at the temple There are too many people When I saw you walking up, I almost didn't recognise you My green jacket must blend in! The nurses didn't remember me either Really? You've never worn this outfit here? No, I'm afraid I'll run into patients Brother, do you feel that... ...maybe we knew each other in a past life? I don't think so You remind me of my dead brother When I was 8 years old... ...I was naughty, as boys are Climbing trees to pick mangoes and such One day, my brother was too scared to climb the trees... ...but I forced him... ...and he fell and died I feel wrong to this very day Are you my brother reincarnated? It can't be I wasn't human in my past life I just want the chance to apologise To your brother? - Yes - I'm not your brother Because in my last life I was... It was my brother's - A horse? - Yes I'd like you to have it I can't accept it It's not mine. Save it for your real brother... ...when you see him My brother is already dead Well, then... will you accept this instead? What is it? My new album For me? It doesn't look like you It hasn't gone on sale yet 'I Could Only Look' This is your real name? Yes Normally, I sing about teeth and gums... ...but this album is all love songs But I don't own a CD player I'll present one as an offering That's OK. I'll borrow the abbot's, he has one Tohng! Dr Ple, follow me Where are you going? You also majored in Pharmacy? Only for two years Then I studied medicine for four more Did you find the army base boring? Not exactly, but I felt I'd be more useful here Why did you decide to study medicine? A pharmacist is stuck in the pharmacy all day - Did you follow your friends? - No - Did you consult your parents? - No - So you wanted to switch majors? - Yes How would you describe yourself? I'd say I'm a cheerful person Why do you think you're cheerful? My friends seem to have fun when they're around me How many friends do you have? I'm friends with everyone in my class And you still meet regularly? Yes Do you play any sports? - I can play basketball - Can you draw? What position do you play? Centre Why did you choose to play centre? A centre doesn't need to be tall Do you prefer triangles, squares or circles? Circles What colour would you like it to be? A clear colour What colour is your clear colour? Clear like a glass What would you like it to be made from? From glass What if there isn't any glass? Plastic, I guess Can you sit up straight, please? - Are you right or left-handed? - Right-handed Can I see your right hand? Stretch your arm out Clench your fist. Clench it tight Tighter. Just a bit Thank you - Do you have any pets? - I used have to have a cat And now? It's dead What does DDT stand for? Pardon? What does DDT stand for? Is it... ...'Destroy Dirty Things'? Take this note to Dr Natreprakai on the 8th Floor Don't peek at it, Doctor - Is there anything else? - I'll be off, then Sorry to keep you waiting Do you want some tea? Doctor... ...I brought you a little present It's too much. You shouldn't have Please take it Thank you I'm a stubborn person. Wherever I go, I have to take my bolster pillow I need to hug it or I can't sleep I wrap my legs around it and rest my head on it - You're very attached to it - You could say so That night... ...I dreamt a chicken flock came to tell me... ...that they wanted me to suffer But I forgive them. I've offered prayers for them for many years But they won't forgive me. I guess they want revenge I was scared and ran away from them... ...but they came flying after me I kept on running Suddenly I felt like I'd grown wings and become a chicken But it was only a dream When I woke up in a fright... ...I found myself on the floor... ...my arms and legs pinned beneath me My whole body was aching Is it from eating chicken? Or do you think it's bad karma? Do you eat a lot of chicken? Come to think of it, quite a bit I've been meaning to quit - I agree. You should stop - Or I'll have double karma Or reduce the amount you eat Poultry is very high in cholesterol It contains a lot of fat and uric acid... ...that collect in your joints if you eat too much... ...and it makes them ache Therefore, you must try to cut down if you can Eat more fruit and vegetables instead They have more nutritional value They're high in fibre, calcium and can ward off disease They also help ease constipation Being regular can help clear your mind You won't feel dizzy or confused Then I should stop eating chicken Yes, that's right My aches and pains... Can you stop them? Of course. You could have what's called Panic Disorder That stems from your own imagination... ...from your inner fears, from your mind Or it could also be genetic When you fell out of bed onto the floor... ...it might have triggered some latent diseases to resurface Will you give me some pills? Yes, but let me take some more blood tests... ...to determine the exact cause Hold on a second, Doctor What is it? Boil these roots and drink them They'll give you a kinder heart But I'm already kind to all my patients These roots also help to reduce... ...inconsequential thoughts Bad, inconsequential thoughts gather in our brain Drink this and you'll feel better I see... It also reduces your memory Reduces my memory? If I drink it... ...then I won't remember who you are? That's OK. We each have our calling We have to follow our own paths Take him, for example Sakda, tell the doctor... ...about the asthma...asthma His mother has had asthma for some time Sakda, tell us about her condition Tell me about your mother's asthma... ...so I can make her better How long has your mother had asthma? Rinse your mouth I prefer it off Open your mouth I'd like to rinse my mouth Just a second, Doctor Open your mouth Would you like some tea? Where are you two going? To have lunch Good. Keep walking. Maintain your distance It's OK. I'll catch up OK, I've dialled What a trendy ring tone My girlfriend set it for me Pretty, young Joy? Hello Be careful. These steps are old Army doctors have to do their rounds down here every Friday Just make sure it doesn't affect your other cases The basement is resered for military patients... ...war veterans and their relatives Everyone is a relative I know. Small country, huh? Oh, there's another way down. At the fork just now, take a right Where's your father, Off? He went to get the X-ray results You're looking better Lower Try it Lower. More. More Be patient Very good How's everyone back home these days? Your old neighbours sold their house and moved away They sold it? - Where did they move? - To Cha-am I see. What about your sister? She's living with her boyfriend I see. And how about you? I'm living with her as well I see. What rank are you now? First Lieutenant - Lieutenant already? That's pretty fast - Yes You used to be such a naughty boy. Very naughty You used to sling mud at my house I'm really sorry It's Dr Nant - This is Dr Nant - Hello This is Dr Nohng, the haematologist We were just saying it's rare to meet a male haematologist That's right. Why did you decide to specialise? My sister has alpha thalassaemia So I had an interest in this field And you can take care of her? Then you must carry the gene as well That's not always the case, you have to do a blood test I've checked. I carry the gene - Oh... - Really? Would you allow me? Sure Is he pale? - Not really, Doctor - Really? - Do you feel fatigued? - No - But you can't be sure - Right There are active and passive carriers That's why I always say... ...obstetricians live with birth... ...oncologists live with death... - ...but haematologists live with suffering - Most are women - Because blood diseases can't be cured - They can't be cured The patient suffers a lot What are you doing, Doctor? Isn't it a bit early for that? She knows what to do. See? What's this, Doctor? There are three of us - I'll get it - You don't have to help her - Did you go to the Red Cross Fair? - Not yet It's quite extravagant this year with lots of bands performing He won't go - There's no Karaoke - That's not true Don't call me an alcoholic I have to go on TV this evening She's a guest speaker on public TV every week It's always like this I've gone on TV a lot... ...but I'm still not used to the cameras I don't drink much, just enough to get me tipsy - As always - That's why you look so nice today I have to prepare my own wardrobe... ...because public TV doesn't have enough money I try to help, but their sets are so old-fashioned I asked them to use a blue screen and matte in flowers... ...but they wouldn't take my advice Oh, Dr Neng, come on in There are staff outside waiting to use this room Really? Tell them to come in then We're just chatting They've already left, Doctor Really? Then why don't you join us? You, too, young man - Come inside - Off, come here - Come in - Are you appearing on TV again today? Yes, in the evening - Is this Sant's son? - Yes - He's good looking, huh? - He's my patient I see - What's wrong with him? - Carbon monoxide poisoning Isn't he better yet? Not yet. I've been treating him for several months That's strange Do you mind if I take a look? - What are you doing, Doctor? - Chakra healing I channel energy from the sun The top of his head is a Chakra centre I'm going to transfer my energy to him I've seen this done before Close your eyes I want you to imagine a picture... ...of yourself walking through a forest There is a large waterfall... ...and a crystal-clear stream The water is very cool Try raising both your arms Slowly. Slowly raise them Take both hands and dip them into the stream Dip them in Now both your hands... ...will suck up the water... ...the water from the stream... ...up into your head Into your head... ...and all around The water inside your head... ...will wash away everything... ...and vaporise into the sky Right, now, you have a fresh mind It's clear... ...as clear as crystal Your mind is refreshed You have a fresh mind now OK. Now lower your arms Let's see. Open your eyes How do you feel? - Better? - I didn't feel anything For chakra, don't your hands go here? Only if you get a massage and a hand job! But isn't this what they showed us in the seminar? I think you must be confused - What? - Here, have a drink of this - Can I be excused? - It's OK Let him go, Doctor I've tried this waterfall trick before Really? Why didn't you tell me? Are you selling Red Cross T-shirts? Yes, this year we have two styles - Very nice. How much are they? - 200 baht Can I see your racquet? You could join the national team with this Good thing she didn't scold you Who brought you to the hospital? My dad Does your girlfriend visit you? Is that a tattoo on your neck? Can I see it? Open it more Pan... Panda? Pandara? Pandora I see. Pandora Is it the name of a band? Still studying? Not right now I was working in a car factory Japanese cars? But I've stopped working I've planned out my life But it'll take longer than for most people A year longer What do you mean? Well, my brain is... Maybe in my next life What will you be in your next life? Human, I guess A man or a woman? A man How come? In my last life, I was also a man How are you feeling, Off? - Hello, Doctor - Hello - Where is Dr Neng? - Inside the room Hey, when did you get here? A while ago. I've been watching you Been following me? What is it? Who did you buy this for? Is it for me? But it's too big for me Do you want it? Look, my palms are sweaty again Are you tired? From what? From kissing Wow, you can see my house from here - Really? - Yeah, it's over there Next to the tree by the round building I see Remember my company trip last week? We toured the new plant in Cholburi - It's very large - What's that picture? It's nothing I'd like to move there. It's so modern It looks good It's so hi-tech, like a brand new city They're also building a hospital You want me to apply for a transfer? Would you? When does your company move? Probably sometime next year Your entire department? Won't you go? Nohng... Don't you have English lessons today? It's close by the sea, too Don't try to tempt me with nature What?
