 

                        The lazy days of summer are a time of playful relaxation at the North Pole, when we all get to rest and renew our energy for the next Christmas season. Go, go, go! There's rarely any excitement around here in these summer months, but this year, there was something special happening. Very special. They're coming, they're coming soon They're coming, they're coming soon Santa Claus! Thank goodness you're here. It's happening! It's happening right now. They're coming! They're coming! Eli, I'm gonna need your assistance. Hot water and lots and lots of towels. Pronto! Right away, Mrs. Claus. Oh! Come on, Eddy! Oh, boy. Whew! We're coming in, Mrs. Claus. Hurry! Hurry! We're coming, Mrs. Claus. Are all first-time fathers this nervous? Don't worry, old friend. Mrs. Claus has everything under control. Oh, boy, good. 'Cause I feel a little faint. I think I better lay down. You know what? I think my blood sugar is a little low, Santa Claus. Could you give me one of Mrs. Claus' sugar cookies? Ho, ho, ho, ho! The Santa Pups have arrived. Is everything okay, Mrs. Claus? You have three beautiful daughters and a son. I'm a father! Congratulations, old friend. I can't believe it. I'm a father. Let's go in and meet the puppies, shall we? Yes! Oh! I am so glad that's over. Good job, honey. How you feeling? I couldn't be better. I am so proud of you, my love. Aren't they the most adorable puppies you've ever seen? They're the most beautiful puppies I've ever laid eyes on. What are you going to name the little darlings? Santa Paws and I have been discussing names for months. Who knew there were so many names in the naughty and nice books? Of course, we only chose names from the nice list. Let's start with our daughters. Let's see. This one is singing already. We'll name her... Jingle. That was one of our favorites. This little pup seems to be so happy and giving. "Charity" is perfect for her. And this one, the tiniest one of the bunch. So full of energy. How about... Hope? And the last little pup, our son, he's bound to take after his dad. You know, strong, good-looking, great leader. And don't forget modest. That, too. I was thinking that "Noble" would be a fitting name. When you look upon life with a smile It will bless you Look what we have in our lives today We have four little pups We have four Santa Pups That will bless our hearts four ways Ah! Lovely. When you look upon life with a smile It will bless you Look what we have in our lives today We have four little pups We have four Santa Pups That will bless our hearts four ways When you look upon life with a smile It will bless you Look what we have in our lives today We have four little pups We have four Santa Pups That will bless our hearts Isn't this a grand day! That will bless our hearts Isn't this the best! That will bless our hearts Each day! Eli and Eddy, I hope you two are ready to train the Santa Pups to be good Santa's helpers. You can count on us. I mean, look at them, they're adorable. Yeah, how hard could it be? The Santa Pups were growing up quickly. As every parent knows, raising puppies to become responsible dogs requires a great deal of patience and perseverance. Like all families, we were having our own challenges with our newest additions. Come back with my hat! Hope was always looking for extreme adventures. More of a daredevil than a Santa Pup, she was always full of so much hope that she never looked before she leaped. That was extreme! Jingle was quite a diva and loved to sing. Jingle bells, jingle bells Unfortunately, elves' big ears make for very sensitive hearing, and Jingle, bless her heart, was still learning to find the right note. Oh what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh! And Charity still hadn't quite discovered the meaning of her namesake. She had a lot to learn about sharing before she'd become the selfless and charitable pup a Santa Pup should be. Hey! Give us back our bone! Whatever. Losers weepers, finders keepers. Then there was our son, Noble, who hadn't learned what being a leader really meant, and was leading his sisters down the wrong path and getting them into all kinds of trouble. I told you guys that'd be fun! Get 'em on, pile 'em up! Get 'em in here. Get 'em in here. Good, get 'em in there! Get 'em under there! Hang on, Ellis! Hope, Jingle, Charity, Noble. I suggest you go with Eddy and Eli to school. Now. Yes, Dad. Noble, you always get us in trouble. And that leads us to our most important lesson of all, about our very precious magic crystals. Only Santa Claus, Santa Paws, Mrs. Claus, Mrs. Paws, Santa's head elves, Eddy and yours truly have magic crystals. Eli, I think you've lost your audience. Ahem. Ah... Ahem! Hmm? Santa Pups! This is a very important lesson about magic crystals. But, Eli, maybe we'd pay closer attention if we actually had our own crystals. Magic crystals have great power. And with great power comes great responsibility. Ooh, I'm totally responsible. Seriously, where can I get one? One does not get a magic crystal, one earns a magic crystal. Can I earn one by singing? Hark the herald Jingle sings Glory to... Yikes! You will earn a magic crystal when you understand the true meaning of Christmas. And then you can use the Christmas magic to do good deeds and grant Christmas wishes around the world. Are you serious? "Good Deed" is my middle name. And we'd be extremely good at granting Christmas wishes. Patience, Pups. Have patience. You've got so much more to learn before that day will come. Now, where was I? The magic crystals are used to spread the joy of Christmas. Yes, Noble? But what makes the crystals magic to begin with? Why, Noble, that's a very good question. And one that just might require a field trip. - All right! Awesome! - Field trip! This, right here, Pups, is the heart of all Christmas magic. We use the energy in the Great Christmas Icicle to make Christmas happen, things like powering the workshop for building toys, or... Ooh! I love getting toys. Flying the sleigh. I love sleigh rides. Especially when we hit turbulence. And, of course, we use the energy in the Christmas Icicle to power our magic crystals. -- That's cool! I get it. It must be the Great Christmas Icicle that makes my voice so magical! No, not exactly, Jingle. But that's the right idea. Where does the energy in the Great Christmas Icicle come from, you ask? I was actually going to ask again about getting our own crystals. But okay, where does the energy in the Great Christmas Icicle come from? Well, Noble, that's where the Spirit Map comes in. How are our young students doing? Well, there's still a few issues, as we all know, but we're snowplowing ahead. I mean, the North Pole wasn't built in a day. We're here to show the pups where the energy in the Great Christmas Icicle and our magic crystals comes from. Oh, it's time to learn about the Spirit Map, is it? Well, pay close attention, Pups. This will be on the test. As you can see, Pups, the Spirit Map allows us to monitor where Christmas Spirit comes in from all over the world. We can even identify where Christmas Spirit is highest. Zoom in, Elpert. Pineville, USA. The top place in the world for emitting Christmas Spirit. Christmas Spirit is contagious. And a town like Pineville can have an impact far beyond its township. The greater the Christmas Spirit, the more energy the Christmas Icicle will have. And the better our magic crystals will work. Exactly, Noble. Very good. So, now can we have our own crystals? Oh, Noble. You are certainly a persistent pup. Ho, ho, ho, ho! We need to give credit to our Ambassadors for the Santa Cause. They ensure that we maintain Christmas Spirit all year long. Unfortunately, we've just learned of the loss of one of our best Ambassadors in Pineville. If we don't replace the Ambassador soon, Christmas Spirit could decline. This is a serious matter that needs immediate attention. But with Christmas just three weeks away, there's no way I can leave the workshop. I could go. Someone has to. You know, that's a great idea. - Really? - Yes. This is a very important mission. Prepare the sleigh for Mrs. Claus! Copy that, so! Oh! Wonderful! Wonderful. Come on, posse, I've got a Santa Pups plan. It's time to prove ourselves. Who made you the boss? Have I ever steered you pups wrong? Pineville, USA, here we come. Let's go celebrate Christmas with everyone, everywhere, every day Time to celebrate Christmas in Pineville, USA! He)', Mayor! Let's go celebrate Christmas Where everyone's out about lighting trees Time to celebrate Christmas with everyone I see! Well, hello there, Mr. Mayor It's a glorious night tonight The Christmas Spirit's everywhere There's joyous music, too! Our town has come alive again Christmas is coming soon! I wanna celebrate Christmas When everyone sings about yuletide cheer Let's go celebrate Christmas The best time of the year! Your Christmas cookies smell so good Would you like a few? Maybe one or two Well, here you go Our town has come alive again Christmas is coming soon! Let's go celebrate Christmas with everyone, everywhere, every day Time to celebrate Christmas in Pineville, USA! I wanna celebrate Christmas With friends and family every day I wanna celebrate Christmas in Pineville, USA! I wanna celebrate Christmas with everyone everywhere that I know I wanna watch the children make angels in the snow! Well, hello there, Mr. Mayor! It's a glorious day today! The Christmas lights will burn tonight! The bells will ring out, too! Our town has come alive again Christmas is coming soon! Let's go celebrate Christmas When everyone sings about yuletide cheer Time to celebrate Christmas The best time of the year! Let's go celebrate Christmas When everyone's out about having fun Time to celebrate Christmas The season's just begun! Okay, everyone, we're ready! One, two, three! Let's go celebrate Christmas When everyone's out about lighting trees Time to celebrate Christmas with everyone I see Let's go celebrate Christmas with everyone, everywhere, every day Time to celebrate Christmas Time to celebrate Christmas In Pineville, USA! Hey! There you are, Carter. You missed the lighting up of the radio station. We were going to let you turn on the lights. It's your favorite part. That's okay, Sarah. I don't care about Christmas anymore. Don't say that, Carter. What's the big deal anyway? It's just another holiday. He's just tired, Sarah. Aren't you, buddy? Hey, we gotta get on home. Uncle Jeb and Mayor Denny are joining us for dinner. Let's do it. Come on. Let's go. Okay, Noble, what's the plan? Well, you heard Santa. Mrs. Claus is going on a very important mission. Yeah? And so? And so are we. We're going to take Eddy's crystal, fly to Pineville with Mrs. Claus, and grant as many Christmas wishes as we can. And prove to Eli and Eddy that we're ready for crystals of our own. Noble, even I know that stealing is, like, the opposite of giving. We're just borrowing it temporarily. Besides, how do we grant wishes without one? Do we even know how to grant a Christmas wish? How hard can it be? Now, who's with me? - Are you sure? - I don't know. Jingle, I'll take you caroling. Yeah, let's do that. Hope, you get to fly in the sleigh. Well, that sounds extremely fun. What are we waiting for? And, Charity, I'm sure we can get you some souvenirs. OMG, I am totes on board. Okay, so let's try this again. Who's with me? - Say "aye". - Aye! That's more like it. I'm going in. Candy canes... I hope Eddy doesn't wake Seriously, Jingle? I can't help it, you know. I sing when I'm nervous. Gingerbread... Carter, would you like to say grace? I'll do it, Daddy. Okay. Sarah, thank you. Thank you for this food and for Christmas, the most wonderful time of the whole year. And thank you for my big brother, Carter. And please say hello to our mommy for us. Please tell her we miss her very much and are thinking of her always and always. Amen. Amen. All right, kids, you want something to eat, you better jump in before Uncle Jeb eats it all. Hey- Hey, so, tell me, Jeb, how are things going down at the animal shelter? Well, we have a few more dogs to find homes for before Christmas, but Baxter and I will get it done. Won't we, boy? We always like to have an empty shelter. It means everyone's found a home. Yeah. So, why don't you two tell me what you've got planned for Christmas? Well, I'm going to help Daddy put on the Christmas show at the radio station. You are? I'm going to sing on Christmas Eve, just like Mommy used to. Now, Sarah, that's music to my ears because the radio station has been keeping the townsfolk of Pineville in the Christmas Spirit ever since your mother was your age. Dad, may I be excused? Well, you haven't eaten anything. I'm just not hungry. How's he been holding up, Thomas? Well, it's been hard on him. It's been hard on all of us. So, any luck finding a nanny? No, not yet. We just put the ad in the newspaper yesterday. I'll be back in a Christmas minute. Fly safe, dear. Don't worry, Santa, we'll take good care of her. All right, boys. Are you ready to fly? You betcha, Mrs. Claus. You say the word. And you'll have liftoff! On, Dasher, on, Dancer, on, Prancer and Vixen. On, Comet! On, Cupid! On, Donner and Blitzen! Whoo-hoo! All right! Goodbye! Goodbye! Here we go, boys! Yee-haw! Great snowballs of fire! Guys, I think we're airborne. I feel the need, the need for speed. Next stop, Pineville! All righty, boys, this is it. Mrs. C, we got a large field southeast. It looks like a barn we could land behind. Let's take her down. Copy that, Mrs. C. Got a fly. I'm okay. Whoa! Easy does it, boys. Over here, I'm open! Come on now, pass it around. Move it to the middle. There you go. Look, guys, we're here. There's even elves playing Elf Hockey! That's not like any Elf Hockey I've seen. That's the game, kids! Final score, Blue Jackets, three, Meteors, two. Okay, guys, gather around. Gather around. Let's bring her in! All right, take it easy. Come on in. Nice and slow. Easy. This is looking good. What a beautiful barn. Picture-perfect landing, if I do say so myself, Mrs. Claus. Okay, well, I see you guys brought your wagons. So, just like every year, you guys collect gifts from around the town so that I can bring them to the orphanage. We need to make sure those less fortunate boys and girls have a nice Christmas, too, right? So, do your very best. Bring the toys to my house tonight, and the orphanage will be picking 'em up in the morning. Good game, guys. This lovely old barn is empty. Why don't you spend a few days here? Come on! Good idea, Mrs. C. We're pooped. Those headwinds were tough. It's gonna take hours to fill this darn Christmas Wagon. I like doing the Christmas Wagon. It's like being Santa Claus for a day. Now, you fellas make yourselves comfortable. I'm not exactly sure how long I'll be. Don't worry about us, Mrs. C. You take your time. We're gonna catch some Z's. Well, I guess I better get on with the task at hand. A new Ambassador for the Santa Cause is nearby, I can just feel it. Wish me luck! Toodle-loo! Good luck, Mrs. C! All right, guys, it's nap time. Okay, Pups, the reindeer are taking a yuletide rest. It's time to make our move, but we've got to be completely silent. Oh, I know that one. Silent night Button it, sis, or we'll get caught. There you go. Hey, Taylor, come on over, we're gonna help you. I wish I could skate really good. Hey, Pups, did you hear that? This is it. Our first chance to grant a Christmas wish. Yeah! Let's go for it! I totally hope this works. Here goes. I wish that girl could skate really good. Whoa! How did you do that? I have no idea! Wow! This is going to be even easier than I thought. Let's do it again, that was funtastic! Come on, guys, let's go! Awesome! Radical! And that was Deck the Halls. Okay, Pineville, be sure to tune in to our annual Christmas fundraiser. We really could use your support. And now, a real treat and a preview of our Christmas special. Many of you may recognize this song from my late wife, Michelle, sung now, for the first time, by our daughter, Sarah Reynolds. Now. My blue Christmas Always leaves me feeling so sad and blue Every Christmas Weighs upon my heart without you Lord, please help me Whoa! Pineville's full of Christmas Spirit. But where are all the elves? There you go. Here, let me help. Come on, sisters. We're here on a mission. And promise not to cry this year Every year those snowflakes start falling And suddenly old memories start calling I'll be saying my "hellos" to every Joe that I know When I will see a vision of you in the snow This year, Christmas Will be a very, very sad Christmas My blue Christmas A break-your-heart-in-two type Christmas Every season Gives me one more reason to miss you I miss you more with each passing year Now I don't know what else to do Every year those snowflakes start falling And suddenly old memories start calling I'll be saying my "hellos" to every Joe that I know When I will see a vision of you in the snow We'll have a blue, blue Christmas We'll have a blue, blue Christmas this year Blue, blue Boo-hoo Christmas Isn't her singing magical? Oh! It most certainly is. That's it. It's her. She must be the reason why I'm here. What's that? Oh, nothing. Please, excuse me, but could you tell me who was that singing? Why, that's little Sarah Reynolds. Isn't she adorable? Her mother ran the radio station and used to sing each Christmas for the town, but she fell ill and passed this fall. The whole town was so sad, and that poor family was devastated. But little Sarah, well, she stepped right in and took over. You could say she's Pineville's little Christmas miracle. Oh, I see. I must meet this young lady. Well, the radio station's just there, with the star over it. If you'll excuse me, you've been ever so helpful, Mrs... Bright! We're the Bright sisters. I'm Agnes. - I'm Dorothy. - And I'm Blue. Well, it's a pleasure. I'm Mrs... Uh... Cane. Mrs. Cane. Goodbye for now, and merry Christmas! Goodbye! Merry Christmas! Hey, look, everybody. It's Dad and Santa Claus! Seriously, why didn't they tell us they were celebrities? We could have got all sorts of swag down here. I think this town is the perfect spot for the first ever Jingle Paws Live Christmas Concert. Come on, Pups, let's stay focused. Wishes galore, crystals to score. Hello? Hi, merry Christmas. Can I help you? Well, yes, you might at that. Are you the little girl that was singing that beautiful song just now? You were wonderful. Who taught you to sing like that? My mommy. She sings with the angels now. Well, it sounds to me like she passed on the Christmas Spirit to you. Every year, she did the Christmas radio show. We're doing it again this year without her. I bet it will be very magical. How can we help you? Well, I'm not sure. But I certainly hope you can. You must be here for the nanny position. Excellent. I'm sorry to disappoint you. No, I was... See, what I'm looking for is someone to help me with the kids while I'm at my real job. Actually, I'm a lawyer, but from now till Christmas, I'm gonna be here at the station full-time while I try to keep the show going. Will you be my nanny? I have a feeling I'd like you very much. Aren't you sweet. Really, I'm sorry, I was trying to explain, Mr... Reynolds. Thomas Reynolds. And this is Sarah. Have you been working with children long? Well, I suppose you could say all my life. What I was trying to say, Mr. Reynolds, is... Well, Pineville's a pretty small place, we know pretty much everyone around here. You must be from out of town. Oh, indeed I am, yes. I'm from up north. Tell you what. Don't say anything, I want you to think about this. Why don't you come over for dinner? You can meet my son, Carter, and we can discuss all of this over my world-famous meatloaf. Yes, please come over for dinner. Well, I suppose a nice warm meal would do me good. I accept. Great! We can all walk over together. Just three blocks from here. Okay. I really hope Santa brings me that train set. All I want for Christmas is my two front teeth, so I don't sound so silly. I'm sick of everyone teasing me at school and calling me Silly Sally. That poor girl! If I was missing my two front teeth, imagine how bad my singing would sound. Now, that's a totally scary thought. Watch this, Pups. I wish that girl had her two front teeth. Whoa! - What? - Your teeth. They just grew in. Oh, my goodness! Let's go show Mom. Mom, Mom, look! My teeth grew in! This is so easy! I knew we were ready for crystals of our own. I could do this all daylong. It's so extremely fun. Well, come on, then, let's keep granting wishes. Santa! Eli! What is it, Eddy? My crystal collar is missing. Now, at first, I thought Ellis and Elpert were playing one of their elf pranks, but no, it's definitely gone. We would never play an elf prank with your magic crystal. Hmm. Ellis, let's do a location search on Eddy's crystal. You got it, Santa. There it is. Right in the heart of Pineville. Has anyone seen the Santa Pups? They're taking mischief to a whole new level today. We can't find them anywhere. Their mother's getting worried. My professional guesstimation is those rascals decided to borrow my crystal and then hitch a sleigh ride to Pineville with Mrs. Claus. I'm sure Mrs. Claus has everything under control. I hope they're okay and not causing any trouble down there. I'm wiped and starving. Let's call it a night. This is so stupid! Those boys sure look like they could use some help. I'm sick and tired of all this Christmas stuff. You shouldn't think that way, Carter. Kids at the orphanage don't have parents to get them presents every year. They should have a chance to be happy, too. What's everyone so happy about? What are they saying? Something about everybody being so happy. - That sounds good. - Come on, Pups. If there's a wish here, we should grant it. I wish all this Christmas Spirit would just go away! Wait, stop, Noble. Don't grant that wish! What just happened? Hey, Emmett. I'm sorry. I shouldn't have blown up at you like that. - Emmett? - Don't worry about it. I mean, you're right, Christmas is pretty ridiculous when you think about it. Well, yeah, I guess. Come on, let's just get this wagon thing over with, then. You know what? I'm gonna head home. But I can't pull this wagon by myself. Whatever. We'll tell Mr. Miller we were robbed or something. Unless you want to keep all the stuff to ourselves. What? What are you saying? We can't take toys from orphans. See ya. Emmett, where are you going? Emmett! I think we made a very big mistake, Pups. What did we do? Eddy never told us how to reverse a wish. That's because Eddy said we weren't ready for our own crystals, remember? Why did I let you guys talk me into this? Seriously, I hope you're kidding. I think we better find Mrs. Claus. She'll know what to do. Look, Pups. The boy is leaving. We can't lose him until we fix this. Hope's totally right. We better move quick. Oh! I'm sorry, Mayor Denny! That's quite all right, there, Carter. Next time, watch where you're going! Sorry. I didn't mean to! No, I don't think we need a Christmas tree. Well, I've never seen those pups before. Hey, pups! You need any help? Strays are a menace to this town. Those pups are going to the pound. Hey, I haven't seen you pups before. Are you new in town? We're the Santa Pups from the North Pole. I'm Noble and these are my sisters, Hope, Jingle and Charity. Oh, my gosh, is your father Santa Paws? Yes, he is. Do you know our dad? All dogs know about Santa Paws. Christmas is my favorite time of year. In Pineville, it's everyone's favorite time of year. Well, what do we have here? I believe I have a puppy treat or two on me. Look at that. Yuck. What is that? You wouldn't happen to have a candy cane, would you? We're starving! Come here. Let's put a lid on all this barking! I'm not barking, I'm talking. Oh, no! He can't understand us. Remember? Eddy taught us that people can only understand North Pole animals if they, like, truly believe in Christmas. He must not believe. He definitely believes in Christmas. Think of him as, you know, a giant elf. That's quite the little sparkler you have there now, isn't it? I'm going to have to confiscate this pretty little collar. 'Scuse me, you cannot take that. We have to give it back to Eddy. - Hey! What are you doing? - What is going on? Whoa! What are you doing? It seems it'll be Christmas in the pound for all you pups. What's going on here? -Help! -Oh, my gosh! Oh! And here's Carter now. Hey, you missed dinner. We were worried about you. Hey, say hello to Mrs. Cane. We're hoping she's gonna be our new nanny. Yes, well... Hello, Carter. What's up, Carter? You look beat. I had to drag the wagon full of toys to Mr. Miller's barn by myself. Well, why don't we get some of my world-famous meatloaf in you? And we can all decorate the tree. That'll help brighten your mood. Dad, I'm too beat to help with the tree. Can you guys just do it without me? Yeah, sure. To be honest with you, I'm a little tired. It is getting late. But, Daddy, you said we were going to decorate the tree tonight. It's just a tree. It'll still be here tomorrow. Why don't you go on up to bed? Daddy, it's dark out. Maybe Mrs. Cane can stay for a sleepover in the guest room. Oh, no. It's fine. It's no trouble. Right, Daddy? Yeah, sure. There's enough space. Great. Well, guys, this is my place. It's luxury. Three meals a day, double beds over there, doggy toys, rubber balls, hula hoops. In the cage. In the cage, in the cage. Let's go! Uh... Get in there. Why are you putting them in the cage? You never put anyone in the cage. Quit your barking. And, Baxter, you stay out of the way, or you'll be joining 'em. You hear me? I'm sorry, Pups. This has never happened before. You have to help us. I mean, like, seriously, why is your human so mean? He's usually so nice. I don't get it. Maybe he had some bad eggnog or something. It must have been extremely bad eggnog. So, what brought you guys to Pineville? We came here to prove we're ready for our own magic crystals. But we made a big mistake. And if we don't get that collar back and find Mrs. Claus soon, Christmas could be in big trouble. Christmas? In big trouble? Mrs. Cane? Yes, dear? I'm worried. Carter doesn't want to do anything for Christmas. Oh. Well, I think he's just a little under the weather right now. I think he has a little Christmas Cold. A Christmas Cold? How do we make it better? It's like any other cold, you just help them through it. By feeding them soup and cocoa? That's partly it. But a Christmas Cold is special. It takes a special kind of treatment to make it better. Like what? Like, instead of soup... Give him a hug Instead of medicine... Give him lots of love Instead of a tissue... Give him Christmas cheer Yes, this is a sickness that is centuries old It's a feeling that makes us lose faith and hope, dear It's something we call a Christmas Cold Ooh I don't know why But I know that it's so Whoa! What should I do when Carter's unfriendly? Tell him you love him. What should I say till his faith takes hold? Kiss his head. Sometimes he gets kinda sad and lonely I know, dear. That's why we call it a Christmas Cold Christmas Colds Oh, how we dread them Christmas Colds turn smiles into frowns And get us all grumpy Make us feel yucky But we won't let a Christmas Cold bring us down - Surprise! - Oh! Now you're getting it, Sarah. Christmas is magic with glorious music Heartwarming stories, beautifully told But sometimes we feel kind of sad and lonely That's when you've caught it! A Christmas Cold! Christmas Colds Oh, how we dread them Christmas Colds There's no joy in town But we won't let it get us down No, we won't let it get us down No, we won't let a Christmas Cold Get us down Good night, sweet Sarah. Will you walk me to school in the morning? Of course I will. You're not really a nanny, are you? No, dear, I'm not. How did you do all of this? Well, it was quite simple, really. I wish we had decorated the tree. Well, close your eyes and make a Christmas wish. I wish the tree was decorated. WOW! Just a dash of hope and a teaspoon full of faith, and it all comes together. Morning, Dad. Morning, Sarah. How was your yuletide rest, Mr. Reynolds? It was all right, I guess. Look, Daddy, we decorated the Christmas tree. Mmm, that's... That's nice, Sarah. Come on, wanna look closer? I'm sorry, sweetie, Daddy's been really busy at work dealing with the radio station and all the work at the law firm. I just... Frankly, all this Christmas stuff has really worn me down. Sweetie, why don't you go grab your things and I'll walk you to school? - Okay? - Okay, But what about Sarah? She loves Christmas. Yes, I know. But she's seven. And between you and me, don't you think she's a little old for all this Santa stuff? You're never too old to believe in Christmas. Uh... Hello? Hello, Mayor Denny. What are you doing? I'm foreclosing the building. Your father hasn't paid the lease in three months. What about the fundraiser they have planned? I'm sure they'll make enough to pay. Unlikely, given the fact that there's not even gonna be a Christmas show. What do you mean? I spoke to your father this morning. It seems he's giving up on the radio station, too. But Mom loved the radio station. It's been a long time coming. I've just been too nice. Come along, dear. Merry Christmas! Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho! Merry Christmas! Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho! Merry Christmas! Isn't it beautiful? It is a fine likeness of Mr. Claus. - My word! - Oh, dear! Owen! Are you okay? Why didn't you shovel your part of the sidewalk? Well, why don't you watch where you're walking next time and maybe you might not fall? I am going to sue you for all you're worth! - Here. - I can get up by myself. Merry... Come on, sweetheart. Oh, my! It looks like everyone in town has caught a Christmas Cold overnight. How come I didn't catch it? Well, I would have to think it's because the Christmas Spirit is so strong in you. The strongest I've ever seen. It must make you immune to whatever's happening here. Will you pick me up after school? Of course, dear. Oh! You missed it by a mile. You can't catch me! I better find out what's gone wrong. So, another family dropped off their dogs. Seems no one wants their pets anymore. Too much of a hassle. Can't say I blame them. Come here. Uh-uh, uh-uh. Come here, come here. I'm really sorry, guys. Things are going from bad to terrible. I don't know what's gotten into him. He's lost his Christmas Spirit. Baxter, you've really got to get us out of here. We need to get our crystal back. Oh, man! We need to fix this. Now. I don't know, Pups. I'd get in big trouble. What's worse? Getting in big trouble, or no more Christmas? Good point. We'll just have to wait for the right opportunity. I'll try my best. Hang tight. Someone's here. Hey, who's this guy? What on earth? Sorry, sir. We thought this barn was empty. Where did all you reindeer come from? We're from the North Pole. Allow us to introduce ourselves, please. I'm Comet. This is Dancer, Dasher, my boy, Prancer back there, Vixen, keep an eye on that fella. Okay, okay. Quiet down. Hey, guys. He can't understand us. He must not have any Christmas Spirit. But I thought Pineville had the most Christmas Spirit of all towns. Hey, it's Christmastime. I bet I could sell these reindeer for a pretty penny. You can't sell us. We belong to Santa. Oh, you're definitely going on the naughty list! What could cause all that Christmas Spirit to just disappear? Well, sir, you don't know the half of it. We've all seen the effects of the Christmas Cold. This is more like a Christmas Flu. The Christmas Spirit multiplier effect is working in reverse. Lack of Christmas Spirit is spreading out of Pineville and across the country. If we don't do something and fix it, it'll spread at an exponential rate. We'll have a Christmas Pandemic the likes of which we've never seen. Christmas Spirit could disappear forever. Eddy, Eli, get to Pineville as fast as you can. Find Mrs. Claus and find those pups. We've got to get to the bottom of this. We're on it, sir. We'll take care of it. Come on, Eddy! My loves, my loves. Mrs. Claus! Are we ever happy to see you. You are not going to believe what has happened. - No, Mrs. Claus... - At first I thought the whole town... - If I could just... -...had a Christmas Cold. - Yeah, no. - But no. It was some kind of terrible flu. We're going to need Santa's help. It gets worse, Mrs. Claus. That's what I was trying to say. The owner of this barn said he was going to... They're right in here, Sheriff. Uh-oh. Well, who's this now? A trespasser. Oh! Hello, dear sirs. I'm Mrs. Cane. I was just letting my reindeer rest in your barn. Be careful, Mrs. Claus. These guys are bad news. They've lost their Christmas Spirit. That's actually illegal boarding of animals without knowledge or consent of the property owner. Yes, I see. I suppose it is, but... Lady, we better talk about this down at the station. You're arresting me? Will you come with me please, ma'am? You can't arrest Mrs. Claus! Hey, boss, the E.L.F. compressor is ready. Excellent! The question is, what kind of vehicle wouldn't draw any attention in Pineville in the middle of winter? Ooh, ooh, I know, I know! Ice cream is cold and so is winter. It's like instant camouflage. Pretty snazzy, Eddy. - We'll get the doors, boss. - Good. Good luck, guys! Have fun! Come on, pass it! Don't push me. Yeah? Don't push me! All right, that's it, that's it. You kids are too much trouble. Get off my property! I never want to see you on my pond again. Are you okay? Ow! No! The Great Christmas Icicle is melting faster than we ever could have imagined! If there's anyone that can handle a disaster such as this one, though, it's my darling Mrs. Claus. Sheriff, you're a very nice young man and I don't want to break your laws, but I can't oblige and stay here. Hmm. Oh, no! My crystal's very, very weak. This is not good. Oh, dear! Mrs. Cane? Come on. Oh, dear! Thank you, ladies. Oh, my goodness! Oh, dear! Whatever could you three have done to end up in here? It happened all so fast. I don't know what to say. This year, Christmas isn't normal Normal in any way Every year, we think of the children on the children's floor Bring them yummy Christmas cookies from Holman's Cookie Store When Mr. Holman drops off the cookies every year, we say "Thank you, Mr. Holman This will make the kids' Christmas Day But this year it was different Mr. Holman never came So we went to Holman's Cookie Store on Arbor Street and Main There we found the door left open though the store was closed "Let's go in and check it out, girls" No one was opposed So we took a Holman's box and filled it to the brim We were set to leave the cookie store When Mr. Holman walked in "What are you doing in my store? What are you doing in here?" We pleaded with him, "Show us mercy You help us out each year" 'Cause every year, we think of the children On the children's floor Bring them yummy Christmas cookies from Holman's Cookie Store But Mr. Holman wouldn't listen "You shouldn't be in my shop!" He just grabbed a phone from on the counter And yelled, "Get me the cops!" Soon the cops came to the store to take us all away In all the loud noise and confusion No one heard us say Every year, they think of the children on the children's floor Bring them yummy Christmas cookies from Holman's Cookie Store But this year, it was different Mr. Holman went insane Thank you, Mr. Holman You made this our worst Christmas Day! Ever! Keep it down! Oh, my! Okay. It's time, Pups. The coast is clear. I know where your collar is. I'm really impressed, Baxter. You're helping us save Christmas even though you might get in big trouble. That's, like, totally selfless. Okay. Okay, let's get outta here. - Go, go, go, go, go! - Come on! Now, hurry! Let's get our crystal back. Oh! Sarah, Carter! There you are. Hey, what happened to your eye? Emmett started it. Yeah, well, I hope you gave him a knuckle sandwich. Where's Mrs. Cane? She didn't pick me up from school. Yeah. Well, she's been arrested. "Reindeer trespassing," of all things. Look, I gotta go. It's really busy at work. People are suing each other like crazy. But what about our family dinner? You're on your own. He's sick, Carter. What? What do you mean? He's got a Christmas Cold, too. And the only one that can help us is Mrs. Cane. And she's in jail, and no one cares! What do we do, Carter? Beats me. People are mean and selfish. There's nothing we can do about that. But that's not what Mom said. Mom said people are kind and good. Well, Mom was wrong! And she's not here anymore. So it doesn't really matter, does it? You guys, let's go. Come on! Well, over there is Brutis. He's the meanest dog in the entire county, so we should maybe forget about the crystal. We don't have any choice if we want to save Christmas. We'll have to sneak by him to get inside. Should I sing him a lullaby to keep him sleeping? While you guys sneak in? Jingle, seriously? Look for the glow. Guys, look. Look. Right there, right there! How do we get up there? Leave this one to the radical pup. Extreme ascents are my specialty. - Yeah! - Way to go! Yay! Drop the crystal down to me, sis. I got it. Remember, Hope, be careful on the descent. Don't worry. The descent is my favorite part. No, don't! You'll wake up Brutis! That was radical! You guys should really take a turn. Oh, no. I don't like being woken up. And I especially don't like being woken up by intruders. Baxter, are you trespassing? Explain yourself. We were... Brutis, sir, don't hurt Baxter. Please, it's all our fault. And who are you? We're the Santa Pups from the North Pole. We flew here with Mrs. Claus and the reindeer, but we messed up and cast some sort of spell with our magic crystal. Brutis, I know it's hard to believe, but it's true. Haven't you noticed your human behaving strangely? He has been pretty grouchy, actually. He's never gone this long without playing with me or giving me a treat. It's like he... Lost his Christmas Spirit? Yeah. If we don't get the crystal back and find Mrs. Claus, we fear Christmas will be gone forever. You mean, no new chew toys on Christmas morning to unwrap? No Christmas cookie crumbs to lick up? Not on this dog's watch. Thank you, Mr. Brutis. Is there anything we can do to help you? Actually, can you guys get Santa to take me off the naughty list? The mailman incident was unfortunate, but we've both grown a lot since then. I have a naughty reputation when I'm actually very nice. You can't judge a dog by his underbite. You can count on us, Mr. Brutis. We'll make sure you get put on the nice list. Much obliged. Now, let's get you guys out of here so you can save Christmas. You sure this is Pineville, Eddy? This is the place. Wow, it looks like things have gone downhill fast. We'll have to locate Mrs. Claus immediately. Oh, no. Eli, I can't see the crystals anymore. The magic has become too weak. We'll have to find them the old-fashioned way. Our instincts and intellect. All right, Mrs. Claus' last recorded position was the Reynolds' house. - Turn right here. - Gotcha. I think we should get one for each of the kids. Ice cream! What's an ice cream truck doing here in the middle of December? And at eight o'clock in the morning? Hiya, kids! We're wondering if you could help us. We're looking for a jolly, white-haired lady. Little red suitcase? I think you might be looking for Mrs. Cane. Mrs. Cane? As in "candy cane"? Did that dog just talk? What are you talking about? It just barked. Looks like we have a believer. I'm sorry, mister. She's a little confused. All this Christmas stuff is going to her head. No, I'm not, Carter. And she's in jail! Jail! Well, we have to get to her in a Christmas minute. We gotta bust Mrs. Claus out of the pen, the clink, the slammer, the joint, the hoosegow. Yeah, so you're trying to tell me that Mrs. Cane is actually Mrs. Claus? Carter, we really need your help. Yes, we do. See, I'm Eli, Santa's head elf. And we don't have much time. What in tarnation? Oh. Carter, Sarah. Hello. Sheriff Andy, we've come to get Mrs. Cane out of jail. Well, there's a hefty bail to get her out, which your father said he wasn't willing to pay. Crying out loud. Is that enough? Hold still, Eddy. You're shaking too much. You're gonna have to cut back on the Christmas cookies this year. Hello, ladies. You haven't happened to see a Mrs. Claus around here, have you? - Eli! "Oh! Oh, thank heaven you're here! Mrs. Claus, I got Eddy with me, too. Hi, Mrs. Claus! I'm down here. And we're gonna bust you outta here. -- Good! But we don't have enough magic in my crystal, so we're gonna do it old school. Stand back, everyone! A dollar. $2. Penny, nickels... Count to yourself, you're confusing me. Nickel. Quarter... Eli, you think this is gonna work? Of course. I saw it on a TV Western. Fella was a cowboy who talked like this and had a horse. What in the blazes is going on? Oh! Hey- Oh! Whoa! Who are you? I'm Eli, Santa's head elf. You may recall you once asked for a cowboy outfit and a cap gun when you were nine. You remember that, Andy? How'd you know that? Oh, Sheriff. I'm so sorry about the damage, but something's gone very wrong in Pineville and I tried to explain to you that I needed to get out of this cell. So, toodle-loo. Remember to stay on the nice list. - Come on, Eddy. - I've been nice. Hey, hey. Wait! Wait! Wait! What about me? Hey! Hey! Hey! Noble, Hope, Charity, Jingle. What are you guys doing down here? Who is this elf dog? No, I'm not an elf dog. My name is Baxter and I'm from right here in Pineville. Baxter should be an honorary elf dog. He saved us from the pound and we are proud to call him a friend. You mean you didn't come down from the North Pole as part of a rescue party? I'm afraid not. Then how did you get here? Well, it's a bit of a story, Comet. But right now, we need your help. We need to locate Mrs. Claus. The Sheriff took her away. And now, we're up for sale. Eli, do you have any idea what's going on? No, Mrs. Claus, we haven't been able to figure it out. We thought you might know. It all happened so fast. It's as though someone wished for Christmas to go away. And then, poof, there it went. Wait a sec. What did you just say? Which part? About the wish. Oh, I was just saying that Christmas vanished so fast, it's as if somebody wished for it to go away. But who would make such a wish? I did. I didn't mean to, really. But I did. I wished that Christmas Spirit would go away. But I didn't think it would really happen. But who would grant that wish? None of us who have magic crystals. Well, Mrs. Claus, there's something else you should know. The Santa Pups stowed away on your sleigh and my crystal is missing. We think they have it. The pups must have granted Carter's wish. They have to reverse the wish and restore Christmas Spirit before it's too late. I wish Christmas Spirit would come back. Carter, my friend. I wish it was that easy. Unfortunately, the Santa Pups granted the wish, so they're the only ones that can reverse it. We need to find them. And fast. Yes, and in the meantime, we have to find some way to stop the Christmas Flu from spreading. We need to boost Spirit back up. I got an idea. We can do what Mommy used to do. You mean the Christmas show? The show inspired the whole town. Sarah, that is a great idea. Eli, you and Eddy, go get the reindeer. They're in Mr. Miller's barn right at the edge of town. And the Santa Pups might be there. Right. - Eddy, come on. - Ladies. - Uh-huh? - Mmm-hmm? I want you to go turn on every single radio in this town. "Reindeer for sale." This must be the place, Eddy. Eli, what are you thinking? Hang on. I'm rolling in hot! Wait! The magic crystals won't work. Eli, there's not enough power. Who needs crystals? Yee-haw! Hallelujah, it's the cavalry! Guys, we're saved! And we've got ice cream! Well, that didn't go quite as planned. Eddy and Eli! Boy, are we happy to see you! Okay, I'm just gonna come right out and admit it. I think we messed up big time and granted a very bad wish. Well, I'm not gonna say you didn't cause a lot of trouble, but we'll get to that later. Right now, we have to reverse that wish before it's too late. This is private property. What are you, reindeer rustlers? Allow me to introduce us. I'm Eli, and this is Eddy, and we're Santa's head elves. And we're here to save Christmas. It's show time. Hello, Pineville. This is Carter. And Sarah Reynolds, broadcasting live over 87.9 XMAS, Pineville radio. That's the Reynolds children, and they're trying to bring Christmas Spirit back. And this is the Annual Christmas Radio Show, a tradition started by our grandfather over 60 years ago. And made special by our mom, Michelle Reynolds. My sister and I are here to carry on the tradition. I know you're all busy and some of you may be feeling a bit sad. But we need your help to bring Christmas Spirit back to our town. Well, you see... This... This is all my fault. - Order. Come on. - It's the law. That's ridiculous. You slipped and fell. Order in the court! This isn't even a neck brace! It's an upside down doggy bed. Can you believe him? You were negligent and didn't shovel the sidewalk. After my mom passed away, well, it didn't feel like it was right to celebrate. So I did this. Carter? I don't know how, exactly, but I did. I made you all feel the way you do because I wished that Christmas Spirit would go away, and it did. It's like a flu. A Christmas Flu. It spread from me to the people I met, to the people they met. And I know that if my mother were here... She'd want us all to be happy. And celebrate Christmas with the people we love. And to remember her by keeping the Spirit of Christmas alive in Pineville. I love you, Dad. You, too, son. Yeah, come on. This is dedicated to my daddy, my brother and my mommy. I love you. Okay. O, Holy Night The stars are brightly shining It is the night of our dear Savior's birth Long lay the world In sin and error pining Till he appeared and the soul felt its worth I don't know what got into me. If there's anything I can do to make up for my selfishness. As a matter of fact, Mr. Miller, there is. Can you drive a sleigh? For yonder breaks A new and glorious morn Fall on your knees O, hear The angel voices O, night divine O, night When Christ was born O, night divine O, night O, night divine All right, let's go. Come on. Let's go. Come on. Come on, boys. Come on, here you go! You're all free! The King of Kings Lay thus in lowly manger In all our trials Born to be our friend Born to be our friend O, fall on your knees O, hear the angel voices O, night divine O, night when Christ was born O, night divine O, night O, night divine O, holy night, the stars are brightly shining O, night divine O, night O, night divine - Come on, guys. - Yay! Mrs. Claus! Mrs. Claus! Eli! My darling pups, I'm so glad you're safe. We're really sorry, Mrs. Claus. We thought we could prove to you that we were ready for crystals of our own. But instead, we caused Christmas Spirit to go away in Pineville. I guess we still have a lot to learn. Well, don't worry about that now. We have to reverse the wish that you granted Carter in order for the Christmas Flu to be wiped out for good. All right, Pups, you've got the magic crystal. You must grant the wish. I wish Pineville and the world a merry Christmas forever! Santa, look! The map! It's spreading. The Christmas Spirit is spreading everywhere! They did it, they saved Christmas! I knew Mrs. Claus had everything under control. Ho-ho-ho! Let love and kindness guide the way for everyone we know Come here, you, give me a hug. Merry Christmas. Together, hand in hand, it works Who wants ice cream? That's for you. A better garden grows Merry Christmas. Good to see you. I'm sorry I borrowed your magic crystal without asking, Eddy. Don't worry, Noble. Someday, you'll have one of your very own. There he is. I love you, buddy. Aww! - Hi. - Glad you made it out. Let love and kindness guide the way For everyone we know Together, hand in hand, it works A better garden grows Just like a flower bending Ever graceful to the light Singing Hallelujah, Hallelujah Sing Hallelujah tonight Sing Hallelujah, Hallelujah Sing Hallelujah Tonight Mrs. Claus, your sled has arrived. Thank you, sir. Well. You shared your hearts and reminded everyone what the Christmas Spirit is all about. I came here to find one Ambassador for the Santa Cause, and I found two. Oh! Will we ever see you again? Well, of course, dear. You're my official Ambassadors, and it's a very important role. It means that you will embody the Christmas Spirit every day for the whole year. Can you do that? 'Yes! 'Yes! All right. I'm off. Okay, here we go. We'll never forget you. And you won't have to, because, just like your mom, I'm going to be right there. Forever. Here we go. All right, buddy. Well, Eddy, looks like our work is done here. Yeah, Eli, time for us to go home. Bye! Goodbye! Merry Christmas! Bye! We're really sorry, Mrs. Claus. I have learned that to be a leader, I have to take full responsibility for my decisions. I was totally blown away by Baxter, who helped us. I want to be generous and selfless like him. Sneaking here from the North Pole was a big leap, and now I realize I should have looked before I leapt. That's this pup's new policy. And I wanna learn to sing like Sarah. Did you see how much Christmas Spirit she spread? That's what singing should be for. Spreading joy and harmony. Learning from your mistakes is very grown-up, Pups. Now, we have to get back to the North Pole and Santa. There's lots of work to be done. Are you ready to fly, fellas? Just say the word, Mrs. Claus. On, Dasher, on, Dancer, on, Prancer, and Vixen. On, Comet, on, Cupid, on, Donner and Blitzen! Merry Christmas! Let's go celebrate Christmas When everyone's out about having fun Time to celebrate Christmas The season's just begun Goodbye! When everyone sings about yuletide cheer Time to celebrate Christmas The best time of the year Goodbye, Pineville. Have a radical Christmas! Remember, it's better to give than receive! We'll miss you. I wanna celebrate Christmas When everyone's out about lighting trees I wanna celebrate Christmas with everyone I see I wanna celebrate Christmas with everyone, everywhere, every day Time to celebrate Christmas Time to celebrate Christmas In Pineville, USA! Christmas is more than candy canes Even more than gifts we receive It's the friends that we make It's the time that we take To teach the world to believe To teach the world to believe Christmas is more than caroling More than gifts we give outwith glee So much joy in the air It's the love that we share With friends and family Christmas is more than making toys So much more for good girls and boys Teaching all about cheer Spreading love through the year We have to share the joy We have to share the joy So, if we listen well And if we study hard And if we learn our lessons better And if we think it's right And when we see you know That's when we work to deck the halls It's always for the Santa Cause Christmas is more than candy canes Even more than fun in the snow It's the things that we say How we love, how we play That sets the world aglow That will set the world aglow That will set the world aglow - Yeah! - Awesome! Nice job! They're coming, they're coming soon They're coming, they're coming soon Isn't this a grand day! Isn't this the best! The Pups are coming soon, don't you know? Everybody gather 'round Everyone stay close The Pups will be coming soon They're coming real soon Isn't this a grand day today! Isn't this the best day to celebrate! The Santa Pups are coming, the Pups are coming The Pups will be coming soon They're coming real soon When you look upon life with a smile It will bless you Look what we have in our lives today We have four little pups We have four Santa Pups That will bless our hearts four ways When you look upon life with a smile It will bless you Look what we have in our lives today We have four little pups We have four Santa Pups That will bless our hearts four ways When you look upon life with a smile It will bless you Look what we have in our lives today We have four little pups We have four Santa Pups That will bless our hearts Isn't this a grand day! That will bless our hearts Isn't this the best! That will bless our hearts Each day!
