 

                        THE KURU FIELD OF JUSTICE I see them here assembled, I see them here assembled, ready to fight, seeking to please... I see them here assembled, I see them here assembled, ready to fight, seeking to please the kings sinful son, the kings sinful son, by waging war. And thus addressed by Arjuna, Krishna brought... Krishna brought that splendid chariot to a halt, to a halt between the two armies. Seeing them, all his kinsmen, thus arrayed, seeing them, all his kinsmen, thus arrayed, Arjuna was filled with deep compassion and turned to Krishna. Arjuna was filled with deep compassion and turned to Krishna: ""My very being is oppressed... with compassions harmful taint..."" ""My very being is oppressed..."" ""With mind perplexed concerning right and wrong..."" ""With mind perplexed concerning right and wrong, I ask you, which is the better course?"" ""With mind perplexed..."" ""Tell me and let your words be definite and clear."" ""Tell me..."" ""I am your pupil and put all my trust in you."" ""You teach me."" ""I am your pupil..."" Seeing them, all his kinsmen, thus arrayed... ...Arjuna was filled with deep compassion and turned to Krishna. Seeing them, all his kinsmen, thus arrayed... But if you, if you will not, will not wage this war, this war prescribed by your duty... ...then, by casting off both duty and honor, you will bring evil on yourself. If you are slain, paradise is yours, and if you gain the victory, yours is the earth to enjoy. If you are slain... Stand up then, son of Kunti, resolute for the fight. Stand up then... Hold pleasure and pain, pleasure and pain, profit and loss, victory and defeat to be the same. Then brace yourself for the fight. So will you bring no evil on yourself. Then brace yourself... To him thus in compassion plunged, his eyes distraught and filled with tears, to him desponding, Krishna spoke these words, Krishna spoke these words: ""Whence comes this faintness on you, this faintness on you, now at this crisis hour...?"" ""This ill beseems a nobleman, wins none a heavenly state..."" ""This ill beseems a nobleman, wins none a heavenly state, but brings dishonor, Arjuna..."" Hold pleasure... Hold pleasure and pain, pleasure and pain, profit and loss, profit and loss... ...victory and defeat to be the same. Then brace yourself for the fight. Uo will you bring no evil on yourself... TOLUTOY PARM When the motives and the fruits of a mans actions are freed from desire, his works are burned clean by wisdoms fire, the white fire of truth. Do the allotted task for which one is fit, for work is more excellent than idleness and the bodys life proceeds not without work. Between theory and practice, some speak as if they were two, making a separation and difference between them. Yet wise men know that both can be gained in applying oneself whole-heartedly to one. Do the allotted task for which one is fit, for work is more excellent than idleness and the bodys life proceeds not without work. Between theory and practice some speak as if they were two, making a separation and difference between them. Yet wise men know... - Do the alloted task... Freed from desire... Freed from desire... When he casts off attachment to his deeds, a man embarks on his work ever content, on none dependent. When he casts off attachment... With thought and self controlled giving up all possessions, he cares for his bodily maintenance without excess. With thought and self controlled... - Do the allotted task... Between theory and practice... - Taking what chance may bring, surmounting all dualities, knowing no envy, the same in success and failure. Yet wise men know... - Do the allotted task... When he casts off attachment to his deeds a man embarks on his work ever content, on none dependent. THE VOW Whoever gives up a deed because it causes pain, or because he shrinks from bodily pain, follows the way of darkness, knowing nothing of self-surrender. Whoever gives up a deed because it causes pain... But if work is done because it should be done and is enjoined by Scripture, but if work is done because it should be done and is enjoined by Scripture and without thought for great benefits, then that is surrender in goodness... You sustain the gods and the gods sustain you in return. You sustain the gods and the gods sustain you. The gods sustain you in return, attaining the highest good. You sustain the gods and the gods sustain you. With this you sustain the gods and the gods sustain you in return. Sustain one another, you shall attain the highest good. You sustain the gods... With this you sustain the gods... Prom food do all contingent beings derive and food derives from rain. Prom food do all contingent beings derive... Rain derives from sacrifice and sacrifice from work... With doubt cut away, suffused with goodness, the self-surrendered man hates neither uncongenial work nor looks only for pleasant work... So was the wheel set in motion, and who here fails to match his turning, living an evil life... He who only indulges in sensual pleasure lives his life in vain... CONPRONTATION AND REUCUE ""This I have gained today..."" ""This whim I"II satisfy..."" ""This wealth is mine..."" ""And much more too will be mine as time goes on..."" ""This I have gained today..."" ""He was an enemy of mine..."" ""Ive killed him..."" ""And many another I"II kill. Im the master here..."" ""I take my pleasure as I will. Im strong and happy and successful..."" ""He was an enemy of mine..."" And thinking this, ail those dark minded ones of little wit... And thinking this, ail those dark minded ones of little wit, embark on cruel and violent deeds, the curses of their kind. And thinking this... ""Im rich and of good family. Who ease can match himself with me? I"II make sacrifices and give alms. I"II have a marvelous time."" So speak fools. ""Im rich and of good family..."" Insatiate desire is their starting point, insatiate desire is their starting point, maddened are they by hypocrisy and pride, clutching at false conceptions, deluded as they are. Impure are their resolves... Insatiate desire is their starting point... INDIAN OPINION As witless fools perform their work, attached to the work they do, so with senses freed, the wise man should act, longing to bring about the welfare and coherence of the world... As witless fools perform their work, attached to the work they do, so with senses freed, the wise man should act, longing to bring about the welfare and coherence of the world. Therefore detached, perform unceasingly the work that must be done... For the man detached who labors on to the highest must win through... This is how the saints attained success. Moreover, you should embrace action for the upholding, the welfare of your own kind. Therefore detached... Whatever the noblest does, that too will others do. The standard that he sets ail the world will follow. ""In the three worlds there is nothing I need do... nor anything unattained that I need to gain, yet action is the element in which I move..."" ""If I were not tirelessly to busy myself, to busy myself with work, then would men everywhere follow in my footsteps, sinking back."" ""In the three worlds there is nothing I need do..."" ""As witless fools perform their work..."" ""If I were not to do my work, these worlds would fail to ruin... and I would create confusion..."" PROTEU The Lord said, the Lord said: ""Let a man feel hatred for no being, let him be friendly, compassionate, done with thoughts of "I" and "mine", the same in pleasure as in pain and long suffering. His self restrained, his purpose firm, Let his mind and soul be steeped in me, let him worship me with love. Then will I love him in return. Then will I love him in return."" The Lord said... Hold pleasure and pain, profit and loss, victory and defeat to be the same... Then brace yourself for the fight. So will you bring no evil on yourself. Hold pleasure and pain, profit and loss... If you are slain, paradise is yours, and if you gain the victory, yours is the earth to enjoy... Stand up then, son of Kunti, stand up then, son of Kunti, resolute for the fight. If you are slain, paradise is yours... Hold pleasure and pain, profit and loss... Happy are the warriors indeed who become involved in such a war as this... ...a war presented by pure chance and opening the doors of paradise. Happy are the warriors indeed... If you are slain, paradise is yours, and if you gain the victory, yours is the earth to enjoy... Stand up then, son of Kunti, resolute for the fight... NEWCAUTLE MARCH With self content in wisdom learned from holy books and wisdom learned from life... With sense subdued, sublime, aloof, this athlete of the spirit stands... ""Integrated"", so is he called... The same to him are clods of earth, stones, gold... Outstanding is he, outstanding is he whose soul, whose soul views in the self-same way, views in the self-same way friends, comrades, enemies, those indifferent, neutrals, views in the self-same way men who are hateful and those who are his kin, views in the self-same way the good and the evil, too... This is the fixed, the fixed, still state which sustains, which sustains, even at the time of death, the athletes of the spirit, which sustains, even at the time of death, the athletes of the spirit, who even then set forth, who even then set forth, some to return, some to return, some never to return... Pire, light, day, the waxing of the moon, the six months of the suns northern course, dying in these, to Brahman do they go, the men who Brahman know... This is the fixed, still state which sustains, this is the fixed, still state which sustains... ...even at the time of death, the athletes of the spirit... ...the athletes of the spirit who even then set forth... This is the fixed, still state which sustains... ...even at the time of death, the athletes of the spirit, who even then set forth, some to return, some never to return. Pire, light, day, the waxing of the moon, the six months... ...of the suns northern course... ...dying in these... ...to Brahman do they go... ...the men who Brahman know... This is the fixed, still state which sustains, even at the time of death, the athletes of the spirit who even then set forth, some to return, some never to return... I have passed through many a birth and many have you... I know them ail, but you do not. Unborn am I, changeless is my Self, of all contingent beings I am the Lord! Yet by my creative energy, I consort with Nature... ...I consort with Nature and come to be in time. For whenever the law of righteousness withers away and lawlessness rises... ...then do I generate myself on earth. I come into being age after age and take a visible shape and move man with men for the protection of good, thrusting evil back... ...and setting virtue on her throne again...
