 

                        So, it's all come down to this... Somewhere, somehow, something went wrong. My life wasn't supposed to turn out this way. Now, I can't help but wonder... "...am I too late?" bSAW Rebirth "Inertia", the word defined my life. I'd somehow worked my way so far into a rut that I felt there was no way out. Or at least no way out that didn't require me to do something. And when it came to taking action, well, there was always tomorrow. I knew there was more to life. I was just too lazy to grab it. I mean, consider Paul, a bore for sure, but he had it all - wife, kids, the works. I've told him once, that I'll never fear him someday too. Nothing's wrong, John. I just need more from you. A commitment... she wanted a commitment that I just wouldn't - couldn't - make. And so she left. For years, nothing changed. I just played the role I'd been assigned, went through the motions... My experience with Jill clinched it - life was empty. Then... "I got sick." It hit me suddenly, but hard. Every night I'd come home and puke my guts out. Every day I'd wake up feeling just a little bit weaker. It's really quite serious although it's not far advanced... You've got a particularly virulent strain of cancer... We're talking about a question of "when" not "if" I'm afraid. I, but... I'm truly sorry, we'll do all we can to make you as comfortable as possible. So that was it, I'd squandered my life and now I was about to lose it. I bet the doc was a real shoulder to cry on, huh? Cold-hearted bastards, the lot of them. What are you talking about? They're all screwing around on their wives. I sure won't be that way when I'm a doctor. The orderly had issues of his own. Now that on my own life was slipping away, I paid closer attention to the lives of others. Like this one - a scam artist. This is what he did with his precious gift of life? Watch out! Coming through! I found out later from Zep, the orderly, that the woman had od'd on heroin. She'd survived, but did she learn anything? But nothing could have prepared me for what happened next... It was Paul! He'd slashed his wrists. A guy with a wife, family, kids. What the hell was wrong with him? I was done listening to the rules. "There was only one way out." "So I killed myself." But I didn't die. The cancer growing inside would eventually kill me anyway. I accept that, fully and completely. But that knowledge didn't depress me anymore. In fact, it liberated me, clarified everything. "...I was reborn!" I knew now what my purpose was. So many heedless, unfocused souls out there, so lost, so adrift. So unappreciative. So undeserving of the precious gift of life that was being denied me. I'd never get back all those wasted years, so I'd have to apply myself as I had never done. Use the short time I had left to make others realize... ...how fleeting and valuable this existence was. But it took work - hard work. I discarded sleep, neglected meals, there was time only for my task, what I'd already come to think of as my mission. The chosen would reap the benefits of my labor ...one way or another. I educated myself in diverse fields, absorbed vast amounts of esoteric knowledge. But it was necessary effort. If the chosen were to learn anything from me, I'd need to impart a personal touch. The hours I didn't spend puking with my guts on fire were consumed by planning. Everything was researched, tested, refined. Every angle was considered, every detail mulled over. It was perfect. So it's all come down to this. Somewhere, somehow, something went wrong. My life wasn't supposed to turn out this way. I was supposed to be someone, I was supposed to make a difference. And now I will... one person at a time. bSubtitle edited by "Smoyl"
