 

                        Worst possible conditions. So far the air crane is not being used but it remains on standby. The total cost of bringing the air crane to South Australia has been put at over a quarter of a million dollars. Schapelle. You said to remind you you've got heaps to do. I'm just going to go for a few more. I'll see you at Mum's tonight. This time tomorrow... Bali! Hey, don't drink it all. The last sip gets a wish. Well you know what my wish is. Take more than bloody prostate cancer to knock me off my perch. Dad. Katrina? It's Pel. I'm going to be a bit later, much later, picking you up. I'll call you when I get to your place, OK? Yes, of course I'm pissed off. You got that much right. Dad, could you not? Right. Just got to fix the ripped plastic on your boogie board bag. Dad. Yeah, and I'll cut down on the brewskis. I'm meeting the girls at Mum's soon. No, no. Meet them at the airport first thing. I can't. Yes, you can. OK. First thing when you get home, you sign back up at that beauty school. And you finish your course. You don't worry about me. I can get to the doctors and all the rest of it, right? Yeah, I said I will. I mean it. Take care of yourself. She's supposed to be here by now. I had to glue her boogie board plastic. What's it matter? Don't get cranky with me. I'm just worried she might have broken down. Well if she did she'd cope. She's not a kid. Bloody ex-husbands. Don't rack up too many of them. I'll try not to. Good to the kids. That's the main thing in a man. Yep? It's close. Half an hour. It's on its way. Oh, 30? Jeez. Yeah, she should have called her 29. 20's going to be OK, but 30? That's the hotel. Oh, bags that deckchair. Show me. Mm. Very nice. Look at the beach! I hope the plane doesn't crash. Stop saying that! Sorry. So you got your Lomatil and your gastrolytes and all that? Yeah, and my hankie and my lunch money and... You're not too big for a smack. Go check on your brother. Make sure he's set his alarm. Up at four, girls. Oh, thanks heaps, Schapelle. Yeah, really. Give me a break, guys. They were the only tickets I could get. James? Have you set your alarm? Yeah. Mum's only told me like 28 times. OK, 4am. That's what time I go to bed. We're going to have a good time, OK. Wait. Whoo-hoo! You'll need to carry this to oversize once we're done here. Yeah. And you'll transfer in Sydney to the international airport but your baggage is checked through to Bali on the Australian Airlines flight. Alright. Here are your boarding passes. Enjoy your flight. Thank you. Come on. You're not getting on that plane till I get ya. Big smile, Katrina, otherwise I'll fire you from the fish shop. Beer! Oi! Thanks for the extra beers, not. Bitch. As if we've had too many. Welcome to Bali. Could you put your bag up here? Is that yours? Is that yours? No, no, that's mine. Please. Put it up. Can you tell me your name, please? Schapelle Corby. Can you open it, please? Nothing. Can you open this one, please? Where's Pel? Why not? Because there's something... Do you know what it is in that bag? Can we inspect, please? This bag is yours? Yes. This board is yours? Yes. This is also yours? Yes. Is this yours? This isn't mine. Do you understand? It's not mine. I'll check. OK. Could you not? Sample for testing. Do you know what this is? I can smell it, but I've never seen it before. You should find out whose it is. Maybe someone out there... Narcotic. Positive narcotic. Positive. Do you have a permit from authority to import marijuana into Indonesia? What? Sorry, what? Do you have a permit from authority to import marijuana into Indonesia? I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. She doesn't know. I don't know. You sign this, please, to say it is your bag. We can't read Indonesian, OK. You should fingerprint this bag of whatever it is. Breathe out. Hello? Is this Mercedes? Yes, it is, who's this? It's Katrina, Schapelle's friend. Where are you guys? They've got Schapelle and they're saying that she's got drugs in her bag. What? And it's real and they've got her and she's terrified. What? Say it again? I don't... I don't know what to do. Corby. Schapelle Corby. Hey, hey, hey. Oh, my God! Oh, my God. 4.2 kilos of narcotics. She had it in her bag. No, it's not hers. It's not hers. She doesn't take drugs. She doesn't have anything to do with drugs. It's not hers. My bag wasn't locked. Anyone could have put it in there. Somebody else's. Not hers. They've come here for my birthday. A holiday, OK? It's not hers. Don't sign anything, Pel. No, I'm not. I keep telling them. Excuse me! Close that. Stop them! Stop them taking photos! Get them away. Get them away from her. Bend. Spread your legs. Hello? Merc? I can't understand what you're saying. For God sake, Mercedes. It must be bad news, just tell me what it is. Jesus. Jesus fucking wept. Like, where does it even come from? I never. Never even seen it before. Fuck! They need to fingerprint the bag. Fingerprint the bag of marijuana, OK? Oh, please just go home, Mick. I can't tell you anymore. What are you even doing here? I've got to be bloody somewhere, haven't I? So, Merc's getting Pel a lawyer. Yes. Yes. Someone planted that bloody stuff on her. That's how the system works. First up, we've got to play it their way. First up? My little girl cannot stay in a jail. Not for another night. Look, it's all about money in that bloody country. Someone will be on the take. I can find out... Who that is... Sshh. That'll be them, that'll be them. Where's my bloody phone? That's the newspapers you hang up on them. The last thing she needs is a media circus. The last thing I need is your advice. Rosleigh Rose speaking, hello? Hi, Mrs Rose. Jess Thompson here. I'm from A Current Affair. Can I... Shit. So I open the bag and got the shock of my life. It was not your brother's? No. Not anyone else that you know? No. No. No. I don't know how it got there. Someone else put it in there. We have to find out who. Oh. I told you that if your sister is innocent I will do all I can to help her. Yeah, you did. Thank you, Lily. One thing, Schapelle. When did you last see inside your boogie board bag? At Mum's, the morning we left. We showered at 4am and met in the garage and my friend Ally gave me back some flippers that she'd borrowed and I opened my bag and I threw them in and everyone saw inside. Good. So I'll get out Monday, right? Once you show them that it was all just a big mistake. It's not that simple. So what happens if you can't prove that it wasn't mine? What? It is the death penalty, Schapelle. You must come out. The only thing I did wrong is not lock my bag. Is the marijuana from Australia? Has she admitted to the crime? What it's it feel like, Schapelle? She is innocent. We are hoping to hear from the airport in Australia soon so that she may be released. Has she been set up? Yes, she has been set up. Do you think someone could be that stupid, that crazy to do this? Schapelle, is there anything you'd like to say to the Australian public? Help me. Help me. And tell my Mum and Dad that I love them. What we do know is that a 27-year-old beauty student from the Gold Coast faces the death penalty after Balinese officials opened Schapelle Corby's bag and found 4.2 kilograms of marijuana leaf inside a large plastic bag. Has Gold Coast Mick got a girl? How would I bloody know? Schapelle Corby is being accused of importing the largest ever seizure of marijuana by a foreigner into Bali. Is she related to Mick? Well, his daughter's got some weird bullshit made-up name like that. Can I just ask about this girl in Bali matter? My office is being pressured by her lawyers. Do you have any information? Is she innocent? Could she have been set up? Minister Downer, we're tracing any networks she had abroad. The Indonesians are compiling any intel on intercountry narcotic distribution she could have been engaged in. It's a good test of our new understanding with the Indonesian police. So back to my question. I would urge extreme caution in providing public statements of support. From what I've seen to date, in all probability, guilty. So first we will need CCTV footage and X-rays from Brisbane and Sydney. Vasu. I'm sorry, who... who is this? Sorry, traffic. This is Vasu, my business partner. He's going to be your case coordinator. Pleased to meet you. We call him Mr Fix-it. Mr Fix-it. Continue, please. But the baggage weight will prove that I didn't do it. And the fingerprints. I mean, her fingerprints aren't going to be on the bag. No. But the drugs were in your bag. That, pure and simple, is enough for the prosecution to establish a case against you. The director of narcotics just told Indonesian journalists that you last visited Bali earlier this year. Well, that's bullshit. And it's on her passport. The last time that she visited Bali was four years ago. Shouldn't she get a blood and urine test? We can wait a few more days. Why? Because he doesn't believe me. No, no, no, no. Tonight on A Current Affair... I don't think there's anybody who thinks she's innocent. Certainly none of the Indonesian police or prosecutors or detectives. Well, she's keeping... Oh, no. She's a good, strong girl. What are you doing? They don't care about Schapelle. The government is doing bloody nothing. This lot's flying me up there to get her home. They're just using you for the ratings or whatever it is they do. Corby? Oh, my God. No. No. Oh, my God. Either we don't have footage from Bali customs the day you arrived or we don't have cameras here. No cameras? I thought they would see that, see me lifting up the board, happy. You have to have cameras. Qantas has given us your baggage weights. That'll prove everything. It was for 68kg in total. In total? You checked in as a group, Schapelle. Oh. Shouldn't they be weighing stuff separately? There's no legal requirement. Great, so you've got no good news. Can I use your phone, please? She's been framed. And when were you last in Bali? I was over there last month ago, actually. I'm having cancer treatment and wasn't feeling too bad, so I thought best go when I could, to see my eldest daughter early for her birthday. So does she live there? No, she bloody does not. When was the last... Did you see her on the morning of the trip? Hello? Dad, it's me. Pel. I'm just wondering what the oncologist said. Never mind me. Got to get you home. Merc's doing that. Don't worry, you just... Don't stress, OK? Dad, you've got to say something otherwise I'll think you're not there. Um... you know that big Russian book I was reading? I finished it the day you... anyway. In one bit this old bloke looks at all his kids and realises they've all got bits of him, bits of his characteristics. One of them had resilience. I'll look it up. Or get two for the price of one. That's right - two phones for the price of one. Only at Mad Ron's. I declare this ad officially launched. Cheers! Cheers. Thanks for the ad guys and for you guys from the stores for being here. Here's to selling more phones and enjoy! Thank you. Hey, why don't you do the next one while you're on fire, huh? Because your phones are so hot. Yeah, right. Schapelle, the customs officer believes you're lying. - They didn't even ask me to unzip it. - Hey, Ron, there's that chick. I've opened it and gone and seen it and thought, "Oh, my God, "I'm in trouble." Inside the bag was marijuana with an estimated street value of over $80,000. Do you think she's innocent? Poor girl if she is. Never defended a criminal who isn't. She's never been in trouble before. She's a lovely girl. Back to the coalface, hey. Alright, mate. See you guys. She had her bag unlocked, with her name on it. Bye. Indonesian police have confirmed that Queenslander Schapelle Corby could face the death penalty in her Bali drug smuggling case. Your husband doesn't own a surf shop? I said it all in the press conference yesterday. No! He doesn't. And he never has and neither have I. And we don't live in Bali, we're just here for a few months. Please, please. How often does she come to Bali? Mum, my God. Are you looking forward to seeing Schapelle? Yes, I am. Have you spoken to Schapelle? Yes, of course I have. What have you brought her? What was your reaction when you heard the news? Are you hoping to take her home? Come on, mum. Yes. She'll be coming home soon. Please. Move away. Excuse me, get out of my face. Get out of my face. Oh, my little girl. Oh, Mum. Oh, my God. This is... This is... Oh, God. I'm not going to cry, alright? I want to but I'm not going to. You won't stay here. Merc's pushing to get you into the proper jail. Jeez, that didn't sound too good, did it? He probably thinks we're mad. Is dad... He's still on his injections. He's good, he's good. I'm so sorry. Sshh. Whoever done this to you, they're going to pay, big time. Thanks for being here. Sort of like going on summer camp, right? Oh, thanks. Mattress, at last. You want to give aunty Pel the picture? Oh, thanks. I'll put it up in my office straightaway. It looks like the same time. I'll see you tomorrow, OK? I'll bring you some notebooks. - Say "bye Aunty Pel." - Bye, Aunty Pel. Love you. Love you, Pel. Love you, Pel. I love you. We are still searching for something to just get us over the line, a reasonable defence so that if we have to appeal her sentence down the track we can... What sentence? Oh. Mum. She'll be home for my birthday. Unfortunately they've appointed Ida Bagus Wiswantanu as the chief prosecutor. He's handled about 200 narcotics cases and claims that in 90% of those cases he's obtained the sentence he was after. And the judge is the one who sentenced the Bali bomber to death. I mean, I'm just saying Mum... Alright, Mercedes. We need to give the judges a door to walk through. Alright, what about the fingerprints? Why don't fingerprint inside the bag that the drugs were in? We will keep trying but the police will say it isn't crucial and the prosecutors will say have evidence without fingerprints. She said the boogie board bag was hers and the drugs were inside the bag. The other way is if she pleads guilty and gives them names. How can she? Hmm? What names? Hmm? What names could she possibly give? She can't just make up names. Schapelle, come here. You want to know what everyone is thinking? What? That you're really covering up for your dad, your old man. What? All fellas are bastards. Schapelle's trial starts in under two weeks and we have a board full of calls. Yes, Roger. The brother-in-law owns a surf shop. Why bring your own boogie board when her brother could have loaned her one? Your thoughts, Samantha? I mean, who ever heard of taking dope to Bali? They've got all they need up there. See, that's a good point. Why would anyone take drugs to Bali? I think I'm going to have a nice steak and a glass of that Heathcote shiraz. Poor girl if she's innocent. What if that was my sister? The death penalty hanging over her head? Yeah. My PA reckons I should do something, help her. Like what? Raise money for her. They're collecting money for her all over the place. I'll do another workathon. Don't you ever just want to be normal? What, like you? Yeah, like me. I'm very normal. I'm very, very normal. Mate, I'm more normal than you. Mum. Come on. It's too much. It's filthy. They can't make her sit in this filth for hours on end. It's a disgrace. A total bloody disgrace. Are you nervous about your first day in court? What will you say to the judge, Schapelle? She acted suspiciously when she walked over to pick up her bags. She refused to open it when she got to customs. She said the marijuana was hers. Does the prisoner understand? I understand but it isn't true. When I asked the boy to check the bag she said, "No, it's mine", and I thought maybe I made a mistake. She is just a nice young woman. There's nothing. Can you open the big one, please? Can you finish it, please? Please, open it. No. Why not? Because I have some... Do you know what it is in the bag? It's marijuana. How do you know that? Because I can smell when you open it. Do you agree? No, he's lying, your Honour. Which parts are untrue? I surrendered my bag without being asked. Can you tell me your name, please? Schapelle Corby. I was not suspicious looking or acting restless. I was happy because I was on holiday and I love Bali. Then I was surprised, first because the zippers were closed in the middle which close them together at the top. Then I see a plastic bag and half open and I'm like, whoa, a strong smell came out. He didn't ask me to open the bag. I don't remember saying anything or hitting anyone's hand. I don't know anything about drugs. Can I please ask aren't there security cameras in customs so I can prove that I willingly opened the bag? Why did you come to Bali? Because my dad's really sick and he's about to go into intense treatment and so I saved up $1300, my mum gave me $500 and my dad gave me $600 because I needed a holiday before my dad got really sick. Schapelle. Byron Bay. ACT. Rockhampton. Brissy. Mooney Beach. Corby. Visitor. Who? Do I know them or... Dad. You're here. I almost didn't come out cos I get these visitors and I don't know who they are and... I'm so sorry. What are you sorry for? You got nothing to be sorry for. You look so sad. I'd change places with you if they'd... I asked but... I don't know what to do. Come on. Come on. Come on. No drugs in Bali. No drugs in Bali. No drugs in Bali. No drugs in Bali. Schapelle... Schapelle, how are they treating you? Schapelle... Schapelle, what will you say to the judge today? No drugs in Bali. No drugs in Bali. No drugs in Bali. No drugs in Bali. How long has Schapelle been involved in drugs? How much did you get paid to write these terrible signs? No-one seems to be trying to find out who put the bloody stuff in her bag. No drugs in Bali. No drugs in Bali. Get away. You seem pretty upset about the whole... No drugs in Bali. No drugs in Bali. Are you alright? They want me dead, mum. I gave the flippers to Schapelle. She took them from me and opened the boogie board bag. She put them into the boogie board bag, so you could clearly see inside the bag. Did you see the transparent bag? No, I did not. Thanks, guys. I got a PI to look into her but he couldn't find anything. A few rumours but you know me, I don't put stock in rumours. Look, instead of doing the children's hospital or whatever this year I thought maybe you could join her legal team. Run it, maybe. What are you willing to throw at it? Could raise 40, maybe 50 grand. Her supporters are out there selling stubbie holders for her. If her main defence is two friends and a relative, then she's currently fucked. I'm in. Only if she's innocent. Serious. Only if I know for sure she didn't do it. Well how are you ever going to know that? Sorry. My problem is huge, right? It's the customs officers against everyone and they are accusing me of something so small - me opening the bag without being asked and it's the death penalty? And then how can I even stay in here? I can't. I'd rather die. Look, I have to ask the same thing that... Were they your drugs? No. Do you know who put the drugs in your bag? No. Is there anybody in your family doing drugs, in the drug business? No. Would you just excuse us for a minute, Schapelle? I'm worried about the when, that's all. When do you feel for her? I feel for my kids, I feel for my wife. Come on, man, just tell me what you think, your instincts. It's innocent. Yeah. Innocent. You're sure? Yeah. Right, Schapelle. We're doing this. He's one of the best on the Gold Coast and he's worked in Asia. We will do everything that we possibly can, everything to get you out of here, as long as we've got your permission to put our own Jakarta team in if we need to. What? I tried to get a phone from Mad Ron's near Tugun just before I left but they knocked me back because my credit was so bad. Happens to the best of people. I've crashed and burned a few times myself. When we get you out of here, love, you can have all the phones that you want, I promise. Thank you. Thank you. Leaving aside your legal expertise and Robin's as the top criminal lawyer on the Gold Coast, in my opinion there is no way to get Schapelle out of there unless we convince the public. Thank you. Right now about 50% think she's guilty, so we shift that and then we get the public to work on the government. All of Hoolihan's is at your disposal, what's that, like seven, eight lawyers? Yeah, to take care of the Australian side. Now, there are probably over 100 Australian drug dealers currently serving in prisons around the world. We don't like drug dealers, we don't even know their names. We just assume that they are guilty and we let them rot. So on top of creating a defence, we have to make everyone believe that Schapelle is unique, that she is innocent. We make her someone Australia loves so no way would anyone ever put her The first thing is we start controlling the flow of information. We build up a trusted group of journos. You've got 60 Minutes, that's good. I'm thinking Alan Jones. He's a direct line to the PM and Derryn Hinch in Melbourne. We use them to drip feed the information we want the papers to pick up on because we're all about whatever it takes to get her out of there - whatever it takes. Why would anyone be crazy enough to decide to fly 4.5 kilos of cannabis out of two airports? When you walk through any international terminal, even if you are carrying scissor, small scissors, they can see it. How can they not see 4.5 kilos of cannabis? Now, the space bags were made in the USA, yeah? Then sent to a Melbourne warehouse, not available for purchase anywhere in Indonesia. That's one for the other side. Next. Why don't airline passengers know the weight of their individual bags, Derryn? A girl could lose her life because of this. DNA. Shit, is that the dope? Sampled by one of our people. Schapelle signed a consent giving permission for DNA to be tested. Let's do it. The AFP can't facilitate it and the Indonesian police just aren't willing to help us. Course not. Up to 50% of Australians think she's innocent. It would be 100% if they knew the facts. Alan, your listeners should ask themselves why would anyone bring marijuana to Indonesia? This is a perfect country for growing dope in. Why would anybody import it? Well the cops in Queensland did say from the photographs it looks like hydroponic from SA. Value about 20 to 30 grand in Australia, up to 80 grand here. South Iceland would be more helpful. SA is still too close to Queensland. There's no CCTV footage because of so-called technical problems, isn't that a bit of a coincidence, Phillip? I don't call him Mad Ron. I call him our white knight. I thought I was going to have to sell our house to pay for Schapelle's legal fees. The court heard from an expert witness today, an Australian criminologist, whose expert opinion is that Schapelle Corby has none - none - of the characteristics of a drug smuggler. So then the only thing that we've got going for us is that the bags were unlocked? Yep. And that's not enough. I'm not supposed to be in court today. I'm supposed to be seeing a doctor. I'm supposed to be seeing a doctor. Why are you seeing a doctor? Schapelle, Schapelle, how are you feeling? Schapelle... Is it true... Schapelle. Schapelle. Schapelle Corby's family have denied rumours that she's pregnant but confirmed she is suffering from anxiety and depression. No shit. She's going mental. She's an innocent young girl facing the death sentence. Without the support of the Australian public I'm worried she'll go insane. The crucial thing here is not... We can't just sit here, mate. I'm not doing another drop to Queensland until we sort this out. It's best to protect the rights of an Australian citizen and make sure all the correct facts are presented to a court. Maybe, Schapelle, you could write me a little note for my granddaughter. She's in grade 6. Yeah. Oh, that's lovely. Ta, love. Take a photo of youse. Dave. Smile. So let me get this straight. You are the provine us the Corby suitcase or the board bag? Not won't. We are unable to. Unable to because you're under pressure not to? I don't know, from the AFP, Foreign Affairs? Qantas doesn't require the X-raying of luggage destined for the hold on domestic flights. But if it's international you X-ray? Oh, for the US and UK yes, 100% are X-rayed. For Indonesia? I believe it's about one bag in 100. I'm sorry. I'm late. What I'm saying is that Qantas didn't X-ray the bags, so anything could have happened to them after she checked in. Very alarming news there, Robin Tampoe, and yet another reason to bring this poor girl home to her family and friends. If you arrive somewhere and you find drugs in your bag, then how can you prove they aren't yours? The Australian Government needs to help Schapelle. Look, it's very important to have a sense of realistic expectations of what the government can do. Good. Good, good, good. And there's more. We set up this hotline out of Bulan. Asking anyone who knows anything about Schapelle that can help her case to call in. Every lawyer on the phone. We've had hundreds of calls. They got a call from a guy willing to take Schapelle's place in jail. He said he'll do whatever sentence she gets. Even death. Oh, my God. And then it happens. We received this letter from a guy who claims he knows who put the drugs in her bag. No. Oh. A prisoner out of Victoria who claims he overheard the conversation in prison. A prisoner? Well, prisoners are people. Can we get the prisoner from Australia to here to testify? We thought this was going to be a big no, so I had all my staff working on this for the last five days and they found out that Indonesia and Australia apparently have this treaty assisting each other in criminal matters. So we're pushing as hard as we can to have this prisoner, John Ford, brought here. It's an obscure agreement, never been used. Big tit legal team. They're asking us to shift someone who's currently imprisoned in Victoria to act as a witness in Indonesia? Anything that can be done should be done, unquote. This is Victorian Department of Corrections. Victorian Police. Immigration. Indonesian police. Indonesian immigration. Will he have immunity in Indonesia? Mick, she's on the cover of every magazine in the country apart from Horse & Hound. It's pandering to public opinion. We feel nothing but compassion for the poor girl and will do all we can to bring her home. You do policing, I'll do politics. I wrote you something. It's a poem. You don't have to do that. This is really nice. You have a good heart, Ron. Enough. Court tomorrow. What's my headline this week? Wasn't it, "Help me Australia"? Help me Australia. Perfect. So thank you to everyone for all of your support. Thanks to the legal team. We'll get her home. Wouldn't it be just lovely to see Pel walk in here, right now, like it's all been a bad dream? Schapelle had a good day in court and we really got something to celebrate today. The Australian Government will be sending up the prisoner from Victoria who will testify for Schapelle. John Ford is the witness we've been waiting for. Yay! Cheers. Schapelle Corby is the innocent victim of domestic drug trafficking in Australia by what I regard as petty criminals and cowards. It's called a mule, where the criminal puts the drugs in someone's bag. But what you say you heard, this were before Corby travelled to Bali? The ones about the drug trafficking operation between Brisbane and Sydney, yes, but then after Corby's arrest I had a conversation with the two other prisoners who were laughing that Corby had been sprung and that the drugs Ronnie was expecting had got lost. What are the names of these two prisoners? Terry and Paul. Can you give me their last names? No, I cannot. Why not? I don't know their last names. How do you know that Corby is not part of a syndicate? That'd be silly, your Honour. No-one smuggles drugs into Bali. It's just not cost effective. And then there's the death penalty. You've named three men. But who is the one who put the marijuana in Corby's bag? I can't recall his name. Did you do this to have a free holiday to Bali? The judges were smirking. I know. Look, even the journos were smirking but look he said some good things. It was a disaster. We're getting trashed and we just need... We need to put more pressure on the fucking government and a $1 million reward to the person who proves her innocent. We have no time. Businesses, individuals, they could chip in $1000 each. It's a minute to midnight. Meds. Every time I hit that media scrum I think someone's going to kill me. Health problems? Um, vomiting and still got diarrhea if you really want to know. Look. Schapelle, we need an adjournment. Your verdict is coming up but we're clutching at straws. Now, listen, I'm going to tell you how to stall. Schapelle... Schapelle, how are you feeling? Schapelle... Schapelle... How are you feeling? Schapelle, are you alright? How's your sister doing? Is she holding up alright in the cells? Schapelle, how do you feel? Schapelle, look this way... What medication are you on? Oh, my God, get some air in her bloody face. Get back, ya, prick. Give her some air. Go on. You've heard your friends say we won't comply, so piss off. Dad! Do something. They just caught nine kids at the airport here. What? Had heroin strapped to their bodies. What's that mean for Schapelle? Nothing. She's innocent. And what about your bloody lawyers? They talking to the judges or whatever? Just sit down. These kids, they'll get the death sentence for sure. Judges will think, oh, yeah, may as well give it to Schapelle to. For God sake, Mick, sit down and shut up. Sort yourself out. I'll die before she's out of here. I'll never see her. Never! Oh, shit. Shit. Shit. Shit. Shit. Oh. Where's that card? Tell us why you should not receive the death penalty? Do you have any proof that you did not put the plastic bag in your boogie board bag? All I know is I've never had anything to do with drugs. I don't like drugs. I wouldn't even know where to get drugs from. Then how and why is that plastic bag in your bag? There's nothing I can say to prove to you that I didn't do it, but I didn't. It's not mine. I wouldn't threaten my life. I love my family. I love everybody. Please, it's been six months. Please use all the evidence and let me go home. Please. Yo. OK, look. Ask Alan to call me back when he's finished his shift, OK? No, that's cool, man. It's nice to talk to someone who's got nothing to do with the case, you know? No kidding. What, now? Triple J? Yeah. Yeah, I've got a radio, yeah. OK, thanks. Hey, listen to this. We are getting a heap of calls in response to this email to our website about the Schapelle Corby case. Right now we're looking at the theory that the baggage handlers put the dope in Schapelle's bag. I worked with one, a baggage handler. They put it in the back of passenger bags and shipped the marijuana between states. Why would they do that? Because it doesn't go through any of the customs areas. It's coordinated for a shiftworker who's working when the plane lands. That's it! Thank you, God. Why didn't I think of that? Baggage handlers. Baggage fucking handlers. I plead with the Australian public and airport staff who know of the interference of baggage handlers at domestic airports to come forward now. Qantas are putting internal whistleblowing programs in place to find the person who turned this innocent girl into an unwitting mule. Minister, she could get the death penalty because of you. What if she was your daughter? After a week of Qantas questioning all their baggage handlers and with the whistleblower program in place they've not had one report. That's not how the public's buying this. They know this is right. And why would criminals go to that much trouble? Why not just use a Greyhound bus? Why would a baggage handler open someone's bag, put on a camel's head and then ride around the tarmac? It's just the shit they do. Minister, 75% of the Australian public now believe that Schapelle is innocent. When is the verdict due? Next month. But the prosecution recommends their sentence tomorrow. It could be death. The government has to bring her home now. Do you have any idea of the mountains this government had to move to get that prisoner up there to testify? The fucking legal hurdles that had to be jumped? It was Herculean. If this government doesn't co-operate I will spend a lot of money making sure that you lose the next election. In answer to your earlier question, she's not. She's not my daughter. Schapelle was in court today, huh? I hear no death penalty for Schapelle. Prosecution recommend no death for Schapelle. Can you go back to your cell, please? Just life sentence. 27 years and then you couldn't get old. Well, I'm not guilty so I won't be getting a life sentence. Can you back to your cell, please? If you know whose drugs they are, now is the time you must tell. Well, it's the case that's captured Australia's interest like no other since the Lindy Chamberlain trial. At only 27, Schapelle Corby will learn Friday next week the decision that will determine the course of her life. Tonight we're trying to determine how months of legal argument has swayed Australian opinion and now to how your opinions at home have been expressed throughout tonight's program. The results of our phone poll so far, as you can see, 92% have voted her not guilty. 8% have voted her guilty. Final results of the viewers' poll will be shown on the Today Show tomorrow morning. Well, in the end what will happen in the Schapelle Corby trial will rest with the three judges in Bali. Just make sure the judges do the right thing. I still can't get over it, going live right around the country back home on the tele. Yeah. Do you know what she said about it all going live? She said, "What if they want to watch The Bold and the Beautiful, Mum? They'll be that cross." I mean, it could be that you're found guilty and you have to serve some time. Maybe seven months. I don't want to get your hopes up. The other day you said maybe four or five years. It's just... I just don't want you to come crashing down if it's not what you want. If I get jail time I don't want you or Mum or Dad to come and visit. Why? Because I'll be so upset and the media scrum will be crazy and... 60 Minutes has got us this villa that we all go to, however it goes. Dad too? Sure. That's good. You guys go there. Maybe I'll join you. Yeah. What if she gets 20 years? Tomorrow we know. You've done your best. I've done mine. We've created reasonable doubt. How many of these phones do you need, huh? Turn them off. Every jury trial, and I've been there a zillion times, you worry, you lose fucking sleep. Sometimes you just got to not care. Rose thinks she's bringing Schapelle home. I'm going home. ...those sort of people are really looking for a decision today that hopefully will get her out. Of course that's up to the Indonesian judges. Whenever I've come to the Gold Coast in the last few months there have been lots of rumours circulating. Schapelle! Do you think Schapelle's coming home? It's a good day today because my little girl's coming home. Mercedes, are you expecting her to come home? Schapelle Corby left Kerobokan prison about 30 minutes ago accompanied by a police escort. She is due to arrive at Denpasar court in under ten minutes. Schapelle... Schapelle, how are you going? Schapelle, Schapelle... Schapelle... No drugs in Bali. No drugs in Bali. Love you. He says the suspect answered, "That's marijuana". How do you know? She answered, "I know because I can smell it." The female walk with the male answered, "The bag is mine." Oh, fuck. Then the suspect admits the good is hers. When the team was asked, "Where did the marijuana come from", she did not want to admit where the marijuana did come from. The drug problem in Bali is a serious offence. Please stand. Schapelle Corby. We have decided that the defendant, Schapelle Corby, has proven to be guilty. 20 years? 20 years! How dare you? You took the word of a liar! You judges will never sleep. Liar! Liar! Schapelle, you will come home. I'll bring you home. It's OK, mum. It's OK. Get out of her way. Get away! It's OK. It's OK. Love you. It's OK. Yep, understood. I understand. Yeah, completely. OK. Thank you. Well, the good news is the prosecutors are disappointed. So they should be. You know what an achievement it was getting the death sentence taken off the table for starters? We could get 15 years on appeal then ten. You know what's going to happen, Lily? I gave her the defence, so I'm going to get the blame because they're going to want to go at someone. We will appeal, Robin. Not me. I'm resigning. That's it. Might even take out a full-page ad in the newspaper, apologising to the baggage handlers. Sorry, guys, made it all up. Felt like a good idea at the time. Hey, are you Mad Ron from Queensland? Yep. Can I ask you a question? Why would anyone bring grass here to Bali? Cause it's too humid in Bali to grow high-quality dope. For very high quality it has to be grown some place dry. Police! Police! Open the door! Police! Holy shit. Malcolm McCauley? My God. The things you find. Look at this. Tell me about your involvement with Schapelle Corby? I don't know Schapelle Corby. But these were clearly taken before she was arrested in Bali. Can I borrow your specs? Ta. Why are you having a picnic with Schapelle Corby or whatever it is? You knew her before she went to jail. This is taken in the prison, Kerobokan or whatever it was called. There's a bit of garden there but it ain't no picnic. I was up there on holiday and I just visited the girl to wish her luck. And also to get her autograph for my granddaughter. Lots of other tourists were doing the same. All your dad's friends are close, Schapelle, real close. You'll be out of here real soon. My word. I just want to let you know that nothing's ever going to come from my end, ever. Promise. You keep strong, we keep strong. Do the right thing. Look out for each other. Right? Before this visit I didn't know her from a bar of soap. We know that you were delivering to Queensland all last year. Schapelle Corby was arrested in October last year. Complete coincidence. Seems strange but there you are. Do you know anything about the exportation of drugs to Bali? There's nothing. No, I don't. Wouldn't have a clue. Yep. I'm under the hammer and you're late. It's close. Half an hour. It's on its way. I had a visitor in here yesterday, some guy who had spent 11 years in here once. I frisked him actually, in case he had a camera or something. Kept going on about how he knew how to get me out. And how was that? He kept telling me to plead guilty. Whether I am or not he kept saying, plead guilty. What did you say? The drugs weren't mine. It wasn't mine.
