 

                        1 Anju, Anju get up What? Wake up Hands of my leg What's the time? -6:15 Come on Why worn uniform so early? Should go to school, no? Why? So happy on that Get up Bed-sheet was brought last month Won't come out from cupboard by itself and walk out l don't know madam l have not seen That will be inside the cupboard itself Each day missing each item And no one is seeing anything Shamala, clean this Today no need to go for games l have written it in dairy Aju, did you finish the breakfast? Finishing it Shamala aunty's house is beyond that hill, is it what you told? Yeah Then why came here after leaving from there? Enough, come Yes sir, its all a team work ln the first quarter, the sales will be higher than this Aju! ..not this one Don't you know what to say? That charcoal pencil's, which was given to me..Yesterday But it was my gift to you What is it? -lts the money forthe gift which we gave yesterday One minute Did you like the pencils? -Yeah on September4th its my birthday Mother told will open on that day By the time the exam will be over lts the balance, give it to father lts coming lts brand new, blood will eject on touching it lts the same brand used by the serial killers Where is this from? One of my uncle is a commando ln the American army Commando Simons he has gifted it But the same brand is present in our kitchen also Go man its a weapon which can't be used without a license What man? Go man A spy Who, he? Whose spy? Speak low, fellow Here Got it? What happened to face? Yesterday on jumping for a catch Father slapped for putting leg on the wall At the moment when the bell rings for the lunch break.. Since they have told, Paulose had brought this.. ln my class no one will do such a thing To practice a drama only we brought this A drama? What do you mean? To whom did you ask permission? On the arts days, it was to dedicate to all teachers On that day by asking permission to all, plan was to perform Which is the drama? Avengers For that why is this helmet and all? He is the one who is acting as hulk On seeing him since no one gets scared Thought of putting a helmet Does your parents know about this? No, if they come to know thought sometimes they might tell all Was kept as a secret Then the surprise will be lost, no? See creativity and all is very good But if principal finds it you did this without supervision We only thought of giving a gift to you all Lucky having kept that knife separately lf whisked, they would have chopped us into pieces with that My fear was, whetherthey would say to act the drama- - which was practiced But still Kevin, from where did you get an idea so fast? Did Lakshmi mam buckle you up? From your class Adhil had told Didn't buckle up had called to discuss a matter Will she tell on going home? No, she won't tell Anyway can return all this back, it was taken out laboriously Why? As it didn't workout today, there is a tomorrow No need of it again, its dangerous What if they had any doubts? Yeah, that's correct l'll give the knife -Eh? Can't take from kitchen, no? My goodness again if that thing is found missing- - perhaps mother will chuck out Shamala aunty Will give the knife made of shoe used to cut Cinnamon Works out well with a single chip When? Tomorrow itself l should give them surprise Will give man, but should be careful when doing it alone lts not a silly matter Brother, tell the rest How many times its repeated last time also has told the same thing But still say it By around 6 o'clock we will stop the trade By the time lady fingers and beans will slowly start to droop Soon after that straight to jungle, by swinging on the creeperjumps to lake Then for one to one and a half hours will be in the water Till that time what will you do in the water?. There are lot of games to be played in the water Deep dive into water is the main item On the rainy days then it will be in the rain That is the bath of the day -Look Shamala aunty, he walks in the rain Aren't you scolding? Yeah, this is perfect fit Perfect fit? Do tell me how to leave the breath, okay Then? On certain days we'll be sleeping on 'Erumadam' (tree house) itself What is a 'Erumadam' A tree house By early dawn we are woken up by horn bill, Cuckoo bird and Drongo bird On some days can see elephant, leopard and tiger To wish good morning Here, this belongs to sir No need of pants when this is worn Here lsn't this one new? -lts lose for me for brother it must be correct But still lts okay When l reach this size all will forget about me Then doesn't elephant, tiger and leopard attack us? Not on a visit but what is the need of staying here? Last time also it was the same, tell not to make it a regular practice Joe, they have not asked Forthat boy to buy and give some sort of vegetables On saying will be here in Cochin for two or three days l was the one who told to stay l only said l don't like that ls it a dislike on that? Or is it because l have taken the decision? That is the problem always Don't make this into a quarrel on male- female equality Later don't regret on it Anyway let the kids sleep in your room Then, tomorrow Vakachan Appapan and Mary Kochamma is coming- - to discuss the matters ln the mist of that, he shouldn't roam in here On saying coming, what does it mean? On coming will they return tomorrow itself?. No, will be there for two days Why? Nothing When father expires that person is of that stature Such contempt is not required Tomorrow itself that boy can be send back the issue is solved is it? Anju, where is the home work? Shucks! Tell to that Reghu, don't call over the phone, lightening is there Yeah, send that boy down stairs What a hex is this? Who has turned on the T.V? Turn off the phone lts a day when stock comes Sometimes might call from the shop Sit there! Shamala! Take the daughter's slipper Papa, ate orange? Where did you go? To tell regarding the matter of generator to Reghu chettan When there is lightening is it? Come here! Joe! This boy is..! l haven't called him and all When telling he wants to come along Never mind Was the helmet for this? To avoid the sting from bees Shall l also help? Honestly l came to join in your gang l moved out from Samir's gang l won't cheat, promise Navaneeth! 48 hours observation James had called spoke to the doctor This is not for the first time, students from 7B trying to spoil my students Why did you go there? To take the honey For what? To drink Why is that honey so special? Because its too tasty Did two of you only go there? Kevin, Amal But again l don't know how to handle this boy On that day on seeing that as students made a fuss l was warned on account of that Then last week quarreled with a student named Adhil in the class Then why wasn't l informed of all this? l tried talking and then had send writing in the dairy Each time comes up with certain promises Shift him from my class, please Not father or mother Both of them After the class call and inform them l'll tell parents of Navaneeth also to come here After sometime will be kept on ventilation When the ventilation is removed.. lf it happens like that then the police will come, no? Surely will come before that his father and gang will come, to catch him They are criminals by family My brother has told now it seems slightly better Long back when a guy attacked their uncle- - they chopped off his fingers one by one That too, when all were watching Tomorrow when your parents come, also inform them to be careful Then if possible bring along two orthree people- - who are strongest in your family Really its better to be caught by police Okay then Bye Otherwise will do a thing,Aminda act as if having fever Sometimes won't scold on having fever, out of sympathy Can understand on touching on the fore head Aminda, got Rs. 5 -For what? Give Here Give five numbers of this Now will get, including for this one also Aren't you warned not to go there? Put it in the pocket, while thinking can eat this While scolding you won't feel that hurt Tomorrow while going to school Father and mother will be insulted by others Perhaps father of Navaneethan might attack also Everyone will say its all because of me As it was about to die, only to save l had put that frog in the bag And why l had to fight with Adhil.. He called me son of a.. Because of calling like that But since he is the class topper all will believe what he says Will believe what is told about you At that time itself Vakachan Appapan l knew it will be resolved only at the court Fellow, its easy to say court opponent is own brother Remember that, first we'll go and talk to him lf the things are resolved diplomatically let it end There is nothing to talk more than this, l have told my stand Before mam speaks to mother, you bettertalk to mother Later when mam calls father and mother can be prepared But still its a matter of three cents Now all of a sudden on saying should- demolish the wall recently constructed by him House-warming was recently done Man, what will the compatriots say? That too immediately after he has taken charge as the collector Yeah, if it were after six months Till that time what should l do Mary Kochamma? Right now a buyer has come for me, l need to sell it now How much is the loan on this flat? Nothing is required just give rupees fifteen of three cents, l'm okay This is the problem on verbal agreement Things written down should be documented That's the mistake which father has done That's true lf he had donated that to some orphanage, then brothers won't quarrel With a clerks job, through the hard way gave education to you people Now having big talks, including we brothers He was the one who supported us do you know that? Saying father hasn't documented, when did you all grow up? Appapan, l didn't mean in that sense The reason why l'm by your side is because yourfather loved you more- - than your elder brother ls my phone over here? Always playing the game That's why phone's charge doesn't last Hello Reduce the sound Yeah, Aasha l won't come today, close at 7:30 Daughter,Anju! Joe! Daughter My heavens, daughter! What happened? Daughter, Anju Bring some water Shamala, bring it fast Madam yeah coming What is this man? My goodness, Anju daughter Give it to me! Shucks! Mother, a red light came and touched here Heard a music also, after that l fainted Holy Mother! Fellow, don't we have to consult someone? Had consulted, doing to get the attention Hey fellow..! Take some rest for some time, okay Come Come Shamala, just clean this Daughter, this shouldn't be.. No, never mind Did you do it? Then what about the dairy? Tore off that page Tomorrow, Aminda aren't you coming to school? Not Aminda, alone you too Eh? Yeah lt will be understood by all that l escaped when you go alone That's not possible, l need to go or else at last l'll be told to call parents l've send message to your mam She replied also saying take care For three days when we are not seen- -sometimes all might forget that issue lf so, l'll be safe -Whatever Aminda says tomorrow l'll go to school Sure? Yeah Then if you want to see me, come to jail and see And before that if Navaneethan's father and gang kills me.. But, when the bus comes tomorrow, what to say? Our grandfatherfrom Manimala expired mothertold after we got ready Right now, we are going there lt was that uncle who was seriously bed-ridden, no? Yesterday, which you told? Mmm..Condolences..! For the next 3 days we'll be there Didn't you inform madam? Yeah No need aunty, thank you Till 3 o'clock we'll spend time in the town Then when the bus comes, we'll get down at home, then no one will know lf anyone asks during en route, say as Vakkachan Appapan expired We left early from the school Brother, move to the front Tickets please To where? Vakkachan Appapan, expired.. To where? Thevara, two Thevara Don't you have the card? Move back Come on tickets.. Two Palimukku Has got the rain coat, no? My son is still in the hospital lf this incident, effects his health in any way Then l won't consider its a school or a boy who is 12 year old All will go through the mill! We understand mister.. l should know at the moment when he comes to the school! Don't you know its a staff room? By the way if you feel like protecting him l know where to go and nab him, for which l'll go to any extend! Hello, did you hear?. -Yeah Getting scared on seeing him lf he gets you, you won't be spared, he is a guy like that Not at all like Navaneethan Anyway man, for few days don't come here Out of 18 people, with 12 of them father is on a hitch And those people without a hitch they talk to father- - favorable to us, no chance Why can't we say everything to mother? Mother, is too unpredictable Sometimes too much of love sometimes equally problematic That's during when there is some tension in the shop But still..Can't predict Why is father quarreling with everyone? He is only close to people like Vakkachan Appapan That's because father created an issue during father's- -elder brother's housewarming What problem? No, nothing Come on tell No Kids shouldn't know such things Amindo! -No Then tomorrow onwards l won't come along with Amindo That night during the housewarming when all left all elders had drinks, no? At that time father quarreled with uncle Raja, look at this Why are those kids here at this time? -l have also noticed Overthere.. Overthere? Look, saw that? Both not going to school Don't look back fast, behind the security is looking at us l said don't look! Come! Don't run Stop there Stop don't run, stop there Hey fellow Stop there Look, father's car What to say when caught? As Vakkachan Appapan expired.. ls it Gulab Jamun? Don't know When he started the compound wall construction- -could have secured an injection order No problem on checking the site plan- - will know the division which Joe's father had in mind This will clearly come in favor of us But still since its the collector on the other side? Does court have any bias to that side? What can we do when collector does injustice? On the civil case there is no consideration like that Court will find it as a land issue between the brothers Did you go through that Marine Drive, today? ln front of that Subash Park between 12 and 12:30 time? No, is it? Was good.. Father is talking like that of uncle, not because he doesn't like uncle l know you also like uncle But there are certain things which grandpa has given to us in our name Those things you both should get after several years What if uncle takes it not even by asking us? We should ask that to return, shouldn't we? Now if he takes your toy, won't you ask him to return? Only that is done by father and me Not that we are hurting uncle Understood? Did uncle take the toy? Whose? Reached? Now ask the name and details For how much rupees did you offer?. 200? For PS 2 That's all right, tomorrow itself l need the money This person has send okay, he is from Ernakulam itself Why is this eaten half?. At that time brothers had come Brothers? Which brothers? What man? One minute Where is this gooseberry from? One minute okay, let me think Asking where to meet? Tell can meet near your flat While coming from school What happened boy? Do you have any problems? l'll tell Jikku chetta(brother) Amindo! Down stairs.. Navaneethan's father..! There is no one there Amindo, come and sleep What is it? Come Come No, he is a child snatcher How do you know that? Knows on looking at him We have only got rupees 12 with us, to return home we need Rs.18 Just move back Peanut please Push off man You want it in between, no? What's wrong with you? Are you mad? You want to know that? Who is this guy? Will stay here without moving He might leave after some time That one There was a phone call to school saying one of our uncle has expired Because of that we had to leave before the class finishes Mam, had given the money for auto to her but on reaching here lt was lost somewhere but when we return and ask mam Will be late and mam will scold also Where is your house? At Kakkanad lf you can give aunty's number l'll tell fatherto call you tomorrow No need of all that How much is the auto charge? Mam, gave Rs. 200 Where is the auto stand? Over there Have you gone in an auto, before like this? Yeah Shall l tell fatherto call? lts okay, you may go On saying eighteen rupees is enough? Should come tomorrow and day after tomorrow, is it? Or give the mobile number of your mother Shall l say you have started? What is mother's name? Aparna But that is.. Hi, l'm Radhika, actually why l have called is.. Your kids are near me.. Hey stop there.. Stop there.. Stop l say.. Where are these kids looking? What are they up to? Two tickets Thank you Come Both of you come Stop! Aju! Stop there Aju! Aju! Aju, open the door! Daughter! Aju! What to do? Aju Aju, are you opening the door or not? Aju, you open the door Aju, please Open the door Aju, son open it Anju, Anju! Just move back, l'll open it Give the bag Hold it Climb Amindo, l'm scared Amindo! l'm going Anju Or else they all will kill me My God! Aju, telling you to open As Vakkachan Appapan expired, came early from school What?.. Who?.. When? Where is Ajoy? Ajoy is..-My heavens! My God! 12 year old boy is found missing near the Saritha theater Has gone to the Market road area The dress is Trinity lnternational school's uniform Blue and white check shirt and grey color pants Boy's name is Ajoy Joseph Traffic party Palarivattom control calling Answering control Has ran away our Joseph's son That is great Babitha, Aju has eloped Christ, by chance will he come here? Last time when met during Thresiamma's death anniversary That boy didn't even smile at me at that time, l have noticed him These days its very bad, lucky if received alive Even otherwise its good Joseph got busted On the issue of three cents he quarreled with his brother That too on the day of his housewarming By the way buddy, don't we have to pay a visit to there? She is busy with textile shop, no? So the kids will go astray All though we don't have any job, kids are all at home, okay Seen this boy anywhere in this photo? He is missing No sir Okay go What's the name? -Jayesh Please come During that time was Jayesh there? l was, sir He jumped from there and straight away ran to the top l was coming in return Saw a boy running Didn't know this was the case So, would have to record the statements of people who saw All should come to the station now itself Sir, don't say that its the time when movie gets over With this trip only can earn something How is it possible? You are the witnesses, should give the statement Sir, would have to train from the beginning Brother, Kaloor lf so, we haven't seen anything That's our statement Then there is no problem, no? Jayesh, isn't this a matter of a small child? Sir, we are also running on the matter of small children at home At any cost you should come to the station now You send someone here, at that time we'll write and give Get down Take another vehicle and go From this stand, there are no more trips Fellow, park to the side Sir, what is this? You fellow, where is the boy? Boy? Sir, l don't know anything Then why fellow, to give the statement why so much hitch? Shucks! People who saw last are answerable Within ten minutes lf all doesn't report to the station Will come with a court order and all will be nabbed including the vehicle No union can bail you out Understand fellows?- Okay sir Come sir Since this is the first posting of sir otherwise this is not my tongue Now we can.. Straight away will go to that boy's flat Okay No, the time to return from school is over To meet Kichu, to there No, there is no need to come l've just asked Perhaps will be there in some friends house Yeah Anju is here Yeah l'll call Achaya Haven't we told won't be there Within half an hour Roy will call back MLA is my junior Let me see whether l can get our councilor Fellow, its not MLA or councilor what we need now A person who will stand with us, you call your elder brother Look, this isn't the time to show obstinacy and hatred When collector gives a direct order- -entire police in the city will start operation On getting delayed its more dangerous Okay then leave it l'll call myself No need.. What is wrong.. No need father, no need to come now lf there is any emergency l'll say Tell to brother also No need l'm all right Right now, there is Soffi aunty and all lts okay, l'll call Actually since two days they haven't gone to school, Aparna didn't you know? Doesn't she have to take care of things at shop? School is answerable after collecting high fees Not only that daughter, you shouldn't have missed Sunday masses There are certain things in it Take the tea, for sir its without Sister any information? Why girl, couldn't you also go? Parents are tensed here By the way Anne chechi marriage at Kuruvillankunnu is tomorrow, no? How is it in such a situation here? Thatjourney can't be avoided, we are coming in your car, okay That's okay Yeah, l'll call Hello, hello Hello Aju, where are you? At the bus stand What are you doing there? Here, l'm.. You come here quickly all are upset here for not seeing you ls it so? Yeah, police and all has come Police? For what? To enquire about you Your relatives have also come Heard all are questioned Once if you are found going to produce you before the court For what? That is.. lsn't it to punish taken to court? Why to punish me? l have not done such a big mistake l also don't know clearly for what Heard what everyone was saying over here Did Navaneeth die? Who? Okay anyway l'll go downstairs and tell, you wait there itself No need Then? Hello, hello.. Myself and Deepak uncle are going out Mother is downstairs, close the door and study lf caught, told all will kill me Was that what brother told for the last time? Didn't he tell where he is going? No Daughterthink hard and see No ls this drawn by brother? Yeah Was this drawing done before or after that incident at the school? This was drawn by Amindo earlier During these days, wasn't there any difference in Ajoy's behavior? No As usual returns from school Does the home work lt was like that Parents should come to school Class teacher had told that, it was send by writing it in the dairy Since for three to four days as there were some family tensions l didn't notice that Daughter's.. But we, instead of wasting time like this shouldn't we investigate outside? May be he might have done on an impulse, what's there to get from here? Since how long are you here? For 6 years Came to take care of Anju Which Anju? Daughter, Angelina Where is the house? Perikaloor To the North Then why comes here to stay? Husband hails from there He is dead Son, is there He is on with vegetables.. How is this boy? ls he always disobedient? No sir, he is an innocent boy That's why he eloped, no? Not that sir, he had something in his mind l'm sure, if l could sit and talk to him, l would have understood it But on thinking l couldn't do that.. Shamala, serve tea for all You? Joseph's cousin's wife From Kolamkulam family Any problem with the hand? For me? No lf so, serve the tea for all This will take time As you know him, do you think he'll come back? Now eight hours is over, that boy could have told when that call came After all he is a boy, might have thought on telling- - its like cheating the friend at that time Anyway at least now he has told Yeah mother No, right now l'm outside What is it? When? Call Raju's vehicle and go there l'll reach Okay l'll come They are going in their maximum speed Yeah, doctor will reach there now, l've called and said l'll come forthe time being mother you handle it Have you got enough money? What is it man? Simply disturbs sleep at night Go man Joe! Who is it? What? Sir, he must have left the place on some vehicle Looks like there is no use of checking in Cochin Saw anyone? Why to see? A guess But still to flee in a school uniform lts noticeable, no? On getting inside a crowded bus and on saying parents- - are there at the front side, then no one will notice Angelina had told he didn't have money with him A boy who can make this much issues can't he make rupees ten or fifty? Sir, there are people who had seen at Subash Park Otherthan that no other information Anyway we'll start with one more round of fresh combing Somewhere he should sit, no? My dear sir, saying out of 25 years of experience Won't get him in this district But still.. Has passed the information everywhere Can decide in the morning what to do next Sir, should also leave, no? So, till then..? Not saying won't do the search, our night patrol team is now.. Look, today night if anything happens to him in this district.. ..will you answer it? Only if you are sure, can give such an answer Only then all go to sleep You don't get angry Mohan chetta.. Did you see he running from theater, no is it? Just enquire on what those people said, who had seen that While running he had fallen down His legs are wounded, if he is lying somewhere with a fracture Are you answerable? Sir, can't sleep Brother, right from dawn we are also on duty On lathi charge, picketing and minister On saying its delegated to night patrol, its done so At the moment we can only do that much Sir, you may go No, Mohan chetta.. We'll once again l'm the one who is saying, sir Don't let all to lean on us Come man There is a special order to continue the combing for next 48 hours Whose? Sir how are you related to collector? Brother Both their T.C should be collected tomorrow itself Again no need of this school What they might say is, he has done this because we didn't care much Can easily wash their hands by saying like that Joe, are you sure that is not the reason? Scolds on finding the mistakes That's for him l don't know whether rule of your modern parenting is different -Joe! Please, no quarrels between us The high light is those things which weren't done Has not cuddled, never used to ask the events at school Doesn't play with them Always in an orderly manner lf he had come to me with a grief, no matter no one else supported l would have been there, l don't need to establish all that Joe, but he didn't return To both of us lf he comes he wasn't sure that, we would say it doesn't matter No matter, what all census are taken- -no matter what all things we had given to him As long as he doesn't feel that surety Right now l'm praying for a second chance To reach to his age and talk to him To see his fears and to believe his fantacies At least in front of him not to become a lady who is aged 32 Second chance Our childhood which we had lost somewhere in between The innocence of that to regain it by being with him, a second chance Nothing else is there, there is no other rule in parenting, other than that But a situation has emerged as he would be never seen again For me to understand that For me to desire that The time is 5:28 lmmediately after he called ln this he is not on uniform Which means after the phone call within 15 minutes- - he has changed the dress The fear is begging alms mafia is too strong Someone is there with him When Aju called what did Kevin say? What is done now is wrong and return to school at the earliest ln this school, which is the place which you like the most? When school gets over, the school bus Who among you gave this to Aju? Come on tell uncle is not going to tell anyone What is all this sir? Lucky, this is being held What if kids say most liked place is a seesaw or a swing? What do you think where Aju might have gone? To somewhere he gets peace of mind -Which means? Where there is no exam, no scolding, no punishment Where there is no police to follow To one of such places Which is that place where none of these are present? lf l knew that l would have gone long back, uncle Why l have told him not to come for few days That was out of fear that Navaneethan's father would hurt him But l didn't think that he would flee on hearing that Uncle, he should be brought back Hello When? Okay isn't it? Pull over the vehicle l'll reach immediately Okay Yeah, l'll call and say that That that of half kg No need to pack A male baby Congratulations sir -Thank you God..Okay straight away go to Perumbavoor En route from my home a good lunch with river fish l want the list of those people who had visited that flat since last 3 months Boy, telling you to go inside On wearing washed and ironed dress Come sir, its kept ready ln seventh standard he is the one who invented naughtiness When did he return from Cochin? Who? Shamala's son.. Kannan.. Where is the house? Over there ls she the mother? Yes We four of us had gone to Cochin to sell the vegetables While standing at the bus stand to return Kanan saw Aju He cried saying he wanted to come with us- -he told or else he'll flee to somewhere Then Kanan took him along Get inside the vehicle Show where they are You wait here Sir, when someone told police had come to the house Kanan, along with Chandru and Aju ran away Who is Chandru? My brother Three of them were playing near that bamboo forest When Kanan and Aju ran, he might have ran along with them He is like that Where did they run? -To forest Which forest? 'Aayeram Kolli Kadu'(jungle that killed thousand people) This is the spot where we are standing now Which means the starting point of children To deep inside forest is 92, 500 hectare Approximately 2,30,000 acre They might have gone to any direction On entering inside, going to right or left that concept is not there in jungle Overthere its entirely left and right We had searched in the beginning 5 kilometers of radius By the time it was dark What is our next step? As per the time which is told by those boys -Two and a half hours might be over since they went inside Even if they move in normal speed By this time Chances are they might have reached somewhat deep inside But still our problem is in which direction to go? Sir, how not to go? Not possible at night, anyway There is a rule like that Animals hunts prey after the sunset Morning at what time to start? Sabu, just explain it To recover the body l'll send two people in the morning Only that is possible As per the census 27 leopards More than thousands of elephants Equal number of other wild animals They won't finish this night That's your belief Bu t we should go at the earliest lf its to fold hands and watch then what is the use of us? The breeding season of king Cobra, can't say from where the attack comes During this time even the tribals are scared to enter inside So, its the fear?. Yeah That's because of knowing the jungle The guts which you are showing now, the meaning of it is ignorance That's because its the beginning Sir, what he says is.. Mohan chettan just keep quite So, are we waiting here now to see those kids dead? To tell that to them.. Whose job is it? Lets go in Watcher, knows the jungle like a palm Chinna, when can we start? Sir, the time is not good But what about those kids? Sir, jungle had taken them Anju? -Vakkachan Appapan and Mary Kochamma is there Leave me fellow Go and give to someone else Leave fellow Leave Move back you fellow Can't you understand on saying? What is it? He is bribing me to go inside the jungle On saying no, he wants to beat me Joesph! No lf it were your son won't you go, will you say this excuse at that time? l don't intend to go, you give case lf anything happens to my son? Move back fellow Sabu, remove the tent We are going back Should see what he can do Come Remove everything -Remove it Will teach him ldiot, has come to offer me Sir please sir Two of you go there Man, just shut up Sir Jacob Mathen, Ernakulam collector l know sir Starting early morning, no? Sir, they have some inconvenience Since its a risky time That's why Not bothered about 3 kids who are inside, during risky time? Fellow, before calling anyone else, could have called me, no? ldiot! l'm there, no? l want to know the decision right now lf its no, then l have to do lot of things Every half an hour report the movements to base camp - Sir Sabu and team will move to South -East We'll look on the outer area We'll halt at the watch tower of Jayadevan sir A naturalist who stays inside jungle and does research on animals A bit inside, might be helpful to us when he is with us Okay delay not Approximately we have ten hours with us When a person is found missing inside the jungle after 24 hours Can't get That is the calculation lts called zero hope lnquest form, if the body is received on that spot itself may conduct inquest Sir, be careful Any surety on it was through this way they went? -Slowly This is elephant corridor, don't make noise See this Has covered 18 kilometers inside No trail marks have been spotted No other movements are observed Since the animals are active the speed is 20 kilometers Looks like we are on the right track Has spotted a location mark, must be drawn by children Has drawn it so that the route doesn't go wrong Sir..! -No, on knowing they might say will return We should start now, this is a visual half an hour back They are heading to North-East direction On reaching there its deep forest, before they enter into it.. Should walk and go Jeep won't go But sir, on walking and going Without any protection On walking knowing the pulse of the jungle, then jungle is the protection lsn't it like that Chinna? Chinna, take all that This is theirfootage This is the footage, on the same spot afterten minutes after they left lts a miracle that they had reached so far But the moment they enter the deep jungle, then we can't go inside After that, don't expect any miracles Before that, the nature should give some indications- - and we should be taken near them Look, drink water only in dire needs The next water body is bit far Again? One more kilometer Can't go beyond that.. By then if they aren't found.. Will get l'm sure Hey, together, don't walk in gaps We are moving to more interiors from here on wards won't get long sights And it'll be very silent..Only we are not seeing animals.. What is it? Nothing madam, nothing Nothing Hey don't go to that side! Aju! Water Help! Sir, we have got a child from here ls it Aju? No Chandru How is his condition? No problem sir There is a minor injury on the leg Has given the first aid Seems bit of scared When some animals attacked, looks like has ran Did they say anything about Aju? Three of them ran to three different routes Told Aju has ran to the deep jungle We've got Kanan, inform on receiving any information -Okay sir What's next? We can't go inside further Zero hope, sorry Can't return until dawn Fix the tent Even if escaped from animals By this time he must be lying somewhere fainted, without getting water That too, can't say how deep it is Even if its like that some animal will drag him inside To recover the body? No way As you know its full of tigers and elephants lf its tiger will take it deep inside the jungle and keep on top of some tree Will start to eat only after the body starts to decay lf its elephant, on the ground itself and.. On starting by around 6:30 can return before evening Can't return back on the route which we came He will come And we'll return with him Joe, don't try to convince me He won't come l know He is gone To where he loved He has gone On going back, Anju will ask where is Aminto l should have something to tell her To make her believe l should have something Like what Kanan has told us The routes he traveled The sights he saw Adding all that, l'll tell her a story The story of Aminto Come Come Look Come lt was my biggest wish to come to a place like this On becoming friends with animals, drinking water in the river Eating fruits on the tree l've drawn all this Good, had that problem in the school Mam had told to bring the parents l fled lts like that On having a wish to come to jungle Jungle will take us here l feel like staying here for some more days On reaching here l'm not afraid of anything To police, to school or to Navaneethan's father Close the eyes Now open the mouth Thank you Kanan chetta Don't you want to draw more? Everything is inside, l haven't gone only heard Bit difficult Want to go? Kanan chetta! Then? Then, Amindo had gone like that Deep into the forest While standing in our school library, there 's a jungle at a distance, no? Deep inside it To somewhere Uncle had seen that at that time There is a secret on jungle those gone to jungle had never returned Those who had gone to deep jungle, had not expired either They have guardians over there which we do not know He is here he is safe But how much portions have you missed, for model exam?
