 

                        What you want me to talk about? I mean... ...we trained just like we always trained for any other mission. They're all serious. to join the Seals was for missions like this. The dream of getting this call. As it happened, that night the President was due to give a speech. White House Correspondents' Dinner. Room full of journalists. The fact is only a handful of his aides knew that just before the event, the President had authorized the raid. please have a set. My fellow Americans... ...it is wonderful to be here at the White House Correspondents' Dinner. What a week. of missions like this. Dead of the night type raids. What was different... ...was the target. It's such an honor performing for those of you here tonight, as well as the handful of people watching at home on C-SPAN. People think Bin Laden is hiding in the Hindu Kush, but did you know that every day from four to five he hosts a show on C-SPAN? you don't get to live free without working for it. You gotta earn it every day. And... ...that day we did. It's good to see you. Well... ... "talk" might be the wrong word. Can you imagine being tied down, and your skin peeled off? Did you know you have three layers of skin, so it could take awhile. Make your time here seem like heaven. I expect you will end up dying. Their torture chambers are state of the art. And your wife and children... ...they will go too. What can I do? Give me something to chew on. I need to show the guys with the keys that you are worth keeping around. And there are 25 million green reasons for you to help us find the man we want. I have nothing. I have nothing. I know. That's why I'm letting the Saudis borrow you. I wish it could end up better for you. But at least now you can take comfort in the fact that this is definitely going to end. You're on your own. - Ahmed al-Kuwaiti. - The courier? - Let's find him. - Understood. - Now. actionable intelligence, about high-value terrorist targets, and President Musharraf will not act, we will. And I think Barack Obama is confused as to who are our friends, and who are our enemies. We do not go out and say to a nation, which is working with us, that we intend to go in there and potentially bring out a unilateral attack. Teddy Roosevelt used to say, "Talk softly but carry a big stick." Senator Obama likes to talk loudly. We will kill Bin Laden, we will crush Al-Qaeda. That has to be our biggest national security priority. The phone call that we traced tied the courier back in with Al-Qaeda. We immediately put two assets on the ground in Peshawar. Pan to the left. Your other left. Got it. And watch the profanity, I understand Pashto. Salaam alaikum. Is there a lighter there? On your left, talking right now, that's our man. It's OK. He's coming out. - Let's go. - Hold this. We've got him. Good signal. Keep the distance. We have caught him. Get up here. Take this way. There he is, you're coming up behind him. I'm getting some interference. Keep your eyes on him. We have got him. We have got a visual. Karakoram Highway. Target is leaving Peshawar. Do you still have him? We're trying to get eyes on you. The boy is headed towards Abbottabad. - Are you sure? - Yes. We've got eyes back on him. Good work, gentlemen. We'll take it from here. this is the first time we've had eyes on the courier. We know he used to be a courier for Al-Qaeda. We have no confirmation they are still in contact, but we know the place is built like a fortress. of American operations keeps going up from week to week. Night raids up sixfold, air strikes nearly doubled. The American troop surge in Afghanistan is part of what an aide to Petraeus calls "squeezing down on the Taliban like a giant anaconda." This gear ain't getting any lighter. this mission should be simple. Transporting two Taliban operatives back to Kandahar base. Pick up is in ten mikes. Let's get in and get out. Keep that pace up. Growing up, it was pretty much just me and my mom. And, uh... As a kid in junior high, I got stuffed in trashcans all the time. And then there was this one year I decided that wasn't gonna happen any more. I started doing the beating. So now, here I am, I'm fighting at the highest level of the United States of America. It was like the CO's were waiting for me, and I'd been waiting for them. Exile 2-1, Exile 2-1. This is Wild Eagle Niner. Can I get a sit rep on that bird, over? I joined because I felt I had a duty to my country, a country that I love. And there was really no other choice for me. says Reaper 1-2 is inbound, TOT 50. Keep your ears open, as they should be pushing Budweiser in four or five mikes. How copy? Hard copy, Exile 2-1. - Out. - What's up? Just keep moving. Move up. over the next ridge, boys. Exile 2-1, Wild Eagle Niner, be advised you have four persons approaching you. Looks like LN's, no weapons observed, over. Four likely LN's, no weapons observed. D-Punch. Why don't you take Trench - and check it out. - Yeah, I got it, I got it. Hands up, hands up. Whoa, hold up here. Sit down. Down. Sit down! - What's going on up there? to have a female come up, - do the patdown. - Maybe go on, go ahead - and send Cherry on up. - Screw you, D-bag. You search her, yeah. Get down! Captain Marshall, a situation. on the left. - Stunner, you hit? Exile 2-1, Wild Eagle Niner. We've taken fire, at least one shooter. Can you give us info on his position? Exile 2-1, that's negative. I'm not seeing anything. Move, move! Move! - You all right? No, man, I'm shot! One down. - Surprise. All clear. Exile 2-1, any more hostiles? Negative, Wild Eagle. No hostiles in view. All right, we 're all clear. Let's push the LN's through and get the hell out of here, all right? Let's go, guys. Come on, move it out. Hold up. I need to finish searching. D, forget about it. Let's go. Hold up, boys. D. by the rules of engagement. Don't cause reckless harm. Don't use women, children or old people for cover. And don't strap 50 pounds of explosives to your chest. But as Team Leader, I know if we give up on the moral code that our country believes in, then we're no better than them. it's with the rules. We got rules, other side don't. OK, let's see. Good. Good, good, good. You're Malik? - Yes. - I'm Waseem. Hi. Come, I'll take you inside. My family has owned the building for five years, and we take very good care of it. No pets allowed, and most of the residents are families. So please, keep your parties quiet. No parties for us. Please come. This comes semi-furnished. We have television. There's no AC, but we can provide you with a cooler. There's 24 hours running water, most of the time. Piped gas. It's one bedroom. So, you men will be sharing the bedroom? Hmm. Do you have any two bedrooms? I'm afraid not. peaceful neighborhood. - Very quite safe. - Mmm. - And very quiet. - Quiet is good. Come on, let me see the view. That place. Looks like it's got some serious security. That house was built few years ago by a wealthy Pashtun businessman. Strict Purdah family. Very quiet. They don't bother anyone. OK, that works. A little to the right. Little to the right. Right. Yeah? - Good, lock it. - Yeah. Perfect. - Is it OK? - Little left. - Left. - Left? Yeah. How is the view? - Good? - It's good. The first one is this. Is it OK? one more minute of your time. I really think it would be in our best interest to focus on what we were talking about. Now you're going to tell me what's in my best interest? - Things got heated in there. - You got a lot of passion. We're on the same team, but time is not a luxury we have. And that hour you just took back there at the end is an hour that I'll never get back. Decisions like this are never as simple as they seem. Hunches and educated guesses will never take the place of real actionable intelligence. with catching him started on 9-11. The idea of him just kind of... ...got deeper in my head. I don't know, I guess, gradually you could say he... ...took over my life. I understand our current culture is risk-averse, but I think if you just look at the field data, I'm sure you'd agree there's more to support this hypothesis than any unsubstantiated cave theories. - Christian thinks he's dead. - He's not dead. Come on, keep it coming. Spit it out. There's a good possibility that by the time we've gathered enough data to validate a static final say, someone will leak, he will be long gone, and it'll be Tora Bora all over again. I believe that if there's even the slightest possibility of his being in there, then we should... We should what? Bomb the fuck out of it. Sir. You do understand that people will want proof? They'll want to see the body. And a DNA match, or conspiracy theories will abound. And if we drop a bomb on our ostensible allies in the war on terror, we run the risk of nuclear retaliation on someone, probably India or Israel. We also run the risk of destroying any and all evidence of his ever having been there. Let's reconvene at 06:00. We're gonna need a back-up plan. Maybe two. lost her father, and her brother in the South Tower. It was awful. And then we go into Afghanistan and we have Osama holed up in Tora Bora, and we let him go. We had him and we let him go. - I didn't want to be part of the team that let him get away again. Twin car bombs exploded outside the US embassies in Nairobi and... at the USS Cole in Yemen, claiming the lives of 17 US soldiers... Biggest attack ever on US soil. bin Laden is behind the attack. as a bomb rips through a resort in Bali. bombs ripped through commuter trains and railway platforms. of hundreds of emergency vehicles... is the group being credited for terrorism in the city of London today. So, I... ...finally got to buy my mom a house up the road from mine. Wasn't much to look at, but... ...that was the best damn day of my life. When she walked through that door, and just that smile. Yeah. And, uh... So, you know, when we come home from deployment, most of the men, they got wife, kids to go to, and me, I just, I keep it simple. You know, it's my mom, my bike. A few girls every now and then. But, you know... Even though we go away from each other for a few days, it's... ...we're still a team, you know. And issues that we had out on the field, they're still there. what else can I get ya? I'll have another one of these. - All right. - Mmm. Chocolate moon cake. Yeah. You got it. - Any y'all wanna share? - No, thanks. I'm not a big chocolate guy. Oh, no, no. Correction. A big chocolate guy is exactly what you are. me and Trench were at this bar, right? And this pack of Frog Hogs comes marching in, - you remember that? - Yeah. And I just kept thinking to myself, "Damn." I feel sorry for the poor guy who's gotta pick a wife out of that bunch of buns. Have to drink two six-packs and put a gun to my head just to go home at night. Then I think, "Man, if I was Mule I'd be ready to kill myself." Well, you ain't me. So leave me out of this shit. - Sorry, man. How is little Jaclynn? What is she, four or five now? My kid has nothing to do with this conversation. OK, we'll switch it to Stunner. Stunner. How is married life treating you, huh? What are you asking? Just, you know, how is everything on the home front? It's all good? Why would you like to know? You writing a book maybe? You gotta realize how good you got it. Team Leader at 31. Wonder kid, flying up the command chain. Why don't you just relax. I'm always relaxed. I'm just getting tired of you running your mouth all the time. I get tired of explaining how we let a little old lady blow up D-Punch. What's up? Square things up here. Meet me outside. Y'all leave a good tip. We're still the alert squadron. And I just got word that we're being placed under operational controls at the Agency's Special Activities Division for this op at Admiral McRaven's personal direction. I don't know the target yet. Whatever it is, it's important to someone. Say goodbye to your wives and kids, your girlfriends, your Harleys, your pets, whatever. Load out for you guys is at 0-4. Looks like we may have the opportunity to... ...get payback for D-Punch sooner than we expected. Hopefully, you guys have had enough time to get your heads straight. OK? Wait. Hold on a second. What? Never mind. It was nothing. Morning, sir. Vivian Hollins. Senior counter-intelligence threat analyst. Hollins. I was at CTC during Operation Anaconda. Your recon on that mission saved hundred of lives, and if you hadn't taken out that SAM position it would have been a bloodbath. That was a credit to the men. We had a ghost detainee, a known Al-Qaeda courier, lead us to the suspected location of a high-value target, and the DCI wants us to put an immediate action plan in place. We've opened the file and started the planning cycle. The HVT is in a walled compound. The main building is surrounded by 12 foot walls. Two gated and guarded entry points. No telephone lines, no Internet. Trash is incinerated. Kids are home schooled. How many kids? - It's a goddamn madrassa. - Yeah. There are at least seven armed military-age males here, on top of the main building, looks like it could have been designed as a station for some sort of anti-aircraft equipment. Intelligence indicates that the target has access to Stinger missiles. are reports that there are in this main structure, rigged to a light switch. NRO has a dedicated satellite watching the compound. Since this began, analysts have, on several occasions, recognized the man who appears taller than the rest. Proportional shadow measurements put his height at 6'5". He doesn't seem to participate in daily chores. He just kind of walks around. We've nicknamed him The Pacer. We've got boots on the ground trying to verify his identity. or non-permissive environment? Non-permissive. And capture or kill? Well, it's a CIA Special Activities mission. We are comfortable with either outcome. We've narrowed it down to three options. Cur job is to present all three to the President, so that he can make the most informed decision possible. First option is a joint raid with the host nation. However, there is no way of knowing if the target is in league with the host government, so this option runs the real risk of his being tipped off. Option two: Helicopter assault. DF-160. Night Stalkers will handle the transport. rescue hostages in Iran. Poor planning led to two downed aircraft, and eight dead. What about tunneling under? Would be a lot quieter than bringing in two birds into a rural environment. in a flood basin. Water table's too high to tunnel. Third and final option is to simply level the compound with a JDAM. With this option comes the added complication of collateral damage and the inability to verify that he was ever there. But you're still not sure if the target's in there? You're still not 100 percent? Hundred percent's hard to come by these days. See you, thanks for being here. Stacy. Jeju. May I have a word in my office? - About what? - In my office. Have a seat, please. No, thanks. I'm sure I don't have to tell you how delicate this mission is. How professional errors could be compounded by secrecy and concealment. However, in my opinion, you are the exception. I'm not sure I understand what you're saying. I'm saying that you are the type of man whose judgment I shouldn't have to question or second-guess. And this file doesn't say any differently. However, there is one page that is cause for concern. Which is? Your wife. But I would expect that you won't let the past cloud your decision making, or lead you to put your team into any unnecessary danger. It's a job. I'm not interested in punishment or revenge. I care about mission success. Getting my men home safely. So do I. Good luck. All right, lovers, break it up, break it up. Sauce, you've got a visitor. Tyrone! Hey, come here. She's on our team now. Take her through the drills, OK? Girl, fuss. Just know there's 2,340 other dogs that would love to take her place. - You got that, people? You think you're so important, you put your finger in a bucket of water, you pull it out, you see how fast that hole fills up. Every one of us is replaceable. Including me. been out on a mission with us, you ain't trained with us, you can't know how we are. You can't know how we communicate. All right? You just don't. You take Stunner, right? He's a team leader, hell of a soldier, and that just... It don't mean I'm not gonna set his ass straight, if, you know, I feel like he needs it, so... No. When lives are at stake, you got no business hiding behind protocol. You know. You got something to say to me? What? You got something to say to me? I don't think so, not with a gun in your hand. You know, if you think you should be team leader, you should run off to the CO and make your case. I think you're a good leader. I just don't think you have what it takes to fight this enemy and win. This ain't the Boy Scouts. If D-Punch were here, he'd say the same thing. All right. People! Release! If you boys can't reconcile this right here, right now, I need to know right now. - I'm good. - I'm good. Good. Better be. Get outta here. You. Stay. What's the deal, huh? You used to be a regular Billy Bad-ass. Out there, huh? Now you're the weakest link. You're supposed to be the leader of this team, huh? This cannot be in here right now. You need to be right, up here. We lose men, good men. But you gotta focus. I know why I'm here. And you gotta figure out why you're here. And if you can't, then you gotta get the hell outta here. And go home. of things that could go wrong. There are a lot of moving parts here. I'm sending those guys in, and Murphy's Law applies and something happens... - Hold the door! - Can we still get our guys out? Seek! They don't know what they're gonna find there. They don't know if the building is rigged. They don't know if there are explosives that are triggered by a particular door opening. So, huge risks that these guys are taking. - Count down! - One. Go, go, move, move, move! - Hold the doors! - Go to the left. Go to the right. Clear! Two down, two down. - Hold the door. - This room's clear. Next room, next room. Let's go, let's go. Down, down. Get down, now! Clear. Yes, here. Yes, here. Who shot this woman? Who shot this woman?! Uh, my bad. We get our guy and leave dead women and kids, this mission is a failure. Yes, sir. We're gonna keep running this thing till we get it right. Watch the hands, watch the hands. You don't see a gun, you don't see a weapon, you don't shoot, understood? Let's go! Yo, going on a coffee run. - Yes, please. - How do you take it? Cold and black with a shot of heroin? - Ha-ha. - Maybe I'll just bring you a syringe filled with espresso. Rim the cup with Demerol and Valium. What? What what? That's it. That's it. That's how you want your coffee? No, no, no. No, no, no. - That's it. - What's it? The syringe. I'm thinking we do a vaccination drive door to door. But instead of disposing the needles, we send them to our lab for analysis. So if we can get a doctor inside, get a Bin Laden kid to participate, get a familial match. Remember when Bin Laden's sister died a few years back? Stateside, Mass General? The body was subpoenaed so if and when Bin Laden was caught, we'd have a DNA profile to identify him with. What do you think? Is this a real question? It is. I want Osama Bin Laden captured as much as anybody else. And I know... I know the people of Pakistan do not support Al-Qaeda. But who has the time? Ninety-nine out of 100 are just happy making two square meals a day, fighting their own demons of poverty, hunger. And I know the consequences for myself and my family, if what I'm about to do is discovered. I'll get killed. Here, stand up. Stand up for awhile. Good. It's recording. That's good. Keep it in your pocket. It's gonna be fine. You've got the full force and faith of the United States government backing you. Yesterday. What about tomorrow? Come on. Come on, get in. How is the transmission? It's working. GO, 901 Get Guidry, now. You know, let's do a vaccination drive. the live feed is running, and I realize that I'm putting someone's life in danger. - What do you got? - We're in. Yes, we are. Let us see the whole place. Christian, do you recognize any of those people? No. Who's that? I don't know. Let's get voice analysis. I want every one of these faces ID'd. One of these kids must be a Bin Laden. Good work, Hollins. - Come on, man. Come on out here. - Oh, look at that! - There we go. There it is. Put it down. - No, no. - Put it down! Like bazooka. All right, all right. Turn that off. - Hit the racks. - Hold on, man! - Get some rest. - Hold on, man. And three, two, one. What are you doing, what are you doing? Aw, come on, man! Damn! And I was next. All right, you got next tomorrow. Let's go. Rank meant nothing to me. Nothing, but it killed Cherry that I was Team Leader. You know, he doesn't like to take orders from anyone, let alone someone younger than him. He thinks I'm a hotheaded redneck. Which I am. And I think he's a surfer boy. Which he is. And, uh... Takes all types. - Yeah. It's him, isn't it? I don't know. Well, who else could it be? - Could be Al-Zawahiri. - Nah. No, no, no, no. It's Osama. We're gonna be the team that takes out Osama. Don't worry about who it is, all right? Just worry about... ...completing the mission and getting home safe. I'd like to be the one that puts one right in between the eyes, you know? That 25 million dollar bounty buys a lot of diapers, huh, Mule? Oh, yeah. All right, even if it is Osama, we can't talk about it with anyone ever. OK, let's say he's not dead. Let's say Osama is in there with his 27 wives, his 108 kids and his seven favorite goats. Do we think there is any chance that the Pakis don't know that he's in there? Of course they know he's there. It's a military town. It's a half mile from the gate of the Kakul Military Academy. So what are we gonna do when the Pakistani police show up? We have assets on the ground that tell them it's an authorized operation. The police tell their commander who tells their commander, and by the time its worked its way up and down the chain of command, it's Christmas again and we're back in Afghanistan. OK, how about their F-16's? We just shoot them down? We sold them their F-16's. We have on-site video surveillance. They scramble, we move out. How 'bout when they launch their nukes? It's not gonna happen. Really, you're just so positive about that. - Christian. - I am, actually. What do you suggest that we do? I suggest we get a B-2. We launch a few dozen JDAM's into the compound. Done. Oh, sorry. OK, let's just take it back. So then, you do think he's in there? No, no, no, no, no. I think he's dead. But if we're gonna go down this path, don't put our best Special Ops in an impossible situation, just 'cause you think he might be in there. We killed Khalid Habib with a missile. How do we know this isn't a trap? the sovereign territory of another country. If it turns out that it's a wealthy prince from Dubai who's in this compound, and we've sent Special Forces in, we've got problems. I was living in Brooklyn, and there was this party on this roof of my friend's building. Well, I got hammered at this party. And I was passed out, on the roof, sitting in this lawn chair, facing the city. The very next morning, as soon as I opened my eyes, that's when the first plane hit. I thought I was still dreaming. From across the river I had a from' row seat to the whole damn thing. I was in BUDS. Second or third week, I think, I don't know. One day they yanked everyone to the side, and they made an announcement. We were going to war. What followed was... ...three days of... ...three days of the worst ass-kicking you could ever imagine. Thirty-four quit that weren't quitters. Thirty-four. Whoo-whee! I guess 34 is my lucky number. I guess it is. Gentlemen, we're gonna do some shooting. Then we're gonna do more shooting, then we're gonna be shooting some more. Start at 15, stop at three. Two double-taps with the rifle... ...transition to pistol. Fire or failure. As always gentlemen, big boy rules apply. Oh, what's up, man? Hey, little man. I can hear you but I can't see you. let me figure this out. Oh, come on. I showed you how to do it. - Hey, Mama. Hi, baby. It's so good to see you. - Hey. - Hey, brother. Hey, sis, hey, bro. Don't keep me waiting, I haven't seen you in awhile. Oh, there she goes. So, what are you up to? Oh, you know. Just getting ready. Getting ready. Pull away! Open opposing doors. He got up at five so he's... he's tired. - Dada, I love you. - Yes? I love you. Can you see me? Clear, clear! You knew I was gonna call you, and you have on your cleaning sweats? I have something else on. Oh, you do? Oh, what was that? What you got... Oh. - Let me see. - You need to beg. - I need to beg? - Hey, Pop. - Yeah. You had on the space glasses. We might need a spaceship if you keep clowning me. - Open opposing door! - Spread out! - Fire! - Clear! - Clear. - I love seeing you, but you really need to cut your hair. I'm gonna cut your hair for you. They like me to look like the bad guys over here, so I get to grow it anyway I want. - Just doing a lot of training. - You look bigger already. out a lot lately. with working like a dog. Makes you appreciate the good things in life. Closed door, right! Breach! Oh, yes. You like? I love. Go, go, go. Go, go, go, go, When you coming home? Three, two, one! Execute! Can't really tell you much about what we're doing, but we're doing a lot of training. Uh, a lot of shooting. And, uh... you know, we'll be home soon. OK, are you staying safe? Being careful? I got the best men in the military backing me up. It's not gonna be a problem. Thank you for what you're doing, and all my friends thank you for what you're doing. we appreciate that. It's nice to hear. Nice. to take care of yourself. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. That's what I miss. Hang tough and mind your details, and if nothing else, keep an eye on your six so that nothing happens to you on the dark side. Look after the best part. I miss 'em and I love 'em, and I can't wait to call you guys again. - You take care. - All right, I love you, Pop. I miss you, babe. Get back, OK? OK. - Bye, babe. I love you. Ah. Bye-bye. Bye. You know, in our world you really have two families. You have your actual family, and your teammates. I mean, we're gone 300 days a year. Truth is, we live for it. We're always wanting that call. I'll drive this time. Don't lose them. Let's see if we can get a match. Easy, easy. Regain distance. We've got an eye on you. Slow down. Slow it down. You stay with the women, I'll stay with the car. Try to get a closer shot. We need a positive ID. Malik is following two women on foot. I'm following the car. I see you both. We need to see the eyes to get FRS to work. Try to get a little closer. Get aside. You old man! Get aside! Hello. The police are on my tail. - What should I do? - Where's your gun? It's in the car. Are you covering me? Just comply. We'll take care of it. Stay calm. Avoid confrontation. was just stopped by the Pakistani police. Get Munter and Pasha moving. I don't care what you do. Just don't let our guys get swept up. This is my license. And this is just for... I have a passion for photographing. That was close. Thank you. I don't care what he's doing. Just get... We already know. We need to get a green light now. - Call you back. Being obsessed with a target is like having a one-way affair. It's, um... It's secret, and you can't stop thinking about him, but you're always alone. The only question is... ...how it'll end. of the data to see if you can disprove the theory that he's there. We have two agents whose cover was likely blown. I thought we took care of it. We don't know, we don't know what the fallout is. We have sources at ISI, but Al-Qaeda also has sources there. Jeez, you'd think two billion a year would buy you a little more allegiance, but we don't know who's working for us and sleeping with them. The longer this goes on, the greater the chance of a leak. That's the bottom line. Across the river, they still think this is a circumstantial case. Well, it is a circumstantial case, but it's a strong circumstantial case. We now know that ISI is watching the compound. We know that they're protecting him, or they have him under house arrest, or whatever. In either case, that's why our operatives were followed. They may be protecting someone, we just don't know who that someone is. Urn, sorry. He's a 6'5" bearded guy. Doesn't use the phone, doesn't use the Internet. Doesn't leave the compound surrounded by a 12 foot wall. Has a known Al-Qaeda courier, so I think we actually do know who he is. Who is that speaking? Vivian Hollins, Mr. Panetta. Senior Counter-Intelligence Threat Analyst. Well, Ms. Hollins, the President of the United States is gonna be staking his Presidency on this call. No one will ever know your name if it turns out badly. That went well. If you do not have the go-ahead, from the Oval Office, it's irrelevant. Anything you've done, anything you know, is irrelevant at that moment. And so that is one of the most frustrating parts about what I do. we cannot say definitively that Bin Laden is there. Sending in choppers, and actually putting our guys on the ground entails some greater risks than some other options. But it's important for us to be able to say that we definitely got the guy. We're a go. Stunner. We're on for tonight. Tell the team. All right, people, listen up. We are officially executing Operation Neptune's Spear. The HVT is Osama Bin Laden. Code name will be Geronimo. - I am clairvoyant. - Latest intel tonight... ...is there are at least many of them women and children. Your job is to secure and segregate non-hostiles. I cannot stress this enough. You must be able to discern shooters from non-combatants. As for the primary target, the preference is no detainees. FBI and CIA will be on hand to assist with chain of custody. F-15 Strike Eagles will be on station. There'll be two Chinooks no more than ten mikes out, in case we get in trouble with the neighbors. Apaches will provide gunship support. JSTARS will jam Pakistani radar. If it gets rough, we fight our way out. Rangers sitting right across the border to help out. As always, we go in sterile. If you get killed, you're stupid. If you get captured, you gotta get killed first. Make sure your smartpacks are back here. Seal Team Orange, arrive with Stalker One. Seal Team Green, Stalker Two. Our enemy here is Al-Qaeda. It's no secret they are not afraid to die. Neither are we. Tonight... ...we know why we are here. We know who we are. Tonight we fight for something truly greater than ourselves. Tonight we ride. Who is it? I don't know. What? The game play for Minnesota is coming over later. Good news. We're going hot. Kill the lights, please. JSTARS will begin jamming in one mike. Strike Eagles have reached their ceiling. Here it goes. Checking pressure now. You get a diagnostic on that? Stalker One through Four, be advised... Time to target, three mikes. Goggle up. red side courtyard, not armed. We started losing elevation at about 500 feet. then you realize it's not straining, it's just actually not getting any lift. Stalker One, report. Are you hit? You see the ground rushing up at you. Stalker One is down. God, Eagle Claw all over again. Son of a bitch! Stalker One, report. - Go, go, go! - Move, move, move. We have prepared for this and will now be amending the mission. Head to the wall. Line up. In position. Trench. Flanks return. Hold position. Execute! Go, go, go! Go, move, move, move! Dog forward! Dog forward! are outside the compound on crowd control. Put the lights out, please. JSTARS reports Paki police chatter. Where are my eyes at? Cease fire, cease fire, cease fire! I need eyes on that target. We don't know who else is in that room. Wrong way. Open to the left. Open and close the doors. Paki jets are still grounded. Closed door, right. Open that door! Out, out! Unknowns coming out, unknowns coming out. - Come on out. - Unknown coming out. Come out, come out, it's OK, it's OK. Paki police are Oscar Tango Mike. Please, over here. Please, please. Fire! What happened? Even I don't know. We don't know. That's because you make 20 rupees a day. Call Superintendent Mohammed Rafique and ask him. He will fill you in. Hold! Let me see your hands. Let me see your hands. Hands, hands, hands. Let me see your hands. Unknowns coming out. Pakistani jets are airborne. Where's our DOD rep? Khalid. Khalid. Well... ...Khalid is down. We're not covered yet. Putting it down. Closed door, left. Pakistani jet, return to base or you will be engaged. Pakistani jet, return to base or you will be engaged. Pakistani jets are breaking away. Pakistani jets are breaking away. Pakistani jets are returning to their airbase. - Closed door, left. - Closed door, right. Get down, get down! For God and country. Geronimo's KIA. - Oh, my God. to the American people and to the world, that the United States has conducted an operation that killed Osama Bin Laden, the leader of Al-Qaeda, and a terrorist who's responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men, women and children. A small team of Americans carried out the operation with extraordinary courage and capability. Gather everything up. Take what you can carry. Boys, come on, let's go. We're out of here in five. We're not leaving that behind. they killed Osama Bin Laden, and took custody of his body. to pull that DNA sample. my congratulations. - I will. - Is Ms. Hollins there? As a matter of fact, she is. Let me have a word with her. It's for you. Hello? Ms. Hollins, this is Leon Panetta. - Hello, Mr. Panetta. - Good work. You called this a long time ago. Oh, I appreciate it. It's been a long journey. Yes, it has, and you've been a big part of it. - Thank you so much. - Thank you. many moments in life when you get to realize that everything you've sacrificed for a goal was worth it. Because that goal is so much... ...is so much bigger and so much more important than... ...than any individual. to the countless intelligence and counter-terrorism professionals who worked tirelessly to achieve this outcome. - The American people... - Good work. ...do not see their work nor know their names, but tonight they feel the result. We give thanks for the men who carried out this operation, for they exemplify the professionalism, patriotism, and unparalleled courage of those who serve our country, and they are part of a generation that has borne the heaviest share of the burden since that September day. As a country, we will never tolerate our security being threatened, nor stand idly by when our people have been killed. We will be relentless in defense of our citizens. We will be true to the values that make us who we are. And on nights like this one, we can say to those families who have lost loved ones to Al-Qaeda's terror, justice has been done. looking into everyone's eyes, you could see that none of this had sunk in yet. But then you remember the thousands of people across the world, who sacrificed to get us here. It was Skipper who took them two women to the ground. If they'd had a suicide vest, he was gonna take the blast himself. To protect us. of people had their doubts. If he was there, if we could pull it off. And the fact is that he was, and we did. It's a good day to be a SEAL. It's... It's a good day to be an American.
