 

                        Yes, it's the truth. I love him, I love him! How could you, with my own brother? The two people I love most of all. How could you betray me? Both of you! Dr. Orloff's Monster Hello, Professor. How are you feeling? Terrible, my friend. I know I don't have much time left. Have you... Have you succeeded? No. It's been months since I made any real progress. Our creation survives, yes, it's breathing. Its magnetic circulation is perfect. But how to induce it to move is beyond us. Listen... Listen to me, For years, you have been my most devoted disciple, and now that I'm dying, there is no reason to take my secret with me. I know how to make him move, and how to make him obey your commands. I can promise you that your robot will live! I knew it! It's why I came to see you. I swear to you that soon, I will make your dream a reality. Take it... It belongs to you now. As you know, there are sounds that the human ear cannot detect but which a dog, for example, can detect over great distances. These ultrasonics can activate cellular impulse transistors, and depending entirely on their intensity, tone and frequency, provoke different kinds of cellular reactions. So, by developing a pattern of stimulus and response, similar to that of conditioned reflexes, you can induce an inanimate creature into movement, action, and carry out precisely the orders you wish. Now, it's yours, Jekyll. You hold the key to the greatest scientific secret of our time! Tomorrow night I'll be able to get away for a while. I'll see you tomorrow night at Frita's at 8:.30. You're going to leave me alone, tonight of all nights? Tomorrow, we can really celebrate your birthday. Of course, my darling, I've been thinking about you. Here, I hope you like it. Oh, it's gorgeous! You must have spent a fortune! It's one of a kind. - It brings good luck. - Then I'll keep it forever. Taxi, miss? No, thanks. Are you sure you wouldn't like a lift? No, sir, I'm taking the bus. - Where are you headed? - None of your business. You're still angry about last night. Oh no no no, on the contrary, I love it when unscrupulous men, like you, abuse me. My only crime was trying to kiss you once, innocently. It was a starry night and the music was playing softly, and we were dancing in the dark. What could I do? You were irresistible. I'm a man, you know, a real one. You're so pretentious. Of course, the trouble with Spaniards is you all think that you're imitating Don Juan. Wait a minute, that's where you're mistaken. We aren't imitations of Don Juan... We are Don Juans! Then I'm warning you, Mr. Don Juan, I'm asking the nearest policeman to make you leave me alone. I'll teach you that Spain is civilized. - Let me give you a ride. - No! Hey, wait! Wait for me! Just a minute, please! Now, do you want a taxi, yes or no? Unfortunately for you, it's more than 100 kilometers from here to Holfen. Bad luck, so I guess I'll have to sacrifice myself. Tell me the truth, now. Who are you meeting in Holfen? My uncle and my aunt. And tell me, who is your uncle? You wouldn't know him. How do you know? Have you heard of Professor Jekyll? No. Well, he's my uncle. . Adieu Lili Marlene... - And do you live with him? - No. . Adieu Lili... Then why the heck are you going all the way to Holfen? Look, do me a favor and stop this car. - Why do you want me to stop? - So I can get out, of course. Do you like to listen to jazz? - Do you? - Oh yeah. Me, I hate it. Of course you hate it! I forgot! The only music you enjoy are military marches, country ballads and the powerful music of Wagner. I'm Austrian, and my country is "the land of the waltz. " Oh yeah, the birthplace of waltzes, finesse and elegance. A country where buses won't wait even one second, leaving a pretty girl in tears. - He was just doing his job. - Sure. But if you'd taken a Spanish bus, instead of an Austrian tourist bus, the driver would have waited for you for at least an hour. So that's why they're always late, huh? Wow, you're really gonna stay here? Yes. It's not my idea of a holiday resort. I like it. You come here often, don't you? Why do you ask? Because it explains your rather gothic approach to the pleasant things in life. For your information, I've never been here before. Well, I hope you have a lot of fun here, anyway. I did not come here for fun. I know, but I thought you'd go for a gloomy castle the way I go for Sophia Loren. I guess we both like national monuments. Well, Merry Christmas. Hey, wait just a minute. I'd like to be forgiven, too, everybody wants to be forgiven at Christmas time. Everything I said to you was absolute nonsense, especially when I pretended to be a man of the world. It was a phony act, and you saw right through it. So, Merry Christmas. Please forgive me as well. I know I can be rather cold sometimes, but I admit it, you're a very nice guy. Good-bye. Oh, man! Hey, hey, come back here. Say that to me again. What? That I'm a nice guy. Well, to me you are a nice guy. Well, in that case, it's clear you don't want me to leave. Oh, I didn't say that. Is there a good hotel in the neighborhood? Oh well, try the Hotel Holfen. Ooh, with a name like that, sounds stupendous. I'll check in and say that I'm here for a week. That way I can drive you back to school, right? Look, is there a telephone in these ruins? I suppose so. Well, okay then, I'll see you later. Oh don't be scared, it's only me. Who are you? I'm Ciceron, and you're Miss Melissa, and we're so pleased you're finally here. - Likewise. - Of course. Pretty house, isn't it? Yes, it is. - But it's a shame it's so... - So filthy, you mean. Well, the more I let it go, the less I feel like cleaning it up. Ciceron, won't you ever shut up? Not until I'm dead. That's your aunt, miss. Come closer, my girl. You're Aunt Ingrid, aren't you? Yes, that's me. Aren't you going to give me a kiss? You're scared of me, huh? No, I... Is it fear or disgust? You weren't expecting this, were you? This is what pain and loneliness will do to you. Where's Uncle Conrad? He only cares about his formulas and his stupid experiments. As for me, I've wasted the best years of my life locked up in this hideous house. I'm sorry, forgive me. You're not used to hearing such things at your age. No, Aunt Ingrid, I've haven't had an easy life either. My mother really worked hard to provide for my education. Yes, I know that. And when I was much younger, I also knew your mother:. An exceptional person, a magnificent woman... Death always takes the best ones. All right, sweetie, let me show you to your room. Ciceron, take Miss Melissa's things upstairs. I'm sorry, my dear, I've reached my limit. I'm a very sick woman. Ciceron, show Miss Melissa to her room. Yes, ma'am. So this is my room? I hope you like it. It's the sunniest one in the house. Quietly now, Andros, breathe. Breathe, Andros. Once more. That's right. What are you doing here? Who gave you permission? Uncle Conrad, forgive me. I'm sorry, my dear, but I've strictly forbidden anyone to enter this laboratory. You're Melissa, aren't you? Yes. No one told me you were already here and I'm so busy. When I'm working, I spend days on end without seeing a soul. But isn't Aunt Ingrid with you? No, not your aunt either. No one ever comes in here. But I thought I heard you speaking. You're mistaken then. And now, please leave me alone. I'll have the pleasure of seeing you at dinner. - What is it? - It's a secret. No appetite? I'm afraid it's underdone. You're really very pretty, as beautiful as your mother. Everybody says that I look like her. She had the same purity, but she was really unhappy. It was thoughtless of me to ask you to visit us. But why? What's the problem? You're busy at work and I wanted to come. Besides, I happen to be on vacation. Tomorrow, we'll see my lawyer. It's time for you to have full control of the inheritance from your father. I'm so surprised that you're not waiting until next year, when I turn 21. I prefer to surrender the responsibilities now. At my age, there's always a chance that something could happen to me. Don't say such things, you're still young! You think that youth has power to make us immune to death? I know that my days in this world are numbered, but that's why I'm in a hurry. I must act quickly. You're really agitated tonight, Conrad. What's the matter now? Are you scared? Or are you suddenly bothered by your conscience? Shut your mouth! No, I will not! I'm sick and tired of talking to no one. I've lived too many years alone. I've lived too many years shut up in this odious castle! Come now, control yourself. I'm quite aware of your nervous condition. Forgive me. I'd like you to meet my brother, Albert. He's younger than I am, and smarter, too. He's an artist and he's going to go far. Ingrid, allow me to introduce you to my brother. He's much more charming than I am. You still have time to change your mind. I wouldn't dream of it, Conrad. You're the only man in the world for me, I swear. There's no one else but you. What were you doing? You were with him! Tell the truth! Let me go, you're hurting me! It wasn't his fault, it was mine, all mine! ...the stars give their light Stealing the flowers' color, color. I'd be happy, I'd be happy If my dreams were reality Ask that the night gives you its blue Ask that the moon gives you its silhouette, silhouette. And give me your love And give me your love making my dreams reality . Make the moon give way to the sun Make the night turn into light . Smile at last and live at last. Making my dreams reality Making my heart reminisce. Seen your little friend? He just came in. Yeah, I saw him. I don't know what's going on with him and me. Does he disgust you? No, he scares me, but at the same time... he's a nice man, but strange. I get the feeling he's hiding something. Oh, you're reading too many detective stories. Anyway, go on. Don't keep him waiting. Would you like to come back to my dressing room? No, I simply dropped in to have a drink with you, and to bring you this little gift. Oh thank you! It's fabulous, sweetheart! So beautiful and so original! It's a marvelous necklace. Murderer... Yes, it's true... I loved him... Murderer... Murderer... Murderer... murderer... You killed him... Why? Murderer... murderer... You killed him. Murderer... You killed him! Murderer! Oh, it's you? What are you doing here? You were talking in your sleep, Aunt Ingrid. I came to see if there was anything wrong. Oh really? I was talking out loud? What did I say? Tell me. Come on, Melissa. What did I say? Something about a person that you loved... and that someone had killed him- Keep going, Melissa, tell me everything. You shouted "Murderer!" To whom? I don't know. You didn't say. Are you sure? I didn't hear a name, Aunt. A lot of nonsense. I'm always having stupid nightmares like this. Aunt Ingrid, who's the young man in this picture? Funny, he seems familiar to me. His face reminds me of someone. You really don't know who that is? Your mother never showed you your father's picture? No, never. So this is his picture? That's a snapshot I took of him shortly before he died. "Ingrid, it's the springtime... "Ingrid, it's the springtime that carries your name, "just like that rose we picked from the garden, one which time cannot destroy. " My mother never told me what he was like. Whenever I asked her about him, she would change the subject. Poor little thing. Her pain was so great, she couldn't talk about it. But why? How... how did my father die? He died... died... suddenly one night, in his room. In which room? Down the hall, next to the stairway that leads to the tower. No one has entered that room since he died. But what happened to him that night? Go away, go away, Don't ask me any more questions, Melissa. Go, I beg you. Ah, good morning, Miss Melissa. Did you sleep well? Pretty well. Oh you're lucky, I didn't get any sleep at all. Why not? Weren't you feeling well? Oh, I'm fine... I simply forgot about going to bed. Have you met Carlos? He's my cousin. He's always here in the winter time. And in the summer, he takes care of the vegetable garden. I have to say, we get along very well. He's a very good boy, wouldn't hurt a fly or anything. Tell me, Ciceron. How can I get into the room that belonged to my father? By opening the door. But the door happens to be locked. Yes, I know, that's the trouble. So first, I have to get the key. Or ask the person who has it. So, do you think I could get it? Absolutely not. Why not? Because I'm the one who has the keys, that's why. And if I let you take my keys from me, I'd be making a fool of myself. In that case, may I borrow the key? I'll let you have it right now, if you like. Juan Manuel! Miss Melissa! Don't take your fianc inside the house. He's not my fianc. - All the more reason. - But what's the big deal? The professor forbids any strangers inside the house. He says the day he finds anyone in here, even in the garden, he'll kill them. Well, how's the prettiest girl in Austria? Ready to go for a ride. I'll take you to the end of the earth, let's go. Well, I think there's something wrong. Don't play detective. I mean it. You look like an angry cat, you know, with its fur standing on end. All I have to do is say "Meow, meow!" And you'll jump up and scratch my face. Oh, that's nonsense. Well, I guess your date last night didn't do you any good. My date? Yeah, you went out with someone else and made comparisons, of course. What are you talking about? I called you, but they told me that you'd gone out, and you wouldn't be back until really late. - You must be joking. - Not this time. Who answered the phone? I don't know... it was a man's voice, in any case. Why are you so surprised about all this? Oh, nothing... it's true. I went out with my uncle but we got home early. You're getting harder and harder to understand, Melissa. I think you're hiding some secret love, and you're ashamed to admit it to me. No, I'm only ashamed of your attitude towards me. Well, come with me. We'll have a drink and get something to eat. I'm as hungry as a wolf. Calm down. Take it easy. Calm down, Andros. Easy now. Calm down. Andros! Conrad, Conrad, what's happened? Quick, go to my brother's room! Melissa's there, she's fainted. Ciceron! Ciceron! Hitch up the carriage, we're going out. - I'm gonna take a bath. - Fine. Drive on to the cemetery. .When Pepita was born, so filled with... . She was real round, she had a... .Her parents exclaimed to see her so... .Pepita, Pepita, Pepita, what a horror! .When Pepita grew up, she went... .She kept on real full, real full of... .The boys screamed at her to see her so... .Pepita, Pepita, Pepita, what horror! .Pepita fell in love with everybody. .She got prettier with desires of... .The poor boyfriend said to see her so... .Pepita, Pepita, Pepita, what a horror! .And Pepita got married with less... .She got fatter, more full of... . And her husband said to see her so... .Pepita, Pepita, Pepita, what a horror! .And Pepita died so full of... .They buried her with all the... .And all of the family cried with pain. .Pepita, Pepita, Pepita, what a horror! - Hi. - Hey there. Who's there? What are you doing here? What do you want from me? Hey you! Wait a minute! So you think that at least one of your bullets struck the killer? It's not a question of whether I think so:, I know I did. Nevertheless, your bullets had no affect on the target. At first, I thought they had, he hesitated for a moment, but then he ran and jumped out the window. I swear I shot him again, but the last time I saw him, he was running so fast, I couldn't keep up with him. You accurately noted the hour when he killed the girl? -2 A.M., or thereabouts. - Excuse me, when? Did you say "thereabouts"? Perfect, so it was 2 A.M., but we're not sure. What time did you start your shift? Midnight, or thereabouts. It's clear that if your vocabulary lacked this word, you wouldn't be able to express yourself at all. May I assume that your refreshment had alcohol in it? I drank a couple of whiskeys, if that's what you're saying. Mm-hmm. Two whiskeys with water. Hasn't it occurred to you that alcohol might have impaired your ability to see what really happened? Out of the question, because I know how to drink. And I'm astonished to hear it. An officer of the law confirming his drinking habits. I don't see why that makes me an alcoholic. What harm is there in a couple of drinks at Christmas time? I can't see what you're driving at. In any case, you've got 200 witnesses to confirm my story. Hmmm, more or less. I'm just wondering if these 200 witnesses or "thereabouts" are as trustworthy as you are. Sure they are. Excuse me? There's no doubt that you can trust them. I let everybody drink on credit, and everybody paid his bill. Nobody was talking to you. I was just trying to help, but if you're not interested... I'll get around to you eventually. But it's important that we talk privately. Alright, it's your turn now, my friend. Bless you. Thank you. But I'm not particularly interested in being blessed now. - Your name? - Karl Steiner. - And age? -37. - Your profession? - Boxer. - Still working? - Yes and no. I don't understand. Do you still get in the ring from time to time? I mean, I don't get many fights at all. Why not? Ever since I got K.O.'d by the German middleweight champ, nobody in Spain will offer me a contract. - How do you earn a living? - I got lots of ways. - For example? - Well, almost anything. I sell used cars, import scotch whiskey... Sounds like you do lots of odd jobs. You knew the victim, is that right? She was my fiance. Yeah, I gotta tell you, this kid is a lady killer. We used to score all the time in Hamburg, what a party! Interesting... so what kind of repeat offender are you? I was just making a comment to help out the investigation, I guess we'll talk about it later. What did you do when he came out of her dressing room? I threw myself on him and grabbed him by his jacket. When he started to run, I spun him around to give him an upper cut, but he beat me to the punch. He may look like a cream puff, but he sure packed a wallop. He punched me like a human hammer. This guy was supernatural, the way he could hit. I suppose you can describe this individual's physical makeup? Tall, light blue eyes, pale complexion. He was dressed in black and wore gloves. Just a moment, excuse me. Sir, we just found out that the necklace the victim wore tonight exactly matches the one worn by another woman who was killed a few nights ago in that night club, Frita's. And what's more, the method used to kill these two women was exactly the same in both cases. If you'll permit a lack of taste, my friend, I fear I must express my feelings with a vulgar display of swearing: We're in it up to our necks. Well now, it's your turn. You have a lot to say to me, is that right? Oh no, not a single word. Nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing. What is it you want, young man? Good afternoon, sir, I've come for Melissa. Oh, you're the young man who went out with her the other day, aren't you? Yes, sir. I'm very pleased to see you and I have a message from my niece. She requests that you leave her alone. She doesn't wish to see you ever again. And she'd rather you didn't telephone her anymore. But I've come to take her back to the university. For the time being, she will be staying here, and not returning to the university. Goodbye, young man. But... It's just like I said, the poor boy wasn't even invited to come in. That uncle of yours is a holy terror. You look much rosier today, Melissa, not that it makes any difference to me how pale you are. I'm rather partial to pale girls. I always have been, and do you know why? Because they always break my heart. - Give us a moment, Ciceron. - Certainly, sir. You're doing fine. Uncle, who was outside? No one, why do you ask? I thought I heard a car horn. Really? I was up in my laboratory, I didn't hear a thing. In your opinion, what's the matter with me? There's nothing the matter with you, Melissa. I'll see you later. Your aunt was wrong to talk to you about your father. It was a natural curiosity, most comprehensible at your age, to see the room where he died. It was a tragic sight, covered with dust and cobwebs. It must have caused a shock to your nervous system. But Uncle Conrad, I never expected to see my father. Such hallucinations occur frequently in these cases. But you shouldn't let it bother you. Tonight is Christmas Eve. In the words of the old carol, "sleep in heavenly peace. " .Happy night. . Christmas, Merry Christmas. .Happy Night. .Christmas, Merry Christmas. . Christmas, Merry Christmas. Silence! Are you going out? Where to now? I've got a headache, I need a little fresh air. I won't be long. Go to bed, it's late. Enough Christmas festivities for tonight. And besides, you're still weak, my dear. Who are you? Can't you talk? Here's to a trip to the stars that didn't get off the ground. To all the ingrates! Please, which way is the Holfen Hotel? Over there, across the road, miss. - Thanks and Merry Christmas. - Same to you, kid. Yeah, the Holfen is a really great hotel... Idiot. Idiot, yeah. - Merry Christmas! - Hey! Melissa! Were you coming to see me? Yes. Oh, Juan Manuel. Man, I am never going to understand you. Makes no difference. What makes you say that? What did my uncle tell you when you came to call on me today? He told me that you didn't want to see me or take my calls. - And so you left? - Yeah. You really thought I never wanted to see you again? Don't you want to leave the castle? No, I can't. This thing is much more important than my own safety. It's my father, you understand? I've got to solve this mystery. I don't know if that man who lives there, hidden someplace, if that's really him... I don't know how it happened... There's definitely a mystery there... If my father is dead, I want to know exactly how he died. But I can't let you do this all alone. Listen closely, you're going to take me back to the castle now. Park the car nearby where you can keep an eye on my window. We only have one day to figure this out. It's my last chance to find out the truth about my father. Tomorrow night, the lawyer will be there, bringing some papers for us to sign. I won't have an excuse to remain at the castle, once that's done. Well, how will I know if you need me or not tonight? Now, this is my plan. If I'm all right, I will leave the light on my room on. If I'm not, I'll signal to you, switching it on and off twice. I think it would be smarter to leave with me now. Do you really? How can I leave when I'm so close to solving this mystery? No. You're right. Bless you. Not one jeweler in the area has ever seen such a necklace. And one named Fraser told me the workmanship is very poor. It's clear we're dealing with some amateur. How are these pitiful trinkets connected with two crimes of such brutality? By the way, do you have any word from Romberg? He and his men are still searching all the gyms in town, questioning the promoters, the boxer, their managers, the lot. But I doubt they'll get a lead, Inspector. Good evening, gentlemen, We just brought in that ex-boxer you wanted, sir. He was just visiting a hooker. Ah, show him in, Emilio, and thank you. Let's type up this one. This way. Well, what a pleasure to see you again. Tell me, where have you been hiding? I haven't been "hiding" exactly. I've been staying with a lady I know, Inspector. Mm-hmm, consoling yourself over the death of your other friend. Yes, yes, something like that. My congratulations. You're not engaged again, are you? What a collector! Well, women like me, that's all. I know, I know. And you don't mind at all if they support you when you're between "odd jobs," do you? Another one of your "businesses"? Mr. Karl Steiner... also known as the Peacock, the Steel Fist and the Bird Dog. I think I should warn you, Mr. Steel Fist or Mr. Bird Dog, your unofficial occupation could cost you eight to ten... Now look here, I never did anything like that. I would be most delighted to hear what your excuses are. I'm quite sure they're most admirable, But I'm afraid I don't have time for that now, How long did your late girlfriend, the one called... Rose? Ah, you have a good memory, I see. Well now, my friend, how long had she had this necklace when she died? - Two days. - You're sure, are you? Oh yeah, certain. This guy came to the club and gave it to her, and I must say, it seemed like he had stolen it for her. He gave it to her like it was nothing, and gave her cash, too. Oh then, he came to see her often. Five or six times. And he asked nothing in return for these presents? No, never. It's comforting to know that there are still generous souls in this world. I agree with you, but older men do funny things. You know this guy? I've seen him from time to time. But I don't know his name or anything. Can you describe him? He's uncommon, that's for sure: kinda big, a little past 50, a beard, nice clothes, if that's any help. The sort you take one look at and tell a girl, "That's a cash customer, go get him. " But of course, I'd never say such things. Let's not digress, Steiner. If you saw this man again, would you recognize him? Sure, he makes an impression. Comes off like he invented penicillin or something. A scientist? A scientist, yeah, but a really smart one. Oh, so it's you. What are you doing here? Aunt, we must have a talk. Ever since I came here, I've sensed something awful happened in this house. The life you share with your husband is a living hell, and yet you're still young. Why do you stay in your room and drink by yourself? I want to know why you live like a recluse. I'm begging you, don't ask me so many questions. I'd rather drown in my cups, so I won't remember. That's why I'm a lush... I drink to forget. Does it work? No. No bottle could ever erase the memories I have of your father. I know that's the problem, and for a long time now... I had already married your Uncle Conrad. One day, his brother showed up at the house... your dad. He was so different. In two weeks, he had completely transformed the house, and had transformed me as well. I fell madly in love with him. I was pretty, back in those days. I knew he never really loved me, but we shared some happy times, full of tenderness. They were the only moments of joy I've ever known. My husband was suspicious. He watched and waited, baiting his trap. One day we were alone and he caught us... He murdered your father. He did it right in front of me... ...with a scalpel. I was so afraid, and my husband threatened to kill me too. He adored his brother, but jealousy destroyed his heart. So, after the murder, he put together the perfect alibi: your father was gravely ill and died during emergency surgery. The day of the funeral, your uncle wouldn't let anyone go near the coffin. That's a beautiful necklace, Miss Amira. - You like it? - Yes, it's perfectly stunning. Since you think it's so pretty, you ought to have it. "The mysterious murders of these young pretty women "continue to baffle the authorities. "Who is the invisible killer? "Why were each of the three murdered girls "wearing identical necklaces? "It seems that a tragic whim forces the killer to give "his intended victims this bizarre and exotic jewelry. "Shaped like a snake from the Amazon, it entwines the victim's throat with a wicked rattler's tail... " I know I don't talk very good, I'm not an educated man, but my head's on straight. And I don't think this guy was a man at all. What was he then? I don't know, but the way he moved, the way he never reacted to anything around him, not even to a sudden noise or someone's presence, and the funny way he walked... well, he was just like a robot. He was a robot... May I go now? Yes, good night, sir. So long, and think about what I've told you. Show him out, please, and bring in the woman who runs that establishment. So long, kid. Well miss, I just want to ask you a few questions, that's all. You gave this necklace to the victim, didn't you? I did, sir. Who gave it to you? A client, two hours earlier. Who was this client? I don't know. He just said his name was Martin. - Inspector Klein? - Speaking. I advice you to test those necklaces to see if they're ultrasonic transmitters. If they are, you should question Professor Jekyll. What? Hello, hello? But who is this? Hello, hello! Bring me everything we have on a certain Professor Jekyll! Who's there? Who is it? Who's there? He appears completely honorable, a great man of science. He's even worked as an expert witness with the police. Nevertheless, there's one black cloud on his career: his younger brother's death. Here's Lang, from the technical department. - Bless you, sir. - Thank you. What's the news? Well, we've checked all three necklaces, and they have turned out to be ultrasonic transmitters. Do you think these necklaces could be the connection to some sort of mechanical creature? That's right. I'm reminded of the work of the great Dr. Orloff. He's experimented with a robot which responded to ultrasonics. The mechanism wasn't perfected, but it could certainly create an almost invincible enemy. Don't you think such a robot would have some vulnerability? That's what concerned Dr. Orloff. The vital spot has to be right between the eyebrows, but of course, insertion of a receiver there could be fatal. Thanks so very much. Call all cars. We're leaving immediately. Andros! Andros! Pardon me, Uncle. Juan Manuel! Juan Manuel! Andros! Andros! Stop! You there! Juan Manuel! Oh, my love! Stop! Good evening, I'm Inspector Klein. The killer's loose in the city! The killer! He's in the city! Melissa, I beg you, in the name of heaven, you've got to understand. You're the only one who can prevent another murder. Only you can free all these people from their worries. Melissa, you can't say no. We must destroy him, or else he'll go on killing and spreading terror. So, what can I do? They've seen him in the village. You know very well he'll never harm you. You'll have to do this alone. Call him, find him, lead him to us. Get him to the place where we're all waiting for him. Outside the old city hall would be a good place. We'll be in the windows with our rifles. Yes. And then all we'll have to do is hit him in the right spot. We can do it, I know we can. Once it's over, the city will be able to breathe again. Will you do it, Melissa? Yes, I will. Drop to the ground, Melissa! Why?
