 

                        Somewhere out there someone needs me I don't know how or where but b'lieve me. I walked the universe to find her For better or for worse beside her. For the Honor of Love By the Power Above. I have the Power I have the Power. A stranger walked into my world And when he talked, I really heard. He spoke of things like love and peace the joy it brings will never cease. For the Honor of Love By the Power Above. I have the Power I have the Power. The truth of love will always guide us The stranght above will be inside us. Forever more we'll be together Our hearts will soar one to the other. For the Honor of Love By the Power Above. We have the Power We have the Power So can you You may have defeated us But You'll never see this child again. Adora! The Sword Can it be? after so long!... aren't you done yet Adam? a work of art like me famous spice bread takes time Cringer I rather like spent my time eating than cooking - Adam, Adam! Adam, what's wrong? shh, the sorceres is speaking to me by telepathy You must come to Castle Grayskull immediately it's very important well, its a gate, where is it go to? that I cannot say this door has never opened before and You want me to pass throught it and find someone in the world that leads to? I would go myself but as You know, I have no powers outside this castle but You cant tell me who this person is, eh? hold out your hands well, except for these jewel this sword looks exactly like mine's! and like your's it is meant for someone with a very special destiny but how... Adam please, ask no questions until You find these one I can say nothing the very fate of the universe may depend on Your success well, ready for an adventure Cring...? and adventure? I haven't even had lunch yet! enter the gate now prince Adam, and good look to You! well, here we are Cring nice place uh? it'd be nicer if there where some food around I'm starving! hey, there's a village over there! let's head for it the laughing swann inn sounds like a happy place - smells like one too! um, hello? do You think he's a spy for the Horde, Cawl? it seems quite unlikely Bow the only time a Hordeman ever spies|is when he's doing something awful to someone welcome to the laughing swam stranger how may we serve You today? - how about a little chow? err, You animal... speaks? well, doesn't everybody? no, about that food... make mine fish...and plenty oh, fish.. fish it is! boy!.. fish! thank You! darling, I'm gonna like eat here Adam Horseman! no Bow, let's not be rush|we don't want any trouble I don't like that song my harp! You... You miserable rat! what did You call me? teach me music maker a lesson Mark please... I..I admit respect Do you know what I'm going to do with You music maker? You could try apologizing um, a man of courage stupidity You mean... You have a loose tongue citizen ha, good thing|that move You are under arrest! You are not making slaver of anyone today horseman so, another troublemaker let's get them both I knew this would happen Adam|again do You mind if I join You? Surrender citizen! I'm not a citizen|I'm a rebel asses thanks my pleasure now you are going to get it I say it's time to eh... pull the rug up from under them one two three! my name is Adam mine's Bow Good to meet You Adam I don't mean to be an alarmist bell but, when the horde finds out about this they sure send a fore squad after us you're rightm you better come with us Adam they'll be after you too where are we going? Whispering Woods of course! from now on my friend|you are part of the Great Rebelion mighty Hordac, I bring you bad news from the kingdom of Brightmoon speak! Three of our troopers were humiliated in the village of Faithmore|by two man who claimed to be rebels concern Hordac... what do You mean Shadow Weaver? my dark magic|that a stranger from another world has come to Etheria and it brings with him|the seed of a great trouble for the Horde Where is this stranger? he was in the kingdom of Brightmoon but my spells can no longer find him - Brightmoon!, Hordac|could be the responsable of the defeat of our troopers? um, you maybe right Cathra send force captain Adora to me at once I have a plan which would bring this stranger into the open and then we will teach him it's not nice to cause trouble for the evil Horde we should be there at any minute thank goodness|I'm pumped halt, in the name of great rebelion! where do you go? Spreag You nili, it's us! oh, Cawl, sorry|i thought you might be horseman who is that? that's Spread, he's a twigget they live in the Whispering Woods Spreag, run ahead and tell Glimmer|we're bringing in some new recruts Yes sir! sorry I scared you Pussy cat pussy cat? this is it Adam, the main camp of the Great Rebelion - it doesn't look so great to me most perceptive of you friend Cringer it is in fact a very small rebelion.. at present come on Adam, I want you to meet our lider. Glimmer, I'm Back Bow, where have you been I...oh Glimmer, this is Adam please to meet you Adam help me teach some Horde troopers a lesson and far more Madam is comming, Madam is comming! Madam... come on! over!...no...no...under..under!.. no... around! oh, we must work on this landing I agree! Madam Rass, are you alright? oh deary mine, yes,|but there was something important I have to tell you now what was that again? the village of Faithmore!|the Horde! that's it! the horde is placed inside the village of Faithmore and the but why? the array of their troopers were trap by two men they claim to be rebels ups! tach some horsemen a lesson, ah? see what you've done? otherwise, those in the all village to the mine's slaves. they do it too well, I can't ask you to sacrifice yourself Adam but maybe though be happy with just me. but hold on, there must to be a way to safe|the village without getting in oh, the horde has a force captain and oh, I'm affraid we are no match for them now I have a friend who might be of some help well, if we really gonna be the great rebelion I guess we have to start somewhere and we well do Glimmer!|we are gonna tray that Horde alright then, let's save Faithmore! it's a Horde slave transport they are loading the villagers into it this is just a waste of time those rebels will never get inself at You should destroy the village|at least then we have some fun She never let us do it who cares about her|she should leading us what was that Leech? nothing force captain! you four better bourier be on your guard these rebels seem than most don't worry about us we are ready for anything everyone's ready Bow|time to give a signal I hope the spell Madam put on this arrow works ohh, what's that? for BrightMoon|attack! my spam beams will pops them Cathra..augh...help me! oh no! ja! missed me help hang on Glimmer! I'm comming let her go sucker face not until I draining all energy You will finish now rebel By the power of Grayskull I have the power! well... that takes care of the rebels You haven't one yet I suggest you let my friends go who's that? another rebel no doubt but my shuffle rifle will stop him Cathra, Scorpia! I'll stop You muscle man that's not fairy lady like of course, you're not much of a lady anyway help me! the beam is destroying my sense of balance|I can't stand my balance distorce array has fix him take these bug face you take here the force captain big guy I'll help my friends that's a deal stand where you are rebel stay away from me the fight is over young lady what? why you...? you are the one i can't find is that so? you are mine now stranger you and this curious sword... I hope madam spell can find He-man - yeah, yeah, I hope she remembers he, right?|is very old magic and Madam is a very old magician show us where a friend will be it's working! oh deary mine, it's Beast Island! Beast Island! why would the horde take captors to that terrible place? I heard rumors that they have a prision there. if that where He-man is, let's go! save your strenght stranger|that force field is program to resist even your power you? I'm Adora, force captain Adora and your name? my name is He-man that sword you carry intrigues me He-man it feels as if it would made just for me i thought it was and now you don't? it was to give that force to someone who serves the forces of good but you... you serve the forces of evil evil? you are the one who serve evil rebel I serve the wrath for rule of the Etheria You can't believe that have had you seen how the horde trades people? I spend most of my life training in the Fright Zone It's been a little time to see the rest of Etheria Then why don't you do it? Now or are you afraid of learning the true about the horde I'm afraid of nothing then you'll go? I'll think about it. there it is! Beast Island I'll tell Madam to get set for landing oh, how lovely way to travel, don't you thing Proom? Beast Island just ahead You better... oh oh.. we've got trouble it seems that is someone else's heading for Beast Island it's comming right out there we are going to crash, somebody DO something! so much for them now for our misterious stranger... Glimmer!, are you alright? I've used to much power...weak we'll rest I'm afraid we cant The horde might send men here that is read this area immediately pull her on my back! I'll carry her. Oh thank you Battle-cat save your strenght, we'll need it to rescue He-man I'm proud of you child, you have served the Horde well|by capturing these stranger. He calls himself he man I'm proud of you too Adora Thank you might one May I return to the Fright Zone right now?|there's something I have to do off course, go I sense some disturbance in her I think she should be watched She is loyal my training and you spells of control guarantee that I wonder.... Keep it ... everyone, this isn't called Beast Island for nothing no need to panic Madam so far we haven't seen a single... what was that? nothing nothing I'd cad have tea with I'm sure oh, deary mine those binds won't hold at long we need one of your spells Madam hurry binds disapear hurry monster disapears!, not hurry binds! ups may I suggest we will run for our lives? Bow! uff, that was too close! thanks Battle Cat! Bow, are you alright? Why Cawl?, I do believe you were worried about me? me worried? surely you chest halt, say your business! force captain Adora on a secret mission for Hordac open the gate trooper well Spirit, now we'll prove to ourselves|that He-man was lying hello boys that light!|I can't see! have a nice all clear, let's go! moving on, slaves! on your fit now water water, please! I must have water! You want water, do you? alright I'll give you water help me! enjoying your water old man? well, looks like that there's only one way to go... come on! let's see how those rebel force have this look out! wh...what? excellent shot Bow but we're still trapped in here let's go! Grizzor to Hordac|Grizzor to Hordac what's going on? Lars said the Horde taxes were too high and the trooper over heard him now they're going to destroy his home not another door I feel like we've open every door in this whole place well, let's try on more He-man has to be here in somewhere look, is him! look out! Welcome to Beast Island, Rebels Hordac You villian, what have you done to them? they are paralized for a time But is what I will do to them if you do not tell me|why you have come to Etheria! Shall I have the rebel toughs taken to the sell mighty one? yes, an uncomfortable one as for you He-man... we will give you some time to consider what price will your friends pay for your silence come, Shadow Weaver bad idea is some resistence can you get me loose? certanly, if you give me a moment let's see that would do...perhaps this.... or maybe that...oh no...I think... oh yes! this, this, this, this you've done it! now to find our friends I have enough of this place I find it rather unpleasant myself some rescue!, all we did was capture outselves what..? time to go folks He-man! the alarm! let's move He-man and the rebels... they are free! what?? recapture them at once! all troopers at corridor nine rebels escaping! which way? we have to get to a flyer it's our only way to get out the island I believe the Horde's landing path is to our right right it is, oh oh...company there they are! better clear the way... let's go! you know? for the first time I beginning to enjoy this! this works like it He-man, look! I...don't...believe it He-man...come on! take off and wait for me outside I have one more little job to do don't be long Grizzor has failed this He-man is too powerful but my magic will deal with him no, it's better that we return to the Fright Zone for now we'll have another change, I'm sure as you wish what he's trying to do? I think he's about to cost the Horde... one present that's one present the Horde will have to do without I've never seen anything like that you're incredible all of the day is work now let's get back to the Whispering Woods There's certain someone I have to find right this He-man... is to dangerous to us we must find out why he is here and how we can stop him perhaps... Adora! where have you been? I've been seen for myself how we you rule Etheria! what have you discovered? You lied to me!, both of you! the Horde is evil, cruel and just the people hate us and with good cause some on the spell on her has weakened and I sense that there's something to do|with that sword she holds then you must strengthen the speel I don't know why I've never seen this before but now that I have... let me help you child... stay away surely you will not hurt me Adora I am not like a mother to you? I...I... You will see things clear after some... sleep first this He-man arrives and now Adora turns against me! well, remember who she really is yes...yes... but have no fear when she awakes, she will be under my spell once more and I will make sure she never breaks it again as for the sword I will soon discover it's secrets and knows of the He-man's as well but Adam... mission or not mission it's foolish for you to go to the Fright Zone You'll be captured stay with us in the safety of the Wispering Woods now even the Whispering Woods are not safe of the Horde I have to get going Cringer, you stay here, you are too noticeable sorry that's ok Adam you are a brave man Adam I salute you good fortune speed you on your mission eh..you...well.. thanks goodbye everyone at last is finished! a thing of beauty what is that? ah...this Imp, is the most fiercing weapon in the Horde arsenal behold... the magnabeam transporter and what that it do? watch... see that battle wagon? it was wrenched during the las battle with the rebelion it is of no use to me, so... where did it go? look on the view screen... You've sent it to the Valley of the Lost excactly!, no one has ever returned from the Valley of Lost and with this Magnabeam I shall at last rip myself of thouse pest so called themselves rebels! until now they have hidden from me on the Whispering Woods but those woods shall protect'em no longer once the Magnabeam is at full power I will transpor the entire Whispering Woods to the Valley of the Lost and all the rebels with it wonderful, shall we do it now? not yet, the array must be at full charge and that will take some time here in the plunder room is the energy source for the Magnaray the ray uses the energy of will power this rebel was caught trying to stop a Horde trooper from arresting his brother and I will do it again you evil tiran the people of Etheria will not bound to rule by force not now, not ever as you can see he has great strenght of will foolishly misguided he will do nicely be aware Hordac one day we shall drive you and your criminal crue away from this planet and Etheria will be free again I feel...so...week what is happening to me? ah, he has less power than I hope charging the Magnabeam will take a long time with such weak material we must catch up more rebels doesn't look like a easy place to sneak into? I don't look like much a member of the Horde... but...maybe I can change that... By the power of Grayskull I have the power! I have to catch up with their friends before I get inside the Fright Zone blast!, that was the last person were in the dungeons we need more power! guards, take him away and find me another rebel I must have more prisioners! the patrol shall be returning|in any moment Hordac perhaps they've have capture more rebels for you perhaps... are they inside yet? let me check... yes, there they come now but I see no prisioners the incompetent fools they failed to capture more rebels and now they have lost one of their own men no, here it comes now he must have been wait, that man is no trooper it's that rebel warrior again! well, he shall not escape this time I'll stop him once and for all wait let us not be so hasty this boy is a source of great power if we capture him he will supply the Magnabeam|with all the energy at least and with the Magnabeam charged... I'll sent the rebels to a place|where they'll never bother me again the rebel is inside the Fright Zone now Hordac alert my personal guard|I will capture him myself He will not escape me this time hello Adora how do you get in here? you don't need that please, listen to me for a moment what do you want? Adora, do you remember the last time we talked? yes... I asked you to go to the villagers and see for yourself|what the Horde is really like yes... I remember... Did you do it? did you go out and learn for yourself that the Horde is evil? yes... so... now you know right? yes... I know... I know that you are a lying rebel spy and that you are under arrest! good word force captain this particular rebel has a habit of causing trouble to me that's one habit I mean to keep Hordac I don't think so rebel guards! force captain Adora|stop the rebel excellent, force captain guards take this rebel to the plunder room and put him in the magnabeam charger his energy should be all I need to charge the Magnabeam to full capacity the..the charger? no please, you...you can't do you have an objection force captain? no objections my to the plunder room with the rebel amazing! his power is incredible I must be careful, not to drain his energy too fast this could take all night problems Weaver? something... strange about these swords they are not of this world they have a strange power that I cannot control I will have to consult my books there is no hurry by morning I will have completely drain the rebel's energy for my Magnabeam transpoter let's go now Weaver tomorrow, the dawning of a new day|shall carry the final end of the rebelion no...no...it's evil...no... Adora... Adora... Adora! Something...strange is happening... I don't know what it is... but I'm going to find out! well, everything seems to be in order here strong's rebel grows weaker... soon he will be just another slave but it is for the good of the Horde it must be done... yet... why do I feel so unsure? I don't know why I came down here in anyway I must been dreaming there's nothing here for... Adora... Adora the time is come for You for seek your destiny You must through off the enchantments|that made you slave to the Horde's will let your heart guide you trhough the path that you know to be right and let this sword give you the strenght to follow that path use that strenght to protect the weak and to help rights to wrongs commited by the Horde and here is Your first duty be to this man about to be in slave by the Horde a rebel warrior? he is no ordinary rebel, Adora he is He-man, hero and champion on the side of goodness but to you Adora, he is also something more Adora, the Horde stole you from your parents when you were a tiny baby so you never knew your mother and you never knew your father but you also had a twin brother this man, is your brother Adora and Adora, he needs your help for the honor of Grayskull, Adora for the...honor...of Grayskull? for the honor of Grayskull no! my brother... for the honor of Grayskull! I am She-ra! oh my brother... what have they done? can I do anything? the guards will be here at any second who are you? a friend... who wants to help you the sword...of power... my sword of course... the sword of power! what is going on here? He-man...catch! for the...power... hurry He-man this door won't last much longer! ... of Grayskull aj there's no need to fight we must just get out of here wait, there's something you don't know ah...the Magnabeam it is fully charged I don't know who you are but your rescue is too late guards! take these rebels at your leasure I shall go upstair to activate the Magnabeam Magnabeam, what's a Magnabeam? don't ask we have to stop him I'll care about that you go on the rebelians right good luck! go Spirit! I am Swiftwind now, dear friend You guys are going to have do better than that it's taking too long Hordac said he was going upstairs mybe I can take a shorcut pretty good rebel but not good enough I'm activating the Magnabeam This will take care of Whispering Goods oh no, Hordac is turning on the Magnabeam I've got to do something wait, that big rock just might do it down, Swiftwind! Now! No!, my Magnabeam wasted on a rock! well, I still have enough power for a second shot sorry hey, what happend? where are we? I don't know what happend but my energy is returning and I know exactly where will I going back to the rebelion men! well rebel, you smash my Magnabeam and save your worthless friends so I did, pretty good ah? not good enough rebel I still have you I going to and drop you into the Valley of the Lost myself he is getting away! poor Hordac he's had a pretty fast draining day thanks for the rescue by the way, you were just in time well, what the sisters are for anyway? sister?, what do you mean? He-man, I think we have a lot to talk about I don't understand this you said you're my sister but... I never had a sister I know how you feel I never dreamed I had a brother but the woman in the sword told me so I just knew that was true woman in the sword?, that must been the Sorceres let me have your sword Sorceres? can you hear me? greetings He-man and to you too She-ra I see you have completed your task He-man yes, but there's still so much we don't know then listen and I shall tell you all many years ago twins were born to Randor King of Eternia and his Queen, Marlena those babies were you Adam, and Adora my parents... my real parents to have two such fine children but great joy to the King and Queen but that joy was soon to turn to sorrow and the cause of that sorrow was the force from another dimension a force known as the Horde the Horde? on Eternia? lead by a vicious tiran called Hordac the Horde attempted to conquer Eternia but they were not match for your father's brave soldiers and the magic of Castle Grayskull so Hordac have to he knew you were both a destiny for something special though he did not know exactly what so he rept into the palace determined to steal you both away with his favorite pupil... Skeletor so Skeletor was originally a member of the Horde Hordac had just lifted a doll from the cradle about to take adam too when Man-at-arms enter the nurse room Man-at-arms tried to stop him but Hordac escaped with Adora to save himself, Skeletor betrayed his teacher and told us the way to the Horde's secret place Man-at-arms and I were there hoping to rescue you Adora but we were too late You may have defeated us, but You'll never see this child again. we've searched for you for many years Adora but we could not find the dimension to which Hordac had escaped to spear Adam the pain of your lost I cast a spell that wipe all memory of you in the hold, from the people only the King and Queen, Man-at-arms and I knew the secret and now? now you have gain the Sword of Protection and become She-ra, as you were always mean to do the rest, is up to you you do wanna see our mother and father, don't you? more than anything but I can't just leave Etheria the rebelion needs me You need not decide right now when you wish to return, simply contact me again through the Sword farewell, the child of Eternia my all life is changed because of this sword I know and you should give yourself some time to think things over but there's something you can do right now what's that? give your brother a big hug don't be a fool, Glimmer! you are the fool, if you think you can stop me Bow hey, what's going on here? Adam, you're back! and he's capture force captain Adora good work Adam with her on our hands we can make a deal with Hordac sorry to disappoint you, but em... Adam! cut out Cringer I take it this is a friend of your brother brother? brother? that's right, Adora is my sister she was only serving the Horde|because one of Shadow Weaver's evil spell but I broken it, and for now on I'm with the rebelion oh, welcome to the right side deary, it could be a big help to us I do anything I can perhaps you can stop by convincing Glimmer how foolish it would be to trying rescue Queen Angela from who's Queen Angela? Glimmer's mother she was the ruler of Brightmoon|the last kingdom to fall to the Horde she disappeared during the battle but one of our spies just learn that she's a slave she is my mother!, I can't let her remain slave at the monster hunger of course you can't, and we will rescue her but I think you should let right brother? right oh thank you, thank you both It seems that we have visitors and how do they suposed|to save you? dear Angela it seems deserted let's take a close look down Swiftwind! Hunger's throne room should be right behind that doors then let's go and say hello look, that must be queen Angela, come on! Queen Angela? we are here to free you how nice of you! boobs her magic pack is quite a punch well, let's show our kind of a punch sis I have you now shall we wipe that small of her face? sounds like fun to me! beautiful sight I'll teach you don't to toy with Hunger the harpy let's cross swords alright harpy, where is the real Angela? behind the throne hold on your majesty, I'll have you free in a minute thank you mighty warrior the name's He-man can you remove this collar from my neck, He-man? that shouldn't be too hard there! it was that collar which prevented me from using my magic but now that it is gone she is magnificent! and now I think we should go there's a certain young woman named Glimmer|who's very anxious to see you Glimmer!, my daughter! just follow us what a wonderful date is this I'm so...so happy me...me to it's beautiful, isn't it? a mother and daughter together now, what's on your mind sis? I was thinking with queen Angela back, the rebelion would have|a much better change against the Horde and it might be alright for you to take|a little trip back to Eternia with me when would you like to live? what immediately be to soon? who is it? a man and a woman on a horseback here, take a look hey, I now that woman, that's force captain Adora Hordak is been looking for her, we better call this him right do you mean that mother and father don't know you are He-man? no, and you mustn't tell them that you are She-ra,either ok. Adam, if you say so when do we reach the gate? just over that rise, that's where we'll contact|the Sorceres and make our way home so, Adora rides with the rebels now, don't she? so much for your "great" spells that was that cursed sword He-man gave her if only I could have learned the secret before|that womand showed up and stoled it I'd to get her too but right now is Adora I want ready? Adam, do you think mother and father would like me? Adora, they'll love you! now must go wait for me Adam there she is but what she's doing? it's a tridimensional gate she's leaving this world no...no... I won't let her escape me! take the controls welcome back to Eternia, princess princess? sure, you are the daughter of a King and Queen, remember? well, it's gonna take me a while to get used to that how blast!, I must learn to control my rocket form better where could I be? Castle Grayskull! by Horde world! I'm back on Eternia! well Adam, we've done as you've asked now, where is this surprise of yours? must we wait all day? alright, you can open your eyes now who's that? by the ancients! it's about ti... Adora! mother...father! my daughter oh, my dear sweet daughter daughter? I don't understand well, she's Adora : Adam's twin sister and she's back, after all this time look at you, how lovely you are oh mother, I'm so glad Adam brought me here son, I want you to know that today you made me the happiest man on all Eternia the royal family of Eternia is hold once more and by the ancients I swear that|nothing shall ever separate us again it's changed since last I was here could it be that my old pupil is still here? ah, my old throne room! my throne room now, old "friend" Skeletor!, how good to see you again what brings you to eternia after all this time? I came after a traitor to the Horde and it looks like I found one You've improved since last we saw each other my pupil more than after deal with you my old teacher I've done it, I've sent him back to his dimension I've done... did you think to defeat your old mentor|so easily Skeletor? when I through you... wait, it's stupid for us to fight like this you left me alone in the hands of our enemies and you betrayed me to those same enemies I say we are even mmm, perhaps you're right but Eternia is mine to conquer now I won't let the Horde have it the Horde has not interest in this world anymore I'm only here to capture the traitor I told you about this...traitor? who is it? it isn't a he...it's a She it is the baby I took from Randor Princess Adora what? enough now, for the last time|help me capture Adora and return to the world I came from and I leave you in peace, otherwise... your threats don't scare me but I'll help you if only I thought you'd see it in my way you know Skeletor?, your evil almost the match for my own together we'll make the life miserable for those Eternians fools I'll be just like the old days! yes, yes... just...like the old days! hello suckers nice work Cobra my sleep gas will keep them unconsciousness for hours move aside you plumb now..for the little magic... excellent our little trap is set let's bring it on them and they Doncan and I let out your mother out of the ship enter forgive me your magesty but I thought that you must like the special desert for the special occasion it's magnificent chef Alan but... don't you think it's a bit much for four people? oh, but this is a very special hyper cake your magesty|as you reveal to see Greetings "princess" Hordak! Skeletor! help!, somebody help! let's that cat arises the entire palace guard I've got what I came for let's get out of here Triclops, we are ready to go be my guest Skeletor quickly, everyone aboard stop too late Man-at-arms but you can tell the King he'll be hearing from me soon that villan!, we'll never catch'em now assemble my soldiers|we'll Snake Mountain Sir, I know how you feel, but a small group has a better chance of gettin|back Adora than a whole army my father is right your magesty who knows what Skeletor would do to Adora|if he sees all your soldiers comming listen tot|he king Randor He-man I have a funny feeling in my oh He-man, they've taken my little girl from me again please, get her back I will queen Marlena, that I promise You there's a Windride of you and ready to go then let's move hey!, wait for me! it's ready Hordac are you sure this will send me back to Eteria? I'm certain of it|of course, if you rather remain here... never, I hate this place you two, bring the girl here no...no.. well, what are you waiting for? I'm affraid the plan has been changed old "friend" I have better use for the princess of Eternia than you what?? now, get him! no! Skeletor, you traitor! that takes care him and now princess|I must decide what to do with you she is fainted just like a woman take her to the dungeons fur face I'll contact Randor and tell him my demands you're sure a pretty princess stupid, we have to lock you|upon the dungeon thanks for the compliments things you can't do this to me funny, I thought I just did it bye now where are we going? to the labs, Skeletor want us to run some|tests on this sword the princess was carrying what's for? Hordak thinks that there was something special about it that's was lucky now to even the odd a little bit for the honor of Grayskull! I am She-ra! Skeletor to king Random|Skeletor to king Random come in you...royal boob it's not nice to call people names who are you woman? the name's She-ra and you can stop trying to call the king I free the princess what? get her! may you boys a foward? alright, one dance and that's it! now you fellows are using your heads I'll take care of her myself ja, missed! wait for it... bone brain that's definitely an improvement to your look she's the one who's hold the sword I'll stop her room it's just ahead of us let's be care He-man look out! what happend to them? I've got a pretty good idea hello He-man, sorry you missed all the fun who in the world is that? Tee-la, Man-at-arms, this is my friend She-ra nice to meet you where is princess Adora? um...she is..um... oh, she is safe right...right, safe a female He-man this is the worst day of my life! return to Etheria? you can't be serious Adora please try to understand I love you all but Etheria is my world I can't just leave it|in the hands of the Horde oh mother, I know how hard|this is for you and father but now that I know of you I can come back when my world is free and how long would that take? how many more years will we be|without our daughter? I don't know father? But if it was Eternia under the of the Horde could you leave the fight before is over? I wish you could stay but I understand and I very...very proud of you oh father... I'm gonna miss you Adam I'm gonna miss you...a lot isn't anybody gonna miss me? remember Adora, whenever you wish to return just hold up the sword, and call my name I will come on Spirit well...good bye I guess we better head for Whispering Woods Spirit can anyone give a prince a lift? Adam!, how...what...? I thought I may give you a hand and getting the rebelion I hope you don't mind mind?...I... what is it Spirit? I've never seen so many flyers something must be happening...something big We better get to the Whispering Woods fast I gotcha by the power of Grayskull for the honor of Grayskull I am She-ra! I have the power! this looks like double trouble let's move Cat! Bow, you lead the attack on the west I'll take the easy and what bout us? He-man She-ra oh, thank goodness you are here we are going to attack castle Brightmoon|and drive out the Horde sounds good now we are really ready for the Horde stand fast, if this is a Horde trick... no, wait! what is it? She-ra, be careful! it's alright they don't wanna harm us thay want to help in the battle against the Horde I guess we can use all the help we can get but how do you know that? I'm not sure... it is if I could feel what they felt um, I wish we've hasked the Sorceres|a little more about your powers may I suggest we start on castle Brighmoon before anything else happends? good thinking Cawl! rebels, are you ready to drive|the Horde out of Brightmoon? then let's go today we'll back our world! horseman, heard me! as queen of this kingdom I demand you surrender castle Brighmoon to me! you've always were a fool Angela launch Batmechs what are they? Batmechs, robot plains up, Swiftwind destructor tanks, foward here's something for us to play with, Cat steady Swifty... steady.... Now! ready daughter? ready mother! let's get them! batmechs and destructor tanks destroyed rebels moving toward the castle blast!, activate stunners! oh dary mine those stun cannons are knoking our people unconscious we must stop them! leave at to us Madam come on, boys we've got to help down, Swiftwind I've got the flying horse in my sight now, to bring it down look out! Swiftwind! She-ra! are you alright? yes, but Swiftwind... She-ra... ough...hurt... Swiftwind is dying... I can feel the pain... if only there were something I could do... She-ra... your hands... look!, they're glowing! can it be..? for the honor of Grayskull let your wounds be healed thank you, my friend the pleasure is all mine there's another ready for some sleep what..uh..my power is gone! you ruin my stunner, were you? the spicy bolts away stunner inoperative rebels forces have entered the castle no!, it's not true! the Horde|can picking like this? that's where you are mistaken jar head you! it's all over Hordac Brightmoon is free and soon, we'll free the other kingdoms as well one battle doesn't win a war...She-ra... Hordac, wait for me they'll be back and I'll be waiting is a great day for Etherya my daughter listen to them here it's good to hear them so happy what about you? aren't you happy? yes... and no... you are not returning to Eternia with me, are you? I can't... Hordac was right one battle doesn't win a war and it's a war Etheria is fighting I'm needed here He-man at least for now tell mother and father I love them I will ready to go home Battle-Cat? sure He-man! say goodbye to all my friends here, would you? and if you ever need my help... I'll call and if you ever... I'll know just who to ask for up, Swiftwind! farewell She-ra, Princess of Power farewell He-man! dear brother Somewhere out there someone needs me I don't know how or where but b'lieve me. I walked the universe to find her For better or for worse beside her. For the Honor of Love By the Power Above. I have the Power I have the Power. A stranger walked into my world And when he talked, I really heard. He spoke of things like love and peace
