 

                        A JK FILM PRODUCTION CJ E&M PICTURES PRODUCTION EXECUTIVE PRODUCER KATHARINE KIM ASSOCIATE PRODUCER JOON H. CHOl PRODUCED BY SEAN LEE / JK YOUN CO-PRODUCED BY GlL YOUNG-MlN / LEE SOO-NAM / LEE HAN-SEUNG located near Jeju lsland Approaching 8202 ft Target in sight Confirm cause of malfunction Not doing the job right the first time Couldn't agree more What's the problem? Looks like the drill bit's stuck Can you fix it? Give me a minute Beautiful Cute bastards Control room! Control room! Jeong-man! SECTOR 7 - Get out of the way - Out Grab the top driver We got a problem in the riser Check the wellbore Lower the pipe - Here! Take over - Got it Lock the valves Hold the driver One, two One, two, Push Hardass! Control the pressure Hurry! Launch the pipe Lower the pipe Pull it up Pull it up! One, two. - One, two. Push! - Okay Okay! Hardass, you okay? No success... Again Let's face it Sector 7 is a botch What's the problem? The drill goes idle at RPM 15,000 Don't think it's a technical issue Stop babbling and explain in plain language Drill bit's stuck in the rock It's the location Bad feng shui Do we have the readings? Hey, Hardass Where do we drill next? Are you new to the business? We miss more than we hit You boys have no patience You know how much the company's paying for your futile attempts? I'm not competent and you have no passion That's why we get nothing The attitude runs in the genes Come again? I'll find oil here no matter what You'll see And when I do, there'll be nothing for you - Let's take a walk - Don't touch me When she finds oil, she'll be drinking Roll left, roll right Roll forward not Roll backward Roll sideways Roll backward Head to the ground - Head to the ground - Head to the ground Did I do something wrong? No, sir Bend your knees and sit - Something to upset you? - No - Then, I must have hurt your feelings - No, never Then, tell me... Why did you drop that pipe on my head? Like this? Do the cicada cling Cicada cling Didn't you leave something behind at home? Excuse me? You know I'm not sure Apprehension Discipline? Brain, perhaps? Should have packed them in your luggage Call your mom and have them shipped over Call your mommy, too - Sir! - Don't bother Who brought him on board? You did No, I didn't He happened to be on the same boat What was I thinking trying to find oil with these morons? It's oil Does that look like oil to you? It's anything but! What is that? Hae-jun Are you almost done? Hold still Quit playing Rambo I gave you anesthetic Don't make a fuss Hey You find this funny? I can't tell which one's the boy I ask myself the same question Do you guys ever get romantic? It's bad feng shui Did I forget the anesthetic? Didn't I give a shot? Sorry, sweetie What the hell are they? You got the profile? They're from chemosynthetic ecosystem Chemo- what? Korean, please Follow me Let me show you This is the photosynthetic ecosystem where we live in This is the chemosynthetic ecosystem where no sunlight reaches They've come a long way How did they end up Driven by shortage of food, perhaps Ecosystems apart, survival is still a bitch But the environment is completely different Must have mutated Like we adapted to living on this oil rig Can't you adapt to poor Chi-sun like they adapted? Hello, little fella? - What's wrong? - You okay, man? Did you bite or get bitten? - Are you alright? - I'm alright, I'm alright - Which number again? - No. 2 I told you a million times It's no. 3 No. 3 Watch carefully, dimwit What do you want? - Well, l... - I'm busy Of course... I didn't know how to express my feelings So, I got you this Please accept it I made myself clear already You're wasting your time and mine Is he that bad? If you were me... Seriously? He looks like a dried anchovy And, those ridiculous lips? Maybe we should swap partners? No, thanks I like mine What did he get you this time? It's my present You said you didn't want it Pathetic It's pretty - You want it? - Really? No Snob All crew on board, assemble at control room immediately What now? We got the order to pack up It doesn't mean our endeavor was in vain Jeez, where is your backbone? Cha Hae-jun We left our families and been through hell only to quit like this? Shame on you all There is no shame We tried everything To the point the entire underwater terrain morphed It's my fault that we never found oil? Not just your fault Sector 7 didn't bless us It's everyone's failure A failure? Failing is not the problem Your giving up is I'm not going anywhere Hae-jun Stubborn as a mule How come it's always war between you and the captain? Aren't you tired? Shut up That bastard He never cared about finding oil We're packing because he has no faith Jeong-man will join us to oversee the withdrawal Good He and I can drill together Why are you so obsessed with Sector 7? Because there is oil here We drilled more than 100 boreholes If there was any oil, we'll have found it by now Screw you People and machine alike... Damn you all Uncle Jeong-man Sweetheart How have you been? Good You've become a real pro Living on land treated you well You're looking great I've always been a head-turner - You look great yourself - Yeah? All grown up and manly - Good to see you - You, too Why tidy up, if we're leaving anyway? Hey, man - You've been well? - Not really Things have been different since you left A professional's gotta work with a professional Shush I'm the amateur captain, Hwang An Jeong-man - Nice to meet you, master - Me, too It's an honor The honor is all mine Why don't you unpack first? - Stop poking the meat - Cheers, everybody - Chi-sun - Huh? You gotta put your heart into in Please try some Thanks What happened to your lips? Well... He got bitten Who bit who, you'd wonder... Looks like more than one bite Talking of bite marks, I'll show you a real badass bite mark Pacific Sector 9 Sumatran offshore oil field Got bitten by a shark right here Just an inch shy of severing the spinal cord and ending up six feet under Six feet under, my ass You burned yourself on a pressure pipe But, it hurt like a bitch As much as a shark bite For a real shark bite, you gotta ask master No Come on, show us Please? If you insist I'm putting mine away I'll pass on shark fin soup I got this scar when I fell in the oil reserve pit They had to cut me open to clean up my inside It hurt Belly got oiled up How about you, captain? Go on, show us You must have a glorious scar somewhere A scar Isn't it a sign of carelessness? Yeah, right I figured you had something covered under the long sleeves My glorious scar is embedded deep in the heart When you're exposed to hot seawater of 120 the pressure cracks up your skin Not something Captain Theory would understand Don't throw cold water on our conversation She has a talent for that My talent is reviving it I wasn't gonna reveal my other scar... A cut so deep that it never closed up - Keep your pants on - Don't stop me I'm gonna do what I have to do Let me see your face You're all grown up A big girl now Here, deep under the ocean my dad must be waiting Of course If I leave like this, how am I gonna see him again? Do we really have to go? How will I ever find him? How? Uncle Jeong-man, I'm gonna find oil no matter what What are you saying? I can talk to the board Get a few more months That's not what you're here for Captain Did you see the look on their faces? If we go back now, we're nothing but defeated soldiers They're not waiting for us They're waiting for oil If we find oil, you get all the credit - But... - If anything goes wrong I'll take the fall I spent 10 years of my life in Sector 7 Have some faith in me Sweet Saudi Arabia under our feet I missed this sound She will be waiting for us just like we have It's time Let's go meet petroleum - Here I come - Me, too - Drill on - I'll give it my best Let's go We hit the gas layer Change course Connect the pipes Hold the top driver You must've had a lot of free time Bring on the challenge Fine! A big curve coming up Good shot Give me two of those Just hand them over This one's a random throw You'll never get this - My money's on Hae-jun - Mine, too Give it Happy now? I can take 10 kisses instead Where are you going? Really? Hey Hey, I'm doing your job - Be my supervisor from now - Sure - Feel free to talk down to me - Scrub it properly Sir, would you like a smack in the head? I was kidding You can't call that a kiss You don't kiss your daddy like that A proper kiss or my money A proper kiss or my money I owe her some money Can I pay you with my kisses? - You're going in with me? - Yes I had a few hiccups with the crane but diving is my specialty Take him down now I prefer him underneath me any day than above me - Stop - Stop See you later Give us a hand Something broke? Grab the belt They always break down Can you fix it? No, dummy How is it? Exciting Watch out Hyeon-wu Hyeon-wu Hyeon-wu Hold it - What happened? - Pull it up Pull harder - Pull! - Harder Hyeon-wu Hyeon-wu Harder Pull harder No! Hyeon-wu Hyeon-wu Hae-jun Let me go Hyeon-wu! It's okay, baby Gotta go back for him - Hyeon-wu - Hae-jun Hyeon-wu Hae-jun How are you feeling? Hey Hae-jun During the accident... Did you notice...? Can I come in? I'll come back You scared me Booze fell from the sky What's the matter with him? At a time No time to hit on a girl Is there really no place for me? I want to show you how I feel I'll go talk to him Let him be Where did she fall from? Top of the derrick What was she doing up there? Cause of death? Contusions and lacerations from the fall Is it suicide? Considering the circumstances, nothing suggests murder Draw up a death certificate Suicide as C.O.D. I'll get the rest of the paperwork What's the rush? There is a procedure What are you insinuating? We should notify the police and arrange transfer of the body Did anyone here have a reason to kill her? Did she have a reason to take her own life? They can't get a chopper up in this weather Let's talk about the report later Wait We have a problem Could this be... semen? Where the hell is he? Bastard What do you want, man? Where are you going? Come here They always return to the crime scene You should feel the same pain I know your love hurt but, you can't do this Why did you do it? Say it But, I was in my room The derrick is your room? Help me Please! This semen looks funny or is it something else? We got him What did you do, man? Look what you have done Look Oh, God! Hyeon-jeong I swear I didn't do it I saw you up there with her Stop crying already I really didn't do it Fine We'll find the truth with a DNA test I'll need a sample of your hair Something is wrong What is? Hyeon-jeong wanted to tell me something Where are you going? Come in Is that you, captain? What have you got for me? Doc is dead What? Uncle? What happened here? Who would do something like this? Her body's gone, too He knew that the doc will reveal the truth He killed doc to shut him up Did you securely lock him up? I'm sure Then, how did he kill doc? He's gone mad We need to remain calm We gotta kill him before he gets to us Psycho murderer Let's go check on him Wait It may not be Chi-sun He's not himself anymore He's a psychopath Hello...? Hello...? Anybody? - Are you sure? - I tied him up here You see? He escaped and killed doc Where did he go? Wait Why did you do it? Tell us What happened to you? Monster... What? We gotta get outta here There's a monster on the rig Stop there Hae-jun You take that way Jong-yun Hello? Hello? Satellite phone is dead There is nothing It's not power failure What's the problem? How did it go? Chi-sun was right We gotta get outta here - What are you saying? - You're not making any sense Everyone's going insane What's wrong with you, man? I saw them with my own eyes The monster killed both Hyeon-jeong and doc What are you doing? Uncle I gotta see for myself If it's true, it must be out hunting for more food It'll soon be our turn I'll come with you Don't go We're not going? The best strategy is to stay in one place Just go with them If you insist - It's us - It's us Copy. Come to us Okay Hurry I had to convince him to come... I don't have a clear shot Move the clutter Get the clutter out Clutter, now What is he doing? The clutter! Quickly Quickly Quickly...? Shit You okay, man? - Why did you clap, man? - Oh, the clutter... Run Run No, not there Hold your breath - Hold him - I got him Sounds like a sigh of relief Why did you come back? What are you talking about? I know you volunteered - You knew something - Stop it He threw the lighter when the beast's skin ruptured At the monster's body fluid The liquid was flammable Like petroleum You know that beast Why do you have that lighter? It belongs to Hyeon-jeong You're hiding something He can't be Uncle, tell us he's wrong We don't know how many more It lasts for over 24 hours an amazing discovery It's been over 30 hours That tiny thing Temperature? Over 1200, isn't that amazing? It's the oil itself We discovered new fuel Our country could produce our own fuel But, it's a living organism You said you'd do anything to find a drop But, it's a living organism This isn't right Soon after, they caused an accident Therefore, Sector 7 was shut down But finding oil resumed last year started breeding one of them again with Hyeon-jeong Then something horrible happened You created a monster People are in danger It's worth the risk You're becoming a monster I must tell the others I'll tell them myself when the time comes Let go of me Just hear me out You created that beast? Instead of drilling for oil, you were breeding a monster I'm sorry. I got them killed Blood is on my hands Sector 7 was our dream Dream of a lifetime Hae-jun People died because of you I'll never forgive you I'll pay for what I did But, we gotta get out of here now You leave! I'll never abandon Sector 7 We gotta go now Look what you have done Put the power back on We gotta escape Now Get away Help jong-yun - Let's go - Hurry Forget about me Just go Captain, take Jong-yun to the mini sub We should stick together Someone's gotta put the power back on In engine room? But, it's crawling with beasts Hae-jun It's the only chance we got If I don't come back Don't wait up Be careful You okay? Promise you won't leave me You'll see me in action at the crucial moment Crucial moment? Hae-jun Do you smell that? They made it Let's get to the sub Did you see that? The skin is a fucking armor Jong-yun - Jong-yun - Forget about him No! Jong-yun Hurry Run - Wait! Wait for us! - Open the door Open the door! Jong-yun! Help us - Sang-gu - No Hang on, man You should've left You should've gone, man This is the crucial moment Go, save yourself Go on No, man! Don't let go - No - Save yourself No Jong-yun, no! Jong-yun No Where is he going? Wait for us! Wait! Is there any other way? It's a blow out We gotta turn it off How do we stop this? Only the captain can Hae-jun Hae-jun! Dong-su! Hae-jun Dong-su Dong-su Dong-su Dong-su Dong-su Dong-su Hae-jun You... Pull me up Look out... Dong-su Run No - Go! - No! Go! Stop it Go, now! No! Go, now! No! No! Target in sight Target in sight Approaching We're always here Our lives are deep in the ocean - Captain One dream - Jeong-man Daddy's coming home - Sang-gu I'll get married this year - Jong-yun The ocean is beautiful because it holds oil - Hyeon-jeong Your smile makes me happy, Hae-jun! Smile for me always! Sector 7 is a vast offshore oil field located 8,000 ft below sea level in the southern tip of Jeju lsland and is believed to hold In 1978, Korean and Japanese governments signed a 50-year joint oil development program but with Japan 's withdrawal in 1986, the project was put on hold indefinitely If the development fails to resume by 2028, Sector 7 will become subject to territorial dispute
