 

                        "My time will come" "I'll play as long as it's fun" Teemu wants to quit on top Teemu Selanne: "I take everything too lightly" He is a tremendous hockey player with a lot of class. And he's only getting better. We boo the other players who have come back - but Teemu... it will be one of the biggest cheers ever. I guarantee it. 2012 June Helsinki-Vantaa Airport I'm not good at being alone. I am happiest when I get to do things - and do them with others. Therefore, it was obvious that whatever I do - I do it with other people. When you meet Teemu - there is immediately a positive aura - that is emotionally charged. He symbolizes Anaheim. When someone thinks of the Anaheim Ducks, they think of Teemu Selanne. There's always a bunch of people around him. There is always something happening. Teemu's bad at making decisions. It's frustrating. Teemu want to arrive and he wants to win. I think Teemu's intelligence as a hockey player is unsurpassed. Teemu has always hated losing. Every time we put on skates - we are taking a pretty big risk. A hit or a skate blade against your neck - can end your life. Hi, Bob. It's Teemu. How're you doing? I'm good. Yeah, I have actually. You can count me in. I'm really excited about it. I'm ready to come back for one more year. An average NHL career is about four years. These are the last moments I can still play there. It would be sad to end the career just because there is a lockout. It was the weekend before I would start serving in the army. I was celebrating my last "free" weekend with my friends. We slept at a friend's place. For some reason I felt very nauseous in the morning. My friend's mom woke us up and said, "Teemu, you have been drafted to the NHL." I asked where. "To Winnipeg." "First round." I turned - and went back to sleep. When I woke up, I asked again which team it was. Here in Finland many people told me - That I won't succeed in the NHL. I was hungry and wanted to show myself - I can play there and play well. It was easy to go there because they had other finns. Teppo put me on cleaning duty. Teppo had played there for four years. It helped a lot. Teemu trusted Teppo so much that in the morning - he never knew when training began. He always phoned Teppo. This is Winnipeg Jets' last training - before the season's first game tonight. Winnipeg's biggest newspaper celebrates the new star. "Selanne is one of the best players in the world - And maybe the Jets' most interesting player in a long time. " It was great pressure on me. I had not played yet. I knew how people found out What kind of the new guy is. Location was the Cow Palace, San Jose. We played power play - and I shot from my own position. It went in under the glove. It was like a snowball going downhill. My confidence grew. He's such a phenomenal talent. I just couldn't take my eyes off him, when I watched Winnibeg play. I scored and I knew I'd get another one. I was so hungry. Three years from now will Winnipeg be able to afford Teemu Selanne? If the Jets are in the NHL they'll have to. Don treated me like a son. He was much more than an agent. We trained in the morning. I was in charge of the training sessions. I was on the ice when the team came out. The door was open. I wondered what was going on. Teemu's not there. He was a rookie, our youngest players. Everyone else was ready for training. Suddenly he came on the ice. He had a plastic bucket on his head. On the bucket there was the word "Domi." Domi came from New York Rangers. Tie Domi got angry and went after Teemu. They skated around the rink - but obviously he can't catch Teemu. Everyone laughed. And I would train them... Domi was an enforcer and a good friend of mine. Phil Housley had an important role when Teemu broke the rookie record. We had a unique chemistry when we were out there. Being able to read each other, find each other, and we just knew where we were gonna be. Selanne taking a pass from Phil Housley. I think he got 20 breakaways during the season. Even though the teams knew we were gonna do that play, we still executed it. I went home after training in the afternoon. Head coach, John Paddock, called me. He was sick and could not come to the game. I was the head coach. It was the first game he had a chance of - beating a legendary record. It was my first game as head coach. The game was suspended for half an hour. People made speeches. Teemu got a car. The car came in with Paavo behind the wheel. Teemu went forward. The audience stood up and applauded. It is indescribable. People didn't realise then - that Teemu's record will probably never be broken. We were on a boat trip from Helsinki to Rauma. In Turku my wife began feeling it was time. We went to the University Hospital for a radiograph. We were told that we would have twins. Teemu was born 20 minutes before me. It was crowded, so I kicked him out. Paavo is conscientious, warm-hearted and diligent. A proper old-fashioned boy. Teemu, on the other hand, was very purposeful. He is also warm-hearted and helpful. He is wise and very social. The boys started skating in Lauttasaari - when they were four. We bought skates and they got to skate in the park. The stick was like a third leg. It made it easier to stand up. I remember when we moved to Nykki. Suddenly we had a villa. We had a large garden. We had no close neighbors, which was fun. We often had a dozen kids who played and did everything possible - in our garden. Sometimes our kids were not even there. We also made films. Tidy up that old hag. - Okay, sure. The sports park in upper Kivenlahti The boys came always here during the winter. The boys didn't have time for mischief because they were always here. Our parents were strict. Strong-willed children need strong-willed parents. Discipline was needed, especially with twins. We did get to practice with Panu first. With three guys you have to be determined. The boys always carried their own equipment - and took care of it. If they didn't hang up the equipment to dry - they had to play in damp gear. Teemu has probably never complained about the discipline. He appreciates it now. In Nykki we weren't allowed to shower - If we hadn't run or trained. We had bedtime at nine until we were fifteen. Dad thought that young people need rest. I also believe - that rest is important for development. We leave in half an hour. Take a shower, I'll make breakfast. Paavo's role was trying to keep up with Teemu - and ensure that he doesn't do anything stupid. Teemu didn't like it because Paavo was more sensible. He wouldn't do some things Teemu would. The rules in the rink - were almost the only rules he respected. Paavo always saved and hid his weekly allowance. Panu and I wasted ours and looked for Paavo's stash. If we found his money, we splurged it, too. But when we got caught - Paavo got our allowances next week. Change the vests. You must wear your own. - Okay. Panus buddies started drinking. Then they started using drugs - and hard drugs. In the end, they got involved in crime. My name is Panu Selanne, Teemus and Paavo's big brother. I am four years older. I have no title at the moment. Panu has been our family's black sheep. I was a good bad example. Selanne streaking down the right side - and Selanne scores! I had never seen another player with such passion to score. It was our last game of the season. I had scored 1 goal more than Alexander Mogilnyj - before the last games. We competed for the NHL goal scoring title. Buffalo's game at the East Coast was over before ours began. He scored twice. He had 76 goals against my 75. I had a chance. I scored a goal in the second period. We had a 5-on-3 powerplay at the end of the game. The guys tried their best to help me score - but I couldn't. Later Mogilnyj and I became friends - so it was fun to share the honor. And The Calder Award goes to... ... Teemu Selanne. I appreciate recieving this award. Especially when this year we had so many good rookies. I don't want to forget to say thanks to many people in Finland - who have helped me so much in making this night possible. Thank you. When you come to a new team and a new city - teammates usually help you to find a place to live, a car and so on. Sirpa and I looked at many houses. When I saw this house, I said "Wow!" We were here for over two hours. I looked around, thinking. On the way home I said to Sirpa - that we can't go back to our old house. We must do it. We'll buy it. So we bought it and now we have lived here for over 12 years. This is an incredible place. We love it. My life is perfect now with the NHL lockout. He helps me at home and takes the boys to training. I cook! There are seven people here all the time. There are six in the family - and now we have Tatu, 17, living here. He is my nephew. Turn there. Eemil scored a goal and Tatu scored twice. The boys take hockey seriously. I don't have time for any own hobbies - when I have two sons at different ages. He looked like a small crow during the first practice. His hair stood up... he was so excited. He wore swetpants and sneakers. Not fishing clothes, but almost. We bought a trailer for the family. We drove around Finland to the children's tournaments. I also kept on with athletics. I played football, hockey and bandy. and I also trained skating. I was quite small, even when I was 13-14. My football and hockey coaches said that athletics might suit me better. I was fast, but still persistent. I competed in 60 and 100 but even 1,000 meters. Teemu Selnne's free kick. A very hard shot. At 15 years old Teemu trained with the national junior team in football. Then he had to choose between football and hockey. Hitherto Teemu played in Espoon Jklubi - which was a successful team in boys born in 1970. They were unofficial Finnish champion. They had so many boys they had two teams: A1 and A2. Paavo was the goalie of A2 and Teemu stayed in A1. Jorma lkonen, Teemus coach at the time - did a fine job and taught him the basics. He taught Teemu to skate. It was clearly that the family went for the one - which had better resources. My twin brother Paavo didn't have the same motivation - getting up to the highest level. One must have a great desire - and fight his way up with his elbows if necessary. I was a bit annoyed when dad didn't drive me to training - As often as he drove Teemu. I felt sorry for Paavo who dragged his big bag along - already as a little boy. Paavo's also really funny. Teemu and Paavo often joke - and sometimes become a bit angry with each other. I think Paavo is a little smarter than Teemu. But don't tell Teemu that I said this. Paavo has supported Teemu in an admirable way - throughout Teemu's career. He has been a big part of Teemu's life. He has encouraged and defended him. One more game. I transferred from Espoon Jklubi to Jokerit when I turned fifteen. At the same time Jokerit got a new coach, Leo iks. Teemu was not a child star at the time. He trained passionately. I think his father was part of Teemus exercising - in a way I did not know. I was a little scared and thought - that the father might be demanding too much of him. I retired from the coaching when Teemu got a professional trainer. I was not bitter or sad - but I missed it. Leo became like a second father. Teemu's appetite was incredible. I have never seen anything like it. One time we ate steak. Teemu ate his in a flash. He asked if I was still hungry - and if there were any leftovers. I gave him my own steak. He often takes food from others' plates. Everything went fine. Anything could happen. When we trained hard, Teemu's knee problems began. There were growing pains. It was like a bullet in the knee. He would have had to play, but he could not. He crawled back to the bench from the ice. We tried to get on alternative exercises. We knew he must train. Some painkillers probably would have helped - but we did not use any. Daddy massaged Teemus knees so he could sleep. And he liked it - because he always asked me to massage the knees. I had a lot of pain for about a year. If everyone would have liked winning as much as Leo - We would have been invincible. As a coach, I aim to win - and also to maintain the team's wellbeing - and let the players develop as individuals. I demand punctuality and good manners. We also talked about the school. Everything can not be about hockey. Parental demands for Teemu's schoolwork was not as severe. It was an unspoken deal that he can invest in sports. The message I got from home was clear: "Do things you enjoy." When we saw that Teemu was talented and loved to play - , it was clear that he can study later in life if he wants to. He didn't do much homework in high school. He copied mostly from me. Or I did his homework. It was a good idea until there was a test. When I barely passed our parents told - that it didn't look particularly good. I had to brush up on my school work a little. Then I got mediocre grades. It didn't require much. After the elementary school, I thought about what I wanted to do. I went into commercial school. I trained in the morning - and went to school and ate lunch. Sometimes I ate twice. During the second year I didn't even have my books with me. I never graduated. I knew I didn't need it. I asked people if there was any kindergarten - that needed help. In the beginning he got paid, but when the contract ran out - he worked in exchange for food. It was a fun job. I got to play and clown with six-year-old pre-school children. The working hours were perfect, nine to one. I got to think of something other than hockey for a while. And it forced me to get out of bed. One day I noticed that he was unusually quiet. I sensed that something had happened. I remember it was a sunny spring day. Or maybe it was summer. Our parents asked us to get to the kitchen. They told us what would happen. We thought they were so independent - that we could get divorced. They waited until you were 15 before they divorced. The children took it sensibly. I rebelled a little. The divorce was a surprise. At least for Teemu and me. Was it? - It was a shock. At least for me. We had never seen them argue. They kept it all hidden - to create a healthy home. I wondered why we didn't travel together. We were later told who they traveled with. It was hard to accept that dad had a new woman in his life. We probably didn't treat Kirsi as well as she'd deserve. Teemu did not accept that a new woman took his mother's place. He became engaged at age 16. Teemu searched security and stability in our relationship. Anu was a good athlete. She was a finswimmer. Teemu has always been charismatic and charming. It was a surprise when Teemu, normally smart - came and asked for money. 300 Marks. It was a large sum. I asked why. He said he would tell me later. We got engaged quickly and merrily. I was told that he needed money for a ring. Teenage Love is tough. Anu was an exchange student in Seattle for a year. I even sold my motorbike - so that I could fly there and see Anu. After that Teemu became better known - and people were more interested - than when I got him for myself. I had no time for a girlfriend anymore. Not a steady one anyway. We rode motorcycles together. We went around Finland every summer. We turned many cities upside down. It's fun to look back to the time when I played in Jokerit. There was a great atmosphere around the whole team. I became his secretary when he started in Jokerit. Sometimes, I received mail from girls who sent nude pictures. It felt incredible. I opened and read all the letters. If there were issues, I asked Teemu's opinion. He became a star that year. He was the best player in Finland - when Jokerit won the Finnish championship. We created his stardom systematically. It was not hard. He is a natural star. He shoots! He scores! He became the "milk boy" then. The advertisements were made in the USA. It was really good advertising. Teemu also has narcissistic traits. He wants to be the best - and maybe not the hottest, but whatever. He doesn't drink only milk. Product of the Month is Teemu Selanne... No other athlete has been featured in more - nonsense articles than Teemu. Teemu sells papers. Hello! Media has always treated him with kid gloves. It's because Teemu can charm people. Media has always treated me well. I have also tried to live in a way - that does not cause any major scandals. Once I'd buy candy or something with the kids - when I saw the headline. I turned the children's heads and suggested another store. People like to talk about negative things. One hears rumors about Teemu or even me. People often point out that hockey players, - athletes and stars often have women around him. One must remember - what acting stupidly can cost. We both are pretty jealous. Many people find it hard to believe Teemu is also is jealous. No one can come between two people if there is no room. 1993 SUMMER l FINLAND AFTER THE FIRST NHL SEASON When I came back to Finland there was much hubbub. I had to learn to deal with it. People I know asked me to come to Corporate events. I had a lot of sponsor stuff I had promised to do. Sometimes I came home at ten o'clock in the evening. I called Sirpa and told her to take my running shoes - and come to the Kirkkonummi intersection - so that I could train even a little. I recall the journey back to North America. I sat on the plane - and thought: "Thank God, now I can rest." And I can assure you of that the NHL is not a resting place. I learned a lesson and grew as a person. Sometimes you have to be selfish. Our mothers met before we were born. I was head in a retirement home in Ruskeasuo. Sirpa's parents lived there. When my oldest son, Panu, was born - I went there on prenatal counseling. Sirpa's mom was there with Sirpa's sister, Jaana. My mother became pregnant with me - and after a year Liisa became pregnant with Teemu and Paavo. Liisa borrowed the maternity dress of my mother. Our mothers had the same maternity dress when we were on our way. We moved to Lauttasaari, but we kept in touch. Our kids played together and such. Then we didn't see very often. Our families had other things. When Paavo graduated from high school - Sirpa and her parents came to the party. I think it was actually the next day after the graduation party. I got home from training. He had worn out Adidas sweatpants. He pulled down his pants and showed us his underpants. We thought he was pretty bold. I thought immediately that she was very pretty. We talked all evening. When Sirpa and her parents left - I thought there was something special about her. I was a bit shy and wondered if I could call her. Teemu asked me to call Sirpa's mother - And ask if Sirpa had a boyfriend. I called and asked - if she wanted to come to a Pink Floyd concert with me. The mothers were very happy because the families knew each other. They thought it was nice that the children were together. Teemu was a very popular young man. He had lots of girl fans. We wondered if we could walk hand in hand - or if fans would disagree. I was conscious about it in some interviews. I wanted the girls to know that Teemu had a girlfriend. I got married first of my buddies. We had decided that whenever there's a stag party - we design a tattoo for the groom. I was blindfolded. I didn't know where we were going. I thought we were at the strip club. I was hoping that, anyway. Then I heard the sound of a tattoo machine. "Holy shit!" The guys had drawn a picture - of Finnish flag with a lightning bolt through. When the tattoo artist recognized it was me in the chair - he became so confused that the flag's colors were reversed. It looks like a "Swedish Flash." When I played in Colorado with Peter Forsberg - he said: "I knew it." "Deep inside, you always have wanted to be Swedish." Teemu had a friend he had known for a long time. That friend leaked photos from Teemu's wedding - to the magazine "7 piv." The friendship ended right there. It was an easy choice I bought salty licorice candy I bought every salty licorice candy in the whole store Then I was banned from the store for the rest of my life There was much talk that you would play in SM-liiga. But you stayed in Jokerit and Division One. Why this decision? I thought the league is too tough right now - since I willl start doing military service in June - at the Defence Forces Sports School. Jokerit played in division one and the team was almost bankrupt. HIFK also wanted us. But Jokerit had a coach named Leo iks. I don't know what he was doing, perhaps it had something to do with money - But he got Teemu to stay in Jokerit. We were four 18 year-old players - who decided to stay another year. Keijo Silynoja, Waltteri lmmonen and Mika Strmberg. I should have known that now I have to do a good bid. But I did not. A big mistake. It was a tough year. I played about 120 matches. I played for Jokerit and also their junior team, the national junior team - and the army team. The fifth games in Division One's promotion series were played today. Jokerit led 3 to 1 after the first period. Match result was 5 to 2. It was 19. October 1989. It felt as if my whole life had just stopped. Jokerit against JYP in overtime. I remember the time. It was 60:56. A guy tried to hit me and I tried to get away. My foot got stuck between his legs and he fell. You could see from the leg that this was something serious. We thought his career was over. I tried to get up - but I realized that my foot was hanging like this. Both bones had been broken. It was only tendons and skin that held it together. I cried and so did Teemu. I woke up many times during the night - and wished that it was a nightmare. I missed a whole year. I had a long plaster for three months. I remember when plaster was removed. I didn't know if I should laugh or cry. The leg was just skin and bones. I thought that everything is over. I trained one month just to learn to walk again. Afterwards I told that he needed it. It was a good thing. I no longer took for granted that I was healthy - and that my body worked. Ever since I was little - we've said evening prayers before bedtime. I believe in God and a higher power. Teemu took to prayer. When he said his prayers - he mentioned all the friends that God should protect. It was not enough that he prayed for his cousins. I remember what he said - "Dear God, let Leonid Brezhnev and Jimmy Carter - become really good friends." 15000 euro for both organizations. I want to thank you all. Our family will come to Finland in mid-June. I have three things I must do: Children's Hospitals' golf tournament - my Finnish Flash Golf Tournament and a hockey camp in Vuokatti. Markus Ketterer, Waltteri lmmonen, Keijo Silynoja and I - started a hockey camp - so we wouldn't need to go to other people's camps. We decided to make it a charity thing. This year is our 18th anniversary. Our reward is that we see young people having fun. Hello? Our reward is when we hear the nurses tell - how patients cope many days without painkillers. The boys get so excited. At home I hug my kids a little extra. I have been very lucky. These passes are dangerous. Teemu Selanne on a breakaway. A perfect ending. I remember when I had the broken leg.... I flew in America to see three playoff games. I remember how I watched those guys. The hatred between the teams was totally sick. The teams played ugly and hard. I remember when I got home. I felt a surge of motivation. I didn't know if I could play in the NHL - but I decided to work hard. I also practiced boxing. Jokerit was near bankruptcy. A friend and I bought the team. Hjallis and I got Teemu to stay in Finland for another year. Teemu was riding in my car once. I thought: "Damn, I'm not letting him out - until we have a contract." Jokerit players throw their sticks and gloves up. We were far superior. Jokerit are Finnish champions of the 1991-92 season. Jokerit's last championship was in 1973. What did you do then? - Shoveled shit in a sandbox. But you won't in any case play in Finland next season. Probably not. It was as inserting money in the bank - When he played in Jokerit for another year. When I think of my time with Jokerit - it makes me warm inside. Deep inside he is a Jokeri. If you ask me, , he has always been - one of the most important figures in Jokerit. In the NHL there is a rule that if you don't have a contract - within three years after being drafted - you'll become a free agent. It happened to me. Don and I flew to San Jose. The team was very interested. While we were there we got a phone call from the Calgary Flames. We decided to fly to Calgary. In the end, we signed a contract with Calgary. Winnipeg matched their offer, so I started my career there. He has been a good investment - Both on and off the ice. We are like racehorses. As long as we run good - they take care of us. When we can't manage to run anymore - they make sausages out of us. People thought it was a shame when the team left town. There is nothing more than hockey in Winnipeg. Three of us had the same salary: Alexei Zjamnov, Keith Tkachuk and me. The team had to sell one of us. The PR manager gave me a phone - and said that the owner wanted to talk to me. The owner called me and said, - there's lots of rumors but that I definitely was not for sale. 10 days later we trained in our home rink - when I was asked to leave to answer a phone call. The General manager said that he had had a tough day - and that he had sold me. After a minute's silence I asked where I'm going. "To Anaheim." Again there was a moment of silence and after that I said "Thank you." Sirpa was nearly nine months pregnant. A few weeks earlier Sirpa had asked me - if I would take her to Disneyland. I promised I would do it one day. Then I drove home. Sirpa immediately noticed that something was wrong. She asked what had happened. I said that now she can go to Disneyland every day - if she so desires. I said we have been sold to Anaheim. I went there the very next day. I had conflicting emotions. I knew it would be fun to play in Anaheim. I knew I would get to play with Paul Kariya. I remember the first morning in Anaheim after I was sold. It was probably 26 degrees Celsius. I walked out from the hotel to get breakfast. It was truly a paradise. Two weeks later, I flew back to Winnipeg for Eemil's birth. We had decided to trigger the birth. Everything was arranged around my schedule. It was a bit funny but I wanted to be there. I was quite nervous. Three o'clock Teemu phoned and said they had a boy. I remember the incredible feeling - when I got to hold my own child. I took out my buddies to celebrate the birth. We were out a little later than we had planned. I flew to Anaheim in the morning. In the evening I had a game. I was completely exhausted. After warming up I wanted almost skip the match. But I had skipped a match already, so I did not complain. I started playing - I do not know where the energy came from - but I had a great night. After the game, I wasn't even tired. I even had a hat trick. How ya doin'? - Good! Paul Kariya and I became good friends. I had met him at the all-star game - two weeks before I was sold. He joked that I should play in Anaheim. Everything Teemu did, shooting, passing - he did it at top speed. I also liked to do everything at top speed. If I had good chemistry with a player before - maybe he was intelligent and a good passer, but he couldn't do it at top speed - or maybe he was just a good goal scorer. Teemu did everything at top speed and at the highest level. We just knew where each other was on the ice. Paul needed somebody like Teemu to bring him out of his shell. He was very quiet. He needed somebody upbeat and positive and... noisy. I got half of my pay for my playing and the rest because I taught Paul to be a human. When we got to a hotel - he ran to the hotel to avoid signing autographs. I learned from Paul his dedication to hockey - and to everything he did. I have never seen anything like it. Who's gonna pay the whole bill? I took all the cards and I held Paul's card like this. I squeezed it so hard he couldn't get it. And Paul wondered: "how I always lose the big ones?" You never told me that. 2012-2013 SEASON I have often laughed with the other women - that the NHL is like a kindergarten. These adult males can't say no to anything. Pretty demanding of your schedule and your energy to go out there every game and trying to perform your best. You can't find the same things anywhere else as from your team - and life in the NHL. Sometimes it's a roller-coaster. One's emotions go up and down. It is a love-hate relationship. It's easy to live according to certain procedures. You don't have to think on something else. Off the ice he offers leadership. He's a leader by nature. Then he brings an upbeat uproach. He is a positive guy. Doesn't matter if you won 5 to 1 lost 8 to 1. He's happy and excited to be a hockey player. He brings positive energy to the team. It's almost impossible to replace that. Five games, seven days. I get to play enough. We have two kinds of days: game day and between days. They are quite alike. A game day morning workout is optional. I often come to the arena not knowing whether I will practice. A couple of meetings - and then I go home, eat and take a nap. Sirpa has made pasta on game days for 20 years. Always quite the same. It has always been... - Good? - Yes. He has a professional attitude - towards training and preparation. I followed him as a young boy and tried to learn from him. There is pressure to win and a fear of losing. I'm aware of it but I do not think about it much. A typical thing for top athletes is their tolerance for stress. Some don't even know what stress is. They are very laid back. The guy is always smiling, but he still is a warrior. Physically and mentally. He wants to win and score goals. He is a dangerous player because he is so fast - and can scores from bad positions. He makes very ugly goals - tip-ins and rebound goals. I have always had a sidekick and then a third link in the chain. Right now I have none of them. When he's on his game, I play him a lot, 'cause I know good things are gonna happen. If you don't need ice packs after the game - you haven't played hard enough. When I get up in the morning - I take my first steps gently - to see where it hurts. It's challenging to recover quickly after a game. I stretch 10-15 minutes every night. We also have cold and hot baths. Two minutes in both - maybe four times, so I get lactic acid moving. Careers are longer nowadays - because medicine and especially treating injuries - have evolved greatly. This year, I have noticed that if we have games two days in a row - I don't have full energy in the second game. I guess my age is starting to show. We were away for 13 days - and for some reason I slept poorly all the time. A few times I thought that this probably is my last year. But after a few days of rest and a good game - you change your mind. I realized this is pretty fun. He won't probably stop playing hockey until a doctor forbids him. When we played 26 games in 44 days - there were nights when I wasn't recovered. I am grateful that my old body did not give up. I like to listen to Finnish music. I do not know if I'm homesick - but especially abroad and on game trips - music has a special significance. When I'm driving home late at night - listening to Arttu Wiskari makes me feel good. It was June 1986, our Sierra was almost new Dad filled up, mom packed lunch / i I was already sitting in the back seat, I smiled broadly with the seat belt on Dingo sang about the girl in the leather jacket My brother Paavo called me. My father had suffered a stroke. Fortunately, a fairly mild. He lost feeling in his hand and his posture was crooked. His eyelids drooped. Such news make you stop and think to stay up - especially when you live far from Finland - and your loved ones. We fly often in really bad weather - because we have a game the next day. It's idiotic. It scares me the most. What happened last year - has always been my biggest nightmare. When the plane crashed in Yaroslavl - I felt that this is not worth playing anymore. I lost many old teammates. Ruslan Salej was a really good friend of mine. I played with Igor Korolev in Winnipeg. And Karpovtsev... They were unbelievable guys. I sharpened Teemu's skates until he turned 12. Most players don't know a thing about skate sharpening and curvatures. We were lucky enough to get to try different versions - and find the best one. We tried many different options. Many said that I sharpened them wrong. They said that the grooves were too deep. That human ankles can't handle it. I was the doorman at the pub Kosmos for 30 years. Near the end of the second period - I got a phone call from Ismo Syvhuoko, the Jokerit doctor. He said Teemu's skates need to be sharpened. I called a taxi and went to the arena. I went to the grinding room in my suit. I sharpened his skates, - jumped into a taxi and went back to work. He sharpened 10 blades for me before every NHL season. We followed what he had done in Finland and just tried to emulate that. We developed a padding - which was between the glove and the elbow pad - to protect his arms. The ice is better in Finland - and I used to play with this narrower blade. The ice in the NHL is really bad. It turns to slush after five minutes of play. It was annoying to get a good pass - that bounced over the blade. This makes the stick a little heavier. It bothers many players, but I don't mind. I can say with my hand on my heart - that I haven't heard about any player who has doped - or even been offered any. A hockey player can fill himself with drugs - but it takes so much more. You have to have hockey sense, skill and technique. There are sports that doping suit. Ice hockey is not one of them. All the Finnish top coaches in individual sports - like Kari-Pekka Kyro, are convinced - that most NHL players use illegal drugs. Ice hockey is the world's toughest sport. They have skates and a stick - A small puck and they play on ice. If the alternative is - earning $ 1,500 a month in the East Coast Hockey League - or a million a year in the NHL - you'd do anything to play in the NHL. You can't be on drugs - if you want to move fast in a small area. Since doping is forbidden, if we want to get rid of the problem - cheaters must be banned for life right away. 1991 WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS Selanne shoots! When I was a small boy I wanted to play in SM-liiga. My dream was to be in the national team. My fantasy, which felt distant and even unrealistic - was to get to the NHL. I played in a 4 country tournament in Seinjoki when I was 16. When I got the national team jersey - I shuddered because I had dreamed about it for so long. The national team has helped me step into bigger boots. Teemu scores! The Nagano Olympics were an incredible experience. For the first time the best players from the NHL - played in their national teams. Two against one. Koivu, Selanne. Selanne scores! The quarter final was the first "do or die" game. Sweden had their dream team. Nice pass from Saku Koivu In the 1999 World Championships the finals were a two game series. We lost the first against the Czechs with one goal - won the second with three goals. I celebrated for a while before I remembered the rules. The atmosphere was a bit flat when we went into overtime. We lost in overtime. So it goes. Nothing to do about it. In the 2006 Olympics - we were without a doubt the best team. All the pieces fell into place. Everyone found his role immediately. Too bad we lost in the final. Sweden win Olympic gold! I would also have wanted to win with the national team. My brother Panu and I are both social. Panu needed money for drugs. We saw him sink really low. He was like a warning sign for Paavo and me. We'll never go that route. I have often thought of - how much it was my fault - and what I could have done differently. When Panu sat inside in Srninen Prison - he called me and asked for 500 Marks. "Come on Saturday when it's visiting hours." We rolled up the money. Then we gave them to Panu who hid them somewhere. He is my dear brother. You try to help any way you can. Paavo has always helped him a lot. And Mom, Dad and everyone else. I do know now what I should have done. I should have spent more time with my family. But it's good - That Panu has been clean for over ten years. Paavo has been tougher against Panu. He has said that we shouldn't help him now. He has caused his own problems and he must take the consequences. In my budget, I have counted a moped a year to Panu - because he has absolutely incredible stories. Panu is going to visit for a month now. Panu! - Hey! Leevi, how are you? - My little darling. Good to see you. Teemu! How're you doing? Come here. - Okay. Hey, what's your name? - Daisy. Wow, that's a beautiful name. A friend gave me a book called - "How to choose the sex of your child." Sirpa said that she wants a daughter. She was begging for two months. I said, "Absolutely not." I begged for one month. - It felt like two. Sirpa read the book and then I looked through it. The book seemed logical. I wrote down a list of things I would not have to do - and she signed it immediately. We started working on the project. If ovulation was on a Wednesday - you would start early if you wanted a girl. After 60 or 70 hours all the boy sperms are gone. More than 90 percent are girls. We followed the instructions. It was great to hear the gynecologist say it was a girl. The relationship between a father and a daughter is special. After Veera was born Teemu has now and then said - that maybe we could have another girl. I have put a stop to it. He can beg all he wants - but there will be no more kids. Ever since he was a little boy, , Teemu has woken up like a little bird. He was never grumpy. Veera is the same. For many athletes sport is their own thing - and their families suffer. But in this family, it is a lifestyle for everyone. He is my idol. Naturally he's my dad too. He has always been there for me, when nobody else is. How was the game? - Okay. My dad plays in the NHL and doing something he loves. But it isn't necessarily a real job. He always stops here. If there is even one person here, , he writes an autograph. I never tell anybody who my father is. I do not want to be recognized because I'm Teemu Selnnes son. Top athletes are selfish. They wouldn't be as good if they were not. They do what they want to and when they want to do it. Oh, they're swimming. It doesn't matter which one is the top athlete in a relationship - the partner must understand what he or she needs. Otherwise things won't work. Teemu is the boss here. I am his slave. He can make a sandwich in the kitchen. I am in the living room. Then he asks me to come to the kitchen. He might ask me to give him a cheese slicer from the sink. Do not believe her. Sometimes it irritates me that Teemu doesn't help me - as much as other men help - with the children and household chores. If Teemu needs to do something unpleasant - cancel an order or anything - he always asked Paavo to do it. He has always had difficulty to do unpleasant things. He has become accustomed to someone else taking care of them. Paavo or mother and now it has been me. Or some friend. He has trusted buddies who fix things for him. Teemu would not sit on a jetty alone - and stare out to sea. He lives by his friends. Teemu has had so many friends during his life. He has known Pumu and Haba since childhood. He is still good friends with Keijo and Waltteri - and the other guys from Jokerit. My and my brother's buddies have always been welcome. We offer food, drink and shelter. Sometimes our home is like a Gypsy camp. Our friends are like family members. Teemu was a little boy when we started working together. If I have any problems, I always call lmmu. He always helps me. Whatever it is. Teemu said that you are his best friend. Yes. It's true. Teemu is my best friend. He's probably a dictator at home. What he says goes. He is trying to convince everyone else too: "Don't listen to your wives. Do as you please." We call him Dr. Phil because he's so eager - to meddle with other people's relationships. He can be damn annoying - because he is always late. He's always the last one on the bus. Teemu always came last and he always ran to the bus. Many times we just drove off and let him run after the bus - a few hundred meters. I told him: "If you miss the fucking helicopter I won't wait for you." "I've been waiting for you so damn many times." That time he was 10 minutes early. You were on a game trip. - Game trip? I missed you. Will you take a nap there? You'll be sweating soon. I am totally exhausted. Every family has their problems, of course. Do you understand what I'm saying? They can talk about things. The most important thing is that the resolve their conflicts with love. When you're in a car with me I am responsible for you. What if a drunk driver runs right into us - and you don't wear a seat belt. Your parents would ask me why you didn't have a seat belt on. "He didn't wanna." Yuou won't go to the party. - Yes. He needs a punishment. - He must learn. Leevi is like Teemu when he was little. He is mischievous and not very obedient. Show a picture of the girl. Is she so hot - you want to sacrifice this much for her? Teemu gets angry when I want to be out late. That's our biggest problem. What kind of parent is Teemu? Soft. Too soft. So now you get to go to the party? - Yes, this time. Treat others as you want to be treated. It is the main principle in our family. Hey! Where's my coffee? Wifey! Where's my coffee? - A Moment. Bad service here. After years of training... Here is the gentleman's coffee in a special cup. Thank you. - You're welcome. Sirpa ! Delicious coffee. Is it delicious? - Yes. It's been brewed with love and passion. Honestly. - Hey... It's gonna be white? - Yes. The bar is gonna be warm wood. I just purchased a restaurant from Laguna Beach - with some buddies. It will be a nice bonus. We are currently renovating. I want to be in real estate business. I would also like to be in some kind of car business. I also want to play through America's top 100 golf courses. It will probably take several years. Ducks let me decide for myself what I want to do. I do not want a job where I have to travel a lot. That's why I won't become a coach. I'll have many hobbies and other things to do - but I don't think I can find the same passion for something else - than I have for hockey. Teemu is strapped in and ready to go. Ready? Now. 7.3 g! Great job! My father has always had a lot of toys. It came perhaps from there. Cars have always been a very important hobby for me. My first car was a big old American one. He bought this '61 Lincoln when he got a professional contract. They've accumulated since then. If I get a good offer, I buy the car. It was a fun meeting. Jari Kurri, Teppo Numminen and Teemu were there. We went to eat hamburgers. They ordered classic cars before they ordered burgers. It was easier to choose a car than a burger. Teemu drove here a lot. He trained at drifting and stuff. We drove around in the evenings. It was great to drive in the evenings - because you saw if someone came. It was safer that way. We have been cautious not to do anything stupid. I removed driver's seat backrest - so I could sit back because I had plaster on my leg. I used my crutch for gas and my right foot for the clutch. We drove off to a snow-filled ditch. I couldn't push the car back to the road - and neither could Sirpa. We called our friend Jorkka who fetched us. I told him that Sirpa had driven into the ditch. It took him a year to get that I had been driving. If you watch him for a day or two - you will see that he is completely insane. The roads are better and the rain ended. Now I've got a race feeling. One of my best friends, Kaide Eklund, began rallying. I sat in the car a few times in training. It was awesome. Our contracts forbid this kind of stuff. There is athree page list of forbidden things. So I competed under a false name, Teukka Salama. My first car was a Ford Escort RS2000 . Next year I rented an Mitsubishi Galant for a race. Then we bought a Mitsubishi Lancer Group N - and in Jyvskyl, we finished a race for the first time. Then Marcus Grnholm gave us his Toyota Corolla WRC. We could run it at 200 km / h in Ouninpohja. I drove up the hill and only saw the sky behind it. The co-driver said "slow down" - which I did, but we still flew high. The front wheels hit the ground first and the back end just bounced. We drove on the front wheels for 10 to15 meters. Luckily, I had the wheels straight. Otherwise we would have been in the ditch. The public prosecutor may bring charges against Teemu Selanne for his car accident. Kalervo Kummola loves rally and has often been a co-driver. It is our common hobby. Pekka Huolman called and told that he would go and train - on a closed road near lkaalinen. Team Europe had organized training days. I asked if Raimo Helminen and his son wanted to come. There were five people in my car. We were told to stop the training after nine at night. It was ten to nine. I said we'll go now. I wanted to drive the course both ways once more. He wanted to run first so he didn't have to eat dust. He would wait for us before he turned back. I had a friend with me. We drove to the other end in the normal rally style. I turned and started to wait Kalervo. It was three or four to nine - so I thought that he probably won't come. I was going to run slowly. My friend said how good the traction was. I showed him - how good the grip was and how powerful the brakes were. Teemu was so enthusiastic - that he forgot our agreement. I totally forgot that Kalervo was coming. There was a small crest. Normally I would have run at approximately 150 km / h It was the only place for three kilometers - where you could not see the oncoming traffic. The car jumps about 20 meters high there. There are three jumps on the route. I was under the biggest one when Teemu came flying. When the car took off - I saw Kalervo's car 30 meters away. The only thing I remember - was a windshield with the text "Toyota Corolla". When we landed there was nothing I could do. I think I saved us by turning the car sideways. My car flipped over twice and ended up in the woods. Kalervos car stopped quickly - but the blast was a lot harder for them. The car caught fire. I had time to think: "Did I survive the crash to burn to death?" I jumped out to check out Kalervo's car. There were five people in it. Everyone seemed relatively okay. Everyone was in shock. I lost my heel and broke my arms. Raimo Helminen got internal injuries. The recovery took all winter. My brother-in-law broke his knee. I realized what I had done and collapsed on the ground. I nearly fainted. Teemu also contacted the Heavenly Father then. We had a guardian angel because nothing worse happened. Given the circumstances, we got off pretty lightly. I was in a wheelchair for 3 1/2 months. I had nightmares and woke up sweating long afterwards. Everything was my fault. I drove, it was my responsibility. After that, I didn't want to go rallying again. One day when I was a rookie I went to our physiotherapist. I said I was in little pain and asked what we should do. He was having a bad day. He had already received a couple of guys - complaining about their problems. He was annoyed and took me a little farther away. He said: "Fucking rookie - First thing you have to learn in this league is playing with the pain!" I was like this... I once took a puck here and it broke in three places. I still have three metal plates. Here I got a fracture. It was hit by a slap shot. I broke the tibia and fibula simultaneously. Once I tore my Achilles tendon. Here I had two fractures. My left knee has been operated on six or seven times. The first thing I'll do after quitting playing - is having a knee surgery. I'll get a prosthesis. The tibia will be sort of cut off - and this turned ten degrees outside. The bones will be aligned again. Tennis and golf are so important to me- that if I can't do them I'll lose a part of me. If I had had to quit after the year in Colorado - I would probably be a little bitter. I was a free agent again. I was considering my options, staying in San Jose - or moving to a new address. Paul Kariya phoned me. His contract had also ended. He had some quarrel with Anaheim - and he definitely wanted to leave Ducks. We ended up in Colorado. Joe Sakic and Peter Forsberg were there. Rob Blake and the rest of the gang. Expectations were sky-high. People congratulated us for getting the Cup in advance. Paul and Teemu found themselves - unrestricted. It will be a long year. - Yes. Two players came here together. When the initiative did not come from the team - some people didn't like the idea. They had barely welcomed us - when they reminded us of that we had not won anything yet. Things started fine. We played five games really well. Then Paul got a wrist fracture. He was gone for four months. Then something happened with the coach. Although we never quarreled - I was placed on the third line. I wondered what was going on. Sometimes I played on the fourth line. Sometimes I played great and was the 1st star of the night - even though I was on the third line. At the next training I ended up on the fourth line. Around Christmas Sakic said- it was incredible and that he would have left already. Teemu called me after an away game and said, "My knee is in such shape that if I were a race horse - I would be sausages already." That was my only bad season. Media had not had the chance to write something negative - about my career or my game before it. A journalist wrote I'm like cancer - causing bad atmosphere in the team. I wrote a comment in the newspaper - that after the NHL season - first time during Teemu's career - it's not certain if he would be chosen to the World Championships team. I listed Colorado's problems. I had a source on the inside. Teemu denies everything even today. If they're printing the truth then it's okay. You must live with it. Joe Sakic and Peter Forsberg sitting on a bus - heading to the airport. Teemu, who had played eight minutes - delayed the whole team. Such trifles. I have never understood why people go so overboard. He was pissed. I did not know that such a nice man could be so angry. But he had the balls enough to talk to me. I told straight up what I thought. We met at SM-liiga's gala, in the toilet. I had forgotten the whole thing, but Teemu hadn't. Later he apologized. He said it was one of his biggest mistakes. I accepted his apology. If you piss off a star - you don't get even the nice stories. There is a song about not wanting to replace a single day. I wanted to replace the whole year. Will Mattias Norstrom get a penalty? Or will it be Selanne? Selanne, for interference. Incredible! The WC in Finland in 2003 was probably the hardest tournament for Teemu. I have never played in another game that turned around so fast. Niinimaa's pass in front of the net! I have never experienced anything similar. It felt like a... ... Earthquake, the entire arena rocked. We were leading 5 to 1. Then something happened. I don't know what. Norstrom shoots. Does it bounce in? Yes, it does! It felt like you could hear if someone whispered on the top row. The fans panicked when it was 5 to 4. The crowd went silent. Some players simply gave up. Sweden were lucky as usual. He sails completely freely around the goal. Incredible! It became 6 to 5. Then we were goners. It was horrible. Sweden win after an incredible game. Finns on the bench look pale. When the game was over - I was out of the arena in two minutes. Selanne scored the 5th goal for Finland. Is it never Teemu's time to win? SELNNE AND KURRI'S AGEN DON BAIZLEY HAS DIED I met Don during Christmas and at the beginning of the season - and he seemed to be well. He was positive as always. He didn't want the doctors to tell - what kind of chances he had. He would fight as long as he could. He was a caring man. He was never greedy. He knew me fairly well even before I played in the NHL. When I started getting salary he always said: "Save the money. Don't buy the cars." When I bought a car I kept it a secret. If he had asked I would had confessed. His positive attitude and joy were unbelievable. He was an example to us all. The World Cup was played before the lockout. I didn't want to play there, because I couldn't play at my own level. But it was nice. We got silver and came close to winning. After the World Cup I had a knee operation and I decided - that if the knee won't be as good as it was at its best - I won't play a single game. Don Baizley said that Teemu's career was at stake. There was talk in the teams - that he can't play in the NHL anymore. It was a challenge as we so nicely say nowadays. An injury is the worst way to end a sporting career. Both menisci were torn. The knees were very badly worn. The patella was in wrong position. We had to a complete renovation. A year of rehabilitation. Ismo, my surgeon, gave my knee two years. He said I could play for two more years. That was eight years ago. The surgery gave me in some ways a new career. Has the knee been stiff? - A little. This will sting a bit. Is Ismo the only one giving you these shots? Team doctors also do it. It took 1 1/2 years before the knee worked painlessly. That happened one day. It was incredible. I did not hurt anywhere. I knew that everything would be fine. My agent phoned Brian Burke, who was the general manager at the time - and said Teemu wants to come back to Anaheim. He asked if it was possible. Burke said the team can't afford me. A few weeks later Brian called up Don - and said that they have some money now. I signed on real cheap. I said immediately that I will sign. It was fun to get back with the fans and everything. I was also healthy. I felt as good as during my first year. In the conference finals - We played against Edmonton and lost the series 4 to 1. We got better all the time. It showed how good a team we could become. After the last match - I said to the guys: "Next year, remember - how disappointed we were." We could go even further. Brian Burke said to me: "I know exactly what you're worth." He promised me that if I took this salary - he would use the difference - about three million dollars - to acquire a player who could help us win the Stanley Cup. I remember it well. It was my birthday. I got a call. They had acquired Chris Pronger. Too bad no one filmed me. My smile was quite wide. I knew he was the missing link we didn't have last year. After the Stanley Cup Finals - I was invited to Anaheim's dressing room. Older players, like Scott Niedermayer, were on their way out - in suits. Teemu had all the equipment and tied skates - 2 1/2 hours after the game. It was the only year we had started well. We hadn't lost a game after 17 or 18 games. It was a good start. Play offs are fun for us players. Each shift, each hit - and each time you throw yourself in front of the puck... Everything affects everything. Little things decide the outcome. During the Finals - we had 12 guys queuing up for the doctor. We got Toradol injections that remove almost any pain whatsoever. Without it, I think none of us could have played. An incredible feeling. I've been waiting for to win something big for 15 years. Sometimes I thought that this would never happen. That's why this is so important. I have been close to winning the Olympic gold, the World Championships the World Cup - but it hasn't happened. Now I have won the biggest trophy a hockey player can win. I always wanted to quit on top. Stanley Cup crowns my career. I think I've earned this finale. SUMMER 2007, FlNLAND Hi. Is this for me? - Yes. And this also. - Thanks! Veeti wrote "Anaheim". It's pretty big, isn't it? How has your summer been? - Pretty bad. Yeah, the weather has also been bad. Teemu sent this picture after his rookie season in Winnipeg. I have it on the wall at home. If you look at this picture - that was 2007 - a lot has happened between taking these. I'll always treasure them. These will hang on my wall as long as I live. When I won the Stanley Cup - I was totally sure that my career was over. There is no better way to end - than a championship - especially a Stanley Cup championship. I didn't think I'd find the motivation - to work hard and torture myself every Friday - by running in the forests of Hila. I had achieved what I had dreamed and fantasized about - since I was a small boy. I didn't think I could find the motivation for a comeback. I thought I had done my share. We returned to Anaheim after the summer. I was a normal family man and drove the boys to training. I played golf during the days. Until the boys wanted to go and watch hockey. We went to a couple of games. I looked around and thought: "That guy missed that chance." "I would have scored." Scott Niedermayer, who also was about to end his career - called and asked if I wanted to skate. I didn't even know where my equipment was. I didn't know where I had that stuff. I said I could come. I would see if it was still fun. I went and thought it was stupid. "I quit." A few weeks later an old teammate called - and asked if I would like play for fun. A beer league game. We would play and drink a few beers afterwards. I said, "Sure!" All of a sudden, it was great fun. I thought about it for a while and spoke with my family. Then I decided to play again. I've been thinking about the highlight of Teemu's career. I want to have a broader perspective. It's not the 76 goals. Not his natural talent. Not that he is such nice and happy guy. We are speaking about incredibly tough top-level sports. I think the biggest thing is that he - after getting all the money in the world - and after all the prizes - even after the Stanley Cup - and all he got from the sport - aged 36 or 37 - decides to do a new proper attempt to win. Now! Now! One more time! When you see the X-ray picture - it's hard to believe he has played with that knee in a long time. When you have to train the same things in a new way - training will be diverse as it needs to. If you can't run you can cycle. I want to play in the NHL. I have to focus on that I will, too. When I train with Teemu I notice - how much it requires to get to that level - , and how he also trains during summers. My Friday workout when I torture myself - is the only workout I don't like. But sometimes you have to stretch your limits. It's amazing how good a shape he's in. And he doesn't get winded and bend over on his stick. At his age he's the best athlete in the world. He's playing at 42 20 minutes a night against the best players in the world+. A big lifestyle change and new training methods. He made an incredible comeback straight to the top. An older player must lose weight. You have to get your weight down. I've noticed he's slowly letting his weight get lower so he can be as fast as he was. Only now Teemu has found his limits. The most difficult thing in sports is finding your maximum potential. Teemu has done that now. That's why I admire him ten times more now than ever before. The evolution stops when one is satisfied. That thought has brought me here. It's been a long time since I was playing here last time. This is something special. This city and people here have been supporting me all these 20 years. That's why this is so special for me. Too bad We are here for only one day. TEEMU WE FORGIVE YOU. COME HOME. Tonight we are saluting him for his amazing career and his unquivering passion for our city. Teemu got to have an emotional farewell 15 years late. I am only one of millions of dads - who have taken their boys to training and games. Teemu wouldn't be an elite hockey player - without dad. This necklace has everything that is important in my life. A hockey club, of course. A golf club. The heart symbolizes love of course. A four-leaf clover - and a cross I got when I was confirmed as a 15-year-old. I've weared the cross ever since. When previously asked about what's most important in life - he always answered being healthy. But after he began visiting Children's Hospital - and saw how happy little patients could be - he has started to say that the main thing is to be happy. When the crew first asked - if they could make a movie about me I replied, "Absolutely not." But later I changed my mind. I wanted to make a film that can inspire people to believe - dreams can be fulfilled through hard work. Now I also want to thank all the people - who made my dream possible. Teemu Selanne. Written and directed by JP Siili English subs: Based on Google translation of the the Swedish ones.
