 

                        1 Tokuma Shoten / Studio Ghibli, Nippon Television Network, Dentsu, Walt Disney Japan, Mitsubishi and Toho Present HOWL'S OVING CSTL iss Sophie I'e closed up the shop You should come too, Sophie I'll just finish this Go hae some fun ll right, then, I'm off I'm going Look, it's Howl's castle What? Howl? Where, where? Look how close it is Oh, no I wonder if Howl's in town It took off No, just hiding from all the soldiers Say, did you hear? Remember artha, from South Haen? hey say Howl tore her heart out How scary. . . Don't worry, he's not going to want yours Hurry up Really? Oh, cut it out. . . Hey there little mouse, lost your way? Oh, no. . . I'm fine Then how about a cup of tea? Care to join me? No thank you, I'm busy She sure is a cute little mouse Say, how old are you? You lie around here? Let me pass! See, it's those whiskers of yours She's een cuter when she's mad Hey, there, I'm sorry Where'e you been? Who are you? I'm with her Why don't you two take a little walk What the. . .? Hey, wha. . . Don't hold it against them hey're harmless Where to? I'll be your escort No, really, I'm only going to Cesari's ct normal I'm being followed Just walk Sorry, I got you inoled his way Hold on Drop your legs, keep walking hat's right, don't be frightened Very nice I'll draw them off Wait here until the coast is clear Yes That's my girl ny chocolate Letties? Look this way, Lettie - Hey, make room - Let's go for a walk, Lettie y sister? Come back soon, Lettie Sophie? How did you land on the eranda like that? Hae you become an angel? It feels like I'm in a dream. . . Lettie, why not use the office? Thanks, but I should really be working What? You sure he wasn't a wizard? He was so kind. . . He rescued me. . . Don't tell me he's stolen your heart If that was the wizard Howl, he'd hae eaten it right up Don't worry, Howl's only after beauties here you go again Listen to me, we lie in dangerous times hey say een the Witch of the Waste is back on the prowl Sophie? Oh, you. . . Lettie, the adeleines are done Okay, be right there ll right I'm going home It's a relief to know you're doing well Hello, Lettie Nice to see you Listen, are you going to spend your whole life in that shop? It meant so much to Papa Besides, I'm the eldest hat's not what I meant re you sure you want to be a hatter? Well, I . . . Bye, Lettie Come by the shop next time Sure I'll be on my way Sophie, you'e got to look out for yourself Sorry, the shop's closed I thought I'd locked the door What a cheap shop, full of cheap little hats nd you're quite cheap-looking yourself This is just a simple hat shop I think you had better leae You're ery brae, taking on the Witch of the Waste The Witch of the Waste? You won't be able to tell anyone about that spell y regards to Howl Is this really me! I'e got to stay calm I'e got to calm down It's no use panicking, Sophie I'll be fine, I'll be fine I'e got to calm down I'm back! Welcome home, a'am! - Welcome home - How do you like it? It's all the rage in Kingsbury mazing It suits you Don't you think it's wonderful? Sophie! rs. Hatter, Sophie hasn't come down to work yet I wonder what's the matter? Sophie! Don't come in I'e got an awful cold I don't want you to catch it You sound just awful. . . Like some 90 year-old woman I'll stay in bed today You sure? ll right, then Here we go. . . You'll be fine, old lady You're still healthy, and these clothes finally suit you But I can't stay here Ouch, ouch It's not easy being old hey're saying this war is going to be terrible. . . Like a hand, granny? Such a gentleman, but I'll manage Sure, old lady, but where are you off to? Just a bit farther than where you're going I don't recommend it, granny Nothing but witches and wizards ahead hank you Going to the Folding Valley, at this hour? Says her youngest sister's there I'e hardly made any progress at all hank goodness I'e still got my teeth That'll make a good cane Up we go ight be a bit too thick Ouch, ouch What a stubborn branch Neer underestimate Grandma Sophie Heae scarecrow, eh? I thought you were working for the Witch But how do you stand by yourself? Your head's a turnip I'e always hated turnips t least you're not upside down anymore So long It's so cold The town's still so close Don't follow me You don't owe me a thing You must be a magical whateer-you-are I'e had enough of witches and spells! Just go stand whereer you like! This is a perfect cane Thank you kindly While you're at it, could you bring me a house to sleep in? Seems you get more cunning with age What a huge battleship I neer realized how weak you feel when you get old I smell smoke aybe there's a cabin Turnip-head, isn't that Howl's Castle? his is hardly what I meant when I asked for shelter! What is this? You call this a castle? Is that the way in? Just wait up there Hey, there! re you going to let me on, or not! y shawl! It seems warm enough inside, Turnip I'm going in hank you en Howl wouldn't want an ancient heart like mine his time, it's really goodbye You may be a turnip, but you're a good turnip ay you find happiness What is this place? Just looks like a dilapidated heap Well, one nice thing about getting old is that nothing surprises you anymore That's some spell you're under It won't be easy to break he fire talked nd you can't een tell anyone about it You're Howl? Wrong. I'm the fire demon, Calcifer! Well, then, Calcifer, can you break the spell I'm under? asy If you break the spell that chains me to this place, I'll break your spell in a flash In other words, bargain with a demon You sure you can keep that promise? Demons don't make promises I suggest you look elsewhere But I'm an exploited demon I'm chained here by a contract with Howl, who works me to death I'm the one who keeps this castle moing y, you'e got it rough If you figure out the secret contract, the spell will break If you do that, I'll break your spell, too ll right bargain, eh? Granny Boy. . . I'e got my doubts about her Hey, who's this? Porthaen! When did she get in? Stand by Why, ayor, sir The sun is already high Is aster Jenkins at home? he aster is out I answer in his stead n initation from His ajesty It has come to war His ajesty desires eery wizard and magician, een the witches, to aid our homeland His presence is imperatie That is all War, how awful nd who might you be? Calcifer let me in Don't look at me She wandered in from the Wastes he Wastes? That's strange You're not a witch, are you? witch could neer get in Porthaen, again customer? Stand by State your purpose ama sent me he usual spell? Behae yourself, now It's not the Wastes Granny, are you a witch, too? hat's right, I'm the scariest witch in the land Sprinkle this powder on your ship and the winds will faor it Sure any thanks I can't hae you making up things You should gie up that disguise It's not a disguise, it's magic he Kingsbury door Stand by Is this the residence of Wizard Pendragon? It is, indeed I bear an initation from His ajesty Please inform aster Pendragon that he is required at the Palace Our thanks to you city fit for a king Get back in or you'll lose your nose Stop wandering around That's enough! I'm going to get really mad his is a magic house, isn't it? Oh, boy! Where does the black one lead? Only aster Howl knows I'm haing my breakfast But you'e got bacon and eggs We can't use the fire when aster Howl's away I'll cook for you But you can't Calcifer only obeys aster Howl hat's right, I won't cook for you Oh, here's my hat ll right, Calcifer Be a good fire, now Forget it, I'm a demon I answer to no one You'll do as I say, or I'll pour water on you Or would you rather I told Howl about our bargain? Hey! Hey! I neer should'e let this old lady in So, what'll it be? hat's right, there's a good fire Hey! Hey! I'll burn the bacon Calcifer's doing what she says I'd like some tea, too Hae you got a kettle? Sure Welcome home, aster Howl You hae letters from the king o Jenkins and to Pendragon Calcifer, you're so obedient She bullied me Not an easy thing to do Who exactly are you? I'm Grandma Sophie You see, I'm your new cleaning lady Gie me that Pass me two more bacon slices and six more eggs Yummy nd who hired you to clean? Why, I hired myself I'e neer seen such a filthy house Hmm arkl, plates You're all ganging up on me Please join us, Sophie Sit oer here Pick one erything else is dirty I'e got my work cut out for me arkl Yes Sophie hank you Brethren, let us partake of our daily bread Our daily bread Haen't had a real breakfast in a long while So many manners to teach. . . So, what's that in your pocket? What? I wonder what it is Let me It's scorched into the table aster Howl, this is. . . ncient sorcery nd powerful, too The Witch of the Waste? " He who catches a falling star, oh heartless man "Your heart shall be mine. . . " Well, so much for the table Wow, it's gone! he scorch mark has anished, but not the spell Brethren, continue your meal Calcifer, moe the castle 1 00 kilometers nd send hot water to the bath Not that, too! Do you work for the Witch of the Waste? Don't be stupid! The witch. . . ctually. . . the witch. . . I . . . Confound it! Damn that Witch of the Waste Wait 'til I get my hands on her! Let me finish eating this Bugs, you'd better scurry away or I'll sweep you out Eery last one of you, mocking me here's a spell I need Later witch rages within Sophie Sophie, I'm going out I'll die without some fresh wood What, what are you doing? I'll fall, I'll fall I'm in peril I'm sweeping the ashes Won't be a minute Oh, no Oh, no I'm in danger I'm in danger. . . I'll go out Oh, no I'm slipping. . . Hurry, Sophie ry not to torment my friend aster Howl, are you going out? arkl, tell our cleaning lady not to get too carried away What'd you do, Sophie? She abused me If I die, Howl goes with me I'm the cleaning lady It's my job to clean No, not the 2nd floor! If I were you, I'd put your precious things away in a hurry Sae my room for later y little outburst gae me back my strength What a strange house mazing! Calcifer, Calcifer! re you moing the castle? What a lot of fuss! Of course I am You're incredible, Calcifer Your magic's first class I misjudged you completely You think so? You really think so! Oh, no, not yet! How beautiful It's called Star Lake Something's stuck in there Oh, dear Lend me a hand, arkl Sure nd up! scarecrow He's called urnip, the urnip-head You sure like being upside down he odd creature seems to hae taken a liking to me He followed me here re you sure you're not a witch, Sophie? That's right, I'm the cleanest witch in the land Turnip, don't pull it so tight Seems like he likes doing the wash They'll dry in no time Turnip must belong to the demons Calcifer doesn't seem to mind him You're right, maybe he's a demon of the dead But he led me to this wonderful place I'e put away all the laundry, Sophie Why, thank you We'd better be getting back How mysterious I'e neer felt such peace Stinks You reek of burnt flesh and steel Keep flying and one day you won't be able to change yourself back Isn't it great! Sophie did this for me The fighting is fierce he country's ablaze, from the southern coast to the northern border I hate the fire in gunpowder hey hae no manners y own kind attacked me The Witch of the Waste? Hack wizards masquerading as monsters hey'll cry plenty later on, when they can't regain human form No, they'll just forget they eer knew how to cry ren't you supposed to report to the king yourself? Yes, well. . . Hot water for my bath Oh, no, not again Is that Howl? Yeah, wasting my hot water again I'm sure Howl won't eat any breakfast No matter orning It's loely shopping in the morning I'e neer seen the ocean Such beautiful, sparkling water Same as it always is I myself hate potatoes Pay up hank you Thanks Fish, all fresh off the boat hat one's tasty I myself hate fish he fleet's come home Is that the smoke? here's been another battle Really? Sorry, lady, later hat ship's on fire! Sophie, let's go get a closer look No, I'e no stomach for such things Let's go home Our most adanced battleship, reduced to this arkl, there are Blob en nearby Don't moe hey work for the Witch of the Waste hey're gone Don't people notice those terrible monsters? Look! Up there! That's what dropped those bombs! n enemy airship, Sophie Sophie, flyers Ignore the flyers hey're enemy propaganda! re you OK, Sophie? glass of water, please Sure Sophie, what did you do to the bathroom sheles? Look! y hair's turned this weird color! What. . . what beautiful hair Take a good look! You mixed up eerything on the sheles and ruined the spells I didn't mix up anything, I simply cleaned up Cleaning, always cleaning I told you not to get too carried away It's hopeless How humiliating It's not so ery bad This new shade's quite loely in its way I'm done for. What's the point in liing, if you aren't beautiful. . . Stop, Howl! Cut it out! He's calling on the spirits of Darkness He did this last time a girl ditched him Please, Howl, that's enough You can just dye your hair again I'e had enough of you, Howl! I'e neer once been beautiful! I'e had enough of this place! hank you, urnip You're a kind scarecrow Please come back, Sophie Howl's in trouble! Cut it out, Howl I'm going out Sophie! Get oer here y, he's dramatic Is he dead? Don't worry tantrum neer killed anyone Help me, arkl Get that hot water running, arkl C'mon, you can still walk You look after him now, arkl Sure I'll hae to clean all oer again I'm coming in Here's some hot milk Drink up I'll leae it here Drink it while it's hot Don't leae me, Sophie Try a little milk? he Witch of the Waste is searching for my house You're right, I saw her cronies down at the port he truth is, I'm a coward ll this junk is just sorcery to keep her away I'm scared to death ell me, why is the Witch of the Waste after you? She seemed quite interesting, so I approached her But she terrified me and I ran away Now the king's ordered me to report to him s Jenkins and as Pendragon. . . How many names do you use, Howl? nough to guarantee my freedom Can't you refuse the king? See that. . . he oath I took at the Sorcery cademy Say, Howl Why not isit the king? What! Just say it to his face "Stop this foolish war I refuse to help you " Sophie, you don't know what they're like But he's the king, right? king thinks only of what's best for his people I know! You'll go in my place, Sophie! Pretend you're Pendragon's mother Just tell him your son is an idle good-for-nothing aybe adam Suliman will een gie up on me adam Suliman? You're wearing that hat? fter all the magic I spent making your dress pretty. . . Off I go Sure See you later! his charm assures your safe return Don't worry, I'll follow you in disguise here Off you go! I'm sure this will neer work I don't suppose he's following me, disguised as a crow I'm sure Howl would pick a more dramatic disguise Not that. . . The Palace is so far away Howl? Don't tell me you're Howl Disguising yourself as an old dog, of all things Do you know how exhausting it is to be old? How nice to see you he little hatter, right? The Witch of the Waste! Thank you so much for deliering my note to Howl How's Howl doing? Quite terrified hanks to you, I'e become a cleaning lady y how delightful By the way, what brings you to see the king? Job hunting I'm sick of working for Howl nd yourself? he king inited me It seems that idiot, Suliman, finally needs my power Why don't you break the spell you put on me That's impossible y gifts lie in casting spells, not breaking them See you later, then Hey, wait a minute Just wait! If you weren't here, I'd hae hit her with my cane What's wrong with you? adam, ehicles are prohibited beyond this point Please continue on foot That Suliman Using magic to force me to climb these stairs We'll catch up Pay her no mind Heay, why are you so heay? You. . . Hey. . . Wait What is it? Suddenly remembered. . . how to break my spell? I told you. . . I don't know how Then, start studying up I don't get it Where does she get all that energy? I hae to put you down Why don't you call it a day? You can't make it It's been 50 years now, since they droe me out of here. . . I'e been longing for this day. . . er since Good luck to you, then Still, I'm not nice enough to help you out Come, Howl You heartless wench Next time I'll turn you feeble, too Hurry up! adam, follow me First, you should help her We are forbidden to assist anyone But the king himself inited her Hang in there! Just a little farther nd you call yourself a witch? Who asked you? You suddenly look older adam Pendragon and the Witch of the Waste! Pull yourself together Isn't this what you'e been waiting for? adam Pendragon and the Witch of the Waste! Pendragon. . . hat name sounds familiar Of course it does That was the name of my hat shop It was? Please wait here chair! It's mine! SharePirate.Com Subs Howl, get back here adam, this way please I understand you're Howl's mother Yes y name is Pendragon I'm sure you're weary Please hae a seat Yes I am adam Suliman, His ajesty's witch Um, that dog is. . . h, you mean Heen? He does my errands I asked him to escort you Howl won't join us, then? You see, he sends his mother to make excuses I'm sure he'd be utterly useless to His ajesty What a shame He was my last apprentice. . . student of such marvelous gifts I rejoiced in finally finding a worthy heir But then, a demon stole his heart, and he abandoned me He turned his magic to purely selfish uses rs. Pendragon That boy is dangerous His power is too great for one with no heart If he follows that path he'll wind up like the Witch of the Waste Bring her What happened? I just restored her to her real age ll her powers are gone Once upon a time, she was a magnificent witch She made a bargain with a demon who consumed her, body and soul, long, long ago Our kingdom can no longer afford to turn a blind eye to disreputable wizards and witches If Howl comes here to serve the kingdom, I will teach him how to break with the demon If not, I'll strip him of his powers as I hae taken hers Now just a minute Now I understand why Howl refused to come here Something's not right Forcing your aged guests to climb stairs, dragging them into strange rooms It's like a trap You call Howl heartless! Yes, he's selfish and cowardly and unpredictable But he's straight as an arrow He only wants to be free Howl won't turn into an eil monster He'll battle the demon on his own I beliee in him rs. Pendragon. . . You're in loe with Howl Howl. . . Howl's coming? I want Howl's heart, I want it That's enough from you Howl's not coming Howl will most certainly come Now, I'e found his weakness Your ajesty s you are How are you feeling? hank you for asking eetings bore me I flew out for a breather How loely These are? his is Wizard Howl's mother I see I appreciate it, but I don't intend to win any war with magic It's true that Suliman's powers shield our palace from bombs But they just fall on neighboring towns hat's how magic works Right, Suliman? Such eloquence today, Your ajesty Suliman! This is the final battle This time, we'll beat them to a pulp Suliman, you'e outdone yourself with that double. wait good news Thank you kindly Hae my generals assembled? It's been awhile, Howl Delighted to see you doing so well I saw right through you I'e kept my oath I'e no wish to fight you I'll take my mother I won't let you go Don't look down, you'll be dragged down It's time I showed your mother what you really are Howl, don't! It's a trap Hold tight Sophie, sit up front Oh, no, Sophie, you brought the whole gang along Nice doggie You're just Suliman's spy Oh, well, too late to toss you now Sophie, you steer What! I can't possibly! hey're after us I'll tackle them. Fly straight to the castle in the Wastes What! hat's impossible! Don't worry, the ring will guide you Summon Calcifer with your heart Summon Calcifer? It's glowing Follow the light You'll be there by nightfall Why send me to Suliman if you were coming yourself? Your presence gae me the courage for it She's too terrible to face on my own You'e saed me I was in grae danger back there Don't let go! - You're good - Stop joking! We'e got a lead now I can gie you 5 minutes of inisibility, now's your chance Howl! No, thank you hank you. hat's the most fun I'e had in ages I supposed Howl thinks he's escaped. . . His mother's awfully young We're not far hat's my hometown Don't look so friendly I don't trust you The castle They'e come to meet us Sophie! arkl, help! I don't know how to stop this thing! Sophie! Doggie arkl I'm home Sophie, are you hurt? You're home! Thank you for coming to meet us Oh, no, you'e gone too far I wonder if Howl's back Howl? Howl? Is it you? re you hurt? In pain? Stay away I want to help you I want to break the spell you're under You can't een break your own spell But I loe you! oo late Howl! Howl must be back Sophie, you'd better figure out how to break my spell quick We're both running out of time eaning Howl will turn into a monster? Is it true? I can't tell you that I'm a demon Calcifer, Suliman told me, Howl has gien you something ery precious What is it? Where is it? That's confidential information nd if I threaten to dump water oer you? How dare you! Howl will die with me Good morning, Turnip We'e got to be brae Ready, Sophie! OK! Open wider, Calcifer Here goes! Push! Heae! I . . . said. . . moe! Come on! They call it a castle, but once you get inside, it's a junk heap It's time to eat! Here, old girl But, Sophie she's the Witch of the Waste No need to worry Why's she staring at me? Such a pretty fire Howl Hello, eeryone Welcome home aster Howl, can we keep this puppy? n old Witch and adam Suliman's dog Why'd you let them in, Calcifer? Don't look at me! hey blew in with Sophie Sophie, always dramatic. . . So you're urnip You're under quite a spell, too Seems eeryone in our little family is complicated. . . He's so handsome This is a busy day We're moing oing? Oh, good. here aren't any shops, here in the middle of nowhere adam Suliman can track us down in no time, here But you'll hae to stay behind The magic in your spell's too risky ll right, that's done Take it away, Calcifer Excellent Stay right where you are Be gentle. . . Here goes We'e moed You can get up now mazing, aster It's so grand What a pretty fire This is. . . I added a bathroom For our growing family Sophie, come here! Sophie! I added a bedroom, too Go in his is. . . why? I thought it would suit you Do you like it? Yes, it's perfect for a housekeeper I got you new clothes, too Open them later. Next Sophie! Come here! Quick! courtyard! There's a shop, too Let's go, Heen! See that new color on the dial? There's a new exit y gift to you, Sophie Step outside It's my secret garden Beautiful Did you make it with your magic? Only a little, to help the flowers hank you, Howl! It's like I'm dreaming Sophie How mysterious I feel I'e been here before I could cry with happiness Come Look sweet little house y faorite hideaway When I was little I spent my summers there alone lone? y Uncle, the Wizard, left it to me in secret ake yourself at home there, Sophie What's wrong? I'm scared I'm afraid you'll go off and disappear somewhere, once I'm inside Howl, tell me the truth I don't mind if you're a monster I want to make sure that you'll all lie comfortably Why not a flower shop, with all these flowers? You'd be good at it, Sophie nd then, you'd go away? I want to help you, Howl I'm not beautiful and I'm only good at cleaning. . . Sophie, you are beautiful he good thing about being old is that you'e so little to lose. . . Why's that flying here? battleship? On its way to burn cities and people he enemy's? Ours? What difference does it make? urderers Look at all those bombs It stopped Did you do that? I'm just tinkering It won't crash Howl! Oops, looks like they're onto us adam Suliman's deputies Let's go back Run! oe those legs Hurry on in! No! Don't let go! What happened, Sophie? I'e had it with this place! Good night, Sophie Good night Don't worry about aster Howl, Sophie Sometimes, he's gone for days on end Thank you, arkl Need the toilet? I'm fine Good night You're in loe Sighing away like that I thought so Were you eer in loe? Of course I was I'm still in loe What? en, why eer should we want them. . . But a young man's heart is so delicious! Unbelieable nd so adorable, too What is that? ir raid siren ir raid? It's not for here But best not go out tonight Suliman's creatures are searching high and low for our house What a good fire, hiding us so well Sophie, a stranger got in! other Sophie! Where hae you been! I searched for you eerywhere! But, oh, look how you'e aged! It's all my fault I'm so sorry, Sophie! other. . . I barely recognize the house Who is that? Oh, your landlady Sophie, I'e got a new husband! He's such a wonderful man nd he's rich, too! We can all lie together again You'll neer hae to clean again But I'm happy here. . . Really? Oops, I forgot y car's waiting I'e got to run I'm so glad I found you again We'll really catch up next time In the meantime, you take care peeping-bug, eh? The oldest trick in the book, Suliman ll yours, Cal ay you find happiness, other hank you You too, Sophie I'e done what I was told Take me back to my husband Yes, I'm sure adam Suliman will be pleased Forgie me, Sophie. . . Look at all these people They're all running away The town will be empty Do you wish to run, too? hat's what that lady spoke of. . . So, she did I'm glad we made up Don't go, Sophie! I loe you, Sophie Please stay I loe you, too, arkl Don't worry, I won't go Really! re we a family? Yes, we're family Oh, good! I'll neer let Suliman get hold of Howl But the paper says we won Only fools swallow such lies How strange I can't get Calcifer going Grandma, will you stop that? Such an awful stink Why deny an old lady her pleasures Open the window, arkl I wouldn't open that now. . . In Calcifer's present state, he can't possibly keep them out arkl! Close it quick! Look after Grandma, arkl I'll check on the shop How dare you, now? If you'e energy to spare, put out the fires Howl! Dramatic as usual. . . Howl! I'm sorry I had too many enemies, tonight Howl, oh, Howl aster Howl! Sophie! Calcifer, be strong adam, was that a gift from Suliman? hat granny fed me something nasty Why, if it isn't Howl I feel we need a nice long chat Likewise, adam But we'e no time, now How unlike you You're not running away Until later, then Stay here, Sophie Calcifer will protect you I'll see to things outside Wait, Howl! Don't go! Please stay nother round of bombs is coming en Calcifer can't stop those Let's run away Don't fight I'm through running away I'e finally found someone I want to protect. . . You Howl! That's our town There's Howl Howl! Sophie! Turnip. . . arkl, come inside! oe? You're nuts here's nothing there No, as long as we stay here, Howl will keep fighting He's better off a coward Grandma, get up Going for a stroll? Suliman will find us, right away She already has. t this rate, Howl will neer make it back alie Sophie! he castle's falling apart That's all right arkl, take Grandma Sure You, too, hop up now I can't! y contract says I can't leae the fireplace If you two can't sole this, I'll do it for you Watch it! Cut it out! Cut it out! If I leae, the house will collapse Fine! We're out I'd better go last Een I don't know what'll happen. . . I told you, it would collapse Rain! Is that heading for town? Look after Grandma, arkl urnip, find us a way in Don't worry, Grandma I'll take care of you arkl, we can get in here he roof's leaking I'll go out Wait here It's wet here. . . Hurry oo damp Bring Grandma here, arkl he castle's empty I told you, if we'd stayed put, Howl and I could'e handled it Calcifer, please You're my last hope I want to go to Howl oe the castle I know you can do it You're so strong But there's no chimney here. . . nd the wood's damp. . . s the saying goes, "The best blaze brightest in adersity" I'e heard that, but. . . You really think so? You're so pretty, Cal Sit here, Grandma hen, gie me something of yours, Sophie Of mine? I can't do it alone How about your eyes? y eyes? This? mazing, Calcifer! You are the best! Imagine what I could do with your eyes and your heart Heart! You hae a heart? Oh, my! There's Howl He's trapped Hurry, Calcifer! Don't! Grandma! Stop it! Howl's heart Cut it out! Grandma! It's hot, hot! Let go! You'll die, Grandma No, it's mine! Sophie! She's so mean hat's mine Oh, no, Heen, look what I'e done I poured water on Calcifer What if I'e killed Howl, too. . . It's moing. . . Is Howl alie? Show me where he is he castle door. . . Heen. . . Howl. . . This must be Howl's childhood. . . Howl! Calcifer! It's Sophie! Wait for me! I promise I'll come back for you Wait for me in the future! I'll walk there Heen, I'll walk I can't stop crying Howl I'm sorry I took so long You'e been waiting all this time ake me to Calcifer Is he dead? No, he's fine Grandma. . . Don't look at me I don't hae anything Please Grandma You want it that badly? Yes Oh, well, in that case. . . You'd better take good care of it here Thank you, Grandma Calcifer Sophie. . . I'm all worn out If I gie Howl's heart back, will it kill you? Probably not, if you do it, Sophie fter all, we both survied the water you dumped on me I'd better try, then It's all warm and fluttery like a little bird It's still only a child's heart ay Calcifer lie a thousand years, and may Howl recoer his heart. . . I'm alie! I'm free! He moed, he's alie! You broke Calcifer's spell! Turnip! Turnip, are you OK? I'll get you a new stick, right away hank you, urnip hank you, Sophie I'm a prince from the next kingdom cruel spell turned me into a scarecrow spell that only your beloed's kiss could break "beyond these tears" spell that only your beloed's kiss could break "beyond these tears" "beyond these tears" xactly. nd if Sophie hadn't saed me, I would hae died xactly. nd if Sophie hadn't saed me, I would hae died "my flickering smile" y, you're good-looking "my flickering smile" "my flickering smile" What a racket What's the fuss? I feel terrible Like I'm trapped under a stone "holds the promise of love" I feel terrible Like I'm trapped under a stone "holds the promise of love" "holds the promise of love" Oh, yes, a heart's a heay burden Oh, Sophie, your hair is just like starlight "from the beginning of time" Oh, Sophie, your hair is just like starlight "from the beginning of time" "from the beginning of time" It's so beautiful "from the beginning of time" "from the beginning of time" I loe you, Howl! How wonderful "even though I'm alone now" "even though I'm alone now" So, now you see how Sophie feels "even though I'm alone now" "even though I'm alone now" You'd best go home and make them stop this war You'd best go home and make them stop this war "this day is born aglow" You'd best go home and make them stop this war "this day is born aglow" "this day is born aglow" That's exactly what I shall do "this day is born aglow" "this day is born aglow" When the war is oer, I shall return " fickle heart is the only constant in this world " "with the light of our yesterdays" " fickle heart is the only constant in this world " "with the light of our yesterdays" "with the light of our yesterdays" y, you hae a way with words "with the light of our yesterdays" "with the light of our yesterdays" I'll wait for your return, then I'll wait for your return, then "like the first time we spoke" I'll wait for your return, then "like the first time we spoke" "somehow I lost you" Why should you contact me now? "somehow I lost you" "somehow I lost you" What on earth hae you been up to? "among all my memories" "among all my memories" happy ending, I see "among all my memories" "among all my memories" You two-timer "you brush past my face" Well, there it is "softly as the breeze" Well, there it is "softly as the breeze" "softly as the breeze" Bring the Prime inister and the inister of Defense Let's put an end to this foolish war It's Calcifer! You didn't hae to come back I really missed you all Besides, it looks like rain. . . Thank you, Calcifer "though we slipped apart" "like sunlight through the leaves" "the promise of love" "will live on eternally" "even though I'm alone now" "my tomorrows are boundless" "like the kindness you showed me" "hidden in the night" "somehow I lost you" "among all my memories" "in a brook's gentle laughter" "in the scent of a flower" "in the depth of the sky" "you will live on eternally" Voices Chieko Baisho Takuya Kimura kihiro iwa atsuya Gashuin Ryunosuke Kamiki itsunori Isaki, Yo Oizumi kio Otsuka Daijiro Harada Haruko Kato From the Noel by Diana Wynne Jones usic by Joe Hisaishi heme Song Performed by Chieko Baisho nglish Translation by Linda Hoaglund with Judith ley Rieko Izutsu-Vajirasaran Nao misaki & Stee lpert nglish Lyrics by Jeff Knutsen Production Studio Ghibli Producer Toshio Suzuki Written and Directed by Hayao iyazaki The nd
