 

                        The following story is the true story between me and my love friend. That happened last year. Ped, I'm sorry. Truly, I don't want to separate form you. But I want security in my life Bo, he can take care of me and I can talk to him about everything. Ped, I want you to understand please, don't be mad at me. Hey! You guys, what are you doing, come here. We have new staff. Introduce yourself. Hi, I'm Ped It's my first day working here Be kind to me. He is so nice, anything he doesn't know advise him, He's still new. Hey! Ped. Howdy, Are you busy today? No, Oi bro I want something from you... What? Love from you, It's the need of my heart. It's because of you. Sometimes we lost our heart floating in the air without destination. Want someone companion together, add the power to the heart. But, Would there be someone that ready willingly. Days and Nights passed through. I'm still waiting for you here. It was you that walking into took lonely days and nights turned into the truth "just us". Happy in the way we could. Improved our love of two people. Extreme happiness fills in our heart. Good days and nights make me important. It's because of you you make the world bright. It's because of you lonely me turns to be happy. Time still walks through the heart still on road the world turns pink. It's because of you. Since the day I began work in Airport Cargo I tried to tell him that I'm not gay. He still doesn't listen. Ped, which one do you think will win tonight don't know I don't like football. Now you are with me not Kai. If in the next life you are born a girl do you think if your boobs will be big? Big or else I don't know. But if I were a woman, and you think of me like this I will be a tom. Although you are a tom I will still love you. Why don't you go chase a girl I don't know Truly I still love women too with other men I don't have any emotion. It's weird that when I'm close to you I feel spasms. Hmm! Do you think it is possible for a straight man to fall in love with another man? Then, the man that loves a man What is he? Gay I tried to ask him why does he love me. He said that perhaps we used to be a couple in a past life because he didn't feel anything with any other men before. Hey! Ped, Boss commands us to check stock together. Ped, Ohh pretend not to hear me. Good, today I will be your husband. Fuck! What are you doing? Don't feel embarrassed a lot of people here in the daylight. Are you the man? Why did you stand so close get out I will reduce your salaries. It's you so slow. Trouble thing between me and Oi Still don't end up. Another thing happens again. Ped, I left Bo Bo is psycho, likes doing harm to me. Yesterday I returned home a little late. He slapped me. So, what will you do next? If you don't mind, can I stay in your house like before. Just 3-4 months please, Ped, I have nowhere to go I don't think so. You know that it's not possible. Now, Kai moved to Ped's house already. See, I already said that Ped should be placable I don't know if it is good to return to Ped. Because of Bo's bad behaviour It's best that you return to Ped. Coz' I'm not sure that he has forgiven me? It seems you don't know OLD LOVER I see you like drinking soy milk so I bought you DAO HU deep-fried dough sticks are extra from me. Do you know every time I see deep-fried dough stick. It reminds me of my ex-girlfriend eh! Today no deep-fried dough sticks? If eating it makes you feel hurt better not to eat it I fed a dog already. Look, Oi is good, buys things every morning you have worked here for so long, and didn't bring me anything wanna try some yes boss. No, I don't give to you you eat this before too long you have worked here and sat and watched me eat first I ate this, I will give you another wait to eat, fuck get it thanks boss. It's really delicious. It's because you didn't buy it. Ped, It's late why don't you sleep. Ped, I got a new job as an insurance agent. Nice. Then, do you want to buy one. If you buy now you will get extra benefits. Health insurance, Car insurance Travel insurance don't want. Hey! Go get dressed, Kai before, I walk naked around the house you didn't complain. That's the past Go now, It distracts me by the way, do you want insurance. No. What? Oi. Hi! Do you know where I am? How can I know? Why? You lost in Nepal forest? Like I said, you don't care for me. Hello! What is it now? Why don't you call to reconcile me. Hey! Ped if you dislike me Use that cutter - stab at my heart. But I want to tell you something The hurt one is not me, but you why? Because you are in my heart. Kai, What are you doing? Don't be stupid like this. Why? We often bath together before. But we were separated now. Can lovers not bath together? So why don't you come to be my lover again. Ped, Let's start again, Can we? I'm sorry about everything in past I Know I was wrong Let's start again, please. Ped, I'm sorry Bo, He can take care of me and I can talk to him about everything. Excuse me, The broken glasses can't be fixed like before. We better be friends. You're at home? Ped. If you buy insurance now you will receive high benefits you can pay by installments but receive insurance like a cash-payer. Interesting I'm home, Kai. Hey, How tired are you today not much. Hey! Oi how can you be here. Ped, don't shout at your friend like that so cruel you didn't tell me before you stay with sister. Get the fuck out of my house. It hurts. Softly, It hurts. You don't have the right to be here if I don't allow. And I no way love you I prefer girls. Get out of my life. If you won't stop being crazy don't think I'm cruel be warned! For two days already Oi wasn't in the office. Do you know where he is? I don't know boss. Why don't you know you are his boyfriend, aren't you? Not here. Better back. Too slow. See, my fingers turn red. Coz' you don't tell me who you are I thought a collector had come to demand payment of a debt. Fuck, I thought you were sad that I abused you that day so you didn't go to work the truth is slipping away from debt collector. Ghost! I think you had better come inside. C'mon I won't rape you, quick. How can you stay at this place why? How can I stay here? It's cheap rent but if you want me stay at a better place let me stay with you fuck, always make advances. Do you worry about me? Yeah... worry don't you know the boss wants to fire you because you exploit others really? By the way, do you really care for me? No! Just kidding. Ped, Can I borrow some money to pay a debt. How much? It's alright. Thanks a lot Ped. Ped, Oi loves you, really? Yeh wah, so handsome like that why is he gay? I think he still is not - he is just a little confused really? So, it means that if he found some woman he will quit being gay, won't he? I don't know why do you ask me? Just asking by the way, Why did you tell him that you are my sister? Ooh, if I told the truth that I was your ex-girlfriend. He could have been jealous I don't want trouble with anybody. Just this I want to know I'm back. Today is the day that Oi will return my money. But he isn't at work. Perhaps he won't return and slip away but.. well.. I will pretend being mad at him and get him out of my life fuck! I thought you were killed by football debt collector already to think all people here pray for you shut up I'm still alive, just. What? Nearly die? Don't pay any attention tomorrow, you come and get your money at my place why don't you give it to me here why do I have to go to your place. If I was able to go I would have already given it to you show me a little sympathy I think of you like you think of me not more not less bye. Hey! Why are you like this? I ask you as if you were my friend I want to know that what did you do? Why? Are you worried about me? Say it first, you're worried about me. Yeh yeh? What's yeh? Talk politely. Yeh, Koo (I) worry you. KOO? Now you use koo how the gentleman says KOO again, politely. Yes sir, I'm worried about you so much, sir I don't know where to find the money to return to you I went to borrow from my father and he knew that I had gambling debts. My condition was turned into what you see now. Why is your father so cruel? Why didn't you talk with each other? He beat me more than he spoke to me. How about your ma? My mother died when I was nine I stayed with my father since then. When he was drunk he often beat me when my councilors saw that they brought me to the monk I stayed at the Temple since then till grown up. If I didn't get away from there My father would've killed me for sure. This is my ma's pic Isn't she beautiful? Yes. She never beat me I love her so much I didn't want her to die when my mother died no-one was good to me anymore when I was ill no-one nursed me don't leave me, Ped if I don't have you I don't know how I will live in the future. Oi, is your father really a boxing champ? I don't believe you your father is just drunk all day fuck. My father really is a champ then, bring us your father's champ cup if you don't, it means you are lying to us alright, I will bring it to you fuck. Oi, what are you doing? What? How dare you? Dear, stop! Don't beat him, he did not intend to. You 're on his side You want to hurt instead of him? Don't, Dad don't hurt Ma you wanna fight? Hah! Dear! Stop stop Are you hurt, son? Where does it hurt, dear? Don't cry son Ma is here now, beside you I promise I won't let anyone hurt you again. Ma, why don't dad love us. He is still sad. That cup is his dream since he started to be a boxer normally, He is good to you, isn't he? You know, don't you be mad at him. Yes ma. This, I have something for you. You want it for long thanks ma I love you the most in this world. Hey, Can I ask you something Do you ever stop gambling on football? If you want me to stop, then what will I eat? Let's see If you were starving, would you quit? Let me think a little this thing is not easy to quit. If you don't promise me Then we stop meeting each other now. Bad friend like this I can cut off easily. Hey! Why do you speak like this. OK OK, for the one who I love I can do everything even my father ask I didn't notice it but for you I accept. All this for me. You know that I don't drink. Hoo, Ped, I just get out of your way you can't do this for me? Quickly another one. More good, good boy. Fuck Oi, you're very bad I didn't meet anyone bad like you before. You want to be dog-mount I don't care. You want to gamble I don't care. But fuck that you are gay I can't accept it dog Oi, buffalo Oi. Hey! Ped. Heh! Are you awake, dear did you sleep well huh! How? Fuck you Ped How are you so mad since morning why did you slap at my head. Fuck you I thought you were my friend. So I believe in you. Koo (I) am a man Mung (You) are a man too. You a sex psycho coz you're bad like this why your father didn't accept you. You vomited on yourself so I took your shirt to wash. Your vomit, I don't mind But I mind that word in you mouth I'm sorry henceforth, don't speak about me and father anymore I hurt more than enough understand. Yes, I understand I apologize. Let me see Are you hurt? What a dip, It's hurt I'm sorry alright, same at night, you even took off your clothes in front of me I wouldn't do anything. Because I don't know how to. What? I wanna ask you something Last night, you took off my clothes besides that, what did do you do to me I just wiped your body, face then washed your shirt. Just that? ...then I stole a kiss on your cheek what? Oi, Hello. Ped, rabbits! So cute! You think should I feed rabbits I think not You better feed yourself well floating in the air without destination. Want someone companion together, add the power to the heart. But, Would there be someone that ready willingly. Days and Nights passed through. I'm still waiting for you here. It was you that walking into. Took lonely days and nights turned into the truth "just us". Happy in the way we could. Improved our love of two people. Extreme happiness fills in our heart. Good days and nights make me important. It's because of you you make the world bright. It's because of you. Lonely me turned to be happy. Time still walks through the heart still on road goal, you see the world turns pink. Use brazil, anyone can win It's because of you. It's not. It's because of you. It's difficult, are you able to do this? This, I did it since morning till now, it's still not finished yet. You shouldn't keep company with Oi If you want him just as a friend I think you better off not being gay gay people have so many types why do you want to be gay? Being a man is better. Man just have only one type. Good thing should keep well to use today not use, another day you will why should you want to be. Look this guy His thing is very bad but used every day now he used it back at me I will give you more one opportunity don't do like this again Bo! Kai, Just a moment please. No, go away. Kai, I'm sorry, I know I'm hotheaded I promise I won't do it again I really love you. No, release me I don't love you anymore get away psycho. Hey! Listen! Speak well, can't you? Release me! How to do you want? I do like this, why don't you want to go. Psycho! What are you doing? She doesn't want to go with you How dare you force her? As a man to use power to force a woman, is it right? Fuck! You want trouble with me? Help! Help! Are you alright? Let me see. - Are you hurt? - Not hurt. Hey! What happened? Are you alright? Umh! Not.. It's hurt, very hurt. Let's see a doctor. Yes! He is good looking, kind and helps protect me from Bo. So, he is your spec.. Why don't you make him your lover? But.. he is gay. You just said Oi is not 100% gay why don't you use your charm to turn him into a real man. Does it hurt? Here you are. Thanks. Thank you for helping Kai coz' Kai is your sister I must help her anyway. You want to change shirts. Yes. Let me help good. Ped, Are you alright? No! Hah! Ped became gay already? No! I didn't mean that I just wondered if I am gay or not? Eh! Kai think that do I look like gay? Why do you think so? Don't tell me that You already love Oi. No! It's.. yesterday I saw Oi shirt-off, My heart felt weird, felt shy. Normally, men don't feel like this toward each other. Ped, Look at this. Hey! What are you doing, Kai? Don't turn your face away why you want to undress? Disgusting! Put your clothes back on. Look.. Well, how do you feel? Do you Feel the same way when you saw Oi's. Hey! Ped, you should quit work. Really, if you still be here you could be a gay like Oi for sure. Quit work! How can we live in the future? Ped, Do you remember, Last year you told me what you want to be. Ped, why do you work here? I like planes. Last year I once registered to be a steward. But I didn't go to do exam because of illness I really have councils that do airplane business. Are they airport owners? No, a Kite seller at Sanam Luang. Yes, I dreamt of being a steward I think it's the right time to go away from Oi then become a steward like I dreamt of before. Why didn't I think of it before? Ped, are you free tomorrow? Let's see a movie together. No, I'm not. Ped, the Airline sent mail back to you about exam, Isn't it? Yes. It says that you passed to be a steward. Really? By the way, did Oi know you will quit work? Umh! I think I had better not tell him... I will quit quietly. But, Let's think again Oi is very pity. If he know He would be sad badly what? Ehh! Not at all My hand touch it accidentally, sorry fuck! What next? Want to be my wife? I will give you extremely, fuck! I want to sleep. Do you want to sleep at my place what? OK OK, I will I'm out now. Ped, why is your face in this pic likes a monkey's? Why didn't your father name you "LING"? Hey! Stop opening this opening that in other house. How greedy! Open your heart wide. OK, I'll go take a bath. Ped, You 're taking a bath so long want my help? Ped, don't be quiet so quiet like this, or else... Ped I can help you. Hey! Do it softly I know! I won't hurt you I promise. Oh! It's great You re so good yes, when I was child I often massaged my mother. How much do you love your ma? Weird question, Love! I know love from two people. My mother and you while I don't have ma, It's like hell on earth I'm hopeless don't know how to live my life then, Now? It's not like that at all now I have you. Ped, can I sleep hugging you. Not answer Not answer means allowing get off, your leg is touching my balls. Oi, I have something to tell you you know, I dream of being a steward then last week, I signed for new work as a steward and I passed the exam I think I can't be with you anymore. Do you hear me? Oi. Fuck, asleep without saying anything I will help Oi lose interest in you. How can you help me? By.. I will be Oi's lover. Why? Is it not good idea? Let's think If Oi becomes my boyfriend. He will not pay attention to you, right? Would it be alright? Totally good, helping Oi stop being gay, anything wrong with that? But... Ped, this is your will, isn't it? In the end, Kai do totally love Oi. After that, she forces me to be her matchmaker I'm not sure that if it will make perfect result but It's the best idea I can think of. Oi bro! Kai, where is Ped? Today he has work to do so he let me go shopping with you. Oh! Then, I don't want to trouble you I better get back. Oh ho! It's brilliant very delicious, 5 star class. This is the formula when I still stayed in temple. Temple boy taught me personally. If you like it I will cook for you every day. Ped bro! How about Saturday? Saturday? What about Saturday? Saturday is my birthday, did you forget? Oh! Yes I forgot umh! This Saturday is Kai's birthday? Yes, Oi bro will you come to my birthday party? I booked restaurant at Soi Tong Lor a lot of friends I promise you will enjoy it you should come, please. OK OK. Kai, what are you doing? Is your birthday on December, right? Hey! Are you ready to go? Can you go to my bedroom, I have something to show you. What is it? Nah! Just get up. Today you look weird nah! Just go anything to surprise me? I will wait for you here, go. OK what does he want me to see? Oi bro! Kai, what are you doing? I will make you stop loving man. Kai, If you do this Ped will be mad at you. Ped won't get up because he wants us to be here together. How did it go, Kai? What? Oi.. Oi, I'm sorry I'm really sorry. Did you hear me? I don't think you would do like that I'm sorry. Oi, I'm sorry I'm sorry... Oi this time is different from the one I first saw. He lost everything, He just want to forget about father and mother so, he made crazy, made joke to make himself happy. He nearly succeeded. But It's me make his old memory rise up again. Boss. What is this thing, I've already seen it today letter of resignation why? Today, there is the other quit already. If this happens, My company is ruined who's that? It's Oi, Does he have any trouble with you? Why did he quit in same day as you. How could the company go forward if people quit the job everyday? Why do you want to quit, stay and help us. If Oi want to quit forget him think of someone used to be painful together think of the day used to suffer tired together since then till leaving day day of leaving day of losing. Love pictures, impressions of happiness. You do not have to apologize to me. You didn't do anything wrong. It's my mistake I will disappear quietly because I don't want to see you to say goodbye. In this life, I want to say goodbye to my mother only one. Don't make me your hindrance. Now my life is left with nothing but yours is just about to start go follow your road you're going to have a good life I'm not sorry that you go don't worry about me I will stay at the place I should and ensure that I will never forget you good bye My most loved friend. Time for my conclusion. If you ask me 'do I love him?' Love. Care for him? Much cherish? A little. If I would be far from him I think of him. If he will cry again I will cry with him. If he wants to hug me I will hug him back I want to be his friend. Take care of him ONLY today My life is changed a new world turns into light brow close to him, think of you bemoan to you want you return to be by my side like before. How much expense? Insurance pays it for you already. Insurance? I don't have it. Someone did it for you. Kai, did you do insurance for me? Kai did it, not because Kai want Ped to return to Kai. Kai just want Ped to know that There is someone still worried about you at this place. Kai will move out to my old hometown. Ped, Kai advises you to go back to Oi. No, everything is finished between us Oi has gone already and he won't be coming back I have my own life He has his own. There is nothing concerned. The important thing is... I'm not gay. But to see you this way it's clear that you still think of him. No! I've forgotten him why so cold, Mouth says "used to love". But act like don't know each other. But he doesn't want to meet me anymore. No, I think that He still hopes you return to him. Ped, Kai think that There is nothing abnormal. If we want to love someone with our pure heart no matter what "friendly" or more than that. No one can understand better than two people find your true heart. Kai have to go. Excuse me, Do you know Oi's home? That way. Yes, I'm his father he hasn't been back here for many months why, did he get into trouble? Not at all if so, I'm leaving now. Hey! Just a moment. If you found him tell him that he still has a father. How are you Is it hurt? It's alright I'm used to it already. I'm sorry, I'm just serious, don't intend to hurt you send this to Oi why don't you give it to him yourself don't tell him who bought it for him. Hey Ped Howdy, are you busy today? No, Oi bro I see you like drinking soy milk so I bought it for you deep fried dough sticks are extra. If in the next life you are born a girl Do you think your boobs will be big? Big or else, I don't know But if I were a woman, and you think of me like this I will be a tom shut up I'm not dead, just nearly what of your, nearly dead. Do you know every time I see deep-fried dough stick. It reminds me of my ex-girlfriend do you worry about me? I do worry about you. Are you alright? Not at all say before that you worried about me don't leave me! If there is no you, I don't know how to live my life fuck you, Oi, where are you. Hey, why do you abuse me. Ai Oi. How do you do? Fine really? Really, what do you want me to be? I thought you returned to your home. You think I will stay with my pa? You know well, I don't have place to go. If you wanna go, just go on your own why should you steal my heart with you what are you looking at? Act like not used to see me before wanna see, go ahead, see clearly. Ai Ped. Now, I understand Oi more than before the story make me understand Love can happen everyone have right to love but not everyone can own it. Thanks a lot from bottom of our hearts from Ped and Oi
