 

                        '78, I came to Europe for the first time to compete outside Brazil in the World Championship. It was pure driving. Pure racing. There wasn't any politics. No money involved either, so it was real racing. We didn't think that karting would become a career. But it's taking on a bigger dimension and we're a little worried because he will probably race in Formula One. May God always protect him from all danger he may face, that's my greatest fear. I want to thank him for being such a great son, for his good and honest work this year. That is more important than any title for me. Few people really do know myself. They just don't understand what it takes from a racing driver. Somebody that has left behind, thousands and thousands of miles away, family and friends to live in Europe. Being so young and always fighting. Nothing ever has come easy. The time has come. Ayrton is ready to drive a Formula One car for the first time. I think God gave me this chance, which I have been waiting for so long. And now He is helping me to stay calm, relaxed, tranquil. Well Ayrton, it's a beautiful city lovely narrow streets for walking, but not for racing, right? Yes, exactly. I got here at the last minute and I'm impressed because it's my first time in Monaco. I've had a bit of practice and, luckily, managed to adapt to the track. There's no room for error, as an error would lead to an accident. But so far I'm pretty happy. I was already travelling a lot, reporting on Formula One when Ayrton began to stand out. He was driving for Toleman. Toleman wasn't a winning team. It wasn't a winning car. It was never going to win a race. That's why what Ayrton did at Monaco showed a touch of genius. Alain Prost, after a superb start, has got away in the lead. It's Nigel Mansell second, the two Ferraris third and fourth. Niki Lauda is in fifth position. Sixth is Rosberg. Seventh is Manfred Winkelhock. Eighth is Ayrton Senna. But Senna has come up through the field. He started in 13th place and he's now seventh. And off goes Nigel Mansell. Ayrton Senna has now passed Keke Rosberg and is in third place. He comes and devours Niki Lauda! Ayrton Senna takes second place on the most dangerous part of the circuit! I think we are watching the arrival of Ayrton Senna, a truly outstanding talent. He's catching Alain Prost at something like three seconds a lap, and that is a truly staggering performance. Prost is waving his hand at the officials. He wants to stop the race. And who can blame him? There is, in fact, from a purist and a dispassionate point of view, no reason to stop the race. There's an official in front of me with a red flag. They are going to stop the race. And the chequered flag is going up. It is incredible! Prost is stopping, and Senna crosses the line before he gets there. Ayrton waves his arm wildly! He is celebrating as if he has won the race! If it went on for a few more laps, you can be sure Ayrton would have taken the lead. I had a great chance to win. But unless you cross the finishing line in first place, it is impossible to know. Formula One is political, it is money, and when you are still small, you have to go through this. A tragic result for Senna. However, he's not gonna actually be World Champion this year. He will undoubtedly be World Champion in the future if his career continues. Ayrton Senna, the new star of Formula One! On the Formula One podium for the first time after a fantastic performance. What about next year? Are you going to stay with the Toleman team? - What are your plans now for... - I don't know. I don't know at the moment. It's still... No decisions and nothing clear. We have to wait more time to see what happens. You're not gonna be satisfied until you're in a winning position though, are you? I believe if you are doing something like competing, like motor racing, you either do well or forget it. Lotus was the perfect place for Ayrton to move to. It was a team that had won championships and had won many Grand Prix, and they worked very, very hard around Ayrton to give his talent all the facilities that it needed to win. When I first come to Formula One in '84, I was starting, so I had so much to learn and to achieve that anything... Any good result was a progress, was a motivation. Then I changed to a bigger team, to Lotus, and I still went up and up and up. And I'm still doing it. So even when I have some problems, I look always to the next race. Because maybe one race I have no chance, but next one or the next five will be good against one bad one. So, you got to try to make the numbers bigger and bigger. Even when he was very young he already knew what he wanted and he would make it happen. For example, he paid extra attention in class so he wouldn't have to study at home and have more time to play with his go-kart. There's no doubt that Senna came from a background of privilege. His family was very comfortably off. Once they recognized that his ambition was to be a racing driver, they had no problem backing his early efforts in go-karts. But it would be a great mistake to think that he was able to buy his way into Formula One. Senna himself realized that to make a serious, lasting impact on Formula One, he had to fight his way into it by virtue of his talent. Ayrton was a genius in the rain. Whenever the conditions were bad and the track got more slippery, he had something else. Ayrton Senna wins in Portugal! AYRTON SENNA Winner of Portuguese Grand Prix '85 The race in Estoril was incredible. He lapped every car but one. It's marvelous! It's an extraordinary feeling. I'm delighted because in my second year in Formula One, I achieved my first dream, which was to win a Grand Prix. AYRTON SENNA Winner of Portuguese Grand Prix '85 It's a unique thing. It's like a drug. It is something so strong and so intense. And once you experience it, you keep searching for it all the time. I'm Mili Okada from Japan TV, Fuji TV, and I'm just a TV personality and not a news reporter so... I see. Let's make a picture together. I think there are many Japanese girls who are fans of Mr. Senna. I'm so close to Mr. Senna and so nervous. Come and see Japan, and see you in Japan. - Thank you. A little kiss. - Thank you. Bye-bye! Another kiss. There's only one word that describes Ayrton's style, and that is "fast." He would take a car beyond its design capabilities. He would brake later, fly into these corners where the car was just over the edge, and somehow he could dance a dance with that car to where it stayed on the track. As I watched Ayrton's early career, what was very apparent was his pace and his dedication. But in the end, what you're looking for is an intellect, and I thought, "This guy's got what it takes." In the mid-'80s, McLaren was the team to beat. Ron Dennis was the best manager and Alain Prost was the best driver. We all called Prost "The Professor" because he would do, methodically, whatever it took to be ahead on points. If it meant coming fifth, he would hold the fifth place and collect those points rather than fighting for a second, third or first place finish. And he certainly understood the politics of the sport, and he played that game smarter than anyone. You're known as the Professor of Motor Racing because you plan everything out and you know where you're going. Is that actually true? I'm very realistic, so I think when I'm competitive, I know that I'm competing. When I'm not, I know I'm not so. Why are there no women racing drivers? I really don't know exactly why women are not very competitive in motor racing, especially in Formula One. But, you know, you are a beautiful woman, and I know somebody at McLaren who likes you very much, and I can arrange it. Alain, you know, if only someone would teach me how to drive a car, a racing car, I might be able to give up this job and... There is nothing important I could not teach you. Does your wife drive you home? We're very confident that we have the best two drivers in the world. The two most professional drivers, as well. If we're not consistently in the winning circle next year, then we certainly won't be able to put the blame at the drivers. It's a great opportunity for me, professional. And as a personal point of view, I feel very happy to work together with Alain. The first year at McLaren was very decisive in Ayrton's life. He was very tense, it was like he had the weight of the world on his shoulders because now he had a responsibility to prove he really was a top driver. Ayrton has, for the first time in his career, the car able to be World Champion, and he doesn't want to let his chance go anywhere. - That's normal and that is going to push us. - What about you? - What about you? - It's a little bit different. So, you're going to let it go? I have a little bit more pressure than... You put me more pressure. I think you could see smiles, but at the same time some slightly strange body language, as they realized just where they were and what was going to unfold. Alain, who obviously felt he was well-nested down at McLaren, and the young pretender coming in and clearly threatening that position. Both had great intellects and both were very good racing drivers. Beating each other became far more challenging than beating the rest of the field. That day, I suddenly realized that I was no longer driving conscious. And I was in a different dimension, for me. The circuit for me was a tunnel, which I was just going, going, going. And I realize I was well beyond my conscious understanding. Ayrton was multiple seconds into the lead, had the race in hand with only a handful of laps to go, and he received a radio message that said, "You are so far in the lead, slow down." Ayrton Senna has hit the wall. Senna in the barrier! He's out of the car... Ayrton Senna is out of his car and out of this race. Ayrton Senna goes out of the lead of the Monaco Grand Prix. Absolutely incredible! He never wanted to beat me. He wanted to humiliate me. He wanted to show the people that he was much stronger. Much better. And that was his weakness. His post-accident emotion was pure anger with himself, and he couldn't cope with it at all. He actually walked back to his apartment, and it was two or three hours before he surfaced. I just came so close to perfection that weekend, that I relax. I open windows for mistakes, and I learned that there. And since then my progressive comeback, because I lost some confidence at that moment. And progressively, I fight back, and I got much stronger after that incident. Somehow I got closer to God and that has been very important for me as a man. Monaco was the turning point in the '88 season. Ayrton went on an amazing run, winning six of the next eight races. Putting him just ahead of Prost in the championship. What happens now, you two? Good fun. We will have good fun from now on. Fight. Maybe we fight outside the car. I think it's gonna get more and more exciting, the championship. Is it possible to be equal in the championship? - No. - Shit. Can only be one winner. Fifteenth race of the season. In the small hours, Brazil is waiting for Ayrton Senna to win his first world title in Formula One. His childhood dream. The pressure was on Ayrton. He was on pole, he was going to be World Champion if he won that race, so the pressure was huge. They are going to start, let's go, green light. Senna stalled! Senna left on the grid. Prost took the lead, Ayrton Senna is way behind. There is Ayrton Senna in fourteenth place. I thought, "The Championship is over. "It's all over." Senna is already up to eighth place. He is making a fantastic recovery. But then his favorite thing happened, it began to rain. Senna's now in fourth place. Senna's coming, he's coming, coming, coming! Senna is getting close. Senna's gonna challenge for the lead. Ayrton Senna goes for it and overtakes Prost. Ayrton Senna has got the lead. I started being thankful as I was doing the last lap. I thanked God. I couldn't believe I was actually going to win the Championship with all the anxiety and tension. I felt His presence. I visualized, I saw God. It was a special moment in my life. An enormous feeling. I have registered it in my memory, and it remains a part of me. Ayrton Senna of Brazil! World Champion of 1988! A fantastic race! A brilliant win because he came back from sixteenth place. Ayrton, do you feel like a World Champion now? I just feel peace. It feels like tons of weight have lifted from my head and shoulders. And it is hard to comprehend what being a World Champion is. He is an incredible person. He is so humble, and he raises the image of Brazil abroad. He shares his victories with us. I admire him so much. He's a very brave man. That's all I know of him. He is our pride. One of the few things we can still be proud of. I once asked Ayrton when he would stop racing. Mum, I'll stop when I become World Champion. I knew deep inside it is not true. We all know that. When the 1988 Championship was over and he'd won, it was plain to see how he'd become a different person because he had, in fact, found himself. He discovered what he was about, it was a process which had its closure with that victory. At Christmas things happen. We make new friends, like the one I will introduce now. He was part of my 1988, Ayrton Senna. Isn't he cute? I have a question. Everyone's excited, but no one more than me, because it's hard to speak now that he's my friend. Ayrton, what do you want for Christmas? A Christmas present? What I really want, I can't say here. Why not? Censored, but I just want happiness. Tell me here. Happy New Year. Happy 1990. Happy '91. Happy '92. Happy '93. The 1989 season was somewhat less harmonious than the year before. Both drivers took on different levels of aggression, especially when racing each other. That's when the gloves come off within a team. That's when engineers stop sharing information. That's where drivers start looking over their shoulders to see who is getting what from whom. And Ayrton, with his love of truth, wasn't as in tune as Alain Prost with adding another dimension, the politics of the sport. Senna v Prost, Prost v Senna, the order of the grid is always one or the other. It is war between them because the French driver Alain Prost thinks that his team-mate has been disloyal towards him. And it seems that this quarrel could have consequences for the rest of the season. Race by race, they were growing further apart. He said, "This Frenchman... This Frenchman is hard. "He wants war." Sometime after that they split completely, they didn't speak any more. Of course, I think French FIA president Jean-Marie Balestre at the time was helpful for Alain because they were close. I'd like you all to welcome the President of FISA, Mr. Balestre. Please, gentlemen. All the drivers in the world are looking at you on TV because they think, stupidly, that you are an example. It is a big mistake, but they think that. I repeat. No danger for the end of the World Championship. Very clear. Now it depends on you. The championship is neck-to-neck. Senna has to win the Japanese Grand Prix to keep the points battle going on to the last race. Prost knows that if Senna does not finish, he will be the Formula One Champion. Prost is first, Senna is second. Pros jumped into the lead. Prost makes a better start. The opportunity that Senna's looking for, and he's going through. Oh, my goodness, this is fantastic. They crash and it is better for Prost. If this is the end, Prost wins the title. Once again, only a victory will do for Ayrton Senna. Nannini goes by. He goes by to take the lead. Senna is still in the pit. Senna rejoins far behind Nannini. It's going to be almost impossible. It is all or nothing, five laps to go. A suicidal race for Senna if he tries something. Prost saw Ayrton rejoin the race and went straight to the Race Stewards' Office. Nannini is first, Senna is second. Senna forces it, blocks Nannini. Senna overtakes! Brazilian flags are waving. Everyone is on their feet. Ayrton Senna. The chequered flag! Senna celebrates inside his cockpit. He pounds his helmet. Ayrton Senna from Brazil! Visibly emotional, he flips open his visor and wipes his tears. It was a fantastic victory, the like of which I have never seen before. It may be in 20 minutes. Fucking hell. Want a cup of tea? It was unheard of for the podium to be delayed. Nigel, Nigel, he missed the chicane. He went through the slip road. The longer we waited, the more we feared things were becoming political. The decision taken by the Stewards, by the Stewards at the Japanese Grand Prix. Excludes car number one and its driver Ayrton Senna from the final result of this race. Just after the race this Giant Screen repeatedly showed the accident and Senna rejoining the race. After reviewing these images, the stewards concluded that because Senna did not drive through the chicane to rejoin to the track, he infringed Article 56 of FIA regulations. You're the World Champion, Alain? Apparently, yes. I was not 100% sure, I know the regulation, but you never know how it's going to be interpreted. But to be very honest, I mean, I'm quite happy to leave, because I think it becomes absolutely impossible to work with Ayrton, and that's a good end of championship. What I'd like to do now is show you some footage which I think is quite relevant. Because we're told that you can't use escape roads to rejoin the race. Escape roads are not for escaping through, they're in fact for stopping in, turning round and going out of. Very important to remember, no exclusions, no penalties, no disqualifications. And for that he's excluded from the Japanese Grand Prix? Where's the consistency? It can't be right. Alain, you said that you took a normal racing line. I would put it to you that from the aerial pictures, it looked as though you had turned in quite early. It wasn't a normal line at all. I won 39 races and now three championships, do you think that I would do something like this on purpose? You know, you know, I had already turned for the corner, maybe a little bit earlier, if you want, but that was my corner. The Court of Appeal pronounces a six month suspended ban of Senna's license, which is a warning not only for Ayrton Senna, but for all drivers, and also a $100,000 fine. Even if you are one of the biggest drivers in the world, you don't have the right to cause a stupid accident. The way the whole affair has been treated, it's like I have total responsibility for everything that took place there. I was blamed for everything and I was penalized for everything. I was treated like a criminal. And this is totally unacceptable. That was a huge blow for Ayrton because Balestre's attitude was even worse than Prost's. He almost gave up racing in Formula One. Left him alone for a while. I gently persuaded him if you are true to your values, if you believe that your values are correct values, then walking away from the dark forces that you're faced with in life just doesn't become an option. The 1990 season he came back wiser, the team is harmonious. Prost has gone out of McLaren to Ferrari, and Senna is in a perfect position to compete for the title. All drivers go on their limit. My limit is different from Prost's, that is the reality. And instead of trying to improve his own skills, he found it easier to attack me. Ayrton has a small problem. He thinks that he can't kill himself because he believes in God and things like this. And I think that's very dangerous for the other drivers. Because I believe in God and have faith in God, it doesn't mean I am immortal. It doesn't mean I am immune, as has been claimed. I am as scared as anyone of getting hurt, especially driving a Formula One car. It's a constant danger. Is that him? Who is it? Martin Donnelly. I was in the pits. Practice was stopped. I hear by different people there was an accident, was Donnelly. Was bad, was too bad, was disaster. And I decide to go to the place to see myself. Million things went through my mind. In the end, I... I realized I was not going to give up my passion, even just having seen what I had seen. And I had to put myself together, and walk out, go to the racing car, and do it again. And do it again, and do it even better than before, because that was the way to kind of cover that impact it had on me. I was just not ready to give up. As much as I was scared to continue, I was not ready to give up my aim, my target, my objective, my passion, my dream, my life. It is my life. As far as I hear, he is out of danger, life danger, which is a lot considering the accident. And as it happened to him, can happen to any of us. There are some things that you can calculate, but there are things which are unexpected, and those unexpected things are the most dangerous ones, like it happened to him today. I hope we don't see those things in the future. Amazingly, for the third time in a row, the championship hinged on the race in Japan. But this time if Prost didn't finish, Ayrton would be champion. Gentlemen, morning. Number of laps from green light to chequered flag will be 53 laps. Dangerous behavior and/or dangerous maneuvers will be immediately investigated, and may lead to suspension of the license for one or more Formula One World Championship events. Any questions? There was a big fuck-up last year with Ayrton. Why do we have to repeat the same thing? The safest thing is... If you miss the chicane, the stewards stop you. When you have no traffic, they let you go. If you have to turn around and go backwards against another car, that's dangerous. Okay. Does everybody feel that way? - Yeah. - Yeah. - Thank you. - Thank you very much. I can't stand it. I can't stand this. It's a joke. After what happened last year, it's a joke, this situation. You just proved here... I said nothing, and you see somebody raising the point, and you see everybody agreeing. And last year was really bad for me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I have to leave. The story down in the pit lane and on the grid is one of tension. With the World Championship up for grabs, everyone is extremely tense. Ayrton Senna actually walked out of the drivers' meeting today. He thinks that the pole position should be on the left hand side of the grid, not on the right. Normally, if the inside was clear, the inside for sure is better. Because it's dirty, the outside is better. Like Hungary, or like... The racing line is the line where the cars most normally drive. It's the fastest line around the track. It's really important to have the pole position on the racing line. If you are on the opposite side, you are on a part of the track that is rarely used and has half the grip. If you have the clear circuit, you'll get away better on the outside than the inside. Because on the inside you have no traction. We'll have a look. Please. But would the Chief Steward, would the FIA, would Balestre, agree? Ayrton Senna will be in pole position for tomorrow's Japanese Grand Prix. Prost was second fastest. Pole position was his, and then suddenly pole position was mysteriously moved to the dirty side of the circuit, which he felt was unjust. That decision was influenced by Balestre. I know that, we know that. I was fucked many times by the system. I told myself, "Today, there's no way." Today has to be my way. I don't care what happens, it has to be my way. And Senna sprints away, but Alain Prost takes the lead! It's happened! Senna is trying to go through on the inside... And a collision. Crash! They both crash. Senna has been hit. Alain Prost and Ayrton Senna have come together again, and they are both off the racetrack! This is unbelievable! And if the race continues, it is the end of the Championship. We don't know yet whether we're going to see a red flag. We haven't seen any yet, so it looks as if the race is going to continue. The Championship is over. And Ayrton Senna is the 1990 Champion. That's a very sad way for this year's World Championship to finish. Can you tell us what happened on the first lap, Ayrton? Well, unfortunately, we touched in the first corner when we were fighting for the lead, and we both went off. Do you think that's because the pole position is on the wrong side of the track here? You wanted to change that. Absolutely. You fight, you break your... to be on pole, and then they put you on the wrong side of the circuit. How do you feel about being World Champion? It's not a bad feeling at all, is it? Congratulations. What was very clear with Ayrton, when he got back, is his body language, his mannerisms showed that he was in massive conflict. He was certainly not proud of himself. Certainly not reveling in the fact that this had determined the World Championship. Formula One World Championship for drivers, Ayrton Senna. I call on the World Champion, Ayrton Senna. He knew I was right with him. He moved to the inside line, going towards the first corner. I just chased him then, and he opened the gap. And knowing me like he does know, he must realize that if there was a gap, I was gonna try to overtake him. Okay. Let me ask you another difficult question. If I were to count back all the world champions, the number of times they had made contact with other drivers, that you in the last 36 months or 48 months have been in contact with more other cars and drivers than they might have done in total. I find amazing for you to make such a question, Stewart, because you are very experienced and you know a lot about racing, and you should know that by being a racing driver you are under risks all the time. And by being a racing driver means you are racing with other people. And if you no longer go for a gap that exists, you're no longer a racing driver. Because we are competing. We are competing to win. And the main motivation to all of us is to compete for a victory. It's not to come third, fourth, fifth or sixth, right? But hasn't that always been the case? But I think it's all irrelevant. All what you're saying, Jack, is really irrelevant. Because I'm a driver that won more races than anybody over the past three years. I'm a driver that has been on pole position more than anybody in history. And I'm a driver that won two titles in the past three years. And I don't think how... I cannot comprehend how you can try to turn things around to say that I've been involved in more accidents than anybody because that is not true, as well. Two of the greatest champions in the history of Formula One ended up in the sand and wasted a Championship. Each accused the other, but Prost was hurt the most. Let's listen to his extreme reaction. I wanted to punch him in the face... but I was so disgusted, I could not do it. He revolts me. Senna versus Prost, which went on for a couple of seasons, well... It was just absolutely wonderful for Formula One's appeal. Some sports news now. It is the end of a love story. The television ratings improved, you know, everything went up. People talked about it. It was controversial, shocking, fascinating. The success of the sport also grew, you know. Commercially and... Bernie Ecclestone was very clever in the way they distribute television. But to keep an audience, you need personalities and, of course, the Prost-Senna story was a big hit. And Ayrton became very famous outside the sport, thanks to the impact of Formula One on TV. I feel so worried for the people because... And we push them away. They're nice people and it's not a good feeling to see them being pushed away. I feel so sorry, you know. In Brazil it was very different. The people were unhappy under the regime that was ruling them. Poverty was just desperate. So his appeal there, at a hard time, was extraordinary. The situation in Brazil was very negative and depressing. But what happened is, when Ayrton won numerous times, instead of trying to hide his Brazilian origins, as others did, he did the opposite, he'd wave the national flag. Ayrton would do this every Sunday. And people were inspired, that's why they loved him. Ayrton had never won the Brazilian Grand Prix. Ever since he'd been in Formula One, it was his dream to win at home. The Brazilian Grand Prix is about to start. Red light, green light. He starts well. Come on, Senna! And Senna gets away in the lead. Ayrton pulled out a lead. He was then, really, faced with a very easy race win. Here is Senna... It's raining. It's raining, stop this. And then, the gearbox jammed, and he was faced with several laps to go only having a sixth gear. It should have been impossible to drive a Formula One car stuck in sixth gear. He wanted to stop. He couldn't drive any more. But he had tried so many times to win the Brazilian Grand Prix, that he found a special inner strength. After this corner, Senna is on the home straight. He is going to win. Ayrton, Ayrton... Ayrton Senna from Brazil! Leading from start to finish, he wins at Interlagos! A great victory for Senna. I don't believe it. Fucking hell, I've won. Prost, you son of a bitch! He won, then passed out. It was his most heroic moment. Because of the huge physical effort, I had muscle spasm in my shoulders and neck. The pain was absurd. The physical and mental stress this weekend was huge. But there could only be one result. Finishing the race with nothing left. What's wrong? My shoulders, my shoulders. Just my shoulders. Come here, Dad. Come here. Come here! Touch me very gently. Don't touch me. Calm down, Ayrton. Don't touch me! Do you need any help? Bring the flag for me. I fought so hard. I needed to finish, I needed to finish first because He is greater than everyone and He gave me this race. And that is what happened. God gave me this race and I am very happy. It was very exciting. Brazil cherishes your victory, Senna. Congratulations. Thank you, Brazil, thank you, fans. The human heat this weekend was so great that we had to win this time. It couldn't be any other way. We did it. Life can be very difficult in Brazil. You have... Brazil have all the extremes. You have the fantastic nature. You can have all the good material things that money can buy. But at the same time, you have lots of problems. Social problems and poverty. Some violence as a consequence. I try to help a little bit. For children, particularly. Because Ayrton was so widely known in Brazil, many people would ask him for help, personal requests, hospitals, charities would ask him for help for instance. Ayrton would donate and keep it going without fail. But, he no longer wanted to make random donations. He wanted to develop something, plan it, organize it, to help Brazil, especially children. Ayrton in '91 was in great form. I think it was his strongest year. He won seven races, constantly on pole position. The intensity was every bit as high as ever. But there just seemed to be a further wisdom, a further bit of growth. But then the car bit him hard. For the first time he really thought he could be hurt in a Formula One car. Neurological examination to check the chest and the blood pressure, the abdomen and the limbs. - And how did you feel about him? - He's fine. He's good. - No problems to worry about? - No, none at all. No. It's the deepest personal relationship that I've ever had with any driver. Whenever I got to the circuit and ran into Senna, he was usually being interviewed or surrounded by people. And the moment he saw me, his face would always light up with a beautiful grin. Because he had that wonderful humility, which is not common amongst racing drivers. - All right then. - Pleasure. Be careful. You've still got too much to do. Yes, a few more. Question? Yes. We talked about the chicanes and the barriers that we had there with the tires. If you happen to hit those tires, it's very likely that the tires throw you up in the air and you end up rolling. That's what happened with me in Mexico and that can happen here with other people. I agree that for the moment it's not the ideal thing that we have done. The President has talked yesterday with Mr. Moll. No, no, no, forget Mr. Moll. And he has... Forget... Okay, the President of FISA... No, forget the President. Now speak for the question of Mr. Senna. About what we do today for the race. For the race we can do anything. I think it's better to not have those tires there. I happened to lose the braking point at the first chicane yesterday. Let me finish, let me finish! And as I drove straight, it was blocked, the road. And I couldn't turn back. If we move the tires, we must place the cones. Yes, that's fine. And that way there is a run-off area... Yes. No, you must restart from the same place. Because you must respect the distance of the race. You cannot come back. I'm sorry, that is the regulation, it is the regulation! It's written in the regulation, we got the letter yesterday. Page three. Here, the last two paragraphs on that page. Very good penalty for you. Jean-Marie, it's the same. No problem, Ayrton, no problem. Whatever is the decision, it's the right decision, Jean-Marie. You must understand. The best decision is my decision. I have a feeling for that. No, because you don't know my decision. It's the best every time, my decision. My decision is... Democratic vote, only the drivers. By hand. Who are in favor that we replace the tires by the cones? Your hand. Stop. Against? Abstention? Everybody agree, okay? Immediately, the work. You replace the tires by the cones, okay? Alain, what happened going into that chicane? I tried to overtake Senna. It was... He blocked me during the whole race, not very correct. I think everyone knows Prost by now. He is always complaining either about the car, or the tires, or the team, or the mechanics, or the fuel, or the other drivers or the circuit. Always somebody else to blame. It's never his fault. Yeah, no problem, but I have nothing to lose. I can't win the Championship, but if I find him again the same way, if he is correct the same way, I push him out. Prost was sacked from Ferrari because he criticized the car. The only thing he could do, really, was to take a year off, telling everybody he was on a sabbatical. If I finish second place, the Championship will be over. If Mansell does not win, then it's almost certain that the Championship will be over, as well. Mansell tries to overtake, but he goes straight on! Mansell goes straight on! The World Championship is over because he can't restart! Ayrton Senna from Brazil, Triple World Champion! A whole life dedicated to this moment by a genius of international sport. Triple World Champion, and many titles lie ahead. And he is still only 31 years old. Thirty-three victories, three World Titles. Breaking record after record. Celebrating as only Senna does. Ayrton Senna's third world title ensures that he will be ranked among the all-time greats. This is a very special gift to me. I thank you from my heart. I kissed Senna's left hand, Triple Champion. I want Senna. I want to hug and kiss him. I have a box full of paper cuttings and pictures. Everything you can imagine. He is the only good thing in Brazil. After that third World Championship, I saw another Senna. He was very satisfied, very confident. He knew the sport better than ever. He saw it with real eyes, for the good and the bad, and he still loved it as much as anyone in the paddock. I think it is an incredible party and anything goes. Did you talk about Formula One today? Formula One is so square, today is Carnival. Have any of your girlfriends asked, "Go faster, Ayrton"? Yes. To Ayrton, becoming Triple World Champion was the culmination of a script that he wrote for himself before he even entered Formula One because he knew he was capable of that and much more. He was already the idol of Brazilian sport, and now he became a great idol of world sport. There is a great desire in me of improving. Getting better. That makes me happy. And every time that I feel I am slowing down my learning process, my learning curve is getting flatter, or whatever, then it doesn't make me very happy. And that applies not only as a professional, as a racing driver, but also as a man. Of course, I shall have a lot more to learn as a man than a racing driver because my career could last not many years. My life hopefully will go still for a long time. Maybe I'm only at the half of my life right now, so there is a lot to go, a lot to learn, a lot to do still in life. And happiness will come when I feel complete as a whole, which definitely I don't feel today. But I have plenty of time to fulfill that, too. For the next season, the level of competition was distorted by what was going on technically with the Williams car. The car balanced itself. Each corner was controlled by a computer. All the driver had to do was put his right foot down and go as fast as possible, so in a car without that, you were at a serious disadvantage. McLaren are still well off the Williams-Renault pace, with the result that three times World Champion Ayrton Senna has no chance of retaining his title. When you go into this sort of electronic war, you can find yourself completely stuck. The electronics do a given situation, and no matter who you put in the car, the electronics will do the work and not the driver. And I don't think that is really what you want to have a truly World Championship of drivers. The negotiations are long, and we still don't know who Alain Prost's team mate will be. The Triple World Champion signed a two-year contract with Williams. He will start testing the car this week. The only thing I asked in the contract was that I don't want to be a teammate with Ayrton. It has to be clear. And they had accepted that very quickly. And said, "No, it's not our intention." That is the only thing I asked in the contract. Because I wanted to be a World Champion. I did not want to lose the opportunity. It's no secret that I've been trying very hard to get some... Some deal with Williams. Situation's very complex. It is... It's not nice. It's not clear either. I am very certain of one thing. I am the one who has most to lose if I have to stop for one year or more. Because I am at the peak of my career, and the career of a Formula One driver is limited. So no one has more to lose than myself if I stop, professionally and in my personal life. In 1993, Ayrton's driving was pure genius. For me, it was the best season. He did accomplish some of his greatest drives. Even though he spent most of his time looking at the back of a Williams car, which was much faster than his. French racing driver Alain Prost has won the Formula One World Drivers' Championship for the 4th time... Prost won the championship and duly retired, thus getting out of the way. It seems like a little goodbye from you to McLaren. Do you think it was the last season for McLaren? I think so. I think it will be my last season. Let's try and do it the best we can for both of us. Of course. Okay, we'll put behind us what happened. For sure. Good. Even without you saying anything, that was my goal. Yeah, okay. Even without talking to you, if we didn't talk at all, I wouldn't change... I would just do exactly as I always tried. Ayrton, what did Ron Dennis say to you when you first got from the car? It's never too late to change your mind. But anyway, he said he was happy for me, and... It's funny, but that's what he told me, too. That's Ron! I said, you know, we must keep the good times, the good moments, and let's finish that way, finish with the good things. It was Senna's last race for McLaren, Prost's last race for Williams. And although nobody knew at the time, it was the last time either of them would be on the podium. Ladies and gentlemen, Brazilian driver Ayrton Senna. Ayrton is arguably the best driver available, the best driver currently racing. The team is geared to being successful, all our partners, investors, sponsors, expect that of us, and that is therefore the best piece of equipment, if you like, you could put in the machine to deliver to our requirements. The International Motor Sports Federation has banned some of the controversial computer devices which help drivers in Formula One motor racing. The ban is designed to stop the domination of the richest Formula One teams, like Williams-Renault, the World Champions. Ayrton Senna is in a race against time. He needs to integrate into his team and adjust to the car. He says that he is uncomfortable with little space. This car doesn't have the electronic components used on last year's cars. It doesn't have traction control, special brakes or electronic suspension. The cars are immediately less stable without the electronic suspension. As a consequence, they are harder to drive, and we'll have more cars spinning and going off the track. More cars spinning is more excitement for the viewers, and for us, if nothing happens to the driver. Otherwise it's not very comfortable. Senna in second place. Almost 8 seconds between them now. We're certainly not happy with the way things are with the car right as they are at the moment. The handling isn't particularly good. The cars weren't supposed to have any of the electronic aids that they'd come with the previous year. But Senna became convinced that the Benetton being driven by Michael Schumacher, who had won the first two races of the season, had retained some of those, particularly the traction control, the thing that eliminates the wheel spin. It didn't stack up that he was being blown away by the Benetton. He wanted us to protest, which we didn't do. We are here starting from zero, so basically our championship starts here. It's not a comfortable position to be in, but that's the reality. Now you've won here three times already. You really do need to make it four. I would love to. I'd never seen Senna as tense as I did that weekend. At no moment did I see him smile. He was constantly focused, annoyed, saddened really. It's the balance. Changing balance. The car is worse. Is it generally more one balance than the other, or is it changing too much? There was a bit more under steer. Bit of under steer on the first lap, then on the second lap, it's just changing balance. Over steer and under steer? Yeah. During the middle of a corner... breaks away at the entrance. When it is supposed to break away, it breaks away even more. Do you already know Ayrton or shall I introduce you? No, I already know him. Do you know him by name or have you met him? I know him because I follow Formula One, so I've met him before. Why are you so nervous? Because when you're close to someone like him, you always get nervous. Well, good luck to the Champion and the future Champion. Fuck. You have seen Rubens? He's all right. He's all right. He's shocked, of course, but he's all right. Did you talk to him? Yes, yes. You take care, Rubens. Ayrton was still uncomfortable in the new relationship, and he was very uncomfortable with the car. But he struggled, and put it on pole position. Fuck. I just need to get myself under control. I'm doing things with that car that no-one... Throwing it around a bit? Ladies and gentlemen, the San Marino Grand Prix organizer has received a report from the Maggiore Hospital in Bologna that the driver of car number 32, MTV Simtek Ford, Roland Ratzenberger, succumbed to injuries sustained in the accident which took place at Imola circuit during Saturday qualifying practice April 30th. It was the first time we had to face a dead Formula One driver for our generation. The whole atmosphere was very heavy that afternoon. Everybody was thinking about, "What are we doing here?" Or, "What's the point?" Ayrton got very, very upset and cried a bit. And that's when I said to him, "You know, Ayrton, you've been three times World Champion. "You're the fastest man in the world." And he liked fishing, so I said, "Why don't you quit "and I'll quit and well just go fishing?" He said, "Sid, I can't quit." On Saturday, at dinner, Frank Williams had doubts if Senna was going to be on the grid. I was certain that he didn't want to race. On that morning when he woke up, he asked God to talk to him. He opened the Bible and read a passage which said God would give him the greatest of all gifts. Which was God himself. A crash! Everyone goes around, look at that! Lamy arrives at full speed. And there is Lehto! Terrible crash. Lamy and Lehto are very lucky. The safety car goes out on track. The safety car's lights are off which means the safety car is going into the pits. And here we go, Senna in front, Schumacher is second. And Michael Schumacher tries to pressure Senna on the sixth lap. Senna crashes hard! At Tamburello Corner. A very serious accident. We got him out of the cockpit, got his helmet off and got an airway into him. And I saw from his neurological signs that it was going to be a fatal head injury. And then he sighed, and his body relaxed. And that was the moment... I'm not religious... That I thought his spirit had departed. Even at racing speed, Tamburello is not a corner that you would make a mistake on. Something on the car would have to go wrong. Maybe the power steering failed. Maybe it was the tire temperatures that made the car skate straight off the road. It will always be a mystery. Was there a cause? In my opinion the steering column broke and the car became uncontrollable. But above all, it was fatal because the car crashed at the exact angle for the suspension shaft to hit his helmet. Ayrton ran out of luck. He did not have a broken bone in his body. He did not have any bruising. If that piece of assembly would have gone six inches higher or six inches lower, he would have walked back to the paddock. He was an idol for me. He represented the best of Brazil. I kiss you, Senna. I will never forget you. Brazilian people need food, education, health and a little bit of joy. And now that joy is gone. Nothing can separate me from the love of God. Who is or has been the driver that you get the most satisfaction of racing against... Past or present? I would have to go back to '78 and '79 and 1980, when I was go-kart driving. I came to Europe for the first time to compete outside Brazil as a team-mate for Fullerton. Named Fullerton. He was very experienced. I enjoyed very much driving with him because he was fast, he was consistent. He was, for me, a very complete driver. And it was pure driving, pure racing. There wasn't any politics then, right? No money involved, either. So, it was real racing.
