 

                        Produced by Young Film co-produced by ShinCine production sponsors B+Pictures, noonfilm, KOFIC I don't agree with your ideals But if someone deters you because of your ideals I will stand by you regardless - Voltaire - executive producers Park Kun-sub, Hong Ki-sun producers Kim Shin-hee, Jung Sung-hoon screenplay Lee Maeng-yoo director of photography Oh Jeong-ok lighting director Lee Min-boo editor Lee Eun-soo music by Choi Yoon-sang location sound Noh Chun-kil sound supervisor Yang Dae-ho I had a dream once I'm not sure if I can fulfill that dream and it doesn't matter Even if it doesn't come true I'll keep dreaming that dream If there's destiny in life and I could avoid it I might wish to do so But... By joining the rebel army and breaking the National Security Law On Aug. 15, 1952 we sentence Kim Sun-myung to 15 years in prison directed by Hong Ki-seon For spying for the North and breaking the National Security Law on July 25, 1953 we sentence Kim Sun-myung to death THE ROAD TAKEN February 27, 1954 After a retrial of the accused Kim Sun-myung we finally sentence him to life imprisonment From Seoul Prison to Mapo Penitentiary to Daegu, Daejeon, Mokpo and back to Daejeon I was transferred to many different prisons and I met many comrades while trapped inside my cell I was an ignorant laborer before But one day I began to recite Pushkin's "Song of Siberia" and became a veteran inmate And then in 1970 I... I faced a big test to my fate as if it was waiting for me And with people I'll never forget Move it! Hurry and go into your cells! Comrade Ahn! Comrade Kim! Welcome Nice to see you again Hello, it's a pleasure to meet you Comrade Kim /'m Kim Sun-myung from Mokpo Choi In-gyu from Gwangju How was Mokpo Prison? Humane Gave me toasted rice I envy you! You're lucky I haven't had toasted rice for 18 years What's the matter? I was thinking of my mother Time to eat! Let's eat I'm freezing, hurry up I'm going in Oh, it's cold It looks like the needlework of Master Lee Young-woon Is Master Lee here? He gave me one, too Is he healthy? What cell is he in? I haven't seen him since we left Daegu Prison Guwol Mountain Guwol Mountain The home of partisans the home of partisans For my country for my country Raise it up high Oh, it's cold My nickname is Jindo Dog And I'm still single I'll get married after the North and South marries Now Jindo Dog will sing the 'Arirang' song for you Cell 15! Quiet down! to another cell - Comrade Ahn - Comrade Park - Comrade Nam - Comrade Park - Comrade Kim - Comrade Park My nickname is Lark I'd like more rice from you for two days They've starved me for a few days, you see This is good medicine for back aches Here Take it Try it I'm sorry Hunger is one thing I can't hold back Write And erase Let me try it This is amazing Comrade Kim we should be careful with this Comrade Kim you're talented 'Black bean noodles' All you think about is food 'Hometown' Reminds me of home Reunification What's that? Who made this? - Do you all want to die? - I made it You again? What's this for? Tell me or come out! - You see... - What do you want? Well... You see it's for drawing What? Drawing? For drawing, I see Wait, what's after this 'Re... '? It's reunification Reunification What? Reunification? - Nixon made a statement - About what? - I heard they'll let us play sports - It's not true President Park declared a state of emergency A Korean Japanese student was put in cell 5 One of those thugs snatched holiday candies from us Let's get them back The North and South are developing talks July 4, 1972 at 10 A.M. Pyongyang and Seoul made a joint statement without foreign interference by peaceful means solidarity not by ideologies They compromised on these conditions Comrades, the North and South will both join the UN Reunification is coming! Am I dreaming? I feel so ecstatic! Comrades Comrade Kim, pinch me Mother Comrade Kim now it's time for you to marry The suffering is over If the statement is true I'll live a happy life with my family in my hometown It's been so long since I slept with a woman Comrade Kim you have no woman, right? I'll introduce you to one Great! You're 40 something, right? But I still feel like a boy But Comrade Kim can you still perform? What are you doing? The North-South negotiating committee has been established And the North-South Red Cross meeting will be held soon They'll probably mention us The North knows about how we're suffering so they'll talk about an exchange of political prisoners Comrade Choi you must be happy Now you can sleep well after visiting hours I've envied Comrade Kim for having no one to come see him Letters and visiting hours hurt more than the tortures I felt like dying then It's too early for optimism In reality it's not that easy I'll make you all sleep with a sexy woman tonight Comrade Nam, there's a way to dream of a woman This smells like a woman's scent, right? Come on stand up and dance Bed time! Sweet dreams everyone I'll send a woman into your dreams tonight Her soft pink skirt is waving before my eyes On the hill of my hometown her face delights me I'm running to her in my dream Here! It's a special meal! Do you know what this is? - Isn't it a boiled egg? - What's gotten into them? - It's been so long - These are great times Eggs, eggs, boiled eggs It reminds me of my wife - What are you doing? - Don't you know? I haven't been this touched in the last 20 years in jail Okay, okay While we're at it how about I'll go ask the supervisor so get off my back Sure thing If we sing louder they won't know where it's coming from Eggs, eggs boiled eggs It reminds me of my wife Hey! Hey! Hooray! Hooray! The flame of reunification is flaring up I'm not sure They said we'll be reunified so aren't you happy? No one knows yet You're not happy about reunification? I'm happy If it happens I'll have to look for another job Like me don't you think you'll be out of a job, too? What do you mean by that? Isn't your job to achieve reunification? Maybe so But think I'll have nothing to do later? Instead I'll be able to do what I wanted First, I'll get married And... I used to run a bicycle shop before the war So I want to open a small bicycle factory What about you? No health problems, right? It's the interview form Fill it out Frankly, I do want reunification but not through the North I don't understand you And I don't have the ability to change you Whichever way isn't reunification good? Then do you want the South to lead the way? Why hasn't there been any news? Itll happen soon Hopefully so Comrade Kim, if you get freed what will you do? As for me... We won't be totally free but a sentence reduction is possible like in the 60s Emotions are our enemy Comrade Kim face up to reality And you too Comrade Lark To give Comrade Nam hope is good but have you ever considered how he'll feel if he's let down? Don't you think you're being too pessimistic? You're rather romantic than optimistic You're always too careless Let's analyze the situation Hear that anti-North program? Unification Revolutionary Party Korean Japanese spies... Think a sentence reduction matters now? But they say that three years for us... How was your wife? And your daughter? My fellow citizens Respecting your earnest wish for peace and prosperity I'd like to announce some pivotal decisions First, from October 17, 1972 at 7 P.M.. the National Assembly will be dissolved parties' political activities will be halted These are some of the clauses that will become invalid Nice to meet you I'm Oh Tae-shik your correctional officer South Korea is the republic of freedom and democracy As part of our New Village Movement we've removed old homes and widen the roads to modernize our country So having political prisoners in such a great country is totally unacceptable So my squad will do its best to re-educate you all I hope you'll convert quickly and embrace the freedom land That is all Stop staring you bastards before I pull your eyes out! Whoever here can't convert then raise you hand Good, now you got it This is national business It means I'll be patriotic for the first time in my life If anyone of you bastards goes against me I'll make you regret you were born, got it assholes? Who was it? Sons of bitches, now I can let out my sexual frustration You fucking commies! That's enough! You sons of bitches! Do you want to die? Filthy bastard, kill me Instead of selling my soul to you beasts I'd rather die and send my soul up Baekdu Mountain alone! Fine, I'll kill you I'll count to ten If you change your mind then tell me with respect One Two Three Four Five Six Seven Eight Nine Ten! You're lucky today You commies you wanna die? Fine, then I'll kill you Who wants to die? You? You? You? Who wants to die? Sorry to disturb your meal Come out Comrade Choi... Go in Boys, it's time for orientation Show some respect! Move back to the toilet! You bastard who told you to sit there? You should first bow down to the boss Look away you disrespectful bastard Bastard Bastard! Wanna die? You look good Does it tickle? Don't screw with me! Or you'll be dead meat Who is it? Be strong It's Lee Young-woon It's Kim Sun-myung Take care of yourself! You give me strength! Eat! It's snowing Father, I love you but I can't understand you It's so upsetting that we have to be like this Father, I want to run to you and see you always but the high wall you made blocks us from coming in Father, please let us in Don't you know how much your beliefs turn us away? I'm going to convert I feel like I could do more outside than staying in here I don't care if you call me a sell-out It's not because of my dying mother Or that my older brother changed my mind I'm not learned enough to lead this fight and I'm not a strong person I won't convert behind your backs This is my life and my choice I dislike you all now I hate when Comrade Kim frowns when it rains I hate listening to Comrade Choi snoring And the screams drive me crazy Every morning I wake up worried I'll get beaten I feel like my head will explode Comrade Nam! I hate being born and having to live in this divided country I don't care about reunification Have you lost your mind? What's wrong with you? Why? Am I wrong? Why? Why? Come on Let's forget the politics and talk honestly like human beings Be honest, comrades Aren't you scared of hearing their footsteps? And scared of being beaten or starved to death? Comrade Nam you're crazy! Comrade! Comrade! Comrade Kim Will it come? If it comes, I will bear it and I will even die for it What are you saying? Comrade Kim what should I do? I'll do what you tell me I'm sorry, comrades Do you know whose interview form this is? I was wondering who'd be so bold to do this There's no answer and even no name Is it some protest? Think us KCIA agents care at all whether you live? You could die for this Born in 1925 in Yangpyeong Gyeongki Province A previous factory worker longshoremen, ice cream seller Captured at the 38th parallel for a reconnaissance mission I asked around and I heard you're a docile guy Drink the coffee I don't like coffee Suit yourself I'd like to take you outside for some fresh air I'm already content with my exercising session I'd prefer you extend the session instead Okay, you can go But I'll be watching you I hope you don't follow them so blindly I don't give second chances Why? Got something to say? - Go - Although justice may seem to fail from a historical perspective it has always prevailed Reunification is our ideal hope and I'll never give up Ideal hope? Justice? Communism is mankind's enemy now and forever! Comrades! Comrade Ahn! Master Lee! - Comrade Nam! - Nice to see you again - Comrade Choi! - Master Lee! - Comrade Kim! - Master Lee! How have you been? It's been so long How is your health? I wonder why they put us all together Never know when they'll change their minds again Even though they're pretending to be nice Oh, I should've asked for some more of this I heard you were in solitary confinement for over 40 days Are you really okay? Recite that song you sung in Daegu I longed to hear it A place where the cuckoo sings... Master Lee, I'm fine I'm not cold A dog's nose has to be warm for it to sleep but people need their feet to be warm But why did you wake up? Because your singing was off key A place where the cuckoo sings It's my beautiful hometown Where labor brings happiness Where labor makes flowers bloom... While I, Park Jae-yong have served time for breaching the National Security Law I have realized South Korea's progress, and was touched Now, I regret my crime and swear that I will never do any communist acts again And I will also be loyal to the law and order of South Korea We have to make a decision Don't you think it's too excessive? I also think we're too fatigued to make that decision Then do you have an alternative? Is starving to death or getting beaten to death any different? It would be better dying on a full stomach though Dying is not the issue it's whether it will help end things Even if we starve to death I don't think it'll change them at all So do you have any other plan? If you don't then don't speak Comrade Kim Have you forgotten the principles of our cause? Leaving this only as an individual fight right now is an irresponsible thing to do Comrade Kim don't you think it's wrong to excuse yourself by - pretending to care for others? - What did you say? You're always dogmatic and criticize others all the time Comrade Kim are you done? What's wrong with you two? A mountain has more than one trail to climb Both of you are right Let's climb slowly I agree with Comrade Ahn Comrade Nam Will it be okay with your weak stomach and health? I'll overcome it for our cause The majority of us has agreed so I'll pass the message If that's the decision I'll abide Did you hear him Master Lee? If we go on a hunger strike we'll have to fight many forces It could be tough You may be right Their methods of coercion are changing and our physical conditions are very different Let's wait for the right time to fight back But... You! Come out You've all done a great job! Mr. Park, congratulations for being second in conversions Mr. Song, work harder so you can move to a bigger place Mr. Park, I heard you're buying a house Good for you! Let's toast to working harder! Cheers! What are you doing? Remember that your body is not only yours Struggle against the food comrade I'm sorry I'll listen to you from now on Master Lee I won't eat anything spicy or salty and I'll chew 80 times before swallowing What's going on in here? Who's making all the racket? I was Are you fucking crazy old man? - Hello - Hello You'll have to move to another cell Please come out I'm being transferred Comrade Nam remember your promise Master Lee Don't worry He'll be released soon with Mrs. Yook's help She's the President's wife you know She's close to his family And since they've been friends since childhood she'll help him Even if she does he won't accept her help - Please drink - Thank you Bring our guest a nice suit! Let's go see the 31st Building On the way, we'll see the New Town Movement's works and a newly developed Seoul The New Town Movement? It was already done long ago by the Japanese Is that right? As I heard you're very well-learned You could become a judge or a congressman but why waste your time here? Can you pick a comfortable life over your beliefs? You should do more for the people outside Even if it's for the people I cannot sell my conscience You're also working for the people, right? So I bet you're also upset seeing people die here Your cousin from Seoul is waiting for you You bastards I won't be forced! If the correctional officer let you go outside you should be grateful and sign it! You bastards! Let's see how much you can take Sign it! Be humane, you bastards! Humane! What the hell is the problem with converting them? We're doing our best but they're so stubborn So what? So you're saying we should treat them nice? Wake up, you fools! They're commies! You could lose your jobs Use your heads Your heads aren't for barbers! Long time ago there was a famous monk This man tried everything to take the monk's clothes off But the monk never took them off So do you know how the man did it? - Mr. Song! - Yes, sir Call the ones who converted Nowadays clothes get fitted So treat them each differently You must be hungry It's okay to eat Honey, eat this Why are you so nervous? Go ahead and eat Are you impotent? Relax, it's all right You son of a bitch! Want to sign it with a full stomach or after a beating? I don't get why I have to make you eat to convert You son of a bitch! Guard! Why make it so hard on yourself? Isn't it better to sign this and get released rather than die like a dog in here? Die like a dog? Forget it The President himself ordered this since the North keeps harping about political prisoners You were born in the South and your whole family's here So don't be stubborn - Is it my fault? - Who said it was your fault? What matters is the state you're in I'd rather die than sell my conscience - So please stop trying - What's the point in dying? The longer I want to live the more servile I am Do you know what I realized in here? It's about choice It's not choosing between two it's about discarding one On Independence Day as I was repairing a bicycle someone ran with a flag and yelled, 'Korea is free!' 'Whether rich or poor everyone can be happy!' Know how much these words touched a young man? Mr. Song. You said 'die like a dog' right? Did we steal anything or kill someone? All we did was hope for reunification Know what I'm afraid of the most? That I'll give in before I die Whenever I feel like vomiting I say to myself 'I'll convert, I'll convert' 'How hard will I get beaten again tomorrow?' Are you Sun-mi? You look just like your mother Thank you You were always a child in my dreams I'm sorry to you and your brother Please understand I've come to ask you a favor Please don't bother my life any more Go home now You'll understand me someday I can never understand you Where were you when those kids called me a commie and pushed me off the bridge? I was so scared then You're like a big burden on my back To our family and to my life I still dream of falling off that bridge I hate you I'm very sorry I'm getting married You're such a weak and cunning son of a bitch Hey asshole, are you human? Get inside - Welcome, Comrade Choi - Comrade Park - Comrade Kim - Comrade Choi Please sit down You must've been through a lot They must've beaten you a great deal By the way how are Comrades Nam, Ahn, and Kim? They're all fine Heard everyone in cell 12 are being punished They seem to have some way of getting information I heard they were brutally questioned Why did they call you? Like always... Like always? You know Anyway, has something gone wrong? What did they ask you? This and that and the usual threats But Comrade Choi you look totally fine That's strange Why did they only talk to you? I can't go back in there Please, I'll do anything but that... Son of a bitch You lied and said you were important Fine Lick it While I, Choi Jong-man have served time for breaching the National Security Law I have realized South Korea's progress, and was touched Now, I regret my crime and swear that I will never do any communist acts again And I will also be loyal to the law and order of South Korea Gifts from outside! Bread Candy Exercise time! Comrade Joh, throw it away Try to hold on even if you're hungry Don't lose your self-esteem Exercise is over! It's gotten moldy But it's still edible It's the blood and sweat of all laborers and farmers It would be a waste I should eat it I should be thankful and eat it Comrade Joh, throw it away Don't lose your self-esteem Comrade Kim Comrade Kim Have you heard about Master Lee Ki-baek? - He converted - Master Lee Ki-baek? No way He's no master He swore he'd never let them coax him into converting What? Greeting the guards is like greeting the enemy? He always acted like he was the most principled I despise him Everyone thought he was the most intellectual - He must've had some reason - Maybe But we'll rot away here without anyone knowing Like a shout without an echo What are you talking about? Maybe he converted to find an echo Comrade Let's stop talking Comrade Kim, take this - Comrade Park - Hurry and take it I got it from a convict Eat it and take care of yourself 'The dark night will vanish and freedom will sincerely welcome you' 'Within the dark deeps hope will awaken courage...' Who did you give the medicine to? You hid them, didn't you? Tell me now! You better hurry and tell me, damn it! Please dont joke with the medicine! I didn't give it to anyone Shit, then why are three pills missing? Rotten bastards! You know I can't live a day without my medicine! Then tell me who you gave them to Or otherwise convert and I'll let you slide You spit at me? Come out! How dare you lie down during inspection? Sit straight! Is he sick? Open the door! Han Baek-yul, born in 1922 Seoul, died of osteomyelitis Park Byung-il, died on the March 9 prison uprising Park Yoon-ki Park Yoon-ki Park Yoon-ki! Block communication Right I'll put the convicts between the cells Young-ja, my sister Are you all right over there? Your brother here... Stop it! Comrade Kim how's your health? Are you feeling better? I'm being watched isolated, and beaten... They've gone too far Rotten bastards Since we were born human we should live and die as a human What do you mean? Since they blocked the way we communicate we can't even know who's dead If this continues we'll all die Someone must stand up to end this oppression What do you mean? Master Lee please be careful Comrade Kim, take care Master Lee Young-woon is dead! Bring him back to life! Bring Master Lee back! Bring Master Lee back! Bring him back to life... Bring him back to life! Bastards, kill us all Kill us all! You brutal beasts! Kneel What's wrong with you? Kneel, damn it Kneel! You defy me? You dodged me? Bastard Do you want to die? Sons of bitches! I'll kill you! I won't die alone I'm gonna take one of you with me! You bastards! Hurry and eat it Hello? Yes, sir! I understand This is the Assistant Warden To the prisoners in Building 4 on behalf of the warden I apologize for what has occurred recently So with this opportunity we will support and treat your needs better So we hope you'd end your hunger strike of 15 days We promise... I'm sorry to hear about 3248's death You may think your cause is right But outside you're already forgotten I promise you one thing You will leave here either by death or by converting I'll walk out of here without converting What use are your beliefs and conscience after you die? Even if you live it'll be in a dark cell Then why are you all worried about these useless things? - What? - You're also imprisoned here in a lost fight They say no matter how big the army is you can win if you capture their leader But how ever weak a man is you can't take his integrity Nice way to put it You killed Comrades Park and Choi, didn't you? Watch your mouth! Be frank and tell me why you're doing this What is it? It's me I'm not sick I'm just tired Mom's in the hospital? Okay And the kids? I didn't drink I have to go So you're saying that growing old in your cell is for your own good? Do you all believe that an equal society will come? That's wishful thinking It's foolish to think that people can be controlled That's not worth dying for Am I right? When did I ever say I want to die? It's you all who want to kill me Look, don't take the conversion paper so serious Consider it as a membership form If you don't want to join then simply cancel it later I don't trust this society's promises If you acknowledge individual freedom... We're in special situation! In a divided South and North! The South can never accept communism! So we have to ax bad trees before they grow tall An axed tree will still be a tree Think oppression changes my thoughts? - That's wishful thinking - Shut up! So you like communism and respect Kim Il-sung, do you? Whether it's the hero Kim Gu or the traitor Lee Wan-yong it's my freedom of choice who to respect Damn you! What are you looking at? Know why I hate commies? Ask my dead father! Is owning land such a crime? Ask my father who's buried in the ground! Ask him why I limp! If I were the law you'd be dead, you asshole Being punctual is the beginning of self-discipline Love each other's body like your own Always consider the country and people I want to go home! Where am I? I want to go home! You sons of bitches! You promised me parole but you used me! Then you blame me for it all! Free me now or I'll reveal everything! That Park Yoon-ki and Choi In-kyu's suicides were a lie! That you beat them to death and disguised it as a suicide! I've done all that you asked me! But why am I treated like a dog now? You rotten bastards! Winter has passed and spring has come The people I cared for are gone A line we can't cross has come between us But nothing has changed The nightingale comes back every year and the sun rises like always Indifferently... Mourning flag military police Strange Has President Park died? Student demonstrations Heard about Gwangju Massacre? No, Do you know Jeon Du-hwan? He's an ex-soldier and might be president Another military coup? I swear that I will observe and enforce the law... Can you ask them to turn on the furnace earlier this winter? They won't listen to me Of course, they'll listen to political prisoners like you I feel like my dick will freeze off It's the first snow of winter! Mother, it's snowing! Take care of yourself! Young-ja, wait for me! I'll be released when the flowers bloom in spring! If every person has a destiny and even if it can't be chosen I've grown to love mine Because it's my destiny Sun-myung you must've had it so hard It's your favorite rice Go ahead and eat Let's go! Sun-myung! Sun-myung! Sun-myung! Sun-myung!! Mother! Gifts! Comrade Kim happy 60th birthday! Happy birthday! Happy 60th birthday! Happy birthday! Now it's time to get married! Comrade Choi Remember me? It's Kim Sun-myung we were in the same cell I remember I know you It's so good to see you I thought you were released They made me finish my time A special pardon would be nice Although I'm free to roam around here - You'll be out soon - 3596! Hurry up! I have to go I've missed you so much If you see me next time say hi And you must visit me after you're released Take care Take care Comrade Kim how have you been? I've been in jail so long I've forgotten how to speak And I keep forgetting things Writing would help, but... I feel the same, Comrade Ahn That's why I repeat things and memorize them everyday When I was young people said I was smart - I feel like I'll become a fool - Don't think that way But you're learning new things, too Have you forgotten that life starts again at sixty? Thank you Did you get the money? The money from Cardinal Kim? No, I got some from Kim Dae-jung instead Not that one I heard it's from some human rights group I think it was called Mingahyeop Mingahyeop? Mingahyeop... Salute! Inspection by the new officer! Get out of here! How dare you come back? Leave here! Why did you come? You rotten bastard! I wanted to talk about old times so I called you It's all in the past now I never hated Park Yoon-gi and Choi In-gyu and I didn't know they died like that - Lee Young-woon was... - You didn't know? It's no use now to say who was wrong or right I know everything I know you're meeting me to prevent the hunger strike I don't want to bring up the past, either I just want your sincere apology Back then I lacked understanding By the way what's it like outside? I'm not sure myself since it's always changing You and me we're all in the same boat I've worked very hard But I can't tell my son who's in college, about my job I thought I was a patriot but I don't know anymore Sometimes I recall what you said That I was also imprisoned in a lost fight Buy me a drink outside after I'm out Yeah, dreams are wonderful But it hurts when you wake up A person should do at least one valuable thing in his life That's my dream Just like me you haven't changed at all I've forgiven them You should do the same My father and sister died in the hands of the police I couldn't find their bodies since I was a 'commie' You're my sister-in-law? Yes, I am Mr. Kim, it's your first visit, isn't it? It's the first since my uncle visited me in 1954 or 1955 So no visits for more than thirty years? You should buy me a drink You look just like my husband You even smile like him He resents you very much Know how much he suffered all that time? It would've been better if you were in the North Your mother is still alive I didn't mention you to her If I did she'll die of shock She always talks about you She believes you're still alive She won't die until she sees you Mother Your mother is still alive Mother Miss your mother, right? My mother? What's that? An application for release If I get you one just write that you'll convert If you agree, then I'll get you a form in three days I know you don't trust people So if I get you a release form just write down that you'll convert So you mean that you still like communism? Want to hear what a person's duty is? You can throw away big things like ideologies but not small things like your conscience Aren't they the same thing? - The USSR, East Germany... - I have nothing more to say Stop, you have to go to the prosecution - The prosecution? Why? - You'll see A total of 127 years The world's 1st, 2nd, and 3rd longest terms What a record Mr. Kim Sun-myung still don't want to convert? Is the prosecution on our backs now? If no conversion policy exists then unconverted prisoners won't exist either You call this a developed nation? Then what developed nation has a National Security Law? Do they make their youth rot in prison for decades? Or do they even add years to sentences for security sake? You've imprisoned us almost forty years by that brutal law With an absurd law like that is it right imprisoning people for forty years after a war? Why did you call us here? In two days, you'll be specially pardoned for Independence Day Kim Sun-myung Ahn Hak-seop, Han Jang-ho Even with this pardon you won't be completely free so as you leave this place Be careful of any illicit political acts Whenever you leave home you must report to your officer For a man whose home was a cell the day he has longed for has finally come It's frightening not to know one's future but good things may come out of it Not knowing what lies ahead could bring a person happiness If a person has a road to follow and if I could choose mine could I choose to follow that road again? I'm afraid Take care, Comrade Lee Good-bye, Comrade Kim Comrade Kim how do you feel? I feel like I'm being transferred Comrade Kim time to get married now Comrade Choi see you at Baekdu Mountain Take care of yourself Comrade Nam I'm sorry I have to leave you Good-bye, 3596 Good-bye Kim Sun-myung, why were you imprisoned for 45 years? People think freedom is outside of prison but the freedom I chose was inside the prison You may not understand but true freedom was in there It was my conscience that made me free Kim Sun-myung (71 years old, arrested in 1951) (imprisoned for 45 years) Here's your son Mother (Hong Eun Sook, 94 years old) - Is that you Sun-myung? - Mother! Is that you, Sun-myung? Why didn't you listen to your mother? You should've listened to grown-ups I'm ninety four now I won't die this year Kim Sun-myung was imprisoned in October 1951 and was released on special pardon on August 15, 1995 During his sentence he was in a cell for 39 years of which 21 years was in a confined cell His mother died two months after his release And his brothers still refused to meet him June 15, 2000, the North-South summit was held in Pyongyang On Sep. 2 of the same year working as a dental technician he was sent to the North with 62 other long-term prisoners Thanks to the unconverted long-term prisoners for their contributions to this film Kim Joong-ki as Kim Sun-myung Ahn Suk-hwan as Officer Oh Tae-shik Goh Dong-eub as Comrade Choi Jong-man Choi Il-hwa as Comrade Ahn Hak-sub Kim Jong-chul as Master Lee Young-woon Kim Sae-young as Comrade Nam Young-man Yoo Hyung-kwan as Comrade Park Yoon-ki Im Il-chan as Goh Sang-ku
