 

                        -18? -Stand. -11? -I want to double down. Sandy, no. That's the last of your money. -lf you... -It's called gambling. Good luck. 20, 17. This is fast money, but if you want to earn back all the money you lost before you go home, we're gonna have to rob a bank or something. Yeah, well, you've never seen me dance. Ride it, cowgirl! Here's a front row seat, Herbie. Shake it one time for Elvis. Tequila, tequila! A double shot! How about a shot for everybody? Gentlemen, now something special. Who here is a sports fan? You will be after this young lady. Put your hands together for Sandy! Wow! -Let's give it up one more time for Sandy! -That's a wild one. That's a wild one! Hey, where's my tequila? All right, these girls are working on tips. Why don't you let me take you home and have a nice ride? You think I'm a hooker? You ever see a girl act like that? She's a wild one. I bet you I can break her. I bet you could. Here, go give her that and give her my phone number. -Yeah? -My address, too. Oh, Jesus. What? Yeah, I know, I left my keys in your car. I have to break into my own house. Yeah, okay, bye. Oh, my God! He's not breathing! Oh, my God! -How's he looking? -He's gone. Been gone awhile, I'd say. Can't you shock him or something, make him come back? Just take her out of here, okay? Okay, ma'am, can you tell me what happened? How long has your husband been laying over there like that? I don't know. All day, I guess. He... Teddy, he was sick. He was up all night. -He bought a bunch of dope. -Dope? What do you mean? Like pot? No. Black tar heroin, at least 10 empty balloons. There were 1 2. He stayed up all night, and then he woke me up because he said he was feeling sick. He was afraid he might have a seizure and wanted me to watch him. So I just laid on the couch, and I just watched him, and then I fell asleep for a minute. I was tired, because he had kept me up all night. And he wouldn't wake up. I tried to make him breathe, and he wouldn't breathe. He wouldn't breathe. He wouldn't breathe. There's a prescription bottle there next to him. It looks like a prescription for about Do you think he took all of them? Just last week I made him promise me he'd go to rehab. And he promised me. You promised me! You promised me! -You promised me! -You got something to calm her down? -Sure. -You promised me. Man, oh, man. It's already a circus. Are we the last ones on the scene? I told you we didn't have time for you to stop and take a leak. Let's go. -I'm set. I'm going right in. -All right. I'll meet you there. I'm here on Palomino Lane, in front of the home of former casino boss Ted Binion, who was found dead today after an apparent drug overdose. Binion was, of course, the son of Las Vegas pioneer Benny Binion, immortalized in the statue erected in his honor down on Second Street. Ted Binion was part owner of the casino founded by his father, the famous Binion's Horseshoe, site of the annual World Series of Poker tournament, an event the older Binion introduced in 1970 and an event which Ted Binion himself hosted for several decades. Perhaps not coincidentally, this tragedy occurs only seven months after a hearing in which Binion's gaming license was permanently revoked by the Gaming Control Board because of his drug use and his ties to mob figure Fat Herbie Blitzstein. mr. Blitzstein is not now or was he ever a business associate. I simply knew him as a heck of a nice guy. I don't think that having dinner with a friend should bar me from operating the casino that I've run for my entire adult life. It's the only life I know. It's the only life I want. Binion's body was discovered by sandy murphy, his live-in girlfriend, who was so shaken up she was taken to a nearby hospital for evaluation. Evan James, KmVB News, Las Vegas. I'm sorry, sir. ... Vegas Police Department that casino boss Ted Binion, recently in the news for his troubles with the Nevada Gaming Control Board, was indeed found dead of a drug overdose... You think anyone's surprised? He was a junkie. There are no additional details at this time. We'll keep you up to date of this... Rick Tabish. Hey, you okay? The cops are here, and they want to talk to me again, and I swear to God I'm gonna lose it. -Look, you're not gonna lose it. -I can't deal with this alone. -You have to come back. -No can do. That silver is an orphan. That silver needs a new mommy and daddy. Well, get it tomorrow. I need you to come back now. As Ted Binion's attorney and lifelong friend, I can only express a sense of deep shock. I saw him just the other day, -and I can't believe it. -Hello. Jay Green, Las Vegas sun. What do you say to the rumor that Binion was a targeted mob hit? I mean, after all, Fat Herbie was murdered three months ago. That is ridiculous. There were absolutely no signs of foul play. Look, that's all. No more comment. Lou! Lou! Rick Tabish, construction... I'm with Lou. Lou. Hey, Sandy called. She's at the hospital. The cops are all over her. -She needs your help. -Sorry. Not my problem. Not your problem? Wait, isn't it your job to protect your clients? Look, just because Ted got drunk with you a few times doesn't mean that you... Come on, Lou, I've been here almost every day for the past six months, -and you know that. -Yeah. -Yeah. -I know that. What the hell is your problem? -Come in. -Hello. Rick. -I brought Greg. -Your lawyer? Why didn't you bring Lou? I just talked to your doctor, Sandy. He won't release you until he knows you have somewhere to stay. -What do you mean? I'm going home. -You can't. Lou said they had to do an inventory of the house first, preserve the contents. But it's my house. It's in Teddy's will. I get the house. Lou knows that. Oh, God. It's Becky. She wants me out. That gold-digging, booty-shaking whore. Crying her crocodile tears, was she? Teddy said he was gonna throw her ass out just the other day. -Really? -Come on. -What day was that? -I don't know, just the other day. Overdose, my fat Aunt Fanny. My brother has been smoking heroin on and off for the last 20 years. He knew exactly how much he could handle. I'll bet you my casino that harlot had something to do with it. -Something meaning what? -I don't know. But I think the police ought to be investigating it as a homicide. A homicide? That's a pretty strong word. I knew that Sandy Murphy would be my brother's downfall from the minute I laid eyes on her. Benny! Benny! Benny! Where the hell are you? Hi. Hey! If you gave my boy drugs, I'm gonna shoot you between the eyes right now. He's not doing drugs. He's getting laid. -Getting laid? Hey, he's a baby. -Hello. Hey, I remember you. Yeah, yeah, come on over. Come on over. Yeah. Hey, Sandy, honey, you remember where I live. You know what? You've got a date sitting right by you, right now, and you're still inviting another one over. You're an idiot. -What can I say? The ladies love me. -No, they love our money. -That's what they love. -No, no, this one's different. Yeah, right! Benny! Benny! Benny! Excuse me. When your dad finds out... Get your shirt on. Come on, we're going home. Button up. -Hey! There she is! Sandy! -Yeah, she's different all right. -Excuse me? -You watch out for my sister. She used to pull my hair when I was little. Hey. Hey, aren't you going to introduce them? Hey. Terry, this is Sandy, my date. -Sandy, this is Terry, my other date. -Hi. How dare you embarrass me like this? You choose right now, her or me. Come on. She's got way too much nerve. Let's go. -That's rich, coming from you. -Come on. You are grounded! Terry, you have a nice evening. I like having my own Teddy Bear. I want to buy you something. What do you like? You like diamonds? You could buy me a bumper sticker that says, "Ted Bunion's satisfied lover." You gotta stop calling me Bunion. My name's not Bunion. It's Binion. Binion. As in Binion's Horseshoe. My casino. Yeah, right. You expect me to believe you own the Horseshoe? -Joseph! -Good evening, Mr. Binion. -How are you? -Good, sir. -Say hello to my girl. -Good evening. Come on. This must be worth like $1 million. -$7 million? -A little loose change, baby. Loose change. What were you saying about those diamonds that you were gonna get me? Did I say something about diamonds? -Well, all right. -Yeah? This is Lou Sacco, up at the house. There's someone here who's entered this house illegally. What? What did I just hear come out of your mouth? This woman is not to enter the property. She has no business here. -I live here. -She does not live here. -She lives in California. -See this? See this address? My address. I've lived here for three years. I'm not moving in with you. You know, you didn't answer your phone last night. I couldn't find you. What were you doing? Were you humping someone else? -Go to hell. -See, that's why I need you, 'cause you tell me to go to hell. That's how I know you mean what you say. -And you remember what you said? -What? You said that you were falling in love with me. Yeah? Well, I was drunk. Come on. I'll buy you a car, give you a credit card, buy you a pony. I don't care about your money. Really? Well, then you don't care if I do this! Wait, no! All right. Stop! That's real money! Okay. I'll move in with you. That a girl! Come here! But only if you're sure I can make you happy. Baby, we were meant to be together. See? I told you. We were meant to be together. Oh, my God! All these books. Eight, nine, seven. Thirty-eight, 16. -There you go. -And there you go. I hope you're kidding. Hope you're not planning on burying this -way the hell out here. -I wouldn't kid you, Lou. You're my favorite goat. Sit down. Have a drink. You're making me nervous. Have you ever heard of a safety-deposit box? -Sure, I have. -It's all there, Ted. Unless my sister stole some when my mama was sick. No, I'm telling you, it's all been inventoried. And I'm telling you that we're doing another inventory. So start counting those sleeves. There's like 1,000 books in there. Have you read all of them? Didn't anybody tell you? I'm a Renaissance man. Where are you going? I told you to sit down and count them sleeves. You can let him go. I'll help you count. Perfect, Sandy knows how to count. -I got to get back to town anyway. -Get the hell out of here. You wanna help me count? All right. Here, you want to count, sit down. Count these, count these, count this, count this, count this and count this. Before my mother died, she asked each of us what we wanted. My sister Becky had a list as long as your arm. Me, I just wanted the silver. I know why you want this. But why do you want me? I mean, you're rich, you're good-looking, you're smart. I didn't even finish high school. Don't sell yourself short, baby. Look at you. Gorgeous, unpredictable. Mouthy. You're spectacular. You rescued me. I want to get old with you. I'm already old. But that's all right. I'll be dead before you, and I'll leave you a map where I buried all my treasure. Don't look at me like that. I know a pirate when I see one. I'm taking my clothes. You can't stop me. I don't care about your clothes. Then why am I looking at your ugly face right now? I thought you were going to get a court order. So why don't you go get one? Go! Hey. The coins are all still here. How's it going out there? Yeah. We just started digging. We just started digging, babe. Yeah. Well, hurry up, because Lou is trying to get a court order to sit on top of everything. You're preaching to the choir. -Stack it with the others? -Yeah. Easy. Rick, we've got a problem. -All right. Get that out of here. -What are we supposed to say? You don't say anything. Just be quiet. Evening, Officers. What can I do for you? Depends. What you got going on here? We're just framing, getting ready to pour a little concrete. This late at night? Well, we're going to pour the concrete in the morning. You need a truck like that to pour concrete? Cement truck will come in the morning. Well, hello, gentlemen! There's a crapload of silver in here. Yeah. You know, we heard that Ted Binion had buried his silver out this way, but we figured he buried it on his ranch somewhere, not right here. Well, that's Ted for you. I'd have been straight from the start, but I promised Ted to keep this a secret, so... -ls that right? -Yeah. Good friends with old Ted, were you? Yes, I was. Oh, Lordy. Oh, my God. -Ted Binion, how you doing? -Good. -Rick Tabish, pleasure to meet you. -Where you hail from, Tabish? My domicile is the great city of Missoula, Montana. Montana! Some of the best times of my life were in Montana, at my daddy's ranch. Come on, Tabish, I'll buy you a drink. No, I'll buy you a drink! Herbie, I found a friend in the toilet. What'd you say your name was again? -Rick. -Rick. -What do you do? -Construction. Trucking. Hey, Herbie, how you been? -Rick Tabish. Yeah, we've met. -Yeah. And they say this ain't a small town anymore. How does a nice boy from Montana know a shady character like you? Yeah, the kid gets around, believe me. Well, I guess I don't gotta watch my p's and q's with you. To hell with your p's and q's. Just don't tell my wife, huh? Look, I had a deal with Ted. All right? Look, if he was here right now, he'd be laughing his ass off or he'd have your effing badge. Come on, guys. Up, out. Take him over to the car. I just can't understand why the police aren't calling it a suspicious death. I mean, anybody with half a brain can see that Sandy Murphy and that muscle-headed boyfriend of hers, they did it. They murdered him. They murdered Teddy. I mean, look. Did you read it? Have you read it? Look, right there. They announced it practically to the world. They wanted him dead. What? There's a rumor going around that you wanted him dead. You told the Gaming Control Board that Ted had made death threats against you. He told them that he only did it because you threatened him first. Lou, you know that's BS. When Teddy was drinking or drugged, he said things. We all said things. Now, big Teddy, we've done the paperwork. You know, there is something wrong with you. The Gaming Board has told you numerous times that shacking up with a stripper is a questionable choice, and yet you continue to do so. It really ticks me off when you talk about me like I'm not here. So the Gaming Board's got their panties in a twist, so what's new? In February, the suspension will be lifted and everybody'll go back to work. Come on, you couldn't pass a drug test if your life depended on it. Well, I'll shave every hair off my body if I have to. And meantime, the Horseshoe continues to crumble around our ears? No, thank you. We are buying you out. You'll be dead first! You're gonna sit here in my house and threaten my life? I don't think so. Benny, give me the gun. You want to play with guns at the dinner table, that's fine with me. Good. It's the only way to shut her up. Don't point a gun at my mom. Yeah, I'll take you out. I hope you told your slut what clothes you want to be buried in. How many times I got to tell you? I'm the only one who's allowed to call her a slut! And just so everybody knows, I want to be buried in my blue suit. Hey, just so everybody knows, I'm gonna buy him out. Why do you always laugh at the way your sister treats me? Well, I don't know why you gotta always let it get to you. -Because I'm afraid you'll believe her. -Baby. You know I don't care a thing about what she says. You don't get it. I love you. And if you left me, I don't know what I'd do. Give me a kiss. Somebody please get the door. Benny, go get that door, then get dressed. We're gonna be late for the service. I'm going. Coming! -What's with the racket? -Where's your mother? Ted's blue suit. I took it to the funeral place today. They told me that you'd already brought him a black suit. That's not what he wanted, Becky, and you know that. Of all days. Of all days. -Who else is here? -This is family time, and you are not invited. Go on. What are you doing? Becky, this isn't right. You can't act like I don't matter! -Hey. -Hey, we need to talk. -Did they set your bail yet? -That's not why I'm calling. They searched my truck. so? They found a note from you. "My lover. I love my lover." That's what she wrote. Sandy Murphy and her lover, Rick Tabish, murdered my brother. I don't know how they did it, but they did it. -And you know this, because... -Because I have flawless women's intuition. Now I just need someone to get out there and start talking to people and prove it one way or the other. Now, Lou offered you the job. Do you want it or not? Only if I'm allowed to give the police whatever I find. Honey. You know, my brother... Teddy... We used to play hide-and-go-seek in that casino when we were kids. You give whatever you find, whatever, to the police. -I'd appreciate it. -I'll do it. You know what? They're a bunch of knuckleheads, too. "l love my lover," right there. What the hell do they think is going on? This is such a nightmare. Don't worry, baby. I called the sheriff, baby. I've got it covered. I did call him. Three times I called him. Why did you keep that note? You know what? Good. It's out. I don't care who knows. Really? Well, don't forget I'm the actual one who's married. Oh, yeah. I didn't forget. Maybe I should have let her bail you out. Look, whatever they say about us, we just deny it. Just deny, deny, deny. You know, if people knew what it was like living with Ted, they'd congratulate me for staying faithful as long as I did. -What did you do that for? -Because you don't know when to shut up. Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Don't you ever hit me again! You better stop. I'll send your ass back to Cheetahs, replace your ass. -Mr. Ted! What is going on? -What are you, writing a book? That woman ain't worth eight eggs, but she sure knows how to fight. I suppose Rick called you, told you to take me out, keep me happy, -keep me quiet. -He's concerned about you, yes. Well, he should be. He's been gone three weeks, being Mr. Perfect Husband. He said he'd only be gone a couple of days. Hey, I want him back down here, too. I keep telling him the pot's about to boil. Thank you. I still don't understand how they can charge me with trying to steal the silver. I wasn't even there. Your cell phone records show that Rick talked to you several times while he was digging it up. Evidence of conspiracy. -My cell phone records? -That's right. Greg, are you saying that the police know every time Rick and me spoke on the phone? Excuse me. I was asked to deliver this to the lady. Courtesy of Mr. Ian Miller. He owns half the mines in Nevada. May l? Anything you need. Cell phone records. All summer long Rick and Sandy were calling each other, There's also receipts for hotel stays in Beverly Hills, signed Sandy Tabish. And taped interviews with witnesses who heard them talking about killing Ted. And you showed all this to the police? I think I'm gonna have Mr. Sacco cut you a check today. Now that certain facts have come to light surrounding the death of Ted Binion, we no longer believe the cause of death to be undetermined. During autopsy, we discovered a liquid mixture of heroin and Xanax in Binion's stomach. As he was known to smoke and not ingest the drug, we now believe Ted Binion was murdered. As to figuring out the particular details of the homicide, I'll defer that to Lieutenant Alston. Excuse me, but how do you investigate a homicide five months after the fact? Wasn't the crime scene completely contaminated? This case will be particularly challenging, yes. Well, who's on your list of suspects? I'm afraid we're not at liberty to discuss that at this time. As if the world doesn't know the only names are Rick and Sandy on that list. We know their motives. I know this is not a place to come, but it keeps all those holier-than-thou reporters from following us around. Here. Right here. Sandy, this is Evan James. Hi. How are you? Good, thank you. Nice to meet you. -Thanks for coming. -Sure. Thank you very much for coming. So? So... So the toxicology report just came in. It clearly states that Ted died of an overdose. But they're saying that the cause of death is undetermined. And the cops are calling me and Sandy. They're trying to get us to talk, trying to get us to come in there and trump up murder charges or something. You got to be kidding me. Do you want a lap dance? Well, I don't think you should. You thought that I meant me give you one? No. No, silly. I meant that Rick could buy you one. I'm sure that could be possible. I just... What I'd really like to know is why you called me down here. Well, we saw you on the news, and you seem like a fair guy. And if we're gonna give an interview, it needs to be fair. -So you're saying you want an interview? -Yeah. -Exclusive? -Yes. Go ahead. Shoot. What do you wanna know? Well, what about the silver, for one? Well, that's another mountain out of a molehill right there. I'm the one who built the damn vault for Ted, and I'm the only one that had the combination, beside him. Right, but why would you bury a vault in the middle of a vacant lot? That's junkie logic for you right there. You get sucked into Ted Binion's world and everything turns upside down. Okay, I got it! We pretend to bury the silver at my ranch, but in reality, we bury it off the main drag. That way, greedy, bitchy bitch Becky can never find it. -You see? -Whose car's out front? Sweetie, honey, looky, this is Tabish, Rick. -Hi. -Hi. He's gonna be with us around for a while. -Scored more dope again, didn't he? -"He scored more dope again, didn't he?" Hey, didn't I tell you you'd love her? You're still here? Hope you don't mind, but I made some eggs. I made some for you, too. I can't remember a man ever making me breakfast. Yeah? Well, I don't like to eat alone. -Thank you. -You're welcome. I want you so much. Don't you want me, baby? You used to want me all the time. Remember? Every day. 'Cause I don't feel like making love, do l? God. When are you going to stop smoking that stuff? It's destroying you. You are some crazy piece of work. It's not funny. -Just go to bed. -Fine. Teddy? Teddy! It's Rick. Hey, Teddy. Hey. Teddy told me to come by and show him the plans for the vault. Good for you. Hey. -Tuesday already? -Yeah. Got the plans right here for you. -Come on, don't. You reek. -My little fighter. All right, I'll go take a shower. -I'll show you these plans later, then? -Yeah. Don't you feel sorry for me. I'm not the pathetic one here. You are. You're married, and you're lusting after your friend's woman. Yeah, I am. -Get out. -I can't. Hold it there, fellows. -Hold on, guys. -Hold on. Hey, Ted. You want to put the first one in? I'm not about to take my eyes off the lowlifes on your payroll. They're all right. Look at that bar. Smell it. That's the cool metal smell of money. Make you all drunk and horny. Lucky for you, Tabish. You're $40,000 richer just by helping me hide it. Now stack them up, nice and neat. All right, guys, let's go. Here, put it all the way in the corner. Is that a bar of silver in your pocket, or are you just happy to see me? Didn't I tell you not to disturb me today? Does it bother you that I'm still living with Ted? I'd like to drop him out of a 40-story window on his head. So if you want me to give you a hard time about it, I can do that. No problem. Did you sleep with Mary Jo while you were home? I'm going to leave her. Why did you get that? I don't know. My kids like them. Yeah? Think they'll like me? What is this? Richard Tabish and Sandra Murphy, I have a warrant for your arrest for the murder of Ted Binion. All right. Do your jobs. We won't take this personal. Watch it! This jacket's expensive. House arrest means you do not leave your place of residence except between the hours of 9:.00 and 5:.00, and then only for approved reasons, such as doctor visits. Everything else you have to get permission for. If you go down the street to borrow a cup of sugar from your neighbor, you better get permission first, because we will know. You got it? You really found the right $8-an-hour job for you, didn't you? Where's my panties? When I came in here I had black lace panties. -Did you take them? -Can't say I thought of it, no. Well, look. There's no panties. Maybe you weren't wearing any. Maybe I wasn't wearing any. I was wearing this skirt. Do you think I was wearing a skirt this short without any panties? All right. Fine. Keep them, pervert. Sandy, Sandy, how does it feel to be out on bail? -How does it feel to be out? -Everyone, please. Sandy, what about the trial? Tell me about the trial. -Any comment on the trial. -Please step aside. Everyone, back! Back, all of you, please! Everyone get back, please. Let us through. They let me out on bail. Why couldn't you get Rick out? You don't have a criminal record. At least, not yet. He does. I'm going to bury you, Fritz. You hear me? Do you hear me? What are you laughing at? There he is, your own personal bail bondsman. Shut up. You rescued me. My darling, not to worry. I consider it a privilege to be taking care of a beauty such as yourself. I won't abandon Rick. Grand larceny? Like a false murder charge isn't enough? They're going after the silver thing? You can't be surprised about that. You told me that my cell phone records prove that I called the sheriff three times that day. Three times. He denies you told him anything about the silver. Well, what does he say we talked about? The weather? Well, what about Lou? Lou cannot deny that Ted told me to dig it up. -Lou, Lou. Lou, I need a restraining order. -What? Becky's trying to kill me. Becky's trying to kill me. Teddy. Teddy, now look! You can't bring me all the way out here to go through this paranoid crap again. No, look. Look! You see those bullet holes? -She's trying to kill me! -That was last year, baby. And you don't even know if Becky really hired those guys. The hell I don't. I know my sister. The second I'm gone, she's going to... She's going to snatch up my silver and say it was hers. Rick. If I wake up dead, the first thing you're going to do is dig up my silver, cash it in and put it into a trust for Sandy. No, Ted. Not a good idea. Who the hell asked you? Sandy. I don't feel so good. Sandy, Sandy, I don't... He's losing it. Keeps talking like he's going to die. He is. I mean, look at him. He's on his last legs. Tabish probably made another request for bail, but it's not going to happen. That's the DA. Look at those socks. Very light color, you know. -It's a match. -I think it'll look good. Will you excuse us for a moment? -I'll see you later. I'll be outside. -Yeah. Did you tell them you were going to see your lawyer and you went clothes shopping instead? Yeah? So? Do you know what house arrest means? You can't lie to them about where you're going. This is a problem, too. Stop worrying about how you look in the mirror. Start thinking about how you appear to judge and jury. How you doing? I want my own lawyer. Greg's driving me crazy, acting like he's my father or something, and I already have a nice daddy. So do you like him? Your new lawyer, what's his name? David Daguerre. He's all right. But he already ganged up on me with Greg about my clothes. Why? "I'm afraid, Ms. Murphy, you have a bit of an image problem." Here. I've changed myself into whatever men want plenty of times. I can change myself into whatever these damn lawyers want. Do you think I should call it the trial of the century? -I'd say that's a good call. -Okay. I'm here in front of the... Wait, wait, here she comes. -Here she is. Get her, Bruce? -Got her. -You got her? -Got her now. Sandy. A few words, Sandy. Talk to me, Sandy. You don't even look like you. Well, according to some people, that's a good thing. Not to me. When Teddy started to get so bad, why didn't we just run away? That's right. You couldn't bear to walk away from all that shiny silver. Baby, you know you wanted it, too. All rise! In the matter of The state of Nevada v. Richard Tabish and sandra murphy, court is now in session. Ladies and gentlemen, you are about to hear a tale of lust and greed. The evidence will prove beyond a reasonable doubt that Ted Binion was murdered, murdered by someone he trusted and her new lover, murdered by Sandy Murphy and Rick Tabish. Now, you will hear from witness after witness, who will reconstruct for you the days leading up to the crime. From the manicurist who heard Sandy predict Ted's death by overdose... I signed this stupid agreement that says I don't get anything if I leave him. But if he dies... Trust me, the way that he uses, he's going to OD. He'll be dead in three weeks. That's when Steve Wynn is having his grand opening party for his new casino. Do you think it'll look bad if I go to something like that after my husband dies? ...to Rick's high school buddy Frank Lipjanic, a man Rick tried to hire to help him kill Ted. You want me to do what now? I want you to help me off the casino guy, the guy I put all the silver in the ground for. He's the one with the hot girlfriend? She's hot. Got her in my back pocket. If the guy bites it, the girl is mine, the silver is mine. And you know me, Frank. I like to share with my friends. Yes. You will meet the physician who prescribed Ted 120 Xanax tablets, the drug dealer who sold him And you will find out exactly what was on Ted's mind the night before he died. And you will hear the chilling words spoken by Ted Binion himself on the very eve of his murder. The private dick I hired got pictures of Sandy at the gym, kissing on Tabish, mr. muscles with the shiny teeth. It's like you said, Lou. You bring a bitch home, the dogs are going to smell her when she's in heat. They're going to sit outside, howling and howling, howl till she lets them in. I want you to take the whore out of my will. But you just put Sandy in your will. And now I'm telling you to take her out. That is, if she doesn't kill me tonight. If I'm dead tomorrow, you'll know what happened. Well, clearly, a lot of excitement here at the courthouse today. The prosecution is expected to call Dr. Michael Baden, the nation's top forensic expert, who also testified at the O.J. Simpson trial. In a controversial move for the prosecution, Dr. Baden's testimony is actually expected to contradict that of the medical examiner. -Go on, Dr. Baden. -Thank you. Well, I don't believe that the drug levels in Mr. Binion's system were high enough to cause death, at least not in an addict with a high tolerance. Then how, may we ask, did he die? The autopsy photos show the redness of abrasions over his mouth, which to me is a sign of obstruction. And there were broken blood vessels under his eyes, which indicate, you know, a struggle to breathe. Well, there were abrasions on his wrists, which suggest being bound, as well as red marks on his chest, which appear to be imprints of buttons, probably by someone who's kneeling on him. I believe he was likely forced to ingest drugs to help incapacitate him, and then he was laid on the floor and suffocated to death. Sandy. I saw their faces. The jury's eating it up. I want to go on the stand. I want to testify. I want to tell them what happened. No. That's asking for trouble. It so happens I agree. It's not worth the risk. Well, I don't care. I can't just sit there and not do anything when people are saying all this garbage. I know how hard it is, just sitting there, feeling helpless. But this is going to roll over us. All right? Everything's going to be okay. -You promise? -I promise. The defense wants you to believe Ted Binion killed himself. Well, coincidence of coincidences, he killed himself the day Sandy Murphy called the maid and told her not to come in to work that day. He killed himself the day before someone emptied his safe out of his antique coin collection, the day before Rick Tabish tried to make off with $7 million worth of Ted Binion's silver. The defense also wants you to believe that Rick was at work the morning of September 17. But consider this, after months of Rick and Sandy calling each other 20, 30 times a day, on that day, there was not a single call between them until late in the afternoon, mere minutes before Sandy reported finding Ted's body. Now, why is that? Why no communication most of the day? Because they were together, in Ted Binion's home. Why was sandy's car parked in the driveway, where the gardener says she never parked, instead of in the garage where she always parked? Because Rick's car was hidden in the garage. And inside, Rick and Sandy were tying Ted to a chair and forcing him to drink a deadly cocktail of heroin and Xanax. How do we know? The cocktail was still in his stomach. That was their plan, make it look like an overdose. They'd been planting that idea all over town. Trust me, the way he uses, he's going to OD. He'll be dead in three weeks. And when Ted didn't die fast enough, one of them covered his mouth and his nose with their hands, while the other sat on his chest, and they suffocated him. Afterward, Rick and Sandy drove to lunch. We know they drove together because Sandy left her purse in Rick's car, didn't have her keys to get back in the house later. And why did they drive together? Because Rick was already there. He was in the house. He was there to help his lover kill her rich boyfriend, so they could steal his silver. And that is what the evidence shows, beyond a reasonable doubt. I heard your lawyer say that the longer they deliberate, the more likely it's an acquittal. -You're kidding. When? -4:.30. Well, then we'll have time to go to Piero's afterward to celebrate. Yeah. How say you in the charge against the defendant Richard Tabish for felony larceny in the attempted theft of the silver? Guilty. How say you in the charge against the defendant Richard Tabish for murder in the first degree? Guilty. How say you in the charge against the defendant Sandra Murphy for felony larceny in the attempted theft of the silver? Guilty. How say you in the charge against the defendant Sandra Murphy for murder in the first degree? -Guilty. -Hallelujah. Hallelujah. You promised me this wouldn't happen. Well, it's happening. Look, we can appeal. Shut up. Shut up! You lied to me! All right, thank you! No, no, no. It was justice, not luck! -Becky. -Yes, go ahead. What do you think Ted would say of the verdict? He would say that the bitch got what she deserved, and that she was the meanest, most evil, most devious person that he ever met. -Excuse me. -Go ahead. What about the allegations that Ted Binion actually abused Ms. Murphy? The only abuse she ever got was $100 bills being thrown right at her. Right? Cheers, y'all. Drinks on the house! It's a good day! It's a day of justice at the Horseshoe! So what does that mean, 20 years to life? It means eligibility for parole will come in about 12 years. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Sandy, Sandy. This fight isn't over. It was a sloppy trial. We have a half dozen grounds for appeal. Rick asked me to give you this letter. I'm standing here today in front of Southern Nevada Women's Correctional Facility. Convicted murderer Sandra Murphy is being transferred today to begin serving her... I think that's her, Bruce. Go ahead. Start rolling. -You got it, Bruce? -Got it. Just hold her tight right there. Ms. Murphy, how does it feel to be walking in today, knowing you may never walk out? Ms. Murphy. Ms. Murphy. Just hold her tight there. Ms. Murphy. Sandy, a few words. Sandy. Sandy. I'm here in front of the prison where after four years Sandy Murphy is set to be released tomorrow, after the Nevada supreme Court overturned her conviction for the 1998 murder of Ted Binion. In setting aside the conviction, the court cited the prosecution's two theories of death, forced overdose and suffocation, and said that each theory necessarily created a reasonable doubt about the other. Were you surprised by the Supreme Court's decision? Wasn't everybody? I don't know why they want to waste taxpayer money on a new trial. I mean, isn't it something like 90% of retrials end up with the same verdict? And what do you say to murphy's legions of defenders who are saying you bought the case against her and Tabish? Well, I would say that my daddy always said, "Never get in a pissing contest with a skunk. " The skunk in this case would be legendary San Francisco attorney Tony Serra, who will join the defense team in the new trial. Mr. Serra, what strengths do you bring to the defense? I'm more than a lawyer. I'm a healer. I open cages. I give freedom, which is healing. How's the suit fit? -It's good to see you. -And you. It's in the past, darling. It's in the past. Sandy? Hey. It's so good to see you. It's not like I was far away. I know. The world's worst friend, that's me. Not like lan. I can't believe he kept your apartment for you. Yeah, well, unlike you, he believed me that I didn't do it. Sandy. I'm so sorry. It must have been terrible. -You seem so different. -I know. And I have no idea how to get myself back. And if they put me back in... Aren't you a sight for sore eyes? Here we go again. I told you sooner or later things would turn our way. You call four years in prison "our way"? Yeah, I know why you didn't write me back. I think it was smart to stay quiet and wait till things cooled off. You know, I heard they tried to get you to turn against me, be a witness for the state. I know you didn't do that. All right, boys and girls, it's showtime! You are about to hear a case that is so shaky, the Supreme Court could not let the conviction stand. You will find yourself dumbfounded as to why you are here when you are presented with conjecture rather than evidence and allegations rather than proof. I don't know how they got away with it the first time. But we're not letting them get away with it this time. Yeah. Yeah. -Welcome back to Las Vegas, Mr. Lipjanic. -Howdy. Now, you testified four years ago that Rick Tabish asked you to help him kill Ted Binion. It would be a convenience if this man just keeled over from something. But what are you going to do? -Really? -Yeah. I could parachute in the backyard, take him out like a sniper. I could just walk you right in there and just introduce you, say, "Here's my buddy Frank, Ted." You just smile and shoot. -I've done crazier things. -Yes, you have. -"Hey, Ted, nice to meet you." -Yeah. -Good to see you, buddy. -Nice to see you, buddy. Are you suggesting that Mr. Tabish was merely joking? Yeah, a little hypothetical fun. That's not how you characterized what happened four years ago. That's because I was told that if I was going to get some of that reward money from the Binions, I'd have to "play ball." Talk about a railroad operation. Your Honor, I move to have Mr. Lipjanic declared a hostile witness. So noted. Mr. Serra, do you care to cross? I'm curious. Just how much of that reward money did you receive? $20,000. No more questions. And how much of this so-called reward money did you get? $20,000. I received a check for $10,000. What is this, medical expert number nine? We could do a montage. Yeah, and they're all saying the exact same thing. Not only was the state a little bit wrong, but completely... So in your opinion, Mr. Drummond, this was not an unusual overdose? Actually, Mr. Binion's death was very much a typical overdose. You see, the use of some other drug, usually Xanax. Users take it because it magnifies the euphoric effects of the heroin. No more questions. What? You're not going to threaten to scratch my eyes out or run me over with your car or any of those other classy things you used to love to say to me? You know, Becky, I used to think that you knew as well as I did that Teddy OD'd. I thought you were using it as the excuse to set me up, get me out of the way. But now I realize you were just in denial, Iike every other person who loves a drug addict. Please, don't even bother. You, with your purse full of Teddy's silver coins, and your boyfriend digging up all the rest. At least I can say I earned it by taking care of Ted. You earned it? My brother plucked you naked off the stage and gave you everything! You took care of him? You lived high on the hog for three years, and my brother ended up dead, and now you have the nerve to say to me that you deserve more? I could retch all over your shoes! I have better things to do with my life than fight with you forever. I said it in the beginning, and I will say it again. There was no murder. He died the way countless heroin addicts die, of an accidental overdose. Nine medical experts testified to that. And the prosecution witnesses? Paid. Paid by a wealthy family who didn't want Ted's girlfriend to get the inheritance Ted promised her. So why are we here? Because casino royalty was offended, and in Las Vegas, what casinos want, casinos get. They even get to create a murder out of thin air. Are we really going to let them get away with that again? Hail, Caesar! Come on! There will be order in this court! Sandy. Sandy. What are you doing in here? You didn't say goodbye after court yesterday. So you noticed. I'm still in love with you. I've been in love with you ever since I first laid eyes on you. -Shut up. -Look. Sandy, I know we've been through hell together, but when we get through this, I want us to find our way back to each other. You're crazy. No. You're all I've thought about. You're the thing that kept me going four years, Sandy. Look, if we don't end up together, then all this misery has been for nothing. I will never be with you again, never. Are you hearing me, Rick? There was only one man that I loved, and it wasn't you. Man, that Serra dude, he's got me believing she didn't do it. The whole thing was straight-up fabricated. Then you're an idiot. 'Cause there's no other way to explain how she was in the house at the time Ted died. What do you mean? She explained everything to the cops on the first day, how Ted bought himself all those balloons of big H. -Ted, don't. -He was going to town on them. No more. You've been at it all night. Oh, God. Come on, baby, now. Come on, put that down. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on, baby, let me just get you to bed, okay? No, I'm thinking that she helped him lie down. Teddy. Stop it. Come on, baby. -Come on. -she called the maid, told her not to come in and wake old Teddy up. she babysat him while he slept. And she went off to get herself some lunch, no idea he was going to croak. Then how do you explain all the Xanax in his system? Or the fact that Rick told the cops when he was arrested for doing the silver that he was in the house that day Ted died. No. Rick and Sandy were there. They forced that Xanax down his throat. I don't think that's what happened. I think Ted probably confronted her about Rick. You two-bit whore! You want to call me names? Fine. Put that down, and I'll get you to bed, and you can call me all the names you want. I wouldn't touch you, not after Tabish has put his hands all over you. Look at you. Look at you! You can't even pretend it's not true! She called Rick, told him... Teddy knows. I don't know. I don't know, but he's so messed up, I don't know what he's going to do. Okay, hurry. How long has he been in there? He's coming. Teddy. Teddy. You're not worth the blood stain on the carpet. Hey. Hey. -Hey, Teddy. -Look. Look who it is. The betrayer. -Did you bring your truck? -Teddy, put the gun down. 'Cause I'm throwing this bitch out. You can keep her. -Let's just talk about it. -I don't want to talk about it! -We're going to talk about this, man! -Sit down! You're making me nervous, standing there like that. -Sit down. -All right. You're freaking me out standing there like that. -All right. -Go on. Okay, all right. All right, Teddy. Ain't this nice? Happy little family. Slut. Liar. Pills with your names on them. I'm calling the paramedics. Why? So I can get arrested for possession? That, I will shoot you for. Sit down. Freaking whore. Slut. And you... -I thought you was my friend. -I am your friend. You're not my friend. How can you seriously think that Sandy was gonna make the call and Ted stopped her? No, if anything, it was the other way around. I took too much. Sandy. Took too much. Please call an ambulance. Call... Call... Ambulance, ambulance. What? What? It's possible. No, I don't think that Sandy wanted to watch him die. I think Rick talked her into it. What are you doing? He took the whole bottle. We have to get him to a hospital. No, we don't. Think about it. This could be a good thing. You heard him. He said when he wakes up, he's going to kick you out and you're going to have nothing, but if he doesn't wake up... No. Rick, I can't. If he dies this time, this house is yours and the silver. No one knows about it. That could be ours. You better call the maid, tell her not to come. No, you can't pin this all on Tabish. That's why she won't look at Rick anymore. Because he talked her into watching Ted die. He promised her nothing bad would happen, and she believed him. How say you on the charge against the defendant Sandra Murphy of grand larceny for the felony theft of the silver? Guilty. How say you in the charge against the defendant Sandra Murphy for murder in the first degree? Not guilty. How say you in the charge against the defendant Richard Tabish of grand larceny for the felony theft of the silver? Guilty. And how say you in the charge against the defendant Richard Tabish for murder in the first degree? Not guilty. The defendants are free to go pending sentencing. Date to be determined by the court. This court is adjourned. No more comments. But if I did have a comment, it would be about the damn irony of them saying that I bought a verdict, when they're the ones who spent a truckload on lawyers. Lawyers who kept out key evidence, by the way. And where do you think all that money came from for their case? From my murdered brother's safe, that's where. We just want to say that our convictions haven't changed. We know they're guilty, but we have to respect our judicial system, recognize our system, honor it. And it is not up to me to decide their guilt. I just hope that I get the opportunity to be there for my children before they're grown, be there with my parents before they're gone. Will I have to go back and do time for the silver charge? With the four years you've already done and your clean record, the judge will have to pronounce you free on time served. Rick won't be so lucky. He'll go back for a couple more years. Thank you for everything. Thank you. Goodbye. -Bye. -Take care. Sandy. Sandy, how about a couple comments? Just a couple. All I have to say is that even though I was vindicated today, I didn't win. I still lost four years of my life, and I still lost my man, and I can never get him back. -Sandy. -A few more questions. Rick, what about Sandy? I hope she finds happiness in her life. She deserves it. Told you we'd win. Sandy. Still think she's guilty? The jury says no. What do you say?
