 

                        Hidden in the silent faces of Egyptian monuments,... ...under the gaze of the Vedic gods,... ...between the lines of the old books of Alchemy,... ...and tantalizing us from the myths of the Aztecs and... ...Mayans the essence of the secret doctrine has always been there. Through out the history of humanity... ...only the elect few were initiated into the mysteries of this great... ...universal truth... and those few guided the rest of humanity... ...and gave them the outward symbols of that truth... ...as guidance. For the great Arcanum the secret of secrets was fiercely protected... ...and offered only to those who had proven their moral purity... ...and trustworthiness. But as humanity degenerated into barbarism and cruelty... ...the divine knowledge went underground... ...to survive in isolated pockets around the world. For many centuries the great Arcanum has been beckoning to humanity... ...from behind the stories and myths that veil it. The knowledge it delivers is universal and applies to all true religions... ...and mystical traditions. Wether it is the serpent of Adam and Eve from the Judeo-Christian tradition... ...the winged serpent of Quetzlcoatl from the Aztec tradition... ...the serpents climbing the caduceus of the Greek god Hermes... ...or the serpents of the Hindu or Buddhist traditions... ...all these symbols contain the same teaching. At long last after centuries of darkness and ignorance the time has come... ...for this hidden doctrine to be revealed. The word religion derives from the Latin root religare... ...which means union. The word Yoga is derived from the sanskrit root yug... ...which also means union. At their base the different traditions of east and west describe the same goal: Union... ...with divinity. Religious traditions provide the map that one must follow... ...in order to reach unification with the divine. Every religion seeks to express the same core knowledge... ...but one needs the right tools in order to read the map. With the right tools and their proper use an aspirant of any religion or... ...tradition may enter into direct experiential knowledge of the divine. It can be seen then that there is truly one science, one path... ...but appearing with different names and faces. In Greek the narrow path is called Gnosis which means knowledge. In Hebrew the same narrow path is called Daath... ...which also means knowledge. This path is represented by the famous tree of knowledge in the book of Genesis... ...and the clue to entering into the direct experience of God can be found... ...through understanding this symbol of the tree of knowledge. Genesis the Judeo-Christian teaching of creation was written as a means to pass... ...down the knowledge of the great Arcanum... ...to those with the eyes to see and the ears to hear. It's inception was influenced by both eastern and western traditions. In order to provide humanity a key contained in the foundation of all... ...the great religions of the world. The Old Testament or Tanakh outwardly appears to be basic spiritual... ...instruction in the form of stories and histories. Yet in truth it is a vehicle of this secret knowledge. To better understand the origins of the Judeo Christian tradition of Genesis... ...it is necessary to take a brief look at the life of the author: ... ...Moses. Although of Jewish lineage Moses was raised to be an Egyptian Pharaoh... ...and was trained in not only the hidden wisdom of Egypt... ...but also that of his naitive Judaism. The civilization of ancient Egypt is among the longest lasting in the history... ...of humanity... ...and an accepted custodian of immense knowledge in the ancient world. Judaism was directly influenced by two of the oldest civilizations on record... ...those of Sumeria and Babylonia, civilizations famous for their... ...mystery schools. Schooled in the hidden teachings of these ancient traditions Moses wrote... ...the first five books of the bible in Hebrew and in code as was... ...the tradition. Thus every story and name contained within the books of Moses hides... ...a deeper meaning. As it says in the mystical Hebrew book The Zohar:... The Bible is symbolic. The characters and events of the Bible are a cloak that veils the real message. This inner knowledge has been hidden or in the case of Christianity... ...rejected entirely. The Bible like all religious books has been interpreted literally. Even Jesus of Nazareth thought both a public and a secret doctrine. Those who received the secret teaching were persecuted... ...and forced to take the knowledge underground. As a result the modern church has inherited merely the cloak. In addittion the Bible has undergone repeated editing by those without any... ...knowledge of its secrets. Although the modern Bible is greatly disfigured it is nevertheless infused... ...with the ancient secret doctrine. However the many levels of meaning hidden in the Hebrew letters... ...are not visible in the modern language versions of the bible. For example: ... The very first words of the Bible in Hebrew are... ..."brasyt bra alhym". The common literal translation is:... ..."In the beginning God creates...". But the Hebraic translation found in the Zohar reads... ..."In wisdom, Elohim creates...". Elohim is a Hebrew word. The root "El" is Hebrew for God and is masculine. The feminine form of "El" is "Eloah"... ...which means Goddess. "Elohim" is plural thus meaning Gods and Goddesses, Male/Female. In contrast to the familiar image of a bearded old man... ...God is established in the first three words of the Bible... ...as androgynous... ...containing both male and female. The word Elohim has many meanings in one sense it refers to angels... ...the governors of creation. These divine beings are male/female in the image of their creator. This is clearly illustrated in most ancient images of angels. Showing them to have the attributes of both man and woman. In the bible the angelwho oversaw the creation of humanity is called... ...Jehovah Elohim. Jehovah is another important name of God not to be confused with YHVH. The name Jehovah is comprised of four Hebrew letters... ..."yhvh". Yod or jah can be translated as male or phallus, Adam. Heva Or Heve is female, mother or uterus, Eve. Even the name Jehovah contains both masculine and feminine forces. The Elohim, the angel Jehovah formed man in his image... ...androgynous... ...and so as recorded in the esoteric heart of all great religions... ...humanity symbolized by Adam was once androgynous... ...containing both male and female. Eden is a paradise of perfection. Eden is symbollic of the innocence and hapiness that was once... ...the natural state of humanity. The humanity of Eden was pure knowing only goodness and virtue. As reflections of God humanity embodied the seven virtues... ...of the soul. Although the Eden of Adam and Eve never existed in the three... ...dimensional physical world according to esoteric wisdom... ...there was a physical place called Eden... ...that was located in Mesopotamia between the Tigris and Euphrates... ...rivers. A mystery school by the same name was founded in this place... ...by the Chaldeans. But this was not the Garden of Eden of Adam and Eve. According to esoteric wisdom there exist seven fundamental dimensions. The ascend and descend through these realms by the beings that inhabit them... Is represented in the Bible by Jacob's ladder. The Bible states that when Jehovah Elohim created Adam... ...he placed Adam in the Garden of Eden. Esoteric wisdom states that this is the 4th dimension: The world of vital energy. In Hebrew it is called Yesod, which means the foundation. Thus the androgynous ancestor of humanity existed in a more subtle... ...level of nature. That is why modern anthropologists know nothing about our true origins. Though happy in its innocence humanity as symbolized by Adam... ...needed to grow spiritually. Thus Eve was separated from the body of Adam. Jehovah Elohim took one of the hermaphrodite mans ribs... ...then closed up the flesh... ...then Jehovah Elohim made a woman from the rib he had taken... ...out of the hermaphrodite man. She shall be called woman for she was taken out of the man. This process of separation presented symbollically in the Bible... ...was gradual. The human hermaphrodite was separated into two sexes... ...male and female. So that they may see themselves better... ...to know themselves. Since that time man and woman have sought to reclaim their... ...missing unity. Which is the root of the craving for sexual connection. For this reason a man will leave his father and mother,... ...and be united to his wife... ...and they shall be one flesh. And out of the ground made Jehovah Elohim to grow every tree... ...that is pleasent to the sight and good for food. There are two trees that are given specific importance within the garden: These two trees are symbolic not literal. The tree of life is an ancient symbol that is universal in meaning... ...and is found in all the cultures that held the esoteric knowledge. This is the same tree that Moses found burning on Mount Sinai. This the tree under which the Buddha Shakyamuni found enlightenment. This is the world tree of the Mayans. The tree of life of the Aztecs. The great Nordic tree Idrisil that supports existence in its powerful... ...boughs. In the mystical tradition of Judaism the science of the tree... ...of life is called Kabbalah. But this wisdom is universal and can be found... ...in every great religious tradition... ...although it appears under many names. The science of the tree of life is a map of the universe... ...and of the human soul. Just as the tree of life maps the macrocosmos... ...the expansive universe so too does it map the microcosmos: Man, the reflection of the universe. Thus the wise recommendation etched in stone above the entrance... ...to the famous oracle of Delphi: The tree of life symbolizes the structure of the soul... ...and the structure of creation. It's roots are in the highest realms... ...and its branches and leaves are all the worlds... ...and the many beings that exist. This tree gives fourth fruit life, sustenance and wisdom. In the bible Moses wrote that Adam and Eve were free to eat... ...of the tree of life... ...this means that Adam and Eve were free to feed themselves... ...with the science of the tree of life. The science of God, Kabbalah. And as the tree of life also symbolizes the soul... ...Adam and Eve, humanity were allowed to enjoy the benefits... ...of abiding in a state of perfection... ...with an awakened consciousness. A fully illuminated consciousness... ...is represented in the tradition of the christmas tree. A symbol of the tree of life as passed down through Germanic... ...esoteric traditions. Posessing an illuminated tree of life within means that ones... ...inner senses are fully opened and active. Providing a direct relationship with God. Of this tree Adam and Eve could freely eat... ...but there existed another tree in Eden: the tree of knowledge. It is clear that the tree of knowledge was forbidden... ...to Adam and Eve. Yet they were tempted by the one thing in all of paradise... ...that was denied to them. Knowledge in Greek is Gnosis and in Hebrew Daath. Daath is the hidden sphere found in the Kabbalah, which traditionally... ...is never spoken of or revealed. Daath, Gnosis is the science of the great Arcanum... ...that secret knowledge... ...which has been hidden from humanity for ages. However, close examination of the use of the word knowledge in the... ...Bible gives strong indications of the nature of Daath or Gnosis. It is clear to the observant reader that knowledge in the bible... ...relates to sexuality. Hence the tree of knowledge, Daath, Gnosis, is a direct reference... ...to sexuality. What then is the purpose of this reference to sex and its role in... ...the fate of Adam and Eve? When humanity was physically separated into two sexes... ...man and woman still carried within them the reflection of their creator. Thus within every male there still exists a female aspect... ...and within every woman exists a male aspect. By this level of meaning Adam and Eve symbolize the subtle energetic... ..physiology of the individual. Adam and Eve as polarized energy are represented in the ancient... ...symbol of the caduceus. Popularly associated to the Greek god Hermes the symbol of the... ...caduceus is actually visible in the records of countless ancient... ...cultures from around the world. The two serpents have always symbolized the masculine and... ...feminine energetic channels that wind up the spinal column. As they are energetic not physical a scalpel will never find them. The root is Yesod, The Foundation, the sexual organs... ...and they are fed by the sexual energy. These two channels of energy are called Ida and Pingala... ...in Sanskrit. In the Kabbalah they are called Od and Ob... ...and in esoteric Christianity they are called Adam and Eve. In the Bible they are also called the two olive trees... ...and the two candle sticks standing before the God of the earth. The two serpents wind up the spinal column of the physical body. The spine is most often symbolized by a staff or rod. ...and the central column of the human temple. The column stands upon the foundation stone Yesod... ...the sexual energy. The spine has 33 vertebrae symbolized by the 33 years... ...of the life of Jesus of Nazareth... ...and by the 33 degrees of the Masons. On either side of this rod the spinal column are two serpents... Pingala is the masculine aspect, Adam. Ida is the feminine aspect, Eve. It is the energy of Eve in our psyche that pushes for procreation. When Eve is tempted to eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge... This is a symbol of humanity desiring the fruit of sexuality:... ...children. Until this time humanity was not allowed to have children on their own. They were not allowed to eat that fruit. Tempted by the serpent human beings chose to procreate of their own... ...will. In their innocence however they did not realize that the laws... ...they were given were for their own good. Learning to procreate without the guidance of the Elohim... ...lead to the discovery of the orgasm. The tree of knowledge or sexuality was present alongside all... ...other aspects of existence. It is even recognized as an important presence in Eden. Alongside the tree of life... ...and in the tradition of the Kabbalah these two trees... ...are said to share the same roots. However unlike any other tree in Eden, Adam and Eve were only... ...allowed to enjoy the tree of knowledge without indulging... ...in its fruit. While in Eden, Adam and Eve only knew divinity and innocence... ...and thus inherently respected the laws of creation. In their innocence they were ignorant of the consequences... ...of indulging in the fruit of sexuality. Tremendous energy is harnessed in the sexual act between a man and... ...a woman. It is in this coitus that humanity has the God given capacity... ...to create. Man is the active force, the reflection of God the father. Woman as the receptive force, the reflection of God the mother. ...and sex as the force that brings them together. These are the three forces that give rise to all of creation... ...and this is the foundation of the universal symbol of the... ...trinity. The trinity is the unity of three, three that express as one. But in order to create this one divides itself in two:... ...male and female. This is the mystery of the holy spirit... ...the fecundating fire of God. Symbolized in India as Shiva-Shakti. The creative and destructive power of God. One of the most sacred symbols of Shiva the holy spirit... ...is the lingam yoni the intersection of the phallus... ...and uterus. The same symbol is found on the other side of the world... ...in the alchemical tradition. The force that powers all creation on all levels of... ...existence is sexual energy. Sexual energy is symbolized by fire,... ...by water... ...and by light. In the tradition of alchemy the sexual energy is symbolized by... ...Mercury. When we strike upon the foundation stone, the rock,... ...we find the waters of life. The ancient ritual of baptism is a symbol of the transmutation... ...of sexual energy the source of salvation. All of life is born of the sexual waters. The power of creation harnessing the force of that electric energy... ...implies a great responsibility. At the time of Adam and Eve, sex was only practiced in the... ...temples under the guidance of the Elohim. Gabriel and his legions of Angels were guiding humanity in this... ...holy ritual as indicated by his recurrence in the Bible,... ...announcing the arrival of children. Gabriel is the region of the moon and directly influences... ...all forms of conception. At certain times of the year the husband and wife would travel... ...long distances in order to be instructed in the sexual... ...mysteries. This is the long forgotten root of the modern practice... ...of the honey moon. Thus the angels supervised this holy sacrament... ...and guided a single sperm to meet an egg in the precise... ...moment needed to engender a deliberate and divine child. The wasteful expulsion of energy and semen through the orgasm... ...was not and is not required to create a child. This is in fact the hidden meaning of the term immaculate... ...conception. Immaculate means perfectly clean. To indulge in the fruit of sexuality... ...means to spill the sexual energy... ...to orgasm... ...to taste the divine energy that illuminates the soul... ...in order to feel physical sensation. Thus the energy used to maintain the physical and spiritual... ...vitality of the individual is expelled... ...through the orgasm. Adam and Eve as a symbol of men and women... ...of the ancient past ate of the forbidden fruit of the tree... ...of knowledge or the secret knowledge of sexuality. They abused the sexual energy in their own bodies by having... ...the orgasm and therefore they broke the most fundamental... ...rule they had been given. It is very important that the tremendous energy that gives... ...mankind the ability to create be used efficiently... ...because it is connected to the same energetic force that... ...sustains the individuals own vitality. It is well known that the sexual energy is intimately related... ...to the health of our psyche and our physical bodies. Not only is it necessary for sustaining physical vitality... ...and thus the five physical senses but also the vitality... ...of the seven superior senses that unites mankind to the divine. Without the sexual energy the soul atrophies breaking our... ...connection with God. When we expell the sexual energy we expell the energy that fuels... ...our inner senses. This is why those who fornicate who expell the sexual energy... ...through the orgasm can not perceive God directly. The orgasm is symbolized in the poisoned apple given to snow white. While sweet to the taste of the physical senses it is poison... ...to the soul. Eating it results in unconsciousness... ...and an eternity of sleep. The universal story of maidens and virtous heroes falling... ...asleep is an allegory illustrating the sleep of... ...the consciousness the state in which the human being loses the... ...direct personal knowledge of God and the higher realms of... ...nature. This is why the fruit of the tree of knowledge was forbidden to... ...eat. Before the abuse of the tree of knowledge sex was treated with... ...the utmost respect and the orgasm was unknown to... ...mankind and unnecessary. Husband joined wife in the sexual act according to the laws given... ...to them by Jehovah Elohim. They enjoyed the tree of knowledge sexuality but did not eat of its fruit. This was the genesis of the distinction between good... ...and evil. A humanity that knew only goodness ate of the forbidden fruit... ...and discovered animal desire which always leads to suffering... ...and pain. ...opened releases the agents of evil into the world. Fear, pride, shame. ...and the eyes of them both were opened and they knew that they... ...were naked and the sawed fig leaves together... ...and made themselves aprons and Adam said:... ..."I heard thy voice in the garden and I was afraid... ...because I was naked and I hid myself." Through the discovery of the orgasm Adam learned to be... ...afraid, to be ashamed, as promised by the tempting... ...serpent humanity gained new knowledge... ...the knowledge of suffering. In tasting the forbidden fruit Adam learned desire. From this moment right and wrong is filtered subjectively... ...through the need to feel pleasure and avoid suffering. Humanity had allready known good, innocence, purity and simplicity. Now humanity also knew evil, shame, fear, pain, emptiness. Now humanity knew what the Elohim knew... ...that desire leads to suffering. Desire is craving... ...and craving is suffering. Desire always leads to suffering. This is the message inherent in every great religion. The slave of desire is a slave of sin and only suffering... ...and death await him. Thus stripped of their connection to the divine... ...Adam and Eve as symbols of humanity were cast out of Eden... ...to wander in a wilderness of suffering and ignorance. Rejecting the laws of Jah-ovah and the guidance of the Elohim... ...humanity attempted to have children on its own... ...and in the end conception and childbirth happened out of... ...balance with nature... ...and the result was pain and hardship. By using the sexual force to stimulate desire the fire of... ...Eve became inverted flowing in the opposite direction. The serpent fell forming the famous tail of Satan. Stimulating the seven inverted virtues,... ...the seven capital sins. Eden exists within every soul that is united with God. Expelling the light of God from within, expels the soul from... ...Eden and creates a great emtpiness. To replace the void created by this disconnection with God... ...mankind created civilizations, ideas and religions... ...seeking material wealth, power and sexual satisfaction. Desire for sensation became the new God and only served to... ...further degenerate mankind until man was left with only a... ...trace of the divine inside. The secret knowledge contained in the story of Adam and Eve... ...can be found hidden in mythological and religious... ...stories from around the world. In story after story are found the enlightened or empowered... ...heroes brought to ruin by their lust. In the Judeo-Christian tradition long hair was the symbol of... ...sexual purity or chastity. Thus when Delilah cuts the hair of Samson this is a symbol of... ...lustful seduction. Samson lost his power when he could not control his sexual... ...desire. In the epic Indian classic, the Mahabarata... ...the immortal Pandu is sworn never to release the sexual... ...energy, but when tempted by a beautiful woman... ...he proves incapable of controling his lust... ...and he throws away his immortality and dies. By expelling the sexual energy, humanity lost their inner senses... ...and were no longer able to perceive God directly. Thus when humanity willingly expelled the subtle energies... ...that supported a direct relationship with God... ...it was simultaneously cast out of Eden... ...the paradise of the fourth dimension... ...and mankind descended into the wilderness, the physical world... ...this third dimension. The world of suffering. Adam and Eve were cast out of Eden. However the gateway back to Eden and the tree of life was neither... ...closed nor locked. Instead Jah-ovah Elohim sent a Cherubim with a flaming sword... ...to guard the entrance. The entrance to the garden of Eden is the same door to which... ...Adam and Eve departed. Humanity is not locked out of Eden... ...but a Cherubim is left to grant entrance only to those whom... ...have earned the right to return... ...and only those whom have conquered the tempting serpent... ...have earned that right. The serpent is within. The serpent is this sexual fire. It is a very powerful atomic energy with a polarity... ...that can be used to either create or to destroy. Because this energy is so powerful the individual requires great... ...willpower in order to overcome the lure of this serpent. The temptation of the serpent is through material pleasure... ...and self edification. This tempting aspect of the serpent is Lucifer... ...or what in Hebrew is called Shaitan... ...the enemy. Because Shaitan is a fiery serpent that is ignited... ...and empowered through the sexual act... ...it is always tempting mankind to know, to have... ...the sexual connection. The serpent itself is power. The individual decides through their actions wether it will be... ...a power of good or evil. It is the difference between obeying the serpent or... ...controling it. The lesson contained in the story of the serpent is that only... ...those with the strength of will to control the cravings... ...of their mind can raise the energetic serpent... ...to transform themselves from intellectual animals... ...into true human beings. It is necessary to conquer the dragon that lies within... ...as religions and mystical traditions have told for... ...endless ages. The dragon is ones own lust, passion, anger, pride, fear... ...and envy. Thus the hydra of many heads and the medusa, the deceptions of... ...the serpent are legion. The great heroes and gods always have the serpent under their power... ...and it is the serpent who protects them... ...and conquers their enemies. In contrast to the serpent that tempted Eve causing her to fall... ...there is the serpent of Moses who commanded its power... ...and conquered the Egyptian's, accomplishing great miracles. The Egyptians had degenarated into black magic and Moses... ...appeared to deliver the true teachings. The Hebrew "mem" signifies water, "shin" is fire... ...and "he" is the womb. So the name Moshe or Moses means born of water and... ...fire. The Aztec Christ Quetzalcoatl, and the Tibetan Padmasambhava... ...were also both born of the waters. Moses was born again which means that he created the soul... ...symbolized by the illuminated tree of life, the burning bush... ...that he saw in the wilderness. The enlightened tree unified him with his inner father. Thus he received the commands of God directly. Moses needed to free the people of Israel from Egypt. Egypt represents the degenerated mind of men... ...and the Pharaoh is the tyrant that jealousy rules over this... ...man made civilization of material power... ...and desire. Israel is a compound word "Is" is from Isis... ...the Egyptian divine mother,... ...Ra is the Egyptian divine father,... ...and "El" is Hebrew for God. So when the nation of Israel is trapped in slavery this is... ...a symbol of ones own inner divinity trapped within the... ...degenerated mind. Moses was told to take the rod, the spinal column... ...the tree of life in his own body... ...and it became a serpent... ...the serpent of the kundalini. His serpent was more powerful then the negative serpent... ...of the Egyptians. Thus this story symbolizes the duality of the sexual force. Only the positive serpent under the service of God can free the... ...soul from suffering. This is clearly represented in Egyptian art. The positive serpent protects while the negative serpent... ...must be dominated and conquered. Sex can be lustful or chaste. Sex can create or destroy. Sex can be animal or worshipful. Sex can raise a fiery chariot to God... ...or pave a road to the Abyss. Sex is the natural function of the human being... ...but only sex as performed under the guidance of divine... ...will. Sex performed under the guidance of the mind creates suffering,... ...pain and spiritual death. This is self evident in those who seek hapiness in sex. As with any desire of the mind, sexual desire... ...can never be satisfied. Wether the individual is in love or lust... ...the serpent is powerful because all of the blood... ...is circulating with that fire within the body. And when two people unite sexually... ...the internal polarity is balanced and enhanced. A tremendous energy is excited that permeates the couple... ...with the power to create. This is the fire of the holy spirit... ...as demonstrated by the tons of fire raised above the apostles. This is the Hebrew character "Shin" which represents the... ...fire of God. The fire of the holy spirit. And the fire of the Christ. "Shin" with its three points embodies the three forces... ...of creation. In this connection the couple is appreciating... ...the tree of knowledge... ...to know. To conquer the desire for the orgasm is to conquer... ...the tempting serpent of Eve. As the serpent is always on the tree of knowledge of good and... ...evil, this is the only place to conquer it... ...and gain true knowledge through sexuality. The Kingdom in Hebrew is Malkuth. This is the first sephiroth on the tree of life. It is where the real work physically begins... ...as man and wife. Humanity left Eden as a couple and as a couple they must... ...return. This is illustrated in the ancient acknowledgement of the... ...need for both priest and priestess. The couple that must work together in order to reach... ...perfection. Couples that conquer the desire to eat the fruit of knowledge... ...internally gather up all of that energy. And gradually that energy can be used to create something within. Rather then feeding their own lust they can restore their... ...own inner Eve the fallen serpent... ...and from there they may then raise their serpent of the... ...kundalini. They can illuminate the tree of life... ...which exists within the human body... ...the spinal column. And they can create divine light within themselves... ...and return to the direct knowledge of their own... ...inner God. This is why all of the worlds great religions emphasize... ...chastity. Chastity does not mean abstention from sex. It means abstention from the orgasm. From spilling the divine energy that is the holy spirit. Sex is not only important for spiritual advancement... ...it is a necessity. It is through sexual energy that the vehicle of the... ...human soul is born. This is what is meant when the biblical Jesus explains to... ...Nicodemus that he must be born again. He must give birth internally to his soul from the water... ...and the holy spirit. Jesus of Nazareth never said that the soul already exists... ...within a man. Instead he said it must be born of the water and the spirit. In all of creation everything is born of sex. Thus the soul the fiery chariot of heaven must also be born... ...of sex. The soul must be born within a person... ...born of the waters of sex... ...and the fire of the spirit. When Jesus met the Samaritan woman at the well,... ...he told her of a water that gives eternal life. The woman sayeth unto him, "Sir, give me this water that I may... ...not thirst nor come hither to draw". Jesus sayeth to her:... He was prepared to tell her the secret of alchemy:... ...The great Arcanum. That secret allegorized in countless ancient stories... ...is that the waters of eternal life the fountain of youth... ...is developed between husband and wife in chastity. The woman answered and said: "I have no husband". Jesus said unto her: "Thou hast well said,... ..."I have no husband" for thou hast had five husbands... ...and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. In that saids thou truly.". She was not faithful to one man and thus she was not prepared... ...to receive the true teaching. Jesus taught the path that he practiced. The path of the perfect matrimony. A perfect matrimony requires an alchemical marriage... ...between man and wife. For various causes such direct references to Jesus's intimate... ...relationship with his wife were edited out of the... ...Christian doctrine. But the writers of the bible anticipated such adulterations... ...of the text and veiled the true teachings in symbols... ...and allegory. So although Jesus's marital relationship with Mary... ...Magdalene was removed the teaching has been maintained... ...at his first miracle was at a wedding feast. In which he celebrated the marriage of a man and wife... ...by transmuting water into a delicious wine. A miracle of alchemy that can only exist within the perfect... ...matrimony. The Hebrew character "shin" is the symbol for fire. It is very revealing to see that when man and woman... ...Adam "Iod" and Eve "HVH" are joined through the sexual... ...fire the character "shin" the result is Yeshua... ...Jesus the savior. Likewise Christ is derived from the Greek root krestos,... ...whose esoteric meaning is fire. The term Jesus Christ is not a personal name. It is a title, "Yeshua Krestos" meaning savior fire. "I am the way" Jesus of Nazareth by working intensely with his wife... ...incarnated the fire of the Christ. As did Moses and many others. All of them worked with a spouse. All of them knew and taught the great Arcanum. The Christ is a universal energy... ...that saves those who are pure enough to receive it. Man and wife through immaculate sexuality and the grace of God... ...create the savior:... ...the Christic Fire. The containment and transmutation of the potent sexual energy... ...can restore the fallen serpent of Eve. From there the fire of the holy spirit can be awakened... ...raising the serpent upon the staff. This is the Kundalini the positive life giving serpent. It can only be awakened through chastity and only by husband... ...and wife. A single person can not awaken the Kundalini. The kundalini is not a blind mechanical force. It is the active intelligence of God... ...and can only manifest within those who purify themselves... ...of all that is against God. Pride, envy, lust, greed, etc. The fire of the kundalini awakens only with moral progress. The revelation of Saint John, explains what is necessary... ...in order to return to heaven. But the answer is deliberately veiled in symbolism... ...and metaphors. That is why so few understand this book. It is said that 144 000 will be saved and taken to... ...heaven. This number is symbolic. Every Hebrew letter also represents a number. The letters that spell Adam, also give the numbers... ...1, 4 and 40. Thus the meaning is that only those who have restored the... ...innocence of Adam within themselves... ...will return to Eden. Likewise when we Kaballistically add the numbers of the name... ...of Adam the result is 9. The sephiroth Yesod or the foundation... ...the sexual energy. The secret to becoming the perfect Adam is in the ninth... ...sphere. The fire of the sexual energy must create or it will destroy. This very potent energy can not be contained... ...and if repressed will seek expression destructively... ...internally through the mind. Through anger or through sexual degeneration. This is evidenced by the infamous perversions of priests... ...around the world in all religions... ...and the rampant fanaticism that has destroyed so many... ...spiritual movements. In order to utilize the sexual energy effectively it must be... ...transmuted into spiritual energy. This is accomplished by connecting sexually with a spouse... ...without spilling the energy through the orgasm... ...or if one is single learning to control the energy through... ...ancient methods long forgotten by contemporary priests... ...in the western traditions. Adam must be born from the sexual water and the fire... ...of the holy spirit. Otherwise there can not be a return to Eden. Entrance back into Eden, the congregation of the Lord... ...is through the proper use of sexuality. Likewise the entrance into suffering and pain... ...is through the improper use of sexuality. Sex can be used to create good within a person... ...or it can be used to create evil. It is the choice of the individual to serve the virgin... ...or the whore. One can not serve to masters. Love and lust can never mix. God can not mix with the devil. This is symbolized by the sixth card of the tarot:... ...indecision. One chooses his path by his actions. The great Arcanum is the secret knowledge of Tantra. There are three types of Tantrism:... ...black, grey and white. Stimulation of sexual sensation and identification with lust... ...is Black Tantra. Any school or religion that teaches how to awaken... ...the consciousness through having the orgasm... ...is teaching Black Tantra. Black Tantra is responsible for all of the suffering of humanity. The fiery serpents are the inverted serpents... ...of the Kundabuffer. The suffering and pain caused by the serpents are the result... ...of identification and desire. The resulting death of so many Israelites refers to spiritual... ...death. Grey Tantra teaches that one should only orgasm occasionally. This teaching inevitably leads one to Black Tantra. White Tantra always teaches three factors. The elimination of desire. The creation of the soul and sacrifice for others. All White Tantra teaches to renounce the orgasm. White Tantra, the elimination of desire, is the road back to Eden. Mankind must return to Eden, through the same door... ...it exited... ...through sexuality. Mankind must return to the state of purity and innocence... ...it once had in order to transcend suffering... ...and pain. But first it is necessary to recognize ones mistakes... ...and then act to change them. This is the definition of true penance. Suffering is the result of being tempted by the serpent. Anyone who wants to be healed damage caused by the... ...tempting serpent must be healed as the Israelites... ...were by the bronze serpent of Moses. Bronze is an alloy of two metals, copper and tin,... ...masculine and feminine. The bronze serpent is created when the two polarities are... ...brought together in purity. This is the great secret knowledge of alchemy:... ...the chemistry of God. The prefix Al is from the Arabic word Allah. As in Hebrew El which means God. Khem means to fuse or cast a metal. So Alchemy is the method to fuse oneself once again with God. White Tantra the path of sanctity and chastity frees... ...the consciousness from the ego... ...awakening the pristine consciousness free of all... ...animal desire. Black Tantra the path of identification and fornication... ...awakens the consciousness that is trapped in the ego... ...leaving the soul trapped in suffering. To acquire true spiritual awakening it is necessary... ...to defy the tempting serpent and raise the fire of the holy spirit... ...to create the human soul. This is the key to the ancient mystery of alchemy... ...to transmute the lead of the ego and desire into the spiritual... ...gold of the consciousness. When the sexual fire of Yesod is elevated through... ...the knowledge of Gnosis Daath, the great Arcanum... ...the knowledge of the mystery of mysteries... ...one can return to the direct knowledge of ones own inner star... ...the light of the world. All of existence was created with the light of the cosmic... ...Christ... ...the fire of the holy spirit, the sexual energy. "And the light shineth in darkness and the darkness... ...comprehended it not." The darkness of the materialistic mind can not comprehend... ...the light of the Christ. It is necessary to transcend the mind and awaken the... ...consciousness. Light is necessary to see through the darkness. In order to incarnate light it is mandatory to transcend... ...the animal desires that fill the mind. Therefore one must understand and act upon the mystery... ...of Adam and Eve. Enter in through the narrow gate. For wide is the gate and... ...broad is the way that leads to destruction... ...and many are they who enter in through it. For narrow is the gate and straighten the way that leads... ...to life and they are few who find it.
