 

                        Qi Sha (Seven Killings) is the Power Star Po Jun (Army Breaker) is the Ruinous Star Tan Lang (Greedy Wolf) is the Flirting Star According to Chinese astrology, these three stars, with their changes, could create or destroy that beautiful life of yours Dad, when will you and mom take me to the beach? Hoi Yee, sweetie, in a couple of days Great! Mommy! Good girl After court today, Wong Po will spend the rest of his life in jail Don't worry. Things will be fine starting tomorrow. Due to insufficient evidence, Wong Po was acquitted All the charges against Wong Po were dropped, and he was released Chung... Wah, Sum. Where's Ah Lok? They're all right. How all right? How... They are out of danger! How about the witness? The witness and his wife, they are dead That girl... It hurts so much... It hurts so much... Come on! Come on! Inspector Chan, do you want to call a tow truck? There's a car accident in Cypress Road, Clear Water Bay. I'm handling it. The baby... Mrs. Wong, this is your second miscarriage I'm afraid it might be habitual... What are you trying to say? I'm sorry, Inspector Chan I've just got your report. Let's talk inside No, I'm busy. Do you have to check my wound? There's no infection in the wound. No problem there. Then, I won't be coming back next week Inspector Chan... I've found there's a tumor in your brain. It's malignant I want to have a child with you We'll talk about this later Is it curable? The chance is slim, but there's still hope I see Did you see my little girl? What are you doing, sir? I'll treat you to a candy You'll have the orange one, and I'll have the green one What's your name? Hoi Yee You listen, as long as I'm alive, I'm gonna nail you Wah I've got a tumor Where? In my brain Can it be cured? No idea That means you're gonna be fine Back to work when you finish One after another, hands on the stairs! Don't run! Stop... Stand still! Bastards! Tell me! Get down, over there! Get down! Chung has seen a doctor The doctor says he has cancer In the brain Incurable Tell him not to worry We'll fix things for him You go undercover. After that, you'd get promoted fast I'm not afraid of going undercover You want me to hang out with Wong Po, but it's no good messing with him Once I get near him, there's no turning back Wong Po is a nut case All of you have had a taste of him. We're not afraid. If we could, we'll be glad to do it ourselves Why bother to be a cop if you're so afraid. Be a baker I'm sure I can find someone who is willing to do this I'm sure you can't Kid, don't be so cocky! For a cop, death is not the worst thing The worst thing is to be bullied by the bad guys Trust me, I won't let anything happen to my men THREE YEARS LATER What now? You're retiring in two days. Why do you have to give me a hard time? Let's not talk about that Inspector Ma is coming. Talk to him about the hand-over of your team I have to go. I've got work to do You don't talk to me about your work anymore You'll know when it is done I know without your telling me You've been at war with Wong Po for years. Can you manage to get him? He is getting bigger, while you get more screwed-up than ever Please, don't make any trouble before you retire Should I stop working before I retire? Are you not waiting for your retirement as well? Show me some respect. I'm your boss after all! Since I respect my job, I can't spare any respect for you Did you see our new boss? He used to be real cool. He bashed a suspect into a halfwit with one single punch Bullshit! Bluffing! It's true Put on a good show, to celebrate my retirement Police! Freeze! Police! Stand still! Lok Is everything all right? Everything's fine Come over to help me Our joint was wiped out by the cops We've lost both the stuff and the money The same cops again? Yes Well, what are you up to? Something happened? It's a sunny day. Let's get a tan I didn't bring my swimming trunks None of us did. Welcome to our team. My men are not bad Who is the most able? Everyone of them is able Words are empty. You'll get to know them Dad, he threw the ball into the sea! My goddaughter Her parents were killed by Wong Po You know about that case three years ago She was so scared that she couldn't remember a thing I want to take care of her, but time is running out Nothing is for certain You won't understand until the last day Look at him. He seems conceited Don't say that, he's going to be our boss Boss? Boss my foot? You're gonna work under him? Don't tell Chung, we're going to take care of his little girl Wah, the day after tomorrow will be Father's Day What kind of present, do you think, my daughter will give me? Your wife and daughter left more than 10 years ago My daughter is back She called me this morning, asking to see the night after tomorrow In two days, this will be your turf There're so many blocks in this division. I can't manage them all The important thing is to know who is the toughest Then, you go after him Everybody knows you can fight It's only hearsay Wong Po says... he's the boss here after midnight I've heard about it Hey! What're you doing? What's going on? Stop! What's up? It was you who threw the bottle. Right? Back off! Back off! Police! Officer, is throwing bottles a crime? Stand still! Frisking me? Stop that! What's this? Get up! Take off your shoes Take them off Your socks too Get up Get up Take one step backwards Take one step backwards One more step Start skipping I say skip! Skip my ass! Stand still! Want to pull an impressive act? Fatso, you'll be dealing with me, starting tomorrow Fine, I'm looking forward to that Trust me. I won't let anything happen to my men What do you want? To report a crime Go downstairs! A murder case What? I was shooting the lagoon monster... and had accidentally taped a murder Give me that! Hold on! Don't move! A kid brought in this tape. There are some very clear shots Shit! Bring that bastard Wong Po in What for? He didn't kill the man Erase the part of the gunshot. People can't tell from the rest Lok, go get that prick You take care of the boy who brought in the tape No problem Call the uniformed for support and arrest Wong Po How about Inspector Ma? Should we inform him? Hiding something from me? Take a look at this yourself Officially, you won't be not on duty till tomorrow. You don't have to go Let's go Give me a chance to pick up more. I'm coming with you Is there another copy of the tape? No, no... No? No. So many tapes here. No? Don't take my tapes. They are mine. I saw that man killing the guy. I could be a witness if you want It wasn't that man who did it. It was the fat guy! Really? It was the fat guy! Fat guy? Are you clear? The fat guy! Wong Po! You are suspected to be involved in a murder case. You are now under arrest You again? Today is my son's one month's birthday. Don't make any trouble. Today is the memorial day of one of my men Follow me down to the station The fat guy shot the man! The fat guy shot the man... The fat guy... You are nuts! The fat guy shot the man... Is this a studio? You think you are an artist? They have the right to detain you for 48 hours Give me the phone You can't make any phone call. Ask your lawyer to do that for you Take it, if you dare! Hi, honey! Hello? You can't pick me up? Are you all right? Baby is one month old today, and it's your first father's day You cannot come? Let me talk to the baby Dad wants to talk to you Precious, daddy misses you Honey, you're all right, aren't you? Take the baby home and wait for me there I want to get out today I'll think of something Lok, let us handle that Tell Wah that we've got that guy Now that we have taken Wong Po in, there will be chaos Officially, you'd be on duty tomorrow. Don't bother with this now Starting tomorrow, I'll work with you on this case Did he tell you what he was going to do? No He won't even tell me; can't expect him to tell you These guys are too impetuous. It's not good. You should try restraining them a bit Remember! Charge him if you've got evidence. If not, let him go. Trying to run away Go to hell! Run! Don't hit me Jump Jump Bastard! Keep fighting! I'll shoot you! Wah Are you out of your mind? That guy got my man killed And you killed him for that. Can a cop do whatever he pleases? We didn't see anything We only saw how you let the suspect fall to his death You want to frame me? Right? He's one of us! You ever treated me as one of you? So what? We're not buddies Do we have to tell you everything? What do you want? This is none of your business. Why did you come? You don't even trust your own men You want to frame Wong Po Yes! If that man didn't die, Wong Po would go scot-free I'd like to get Wong Po too, but not the way you do it I, myself, am responsible for this I only have one wish, that is, to put Wong Po behind bars You want to take it all on yourself? Do you want to put all of us in jail And let that bastard go scot-free? Do you know what is right and what is wrong? You are definitely in the wrong! Why did you smash the suspect so hard that he turned into a half-wit? Because you knew he had ruined many people's lives; and it served him right! That time, the whole police force was behind you You tell me. What is right and what is wrong? There's no turning back now Turn a blind eye to this. I won't give you any trouble Strike! Strike... Punch him! Duck! Duck... Cover yourself! Kick! Kick... and cover yourself! Strike! Strike! Kick! You know how many men can a gun kill? Eat shit! Strike! Strike... Don't strike! Kick! Kick... Kick him! Kick! I've won! And you suck big time! One more game Come on, one more game... You're a loser You say you're gonna beat me every week You say you'd try harder and play a better game every week But you lose every time you come back A born loser I'm not as gifted as you You have to duck when people punch you Every week... Don't spend it all at once You say you'd try harder every week But you lose every week See you next week Try harder next week I killed that man, and I've come to turn myself in. Arrest me, jerk! Shut your trap! I did it. Take me in Arrest me! Why don't you arrest me? All you cops listen, I am responsible for the case What did you do? Shut up! File all their reports! Speak Who told you you could use the phone? Give me the phone! Give it to me! Let go! Let go! Get the keys! After tonight, you are done for You assholes won't get out of this station alive We don't have enough evidence to charge Wong Po Go get some evidence to nail him We haven't recovered the gun that killed Ah Wai Get me a Chinese Tokarev pistol. Fire a shot and take the bullet case Replace it with the one in the property room I'll do it This is Ah Lok You've got guns? Chinese Tok. How long does it take? Waiting for his reply Hello? Dad, happy Father's Day Thank you I can't come so soon OK, I'll be there You'll wait for me, no matter what All right, I'll call you again, sweetie Fine, goodbye I'm sorry Hello? Godfather, you've finished work? Godfather is still working Why don't you take a day off on Father's Day? I can't. I simply can't. Where's your old man? Dead I consider mine dead as well Wait for me Don't be late then Bye Hello? Fine They have a gun. I'll go get it I'll come with you Happy Father's Day Master Po, we've got the kid who reported the case He's got a copy of the videotape Jack, are you there yet? Yes My family is in Brazil. I haven't seen them for a long time How long have you been in the force? Seven years Inspector Ma, have you ever thought of leaving the force? No From the first day I became a cop, I've never thought of quitting My daughter is leaving tomorrow She wants to see me and it doesn't happen everyday If I don't see her today... I'm afraid I won't have the chance again in my life It's all about fate. No exception for father and daughter Even if you have the chance, you can't fight your fate. One can't really complain Wah Do you think it'll be all right to go out now? If they draw their swords, you draw your gun If they draw their guns, together we have two guns If you really want to go, I'll go with you We want 70,000 You want to play with me? Do you want the gun or not? They're the only ones who've got a gun And they are also the only ones not connected with Wong Po I'll go get the money Give this to your big boss Ask him, if you have any question "Chung, Wai is coming with me to Statue Square to see my daughter" "I'll be right back" Say hello to Daddy I'm still working. I'll be back soon Chan Kwok Chung! Can't find him, Sir Keep on searching Uncle Ba, have you seen Chan Kwok Chung? I haven't seen him, Sir Police! Stop! I told you to stop! Hello? Ah Lok got whacked They blew my cover, and I can't get out of the station now Wah and Sum are in Statue Square Go now to help them out Let's do a personality quiz? If you have only one more day to live what would you do? I want to spend it with you and your mom very much If you plan to spend it with someone you love, you are a sentimental person If you... I really want to spend it with you Let me finish first If you want to try your luck by staking everything, you are a person who doesn't keep his place and goes beyond his bounds If you decide to spend the time as usual, without telling anyone, you have a very strong personality They don't have your answer here Joey Are you still mad with me? Mad? I don't think about it now And you should stop thinking too much. It won't help Just be happy and smile Brother Chung, I don't know if you are doing the right thing But I trust you Thanks Hello? Mom, this is Wah What is it? Nothing How is he? Still in the hospital? Is he still alive? You always want him to die He passed away last month It doesn't matter who's right or who's wrong... You don't have anyone to fight with anymore If you want to pay your last respects, go ahead Nothing else? That's it Here's a gift for you What is it? You always want me to tell you. Take a guess Try to think what I would give you for Father's Day Bye See you Wah Take it easy. Speak slowly, Wah Wah, hang in there, Wah I took Wong Po's money... Chung has been covering us for a long time I want to help Chung raise the kid The money... is in the trunk of Lok's car We are no good... no good... Inspector Ma... We've wronged the force We've wronged Chung... Where is Chung? Where is he? Chung... Give Chung the money... Chung... Chung They took Wong Po's money in order to help you raise your daughter You know why I want to help you? My father was a cop I grew up in the police quarters I watched my father march everyday And I followed his steps in the balcony From then on, I made up my mind to be a cop One time, my father was handling a case of smuggling illegal firearms and he was surrounded by a gang of outlaws He got more than 30 shots, all in his limbs He died after two hours of struggling As for the gang, none of them was caught My father was very superstitious He said something about me... "Thy life is governed by the Ruinous Star. Be thou a soldier, and ill fate will befall thee" With his last breath, he told me not to be a cop I don't believe in fate I only believe there are things only the police could handle All three of them were good cops So are you I'll go and get the money from the station We'll then go and give it back to Wong Po together I'll wait for you here Kwun, do you know that they tried to frame Wong Po? I know You gave the force a bad name! All that we've done, we've done it for the reputation of the force Did you do anything for us? Did anybody notice, when they had done their job well? Wong Po has evidence now. I can't pretend as if nothing has happened My men got killed, and I can't pretend as if nothing has happened either Kwun! Chan Kwok Chung, give me back my money, and I'll call it quits Stop! God is fair There would be consequences for all mistakes I'll pay you back on behalf of my men How could you kill, without your gun? I'm bringing you the thing you want If Chung is still alive, let him go I don't know how much longer he could hang in there I'll go down to meet him Honey I'm all right Hello? Honey? Hello? Hello? Honey... Are you all right? It's so noisy at your end? Hello? Honey, both the baby and I miss you very much Do you want to talk to the baby? Honey? Hello? Are you all right, honey? I'm fine. I still have something in hand. I'll be back soon The baby and I are just downstairs. We'll come up Don't! Wait for me downstairs Fine You don't intend to let me down? You shouldn't come. We were asking for it I only want to gain back some respect for my men My men are not bad Who is the most able? Every one of them is able Words are empty. You'll get to know them My goddaughter Her parents were killed by Wong Po I want to take care of her, but time is running out SkyFury
