 

                        Cloud Ten Pictures Proudly Presents Based on the Grant R. Jeffrey book: Shadow Government In Association with CleanTV and Act of Media SHADOW GOVERNMENT It's obvious that if a government wishes to control its people and make sure they do exactly what you're told to do they have to monitor. They have to know what they're doing at all times. We may soon find ourselves living in a nightmare that I think even George Orwell couldn't have anticipated as to how much control we're putting into the hands of government, large corporations and people we perhaps tend to trust. If you're talking about wars, if you're talking about money management, if you're talking about orchestrating crisis these people are behind it. It sounds like a conspiracy. If you're an average person you've definitely got a data file on you in the hands one of the many private companies that compiles data about Americans for the business world. Austin Texas and in other places around the country they're using smart thermostats and the power company actually gives you a thermostat for free, installs it in your home for free, charges you nothing for it but there's a catch and the catch is to get this high-tech fancy thermostat you have to allow them in the event of, you know, excessive power consumption to reach into your home through radio waves and literally turn it off. So one of the basic things about using a computer on the Internet is that your communications pass through the networks of various Internet service providers starting with the internet service provider that you are a customer of and going through possibly several others and then ending up at your destination. And each of those entities technically has the ability to look at all your communications and to record all your communications. How did you sleep? Good, how about you? Oh.. Coffee is on. Thanks. One of the most alarming trends has been the increased centralization of personal information. I'm a little worried about Kate's cough. She's got a headache too. She will be fine. You are buying all sorts of stuff that means the consumer credit folks will have you. But I will check online to see if anything matches. I guarantee you that many of these other database holders have files on you. You didn't hear her last night? Many, many more entities have wanted to know: Well what kind of person are you? Wonder if she'll want to eat something? No nothing here. She's always crabby in the morning when she wakes up though, kind of like somebody else I know. - Nice. Well, I've got to go. Every day in so many ways we are being watched. We're told it's for our own good, for our own protection, to make our lives better but is it? I'm Grant Jeffrey prophecy expert and author of over twenty six books. I spent two decades researching and detailing how our fundamental freedoms are being systematically eroded, 61 00:04:34,698 --> 00:04:38,298 how our governments are not controlled the way we think they are and how all this ties into remarkable prophecies from over 2,098 years ago. Until recently all of this would have been considered science fiction or the ramblings of a conspiracy theorist but each of the technologies you have just observed either already exists or is being planned on a drawing board somewhere. The evidence is all around us. There is no denying that we live in a surveillance society and really no matter what we do there is no turning back. In the 2010 census, census workers in the United States have actually been sent out a year in advance to the actual census being taken, they've been sent out with hand-held GPS devices and told to go to every single dwelling in the country. That's an absolutely unprecedented undertaking. Its kind of happening without very much media mention or much awareness and now to have the ability to pinpoint every single location in the country is really unprecedented and it's not just in the United States that they're doing this, we actually found some documentation that this is part of a global effort that is being promoted by the UN by their statistics department. Right now we're the most surveilled society in history obviously. This has gone into high gear. People don't realize that every time they use Google, every time they log on to the search engine that Google is making a record of everything they search for, linking it to the cookies in their computer, linking it to their IP address. But going one step further Google also reads all of Gmail, all Gmail messages that are sent or received. The reality is that Google is offering you all this bait to bring you in because you're the product. And once they get you in there then they slice and dice your information and they sell you to the advertiser. And the ad came up and it said a Clydesdale mom loses 37 pounds using some diet aid and there's a picture of this. Mom from Clydesdale Montana. Yeah, great. You have to come home eventually for school. Start to pack up my computer I bring it home connect it to my home here near Boston and go back and visit the same web page again and the ad comes back up same woman saying Brooklyn mom loses 37 pounds using such-and-such diet aid so of course you know they know whether I'm in Brooklyn or my household because they have to ship the bits one place or the other. In November 2008 there was an effort by Google to show that they were able to pinpoint a flu outbreak before the Center for Disease Control could do that. Based on their sophisticated algorithm they could tell that the person doing those searchers had the flu. They were searching for chest congestion or thermometer or certain types of medication, cold or flu medication and whenever one of those keywords would be entered into Google it would set off a red flag. They would pinpoint that person's location based on their internet service provider and then they would put a red dot on the map and over time we would see lots of red dots in certain locations on the map and then they shared that information with the Centres for Disease Control and sure enough they were able to pinpoint those outbreaks two weeks in advance. Now some people might say well gee that's a really helpful thing to do but when you log on to Google to look something up you don't do so with the expectation that Google is going to be capturing your information, studying you and handing that information over to the federal government. So I think a lot of people find it very invasive and what it raises is the potential for Google or really any other Internet or service that you use to turn over other sorts of information. You know? Who's concerned about abortion rights or who's a democrat or who's a republican or you know, who has an interest in the second amendment. Well because we don't always know the downstream risk and the downstream harms. Their were rumours that a bank had done it to a cancer registry that they had taken a Kansas registry crossed it with names of people who are in their bank and then tweaked the creditworthiness of the people if they had cancer. Some day when all of our products and all other products have instead of a bar code they'll have a tiny RFID tag on them we will be able to keep track of those products in people's homes. And their proposal was that a smart refrigerator would actually have an RFID reader in the fridge every product that you put in the refrigerator from the milk to the you know, the cream cheese to the hot dogs would all have an RFID tag added to them in their packaging and so the refrigerator would actually know it's contents. There are plans afoot to actually monitor your garbage. Every time you throw something into the trash can the trash can would actually be equipped with an RFID reader and would monitor what you do. Are you throwing into the right trash can? Is this a recyclable item that you are throwing into the regular household trash? How long did it take you to consume that item? How long was it in your home before you threw it away? The idea that we would be at the point where everyone will be watching every move. And it would be tied into the television, so we would have personalized advertising. We would have HMO's for example, your health insurer keeping tabs on you know, who's eating Hagen-Dazs and how much green leafy vegetables is this family consuming because they're literally monitoring what happens in in your house through your refrigerator. You know some would say it opens up great opportunities to improve public health other people would say well it opens up super horrifying opportunities for Big Brother to be right there in your refrigerator and sitting at your dinner table with you. With rising technology and with the motivating forces from the government level to push that technology in the direction of the capability of monitoring human activity, with that technology emerging it's very frightening because it means that totalitarian regimes will very soon indeed have the power to control and monitor every human being on the planet. People working in major office buildings have an access pass, a badge that they use to get into the office. Every time you scan that to get into the building you're revealing what time you got there what time you left. Those records have actually been used by employers to determine whether someone was claiming sick leave when they weren't really sick. The reasons for surveillance and the need for better surveillance systems are compelling. If you want to keep track of your pets or children, livestock or possessions you can now put ID tracking devices on them. If you want to make sure employees are working the way they should you can now monitor them. If you want to protect citizens from thieves, con artists, drug dealers, hate mongers, paedophiles, terrorist and basically anyone and everyone who's a threat to society you can now track monitor and scrutinize them. If you can save lives and protect property why wouldn't you? And if you yourself are engaged in unsocial or illegal actions your rights to privacy should be taken away. Those are compelling arguments but is it right? And are only the bad guys being watched Hey honey what's up? Was that tonight? Oh... Well we need to be there. Yeah. I'll try and get home early. Alright, I love you. Bye, bye. Whenever people say: If you aren't doing anything wrong why do you care if people watch you, I kind of turn that around and say if I'm not doing anything wrong then you have no business watching me. President Bush, Attorney General Gonzales and the head of the NSA all admitted that well the Times was right that the NSA had been spying on Americans without a warrant required by law, required by the Constitution and required by federal wiretapping law and that they'd being doing this for a number of years. There used to be a joke you know, we're from the NSA we read your email so that you don't have to. All of our phone calls are now processed essentially by computers in the digital form and so wiretapping a phone call is just a matter of telling some of those devices to remember or to divert some of those bits rather than necessarily physically clipping anything on to anything. So as you can imagine it's very cheap and very straightforward. You know when I turn it on to make a call then I'm going to shut it off. It's just like the old handset telephone that I have in my house except I've been walking around with it. Well it isn't, because first of all when you have it on it's constantly telling the telephone company where you are. It notifies the nearby cell phone towers whether you're talking on it or not, what your location is because that's how the phone company knows where to root your incoming calls. It doesn't try every cell phone tower in the world it has a constantly updated record of where the telephone is and that data is stored and can be used somehow. The thing is a location device as well as a communication device well fine but I'm going to leave it off all the time... Well you know it's really not a telephone it's really a computer connected to a radio transmitter and receiver a microphone and a speaker. And the computer can make the radio transmitter and receiver, microphone and loudspeaker act kind of the way a telephone does but it can make it do all kinds of other things as well. These devices can actually be used by appropriately authorized government officials to turn the cell phone into a kind of roving bug, so that when you press the power button and you think you're turning the telephone off you're actually turning the microphone on and the radio transmitter on so that the conversation and whatever noise is ambient around where the telephone is is being sent back to FBI headquarters or wherever. A knife is a piece of technology, now a knife used in a bar fight to carve somebody up is a terrible thing. That same knife can be used to perform an emergency appendectomy and save someone's life is a very good thing and without it you couldn't save that person's life The knife neither serves good or evil it's just a knife this is how technology works. In addition to the Big Brother phenomenon which is definitely out there there's all this little brotherism. You know there are the teenagers with the cell phones who take embarrassing pictures of themselves, of their friends and so on and I say did you ever lose your cell phone? You say I've lost a cell phone three or four times. Did the pictures come back to the cell phone? Well yeah the pictures come back to the cell phone, well where did the pictures come back to the cell phone from? You know, there is an agency out there you know, that actually has a copy of everything on your cell phone which is a fine thing if you lose your cell phone, it's good that you can get all of your data back but again that information could be available under court order to someone who could file a civil suit against you this is the example of ourselves being our own worst enemies. One condition for employment for a lot of major corporations is that in your employment contract there's actually a clause that allows your employer to monitor what you do on the computer and if I want to log onto a website or you know to check on the political returns or whatever it may be that that's something... Hey, I've got a fifteen minute break why not? And to discover later that your employer was doing that, making judgments on you on the basis of your politics and the basis of your interests 38 00:16:56,298 --> 00:16:58,298 really could be, you know, it could get people in trouble and it has. Invention of the electronic swipe lock, where they would give you a card which would be reprogrammed so you know once you've checked out it can no longer be used to open the same door. It was a great security improvement there lighter than keys of course a complete record of every time (to the second) of every time you go into your room is being logged somewhere and uh... you know if you go to the gym in the morning they know when you went into the gym. If you go in the back door of the hotel after the door gets locked you know that's being logged as well and you know this is very useful information for forensic purposes but does any of us know weather this information is being exploited commercially for any reason you know are they correlating my.. let's say record of whether I go into the gym with, whether I had a free Friday breakfast in the morning which they also have because we use the same ID at the hotel dining hall in the morning and they use the same record to bill me for both the room and my meal so what happens to the information how does it get correlated, who does it get shared with? Somehow the various national banks and various counterfeit investigative entities convinced this printer industry association that it would be in their interest to include a tracking mechanism in all coloured laser printers that they sold and the basic mechanism that's generally been used is patterns of very tiny yellow dots the arrangement of the yellow dots in codes in some way or another the serial number of the printer that produced the document. So if you have any document that was printed on a colour laser printer and the appropriate knowledge you can reconstruct which printer out of all the colour laser printers in the world produced that document and the same technology is also included in colour photocopiers. There's a couple of initiatives to monitor whether or not people wash their hands when they go into the bathroom and they operate by using an access pass or an ID badge that employees would have that read the tag that determine whether or not you use the soap dispenser whether or not you turned on the sink it can actually monitor you in what I think are the most private of all locations, you would have these people monitoring every single breath you take. There's got to be a point at which you say some things are private and so we are all adults here we are responsible and if you're employing me and you need somebody you trust and not be prying into my personal business. Almost everything you do is traced, everything you buy is tracked, my car's equipped with OnStar you know they know where I am at any second I can push a little bottom on the mirror and it will tell me precisely where I am. You know some of this stuff is good, some of it's bad. If I was a car thief it would be bad because OnStar can also turn the car off while I'm in the process of steeling it. So in the communications theory area what we're talking about is systems or programs to try to keep track of what people are saying on the phone, surveillance of what people send in an email, surveillance of the records of who you talk to when you talk to them and for how long. Then on the other side location surveillance, we are very much into systems that track where you go and everyday life. This is really a growing area of concern. You get that with the growth of the public video surveillance cameras that actually watch you and record your images while your in public places or in shopping malls or pretty much anywhere that also comes about from GPS devices which can allow you to track cell phone technology can allow you to be tracked and then finally of course RFID tags which can allow you to be truly tracked so. You have a lot of different modalities of location surveillance they're are all of great interest both to the government and also to commercial marketers. It's almost impossible really to live off the grid. You have to live without credit cards; you have to live without bank accounts. It's hard to go in and out of the country. You know one of the areas about which I've been alarmed is the kind of information you have to give up at the border when you go in and out if you carry a computer with you US border security asserts the right to inspect what's on your computer in the same way they can inspect what's within your suitcase and since our whole lives now for many of us are on our laptops pretty much everything professional and personal about us is there so we've seen certainly that the FBI they are customers of ChoicePoint they will call up data about people from ChoicePoint and they say well if any merchant can use ChoicePoint why can't we so it's a very promiscuous world when it comes to data about us because both the government wants to know about us and private businesses want to know about us and when they gang up on everyday people that's really quite an unholy alliance. Hey. - How are you? - Good, how are you? - Pretty good. So this comes to $3.75 Thanks. Lets retry. Lets try one more time. I'm sorry sir this card doesn't seem to be working. Hello. The ''eat and run'' that's right. Yes I've just been trying it, it's a Mr. John Wilson. Yeah he is right here. it's for you. - Hello? Oh yeah. Just regular things, gas, groceries, coffee. Oh! OK. Yeah. OK. Bye. It seems that a guy a couple of states over has been using my card too bad I cant keep the plasma TV and motorcycle. - That's too bad. Many of us can't think of the things we normally purchase on our credit card and the convenience which it is to use a credit card and how much of your daily life is visible through your credit card statement, it's pretty amazing right? So I can see patterns of abuse, patterns of behaviour I can see things about the kind of person you might be, the kind of lifestyle might live. Your spending habits do you tend to spend a lot at the beginning the year, do you spend monthly, at the beginning of the month or at the end. Many young people barely know what cash looks like they use credit cards for anything, many of us too I shouldn't say young people it's true for me as well. I use credit cards for everything because there are incentives to do it but they are great data collection tools, we give up lots of information about ourselves. There is the only anonymous way to conduct any kind of business though the problem with cash is it's rapidly becoming an anachronism and if you don't think so take ten thousand dollars and go and try and put it down in cash on a new car... By the time you get the paper signed you'll be sent two FBI agents wanting to know where the ten thousand dollars came from because if you transfer more than ten thousand dollars it can be a crime Now, that means that now cash is not anonymous except in smaller amounts and how small is a smaller amount? You know their are things that you can buy for twenty dollars and thirty dollars but if you go any higher than that you know if you bring a hundred-dollar bills most stores won't take them. There is a desire by several forces coming together who do want to add a biometric identifier to government identification so the leading push in the United States is most likely a biometric added to your driver's license the biometric is most likely going to be a fingerprint. Under that model the fingerprint becomes your new social security number. So what does that mean I'm touching this chair I'm touching the table I'm leaving my fingerprints behind, you come along with a piece of tape and dust see you pick up my print you stuck it on a fake ID and now you're me. Right? There's proof by this phoney fingerprint that you've just lifted up. Right? And then if things get really bad with your identity theft and social security numbers you can actually get a new social security number but what do I do about getting new fingerprints. I'm always forgetting my wallet and then I can't find and I don't know where it is and the idea that maybe someone could put an RFID chip somewhere where I would just have to wave my arm it's a very attractive proposition. There are plenty of reasons to be worried about a cashless society where we have microchips implanted in her hands and simply make our payments in that way. For one thing you would be unable to ever make a payment or to make a purchase that someone wasn't watching and recording you in a database. Marketers would like to get a hold of that, hackers can hack in to that and then government could use it to investigate you or try to control your behaviour. Nobody ever reads those disclosure requirements. No one, no one. No one, no one, no one. Every year I teach this material at Harvard I ask my big class you know, who has a Facebook account? And every hand goes up and then I said: How many of you read the thing, you know what you were agreeing to before you click the I agree button on your Facebook? And I never ever get a a single answer and these are Harvard students if anybody is going to read the fine print you would hope it's going to be Harvard students they don't nobody does so a lot of the time even when there are protections about the sharing of data we really had no awareness of how far they go. Data can be shared between commercial business partners and there is sharing that also happens between government agencies and the private sector. But I think even more serious is if a purchase requires that kind of a hand stamp then if you become a non-person for whatever reason someone decides they don't like your political views, they don't like the actors and they like the fact that you campaign against the current president in the last election cycle then you go to press your hand to the reader and it says rejected sorry you don't count we won't allow you to participate. Hitler actually did that back in the early part of his era of terror and control of Germ any it actually determined certain things that the Jews weren't allowed to do. Set certain streets that they couldn't walk that they weren't allowed to enter and even set certain restrictions on what they could buy at the store. Understanding how money works and how the only real way we have right now of hurting them is through money which is one of the reasons there trying to create a cashless society because as long as you and I have cash and can eat and as long as we can eat we're free at least we can defend ourselves when you take the cash away and you create credit cards and create microchips what your doing is, suddenly, you know we are at the whim of the powerful people they can punish us by pressing delete three times on a computer screens and suddenly ten thousand dollars turns into ten dollars. One of the most important developments in this privacy area that's come with the digital revolution is that Orwell's picture of loss of privacy, the government watching us, the surveillance cameras everywhere... Certainly is true to some degree there are surveillance cameras everywhere. That's hilarious where did you get all this stuff. - I don't know how I lived before Youtube. What do you just search all day? - No Painful and stupid is easy to find... Useful and factual take a while. Employers, law enforcement agencies, stores insurance and credit companies, hospitals and the government would all argue that their surveillance is necessary. They'd also all state that individual surveillance and data systems are non-invasive and pose no threat of creating personal profiles or a data shadow. Simply stated one source of surveillance at one location on one part of a person's life is not a real concern but if all this discarded information is gathered and sorted and filed in a central location it would create a complete and detailed profile much more invasive than anything even a police check could get. The infringement on individual's personal freedoms and the possibilities for abuse would rival George Orwell's Big Brother government. You go through your life almost most of the time some computer somewhere is recording something about you and so if you think about it it's just tons of information on each of us and then there's certain efforts of some kinds of data that are put together to build profiles and so forth. So this is a lot of data, this is a huge explosion of data being collected on individuals. One other thing that people often say is you know well, you know, who's going to be watching me all day long who has the resources or the time to watch me and the answer is really no one is going to be sitting there watching everybody there's not enough resources for that, but the computers can do it. Now that we have almost unlimited storage capacity on computer hard drives it's possible to record everything that happens in front of a video camera or every transaction that occurs you know in a credit card database for example and that that information is actually becoming immense it was revealed in the New York Times that Wal-Mart's database was as big as if not bigger than the entire internet. After 9/11 a lot of the failures to prevent the attacks were attributed rightly or wrongly to the failure of different government agencies to share data with each other to form a complete picture that would have identified the terrorists before they got on the airplane and so those walls between government agencies are coming down. And then it turns out you know, in the US there's data the government is prohibited from collecting itself but which it can perfectly well go buy on the open market from private vendors. Even you know where there are walls that are supposed to keep the data separate they come down. It's pretty much across the board this ongoing demand for linking more and more information on individuals you know, what you purchase the credit card verses what your telephone says where you are now. Is this an opportunity to send you a text message and to remind you to go to the grocery store if they have a sale on orange juice I mean this is the kind of vision that many people have and they spend a lot of effort moving towards that vision. The computerized age where information doesn't vanish into the air but is always been recorded somewhere and then collected and aggregated into a database is that every purchase you make every step you take where there's a public video surveillance camera, you know, when you use a credit card, the searches you do on Google all these things get collected and the way the law looks at it right now is well you typed in that search trend into Google so you knew they were going to get it of course they have the ability to keep it and because as a practical matter we have this giant information collecting system the threat to privacy today is far greater than it ever has been. It's more like the creation of an encyclopaedia and if you think about an encyclopaedia you know back in the old days when we had and A through Z encyclopaedia you wouldn't sit down and read every single volume but when you wanted to look up Amazonian tree frogs or the country of Columbia it was right there at your fingertips and so I think what's happening with the databases is the best way to understand it, is that you're just a blip on the screen right now but the moment someone wants to look you up and wants to drill down and find out about you they open up your entry and at that point all of this data that's been collected really would paint a shockingly detailed picture of a single person's life. When Big Brother is government what are the consequences well government can take away my liberty you know, if Big Brother is industry maybe my finances at my credit card company or my bank oh they could just broke my credit worthiness, they might take my money. So the consequences of whom the Big Brother is are nontrivial if there have been other attacks and more pressure was put on more privacy put at risk the consequences for Big Brother could have been really large because what if more and more Americans were caught up in a dragnet more and more innocent Americans caught up in a dragnet believed to be terrorists, might be terrorists which there scared of you kind of thing you know, those consequences are really extreme. There's a push for every nation on the globe to identify and number all of it's citizens were seeing this happening in China where you've got over a billion people that have now been issued unique ID cards, literally national ID cards with radio frequency devices in them that can be used to track them and identify them at a distance you see now it's happening in Mexico they're going to be doing national ID cards to all the citizens in Mexico 1.2 billion people in India about to go into a database. Virtually every country on the globe you know I go to the doctor I have a lab test done my blood is there they sequence it they know something about me but they also know something about my family and even if I agree that they could use it for research to what extent that I now bring my family and release information about them. This is an RFID credit card and they have been tens of millions if not hundreds of millions of these issued and the vast majority of people who are carrying them don't actually realize that there is RFID in them there's nothing on it anywhere that says RFID there's a small symbol on the back that if you know what it means then you would know what it was but if you're just looking at it it's just another logo you have no way of knowing that there is an RFID chip in it the problem with this is that because you don't know that there is and RFID in it you won't take any steps to protect it. Which means that I can come along with a device like this I bought this on eBay for about two hundred dollars and it reads these RFID credit cards it gives me full card information that is sufficient to process a credit card transaction so using my two hundred dollar device I've got all of these people walking around with all of these credit cards in their pockets that they don't know have RFID and that they don't know how vulnerable they are to off-the-shelf devices like this that can read their credit card information and then conduct transactions with there credit card without that card ever leaving your wallet what kind of questions could someone ask about you that will be answered by a database that kept track of where you were, why did you visit that person's house, what should we know that that person was holding a meeting of the Communist Party or gee you go to this place every Wednesday at noon, well it's easy to find out that that's a church and there's Alcoholics Anonymous meetings there's a million ways that simply knowing where someone is on a regular basis allows you a tremendous amount of information. I believe the American people and indeed the people of the world are in that same position we've got a couple of little tiny glimmers that there's something wrong that there are databases being collected but what my research for the last ten years has been about is trying to identify the black balk of that iceberg floating under the water so we don't hit it. There is no question that we are being monitored all the time all of us that's not science fiction that's fact. But who is controlling the information? Who's watching the watchers? If you live in a free and democratic nation you may rest easier knowing that a totalitarian regime won't come knocking on your door. But journalists Christians, aid workers and many others around the world in places like China, North Korea and the Sudan are not as fortunate they are routinely abused arrested, tortured and even killed for their seemingly innocent and innocuous actions. The people in Hitler's Germany and in Ceauescu's Romania never thought their freedoms could be squashed or that they themselves could be seen as a threat. Could such a thing happen in other nations or here in America surely our information is safe with our elected officials and were protected by our constitutional rights. If everyday citizens don't stand up for their rights then a big government will take more and more of their rights away from them. Everyone should be concerned about this because this affects them, it affects us, none of us is exempted from what's happening in the world today. This affects our lives, our children and our grandchildren's lives and if we really care about anything anybody outside of our own skin, if we really care about other people, about society, about our nation, about the world we'd better take an interest in what's going on. So if your phone calls, your letters, the contents of your home's, the contents of your automobiles, the contents of your computer's are open to surveillance by the government or by private entities who share that information with the government then I think it's going to be very hard for most people to be free in the way they live their lives. If we get to the point where the government is watching everything we do then we're going to see some serious erosion of our civil liberties our right to assemble peaceably, our right to free speech, our right to free religion, free practice of the religion of our choice, all of these rights are going to be eroded through these technologies. The saying is if you put a frog in cold water and then you put the heat on the frog he will gradually warm up so he won't know to jump out so he will be boiled to death because it's such a gradual thing. Now I don't know if it's true with the frog but I can pretty much tell you it's true with the population and I'm watching it happen. We're in a situation now where technology keeps clashing with privacy and society keeps ending up in this take it or leave it situation and what we really want is for society's to enjoy the benefit of the technology as well as have privacy the ability for Google to be able to tell everything about you and the house you live 202 00:41:38,998 --> 00:41:42,198 the ability to watch you on the street, to monitor you I can understand the reasons for Great Britain setting up the camera spy systems that they've set up but if used incorrectly it can destroy you and of course computers are another thing that government's want to control and they have the ability to do that in communist China you cannot use a computer without the government knowing what you're saying and who you're saying it too and what you're up to. The founders of this country understood that sure there were bad guys but they also understood that if you give the executive branch, if you give the government this sort of arbitrary unbridled, unchecked power to search and to cease than you are really inviting tyranny and the abuse of power. The America that stood for liberty and personal freedom that peaked probably in the fifties and sixties, no longer exists. Most of us have taken comfort in the law, constitutional protection and that's out the window we are no longer governed by the Constitution as much as the people think they are but that's been shredded and no longer operative. There is a faction within the country that believes the constitution's a living document and because it's a living document presumably you can torture it until it says whatever you want it to. The truth and that's leading to a socialist environment and will ultimately lead to tyranny and so to those that love freedom it's an end of an era the great experiment that was once America has been prostituted by special interests the environment is the cover for the real objective of sustainable development which is to change our system of justice and change our system of economics to a system of social justice. You can talk to most judges in America today and they will proclaim themselves to be agents of social justice well there's no concept of private property in a system of social justice. So what is being done is our whole foundation for the American experiment is being undermined with this environmental move. We all want to promote those good causes but the real question is how much bare are you really getting for the buck are we really making a difference or are they just trying to get more surveillance power. You're going to see increasing encroachments on freedom of speech and it takes some interesting colouration's. In the press you can say what you like against Christianity no problem but you say a peep against Islam and you get clobbered. In our schools they'll teach Islam but you're not allowed to teach the Bible. This is a unique political experience in all of human history and in the future of humanity really depends upon the political recognition of every individual's unalienable rights and that's what's wasting away. Increasingly in the name of fighting illegal immigration there are arguments that daily activities basic activities that are required for just living should require an ID card. Whether it's getting a job whether it's renting an apartment, whether it's visiting a doctor and ultimately I think it's whether it's going to a store and actually buying food and so you see this kind of writing on the wall. Right now there's an employment database held by the federal government that they want all employers to run every single person applying for a job pass this database to make sure that they have legal status in the country. For many years I've been concerned about the long-term likelihood of a free world for my grandchildren and my children and now I'm very worried about it for myself because things are accelerating so fast. One of the big concerns that I have is that if you get to the point where everybody's carrying RFID tagged items whether it's a driver's license whether it's a tagged jacket whatever it might be then that all it would take for the government in order to round people up or put people on a watch list they could just put an RFID reader in a backpack, they can blend in with the crowd mill back and forth walk among the the protesters or the gathers or the people in the Church or the Mosque or whatever it might be and automatically download and capture all of there information upload it to a huge database and say oh these were all the people who were seen at the peace rally or this was all the people seen at the Democratic national convention whatever it might be. I think surveillance and tyranny or surveillance and the loss of freedom really go hand in hand. When you look at other civilizations other societies over the years all the way up into the twentieth century there's this really strong link between autocratic or despotic or excessive government power and at the same time all sorts of surveillance mechanisms whether they're secret police or national ID cards or other kinds of mechanisms that are designed to make sure that people are being watched and perhaps even more insidious that they know they're being watched. Won't all this surveillance and technology make us safer from crime, isn't it a good idea to watch everybody and monitor everything they do? If that were the case, then you should be able to look back and say okay, well let's look at the most monitored and surveilled people in history and arguably that was the Soviets living under the Soviet Union under Stalin and the folks who came after that every phone call could be listened to, every piece of postal mail could be opened if you had a party at your house you wouldn't know if government enforcement where at the party listening, you know after-all if you have nothing to hide why would you care? But the Soviet Union under Stalin was the most deadly regime in all of history. In fact under that regime with all of that watching sixty million people perished. Sixteen million people were killed by their own government, by the very government that was supposed to be protecting them. You know the bad guy might today be Al-Qaeda and it might tomorrow be fundamentalist Baptists. You take homeland security who issued a report that said those people who own guns, those people who are antiabortion, those people who are the tax protesters, and all kinds of Americans are all really terrorists in waiting and attempts should be made to silence those people. The MIAC report which was from the Missouri Information Awareness Center, it was a report put out for law enforcement that was actually leaked into the public sphere and it was defining potential domestic terrorists and disturbingly this MIAC report was listing people who could be your next-door neighbour even you, they were listing people you know, anybody who is concerned about constitutional issues anybody who supported Chuck Baldwin or Ron Paul anybody who was a Libertarian or Constitutionalist people who weren't just mainstream Republican Democrats, anyone, the part that shocked me was anyone concerned about RFID privacy you know so that's me that's what I work on and I'm certainly not a domestic terrorist, people who we're concerned about abortion and issues around that people who are wanting to defended there second-amendment rights which are constitutionally protected your right to own and bare arms all of those people were identified as potential domestic terrorists and in this report that was going on to law enforcement they were being told to watch out for us. To look for people who share those characteristics. How much additional security do you get by having so much less privacy? It a really fundamental question and it is always easy to say I don't really care I want the government to know everything just keep the bad guys away, keep the terrorists away, our history tends to demonstrate that governments re-purpose information, they get information for one purpose and they use it for something else. The unchecked surveillance tends in the long-run to cost us more than the security that we gain from it. We would like to know how they define the bad guys, you see in Germany that was true to, the bad guys they were Jews and murdered six million of them by whose authority. Well it's the common good that was a state decision you know the whole concept of master race all those ideas where given the colour of law. You see the way you persecute a people is find out what they do discourage it, marginalize them and then pass laws against what they do and then enforce the laws. When it came out that the government and the census bureau was collecting the GPS coordinates on everyone's front doors a lot of us said why would you need that? You have a street address, you clearly know how to find the location or the census worker couldn't have gotten there in the first-place, so why would you need this extra step that's costing an enormous sum of money the only explanation that could occur to many of us is that they want to know the GPS coordinates to of your house so that they could target you. And that sounds crazy but when you look over what's happening in Pakistan and in Afghanistan where there are unmanned aerial drones that can literally target a home we regularly hear about how houses that have been blown up by the military, there was a wedding party going on in this house and then boom bombs were dropped on it and it was blown up. So I think there's a real question mark. Now it becomes a question of whether or not you trust the government. The problem of governments is there made up of people. If you didn't have people in they'd probably be okay but you know as soon as you give a guy a little bit of power well that's never quite enough it becomes his mandate it's his human 127 00:51:56,598 --> 00:52:01,098 natural instinct to accumulate more power. One of the problems when you create these technologies is it's like putting a noose around your neck and you may think well gosh it's someone who I really trust and where's the danger but then that person you trust goes away and then someone else can rise to power we've seen it happen all over the globe we've seen it happen century after century where evil people have this bizarre tendency to rise into the positions of power and authority over others. You look at what Hitler was able to do with very limited technology, he was able to pinpoint a single person and destroy large numbers of people that he just personally decided he didn't like. That capability that he had back in the nineteen forties and then multiply that exponentially in terms of what could be done today you could turn people into none entities, you wouldn't even have to kill them you could just make it so they couldn't access the ATM machine they couldn't go to the grocery store they couldn't get to see the doctor. So I think the bigger picture and what we need to be thinking about as a society today is we really should not be creating the power to destroy our lives and putting it into anyone's hands. Whether you trust the current administration or not is really irrelevant because ultimately I believe there will be someone who will come along and who will take advantage of that they'll remove all the safeguards we put in place and then where just going to be sitting ducks. One of the founding fathers said those who trade liberty for security deserve neither. Hello John Wilson speaking. Okay do I have to come down? Sounds a bit strange. No offence but I don't know anything about you. Yeah sure that would help. Okay, what's the address? Okay, how long is this going to take? I understand. Okay, bye. - What's going on an emergency prayer meeting? - No, a division of homeland security wants to ask me some questions. - Come on you?! - Yeah. Hey, this is not one of your jokes is it Barry. - No man. Wish I thought of it though. - Hilarious. - Relax. Buddy this is the U.S. After this is over you will be able to sue them for emotional trauma and wasting your time. What most people don't realize is that for hundreds of years thousands of extremely wealthy, powerful and connected people have been working to create a one-world government. Many of these people are Americans most have all the best intentions in the world and many are in positions of power right now. With every passing year, with every new crisis the reality of America not being in control of it's own destiny comes closer and closer. I believe all of us should be concerned about world government especially if you understand those who are at the forefront pushing this agenda. If this comes in I don't believe that it will be a democratic world government although some of the organization's pushing this agenda are trying to make that case right now. I believe it will be a highly centralized world government where if you disagree with those in authority you have no option than to go along. Those who disagree with them will be persecuted there is no doubt in my mind we would lose our freedom of speech, we would lose our freedom of worship and any other freedom you can imagine unless you're willing to come under their authority. They believe that freedom is not a good thing in the world today. They really believe that. They think that freedom leads to anarchy it leads to none unity, it leads to inefficiencies and so forth and of course it leads to challenge of their own rule. And so the really want to bring all of mankind into some kind of a regiment. We're at the point in history right now where two groups of people those who believe in the good of humanity and that stand for justice and the other side who for the last eight hundred years are trying to destroy the symbols of what our humanitarian society really means. And we are at the point in history where there is no second choice of third ways and forth opportunities it's a time where everybody has to make a moral decision. Whether to defend truth, justice, freedom and basically the planet or take up the point of view of the other side which is the destruction of nation state republics and the destruction of life on this planet. There are several different organizations that have risen to the forefront depending on whether they're pushing the political, the economic or the spiritual aspects of the one world movement and within those organizations I'm speaking of the United Nations the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) the Bilderberg organization and others there are those even in the current administration who have this type of view of the world that they want to move the United States and western society in the direction of globalization and world government. If you tare down the barriers between the countries of the world and their is this I call it ''Mafia'' this powerful Mafia above the countries of the world they are coming down through sustainable development and the United Nations and all kinds of control to take the soul of the world. I have covered a hundred and five global meetings, I've interviewed presidents and prime ministers I've read tens of thousands of pages of their documents. This is not fiction, this is fact! A lot of these societies and organizations working together but it's not only the secret societies that work together but the reason they are so powerful so difficult to destroy is that they have politicians on their side all taped into society's, you have members of congress of parliament you have the banking representatives you have the royalty you have the newspapers that of course form part of these elite that have sworn to secrecy and then of course you have NGO's (Non-Government Organizations) that are also tapped into this because again they control all of these organizations through money. When I first understood and saw world government at my first global meeting in nineteen ninety four first I was shocked I was amazed why wasn't anybody talking about it, why wasn't anybody doing anything to protect the sovereignty of the United States? If we look at the source of these problems we find here at least in the United States we find a relatively small group of people. It's called the Council on Foreign Relations the CFR is not very well known to the average American but in reality it is our hidden government because if you look at all of the real important positions in the power centres of society and by that I mean the leadership positions in government, the president, the vice president, secretary of state, the the secretary of defence, the head of the CIA and so forth even the supreme court justices and senators but the ones at the very top of the political power structure and then you look at those who are dominant within the media centres the heads of the networks ABC, CBS, NBC, the Turner broadcasting, the Murdoch network and then you look at the heads of the great Universities the schools and so forth it doesn't take a lot of people to really control the masses if they're at the heads of these kinds of organizations. I believe that economics ultimately will be the number one way in which the emerging world government will try to control people. If you can control a person's ability to buy or sell you can run their life. If you have a single currency over the whole world a currency system it provides no other alternatives or options. Back in nineteen sixty eight George Ball was the undersecretary for economic affairs with of JFK and Johnson at the meeting in Montreal, Canada, Quebec he said: How can we create corporations that shall one day give orders to governments? And that's what Bilderberg is all about it's not one world order it's one world company limited. A highly organized agenda to break the back of the American free enterprise system because it stands in the way of those that have a globalist agenda and so they're succeeding and so there backed by big-money, backed by the trade unions backed by the multinational corporations. There all playing that game for there own reasons. Increasingly our utilities are under the influence of people from other parts of the world in other governments. Most of our main industries are now a majority foreign owned. Few Americans have any idea of this and the powers that own our major industries for the most part favour Globalization and World Government, so they are I would say a big part of this drift toward world government. The main event is the wholesale destruction of the world economy. Are you saying to me that Joe the Plumber is more intelligent than David Rockefeller. He's lending the money the question is why? So you destroy the economy and you destroy the wealth of all the people because again you destroy the wealth of the people, you destroy the power of growth of nations and of course the population base. I believe we are just one major world crisis away from having a totalitarian type of system in place. Our indebtedness here in the United States is now approximately sixty five trillion dollars in foreign obligations it's way beyond what most people realize. It can never be repaid and because the United States has presented a specific challenge to globalists because the American people have always been a independent freedom-loving people, so how do you get the United States into a global government? Well ultimately you have to crash their economy and make them so dependent on foreign powers that you can blackmail them to come into a system. The thing about this is you have to have a crisis big enough for the public to be able to accept whatever the solution is, you know, It can't be a half baked crisis like Rahm Emanuel said a few months back. You know last thing you want is to waste a good crisis. Every time we turn around there's a new crisis, there's an economic crisis, there's a war crisis, there may be a pandemic crisis, there's a crisis everywhere you look and as long as people are in this crisis mode they're not very vigilant about watching what's happening to their liberties all they are thinking about is 'oh government do something to protect me, save us from all of this and the government says: Yes that's exactly what we intend to do. Every time there's a new war or threat of war there's motion in the direction of merging our military with other national military forces through the United Nations so-called peacekeeping forces so all of these crisis lead to more legislation, more treaties and more movement in the direction of giving up our sovereignty as a nation merging with a global structure and the creation of that global structure into a totalitarian system. Thanks again for coming down Mr. Wilson I know you're a busy man so we'll try to keep this short come on in and have a seat. So for the record your name is John Francis Wilson and you live at 15 Clear Heights Drive. I'm sorry could you clearly reply yes or no to my questions. Yes, I am John Wilson. Is this being recorded? Are you a member of the Church of God on Springer Avenue? #NAME? Well yes, but what does this have to do... - Do you plan on attending this evening's meetings with this group? - Yes. - Mr. Wilson are you aware that it is legal in this country to have an abortion. Yes but it hasn't always been that way. - Are you aware that some healthcare providers have been attacked and murdered by members of groups like yours. - Hold on we have nothing to do with those groups we are peaceful people that are... #NAME? - We believe in preserving life and not taking it. - Are you aware Mr. Wilson yes or no? You are a member three different right to life groups, you are a member of a number of Evangelical Christian organizations you have donated money to Christian Science Research and the Salvation Army, you receive daily emails from radical organizations that encourage prayer for our government on matters of policy you signed a number of petitions supporting the traditional definition of marriage, you frequently visit Web sites that are pro-Israeli and others that believe in an imminent cataclysmic event, your wife and children are also enrolled in or are talking to many other radical antisocial organizations and people. Mr. Wilson there's a lot more here. Are these the actions of a peaceful man and his family? I'm terrified by that thought. A global government that would mean that that the franchise we have for freedom and for allowing everybody to vote would be destroyed. The ability for our people to accept the Bill of Rights and all the freedoms guaranteed in the bill rights would be destroyed because the rest of the world doesn't have the Free Press like we have and women don't vote in most of the countries in the rest of the world. You don't have a society in Japan your guilty until proven innocent. You don't have the right to protect yourself in your own home, or even defend yourself against violent criminals in Great Britain. All those freedoms that we have today would be taken away from us. So all that world government can do would mean that the wrong people would vote on what's right for America. Why not have the people of the world living in unity peace and harmony on the surface it sounds good but as you get deeper into the organization's pushing this agenda and look at where these people are coming from at the higher levels it is a very sinister agenda there's a lot of hatred for Christians and Jews. Read the Koran if a woman commits adultery she is stoned to death, if a thief steals something his hand can be cut off there is no ability for the compassion of Christianity to exist and make us a kinder world with either Muslim extremists, Communists or dictators and if we had a World Government all of those thought beliefs and concepts would have to be represented including atheism and they're a tremendous number people in the world who believe that not only abortion is correct but you should be able to terminate a life up to two years if something's wrong with the child there are too many different opinions that are evil for us to have a world government that's harmonious unless we give up so much of what we believe in you need to understand that the United Nations Charter is not based on the constitution of the United States sadly. In order to understand that you need to know that first the Constitution of the United States our freedoms come from God, they are not able to be numbered they are inalienable, they can never be taken away. When you take a look at the UN Charter our rights come from government they are numbered and they can be taken away for bad behaviour. If a one world occult system comes into place I believe we will entirely lose our freedoms to speak out, to worship freely as we will, to own property as we do now, I believe much of the world's property will be seized by the coming global government in the name of protecting the environment our health care system if someone controls our health care to a large extent they can control us, they can determine whether you live or die not only is it a tyrannical form of government but it's built around the assumption that this is all for the greater good of the greater number. So the people at the bottom who are being told what to do are educated or propagandized or whatever you want to call it to believe that after all this is in their own best interest. A world government could actually dictate to a farmer what he has to grow or maybe to get off his land entirely and move somewhere else in order to save the environment, maybe his peace of land will be designated a special environmental property under the United Nations that has already happened with some of our national parks and I've seen a map that shows that ultimately as much as a third of the United States could be declared as ''One World'' property where people wouldn't have any access to it at all. You're talking about the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) their main objective is again to reduce the world's population. Prince Philip Queen Elisabeth the seconds husband he said that: ''If I ever came back I would reincarnate as a deadly virus.'' Of course he would because that's what these people are into. There into destroying the world society. Now that's how one can begin to understand the real goals of the agenda 21 sustainable development UN Global plan, you see that plan in it's own expression calls for a reduction in the human population by 85% so you begin to wonder how it is we can survive in this country when our resources are taken and put off-limits for our use, whether it's our mining resources our timber resources, food resources etc Now if we were to remove half of this country's landmass from productive human use it's only a matter of time before human population begins to fall but when we understand that that's the plan of the United Nations we can begin to put this in a perspective that we need to be putting it in. Maurice Strong at the UN you know, he's an altruistic guy the guy thinks that... he thinks that is doing the right thing for the most number of people by advocating we kill off some of them because there's too darn many of them I believe the whole concept of population control and diminishing the world's population to a place where we can sustain development and bringing it below 1 billion it is setting the stage for mass persecution down the road. What if people actually buy into that idea that much of the world has to be eliminated in order for those who are left to be able to continue to function you're going to see more wars, more famines, more disease some of this intentionally spread to reduce the population of mankind there's a place I visited called the Georgia guide stones where they present the Ten Commandments of the New Age movement in a number of different languages and one of the commandments calls for the reduction of the population of mankind down to a fraction of what it is right now so a thinking intelligent person should be asking how are they going to achieve that if that is one of their goals and they're going to work toward that goal then who are the victims going to be an and how are they going to choose who lives and dies. They find it hard to believe because they don't hear it from any other source, you're not going to hear it in the media. You're not going to hear it from the government leaders you're not going to hear it from the people who in fact are creating it that's the thing and so they don't realize how far it has gone. People don't know much about sustainable development because major media is really captured by the same interests that control the banking institutions. Our public information systems have been bought up or have been taken control over by these forces that seek the creation of this one-world where human beings become chattel to the ruling elite. It seems that they've been plenty of people signing up to become slave masters and keep this information undercover. The loss of freedom is not being imposed on most people in the western world, not be imposed by force of arms, with bayonets, guns or bombs but with propaganda. They've convinced us though it's on the cover of The New York Times, The Washington Post, Global Mail, the Tribune-Star or CBS nightly news with Peter Mansbridge if he's still around or alive there has to be the truth and everything else thus as a result is a conspiracy because if what I'm saying is the truth it obviously would be on the front cover of the Tribune Star well it can't because the media forms part of the world elite. The purpose of a media in a democracy is to inform the electorate. Their job is to be a watchdog on the government. Well we have a media that's prostituted ourselves totally to an agenda and not only in terms of what it promotes but in terms of what it hides the real truth was hidden from the American people, it still is. It's an incredibly well-organized propaganda machine. The empires they control people, or they manipulate people by making sure they control how people think and this is exactly what they've done so very well because again the greatest hypnotist in the world is this oblong box everyone has in their living room called a television set which has taught us to eat, to think, to dress, to walk, to talk we know more about the lives of Britney Spears then we know about the lives of our spouses. Its a gradual progression from well-intentioned people who simply want world peace to those that embrace pantheistic concepts and ultimately a small percentage of those that actually go on to worship Lucifer or Satan. Evil exists and evil has been able to coordinate and combine it's efforts to bring us to this point when you look at how far we've already moved down that path especially during the last ten years or so and when you look at how many top economic planners in the world favour a one-world economic system and how various figures at the United Nations are calling for a One World political system preferably from their standpoint through empowerment of the United Nations to the point where it actually becomes a world government and then on July 6th of 2009 the pope comes out and openly calls for the creation of a world political authority with teeth to be able to enforce itself you begin to realize maybe we're closer to all this than we imagine. I don't know how they knew all about us they did, no I wasn't charged with anything it's, it was a warning though, yeah I don't, I know we can't, listen why don't you just come down here and we can talk about it alright. Bye. I don't want to talk on the phone anymore I know how crazy that sounds all right. I love you. Okay. There is no question that we live in a surveillance society there's no question that detail profiles are being created and stored about each and everyone of us, there's no question that this is only going to increase with every passing day and with every new technological advancement. There's no question that with every new threat, new crisis, the consolidation of world resources knowledge and currencies our world moves closer to a one world governmental system. This new system will not be a friend of Christianity or Judaism. Basic rights like the freedom of speech the freedom of religion and the freedom to own land will disappear. Already today there are very powerful and influential people who have dedicated themselves to see this comes to pass. I have no doubt that it will end soon then why am I not afraid and running for the hills? Because I knew this would happen. Incredibly it was prophesied over two thousand years ago I'm so tired of people saying you can't go to the Bible. Yes you can if you take the trouble to discover the integrity of it's design and then that design had to originate from outside time because it writes history before it happens and with the precision that's staggering and the more you know about your Bible and the more you know about what's going on in the geopolitical order or just the world arena the more you see a convergence approaching the classic biblical scenarios. The Bible says that in the last days the government of the anti-Christ rests on three pillars: The first is a global government, the second is a global economy but the third is a global religion. The people at the forefront of this one-world movement generally speaking are extremely anti-Jewish and anti-Christian and they want to bring together all the religions of the world and unify them for a specific purpose which is to put a leadership figure in power that would rule the world and the Bible warns us of these kinds of developments in the last days this is a far cry from where we were in the fifties, sixties the anti-Christian atmosphere the fact that you're worried about having the Ten Commandments in our courtrooms and all that you begin to realize that it's beginning to evaporate very quickly what most people don't realize is that your freedoms will evaporate with that. There are so many signs today that indicate that we are living in the last the Bible has so many prophecies warning us giving us an idea of this time getting closer so that those of us who are alive when all of this happens could be forewarned and prepared and one of those the biggest perhaps is Israel. The coming together out of over 100 countries from around the world of nearly seven million Jews returning back to Israel after two thousand years. That's incredible some people try to say it's just a big coincidence or part of a different agenda but when you look at scripture in over 50 different prophecies in the Old Testament foretelling that in the last days God would re-gather the Jews from the four corners of the earth from one side of the world to the other all bringing them back to Israel. Its really difficult to try to explain that away. Ezekiel wrote about the restoration of Israel and said that in the latter days that there would be restored on exactly the same piece of real estate from which they had been scattered. As Athenaeus said, they would return with a pure language, restored Hebrew which was restored by Ben-Yehuda in 1948 Hebrew is a working language of Israel in the day and it was dead before Latin was developed along with that in the book of Daniel we are told that there would be a massive increase in knowledge. Well the last I heard knowledge was doubling now every four years that's never happened before in world history and that is bringing the world closer and closer together technologically, things are now possible you can talk on the telephone with somewhat halfway around the world and it sounds as if they're next door. Travel has become so much easier and communication through the internet all of these things have worked to make the world smaller and which brings me to my next point to make global government possible. Which in revelations thirteen or fourteen we are warned of such a global system that would exist in the last days. A type of one-world political system that would use it's economic and military power to enforce religious worship. It wasn't even conceivable nineteen hundred years ago, that any single individual could have in such a minute way the centralized control of the economy, that nobody could buy or sell unless they were part of a particular system that was never possible this is exactly what John saw though and he sought it in the context of a developing global government it's in the context of the fact that the anti-Christ governments strong suit is deception and it's power comes from its control of the economy and it's ultimate goal is worship of the leader it's the ultimate fascist state. I believe when the mark will first be introduced there will be an attempt to make it seem very fashionable, a safety mechanism if you're kidnapped police would know where you are and could rescue you that's already happening right now with animals but also with humans in some parts of the world. What is Satan's primary weapon all through the Bible? Deception. That started in Genesis 3 all the way through every time Jesus talked about the end times he opens and closes his discourse by saying be not deceived. So that's our challenge you know we are being deceived we are being conned in a local political sense but also in a much broader sense Bible says that Peter was writing to Timothy and he said that in the last days people will keep to themselves teachers teachers having itching ears then they'll be turned into fables because they want to hear what they want to hear not what is necessarily true, and we live in a generation that truth has become like subjective, I mean, there can be two versions of the truth finally in Matthew 24 Jesus warns us of an unprecedented deception that would take place at the very end of time just preceding his second coming specifically in verse 24 he says that even the elect could be deceived if that were possible. Now that's got to be some kind of major deception for Jesus to make that type of statement and we are seeing increased deception today, false religions coming into and taking hold in the United States where just a generation ago most people would have professed a belief in Christ or at least their ethic would have been Christian-based. The culture we are in is a very strange one it denies the existence of truth. Well what's the purpose of University I thought it was to pursue truth. What's the 157 01:23:49,998 --> 01:23:53,298 purpose of our scientific establishment out to discover what's true. And we live in a culture which denies the existence of truth. Another sign is the increased depravity of man and in first and second Timothy it talks about how the last days man would become more focused on self a pursuer of pleasure, self-centered, boastful, proud all of that we are seeing that today through the New Age movement and in ways we have never seen before it's all about self you literally have millions of people out there who believe that they are God. We've never faced a situation like that before but we do now. We're broke, we're in a global war, we're in a religious war, everything seems to be in decline there getting ready to talk about getting rid of the US dollar everything seems to point towards the US no longer being the world's only superpower which is exactly what the Bible says. You can see it all converging towards that so we can make a list of what the main countries in the Middle East and in Europe and in the Far East we go through all that whole list we can talk about technologies we can make a whole list of trends we classically are enterprises monitored a dozen of these and the more you know about each one and the more you know what the Bible says about each one you see a convergence it is not one of them, its all of them happening at the same time. ''Verily I say unto you, this generation shall not pass until all these things be fulfilled.'' that's part of all of that discourse but I mean that it makes Israel the benchmark you know it's the time clock the stopwatch once it starts clicking we've got one generation left and we're very close to the end of that now my challenge to anyone to which these things are fresh and new and unknown is to find out yourself not what Chuck Missler or somebody on the radio or TV says, find out yourself what the Bible really says. The Bible says that the heavens and earth proclaim the very existence and majesty of God our Creator. That same creator gave us a book to share his thoughts and plans for our lives. Unlike any other book in all of history it also predicts what's going to happen in the future. The birth death and resurrection of Jesus Christ the return of Israel to her land in 1948. Our remarkable changing world today if someone you knew could predict the future with 100 percent accuracy wouldn't you listen to them? Well the Bible does exactly that and it predicts that Jesus Christ will return for his followers and take them to a wonderful eternal home whether you're around for that event or whether you pass on before that I pray that you will accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Saviour today you may not be able to control what happens to your nation or our world but you can determine your eternal destiny. The Bible says that tomorrow is promised to no one make the most important decision of your life and trust that Jesus loves you and wants to be part of your life. Our research into surveillance practices, losses of freedom and shadow governments is not meant to scare you, it's meant to open your eyes to the shifting world around us, it's meant to shine a light on God's incredible prophecies, it's meant to bring you closer to our eternal saviour Jesus Christ. What's going to happen a month from now, a year from now, ten years from now, how do we prepare for it? And the one thing that the Lord over and over impresses on my heart is the importance of staying close to him and taking it one day at a time and keeping our eyes focused on eternity.
