 

                        Come in. What was so urgent? Inder, get some water. You could have come in the morning? Shahid... Shahid... Shahid... What does it mean? I don't understand English well. By showing me injustice.. ..God taught me about justice. By inflicting pain and suffering.. ..He gave me the courage to fight. He taught me to help the helpless A criminal has no religion. Eventually both the killer and his victim are human. Right? Did I say too much? Never forget this (Voice on walkie-talkie) Come in. Kill "those" bastards. I haven't had any sleep. Kill the bastards. Mother, where's my shirt? It's right there I can't find it look carefully, son Press it like this and take it out this way. Done that. Vvhe re you going? Shahid, where are you going? Coming. Shahid, where are you going son? Coming mother Shahid? Where is Shahid? Mother, open the door. I think it's Shahid. Please let me in. Mother, it is Shahid. Get out of the way. Why did you go out? Why did he go out? Everything's been set ablaze. They are killing women, children.. They will destroy everything. Are you alright? Okay. Be quiet. Mother, Shahid is back Shahid, what took you so long son? We've been waiting What about your exams? Are you prepared, son? Come on, freshen up. - Let me talk to him. He just returned from our village let him freshen up first. Let him rest for a while. He has returned after a long time. Shut up! I haven't told them where you were. Shahid, switch off the lights. I can't sleep. Just a minute. Switch it off. Did we ask you to stay this long in the village? Quiet. I have work in the morning. Now study. Shahid, what is this? Switch off the light. Shut up all of you. Go to sleep. Stop creating a ruckus. Shahid, switch off the light. Just a little while longer. - Shahid, do it now. Go to sleep! Driving me insane. Just shut up and come with us. - I've done nothing sir. Honestly My son has done nothing, sir. He has a job. What do you need to know from him? We just want to question him. Get out of the way Shahid, they are taking your brother away. Who the hell are you nov Shahid, move aside. You are Shahid? Leave that guy. Take this one in. He is our man. He hasn't done anything wrong. Get in the fucking car! What are you staring at? Come on let's go home. Tell me now motherfucker. Sit straight and stop crying. 3 terrorists. You don't recognize them? Him? Did a cat get your tongue? What about him? Don't you recognize him? I've done nothing, sir. I swear. We found your phone number.. ..In his fucking diary. How does he have your number? Why not ask him, sir. I've done nothing. Shall I go to his grave to ask him? You fucking liar! You thick skinned pig! Motherfucker! I'll piss on your face. I swear I've done nothing sir Sir, I am Arif. Sit down, why are you standing? Sir, actually I wanted a meeting With whom? - With Shahid. My brother Stand up. Can't you hear me? Stand up. He is no longer your brother. He's now an enemy of the country. Do you know what the anti-terrorism act is? Sir, I went to Arthur Road jail. Fuck Arthur Road jail! Where have you come from? Where do you live? Sir, Bombay. It's almost 6. Take the next train to Bombay. Come back in another 6 months 6 months? I've been coming everyday.. .. For several weeks without an answer. Are you doing us a favor by coming here? We didn't tell your brother to join the terrorists. Sir, he is not a terrorist... Don't show off by speaking in English. If I speak English you'll choke on your balls. Why are you swearing at me? I'm trying to be respectful. All I want is to meet my brother Just get the fuck out of here Get out now! What do you mean get out? Get the fuck out of here. You have no right to treat me like this. I'll show you 'rights' when I break your face. Don't talk 'rights' with me. Throw the fucker out! Listen brother. Sign here Take my advice and you will be let off lightly Or you may be stuck here forever. Sign here. Believe me. I'm not your enemy, brother. This is your only chance. Sign it How is Shahid? He is fine, mother Do they still trouble him? No. Do they still torture him? He is absolutely fine. Tell me. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? What happened? Can't you hold on to your fast for even 30 days? What kind of Muslims are you? Eating like gluttons when you should be fasting.. ..And you call yourselves Muslim Stop staring. Stuff your faces! Greetings Greetings I'm Omar Sheikh I know. I've heard about you What's your name? Shahid You are really quiet... I'm sorry about the other day I tend to lose it during the Ramzan. Firstly, you're starving... ..and then you see your brethren hog before you What can they do? The jail doesn't allow them to follow the Ramzan routine We are just minorities. Do YOU play chess? So then lets play. When? Now? - Then when? Lets go. Come. I'm getting out of here But your term is much longer? They will do anything to get me out of here Hijack a plane, take people hostage, anything For whom? You or Masood? Come with me. Look at me. Look at me, Shahid. What? What do you think? Will you ever get out of this place? When? Tell me, when? - No idea. Arif, stop visiting me You are wasting your time What do you mean? It's pointless. It's a waste of time. I'm trying to get you out, Shahid I grow weak every time I see you. I won't survive this if you come again. Don't come back again Take care So the 'Jihadi' likes to read? I am not aJihadi What was that? Come again, what did you say? I am not a 'Jihadi' So you aspire to be one? What do you know about me? Birds of the same feather, flock together.. So, you don't want to be one? What flock? The ones you play football with. They are my friends. They are nobody's friends.. They are smart people. They know when to say what. First, they will give you a political lecture. Then they will use you. They believe they're far superior to you. I'm aware of Omar's oratory skills He speaks well. So what if he speaks well? Omar knows Kabul has more than just horses. Meaning? It's simple. Gather all the asses around and you automatically end up as their leader. How are you such an expert? Because I know the story of one such ass. Who? Me. Greetings, sir. Bless you. This is Dr. Saxena. A professor at Punjab University Now let me introduce him. He's a great guy. He is Gulam Nabi War He is opening a civil services institute in Kashmir Especially for the poor I am helping him with his project War's father owned a carpet factory But all businessmen had to pay a protection tax to the terrorists War refused to pay once and they had him framed. And now he's serving time. He is quite a short-tempered man. His father died two months ago. How can they just throw people in jail without reason? How far have you studied, Shahid? I was preparing for my college's second year exam... Shahid, you should study further Tired? No, no.. What? I want to study So what's stopping you? The warden won't let me I will talk to the warden Now what's the problem? Nothing, just.. Money? I don't want to ask my family I will pay your fees No... Fine. Sacrifice your education for your silly self-respect No. It's not that. I will return the money That's what I am saying. Return it when you can Yes. I will - This isn't charity. It's a loan There is a condition You have to stop meeting Omar and his donkeys But I don't know anyone here Why? You don't know us? I do... Ok, meet them on Sunday Over a game of chess, only! Don't get brainwashed Nah. You're too smart for them Why don't you join the game? No. Go ahead enjoy yourself He is a bright kid No matter which country's history you are reading.. ..There's one thing you should understand clearly. It is not only about wars, conquests and battlefields. It's much more than that Dr. Saxena always says.. ...That it's difficult to swim against the tide But if you manage to do it... You may find a shore that nobody has ever seen Make the most of this time, my friend Study hard You won't even realize how time will fly J ust study I maybe leaving this jail, but I'm still with you I'll see you again Thank you It is obvious that principles of natural justice have been.. Violated in the State vls Shahid Azmi case. Shahid is hereby honorably acquitted.. And the court apologizes to Shahid and his family.. For the inconvenience caused. It takes time, but it works Stop here. This is home now. How is it? We are on the first floor Mother, the door bell Answer it Khalid. He is all grown up now. Mother, the milkman is here Coming Chandu, can't make yoghurt from the milk these days How are you? I'm okay. Where do you roam around all day? Where do you go? Looking for jobs. Job? He wants to do a job Brother, I want to study law I've filled the form. Why are you getting involved with the law again? This is what I want to do If you want to study, then study You can't study and work simultaneously Do one thing at a time Mother, I will manage Mother, my first salary. You keep it son. You will need it. I have enough.- No mother, keep it. Do well, my son. Bless you. What's for dinner? What do you want? Will you make Biryani? Okay. Is Arif home? Yes. I've got a job With lawyer Maqbool Menon Good I would have to leave the job that I'm doing.. $0? ..But they will pay less. How much? Rupees 1200 only How will we manage? No worries, I have a plan I have a meeting with Mr. Menon What time? 4 pm. Please take a seat Mr. Galaadari, how long have you been working here? 7-8 years? The judge will throw this file on your face. And all of you handle civil cases, right? Just like civil cases" ..that rot for years in old dusty cupboards" ..your brains too have begun to rot. Look at this pencil Blunt and small like all of you Nobody ever bothers to sharpen it! Your English is pathetic How can you be practicing in High Court? You guys deserve to be in the Lower Courts Get out of here! Get out of here! Where can I meet Gaffar? I have come from Menon's office Where is Menon? He's busy Who are you? I'm Shahid $0? He can't come. He has sent me instead Do you know who you are talking to? Yes, I know You have stolen 20 cars from Bombay. While stealing your last car, you also assaulted the owner. He has lost an eye Now whatever you have to say, tell me Can we sit and talk? I will speak to Menon, you go Abdul, remember his face. Maryam? - Yes I'm Shahid, from Menon's office Tell me You have a hearing next week So you are here for the fees? No... Sir asked me to... I have seen enough lawyers More than you can imagine I could not arrange the fees I can part with a percentage after selling my property Sir wanted the money before the hearing Please leave then I said, leave.. I can talk to him if you want...if you need.. Cases Gaffar? I met him, he's lying I know First he needs to trust you... ..then you will begin to trust him It takes time I know sir, but... Police is right. he is guilty I know Then why are we defending him? Because he is a client It's an open and shut case. If we know he is guilty, then.. You want me to teach you law again? What do we do first? We collect the facts.. We collect the facts.. ..Then we manipulate and present it the way we want The more you waste your time on these books.. Son, you will lose all cases that you fight And witnesses? Witnesses are all hostile now All in the palm of my hand What is this? Sir, please appoint someone else for this case. You came to my office begging for work "I want to fight criminal cases!" "I want to fight criminal cases!" Nobody cherry picks cases in my office Get out What's happening at your end? The world chases only money I did not become a lawyer for money I'm thinking of starting my own practice There is a little cost involved, but not that much I already have two loans to repay Okay, I'll apply for another loan Don't worry, start your practice. When do you want to start? I'll get the license tomorrow Oh! So you applied already? Hello, Maryam! Maryam! This is Shahid, remember? from Menon's office Oh no, not for that I have started my own practice Have you hired another lawyer? How do we manage the house expenses? Please don't cry Shahid? I'm Maryam Please wait Don't worry, case is in your favor Please come Sorry to keep you waiting Tea or water? Nothing, thank you lnder! Go get some water And get some tea as well Property dispute case, right? Yes Please tell me a little about your case My step mother has challenged my father's will in the court My father had left me a house in Mumbai She is now claiming it Your step mother? Is this the file? I don't have anything else apart from this house Don't worry This is your house and it will remain yours And your fees? It's ok. Not that important You must tell me Whatever you feel is right There is a thing in our lawyer's code of ethics What? First we win the property from your enemies.. ..And then keep it for ourselves Then you will have to hire another lawyer to reclaim the property from us. I've never heard of this before.. - It was a joke Yes, mother. I'm in office. Yes, I am coming. Greetings. He is Zaheer's child. He hasn't seen his father yet. What's his name? Asgar. Asgar. Asgar. You're going to meet your father soon. Partition has caused loss to many. Especially Muslims. We're suffering in India ..Pakistan and in Bangladesh too. Yes, we all are suffering due to mistakes done by few. What to do? Well, remember I told you about Zaheer. The one who was accused of Ghatkopar blasts? - Yes. He's a software engineer. He's completely innocent. Did you meet his family? Yes, I've done all the research from my side. He's completely innocent. I'm sure that we will win this case. God willing. Your fees? Don't worry about that. Only for official needs. Yes, that we will give. I was asking because.. ..Our finances come through donations. During the month of Ramzan.. ..We visit people's homes. And the donation given to us by them are then used.. ..To run the 'Jamaat', so I hope you understand. No, don't you worry about the fees. Zaheer, tell me everything you know Don't try to lie or hide anything from me If I find out later that you did... I will drop your case Tell me everything. I have done nothing wrong I just made a small mistake I gave my laptop.. - I know that It's been over 18 months I'm beaten up everyday Everyday I'm treated like a fleabag No value for human rights here You visited my house.. Do you think I am a terrorist? Zaheer This laptop... Whose laptop is this? Tell us whose laptop it is.. Who is the owner? It's mine Your laptop? Who did you give it to? Reply quickly! To my friend So you didn't know what your friend was using the laptop for? No, I didn't know You gave him your laptop.. But you didn't know what he was doing with it? Prosecution is trying to lead my client.. ..When he has said that he does not know How can he not know? He said That he gave it to his friend Your honor, the laptop was being used to send letters.. ..For a banned organization This is all unsubstantiated The laptop was with his friend when they found the videos. This does not have to be proved Why not? What was inside the laptop.. ..Patronizing Jihad, Gujarat riot videos, inciting messages It was not my client's, But of his friend who used it It was his friend who used.. - If the prosecution. ..The laptop for all this - ..is saying the same thing ..then what is the case about? Please, you are a senior Do you want to ask something else? No. Zaheer you gave the laptop to your friend? You gave the laptop to your friend, Enamul? Yes. Why? His computer had crashed and he needed it You have a computer repair shop too Why did you not repair it instead of giving your laptop? He needed a computer urgently If he needed a computer he could have gone to a cyber cafe Laptop is not a cycle that can be given to anyone who asks for it. They are childhood friends They are childhood friends - How long have you known each other? Since we were about 5 years old Since they were 5 years old... How can he not know? They have known each other since they were 5! If a childhood friend asks for your camera.. ..Pen or mobile won't you give it to him? I will, but I will know what he might do with it Mr. More, you are a senior lawyer, please sit down Your honour, you have been asking me to stay quiet.. ..Just because I'm a senior A childhood friend comes to my house.. ..And asks if he can stay in my house for two three days Will I not let him stay in my house? If he keeps a bomb in my house how will I know? If the bomb is found in your house.. ..Then evidence is against both of you For a minor error of judgment my client has been languishing in jail You were just leading the friendship issue. Don't you know your childhood friend inside out? Wheres the need to get angry? You are not making any sense.. Tell me one thing, wouldn't you know your friend? Especially if you had known him since you were 5? I understand.. I have childhood friends too.. Show me what's in it? - Nothing. I can see a sandwich, give me some. Police is investigating. It takes time For the last 1.5 years they have been investigating Please finish your investigation soon My client is ready to give an undertaking.. ..That he will not leave the city What good's an undertaking? Witnesses can turn hostile He can kill someone or get killed. Don't worry the verdict will be in our favour I don't understand the verbiage you use inside the court room I don't know if it's in our favor or not A lot of people don't understand it The judgment should be out soon It will be in our favor In a month? Maximum of three months ok Are you in a hurry? Just wanted to sell the property and go back to Delhi Why? - I want to start a school there and teach children You can open a school here.. .. There are kids here too who want to study They also need good teachers You want me to stay here? It's not like that? Are you married? Because I'm your lawyer and I should know everything about you ls the judge going to ask this question? No, I'm asking I'm not married It's ok, don't answer But are you married? You ask too many questions That's my profession Hello Nlaryam? Who is this Maryam? This is Ramanathan. So, you started your practice without telling me It's not even started By the way, who is this Maryam? Just a client Tell me. Client. Hello. Hello. Yes, speaking Drop Zaheer's case immediately. Who's this? Your father! Drop the case, you motherfucker. ..Or you will be sorry that you were born. Where are you calling from? Doesn't matter where. Next time I won't call you. I'll kill you. A gangster threatened me. What? Over the phone Why? Don't know, they were saying.. ..That you have to step back from Maryam's case My case? - Do you have any relatives like that? I don't know anybody like that No But somebody did threaten me They want me to back out from another case What do I do? What does your family say? I haven't told them Why? Please tell me what to do? I think you should not back down Why? I knew you were going to say that Really? How? Because, I think the same New evidence submitted in the court.. ..Has the confession statements from Altaf Ahmed & lmran Qureshi. The police charge sheet states that Zaheer.. ..Was involved with them in the conspiracy. Their statements clearly states that.. ..They just knew Zaheer and he was not a part of the plan. We are waiting for the external affairs ministry.. ..Until they confirm that the mobile number is not Zaheer's.. ..We can't corroborate the other evidence in court.. How much time will it take? Ministry of external affairs, time frame is difficult to ascertain Noted This is between ministries this might take a lot of time He is a father who hasn't seen his child since its birth They don't have any proof against my client. They are deliberately delaying the verdict, while my client suffers. What we are doing is completely legitimate, how can you say that? We are following the procedure. I am not saying that they are not within their rights.. ..When you arrest someone under the act, at least have a timeframe.. ..You can't keep an innocent behind bars for 10 years like this. Police is well within it's right.. After 15 years even if you free someone, what's the point? Sir, delaying justice is denying justice Hello, brother Aslam I have an important favour to ask You have a link in the UAE external affairs ministry, right? I have to get a fax to the Indian Ministry Please get this done Somebody will bless you for the rest of his life Bail denied for the 9th time When they have nothing all they can do is delay things How much time do you think? A month, maybe more. I don't know You can see that I am trying You heard the judge telling prosecution that day "You are on slippery ground" Our case is strong Zaheer All they talk about is the Gujarat riots video What about history channel videos, educational videos? It's their case and they will show what they want, the way they want. What did I say earlier? What did I say earlier? It takes time but... It will happen. This is from the external affairs ministry.. ..And it's been confirmed by Dubai Ministry. And it states that, the mobile number's.. ..Registered user which the prosecution keeps talking about.. .. As vital evidence belonged to Khwaja Yunus and not my client. I am not aware of this This is primary evidence. Prosecution has been waiting for this We haven't had time to review it. You were saying that the mobile number had come from Dubai. Here is your confirmation Does not matter whether it comes from Dubai,Kuwait or Iraq It has just arrived and we need time. Prosecutor, if you have to directly say anything please do.. ..Or I am moving ahead The Dubai ministry has confirmed that the number is not my client's. It can be any ministry, how does it matter? Prosecution, every case has its own facets It is relevant under the Indian Evidence Act 1872.. And I will admit this evidence How long will they keep saying bail denied. Someday they will have to say 'not guilty'. Have you tried the 'Biryani' here? No It's very good Really? then I will have to try it Do you want to try it? - Now? Not now - We can go for dinner today, tomorrow, whenever you want Tomorrow? Tomorrow? - Yes Not today? No, I'm busy today I know you are very busy Now that I've won the case because of you I've got a lot to do! Without you I would've been visiting one lawyer's office to another. Oh! One minute It's just a small token. I will pay you the rest after selling my property. I can't take this, please take it back But this is for you I will take it when I need it This is just a part payment That's why I am not taking it! I will take it when I need it OK I'll call you back in a bit. Maryam, I want to marry you What? I want to marry you I know it's not the right place to propose but... You do know that I am a divorcee And that I have a child Maryam, I want to marry you What happened? Your fees.. Kid, look after my bag. What happened? Why is everyone awake? We were waiting for you If I would have known I would have informed you Who is that girl? Which girl? You don't know? Brother, we know everything Who is she? There is no one The same girl with you on the beach Khalid told us. Speak up. Who is she? Maryam Your success has gone to your head Why do you go to her house? Let me ask, who is she? WhY do you go? !- She is my wife I told you that he is having a scene! Stop talking like a ruffian Why are we hearing this from others? Why didn't you tell us? Do we mean nothing to you? I was about to tell you But then I was scared.. ..Then she wanted to leave so... It's ok mother, a bride will only help you She is a nice girl Are you happy? If you keep glaring at me what can I say? Are you happy? Yes. I want to meet her Maryam Maryam So early? All ok? No work? I won't care even if I have to die, if I am allowed to be your love slave Get ready, quick. Wear this. - Mother wants to meet you. You told her? Yes Now go quickly get dressed What's this? What? Burqa? Yes You want me to wear it? Have you ever seen me wearing a burqa? Just for today Did you ask me? - Just for today please Am I not looking good? You look beautiful Did you tell them about Sameer? I will I just told them about you After some time I'll tell them about Sameer. Give me some time. But right now we don't have time. Stop arguing with me I am going to make you wear this Tariq, Arif and the informer - Khalid He smokes a lot I quit a long time back Weren't you smoking the other day? Tariq, wasn't he with Rahul that day? No, that wasn't me - Mother Mother, this is Maryam Greetings. How are you? I am good Please sit I have asked Khalid to look for a bigger house Not necessary He will stay with me I was also thinking about this... It's up to you, son I did not decide your marriage How can I decide where you will live? I'll get some tea Arif, I have to get somewhere It's ready - We will get late If you have to leave then go ahead Ok, mother, I'll leave. I'll drop her on the way OK Why did you have to say it today? You were meeting her for the first time I don't want any compromise with my son What kind of compromise? He won't get a decent upbringing in that home.. ..Neither will he be able to concentrate on his studies. Look at me! Even I cannot live like this. Even we grew up and studied in that home. We will take another house But in the same colony Will that do? Maryam. Let's go out for dinner today? Yes, of course. Let's celebrate. Let's do something Will you come along? I'll just finish my tea and come. I have just filed a petition for it We must get this lake cleaned up This has to be done. What happened? Are you angry with me? What happened? What do I say? Your life is settled now that you are married And as usual I'll look after the family Shahid, I'm really tired You asked me to think about my life, didn't you? When should I think about myself? It's not like that. Then how is it? How? Don't worry, it's not a problem.. And if you have any problems, come to me I will help you. Your honor, prosecution maintains that Zaheer Shaikh... ..should remain behind bars Defense wants us to see his face, the face of his new born Yes, we should But let's not forget the faces of the blast victims.. ..And their family members too.. This case is going on under the State Terrorism Act.. ..He is a prime suspect and this is not a small matter ..this man should remain behind bars. We should give our agencies more time for investigation Zaheer Shaikh can be a very dangerous man. Zaheer has been in jail for the last 2.5 years His bail plea has been rejected over 10 times The police have been unable.. ..To get any substantial evidence against him in this period. Prosecution always mentions about ongoing investigations" ..without proving anything Zaheer has been labeled a terrorist. Not only by them, but the world too.. ..Without any concrete proof He is Zaheer's father. He lost his job of 30 years in a minute Why? Because, police arrested his son for being a suspected terrorist ls prosecution of the opinion that Islam and liberalism can't be one? Or is Zaheer punished because his name is Zaheer? Not Matthew, Donald, Suresh or More. Is he still in jail just because of his name? If the investigation drags along for 10 years.. ..Will Zaheer languish like this for 10 years? After 10 years even if he is acquitted what will he do? Who will give him a job? He will be known as a terrorist for the rest of his life. Prosecution says he is a dangerous man. Why is he dangerous? What has he done? Because he made a wrong choice in giving his laptop to a friend? Many innocents have lost their lives in the blasts... I sympathize with them completely But then you can't penalize an innocent man for that. I request the court to deliver its verdict today Prosecution has no valid reason to detain Zaheer any more For the last 2.5 years Zaheer has been in jail because of this act The court admits that the common man at times.. ..Faces great hardship because of it This act is very important" ..for the safety of this country Prosecution has not provided the court with any concrete evidence.. ..Which proves that Zaheer Shaikh is guilty Therefore, this court in State Vs. Zaheer Shaikh.. ..Gives Zaheer Sheikh an honorable discharge, not guilty Journalists will be outside just give simple answers How do you feel? I'm still dazed Despite being innocent you were in jail for so many months. Your thoughts? No. Do you want the state to apologize to you? Apology sounds good. But here it won't work Why? When you haven't seen your only child since he was born What is the point of an apology? Mr. Shahid, your comments? Terrorism is a reality that the whole world is facing right now I am dead against it. But then you can't put an innocent man behind bars.. ..Just because he has no means to defend himself I am not saying that, all those arrested by the police are innocent What about those... ..who lose precious years of their lives imprisoned for no reason. I am against that. Are you going to file a defamatory case? Where were all of you till today? I don't want to do anything - No more questions please...thanks He wanted to thank you. Come inside. Please come inside. Have some tea. I already did Have some more. (Voice on News Channels) The blast took place.. At the most important landmark of Mumbai.. ..Gateway of India Sajid Sheik from Mumbai, Meera Rd. The POTA court will soon give it's verdict.. ..For the accused arrested under this act. After the blasts at Gateway of India and Zhaveri Bazaar.. ..There've been other terrorist attacks in Mumbai. For example, the bomb blasts in local train on 11th July, 2006. And.. (Voice on News Channels) The Verdict will soon be announced before August. Is Sameer asleep? So sorry, got held up (Voice on News Channels) 26/11 Attacks on Mumbai Landmarks" Mumbai will not be the same city it used to be. There are more than 100 deaths reported. That female American officer She felt me up all night While my hands were tied She showed me pornography And then.. ..Touched her menstrual blood... My God will never forgive me They won't let me out of here They won't let me out of here Do you think you're Gandhi? Jihaadi's Gandhi. Who is this? You fight for Jihaadis, asshole. Obviously, only a terrorist can empathize with another. Bloody traitor. You're very patriotic? You want to kill me? You'll die on the streets like a dog, motherfucker. Go ahead kill me. I won't become a traitor because you say so I know what you did in Kashmir. I know it all. I know what you did in jail too. People should know too. Do what you have to and so will I. You can threaten me as much as you like You will die like a dog, motherfucker. Kill me Police has found some kind of a map.. ..From the terrorist's dead body. And they started hunting for the accused in different jails.. ..And caught Faheem Khan. His only fault was when he was arrested.. ..He also had a map. Why will Zaheer make a map for the terrorist? Why will he make such a mistake? Especially when he is in jail? They should at least think before arresting someone. It's an open and shut case. It looks a little precarious. You're confident and sure of it? Of course I am. Otherwise I wouldn't have asked you. If we don't defend him they will hang an innocent man. And what about the phone calls you were getting... ..did you find out who's behind them? No, I don't know. - Didn't the police help? No, I've stopped thinking about it. I'm really concerned about your well being. Take care of yourself. I'm fine. I'll be okay. Faheem Khan is accused of providing maps to terrorists... ..for the target locations of the 26/11 attacks on Mumbai That attack had a devastating impact on all of us Not just public places, the common man feels unsafe at home too Our laws deem death penalty as the most severe punishment But my request to the court today is that.. ..Faheem and his ilk are awarded a penalty.. ..That is even more severe than death.. ..So that nobody ever dares to commit such a heinous crime again. These terror attacks have claimed many innocent lives Many people have lost their near and dear ones This is very tragic All of us watched these disturbing images on TV for over 3 days These images will remain forever etched in our conscience The total death toll in this attack is 164 164 innocent people lost their lives And if what the prosecution wants.. ..Without any corroborative evidence If that happens... Then this toll will rise to 165.. ..And the 165th innocent man will be Faheem Khan. Why does it always happen that anything of this magnitude.. ..Attracts imprisonment for an ordinary man. And the case lingers on.. ..While the real culprits might be celebrating somewhere far away.. ..Drinking in AC rooms and planning future attacks Why can't the Police ever reach them? Why do they almost always never end up standing here? Why do we always see a helpless man standing here One who does not have the ability to fight back Prosecution does not have any evidence to prove that Faheem is guilty But we have strong reasons to believe.. ..That forget death penalty or anything more severe He should not be here at all Please tell the court your name Swapnil Mazgaonkar What do you do? I run a computer institute in Jogeshwari In Jogeshwari? - Yes. Do you know this man? Yes, he studied at my institute What name do you know him by? Sahil Pavaskar When does a person need to change his identity? When he is depressed or is running from his past - I object. But in this case.. She is raking up his past. This case is about 26!11. Not about my client's past Sir every case is about someone's past. Sir, defense is just trying to obstruct me. This point is baseless. In 2007 Faheem Khan came to Mumbai.. ..To survey terrorist target locations He first made a fake passport Took admission in a computer institute.. And then rented an apartment in Lamington road My client has been living in the apartment for the last two years If someone moves to Mumbai he will have to live somewhere Your honour, all the rental documents" ..have been submitted to the court. Prosecution was living on rent till 2 years ago. Is she also a terrorist? Where I live is not the point! What is your name? Swapnil Mazgaonkar And your institute is in Jogeshwari? Yes How many students in your institute? 175? Exact? Exact So you must know all students well? Yes - You must know them by their names Yes - Excellent Can you tell me the name of the boy in the blue shirt? What is the point of this silly game? As someone who studied in his institute If he can recognize my client Why can't he recognize other faces? Tell me, what's his name? Go on tell me if you know - This way, it's difficult You know his name? Yes or no? Just simply say 'no' if you don't know Sir, he's forcing him.. Yes or no? No. What is the minimum qualification for your institute? 12th grade pass You collect the marksheet for students? Yes. - They must be in your records? Yes - So, what did you say his name was again? Sahil Pavaskar Then you should.. You should have it in your records, right? Say it. Aloud I do - You do? I do Do you have written exams in your institute? Your students must use paper for the exams What's this got to do with the use of paper? The court's time is being wasted All institutions use paper for examinations Maybe the prosecution isn't aware that technology isn't aware Examinations can be conducted on the internet too. Our country still uses paper extensively. The prosecution's entire case is dependent on handwriting. I suggest we have the handwriting analyzed by forensic experts. Because their entire case is dependent on handwriting. Mr. Mazgaonkar - Yes, sir? Do you have the important documents the defense needs? Yes. Deposit them in court Were there any phone calls? - No. Come, Mitali - My name is Parangama Yes Yes Why do you only fight cases for terrorists? This is your question? Isn't it true then? No. Absolutely not Then what is the truth? Mitali, do you really believe that the police... Sir, my name is Parangama Yes, Parangama Do you honestly believe that the police are always right? In that case we wouldn't need the judicial system? The police would arrest you and that's that. I don't expect you to know the truth, but at least the pursuit has to be for the truth ..or are you also like the others, who do not care for the common man. But you are not a common man. Why do you say that? I even fight cases for the common man The ones who can't afford lawyer's fees Those who don't have the means to afford a fair trial. I fight for them Not the terrorists Does that mean you do it to stay in the limelight? This is your second question? This is actually my 4th question Please have some tea Sorry. This interview is over Actually, these questions were written by my senior Then tell your senior to try and find the truth Tell her to go beyond the questions and try to find some answers too Why did you decide to become a lawyer? How are you my child? I'm good. Are you fine? How is your mother? She's good She got second rank in her class. Tell your father I stood 2nd Well done my child Don't trouble your mother. Ok? Be good okay. Your father will be with you soon Your father will be with you soon Do you know Nooruddin? Yes They are calling him as a witness We never got along in Dubai Mr. Nooruddin, how long have you known him? He was with me in Dubai What did you do in Dubai? I was a driver. He was a mechanic Did you ever feel that he was connected with terrorists? He met strange people, that I know They would talk for hours What does he mean by strange? I am not being allowed to question the witness I want the witness to define "strange" He is obstructing my questioning Strange means that they were hard to understand Their facial expressions were weird Did you know them? No. I did not even understand the language But they used to talk strange and in Arabic I only understood Hindi When did you see him last? In Nepal Why had you gone there? I had gone on a vacation with my wife and children Where did you see him first? I was near my hotel and he passed me by He looked at me and ignored me as if I was a stranger He ignored you in Nepal, why? I don't know, ask him. Please tell her why you ignored me What happened after that? After three four days he came to my hotel in panic I ordered food. His phone rang His phone kept ringing incessantly He was carrying papers.. ..Which slipped out of his hand and fell on the floor Did you see those papers? - Yes, I did What was in them? Green, blue, white papers maps. A lot of stuff - Maps, too? Yes - Like this? Yes Police claims, that you did see him handing over maps to terrorists Yes, I had seen him. He used to move around with a bundle of maps Where did you see him? In Nepal These are the same maps used by terrorists" ..to orchestrate the biggest terror attack in Mumbai. The map looked like this? A little bigger A little bigger? Like this? Yes These maps are available on Google Why would any organization rely on a handmade map.. ..When a more accurate map is available on internet? We don't know if a terrorist organization can stage an attack.. ..Of such a magnitude with maps provided on internet or not.. ..But it looks like Mr. Shahid is an authority on this. You have spent a lot of time with terrorist organizations, haven't you? I can sue her for this but I won't. What are you implying? Am I on trial? Even in Jail you had links with the terrorists inside.. Because this case is about Faheem Khan. Not me! You have spent a lot of time in jail You also had links with the terrorists inside So, are you inferring that you have to be a terrorist if you are in jail? I didn't say that - This way even King Shivaji.. ..And Bhagat Singh can be labeled terrorists So, now you are comparing yourself.. ..With King Shivaji and Bhagat Singh No, I'm not comparing.. Prosecution, please sit down Mr. Nooruddin, did you go to Nepal on your own expense? No, my friend Balwant Thakur paid for the trip So, your friend Balwant Thakur paid for the trip - Yes How did you go to Nepal? Flight? Train? How? We took a taxi to the station, then a train. And from the station on a taxi to the hotel What was the name of the train? I don't know, I travel to so many places that I don't remember He does not know the name of the train. No problem. Which month did you go there? February, 14th February - When did you return? No problem, if you don't remember What is the currency of Nepal? Surely you shopped there? My wife handles money You did not spend any money? Where did you stay? - Hotel How was it? - Good Food was good? Did you get good service? What was the name of the hotel? The name of the hotel. Nepal's currency. Name of train. What is the point of asking all this? Public prosecutor, please take a seat Nooruddin does not know which train he travelled in.. ..When he returned, what is the currency of Nepal.. ..Or which hotel he stayed in. But he definitely knows that.. ..The papers he saw on the hotel floor was a map.. ..And that map was for targets in Mumbai You should pay heed to your friends, Shahid You can't just take off in the court? What happened? You don't care right? Let me call your wife there is no other way you will listen Please don't Why shouldn't I when you say you don't care? Are you crazy? she is already upset Come here you son of a bitch.. You dare speak ill about our leaders? Keep your hands off me Keep my hands off? You dare to speak about King Shivaji? Are you alright? I'm coming. Yes? Who is it? - Where is that Shahid? He does not live here I told you he does not live here any more Where does he stay? I don't know. Don't have his address Who are you? I will tell him myself Let me make a call No calls... I will call him myself Go and do your work Go on and do your work Shahid does not live here any more Then where does he live? - Why are you going inside? Please tell me your name. I will tell him - By when will he come? I don't know sometimes he comes, sometimes he doesn't. Please tell me your name and I will tell him Where is he staying nov I don't have the address OK I will come back Let's go They are asking me to back off from the case Someone came to the house yesterday, looking for me. No, I won't get Police protection. I know for sure ls the food ready? Who came to your mother's house? N obody Why are you scared then? I'm not scared Do you think I'm a fool? Who does not understand anything? You look rattled You are not even going to the office What has happened? Will you say something? Threat calls again You received calls the day before too. Right? Did you call the police? I've asked Ram to draft a letter But I know it will result in nothing Don't worry though. Let's eat I want you to drop the case Drop this case I can't! You know that And why should I? I don't know how or why What should I decide? I am telling you for the last time you have to drop this case I am not going to drop out. That's it Now we are not going to talk about it You'll get us killed Shahid. Are you mad? One second Do you think I'm not concerned about you Will I get you killed? What kind of bullshit is this? This is our life. Not some joke I'm not used to living like this and I won't I don't have any patience left for this What about the people that I am fighting for? Where will they go? To police? Or where? They depend on me Yes, they have nobody.. ..And we have the whole world at our feet? Your family means nothing to you Sameer and I have no place in your life? You've lost your mind You are overreacti ng Listen to me... Listen to me... You said.. You said that I should not back down Didn't you say that? In the restaurant many years ago do you remember you said that? I did - And now? We were not married then Don't try to play God First you decide what do I do? Maryam, I'm sorry. Let's eat He's been sick for a week Do you know? Did you take him to the doctor? Why didn't you? Why did you not take him to the doctor? Let's go to the doctor What are you doing? What are you doing? Have you gone completely mad? Put everything back inside What are you doing? What are you doing? I will sort everything out. I promise What will you sort out? You can sort out nothing I love you I did not give him medicines, did not take him to the doctor What were you doing? I did not know. I am sorry Don't touch me Prosecution has provided the court with two important pieces of evidence These are the trousers of the slain terrorist Prosecution! Good morning Can you tell the color of these trousers? Can you tell? No? The original color of the trouser is dark green It's completely soaked in blood This map which according to the prosecution ..Faheem Khan had given to the terrorists The map remained in the trousers for three days.. ..Then how can this be without any blood stains? It's very simple This map has been planted Prosecution's case lacks any logic Who is the reporter? Which page? One second. Yes, got it. I'll call you after reading it. An article is published in the newspaper, on me. I mean, I was never a terrorist or a radical. Why do they write all this bullshit about me? Why can't they leave me alone? They will force you like this, to live in your past. You have to start off with a new beginning every day. Move ahead and just live for a bright future. You sound so sensible when you are far away. I was quite sensible, even before. You hate me, right? I don't want to live a complicated life, Shahid. I'm coming to bring you back soon. No. All I'm saying is that you need to come at 8 and eat.. ..And then get enough rest Hello Ask them to come in the morning Ok! I'll be there. Wait I'll be back in two minutes - First eat Get the bread ready. I will be back by then Come in What was so urgent? Inder, get some water You could have come in the morning? Shahid? Shahid! By showing me injustice, God taught me about justice By inflicting pain & suffering, He gave me the courage to fight He taught me to help the helpless A criminal knows no religion Eventually both the killer and his victim are human My summation is the same as my friend.. ..Late Advocate Shahid Azmi Prosecution has provided no credible evidence so far.. ..Which can prove beyond doubt that Faheem Khan is guilty ..most of the evidence presented.. ..Reiterates Faheem Khan's innocence When police arrests a common man in a terrorism case Whether he is guilty or not. The world already makes It's own judgment" ..for the rest of his life he is maligned... Once again our Judiciary has been burdened with the responsibility. ..To correct a grave mistake committed by police and society.. ..And to save an innocent man from getting wrongly persecuted Justice is also due to the man.. ..Who always defended the defenseless.. ..And lost his life, fighting for the cause.
