 

                        Egypt. an unsolved mystery since man evolved, still they've a fascination for sorcery. keeping their dead for thousands of years as Mummies, to bring them back to life someday, and to get hold of a wonderful divine power in lndia. a tribe in Egypt is trying to achieve it, did they achieve that divine power? total destruction of lndia and universe in their control. Mother! Where is father? - He'll come, son. Caesar, my husband Mukhtar will be coming with the pride of victory, go and welcome him. Brother! Where is my husband Mukhtar, brother? Did he get the all powerful Trident? Did he destroy the secret divine power? Why don't you answer me? Brother! What happened? Brother! Why don't you answer me? Why don't you answer me? Where is Mukhtar? My husband went to India to achieve great power, who did this to him? My husbands eyes would see someday the destruction of lndia. From that day Fakhtooni spent a year in darkness. She was burning with to avenge her husband's killing. She made a plan with the help of Egyptian sorcery. She did what no mother would do on her eldest son. Mother...mother... Mahadevaraya, the baby girl is blessed by Goddess Mother. She's born with your father's gene, so the diamond is shining. The future depends on her. Swamy! Where is her saviour? Protect her till she's 21 and the great solar eclipse day, in the coming future, she'll herself bring the saviour. Hail Goddess Mother! She placed her husband's eyes to her son. To make him a human weapon, Fakhtooni raised him with black magic, sorcery and severe training. The marme of this 25 year developed human weapon is Rakha. Swamy! I've brought the Jwalamukhi diamond. I'll visit 8 seats of divine power and reach Haridwar for the great Kumbhmela. You come to Haridwar with this Jwalamukhi diamond. Cleanse it with the holy water of river Ganges, and then tell your daughter all the secrets. Hail Goddess Mother! Protect Aishwarya and Jwalamukhi diamond safely. As you say, Swamy. Did you see brother Jaffer? My son is getting ready to go to lndia in few days. Now all we need is Rudra Trident and the Jwalamukhi diamond. The diamond is now with Mahadevaraya. It's impossible to take it from him. - Why? Mahadevaraya is a Central Minister of India. Then how? There's only one way. Mahadevaraya has a 22 year old daughter who is his life, to achieve what we want, she must also be in our custody along with the diamond. Let's inform our people in Hyderabad and get her kidnapped. What's her name? Junior madam ! What are you doing here? You see us since your childhood, why are you asking it again? We are doing our duty, I'm always perfect in my duty. Bloody! Security here too? Whether it's 5-star chocolate you eat or 5-star hotel you stay. Is it? Which hotel? Sir, Home Minister's daughter! Why is this gang trying to kidnap Home Minister's daughter? Hi dad. - Hi dear. It seems you're going abroad. I'm also planning to go to Araku Valley with my friends. We're leaving tomorrow morning. - No, you're not. She'll not leave home for next two months. I'll go dad. - No way, after the recent incident in the swimming pool, IG uncle has told me specifically that your life is in danger, and not to let her move out of home. She'll be in home only, double the security. Secure her properly. I'm getting late to my flight, bye. Always there's security man around me like l'm in a jail. From my childhood, not a minute of freedom to live on my own. Your life is better. Our Araku trip is planned, and our gang is ready to leave. We're not going to Araku. Dad said no. Why? We're going on the trip secretly. Exactly after an hour be ready near my house compound wall. We're leaving silently. - Okay, we'll be there right now. We must protect madam like our eyes, additional men are joining duty tomorrow. I mean double security. I must hear even if an ant is crushed. From that wall to this wall, from this wall to that wall, whatever may happen, it must be brought to my notice immediately. Parrot must feel happy about security of Doberman like me. Minister must be astonished. Onlookers must go crazy. You planned it? I'll close my eyes and put my finger on the map, we're going wherever I touch. Take your finger...Jaipur! We're free from restrictions, security and that Subba Rao. Welcome....welcome... Okay. - Welcome to Jaipur! Welcome to Jaipur! Welcome to Jaipur! Can't you ask that in Telugu? Problem? You've come with so many girls, there are many rogues here, you'll be in trouble. I know Hindi. Make arrangements for the trip. You move aside, I'll talk to her. Greetings madam, our's is A to Z travelling agency, we offer all the services of lodging, boarding, sight-seeing, and guides. We'll take you in this van. God! Your name? I'm bored going in Mercedes and BMW's, let's travel in this van. It's be variety. - Come. It's releasing today. I must see first day first show. - You must see! Junior madam is sleeping, madam. Would've watched TV all the night. Get up! Mother, I'm going on a trip with my friends, Subba, you can't catch me, What have you done, junior madam? Parrot has flown! Just see the posters and decorations for now, let's try for matinee show. I must watch Sallu's film first day first show. Tommy, try in black. No end for it. I'll try. It seems the heroine's role is shattering in the film. Who is he looking like 'Adavi Ramudu'? Grand entry on elephant is shattering. His speed reminds like Andhrawala. Wherever he may be he's their own, he belongs to everyone, he's a big Salman Khan fan, but he himself has many fans, including me. Though he's dirty, he's dynamic. Off late he's rocking girls. Rs.100 ticket for Rs.500. - Give me 6 tickets. Go away. Rs.100 ticket for Rs.500. Did you give him the tickets? Rs.100 ticket for Rs.500 ....come...come... Hey, he seems to be carrying lot of money. Hey you! - What? My ticket, it's in my hands now. I paid you, right? If you want to watch the film, shell out money? I gave you. You seem to have lot of money. If I do, should I've to give? - Take out money. You've lot of money, if you want to watch the film, shell out money again. Who are you? God is up there, the film's hero is Salman, and the man before you is Shakthiman. Hey fool! What's your problem? There are many problems, the country where Ganges flows, there's no water, the theatre where the film is on show, there no tickets. if the tickets are available in black market, no money to buy them, agreed if ticket is bought in black market. and after that to fight with rogues, wastrels, and rascals like you, and to save justice from unjust and protect good from evil, God has chosen only one man, it means...me! Claps! Dialogue delivery was great! The bell has rung! Bell has rung again! Let's finish it quickly boys, I must watch the film. You're a one man army against any number of people, you'r our saviour man of the era, you'r forest Ramma and driyver Rama... Shell out money? What? - Money? Stop praising me and take out the money. Money in hands, I'm like this always. Is it? I paid them Rs.3000 for six tickets at Rs.500 each. Mine is not for the tickets but for the fight. Rs.1000 per head, take out Rs.10000. Did we ask you to fight them? Low class guys are like that only, they hit at our weak points. I beat them to save your man. Want or don't want? Let's go. - Pay him. Take it, we don't take anybody's help. Stop ragging and take out money. Come on clap... Here I am... Wherever I'm it's festival, boisterous fun and earth will shatter... Pride is my property, I'm all powerful and don't take chances with me... I'm ready for any challenge, if you've guts try to catch me... I'm a bullet with speed like a rocket, nobody can follow me... I don't care if anyone says I'm from low class... I'm a favourite with front benchers and my heart is of high class... I may appear like a kid but I'll attack like a lion... I swear on mother... I'll hack anyone who dares stop me on my way... I was born as a boon from Goddess Durga... I grew up in the protection of Lord Rama... I must become one in the world... Future must look up to me as a role model... If you think you can achieve anything, brother... Where there is a will, there's a way, brother... If I concentrate all my energy and hit, it'll rock and shatter anything... If I go after anything, the world will be mine... If I challenge with the power of my youth, battlefields will shudder... No man... No man worth his moustache has ever dared to take on me and win... My life is progressing towards top signing off every step of success... Guts and courage are my support... Self belief is my character... I'm my own boss, I'm the boss, follow me... Prachanda, call him. Jackie, Mahadevaraya is here without security as you'd asked him to come. When are we meeting? I'll inform the place later. - You said we're meeting today, right? What you direcly need is with me, everything will be mine. He says he'll meet day after tomorrow. What's this? He's not Janaki Verma who once used to work in your palace, He's now Jackie who has made billions with underworld dealings. He owns half of these buildings. The need is ours. Hubby, Aishwarya has escaped from home and went on a trip with friends. When? - The night you left. You don't worry, but please keep this matter secret. I'll talk to DIG. Home Minister's daughter gone a secret trip with friends, trace her. Her photo and other details are in this cover. We've come to know she's in Jaipur, inquire confidentially. The girl belongs to a wealthy family, keep it secret. That's what you want, sir? Sister, the eclipse is just 40 days away. We must get that Jwalamukhi diamond at any cost. Our men haven't yet been able to kidnap Mahadevaraya's daughter. My younger son will take care of it. Look there! This is Mehrangarh fort. If it's mount a fort, is it your home? Tell the history correctly. I can tell your history perfectly, To know the history, geography and other details, our guide must come. Who is he? - Brother! Guide? - Did you mistake him for book? lt's him ! Is he a guide? I'm a tour guide for living, I'll make as much money as possible from side. I know you make money from side business. Tell me the history of this fort. First know his charges. King's fort and Queen's garden, total tour Rs.2000. Those who brood about cost don't have any taste. I'll go that children's group. - Wait a minute brother. Madam, please think over it again. - I must give him a shock. Okay, he must explain everything which we can understand.- Okay. Rates change with languages. - Let's use Telugu. He chose the most expensive. Which type of Telugu you want? Are there different types of Telugu? There are many! You want Nellore slang or Godavari slang, you want Rayalaseema mass or Krishna class, you want Guntur slang or Warangal slang, you want East Godavari slang or Nizam slang. Your man is no ordinary, he's a master of all arts. He's a very talkative man, if you delay, he'll be picked up foreign tourists. He has great demand. - You start! King watches from up there! Queen dances down there! What do the soldiers do? - Eat and sleep. Your man knows many tricks. Cannon. It was made in 1863. King brought it in 1904. There are 150 cannons here. - What's that place? What did we agree for? - For this fort. Ask about this fort only, it'll cost extra if you ask about that. Will this work? Is yours working? - What? Your brain, take photo. You gave us a good tour with your sweet talk, I'll pay you. What? - You needn't have to pay him . He must pay us Rs.8000. - Me? What? I'll tell if you want to hear it. You took Rs.10000 in the theatre, if we cut Rs.2000 from it, you still owe us Rs.8000. That's a tip. We've side tracked your man, it's good join us or we'll side track you also. Here's your guide's hat. You've cheated him nicely. There's nothing here other than sand, it's hot all over the place. Stop here, need to drink something cool. We're not here to drink this. - Then? To have hot tea. - Hot tea? Tea in this hot sun! No stove here, where is he taking the kettle? Hot tea in hot desert! Won't he stop following us? His way...I think it's the desert. One tea please. We must be very careful with him. He's stranger than you, he's having tea in hot sun. Money! - Take from her. Why should I pay? Rs.2000 you cheated me yesterday, not only this tea But pay for the cart, tent, my bed and fodder for the camel. I forgot to tell you, you made fun of me yesterday, I'm hurt. Rs.1000 extra for it. I think he's here for revenge. - Revenge is mine not his. I think he's not satisfied with what I gave him. I'll get him thrashed. You've a job! Powerfully! You've to beat... thrash someone. I'll pay you for it. A lot of money. We'll do it. - Leave me. You must beat him . - Please save her. She asked them to beat and do something, they're on the job. Please take money and save her. I'm a cheat, how dare you cheat me Rs.2000 and then make fun of me also? I'll not come. Leave my hand. I'll pay you for saving her and the old due too. Leave me. What happened, brother? The girl would've been raped by now. Just miss! Tomorrow means rape? How is the girl now? If he hadn't come on time, she would be gone. I got it, they would've squeezed out life from her. If this continues, my bag will go empty and his box will get filled. Not a box but ATM. People go to ATM for money, but my ATM always travels with me. Money only comes in, never goes out. I want your man. - Are you that type? I'm worried about girls and their safety. If your man comes with us for the entire tour, we'll be safe. Please tell him. - That's okay.but will cost you more. Let it cost anything. - Get approval from your madam. By then I'll convince him. - Okay. Please try to understand why I'm insisting him to join us. Okay, but she... - I'll pay but he mustn't refuse to do anything. Call him . - Go. I'll take you to task. Your man has been fixed. Shall we go? It means? One night in the desert. Arrange with him . Sir... What's this so long? Must walk for an hour. I think he's damn tired. We can pitch a tent anywhere in the desert, right? Why did he then made us walk for a kilometre and pitched tents here? Anything special here? To offer morning prayers earIy in the morning. Be careful! Don't waste water. You've to walk a mile for a glass of water. You'll get burnt in the hot sun. I'm going to sleep. You need a companion. - No need. I want two buckets of cold water by tomorrow morning for my bath. It's difficult to get water to drink here, how can he arrange two buckets for bath? That's his problem tell him to accept he can't, Let's leave him. There's nothing impossible to him, there's nothing he can't do. But it'll cost you more. A bucket of water will... - Rs.500? Rs.5000! What? Rs.5000 for a bucket full of water? This is broad dayhight robbery. Use perfume, that's cheaper. Pay him. Let me see how he'll arrange water by tomorrow morning. Earlier tickets now buckets, he's making money! Look, if he says like that I'll feel hurt. No need sir. If you get hurt, we'll lose money. He brought it! This man will do anything for money. Poor man! He would've walked all the night to get two buckets of water. Though he took Rs.10000, he did a great job. What happened? What happened? You...you... I'll kill you. I think they're hurt. Will you charge us Rs.10000 for getting water from here? What's there to cheat you? It's your innocence not to know there's a oasis near by. It's my intelligence not to tell you though I knew it. Now that you now, why just take bath? Jump in and swim too! He'll completely rob us our money. I don't like this place. Get the bags. I think you're hurt. - Very much. Pay Rs.1000! - Should we pay you if we are hurt? Hurt will cost Rs.1000, whether it's you or me doesn't matter, pay. Don't scold me, it'll double. He's different. I got married just 3 days ago, I must be on a honeymoon with my wife, you've brought me to Jaipur as if this is Madhapur. Tell me sir, why are we here? can't leak out top secret. Can't you at least tell me sir? I'm very sincere in my duty. I divorced my wife, I know when to leak and how. I want to know what that top secret... - Will you shut your mouth? Okay. That's Pakistan, keep little this side. What's this? Give me the Rudra Trident. You know why he's here... He's here for the Rudra Trident. I'm not Karna to give in charity whatever the seeker asks. I'm a businessman. What do you want? My property, my jewels, diamonds and gems I got from my ancestors, I'll give you everything, please return the Rudra Trident to me. I know it's value to you. I don't think your offer isn't the right deal for the Trident. For all the injustice and betrayals you did to me, I'm humbly begging you with folded hands, Infact making a servent please, please give me the Rudra Trident. lf you want take my life for it. Life is the only thing that is worthless. No use in taking it. Already my accounts of sin has too many lives. I'll think and tell you. I've many offers, I'll think and decide. What's this? What's this rickety old bus? Change it right now. - Okay. Did you hear it? Change the bus. This is the only Telugu hotel in Srinagar. Owner will look like Charlie Chaplin, he'll overact, that's him. Welcome to Kashmir Andhra Vilas! Do you know Telugu? Yes. - What's your name? Hey you! Tell me your real name! My name is Sathibabu, back home people call me as Sathi. Stop shivering first. How come you're settled here? Mine is a best and worst love story, please come. You're right. I came here as a lorry cleaner, came to know this hotel owner has only daughter, I fell in love with her and she too reciprocated, and his father died hearing this, I married her and conducted her father's funeral at a time, and became owner of this hotel. Sir. He's not Sathibabu but a big bore. She too calls me like that only. - Shut up. He trapped the girl and robe the property in the name of love. Love is not just blind but also short. He's an example. Arranged cottages for all of you, please come. People with children sleep in the cottages, people without children play out here. Don't you've children to play with? - We're working on that. We're leaving. - Is it? Thayaru, be ready, I'm coming immediately. Tell me Sanyasi Rao. Got information that they've left to Srinagar. You too go to Srinagar. - Okay sir. Trace them quickly. - Hold on the line for a second. Aren't we going back to Hyderabad, sir? - We're going to Kashmir. No use in offering prayers here coming from Egypt. Came to know the girl has gone to Srinagar from Jaipur. This information is enough for the Rs.1 crore you paid. We'll know further details later, if you want to know more details, I want Rs.2 crores. Why are you surprised? Is the girl's father a school headmaster? Pay money, don't stare at me. No man who knows about us mustn't live. Let's go to Srinagar and search for her. He would be sleeping after a heavy meal, Let's open his ATM and take back all the money he took from us. Not only our money, let's steal his money also. Slowly... He didn't even lock it. Open it! Backs would've got burnt! Are your fuses broken? I think he touched it first, he's dazed. It's ATM, right? I use current for night safety. Next time I'll use high voltage, if you touch you'll get burnt. They've had an experience, they'll not dare touch again. It's cold, right? Let's go now. What sir? Who will pay fine of Rs.10000 for opening my ATM? Your dad? We got electrocuted, right? - That's punishment. Cash is penalty. Pay Rs.1000 extra for battery charging. Got it? Pay him. - Okay. Come. It's inside, I'll get it. He's always overacts, that's had a greater shock. It's cool Kashmir, but my bad he's with me instead of you. He'll die in that cold, bloody fool. Did you see this girl? - No. No? I promised to name out child after him also. How nasty it would be calling him Sanyasi? But he doesn't care. What to do? - Are you Telugu? I'll call you later. Are you Telugu people? Are you here for sightseeing? - Yes. No, we're here to buy sites. Who are you? Don't feel for it, he's different. He speaks like that only. What's that matter? - We're on a trip. You're lucky sir, I'm married newly. - Are you here on honeymoon? He literally dragged me from the marriage. Take it. You got good thing in these bad times. - Come and take photos. Not a girl looks docile to marry the choice of parents. Everyone of them is eloping type. Bloody silly group, look at their faces, their dresses and make up style, I told you they're useless group, and leave me alone. Aishu, come here. And then that Tommy with them. Tommy? He looks like a street vendor. You wash your face with Zalim lotion. - I don't use things used by others. Why are you so hot and angry in this chill weather? I must give him a little shock. - We must. Let's go to the snow, - Come. How much ice here? Won't you get down to show us around? There's nothing much to show in snow mountains. lt's same everywhere, take photos. Be careful, this is very dangerous place. Its snow cracks all over that place. Don't go beyond this pole, there are many traps. Very dangerous. Why would we go after seeing this board? Are we mad? Please don't do it. - It seems it's very dangerous here. Let's go back. What? I've a plan to trap Shakti. - What's your plan? I'll hide there, you go anxiously and tell him I'm missing. He'll come searching for me. He'll see my scarf there. He'll go to that spot. He'll fall into the trap. Got it! - You got it? He's robbing us like a dacoit, we must steal it from him . No, please listen to me. He'll come... He'll search... He'll slip... He'll then roll down... And falls into a trap... Shakti, Ais is missing. - Ice is all over the place. I'm telling you about Aishwarya. I think she's stuck in ice. I'm not joking, it's true. Please save her. Look there! She said she'll hide for fun, but she's missing really. Slowly...slowly... Check her. O beautiful baby, something has happened to you... How do you feel now? He said he's king... He said it's unjust... He's man with sharp eyes... He pinched me with eyes... He's a magician... He's hot like Sun... He made me see stars... Come my sweet... found her because of you... It's sweet all the way... I'm free like air, I met you... Today I'm not myself anymore... Towards the way of Cupid... Oh I lost my sleep... Don't touch me, take everything lock, stock and barrel...Play on it... I'll take on you and fulfill all your desires...Hold on... Make me squeal with pain of pleasure... I'll have your sweet cheeks... There will be no marks on it... Let's unite our hearts, souls and bodies... Is your youth voting for me? Take me to some place on the flying horse... Can't I touch your waist while riding it? Please do something without getting any bad name... Oh dear, control your speed... don't push me... I'm a rogue and a man of great power... Would I say no to you... What happened? - You know how we were worried. With god's grace you got saved. You said he's bad boy but he saved your life. How nice it is! This is one of the 8 temples of Goddess Mother in Kashmir. Why are they tying it, Sathibabu? This Goddess is very powerful, a mother who fulfills our wishes, when I was a bearer in their hotel cleaning tables and glasses, I wanted to love her and then marry her, Made a vow and tied it here, and my wish got fulfilled. I too tied without his knowledge. Are you making a vow? For whom? What did you wish from Goddess? For whom? We must know the answer. Tell me...tell me...isn't it for Shakti? - Isn't it for the guide? Tell me Aishu! Tell me! Tell me...did you fall in snow or love? Stop... Found the girl. Tell me... Who are you? Go quickly! Shakti, few people kidnapped Aishwarya. - Where? They came in two cars and kidnapped Aishwarya. You go quickly! Which side did he go? - That side. We missed the girl. Who saved the girl from us? It's my habit to take photos with guests and hang it in reception, Moreover I like you all, please one photo with you sir. What? You'll go to that hotel and inquire showing a photo, why don't you tell me whose photo is that? I will, shut up. You want room ? I want a girl. You don't get here. - Have you seen this girl? Are you a Telugu man? - Yes. They were my guests for two days. With you ? Where are they now? - They went just now. Where? - They went that side. What do you mean by went this side? They went in a white tempo of A to Z travels. If you go quickly, you can catch them. But it's a valley, right after a left turn, there's a mountain, go around the mountain... Who are you? Bloody fool! We're leaving. - Thayaru, I'm coming. Not to Hyderabad but chasing them. Come. - Okay. Now says chase, changing every other minute. What do you want me to do? Aishu, keep your finger here. He always asks her to put finger. Come on do it. Not finger, I'll say with my heart. Haridwar? Jackie is not responding to our phone calls. I feel Egyptians are also trying severely for the Rudra Trident. I must go to Haridwar and meet Swamy. I must cleanse the Jwalamukhi in the holy river Ganges. Aishwarya hasn't yet been traced. I'll take care of Jackie, you're getting late, go back to lndia. Isn't it adding beauty to our reception area?- Yes. Isn't it very good? Go and do your work. No vacancy here, please find another hotel. Please go. Have you seen this girl? What's that snake tattoo on hand? Why is it having wings? Bloody dirty face! What's that lousy hairstyle? Go...go away! Go away! Sathibabu! Unable to live without us. Where are you heading, Devudu? Line got cut. No...no... What? - Where's the Jwalamukhi diamond? May be Aishwarya took it along with money. Jwalamukhi must be cleansed in river Ganges. What to do now? Get down! I'll get a priest to offer prayers. No need to go, I'm here already. Where are you coming from? Please don't ask, they don't know where they came from and where they are going. Very strange group, and Tom my is too much. Bloody overacts. That's him. Did he ask you? Told him just for information. I think you're also from our side. Yes, Vaishnavaite, my name is Narayana. Let's get to business, you must first offer Rs.1116. How much can it hold? - Let's see that after the prayers. Another robber has joined the thief. I think you both belong to the same caste. - Yes. Change your clothes, let's start. - Come. What? Jaipur, Kashmir and now Haridwar, I fear I may also end up as a mendicant. I'll not let you become a mendicant or unite with wife till I find the person I want. Where's Goddess Mother's temple here? Where is it? That's Goddess Manasa Devi's temple. Goddess Mother's eight... It's not eight but eighteen. How dare you teach me how many parts to a Vedic scholar like me! Don't get angry sir. There are eighteen precincts of Goddess Mother's temples. Along with Siddha precincts of power, it's 108! You're blabbering 18 and 108, what the hell you know about it? Do you at least know one name of a precinct? Do you know where are they? - Do you at least know it? Goddess Shankari Devi in Srilanka. Visalakshi in Kanchi somewhere near Chennai... The count is tallied. You're elder, I'm not so great to teach you, sir. Please accept your limitations sir, tell what you know very well. There's some power in him there's an unknown power in him. Jwalamukhi has been cleansed! She's here only! Don't know where did he vanish? Did you see this girl? This girl! You inquired about her and brought me to this place. I met her in Kashmir itself. I saw this girl. - He's claiming it for money. You keep quiet. - She's a Telugu girl, right? Just now I offered prayers for her. - Where? She's there only, hey girl! Someone is searching for you! That's the girl sir! Police! - lt seems police! Why is it so crowded? - More than a crore people are here. Let's leave the place immmediately. Just now we... A big mistake has happened! I came here empty handed. Yes Swamy, Jwalamukhi is missing from my house safe. I don't know how it got lost! May be it's with Aishwarya. I don't know where is she now. I failed to get it cleansed in the holy river Ganges. What to do now? Don't feel sad, Mahadevaraya. God has decided that our endeavour must be accomplished. That's why on the decided day at the auspicious time, Jwalamukhi got cleansed. What are you saying, Swamy? I'm sure Jwalamukhi is cleansed in Ganges. Not only that my soul tells me the protector too has arrived. It's all the blessings of Goddess Mother. Jackie didn't give the Rudra Trident, though I offered him all my wealth. We're police! Your daughter Aishwarya is here only sir. Really? - Yes sir. Where? - She ran away seeing us. Aishwarya is here, it means Jwalamukhi has been cleansed as you said. Jwalamukhi must have been with Aishwarya. Where is Aishwarya? I'll tell him today. Have you decided? Whatever it is, your man is very lucky. I fell head over heals in love with you... Hitting the heart, I'll create chaos... Go boy! Did you get me so easily? I was free like wind... I got you now... Coming after me! My dream lover! Handsome hero! Stop fighting! Young maiden! Golden beauty! I'm your man, you're my love... Hey man! Do what you've been asked to do... This is mistake, very great and it's right... Beauty with no waist... bewitching damsel... Though there are many beauties, my heart is after you only... You're an astonishing guy! You're a great dam lier! You're a damsel! Giving and taking between us is great romance... He appeared and took away my heart... He swept my feet away from ground... What's this? He got so many letters like this. He'll not care even it's written in blood. What? - What happened? I think accident. - Okay get down. Bhai, he's that boy! Bloody, the one who took on me. Okay, kill him! Who is he? Secret agent of NSA Shakthiswaroop. Sister! Janaki Verma is coming with Rudra Trident. He'll not back from Egypt. How do you do, Janaki Verma? Don't forget you've come to this position because of our help. you wanted desperately. You paid for it as much as I wished. It was not alms. Where's the Rudra Trident? My only wish now is to become the richest man in the world, If you fulfill it, I'll give this Trident to you, If not I'll give this to anyone who fulfills my wish. I'm a snake myself, I've reached this position betraying people who raised me, you can't scare me. Didn't you bring it? It's in Dubai only. I'm not a joker to bring it to your place on your request. I'm Jackie! Come to my castle, transfer money to my account, and take the Trident, Jaffer. Fakhtooni, the eclipse is not far away. The rate will shoot up as you delay. Your wish will remain unfulfilled. Sister, we've to follow his orders, no other choice. Sorry mom. Sorry dad. Where's the Jwalamukhi? Jwalamukhi? It was in the locker with money. You may have taken it by mistake, please try to remember. Try to remember, it's a round box. With marks of sacred mono syllable and Swastika. What box? I don't know... I don't remember anything, dad. Your daughter is safe from danger, why are you upset instead of happy? That is more important than my daughter. Search everyone who went with Aishwarya. Who gave you the permission for undercover operations? While joining the duty in this department, we had taken a oath to sacrifice even our lives to protect this country. I did that to keep that oath. We attacked the terrorist group in the hotel according to information we got, Thought I can know the reason why they were targetting home Minister's daughter so I went to the girl's home to monitor security personally, I saw her jumping the wall then, sir, I was sure they would follow the girl who escaped from the house, I thought I could catch them and followed her as a guide, result of my plan, I got the group's head Bashim . Did he tell anything? I'm sure he's responsible for ACP Banerjee's murder. But he's not talking. Leave him to me for an hour. Ravi will take care of it. Bashim has been arrested by NSA. He's under tight security. Time is fast approaching, what should we do now? My elder son Rakha is the answer to all your questions. Come let's go to India. Why are you so tired for 10 minutes only? Have this to regain energy. If Shakti comes, I'm confused If I must dismiss or suspend him . I'm the Chief and he brushes me aside cheaply. Who are you talking about? You're too much! Thanks dad! At last you've agreed I'm great! Did you see? He's having the drink you brought for me, Barging! Why do you need this, dad? You look ugly with that pot belly, reduce it.- Yes. He did IPS but has criminal intelligence. You left for undercover operation without informing me. Going without information is known as undercover. Is it any function to inform everyone and then go. As a chief, won't you inform me also? I know everything you did with Home Minister's daughter in the name of undercover. I've the entire file. If you interfere in my personal matters... - Okay son....cool down. Today is his birthday, instead of blessing or wishing him, what's this? Am I new to this? His irritation is blessing to me, his scoldings are wishes. Okay, get ready, let's go to the temple. Very beautiful! Madam, Home Minister's daughter! Our Shakthi and this girl... Greetings aunty. She's like an angel, take good care of her, David. Just like you Shakti sir too felt and looked after her very well for 20 days. She too took good care of Shakthi. I took care of both of them. Then, they know each other well. Nothing like that aunty. So, the matter is very clear to you, right? You keep quiet. I came to see if I've missed anything and left with Shakti. I think there will be, it's in the bedroom only. Marry him. She said go and see. She heard it differently. Princess of Kingdom of love... young maiden... You've selected and chose the gardener Ramu... Mischievous young man... fell for you... You've charmed my heart with your magic... You're my dream and my reality... My heart and soul is enchanted by you... Come to me my dear and let me hold your thin waist... O my dear, light the fire of pleasure in me... Spread the bed of lightning... Desires are overflowing... Let the passions of love get eased... Spread your magic and win over my and my heart... Come and take on me... How much your beauty and youth would've waited for this day? How much the separation from you had affected me? I thought my life is all yours... Me, my heart and my youth is all yours... Why are you here? What are you doing here? I'm also asking you the same question, what's this? Hiding so many memories and love in your heart, when I sent I love you message, will you say I don't love you, Shakti? I didn't say that. - Then? It was a money-minded avaricious guide. Then, who is this officer Shakti? You've seen it, right? You need any answer now. Hello! You came searching for something, did you find it or not? Everything is here only. Search properly. I found it and got your son too. You too come to the temple with us. Today is my son's birthday. I didn't know so no gift. I know it. You're his biggest gift, Come. Greetings Jackie! - Tell me Jaffer. My sister is ready to offer you more than all other offers. I'll decide the rate and date and inform you. Our new security specialist Avatar is here. Why? I never let even a fly to sit on the Kohinoor diamond for 20 years. But by 21st century a fly sat on it and my ego was hurt terribly. I resigned immediately. If you fail here, you needn't have to resign. I'll gun you down. Will you see the arrangements? I don't see any arrangements, what? Use this! I've arranged invisible high voltage laser beams and infra-red rays around it. If you touch... Money! Fakhtooni from Egypt has agreed to my offer. Jackie is refusing to give the Rudra Trident. No matter how much I offer he's refusing. I think he has settled a deal with Egyptians. What to do now? I'm also confused. Swamy, Jwalamukhi is not with Aishwarya too. Janaki Verma is refusing to give the Rudra Trident. He's planning to sell it to Fakhtooni. What shall we do now, Swamy? Godess Mother will arrange it herself! Please offer special prayers for my son Shaktiswaroop. Okay madam. This is the diamond box her father was asking. I got this box in Haridwar. Found the Jwalamukhi diamond. Found Jwalamukhi! Come immediately to Hampi with Jwalamukhi and my daughter Aishwarya. We'll leave immediately. Found the Jwalamukhi diamond, I'm leaving to Hampi with Chief. What? Brother, officer is going to Hampi with the Jwalamukhi, let's go. They're after the diamond, they know Chief is going to Hampi with it. They're attacking him. You go. You go and save them . Leave the place immediately with Aishwarya and the diamond. Come. Leave him ! The protector has arrived! Come! He has arrived! Protector has arrived! I know Goddess Mother has brought him here! Are you surprized we're saying as if we know you? You don't know who we are! But we've been waiting for your arrival! For me? If you want to understand this, you must know what had happened 27 years ago. Mahadevaraya's ancestors belonged to the Royal kings. His father Vijayakrishna Rayalu was blessed by Goddess Mother. A great God fearing and benevolent man. Minister! Please arrange for free food distribution. Yes my lord! God bless you with long life! Why did you ask me to come without fail for this festival? The time has come to tell you the most guarded secret. There are 18 temples dedicated to Goddess Mother. Everyone know all are famous pilgrim centres. But only we know the secret temple from where all other 18 temples are controlled. With the help of this plan leaf, the temple located secretly in Hampi, can be reached with Jwalamukhi diamond and Rudra Trident. Our country India is prospering because of that secret temple only, If that temple is destroyed, the country would also get destroyed, some tribes and people of alien nations knew about this secret, and attacked the place, unable to locate the secret temple, they destroyed every temple they saw, but our clan has been protecting the temple for centuries and offering prayers. An eclipse happens for every 27 years, only after the eclipse, one can enter the temple and offer prayers, nobody can enter the temple without the Jwalamukhi diamond. It shines only when in the hands of the blessed ones. After your father only your progeny will be the blessed one. Eclipse is approaching fast, we must reach the temple before it elapses. Like the clan of Rayalu is here to protect the divinity of the temple, there's a fiend in Egypt who wants to destroy the divinity and prosperity of this nation. Minister Janaki Verma sold our country's secret to the Egyptians for money. Got it! I got it! I found the secret which was unknown to the world till now. I got an opportunity to destroy that country. I'll find the Rudra Trident and destroy that secret temple. Mukhtar, it's easier said than done. Brother! Don't you know about my husband's bravery? It seems the temple is protected by divine forces which no warrior can touch. Who protects it? Their God? Protector who secures God! One who protects the temple from a clan which has been protecting since time immemorial. Great warrior Rudra! Maharudra! Stop that nonsense! I'll not only destroy the secret temple, the protector you said about, I'll defeat him, and present his head at my wife Fakhtooni's feet. My dear, my eyes will see you again after victory only! Eclipse is over, come out. Will it be son or daughter, Swamy? With the blessings of Goddess Mother, you'll have a son. With courage not to fear anyone, with the bravery to oppose anyone, to protect the temple, he'll be ready to sacrifice his life too. This is the entrance to the secret temple. How much ever one may be powerful, no weapon on earth, sorcery or black magic, nobody can open this entrance, except this Rudra Trident. It's impossible to enter the temple without this Rudra Trident. Hail Goddess Mother! Holy Ganges which flowed from the tresses of Lord Shiva, the protector of the temple must get cleansed in that holy water, after cleansed by the holy Ganges, no fire can harm the protector, Trident is epitome of power of Triumvirates, it's another form of power that runs this universe, so many evil men had tried to take the Trident and got themselves destroyed, these 18 pillars represent the 18 temples of Goddess Mother all over the country. Daughter of Daksha, consort of Lord Shiva, all these places are where the they became 18 temples dedicated to Goddess Mother and became holy pilgrim centres. Each pillar represents Goddess Mother's body parts. When protector touches it with the Trident, as prayers are offered during the eclipse, this idol of Goddess Mother will shine brightly, with the divine touch of the Trident, As Trident is decorated to the Goddess, with the divine touch to the Trident, As sunsets, the entrance will close. Prayers must be offered as usually during next eclipse after 27 years. Mukhtar! That's Rudra's wife! You please go inside. I beg you, please go inside. Don't go there. Take madam away. Where is Rudra? Death comes to everyone, but you came from far way searching for your death. You will die! Your death's name is Rudra! Hey Rudra! Where are you? Come out! It seems you're a great warrior! It seems you protect this secret temple. Come out! I'll cut your wife and your forthcoming child into pieces. You complete the prayers and come. Come and save her! Let me see what your power is! Come on. You invited him, right? Look there! Your death is standing before you! Is he my death? Death means me and my men. What can this alone man do? Except fear me! - Fear? Me? Fear fears me! I don't need an army to maul you. I'm alone is more than enough. I'm an army, my blood is my weapon, my people's blessings are my armour, protecting temple of Goddess Mother is my power. I'll destroy this temple and take the Trident, and bring back to live my ancestors' mummies, and rule over this universe. I'll present your head as gift to my wife. The moment you step into the temple and see Goddess Mother, I swear on Goddess, I'll behead you and consecrate Goddess Mother with your blood. The main temple of all the 18 temples is the avtar for your sacrifice. Mother...mother... You leave the place! You weren't born to cry! You're the son of protector of this temple who protected it till his last breath. Goddess Mother will protect you! Take care! Betrayer! A great warrior who protected the temple ended like that. As the protector's son, Goddess Mother has brought you here to save this temple. It's true, Shakti. We became your parents by raising you with love and care, we're not your real parents. Yes, this same day 27 years ago, we didn't have children and were offering prayers for child, we found you in the river Thungabhadra. Am idst lamps, in the temple of Goddess Durga, we got you as a boon, Basava! He lost sanity after losing you. Have you understood now? You were born for a reason. You were destined to achieve a great thing, so you were found by this couple. Courage as heart beat and adventure as breath, and made you join in the service of nation. What should I do now? Eclipse is approaching, Egyptians are planning to destroy the temple again. We found the Jwalamukhi because of you. You must bring back Rudra Trident too. - Where is it now? After killing your father from behind, now settled as Jackie in Dubai, It is with Minister. He has kept the Trident safely among tight security. Son Rakha! No Jwalamukhi can hurt him anymore. Where has Jackie hidden the Trident? He changed many places. But now it is in beach building among high security. It is impossible to touch. But there's a way. Security incharge Avatar stays in that building only. Is Avatar there? Leave me, you fools! I'm here to join as assistant to Avatar. Leave me. Who the hell are you man? My name is Rama Rao from Nimmakur. really great that you've come all the way from Nimmakur. Not only you, entire state feels great about Nimmakur Rama Rao. Just a minute. Lemon form my village. If you rub it on head, your brain will work sharply. You need it. You brought a lemon from Nimmakur, would you bring a pumpkin had you come from Guntur? Liked it so much? - Very much sir. Boss is calling you. Boss? You're my God and do you've a boss here? How can he be my boss? He wanted some security and was ready to pay handsomely, so I'm here. What are you securing sir? - Securing what? An antique item Jackie has, I'm giving scientific security. What a great security you would've given! How can I not show you? Is he Jackie? He's Jackie, very bad man. Always roams with girls. What is he using? Snuff powder? - No! I don't want to see him, please show the item you're protecting. How can I not show when you're so interested! Look here! See! See! Hold this sir! Enough of learning for today, I must join as your disciple. As fee I've brought Rs.1 crore, please accept it. Rs.1 crore? - Yes, Rs.1 crore! I don't want. - You must take it. Then, let's go. Come sir...come. Where's the money? It's here! Take it. Rs.1 crore. - Yes, Rs.1 crore! Rs.1 crore! Open it sir. I'll open it! With great devotion and respect! Lemons! You gave full details to someone. You allowed him to enter my place. What was his offer? What did he gave you? He gave sir...lemon from Nimmakur! What for? To rub our head for good sharp brain. Use it, sir. - Lemon! Somebody has trapped us! Money is ready, we're coming to you. I'm coming to Marina with Rudra Trident. - Okay Jackie! See! See properly! Your death! the man you stabbed from behind unable to face him, the man whose power will make death too shudder, Rudra! I'm Rudra's son! You thought history is over! But his blood is still alive in my form . I swear in his name, I'll not let you live. Only if you're alive! Rudra Trident is in my hands. I'm leaving now, tell your father. Come fast! I'll be in your thoughts till you come. Your beauty is like eight wonder... It's forcing me to go for you... You're majestic like young tiger... You're out to steal my heart... O my dear, my temperature shoots up on seeing you... If you come near, I'm cool like moon... I like you, my maiden... watch out I'm coming for you... I like your power... you're the A-1 star... You're everything to me, my darling... I've trapped you... You flattered me with gestures... You're my wife, my life and mother of my kids... I'll share everything with you... Without saving anything, I've given myself fully to you... You were just a bud till yesterday... I've bloomed with your arrival... My dear, come to me... I've given you my heart, take it... You must be very fortunate to get me... You must have a range... As your eyes fall on me, my drapes slip down... O my dear, youth and beauty is short lived, saved it for the best day... It's com motion and passions have taken over me... You've given everything you ever wanted to give... You've come true as my dream boy... O my dear, your waist is younger sister of rainbow... Take on me and switch on the love game... Eclipse is over, prayers must be offered before the sunset. Die! Where is Shakti, uncle? Somebody was following us, so he's coming the other way. He asked you to start the prayers. Shakti will come, you start offering the prayers, Swamy. Hey Sadhu! You can't offer prayers! We'll destroy it! To see that destruction, I've placed my son's eyes with my husband's. Let me see who will protect the temple now! The protector will not come! Fakhtooni has bought our friendship with billions. You grew up with my money. How much I had trusted you! You betrayer! Hubby! - Father! Father! Let anything happen here, let anyone stop you, prayers of Goddess mustn't stop, if it is stopped, it'll bring destruction to the world, come...come...we're getting late, come. Bring her! Give the Jwalamukhi! Trident! Where is the Trident? Rakha! That is the powerful Goddess' Trident! Bring it! Fire won't harm him ! My husband's ambition! Goddess' Triddent! All these pillars are represent temples of Goddess Mother, bring down each of them. Destroy everything! Country must get destroyed! Your father's eyes are waiting to see it. Go...go! Take revenge! Destroy it! Isn't there anyone to stop these evil forces destroying the divinity of this temple? Who will save us from these demons? Who will protect this temple? Where is the protector of this temple? Take him away! Hey devil! To protect this temple, to punish you, the all powerful man blessed by Goddess Mother is here! Look at the epitome of power! No power can take on my power. Destroy it! Sun is going down! Decorate the trident to Goddess before the sun sets. That is the last temple! I've replaced my son's eyes with my husband's. Protecting the good and punishing the evil is Goddess Mother's will! May the world be blessed with prosperity!
