 

                        "1 new message" "Still want to get to know us?" "If you send email to confirm" "Send message" "1 new message" "10 minutes" hello Are you... well with this? Do you do this very often? What do you think buddy? Shit! where the whore bag You want a shot? Dammit! there we go Dammit! uncle records look... if you can repeat once fuck Cal! Cal, are you there? Jonno what happens colleague? Are you coming to the party or that guy? - Yeah right What did you do? as if you were to use We moved away from a girls fuck Fuck you bitch! this is my picture, bitch Balls that are willing to try! Enough is enough, relax! Crazy bitch! my photo... my fucking picture just a picture Are you okay? Jonno what happens? Good points! Nessa and her photo, eh? Fucking baby! too much champagne should be reviewed before of losing another those things are not for us Fuck you! I need another couple of beers Are you all right, Ness? What the fuck is doing Jonno? I do not know Was too much for you, eh? the dog ate it alive I could eat you alive I just wanted to see if a little amuse you I caught the message you are you two guys very close lately What? you and Jonno are almost as.... Ness fuck! voucher 're not as good What, you feel better after of having to face Dana party? I'm much better, thanks! next time will be an acid drums on the bitch's face "Want to have party tonight" "I want a fag eat me" "I also want to videotape" "Send message" "41 Leech Road, London" "Left the door open..." his name is Cal said he had 19 years number changes online Typical, eh? is a handsome boy not my style dude God, how in the hell was I thinking? I should have guessed by the car that was shit is a loser a little thug maricon in terms of drugs... not to say... need to escape I will not see back to that little bastard and this is the park nice eh? this is a bridge that joins Bristol The view is great! that's all for now adios mama. I send you many kisses beauty and horror all things make great art besides being your teacher, lighting this summer I can be your guide to the city, during your brief stay in our exciting city Any Questions? if Why has that black eye? a domestic accident Any questions curious " on our rich architecture of the city? Olivier yes. I was... only... wondering What is the best place for shopping around here? Why have you removed? it relaxes me I smoked, man but very smoked at least I spent a good grass Ness is the best aunt, I swear The best! The best! each time is better I guess What about you? "I suppose" I do not want to let you say no to her not my type, man have a nice ass, the truth this is clear Do you what happened? if hello, Ness I get bored, come here cabrones see you in 5 minutes Pussy fucking bitch! Where the hell were you? you said in 5 minutes Pajilleros! Her Majesty smell of smoke here Druggie bastards! What are you waiting? leads have become students, boys Have you been shopping? Lets take a look! Where do you think you fuck? Uy! I've dropped all Ness quiet, there is no need for this looks like the little bitch crying we give strong Jonno Destrzale! What do you do, kill him? just want to have fun asshole What is the merit clobber a queer helpless? Do not you remember the last time, Ness? Calm down motherfucker! What the fuck you want from me eh? Why do me this? "Why are you doing this?" Where are you queer? Go on youtube crying baby! that hosts... Fucking moron! eh, what is your problem? - Have you ever had a crush or what? - Yes, that must be drooling was the stranger, fucking fag shut up both the fuck up or are you going to hit me with your handbag? Do not push me! Or what? come on, kiss it! Where do you expect? Are you asshole? What the hell ..? - Wait! - Do not try to get away... ey..... lets you back your stuff Cal am Do you want to take you to any hospital? look, buddy.... sorry what just happened my cousin has plunged the knife so deep in the chest of the child, the blade has broken the fittest survive right? Do not believe anything he tells you the fucking head! my cousin does not lie, Ness if all the kids grow up with knives Eh, Dayn? I said, right Dayn? Is supposed to be funny, fat bitch! go, go... the fucking hero is back Ness shut up! I do not need to hear your shit What? With whom do you think 're talking son of a bitch? Cal Ness is calm down! yes, I know and has nothing for me nobody's going against me Cal Or a fucking dude! What? Missed Cal not take long to be seen you might be your record that we have Dammit! Derjalo! can not go anywhere was dangerous I fucked him bareback but it was also exciting the adrenalin rush just wanted to sit outside all single alive again I think I saw it me too a younger me so fucking arrogant What the fuck am I saying? distractions for me was a shitty life Then, at the same time on Wednesday? Do you feel better? I can not believe going all night outside my house I had no choice colleague please... oliver... I had no choice, Olivier no, Olivier... Why you did not have another choice? I knew they would be waiting Where? my home So tell me... Why a good kid like you goes with this band of thugs? Then what is it that makes you so special? Well, imagine the difference between you and a queer like me is that I do not walk the streets with a bunch of idiots attacking innocent people listen, I did not hit anyone I come out with them from time to time I do what I do, you know I'm not like Ness and the others clearly not Cal you're a lonely guy right? Scott! definitely you are. that joy to see you again we've missed you. I've done thanks oh, that makes look bad... oh, has been.... an accident doing DIY call me next time if you want me to lend a hand I have heard many things to tell - Sammy Doyle is pregnant - Nooo! if which replaces that fool believes can get your work again Umm what the people eh? we Are you not very talkative Cal eh? you teach me English grammar thanks again for bringing me oh my God, Mary and Keith are married Really? it was time these guys only have delayed it was inevitable listen... Scott... How do you...? David if ehh..... not going well... truth sorry to hear that why is why I returned to work You know, to keep me busy and avoid getting into trouble Yeah, well, good for you, we have to go out again some night there it is, throw the funky shit! I hope someone fucks it! Do you want a drink? I'm afraid I have only lemonade health then. Have you gone to check ....? yeah .. well .. not exactly. I have no other place to go Really? Can you wear sunscreen? I do not understand.... is so pissed at you is a long history colleague loading the challenge. Nessa does not like to Why? as I said, it is not easy. not when you're dealing with someone like Ness I mean you have not killed his mother or anything has something to do with money o. .. I'm gay you know? I'm not surprised wearing a hat like that... voucher I'm going to take a shower "Jonno calling" Cal are you okay? has been... cool....... you're great... anyone would think that was your first time it was somehow... What do you mean? "Something bad happened to you? no matter hey, I'd like to know Cal is a bit difficult for me talk about these things For! Why? 're a handsome guy a little weird but.... even so very handsome yeah right Where's my phone? Ey! How is being in a band? I do not know is the best guess Like sex is very easy to enter but very difficult to leave Olivier I'd like to stay a few days if it's okay Do you want? I just need time back to being myself So I would love to Cal still not what we are looking I know what I find see what you have here is Cal Cal has been a bad boy fucking bad... I'm not kidding! Jodel everything! Cargate all this shit! Go! I live near the public housing and see the hoodies... to vover school, break car windows are every day, as a routine No new study says that English teenagers are more violent, drink more and most are pregnant Is it dont really to feel compassion? exactly true I think it would be really dangerous misjudge the quality of a whole generation believe that the law was Quick hurried and ineffective and may not apply to all I think you should know the reward you can get affection in children and maybe a hug is good There is a trend among kids to carry knives something that is very dangerous when people carry knives, even without the intent to use other people die or are seriously injured we can not let these people act freely hi mom you're very quiet I have to go Olivier I can not hide any longer How do you feel? fucking scared look... is what you think I have a reputation I respect others or at least I I want to step back and start again to find my site in a normal world not just seems hard "" Normal "? you know what I mean then come with me What? come with me That's crazy! What you got to lose eh? I can not. I can not go without you said you wanted to go away from here go. if you want to go do What are you doing? not all these people have to attack See? nobody cares Come on, trust me everything will be alright Dead fucking bastard! this is what to do with his bitch head when you find bastard fag was my best buddy Fucked my best buddy! - And yours too - Yes, that's history now - What would you... - I've said enough also know it's a dirty shit anyway, right? is reason enough to hate the bastard looks like you're disappointed 're really pissed off may need a little comfort Do you feel better? So no! I told you so no! Or shit, shit! do not goats, baby that somewhere out there in and when we find will be all yours What about that? the truth is they are not to my taste What does that mean? or anything... Delicious is... real look... This will not work is too much too soon much difference in my life "What do you mean? Why I do not like potatoes curry sauce and going to finish? then, we are different We have different lives different experiences, but I do not come running On the contrary I enjoy the idea And you must also will not work. I am not so What are you saying being gay? that's the problem, You really can not accept it? "After two weeks together still can not admit that you are gay? I'm not gay! seriously... let... Cal looks can overcome this... ... Together... I said forget it "Fag comepollas" Olivier "I can talk to you? if course look .. I do not want to be indiscreet but I saw you with someone someone with whom you should be careful Who? "Cal? look, it's hard for me to talk about it but I got the black eye But Cal is not so Could make that kind of thing? believe me, do not you see more with this guy is harmful Yeah, me you tell me anyway do not have to worry about is over alone, picks up my number ok "Fags" Olivier! "Olivier! hey, send him a kiss to Cal! Hello baby! Would you join us at the party tonight to see what happens? Here is the phone to play games of the child Let me explain Dirty little fuck! going out with me like you are my best and all this time you were a fucking comeculos Jonno fuck you! What prevented you not my friend when you had the chance? How many times did you have occasion? is saying that you are a shit Destrzalo! Does this make you feel better? What? harm to others helps you overcome Do not ever! losing a child that way must have been hard you're fucking dead, do not you see? for God's sake Ness I was 14 when this happened I would not call it murder Shut the fuck up! Shut up! you gotta let go the baby died Our baby is dead! Ness was also my son Piece of shit! Is this where you fucked? Yeah! You! Agarrdlo! I said I agarreis! Quit! For! ah, no! .. No !.... Nessa! Help! Noooo! look what you made me do... No! no...... Let's go! Now live! you broke my fucking arm for complaining fag "I can do?" asks for help "The police? no the police not funny what is done these days I put myself in danger by complete strangers but you know to help gave me something gave me hope have a lifetime ahead as we A new message sorry, Cal look at this, really it shattered
