 

                        Every good spy needs a cover. Be a journalist, they said. You're good with words. You'll be safe. Where is the girl, Mr. Soames? Where is the girl? This way! Please have a seat. I'd like to call the American Consulate and tell them where I am. They've already been informed. Someone's coming to pick you up. That might be them. The last time we spoke... ...I didn't realize how fond of Mrs. Lan-Ting you were. If I'd known, I'd have been more careful what I said. Both the Lan-Tings are friends of mine. But only one of them accompanied you to your hotel last night. Yeah. She came to tell me she was still in love with her husband. I'd be careful. It isn't in some people's nature to love us back. Where is she... ...Mr. Soames? I don't know. I have no idea. Where is she? A friend of mine told me... ...Shanghai was the Paris of the Orient. Due to an international treaty... ...every nationality under the sun lived within her borders... ..Chinese and English, French, Japanese, American. My friend said you could travel the world in an afternoon... ...and never leave the confines of Shanghai's international settlement. It seems like Shanghai's gonna be a bit of a comedown for you after Berlin, Mr. Soames. Not from what I hear, sir. I meant as a journalist, not a bachelor. Well, if Japan doesn't withdraw from China soon... ...Roosevelt's threatened to get his hands dirty. So I'm sure there'll be plenty for me to write about. Well. And you think it's a good idea for your country to join the war? Not if it means fighting you Germans. You seem to be pretty good at it. I will go get the car. Did you have to provoke him? I thought you said he was a diplomat. No, I said he was attached to the consulate. He's an engineer. Stop him! He's with the resistance! Welcome to Shanghai. Leni, komm! Shanghai was about the only place left in China the Japanese hadn't taken over. Everybody knew it was only a matter of time before they swallowed it whole. Officially the guerilla war between the Chinese and the Japanese was none of our business. So, like a good American, I kept my head down and remained neutral. Shanghai was divided up into sectors. Drink in the British zone, eat in the French zone... ...spy in the German zone... ...but stay the hell away from the Japanese. Naval Intelligence had sent me to Shanghai to help out an agent who was in trouble. He was my oldest and best friend. His name was Conner. I'm gonna get you out tonight. The storm had blown over by the time I got to the casino. In Shanghai, things change pretty fast. The routine with Conner was always the same. We'd meet in the biggest casino in town. The loser would buy dinner. Chip request for the lady. Chip request for the lady. Follow by 500 That is 550. I'm Out You're working pretty hard to bully me out of my 50. What did you say? Oh, I said, I'll see your 500... ...and raise you whatever I have left. Why don't you keep your something for your taxi home? It's a short walk to my hotel. Three nines. Three queens for the lady. A very appropriate hand. A very appropriate hand. You must have brought me luck. No second chance? Not tonight. Deal me out, boys. Leave him. You all right, sir? Lieutenant Collins. Captain Astor sent me. So we finally got you out of Berlin. How was your trip? Glorious. Except half the Gestapo was on the ship with me. Come on in. Let me get you a drink. Where the hell is Conner? He was supposed to meet me at the casino. He was found earlier in the Japanese sector. I guess he was on his way to meet you. You know, this whole country has its head buried in the sand. The Germans are getting ready to march in Europe... ...and all we care about is whether or not the Yankees beat the Giants. I mean, what have we done with our lives? I called Naval headquarters this morning. I volunteered us both for Intelligence. Conner and I had joined the Navy like our fathers and grandfathers before us. Our lives were set. Birth, school, Yale, war. The great American tradition. He was investigating a local gang lord called Anthony Lan-Ting. He's the boss of the Shanghai Triad. He has a deal with the Japanese. They leave him alone... ...and whenever the Japanese need any dirty work done they go to him. I'd like to read all of Conner's reports. He hadn't briefed us in a month. That's why I sent for you. I was under a lot of pressure to have him reassigned. Why? Because the situation here isn't just black and white. You got the Chinese fighting the Japanese. Us, we're caught somewhere in the middle. Now the truth is, the Japanese want to walk into our zone... ...there's nothing we can do about it. So sometimes, our only option is just to sit back and not rock the boat. And that wasn't Conner's style. Any informers? Yeah. He's got a contact at the Japanese consulate... ...a diplomat called Kita. We've already spoken to him. I'd like to speak to him myself. And I'll need an introduction to Lan-Ting. Apart from his own people, he only mixes with the Germans and the Japanese. I know plenty of Germans. When do I start at the Herald? In Berlin, I played the part of a journalist with Nazi sympathies... ...and I was doing it again at the Shanghai Herald. Mr. Soames was the Washington Post's correspondent in Berlin before he joined us. I'm sure most of you are already familiar with his reputation. Those who aren't will have a chance to find out for themselves in good time. Right. Back to work. How's it going, boys? Paul Soames, Shanghai Herald. Yeah, we set the meet with Conner's Japanese contact, Kita. You got a pen? Where is it? A place called the Bamboo Tea House in the Japanese district. He meets his girlfriend there... ...everyday at 3:00 pm. At all clear, he will open a book on the porch. Paul, listen to me. You'll be in the heart of the Japanese sector. You be careful over there. Tell us what you know about the resistance Take him... ...in for questioning! Papers. Papers. Move. Move. You're under arrest. "No threat to American interests"? Sir? You probably know this already, Mr. Soames... ...but when the owners of this newspaper told me to hire you, I threatened to resign. The only reason I didn't was because I wanted to meet you face to face... ...and see if you really believe this crap you write. My office! "Germany and Japan are no more our enemies than Britain and Russia are our friends. In a war of this magnitude our only concern should be for ourselves." The Japanese foreign minister met with the German foreign minister yesterday... ...and one of the subjects they discussed was whether my Jewish wife... ...should wear a yellow star on her jacket and be herded into a Shanghai ghetto... ...along with the rest of her kind. Now I think that should be a concern... ...for every civilized country in the world, even America. I'm not a Nazi, if that's your implication, Mr. Sanger. I've lived in Germany far too long to have any illusions about what kind of people they are. Now you can fire me, you can censor me-- I have no intention of firing you. Write something that doesn't make my stomach turn and I'll print it... ...otherwise you can type your fingers raw for all I care. Will that be all, sir? Yeah, get out. Oh, and this came for you. At least your Nazi friends are impressed. Mrs. Mueller, thank you so much for the invitation. It's lovely to see you, Mr. Soames. My pleasure. Mr. Mueller. Mr. Soames. A party at the German embassy could make one night feel like a thousand years. Laughing at all their jokes was like eating breakfast from the gutter. The way I see it, for America to join the war... ...would be like a man who's never been in a relationship interfering in a 50 year marriage. Thank you for a wonderful party, Your Excellency. I'm glad you're enjoying it, Mr. Lan-Ting. You know everyone here, don't you? Paul Soames. Anthony Lan-Ting. Gentlemen, excuse me. These affairs had quite a guest list. Nazis, Japanese imperialists, the Triads, Kempeitai. They were all connected. Any of them could have killed Conner. I had to get in between them. It was like being a worm, working your way into a rotten apple. Please tell me you're not politicians or diplomats. If you are a politician or a diplomat, it doesn't matter how beautiful or charming you are... ...I just cannot talk to you, I couldn't bear it. I'm afraid they can't speak a word of English, Mr. Soames. No? Let me introduce you properly. These are my cousins Shin Shin and Lili. And this is my friend Captain Tanaka... ...a politician and a diplomat, I'm afraid. Captain, it's a pleasure to meet you. I hope I didn't offend you, sir. If there's anything else you'd like to ask the girls... ...I'd be happy to translate. Well, now that I know you're related to them, I don't think that would be such a good idea. Excuse me. Captain. Japan is as deserving of an empire in the East... ...as Germany is of an empire in the West. So... ...how does a writer for the Shanghai Herald get asked to the German Consulate? Some friends invited me. Well, the truth is I'm only friends with the lonely-looking frulein in the black dress. Oh, I see. A toast to the Emperor... ..and the Fuhrer! Honorable men all. May they rot in hell. And now, some music. Anna! I'm sorry I'm late. My appointments ran late. That's okay. Darling, this is my friend, Paul Soames. My wife Anna. How do you do? It's a pleasure to meet you. What did you decide? I thought we'd take them to the fashion show at the Casino. So... ...how do you know my husband? Actually we just met. Oh, I thought you were old friends. It certainly feels that way. Shall I get you something to drink? I'd like to dance before I do anything else. Will you dance with me, darling? You should ask Mr. Soames. Mr. Soames? I'd be delighted. Thank you, Anthony. You're welcome. My husband doesn't always trust people he's just met. How did you charm him so quickly? He and his cousins just seemed like the most interesting people here tonight. They're not his cousins. No? They're his mistresses. Anthony doesn't know I gamble. He'd be very upset if he found out. I have no intention of telling him. Good. Thank you. I like secrets. I collect them. Fascinating. Why were you following me at the casino? I had no idea you were married. And who was your friend with the cigarette case? A question for a question. Well, it's like poker. You have to pay to see my hand. What game are we playing, Mr. Soames? Paul. Leni. I thought you'd left. No, no, no. Leni Mueller, this is Mrs. Anthony Lan-Ting. How do you do? I should get back to my husband. Of course. Thank you for the dance. Not at all. She doesn't look very married. Neither do you. Drop me off at the harbor. Kita was Conner's only known contact. I figured if Conner trusted him, I probably could too. So I found us a quiet place to talk. What do you want to tell me? I was helping Conner. In exchange he promised me an American passport. I was supposed to get it a year ago. He said he would help me. Uh-huh. Well, we're here to help. Keep talking. Conner called me a few days before he died. He needed a checkpoint pass for a friend. His friend was Japanese. He was trying to smuggle her out of Shanghai. He told me not to tell anyone. After he was killed I was scared you'd think I set him up. What'd you do with the pass? I took it to the apartment in Chapei like he said. What apartment? Conner lived in the International Settlement. He gave me an address in Chapei. When I went, there was nobody there. I can prove it. I still have the pass. This was Conner's girlfriend. Her name is Sumiko. I can show you where the apartment is. So all Conner wanted was a checkpoint pass? Was he working on anything else? Just routine naval intelligence. He had me report on the Emperor's East China Fleet. He never told me what the information was for and I never asked. Just ask them if they ever saw him with a young woman. According to the neighbors, the girl disappeared the night Conner was killed. She set him up. Must have rented another room. An attic or a basement. Anywhere he could have used as a darkroom. So why didn't the girl hand these over when she turned him in? Maybe Conner still had enough sense not to tell her everything. I saw this man with Lan-Ting at the German Consulate. His name's Tanaka. He's head of Japanese Intelligence for Shanghai. These are Navy and Air Corps officers here. We should find out who the other men are in that picture. Tanaka's saluting them, they've gotta be ranking officers. That's Lan-Ting's wife. Her father was a respected politician till the Japanese took him out. They would have killed her too but her family arranged for her to marry Lan-Ting. He protects her. Anna was everywhere... ...in the city... ...but she always seemed to be hiding something. So I did what you do with a puzzle. I stared at it until it made sense. I have to see what that Japanese bastard wants No, not now! This will just take a minute. I'll be right back. Anthony, get down! Get down! Anthony! Anthony! Paul, come in. You're lucky the bastards couldn't shoot straight. Even luckier that you were there. Who do I have to thank for that? The frulein I told you about last week. I was supposed to meet her at the fashion show and she stood me up. Perhaps her husband sent those gunmen after you. Did you found out who they were? I will. Captain, please come in. Why don't you show Mr. Soames around the house until we're ready for dinner? Mrs. Lan-Ting. Your hand. Here. Thank you. Did you know any of the men who died today? They were Japanese. I meant the others. I recognized your friends from the casino. Why didn't you tell Anthony? I wasn't quite sure what to tell him. Does Anthony know you're working for the resistance? I'd never do anything to hurt him. Your friends didn't seem quite so discriminating. They murdered several men in cold blood. Did you know one of the gunmen survived? What will you do if he talks? Maybe I can help you. Every time you've come to me for help I've done what you asked. I'm doing everything I can to find her. You said you could handle this. You walk into my house and give me orders in front of my own men? What does Tanaka want from you? He thinks the resistance is close to me. How could he think that? Tanaka has one of the gunmen and is beating him for information. Who knows what lies he is saying? I give Tanaka everything and he humiliates me in return. Forgive us for speaking Chinese. How do you like the food? It's sensational. In fact, it reminds me...just how bad the food is at the Casanova. The Casanova? That's my local restaurant. I go there for the waiters. I dine alone each night, and yet they insist on setting two places. I'm supposed to meet a friend at the Cathay later. I can give you a lift back into town. That'd be very kind. Thank you. You can't go into town tonight, darling. It's too dangerous after what happened. I don't know how to reach her. I'm happy to pass a message to her if you like, Mrs. Lan-Ting. It's no problem at all, the Cathay's on my way. I can stop in. I hope I can see you soon. I look forward to that, Anthony. Thank you for saving his life. Chip request. Where are we going? Hurry! We're getting out of here. Please don't kill me. Drive! The Japanese will be here soon! It seemed Anna wasn't worried about the Japanese coming after her. She was worried they'd find whoever was hiding under that hood. She better be here as you say! This is the place. She's here! We don't have time for games! I don't understand. They must have moved her! Captain! She was here. I swear! Captain! Please believe me. Please, Captain! I'll find her for you. I trust your message was delivered. I'm grateful for what you did. Does that entitle me to a few more answers? No. I've been doing some homework on you. I read your stories about the war in Europe. You write well. Thank you. But you don't seem to believe in much. The story you should be writing is what the Japanese are doing in Shanghai. The Japanese murdered thousands of people in Nanjing. And soon, they'll do the same thing here. That's why we are fighting. You find this amusing? No, no. It's just that you just remind me of a friend of mine. In what way? The way you argue. He was a force of nature. He'd come at you from all sides until you surrendered. So I should be writing about Captain Tanaka? He usually has a hand in everything that happens in Shanghai. Was he head of Shanghai Intelligence when your father was killed? I did a little homework of my own. Sounds like he was a remarkable man. It must have taken a lot of courage to speak out against Japanese atrocities in Nanjing. He just cared deeply about this country. Anthony loves American jazz. Are you still in love with him? I wouldn't be with him if I wasn't. I only ask because you seem to be on your own a lot. I'll take this. Our informants haven't found any information on the Japanese girl who betrayed Conner. What about the men saluting Tanaka? Well, they're officers from the aircraft carrier Kaga. The Kaga? We checked it out. They were in Shanghai last month for R&R. There's nothing secret about it. Look, Tanaka is in charge of security for visiting personnel. He's probably just telling them what bars they can and can't go to. Conner wouldn't have taken pictures of it if it wasn't important. He was interested in Tanaka for a reason. Paul, I know you don't want to hear this, But this profession catches up with all of us. Maybe Conner made the wrong call. He didn't make mistakes like this, Richard. You know, the first article I ever wrote for the Herald was about your mother. The Garbo of Shanghai, I called her. Well, perhaps I'll have to dream up a name for you, too. Just finishing up some work back here, sir. Why don't you wait in my office? She's a friend of the family. I'm helping her with her passport application. I understand. I'll just finish up. So if you'll just-- Yes. Lock up when you go. I needed to see Shanghai through Conner's eyes. The only port in the world that would take in 20,000 Jews on the run from Hitler... ...as the Japanese and the Chinese were engaged in street warfare. Dead bodies piled up. Westerners walked over them and went about their business. To survive Shanghai, you needed to understand her contradictions. I showed these to the ambassador. He doesn't think they warrant any form of protest. "Having analyzed these photographs I conclude that the SS methods... ...for pacifying an occupied country are exceedingly simple. Families are picked at random... ...taken to a place of execution and then forced to dig their own graves. And if they happen to be Jewish... ...then the children are shot in front of their parents first." You gonna beat the German army on your own? Forget the Germans. We've already lost in Europe. No, I'm talking about the Far East. The Far East, that's where the next battleground is. Now, if we wanna beat them We're gonna have to sink to their level. Do whatever's necessary and if our superiors don't like it, then they don't have to know. These sons of bitches have opened my eyes. There's a lady to see you, sir, in the lobby. Why didn't Karl take you with him? What would I do in Tokyo? Drink tea with the wives, try to understand their English? I wish you'd told me you were coming. I would have cancelled my dinner plans. Thank you. What's this? It's not what you think it is. Of course it is. No. I've put Karl through hell these past weeks. Men always seem to notice when you're not in love with them any more. And he's been so preoccupied with his work. A bad day at the office doesn't justify that. It wasn't a bad day. We've had the Japanese stay at our house ever since we arrived. They've been drinking our champagne, eating our caviar and no word of thanks. Why doesn't Karl say something? He has to be nice to them. Our navy sold them something that doesn't work... ...and now he has to fix it. I didn't realize he was a naval engineer. Can we please stop talking about him? What are you thinking? I'm thinking... ...about where to take you for dinner. I thought you had plans. Well, something came up. It's them! Drive on. Fireworks. There's this lovely little bar I know on the Rue Lafayette. I thought we'd go there for a nightcap... ...and then back to your place. What? I have staff. Smuggle me past your staff. Hello, Mr. Soames. Mrs. Lan-Ting. How are you? Very well, thank you. You remember Mrs. Mueller. Yes, of course. Would you like to join us? Would you like to sit down? I'm meeting some friends. Is Anthony with you? Not tonight. My husband and I are having a party next week. We'd love to see you if you're free. My pleasure. Good. "Type 91 torpedoes transferred to the aircraft carrier Kaga... ...October 28th, 1941, Shanghai." I don't even know what this tells us. This tells us the officers of the Kaga didn't come to Shanghai for the night life. Conner worked it all out. Look at the date. The torpedoes were delivered two days after Conner took those photos. The Germans and the Japanese are allies. They sell each other weapons all the time. These are not ordinary weapon. You got 800 kilogram torpedoes. You've got naval engineers on both sides making adjustments to maximize the accuracy. Let's suppose that he stumbled on an arms deal. What would you like me to do? Find out where the Kaga is. I already did. She's been with the East China fleet the whole time. She hasn't moved in months. Look, find out who killed him... ...and I will do everything in my power to make them pay... ...but I can't declare war on Japan over these. I hope I'm not crashing the party. I wasn't sure if you'd invited me the other night. I invited Miss Mueller. Mrs. Mueller. Did your friends ever show up? You think I came to see you? If I'm to be honest, I stayed up all night wondering if you did. I'm wise to your charms, Mr. Soames. Don't forget I heard you in action with Miss Mueller. Mrs. Mueller. Listen, if I say something that offends you, please just smile and walk way... ...because I would hate to get slapped in front of all your guests. Maybe you shouldn't say it. I wanna see you again. Are you flirting with my wife now? Absolutely. How's your arm? It's already healed. I'm glad. Darling ...will you ask the girls to dance with our Japanese guests? Okay. Let's talk. A few years ago I'd have cut his throat for even looking at her. Anna told me she saw you at the Casanova Restaurant last Tuesday. That's right. She did. She caught me having dinner with my German friend. Will you confirm that to Captain Tanaka? Of course. Thank you. Is everything all right? Japanese diplomats were assassinated that night. Captain Tanaka thinks someone close to me told the resistance where to find them. He wants me to account for the movements of all my men. Surely not your wife? My wife, my friends... ...myself. Mrs-- Excuse me, Captain. You're not enjoying the party, Mr. Soames? You look like you're hiding out as well. I'm too old to make a fool of myself on the dance floor. You're welcome to come in and hide with me. We will have our own drinks. Thank you. I'm sorry. I was looking for my husband. He's in the living room, I believe. I've never seen so many men make fools of themselves over somebody. She talks to ten of them at the same time... ...and they all think they're the only one she's interested in. That's part of her charm. You think it's as innocent as that? Her husband tells me you spent Tuesday night with her. No, no, not with her unfortunately. I just ran into her at the same restaurant, the Casanova. Are you married, Mr. Soames? I was. A long time ago. My wife ran off with another man two days before we were due to leave for Shanghai. I'm sorry. Did yours break your heart? From what I remember. Women always win in the end. They forget us more easily. Mine certainly did that. To nobody ever making fools of us again. Do you think it's possible to fall in love like that again? Well, I don't think it'll ever be as maddening as the first time. I disagree. I think the second time might be worse for men like us. What kind of men are we? Romantics. We are so eager to get over the pain of the first betrayal... ...we'll walk blindly into the next. You don't remember how long Mrs. Lan-Ting stayed at the restaurant? If I can recall, she was there the entire time we were. About nine to midnight. The Chinese use these to light their opium candles. I'm always burning myself. I think I will have one. Fireworks. I told you. I must check on our guests. Alright. You're leaving so soon? Yeah, think so. You were talking to Captain Tanaka? Yes. We were both admiring your skill... ...at convincing every man in the room that he meant something to you. Surely that's what every good hostess does? He seemed to imply there was more to it than that. In fact, he warned me to stay away from you. Why would he do that? He probably thinks I'm some idiot American who'd be crazy enough to lie for you. And are you? I think we both know the answer to that question. Thanks for the party. So what's this article of yours about, Mister...? Opium addiction amongst the various armed forces in Shanghai. Just take a look. Does he come here? I wouldn't waste your time writing an expose on your Japanese friend... ...if that's what you're doing. He never touched the stuff. He only came here because of his little Geisha girl. Sumiko, wasn't it, Mikey? Mikey here used to spy on them all the time. He even drilled his own little peephole through their private booth, didn't you, peepo? She couldn't get enough of the stuff. Is that the girl? When was the last time you saw them here together? A few weeks ago. It's nothing like Ralphie told you. I only peeped on them once or twice. There was something sad about them. She'd lie there all doped out of her mind and... ...her Japanese friend would hold her hands, whispering. Whispering what? Whatever came into his head. How she was his future, his second chance. Did she ever come in here with an American? Tall, good-looking, dark hair? Mikey's the only tall, good-looking American around here. I felt like I was following Conner down a dark alley. Tanaka's mistress must have been off limits to anybody but a fool. Conner was a lot of things, but he wasn't a fool. Conner was investigating a ship called the Kaga before he died. I need you to find out everything you can about her. Also all the intelligence you have on the East China Fleet. No, they transferred me three times this month. I think they're testing me. They're not testing you. Embassies rotate staff all the time. It's just precautionary. Just do this one more thing and we're gonna get you out. I need a second passport. That's all I ask. I'm getting married. Well, get me a look at the Kaga and I'll consider it your wedding present. I'm gonna arrange for the passports myself. It's the last thing you have to do for us. You have my word on that. Over there. Wait a minute. The Kaga's not there. Here, take a look. There are other ships missing. Which ones The Akagi, it's a carrier. The destroyers and two tankers. Is your list up to date? It was dated the first of November. Richard, we got nine Japanese warships missing. You combine all these ships and you have yourself a long-range attack formation. The destroyers protect the carriers, the tankers refuel them at the center... ...you got a fleet of fighter planes, each carrying 800 kilogram torpedoes. They're pulling ships from their main fleet and we have no idea where they are. I have a pretty damn good idea. I checked with our code-breaking units in Washington. None of these ships have been issued orders in the last month... ...which means they're probably back at their bases undergoing repairs. They're hiding the fact that their ships are incapacitated. A Japanese delegation is in Washington right now trying to negotiate a withdrawal from China. Our oil embargo has brought them to their knees. They're desperate to get any concessions they can out of us. The last thing they want us to know is that their fleet is under-powered. I'm late for a meeting. We'll talk about this later. Conner's been right every step of the way. Every time we doubted him he's proved us wrong. We need to watch Tanaka 24 hours a day. Maybe if you had come to me sooner I could have backed you up. The same way you backed up Conner? What is that supposed to mean? He was watching the Kaga for weeks. For weeks, Richard. And he never told you a goddamn thing, why is that? Well, how the hell can I back him up if he wouldn't even talk to me? Look, I don't wanna believe that Conner died in vain any more that you do... ...but I can't ignore the facts. He fell in love with a Japanese spy and she betrayed him, and that's all we've got. What if she was spying for us? We've always assumed she seduced Conner. What if it was the other way around? You don't know that. We know she was Tanaka's mistress. I think Conner found out about them while he was tailing Lan-Ting. He saw an opportunity and he took it and he seduced the girl. Now what if everything Tanaka ever told her got back to Conner through her? Even if you're right, she's probably dead. And what if she's alive? If she's on the run I can find her. Thank you, gentlemen. The meeting's over, Mr. Soames. I need to speak with you, sir. Make an appointment like everyone else. I'm sorry, this can't wait. If I needed to smuggle someone out of Shanghai... ...where would I go for documents? Why are you asking me? The young lady I saw you with the other night, you said you were helping her with her passport. I didn't say I was doing it illegally. I don't know any other way you could be doing it. The British and American Consulate have stopped issuing papers. A friend of mine's in trouble with the Japanese authorities. I need to get him out of Shanghai now. I'm sorry, I can't help. Maybe your wife can. Are you blackmailing me? Not unless I have to. I don't care what you think about me... ...but if you turn these people down... ...their lives are on your conscience. Quite an impressive operation you've got here, Billy. Thank you. You can tell the war's coming to Shanghai by the number of faces on my wall. I have a waiting list of 300. You're lucky you're a friend of Ben's. I know. This one won't be convincing. She's not facing the camera. It's the best I could do. Do you get many Japanese clients? Mostly the Japanese are happy to stay where they are. Why? An old buddy of mine was trying to smuggle his girlfriend out of Shanghai. I was wondering if they came to you. Everyone comes to me. You keep records? I'd love to find the son of a bitch. He owes me a fortune. I'm sorry. I guarantee confidentiality. You'll thank me for it yourself one day. Sir, have any change? Mr. Soames. You fainted. I fainted. Let me see. Does he take over when you're done? Only if I don't find out why you were following me. I wanted to see where you were taking the girl's passport. Which girl? Captain Tanaka's mistress. Look, Anna. I followed your man to the safe house after I delivered your message to the casino. I actually saw them taking her away. I didn't realize it at the time... ...because they'd thrown a blanket over her head. Leave us alone, please. Why are you interested in her? She was also having an affair with a friend of mine... ...and he was murdered the night Sumiko disappeared. We had nothing to do with it. I'd like to hear that from her. You're in no position to make demands, Mr. Soames. Why are you doing it? Why'd you kidnap her? Tanaka has arrested hundreds of our people. We are going to trade her for them. There's something you need to understand, Mrs. Lan-Ting. Tanaka isn't negotiating and he isn't interested in getting this girl back. He wants her dead. She wasn't just his mistress. She was spying on him. Why should I believe you? Because my friend was an American agent. Whatever it is she knows Tanaka won't stop till he finds her... ...and when he does, he won't leave any of you alive to talk about it. Just show me where she is. I promise you I'll do what I can to help. I need more time. You don't have time. If she's in Shanghai, Tanaka's going to find her. No matter what you do, he'll be waiting. Do you understand? Do you understand? I'll call you at your hotel this afternoon. Please... don't follow me again. I had no business thinking about her. But I couldn't help myself. I knew it was a mistake. But I remembered an old saying... ...The heart is never neutral. Let's go. Passport. The Japanese were allowing only one train a week to leave Shanghai. I got the passports for Kita and his girlfriend. And I arranged for them to be on it I was delivering on a promise made by Conner. It felt like the one decent thing I could do U.S. citizen. Go. Hurry. Okay. Excuse me! Create a diversion! Papers! Get her on the train, I'll meet you as planned. Nobody boards... ...without papers! Resistance! Get her out of here! We have to split up! I'll take her. Go! Let me out. Let me out. I'm an American citizen! That's my wife! U.S. passport! U.S. passport! Go Why didn't you call me? My people didn't think they could trust you. We needed to move the girl So you told them, "I'll smuggle her out of Shanghai and everything will work out fine" Is that it? You don't understand That's quite a risk you took. She could have turned you in at any minute... ...or did you tell your boy to shoot her at the first sign of trouble? You had your chance. You followed me instead of her. Where the fuck you going? Where were you supposed to meet when something went wrong? There was no plan. Bullshit! The girl didn't look too good tonight. From what I could tell she could barely walk. What are they going to do to her once she slows them down? Huh? They won't hurt her. Then they'll probably get themselves killed. How many will that make it, Anna? Hey, you can play the heartbroken revolutionary all you want when I'm not around. The truth is you used everybody... ...your friends, your husband, the girl, and for what? Tanaka's still here and your father's still dead. You want to bring him down? Tell me where she is! You think that's all this is about? Thousands of people are dying every day. You think one life makes a difference? She can hardly speak. All she ever asks for is her opium pipe. I just need to find out... ...who killed my friend. Anthony, it's me. Have you gone to bed yet? Don't wait up for me. I'll be home late. Me too. I miss you too. Who is it? Yes? Captain Tanaka would like to see you. Has something happened? It's past midnight. He apologizes. All right, let's make it quick-- Hey, hold it! Wait here, Mr. Soames. I hope you know you're in violation of International Settlement laws. You got no jurisdiction-- Where is she... ...Mr. Soames? I don't know. I have no idea. Mrs. Lan-Ting never asked you for any help? Introductions? Passports? I'm sure if she had wanted any of those things, she'd have gone to you, sir, or her husband. There's no point in waiting. Proceed. I'm sorry about these interruptions. It's an unfortunate business. We arrested a spy last night. We arrested him on a train leaving the city. His lover turned him in. She was a spy, Mr. Soames. You would admire her skills. We did everything we could to break him down. Even when we put him face to face with the girl and she told him what she'd done... ...he refused to believe it. It's amazing how a man holds onto an idea... ...even when that idea is so obviously false. I suppose it's all we have to keep us going. You're sure Mrs. Lan-Ting didn't tell you anything? I'm sure. I warn you... ...it isn't easy to watch. We'll send an official complaint to their government. Where are we going? To the hotel. We have to pack your things. There's a ship leaving Shanghai at 8:00. The girl's still alive. I've seen her with my own eyes, I can find her. It's too late. Even if she's still alive there's nothing that you can do now. Your cover is blown. Tanaka won't give you a second chance. I don't want a second chance. I want 24 more hours. Please don't make this harder. Just get the hell out of Shanghai. You sure I can't change your mind? Not this time. You finally got sick of me, huh? No, are you kidding me? I just can't keep up with you. That's because you're always watching my back. You know as soon as I get there, I'm gonna cause such a stir that they're gonna have to transfer you... Christmas in Shanghai, old man. I'm holding you to that. I'll get the key. Hello? My car's parked in front of the hotel. Well, could you send it up? I'm in a hurry Thank you. An unpaid bar bill. Is there any other kind? Can I give you a hand with any of this? Paul? It's alright. How is she? Not good. Where's Chen? I sent him to buy more opium. She's getting worse. I didn't know what else to do. We need to get her to a hospital right now or she's gonna die. Get the car. I need you to wake up. I need you to talk to me, okay? -Okay. Conner? I was so scared. Why were you scared? Tell me why you were scared. They were waiting for us. Anthony. I had no choice. It was the only way to save you. Your life in return for hers. Sumi! Sumi! What happened, Sumi? There's an American hospital about a mile away. We might be able to save her. There won't be anyone left in your hospital by the time we get there. Japan has just declared war on the United States. Our first fleet bombed Pearl Harbor an hour ago. The invasion of Shanghai is already under way. There's nothing we can do for her. We can only ease her pain. I can't do this alone. Please. Sumi. Sumi. it's me. What did you think she'd tell you? Why you killed my friend. She betrayed you. That's how he found out about your plans. I had the proof. He took pictures. You met with the officers of the Kaga. I heard about the plan to attack Pearl Harbor through my informants. I was never a part of it. Yes, I killed your friend. I didn't even know he was a spy when I followed her that night. I shot him in the dark. He could... ...have been anyone. You won't suffer now. Mr. Lan-Ting. I need to ask your wife some questions. Ask them at my house. It's a military matter. We had a deal. Our deal was she wouldn't be harmed. This isn't just business. We're talking about my wife. I don't have time to argue. She isn't going anywhere with you. She'll be returned safely. I'll be back. Don't worry. Please. Captain! Wait. Anthony. Paul... ...please. We have to leave. This is Radio Shanghai. The United States of America is at war... Paul, I need your help to get her out of here. Passports! I'm driving for him. Passports! Go to hell! Darling, Darling, I'm sorry. What did you say? I can't hear you. I'm sorry Anthony. I can't protect you anymore. You must leave Shanghai. Promise me. Please, get her out of Shanghai. No matter what happens stay close to me. When we get to the port they'll only evacuate Europeans and Americans. Come on! Anna. Come on, Anna, we gotta get to the port! Stay close! Hold on to my arm! Anna! Anna! Anna! Hold on to my arm! Anna! Come on! The port is now under-- Please stay calm, sir. The port is now under the control of the Japanese Army. Foreign nationals will still be allowed to leave. We left the house when we heard the first explosion. I was sure I had the passports with me. Well, I can issue you temporary passes I just have to ask you a few questions to satisfy the Japanese authorities. So, what were you doing in China? I came to help a friend with his business. The business went bust, but fortunately I met my wife. I guess you start looking for something... ...and end up finding something else. And where do you plan to move after you leave China, Mrs. Fitzpatrick? We haven't had much time to think about it. Your country is at war. Your people are fighting for their lives. Why are you leaving? I'm going with my husband. One day I will return. We have to get out of this line. He still hasn't seen us. My wife's very ill. We have to get out of this line, please. Please, my wife is very sick. I have to get her out of this line. She's very sick, please. When he sees me I want you to keep walking. No, no Anna, Anna, please. No. The world had changed. ...and it would never be the same. In Europe and in Asia the cities were burning... ...and the hunters came out at night. Anna got off the boat in Macao. I knew she'd go back to Shanghai. She worked with the resistance. Somehow she stayed alive. Maybe luck, maybe courage. You had to have both. I know because I did the same thing in other cities under different names. Until the long night ended. But Shanghai haunted me... ...so I returned... ..to her.
