 

                        "...farther intensifying population pressure. "The Prime Mister speaking from Brussels today, ordered more military reinforcements. "And the royal spokesman for King William reported that he won't be returning to his residence." [Whistles] Why you running for? - Just rolling out my errand, to get me... - Why you running though? What cool in it? Whoa! You trying to move to me? Relax. Why you so shook? You ain't slippin'. We just want to talk to you, fam. - Hold him down. Junior: Let go of me! - Get off me! - Take it from him! Junior narrating: The streets proper sticky deez days. London, were everybody is in a squalor. Everyday, you know it could be you getting killed. Still... I wake up and that could be me, today. Dis is how we live. So you've gotta be prepared. Gotta be good yoot, gotta know heads - and get good plans. Violence, only way to get heard deez days. Children hustlin. Children killin. Step on dem toes, you gettin borad, gettin shanked. Childhood, shee... Dat died a long time ago. Fuckin pigs. Never done nufnk for me and fam. They dont support our community. Man, fuck da support! Dem rich man's, they privatizing community support. Government mans sold it all up. So we cant touch dem no more. Slumsters stick to dem slums and the rich keep to their safe, safes. Government mans dont direct funds no more. So we gotta take it for ourself. Gotta be on dis ting, cos if you aint - if you aint one of us - deem you're a victim. Plain and simple. Now they call me "Junior". I'm the getaway kid. Always mac on my feet. Ain't nobody catching me. That's my brother "Rager". Got enough love for him. We don't know our dad, but that made him strong, man. Hope I grow up like Rager. He's da boss. I want to be boss one day, too. Pretty boy, "Sweet Boy". He's da ladies man. Thinks he too buff. Sayings a lot of shit, saying he's got enough Choongings in his life. I just call him "Pomppadom". Dat iz "Kickz". "Kid Butt-Face", I call him. He is suppose to be doing the drivin'. But most of the time he's just busy cleaning his fucking Crepes. "Craze" sez he's ex-army, but da man's lying. Maybe played "Call Of Duty 4". Eejat. Made him a bit psycho, still. Oh, and dat is Dutty. Dutty is Dutty because he shitz everywhere. He's just a dizzy puppy. We don't go nowhere without him though. Well, we're busy making cash. Just tryin' to make a livin'. Busy on the paper chase. Dat why we call ourselves da "Paper Chaserz". Me and Rager. Our mom died when I was ten. He promised he would always look after me. He waz always smart. Even back then, he was running with the man. Very violent men they were. But he got out. He knew the only way to survive since the country went to shit was to do some business. Business stealing munchies! And it got very sticky, so we got some boys together. We knew da only way of staying safe was to get different men from different Endz See, back deem, Sweets, Craze, Kickz, they got smart too. And good timin', because dat waz back in the day when you went hungry, or got killed. Now they owe Rager for dat. He's like a brother to deem. We've got our love when a feud breaks out. We stick tight like brothers, now. Drugs and guns, don't see deem around here anymore. Sign of the times, still. Muchies, dats what mans want. Dats all anyone needs now, munchies. We don't kill for dat. We just robbin' and like. Dats how we don't get killed most times. Ohh, we get the best munchies! You can't beat that! Get off me, man! Kid: Grab it, quick! - How you doing, Junior? - Alright. You never cease to amaze me. Third world London, you and your boys just keep on, keeping on. Take no Holidays. What, do you think dis is easy? Junior... You are a hustleeer! -Now on to business. - Good. What have you got for me? - How's your brother? - Which one? Your brother, brother. Well he's good. Same old, same old.. dis is good. More of dis. I'll give you a 100. Junior: Pow! - 400, okay? - 200, Junior. - See you later. - 300. Are you shittin'? When I've already told you I've got plans. Junior: 400. Hurry up, deem. You love when I bring youse munchies. See you later... Be safe. ["STICKS AND STONES" by Skepta playing] "Some sticks and stones, yeah, some sticks and stones. "Sticks and stones, you better bring some sticks and stones. "Yo, sticks and stones, you better bring some sticks and stones. "You better punch that bag, or learn to left us alone. "Words don't hurt me, forget the Chinese whispers. "Guess who's back with a brand new bang up for the listeners "Man dem hate because the ladies wanna take pictures, "or go hard from New Years to face Christmas niggas in Glow Joe Mac for my scriptures. "Sticks and stones. "Ladies already know about me Cos I'm the one man soldier...[Fades] Ho, you're back.. Towel. So? OK. dere's 340. - OK, I bought something. - What? - See. Oh, deems sweetmeat vendors are horrible - I was hungry, man. - You know dat rots your guts, don't you? - Yeah, you know they taste good, too. Come, come. C'mon. It's for the boys. So, how long now? Just relax man. We just got to keep doing what we're doing. - You said we would go dis year. - We will, Junior. You've got to be patient. Yeah, but how long? Just give it a couple of more weeks, yeah? - Dat what you said last week. Your the one who keeps coming in with small change tings. Dat's because all we ever rob is small tings. So go out dere and get us a big ting, deem. Wait, how come I always have to go to the market? You go down dere next time. No, dat's wrong. You know I've got a beef out dere, Junior. Enough of these little yungas want to war with them. So I say out of sight, out of mind. Anyway, the point of being a boss like me, you have to do what I say, isn't it? I hear deem Souljahz want to start a war with deem g's too. But deem man dem are different. Stay away from their block, blood. We've got to keep out of dis postcode bullshit. We've got to keep healthy. So do they. No one knows where Tugz is hiding. Yeah, but they're still active though. So just be cool and stay sharp. You've got kids killing kids everywhere, it's getting out of control. So just get in, and out. Plain and simple. Blood you understand? - Why can't we just go now, Rager? I'm not leaving dis city until we've got proper peas. - We've got loads! - No we don't, not enough. We need to prepare if we're going to move out to the wilds. Easy if you are safe, man. Safe? Come, let me show you how to be safe, come. C'mon, c'mon, move, move. - The boys coming with us? - Of course, they want to live like normalz... - They won't hack, here. - Listen, you're my brother, but they family, too. Don't forget dat. Come here! Strong, yah. Ready? What are you scared for? - Who's scared, man?. - Look, do it strong. Pow. Up, in here. Dat's it. Dat's it. Again. Dat's it, strong, strong. If your mom could see ... He goes in for the take down, boom! - Hey, Get off me. - C'mon, get up. Now go and get us some munchies, yeah? A big ting dis time. Come, come, you know I love you, right? - Oh, you're gay! Shut up, man. Move boy. I don't want to see any dust settlin' Narrating: I do not go to school nowhere. They shut most of deem down. And now I draw a map. On the lookout for heists. Dat is my homework, now. Always on the look out for munchies. Enough youth on the road, they are different these days. But Tugz, rahh... the man's a psycho. And they say he beat up his own mum. Now he runs postcodes. Wanting all the blocks, bring beef. I've got to stay out of his way, dat's it. Blood, it's about time, where 'ave you been? -Out! Get off me. - Well, grab dat box for me. - Cool. C'mon, you've been out all day. You gotta have sumpin'. One sec, get dat one as well, will you? Rag, all the time you've been here, you couldn't get 3 boxes, ay? Well, you know, you're too lazy, isn't it. I've got to up your work, struggle. See dat? Make a soldier outta you. So, what's da plan? Easy job, fam. One truck, 2 guards with sticks, Tennyson said dere would be drinks in dis one. - Down, little man? - So, what do we need? - The usual. - We've got to keep dis one safe, yeah? I keep telling you, no killing. Even if you've got to go hungry because of it. Don't worry, fam. Like I told you, and I told mum back in the day, my brain is still big, bro. Are you listenin' to dis little horse? You want all of us, yeah? What size truck? - Normal. -Security? - Two - No slippin' now? - No, I've got plans, man. A couple of the yungas might be on dis still. You know what? I banged a girl dere, you know. Oh blood, pure lies. Don't it make you sick? Why you always lyin' for, man? - Who's lyin'? You know I get pussieee. - Look, we need an escape route. - We got it. I don't know about dis. I've got a bad feeling about dis one, man. Craze... - Emmerdale Boy, come 'ere. Come, man. - C'mon, man. Morning. What you get me out of bed, man? Look at these monkey threads. They're called "crepes", blood. I thought crepes were monkies? Do you know how much these crepes cost, blood? Not brodered. - Why you both shut up? Stop fuckin' about, man! You need to fix up, man. The truck's comin' in a half hour. Dutts, come 'ere, come 'ere boy. Come 'ere boy. Well, come man! Focus blood! Be on point, we don't know when we goona eat again. So, in, out. No long term. - I'm driving. - Blood, I'm driving. Man, shut up, da both of youse. Look. Gates. Guards. Let's go, c'mon, move on. I'm drivin'. - No, I'm drivin'. You're always fuckin' drivin'. Dat's because I'm the driver, innit? Oy, haven't you fuckers forgotten something? Dis! A fart to my left It ain't my fart, smell it! C'mon man, shut up. You're making way too much noise. Dere's people around 'ere. [Rapping]: "I need some, nutrition. Fixin' my chicken in, in the kitchen. "I need it in sauce. Why? I'm dis mission. "I need, I need, finger lickin' chicken. I need some finger lickin' chicken! "Sauce, Sauce. Sauce in my mouth, mouth. "I need to be full in the belly, dat's why..." Fuck da support, man. Are you sure dere are two men on dis 'ere? - Hey, trust me man. When have I ever lead you away? - I might see one of my girls around here. Oh, no one cares about your so-called "girlz". How come we never see you with these girlz, blood? How come we never see you with these girlz? - Why youse always lying so much, man? Shut up, you little virgin. - Broth, I'll chill out in a minute.[Yawns rudely] Little fucker. - C'mon, blood, he's my brother, blood. Well teach him. The only stunner dis idiot has ever spoken too, is me! See that? That's gay. Anyway, what's you gonna teach me anyway, Pomppadom? Listen, half a bite. When you go up to a girl, you got to know what to say. Are your feet tired? Because you've been running around my mind all day, baby. Are you mad? - It works for me all the time. And you've got to get some moves. Watch. Hold on a minute. Dis ain't Bollywood, man. dis is how you skank. Skank, I wanna see the munchies, skank. Skank, I wanna see the munchies, skank. Milk, rice, cheese and spam... Skank, I wanna see the munchies, skank. Dat is so stupid. Fix up, man. Dis is how you skank. It's time to get munchies. It's time to get munchies. It's time to get munchies. Go get a kebab. dis is how it's done up north. ["STICK UP SKANK" by Dotstar starts] "All the girls in the club want to hold me for ransom. "Cos I'm young, and I'm black, and they think that I am handsome. [Dance beat continues] They said, they could be on scooters. A quick get away, and all that. Yeah, a tall story. I wish they had a Big Mac in dere. Just one. Trust me, if we pull dis off, I'm gonna bring you one. And a Fillet-a-Fish. Ah, you don't know where the Big Macs are, man. - I know a freezer full of Big Macs, man. Is it gonna be enough, old man? - It's frozen. I miss Ronald. - And you know some fries with that would get me. Just don't go on about the sauce, blood. - I love the fries, you know that, right? And that mad mayonnaise sauce they put in deem cheeseburgers, oh! Dat's the Big Mac, you don't get no fries. - Blood, you know what I mean, you puss yo. You see dat, blood? Dat's how you make a man flinch. Real fast. - C'mon man, I'll fuckin' shoot ya! No you won't, man. You ain't got nothin', blood. No barrel, no borer, nothin'. Just a dirty little dog. Arff, arff! [Laughs] In here. Pull in here. Come on. Hi, Jimbo. - Fancy seeing you. How you doing? - Looking well. Ah, flip man... - Shhh!!! Good boy. Get the fuck off me, you dick. -Get back! I ain't got all day. - Come 'ere. Get the fuck out dere. Hurry up, go. O, yes, boys. The boat load. - Dis will keep us in business. Great tip. - I told you, man. Boys, boys, boys, boys... Dat's da Souljahz. - Man dere's a fuckload of deem. What are they doing down dese endz, man? - Let's fuckin' go then, boys! Let's just talk about dis, man. - They're no one, man. Fuckin', dese are just yungas, man. - dere's no oldies are dere? They mean to wreck us. They want to fight us, why? We don't want to pull a coup. For what? Dis isn't about a victim or post code war, it's about munchies. They're comin' to jack dis truck.. Obviously they must have gotten some tipoff, Junior. Now let's move out before we get snuffy out here, now. What you're funkin looking at, you snatch? - You bunch of fuckin' faggots! Junior, where you going? What the hell? - What are you doing? Junior: Aaahhh! SSSTTOOPPP!!! What are you waiting for, blood? Man, get back to the meadowbrook. Go! Dat's my brother, man. Are you mad? Man, da's my brother dere... Damn! Uh, uh! Aahh! Kick him! - Fuck him up! [Rager screaming in agony] Bust him! [Screaming continues] Steal my munchies, motherfucker? - Fuck him! I'm gonna kill deem. We gonna do it now, today. We can't piss it off, and kill deem. I think we so do it in a moment. All those fuckin' Souljahz. Oh, wot's dat gonna do, bro? - I.. I.. knew dis weren't the one. Dere's nothing we can do. We're not gonna kill anyone. These guys are reckless, Junior. He was my brother. We know he was your brother, and all that. He was all our brother. We've all lost someone. So what? You wanna go out on some revenge mission, yeah? We are you gonna do, huh? Look at the size of you, man. What's size have to do with it? Eye for fuckin' eye! And it's gonna be fuckin' war. - So be it. It's gonna get way out of hand, all that. I'm about business. I'm not killin' anyone. And you know wot? I'll tell you someting else, lad. I'm definitely not taking orders off no 14 yr old. What do you wanna do? - I want him dead. Let's go see Breezer. - What, and all his Somalies? You daff? What are they gonna do? Send us some wedding videos, and scrap metal? Sweet Boy: Shut up! Crazy: Let's kill the lot of deem, man. Sweet Boy: Wot about the promises you made to your brother? What's the point if you don't protect your own family, bro? I'm not going back to bein' starving. I have... to kill him. Wot do you want? I've come to see Breezer, man. [Whistles] Breezer. Narrating: Breezer. He's who Sweet Boy use to roll with. He's too funny. But he's with some crazy Somaliers now. I'm not gonna lie, dey scare me. Dey into some big shit... Follow me. Wot is dis? - Khat, bro, try. Yeaahh.. Sweet Boy... - Wot's goin' on? Good to see you. What are you doing, now days? - I got some trouble, man. And I need your help.. - Yeah? I like how you look. Yeah, I know. - Come tell me son. Sit. You know Rager, yeah? - Yeah. He got killed today, man. - Fuck. Who? - Fuckin' Tugz. Tugz, da fucker. Wot can I do you for? - Junior wants him dead. Listen, mate. Dese Souljahz... You gotta chat with the olders on the other side of the block. If they ain't listenin', dere ain't nothin' you can do. Unless you want war. And you best get mobilized for dat. I hear dese yungas are mad sticky, mate. Dese are different. Yo, Sweets. Got any munchies? - Not carrying anything man, seriously. Man, I'm starvin'. I tell you once I had a nice fuckin' whip. 30 doors, making me tea every night. Sucking me off. Your man ain't got no whips, you might have been drivin' BMX's. What you know, son? I had it all, mate. You should have seen me. Now I'm swappin' scrap metal for sausages. Now you gettin' them homemade in Clarpton. - It's 'Clapton', blood. Yall sort me out with some of dat fresh pork than, lads? Man look, might could have done that before, yeah. But we got robbed. Dat's why we're here. - What are we gonna do now? Listen... You get these olders on your side. And they'll brush up dese yungas just for the fun of it. Yeah, but we have to find out where they hide first, innit? Sometimes you have to do tings right. Like, go take revenge by yourself. ["HARD" by Breakage starts] "Man are locked in like dem man are ard" "Everybody's locked in like dem man are ard" "I'm that lyrical father Name an MC that spits harder" "Look you really ain't my partner Cos you really ain't my partner" "Ain't got time for muckin around Just know when we're in town we'll take you down" "Get in the back man are gettin around But I'm getting every man addicted to the sound like brown" "Addicted to the sound like crack and its all sold out it's fully packed" "Dirtee Stank I will fully back If a boy try his ting I will pull it back" "It a must, its a must I'll lyrically make a man eat my dust" "I'm a deep pan and you're thin crust Trust me I'm deep with the mic, trust men are hard" "Hard, hard, gal are locked in like dem man are ard Man are locked in like dem man are ard" "Everybody's locked in like dem man are ard Hard, hard, gal are locked in like dem man are ard" "Man are locked in like dem man are ard Everybody's locked in like dem man are ard" "Hard, dem man are soft but us man are ard Spent bare years in the game" "And no we've never been parred A couple man tried it (It, Oh!)" "But they didn't get far In the end its scarred" "Look, this game is a walk in the forest Looking for a bear man," "Has anyone seen one where man I remember guys talking tough" "But I'm still here fam I'm a dan let me make..." [Junior moaning] Where the fuck you been, Junior? Did you get the number of that car? We're in dis together, alright? Breezer said let's go to the men at the Manor and they might help, OK? Let's go. - Come, come. Aaahhh, fuck it. Let's go, c'mon, dog. Fuckin' Craze. Narrating: Beano. Probably the maddest man I've ever met. Never seen one man win a fight against him. He's got beef with Crazer since he left his crew. Nothing much he can do now except kill him. Because Craze is only trying to make an honest livin'. The only thing that saves him is him bringin' Beano beans every couple of weeks. Wot da fuck is dis, son? Wot are you doing up in my Manor? Relax, Beano. Just hoping you would hear me. OK. You've got some grab for us, have ya? Listen, we can do business tomorrow, yeah? First we need something in return. Is dat a fact? - We need to find a wasteman, Tugz. Listen, son. Tell me why I shouldn't just give ya a slap right now.? He killed my brother. Your brother? [Dog growling] Sit down. Fam... Let me tell you a story, yeah? You learn from me 'ere. So listen. When I was a feisty little younger like yourself... ...full of energy, looking up at London like... ...like it was some giant gnash, waitin'... Just waitin' to get mashed. [Laughs] And I thought: "I'm going to grow up and show all dese fools. Show 'em who's got the balls around 'ere." Little tiny dat I was, ya know. [Hocks a lugger] [Burbs loudly] Yaahhh!!! You see, for every action, dere's a reaction. Dey call dat da "Chaos theory". Wot you got to ask yourself is do you want a life of chaos? Huh? Do you want a reaction to your actions? Huh? Sumtin I call "the Caterpillar effect". See, the butterfly effect means, right... you 'ave a butterfly he ain't really brotherin' about the effect 'e might be havin'. But dat butterfly shakin' his wings... unbeknownst to himself... might set off a tornado... half way across da planet. And dat, son, is going to come back on him, one day. Da same way dat tings your doin' now, is goin to come back on you, too. I'll tell you what, Beano... - Sit down, boy! You've got some ill manners. - Yeah, cheeky little twat. And you can shut up and all! Little man... Don't let nobody fuck with ya. But don't go about fuckin' other people, either. Butterfly, pushin' around, flappin' his wings, and chaos. Caterpillar, sits in his sack, messin' with nothin'. Yeah, but that's what we're tryin' to do, innit? See? We're just like you. Is dat a fact? I like you lot, ya know. Yeah, but right now, ya come round, flappin' your wings in my pub. We don't care 'bout no Tiny's gang. We don't care 'bout your beef. But dis ain't about you, and it ain't about deem. It's about me, and my brother! You know, I need your help, man. I like hows you always brings us decent munchies. I ain't gonna have you all up. But... you're still on my toes 'ere. Comin' 'ere asking me to snitch on some little Tiny. Dat's an insult. So... I reckin'... we should let the dogs settle dis. Aahhh... Don't be shocked, boy. Your mutt, takes mine. and I'll tell you where the pussy local squad is at, or... your mutt, gets strung off the top of da roof. put out of 'is misery I say. [Laughs] Fuck dat. Oh, no, no ... Maybe I didn't make it clear. See, dis wasn't a "Yeah... I'd be up for dat", or "No, maybe some other time"... kind of question. It was a "Yes, Beano" kind of question. No, Beano. You can fight me, not my dog. Oohhh!!! I heard you lot was a non-violent lot. Well, I fuckin' tell you what! My dog won't 'ave any trouble doing your dog. Let's go! Give me dat jacket. Come 'ere, give me it! Yo, a deal's a deal! "Son." I ain't no snitch. Go check Papa's Chicken Shop. Down dat way. I know which one he means, come. Little freakin' pigeons. Narrating: Papa. He's harmless. Thinks he's a proper style hood. Just an old man, now. Kickz use to work with "em. Driving his van. He had a good business. Since things went down, he's just running some nasty ass chicken shop. Kickz and Papa go way back. But Kickz owes Rager else, otherwise he would have starved. Excuse me, are your feet tired? - "Excuse me, are your feet tired?" Shut up, you little knob. - Wot? Wot's goin' on, Papa? - Kickz, me main man, brother. How you been, boys? Fancy a bit of rare game? Fresh and hot, KFP. No, we're all right. We just ate.. - Wat the fuck is "KFP"? Kentucky Fried Pigeon, brother. Oh mate, dat's just wrong. - Hey, you got a problem with the fuckin' cuisine? Write to the fuckin' head office. - I'm looking for someone. And who might that be, little man? His name is Tugz. - Never 'ave heard of him. You've heard of the Strictly Murkin Souljahz though, ain't it? Maybe. - Listen old man, Pappa... Tell us what you know mate or I'll fuckin' smash your teeth in, you dirty pigeon bandit. Relax, hard kid. Tell me you're gonna crack nuts with your little boys claw hammer? Where I grew up, we had fuckin' fights the old fashion way, mano to mano on the street. With your fist, and nothing else. That's how beefs got settled back than. You see dese? I had deem knocked out in a scrap when I was 20. I fuckin' picked them up, and I fuckin' pushed deem right back in and I carried on fightin'. Wot are you chattin about, man? I'm chattin' about things you ought to be listenin' to, son. You don't look even hard. Shut up, Pugey. Get busy with the supper, yeah? So, where is all dis violence gonna get you? Youth dese day... They learn how to kill as soon as they get out of fuckin' Pampers. Let's just get to da point, alright? The point is 'ere, I know these little Souljah mugs. But I don't know where they fuckin' hang out. Or Tugz or Ticks... - You're unless, man It's alright. Wot do you want with dese boys, anyway? - He killed his brother. Well, I do know where some of their little Jiselles are now. Oh, you know some of them, mate? Watch your mouth, you fuckin' northern cunt. Now, see one time, they robbed a bunch of knives from the back of the shop. Dis little monk, Pudge, wasn't keeping his eyes open. I see deem trying to leg it, so I chased deem down the road. And I see where they all hang out. Big fuckin' gang of deem. So, where are they? You gotta look for the old Routemaster that still floats around the estates. Aye, aye, aye, ticket. Come on now, 10 for all of ya.. Don't I know ya? - No man, I don't know you, blood. Keep the bloody noise down. So, where are all dese girlz? Just relax. When they come on, I'll talk to deem. Do you think they can resist dis? - You talk proper British shite. I'm out of Buqay`ah. Exactly. Narrating: Sometimes, like I say: "You wake up and you could get killed today". Never thinkin' it might be you doing the killin'. But when you lose someone you love... everything... and I mean everything, changes. [Rapping]: You can't get da girlie... Yo, Yo... You can't get no girlie, girlie. They don't want to be Pali, Pali... I asked Rachel, than I asked Sally, they don't want to go out with a Pakistani... You can't get da girlie! - You little prick. Stop it, man. Wot, dese pricks upstairs? O, my god, da Paper Chaserz. - We're lookin' for someone. I heard you've gone out of business. Junior: Are you deaf? -Wot are you gonna do, son? We heard you never shanked no one.. - We chose not to use violence, dat's all. Well, we fuckin' do, so wot you sayin'? You twat. - Yo, youse know about Tugs anyways? Don't worry about dat. We're looking for Tugz. We've got to settle sumtin. Dat's all you need to know, yeah? Listen man, ain't nobody comin' on my route 'ere, and telling me wot I got to know and wot I don't, dickhead. Either you respect us, or we're gonna do you. Just relax gurlz, all we want is some information. Wait, da ting is here, I heard one of you skets have been mashin' it for deem. Wot? Dat's it. [Everyone talking at once. Chaotic dialog] Get out of the way! Drop dead, you fuckin' whores. Runnin' from some fuckin' cows... Rager got killed here and we did fuck all to protect him, did we? It's hard brother I know, but maybe we should get back, now. Remember wot Rag always said, no killin'. - Yeah, and now he's fuckin' dead. Look, I'm not gonna stop today, no matter wot you or Kickz says. C'mon man, we don't need dese fuckin' faggots, c'mon. Hold up, man, we're comin'. We can't leave him on his own, he's family. Hey, wait up, man. Hey guys, wait up! - Fuck off, man. I want to talk to you. - We don't want to fight or anyting. Wot do you want, man? Relax, yeah? We wanna help you. We're lookin' for Tugz. - Wot about Tugz? Well, I knew youse were lookin' for him, I went and got my gurlz innit. Listen I'm Ree Ree. Dis is my sister Tash. Dat is little Lexy. She don't say much. Dat is Junior. Craze. Kickz. And I'm Sweet Boy. Why you lookin' for him? - He killed my brother. We gotta talk, mate. Why do dey call you Tash? Is it because you've got a tash, sket? Call me sket again, and I'll punch you in your balls. - Wot's dat, wanna give me a man drop? Dey wouldn't fit in dere, mate. - Yet but dey would fit in your mouth, yeah? Wot are you doin 'ere, anyway? Shouldn't you be in some clinic for anorexia? It ain't my fault we're all hungry. And these are my parts, yeah. Would you'd like me being in you parts, you little sket? Fuck you, you ugly scrag. - Stop talkin', man. Just tell me where Tugz is goin' to be goin', than. We're going to come with you because we've got someting to settle with him as well. You guys are cover in manure. - Tasha, just shut up. Wot's he done to you? - Little fucker done plenty. Wot. are you his gurl? - Fuck dat. I was with his cousin. We were cool. He started slappin' me about. So I left him. He didn't like it, did he? Got his friend Tugz to follow me home from school one day and did dat to me. Well that's not very nice, is it? - Little fuckin' prick. Alright, I'm here now, yeah? Manners, we gonna do dis, together, OK? Now wot? Have you finished you little picnic now? Seriously, man, I'm tired, I'm hungry... and my crepes are dirty. I wanna go cotch. Come on, people, we've gotta to go. Narrating: It seems like nowhere is safe. Not anymore. The city has gone feral. All the kids are comin' out. Skets. badmen, rudeways, shotmen... tings aren't safe no more. Dat's how tings are now. Hey wait, wait... Wot's da plan we've got? Hey you need some help you're goin' after Tugz', you need some backup, mate. And who's gonna back you up, you tout? Look at you! Hey, look at you, look at your trainers. When did you get deem, 2005? 2006 actually. - Oh, really, yeah? Hey, dickheads, in case you don't remember, my fuckin' brother is dead! Now, you're gonna stop talking about crepes and fuckin' pussy. Ya all need to fix up, man. I'm not joking about with you no more! Alright, let's go, let's go, move it up, yeah? Where is dis place? - Not far, fuckin' trust me. You gurlz live here? How do you make money? Sell drinks, whatever we can, to try and keep up. You got a light on ya? - Yeah, I got a light, I guess. I'm starvin', man. - We're all out of food here. But... we have got... some Cuban rum, boys! Ah man, crack it open! Who's gonna help us? - Have you heard of the Originalz? Well relax, our cousin's with deem. We'll take you to him later. But for now... Oh my god, a fuckin' spliff! I haven't had a spliff for a long time now. Ah, Junior, come sit down, yeah? When go to the club, it's gotta be after midnight. Hey, where you go, man? - Junior? Junior? Come 'ere you. O my god, you've got fuckin' iPod. Wot is it, a touch or a nano? And wot, you got a PlayStation? - I'd fuckin' murk you for FIFA. It's about Pro Evolution, blood. - No, FIFA. We ain't got PlayStation. FIFA. - Pro Evo, blood. No, FIFA. - It's Pro Evo, blood! FIFA. - Pro Evo. Whatever. - He's a fuckin' weirdo, man. [Plays "IF I HAD CHANGED MY MIND" by Tom Vek] "If I said that we could fly" "Around the world two thousand times" "If I said that baby your smile" "Had taken me by surprise " "If I had changed my mind, would I be here?" "If I had changed my mind, would I be here?" "You groan to passing guests" "Your car has run out of gas" "If I said you're working to hard" "Would you be dere in my mind?" "If I had changed my mind, would I be here?" "Be here?" ["NINJA WE NINJA" Dub by Kalbata playing in background] Wake up. HEY, WAKE UP! Kickz, man... It's time to get up. We gotta go, man. It's time to go. Kickz, Kickz, get up, man! Oye Kickz, you fuckin' knob! Get up! We've got things to do, mate. Ah, fuck you, man. - Come on. Tasha: That's nasty. Narrating: I never thought I would being asking myself: "Am I ready to kill a boy?" Life. It seems to just keep giving you hard questions. If your ready or not, you've got to answer. ["NEXT HYPE LYRICS" by Tempa T] Intro: "Yeah yeah yeah I'm still about (TEMPZ!!!) " "Don't watch the hype" "(MAD! NEXT HYPE!)" "dis is for my fans dem you get me "(NEXT HYPER TUNE!)" "Mans still spittin its a ting you get me..." "What kind of things that you have When I find out don't expect me to stop " "I'll come for the P's that you stack And come for all the food that you blot " "Better hand over the bag Your boys don't wanna see you shot " "If I kick down the door to your flat Dun Know I'll clear out your house on the spot " "(CLEAR!) All the things in your house (CLEAR!) All the things in your fridge" "(SMASH!) All your plates from your rack (CLEAR!) All'a your kids' toys" "(CLEAR!) All'a your CD rack Won't get none of your CD's back " "Drag off your curtain rail from the wall Kick off your HDTV from the stand" "Run up on stairs in to rooms Flip the mattress and search for the cash " "Make man look down the barrel of a mash Its not worth your life just cough up the scratch " "Its to late to lock up the latch I can smell the crow just pull out the batch " "I'm not here to cotch or relax And drink your wine here just pull out the bags" Wot do you want? - We've come to see Whisper. "Pax man straight in his eyes They floored me I was looking at the sky Par! Now I have to go..." Who da fuck is Whisper? "You're not bad you're a mug" Go inside and fuckin' ask. - Fuck off, pretty boy. " ...flying his kite Roll man down on the grass with... " Who the fuck are you, luv? "his friends disperse out of sight from afar I can hear screams from his wife " "Run after man let me draw for his life Bloods pouring I got stains off the knife" "Leave guys dead in the field over night I'm sick when I dream I won't think of them twice" "What d'you know about the allstar pars Don't wanna see man driving his car " Listen mate, they're his fuckin' cousin, yeah. - "with the leng in the car " So you let us in! - Hold on. hold on! "I said "dis aint a PAR!" Smash the window, drag man out the car " "(DRAPES!) Get out the car! If you dont get out the car " C'mon, I ain't got all fuckin' night. "You better not dare me now " Just give him some money "Light up your whip and all of your spars Watch some of them roll out of the car " "Run down the road I'm chasing them far Why didn't they comply from the start " "Tryna hype up on the mic While I spray my bars on the mic " "(SLAP!) Don't hype up on the mic (KICK!) Now who here wants to fight " "Strangle man with the microphone lead Bax mans head with the side of the mic " "Shout at mans face I'm not taking it light Drag man down to the floor that's right " "I have to punch up guys Guys try it with me I don't know why " "Bax! Pax man straight in his eyes They floored me I was looking at the sky" "Par! Now I have to go blind That boy dere I swear he gonna die " "You're not bad you're a mug don't think you're a guy..." Any trouble from you lot, and I'm gonna cut da fuckin' thumbs off your little man Reg 'ere until you squeal. Now, a few rules... "I can hear screams from his wife Run after man let me draw for his life " "Leave guys dead in the field over night I'm sick when I dream I won't think of them twice" If I find out your fuckin' lying, I'm gonna grab all your heads, and I'm gonna fuckin' crack them together. "... that man tryna run over dere Run after man chase man over dere" YOU FUCKIN' UNDERSTAND? "WHYYYY! Straight over dere I locked on the sight now yout's down dere " "So I jumped downstairs Now who here wants to fuck around in here" "Stay down, keep your head to the ground Dun kno I'll shoot off your headtop clear " "No, it was a war last year... " One more fuckin' rule, howevers. "dis year its kickin off right here Dun kno we got the shotgun dere " I'm told, no dogs. - O, shut the fuck up, mate! "Hop the railings and boy off the ting WHYYYY!..." Shut your fuckin' mouth!. SHUT IT!. "Noone see who boyed off the ting Run out the bush and boy off the ting " "I have to punch up guys Guys try it with me I don't know why " "Bax! Pax man straight in his eyes They floored me I was looking at the sky " "Par! Now I have to go blind That boy dere I swear he gonna die " "You're not bad you're a mug don't think you're a guy..." Oh, so I've got to stay outside with the dog, fuckin' stand? Man. ["SIGNAL" by D Double E] "Yo.. Those just comin' into the building... It's Double original" "I just can't help it! Yo! Yo!" "That's very original Never heard that from another individual" "To come across something like that was a miracle." Narrating: Whisper. Everyone has heard of him. The cold, white shark. The original. The only one ever built. Nobody ever fucks with him. Nobody does nothing without his say so. See, if I'm going after Tugz, I need his blessin'. Else he'd kill me, sooner than drinkin' a cup of tea. Tugz is hiding in on his block. But Whisper won't make a move until he gets a good reason. And since Tugz cut his cousin, he's our last chance, now. "That was an experimental Now it's standard on instrumental" "I do it in the rave and everybody goes mental The raving crew turn far from gentle" "So MC's don't get me mental Nut get bust, get sent to the dental" "About you wanna jack my lyrical. " "That's very original Never heard that from another individual" "To come across something like that was a miracle. That's the D Double signal." "That's very original Never heard that from another individual" "To come across something like that was a miracle. That's the D Double signal." Yo, is dat 'im? - Yeah, dat's Whisper. Wot happened to his throat? Years ago a gang of youths tried to kill 'im. Busted 'm, slit his throat, stuck a gun in his 6 month old babies mouth. Robbed 'im of all his money. He hunted deem all down. Beat every last one of deem until they weren't breathin' no more. You want some chicken? Fresh from Jamaica. - What, dat's not pigeon, dat? Dat's no pigeon. Dat's real chicken. "That's the D Double signal." Come on. "That's very original" "Never heard that from another individual To come across something like that was a miracle." "No toleration for imitation Origination equals domination" "That's my solution to a generation" Are you Afrikaan?. - Are you mad? I'll slap you down See, dat right dere, dat right dere "That's my solution to a generation Use your mind on imagination" You just sounded Africaan. - Sound Afrikaan or not. You better shut up and embrace it. You better all embrace it. We are all Afrikaan, baby. "that's my intention Let me have to mention" And I say 'eh eh', you see ... -You don't say it like that. See what I mean dere? You're Afrikaan. You are Afrikaan. "Owrr! Owrr! That's the D..." We are all Afrikaan, baby. Do you want your chicken or wot? "Owrr That's very original" Dat's not real chicken, either. - Don't touch my chicken! "...heard that from another individual To come across something like that was a miracle." "That's the D Double signal. - Owrr! Owrr!" "That's very original Never heard that from another individual" "To come across something like that was a miracle. That's the D Double signal." "That's the D Double signal 100% original" "Newham General Mizz Beatz on production" "Everything is original" My cousins here... I'd do anything for deem. They're good girls. Anything, I'll do. And that includes messing up some youths. Dese youths, what you got beef with... who, I have been hearing, have stepped over the mark anyways. Now, listen up. If you want revenge on dese youths, we've got to get one thing straight. Cause I'll get the boys down dere, and we'll make some mess for ya. But... Come 'ere, listen up. Come 'ere. You're gonna owe me. You're gonna owe me for dis. Were I come from, how I come up on all dis... we have, for all time, operated "tit for tat". So I was always takin' someting back. You tell me, dat you mean dis. Are you certain? I'm certain, man, I'll do anyting.. Just help me find Tugz. ["NO MORE EATIN'" by Plan B] "No More Eatin' For Them Now," "No More Eatin' For Them Now, No More Eatin' For Them Now," "No More Eatin', No More Eatin' For Them Now, " "No More Eatin' For Them Now, No More Eatin' For Them Now, " "No More Eatin' For Them Now," [Music fades] "No More Eatin' For You Now, No More Eatin' For You Now," "No More Eatin' For You Now, " "No More Eatin', No More Eatin' For You Now, Blood " "No More Eatin' For You Now, " [Song Fades, Ends] Junior, are you sure you want to do dis, yeah? Kickz: It's alright people, I'm here now. - Thought you weren't gonna come. Pathetic. Fuckin' lightweight. - Just shut it. I'm here now, init? Let's do dis. So wot? Your cousin is definitely comin', yeah? - Yeah mate, my cousin's comin', don't worry. Hey, listen, it's not too late to back out. We could still go back. Cause I ain't gonna lie, my stomach is hurtin'. - Just shut up, man. Look, dis ain't gonna solve nothin'. Let's just go, yeah? I'm doin' it. Junior, you don't want to do dis, mate. You don't want to get killed the way Rager did. Look, I've got your back, but I wanna help you. - You ain't helping, man! He's got to make his own decisions. So what? The answer is we shank deem or we get shanked back? No, dere ain't no answer. We gotta do wot we gotta do. All of us lost someone we love today, man For Rage's sake, I can't let you do dis, Junior. Well, dis ain't about the rule, and it ain't about wot's right... it's about killing the piece of waste dat killed my brother. He was all dat I had. Kickz: No, man. You got us, blood. Stop being a fuckin' pussy, aye! If you want to be a pussy, go be a pussy somewhere else, yeah. We don't need you here. - Tasha, stop, yeah? Tugz is 'ere. Oh god, let's fuckin' do it people! - Ree Ree, where your cousin, man? He's a man of his word. He'll be 'ere. - It's not too late, we can head back. Well dis here is for real. We ain't got no choice but to be honest, and you know dat. Dis is for Rager. Oh fuck man, look. I'm tellin' you, dis ain't good. - Relax, dat's my fuckin' cousin! Tasha: Ha! Ha! Are you ready for a scrap, boys, ready for a scrap? Oh Dutty, come back 'ere!... Oh, you fucker! You're in my fuckin' playground, now. Where are you going? We're saved! I fuckin' love you, Whisper. Your boy, Junior, he owes me now. Where's Junior? Junior! Fuck! [Begins crying] I'm so sorry, Rager. I'm sorry. I should have done something. I should have helped you. I'm sorry, man. Why did you have to die? I'm sorry I didn't help you. Listen... fam. I'm sorry. You fuckin' killed my brother. - I didn't know, fam. You killed him, and now I'm gonna fuckin' kill you, man. Don't, fam. Serious, dis ain't broke. We can do someting. You could roll with us. We've got peas, fam. You ain't sorry, and I don't want your fuckin' peas, either. I want to fuckin' kill you. - I've got paper man, take it. Just don't kill me, yeah?. I'm sorry. - You're not fuckin' sorry, man! Don't fuckin' keep saying dat word! You know what? Do it than! Fuck you do it! Fuckin' kill me! You know wot, man? You're a wasteman, yeah! You're a dickhead! You're a fuckin', dickhead! [Whispers] You're a fuckin'... wasteman. Yaaaaahhhh...! Narrating: Violence. Da only way of gettin' heard. If you ain't one of us, deem you're a victim. Children hustlin. Children killin. Steppin' on toes, you gettin borad, gettin shanked. Childhood, shee... That died a long time ago. Some days you wake up and think, "Today it could be me gettin' killed." You lose someone you love and think: "Today it could be me doin' da killin'." Life will give you hard questions. You've got to be strong, you've got to be ready. I want to be strong like Rager, make him proud. But wot I really realize is two tings: 1. Keep strong and get on dat paper chase. or you're going hungry, plain and simple. 2. Try to find whatever beauty inside... when livin' in da squalor. Get me? ["WHEN THE SKY FALLS" by Bashy] " It's hard to see it through the pain When you're trapped in this world of survival" "I know my heart will make it through the rain Whenever the sky falls." "Look, we don't need no help or hand-outs paper tin, stack pounds" "Try and hate, violate, boof you're a man down!" "Quit fast, pass the mask them mans are gassed, wow" "why you got snot beef, that's your girlfriend, fat cow!" "North weezy, shanktown Usain man ran down" "There's a mic, and now whipped Batmobile, blacked out" "and if they're getting chased and the dog get's caught, they should have span round" "greatest tattoo'd tear, sad clown, sad clown." "It's hard to see it through the pain When you're trapped in this world of survival" "I know my heart will make it through the rain Whenever the sky falls." "OK look, go hard or go home (yes) get dough or go broke (haha)" "if you're not talking money, don't holla me like I was on vodafone" "them man are sweet, toblerone if you cant make it honestly, keep it movin'! (hustle)" "get caught, lie (ha) Pinocchio! If we're not friends, we're enemies" "you'll get bun, sesame the rest is for the rest," "I'll get mine while you're getting sleep rags to riches after wealth" "I'm a trapstar, ask your gal life's a buffet, help yourself" "got a plan, hard to fail" "It's hard to see it through the pain When you're trapped in this world of survival" "I know my heart will make it through the rain Whenever the sky falls." "It's hard to see it through the pain When you're trapped in this world of survival" "I know my heart will make it through the rain Whenever the sky falls." "(Are you listening?) Look, are you listening? (yes)" "not predator you're prey not one of us, you're a victim" "don't roll with enough mates one or two man and we'll rinse it" "I ain't talking plates you better keep your distance" "this year I want cake call man Mr.Kipling" "starving, hungry, after, munchies escape in slums G" "Oh, I embarrass the country grandpa's called, many stamped" " they fought one, 20 back I'm a, survivor" "so when the sky falls I'm ready fam!" "It's hard to see it through the pain When you're trapped in this world of survival" "I know my heart will make it through the rain Whenever the sky falls." "It's hard to see it through the pain When you're trapped in this world of survival" "I know my heart will make it through the rain Whenever the sky falls."
