 

                        The Shaolin Temple is famous in China and is also a sacred place for connoisseurs of martial arts From the northern Emperor Xiaowen of the Wei Shaoshi Mountain was founded in Dengfeng in Henan Province during the reign of the Ming dynasty Emperor Congzheng emigrated to Quanzhou, Fujian Province and prepared the place for meditation, acts of worship, and practice martial arts later the site was demolished to restore it The descendants of the great Han oficiaies of the previous dynasty Orphans of the places not to be slaves went there to take refuge Under the leadership of a Buddhist Abbot, Zhishan the spirit and temperament of the followers Buddhist ritual and martial arts was practiced If there is nothing to show, get out majesty, on the General Guan Zhi Yuan after my three visits has not issued an homage to the Qing dynasty ... insultanos and ... in my investigation officers recruit rebels to overthrow the Qing government The officers dare to join with the rebels to overthrow my empire we can not afford it No matter who are officers of the previous dynasty or rebellious their families should be exterminated Kill them and they do not escape Kill them all! Yes master! Lady killers! run away, fast! master, be careful! General, are coming Come here Ms. Chang will soon seek help for the official Lu and send him to the Shaolin Temple Please open the door 'm Liuzhu government official Please open the door want to see Mrs. Chang please enter Zhao supervisor, what happened? Mrs. Chang The family was wiped out by the government Guan General Guan asked me to bring it here poor child Lady ... lady, to recompose The family has changed Guan the only thing we can do is protect it General pregunta if you can stay with Lu Haogong If it is not safe then send him to the Shaolin Temple it's just a baby we can not send him to Shaolin Mrs. Chang to cool their grief Can not stay here! We must go Haogong, please do not bother My house is spacious Stay here! no outsiders come here here is safe Lady, do not worry does not bother you. then Please ... is innate and weak start from 1 year will use the refined powder Longgu on his chest then your arteries and veins and your health will be better than normal people and be able to resist and practices long To achieve the most superior skills in martial arts We began with the head Dipan, the Southern style called Dipan northern style called steps practicing for the inner energy and physical strength also illuminates the lower body Master Lu is brutal Shut up! Dan Long of medicinal herbs the physical body becomes immortal where you go, stop Can not escape can not hide in part nenhuna Do not move ... is surrounded Get it Yes cling to tree Daddy, daddy, poor me Tianjin, forgive me I'll send it to Shaolin for what? Mind you, Shaolung I train every day to leave Shaolin I will do the job Well, good memory Daddy, come to Shaolin shortly Wai Ma Ma su pin Zhu Ma Liu Bu Are you approved for today Thank you, master Tianjin remember why you came to Shaolin? I will not forget My dad sent me here for sacrifice When an excellent practicante in Kung fu whatcha gonna do? co ... Please match Leave Shaolin Yes want to match in my favor you come from Shaolin Do not forget that is a secret and I can not tell anyone What is the secret? I accomplish my task to fulfill your desire I do not care Arricam my life I complete the task Well, I'm glad back S The Qing army Master Lu ... Liu Supervisor ... The Qing army are coming ... The Qing army are coming ... Yes, they are by the roadside are coming here ... fast Lu will get Haogong Supervisor tell Mrs. Chang Zhao Yes What had happened? The Qing army is coming For your safety Get out Supervisor Zhao climb the valley notify the Taoist Wucheng lady out the back of the mountain will collect your things Yes Lady, do not worry There is a secret path can not be discovered by the army of Qing If there is any emergency send the boy to Shaolin Madam, Please There is no justice in the world General Guan's family was wiped out only a five year old boy survived Please come here to argue about it Mercy of God have mercy on this poor child teacher, I help there is a tree You see that tree? Yes master What does this tree grow growth in water? should look down on their vitality could grow in the rapids This means that must know all things in the world only the strong can survive Lord, do not say Taoist beliefs want this tree? No. .. Master, I misunderstood just want to say is pretty poor as well Hey boy! master really do not want is a dream plant a tree for example in the garden soon ... just play with it amitahba Master, thank you master Get up quickly it's time to train Good morning, teacher Good morning The strength comes from the pubic region every move must be precise Do not move Good morning, teacher amitahba I'm hungry Repeat the tiger and dragon fist Shaolung What are you doing? Lord, I am practicing un exquesito belly movement of iron Belly hierro Stop Tianjin Yes Come here, mmostre us what you've learned Yes Sir, Shao Qing Liang His son has been there for 20 years Whether they are successful or not, must leave Shaolin Shaoquan is coming Please be careful Ever true to Qing I hope to return as soon as possible Yes She waits. Brother, be careful Are you okay? It does not matter Are you very tired, rest a bit When we have to work hard, there is a limit Every day, you start practicing before dawn It ruins your health Above pause and refresh I'm ashamed of my slow progress No way, he is very good now Yes, take it, enter in your mouth Will recover soon Oh, what's this? It is ginseng that had kept Take it, will help you relax thank you, brother Oh, brother brother Still can not tolerate a bit of deprivation has been practicing for a long time I just helped him recover help himself Brother If not practicing hard not to learn anything The Shaolin Temple is not a place of recreation It has to tolerate and continue Yes The blame is not always so we do not have secrets Tell me, why not make a monk? I. .. I want to be a monk but the Abbot Fang has said I can not I still have something to do back home in the near future so I can not be a monk Tell me, what you call your father? My father's name is Tang Zhichang He has said many things only some are true believe it or not, as you want Please, no more Brother, ... Forget it, let's practicing kung fu together tomorrow morning Students. the nine who now ended the course of the temple of Ta Mo Now let them stay in the temple of Lo Han First, they must pass 36 tests then can enter the line of 18 men of bronze It should only learn practicing I hope to work very hard Work hard and one day will succeed Thank you, master Again, slow down Tongzi Jiao The left point The point RIGHTS The clavicle sign it with your finger Man Qi Zhang Man Jiu Mei Throat ...Well... One by one No need for more practicing To A pity, must work very hard from now on Brother ..., are you okay I'll lay continuously see how you solve take it as a reference to improve their skills You can not equivocate you know. "Right. Thousands of arrows against your body Brother Brother come in line with the 18 men of bronze tomorrow you know. knew I want to prove Would you like to come? not finished the 36 pruebas We will not succeed It is not possible I am confident trust is not enough Brother The big question is its ability Otherwise, you will lose your life Brother, I will go along with Shaolong Yes, together Yes have confidence to pass I wish them success build a merciful heart Live or die depends on the destination we Yes Brother, I'm a bit sick and nervous Be calm, be better Daiqi, Shaolong Brother Hurry back Brother Daiqi, let me go with Shaolong But I ... know, when they risk their lives Let me go, proof later yes we Yes, already entered in the line of 18 men of bronze we yes everyone who enters the line of 18 men of bronze must depend on its ability propia No help from other brothers Or otherwise, can die in there For those who have no confidence to pass, go back now Think about it Punhoo dragon Brother, let me go and look carefully primero yes Well, now Brother, now you Yes show their ability Please let me go in line with the 18 men of bronze prove their fighting skills yes Now go to the bell Hit the bell with his hands Yes passes Thank you, master Pass ability is not very good but as the ability to work hard skull passes Thank you, master Lo Han corridor Douzi room According passes Thank you, master please, it's too hard Brother, you okay? Brother, can not do Pull yourself Brother, can not do Come on, we came out here Brother, be patient the next time will be better Well, Kneel ... It deserves to know his own ability You should not enter I wanted to try it I think she wants to die Brother, it's my fault Do not act like a woman, hate it Practiquemos hard, or be here the rest of your life Practiquemos and study books The secret Lo Han Fist Brother What is it? "Look!" The secret Lo Han Fist Lo Han's fist is the highest phase of Shaolin Fist Where did you find? Ceiling Sleep Please do not make noise "Be quiet. Stop, do not let go Behind them are my Yes Sister, we want to live Must die amitahba Liang Shaoqing here, sir Tell me if you got or not No, it's all my fault did not find anything after searching for more than 10 days Finally, I found purpose mei I am waiting for news Who gave the order? I, sir should kill you Please forgive me, please, miss me Zhentian Yes throw it away Let Yes Lord, I guarantee I can get in 5 days to mend my mistakes please believe me Lo Han strikes at the bell The birds return home the virgin loves Guanyi However, the Shaolin Temple is the holy place of Buddhists He became the center for people anti Qing Many rebels are there to learn kung fu They will oppose the government when they graduate Recently a secret of the Shaolin fist was found in We spent a lot of money to get this treasure and the secret of the handle Lo Han From now on, we can practice hard Yes Shaolong, is the second time that you enter on line 18 of You should have success Or otherwise you can die in there Understand? understand Zazi Jue Pass Thank you, master teach in shaolin Not only the attack but also to tolerate Now here are my 18 blows Your life depends on your own ability Yes On we go. you can spend Thank you, master Brother Port thousand pounds Brother, can support the door with arms and waist Brother, teach me Observe. Take care, brother Take a step Control your breathing Brother, are you okay the entry of the sky In front is the dragon boat To pass, we take the boat In burn Control your breathing is fast and stable Observe. Brother, you are wounded Yes, very painful, at least in twenty years had not experienced anything like The dragon is the signature for students of Shaolin Brother, cheers It's nothing, brother, it's your turn Well, Brother Brother, the boat retreated to the original place Brother, do not worry you wait Qigong to use the inner strength, be quick and stable Yes Brother, I did Well, get out Yes Brother Brother, cheers We brother amitahba teachers teachers Tianjin, Shaolong You did all right cheers for your graduate Deven know Every year, ten people try to pass the line Only one or two can Come, stand up Abbot is waiting for you Thank you, maestro So long, so much deprivation A successful change The outside world is evil I hope you serve your country and people as a reward for us Let us remind you, master Keep the rules in mind You break it, God is our witness Well, well, cherish your future Return first to the house Thank you for your teachings, teacher Should be aware that not always will be higher Do not act recklessly Farewell, master Hey Chuying has a great technique beware Yes Go now! Brother, the Master said Hey teachers fought for 20 years Chuying but could not defeat him Hey Chuying can have an exquisite technique now Is it possible? Perhaps Strange, there is nothing here Yes, it is sterile No, I remember very clearly My grandmother always brought here within a month and a half will meet in Andong yes Brother, this is the home of my grandmother he is looking Thanks. To, me Shaolong Tang Oh, Shaolong You're Uncle Liu? Yes You must have suffered much finished uncle, where is my grandmother? ... ... with the memory of the grandfather I could return as soon as died last year in September ... Qu? This Muerta My grandmother, she ... Is dead I was thinking about you before you die Avo, I'm sorry Two years ago, I could not go through the line 18 I could not return in time Avo ... Sorry! Wait here I'll show you something 'Yes, ma'am. sending him to Shaolin to learn kung fu must work hard Do not go if they fail Let me help you No, please sit down You're the only member who was Guan Tang is not my nickname? His nickname is Guan, his name is Guan Long His father was General of the dynasty Guan Zhiyuan As if to deny the sobmeter was assassinated by Hei Chuying was saved by ... chief of the guards of General Wan After hiding it for four years his grandmother finally sent to Shaolin To escape the army of Qing and learn kung fu so it can do the revenge of his father Look, here is a letter from his father bleed Dad, Mom This is the sword of his family Look, this man seems nice be careful Sorry! What are you doing? Nine flowers Hey, sir. Please Hey ... please come Lord, please come inside for here, please Please feel Hey ... You, who are you that desea? what you want? Well, any dish that is good? Yes, roast pork, baked fish Pork chop, fried pork chop and pork Chandler, Chandler Yes, I will Sir, what happened? Look, what kind of wine you are selling? Wine with ant Oh, the ant ... ant ... ant wine Look, there are a few ants inside, drink it No. .. gives me to drink and not drink? bring me another wine, fast Yes... Hey, mate, do not you see? She spilled wine on my Oh, sorry, the glass has no eyes I do not enganhe Well, calm down I can not asustar Sir, Lord, do not be angry We are friends, keep calm Sir, Hey, wait. Want to start a fight? Have you been watching?" when I fight, I can not stop I will fight to death Lord, we will talk over Do not be angry knew that he fled Lord, please do not fight Lord, let us speak hablar we are friends, not be angry Sir, Sir, Look, I wanted to fight are the Yes, I am, why? Brother Brother Hey, buddy do not take seriously Went up and want to start a fight have not started yet forgotten Brother, too Forget Forgot your primary assignment is we we will be ... Hey, wait. Do not forget that your life is mine Download I said, it's not over Brother, look! Rowers, we cross the river ...Well... Rowers, please depriessa, we rush Not a bird in the mountains not a man on the roads Only one velhoo a boat fishing in a river Please come Accordingly, we need a rest entem, to enter, please! Serve customers! Sir, please sit down Lord, come in please Gentlemen, do you want? follows us like a ghost! sir, something to eat? Five vegetarian dishes ...Well... a goddess of iron cookware Accordingly, a time Grocer go, go! Sir, a rooster iron pot Oh, cock of iron, sir Our shop is open for more than thirty years but never sell something called the Iron Rooster take a long time here Did not give me a glass of water but away from the chairs for them dinhero is your most valuable? The has a different life than me? Lady, do you mean? The branches can tell your fortune The pen can decide your life Come, come, come If so, reward him otherwise break off Sir, you taste? I can predict their future life change the bad to good Oh, this cabalheiro! Look, you have a long life It will be rich, very rich! Iron pen They have to predict your life, your life is mine Life depends on the destination not a man will be serviced with a fortune of a good man Come, come, come, let me predict your "Careful." high I said His life is in my hands Let me decir now you will die today This piece of jade, this is a half dragon the other half of the phoenix It was the hand of his future wife Xiaoyun Lu If you find some day Hey Kill Chuying together was right, my life is Who are you? the owner of your life Give me It's going too far Lord, here is Please take your chopsticks Do not touch harms people Be careful the next time Or each other so you will lose fingers Yes, yes ... well, not your Asunto can go now! Yes Please, sir amitahba You're too modest, please Brother Shaolong is you you also left Yes was very annoying when he left also came out well It's wonderful We can go together then Kaifeng Left alone? Yes, only I nearly died in the sixth entry Now I'm fine The dragon ardiente is marked on my body Also This is your future sister in law this is the brother who so want Brother, how are you? ...Well... The older brother is also here Really? Where? 741 01:15:46,038 - 01:15:46,936 Here Brother I am happy to see it Please ... Brother, also had success happiness, Daiqi I'm not as good as you still need my guide Do not be too modest, sit you primero Brother, please feel yes Sit Are you all right? What's wrong with you? Nothing, no matter Painful? just a small wound No, you are very serious, brother Brother, was lucky this time This is a poisoned arrow When I left the Shaolin elder brother travel to Andong I did not expect someone on the way Have you discovered who he was? I suppose that is one sent by Ching Why are you looking Qing? I..." Brother is hiding something? tell us Brother, I ... treat me like a stranger! We grew up together In these twenty years, live together We're like real brothers If you have any difficulty I help you Now you have caused serious damage still want to stay Brother, do not worry Accordingly, no mean place the medication twice a day take the medicine continuously Brother, do not be angry with me No, could not Big brother, Lady Lu, me gotta go I have to go to Loyang Please take good care of Shaolong Brother, please do not go is not that you want I do not mean it to keep it out of this not want to cause problems cause me problems? do you take me for? If one day need your help may be afraid to have problems? No, could not So I? Brother, please forgive me My father is Zhiyuan Guan Hey assassinated by order of Qing Chu And now, they sent people to kill me We live and die together No matter, will not be afraid Brother, do not worry Brother, will help you Brother Quen are you? Shit! Do not run hold it, do not kill my brothers show yourself, do face to face Oh! poisonous pins catch you Lung my fault no matter I hope we die together Not until they make revenge Oh, Daiqi He is, Daiqi ! Big brother Brother, are you Why try to kill him? Yes, sent by the Qing Why? Why I do this to me,? sent by the Qing, is it not? Tell me Escapes you! I do not want to kill you, will you ! Brother, was damaged by the poisonous pins Brother, please give it to Shaolong Brother, Brother, Brother Brother Brother, why are you so mean to me? when he was four years I was sent to Shaolin by my father ignorant but to obey my father Yes, we know I have to do even revenge by my parents I will go to fall festival in Loyang Brother, how do you know? Hey Chuying have the secret of Lo Han How could? I gave him His martial prowess is superior Be careful -Who is this? My father is ... Oh, brother! brother ... Stay away, Stay away from ... Fly, come out from Now, run away, turn away from Have you heard? Go ... Flee Here comes ... we high, Hei Chu Ying's there? high, who are you? Lung Guan, my father is Zhiyuan Guan murdered by you After being twenty years at Shaolin you can not escape death! Who are you going to die Hey I'm the real Chuying They want to kill me? I'm not afraid can not kill 5 Brother, what is? She waits. None is good Remember the motto of the Tiger Yes we Long, look! What is the real? Come, take revenge, come! Ousan get in Loyang buried it in Death Valley On we go. yes Shaolin kung fu is not a challenge for me Brother, Lo Han tricks Brother, let us virgin worship Guanyin Lo Han strikes at bell, Slope of the Tiger One hundred birds return home Tiger and Dragon Fist His vital point is your throat Attack the throat Tianjin, must remember his greatest skill is the sword of Heilong the only way is to use an ax Jingang to prevail on his sword Heilong Use the buzzer gold and theme for the tiger to kill him Follow me to the capital let them live in comfort for the rest of your life Something repellent! Brother, let me kill him Big brother Now the tiger's mouth, do not dream the life Lemma d tiger Yes Skin of God crosses the sea Back to the center Troops from the sky Brother Brother Brother, because I sacrificed This was the only way to kill Hey Chuying Brother, Brother, can not die I can die, now my duty Big brother Big brother Big brother, What was your duty? My father is the Killer who saved him this year Wan was the general? Yes feel these years not be able to protect your family After this, convinced his grandmother to send him to Shaolin In the years that I sent to Shaolin He also sent me He wanted me to protect you with my life until you take the life of Hei Chuying To kill that son of a bitch for our families Brother, why do not you tell me before? No, I could not tell the secret Or otherwise, had been killed Big brother Now my duty I. .. I can die in peace Big brother, Older brother, older brother Older brother, older brother
