 

                        Master, the three youngsters are still outside. It's already the fifth day. It's raining heavily. If they don't go, they'll fall from exhaustion Yes. Ask the masters here for a discussion Those 3 guys came for martial arts They've knelt outside for 5 days. Though we don't teach outsiders, They're determined; rules can be changed. What do you think No. Great Master is still in the chamber. This concerns the temple's reputation. We ought to make the decision carefully. You're getting weak! Maybe you should go back. I must learn in Shaolin how to take revenge I'll stay or die. Are all the masters here, aware of the fact that... we've knelt there for 5 days They know it. They're having a meeting about it. Can't be decided till Great Master's out. Sister Wumei, You should meditate with me in temple Because of your student Miaozuihua, I'm dealing with Wudong... hopefully to avoid a massacre. I understand your idea. I'm afraid that Miao's son, Fang Shiyu... won't give up. I've thought about it. Calamity is sure; question is how to avert it! Shaolin martial art has to be smooth It has got to be all pervasive Not stopping even during tough times Now I should go out from the chamber. The Great Master is out. Great Master, the 3 youngsters are here I'm aware of that I thought about the temple's future inside. Learning martial art is forbidden by law, Shaolin martial arts will come to an end Soon there'll be great damnation I just realized after the heavy rain Though the martial arts here is strong... it's tough, shielding the government's attack. To preserve the Shaolin MartiaI Art, we have to spread it out to people, so that it won't be lost through time. To ensure that it carries on... we have to get more outside students. Heixin, open the door of the temple, Let the 3 young fellows in. Great Master, if we do this... anyone can get in and out of this temple This sacred place will be ruined We have no choice. Stand up I won't if you don't accept me. Come in first and we'll talk. Fong Shiyu, Hu Heigan, Hung Xiguan As students, you must follow the rules You can't go out until you've learnt it all You've knelt outside for 5 days you guys are really determined Since you've got into the tempIe, you must toss aside your hatred for now. If you don't follow the rules, you're out. Manyue, lead them to the South Garden Yes. Come, let's go. Dezhong Dezhong Dezhong Miss Yan Yongchuen... is an old friend. I'm meeting her here. She'll take us to a fishing village nearby we'll eat and take a rest. Yongchuen,they're my good brothers Hu Dedi, Li Sekai, Fang Dahung, Ma Caoxin, MaFuyi For the foundation of lord Zhen, we're the only ones left. Hiding at Miss Yan's village is fine for now where else do we find sheIter in this vast worId Lord Zhen sent us to contact Shaolin... Rebel Qing and restore Ming Dynasty We can go and stay at Shaolin temple I agree. I've heard... Shaolin temple is taking in outsiders I think we won't be rejected. Fuyi, you don't wish to go there It's not Iike I have a choice. I'm just thinking, For those who join the Qing Dynasty, They're rich and doing weII there. MaFuyi,lwhat's your point What did I say We're the only ones left to do this. Don't argue anymore. Dedi, you know how to get to Shaolin This is quite a good idea. My teacher Wumei is in chambers there. I can take you there. Let's go to Shaolin Temple. We've knelt for 3 days, we didn't even see a single monk Lin Guanrau, I'm leaving. It's ridiculous! Don't care even if I were made God inside I don't think it's easy to get in Shaolin. Master. You have to kneel if you want to learn. Master, do you remember me I've been here and met the GreatlMaster. I had come from Taiwan last time... Please come in. They can go in, why can't I? They're here to see Great Master. We're too. We want to be his students. Look at that guy. Staying in Shaolin temple for 3 years, we became chefs. Careful not to fall in and ruin the food Aren't you hungry? My stomach is rumbling However we can't eat this rice. Is it poisonous? Why don't they just let us in This is to test how determined we are. Please go back. We came here to learn. What's up You need to suffer a lot to learn here... way beyond starving for 3 days. You can't even tolerate this, don't even talk about martial arts Forget about getting into the temple. You always have good thoughts. I'm always wiser than you. Shaolin Ten StyIe Fist set You've done it for some time, show me. Master Master, sorry, I'm late. Don't come if you're going to be late. Master, I won't do it again. Master, I've been here for a long time, but I haven't learnt anything. PIease have mercy on me. Tiger style. Crane style The 2 styles have lots of variations You're not as hard working as he is. That's enough. Go make fire in kitchen. I haven't got it yet. Everyone has different potential. I ask you to light fire, you do so. Can I get both styles by making fire? How do you know you can't? When did you come here? Just now. How long have you waited outside? I didn't wait. Fang Shiyu. Fang Shiyu. Don't be lazy. Just making fire, why does it have to be me? Tiger style I'd rather be killed than be humiliated Please go back. Master, they're Zhen Chengong's people They're wanted and are not yet monks Staying here, the government will notice You mean we should kick them out? Tell them They are Zhen Chengong's people change into monk apprentice's clothes Yes. How many people still want to get in? only 3 left. They're determined. Hope they're really here to learn. They all are. Manyue, help them to get up. Yes. Go, I'd rather die if I can't get in. Buddha, please have mercy. We're new here. I'm Fang Shiyu. Huang Xonghan, Lin Guangrau,Zhu Dao It seems you've suffered a lot. Finally I got my wish fulfilled. Brother Fang is in the temple. You must have learnt a lot already. It depends. I've been making fire here. Lin Guangrau, Zhu Dao, go to the library. Huang Xonghan, go to the kitchen. Good. You're my co-worker now. Learning to be a good chef isn't that bad. Can martial arts be learnt in a library? Who knows We're here now; Should be okay, I guess We'd better get some sleep Gotta get up before dawn. Can't learn anything if you're late. Taking care of the books is important. only one person can be in charge. I'll teach body-lifting to the other Who would like to take care of books? Zhu Dao, please give me a chance I'll be grateful to you my whole life You have to open all the books. Then, flip the pages constantly. Do you understand? Yes, I understand. You follow me. Master, there're no words in the book. It's just whether you can or cannot see I observed you when you just got here You've got potential for body-lifting Thank you, master. Tie it on. Each weighs 15 catties each, there is 60 catties of iron Don't take it off until I say so. Jump. Don't stop jumping. Have you just been making fire all along? Not really. What then? Cooking people for eating! Can you get out of my way? You're so unreasonable. Nothing is with reason here anyway He's not learning anything here. Don't care about him. If you don't keep stirring, you'll be hit if the congee gets burnt Even masters and Shaolin monks everybody got hit before, really Master, I'm having a hard time here, can you please help me out? The congee is burnt! Keep turning the pages, don't be lazy. Turn Jump Master, I won't be lazy again... Don't give me a hand oh my, I won't be lazy again! Look, am I doing it right Brother Wu, how do you do the crane styIe? What martiaI art should we learn here? Great Master knows our potential... and strong points, you shouldn't ask me I should learn the Tiger and crane style. Is it wrong to ask again? The rule says we can't teach each other You're not a good pal... In the garden over there, Hu Dedi, Cai Dezhong, the 6 guys, They're practicing there, let's see.. Let's go. I can't feel my legs anymore. Are you still going? It's the same for me, look.. You're just drying books, how come? I think we're still gaining something. What are you guys doing here? Go on What are you doing/ Don't you want to do martial arts/ I'll continue to practise. What's the matter here? Brother Ma, this is the Tiger style Don't under estimate it. Come on. Stop. We can do it again if you want. I'll definitely come Admitted that Fang Shi Yu can't beat you someday, you might not be his match Good, I'll look forward to that day. You be careful. Let's go. Master, every night at this hour, you'll come and teach me? I don't care about him. I'll be waiting here anyway. I almost learnt body-lifting. Where is Lin Guangyao Maybe he left after he was through Get down. Your Majesty Gu Beizi General Shin, how are you? I'm good. It must be tough for you in Shaolin. It's an honor to work for the king and you. The king hates Shaolin temple. I've heard, since lastyear, they took in lots of outsider students. The king was angry when he heard. Yes. Since last year, lots of outsiders got in. Even now,there's a group every month. about 10 to 18 people. These outsiders, are they good? All of them are strictly chosen, If I want to get rid of Shaolin temple, what do you think I should do? For all these years, I've been thinking about this matter. Shaolin has a good foundation We almost got the whole world why can't we defeat Shaoin temple? Gathering the soIdiers isn't a bad idea, but maybe among the monk apprentices, we should have spies. Also, utilize my status in the temple to go against the smarter ones. I think it'll be easier that way. You've been in Shaolin for a long time I really long to see Shaolin martiaI arts You want to test my ability? No, I wouldn't dare to Shaolin martial art is great, we have to cleanse them thoroughly. May I be excused Come and see me whenever there's chance. Stop there. Don't chase. Even if you get there, you won't win. He'll kill if he's forced. May I ask who are you? You two were monk apprentices before Yes, I'm Hu Dedi. This is my best friend Cai Dezhong. I'm Wu Mei Master Wu Mei Great Master asked me... to practise here till the right time. Seeing you tonight is indeed a sign What do you usually practise? I practise 3-sectioned staff. I practise fists. I'II teach you fist and whip set But after you've learnt it, you have to work for me. Thank you, master. What can I do for you I only had 2 female students all my life Miao Zuehua and Yan Yongchuan Miao has followed me for a long time. Her husband was killed by one of WuDang's men They have a son, Fang Shiyu I've heard he is in the temple now. That's right The ruIes of Shaolin temple are strict. He's urging to take revenge, if he disobeys the rules in Shaolin, please help him out. Yes, we will. Yan Yongchuen is my new student. Before I can teach her anything, I was asked to come here. Yan Yongchuen is my good friend. Good. There wiII be damnation. Maybe I can't see you after that. After you leave the temple, you must teach this fist set... to Yan Yongchuen. Yes, master. This fist set is designed for girls. It's emphasis is on close attack, and can hurt people at close range. Even on a small table, they can see who's the winner. once your enemy gets close, they can't win over you. Zhu Dao I have something to tell you. Come. Yes. Master, how can I go up without stairs Can't you just jump up Jump I don't know whether I can make it. Master, I... Your body-lifting has got foundation. Keep practicing till you don't leave any marks on the books Just put in more force, you can easily jump to the top. Come, let's go and see Lin Guangrau Master, you mean I'm better than... He can't win you even with out the iron Winners can't win everything, losers won't lose it all. Got it Yes, I understand. Crane style I'll challenge Ma Fuyi again today. Certainly beat him this time The shadow on the wall last night, showed me the whole Tiger-crane style It's too bad I never know which master he is I think you guys are better than me. They're adding more iron on Lin's leg Zhu Dao is even better, his body-lifting is getting higher There's no need to talk about Wu Heigan. You've learnt the Tiger-crane style It's only me, I've only cooked for a whole year... and learnt nothing. Even if I'm bad, that's enough punishment You came again, not afraid of being hit How many times have you been hit? Not too much, only once amonth. just 17 or 18 times. Good, once more tonight. I'll be hit again. Stop. Master. It's just testing skills, why hit so hard? Hard, that's nothing. That's nothing Yes, I was hit 17 or 18 times, everytime is like this. It's only his first time. Fang Shiyu, who allows you to misbehave Me, misbehave I fight with him every month, many people know. Get out! If I see it again, you'll be hit and be kicked out of here. MaFuyi, I've been watching you. Follow me. Yes. I'm thinking that... MaFuyi is sneaky. It's strange that Master Heixien... favors him a lot. Master Heixie You said we should follow the flow Though Shaolin's foundation is strong, still hard to fight the Qing troops, right Master. I just need to speak it out. I think you're not used to the life here, you aspire a luxurious life style, right? Good. There is luxury in front of you, only if you'll do what I say. Master. Don't tell this to anyone. Come here whenever there's a chance, I'II teach you alone. Yes. The last step is called ''Flying Dragon'' Good. Dezhong's fist set is ready. After it's passed onto Yan Yongchuen, let's hope she promotes it. She's smart. She won't disappoint you. They just told me about Master Heixien and Ma Fuyi. I want some advice from you. You're just too suspicious. I shouldn't say too much. Great Master understands everything. Bad time cannot be avoided; instead of fighting, just follow the flow So, I don't ask and I listen much, waiting for the badtime to be over. PIease take good care of yourselves. Yes. Huang Xonghan, come to Great Master Room out of Lin ,Zhu, and Huang Huang has got the most potential, but he's not calm enough. So he needs to be trained in the kitchen Now, it's time. You should teach him Shaolin Staff set Yes Now, even you're the teacher, He may surpass you in the future. Great Master, you mean I ... Shaolin staff is soft yet powerful. It's hard to get the balance. For the past 2 years, He's stirring congee with the staff, like drawing circIes He controls his arm very well. Finally, I understand why you did that. Catch this. Why did you wake me up at this hour? You forgot why we're here Never. I'm here to learn martial art. You and me need to take revenge. I think we learnt enough for that. I've mentioned about leaving, but it seems the masters won't agree. We... We'll force our way out. But... in that Wooden Men Alley, can we fight our way out I don't know. That's why I'm here to talk about it. I've made up my mind. We have to sneak out for revenge. We can't let anyone know. Let's do it. We'll fight our way out tomorrow. This Wooden Men AIIey seems normal. once you're in, you'll know about it. oK. I'll go in. You switch on the machine, I'll report. Who got inthe alley Fang Shiyu, Wu Heigan. Someone went into the alley. Must be them who seek revenge and went into the Wooden Men Alley Fang Shiyu Let's check it out. Let's go. The machine has been switched on. It seems they haven't done it yet. It's a sin to enter by force in the alley. You hide inside the alley with MaFuyi Have no mercy. We must keep them here no matter what. This is Master's order. Don't hesitate. one who shows mercy, will be a betrayer. Hurry up! Lead them to hide in the secret passage. Yes Which way should we go We're here already, whatever. Each of us picks one. Go! U-turn road Go back or you'll suffer. Thanks for the advice, but I need to go out for revenge. Have mercy, Buddha. What's happening inside the alley Master, please give us advice. Go back. Fang Shiyu. Fang Shiyu, you still have today Brother Ma, just ask them to return. I want him to suffer. Master Heixien said that... it doesn't matter if we kill him. Why don't you come and heIp Go. Fang Shiyu ,you deserve it. Watch out! Let's block him from the front. Brother Ma, you want to kill him or are you just foIIowing the order What rubbish! Master. How is it Fang Shiyu, Wu Heigan are inside. Then we... Brother Li, Brother Fang, Father Ma How about we go into have a look,too oK. Master, please have mercy. Master, please give us advice. He wants to kill me. Entering the alley doesn't deserve death. There's ''U-turn Road'' in the alley It's to give people a chance to go back. Shut up! You ignore rules of the temple. Master is powerful in martial art, Please advice us, we want to help. Let's go. Come on Little master, I must leave Shaolin. Why did you bring me here? Crawl out from here, you can get out... just near the exit of Wooden Men Alley. You ask me to crawl out from dog hole A great guy should be flexible. Besides... there's something wrong with Heixin, You can't stay in the temple anymore. Thank you for your advice. Hit me here with your fist, harder. Why? I have my pIan. Come on, quick. Run. Quick. Go fast Fang Shiyu, time for you to die! Though you could get past 8 wooden men, you can't get through me, the last stage. I won't die. Brother Ma, he's not likely to get out, how about stopping the machine? No.Just let him die in the alley, to warn the people about coming in here. Master, please advice me. Fang Shiyu, quickly get out. Thanks for your help. See you. I'm still alive! What is this pIace? We're out of Shaolin Temple. These men besides Ma Dedi, all helped Fang and Wu to get out. Please punish them hard? oK... I'II take your suggestion Good. Each of you, face the wall for 3 months. Wu Dedi. Zai Dezhong. Le Sekai. Fang Dahong. Ma Chaoxin. Zhu Dao. Huang Xonghan. I thought Master Heixin is practicing You think it's not fair, do it for 6 months Manyue is aIso one of them. No, I'm not. I forced Wu Heigan to see Great Master but he's powerful and good, he hit me and then he ran away. It hurts... Manyue, a monk can't lie. I didn't lie. You didn't make the right judgement, sweep the library floor for 3 months. Thank you, master. Little master, it's almost 3 months; In these 3 months, I'm bored to death. They're still on their punishment. It's good that the new comers talk about... what Wu and Fang did in Guangzhou. Little master, C'mon hurry. Get a rope and pull me up. You don't need a rope. You'll be free if you have no burden. What burden am I carrying I could hardly walk when I got here. But now, I've almost forgotten Master, can I take off the iron tiles? Fine Huang Xonghan, it's you! It must have been tough for you. Let's go. Can't stand this place anymore. I'm here to tell you something. All the suffering one bears does pay off What's up Fang Shiyu is in his home town He killed his enemy Lui Laohu. Wu Heigan is in Guangzhou. He's a good fighter there. Someone might come to check anytime. Go on Tomorrow is the last day anyway Talk to you then. oK. Talk to you then. Your Majesty Everyone here is one of us, you can say what ever you want. Yes. The king gave me the ''Zhennam'' army, plus Dezhang's best artillery If we can't destroy Shaolin temple, I'll have no face to come back. The monks will sacrifice to defend, Can't defend for a longtime. our army is as fast as lightning won't even give them a chance to rest. We'll open the door once the army's here The army posted at the front door... will be led by Gu, Qin, Dezhang That way the power could be focused I'll poison the monks discreetly The monks will be too weak to retaliate After everything's done, you'll be appointed as General. Thank you,your Majesty. Can't tell anyone until we're there, so that Shaolin won't be prepared. Yes. Yes What's the matter The other night outside Heixin's room, remember seeing a masked feIIow Just a while ago I again saw that man It seems they put something in the well Could it be poison I didn't see clearly. Is he Master Heixin I need to inform the Great Master. Master Heixin is a senior of the temple. We're just being a bit suspicious. How can we tell Great Master That... Just tell the close brothers, Watch out, everybody. What happened Come here. Many of Qing Army soldiers walked past! I wonder where they're going? Let's corner one and ask about it. Where are the soldiers going? You betrayer. Look at me, I'm just a citizen. We're going to Shaolin temple. You liar. That's not true. You're not punished yet for leaving you have guts to come here again! Master, this is true. The Zhennam Army of 4000 soIdiers, led by Manguei King to destroy Shaolin Qing army is at the bottom of the hill I'm afraid they'II attack. I did know that damnation is inevitable Hope I couId at least have half a day, so the spirit of the temple can be kept Great Master, Please evacuate everyone Shutup. Great Master, one more thing; on our way here, we inquired of the troops We had heard that, in Shaolin temple... there're spies from earlier on. What are you doing You are the spy! Run, quickly I'll go in; come after you finish with him of course. Great Master. The army has got in, we... We got poisoned by the betrayers, we lost our power, we'II depend on you. Be sure to promote Shaolin martiaI arts Spread it wide throughout the country. I've decided to die here. Great Master... I've already decided. Run, go on! Shaolin is finished. Surrender or die, or you'll end up like this monk. Have they surrendered? So, you're the betrayer, you poisoned us! Master, do it, get rid of one more obstacIe. Go. Get the artillery here. Yes. Ma Fuyi is the traitor. Don't let him escape Go on. Catch him Stay calm, we'll fight our way out. The General is trapped up there. Get the archery troops here. Yes After him! How heavy are you About 120 catties. only 8 iron tiles. What are you saying If I can't go out, I'll die here with you. You... Shoot the fire arrows Run. Run. Shaolin is finished, but the martial art lives on. We're planning to go back to our hometown, heading east of Guangdong. and contacting survivors who escaped this. We'll go north to make some connections... for the next plan to rebel Qing Dynasty. Let's go.
