 

                        The events I'm about to relate began a fortnight ago. In a grim old house perched high on a cliff on the west coast of Scotland. This singular structure is known as Driercliff House. Gathered there for dinner were the seven members of a most extraordinary club called the Good Comrades. Into this unique gathering came their melancholy housekeeper, Mrs. Monteith bearing a message for Ralph King, a retired barrister. King received it casually. When they saw the contents, the Good Comrades took the whole thing as a joke but their housekeeper was right, it was no laughing matter. For on the following night... Ralph King died horribly but this was only the beginning. A few nights later as the Good Comrades gathered to drink a final toast to their departed member... Mrs. Monteith entered with a second envelope. This time addressed to Stanley Raeburn. In his day a distinguished actor. This time you may be sure there was no laughter. These men were afraid and their fear was justified. For once again the message proved to be a portent of death. It was ten days before Raeburn's battered body was recovered. Hum, tell Mr. Chalmers what do these envelopes contain? In the first case, seven orange pips, or seeds. In the second case six. And the number of orange pips refer to the surviving members, a grim warning, hey Holmes? Looks like murder. Not necessarily, Watson. A moment ago you referred to this club as extraordinary, why? All of the members are past middle age, retired and without near kin. Six months ago they formed this club here in London and promptly left for Driercliff, the ancestral home of a Mr. Bruce Alastair, their eldest member. Nothing there remarkable about that, sounds rather friendly as a matter of fact. The remarkable fact is that all seven of these men appear to have but one thing in common. Huh, well what's that? Elementary, my dear Watson, each is worth a great deal more dead than alive. That's right Mr. Holmes. How did you guess? My dear Mr. Chalmers, you represent the Association of Insurance Underwriters, you're worried about the untimely deaths of these two Good Comrades. Ergo these men must carry rather large insurance policies. Yes, but that's not all. Shortly after forming this club all these seven men changed their policies making the other members their beneficiaries. The policy's total are over a hundred thousand pounds. Oh, it's very enlightening. You've paid the five surviving members on the policies of King and Raeburn? Oh yes, we always pay promptly but what worries me, Mr. Holmes, is... Whether these two deaths were accidental or not. Exactly. Of course I may be wrong, I have no proof but it seems to me to be just possible that one of these men plans to murder the others one by one. And collect on all the policies. I see the whole thing, Holmes. Bravo Watson but why the orange pips? Oh yes, the orange pips. Pips Watson? Bit of a puzzler, hey Holmes? Quite. Most intriguing feature. Any tobacco around this place. After all Mr. Holmes, several lives may be at stake. The temptation of sudden wealth could... Could, could possibly turn one of these seemingly harmless men into a ruthless killer. Exactly. Are those the Good Comrades? Yes. Let me see them will you? Hello. Who's this fellow on the end? That's Doctor Merrivale. Doctor Simon Merrivale? I believe his Christian name is Simon. Yes, definitely Doctor Simon Merrivale. I'll accept your case, Mr. Chalmers. Watson pack your things were off to Scotland tonight. Scotland, home of my ancestors. A lonely land but a peaceful one. It's wonderful after stuffy London, hey Holmes? I say who is this Doctor Merrivale? Oh well, if you want to behave like a clam, you have not uttered a word since we left London. Sorry old fellow, I was thinking. Twenty years ago Doctor Merrivale was a famous surgeon on Harley Street. Can't be so very famous, I never heard of him. Oh but he was. His main claim to distinction, of course, was the unnecessarily brutal murder of a young bride. Really? However, he testified so brilliantly on the witness box that he was acquitted after which he dropped completely out of sight. And you think that he was most probably responsible for the death of these two Good Comrades? Well I don't say that he was but I do say that he could have been. Murder is an insidious thing, Watson. Once a man has dipped his fingers in blood sooner or later he'll feel the urge to kill again. Oh gracious me very unpleasant. Funeral home. You suppose were too late? Oh I think your unnecessarily suspicious, Watson. One of the villagers hey? Aye sir. Mr. MacTavis the blacksmith. Now daughter, don't be talking to strangers. Wasn't her fault. I asked your daughter whose funeral it was. Andy MacTavis, cut down in the flower of his manhood. What a pity. A young fellow huh? Just seventy-two. Seventy-two? Flower of his manhood, trying to be funny? Come on, Watson. Oh seventy-two, flower of his manhood. I've seen about forty men... Can I help you gentlemen? I telegraphed for reservations from London. Name sir? Sherlock Holmes and Doctor Watson. We have your rooms ready then. Thank you. Sign there gentlemen. Yes indeed. Are you staying long gentlemen? No, not long. We just came up here to look into the... we just came up here for the shooting. Shooting? Yes grouse of course. No grouse here sir for the last forty years. No grouse? Cheer up Watson. You'll find some other query to occupy our time. This way gentlemen. Take the gun will you? Take the big bag. So you're back earlier than usual Doctor Merrivale. Gentlemen I've just made a rather intriguing discovery. The village of Inverness has a distinguished visitor. Huh? Really? Who? Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Who? I didn't quite catch the name. Sherlock Holmes. Oh. Sherlock Holmes, the famous detective. One wonders what he could be doing in Inverness. Have you forgotten Alastair that two of our members have already met with violent deaths? Yes, yes, yes of course yes. Cosgrave, must you pace up and down like a monkey in a ruddy cage? I fail to see how what I do can concern you. Simpson, Cosgrave, cannot we behave like Good Comrades. Doesn't anything ever get on your nerves Alastair? Oh dear me, no. I have no nerves. Now tell me MacGregor, the present head of the house is Mr. Bruce Alastair is it not? Aye. Grandson of Donald Alastair. He was the lullish one. Gunned Driercliff House in a smugglers day. Got himself blown to bits by a gun. Gracious me. And Angus Alastair was his son. He was eaten by cannibals in the South Seas. Very unfortunate family, hey Holmes? They found Angus' bones. Sent them back to Driercliff where no man ever goes whole to his grave. The place is haunted. Haunted? You mean ghosts? Only a fool believes in ghosts. Spirits never haunted Driercliff. Five minutes to closing time gentlemen. Only the memory of evil. You're wanted at Driercliff House Sergeant. What is it woman? Murder. Alastair himself is it? I don't know. Doctor Merrivale didn't say. Mr. Holmes would you care to come along? Yes I would, thank you. Watson. You mark my words, Alastair has met the brutal death of these fathers. Awe, good evening Sergeant. Oh Mr. Alastair, this is Mr. Sherlock Holmes and Doctor Watson. I took the liberty of... Mr. Holmes, Doctor Watson. How do you do sir? Oh this excellent, most excellent. Please come in gentlemen. Please come in. And welcome to Driercliff House. Now where is the corpse? Follow me. It's by the furnace. The furnace? Yes poor Davis he was burnt to a crisp. Burnt to a crisp. I say Holmes this murder seems a bit of a fiend hey? At least he's consistent. Consistent? Yes the deaths all follow the legend of Driercliff. Well as MacGregor puts it no man ever goes whole to his grave. Now you will come in here gentlemen, won't you? Oh thank you. That's right. That's right. Yes. Yes. These gentlemen have come about the body. Why didn't you take them to the cellar? Oh no, Doctor Merrivale, you discovered it, after all it's your body. That's right. I say, you're Sherlock Holmes aren't you? I am and this is my friend and colleague, Doctor Watson. How do you do? How do you do sir? Yes I thought I recognized you. You know I followed your exploits for years. The detection of crime is one of my hobbies. This is a surprise and a pleasure. A pleasure I hope but hardly a surprise. You saw me at the inn this afternoon. Touch'. This is Allen Cosgrave and Captain Simpson. How do you do? This stressing business, Mr. Homes, we were all fond of Guy Davis. Davis? Oh the fellow in the furnace. But if he was burnt to a crisp how'd you know that it was Davis? Well he's the only one missing. Besides we identified him by his cuff links. Why don't you see for yourselves? Come along gentlemen. Thank you. May I ask Doctor Merrivale whether Mr. Davis also received the warning of the orange pips after dinner. Oh so you know about the others? You seem to be very well informed about our affairs, Mr. Holmes. As a matter of fact Davis didn't have dinner with us tonight. Had he indicated his intended absence? No, no he hadn't. Mrs. Monteith was quite put out about it. Pardon me, will you gentlemen? Doctor Watson, what's Mr. Holmes up to? I haven't the foggiest. Go on. You'll find out, my dear sir, in good time. Isn't there something you wish to tell me Mrs. Monteith? Me sir? Yes. Please give it to me. The envelope addressed to Mr. Guy Davis. Thank you. Five pips this time. How did you know that she had them? It's obvious my dear Watson, since Mr. Davis was not at dinner, Mrs. Monteith had no opportunity to deliver the envelope. Yes of course, quite obvious. Where'd you find it? It was pushed under the door like the others. Thank you Mrs. Monteith, that will be all. Where are they coming from, Mr. Holmes? Who's sending these things to us? Is there anyone who might have a grudge against you? Have orange pips any significance for any of you? Well? I seem to remember reading somewhere that among some obscure tribe of savages orange pips were looked upon... as a symbol of death. Oh really? Sergeant? Aye sir. I think you'd better telephone Scotland Yard. We've never had a telephone at Driercliff House no. They're so noisy. I can make the call from the village sir. All right. It's not often we have the opportunity at meeting such charming people. You go ahead I'll follow you. I'm afraid, Mr. Holmes, if you don't go with the sergeant there's no way to get back to the village tonight. Oh but Mr. Holmes, there's no need for you to stay at the inn. It's such a dreary place. We've plenty of room here and it's much more cheerful. I thought we came here for privacy. We wouldn't dream of putting you out. Oh but I thought it would be so nice to have such, such exciting people as our guests. Yes your right. I'm sure Mr. Holmes' business in the village is much more important, Alastair. Please Mr. Holmes we insist. I think Alastair's idea is an excellent one, don't you gentlemen? You speak for yourself, Cosgrave. Come, come, come, We are all friends. Aren't we, or are we? Guy Davis was a friend too. So were King and Raeburn. You've got to stay Mr. Holmes. You and Doctor Watson, we can put you up. Any objections Doctor Merrivale? This is a tempest in a teapot Mr. Holmes but you're welcome of course. Now if you'll all excuse me I'm rather tired. Good night. What do you say Simpson? Glad to have you gentlemen of course. Then you will stay both of you? Thank you Mr. Alastair we should be very glad to. Sergeant will you have our things sent up from the inn? Right away sir. This is excellent. I'll tell Mrs. Monteith to get your rooms ready. Mr. Holmes, I must say I feel a lot safer now that you and Doctor Watson are in the house. Oh a delight to be of any use, Mr. Cosgrave. And well if you would care to keep me informed if you should discover anything I would be only too glad to help you. I'd do anything to get to the bottom of this awful mystery. I'll bear that in mind Mr. Cosgrave. Thank you. Good night. Good night. Good night. Well what do you make of it Watson? Well my theory is its Doctor Merrivale. Did you take a look at his eyes? Rather frightening huh? Yes but that might be accounted for by advanced myopia, complicated with a stigmatism. Well who do you think it is? At the moment I suspect no one and everyone. So it's your theory that Doctor Merrivale is the murderer? Yes, yes Merrivale. Hum. What about... what about Captain Simpson? Simpson? I see what you mean? Do you? Yes. There's a surly looking chap if I ever saw one. He didn't much relish our being asked to stay here either. Right you are Watson. Do you suspect anyone else? Well of course, there's old Alastair. And what might cause you to suspect Alastair? He's too good to be true. What are you looking for now Holmes? I wish I knew Watson. Someone's got a morbid taste in literature. Or a thirst for knowledge. Now Holmes there's one of them that's got nothing to do with it? Who? Cosgrave. Why Cosgrave? Well he's definitely got the wind up. Fairly begged us to stay just now. Yes I'd vouch for Cosgrave all right. Mrs. Monteith will be down directly to show you to your rooms. I just popped in to say good night. Oh thank you. I trust you'll sleep well. Oh by the way Mr. Alastair, I wonder if you could tell us which one of you suggested changing your insurance policies making the other members of your club the beneficiaries? Awe let me see now. Oh yes of course, it was dear old Allen. Allen? Allen Cosgrave. Good night. Good night. Cosgrave! I suspected him from the start. Yes you did didn't you? How about a pint before we go to sleep? Sleep? I won't be able to close my eyes in this sinister house. Your rooms are ready gentlemen. Where's our good friend Doctor Watson? Oh he was rather tired last night, he's still sleeping. Yes, our beds are very comfortable here. Why don't you stop that ruddy pacing? Your bodyguard's here now. Simpson, you mustn't tease Cosgrave. Remember how sensitive he is. You should ignore things, like Alastair. Thank you. Oh, Singapore? Huh? Oh the Cobra. No, you'll never know that one but this one. Oh yes, yes very good and definitely Singapore. Right you are Mr. Holmes. You know you're tattoos all right. I'm interested in many things. Good morning gentlemen. I'm sorry I'm late I didn't sleep very well. You didn't sleep very well? You snored like a pig. Rubbish! Got a match Doctor Watson? Yes. It's a very good idea. I think I'll join you. Nothing like the first pipe of the morning. Can, can I try of some of yours? Sorry about that, I think I'll stay clear. What is that seaweed? Havana isn't it? Flavored with Jamaica Rum. I don't imagine your very much troubled with tobacco borrowers hey Simpson? Nobody else in the place touches the filthy stuff. I don't blame them. Good heavens! One moment please. What is it? Just a needle. Who put that in my chair? Hum. This is no ordinary needle. The stain on my handkerchief suggest a certain sinister possibility. Give me that beaker will you? Yes of course. We shall see. Thank you. As I thought, insoluble in alcohol. Whatever is it? Well judging by the stain on my handkerchief and the milky precipitation in alcohol I should say it was a derivative of the tropizine family. Paratropizine possibly? That's right Doctor Merrivale, a deadly poison. Close shaved Captain Simpson. One drop in the bloodstream brings agonizing almost instant death. It's our custom at this hour to honor our departed friends. I hope you gentlemen will pardon us? We quite understand Doctor Merrivale, please proceed. Thank you. Good Comrades, our dear friend Guy Davis has gone to his reward. Let those of us who remain drink to our dead and to that bright tomorrow when we shall join them in a better, happier world. Wait a minute, there's something wrong here. If you please Captain Simpson. The odor of bitter almonds. Bitter almonds, acid huh? Acid? there must be some mistake. Mistake hey? Lucky I didn't make it by drinking that stuff. Well what have you got to say? Whichever one of you it was tried to kill me had better look out. I'm a dangerous man to fool with. Hadn't we better adjourned? I mean to say that... We've not yet finished the toast to our dead. But you think it's quite safe? Don't be absurd Alastair. Take my glass. I assure you it hasn't been poisoned. Thank you. Thank you Doctor Merrivale. To our departed Comrades. For me? Aye Mr. Cosgrave, it says so on the envelope. It's come. Did you find this envelope as you did the others? Aye. When? It was pushed under the door when everyone was in here at dinner. Thank you. Well there's one thing we can be sure of, none of us could have brought it. How do we know that she's not responsible for them? Mrs. Monteith? It's absurd Cosgrave, utterly absurd. She has been with my family all of her life. A dubious a recommendation if you ask me. Mr. Holmes when do you expect the man from Scotland Yard? Inspector Lestrade? He should be here early in the morning. Unless he got on the wrong train. I trust your right Mr. Holmes. I trust your right. Oh dear, he's terribly upset. Doctor Merrivale can't you do something for him? I can stay with him in his room tonight. Why that's an excellent idea and I shall just be across the hall from him. I think that's the wisest possible cause with you gentlemen protecting each other what harm can fall you? Well then we must hope for the best. Come Merrivale. Good night gentlemen. Good night. Good night. I say Holmes, have you gone out of your mind? Cosgrave just got the orange pips and your letting Merrivale sleep in the same room with him. He'll be all right. All right? But what's preventing Merrivale from killing him in his sleep? I hardly think he'll stick his own neck squarely in the noose. Well, I see what you mean. Well the field's narrowing down, Holmes. Captain Simpson certainly cleared. How? Yes he's definitely been eliminated. The killer had two tries at him today. Nonsense my dear Watson. No one's tried to murder captain Simpson's. Well how about the poison needle we both saw? Captain Simpson spotted it, if you'll recall, from about where you are. Oh what's so extraordinary about that? Can you see the needle there now? No. Well there is one. Gracious. How'd it get there? I placed it there myself just before we went into supper. You couldn't see it yet you have exceptional eyesight. Well you'd have to have telescopic eyes to see it from over there. Exactly. You mean that Simpson... well how about the acid in his drink? There wasn't any acid in his drink. Well it definitely smelled like bitter almonds. It should. That's exactly what it was, bitter almonds. How do you know? Cause I put it in his drink myself. You did? Great Scott why? To observe his reaction. It was quite different from that of the morning. The first was acting, the second genuine terror. Hence, I knew that he undoubtedly planted the needle himself. Well why should he? Well there are several possible explanations, the most obvious, of course, to advert suspicion. And you think Simpson's behind all this? I don't know Watson. This is a most unique case. Instead of too few we have too many clues and too many suspects. The main pattern on the puzzle seems to be forming but the pieces don't fit in. Well it seems perfectly clear to me. One of these men is picking off the others one by one to get all their insurance money for himself. Why it's obvious. How do you account the orange pips? Well this man has an accomplice who brings them. What for? To warn his victim he's going to be murdered? No Watson, it won't do, it won't do at all. I don't like the look of it Holmes, muddy waters huh? Too muddy as if someone were constantly stirring them up. Why should they stir them up? Confuse me. There's intelligence behind this business Watson. Cold, calculating, ruthless intelligence. Must you smoke that filthy stuff? Smells like an old sock. Strong tobacco keeps one awake. You better have a pipe full. We have a long vigil ahead of us tonight. No thank you. I don't need any of that stinkweed to keep me awake in this chamber of... This chamber of horrors. He's still asleep Mr. Holmes. Thanks for your watchfulness. Holmes! Holmes! Holmes! Holmes! Holmes! Holmes! Watson! Watson are you all right? I think so. It was a close call. What happened? I didn't see a thing I was asleep. Someone came at me from, from behind. If you'll come this way Inspector Lestrade. Thank you very much my good woman. Well, well Mr. Holmes. Doctor Watson. How are you Lestrade? Here, here, what's going on here? Someone just tried to kill Doctor Watson. Blimey who? When we find that out, Lestrade, we can all go home. All right, Mr. Holmes, Scotland Yard will take charge of this. Have a look around the grounds briefly will ya? Yes Inspector. Mr. Holmes I'm afraid something's happened to Cosgrave and Merrivale. What? The door to their rooms are locked. I can't get any answer. What is going on here? Well I do hope they're all right. Got your skeleton key, Lestrade? Yes I have. One minute. Here we are. Watson! Lestrade, give me a hand. Yes Mr. Holmes. Get him on the bed. Yes. What a dreadful thing to happen. Oh poor Merrivale. Is he badly hurt? Yes he's had a nasty crack on the head. What? Take it easy Doctor. Don't try to talk. Mrs. Monteith get him some cotton wool and some hot water as quickly as you can. Tell me what happened? He's in no state to be questioned now Lestrade. Who do you suspect Mr. Holmes? I don't know Lestrade but it's connected with the attack on Doctor Watson. It was obviously intended to draw me downstairs. Where's Cosgrave? Here I'm taking over here. It looks to me that this Cosgrave, or whoever he is, is are murderer. Well he didn't murder Doctor Merrivale. He's still alive. Yes. Yes he is isn't he? Well just the same I'd like to ask this Cosgrave a few questions. I don't think you're going to find Mr. Cosgrave, at least not alive. What's going on here? I'm afraid Holmes is right Inspector. Poor Cosgrave, by now he's probably murdered like the others. Murdered? Oh dear. What's your interest about that rope, Mr. Holmes? I was looking at this knot Lestrade it's a Bowline, much favored by sea faring men. Oh sailor hey? Simpson. Simpson? Captain Simpson. But, but now, now, now it couldn't be. How do you know it couldn't be? Mr. Alastair where is Captain Simpson? He's not in his room either. I looked when I tried to arouse Cosgrave and Merrivale. Has anybody seen this Simpson this morning? I saw him walking across the garden, Inspector, about fifteen minutes ago. Now we're getting somewhere. Which is the way down? How did I get up here? Suffering cats what is going on here? Do you have any explosives on the place? Yes we have some dynamite stored in the shed behind the stone room. What do you need dynamite for? Just to blow up some cumbersome rocks. Pretty badly mangled Holmes? Can't tell who it is. It's Cosgrave all right. Poor Allen. Cosgrave's I presume? Certainly looks like the ring he wore. Yes, yes for that I am positive. Look here. What was he doing with dynamite at this time in the morning? That we shall never know. Oh dear and it was all my fault. I never should have let them keep it here. Don't blame yourself Mr. Alastair, his body was carried here, look. Observe those heavy footprints. Yes I see the whole thing. Cosgrave was knocked unconscious, Thrown into the shed and deliberately blown up. Yes. This chap was carrying a heavy burden all right. Hello, who are you? My name is Simpson, Captain Simpson. I'm Inspector Lestrade from Scotland Yard. What do you know about this murder? Well I was walking on the East terrace when I saw Cosgrave enter the shed where the dynamite's stored. Do you mind comparing your shoe with one of these prints? Are you accusing me, Inspector? I'll tell you in a minute. Put your foot in one of these prints. Nonsense, Lestrade. If only to look at the shoes of everyone present to know that these footprints are much too big to have been made by anybody here. With the possible exception of you Lestrade. Look here Doctor Watson, that ain't funny. Captain Simpson, how did you happen to be walking on the terrace at the time of explosion? I couldn't sleep and I was taking a stroll before breakfast. I see. What do you know about this knot Captain? It's a bowline of course. I don't suppose you ever seen it before. What the devil are you driving at? This knot is evidence that will hang a murderer, and he might not be standing so far away from the arm of the law at this very moment. Oh come now, Lestrade. This knot proves absolutely nothing. Practically anybody can tie one. Can you? Yes I think I can, Lestrade. There you are. Well quite a knotty problem huh? With your permission gentlemen, Captain Simpson and I will go and make arrangements for the funeral of our friend. Come Simpson. I wonder which one of three remaining Good Comrades will be the next to receive the orange pips. Orange pips? Will someone please tell me what's going on here? Where is that confounded woman with the brandy? Mrs. Monteith? Well there you are, it's about time too. Let's get on with the ceremony. What are you going to do about this Inspector? What are you going to do? Orange pips hey? The police will handle this. We'll protect you. Holmes tried to protect Cosgrave, he's dead. Scotland Yard's in charge now just you come along with me. Just a moment Simpson. We've not yet drunk our usual toast to the dead. To the dickens with the dead. From now on I'm thinking of myself. Just you come along with me Captain. Say Holmes do you think? Shh. Oh it's you Inspector. My nerves are all on edge. Just wanted to make sure you were all set Captain. You're sure I'm safe here? Safe as a bank of England. You're protected from every angle. On the terrace is Sergeant Bleeker, out of sight but on the job every second. While in the shrubbery is the local sergeant of police ready to pounce if the bugger should come that way. That's fine Inspector. While I myself guard the lower hall, hoping and praying the killer should come my way. Come on. Sounds very thorough but I don't like it very well. Oh go on tuck yourself in and relax. Scotland Yard will look after the rest. Good night. Good night Inspector. All right put up your hands. Oh well Mr. Holmes. Ready for your vigil Lestrade? What do you know about my vigil? My dear fellow you hold a very secret conference with Captain Simpson and then packed him off to bed. It follows like the day you must be baiting a trap. Where'd you find those boots? In the cupboard. I've been looking for them all day. Oddly enough they weren't there an hour ago. Weren't they? Those shoes are big enough for those footprints we saw this morning. Right you are Inspector and observe the clay. A very particular variety of clay. Ready Holmes? Yes Watson. Like to join us in a little stroll on the beach? Awe no thank you. You and Doctor Watson go play in the sand as much as you like but I'm going to stay right here to catch the murderer. Good luck. Well if you get nervous you know where we are. Look Watson footprints! And they're fairly fresh too. Very fresh. Big foot all right. Got your revolver? Yes. We haven't much time to lose, the tide's coming in fast. See it goes along here. Wait a minute. Now he stops to light his pipe. Observe the spilled tobacco and burnt match, now he goes on again. Wait a minute here we are. Hello. What is it Holmes? Another set of footprints. Bigfoots been joined by somebody. This one's a smaller man. Now they go along together, side by side. Now but slowly I should say judging by the spacing of the footprints. Now little foot goes up the cliff and big foot goes on alone. Hello. Something funny there. Footprints disappear all together. Look out Watson! Great scott Holmes that was meant for us. Precisely. Well there's nothing more to be done here. I have a strong feeling we are needed back at the Driercliff House. With the possible exception of your own Lestrade. Blimey they're bigger. Here! Here! Who's fooling around with this lock? Sergeant Bleeker! Bleeker! Sergeant Bleeker! Sergeant Bleeker! ...well Mr. Holmes. Where's Simpson? He's in the... he's gone. I left him here on this here couch. What happened? Someone bashed my head in. Did you see his face? Who? The murderer you blithering idiot, the murderer and his victim, Captain Simpson. All I saw was stars. It's your theory, Lestrade, that someone broke through this window and abducted Captain Simpson? It's no theory, it's obvious. Then how do you account for the fact that there's no sign of broken glass on this side of the window? Blimey, no there isn't. Therefore, the window was broken from the inside. Stick by us old man, we'll make a detective out of you yet. I say what happened? Captain Simpson seems to of disappeared. Disappeared my foot. He's run away. He really was frightened you know? That's just what he wanted us to think. No harm would have come to him here if he'd stayed and he knew it. I was right in the first instance, he's our blasted murder himself. Dear me, Captain Simpson a murderer? Don't you worry Mr. Alastair, we'll soon have him in jail before he can kill anyone else. Aye. You'll find him like the others, a corpse. Don't you worry gentlemen it's only just a question of time before we catch Captain Simpson. He couldn't have got far. My men will soon apprehend him. You know this rather reminds me of a very similar account when I brought about the undoing of the notorious Professor Moriarty. You brought it about? If it hadn't been for Mr. Holmes. Oh well of course with the assistance of Mr. Sherlock Holmes. We found him Inspector. There you are what did I tell you? Where is he? At the beach sir. Dead? Oh yes sir, quite. Dead? How did you know he was dead Mr. Holmes? Elementary my dear, Lestrade. The pieces of the puzzle are beginning to fall into place. In what way was the body mutilated? No arms, no legs and no head sir. Observe the occurrence of the pattern Watson? I see. No man goes whole to his grave huh? Exactly. Oh dear. Poor Simpson. Well, if it was nothing but a blooming torso how did you know you got the right man? Quite simple Lestrade. Sergeant Bleeker identified the body by the full rig ship tattooed on the chest. That's right Mr. Holmes. Tattooed? Where did you know that he had a blinking boat on his epidermis? Oh uh, I mentioned it to Sergeant Bleeker when he asked me to describe a fugitive. That is we thought at the time he was a fugitive. Oh. All right Bleeker you better be getting back to the beach. Yes sir. One thing more Sergeant, you will say that the body had no arms, no head and no legs, was it a messy job? Oh no sir, very neat I should say, clean as a whistle. Just as if it was done by a... Of a skilled hands of a surgeon? Yes. Yes. For Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard. What? But... Excuse me Inspector. Please Watson. Thank you. So sorry old fellow. No orange pips. Here just a minute that might be police business. Inspector Lestrade, I must see you at once about the Driercliff mystery. Please come to my shop in the village as soon as possible. Alex MacGregor. MacGregor, the tobacconist. Where is his shop? Next to the inn. Well I better be off. Mind if I come along with you? All right Mr. Holmes, if you think you can be any help. I think I'll come along too Holmes. No Watson you stay here. These are the last two members of the Good Comrades, their safety depends on you. You can rely on me Holmes. Pass the wine along would you. Excuse me please. Excuse me. I was afraid of this. Were too late. Dead? Aye sir. Shot through the temple. How did you know we'd be too late Mr. Holmes? Because we were not the first to read MacGregor's message. What? Look here Lestrade. This envelope has been steamed open and resealed. Blimey so it is. Poor chap, he must have known too much. Has the coroner been here Sergeant? He's on his way sir. All right. You won't find them. What do you mean? Orange pips. Why not? Ain't this the work of the Driercliff murderer? Obviously but this isn't part of the same pattern as the others. They followed a preordained plan, where as this murder was actuated by some necessity and could not have been anticipated. Come again Mr. Holmes in English. I mean that I'm beginning to see daylight. Well frankly I ain't. I like good, solid clues and people I can question. Did anybody hear the shot Sergeant? I did. Do you know anything about the note your father sent to Inspector Lestrade? Why no sir. Did he leave the house at all tonight? Aye sir. He went to change his lobster ports down in the caldron at Driercliff. He didn't return until after dark. Here let me question her. Did anyone call on your father this evening after he got home? No one that I saw sir. Well tell me just what happened. I was in the kitchen when I heard the shot. I ran in and found my father... I'm sorry my dear. We won't bother you any further. Thank you sir. This case gets more confusing every minute. We don't know a thing more now than we did before. On the contrary, my dear Lestrade. MacGregor saw something at Driercliff tonight and that something caused his death. That's right. We'd better get back to that house as fast as we can. I'll be glad to get back to Baker Street. Someone's going to get murdered if were not careful. Merrivale? You there? Empty. That's very funny. Can't have gone out on a night like this. Alastair? Mr. Alastair? Gone. Mr. Alastair? Mr. Alastair? Open. Funny. Both missing. Very fishy. Broken mirror. That's done it. Seven years bad luck. What's that? Mrs. Monteith! Mrs. Monteith! Where is that woman? Nothing like being prepared... who is it out there? Locked! Mrs. Monteith! Mrs. Monteith! They left the door open. The door I closed. Someone moved that chair. Sand still or I'll shoot! You're moving, I warned you. Done for you all right. Stand still. Sorry. All in the line of duty. Who's that? Watson what on earth are you up to? Holmes, thank heavens you arrived, you're just in time. They're all around the house. They've got me completely surrounded. They? There they are. Great Scott! I'm so ashamed. Got the wind up over nothing. Oh yes, I forgot, there was something. Alastair and Merrivale are both missing. What? Oh no not dead. Well they're not in there rooms. You come along with me and I'll show you. Anything wrong gentlemen? Have you left this here room since you retired? Certainly not. I've been reading. What? What's the trouble? There's no trouble at all. Please forgive us. Well now we'll try Alastair's room. Right you are. Better try knocking this time, Watson. Come in. What is it? Have you been out of room Mr. Alastair? Yes for just a few minutes I went down to the kitchen and I had such a nice glass of milk. Milk? Yes, it was most refreshing. Glass of milk. Don't disturb him. glass of milk? He's lying Holmes. Probably just one of your emanations Doctor... Rubbish and the word is called hallucinations. Whatever they are they had you surrounded downstairs. It's all right Mrs. Monteith. I heard noises upstairs. I thought the murderer must be a prowl again. What are doing with that cleaver? You have nothing to fear now. Well I'll be getting back to bed. Not a bad idea. I've had enough of this for one day. Oh uh, Mrs. Monteith, please. The note you gave Inspector Lestrade, was it pushed under the door like the rest? Aye. Was there anything different about it this time? Think Mrs. Monteith. Well... Yes? Just before I found the note under the door I happened to look through the kitchen window and I saw a man running away from the house, as if Satan himself were after him. Did you recognize him? No. He was too far away but he was dressed like a fisherman. Hadn't we better go down the village and find him at once Holmes? You'd only be wasting your time. Why? Because all the fisherman have gone off with the fleet and they won't be back until tomorrow night. It's after nine now. Are you quite sure that the fisherman are coming here? Aye sir, they always do. A long stretch on the water gives them an awful thirst. Why the boats must be in. Here they come now sir. Gentlemen! Gentlemen! I'm Sherlock Holmes. Last night MacGregor sent one of you with a note to Driercliff House. Who was it? Speak up please, it's vitally important. If I did take a note for old Alex what of it? Perhaps you can help me to find his murderer. Where did he give you this? Down at the cove. He was waiting there when we came in from the net. What did he say when he gave it to you? Well he just asked me if I'd take it to Driercliff for a half a pound and I wouldn't have done it for a penny less. Cause of the sinister legend of the place, hey? What else did MacGregor say to you? Well he asked me if I believed in ghosts and I said certainly not. And he said no more do I and he gave me the note and the half pound. Thank you my friend, you've been very helpful. A round of drinks for these gentlemen with my compliments. Thank you. Watson. Helpful? I can't see anything very helpful about that conversation. All he did was talk about ghosts. And what do ghosts suggest to you Watson? I don't know, graveyards? Exactly. Alec MacGregor was buried today. I say old fellow what about giving me a hand? You're doing splendidly Watson. I say Holmes, I never did trust any of those people from the start. Who Who? The so-called Good Comrades and that woman. Who Mrs. Monteith naturally who do you think I meant? Old fellow where are you? Who You Holmes of course. Who Oh. Having a nice little chat Watson? Oh there you are. Stupid bird up there. Silly bird hanging about a graveyard all night. Nothing else to do. Interrupting a fellow's conversation. Got it Holmes. Help me now. I don't like this Holmes. Amazing Holmes. As I thought, empty. Some body snatchers got here a head of us. MacGregor's corpse has been removed. What? Hurry Watson. Come along fellow, we haven't a moment to lose. What's up Holmes? Unless I'm greatly mistaken there's about to be another murder. Who You, you wall-eyed idiot if you don't shut up. Who, Who You know what to do? Yes sir. Get going and hurry. I'm afraid were too late Watson. Where's the body Lestrade? Which one is it? Doctor Merrivale. I found him at the bottom of the cliff. Crushed to a jelly by a huge rock. Good heavens. I identified by the suit of clothes he was wearing and his watch. So Alastair must be the murderer? You're right to the stop of the class, Doctor Watson. He killed them all one after another for the insurance money. I thought so. Obvious from the start. What have you done with your prisoner Inspector? Oh he's safe enough. Safe enough? Yes he's in the library. Perhaps I better go and keep an eye on him. Oh you'll be all right Doctor. He's handcuffed. All pacing up and down. Just doing a bit of measuring Lestrade. Why don't upset yourself Mr. Holmes, you can't expect to solve every case. Awe, there you are. I suspected you from the start. Said to Holmes that old front is too good to be true. But I didn't kill anybody. Really I didn't. It's quite natural for you to deny your guilt. Criminal instinct. What? Nothing. Got any tobacco on you? No. I don't smoke but there's Simpson's there. He won't need it anymore. Poor Simpson. Well if Holmes can smoke the beastly stuff I suppose I can. That's funny. This may be important. I must tell Holmes at once. Dear me. Twenty-eight feet, it checks exactly. Whatever that may mean. It means that the final piece of the puzzle is falling into place. Oh you can have your puzzle I've got the murderer. Holmes? Come on Lestrade. Where's Doctor Watson? Oh he went through that very door only a few moments ago looking for you. We heard a scream did you? Oh dear me no. That's strange. We didn't see him as we came through the dining room. Did he say anything before he left? Yes. He wasn't very kind to me at first. He was standing just where your standing Mr. Holmes. He asked me if had any tobacco but as you know I don't smoke. And I suggested that he might take some of Captain Simpson's. Well he pulled out his pipe and he was just about to fill it when he said, Oh this may be important. I must see Holmes at once. Thank you, Mr. Alastair. And don't you move. This wall measures twenty-eight feet outside and inside it's obviously several feet less. Oh what are you looking for? Entrance to a passage. What passage? It could only be in that outside wall. Oh we could knock the wall down for you Mr. Holmes. What you don't realize, Lestrade, is they're desperate. They'd stop at nothing and they've got Doctor Watson. They, who's they? Get those candles will you? All right. What are you doing here? I don't like to be alone. Got it. Good gracious. That was for the entrance to the stairs leading to the old smuggler's cave down below. I forgot it was there. Give me the light. Oh dear. Blimey! Quiet they'll hear us. Who's they? See for yourself Lestrade. Lord (unintelligible) Well strike me down. All right everybody, hands up, you're under arrest. But who's in there? The Good Comrades. Oh no, no. They're dead. Are they? Come on now into the line all of you. I thought you were all dead. That's what they wanted us to think. Watson! Raeburn, King, Davies, Cosgrave, Merrivale, Simpson, how dreadful of you. Thank heaven your safe Watson. Well thank heavens you came Holmes. In another minute they would have thrown me in the sea and got away on a boat chartered by Simpson. It's out there now off shore. Congratulations Lestrade. You bagged the lot. That's all right Mr. Holmes. And may I congratulate you gentlemen on a very ingenious plan. I must confess if you wouldn't have over embellished into the business of the orange pips this sinister significance of the happenings of Driercliff House might have escaped my attention all together. Your quite eloquent Mr. Holmes. And if Captain Simpson hadn't removed his tobacco from the library you might still have perfected your escape. Incidentally, Lestrade, I think you'll find that each of these gentlemen has his share of the insurance money probably in a well-stuffed money belt. You fool Simpson. I told you somebody would notice that tobacco jar. A fool am I? Who asked this detective to come stay at the house? He did. I had to the way you and Merrivale were acting. Shut up Cosgrave. Don't tell me to shut up. You and your orange pips. You said they would divert suspicion but did they? No. You and your orange pips fixed us. All right, all right, get back into line all of you. Now come on. You get back into line all of you. Now then, hand over that money. Here, here, here no more tricks like that. If it hadn't been for the sharp eyes of Mr. Holmes here you might of... you might of shot someone. And I thought you were my friends. Such good friends. How could you? Never mind my good men, you'll soon be in the dump with the rest of them. No, Lestrade, Mr. Alastair's completely innocent. They selected him as their dupe. Oh. It's all clear to me, Holmes, except one thing, why did they kill MacGregor? Because MacGregor didn't believe in ghosts. One night on the beach he saw a man he thought was dead, probably our friend big foot there and was rash enough to write Lestrade a note about it. That note was his death warrant. Very pretty theorizing Mr. Holmes but you can't prove a thing. That remains to be seen. Lestrade will you pick up Captain Simpson's revolver and have a look at it? One bullet fired? That's right Mr. Holmes. I have no doubt that the ballistics will prove that the missing bullet killed Alex MacGregor. It's good enough for me. If what you say is true Mr. Holmes there ain't a jury in the country that won't convict them. And so just retribution has been visited upon the six members of the Good Comrades, whose nefarious plan was unmasked in the nick of time. By the brilliant detective work of Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard. Of all the balderdash, Lestrade hasn't got the faintest idea what it was all about. I don't know Watson. After all we know who is responsible for solving the mystery of the Good Comrades. That's right. If it hadn't been for Mr. Holmes that headline might have been about me. Mr. Holmes one thing puzzles me. What? How did they manage those fake murders? Oh elementary my dear Charles, elementary. I can explain all that. Whenever there was a funeral of some old chap in the neighborhood they dug up the body and dressed it in the clothes of all their members, then they staged a fake death and mutilated the body beyond all recognition. In the meantime, the so-called corpse disappeared quietly into the smuggler's room underneath Driercliff House. I think... I think that about sums the whole thing. Tell me Doctor Watson, in the simulated death of Captain Simpson how do you account for the tattooing on the torso? Tattooing on the torso... well I... Go on Watson, tell him. Well the tattoo... well the tattooing on the torso... sorry Holmes. Captain Simpson was an expert with a tattoo needle. He merely duplicated the poor rigged ship on the chest of the corpse. I also observed that the design on the torso had been done within the previous twenty-four hours. Dear me. What a gruesome idea. Out of gratitude of what you've done the companies that I represent wish you to accept this check. No Mr. Chalmers, I think Mr. Alastair here is much more deserving of a reward than I am. Dear me they took me in completely. I didn't help you solve the case. No but you did much more than that. It was your timely warning when you drew our attention to the empty tobacco jar and saved the life of my dear friend and colleague, Doctor John H. Watson. That's very nice of you old man. And by enabling us to continue our long and happy association together.
