 

                        Shh, he's here. You gentlemen look like educated men of good taste. I have here some rare old first editions. He's not bothering us. I'm interested in his books. Okay. Now here are the complete works of William Shakespeare, an old German writer. I like that. We move tonight. Orders from Berlin. Dr. Tobel is to be across the border before dawn. But we'd had orders not to break into his house and he hides there. Hasn't been outside in weeks. The Fuhrer wants no trouble with Switzerland at this moment. We must be very careful. If we can't break in, he won't come out? When the Fuhrer needs something as badly as he needs the Tobel bomb sight there is always a way. Dr. Tobel is interested in my scientific volumes. He's see my forged papers and he believes I come from Yudthem. No gentlemen. The price is much too low. I could not possibly sell such a rare book for such a price. I will induced Dr. Tobel to come and visit to my shop. It's the fastest way. You're interested in this book, a rare old set of Bismarck papers. One last warning. I've just had word from Berlin. The English spy hunter will try to take Dr. Tobel from under our very eyes. They are sending a stupid bumbling amateur detective. His name is Holmes, or Homes or some such foolishness. He'll never escape from Switzerland alive. Now quick. Get me thrown out of here and watch for my signal from Dr. Tobel's window. But gentlemen you promised to buy one of books. I told you no. Ah, stop bothering us. They are not so great prices. French, English, how I hate those languages. Calm yourself my dear brother. In a short time there will be only one language. Good evening, Dr. Tobel. I have here some very interesting scientific books. I thought you might like to see them. Please come in. He's entering the house. Quickly, get the car and have the motor running. I will follow. We'll have the Tobel bomb sight to the Fuhrer while this Holmes is still having his tea. What are you doing? I am sorry but for months every move I have made has been watched. I am not a coward, Mr. Holmes. They won't watch you anymore. Tonight they intend to take you forcibly across the German border. Then why do we wait here doing nothing like rats in a trap. Calm yourself my dear Dr. Tobel. We should not only escape their trap but we should also take the cheese away with us. But, but how? The four sections of your bomb sight fit inside these ponderous tombs, although I must confess that I shy to the thought of disembowelling a complete set of Charles Dickens. Ah, but you cannot hide me in a hollow book. My dear fellow. I'm sorry that my good friend Dr. Watson isn't here to explain to you that are my preparations are never slipshot. Stephan, Eric. Why do you call my servants? Your servants, yes, but tonight they assume new roles. Let me present Dr. Tobel and our old friend, the bookseller. Holmes, it is so simple. Yes, the obvious always appears simple. Quick now. We must leave. Stephan, the knapsack. Stephan, and Eric are proving excellent decoys. And the Gestapo has been fooled? Completely. The servants are leading them into the next street. But what will happen to Stephan and Eric? Nothing, don't worry. I've taken care of that. Away from here. Come on quick. Do you want to take the Nazis own car? One must adept oneself to the tools at hand. You think you've made them believe you're a harmless old bookseller. Yes, I've always felt that a thorough knowledge of the classics might come in handy. But how can we get across the border and through France? There's no need to get across. This very moment a Royal Air Force plane is waiting for us at the secret landing place. How long before we arrive in London? In a very few minutes. We're passing over Dover now. Thank you. You'll have to get used to our London blackouts Dr. Tobel. Ah. Huh? Dr. Watson is a very untidy fellow. And what, what are we going to do with, with these? A problem of the most elementary nature, my dear Dr. Tobel. You arent going to keep them here. And I have always believed in the theory originally projected by Edgar Allen Poe, the American writer, that the best place to hide anything is where everyone can see it. Yes, but... You will remember no doubt in Poes story "The Purloined Letter". And the missing in question was always in plain view. Hands up, gentlemen. Scotland Yard, quick. Oh, my goodness. Good evening, Mrs. Hudson. Oh, why it's Mr. Holmes. Holmes! Hello Watson old fellow, it's good to see you again. Telephone. Huh? Who do you want? Oh yes, you're Scotland Yard. I'm afraid there's been a little mistake. No need to get angry. We all make mistakes at times. What? Well if we didn't you'd be out of a job. Dr. Tobel, this is my friend and associate and as you may observed my watchdog, Dr. Watson. How do you do, sir? How do you do? Dr. Tobel and I flew in from Zurich this evening. You can put that thing away now, Watson. Dr. Tobel awarded the maximum request for physics in 1939. My dear Watson, there is only one Dr. Tobel. Without Mr. Holmes there would have been no Dr. Tobel I am afraid. But I thought you were living in America sir. I have been working in Switzerland for the past two years. And Holmes got you out? In the nick of time. There was not a point he overlooked. Every contingency was foreseen and provided for. It was magnificent. Thank you, doctor. The problem was not without its interesting points. Is there anything you would like, Mr. Holmes? No thank you, Mrs. Hudson. You can go to bed now. He gave me an awful fright dressed up like that. Well good night, sir. She's quite right. You can't blame me for jumping to the conclusions I did. You looked like a broken down musician. Holmes, why didn't you take your fiddle with you? I never did think much of this dressing up business. It was necessary, I assure you. The Gestapo was close on our heels. Really? This is Sherlock Holmes. I want to speak to Sir Reginald Bailey please. Reginald Bailey? Is that the fellow who played rugby for Black Heath? Yes, Watson. Oh. Hello, Sir Reginald? Holmes speaking. Yes, from Bakers Street. I have Dr. Tobel with me. Well thank you. Very well then, I'll meet you in half an hour. And there must be no delay. I'll arrange with Sir Reginald to have the test tomorrow morning. I suggest that only cabinet ministers and your best aviation experts be present. Naturally. Watson, I leave Dr. Tobel in your care. Give him a sedative. This has been strenuous business and he has a long day ahead of him again tomorrow. Certainly Holmes, of course. He shall sleep in my bedroom. I'll keep watch till you return. Thank you. It is not necessary to guard me. I am quite safe now. Safe Dr. Tobel? I shouldn't count on it for a second. But Mr. Holmes... A great deal may depend on your safety and the enemy understands that just as well as we do. Good night. Keep alert, Watson. Yes, sir, of course. A couple of these and you'll sleep peacefully through a blitz. Thank you. You better start undressing at once or you'll find yourself fast asleep in the middle of taking off your trousers. Well I'll sit over here and keep an eye on things. Oh by the way, if you're nervous call out. Good night, doctor. Good night, doctor. Well funny I was saying the same thing at the same time. Good night, doctor. Good night, doctor. Untidy fellow, Holmes. Hello? Yes, I just arrived about an hour ago. It is most important that I see you at once. No, no. I cannot explain. It is now five minutes past midnight. I leave at once. Goodbye. Holmes, I don't have to tell you how much this means to us. We'll know a great deal more about the bomb sight after the demonstration, Sir Reginald. You always have a pretty good idea of the value of the Tobel bomb sight, just as the Nazis have. However. Oh, if you care to place Dr. Tobel under the protection of Scotland Yard until tomorrow. No, no, no. No, that won't be necessary. I shall personally deliver Dr. Tobel to your representatives on Salisbury Plain in plenty of time for the demonstration. Thank you. Good night, Sir Reginald. Good night, Mr. Holmes. Charlotte Eberli, Flat B. Right. Get the car, ready. I'll wait here until he comes out. Is that what the Americans call doodling? It is more serious than you could possibly realize, Charlotte. Good. More coffee? No, thank you, darling. I must get back before they miss me. We've been separated for so long. I couldn't bear that anything should part us again. I want to work with you and I want to know every minute where you are. Even for you to know the details of my mission in London is to sign your death warrant. If you are in real danger I want to share it. There is one thing you can do. Guard this envelope. If anything happens to me see that it reaches the hands of Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Yes. I pray I never have to deliver it. Help! He got away. Are you all right, sir? I, I think so. It must have been a robber. Yeah, since the blackouts those have become quite a nuisance, sir. Uhhh. I say you better come with me and have that fixed up. Uhh, thank you. Just lean on my arm. Watson. Watson, wake up. Huh? Where's Tobel. He, he, he's there. No he isn't. He's gone. That's impossible. He's asleep in my bed. I've been here the whole time. If anything's happened to him. Tobel, you all right? Ahh, it is nothing. Yes. Sit down here. Let's have a look. Well it doesn't look too bad. Who patched you up, the police doctor? Yes. It looks as if you've been attacked. Obviously, my dear Watson. Dr. Tobel, do you suspect the woman of arranging the trap? Woman, What woman? She's blonde. Five foot six, full lipped and very affectionate. Oh really? You've known her for a long time. You were attacked after leaving her apartment. Holmes, how do you know this? The face powder around your coat tells me of her height and her affection for you. You held her close before departing. Huh. It's all there for the trained eye to read, Watson? But look here. Why couldn't he have been attacked on his way to the woman's apartment? The mark of the blow has erased some of the powder. Obviously if the attack came first the powder would have remained undisturbed. And the full lips that was a guess. I never guess, Watson. You have rubbed the lipstick from your face with a handkerchief you now hold in your hand and that amount of lipstick never came from a pair of thin lips. And the blonde hair? Good gracious me. Mr. Holmes, I am glad you are on my side. Well in that case you will desist from disobeying my orders and slipping out while your bodyguard sleeps his watch away. It won't happen again, Holmes. I was sitting in front of the fire and must have dozed. All right, All right. Oh, sorry. Now, can you describe your assailant? I never saw him. A great figure came at me in the dark. I felt a stunning blow on my head and, and instantly fingers were at my throat. But you must have noticed something about him. Think man. A thing of little consequence to you may mean a great deal to me. Wait. Wait a moment. There was one thing. Long fingers at my throat like, like steel. And then, then a, an odor, a heavy drug-like odor. A drug? Opium? That is it. I am sure of it now. Well, I suggest we get the remains of a good night sleep. Remember, the test takes place tomorrow morning on Salisbury Plain. The principal of Dr. Tobel's device involves the use of three sonic beams. Is that right, sir? That appears to be it. There he is. We're on the course now, sir. Well gentlemen, that load would sink any ship in the world. We must consider the possibility of good piloting and a lucky hit. I'd like to see another try of it. So would I. They want you to try again, sir. He's coming into position now, sir. We're on the course now, sir. Well gentlemen, how do you like the bomb sight now? It's marvelous. We'll revolutionize the aerial bombardment. Inspector Lestrade. Yes, Sir Reginald? I hope Scotland Yard is taking every precaution to guard Dr. Tobel and his equipment. Two plain-clothes men ride with him in his car sir, and four others follow in another one, sir. Good. He's coming to my office in Whitehall as soon as he lands. Well shall we start, gentlemen? Well, here he is gentlemen. Congratulations sir. It was excellent amazing performance. It was magnificent, Dr. Tobel. Magnificent. I am glad we had such ideal conditions for the test. I wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen it myself. We've been through a lot, Holmes but thank goodness he's safe now. You brought your apparatus with you? No, Sir Reginald. I did not. But why not? It must be lodged in the most impregnable vault in this building until we're ready to start manufacture. I have arranged for a little office of my own. I intend to supervise the manufacture myself. But you, you offered it to our government for our use. Everything Mr. Holmes has done has been with that ideal in view. I still offer it to your government but no one else will know the secrets involved. I have devised the plan to guard my invention, a plan as intricate as the bomb sight itself. If you imagined for one moment... Please. I will not change my mind, Sir Reginald. I am taking the matter into my own hands. Just what do you propose to do, Dr. Tobel. I am sorry. I cannot reveal the details of my plan for the present. Do you think that's wise? I regret gentlemen. I cannot change my decision. I shall work independently. Can't you persuade him, Holmes? But supposing something should happen to you, Dr. Tobel. You know, there's already been one attempt on your life. And if Holmes' suspicions are right? Quiet, Watson. There is no use discussing it, gentlemen. My mind is made up. Scotland Yard will redouble the guard about you doctor. In fact we'll quadruple it. That is just what I do not wish done, inspector. That would only draw attention to my activities. Good day gentlemen. Just the same I'll have my men watching him every moment from now on. No, no, Wait Lestrade. We must not offend Dr. Tobel. We must remember that he, as a citizen of Switzerland, is under no obligation to give us his invention. We must do as he asks. Now don't you agree, Holmes? But sure, Sir Reginald. I'm not officially connected with the government and I intend to remain on the case. Good, good. That is if Inspector Lestrade doesn't mind. Not at all, Mr. Holmes. We're always glad to have you hanging around. Thank you. You can put those away now, Lestrade. Hoffner, I am entrusting this to you because first of all you are a Swiss and second there is no doubt in my mind of your ability. I am honored Dr. Tobel. I have divided the mechanism of my invention into four units. Each is meaningless without the others. You have delivered the other three. Yes. No one but myself knows the identity of the four scientists working on the four units. Their names are not even known to each other. I think I understand. From what you tell me it will be easy to reproduce the unit assigned to me at any quantity you wish. I knew I could rely on you. I will get in touch with you as soon as I have made the rest of my arrangements. No, no, no. The back door if you please, Professor Hoffner. Au vaus. Au vaus. Hello. Yes, Lestrade. Oh. Very well. What is it, Holmes? Just as I feared. Lestrade's men report that Tobel is missing. Missing? Yes, I was afraid of this. How long has he been missing? Practically since he walked out of your office yesterday. If he'd only given the address of this place I shouldn't have had to waste so much time finding it. Empty. The bomb sight's gone. I didn't expect to find here, Sir Reginald. This is a pretty mess. If you knew this was going to happen why the devil didn't you do something about it? You can rely on Holmes implicitly, Sir Reginald. Tobel is gone and heaven alone knows where. It serves me right for listening to that half-brained idea of his, Dismissing Lestrade's men and they went leaving him here alone and unguarded. Holmes, if anything has happened to Tobel, if his invention falls into the hands of Germany, it will be a major disaster for England. Christmas wrapping. He did his Christmas shopping in plenty of time. Yes, curious. Do you, do you note something, Holmes? Scent. Perfume. Yes. I noticed it the moment we entered the room. Claire de Luna. One of the rarer essences and very expensive. That woman again. Undoubtedly. Get me Inspector Lestrade. Sherlock Holmes calling. So Holmes is finally stumped. First time I've heard him call for help. Call for help indeed. He's only just beginning his investigation. Lestrade? This is Holmes. Check the records and place a call made on my private telephone of Bakers Street approximately twelve o'clock on the night of Dr. Tobel's arrival in London. Finally stumped, hey Sir Reginald. Yes, Lestrade? Wait a minute. Charlotte Eberli, St. George's Street, Flat B. Excellent, Lestrade. Thank you. Where is Dr. Tobel? I can't tell you. You mean you won't tell me? I don't know. How many Christmas packages did you take to him, Ms. Eberli? Five. He dismantled his bomb sight and packed the units in four of the boxes. Is that correct? Pardon me. Hello. Yes. This is Miss Eberli. Why, why someone must have stolen it. On Richmond Bypass? Yes. Yes, I'll arrange to have it removed. Yes. At once. Now I can be frank with you, Mr. Holmes. Dr. Tobel has disappeared. They found my car on Richmond Bypass wrecked. I loaned it to him last night. For what purpose, Miss Eberli? He wouldn't tell me, but he said that if anything should happen to him I was to give you this. Holmes? Then he must have expected something. Yes. This envelope has been opened and resealed. But that is in impossible. It hasn't been out of my hands. What? Why that's not the message. It isn't even the same paper. I saw Dr. Tobel draw little sets of figures. What kind of figures? Well they, they looked like little dancing men. Dancing men? That's curious. Who's been in this apartment since Dr. Tobel entrusted that envelope to your care? Why no one. I've had no visitors. Think. Possibly a tradesman. No. Only the one for a few minutes. And that one? A workman. He came to fix my light switch. He couldn't have possibly... Did you send for him? Why no. My lights went out and soon afterwards he knocked at my door and told me the porter had sent him up. That's where he worked. But he wasn't alone in this room more than five minutes and he did fix the lights. They went on again. The switch hasn't been touched. The paint still covers the screw heads. He simply threw the main switch in the basement, pretended to work on this one and after a few moments an accomplice threw the main switch back on. But in those few minutes - Did you get a look at his face? No, only a glance. Now I realize he kept his face averted. But he was a large man? Yes, he was large. His eyes, heavy lidded, a thin film over the pupils. And Holmes... I remember now. His eyes, they were like a snake's. Miss Eberli, Dr. Tobel is being held by one of the most brilliant men in the history of crime. Come on, Watson. There isn't a moment to lose. Goodbye Miss Eberli. Goodbye Miss Eberli. I don't see why I'm not allowed to go with you. You have your own mission, Watson. Yes, to take a sealed note to Inspector Lestrade while you search through holes. I shall not be searching for him. I shall permit him to find me in the character of a murderous lascar once in his employ and whom I may add is still in jail. Yes, but after all these years. Make no mistake, Watson. This is not a duel of intellects or the cruel but single-minded Gestapo killer. This is our greatest problem with England as the stake and our antagonist, Professor Moriarity. You've got to beat him. Once he's behind bars I think I shall entitle my memoirs of these adventures the end of Moriarity. An excellent title, Watson, but we must arrange that it isn't Moriarity who's left to write the memoirs. Huh? Ramsing. Ramsing? Who know Ramsing? I do, you blooming wharf rat. You've been in jail, ain't ya? How you know? I've heard from the blighter what left you to swing instead of him. You know who I'm mean matey. I know. I'll have to kill him. Would it be worth ten pounds to you? You know where he live? For ten pound I know. I only got two. Goodbye matey Five. Ten pounds or nothing you lying heathen. You dirty... Well it ain't so much to ask, for what you want to know. You make good bargain. That does it. Well? You remember Angel's Court. Huh. Then follow your nose through the alley till you come to Jed Brady's Carpenter Shop. He can tell you where the blighter is at this very moment. You come too. Me? If you lie. All right, mister. I'll come along with you. Easy matey, easy. Follow me. Please governor. I hadn't had nothing to eat for two days. Ah, go away. Who's there? Peg leg. Who's this bloke? He's a bloodthirsty heathen but has good money to spend for information. What's he want to know? He give me five pounds to bring him to someone what could tell him the whereabouts of you know who. You no tell me I cut two throat. Cost you another fiver. Five pound more, eh? You pay him? Me? Come on you. Come on pay him. I'll tell you all right I will, the truth and that's a fact. The blight is in Davey Jones' locker and feeding the fishes he is, deader than a blinking mackerel. Now ain't that worth a fiver? I tell you he's alive. And I say he's been dead these many years. You're lying. Easy there Jack Brady. I would say you were wrong and Mr. Sherlock Holmes was correct. Good evening Professor Moriarity. Welcome, Holmes. My men have the instructions to bring anybody here who inquires for me. They haggled while I watch, an admirable disguise by the way. It fooled them completely. Of course it didn't fool me. I never intended that it should. I meant only that it should bring us face to face. Just like old times, eh? The battle of wits of superior intellects. I may say I've been expecting you since I made off with your precious Dr. Tobel. And his code. Ah yes. And his code. But valuable as your doctor and his code are to my business I think my main interest in this affair is the chance it gives me to battle with you again. Moriarity, this is no simple crime that you contemplate. It's a staggering blow against your own country. That doesn't concern me overly. I should make greater profits from this affair than all my other adventures put together. Then you refuse? Oh, most assuredly. In fact, I intend to insure the success of this venture tonight by liquidating you, Mr. Holmes. I think that is the American phrase. Quite. You are the one man intelligent enough to stand in my way. Huh, a gun. Oh, come now. This is not the Professor Moriarity, the master criminal I once knew. A dock rat could do as much. Did you think I was going to shoot you, Mr. Holmes? Oh, oh. Dear me no. This is simply to prevent a troublesome scene. I expected you, and made full arrangements. You see my good Mr. Holmes, these shelves lift out and you will rest somewhat uncomfortably in the false bottom of this sea chest. My sailor friend, Jack Brady, goes to sea immediately. Once out of sight of land he pushes the chest overboard. Tie him up. Perhaps your good friend, Dr. Watson, can entitle this adventure, the end of Sherlock Holmes. He will be disappointed. He intended to call it the end of Professor Moriarity. Hurry. Aye, sir. Brilliant man Sherlock Holmes. Too bad he was honest. That one-legged man, he takes Mr. Holmes right to that carpenter shop. He knocks on the door. A man comes out and in they go. Thank you, George. We'll take over the watch. Good night, Dr. Watson. Good night. What does Mr. Holmes hope to accomplish by this masquerade? He hopes to frighten Moriarity into rushing Tobel into another hiding place. Moriarity's dead, I tell you. Look out. Over here, quick. Hey, just a minute. Who's there? What have you got there? Who's asking? Scotland Yard. Scot... governor, I'll show you me papers. There you are, governor. I'm Jack Brady, ship's carpenter. Shipping out tonight in the convoy, destination unknown. Me pal here is helping me get the chest aboard. Make him open it, Lestrade. Yes, or course. All right governor, see for yourself. There is nothing here, doctor. Just a couple of simple seafaring men. All right get on with it. Thank you governor. Come on, now. Easy does it. Right there. Good night, my lordships. Told you it was a lot of nonsense. I don't understand. That thing must weight a ton. Look at that man staggering. Do you know something, doctor. A few tools wouldn't take that much energy. We've just looked inside. On the top only. There might be a false bottom. Hey you, you stop there. Stop or I'll shoot. Great Scott, Holmes. Well I'll be blowed. You're not hurt. No, but you needn't have yelled at them so abruptly. Huh? They dropped me on my head. Oh. Moriarity would have been delighted. So Professor Moriarity is alive. Alive and in possession of Dr. Tobel's code. No point going back, they've all gone. Then what are you going to do? Well first I'm going to wash this filthy stuff off my face and then I'm going to see Miss Eberli again. I've got to find some clue to the content of Dr. Tobel's message. Come on quick. I only got one glimpse of the note while he was preparing it. He was seated at this desk? No, he was sitting on the couch when he wrote the message but he sealed the envelope here. The message was written in ink with this pen? No he used a pencil. This one. Thank you. He used this writing pad? Yes. Has it been used since? No. It should be here. It must be here. What, Mr. Holmes. The lead in this pencil is hard, hard enough to make an impression on the course fibers of which this paper is made. Impressions at the moment are invisible. If we immerse this sheet in the solution of florescent salts, dry it and then photograph it by ultraviolet light the fibers broken by the writing will absorbed less of the solution than other parts of the paper. Switch off the lights, Watson. We place the slide in the projector and turn on the light. The broken fibers appear darken than the rest of the paper and therefore visible. Splendid, Holmes. Now I recognize that code. Do you remember a case we had some years ago? It's partly the same, alphabet substitution code. Yes, Watson. I believe Dr. Tobel meant to communicate with us by that means. Substitution of the alphabet. I don't understand. My dear, one of the oldest codes in use is based on the repetition of figures. E is a letter most used in the British language therefore the single most used probably in this message is e. T-a-o-I-n. Follow in that order of frequency. You mean you can read these figures as if they were letters of the alphabet. Elementary, my dear Miss Eberli. Give me one minute and you shall have the message. And what is the message, Watson? This fellow Tobel must have been pulling our legs. There's a lot of gibberish. L-y-z-I-m-t-h-k. Reads like an eye doctor's chart. Dr. Tobel is a brilliant scientist. I saw immediately that he wouldn't send us a message so simple to decipher. Neither would he have fixed these top figures without a meaning. Then it isn't the alphabet substitution code. Yes it is, Watson, but with a very clever variation. You see the one, two, three figures means that we skip letters in that order. In other words, observe Watson. The first letter, which is I skips one, becomes J. The second letter, Y, skips two and becomes A and the third skips three and becomes C. J-a-c... J-a-c-o-b, D-u-r-r-e-I. Jacob Durrei, a Swiss scientist and friend of Dr. Tobel's. P-a-I-a-c-e, C-r-e-s... Palace Crescent. Right. I say Holmes, this man, Durrei, must be important. Obviously, Watson. He must have some connection with the bomb sight or Tobel wouldn't have taken so much trouble to see that I got his name. Take down the rest of the message. J-o-s-e-p-h, Joseph. E-m-d-d-I-a-c, number four doesn't make any sense. He must have used some other variations. Four names and addresses, Jacob Durrei, Professor Fallow, Dr. Kern and this forth infernal cipher which doesn't get the code. Christmas boxes. Watson, I'm beginning to see the plan. Dr. Tobel divided his bomb sight into four parts just as we brought it back from Switzerland. He's given one section of the mechanism to each of these famous scientists. What a fascinating plan. You see each part is useless without the other three and undoubtedly none of these scientists is known to each other. Professor Moriarity also has the code and we must allow for his ability to decipher it. We haven't time to break the fourth code now. We must get to the first three men before Moriarity does. Palace Crescent first? Right. I'll go and get a taxi. Miss Eberli, will you please wait here till we return? Thank you. Yeah, where are you going, sir? Jacob Durrei live here? Yes, but there's been a bit of trouble so you can't go in. Inspector Lestrade's orders. Oh, Hey, just a minute, sir. That's Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Oh, very sorry, sir. Dead? Dead as a door nail. Mr. Holmes, how did you know about this? The Yard only got here fifteen minutes ago. We'd better hurry Holmes. There's still time to save Fallow and Kern. Too late, Watson. By this time Fallow and Kern are dead too. What? Deductions again, Mr. Holmes? Facts Inspector. Oh, facts. But how did you know about them? Elementary, my dear Watson. This man has been dead for at least two hours and Moriarity isn't wasting any time. Hello? This is Lestrade. Put me on to Mackety. Hello, Mackety, hello, this is Lestrade. Do you know anything about two men named Fallow and Kern? Fallow and Kern? Both of them? Oh. Thank you. The report only came in two seconds before I telephoned. What on earth are we going to do, Holmes? Moriarity's got a big start and he's got the code? Note this Watson. Scotland Yard reports two murderers. That makes three in all. But there were four boxes and four codes. Obviously Moriarity hasn't broken the fourth code either. What is the name of the fourth man? I can't remember. What is the name of the fourth man? I have forgotten. What is the name of the fourth man? I don't know. I don't know. What is the name of the fourth man? I can't remember. What is the name of the fourth man? What is the name of the fourth man? But Holmes, don't you realize what this means to England? We not only lose the Tobel bomb sight ourselves but Germany gets it. Coventry, Bath, Plymouth, London. And not to mention Norigno. All over again but with ten times the effect. Don't you suppose I realize that, Sir Reginald? Don't you suppose I give my life to decode the last name of that message? Well there must be some solution. Naturally, Watson. I don't mean to be rude, I need a drink. I'm all in. I can't think anymore. All these letters and figures running through my brain all twisted around. Twisted around. What? That's it. That's what? Twisted around you said. It's so simple I never thought of it. Reverse the slide. You see, gentlemen. These figures are now identical with the first three names. In other words, all the figures of name number four are written backwards and read from right to left until we reverse the slide when they read correctly from left to right. Now let's work on it. Pencil Watson. But, um, why would Dr. Tobel want to reverse the figures of number four. An added precaution, Lestrade in case the cipher should fall into the wrong hands. Quite a compliment to you, Mr. Holmes. I mean, Tobel taken for granted that you would recognize the difference. Thank you. Ohh. F-r-e-d-e-r-I-c-k, H-o-f-f-n-e-r, Frederick Hoffner. S-I-o-a-n-e S-q-u... Sloane Square. We must leave at once. Wait a minute. Information? Will you please give me the address of a Frederick Hoffner in Sloane Square. I'll break this code. I'll find the name of that fourth man before Holmes does. There is not much more time. The submarine is to pick us up off Shanese in six hours. I've beaten Holmes so far. We don't need the confounded submarine with the bomber sight in tact. But Tobel is unconscious again. As last resort we could abandon the code and take Tobel to Germany. We'll try Tobel again in here. Wait. Spilling that glass of water was a very fortunate accident, my dear street brawler. Dr. Tobel's perversion of the cipher was so simple that it fooled us. I was looking for something ingenious. This is ingenious. He simply reversed the cipher. F-r-e-d-e-r-I-c-k, H-o-f-f-n-e-r, S-I-o-a-n-e. Frederick Hoffner, Sloane Square. Of course. Hoffner would be the perfect selection. Then you want us to tend to Hoffner? No, we can use Hoffner. He's a brilliant scientist. If Dr. Tobel doesn't recover from your persuasion, Hoffner would be able to put the four parts together. You and Godfrey will call on Hoffner and you will bring him here with the fourth section of the bomb sight. Hurry. Put up your hands, Professor Hoffner. I'll take the box. We Meet again, Professor. Sherlock Holmes. An improvement on the other make-up. Don't you think so, Professor. So you think you've beaten me, Holmes? I have. The real Hoffner is safely in the hands of Scotland Yard. But I still have Tobel and now I shall sell Germany the inventor instead of the invention. You've learned nothing from him in spite of all your torture otherwise you wouldn't be trying so desperately to collect the four sections of the bomb sight. A keen observation, my dear Holmes, but observe further that you are now in my hands and I have profited by my last mistake by allowing underlings to attend to you. Holmes took my place and while the Nazis were inside with him he instructed me to attach a small apparatus underneath their car. He's a brilliant fellow, Holmes. I helped him prepare the apparatus. Did you really, doctor? That is I poured the luminous paint when he told me to. Very clever, Dr. Watson. The apparatus drips at regular intervals leaving a trail of luminous paint. I see. Leading us to Moriarity and Mr. Holmes. Why are you so confident, Professor? Only a suggestion. But how do you know that Scotland Yard isn't waiting to break in at this very moment? I selected this address with special care. No one can find it, not even Scotland Yard. Relax, Mr. Holmes. There's no escape. And I'd suddenly dash to the window and break it open and shout to a passerby. There are no passersby. The glass in the window is unbreakable and the room is soundproof. This is my stronghold, Holmes, equipped with all the modern conveniences of a successful man in my profession. Sit down. They cleared up again, sir. I don't understand, Lestrade. It stopped and then it started and now it stopped again. Maybe the apparatus broke down. Oh, a suggestion, gentlemen. At a crossroad back there a car might have gone over the spots of paint, picked some up on the tires and left this false trail. Just what I was about to... Just what I was about to suggest myself. Very well. We'll try it. Now Holmes, what will it be? The gas chamber, a cup of hemlock or just a simple bullet through your brain? You disappoint me, professor. Indeed. Yes. Somehow I always thought that in the end you'd prove to be just an ordinary cutthroat. You know me better, Holmes. Gas, poison, bullets. I assure you, professor, were our position's reversed I should have something more colorful, more imaginative to offer. I'm satisfied to be the winner. I shall be alive. Alive, yes, the winner, no, for in the last analysis I shall have proved the more resourceful man. You didn't trap me here. I came here because I wanted to, to prevent your getting Hoffner and all you can do in return is to commit ordinary murder to relieve your sense of frustration. And what, my good Mr. Holmes, could you have conceived that would have been so much more colorful? Well even offhand I can improve upon your suggestions considerably, but that's only natural of course. And what is this brilliant idea of yours? You know that a man dies if he loses five pints of blood? Yes, of course you do. I should have you placed on an operating table, inject a needle into your veins and slowly draw off your life's blood. The needle to the last, ay, Holmes? Slowly, drop-by-drop the blood would be drawn from your body. You would be aware of every exquisite second to the very end. You would be watching yourself die scientifically noting every reaction and in full possession of your faculties. Interesting. Yes, isn't it. I humbly submit, professor, that to the very end I've been more resourceful than yourself. You've played into my hands, Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Time and again I've used this place as a haven for friends of mine injured in alterations with Scotland Yard. I have a fully equipped hospital here. The trail goes this way, inspector. Drop by drop, Holmes. Drop by drop. Ahh, in a way I'm almost sorry. You were a stimulating influence to me but it was obvious that I should win in the end. Only a matter of moments now. Take Tobel down to the boat. Start the engine. Closer to the end Holmes, closer and closer. Each second a few more drops leave your desiccated body ending, you can feel me touch you. You're perfectly conscious aren't you, Holmes? I shall be conscious long after you're dead, Moriarity. Ahh. Still the same old swaggering conceded Sherlock Holmes. Wait. If Moriarity hears a shot he'll kill Holmes. You keep an eye on the boat. Don't make a move till Dr. Watson and I get inside. Understand? You wait here, Professor Hoffner. Come on doctor. The water's this way. Moriarity's rooms must be up here. I can't wait any longer, Holmes. You'll have to forgive the crudity my friend. This is only the coups de gras. Stay still, Moriarity. You're done for. Holmes! On the contrary, inspector, my men are outside. It's you who are done for. Really? Just take a look out the window and see for yourself. He's trying to get to the speedboat. Yes, he won't go without Tobel. Wait. Here's Dr. Tobel, inspector. He ain't too badly hurt. Thank heavens for that. Look after him will you Hoffner? I'll take him to the car. Well I expected you but not with my revolver. You realize, of course, when I was brought into the room blindfolded I heard the mechanism of this door. Of course. And yet knowing that I'd heard it you planned this way of escape. Not very flattering to me. Suicide my dear professor. Not at all, my dear Holmes. You see this is not an ordinary passageway. Oh, my mistake. It has been equally well prepared as the rest of my humble quarters. I have a trap set, electric eye principle. My passing through will break the beam and automatically open the highly deceptive trap door behind me, of course. My pursuer, meaning you my dear Holmes, will then be plunged sixty feet into the sewers below. Holmes. Holmes. Poor Moriarity. I neglected to warn him. It seems some careless person came across his trap door and left it open. Come along, Watson. Germany wanted the Tobel bomb sight, but will send her thousands of them in our airplanes. Yes, thanks to Mr. Sherlock Holmes and to Mrs. Tobel. And, of course, Inspector Lestrade. Oh well, that's all right, Miss. Things are looking up, Holmes. This little islands still on the map. Yes. This fortress built by nature for herself, this blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England.
