 

                        Charge through it. Go Walk Walk Tofu Walk Tofu I tempest Fu ming Wang Fu ming Walk Four Young Master. Geto out of here What are you doing here? Come here. Four You must not go What are you talking about? you can't go. Do you know how important today is, just for today? do you know how we prepared, how many died? I do not know? Four, this is the biggest event This is a national affair! Do you know that? I do not care, Young Master must not go It is 9:59 We are leaving at 10:00 Let Mr. Sun leave safely Young Master .. It's 9:59:30 Four will you take me for the last hour? There are 15 seconds left I lived for seventeen years Just for this one hour. Young Master do not go I Beg you not to go Four, get out of here, go! Young Master Four I remember you once told me we shut our eyes every night and dream of all of which are pure I shut my eyes and I see China's tomorrow. They are nearly here. Do not come over Father, I'm not a filial daughter Yu Tang Nobody move, everyone out of the rickshaws. Stand still Do not move We are crossing town Nobody moves. Did you do that? No, we had nothing to do with that We are going over there Stay put. Do not move. You two go back The situation is too serious here We can not go back I order you to go back the chief has ordered us not to go See what happened to that man you hired. you let him infiltrate us Get rid of him Stupid fool Do you want to rebel Here is the British Empire, Hong Kong Have them arrested Li Yu Tang You are all-powerful, is it not? You never tasted police brutality, is not it? Today, I let you try it . Go Li Yu Tang Go Go Yu Tang Five minutes later there will be no police in Hong Kong We all have to withdraw, the boss's order. He said, regarding China's affairs, Let the Chinese people manage them This last section of the road How far can I send you? Go The Beggar. Director, the beggar Run! Run! Hurry up fast Quick hurry upstairs to see old Mrs. Sun Lao We only have 15 minutes How old are you? Parents, in good health? My father is almost 60 mother passed away I thank you for my son Also thank your father Take care. Quick head for the tunnel. Chong Kwong Go Give it to Nim Chi Give it to Nim Chi Give it to Nim Chi Run! Run! Run! Run! Run! Run! Full-scale assault on Guangdong, Guangxi and Yunnan Chaozhou uprising originating Guangdong and Guangxi to be flowering at the same time To spread the strength of the enemy Go back! Package 10 You pull my rickshaw Go back Chong Kwong Go Sit tight Let go Let go You asked for it. Ten years ago Qu Yun Xiong with me to discuss what is meant by the revolution I said then Revolution Is to four hundred million compatriots, to live free Cold and hunger are no more. Ten years after the my respects to those who have sacrificed I come back from a foreign land To me, the word revolution, Incomparable What is revolutionary today, then Road I would say Desires of the well-being of civilization Forced by the pain of Civilization This pain Is called the revolution Dr. Sun Yat, thanks you Xio Kwo is here for the wanted Dr. Sun the Thief Yan Xiao Kwo Do not do it It's over Finished Serving the court , kill all the Thieves Dr. Sun Yat Sun has left already. Serving the court kill the Thieves Chong Kwong , run! Don't do it! Chong Kwong He is not Sun Wen He is not Sun Wen He is not Sun Wen, Yan Xiao kwo! He is not Sun Wen, Yan Xiao Kwo Don't Chong Kwong Don't Yan Xiao Kwo Student Has served his country I said You should not go out for the next two days -=-Erreur dans cette sous-ligne aprs traitement-=-
