 

                        Hello, I'm Ronald Merrick, I'm here to invite you aboard of our Starliner. Yes, is true! Day to day living becomes a luxury cruise... ...when you make your home Starliner Tower aparments. Although downtown Montreal is only 12 and a half minutes away... ...once you crossed the carrier bridge to Starliner island... ...the noise and the traffic of the city... ...might just well be a million miles away. Leave your car and the tension of the city... ...in the space reserve for you in our vast underground garage. If friends are follow you home ...there's convenient parking for them on ground level. Invite them up to show the breathtaking view from your balcony or your window. Gracious hospitality is easy in any Starliner apartment. They all come fully equipped with the most modern electrical appliances, ...and cable TV it is standard too. Relax by the side of our heated olympic size swimming pool And watch the St. Lawrence river flowing by on its way to the city Exercise the fun way in our nine hole golf course. Design by international golf players Or if tennis is your game ...you don't have to wait for playing time in a our multiple courses. Day or night. Explore our island paradise, secure in the knowledge that it belongs to you and your felon passengers alone. Cruise the seasons, the sun and the stars ...without ever leaving the great ship Starliner Is all here! A restaurant completed with takeout service ...a variety store, delicatessen ...boutique ...drugstore ...dry cleaning service. They here to serve you. Don't forget our own dental premises and medical clinics ...staffed by the world finest professionals Sail through life in quiet comfort Cruise Starliner Studios, one bedroom ...and two bedroom apartments are now available. From Starko, a division of General Structures Incorporated Good morning. Can I help you? Yes, I a... We are looking for the rental agent. We have an apointment. I just give him a little buzz. Do you use that? No. Never had it out of the holster. A rival company has 'em, so we gotta have 'em. Just an advertising gimmick. Mr. Merrick is coming. Welcome to Starliner Towers. - And you are? - Kresimer and Benda Sviben. Yes, Mr. and Ms. Sviben. Sorry to keep you waiting Now, are we talking about one or two bedrooms? I assume we're not talking about bachelors, I see Now, Brenda you take a look at this one... and tell me if it doesn't suit you down to the ground. This is the one with the big view. The panoramic view. Do you say something, Nick? No. Breakfast is just about ready Can I call you at the office? What do you want to call me? I don't know. I just though I might like to call you. I not gonna be at the office. Except to sign in. I got claims to check out. Garages and more garages. We're going up. Oh, well. I'll just take a little ride As I was saying... ...we have quite an exciting variety of completely furnished... ...aparments ready to live. You can always move this afternoon. If you want it. Notice how the entranceways to all the apartments... Annabelle, this is Nick. Are you in the bedroom? Is probably nothing at all. Actually is probably some form of fatty cyst... ...or something like that. That could be easily... ...remove at the doctor's office Hasn't he seen a doctor? He hates doctors. Doctors and lawyers. He never goes to doctors. Look, why don't you do this? Why don't you go down to the clinic? And see that nice doctor. What's his name? ...St. Luc? Go down to the clinic and explain to him that Nick is very ill ...and he has to stay in bed. Ask him to come and see him When he's there. They can fight it out between 'em - He'd be really mad. - So what? Yo can relax and find out what's wrong with him Let him be the uptight one, for a change, really This is ridiculous. OK. Bravo! Nicholas, I didn't expect you in today. I'd been telling everyone to call back tomorrow. It was Dr. Hobbes who paid the rent. But actually was her name that appear on the residency list ...and on the intercom board Annabelle Brown. A civilize young lady. Never complain of anything. And that was her? Annabelle Brown? - Far as I know - Is that the man who called you up here? Yes, Dr. Roger St. Luc. He's the director of our little medical clinic here. - Medical clinic? - Yes. We're on an island, you see? We have to be as selfsupported as possible. I see. Let's have a talk with the doctor. Dr. St. Luc? Dr. St. Luc. Inspector sargent Heller, homicide. I'd like to ask you a few questions. - You're the one who found the bodies? - Yes. Did you touch anything or move anything before we got here? I removed some surgical tape from her lips and examined inside of her mouth I gave the tape to a detective... The man over there... - And I look at the anomaly very quickly. - The department will be very bitchy about that. You knew these people? I knew the man, Emil Hobbes... ...he's a doctor and a professor at the university. I saw the girl around the building ...but I didn't know her. She never came to the clinic. So you came to visit this Hobbes and you fund them like that? No. I haven't seen Dr. Hobbes since I was in medical school He taught me. He was my professor in urology and venereology He also conducted some seminars in psychopharmacology. And that's about it. I'd no idea he'd ever set foot in Starliner Towers 'til today. So what brought you up here? Well, he called me at six o'clock this morning. Hobbes called me I thought I was dreaming. I haven't heard his voice for so long. He said "meet me at apartment 15 now". -11. - Thank you. "At noon we go out for lunch. It's time you furthered your education" That's it - How did he sound? Depressed? Nervous? He sounded fine No, you got the wrong man. Just a moment please Dr. St. Luc. It's for you Somebody wanting to know why didn't you turn up for lunch. This is not the kind of lunch Hobbes had in mind for us ...but is all I got. Ain't beautiful? This is Hobbes and I project. What we try to find... ...was an alternative to organs transplant I keeping you up? You bored right? To you organs transplant is just yesterday's kishkas, right? Look. You got... You got men, right? And you got parasites that live in, on and around men. Rigth? So... Why not... Why not breed a parasite that can do something useful, eh? A parasite that can take over the function of a human organ For example... ...we breed a parasite and implant him in the human abdominal cavity ...that hooks in the circulatory system ...and filters the blood like a kidney does If it takes a little blood for itself once a while What do you care? I mean you have enough. You can afford to be generous! - Are you following me? - I am, I am OK, look. You have a guy with a bad kidney. Right? ...now you put the bug in. The bug goes to work on the kidney ...dissolves it, so the body assimilate it Now, what you got? You got a perfectly good parasite where you used to have a rotten kidney Right? I know you're gonna say it's crazy Actually I gonna ask you if you have mustard C'mon. C'mon Rog, really - What do you think? - It's just crazy. It's crazy? But who cares? Hobbes was a lousy teacher We have to face the facts he was a lousy teacher He was dull... academic... Just plain lousy But he had a genius for one thing... That was getting grants He could raised money for crazy projects For example, who do you think is paying the rent of this place? - Not you. - Nope. The Nothern Hemisphere Organ Transplant Society and that's for something that's supposed to put 'em outta business Here is a partial list... of some of their other recent projects... ...that we are underwriting but with their money Smart? Ashen and Graunt, Insurance Appraisals. Mr. Tudor? One moment, please. I'll buzz him Nicholas? There's a call for you. Nicholas? It's that man whose Lamborghini caught fire on St. Catherine. He's very angry Nicholas? What's wrong? We're going to get you to a hospital. It's probably an ulcer. - I'm going home for the day - But Nicholas... I'm all right, Mona. - Call me a cab... Now - All right, Nicholas. All right How did Hobbes know this girl? Who is she? Some chick he met when he lecturing at her girl's school And what happened? The caught him examining her titties for breast cancer ...in the faculty lounge. She was 12 years old Think about crazy He used to bring her up here once in a while I'll never understand how he could do waht he did to her Well... I am... I think I have to go back Open up the store... It's been great to see you. Rog? you'll think of what I just talked to you about... ...about joining me in this Sure Sure. See ya - Keep in contact - All right How about the pickle? It's used! Good afternoon, Mr. Tudor. Yes, the aging process is in any way reversible I don't think for a moment that it is ...but might be stoppable and that's where mega vitamins come in Ms. Tudor? Are you ready to go in - Yes. Excuse me, Brad - Sure - Be with you in a minute - Right Well, I don't see any... ...any change in this company report done on your husband last year I see too many scargots... and too many crepes with vanilla icecream and strawberries But I don't see chance of a cancer developing that fast Not the way you've described it to me I think it might be swollen glands or something - Can you come up and take a look at him? - That's what I'm here for I don't think I can do it until 9'30... - ...10 o'clock? That would be OK? - That's perfect - Not too late? - No, that's fine - Thank you so much, doctor - Don't worry OK Ms. Ementhal is ready, doctor Tell Ms. Ementhal, I'll be right there with her, will you? - You see how beautiful the grass is? - Yes, yes. I take a walk here every day Good heavens! Look! Poor birdie Poor birdie Crap! They're always crashing into tall buildings - The windows fool them, you know - Come along, Olive. - I'ts such a shame - Come on, dear The poor little thing! Maybe it's only hurt Don't be silly, dear. It's in heaven now, whatever it is Now come along and get you tucked up in the bed before the color TV You know what a restless night you have... Kriedler seems to think that the mega-vitamin therapy... ...is the answer to the question of aging That's not to suggest that the aging process is in any way reversible... Patient's ready, Brad OK. Bye You just take your shirt off. The doctor will be here to see you in a minute, OK? You don't have to go. I'm not shy Don't be a tease, Brad - I'm still working, you know. - Yes, I know. All right You look very good. Just lay here. We'll see what the problem is Better take it easy. There's a lot of pressure in there Do you want me to breathe deeply? Just breathe normal Good shape for an old man, eh? Yes ...better than me, man. Better than me Mr. Parkins, I understand that you caught these lumps from a young lady It's that right? - What makes you think that? - She had some just like 'em Right here. Near her belly button You could push 'em around too I thought they were kinda sexy, myself - Did she live in the Starliner Towers? - Yeah. In the 1511. - Was her name Annabelle Brown? - Yeah. That's the one OK, I tell you what... Put your clothes on I'm going to send you to a hospital to take a few X-rays I want to find out what's hiding inside you Go to this address - Gonna cut me open? - I don't want you to think that I'm sure it's probably nothing Bye Hi Hi Want a drink? No thanks. I just wanted to tell you that... ...Dr. St. Luc is coming up to see Nick about 10 That's terrific! Was he nice to you? Yes After you find out that there's nothing that a vacation won't cure ...come and join me for dinner I've ordered from Phillipe's I'm sure your enjoy it. Come and join me. I loath to eat alone. I makes me feel so fat and lonely I always order for two OK. See you. Nick? Are you at home? C'mon sweetheart. We'll take you into bed You'll be right. C'mon C'mon Lean on me Come on You go there and I'll go here - Hello, hello! - Hello, hello! - Nobody at home - Forget it I wonder why is nobody at home today. Maybe in that apartment Vamos. It's scary! Is it sickening? What is it? Just get out! Let's get outta here Come here, boy. Here, boy, here. Come on, buddy. Come on, fella. You and me... You and me, we're gonna be friends Good friends Attaboy Attaboy Nick? Do you call me? Do you say something? How are you feeling? Does your stomach hurt? - Can I feel those bumpson your tum? - Go away Leave me alone Why won't you let me help you? Time is 7 o'clock This is John Woodhouse... ...with the radio news, sports and weather A bizarre murder has Montreal police baffled today... ...as they attemp to untangle events leading to discover of... ...two bodies in the Starliner apartments complex, early this afternoon The body of a 68 years old retired professor of medicine... ...was found lying in a pool of blood... ...by an unidentified former student The professor aparently commited suicide... ...by cutting himself with a scalpel... ...after performing an as yet unexplained operation... ...on an 19 year old woman. The woman's nude body... ...was found on a dinning room table. Badly mutilated... Police are not releasing any names... ...pending notification to next of kin On the labor front, the steel workers strike... ...has the municipal officials on the defensive. Spokeman for the steel workers union is asking for a 20%... Goverment official said the negotiation with the union will continue... ...until an agreement is reached I had those things you asked for... The files on Horsefield, Velakofsky... ...Swinburn and Brown. - And those papers published by Hobbes - Oh, yeah. Those are from the American Journal of Psychiatry. - All of this - Yes, this is Hobbes' paper As a added extra, this is something I compiled before your time here I thought they might interest you And now how about a kiss? - Eh, how about a kiss? - Sure This is the best thing I had in all day How about another kiss? - There isn't more people on the list? - No, Dotty's the last - Yeah? - Rog? I'ts me, Rollo. Rollo, it's interesting that you called... I just... ...look out at this material you did with Hobbes Interesting That's very flatter but I don't think you'll find much real meat in them No? How come? Well, you know, I always thought Hobbes was funny... I told you that before. I didn't really know just how funny he was. Until now See... when he kicked off... ...they sent all his personal stuff. After all, I'm Hobbes partner, right? Anyway, I've been going through his papers ...and what the add up to is this... Hobbes was shafting us all! me, the university, the foundations, the council, everybody! I don't quite get it! Hobbes believes the man is an animal... ...that thinks too much ...an over rational animal that has lost touch with his body and his instincts In other words, too much brain and not enough guts What he came up with to help our guts was a parasite... ...a combination of aphrodisiac and veneral disease... it would hopefully turn the world into a beautiful mindless orgy That sounds crazy to me The important thing to you Roger is this... You know, Annabelle. He was using her as a guinea pig - Guinea pig? - He implanted her with a parasite Once it took over, aparently she went berserk I guess Hobbes wasn't ready for that... So he just had to kill her What was the point? The point was that he wasn't trying to burn her... - He wans't? - No He was trying to burn the thigs. All of them! - Well, he didn't make it - What? Maybe Hobbes didn't know it but Annabelle Brown was a pretty popular girl around Starliner Towers I got three men here, maybe four, who're hosting large... ...free-moving, apparently pathogenic, abdominal growths ...that nobody I've tried can identify I like to come over and have look at one of those guys Why don't you? I gonna meet on of them at ten guy's name is Tudor. he's on the directory there You can just a meet me at the apartment Yeah, look. I'll be right over I don't want to panic you or anything ...the way Hobbes design those things... is they get out of hand pretty fast So you gotta be careful, I mean... ...before you have any chance to know what's happening to you Once they start pumping that juice into the blood... I don't know If you see anybody doing anything compulsive I mean, any kind of bizarre sexual things... Once I can get there, there's a lotta things we can use Maybe we can start with a basic tropical kit and work out from there I'll bring the bag full over The point is you've to get at them fast Listen, I'm gonna stay I've a meeting with Rollo a Tudor's apartment Well, why don't you come to my place and have something to eat when you finished - It might be very late... - Doesn't matter to me how late it is I'll keep it warm Is anything wrong with the Hobbes thing? - Yeah, but nothing I can`t handle - Well, how about supper at my place? - OK, but late - OK, see you later Delivery for 416 from Phillipe's restaurant. I'm hungry! I'm hungry for love! I'm hungry for love! What do you think? It's lovely Yes? Can I help you? Yes You can help me Hold it! Hold it! What? What's wrong? This man... I think I recognize him... I think he lives in the apartments He just attacks me for no reason at all! - I just opened the door... - All right! I just fixing you dinner and he just grab me... ...he just tried to kiss me! - Where is he? - I don't know! I think I killed him. I stabbed him with something and he fell Listen to me. Stay here and I'll go and check it out All right? Just stay here! I not gonna stay but myself! - I'm going with you - Listen to me It's not safe for you. It could be dangerous Just stay here. I'll be right back, OK? I'm sorry... I didn't mean to startle you I just didn't want your dinner burned - Quite strange! - Yes What it is? Get out! Get it off me! Get out! Get out! I want you to describe him to the doorman Maybe he knows where he lives or what he be up to - How do you feel? - OK Hey doctor! Please, help us! - What happened? - Please, pardon me. I'm Maurice Guilbaull. I am a resident here We're walking in the hallway and my wife was attacked by this thing - Where is this thing? - I hit it. I hit it I hit it with the cane down to the garbage This is a nurse. This is nurse Forsythe - What? - She is a nurse! ou take them back to their apartment Treat her for secon-degree burns. It'll have to do for now What's your number? What is the number of your apartment? Yes. We live on 703. OK. I'll meet you back there. Don't leave until I get there Lock the door adn don't let anyone in except me. OK? - But where do you go? - Down to the garbage No, dear. Is not our floor - It's all right dear - Ms. Guibaull, do you feel any better? - Does it hurt, cherie? - A little Janine Janine Nick? Are you up? Hello, darling I feel wonderful Come here. Come and join me on the bed You're absolutely beautiful Your eyes... Your mouth... You're the most sexy thing alive Do you want to make love? Nick, you're so strange You'll make love to me, won't you Janine? You're my wife You start I think I've forgotten how to do - Nick, I can't take this - Janine. You're so beautiful Make love to me, Janine You're my wife No, no, Nick, stop! Please, stop! Make love to me Make love to me I want able to see you when we make love I want to put my contacts in. Is it OK? Is that OK? Nick, I'm going to the bathroom to put my contacts in Nick, I'm here Betts Betts What happen? I'm gonna call the police She's calling the police She's calling the police! - Por qoui? - Je ne sais pas - ce qui se p? - Elle ne m'a pas dit! Nurse, come back! My wife needs you! Roger! Roger! Roger! Roger! Where are you? You look awful! What happened? Never mind how awful I look This is what I want you to do I want you to call the police. You got that? Call 'em and tell 'em to head to the medical center. We needs help - The police? - Listen to me! Tell 'em I need help. And I need it fast! All right. Is OK. - Yes? Who is there? - Mr. Guilbaull. - Who is this? - Dr. St. Luc. - I need to talk to the nurse - But the nurse... she went away I think she went to look for you, doctor - You stay where you are - Stay where we are? - You understand? Stay where you are! - OK, OK, good bye. Who are they? My God! Go away! Leave us alone! Forsythe! Where are you? Hold on. I wanna try crash the door Dr. St. Luc? Hello. There he is! Good evening, Mr. Wolfe, Ms. Lewis. Mr. Merrick, why don't you do something with all that noise? We like parties, but this is ridiculous! Well, there might be a connection... It's about your locker... I'm afraid somebody broke into it, early this evening Oh, no! What a drag! - Are you serious? - I'm afraid so I have some of the things they threw around in my office ...and if you care to come and identify them C'mon. Let me get out! Baby... Do I feel good to you? Yes Yes, very good Do you know what I want? I want you to make love with me Make love to me - What? - Make love to me - You can't... - Make love to me You can't really be saying that! Let's kiss Make love to me, Janine. Make love to me Make love to me Let's kiss and make up. Let's kiss! Rollo and the police will be here by now... All we have to do is avoid those pleople until they find us ...or we find them Dr. St. Luc? Dr. St. Luc? Roger? It's Dr. Linsky here Roger, Rollo here for the consultation we talked about Roger? Rog? Mr. Tudor? Mr. Tudor, I'm Dr. Linsky. Alright I take a little look here Help, Roger! Bring it out! Is burning! I'm burning! No - Oh, take it all! - Give it away! Get off me! No, no, no! Tudor! Tudor! Help! Tudor! Roger I had a very disturbing dream last night In this dream... I found mysefl making love to a strange man Only I'm having trouble, you see... because he's old... ...and dying... ...and he smells bad and I find him repulsive But then, he tells me that... ...everything is erotic ...that everything is sexual... You know what I mean? He tells me that even old flesh is erotic flesh ...that disease is the love of two kinds of creatures for each other Even dying... ...is an act of erotism... That talking is sexual... That breathing is sexual... That even to physically exist is sexual And I believe him... ...and we make love beautifully Let's go to swimming pool Hey, come on out Don't you wanna go to the party? Come on out, man Have you met my daughter Erica? She's a beautiful girl. Come here, Erica I think you really like my daughter Erica The time is 5:26 a.m. This is Gerald Keys with the Media Sculp sunrise news bulletin There is still no confirmation by Montreal City Police concerning alledged reports of a city wide plague of violent sexual assaults The assaults... ...believed to have originated in the vicinity of Starliner Island... ...began late last night ...and spread with increasing frecuency this morning Reports of the attacks had been termed irresponsible and histerical ...by a Montreal City Police spokesman Stay tuned for further detail, on Media Sculp news at 6.00
