 

                        Don? Don Strachey? You must be Paul Hale. Yeah. Gotta tell you, Paul, I usually meet new clients in my office. Sorry, I just... I can't really be seen going there. Not now. I don't know why we couldn't have just done this over the phone. I like to meet clients face-to-face, that's how I know they're legit. Yeah. Maybe you should tell me what you're looking for? I need help. I need you to track someone down for me. Okay. You can do that, right? Sure. But listen, you gotta keep this totally secret. Nobody can know what you're doing. Look, maybe you want to tell me who you're looking for? I need someone I can trust. Can I trust you? Yeah, yeah, you can. Look, there's a diner around the corner, why don't we take a walk... you and I can just talk. I can't be seen. Here take it, take it! No! No! Stop! Stop! We don't have time. I can think of a thousand things I'd rather do than go to this event. We promised. That was just number three. Wait 'til you see number 6 and number 7. We're going. Both of us. But I guess we could be fashionably late. Tell me about number 7 again. ...and I say we take this right to their doorsteps. Camp out at city hall until we get some answers. Councilwoman Ferrani's promised to follow through with this. We have to give her time. Please, I want results, not empty rhetoric. Especially from someone the gay community helped put into office. You agree with me, don't you? Do I? No, you don't. No, I don't, I definitely do not. Look at that, evaporated. Nice talking with you. Likewise I'm sure. You know darling, I love you more than my luggage, but sometimes I wish you would at least pretend to be interested in what's going on in the world. I am interested in the world. I just don't give a rat's ass about politics. Maybe that's because you don't know enough about it. Maybe it's because it's boring? Boring? Honey, politics is the most exciting cornerstone of our civilization. It requires a mastery of many skills. Psychology. Persuasion. Communication. I communicate just fine. Observe. Barkeep, two martinis. And just dab the vermouth behind my ears. Sometimes I swear you'd be happier spending the evenings with a bullet-riddled corpse. That's not true. I also like dodging speeding vehicles in dark alleys in the middle of the night. And speaking of that, have you heard from your young Mr. Hale today? No, I called and left a message, but I haven't heard back- hey! You hear that? Every time a martini shaker is shaken, an angel gets his wings. It's you, right? You're the guy that was in that advocate article, the gay detective! Sparky, right? It's Strachey. Donald Strachey. And he's a private investigator, actually. How cool is that? You're like the first gay detective I've ever heard of I mean, I know a couple of gay firemen, but a gay detective... yeah, that's something. Saved by the ring tone. ...uhm, Strachey, yeah, okay. You wanna tell me what it's about, detective? Un-huh. Right now? Okay, see ya, in twenty minutes. Let me guess. Bullet riddled corpse? Detective Bailey says it's an emergency. Sorry, honey. Sparky the gay detective, off to save the day. Watch your step. You always wear formal attire to crime scenes, Strachey? Trying to upgrade my image. Can I see him? Paul Hale, shit. You know him? What happened? He had a stroke. A stroke? He's barely twenty years old. He washed down a bottle of xanax with bourbon. Suicide? So it appears. I'll know for sure after the autopsy. You seen Bailey around? You're the P.I. You figure it out. Detective, my son was murdered. Someone did this to him. Mrs. Hale, we'll investigate-- "investigate"? That coroner's already made up her mind! No, she hasn't. Paul wouldn't kill himself he wouldn't do that. He did leave a note, Mrs. Hale. Detective Bailey. Did you fall off a wedding cake, Strachey? Mrs. Hale, my name is Donald Strachey, I'm a private investigator. I'm so sorry about your son. Thank you. God, my baby! Can we make this quick. Why did the deceased have your card in his pocket? That's between him and me. Was he a client or boyfriend? What does that mean? I met him last night. What are you implying? My son was not gay, if that's what you mean. Paul had been confused for a while, but he was much better. Dr. Cornell had completely healed him. Cornell? He runs that clinic-? Yes, the Phoenix Foundation for a better life. He's a brilliant man. He turned Paul's life around. It appears Paul Hale wasn't gay. He was ex-gay. "Gay reparative therapy". Maybe you oughta give it a shot, Strachey? Awe and give up my fantasies about you? Never. So what exactly happened last night between you and Paul Hale? Not much. We talked a little bit. He hired me to find somebody. You gonna tell me who? I don't know. We didn't get that far. Somebody tried to run us over. Probably just a disgruntled ex-client of yours? If it was an ex-client of mine, I'd be the dead guy, don't you think? Paul took off, and that's the last I saw of him. "I'm sorry, mom. "It's just too much to take. "I love you, Paul." Kids today, even the suicide notes are high tech. Come on, Bailey, the kid hires a P.I. And then kills himself? Maybe you didn't inspire much confidence. What about his e-mails, anything there? No, and all the files are wiped clean. Evidently he didn't want anyone going through his stuff especially that mother of his, is my guess. You wiped the keyboard for any other prints? It's not a homicide. Hale had a bunch of xanax and a bunch of other pills right next to him and he washed it down with liquor. It couldn't get much clearer than that. Let it go. No. Paul Hale gave me a $5,000 retainer. I think I'm gonna make sure he gets his money's worth. Don't move! Don't shoot! It's only me, Kenny Kwon! What're you doing trying to break into my office, break in? Do I look like a thief to you? No. You look familiar, do I know you? You should. You got me fired from my job. At the Parmalee Plaza Hotel? You trashed the office and beat up my boss. Oh, yeah. That was you? You got canned for that? Job sucked anyway. Well, I only beat up people that need it. What're you doing here, Kenny Kwon? Resume. I was slipping one under your door. I saw your ad in the paper for a secretary and I recognized your name. I figure you owe me at least that. I don't pay much. My unemployment checks run out next week. I've had six secretaries in three months. They all quit after a week. With your sparkling personality? What a shocker. And I prefer "office manager". Oh, my gosh. Somebody broke in and trashed the place! Cute. Strachey investigations, Kenny Kwon, associate investigator speaking, how may I help you? Hold please, I'll see if he's in. He won't give his name, but he says if you don't take the call you're sleeping on the sofa? Here, go find the website, it's called the Phoenix Foundation for a better tomorrow. "Ex-gay'? Oh yeah, I dated one of those guys. He was hot. Except he burst into tears every time we had sex. Figure out what you can. Does this mean I'm hired? It means I'm thinking about it. Go work, work, work... hey, honey. New secretary? He prefers office manager. And how's your day? Well, it just got more interesting. The senator received an invitation today from your Dr. Cornell. And their poster boy was Paul Hale. According to their website, Dr. Trevor Cornell is a board-certified psychiatrist, and the Phoenix Foundation operates one of the most successful reparative therapy programs in New York. I wonder what his idea of successful is? Dressing badly, decorating your house with duck decoys and breaking out in a rash every time you hear Barbara Streisand sing. Sounds good to me... Yes? Uhm, is this...? Is this, uh, the place that helps-- do you have an appointment? I'm sorry... this was a bad idea. I'm just going to go... hold up! Were you looking for Dr. Cornell? ...yeah. Why don't you come in, I'll see if he's available. My name is grey. I'm Kyle. You work here? Just help out once in a while. Glad you came. Come in. I'll go see if I can find him for you, okay. I'll be right back. Just put him out of your mind. You've gotta forget about him, he's not worth crying over. This was so unfair of him. Well, it was selfish, that's all it was. What Paul did was completely selfish. If the police find out... they won't, Katie. Got lost. Kyle? Hi, I'm Lynne Cornell, Trevor- Dr. Cornell's wife, we're really happy you've paid us a visit. Well... honestly Mrs. Cornell- Lynne, please. Lynne, I didn't know where else to go. Well, you're welcome here. This way. We're having a bit of a rough day around here, but Trevor can take a few minutes, if you'd like. Does Dr. Cornell always see everybody personally? Hmm-mm, he's always made a point of it. Although, that will probably change once we move to our new headquarters. I heard about that, Washington, D.C., right? Yes. Trevor's dedicated to helping people all over this country not just here in New York. It's going to be a big job, but worth it if we can save one person like yourself. Trevor, this is Kyle-- griffin. Trevor Cornell, nice to meet you Kyle. I've got some things to take care of. It's been a pleasure meeting you, Kyle. You too, Lynne. I hope to see you again. Sit down, make yourself at home. It's a really nice place... it's a work in progress. Guess we all are, right? How'd you hear about us, Kyle? A friend of mine. Well, not really a friend, just a guy I met told me you really helped him. Our clients are our best referrals. You remember his name? It was... Paul Hale. Paul... you should know, Kyle, Paul Hale died last night. Terrible thing. We're all still trying to deal with it here. How? An accidental overdose. Accidental? Paul was a very... troubled young man. He was very confused. But I thought he was your spokesman or something. That's what he told me. Kyle, I'm more concerned with how I can help you. What exactly are you looking for? I want my life back. We all deserve to have the life we want. What happened to yours? I was in the army, a sergeant, actually. They kicked me out for, you know... for being gay. What division were you in? division, echo company-- out of Maryland. I tried to fit in with the gay community but I don't like it. Kyle, the thing that I want you to understand-- to believe, whether you work with us here at Phoenix or not is that you are the only person who is allowed to define who you are. Choosing a homosexual lifestyle works for some, but it's a choice. A very restricting, limiting choice. You can fix me? Make me attracted to women? I wish I could. I can't promise you that, no one can. Resisting your sexual urges may be a lifetime issue. So what's the point? The point is to choose to live a life, not a lifestyle. I'm sorry, Trevor, the group's a little upset, you might want to speak with them. Tell them I'll be right there. I'm sorry Kyle, I wish we had more time. That's alright. Actually, we're having a group session tomorrow. You should come. Meet some of the others members of the foundation see what we're doing to help them. Alright. It'd be good. Then we'll see you tomorrow night at 8:00 thank you, Dr. Cornell. Trevor. Kyle... welcome to the Phoenix Foundation. I don't understand exactly what you're looking for. That's because I'm not exactly sure. Your son hired me to find somebody. Find somebody, who? I was hoping you might be able to tell me. I'm sure I have no idea. Well, that makes two of us. But I'm thinking it must have something to do with Trevor Cornell or his group. Why would you think that? Because they're furious with him. Whatever your son was doing, it was pissing off a lot of people. Those people were Paul's friends. Okay. Do you know who might want your son dead? Isn't it obvious? Homosexuals. If somebody like Paul could turn away from that life, could go straight just think, how inspirational that would have been? You don't like gay people very much, do you Mrs. Hale? All I ever wanted was what was best for my son. To see him healthy and safe and happy. If you really want to find out who killed him, this is where I would start, Larry Phelps. Paul kept his photo up. They were best friends since they were kids. I'm sure he's the reason Paul became confused to begin with. So you think this kid would've hurt Paul? For the last year, ever since Paul got himself turned around, Larry's done nothing but harass my son calling him a traitor, a fraud. Paul was very upset. So why didn't he just steer clear from him? They were in film school at university together. He couldn't just steer clear. Okay, I'll talk with Mr. Phelps. You don't have to lie to me I'm not the one paying your fee. The only reason you're even investigating this case is so you can smear Dr. Cornell's good name. That's all you really care about it, isn't it? Your son came to me and asked for my help. He asked me if he could trust me and I told him he could. If somebody murdered him, I don't really don't give a damn who they sleep with. I'll find them. Goodbye, Mrs. Hale. Larry Phelps around? Larry, name is Donald Strachey, I'm wondering if I can talk to you a little bit? Hey, Larry, wait! Larry! Larry! Larry! Larry! You're starting to piss me off! What the hell are you running from?! Go to hell! There's a lot of people that saw you you won't get away with it. I don't know what you're talking about! That's why you attacked me. Attacked you? Listen asshole- look, let's start over, alright? Strachey. Yeah, I'm pretty close, why? I'll be there in fifteen minutes. Better make that a half hour. Hey, look who's here, if it isn't Albany's most famous gay dick. Don't sell yourself short, Stenski the boys I've talked to say you ain't so bad yourself. Looking good wherever you go, Strachey. What can I say? This place just brings out the best in me. Coroner ruled it a suicide. Drug overdose, just like we thought. Phenelzine? That's right. I thought he took xanax? Yeah, well, we found xanax right next to the body. But no trace of it in his system. It turns out it was the phenelzine that killed him. Did he have a prescription for phenelzine? No, he didn't have a prescription for either. That's why Dr. Sung didn't suspect anything. She figures whoever gave him the xanax gave him the phenelzine as well. Plus, the crime scene, the note, everything indicates suicide. So who gave him the pills? That's none of my business. I investigate homicides. The coroner ruled it a suicide. This case is closed. You might as well take this with you, I have another copy in the files. Thank you. Strachey... what's the deal with this kid? Why the interest? I don't know. I guess he reminds me of somebody I used to know. A long time ago. Hello! You here? Yeah, I'm up here! Okay, I've got Thai takeout, double chocolate fudge ice cream with optional hot fudge and that movie with the two straight guys playing gay guys, playing two straight girls to seduce their boss. Or something. I'm sorry I have to work tonight. But it's Tuesday night. We watch movies on Tuesday night. I know, but it's this Paul Hale thing. The suicide? Maybe not. But I thought they found the pills right next to his body? They did. They did, but Paul didn't take them. So how did he die? They found another antidepressant in his system called phenelzine, it causes a nasty reaction when taken with alcohol. Like a stroke in an otherwise healthy 21-year old? Right. Paul was drinking bourbon that night. So somebody could have slipped it into his drink without him knowing? Murder. Or he took it himself. I intend to find out. I'm doing a little undercover work tonight at the Phoenix Foundation. Isn't that the sweater my mother made you? Yup. It's group therapy. I have to blend in with all the other recovering homosexuals. I won't tell her you said that. You think someone there might know something about Paul's death? Well, it's possible. They're definitely hiding something there's something they don't want the police to know about and I intend to find out what it is. You have to save me some Thai food, and don't eat all the ice cream, piggy. Good luck. And don't let him brainwash you. I'm the only one who gets to do that. ...I was a freshman at NYU, thought I was gonna be this huge artist, you know? My first winter was so shitty, being away from home and all. So that's when I started, you know, doin' things... gay things. Goin' to clubs, going to bars. And pretty soon, I was doing drugs, too. I just wanted to meet somebody, fall in love, all that stuff. But it's just like the whole scene, it's so crazy. So what changed for you, Jefferson? What brought you here? A few weeks ago, I went to this party and for the first time ever I felt, just really dirty, I hated myself. I pretty much hated everything. I couldn't break free. I came back to Albany to get some distance. To figure shit out. "Turn now every one of you from his evil way, "and then you shall dwell in the land which I gave "to you and your fathers." We have one new member joining us tonight, Kyle? I'm, uh, just checking it out, see, if it will work for me. What's Kyle doing...? Self-defining. Yes, self-defining. I can't tell Kyle this is the way to go. You can't tell him. The choices we make are our own choices. But you do have the choice to change. It's not going to be easy. But you have to ask yourself what's the value of something if you don't have to fight for it? Life's a challenge, a struggle, there's nothing wrong with working hard for something you believe in. Choosing a straight lifestyle opens up all kinds of doors, amazing opportunities. It's a path most homosexuals are not strong enough to take. It takes faith and commitment. You have to be extremely motivated you have to want something better for yourself and your family so badly that you can resist the temptations that will surely come. I know we were all very upset to hear the news of Paul Hale's death. All I can say about it right now is I'm happy to talk to any of you about Paul in our individual sessions. But right now I want to keep our group time focused on one thing: You. Your struggles. And how we can all help each other to achieve the happiness we deserve. ...we play basketball on Saturdays you should come. Here? A lot of the guys need help getting comfortable with a more masculine role. Basketball makes them more "masculine"? Sports, yeah, definitely. I mean, you don't look like you've got that problem, but some of these guys... man. Need help, huh? It's like they've never seen a football game in their life. Part of the program is about learning how to be friends with guys without sleeping with them. If you want to immigrate into straight society, you gotta know what people are talking about, right? Yeah, I'll catch up with you in a bit. See you Saturday! Hi, we didn't get a chance to meet. Oh, hi. Katie. Kyle. Wow, good grip. Sorry, I'm supposed to be more- I won't tell anybody. It's just so hard. There's so much to remember. You been here a long time? About five months. It's been amazing I'm so much better now. According to who? So you knew this guy, Paul Hale? Yeah, I knew him really well. Nice guy? The best. We were engaged. Engaged? Before everything changed. What changed? Katie, let's get you home, okay, honey? Kyle, Kyle, if you'd like, I've got time for an individual session tomorrow at 2:00. Uhm, alright, cool. I'll look forward to it. Me too, thanks. Kyle, I hope you enjoyed tonight, we're really glad you're here. Thank you. See you tomorrow. Count on it. Goodnight. Goodnight. You've got the intimidation thing down pat... but your trailer skills suck. I know who you are. Recognized you from that article in the advocate last year. Who're you working for? Why? You have something to hide? Listen to me, Walter's a good man! If his father's got you sneaking around trying to dig- who's Walter? The punk next to me in the meeting? He's trying, man. Bending over backwards, trying to do everything he can. Slow down, I don't know what you're talking about. You're not working for Walter's father? No. Why would Walter's father hire a P.I.? To check up on him. He's trying to find out if Walter's really gone straight. How long have you and Walter been together? Three years. Don't you think it's a little late for Walter to try convincing his father he's straight? Not when his father's lying on his death bed. And worth over $5 million. I get it. Can you tell me anything about Paul Hale? I know that something going on you guys don't want the police to know about. Honestly, I don't know exactly what was going on. Paul was always the golden boy over the past few weeks, though... problems? It was like Paul just had enough one day. He started asking these really pointed questions to Cornell, and made it real uncomfortable for him. About the foundation? Yeah, about everything. Then, on Tuesday, there was this big blowout. During group in front of everybody. Paul and Cornell really went at each other. Paul threatened to leave the program. Cornell said how devastated Paul's mother'd be. Finally, Paul just left. I've never seen Cornell so angry. It was ugly. So it sounds like Paul was on the road to being an ex-ex-gay. Levon? I didn't know where you went. I was just talking over here. It's okay, he isn't working for your father. He's checking into Paul's death. Hey, Walter... we need to go. He's always like this after group. Levon, I'm leaving. If you want to come, then come on. See why I gotta be around? Kenny-- sorry, sorry. I know I'm late, but apparently that twink at the coffee shop doesn't know the difference between a chai latte and a chaicuccino. I mean, you call yourself a barista and you can't even get the orders right? I need you to do some research for me. Find a guy by the name of Walter Tidlow. Apparently his father's got a ton of money. See what you can find out about the family. Tidlow. Got it. What the hell is this? Organic green leaf broth with bee pollen and clover. I thought with your temper, you should probably lay off the caffeine for a few weeks. So these ex-gay people, were they all, like, total freaks? No, they're... people. Confused people. But that doctor, he must be totally whacked, right? Actually, it's a little disturbing how not-whacked he is. I saw a picture of him. He's kinda cute, you think he's into Asian guys? Kenny, the good doctor is straight. Of course he is. And I'm next year's starting point guard for the Knicks. I'm impressed you know what a point guard is! I dated one. The sex was great but I always had to hide in the back seat at away games. Katie... hey. Hey... can I talk to you? I have to get to work... at the fire station, right? How do you know where I work? I was talking to grey last night, I just had some questions about the program, do you have time for lunch? My dad's the fire chief, all my brothers are in the department. You're the only girl? No, I have a sister. But she's this total princess. Married this great guy, has the most beautiful baby girl she's perfect. Sounds like a lot to live up to. We're just really different. It's like I live and work at the station house. It's a family. I just want to be normal like them. And who says you're not normal? You know what I mean. I mean, that's why you're there, right? It's so unfair that we can't live normal lives like everybody else. I bet your family was pretty excited about you and Paul getting engaged... they didn't know. No one did. We weren't supposed to tell anyone. Why keep it a secret? There's this big fundraiser planned for next week, to raise money. Paul and Trevor wanted to wait until then. They thought it would really help the foundation, you know, with all the press being there and all. Were you in love with Paul? Paul and I made the choice to love one another. Because we deserved to have a normal life. Katie, last night you told me that you were engaged to Paul until everything changed what happened? Why are you asking me all these questions? I just want to know what I'm in for. I gotta go to the station house. I know you're afraid of the police. If you don't talk to me now, I think you'll be talking to them. Who are you? Paul came to see me, right before he died. He was scared. He wanted me to help him. Help him do what? I was hoping you could tell me... I don't know... Katie, yesterday I overheard you talking to Walter and you were crying, you said there was something you were afraid the police were going to find out. Talk to me. Did you have something to do with Paul's death? It's my fault. It's my fault he's dead. Why is it your fault? I didn't mean to... I thought it would help... what did you do, Katie?! The pills he took, I gave them to him. What pills? The xanax, that night, after he got so mad at Trevor. They were mine, I thought they'd help him. Katie, Paul never took the xanax. What? Did you give him anything else? Any other drugs? No, I just had those because I sometimes get really nervous I mean, I didn't...? No. Can I help you? I'm here for my appointment. Great, come on in. Kyle, hi, it's nice to see you again. Trevor and I are running a few minutes late, would you mind waiting in the lounge? Sure, no problem. Great, we'll hurry. Hey, man! You wanna play? I thought it was Saturdays. I play every chance I get. Go for it. Definitely have to get you here for Saturdays, man. So... grey, what do you do for a living? Pharmaceutical sales. It's nice, get to set my own hours. How about you, you're off in the middle of the day, too. Insurance. So you here to see Trevor, huh? You know it's tough, it really is, but it's definitely worth it. You've been coming here for a little while. Off and on, a couple of years. Off and on? Had a relapse a couple of times. It's hard to resist. Good looking guys. Why bother? Cause of this. Your family? Yeah. Jessica left me once. Never again. I wear it around my neck to remind myself. But isn't that just like living a lie? Every night I go home to my family, have dinner with them, read my kids stories before I put them to bed. That's no lie. Sounds tough. It's harder than hell, if you want to know the truth. And the worst part is it doesn't get any easier. I can tell. Kyle? We're ready now. Good luck, man. You, too. And just sign there at the bottom. He's not gonna perform shock therapy or a lobotomy, is he? We don't advocate that treatment any longer. We haven't for several years. But isn't all this just saying that reparative therapy doesn't really work? Not at all. This is simply what they call "informed consent", making it clear to you that this is an area where psychologists have many different opinions. "The American Psychological Association "and the American Psychiatric Association "oppose all portrayals of lesbian, gay and bisexual "people as mentally ill and in need of treatment "due to their sexual orientation." Sad, isn't it? How political correctness has pervaded even into the world of medicine and mental health. The real question, Kyle, is do you think it will work for you? Thank you. You have a very nice looking family. You could, too, one day. What about your son, is he in college? Excellent, well, everything's looks to be order. Let me see if Trevor's ready for you. So, Kyle, tell me, if you hadn't pursued a gay lifestyle, who would you be today? Well, I really didn't pursued anything in my life, it just evolved. You're avoiding my question. Who would you be today? I don't know. Imagine. I guess I would probably still be in the army, definitely. And what do you think that would have been like? Just gotten a promotion to military intelligence, that would have been interesting. And how do you think that would have been, military intelligence? It was what I wanted, I had worked really hard for it for a couple years. It was how I always saw myself. So the army was going to be your career? Not my career, my life. Were you a good soldier? Yeah, the best. I have no doubt. Kyle, I want you to think about these things. The roads not taken the roads that are closed to you when you self-define as homosexual. When you understand those consequences, you have the strength on the road to recovery. Recovery? The recovery of everything you could have been. The restoration of a freer, more open life. Not being ghetto-ized by living in the "gay" area. Not having your politics decided for you because you're supposed to support "gay" issues. You give up aspects of your own individuality the moment you identify yourself as gay. You and I we'll work together on giving you back a normal life, the way nature and god intended it. God? If god wanted it that way, why didn't he just make me straight to begin with? He did, but we'll talk about that in our next session. We can explore your family dynamics, better understand where you deviated from the path. Okay? What about you, Dr. Cornell. Are you everything you wanted to be? We all want more in our lives. That's to be expected. Like taking the foundation national, that's a big deal, right? Open you to a lot of opportunities television talk shows, speaking engagements, a lot of money in that. Why don't you just ask me what it is you really want to know? Do you really believe what you're selling? Or you just trying to make a name for yourself? You want to know if I believe in what I do? Unequivocally, yes. I'm here to change lives, Kyle. And, I know it works because I've seen it in action. It didn't work for Paul Hale. Paul made his own choices. I heard you two had a fight. We had a difference of opinion. He wasn't thinking clearly, he was disturbed. But he would have come around. In time for next week's fundraiser? Paul was very confused, Kyle. Maybe he was, but he was also on every advertisement for your foundation. He was supposed to announce his engagement at your event. You're not here for treatment at all, are you? You're a psychiatrist, Dr. Cornell. You prescribe meds. Do you know what happens when alcohol is mixed with phenelzine? Get out of my office now! What happened to Paul Hale? Did he have a relapse? Get out! It doesn't look too good if your poster boy flies the coop! Paul would have never done that! That's exactly what he did! I bet it pissed you off! You sure look pissed now! Get out and don't come back! What did you and two talk about that night? Did you tell him it was all going to be okay while you poisoned him?! Did you watch him twitch and die on the floor?! Did he cry for help?! I loved Paul! Loved him! Trevor? What's going on? Get out! Get out before I call the police. Oh, I'm pretty sure the police will be calling you. What are you doing? My job. Shit! Don't move. I've got a gun aimed at the back of your head. Put your hands back on the steering wheel. Grey, take it easy. Drive away. We can talk about this. Just drive... what's this about, grey? I heard you with Cornell. He was pretty angry, huh? I guess I was saying things he didn't wanna hear. About Paul Hale? That's exactly what it was about. What are we doing here, grey? They got in a fight, you know? Paul and Dr. Cornell the other night at group. I know. Paul pushed Cornell and it looked as if Dr. Cornell- it looked like he wanted to kill Paul. You think he did? I don't know... but the thing is, when Paul left, he grabbed his bag, and some stuff spilled out of it. Paper, pens, and this. I took it home and watched it. I take it from this conversation, it wasn't pizza boy 3. I don't know who you are, but if you're here to find out who killed Paul Hale. This will help. Grey... I'm married. Or at least as close to it as two men can get in this country. And more importantly, I am in love with him. You're a nice guy. You seem smart and lord knows you're good looking. Okay, so... so... you're going to get out of my car and go home and you're going to love that family of yours and somehow figure out a way to be real. Okay? Go. Hi. Where's Donald? I'm not at liberty to say. May I help you? You must be the new secretary. Office manager. And you are? I'm tim Callahan. I'm sorry, did you have an appointment? I'm Donald's partner. His boyfriend? Oh, gosh! I'm so sorry! It's nice to meet you. Pleasure. I feel like a complete jerk, I should've known your name, I just didn't know Donald was into older-- can I get you a coffee? Kenny, we're going to-- hey, what're you doing here? The senator finished kissing babies a little early today, so I thought maybe I could convince Albany's cutest private eye to take me out for a latte? I know him, he's a pushover... five minutes, have a seat. Sure... at my age, I should probably get all rest as I can. Kenny, I need you to do find everything we can on the Cornell's kid, everything, where he lives, what he does, all of it. Cornell kid, got it. And I did that check you wanted on Walter Tidlow-- Tidlow? As in Clifford Tidlow, the developer? Right. Apparently his son, Walter, is going to inherit like five million bucks- not anymore. What do you mean? The government seized all his assets for tax fraud. His estate tried to get senator Glassman to intervene, but there was nothing we could do. He hasn't got a dime. Wow, I wonder if Walter knows he's wasting his time playing it straight? I wonder if Levon knows he's wasting his time with Walter? Levon? Walter's boyfr-- partner. You think Levon found out about the money? And maybe Levon decided to find himself another rich boyfriend-- like Paul Hale? And then Walter found out about Paul and-- Levon. Levon, and put the pills in Paul's drink? That's it! We solved it! Good job, boys. Just a couple problems with your theory. One, Levon and Walter were in group therapy at the exact time of Paul's death. And number two, Paul wasn't just planning to leave the group. He was planning to take down the entire Phoenix Foundation with him. ...but the truth turned out to be something totally different. I wanted to believe I wanted to change. And I did change, finally. Just not in the way I was expecting. What is that? The reason Paul Hale was murdered. Have you called Larry Phelps? Yeah, and I've left like six messages but nothing. I even contacted his landlady but she hasn't seen him all week. It's like he's vanished. He hasn't vanished. He's hiding. Is that him? Yeah. This is why he was so scared. He knows whatever Paul knew. And whoever killed Paul is after him now. Rain check? Rain check. I'm looking for a buddy of mine, Larry Phelps, you know him? Yeah... but he's not here. Nobody's seen him all week. Of course. Well, he's got some footage I need, any chance you can show me where he's been working? Yeah, he was in here, ten, twelve hours a day, and he wouldn't let anybody see what he was doing either that's strange. What? The hard drives are gone. Maybe he was finished? Yeah, but he wouldn't take the hard drives with him. Okay, if you see him, have him give me a call, okay? Donald Strachey. Private investigator. Hey... you're that gay detective, right? The one from that magazine? Does everybody read that thing? Listen to me, find him, okay, tell him I'm a friend of Paul's. That's important, you got it? I'm a friend. Yeah. Alright, I'll sign your magazine. How many is that? One. You haven't even touched it yet? I'm not in the mood. Uh-oh. Wanna talk about it? Just thinking. With you, that's usually not a good thing. Do you ever wonder what your life would be like if you weren't gay? I hate it when you do undercover work. You're not actually listening to this quack, are you? No, it's not even about gay. Don't you ever think how things would be different? Not really. Come on, what if you never been kicked out of the seminary? You loved it there. I did. It felt like my calling. Alright then, you could be in Africa or who knows where, helping sick people. A lot of things would be different. But just "different" not necessarily better. Maybe they would be. I wouldn't have you, so it could not have been better. The gay detective. Private investigator. That's me. That's what I've become. Only if that's how you see yourself. I'm cool with being gay, you know that. But it's ridiculous to say that it doesn't change things, doesn't affect your options. Problem is not being gay it's other people, ignorant people, telling you who you can or can't be because you're gay. You never feel a little bit trapped... a little? I wouldn't trade my life with anyone. I like my life. I thought you did, too. Timothy... I'm sorry if you feel trapped. Tim... Strachey. What? Yeah, look, I'm busy right now, can it wait? Where are you? It's you. I'd hate to be whoever you thought I was... sorry, it's just that... things have been weird since Paul died. You don't believe he killed himself either. No. Those fuckers killed him. Which fuckers exactly are we talking about? The Phoenix Foundation, who else? That's the film you and Paul were working on? An expose of the Phoenix Foundation. It was Paul's movie. He was gonna let the truth about those assholes... that's why they wiped out his hard drive. He was storing the film on his computer. Yeah, but he gave me a backup copy. I've been coming in here working on it every night after they close up. But I don't care how long it takes, I'm gonna finish it for him and I don't care how many threatening messages they leave. Who's threatening you? I thought it was you. That's why I ran, I thought you were gonna beat me up. I only beat up people who need it. Who did they say they are when they call you? Lawyers, mostly, saying they're gonna sue my ass if there's anything slanderous in the movie. How do they know about the movie? I don't know, they might have found the camera Paul hid- there's a hidden camera? Yeah, in Cornell's office. Paul was filming Dr. Cornell's private sessions? For the last three weeks, yeah. You're asking me to do something I'm not comfortable with. Listen, Dr. Cornell, all I need you to do is tell him tell him I'm straight but you're not, are you? Are you? That's Walter Tidlow. We're altering all the voices, so the clients stay anonymous. I can make this worth your while I'll inherit a lot. I can make a donation to Phoenix. Walter... a big donation. So anyone who knew Paul was making this film might've had reason to kill him. What the hell? Stay here. Fuck. Who's there?! Identify yourself! Larry? Larry? Oh! Larry? Just keep these guys back. I'm gonna need your gun. You didn't get a good look at the shooter? I know who did it. This is a police matter now. It should've been a long time ago. You think this guy is Trevor Cornell. Come on, Bailey, he tells me to my face he was in love with Paul. The kid was making movies can destroy everything he's working for, what do you think? We'll check him out, see if he's got an alibi. He's got a lot of people that will lie for him. If this guy's involved in the murders of Paul Hale and Larry Phelps, I promise you I will put him behind bars. I want you out of this, do I make myself clear. Perfectly clear. Yeah, wake up Judge Frears I need a warrant. Hi. Hey. I'm sorry. Ahhh! What...? Oh my god... it's nothing, don't worry. Donald... it barely hit me. Nothing that a couple of drinks isn't going to fix. Should I ask you about it? No. Because then I'd have to tell you about it and I just don't want to talk about it right now... well, then... we won't talk about it. Who's that? That's Kyle griffin. My lieutenant. The first man I ever loved. You've never mentioned him before. He saved my life. We were caught in a ambush, snipers, and I got hit. Right, the scar on your back. Yeah. Kyle came running back for me, he won the medal of honor for that. He was a hero. You two were a couple? It was crazy, trying to have a relationship in the army all the secret hiding places, the long meaningful glances. Always afraid somebody was gonna find out about us. Sounds horrible. Yeah. I don't know. I tried to run so long for being gay and there I was, a soldier, in love with a man, and I was happy. How long? Four months. And then they dragged him by the cid, they separated us, and asked us questions about our "relationship." I thought they weren't supposed to ask and you weren't supposed to tell. Just because a rule exists doesn't mean the army has to follow it. So what did you do? I told the truth. I don't even know why. It wasn't like I was all of a sudden all excited about being gay, I just... I just loved him and it didn't seem right to lie about that. And from that moment, everything changed. I lost everything, I lost my career, all my friends, all my dreams. And what about Kyle? He hated me. He wouldn't talk to me. The day we got our discharges, he put a gun in his mouth. Oh, no, oh, no, oh, baby. ...this morning with the arrest of Dr. Trevor Cornell, a prominent psychiatrist whose controversial conversion therapy has drawn sharp criticism within the gay and lesbian community. Now, Dr. Cornell is expected to be charged with the murder of Larry Phelps, a local university student gunned down last night. And maybe we'll get him for Paul Hale, too. Authorities reportedly found the murder weapon inside Cornell's office in his Phoenix Foundation headquarters. Kelsey Thomas, WXRN News. They found the gun in his office? Isn't that a little... convenient? Convenient? Well, you said so yourself he was smart. So he goes and kills somebody and puts the gun in the office? Gimme some more coffee? And what made Paul Hale pick a fight with him at that group session in the first place? I mean, the guy was going to blindside him with that film he was making the following week. And what about Lynne Cornell, she's got as much to lose as her husband does. Don't you have something political to do? I'm just saying, the don Strachey I know wouldn't just accept the obvious. You'd like to believe he was guilty... geez, you're never satisfied, are you, Strachey? Just give me a couple minutes. We've got him cold. The gun was found locked in his desk drawer. Along with several capsules of phenelzine. And he's got no alibi says he was alone in his office at the time of the shooting. Isn't that a little "convenient." I thought you'd be ecstatic. So did I. He's in the holding cell until they get here to take him over to county. You did this to me. I'd say you did it to yourself. I'm being framed. Okay, who framed you? Someone who didn't want to see my work succeed. Probably someone like you. You're right it was me, I'll go home now. What about your alibi? I was alone. Nobody saw you? No. Believe me I could never shoot anyone. How about poison them? A little phenelzine bourbon combo, something like that. I would never hurt Paul. You tell me you loved him. Did he love you back? Of course, you'd think that! Turn it into something deviant and unnatural! Well, what was it then? I loved Paul like a son! Like the son I lost... lost? My son Andrew died four years ago. An accident. What kind of accident? He was drunk. He was drunk a lot. No matter how many times we tried to get him help... I'm sorry. I thought- you thought what? Paul hired me to find somebody, I thought maybe it was your son. Paul knew my son was dead. We talked about our families a lot. Tell me about the night the big blow-up with Paul, how did it get started, what happened? I don't know. I'm trying to help you here... I don't know! He came out of nowhere. Paul had been distant for several weeks. I tried to talk to him- you can't think of anything that set him off that day? I didn't even see him until he came into the group. Who else did you see that day? A lot of people. In individual sessions. Did you have individual sessions? Uhm, yes... I saw Walter and Katie in the afternoon. And grey, right before group. Okay. Where are you going? Are you going to help me or not? Unfortunately. Leave us alone! Open the door. Haven't you done enough? I can help your husband. Go to hell! Your husband's about to go to prison for a murder he didn't commit. Whatever you think of me, I'm the best chance he's got. Trevor's a good man. Yeah, he's a real peach. What are you doing? That was a gift. A gift from Paul? Yes, a few weeks ago. Trevor was the star of Paul's new movie. We heard he was making a film, but this is immoral. I can't believe Paul would do this. Well, he did. And whoever killed Paul, knew he was doing it. They killed Larry Phelps and wiped out all the footage. It's on a motion sensor. It was filming every time there was movement in this office. My god... has a wireless transmitter and was sending images to a computer. It has to be close, a hundred feet or so. My office. Paul was helping with the marketing materials for the national launch. He was probably downloading every time he came in. But the last time he was in was during the group session. So there should be a few days worth of home movies waiting for us. Trevor was in his office during the shooting this would prove to the police he was really there, if he's telling the truth, yeah. We'll do a search for any large movie files... there they are... Trevor was telling the truth, you'll see. Well, he was telling half the truth, he was in his office. That stupid Hale is starting to suspect something, I think he knows our big wedding announcement is bullshit. You need to tell your wife you want a divorce now! It's not that easy. You think it was easy for me playing a dike for the past six months, so everyone will believe your program really works! Just a bit longer. It will all be over soon. If you don't do something, I will. Katie... why couldn't you leave it alone?! Take it easy. Shut up! Shut the fuck up! Who are you going to blame this one on, Katie? Cornell's in jail. I was practically raised in a fire department nobody'll ever know what really happened in here after I'm done. That's it, huh? Paul found out what was going on with you and Cornell, he believed anything I told him right to the end. Don't... move! The only person I was in love with was Trevor. All of this was for Trevor. So why did you set him up for murder? I needed to show him know who was in control. Fucking great program you run here, lady. Trevor! Trevor? You prick! Lynne... I believed in you. How could you? Lynne. I suppose you enjoy this. Two kids died because of your lies there's nothing here to enjoy. Strachey you're bleeding you must love your job to keep coming back for more. It's a living. You know, I still don't have any idea what the hell I was hired for no idea who Paul wanted me to find. I do. I know who Paul wanted you to find. The invitation list for the sisters of mercy ball isn't in this file. You lied to me, Mrs. Hale. Find it. Detective Bailey called. He said you'd found the woman that killed my son. I did. I knew Paul wouldn't kill himself. He had too much to live for. But you weren't certain, were you? You were pretty hard on him for being gay. I loved my son more than anything in the world. I gave Paul everything. Everything except his father. His father went away a long time ago. Went away, or sent away? That's what you told Dr. Cornell. That your husband was cheating on you with another man. You kicked him out and cut him off from ever seeing his son again. He chose that way of life. And you couldn't handle that, could you? You told Paul his father walked out on both of you, that he didn't care about his family. You taught him to hate his father. Your son discovered the truth. How? Dr. Cornell told him. He thought it would reinforce Paul's desire to be straight. But it backfired on him. All of a sudden Paul didn't feel like the freak he was led to believe he was. I never made him feel he was a freak. He was my son... my child... you pushed him into the Phoenix Foundation, every day they reinforced an idea that you gave him, that he wasn't good enough. That he'd only be happy if he was anything other than what he was, gay. I thought it was for the best, I did. I never imagined... I just wanted him to be happy. I think that's all Paul wanted, too. So I've been thinking, I thought we agreed we weren't going to do that any more. No, we agreed that you would stop thinking, I'm allowed. Thank you. You're welcome. I have an answer to your question. Did I ask a question? How my life would be different, if I hadn't been gay? That question. Only I've turned it around a bit. How my life would be different if I hadn't met you? Why don't I like where this is going? First, I would know virtually nothing about gunshot wounds. Disastrous. Second, I most likely never have been kidnapped nor had my life threatened. And third... okay, okay. And third-- Finished? I haven't even begun to start. Come here, Sparky... Captioned by: West Coast Captioning Inc. Vancouver, BC 604.837.8847
