 

                        Other wars had been photographed. World War II was covered from start to finish in every service, in every theatre. For the first time, civilians knew something of how their sons, husbands and brothers lived and died in this vast crucible. The images of this war burned our eyes and spirits and welded us together. I loved it because it was dangerous. I'm a fraidy-cat, but if there was a job to do, I did it. No matter how horrible the action was that you were covering, when you looked through, that glass was your filter. I got carried away one time and got out in front of the gun, shooting the gun firing. That was a big mistake. The muzzle blast knocked me 40 feet, ass over teakettle. We hit an intersection where we were shot at. The bullets whizzed by into the cab of the truck. When you're baling out of that aeroplane, on the way down, you say, "Oh, no." But shells, you can't say anything. It comes and you wanna yell, "Stop. I'm here." Those are men who took the pictures by which we remember World War II. Some of their images are immortal. Many have been hidden in the archives for decades. Whether their pictures are famous or not, what you are about to see is unique: War stories backed by the irrefutable evidence of the films they made. In their hands, the camera became a weapon more potent than the rifle, a weapon whose impact resonates even more powerfully now, as memory is transformed into history. In 1941, we were as unprepared to photograph war as to wage it. When John Ford made his film on Pearl Harbor, the Japanese attack was recreated, intercut with old newsreel footage and a few feet of the real thing. Men, man your battle stations. God bless you. Hollywood cameraman Gregg Toland re-staged these scenes months after Pearl Harbor. The actors are obviously amateurs, but they are real sailors. The planes were the contribution of 20th Century Fox special effects. In this out-take, you can see the wires supporting the model Zero. Ford organised his photographic branch before the war, as part of the OSS. Toland's crew set fire to crashed planes, adding drama to his footage, but his feature-length parable about American unpreparedness was judged unreleasable. Ford now took a more active hand, cutting December 7th to 34 minutes. He retained much of the miniature footage, also made at Fox. This material, never before seen, was shot in colour, though the film was released in black and white. This is Hollywood's version of Pearl Harbor's battleship row and the Ford-Toland version of the attack on it. There was authentic footage of the Nevada trying to escape, but Ford preferred this reconstruction. It matched the rest of his fake footage better. His goal was not strict authenticity. He was out to stir the nation. There was enough reality to win an Academy Award for best short subject. As Toland and Ford worked on their film in spring 1942, America mounted its first aggressive response to Pearl Harbor: A navy task force under Admiral "Bull" Halsey. It carried James Doolittle's flyers and 16 B-25s aboard the Hornet. Hal Kempe was a photographer's mate on the ship. I've heard many stories. Some say we slipped out under cover of darkness. We went under the Golden Gate Bridge at noon. We had the planes lined up on the flight deck. It looked like it was a ferry trip. After we were at sea for about two or three days, they re-spotted the flight deck. They took each B-25, with tricycle landing gear, and placed them with their tails extending out over the edge. They put one on each port and starboard side until the lead plane had sufficient run for his take-off. That was one third the normal take-off distance. The raiders were spotted by Japanese picket boats. They were sunk but might have radioed a warning. There was no choice but to launch the attack. So they said, "Man your planes. We're gonna launch." So we were launching eight hours too soon. Doolittle was first. He went and the rest of the crews were wondering, "Can it be done?" The raiders, volunteers, had practised short-run take-offs on land, a few from a carrier deck, but never in bad weather. Yet all were safely launched for their 30 seconds over Tokyo. Halsey's concern: The early launch made it impossible to make safe landings in China. Yet all but three flyers survived the raid. It did little damage, except to enemy morale. They carried four 500lb bombs each. That's not very much, when you really look at it, but enough to put the fear of God into them for a while. The Doolittle raid provoked a Japanese counter-attack aimed at destroying the US Pacific fleet. But we had broken their code and knew they would attack Midway Island. This evened the odds for the carriers as they approached the war's first great naval battle. Midway was a pair of tiny coral atolls vital to the defence of Hawaii. This time, John Ford was present with a film crew. Ford himself operated a camera and was wounded getting these pictures. He would win another Oscar for the film he fashioned. The crucial battle was at sea between ships that never saw one another. They didn't know exactly where the Japanese fleet was, but the torpedo-squadron skipper had an idea it was in a certain direction. He went off there. He ran into the whole bunch of 'em. And 15 or 16 torpedo planes went down. These men of torpedo squadron eight found the Japanese carriers. They scored no hits, but they distracted enemy gunners, allowing our dive bombers to sink four carriers. Only one man, George Gay, on the right, survived. One of Ford's crew shot these pictures. The director made them into a short memorial film for the next of kin. Midway shifted the balance of naval power in the Pacific. It cost the Japanese almost half their carriers. Still, their wounded navy continued to pose a deadly threat. October, 1942. The Hornet steams toward the battle of Santa Cruz near Guadalcanal. With the Enterprise, she was soon fighting off assaults from the air. How close the combat often was is demonstrated by this sequence, shot from the Enterprise. A near miss shakes the Enterprise. An enemy shadow is cast on the flight deck as the ship fights on. The camera catches the wild swing of the huge ship as it takes evasive action. But still the bombs rained down. The camera survived this hit, but not the cameraman. The Hornet did not survive either. We were listing to the starboard. Real heavy list. I went to the fantail to help with the wounded, where I stayed until we finally abandoned ship. I swam out about 45 degrees this way. Got out so far and here come the destroyers. I figured, "This is gonna be a piece of cake. Pick us up real quick." Then they backed down and took off. The destroyer starts circling around the ship and firing. "What are they firing at?" We looked in the sky. Coming in was a V formation of twin-engine bombers. You could see the five-inch anti-aircraft bursts up there. They came in, went right overhead, and one hit the fantail back here and the rest was in a pattern round the stern of the ship. It continued on and never came back. I got picked up right after that by the 411 Anderson. That final bombing run was a coup de grce. The Hornet's short, brave life was ended when American destroyers sank her. Our ship had been in commission for one year and six days. But the carrier war in the Pacific never ceased. We didn't have motors but you had to hand-crank. When we did flight-deck operations, we did not hand-crank at three turns per second on the small crank. We used the big crank and would start going up to high speed because we wanted slow motion of the crash. The pilot coming in for landing. If you ever see the photographer start that big crank, look out, you bought the farm. The footage taken on the flight decks forms an eerie ballet of destruction and of unlikely survival. By late 1942, we were officially training combat cameramen. Standard army issue was the 35mm Eyemo for movies and the 4 x 5 Speed Graphic for stills. Many cameramen had been photographers in civilian life. Hal Roach's Culver City studio was a major production and training centre. Naturally, the students took pictures of themselves taking pictures. Eventually, about 1500 men, not a lot for a war this huge, would become motion-picture combat cameramen. Many served in the air force. On bombing raids over Europe, they worked as bomb spotters, recording damage for intelligence analysts. The oil fields at Ploieti in Romania were vital to the Germans and among the most bombed targets of the war. On August 1 st 1943, these B-24s, based in Libya, mounted the first major attack on them at a daring 500 feet. Then, as later, results were poor. Ploieti was never knocked out. Doug Morrell flew higher-altitude missions over Ploieti. This mission can be ten hours long, but the combat part's only ten minutes. Ten minutes is a long time. Try holding your breath. The Eyemo had a hand-crank wind on it. When the most important thing happened, you're winding that thing, trying to get it going. I had to reload up at 20,000 feet. Your fingers get a little cold. When you come into the target, they put up so much flak that the enemy fighters won't come in, they'll get hit. Bomb spotting is when the bombs release, then you follow 'em and pick up their hits. When you get those hits, intelligence can use those. We were bombing Ploieti and flak hit us. We had to drop out of formation. Then six ME-109s jumped us when we got out of formation. We were all by ourselves. They set us on fire. I opened up the bomb-bay door to jump out, instead of out the back end. There's this fire coming. I raced over, grabbed one of those little fire extinguishers. I said, "I'd better leave!" I went out the back end and just as I left, it blew. We average about five out. When I baled out, I was the last one out. The other five got killed in there. Another cameraman who survived the air war was Dan McGovern. You were so busy, you weren't thinking about the battle. You were thinking about helping others and shooting. You couldn't become a spectator. You had to shoot. There's ten crew members on a bomber. You're the 11th man. We had to prove ourselves. As a matter of fact - this is a true story, so help me God - I photographed my own crash-landing. The two engines on the right side: Out. The third engine on the left side: Out. One engine. So I cut to the right, cut to the left, look over the top. The aeroplane's coming in for a crash-landing. You don't think about it. You're so excited. You're not scared. But you're scared after when you come back. You're shaking. We dropped two million tons of bombs but never matched results promised by air-power advocates. This war would be won on the ground, as Norman Hatch learned when he made the Tarawa landing in 1943. I was riding with Jim Crowe, a battalion commander. He wasn't happy having me there. As he told me, he didn't want any Hollywood marines. I had to testify that I was a regular marine, a shot expert, that I could do something with a rifle. He said, "All right, but don't get in my way." I was sitting alongside him shooting what was going on. He observed that his amtracs, the first three waves, were not maintaining their course. There was a.50 calibre buried in the sand, shooting at them and they kept edging over to the right. Crowe could see his front disappearing because of this. He told the coxswain to put the boat in. We ran up on the reef, the ramp wouldn't go down, so we had to go up over the side, which was difficult with so much gear. We were exhausted because you can't walk through water without having a lot of resistance. And loaded down with gear, it just drained you. It took us a couple of minutes on the beach to get oriented. Hatch was pinned down with the invaders. There was nothing to do but shoot: Combat footage with a previously unknown ferocity. The Japanese emplacements were fantastic. They'd built a concrete bunker and covered it with sand and logs, and covered that with sand. They were pretty impregnable. The Pacific war favoured the cameramen. Spaces were confined, the action within them tightly focused. The brutal reality of war revealed itself here as it rarely did elsewhere. Hatch caught the marines and their enemy in combat in the same shot. That was luck. Somebody said, "Here they come." I turned and there it was, and I just kept on shooting. Had the Japanese mounted a coordinated counter-attack, they might have driven the marines back into the sea. But the fighting remained as Hatch's film showed it: Ferocious, yet disorganised. Most of the Japanese fought to the death. The marines took only 17 prisoners. The seas continued to run against reinforcements. Among them was another cameraman, John Ercole. We didn't even know what was going on. We were going nowhere. The propeller and the tide didn't come together. I was shooting whatever I could, people in my boat and things like that. 19 hours later, we finally made a landing. What Ercole found to shoot was mostly the dead and wounded. Their evacuation was poorly handled. Hatch credits a movie actor with getting things organised. Eddie Albert was there. He was a navy JG at the time. He was a boat director, and he discovered early on that there wasn't much coordination on getting wounded out. He stayed on the beach during the worst part of the fighting and directed boats bringing supplies in to carry wounded back to the ships. As the battle moved inland, the futility of the naval bombardment was obvious. Their pounding didn't do much good. They used armour-piercing shells and there was no armour. They were hitting sand and skittering all over the island. You'd see these 16-inch shells. Nothing had ever happened with them. What grabbed me and took hold of me was the bodies, the dead bodies, God knows how many marines, face down, floating in shallow water. That was the first time that I had really seen dead bodies. When you see these bodies floating in the water, it grabs you. And they all seemed to look like a buddy of mine, Norman Hatch. This was a piece of ground that wasn't as big as Central Park in New York, and in the course of that 72 hours, 6,000 people died. 5,000 of those were Japanese, 1,000 were marines, and another 2,000 were wounded. Passing a disabled tank, Hatch heard this kitten's cry. He thought it might be a wounded enemy. It was just another war victim. He thought he might make a pet of it, but the kitten scampered away, never to be seen again. The quality of his film earned Hatch a trip home, where this footage of him was made for an army-navy short subject. We drove down Market Street and every major theatre had my name on it as taking the Tarawa film. They were running it. That's the best combat film I've ever seen. - And from an army man to a marine! - It was just luck. A movie cameraman, a stills man... and a driver. That's how the Signal Corps organised its combat photographers in Europe. The cameras we were using were Eyemo, called a bomb-spotter camera. It had a crank on the side you wound up. They only had one two-inch lens. If you can believe the running you have to do to get your long shot, medium shot and close-up with a two-inch lens. It was really criminal that they sent us there with that stuff. Yet remarkable things could be done with that equipment. John Huston, one of several directors who followed Ford to war, used it to make what James Agee thought the best war documentary. Huston would write and speak this strikingly ironic narration. Patron saint: Peter. Point of interest: St Peters, 1438. Note interesting treatment of chancel. Huston found real war more difficult to direct than the Hollywood kind. From October 1943 until the middle of December, San Pietro was the scene of some of the bitterest fighting on our Fifth Army front. The Italian campaign had entered its second phase, to push forward again after a static period brought on by heavy rain. Huston came over and he had a mission. To make a coherent narrative of one small battle that would represent the entire war. He realised that you have no control. You shoot what you can get. You can fire three rounds then drop. But you can't get ten feet of film in the same way. If you had control, you can do a lot with an Eyemo. They gave him two battalions, out of the 36 divisions, who were in rest, and said, "Here it is," and he staged that whole thing. He used film that we had shot, actual battle film, and he intercut it with what he had. His stuff was much better than ours. Ed Montagne has a veteran's tolerance of Huston's tricks. He used picturesque munitions, he slammed the camera to simulate explosions, he even posed American Gls as dead Germans. But he scared the poor 36th. That was a nervous outfit. He'd have them going up a hill, he'd take a grenade and throw it down, and yell, "Grenade!" and they'd dive. Some of the stuff was great. I admire him for what he did. But I resented the fact that I would get critiques from New York. "Major Huston's men were able to do this. Why can't yours?" I had the same people. Didn't speak very well of me, did it? Some of Huston's most moving footage was of picking up the pieces, of life reasserting itself in the little town of San Pietro. The people prayed to their patron saint to intercede with God on behalf of those who came to liberate them and passed on to the north with the passing battle. By 1944, the combat photographers were everywhere, even the China-Burma-lndia theatre. To most Americans, that was the war's most obscure corner. Hidden behind high mountains and deep jungles, it was both a political and logistical nightmare. One route was called the "aluminium trail" after all the planes downed flying it. When Stilwell and Merrill met to plan a mission against the key Japanese airfield at Myitkyina, photographer Dave Quaid was there. When General Stilwell flew off, I went up to Merrill and I said, "Hey, General. "Do you mind if I join you guys?" He said, "Come on along." Technically, Quaid was AWOL when he joined Operation Galahad. He had no idea what he was getting into. So now we're on this trail that's basically impassable. We had to cut steps. Even the mules that can handle any terrain could not handle this trail. We ourselves carried so much equipment, five days K ration and ammunition and rifles. I carried a 13lb camera and 2400 foot of film. It got so rugged that the mules could not make it. Finally, they had to take the loads and the saddles off the mules. They would get a GI, and a bunch of guys would lift this 96-pound saddle and put it on his back and then he would have to climb the steps. When we got to a more level area, we would load up the mules again. Quaid tired of repeating front and back angles. He found a precarious perch to get this side shot. The drop is 300 feet. I was young then, and I jumped down and made the shot. On the way, Merrill's Marauders twice encountered Japanese patrols. Here you can see an enemy bullet cutting through the brush. Quaid stepped into the open to get this shot of a fallen foe and the American who killed him. Probably the dumbest shot I've ever made. The Japanese were so stunned, they didn't fire. They didn't believe their eyes. This wilderness trek took six days. The method of handling malaria was the simplest thing in the world. It was called walking it out of you. All our walking wounded from the two battles we had fought coming over the mountains were still with us. The weary Marauders still took the airfield by surprise, but the Japanese continued to hold the nearby town. I became fascinated with the 88th Fighter Squadron. They had death's heads on their P-40F airplanes. They were only a mile and half from the Japanese bunkers. They could make one turn and come down on a bunker. They were great support for the American and Chinese surrounding Myitkyina. I was always interested in unique ways of looking at things. I thought it would be great to put my camera into the P-40 on a dive-bombing run. I see them up there. They make their turn and down they go. I see him right on the back of the captain all the way down. The captain pulls out after he released his bomb, and this guy is still following the bomb down. And there's this terrific blast and I see him trying to fly through the blast. He can't get any altitude, but he crash-lands at the end of the strip. When the leader landed, Quaid thought a retreat was in order. He was, after all, responsible for wrecking the plane. He comes up to me and he says, "Quaid, get out of here!" He said, "Four more and you're a Japanese ace!" I think it was one of the funniest lines of World War II. He said, "Dave, don't take it to heart. "We really wanna get P-51 s." June, 1944. The marines land in the Marianas, within bomber range of the Japanese home islands. The late Richard Brooks collected the exposed footage. When the landing boats came in, the cameramen came in first, so they could photograph the marines coming in to make the invasion. Like Huston, Brooks would edit, write and narrate this footage into a great war documentary. He would become an Oscar-winning Hollywood writer-director after the war. The Japs bring down another one of our planes. A sniper is burned out. A Jap makes a run for it. Lieutenant General Holland Smith, commanding the assault forces. He was known to his men as Howlin' Mad Smith. Brooks was working up the nerve to ask him a question. I made sure to get some shots of General Smith up against the skyline and against the sea. Walking back to his jeep, I said, "May I ask you a question?" He said, "Go ahead." I was a corporal. I said, "Is there any way, General, that our combat cameramen can carry side arms?" He said, "What do you mean?" I said, "We just got the camera. "If somebody's shooting at you, it's easier if you can shoot back." He said, "I don't care if you got film in it. "I want those cameras there and I want 'em there all the time. "Those cameras, whether they've got film in them or not, "are the eyes of the world. "And there are no cowards in front of a camera." John Ercole was one of the photographers. The sniper, wherever he was, I'm in his sights. I gotta move back and forth. He's trying to hit me in the foot. He keeps hitting the ground. I'm photographing this tank. Our marines are carrying some badly wounded marines on their shoulders and using the tank as protection. The tanks were a key element in the victory. This was shot in colour, but, like these pictures from inside a tank, it was released in black and white. The last Japanese strongholds were the hills, honeycombed with caves, from which they had to be painfully routed out. The big thing on Saipan was knocking these guys out. We had people speaking Japanese trying to get 'em to give up. We took an oath that you were willing to die to save your buddy and to get shot to save your buddies. The Japanese took it a little further. Their oath was to die rather than give up. They were told we had to kill our own children to get in the Marine Corps, all kinds of stories that these people had been told. As always, only a handful of Japanese soldiers surrendered. Mostly it was civilians who gave up. But even some of them were too terrified to do so. There's a shot on Saipan where I come across a woman. There's a cut in the cliff. She's 50 yards away from me. She's got a child standing here, baby in her hand, and she spots me. She sees the camera, which is on a gunstock. She doesn't know it's a camera. As I raise it up, she kicks this kid off the cliff, throws the baby off the cliff, and she takes the dive. That's all on film. Only maybe... four seconds. That's the fear that these people were embedded with. This shot of the dead child, one of the most pathetic images of the war, was not released at the time. These paratroopers were the first to breach Hitler's Atlantic wall. They would land in Normandy in the pre-dawn darkness of June 6th 1944, forerunners of history's greatest amphibious landing. The bombers were next. Every D-Day plane carried broad identifying stripes. This defence against friendly fire used up all the white paint in England. Carl Voelker remembers that morning. We flew twice. Went out early in the morning. It was too dark to do much. I was photographing the bombs going down on the beach. They brought sandwiches out. We stayed with the plane. It was re-bombed, refuelled and we went out. We went across the Channel and we saw the boats and the ships from Torquay, southern England, all the way across. It was quite a sight to see so much equipment being moved across the Channel. They were bumper to bumper. The troops passed the hours in the usual pastimes of anxious waiting. But, inescapably, they were alone with their thoughts. And with the equipment on which, luck aside, and who dared think about that, their lives would depend. In that whole armada, only one creature didn't know what awaited him. But even he was prepared for the worst. Still, the choppy Channel and the fear took their toll. As it brightened, gliders appeared, carrying more troops to assault the Germans from behind their lines. Then the bombers, flying low, returned. But the second time we went over low, maybe 5,000 feet. It was exceptional for us. We never bombed down that low. Voelker's bomb spotting was also exceptional, steady and unerring. In most documentaries of World War II, you'll see a chicken-foot impression on the screen. That day I got static electricity in the camera. The sparks appear in the gate and it's on every foot of film. That was my D-Day. "It was like a thousand Fourth of Julys rolled into one," an eyewitness said. But the bombardment came too soon. It was too dark for accuracy, or for Walter Rosenblum's camera. I couldn't go in on the first wave 'cause it was dark. No way I could photograph. The landing craft came back and loaded up with another crew, and I went into that crew. Like you see in the movies, you climb down a rope ladder. I went in on one of these landing craft. The men in these waves would confront D-Day's grimmest reality: The sight of their fallen comrades. We landed on the beach and the thing that struck me first is I'd never seen a dead person in my life, but I was surrounded by death. There were Gls in the water, rolling up and back. Blood in the water. It was a very frightening sight. The Signal Corps cameramen live with a bitter irony: Almost the entire surviving photographic record of D-Day was shot by coastguard cameramen. The film exposed by Rosenblum and the other men on the beaches would be lost. By late morning, the beachhead was established. At the end of the day, the cameramen surrendered their hard-won footage. We turned our footage in to the beach masters. A colonel went to each beach master and picked up the film, put it all in a duffel bag, put it on his shoulder and went out to a ship. Going up the side, he dropped it over the side and all the film was lost. There was one exception: A cameraman named Dick Taylor. He made this great shot. By default, these few seconds constitute D-Day's most famous footage. The only American film you see from D-Day was our motion-picture guy that was with 1 st Infantry Division. He got wounded and carried his film back with him. He got about three or four scenes before he got hit. Much of Taylor's footage is of combat's aftermath. It is of men who have spent themselves in war, trying to regather their strength. They dig in, they tend to the wounded. Mostly, they register the shock of survival. Their history has shrunk, for the moment, to this one terrible day. They can see nothing but the awful shore they so recently crossed. They're forced to contemplate the deaths they, by some miracle, avoided. On D Plus One, the supplies rolled in. So did the foul weather. Everywhere you looked, boats and their crews were in peril on the seas. Walter Rosenblum was there shooting stills. So was his motion-picture partner, Val Pope. There were sinking boats that I presume had been shelled. A young army lieutenant swam out with a life raft in order to bring back the people off the boat. When I started, I said, "Walter, you're a good swimmer. "You have two alternatives. "You could go out with him and help him or you could photograph." And at that moment I realised that my job was to take pictures, and that's what I had to do. These stills and the movie footage helped fill some of the gaps left by the lost D-Day pictures. Tragically, Val Pope would be killed in action a few days later. A well-known picture was this young lieutenant who was bending over a GI giving him first aid. He looked like the most heroic fellow I'd ever seen in my life. I was very happy to make that photograph. It epitomised what the war was about: People who came to fight for what they believed in. Three weeks after D-Day, there were almost half a million American soldiers in France. Stephen Ambrose calls this the great achievement of the American people and system in the 20th century. Who would dispute him? Only the Gls still struggling to break out of their beachhead against unforgiving terrain and a stubborn enemy. On the beaches, the barrage balloons arose, protecting the incoming supplies against the almost entirely absent Luftwaffe. Everywhere, casualties were counted. They were heavy for airborne troops, but the planners were ready for death, too. It was neatly registered. The high command were less well prepared for a unique and hazardous feature of Normandy's topography. All through Normandy, it was hedgerow country. They were six foot high and six foot thick. Trees growing out of the tops. They're fortresses. We could be digging in on one side and the Germans'd be digging in on the other side. There would be little openings with gates through 'em. Guys would have to attack through them or over the top of one. The hedgerows, planted in the Middle Ages, frustrated the war of movement, but not for long. An ordinance sergeant figured out that he could weld two big prongs on the front of a tank. They'd dig into the hedgerow and the tank'd shove its way right through. After we got that, it made it a lot simpler. Some 60 years ago, an anonymous German bureaucrat poked his finger on a map and decreed that this French field would be the site of these coastal batteries. They're still there today, silent yet ominous reminders of the way in which war intrudes itself on ordinary human life. And, yet, that life has an amazing stubbornness. The guns may thunder, but the fields must still be harvested. The geese have to cross the road, even if it's choked with military traffic. The ordinary scheme of human life goes on. Our cameramen recorded that, too. The young liberators were bored, restless, coltish, when off duty. These airmen discovered these horses in a Norman pasture. One was an Oklahoma cowboy who for a moment gracefully recaptured one of civilian life's lost pleasures. It was little known that our pre-invasion bombardment killed a lot of French people living behind the line. I was amazed that the French people I photographed didn't blame the Americans. They regarded us as the liberators, even though our bombs killed people. There was a sweetness in these welcomes and a certain haste. After the Normandy breakout, it finally became a war of movement. For this Free French tank battalion, it was a personal war, as Russ Meyer learned when he joined them. Took our jeep right with the French tank. We'd go right between them. His best wartime buddy, Bill Teas, was already with the French unit. He would lend his name to Meyer's first post-war erotic hit, The lmmoral Mr Teas. Needless to say, the French tankers were welcomed with special warmth. The Americans were included in that welcome. They would all say, "Amricain. Trs bien." There was danger on these roads. We go down the street and the guy says, "Stop! "Don't go! There's a bunch of Germans down that road. "Get the hell out of there." Forewarned, they engaged in a brief, violent firefight. This time, they took prisoners. I'd love to know the guy today, 'cause if we hadn't been warned, somebody'd have gotten our tonsils. But they weren't always so lucky. In a later engagement, they took heavy losses. As was often the case in tank battles, the wounds were ghastly and hard to accept. As tankers struggled to free a trapped comrade, others rethought the battle and re-fought it. There was a desire to protect the home front. If these had been Americans, these pictures might not have been taken. You didn't wanna get Gls, though. Or I would get something where at least the American wouldn't be readily recognised. I was concerned about their family, that they'd see them in the newsreels. But Paris was nearly at hand, less than three months after D-Day. As the liberators approached, the underground rose against the Germans. German tanks were opposed by the Resistance carrying only small arms. Amazingly, they forced an uneasy truce. It is possible they prevented the destruction of the city. The honour of entering Paris first was given to Free French forces, but as their leaders showed themselves, gunfire erupted. De Gaulle and other officers were there. I'm sure Leclerc had to be there. The city had not been fully cleared of German troops. They all came marching down the Champs lyse as part of this parade. There were snipers, and there were shots fired and everybody ducked. The street fighting was actually intense and deadly. People were pinned to the ground, unable to move. The terror was palpable. Reprisals against French collaborators were swift and harsh. That was not the end of French vengeance. We were advised of activity regarding collaborationists. They were taking, in this case, women collaborationists and shaving their heads. These are, I guess, women who had socially gone out or played around with some of the German soldiers. The idea, as I understood it, was that for months afterwards everybody would know who the collaborationists were. Mostly, they said nothing. Some smiled and some just stared straight ahead and, I guess, tried to make the best of what they were faced with. The Allies intended to bypass Paris, but it was unavoidably in their path. Most soldiers did not stop. For them, Paris was just a quickly glimpsed place on the road to victory. In a smaller French city, Fred Bornet found the joy of liberation more freely expressed and more directable. The people were out in the street and they were just absolutely ecstatic, hysterical with delight. They hung bunting and they'd lift glasses of wine. What is so great is that you don't have a script. You seize those wonderful moments. And there were lots of girls, flowers in their hair. They were waving and greeting. But they were not doing it... with enough enthusiasm. I thought, "This is such a great moment. "It should be like the big parade." So I said to the girl, "Look, "when that stream of soldiers is walking by, "run against that stream and kiss them." And I cried. That was a release. And then they offered me soup and fried eggs, and they were waving flags. You have a feeling that you're doing something that is worthwhile. In the fall of 1944, American eyes were fixed on Europe, where headquarters spoke, overconfidently as it turned out, of the war's end being in sight, almost within reach. No such claims were made for the Pacific. Combat there was as brutal as ever. Many of its fighting men felt isolated and ignored. Navy cameraman Sam Sorenson. The marines I worked with were happy to have pictures taken of them. In the Pacific they were so lonely. You never saw a woman. One of the reasons I was happy to work with the marines was because we got better pictures of combat action. Peleliu, September 1944. The fury of the naval and air bombardment was unprecedented. For three days, we shelled that thing. When we approached those islands, it looked like nice, green, rolling hills. When we got through, it looked like rugged, jagged mountains. There were little coral mountains sticking up all over. I couldn't believe anything could live on there. But the bombing was ineffective. The enemy remained safe in their bunkers. So when the marines started in, it was not only that they got hung up on that reef, they were caught in Japanese crossfire. A lot of 'em had to unload there and go on in with amphibious tractors and guns. And then when they hit the beach, they got right on this point, they call it. Ironically, Peleliu was unnecessary. MacArthur thought he needed it to shield his invasion. Historians now agree that he did not. The marines took 50% casualties. They holed up in caves. They never made charges. And they had little spider holes where one sniper would stand. They finally would close 'em up. They'd blow 'em up and close the entrance. Then the Japanese would come out of another hole. It took two months to get 'em out. They took maybe 100 prisoners out of this. In the end, we had lost something like 1900 marines and we had to kill nearly 13,000 Japanese. Meantime, the war in the China-Burma-lndia theatre continued. Dave Quaid soldiered on. There was a Thanksgiving air drop. President Roosevelt said, "No matter where your son or daughter is, "he's gonna get a turkey dinner." I said, "That's hogwash. I'm gonna photograph this drop "and I'm gonna prove that it never happened." Aerial resupply had been taken over by a new unit fresh from Europe. Their adjustment to the CBI was poor. Coming in too fast and low, drops were often inaccurate and destroyed their cargo. The plane now was directly over the trail we were on. So I yelled to these guys to get off the trail. The skinny, emaciated guy there with the camera is me. They scored a direct, if accidental, hit on Quaid. The medics assisted me, as did my buddy Bill. He is still moved by Bill Brown's willingness to risk his life for him. Here was this chute coming down on me, right on my face. I said, "Bill, look at that!" And Bill got up, stepped across me, said, "I'll get it." So, there was a puff of wind and it blew just past my head, and Bill didn't have to sacrifice himself. Dave Quaid's war was finished. He spent the rest of it in hospitals, having operations on his shattered leg. Here I am leaving the war, taken out by a bag of mule feed. In northern France, the fighting slowed as the snows came. The weather masked a huge German build-up, 24 divisions, near the Ardennes forest. The Ardennes were cool in the sense that it was critically cold. It was very difficult to find somewhere that you could hide. The Ardennes did not have big trees. You had to be very careful and get down at the base of a tree trunk and dig as deeply as you could to protect yourself, from the standpoint of getting injured or... finished. In December, the Americans on this line were often isolated in small units. Communications between them were poor. They were not expecting the battle that began on December 16th. Many Gls fought tenaciously, though they were often surrounded by the enemy. The Bulge, Hitler's last gamble of the war, eventually extended 50 miles eastward, but it did not burst. It's hard to see from these pictures, but this engagement involved more soldiers, 600,000 of them, than any battle in US history. 20,000 Americans died in the Ardennes. Another 20,000 were wounded. Among them was a cameraman named Jim Bates, who had been in the war since D-Day. At the Bulge, he did what a lot of Gls did. He hitched a ride on a tank. Their motors provided warmth. I asked one tank if I could ride on the back. The lid flew open. "Can you fire a machine gun?" I said, "I had my basics with 11th Armoured Division." They picked me up and put me in the gunner's position. Bates didn't know he was heading into battle with German Tiger tanks. He grabbed shots of a German ambulance aiding one of their wounded tank crews. The number one tank had passed an open area and was firing uphill. About that time I could hear this "kerthunk". The commander says, "They're shooting at us." About that time, that second boom came along. It felt like a train hit me in the back. I didn't know if I was dead, and he screamed, "If you're not hit, get up, because he's gonna run over you." I looked back and my camera was under the tank treads. That's what made me move. On the radio they said, "Get up here. "There's hardly enough photographers left for the rest of the war." I said, "I'll ride on the hood. It'll be a warm place to be for a bit." Ignoring his wounds, Bates kept shooting as the tank rumbled to the rear. Arosi saw me, the buddy I'd normally work with. He said, "The hospital's next door." I said, "Not yet. I'm gonna dictate to you what, where, why and when." He says, "You won't quit, will you?" I said, "No way." The situation remained fluid for days, especially for Doug Wood. Ailing with flu, he took refuge in a command post. He sent his driver and stills man for more film, then fell asleep. He did not hear to order to evacuate the CP when it came under fire. My still guy at that time was a new guy, a replacement. He told the driver, whose name was lvan Babcock, "There's some guys in funny hats and I think they're shooting at us." The driver told me, "I could see their tracers going past my nose." But he wouldn't stop. The other guys had stopped there and they'd captured 'em. He just drove right on through and let 'em keep shooting at him. What Babcock drove through was the Malmedy Massacre. It was the war's worst atrocity visited on American soldiers. Somewhere between 71 and 129 Gls, the number remains in dispute, were rounded up and shot by SS troops. They had infiltrated our lines, some of them wearing American uniforms. In this last-gasp German effort, many of their troops were teenagers. The Germans escaped serious punishment at the war-crimes trials. The weather lifted in late December and air operations resumed. I was fortunate enough, or unfortunate, however you wanna look at it, to lead the greatest air-combat battle of World War II. Eight of us had climbed up over the field. We were joining up when 900 German fighters made an attack on the front on January 1 st 1945. The squadron leader - there'd normally be 12 aeroplanes, we only had 8 - he couldn't see him. He said, "You take over the flight." I dropped five of 'em right on the field. The pilots, armed with gun cameras, were also combat cameramen. Hitler had decided that he would deploy all the fighters he had to knock out the fighter fields to support the Battle of the Bulge. They planned it for early December, which would have been effective, weather wasn't good. They put it off and said, "January 1 st, these guys'll all be in bed." It was all over the front, not just at our field. It was at the British field, at all the northern airfields. I later got a hold of Hermann Goering's interviews. In those interviews, Goering said the largest loss that the German Luftwaffe ever had was the loss on January 1 st. Mel Paisley, also this film's chief researcher, was decorated with the Distinguished Service Cross. During the war, he shot down nine planes. The Battle of the Bulge ended January 7th 1945. Germany was now largely open to the Allies. Italy, 1945. Dictator Benito Mussolini was deposed and exiled, the government surrendered, and the populace turned viciously on their former allies. I went over to the CP and I was told they had captured Mussolini. General Crittenberger was to take his surrender. I went down to the CP the following morning. Here's a limousine with three German officers in it. They'd run into a roadblock and been captured. Critt said, "I'm gonna get this bird's surrender." I said, "What about Mussolini?" He said, "Mussolini will have to wait." And he said, "General, we're both professionals. "You can't get out. The passes are closed. "The smart thing to do is surrender the Ligurian Army, "which is the last intact enemy army." Went back to see Critt and he was sitting on a rail, dreaming. He said, "Montagne, every cadet at West Point "dreams of the day when an enemy army surrenders to him. "Today it happened to me." Crittenberger's decision doomed Mussolini and other Fascists to death at the hands of partisan guerrillas. Their bodies were displayed in Milan. It had been going on for some time when we got there. We photographed what we could: Crowds, Mussolini hanging upside down, Petacci alongside him. I remember her skirt had fallen over her face. A woman pinned her skirt between her legs so she wasn't exposed. They cut him down, his head hit, and picked him up. The partisans were running it. We had nothing to do with it. They took 'em to the morgue. There were bodies you had to walk on to get to where Mussolini was. I asked the morgue attendant, "Can you get him in the light?" He said, "If I move him, his head will fall apart." So we got Petacci, put her head on his shoulder. It became quite a famous shot. Meantime, Nazi Germany was in its death throes, but it desperately fought on. Everything that could happen to me, photographically speaking, did happen that day. The place was Cologne. The date was March 6th 1945. The street fighting was intense. It was often impossible to tell soldiers from civilians. Sometimes, victims caught in the crossfire were innocent. By this time we had a new T-26. The T-26 was so far ahead of the old Shermans, it was unbelievable. This German tank was in front of Cologne cathedral. It had knocked out some of our tanks, causing havoc. They had control over that whole area. Bates followed the tank, and, scrambling for position, got this great footage of armoured combat. I heard our T-26 coming up. The first shot went in and cut the legs off the tank commander in the Tiger. You can see the armour-piercing shell going through the bottom of the picture. Immediately, the driver and the gunner climbed out, but the second shot, shrapnel had gotten them, too. The concussion from that 90mm gun was so tremendous that it would blow me off my picture and I'd have to get back on it. I couldn't use a tripod. I had to hand-hold it. The tank commander that had his legs cut off just laid on his tank and burned up in front of the camera. That thing was burning even the next morning. There was still smoke coming out of it because of all the ammunition in it. Two months and one day later, the war in Europe was over. Its crusaders, as General Eisenhower called them, rest in cemeteries all over Europe. If anything, their deeds are more revered now than at the time. Some of their immortality derives from the photographic record. The combat cameramen recorded the last days, hours, moments, even the last breath, of many of those who lie here. It isn't something they talk about very much. It was, as they say, just a part of their job. But it was a more important job than they knew. For the film they made is now beginning to outlive memory. Eventually, it will be the only recollection, made on the spot, of how our citizen soldiers lived, fought and died. The cameramen in Europe had one more duty to history. It was unquestionably their most important: Recording the horrors of the death camps. At Dachau, Walter Rosenblum was too shocked to shoot. These pictures were made by others. There were a group of boxcars. I climbed up to see what was inside. The boxcar was full of dead people. There were 30, 40 boxcars along that road. When I looked in, I was so shocked. Could you imagine, not having seen anything like that before, to see a boxcar full of dead, emaciated people? At that moment, I forgot I was a photographer. I was just overcome by it all. I was on an assignment with Ellis Carter. We went into Germany to cover bomb damage by the Allied airpower. On April 11th, the 3rd US Army liberated Buchenwald. When we heard of this, we immediately drove over there. What the cameramen found was beyond their imagining, but the inhumanity they recorded is literally undeniable. As a solider, I had no knowledge of these camps. I had not heard anything about it. It was horrible. There were bodies stacked up like cordwood. We judged them to be about 60 to 80 pounds in weight. People were actually dying day by day, even after the camp was liberated. Many of the prisoners could not speak English, but they raised their hands and showed their gratitude for us freeing them. This camp had about 20,000 survivors at the time of liberation and about 8,000 of 'em were children. There was a section where they displayed tattooed skins, which were made into lampshades and book covers. The German commandant's wife would select tattooed men to be doomed to die and then use their skin. After a few days, the German civilians of the town next to Buchenwald, called Weimar, were paraded through on a tour of the camp to show the atrocities and to show them what the Germans had done. Many of them wouldn't even look at the torture or the bodies. Some of them were crying and some had their mouth and nose covered, especially the women. So, in the filming that we did, it's evident they just kept going through because they had to. They weren't too interested in looking at the atrocities. There was a lot of people that didn't believe it happened. Here we had it on film. In all the time I was over there, this experience stood out in my mind. It took a while to get over it. It was something that you wouldn't wanna see, you wouldn't wanna go through again. The horrors of the camp had a more immediate effect on Art Mainzer. After what he had seen, he yearned for normalcy. I met her in Paris, the day before the Battle of the Bulge started. Believe it or not, we were walking down the boulevard, it starts snowing, and my buddy and I saw these two lovely ladies under an umbrella. So we sneaked in under the umbrella and introduced ourselves. I made the decision after I covered the Buchenwald assignment. I said, "If I ever get back to France alive, I'm gonna ask Germaine to marry me." Being a camera unit, we had three 16mm cameras and a couple of Speed Graphics for the still photos. We had some cases of champagne that the Germans looted from the French, so we got it back to France. A lot of French people showed up. In this suburb of Paris, they had not had a formal wedding during the occupation. It was quite an event for them. It was a June wedding, the month after VE day. The pictures were his unit's gift to them. The Mainzers lived together in the United States until Germaine passed away in 1998, after almost 53 years of marriage. Iwo Jima, February 1945. As the Americans came closer to Japan, fighting in the Pacific grew still more bitter. The bombardment crumbled one side of lwo's key bastion, Mount Suribachi, but it took five bloody days to reach its summit. When the marines set out to place a flag on Suribachi, they still encountered resistance, but they persevered and the flag was raised. It lacked properly heroic proportions. Something would have to be done. It was too small to be seen. The commanding general figured we gotta get a bigger flag. They got some of the LSTs that were there. One LST commander said, We've got a big flag but we've never flown it." My boss said to me, "Make sure you send photographers up. "This will be the official flag raising." I got in touch with Genaust and Bob Campbell. Bill Genaust and Bob hooked up with Rosenthal going up the hill. That was Joe Rosenthal of the Associated Press, a civilian photographer who had taken these pictures of the landing. These are the shots Genaust took on that climb. A few days later he was killed in action. He would not live to see the images he made. People would always contest whether this was the first or the other one. Bob Campbell didn't like the position the other two cameramen were in. So he moved and got a picture of the first flag coming down and the second one going up at the same time. Rosenthal, however, got the immortal shot, and a lifetime's controversy, for he shipped all his pictures back unseen and undeveloped. Joe gets on a boat about four days later and goes to Guam. He's bombarded by the press saying, "What was this picture?" They wanna know what he thought about it. He says, "Maybe it's that picture I posed "with all the men under the flagpole raising their rifles." That word "posed" got into the lexicon of the problem. It's hung in there for years and years. We have fought for 50 years to try to straighten it out. I thought at the end of the 50th anniversary, we got it resolved, but I think it'll probably go on for another 50. The comparison with the movie footage is definitive. Rosenthal took the same shot Genaust did from virtually the same position. This controversy masks the real story of lwo Jima, its cost. Almost 7,000 marines died here, along with 21,000 Japanese. The marines won 27 medals of honour, more than in any other engagement. Manila, spring of 1945. It was now "war without mercy", as one historian called it. The fires the Japanese set destroyed 70% of the city. They killed 100,000 civilians in an orgy of destruction. This vengeance on the innocent was recorded by Don Honeyman. Next day, the infantry was moving into the city. We got some very good street fighting. Honeyman then joined forces surrounding the presidential palace. We were going to the gardens, which included the other side of the river. We had the north bank of the river and they had the south bank, so we made a crossing of the river in assault boats. One wave of boats went over. They didn't have any trouble. I figured it was safe to go on the second run. We got out in the middle and the Japanese began to shoot at us from the side of the river we thought was ours, which was hardly fair. Armoured amphibious vehicles brought the troops safely to shore. Came across a BAR man who happened to be down on his elbows, next to a sign saying, "Please do not pick the flowers." In the city, fighting remained intense. A Japanese strong point was the legislative palace. Eight-inch howitzers lined up side by side, practically, firing point-blank... ...simply taking down the building stone by stone, practically. Despite the firepower levelled at them, the Japanese hung on in the palace. Infantry would have to rout them out. Next day I went to cover the transfer of civil government from MacArthur to the Filipinos. He said very proudly how Manila was now secure. I said, "Except the legislative building." Okinawa, Easter Sunday. The idea was to stage the invasion from this large island. Rather innocently, Lloyd Durant decided to shoot a film on combat cameramen. What better subject to put on film than the story of the combat cameraman, who was practically unknown at the time? We knew our next operation was in the Pacific. I said, "Let me go out there "and let me find the cameramen we have out there, "and presumably they will be in on the action. "I wanna be there photographing them photographing the action." So we hit the beach at Okinawa. There I was working with these guys, creeping in foxholes, squirming along the beach, and trying to keep the sand out of the camera and my mouth. They're trying to do the same thing. Also, there were a few bullets flying around. The battle would continue for three months. Among the casualties, the worst of the war, was a cameraman. He was a navy cameraman. Somehow or another he was hit and blinded. They had bandaged, in the field, his eyes. Some of it was still hanging down. He could not see. They brought him up on the side of the ship. He got to the top and he's reaching for help. He can't see a thing. His buddies reached up and took him down. Our commentary is, "For this cameraman, the picture was over." And that's exactly what it was. He never saw again. Later that day, the kamikazes came in. These were guys who were dedicated to giving their lives for their country. They crashed into us. Our anti-aircraft guns were working at them full time. Our other problem was our own flak coming down did as much damage to many of us as did the kamikazes. It could go right through your helmet if it hit you directly. Bull Halsey said, "The kamikazes were the only weapon I feared in the war." In over 1300 of these suicide attacks, they sank 26 ships and damaged 300. This is some of the most astonishing footage of the war. There were many near misses, but most of the navy casualties at Okinawa are attributed to kamikazes. They damaged some carriers but sunk none, yet they persisted. The last attack was mounted after the surrender. These B-24s are over Balikpapan in Borneo. The Ploieti of the Pacific, the huge oil refinery was bombed for 30 days in the summer of 1945. They were softening it up for the last amphibious landing of World War II. The American coastguard took Australian troops ashore. Jerry Anker was there with his buddy Jim, also a cameraman. He wanted a picture of himself in action. Anker obliged with a snap that became famous in the photo histories. When the landing craft hit the beach at Balikpapan, I said, "That idiot!" and I pulled up my 4 x 5 and shot the picture. I only took one picture and it turned out to be a prize winner. Here, in the war's waning days, Anker was presented with another more terrible photo opportunity. I had been following this Australian infantryman with a flame-thrower for probably a half-hour. It just so happened that when he shot this flame-thrower into this cave, this Japanese soldier came running out in flames, and I was able to photograph the entire sequence. To this day, I can still smell the stench of that burning body. That one unknown soldier dying in agony, symbolises the waste of war. Multiply his fate 100,000 times and you begin to comprehend Hiroshima and Nagasaki. But not entirely, for as many people died later of radiation poisoning as died in the initial blasts. We are told these lives were traded for those that would have been lost in an invasion of Japan. All we know for sure is the atomic bombs brought the war to an abrupt end and finally stopped all the killing at over 40 million. At Nagasaki, as at the concentration camps, the combat photographers had one last service to render. Dan McGovern speaks for all those who entered this charnel house. My effort was to show the world what the atomic bomb had done to a nation, what it had done to human beings. At the school in Nagasaki, it sucked out hundreds of kids through the windows. I remember one particular scene that I shot. I couldn't figure out what was wrong with this particular person. He reminded me of a monk, or Christ with his staff. He was standing up on a rise looking over the hill of Nagasaki from the valley. He was a radiologist from the Nagasaki teaching hospital, which is just down below the hill. He told me then that he had lost his wife, that he was suffering from radiation sickness. Two days later he was gone. Where people were sitting, permanent shadows were burned. It was the same way with things. You can paint over the shadows, but you cannot erase them. That was my effort to it, because we showed the burned bodies of children. People would cry out, "Let's not do this again." Yet we do. These pictures have been duplicated in every war for over a half-century. The children reach out in their abandonment, their incomprehensible loneliness. The soldiers offer what comfort they can. These men and these children share the terrible bond of war. But the soldiers will soon move on. They will not know the fates of orphans with whom they shared their humanity. These pictures ought to assure centuries of peace. They do not. But it may be that after the shooting stops, the combat cameramen achieve their finest hour.
