 

                        Mak, Please come this way Ok Miss, come on, have a bite Crazy How much? $7 Baldy, working so late? Aren't you scared? Scare of what? Being robbed You're CID The change $15 Don't move, mind your bald head Take the money That one has no bullets, mine can shoot Drop the knife, drop it Bastard, you really have guts Don't move I shall, I shall shoot... Come on, shoot, here is my heart shoot straight Right, I'm going to give you're a mark The mark is fixed, come, shoot me Bastard, you really have guts You dare to kill me? Drop it Drop it I don't, so what I told you to drop it Where's he? Sir, please no more teasing I'll call the police I'm the police Peter, Paul Shoot Don't... Bastard, scared? Come over here Who is your boss? Come over Come over When Baldy's around, there's no thief I heard it before Who is your boss? Johnny Johnny Why don't you tell me earlier? Come on over... I've heard that he's doing swell Why hasn't he taken care of you? Where is he now? Who are his partners? Sir, don't tease us please We won't be betray our buddy What've we done? Just robbery That only spells 2-3 years prison term Take us the police station, then Let me tell you, you're now obstructing police investigation Robbery, refuse to surrender... Your finger prints are all here You're not going to get out 1997 Are you threatening us? No, I'm framing you So speak up I'll let you go if I'm in good mood You'll enjoy 1997 in jail What'll we do now? Sir, don't, I'll speak Speak up My boss is doing business with prince Tak I know it already He is trafficking drug for Prince Tak I know it too Sir, that's all I know I know nothing except this You've not told me where Sir, please If I know that, I won't be here to rob I swear, please trust me It was all bull shit, get lost Go? Go You really let us go, let's leave... Take your toys with you It'll save you some money next time Thank you, sir You're welcome Let's go, hurry up Don't move, cop Robbery? On the wall No, sir The cop inside let us go You can ask him Shut up, put your hands up on the wall Don't move Fatty, why do you come so late? Baldy, did you get any clue? Are you kidding? How can you let them go? What the hell are you doing? They said that they'd only tell you It's time to tell I didn't said that Why do you stare at me? He's in charge out here I was in charge in there Please help us You'd better ask him Baldy, what did he tell you? What he told me were known already How about those I don't know? He didn't tell Why didn't you tell him everything? Don't you think we're busy enough And want to keep us busy? Speak up, where is your boss? I really don't know I've told what I knew I agree, let him go, go... Thank you sir Where are you going? You can cheat Baldy, but not me Here's your last chance Ok, I will talk... Why didn't you tell me earlier? Don't you think I'm stupid? Ok, I'm going to charge him possession of fire arm Evidence, I'll call the police To serve a 7-year term Sir, I'll talk... If I tell the truth? Are you going to let me go Damn you, no bargain Don't scare him, give him a chance Speak up, where is your boss? He always goes to the TV Game Centre at Pak Tai St No cheating? How dare I? Get lost... Thank you sir Nothing Thank you Get lost at once Robbery Stop, police, stop... Stop, don't move... Hold it This is the TV Game Centre What's that shit, get off Baldy, that car is parked with the engine on Mind your own business The engine is on to keep the air-conditioner running But the windows are open There must be someone smoking so that the windows are open There's so many snipes there must be something wrong He must be waiting for someone Don't look at that, why are you so nosy? We come to arrest Johnny I think they probably are robbers Johnny Johnny Stop Where the alarm is? I don't know Robbery Where? Where's the robbery? Upstairs, rm 308, Ngai Ching Jewellery Co How many robbers? About 6 to 7 Any weapons? Knives, pistols, the robbers are masked Don't be afraid, come here Please lend it to me, CID I'll return it soon Give way please Don't let him go Bingo What the hell, why do you hit me? Bastard, what's the hurry? Bingo Bastard, how dare you run away form me and keep me chasing you for miles Don't hit me please You're my idol, I respect you most I know you're flattering me but it sounds good Listen, Prince Tak owns a Benz And he dates actresses Is he mad? I don't know The notorious King of Drugs Are they related? I don't know You drive him around, you don't know? I don't know, I swear Ok Uncle Tiger, how are you going to charge me? I've no idea yet Give me time Damn Do what you are told Squatting, here, did you heard? Squatting Come on, what are you look? Come on, buddy, hurry up Will be in a second, wait outside Be quick Are they masked? Yes Don't move, I'll shoot you to death Shut up, let's move Robbery, hurry up... Come on, buddy, hurry up Hurry up... Let's go Be quick What are you doing? Robbing, what's the matter? He comes to rob too I think I've lost my way Sorry, sorry Stop, police, drop down your weapons Get in, hurry up What've you in mind? Nothing Don't move Robbery? It's fantastic Cop, I want to lend your car Cop See who is coming? I'm finished Mr. Dragon Thank you for providing us clues To solve this case Please come to identify the suspects It's none of my business, I won't go You've betrayed them Show them your face What you mean... I'm an under-cover? Tough shit It's none of my business Or you'd cooperate with me Ok... I will talk Speak up Prince Tak'll be having a deal in Yu Tak Commercial Centre tomorrow Who is the dealer? Is girl, he is a transvestite Those stuff are hidden in the bra No lying? How dare I in front of you two lunatics What? No... You two are the kindest Past is past What shall I do? It's OK Stop it Let's work Don't disturb me It's chance in a million for me to cry Listen my dear, we come here to look for our target Not come for a crying session OK, please go look for her yourself How can I identify the transvestite A women with plastic figure He must be, let's check I don't know how, you demonstrate Since when have you become so smooth faced? I learnt from you Asshole, head or tail? Head Tail Don't go away It's ok Miss, what brand is your clothes? Ah Lai, he is the guy we saw last time be careful It's ok Do you want to molest me? Right, cause I've no taste What the hell are you doing? Take off your hand Sorry You're going too far, pervert Miss, I'm cop I've watched this pervert for long I'm going to arrest him Are you cop? Yes There, over there Aren't taking him to the police Why are you still here? You two are together, you con me Miss, you misunderstood You are the pervert I go & call the police Follow me Have 2 women just come in Yes We're cops We're investigation a case now Men are not allowed Where is it? Don't shout, Don't shout Cops, cops Have you ever seen a man? Here, over there Get out of my way, he's mine Let me... How dare you run? You think I can't catch you? How are you? Baldy She's gone, Go & chase her Leave it to me He's a man, search him What's the matter? Search yourself Poor fellow You pervert, get your hands off me I'm finished Miss, you said that 2 cop's molested you Can you identify them? No 3 & No 4 No 3 & 4 stay behind, the rest can go Left turn Fatty, why did you let me do it To share my good fortune Right turn, listen? OK Otherwise you'd not be here keep me company Tak told you to prosecute them Inspector Wu My client's sure that they were No 3&4 We'd like to prosecute them You 2 return the pistol immediately And then come to my office What's that mean? We're charged by criminals What kind of world is this He can't listen But I still want to curse Thanks inspector Wu Baldy, what is this beef? Scold them with foul language Inspector What's he mean? Nothing, nothing special Miss Prince Tak just wants to use you We just want to help you but you prosecute us Right Prince Tak I don't know who he is I just know that your 2 indecent assaulted me If I knew you're woman I would not have... The gesture is called scratching If he is so desperate He'd go to massage parlours Inspector Wu, listen? They're disgusting Inspector Wu, shut them up at once Or, I'll complain to the I.C.A. C Oh, please don't, shut up They'd shut up at once We'll deal with this case properly Brother you Please take him to process the case Please Boss Am I a good actor? We patrolled together in the old days But now I'm the inspector you're still CID The secret? Use your brain How can like you two You'd let the false one to escape But the correct one is going to charge you two You're really stupid Do we need to return the pistols? No, he'll fix it for us Sure, helping you has made me An inspector with only two pips I understand that we've made it difficult for you No, he didn't Go, let's go We're going now Let's go What's the matter? Nothing... He is smart today Damn You two have become the famous pervert cops Come on, show us your skills Come, I'll do it... Fatty, don't keep the fun to yourself Come on... Let's see We've never seen such ass before Yes, we haven't She must be an easy-laid, see that dropping ass You can see from her ass Who's talking behind my back? How can you be so vulgar? Stop pretending, I know it's you You're the foul-mouth of the whole station What a clever girl, come here Ching, I've heard that your 3 sisters are all beautiful They're all married Dragon Hi Fatty, you promised to get me 2 concert tickets, right? Right I've nearly forgot You lined up 4 hrs for her 2 tickets How much? Forget it No, I'll pay you later Ok Bye Forget it You interested in Ching? Don't be ridiculous, she's only a litter girl I'm 6-7 years older than she is It that all Go to work now Tak, Brother Wing is inside the house What can I help you? hi Bo Shan Pin pills Big brother Big brother How can have so much? Tak is coming Big brother Don't call me big brother any more Call me Wing These days, all big brothers are cleaned up by cops Come, take a sit Sit... Johnny, we're one big family Take a sit This meal is for Bill He gave me some tips on horse racing I didn't bet on his horses But I bet on the others, I won 200 grands Tell Wing Brother Wing, I'm sorry I'm sorry about today's incident, we... It's none your fault, I'd blame Tak actually Like this kind of matter You'd have ordered your men to do it Big brother, damn, we got caught by 2 cops If they'd show their faces again I'll kill them You'd better not mess around with them They are the tiresome crazy Tiger and mad Dragon If you get them mad, he'll make your life miserable Let's see what they can do to me They've been watching you They must think of some way to arrest you Why? Cause you've got chips on your shoulders Why haven't they bothered me? Everyone knows that I'm the notorious drug king Buddy, if you want more elbow-room You'd practise charity Drug dealers better keep a low-profile right, Johnny? Big bother, Ah Lai's got bad luck That's all My Source told me an insider betrayed us Impossible, there are only few who knew the deal Other than Ah-Lai, It's Johnny They're faithful Don't you think so? I won't even trust my own brother I know your every moves out there No one can hide anything from me You said that I am too wicked I'm a careful person for yours An insider sabotaged the deal Get rid of him Wing... listen to my explanation Brother Wing, give me a chance to explain Uncle Wai Uncle Wai Uncle Wai What's the matter? Arrange him a great funeral Cause he's one of our family Great funeral? Family... Drink, cheers everybody Ah Lai Cheers Drink it Drink it Cheers everybody Please don't It'll kill me This time is much more simple than the last Just open the door And let us set the eavesdropper We'd better take a look at the vicinity If you're caught Don't ever tell the truth Do you know what does loyalty mean? Yes let me down... don't tickle me Are you kidding? You're correct Open the door Baldy, we don't always go by the rules No wonder we remain low-ranking police What? What we doing is against the law You always get such way-out If we stick by the rules We can solve no case He's out Sir, it's ok, the house is empty Check me Don't tickle me... Good boy Bless you Are there any dogs inside? No Dog... CID, hands up Go over there On the wall Search it What? Out You envy me? I've gotten rid of it, now do your job Bobby What'll we do now? Hide under the bed Let me in, please Full house... Fatty How is it? Is she nice? Nice, but I have seen nothing No? What a pity, let me take a peep She is taking us to court It doesn't mind to have one extra charge Don't mess things up Ah Lai... Get lost Full house... Damn you, Fatty Ah Lai... You've come What do you think of today's case? Is it really an insider I don't know But they are the "7-11" mad cops Give 24 hours service Be careful of their striking back They're police, so what? The laws of Hong Kong Protect people like us That's why we drive Benz, they take bus Stop being a gas bag I want no more of your business Go and find a replacement share Ah Lai, at least, help me to finish up first Ask your boys to do it Don't be crazy What're you doing? I don't trust my old lady who am I trust? No... Did you fart No Pak What's the matter? Get the guns Who pages me? Don't move, robbery Hands up Get the bed up Damn you What an obedient boy What're you staring at? All men look the same You've made up your mind, haven't you? You can get rich quicker this way You asshole Why do you sell drugs? And framed us up for indecent assault Beat me Don't move You drive Benz and we take bus Give me the key Come here, Ah Lai Don't be scared, we're family I don't Come with us Don't follow us Get in Remember, goodbye What did he say to you? Nothing Nothing Nothing What did you say to her? I told her that she was beautiful Should have come with me What? You wanna hook her? You idiot, I want to divide and conquer them Automatic, it's so much better than yours It's not fair, I'm mad We all work our butts off He's a drug dealer with a Benz We are law enforcers with a 2nd hand car You're worse, you don't even have a bicycle Who do you want? You two bastards No bastards here Give the car back to me, or I'll call the police Wait a while Your call Hello, I'm police, what's the matter? Damn you Fatty, I'm following you Don't be ladies See? If you wreck my car You can't afford the damage in your life time Anything else? He said that we can afford the damage In our life time I hate someone call me asshole What are you saying? Fight me unarmed if you've got guts Bastard, I can't stand anymore Don't stop me Any weapon? You bastard dare to challenge me? I can't afford the damage? I am going to wreck you car It's great, chase him, come on Chase him Baldy, I won't let you go It's funny Fatty, stop Are you OK? Get lost He's coming Don't let him over take, hurry up It's great, Fatty I'll show you something great Fatty, let him over take, come near me Crash My car, your crazy It's funny, it's great Chase, be quick Having fun? Fatty It's good fun It's your turn Ok I can make it too Look, oh, my god It's fantastic, great I won't let you go Fatty, we did a good job Any new tricks? Let me show you something incredible Fine Hang up No My car Poor fellow Baldy, go They'd take the bus Bye Taxi Stop Taxi Get lost What car is it? Where? Run for your life Bye I won't let you go Sir, a table for... One, I'll serve myself Miss, you're pretty I think I've met you before Nosense May I join you? Who ask you to sit? I sit here cause I can't understand Italian I'd like you to help with the menu You can ask the manager here I don't like them I only like pretty girls Especially someone like you Classy, elegant... Then why do you come so late? I'm full now You are late for 2 hours Are you ashamed? I've work to do, miss Ridiculous, shameless... What's so funny? You're most beautiful when you're mad The bill please The bill please $180, Sir $200, keep the change You're quite something She's so tall She is not that much taller when lying down Dad, I'm back Let's eat Auntie San What's the matter? I saw your son join the street protest Don't let him go He'll get into trouble with the police You know, my son is also a cop I don't suppose the coincidence It's no good to bump into familiar faces It's better to join the hunger-strike Hunger strike is bad for health No, not if less than 7 days It's nothing less than 7 days It's healthy to clean the system Dad, let's eat Coming Dad, if he harms because of hunger strike What'll you do? No sure about the 7 days I'd a three days record Before I was sent to a labour camp Hong Kong is a wonderful place So don't destroy it Otherwise, as some people say that I hate What is it? Chinese people don't think in terms of freedom Those who think in terms of freedom are not Chinese Dad, cheers to the Chinese people Anything exciting today? Nothing Baldy and I crashed someone's car But, no shooting It's nothing, my boy Be true to your conscience Then fate would be on your side Cheers What so funny? Do you know the difference between marring someone and living together? The former means capital punishment the later detention Sooner or later, there is no way out Go have a bath, so funny Bath? I had one yesterday Mom asked when are we going to hang ourselves Every time I bring up the subject you are sleepy Stop finding excuse with pager Here you go again You finding excuse with the pager When I bring up the subject I'm innocent this time Old tricks Miss Ng, your call Brother Tak I'm Baldy, are you Miss Ng? How can I help you? Are you free now? I'd like to talk to you Ok, how, when & where? It's inconvenient for me right now Bring Fatty in an hour's time I'll meet you at the construction site behind Prince Restaurant Waiting for you See you Ah Lai, you've done a good job Fatty... What's the game you doing? What time is it? You said one hour I got 2 air tickets, get in Come here You go in the front, I'll go in the back What if she asks about you? Then we've had her caught Does it work? Sure, it will work Cause he is as dumb as you are Remember, if anything went wrong Shout Go... Fatty, this way Fatty You come alone? Where is Baldy? He's busy Here's the tickets He'll meet you at the airport on time Air tickets? Yes, Baldy's girlfriend knows about your affair with Baldy She has gone crazy But he'll be at the airport on time What nonsense are you talking about? I've said it all Have a nice trip Who is he? Tiger Mak Forgot? He's Baldy Sorry, your affair is none of my business I'm leaving, excuse me No wonder they showed up in the commercial centre and again in your apartment Bitch, how dare you betray me? You idiot, you believe his words No wonder your brother called you fat-headed Fat-headed? No How dare you talk to me like that? Stop Your personal affair is none of my business But she is my buddy's girl after all I'll arrest you if you dare to touch her Fatty, how dare you frame me? Don't trust him, he set me up Shut up, Drag her away Fatty, the purpose of this meeting I'll be straight How much do you want? Do you want to bribe me? I'll charge for bribery Who'll be the witness? My buddy's girl will do it Fatty, bull shit Come with me Don't move Fatty, I will give you a choice If you work for me I'll reward you handsomely or, you get lost at once I don't want your dirty money Great, you dare to go against me What are you doing? I'm scared Why you scream? Shut up Kill him Don't push me Go... Take off your hands, disgusting Go, hurry up Go Bingo Damn you, why do you frame me So what? Come and bite me You do it again Hands off You dare to touch my woman You bastard Why do you frame me? Kill him Bingo Why do you frame me? I do it for your own good For my own good? Don't force me to beat your up I've got it I don't beat up women Damn you You hit me Listen to me You bitch Go with me I won't let you go Tak, don't trust him Fatty, she is now inn dead trouble Get hold of that bastard Baldy You beat me I'm now in big trouble because of you Go to hell I meant you no harm, it's for your sake It's not good you work for Prince Tak You bitch Haven't your mom told you One should stand firm on Earth And faced high up to heaven Unlike the beast that crawls sideways You going to become an animal in next life What kind of shit are you talking about? It is philosophy You don't understand, neither do I You don't cooperate with me Or you are dead-end Don't move Don't move Get away... What's the matter? It seems like Fatty Impossible... Right? I've said that it was Fatty Boss It's you, Fatty My ear You disrupt the Deputy Commissioner's wedding? Damn you, Fatty Don't count on me help you out this time I hear nothing Let me finish this business first I press, I squeeze Fatty, come here, help me out Don't How com you all here? Inspector Wu is here too God bless them Good luck to you What are you saying? Thanks See, inspector in-chief Minister of Prosecution The bridegroom looks so familiar... The one who got hit He is the Deputy Commissioner I'm finished Shit Let's go Stop We've been friends for more than Whenever you got into trouble I've never scolded you But this time is serious Tell me, how should I respect you We accept you scolding We've never come to know you all these years Going all over the place to catch your men, shame on you I damn you I don't need your trouble I'm by nature agreeable But this has gone too far You really know how to mess up the Commissioner's wedding You two idiots Of all the inspectors in the station... I'm the lowest in rank, thanks to you Get lost right away Where are you going? Get lost We go back to work There's no work for you Please leave HK Let me have some peace for a few days But what about the case of Prince Tak We're still being charges with indecent assault The charge has been dropped That girl will be the witness The prosecutor is now pointing the figure at Prince Tak Your service not required The game's over Any hope? Hope your ass Go... Come back Come back Sit down Go for a vocation, take some time off Give me few weeks To flatter the boss Come back when they calm down Let's go to Macau Don't gamble too much Attention Yes, Sir Sit down Attention, stand up Thanks to you Now everyone knows My wedding was a joke I've completely lost my face Get rid of these 2 lunatics at once Otherwise, I'll make you pay for it Yes, Sir Get and out, Now Dismiss them... Hi Dragon Ask her for a date At least, you'd get an answer from her No, it's too embarrassing Don't be shy Maybe she would even join our trip Go Ching, What I like you a lot, I 'd like to ask you out I know you'd probably say no but let me know anyway Just a Yes or No would do So? You don't know What do you mean? I don't know Invitation to her wedding You hopeless, let's go on a trip SINGAPORE Happy? Girls everywhere for us Is it so easy You're right, it's not easy for you with me here You again? No, you first Then you'll be disadvantaged My mom said whatever comes down must go up You kidding How is it? The car is out of order Sorry See There must be an accident, get off Sorry sir, did I hurt you? It's Ok. I'm fat Miss, it's Fatty's fault are you ok? Never mind You look familiar haven't we met somewhere before? No Sure Get up Sorry My back hurts Let me help you Don't pull... let's go Are you Ok? Damn you! Try it yourself Let's go Miss, we've met before Are you Ok? Ok Look at them Don't go We're CID from HK, what's the matter? Are there any corpse? Criminal case? We're waiting for the sunset Sunset? Here The sun will set behind the statue Beautiful? Nonsense Don't you watch sunset in HK? No! No sunset in HK Baldy, come here... Me? I must be attractive The taxi driver's been chased away by the cop He dropped your luggages over there Take them over Miss, I say sorry on Fatty's behalf He ran fast, I followed closely so we crashed onto you I'm really sorry Never mind This is our 1 st time in Singapore We've booked a hotel room Where is this hotel It would be kind of you to show us the way Stop being a nuisance they're jogging Not anymore, You've injured them People don't know us Maybe they're suspicious of our motives Do I look like I'd take advantage of others? It would belong before we get to know each other I'm Baldy Mak He is Fat Dragon, what's your name? May June Hi I'm sorry to have hurt you Fatty'd like to invite you to dinner to make it up Are you free tonight? No, thanks, Bye What's that mean? Failure, Cause you look like hungry wolf Even old ladies will be scared of you Am I wrong again? Let's go Keep it to yourself They are coming Stop Hi What do you think you're doing They're saying hello to me My English name is "Hl" You pay the bill Get in, I'll drive you to the hotel Great I've never seen such capable girl Why do you take June's seat It doesn't matter, please sit I'm giving you a chance I'm scared Hod my hand You get all dress-up for the dance Not for dance but for the girls We don't look good with the girls Let's take it step by step, we can play both ends against the middle How could they possibly fall for us May be they do You walk like a patrol guard You must move with rhythm of the 90's Like this... Please Please Let me sing this song to you Great Let's sing together Let him sing first Thanks Fatty! Look Girl, come down swim Jump... Come on, Hurry Let's make fun on her Come & help me Bingo Now, I understand what life is all about Is it great? Fatty I'll be happy if I can relax once a month Like this... Stop dreaming. You're a cop Unless you quit We can find work here As what? A gigolo Can you speak Malaysian? Wouldn't you miss your Tall-girl? Who is Tall-girl? She is... his mom Is his mom tall? Yes, as tall as you are What're you talking about? We'd like to quite our job in HK and find work here But we don't know what we can do Let's start a Karaoke business I don't have the capital No that serious It's important to raise money He has everything except money He wants everything except his shame He miss nothing except ethics How about you? He's got no money I've go no capital No problem, we'll pool together our resources What's the deal? 30 to 70 or 40 to 60? & you run the business To live on woman Of course not, we'll be responsible for the daily running of business Good, I love bourgeois liberalism What's that mean? I don't know Is it a good deal? Good, but it seems baseless Let's draft the " basic law " Fine Let's go You're back? Yes, back to quit Miss us? You don't sorry at all? We've been colleagues for so long wouldn't you miss us? We'll miss you and we envy you Because you can migrate to Singapore & live on woman Come on, little girl tell us something true to your heart My boyfriend will be very glad to see you go Just kidding we do miss you It's Ching who is the decent one give her a kiss, Fatty I'll give her a big on her wedding day Thank you Go, go Come on, hit me Why you shout so loudly? I don't know how to go go Sit down Have you been to Ho Man Tin St last Saturday? What date was it Which par of it? The begging Why did you beat me? I didn't, he did it Why did you beat me? Police's assaulting citizen I'm the police, he isn't fight back if you will OK Let it go What? Resignation? Some women in Singapore going to back up your karaoke business? You going to be kept men? That's good Boss, we're sorry to have caused you much trouble And now we are to quite just like that It's the fact that men should be aggressive Boss, don't get up-set I'm not! You've got a problem at hand, I can't help What's that mean? Are we fired? Are you kidding, You dare to fire us? Don't be mad! Any compensation? But for resignation, you'd have to pay us 3 months salary in return Ok, fire us... No, I insist to resign What's the difference? Sure, there is. It's a matter of principle We almost got ourselves killed for catching Prince Tak On what ground you fire us? Don't mention him anymore, he is on bail Who approved the bail? Wasted our effort? That's no more our business we're going to Singapore That's not the point Stop that shit, let's go What did Tall girl say? I'll let her know later Bye How can we let him escape from law? Beat me if you can't stand it! Forget it, they'll be struck by lighting one day Don't be angry, Karaoke? Asshole He called you What is it? He called you "Asshole" What? Resignation? Asshole Let him go, he's right you are Am I? Yes Why don't I think so? Let's go Boss Boss Wing Fat-head should not get into trouble Bribery & assaulting charges. It's nothing There're no witness, what can they do? Don't you know you're now in deep shit Your woman id turning against you She betrays me? I'm going to kill her I've paid two Thai Killers to do it Leave the 2 cops to me You're not in the same street as them Have the killers come? Yes You ok OK Ok, let's go Sir, breakfast is ready you want it now? I'll get it myself See! Chang What? I discover it first, don't take it all Save one for me OK Hi What time is it? Take this Thanks This's left by another officer please give it back to him Why isn't Baldy on duty any more? He's quit, he & Fatty are going to start a Karaole business in Singapore Send my congratulation to them OK Are you full No more breakfast? Come here! Do I have a share Bobby Bobby Come Take it out The girls in Singapore are beautiful... They're really... Fatty, you look so happy you have had romance in Singapore No Is she beautiful? She's ok How about Baldy's Not bad Never mind, Baldy's told me all He said his girl was better than yours But shit His girl is lousy She's go money for Karaoke, that's all Girls in Singapore are beautiful Don't tell Tall-girl anything about out plan in Singapore I've not told her anything yet understand? Come & eat I cook this meal especially for you Try this... Don't just eat rice Come on Fatty Damn you Baldy, come with me What? Come in You, come with me Sit down Why Singapore I don't treat you well? Haven't I got enough money for your Karaoke Get the hell out of here Go now Go Out with your tooth-brush & shaver Don't ever come back! Go become kept man! You want to dump me? Over my dead body! Go What're you staring at? You damn bald head Don't move. What're you doing? Fatty, we've known each other for 3 years, right Almost 10 years I've been treating you like my brother Tell me honestly If I stay with Tall-girl will you go by yourself? Sure I will You don't know loyalty! Shame on you You're talking two things at once I'm just kidding It's the fact Tall-girl is calling me Make it up to her, say something nice What's the hurry Go! Waiter, the bill please Ok, you get the bill, I am going over to see Tall-girl Me again? Don't shout, or Tall-girl will be dead Don't go upstairs or you'll be dead too Tall-girl Tall-girl Bingo Tall-girl Are you OK What're you saying? You're lovely Baldy, you still going to Singapore? Let's take about it some other time I don't care, answer me I'm not going When are you going to meet my mom Let me fix a date first Oh, no... Be careful forget about me, go yourself, hurry up Go to hell Go We're safe now Damn you Baldy It is dangerous, why hit me Don't hit me Tall girl, you beat her, I don't beat girls Arrest him, he is the killer What's the matter? Baldy, It's you! Sure! No... the killers are upstairs Hurry up they've got guns, be careful Call the ambulance Hi Hi Hi Don't hold me Be careful Dad, are you ok? I'm fine, chase them Beating up woman Shame on you He is a man... Get lost, nothing to see Let's co-operate... Fatty, it's you? He is my dad Get in Doctor, how is my dad? He's passed the critical phase but still requires attention So is he in danger or not? Quite. There could be some repercussion What do you mean That means ok after he'd finished the operation He said the same thing about tall-girl Don't worry, your father is a kind man Heaven will help him You're right He's got much rough time further ahead, come on Don't worry He'll last Mom. Bye Mom has decided on the 15th of next month for our wedding Fine Come on, have one Something wrong with you? Why are you do nice to me today? We've known each other for 3 years To take a good look, You're really beautiful We have been together since I was 17 It's been 7 years You expect me to remember all the details What about my surname then? Sure Tall-girl Hi, Fatty How's your dad? Fine, he can come home next week You crazy? You bought me so much stuff I always go to your place for dinner just help yourself Biscuits, & chocolates too Have you caught the bad guys who chopped you up? Be careful Not yet, Baldy, I'd like to talk to you Me too Take a rest You first Prince Tak wants to kill us To hell with them I'm going to demolish him & his am Please keep this letter Open it if I'm not back in 2 days There're $80,000 for taking care of my dad Are you kidding $80,000 to take care of your father for the rest of his life? I've a letter too It's got $100,000 I've more money than you, take care of tall-girl for me $100,000 I saved it We were on the same pay scale How come you save so much than I? You've not thrifty enough Bull shit. I always pay for your share Not you, Tall-girl is And my dad pays for my share Ok, I'm sorry Tall-girl & I are not married by name So she can easily find another man if I am not around But you've got a father to take care You better stay, leave Tak to me OK At least, take a last look at your girl friend Damn you bastard Wait for me Where are you going? It's so early You two bastards Fatty What are you doing? Are you crazy Let go of me What are you doing? Burn him Do you want to die together? You're policeman you're breaking the law How dare you? We're no longer in the police We have become hooligans, like you What do you want We kidnap threaten & interrogate If it doesn't work, we'll kill you mutilate your body and then run away Get out of my way Don't... don't be mad Save your breathe Give him a chance, Maybe he's innocent Bald Head, you're much more understand You bastard, who idea was it? My brother's You're liar I'm at your back You liar I'll kill you first before I deal with your brother Don't... Bald Head, help, he's going to kill me It's not going to help if he's dead He's right, I can pay you well How much? $100,000 $100,000 No, $100,000 each Ok, let's kill him A million A million A million each I don't want your dirty money Give it a second thought Get lost We can never earn that much the rest of our lives Baldy, he almost killed your girl? But she's alive What about my father He is alive too Baldy, you disappoint me US or HK dollars? US dollars Baldy Help me, Baldy Get out of my way Steady One million Get lost I'll chop you up We'll lose $1,000,000 if you kill him One million You Fatty, you mean it? You want to throw away $1,000,000 I kill you Louder please Cry Go outside Oh my god... Fatty... don't How dare you? Fatty Bald head, it's not your fault he crashed against the bar He deserved it I didn't mean it It's going to be okay. Give me the phone I'll call my brother to arrange the money Money would not help. I'll have to go to jail No, My brother will take care of you Look, I am a murderer myself but I never got jailed My brother will help you Don't worry, it'll be ok Trust me. Hurry up Give me the phone Come on. Quick I warn you, No tricks There're explosives everywhere if you want to die together Fatty Fatty... why do you leave me... Fatty... I'm Tak, Brother Wing Fatty & Baldy kidnapped me They want US$1,000,000 What? US$1,000,000. They know their price Also, Bald head had killed Fatty He's now turning to us for help Really? Yes, I saw it Fatty is lying dead right in front of me I'll be there with the gang Don't bring any guy The place is full of explosives There's only Bald Head, He is on our side now OK, where are you? I don't know Bald head, where are we? Yuen Long, Ngau Tau Village Ka Po Chemical Factory Bring only the money There are explosives around No guns He is trapped, Fatty We've made it You set me up? I won't let me go Boss, what's the matter? Round up some boys & follow me to Yuen Long Bring Ah Mak & his idiots as well should we bring guns? There is only Baldy. No guns needed We can easily wipe him out Ah Ho, Get us $1,000,000 from the account See you in the car Yes Fatty, don't leave out the clock We don't want people think it's an edited tape. It'll be useless for court Don't look so dramatic Crazy! How can a gentlemen like me get all dramatic OK Call inspector Wu now Hello, is this inspector Wu? It's all set up The gang is coming Baldy, where are you now? Didn't Fatty tell you? Damn Inspector Wu, we're in Ngau Tau Village Out of battery Any spare ones? I have none Stupid! Go & find a phone They're coming... what'd we do? What to do now? Ok, let's have fun Stop, Don't move, how many people are there? Three Any gun No... Relax, we come to help you Did you call the police? No Close the door Where is the money? Here, where is my brother He is kept in a secret place Follow me Don't play any tricks on me! Otherwise we will die together Of course not We come to help you Go Don't move. A little bit this way Why do you want to kill us? Don't blame me. You forced me to do it You killed Tak's woman & the 2 CIDs? We break even You've killed Fatty No, he is different, he... He stopped you from getting rich! Right Like wise, the three were bad for us What are you afraid of? Don't move, stay back... Easy... Ah Ho US$1,000,000 is ready Higher, higher... I can't see it Do you want to bribe me? Money is meant to spend, Also I've arranged your hide-out Do you like US? No Thailand? What can I do in Thailand I'm the Drugs King I can make you rich It sounds easy! Rich You like that too? Take it if you like it I don't think so It would be smart of you to work for me Fatty, you're alive Get the tape Leave the old man for me The rest is yours Bingo Old man you're not bad I got it My god Where is my brother Here Where? Here Where? There Her! Here is my leg I don't know where he is Ah Tak... Tak... Damn you Fatty Got it Got it I've missed The old man is yours now I'll get help Cuff them His men Kill them Come on I've got it Stop, Hands up Fatty, his legs are strong Damn you hit his head Does it powerful? Yes Give me my brother or you die Have you finished? Fatty, what do you think No idea Don't let them go What're you doing? I want to kill these No just 2. The whole lot I don't know how to use it Right Kill them Bingo I won't regret. Come on Give me the knife Give the knife to me I'm finished Baldy, are you Ok Prince Tak hit me What? Prince Tak It's me You look after the old man I go release Prince Tak I'll charge you Auntie? Do you know any godown around? What are you talking about I know nothing What are you saying. I don't know Auntie... Fatty, I'll charge you Do you want to charge me? Hurry then You still alive? Come You'll be jailed Brother He's gun Don't move Don't shot Go Baldy, go Over there, Hurry up Go Good! It's all gone Fatty, I think you've go to Singapore This is my family watch For you as a keepsake I've never seen it before I seldom use it How to open? Let me see... I don't know either Shouln't rely on any woman to help start the business Otherwise people would make fun of you Take the money How about you? I'm not leaving I don't want to hurt Tall-girl I mean how much did you hid in your pockets You don't trust me? No one does You are mean Check Damn you fatty! You meant it? Turn So thoroughly It's better to be seriously Alright Finish Finish? Damn you Fatty Why do you beat me? You suspect my good intention Bingo I'm going to kill you Ok you kill me Kill you Buddies should not fight each other Get lost
