 

                        A Nikkatsu Production Naked Rashomon Directed by Chusei Sone Taisho Period (1912-1926) The Hill of Destiny by Hogetsu Shimamura It is your destiny, Your Majesty! Yes, indeed I was destined to come to this castle Moscow is my lover We are meant to be together When first I laid eyes on her, I knew it was meant to be I can't believe it took me so long to realize it - Good evening - Madame Welcome - Greetings - Hello Hello Thank you for inviting us here this evening I'm excited about this new piece by Shimamura That's pretty I'll see you later The civilization of the 18th century... ...has forced Your Majesty... ...to act against it And where do I get the power to do that? Because it is my destiny. That's how it all began Quite a performance - You will reward him later - Taking a walk? Your Majesty! So tonight she gets Napoleon What? I'm worried that he left before the end Don't worry But I am worried What if he stops supporting us? What will I do then? I won't let that happen But? It's fine He knows all about us I never thought that she would be barren He's arrived Shino... Do you like making love to me while the one you love waits outside? Tell me... Does that noise turn you on? Stop it I haven't seen you for months Shino How can we go on like this? It's getting serious We were wrong to start this I'm leaving you But then... What's going to happen to me? We will be ruined if we carry on Who do you think got you a job as his bodyguard? I think you want to be ruined But I don't care about that I am what I am And I'm just a whore How can I become somebody when I have nothing? I... I don't want to get trapped with you And I don't want to be poor for the rest of my life either I see You will always be a nobody Say that again I'll say it. You're a coward... Hitting women is about your level You bitch. Damn you If you hate me that much... ...I would be happy to ruin everything for you You whore! I shall never see you again Hey, Todo - You walk ahead of me - Yes, Sir I'm sending Shino to my summer house tomorrow She's pregnant. Mine, of course I'm bored Please be patient You will have a healthy child You think so? I'm sure you will We had so many visitors when we were in town It was so exhausting there It's so quiet here and nice to be away Is it three o'clock yet? There he is What a grand view you have here You're wonderful I really like the dialogues in this scene It's so well written. I feel really inspired by it - Shall I continue? - That's enough Come over here But Madam... Just be quiet It's not right in your condition Look Now you know Not a word to anybody It's a secret She's going into labor Please come at once She's having twins. There's no doubt about it Are they both boys? I can't be sure They could both be the same sex or one of each You must ensure it is a boy I can't do that Must you scream so? It gets on my nerves It is rather noisy in here Push Push harder It's coming I'm coming! Shino's has given birth Her baby boy is the heir to our household She gave birth also to a girl. And that's why you're here This must be kept a secret. Shino has sworn to keep it so But we want to be sure So Master has asked you to take care of the situation A family heirloom by Kanemitsu of Bizen You must see how serious this is Kill her if you must I thought he had promised me a position in the police force Be assured that your sacrifice will be greatly appreciated Todo, you know the saying... Those who dare to be ambitious, are also slaves to ambition But... Shino and the baby girl are here They must never set foot in this house again I understand Nineteen years later Right wing terrorism is on the increase Katsuragawa is appointed as Home Secretary Sir, we've had a letter from Shanghai Finally! The time has come for us to go abroad Japan is too small They told me I could go to Shanghai They must take me for a fool Going to China... ...remains a dream We shall see When the war begins the situation will change We'll have a better chance then Kimura! Cash! - From whom? - I meant, get me cash Go to the bank now Take it all out - Get me a train ticket - Sir! So this is where you are If you still care for me even a little bit... ...will you also care for my daughter Kyoko? I must carry my own burden of unhappiness And I will take Kyoko's with me I have no strength left in me Will you meet Kyoko? I humbly beg you Shino Toda Hello! Shino Shino, it's me. Todo You poor thing For God's sake, why didn't you tell me sooner? Say something You can't even talk? You have no idea how hard I searched for you We were both to blame. Weren't we? You were whoring in a coalmine Then you had that shop But every time I found you, you ran away Did you hate me so much? Well...? Say something I don't care if you curse me to death I can't rest easy until I hear your voice What? Your daughter? Kyoko? You don't have to worry about her now You can rest in peace Shino! Did you say goodbye to her? Just now It's Mr Todo, isn't it? That's right. And you're Kyoko Yes What will you call me? Mr. Todo Well... You could call me dad or uncle Dad should pull his chin in Mr. Todo... Where's the whorehouse? Here we go! - The whore house - What!? Hello Sir! So, you want to come inside? - What are you doing? - Don't just stand there! You know what goes on here? - You're going to spend the night? - Yes, I am Have you done this before? You've slept with a man? I'm relieved to hear it Let's get out of here No - I shall work here - You idiot This is no place for you You must sleep with strangers every day And... You might get sick, too I'm supposed to be your guardian Your mother's ghost will curse me Get up! Sir! Sir...! Sorry for the bother - Wait... - Shut up! Strike Or I will attack Strike After my mother was gone... ...I wanted to do whatever I wanted Sell your body? Yes I'm a prostitute's daughter. I will become a prostitute Shino Kyoko... You're good with swords But not good enough to beat me Shino, what are you doing here? Master Let me go Kyoko is gone He could be one of them Who? I never knew my father So what? He could be one of my customers Who cares about that! I'd even sleep with a pig so long as they paid me - Is there a new girl here? - A new girl? You mean Shino? Shino... Who are you? Are you a detective? How about me? Fuck you Shino is busy right now I don't care. Take me I can't Shino. Where is she? Hey, old man... You bastard! Love is just a fancy word for sex Master Clark told us: "Boys, be ambitious" My real ambition lies here, between her legs - You've got a wandering eye - So what! Road to Innocence My kind of place A nice young student! Just what I was waiting for Why don't you drop in? We have nice girls You don't have to if you don't want to Stop insulting me I'm here to work Your first time? It's a rule here to carry your own shoes Hey, Katsuragawa How are you doing? I'm going in for round two By round four I get my money's worth Why do you want us to stop the support? I no longer need it Katsuragawa took away everything you had We will make up for your loss, whatever you say If only you could bring back the nineteen years I've lost You want love? I'm going to buy the freedom of a prostitute You are willing to sacrifice tangible things in your life... ...to obtain the intangibles? I have nothing to lose Absolutely nothing You bitch! I'll kill you You thieving cat! You stole my customer! Stop! Settle down... I told you... I came up here of my own accord - Shut up! - I said stop! Not true. That bitch forced you to come upstairs One of my regulars. I'll kill you Boss! Kikue, are you alright? Give me that now, Shino Go get a doctor Whores should fight in the street with bare hands Carry on Let her down You can wait outside Shino Is this what you wanted? Now Shino... everything is as it was before I'm nineteen and you're nineteen You're a born bitch And I love you for it I forced my Lord on you It was my fault you became his lover A whore became a lover of Royalty Who was that? You think I will beg for forgiveness? I won't. You are a bitch Kyoko... Tell me now... Do you hate your mother? Keep your eyes open and watch Walk This Way Kikue! It's you I was waiting for you I was waiting for you - I'll be back - You're no fun Come on, big boy. How about it then? We're off to the battlefield It's all over - I can't buy you out - No...! I won't let you go I won't let you go Can you leave this place? - Whenever I want - Then let's go now She left last night Take this upstairs I don't know who she left with I do He was a student A student? Love is just a fancy word for sex Take those mats away. They'll all need to be replaced This is bad. We're in big trouble I didn't notice she was gone until this morning It's terrible I became a prostitute because I didn't want to love a man I didn't want to be like my mother I don't care if you slept with a thousand men Why do you cry? You were my first That's why I'm crying He's becoming a man What do you see? Hiroyoshi is playing with fire Is he smoking cigarettes? Something like that I'm so bored Can't you do something about those men? We need protection, it's the times we live in But you've done nothing wrong You're just a member of the government You sound really fed up - You've read the newspapers? - Every single word Only come when I ring three times It can't be... Shino This is quite a show There's nothing more beautiful I'll introduce you someday A pitiful old man, hated by the nation I don't want to see him Why not? We've been sending you money... ...for the sacrifice I thought you had made for us Do you realize how serious this is? She works at a place called Lion in Ginza Wait until she leaves I can't take that money You always have wrong priorities Excuse the sudden visit What do you want? Please tell me You were born in the Taisho period On August 21, 1913 Hiroyoshi was also born on the same day, the exact same time You two are brother and sister Now you understand why you can't exist I was only a watchdog I want to see Lord Katsuragawa I was hired to kill you My mother and I were always running away from something Now I understand why Horrible Mr Todo... ...You are a horrible man You know... Mr Todo... I became a prostitute to understand the rage inside me - That's a lot of money - Yes I'm not saying you can't have it - The police were here - Police? Investigating left wing activists You're not involved with that, are you? Hey, you there! Stop! - Hello - Greetings Greetings It's been along time Look! Look! You see the smoke over there! What's going on? It might be dangerous to stay here much longer If only we knew what was going on Why hasn't a messenger arrived? Step back! Don't move! Hold him! Where's Katsuragawa? Todo!... Shoot! Shoot! Lord Katsuragawa Attacked! Assailant Shot to Death He's dead... Katsuragawa! Keep moving Die! The End
