 

                        Prosecutor's office investigating the missing microchip at HS Biotech has failed to build a case against Kim Taek- su, the chairman and de facto owner of the research corporation Kim's overseas travel ban was lifted as of yesterday whichlied to a massive backiash from angry researchers The microchip contains entire research data on our groundbreaking research on artificial skin Chairman Kim is faking an ilness in an attempt to smuggle out this multi- million dollartechnology Multi- million? You mean billions... We have a chartered plane waiting at the airport How do you feel, Mr. Kim? You're not going anywhere What the heck? Don't let them pass Don't touch me Come on, Hyeon- cheol! Let's go after him Security check at departure is tightened They're giving me a hearty send- off I'll start the procedure Look out! How do we stop the ambulance? Perfect What the heck is that punk doing? Get him out of my face He gets up from the gurney and throws thingsin rage I thought the chip would turn up in the search Forget the police Let's find it by ourselves Drop me off here My car is parked right across We were great today Haven't seen you smile in a while How can I when I'm out of food at home? I'm getting pocket money from my daughter Pathetic, eh? - Things must be tough foryou too - I'm fine As long as we get the chip back we can raise fundings to reopen the lab And get all the unpaid research fees Sweet! I don't seem to be able to shut up today See you tomorrow kid Chief - What? - I'm not coming in to work I'm starting at a food company's lab in two days I understand I did wrong by you I'm so sorry See ya Take care, Chief Call me bro from now I'm not your boss anymore Chief Are you... Jin- su's daughter? Are you Han Dong- hwa? Huh? He just came out of an emergency surgery No, I'm at the police station not the hospital You gotta contribute what you can I'm begging you! - No battery - Hello? Hello? We're like family and our brother is in trouble - Put yourself in his shoes - This is no hit and run - What do you mean? - They used a stolen registration plate and carefully chose an exit route to avoid surveillance cameras It was premeditated - Can I help? - I'm here for Han Jin- su You're the victim's daughter? This way please Thank you foryour statement You can go now Thanks Does yourfather have enemies? - Enemies? - Yes Going to the hospital? Hop in Who would hold a grudge against him? The man is practically a saint There is only one man who can do this The bastard's not even human You should've just finished him off We can't take risks for our own sake Leave it all to me American buyers are bailing out We'll have Dr. Johnson notify them about the situation Do we have another exit plan for me? I got one set up You'll find out by tomorrow You have to nothing to worry about - Take the doctorto the airport - Yes, sir Follow me Johnson on the move The deal is closed? - Set up a tracker on the vehicle - Yes, sir Urgh, dirrrrty! All these litters They're moving away Hurry! What's he doing? Sweet Jesus, my leg... My leg hurts! Return to base I stopped by on the way to work Did you get some sleep? Sleep? How could I? BS Biotech Chairman Kim Taek- su - Bastards! - I'll kill them What are you going to do? It's like hitting a rock with an egg Who are you calling an egg? You gotta be cracked to pieces before you know that? I know that you are definitely one We gotta think about Jin- gu About saving yourfather - We gotta come up with the money - How? Let's think about it We'll get money from them Whether by begging or pleading or by blackmailing them! Maybe not blackmailing... We'll threaten them fortheir lives Hey Kim Taek- su who was being /nvestigated for a stoien microchip died of heart attack this morning Kim was scheduied to travel to US to treat his heart condition when an emergency travel ban was enforced two days ago and he has been staying at a hospital in Seoul Kim's representative biamed the prosecution for Kim's death and stated that his family will seek justice against the authority as soon as funeral procedure is over It happened suddenly We turned the hospital upside down but the chip wasn't there Did you get the result back on the blood sample? Came back negative fortoxins Handle the transfer with greatest care Memorial altar is set up at the hospital but the official funeral will take place in the States attended by family members The latest development is likely to put the investigation in jeopardy... I only thought about it and he drops dead I've had people dodging calls to avoid paying me but dying on me is a first I was once ripped off for 780 bucks by a convenient store owner I crashed his wedding to get my money Do you mind? What about the funeral? What's the most important thing in a funeral? The body The body? The body goes missing We steal the body and demand a ransom Should be easier than kidnapping Hey! Have you lost your mind? The hospital bill is snowballing by 500 dollars a day There's gotta be some other way What other way? Should I turn tricks? Watch your mouth They owe you money too Are you in or what? Don't care, do you? It's a war for me if I get ripped off for a month's pay Mr. Rotten Egg I'm sorry I can't Can you please go now? Can I help you? I've been looking all overforyou Let's get out of here - I'm her uncle - Please take her away She's bugging me about a job We don't hire people to wash the bodies Hello? One moment... I see We had three come in yesterday Two will go out tomorrow And the last one... It's for a long term stay What's a long term stay? An unidentified body No- one claiming the body hence 'long term stay' There you go Is that... a guard watching corpses? Because someone might steal dead bodies? Excuse me? Who in their right mind... His best friend died He's been mourning for hours Please go now It's been a hour already Per hour, that's twenty... rounding up the decimals You're stalling by pretending to whip up a plan You're scared I'm not scared I'm weighing the possibilities Thinking is all you'll end up doing Thoughts eat up courage Without thinking you get reckless Step back, mister I'll do this on my own Okay, I'm done Here What the heck? How do you remember all this? The first principle of research is observation You haven't even been in this part Made a rough calculation based on the height of person on screen From the looks of it, it can't be so hard As long as there is no major unforeseen variables, we could pull it off There is one thing we need forthis to work 1 dead body We need a body We need a body to steal a body? Can you play a dead body? We got a Jane Doe - Do you have the time? - It's 12:05 Five past Thanks Excuse me? Excuse me! Who the hell are you? You can't be here Please leave - Where is Ahn Jin- oh? - Pardon me? He owes me money and he dropped dead You don't die on me without paying me back This is no place to find people Please leave What the heck... I'll just gouge his eyeballs out before the cornea hardens - I'm recuperating my loss - I said get out You little punk What do you think you're doing in this sacred place? Ahn Jin- oh! You little punk I said get out Let's leave for now We'll come back It's okay, boss Let's get out of here It's all fine Come on Let's get the paperwork done I got tons of work Jeong Myeong- gwan... It's nothing, boss Let's go Come on, let's do this I'm a real busy man No time to waste Let's finish the paperwork Have some water Kim Taek- su - I'm not normally like this - Drink up Come on What's the matter? - My tongue! It was hot water - It was hot? I'm sorry I'm real sorry Here, drink up - What the f...? - What's wrong? You gave me hot water again Oh I'm sorry Dip yourtongue in cold water Dip it in the water All the way down Jane Doe What's the matter? I'm at the Nuclear Energy Hospital mortuary Where would l go with a dead body? To an ER? Hold on Now! Does it hurt now? Yes, it hurts now What? This is not the right hospital? Since when? Oh, great! I'm sorry There must have been a mix- up It's supposed to go to a different hospital Do you smell that? Must be the alcohol they use to clean the body I feel sick I have a package You should see this /'m taking Kim Taek- su with me The Grim Reaper - What's going on? - The body's gone I can do this Confident, business- like tone... I'll do it They won't take you seriously Give it to me No What's wrong with you? Give me the phone I said I'll do it Whose side are you on? Give me the phone - Give it! - Hey Give it to me Owner of registration 5351, move your vehicle - What's with the mask? - Suspicious - Let's check it out - Yes, sir - Let's get out of here - They're coming, they're coming - Let's go - Keep calm Act cool Excuse me Can I see your license please? You got some ID on you, lady? What is this about? I've never had as much as a speeding ticket Well, let's have a look Please remove your mask Remove the mask - Run this number - Yes, sir I have terrible allergies My nose won't stop running Is it against the law to block your own nostrils? - Sir - Officer? - Have you been drinking? - No, I haven't - Look! Smell anything? - But I smell booze Have you been drinking? So early in the day? Shame on you, young lady This is a no- stopping zone You can't pull up here even briefly - I'm sorry - Take this - Can I go now? - Wait Stop! - Put your hands up! - Hands where I can see them What the hell is that? Excuse me Are you okay? Busted We're all a little sick We got allergies and the one in the back, he is an alcoholic He likes to drink until he passes out Nasty habit, really He needs to wrap up in blankets to sober up Funny, huh? It's all very pathetic Have you been drinking? How much did you drink? How can you have had so much to drink at this time of day? Everything seems to be in order Unbelievable! Move your car now Can you pull overfor a second? I don't feel well Please, I really don't... That's the one He took me to his office for some paperwork Did you see that? Did you see that body just move? These are the loan sharks This one is the underdog and that is me I found these in Mr. Chairman's slot Gosh, I'm freezing You finished it already? - Why is it so cold in here? - I got a couple more foryou - Drink up when you need it - What's the temperature here? - It's 4C - 4C is fucking freezing No, it's not Not at all Don't you worry And, don't do that It'll make you cold How long do I have to stay here? Can't you keep quiet for a moment? I'll take care of everything You got nothing to worry about I'm freezing, man If you don't keep quiet, I'll make you shut up That will help you keep warm Tell me if it gets too warm - Leave the door ajar, will ya? - Alright, don't worry We use them to store beverages time to time orthey'll go bad I'm not proud of myself either What the hell is that? Ahn Jin- oh Jane Doe Kim Taek- su Ahn Jin- oh They worn out in the middle of the fight Simultaneously! How weird is that? I tried to stop them but... We'll keep this between us - Keep your mouth shut - Cross my heart The surveillance camera stopped working since yesterday Got that? If they contact you, call me What the f...? I don't have driver's license Move the car Yo, corpse! Get up! - Who are you people? - That's what I want to ask you This morning... I had a heart attack I passed out from an indescribable pain Then I saw this bright light and the pain disappeared like magic Afigure emerged in the light He had a beard. Aforeign man wearing thorny branch on his head Oh, Jesus my Lord! Passion of Christ! Yes! And behind him... were the angels When the roll is called up yonder, I'll be there They sounded the horn of the Lord It's trumpet Yes, the trumpet of the Lord... Then he said to me It's not yourtime yet Go your way Look at him talk out of his ass Who the fuck are you? It was worth a shot I'm just as curious about you but we don't need to know, do we? You're stealing a body I'm playing a dead body Can't be for a good reason Let's pretend this never happened I'm gonna bounce - Why are you doing this to me, sir? - Sneaky punk - Hello? - It's me - Who is this? - The corpse - You! Give me the phone - Here Answer my question The fact that Chairman's body is still there who knows about this otherthan us? Nobody Listen I struck a deal with your buddy We'll swap yourfriend forthe Chairman's body A swap? Is this a joke? Don't get me involved It's between you people - Steve Jeong, 010 8979 5665 - Hello? Don't hang up on me Bastard! Mr. Jeong. I'm sorry if I mistreated you earlier No harm done You're a friend of my former client Ahn Jin- oh's You consigned for his loan That's a beautiful friendship We're real good buddies I know nothing even if you draw a knife on my neck There is no need for a knife I only need 170 grand from you Or I'll take your eyeballs for it I'm the beneficiary of Jin- oh's Always treat the client with courtesy Shall we make our way to the insurance company? Wouldn't it look bad to collect the money so soon? Every second you mourn his death the interest is accumulating What's more heart- breaking? Losing a buddy or a lot of money? Let's go The office closes at 4pm Let's get moving - Where are we going? - Just going - So where? - I don't know Why are you shouting at me? You're new at this, aren't you? - What are you a professional corpse? - I'm a professional at stealing people's hearts Let's see how long you'll go babbling about Where are we going? To the nearest police station to drop off a bigmouthed corpse Wow, bro! That's not very nice A professional at stealing people's hearts? Try stealing some cops' hearts Help me, brother I was going to take my own life I was going to inhale coal gas but it didn't work Okay, I'll give it another shot! Give life another chance I'll put my last fighting spirit into it So I got thinking and this was the only way I had to die to be able to live again That's the reason I'm doing this In order to save myself We're doing this to save a life too Believe it or not I have an idea They all believe that it's Chairman's body that's gone missing We can tweak things a little to change theft into a fraud The moment you start believing is when you're conned I can play Chairman's body Simple as that What a beautiful scenario It's a brilliant idea Go on, wrap it around me You're doing well That's good, honey How much should I demand? How much should I prepare? If they ask for 10 million, they're afterthe chip Professionals, if they demand one million Under a million, small- time crooks Should I demand big? Like... 500,000? Our unpaid salary and severance package plus, the medical expenses... How much do they add up to? It would look suspicious if I demand a precise figure It would Ten thousand 50 dollar bills Loaded in the trunk of a car and delivered by a single person I would like the drop to be made by a woman In case there is a physical struggle I have weak joints Send a woman Can you write a note saying the body is kept in the morgue? Why? It's like a safety device It'll help me feel better - Don't say a word if you get caught - Yes, ma'am - Play dumb - Yes, ma'am - You don't know us - Of course not Check the goods before handing overthe money What's the goods? You don't need to know Just follow my instructions No mistakes allowed It's an extremely important deal I think they're talking about the chip Put this in the car Take the calls on speaker Yes sir Money is not importance Make sure you get the goods - What car are you driving? - It's a white Sonata. 3300 Copy that Take Olympic Road then exit at Jamsu Bridge Is Steve tapping the conversation? Report back when you can - Maintain the speed - Yes Chief She's here Hello? - Talk to me - Pull over onto the shoulder You can't even tail a car, damnit? - I'll turn around at the end of the bridge - Get off the wheel, moron! Open the trunk and step out of the car Trunk, check! She is alone Close the trunk Shut the car door Leave the key in the ignition and cross the road I'm not going anywhere until I have checked the goods Fine. Take the keys and get out of the vehicle Look across the road My man, can I have a cigarette? Come here Thank you Thank you for helping us out Haven't heard that in a long time It's mostly swear words that I hear I'm gonna clean up my act and lead a good life I'll do the same once this is over - Did you check the goods? - Negative - I have the visual - Is it a microchip? It's big... Size of human wrapped in a sheet - Like... a mummy - A mummy? Stand by The moment you believe is when you're conned - It's getting away - What is getting away? Stop right there Yeah baby - It jumped off - What? Get him Go, now! I'm afraid the benefit cannot be paid out What are you talking about? Is there a problem with the paperwork? Papers were fine but the policyholder breached a contract term The policyholder died of heart attack, correct? Yes and the policy covers heart attack Or he would have died differently His medical records show a history of vascular disease from 5 years ago Under duty of declaration, you must notify it to us What the hell are you talking about? Are you pulling some kind of trick to avoid paying out? It's all in terms and conditions What terms and conditions? If look right here It is in there God damnit What are we going to do about her? - Let her go - No She'll only be a burden What if she gets hurt? It's okay She doesn't know that Chairman's body is in the mortuary Chairman's body is in the morgue Clear hand- writing She wouldn't have seen it if you didn't let him smoke Who the hell are you? Let me go now! You stole Chairman's dead body? What's wrong with you people? Wait I'm not Chairman's bodyguard I'll identify myself to clear up any confusion I'm an NIS agent I wasn't dispatched to catch small time thieves like you If you let me go, I'll make sure you get lenient treatment On the condition that you keep my identity a secret And I'm the mother of this kingdom Don't tell anyone about this - I'm not lying - You're not? How come everyone is try to con me today? Stop there - Let me go - Catch her You know he specifically asked to send a woman? That fucking corpse son of a bitch! Who's talking shit about me? You shouldn't talk bad of the dead Come and get me Bring some money - Listen, buddy... We have a problem - What problem? Where are you, friend? I told them exactly as you told me to do They gave me this thick book entitled terms and conditions - I read it coverto cover - Cut to the chase They're saying I went to the hospital and got a prescription for a blood vessel medicine? I have never been to a hospital ever! I can't stand the needles Think hard It was 5 years ago, back in 2006 Korea played against France in the World Cup that day Go, Korea! On that day, we were at my place watching the game together Spiritis highin Korea team Go, Korea! Can I borrow it? Shush It's a through pass An opportunity for Korea You asked me about A chance for Korea borrowing something Goal? What was it? I was a credit delinquent and my medical insurance had expired I got my vasculartreatment thanks to your insurance card You really saved me, man So you had a vascular problem? I'm a lot better now thanks to that medicine That's wonderful I risked my life swimming across the river And we're not getting insurance payout because of you? Son of a bitch, you wanna die? You wanna fucking die? I'll hit you for real this time I'll rip your head off, motherfucker Yo bro! Calm down Sorry Stop shaking! You're making me barf How are we supposed to drag her around? It's not mine It's her cell phone You sure complicate things for us I said send the woman alone We followed her Right behind you I could've gotten you if I wanted Could have crashed into you and taken the Chairman from you Could have made a bloody mess if I wanted But all I want is a quiet funeral Let's close the deal right here and now There is 500,000 in the briefcase Leave the body in the car Take the money and walk No need for a fuss Step out of the car I change my mind I want one million One million it is And next time, get a car with a biggertrunk Son of a bitch Stop the car now One million dollars? He wanted the body now What was I supposed to do? - But dude, one million dollars? - Fuck! Where do we go now? With that woman, too I know an abandoned house An old house Jin- su's old house You're drifting and drifting and drifting away into a deep sleep For crying out loud, go to sleep Are you shooting him right? It's a third shot I'm giving him This stuff knocks out cows I feel great, yes! Are you sure you're not giving him rutting hormones? Hormones? Bro, it's a big deal I'm talking about millions - Millions of dollars! - Alright, man I hear ya Finally Let's pull them out Jesus! You scared me - Sweet Mother of Jesus - This is an enormous opportunity We can get our hands on half a million dollars Give him another shot and let's just do it Aw! It hurts - Hello - Yo bro! It's me, corpse - You fucking corpse bastard! - You're really mad at me, right? You're not dead yet? Where the hell are you? Gimme that How did you get my number? You called my buddy on your cell Remember? Where are you? I really want to see you, bro Don't you call me 'bro' You might die in my hands You know this cell phone I'm using This is a disposable phone that cannot be tracked on GPS I went through so much trouble getting this And I want to give it to you Where are you, man? Wow, really? Let's meet up now You expected me to respond like this, moron? Bro! Would you ratherthat I call the Chairman's people and tell them the body is kept safe in the mortuary? I don't want to threaten you Where are you? We're almost there Lower... lower - Catch her - You! Hold the corner Put it down gently That son of a bitch Hey, my man! Bro Bro You alright, man? It doesn't hurt at all I had tons of anesthetic One two, one two This is your chance Hit me all you want Until you feel better, come on Get out of my sight - I hold the key to everything - You don't give up, do you? I'm the third mystery figure Let's make this a 3- men scheme We're a trio They could have called the police and saved the trouble Why didn't they go to the police? Must have a reason they couldn't - Do you have one million ready? - Let's meet up first Change of plans I want 1.5 million The more you hesitate the higherthe ransom will go up I need time to get the money Are you kidding me? He said he would get 2 million It's not just the body that they're after They're no small- time crooks They're afterthe microchip Track their position Sir, we're getting a radio transmission from Agent Jang Is it coated in gold or something? Did you hearthat? That mindless corpse! Still poking around? Cut it out, will ya? - Please! Help me - Who... are you? Help me I need your cooperation with my investigation I'm from NIS Well, I'm a corpse Maybe you can do something for me We're at Samik Apartments - Get away from me! - Get to Samik Apartments I'm almost done You! I'm done, I'm done What the heck? Did you wrap her in street banner? Yo bro - What are you doing? - Wait... I have a great idea We can tell them this is the Chairman's body and I've had enough of you I don't know, man I can't do this any more I'm screwed S.F.G! Screwed for good Why don't we all die together? Is that what you want? Come here Let's jump together - Let's just die here - I won't No! - Come on, let's just do it - I'm not gonna do it I can't! I won't What's your problem, man? I can't die I'm only twenty- nine It's way too dark in here Let's bring in some light and talk about our bright future I'll make fire Burn, fire! What the fuck? Put out the fire Stormy water raging ocean Sing along everyone! I said put out the fire Get moving All because of me Oh my God She's gone What? Damnit I'll make love to you when I catch you Ouch! Hot! Who are you people? Are you playing hide- and- seek? I'm not 'it.' You can't tell anyone that you saw me here Promise me, mister Get lost Where will you hide, mister? Can I hide with you? Come on Let me hide with you Ready or not, here I come Psst Get up! Quickly! Hey! Stop! Look out No Gotcha Dong- hwa - Where is the body? - The body? Dead, what else? Go around the back I'll kill you It's 2 million dollars It's locked Don't move Get her! Hurry! Whose car is that? What the heck is that? That's the mummy? Try to act natural Catch her and we'll get out of here - Laugh - Come on, laugh Are we acting naturally? At least we won't look like bad people Is that...? - Chief - Damnit Over here Stop wriggling What are you doing here? - Are you hurt, Agent Jang? - I'm fine Let's get out of here - Is she really an NIS agent? - Why is NIS involved? Maybe she is after me? Shouldn't have told herthat I was a corpse Should have said I was a regular citizen What would NIS want with you? How did Chairman's people find us? - Did you use the cell phone I gave you? - Yeah Give it to me What the...? You said it was untraceable Where would I get a phone like that? You fucking lunatic! You should have double- checked with me before using it God... What's wrong with you, man? Get out Get out of the car Get out, punk I said get out - But it's dangerous here - Get out of the car now Should've done that long ago What? There is something in the body that both NIS and Chairman's people are after The chip is in the body Gandhis the man of your dreams? No, it's Grim Reaper The Grim Reaper? What the...? - I'm so sorry - Please forgive us What did we do wrong? Who made a call from here? - It wasn't me - Me neither Jin- oh... Where did he go? - Ahn Jin- oh? The rutting hormone? - Ahn Jin- oh? I'll find that sneaky bastard I gave him a GPS phone in case he does a runner Ahn Jin- oh Steve Jeong Steve Jeong has a cargo scheduled to ship out to the States What is it? Kim's body... his funeral will be held in the States The body is being shipped to the States There are people who were trying to steal his body - Steve is also afterthe body - Discreetly You said the Chairman's body is safely kept at the mortuary I did good by you, didn't I? My job is done once I take you there Take a few days off work Call in sick I'll take care of everything If things go wrong, don't give away my name I'm not like you, am I? Back- stabbing bastard You piece of crap How much is my share? This is a real complex mission but things are going smoothly Just stay put I'll take care of everything I will stay put alright So, how much? What the heck, man? Don't throw cold water at it You'll never get rich by being so greedy All I'm saying is Where are you? We should get moving - Hello? Hello? - I'll be there See you later Hey, did you have breakfast? We got a deal to discuss Where are you? The bastard brought us all the way out here He's cooking something up I can tell Whatever it is, I won't be surprised That's the attitude Where is the body? I buried it down there So many dead... May they rest in piece Where exactly? I believe a deal is in order That would be the order of things, wouldn't you say? the going rate for a body is 500 That will be 1 million in total Clean and simple Alright, alright! I don't want to take your share Let's meet half way 500 foryou and I've never been a greedy man - Fine - Deal? Where exactly? You'll just dig up the body and run I know you will I'll keep the location to myself until my money is wired You Hey, we're on the same boat Don't do this This is no way to treat yourfriend Same boat? - You mean enemies on the same boat - You know what's important? That we're on the same boat whether as friends orfoes Like it or not, we're gonna fight the rough sea together Let's put ourfighting sprit into this Let's go team Together into the ocean Let's yell "victory" together Checkmate Checkmate Checkmate I heard you were off sick I came by to look in on you but you look good I needed some air There is an old saying in this business The only person the loan sharks cannot track down are the buried As long as you're breathing we'll find you Like I found Ahn Jin- oh Like I found you Look at my face It's real colorful, isn't it? People looking for Ahn Jin- oh did this to my face They were carrying something like this So I got one for myself Does it work alright? - Haven't tested it yet - Now would be a good time Why are you doing this do me? Why should I get beat up foryour little asshole buddy? I sometimes have trouble understanding You gotta explain to me in detail All I see are graves Where are you going? I don't understand We have the real body in our possession Why do we need a plan? We gotta look at this simply One, we take the money Two, direct them to the grave End of the story No One, we take the money Two, direct me to the grave What are you going to do with the body? - Three, we'll hand it overto NIS - But why? Why do you care? You'll be happy as long as you get your money That's right Here lies beloved 500,000 dollars So you put the million dollar- worth body in Ahn Jin- oh's grave site? Yes, sir Good job explaining it thoroughly Good foryou See you around You thought this through One watch man, one contact and one playing the body That's right Great! Who's playing the body? Why you looking at me? Last to finish will play the body On your marks - Get set - No, wait What? First to finish should be the body It only makes sense Okay. First to finish it is On your marks... - Get set - Still not right What now? Who will run fast, if the fastest is to play the corpse? Then the middle one will do it Are you sure about it? Not the first, not the last For crying out loud, are we doing this or not? I need to go soon Alright, alright! First to finish will be the body and gets extra 100,000 Okay? - That's right - Alright l'm the corpse then I won't lose out to two old men in a race No way! It's not about the power but balance Don't trip Ready? On your marks Get set Go! Why did you stop in the middle of the race? No reason you stopped for no reason? You feel so terribly about losing 100,000? Why did you stop? You fell I stopped to check you're okay Do you like me? Don't flatter yourself What are we talking about here? - She has some serious issues - I don't believe this guy - Are you gonna eat? - It's too hot This will cool down the soup and make it taste better You're in love with me You eat this - Thanks, man - Go on, eat up It's really good Is this the best coffin you have? Don't pound on it so hard It'll get bruised That's a good paulownia casket 480 bucks Looks really good - Do you have a cheaper one? - Cheaper one? Sure Paulownia plain, 280 bucks What about the cheapest coffin you have? Cheapest one here? Don't be so cheap That's plywood You can't put a man in that Maybe use as a dumpster How much? Rendezvous at Siloam cemetery midnight sharp Prepare a van that can load a coffin and 2 million dollars in cash Yes, sir Let's go AHN JiN OH - What does it say? - I don't know - It's all in Chinese - We need a dictionary He won't know Chinese either This is not his grave They're here What is it? The car stopped Put the money in the coffin Load the coffin in the van Bring the key overto me Stop with the child's play This is no child's play from now on Start walking slowly You're walking up and I'm walking down The chip hidden in the body How much are you selling it for? - What are you talking about? - Isn't it what you're after? I'm here to collect the Chairman's body Really? Then you can just take the body - Because I pulled out this chip - Get him Stop Here! Your 3 million I'm real sorry but I haven't even seen the body So the chip must be in the body Watch what you say Ghosts are listening to us Step back oryou could get hurt Go Can you spare me perhaps? I can tell you where the body is We went to the grave before We would have gotten millions if we knew some Chinese Millions... - Found it - Pull it up Can I go my way now? - Bury him - Mister! Sir! Brother! How should I address you? Wait, wait! I found the body foryou Please, can we talk for a second? Let him go I'll give you your money back Here is your 2 million Get out of there Good job, man Give it to the dogs Freeze Steve Jeong, You're under arrest for violation of Technology Leak Prevention law Who the hell are you? Don't you see what's going on? Fucking bastard Freeze Let's put the past behind I'll help you this time He was trying to bury me alive, that bastard - Good job, sweetie - I said freeze! What? Are you scared? Hyeon- cheol - Are you alright? - Don't worry It'll be over soon You'll never get out alive Alright? You're laughing? Yeah! It's perfect. Beautiful! What now? - Nice work - Chief I'll take them in my car I'll let you go after some quick questions You've been a tremendous help in the investigation Thank you The one that got away... He seemed very suspicious Who is he? Stop the car, please I don't really know We ran into him by chance Don't you know any personal details? What about his name? Ahn Jin- oh! Ahn Jin- oh! Where are you, Jin- oh? - Ahn Jin- oh? - Ahn Jin- oh Here lies beloved 500,000 dollars - We don't even know his name - Are you covering for him? You'll take the money and run - I will come back, I promise - No, you'll run I'm not like you I stick to the plan - Why would we coverfor him? - He ran off with the money He can't have died... can he? He has 'long life' written all over his face You know what? Let's go with plan B - I'll get three veneer coffins - Three? Sure What shall we fill it with? Hey! This is what we've been looking for so badly Chinese dictionary I'll kill anyone who use Chinese characters I knew it Bro, I've been digging these holes while waiting foryou You could have moved the whole mountain I could have done that, right? Where did you bury it? - I don't know She buried it - Stop playing around and tell me I gotta get the money and go to the hospital I'm injured You seemed just fine working your shovel - Where did you bury it? - Underthat tree overthere Oh, that one Wait a minute... May it wasn't this tree Oh bless! My money Oh smell! Hallelujah How is the food? Too salty Especially the soup Adding some water helps On behalf of the researchers who will lead this ground- breaking research development program, please welcome the head researcher, Mr. Han Jin- su Thank you all for coming I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to a very special man whose generous donation of one million dollars enabled us to continue this project Late Mr. Ahn Jin- oh We'll take a minute of silence in his honor OVER MY DEAD BODY
