 

                        What are the advantages of Vivexx? Two words: Proven efficacy. Arghhh ooofff!!! (frustrated grumbling) Vivexx offers your patients unsurpassed clinical efficacy. Ahhhhh, AHHHHHHHH (screaming) This absolutely, the most efficacious drug your patients can use. (giggling) Arrrhhhhh aaaaahhhhh (screaming) Our drug is clearly the most efficaciousest! Arrrhhhhh aaaaahhhhh (panting) Is efficaciousest even a word? (heavy breathing) My name is Karly Hert. I sell drugs for a living. Legally that is. I am a pharmaceutical sales consultant. You're probably thinking that I have a medical background, maybe a nursing or pharmacy degree. Well, I do have a science degree... political science, that is. How then did I get this job? You're recruiting me to be a pharmaceutical consultant? Yea, isn't that exciting? Um, but I sell cellular phones... You know... in college I took a weatherclass to fulfill my science credit. Ahh, well they can teach you all that stuff. They are just looking for someone with... ample... (bell "ding") Sales experience. Oh... (chuckling) Did I mention that you would get a company car? (narrated) A free car? I was 23, I still owned 10's of thousands of dollars in student loans and had no idea what I would actually be doing in this new consultant job. But a free car???? AWESOME! (Laughing) (narrated) It wasn't like I didn't have a car. (narrated) But a new free car? (narrated) I was almost as excited about the car and salary jump... (narrated) as my mom was about other benefits that came with the job. (narrated) almost. Honey, I know you are going to marry a nice doctor, I just know it (weeping) I did meet a lot of doctors, but to my mother's dismay, the more I met, the more I knew I would never, ever marry a doctor. Hi Dr. Jacobs. Yea? What? Uh, your nurse said you needed some samples for the office, so I just need a quick John Hancock if you don't mind. Great. Thanks... Uh, OK. So, if you notice in the graph there just been, really uh really great long term affects on the patients. We can send you some stuff and you know, I think the results really prove themselves. Sure. So, if you just want to you know, look at the material, it sort of speaks for itself. OK, great. Thank you. Would you like to go out with me sometime? On a personal level? I'd love to. OK. I can't this week, next week looks bad too, and I am at a conference the following week... but it looks like I can squeeze you in one month from today. But it would have to be at 6:00AM, maybe for coffee. (narrated) My name is Karly Hert. (narrated) Did I say I am a drug dealer? (narrated) I was a drug dealer. This is my story. # You're a love cat-kitty all the world will never pity you... (narrated) The company manual outlines several rules for a successful career as a pharmaceutical representative. Hi Dr. Smith. Not today Karly. (narrated) Rule number 1 maintain and outgoing and friendly attitude. Hi I'm Karly Hert with... I don't see reps. God, I'm starving! Hi. I'm Karly Hert with Braden-Andrews. Hi. I'm Dr. Gardner, nice to meet you Karly. Oh yes, take them. Did you know that Vivexx is... ok (narrated) Rule number 2: A professional appearance is mandatory. (narrated) Rule number 3: Dating co-workers, is strictly prohibited. (narrated) Rule number 4: Stay up to date by reading all the current medical journals. (Beep, Beep) (narrated) Rule Number 5: Return all calls promptly. (phone) You have 22 new voicemail messages, to check unheard messages press. (Beep) Hello, I'm Karly Hert with Braden-Andrews. Are these your samples on the back? Yes. We will get to you when we can. (narrated) Rule number 6: Develop positive relationships with all staff members. You know, periwinkle is really your color, Betty. Oh Fred. It is. Say, are the docs in? You bet, come on back. (narrated) Rule number 7: Always carry yourself with poise and grace. Ah, here you go. (narrated) Rule number 8: Keep accurate records of staff's preferences. Oh shit! Pizza again! Dam it. Well, we just received the latest Festril weeklies and as you can see, we have really flattened off. But didn't we just have 4 weeks straight of record market share gains? As the saying goes... what have you done for me lately? Listen people, the name of the game - is growth. Ok. Now, our competitors may pat themselves on the back for past accomplishments, but not us. That's what makes us stand apart. Scott, where is Dr. Schmidt at in terms of Festril prescriptions? About 2%. Why isn't he onboard yet? He likes to wait at least a year before prescribing any new drugs, it's a safety issue. He also likes to reserve the quinolones for compromised patients. What kind of idiot would reserve the most effective drug on the market? What's his reason? Well, because last year when we didn't have our own quinolones to sell we were calling him an idiot for using such a big gun when it wasn't absolutely necessary. Well, it looks like you did your job a little too well last year. Have you invited him out to Corporate yet? No, but I was going to do that later. I want him flown out with Corporate. Also, make sure he is signed up for the webcast with Dr. Sing. I want you in his office twice a week for the next three. Got it? Yep got it. Ok. Just remember people the company has a really big goal to hit. We have until Decemberto hit the mega double. Double the profits, double the growth. Let's keep our fingers crossed for a really bad respiratory season; lots of pneumonia, lots of sinus infections. (chuckling) Also, keep in mind that we that we are gearing up for the Vivexx launch. Potentially the biggest drug to hit the market ever! So, are we all on the same page? Listen, just remember team... ...what our job really is ultimately about is to protect and prolong human life. It's the Braden-Andrews Credo. All right get out of here, have a good weekend. Karly. Yea Just a word with you. Actually the district numbers weren't down that bad over all. What dragged us down was your territory. Um um, well I. I don't want excuses, OK I just want you to get the job done. Corporate will not hesitate to get somebody who will. OK Oh, and I almost forgot, you are now going to be doing reminder calls for Glucadox... I don't know anything about diabetes. It's just a reminder. But what if the doctor asks me something about the drug or the disease or other treatments? Then just refer him to our medical department. OK Are you on board here Karly? Yea. Okay. Nice stain. Yea. Thanks. Hi Dad. Yea honey, I don't know if I am going to able to make the trip. Things are a little tight around here. No problem. Okay. Rough day? Did I just see you at the rep meeting? Unfortunately, yea. I haven't seen you around here before. And you won't. This is my first and last week. Really? Uh-huh. So then he says to me, "Do you think you could snag me a couple samples of Viagra?" And I'm like how the heck are you supposed to respond to that? Um Dad, I'm not sure I should be snagging you samples of anything. Oh God, I can't believe I just told you that story. He sounds like quite the funny guy. So tell me again, you're going to quit just like that? Just like that. I wish I could quit. Then do it. You make it sound so easy. Well you're making it more difficult than it is. Yeah, but what about bills and having to buy a car. Hey, can we finish this conversation tomorrow? There is something I want to show you. (giggling) I'd love to. # There was something in the air... # There was something in the air... This is gorgeous. We're only 10 miles from town? Would you like to come in? What is this? This, is the kitchen, where I imagine you will be cooking me breakfast in about 12 months. (laughing) Well, that is highly unlikely for several reasons. Such as? Number 1, I can't cook a lick. Ok, well I will put a toaster right here. You can operate a toaster can't you? Well, that brings us to problem number 2. How is someone without a job going to buy the bread to make the toast? Ohhhhh independently wealthy. I see. I've been saving for this for about 10 years. Saving? So you're going to build it all by yourself? I have a couple friends who will help me out. I don't do electricity. I learned that lesson the hard way... still waiting for it to completely grow back (laughing) (laughing) You lie. So I suppose they told you it was all about helping physicians help patients. Oh yea. And objectively educating doctors. It sounded great though. An interesting worthwhile job with the added bonus of helping fund my building project. They just forgot to mention the manipulation, bribery, the exploitation factor. Okay, well it's not that bad. Yea, it's actually worse. It goes all the way back to the decision of which drugs to research. Let's see. Do we make more money if we develop a cure for cancer or develop another useless drug for sinus infections? Yea, but what about all the patients who are helped? What about all the patients that are hurt? What about the ignorance of the doctors? What about the ignorance of the reps? You know I read this article once (clears throat) by a physician that reps know just enough to get by. At first I was really defensive about it. And then I realized, we are just one sentence away from complete negligence. I mean there is just something fundamentally unethical about tying profit to educating doctors and helping patients. Wow. Wow what? How can you possibly feel that way about it and continue doing it. I need the money. Don't forget the car. And the pension plan. And the stock options. And integrity and a passion for what you do. And overall happiness. There are other jobs out there. You know your biggest problem isn't the industry, it's you. (sigh) Excuse me Dr. Scott. What is your opinion of pharmaceutical representatives? You want to know what I think? I don't believe a damn thing that comes out of their mouths. They'll say anything to push their drugs. Most of them are dumber than a box of rocks. Scourge of the Earth. Glucadox is the most effective drug on the market for the treatment of diabetes. We have had a 60% improvement in our production efficiency. We have the cost of Glucadox down to 10 cents a pill. The bottom line is that Glucadox saves lives. Wow! It looks like Braden-Andrews gave us a great deal, only 12 bucks a pill on Glucadox. You cannot put a price tag... ...on the increased quality of life patients will experience with Glucadox. Well, I don't have that kind of money. Don't you have insurance? I got laid off. (clapping) If we can get our top five Festril writers to grow by ...that should move our overall market share by We'd be in the running for the trip to Greece. Plus a very nice bonus package. What about a speaker program at Le Fleur? That restaurant always brings the doctors in. Or Green Bay Football tickets with a party bus. I can take Dr. Scallon and Waters to the spa. What? I could you a massage and a manicure, as long as Uncle Andrews is paying. What do you think Karly? Bzzzzzzzzzz. (Alarm clock ringing) Bzzzzzzzzzz. (Alarm clock ringing) # (whistling... ) I was thinking yesterday... (singing) You are so tasty. Love suits you well, missy. Love? Who said anything about love? I'm quitting my job. What did you just say? Don't get your panties in a bundle. I'm not quitting today. I'm quitting October 30th, exactly 6 months from today. Good for you girl. Thank you. Ok, so why are you quitting? I can't do it anymore. I just can't. I'm done, somebody stick a fork in me, because I am done. I'm done kissing butt, done spinning a bunch of crap. I'm done looking for angles, done wining and dining, done. D-O-N-E DONE!!!!!! Um-hmmm. So how the heck are you going to do it for the next 6 months? Well, I think for the next 6 months I should just do what I was hired to do, educate the doctors. So does Zestran work? About as well as the others. Price? We're more expensive; actually we're almost double the cost. Side effects? Patients won't shit for a week. I see, well then why should I use Zestran? Because I am going to perfectly straight with you. You're going to know exactly what your patients are getting with this drug: The good, the bad, the ugly. Not some sugarcoated version with hopes that you don't know any better. Fine, but tell me how is Festril different than Tevaquin? It's not. Well, alright then. (laughing) (laughing) # Feed your body with rhythm and soul. Step in the sunshine... Oh, I'm taking that one. Yea Yea right, like you can eat all that. Ohhhhh watch me. My God. You know I haven't ever really figured out this whole grill your own deal. Doesn't it defeat the purpose of... ...going out to eat and having somebody else cook for you? Not if you still like it mooing. Just give me a cow and a salt shaker and I am one happy camper. You're like no woman I've ever met. Is that a compliment? Sure. You know I would never have had the balls to do this, if it wasn't for you. Well, I'm hoping you still don't have any balls. (laugh) Here's to 6 months. Bzzzzzzzzzz. (Alarm clock ringing) # I can't wait one minute more... So you know, just look at the results and you will see. What is that? Chocolate. (laughing) Hi, we have turkey or chicken. Sandwiches, not quite like the good old days, is it girls? What the? (Heavy breathing) You know if I had another 20 or 30 pounds on me, I probably could have won with brute force too. Well, I like a little meat on a girl. Grace? Gracie? Gracie? What's that matter Gracie? It's Friday. Yes it is. Most people are really happy about that. You know it's Friday, and here I am without a date... again. I don't have a date. Well that's different, you, you have one in the hopper. You always have one in the hopper. It will happen Grace. You don't understand. I'm bigger than 90% of the guys out there. Well, look at it this way, you can tell which ones are prematurely balding. Well, there is that. (giggling) All right, all right. Where are you taking me? Ahhh stop, you can't look. You wanna help me get a dog? Oh my God. I would love to. All right let's go. Too pretentious. Kind of fluffy. Pink bows. (laughing) (Barking) Bad with kids. No way. (Laughing) (Barking) Going nuts. It's too yappy. Oh Zach, ohhhh look how sweet he is. Oh my God. He's cute, but there is no way I am ready for a puppy. Ah come on. Too much getting up in the middle of the night with a pooper scooper. Too much training. Yeah, you are probably right. I love this dog. Yea, it's a good dog. Good puppy. We're going to live over there, we're going to live over there. Going down the road. Going downtown. I think he's getting car sick, or she. I like my marshmallows burnt. Oh no, gotta feed her first. She's the lady. Ladies first. What, no poker? How tall are you anyway? Here we go. I'm 6'1". Wow, I like a lot of woman. OK Knock, knock. Come in. (laughing) Hi, how are you? Are you tired? No. Oh my God, does it get any better than this? # Just isn't love without you there. (laughing) (murmuring) Are you going to try harder? I don't get it. Yes. Okay. It's unacceptable... Oh honey. Happy belated birthday! Thanks Dad! You know, I was thinking on the way over here... Had I boinked your mother 3 days earlier, you'd have been an easter baby. (chuckling) Yea, imagine that. Oh here Dad, just a little gas money. Thanks. Bye. Bye. Thanks. Interesting. (ding-dong) Good morning Dan, oh Jacqueline I wasn't expecting you to join us this morning. We need to have a little chat about your recent performance. Uh, do we have to do this here? Go on inside, daddy will be right there. What about this stuff? Just toss it. I'll need the keys to your car. Where's Scott? People, let's just make sure we have the message locked and loaded. We need to be ready to hit the ground running the moment Vivexx gets approval. But before we start our grinders, I thought maybe we could get a few words from the comeback kid. According to the weeklies, Karly has had a market share gain of 5% each week for the last 5 weeks. Congratulations Karly. What's your secret? I'm just trying to do my job the best way I know how. Practice makes perfect folks, let's get started with Remember the only way to enjoy instant success with Vivexx, is to have our message locked and loaded. Ready - Set - Start! Dr. Smith, I'd like to introduce you to Betty. Betty was voted most likely to succeed. Unfortunately for Betty depression interfered with her plans. Do you have any patients like Betty in your practice? Well, yes, quite a few. Well Dr. Smith, today I would like to tell you why new Vivexx is the drug of choice in patients like Betty. Vivexx offers your patients proven unsurpassed clinical efficacy. Stop and move. Start. Dr. Smith, I'd like to introduce you to Betty. Betty was voted most likely to succeed. Unfortunately for Betty depression interfered with her plans. Do you have any patients like Betty in your practice? Well, yes, quite a few. Blah, blah, blah, blah, I'm sorry you were saying? ...in patients like Betty. The last time we launched a drug like Vivexx, I bought my house with the bonus check. Karly, could you come here a minute? You keep up this pace and you're going to be looking at management. There's a thought. Oh and one more thing, Dan could you excuse us a moment? Sure. Thanks. Now this is somewhat of a sensitive topic, but if you look around, you'll notice that this is quite a conservative company. I'm sorry, I'm not quite sure I know what you mean. This is so hard, But I think you need to re-evaluate the way you dress. I mean, with your recent performance, I would hate to have you let, a little thing, like appearance, get in the way of any career moves. I just have your best interest in mind. I'm sorry. Could you be more specific? Because we were told that all meetings were business casual. If you take a look at the company dress code, you'll see that at the very least... You should be wearing panty hose. That would be a good start. You're one of us now. How do you think I ended up in management? There are rumors. If you'll excuse me. Excuse me sir, can you share a few thoughts about your opinion regarding pharmaceutical representatives? Between you and me... If they want send in a nice piece of T&A in here to tell me about their wonderdrug, I'm all for it. $15,000... awesome. And this is the top of the line. Ohhh, ohhhh, this one is nice. (giggling) Aaaaahhhhh. Beep (fax machine) Holy shit! I must admit, I was really nervous. Hey don't you guys have a new drug coming out? Yea we do. It's actually looking like it's going to be pretty good. I received the latest, expecting the usual. And... ahhhh... That's an increase. Wow. It's quite outstanding. Hmmmm, surprising. Wow! It's incredible. I've never seen anything like it. She's remarkable. And what's her name? Karly Hert Make sure we don't lose this one. Ring, ring (telephone) Hello. Hi Karly, this is Jacqueline, I'm in town this morning, I'm going to be at the copy shop making some copies, faxing a few things. Do you think you could meet me here? Uh, um, sure. It won't take long. Okay. # Can you see my intensity? Sometimes it's even too much for me. # Drowning in too much to do. It's getting late, I can't afford to lose this time. There you are, how are you? Good. Thanks for meeting me. Listen, I think we got off to a really bad start last week. I would really like to put it behind us and start over. Uh, OK. (sigh) Alright, I will see you later. Alright. Hmmm. Please, table for 2? Ah yes, non-smoking. Thank you. Oh lordy (laughing) Dr. Wheeler, wow, hi. How nice to see you. So nice to see you. What a surprise. Yea, I didn't know you left the office to eat. (Laughing) Well, you gotta eat sometime. (laughing) Yeah, oh, I'm sorry. This is Zach. Nice to meet you. Cindy. Hi. Oh maybe we should all dine together. Do you guys mind? That would be wonderful. Oh great. # I get tired, when nothing happens. I'm going to have to take it. Oh there is just one more stop we have to make. OK Nice? Yea, An upgrade, you've earned it. Oh my God, Oh my God! OK Ahhhh, ahhhhh, ahhhh. Hell no. What is this? What does it look like? When did you get a BMW? It's a company car, it's just an upgrade. But I thought you were quitting. Yea, I thought you were quitting. Oh yea, Zach's here. Oh shoot. The coffee shop. The coffee shop. Forgive me. Jacqueline called, she wants you at the manager's meeting in Lake Geneva next week. Must be nice to be the queen bee on the radar screen. # Shivering as I enter the dark days of winter. Sweetie, I'll be home next week. I promise. Give your brother a hug for me. You need to be a big boy and stop crying. Stop it! Stop crying! Put Daddy on the phone, Put Daddy on the phone! (sigh) I didn't know you had kids. Not until you're my boss. Good night Dan. (beep, beep, beep ring, ring) (Ring, ring, ring) # And it's so cold outside. You've been getting quite a few kitchen passes lately. Kiss my ass. So how are things with the little lady? Been a little busy. Ah, she dumped you. Ok, thank you so much. I'll talk to you next week. Yea, I'll give you a call. They were beautiful. Bye. Hey stranger. Hi. Who's your friend? Just a realtor, I'm just sort of window shopping. Can I see? It's nice. I can't really take it. Sorry. You know what the date is? Oh, October 27th. It's exactly 6 months from when we met. I can tell you're busy. I'll see you later, OK? (sigh) (sigh) (sigh) If you'll look here at the graph on the right, you'll notice a definite increase in efficacy. And that efficacy extended over the following nine months. So can I have your guarantee that your next 20 prescriptions will be of Festril? OK Fabulous. I'm convinced. You can keep the pen. Thank you. Do you have any hats? Well, I can get you some. Hi. Hi. What do say we go out tonight, have a quiet dinner? I would love to, but I have to work. I have a dinner program. What if I came with you? I don't think you really want to. Aren't the doctors bringing their spouses? Yea, but. OK You guys are just going to be amazed at the benefits of this drug, I mean really they have not found nothing better on the market at this time. The results have just been thrilling. Nice job Karly. I'll second that. You must be pretty proud of Karly. She's definitely our best rep, I have never seen anyone move market share like her. Did she tell you that she was nominated for "Industry Rep of the Year". The winner will be announced at the AAPC, the top players from all the major companies will be there. The press. The top industry reps from all the health care providers. Mhmmm. If you will excuse me, I just have to run to the ladies room. I'll join you. Even more importantly, did she tell you that she is going to be bringing home some major bacon? Did she tell you that they have her on the management track? Management track? It's just talk. So I am taking it that you did not enjoy yourself. Can't say that I did. This whole scene. You know, you asked to come, Yea Yea Because it was the only way I could get some time with you. Watching you tonight was a hard pill to swallow. I guess I thought we were on the same page. And what page was that exactly? You know if it weren't for this industry, who else would research cures for diseases? Who else would invest the millions that it takes to bring a new drug to market. You know some day, you are going to be pretty damn glad... when some big BAD pharmaceutical company was wiling to invest in a new treatment when it was you, or your Mom or your Dad who has been hoping and praying, that someone would give them hope during the course of their disease. Save the propaganda, I learned those lines verbatim from pharmaceutical sales 101. You don't get it do you? Will the real Karly Hert please stand up? Which one am I talking to now? I could not care less about corporate America. It's not the pharmaceutical industry I am interested in spending the rest of my life with. Decent people they don't push dangerous medicines into other people's bodies. Dangerous medicines? Like your Vivexx. There is plenty good reading on the Internet Karly. But you probably prefer to stick to the company's literature. (Crying) If we are going to have a successful launch of Vivexx, If we are going to have a successful launch of Vivexx, it has to be on 75% of HMO formularies prior to launch. Successful launch? Are you kidding me? This is slated to be the biggest drug launch of the 21st century. Vivexx is going to make Prozac look like penny candy. This drug is so superior in efficacy that any HMO that doesn't pay for it can be sued for negligence. What do you think Karly? Can you sell this drug without formulary coverage? (clears throat) Not so fast, there is something that we need to discuss. What the hell is this? A few case reports. There seem to be a few liver issues popping up. Not on my watch, Not Vivexx. Take a look. Arghh, deaths? Three. have been any number of things. alcohol, not taking any other meds. I don't buy it. What about the others? All showed signs of elevated enzymes upon administration of Vivexx, all showed decreases once the medication was stopped. Karly, could you please excuse us. Yea. Of course. Shelve it. What? You heard me. But, Who knows? The case reports are randomly distributed in the US, one or two are bound to end up in the medical journals. One or two case reports are not going to alert the press and maybe not even the FDA. significant benefit from this drug. I am not going to let a few miscellaneous case reports stop or slow the launch of this drug. That is not for you to decide. Again, who knows? (toilet flush) Karly? Girl, I feel 10 pounds lighter. Why so glum, chum? I'm just tired. You better wake up, 'cause we have a party to catch. I really can't believe that they let you bring a guest on this trip. There is a lot that is hard to believe. You've reached the voicemail of Zach Danner, please leave a message... You've reached the voicemail of Zach Danner, please leave a message... Hey girl. You up for a drink at the bar? No, I am not up for a drink at the bar. What's the hell is wrong with you? Nothing. Well, you're just a barrel of laughs to be around these days. Well Fuck you! You don't know jack shit. You think everything has to be so God damned much fun. Reality isn't the rosey world you live in Grace. Oh here we go. Quick somebody grab the violins because Karly wants to sing that sad old song about rotten Daddy. Look, I have always been proud of you, in spite of everything. But lately girl, I don't even know you. If you're not careful you are going to end up with exactly what you are running from. There's a woman speaking from experience. Everything was just peachy at fucking Grace's house, I should know, I spent half of my life there. Oh Grace. I'm sorry, Grace, I'm so sorry. I'm losing it, I can't think. I don't know who I am anymore, I'm so tired. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's ok. It's ok. (voice over) This liver stuff is just random pieces of information. (voice over) All talking about this will do is scare people off from using the most effective drug available. (voice over) I need you to keep what you heard today to yourself. (voice over) All direction to sales reps will be to not initiate any discussion. (voice over) There is to be no discussion between the reps and the physicians on this topic. (voice over) The possibilities are limitless for a rep like you. (voice over) You've worked so hard for this, you're so close. (voice over) Do you know how much money you, personally, have the potential to make with this drug? (voice over) Have I made myself clear? You've worked so hard for this. (voice over) I'd hate to see you fall of the ladder before you reach the final rung. (voice over) Have I made myself clear? There is to be no discussion between the reps and the physicians on this topic. (voice over) Think about it. (screech) Medical services please. Are you a physician? Yes. Name please? Dr. Joyce Briggs. Address? Um, 201 Williams St., Madison, Wisconsin. One moment please. Transferring you now to medical services. (ring) Medical Services, may I help you? Yes, I was one of the psychiatrists who received a preliminary sample of Vivexx to try. I was wondering if there were any concerns with this drug in relation to liver issues. One moment please. The package insert contains no precautions, warnings or contraindications in this area. It should not be an issue in your patients. But wasn't there a case report that said... The case report that was published was not conclusive. There was no way to rule out other factors. As you know this is a very difficult patient population to gauge. We are not recommending any additional liver monitoring. Thank you. (Knock, knock, knock) Come in. Dr. Feinstein, I'm Karly Hert from Braden- Andrews. Wow. Huh? I never would've thought that Braden-Andrews would send a rep to talk to me again. I'm not sure I understand what you mean. Let's just say that I have fallen out of favor with the one who sends your paycheck. How so? Why are you here? Vivexx is gearing up to launch and I thought since you were involved in some of the research... I guess I just thought you would be a good starting point. Ah yes, the golden cow, Vivexx. (chuckling) If you are here to try and convince me to use it, you're wasting your breath. Why wasn't your name listed as one of the authors for the journal of psychiatry study? Why would it be? Because it was listed as one of the original authors for the poster presentation at last year's psychiatric association meeting. That is a very interesting thing for you to notice. Why? Did you take a look at the section on side effects and safety? Yes. It mentioned some mild sedation and teeth grinding. It's more what that section does not say, than what it does. I don't understand. I learned a very long time ago to be extremely cautious about using new meds on patients, even throughout the course of a study. Now, I decided as a precautionary note to monitor liver enzymes in patients who began taking Vivexx. My site enrolled 112 patients, 26 of them experienced significant elevation of the enzyme upon taking Vivexx. All 26 returned to normal readings upon discontinuation. Why isn't that information listed here? They conveniently found a way to disqualify my site, therefore all my findings were thrown out. Ours was the only study site monitoring liver function. Now the poster presentation at the AAPA was just to show preliminary efficacy findings. By the time the study was published, I and my data had been removed. There were others. Excuse me? Would you be willing to help me with something? Oh, I'm sorry. (voice over) You're one of us now! We're thinking management. You need to reevaluate the way you dress. (voice over) You're one of us now! We're thinking management. You need to reevaluate the way you dress. (voice over) Are you on board here Karly? You will notice this is quite a conservative company. I'm going to have to reschedule with Dr. Jones. No problem, just let me check the schedule. I'm ready for you now Karly. Oh God, I can't. What the hell? Oh God Dammit! (Screaming!!!!) (Knock, knock, knock) Hello Dr. Sweeney, mind if I ask you a few questions? Absolutely, come on in. So what would you say your opinion is of pharmaceutical sales representatives? I love the sales reps. I think they do a great job, they give me the information I need fast. I depend on them to give me facts regarding the drugs they sell. And besides, there's nothing like a free lunch now and then, is there? The healthcare sector made some significant gains in the biotech and pharmaceutical markets. Braden-Andrews stock skyrocketed today, as they received FDA approval for the much-anticipated, anti-depressant Vivexx. It is anticipated that Vivexx may be the blockbluster of the century. In other business news today Wall Street is braced for this quarters report on consumer confidence. Analysts project a dip indicated by early holiday shopping... Dobson, Sally Dobson. # Can't be seen. Can't be heard. Is this a dream? What's the matter sweetie? This is a big night for you. You know you can tell me anything. It's probably nothing. But I was just wondering what your take was on some of the liver issues with Vivexx? I have no take, because there is no issue. You're right. It's just that everything has been happening so fast. You're right. Good. Now let's go have some fun. To Vivexx! To Vivexx. Well folks, it's that time in of the evening to honor our industry's "Rep of the Year". Each year we present this award to the pharmaceutical representative who has had... ...the greatest impact educating physicians and thereby improving patient quality of life. Each company nominates one representative who exemplifies these outstanding qualities. Please join me in a round of applause, as I invite Peter Anderson... President of Braden-Andrews, to introduce this year's winner. Peter? (applause) Thanks, Mike. (applause) (applause) This year, it is my honor to present this award to a rep... who exemplifies everything that our company stands for. She is hard working, intelligent, and did I mention that this kid can move market share? (Laughter) But most importantly, her #1 goal is the same as our own: To protect and prolong human life. Karly Hert, it is my honor to present to you this year's Pharmaceutical Industry Rep of the Year Award. (applause) See, my Reps are good. (applause) (heartbeat) dum dum, dum dum Thank you. Thank you. Many people have asked me what my secret is. How can you have that kind of relationship with physicians? How can you move that kind of market share? The answer is simple, really. Honesty. Honesty with physicians, staff, and myself. Thus in the spirit of honesty and to live out the Braden-Andrews creed... to protect and prolong human life. I'd like to introduce someone. Sally Dobson, would you please join me? Dobson. Thank you so much Karly, I want to share a story with everyone about one drug that has significantly affected my life. That drug was made by Braden-Andrews and they call it Vivexx. Recently my husband went to the doctor for a routine visit... Within 24 hours, my husband was dead. (gasps) I wouldn't do that it if I were you. Hey Jacqueline... # Don't look so surprised to see me, you never wanted much. # I'm bigger now since you cut me down with honesty, honesty. Honesty is so nice. And what about side effects? Two words: Feminine itching. Just some mild explosive diarrhea. A little wind. (laughter) Only about 80% of our patients experience sexual dysfunction... ing. Sexual disfunctioning... ly?
