 

                        'Touch the peak' Vikram Prabhu Monal Gajjar Gaurav Sathish Sathyaraj Music by D. lmman 'Bring down the patient' 'This way Go left side' 'Move aside, please' 'Madam, move aside' 'Open the door' 'Change it quickly' 'Sir, please stay outside' 'We have to remove the bullet immediately' 'Jagan, switch on the operation theater light' 'A few months ago' 'Headlines for the day At an ATM in Bangalore...' '...a 38 year old woman was attacked while withdrawing money' 'Life should not be about just living and dying' 'It should be about achieving' 'He's one of those who were born to achieve' 'But, look at fate...' 'When God shuts one door it is said that he opens another' 'Sir, you've a baby boy' Please handover the key to Murali It's been days since we met It's been years, not days Heard you're now the Deputy Superintendent I'm happy for you Which division? Tindivanam Great, you haven't quit the Police force even after losing a leg... You've settled down well at the Crime Record Bureau What's the sudden visit about? It's to do with my son He see Policemen in movies and wants to become one But he'll fail in the physical examination So, I'm here to request the DGP for a favor If he puts in a word... He'll get the job lf l can pin a few stars on his shoulders and make him a Policeman My duty as a father ends there Stars should be worn only by the deserving... "Only the worthy can be a Policeman" I was waiting to hear one of your 'punch' lines If he gets a job only out of a recommendation How will he be serious or sincere about it? Are you joking? This generation doesn't value sincerity Can we drink a cup of tea? These days, boys aren't ready to work hard They only want to have fun And we are worried for them because they are our sons Don't generalize it Why not? They are all alike We're their first villain Which kid obeys his father these days? My son does His name is Murali Pandiyan My word is the final say I believe that Children look up to their father as their hero Their role-model If we are disciplined, they will be too When we loiter around smoking and drinking Are you referring to me? Why would I do that? Whom did you refer to? I'm the only one here There couldn't be anything more subtle Smart, you figured it out The present generation is geared up to work hard The fault lies with parents who don't guide them Take you for instance When your son wanted to join the 'Police' Recommendation is the wrong route to suggest to him I did show the route, but not the wrong one Nothing can happen without recommendation these days Why not? Take my son for instance Do you know what he said when he was thirteen? I wish to become a Policeman like you And my advice to him was "No Pain, No Gain" You need to be physically and mentally strong to become one Like you? Ever since When the clock strikes six NT AM At 8 AM Not me My son doesn't like to be recommended Give me your hand Your son has taken after you He isn't street smart No, Ravi I'm sure he'll accomplish all that I desired to He'll get the 'Best Policeman in Tamil Nadu' Award And makes me proud, I am sure Definitely, sir Trust me This is my dream job I'll win the 'best employee' award and bring laurels to you... ...trust me on this and recommend me for this job Get up...get up I say Why are you falling at my feet? Get up I did well last time but someone else was recommended That's why I am here with Murthy's recommendation this time I'll help you only because he wants me to You'll receive an intimation for the interview Attend the interview and I'll speak to the HR department See you, sir Ask Raja to come to my cabin tiff "Wake-up, Wake-up, the bird chirps in the ear" "The aroma of freshly brewed coffee awakens your senses" "Read the newspapers and jump straight" "Into the Rain shower" "In a flash...in a flash" "A compass drawn circle on the dining table" "Becomes a delectable Dosa" "Piping hot, spicy Sambhar" "Shakes you out of slumber" "In a flash...in a flash" "Stripes or Checks? The heart wavers" "Red or Black the heart fumbles" "Car? Bike? Train? Walk?" "All the four plead to me" "In a flash...in a flash" "I mount a horse to ride" "The girl in the bus waves to me" "The roads are so free" "I glide through like the breeze" "In a flash...in a flash" "Office today was fun Candy crush, I won" "Drove the prize-car" "To the party" "In a flash...in a flash" tiff "At the dance floor, met a beauty" "Gave a flower and said I love her" "We hit it off and I went nearer" "A kiss and I was ready to get hitched" "In a flash...in a flash" "The chairs at Pizza Hut have worn out" "The cinema theater screens have burnt out" "The sand in the beach has bleached out" "We whispered sweet nothings" "In a flash...in a flash" "Once we tie the knot" "We'll read bedtime stories" "And have babies instantly" "And click selfish" "In a flash...in a flash" "It will happen" Do you want to enroll? Call after a few months lf l answer your call, you can enroll Look at the irony My gym is better equipped And I charge less Yet, nobody enrolls Everyone throngs here It's all about marketing Let me explain Are you surprised seeing a full house? I switch on just one machine... ...and automatically another three will work The oldies pay me to work out here And I pay the babes to work out here Look at them They're like the hungry eyeing a feast What do you think? They have a name for this business You can call it anything I call it marketing That's it! Not just this Your brains also should work This is unethical I regret being your friend Why is he here now? Guys with 10 friends are happy but me What is it? Where are you? At my home Your father's here Handle him I'll be there How can I make up excuses instantly? It's a bet! My friend will definitely be selected for the Police training Wait and see That was last year His father couldn't go along and support him This time, his father sat in the front row to support him You should've seen his performance He leaped like a tiger in the long jump event You weren't there You won't know Let's draw another bet Murali will surely get a Police Training order Father!! When did you come? You left out something What did I leave out? The rope-climbing event You should've seen his speed I can see His skill in climbing When did you see it? I can see it right in front of my eyes I was visualizing your words Am I that good with my words? Yes Where is Murali? Why the sudden visit? You forget everything when you come to the gym As if he comes everyday We have to attend a function at 6 PM Don't you remember? Is it a booze party? What? I forgot I'll be ready in two minutes Did you mention booze? No, I meant other stuff I believe you! Now, it's time for the felicitation ceremony 'Anna Award' conferred for rescuing a kidnapped child and nabbing the criminals 'Anna Award' for Mr Thomas You will get an Award too You'll get it from me Shut up 'Anna Award' conferred to the constable who lost his legs in an encounter We call upon the widow of the constable who lost his life in the same encounter Your father wishes this fame for you Isn't it wrong to deceive him? This fame will not last beyond today Nobody here will remember the dead tomorrow That includes you I've experienced that I know the pain Oh my dear! Mummy Usually it's the parents who take care of the children I'm sure You will take care of your dad after me Mummy I tried a reconstructive surgery didn't work I had to amputate his leg He's still in a critical condition The next two days are crucial Those two days in the hospital I feared I'll lose him and be orphaned I wouldn't wish that even for an enemy That day I decided I'll never be a Policeman okay Why didn't you tell him this? Why did you deceive him all these years? If I'd been honest about it You can't decide when you are just thirteen Listen to dad If I'd been stubborn I wouldn't have managed to keep him happy all these years 'No Pain! No Gain!' is an old saying Now it is 'No Brain! No Gain!' The father is the hero, role-model for all children My father has always been my lame-hero I don't want to be a lame-hero to my son Is that wrong? You're old enough now Why are you still deceiving him? I'm not It's not easy to convince him to let go his lifelong dream Let me get that bank job first What if you get the Police Training order before that? I'll definitely get the Police Training order But, I'll manage Won't it be more difficult to manage your father then? Isn't life about hope? I will fulfill mom's wish I will keep my father happy and at peace Nothing should ever come between us - Yes, I'm at the spot - Where? Nolambur Manage the situation I'll take care of it Remove the drape Murder It's a clear case of a murder and an ATM robbery What are the Police going to do about it? What haven't we done? Several ATMs have been robbed in different ways Haven't we solved them all? We've cracked such cases before The criminals we nabbed were educated and tech-savvy The public has to co-operate too We've issued detailed guidelines on PIN confidentiality But, no body listens We've requested banks to have both surveillance and security at ATMs But it's only one or the other In last night's incident, the security was an old man It was late in the night And the camera didn't work There is neither a witness nor finger prints It was a well planned job This is the first time where the criminals... ...had both the account number and PIN ...and robbed money from the ATM The Public has lost their money We've lost a life They've killed the Police on patrol How much was robbed? Five lakh of Rupees The list of people who've lost money What was their last transaction? We have to submit all the details to the Police first How can we return your money before that? Please be responsible I got a text message last night about the withdrawal It was from an ATM which is at the outskirts I reside at T.Nagar Why would I go to the outskirts and withdraw that late at night? You don't have to trust us But how about the text message? We certainly trust you This is a Police case I've to go by the investigation There are other banks facing the same crisis We've collectively made a complaint to the Police Commissioner If you'd lost your money, you would understand our anguish I certainly do Call Shiva Shiva works in the credit card section He lost his entire salary in last night's robbery He's given a written complaint How does that matter to me? I've lost my hard earned money Do you know who I am? I'm a Reporter Tomorrows headlines will be about the ATM robbery and you Do you want that? Why are you losing your temper? Just think He can't allow anyone to take advantage of this situation... ...and make a false claim How did your card and confidential PIN leak out? Try to understand his situation as well All of you write a complaint and he'll definitely take action I was tense and didn't know what to do Don't thank me I did what I would've if I was working here I understand It's not about the recommendation anymore it's about your timely help at this time of crisis I'll recommend you for the job I'll take care, madam Tell me, Shiva! The Police have mandated video surveillance at all ATMs The person you killed was a Policeman The Police won't rest You should've controlled your temper How would I know he is a Policeman? He tried to remove my helmet Remove your helmet OK, forget it We'll handle it I'll keep you posted about the next plan Be careful until then Don't worry There won't be any more trouble Grandpa This is your travel itinerary from Delhi to Gangotri The travel guide will escort you on all seven days As it's our 10th anniversary, we're offering a free ticket Have you been on a plane before? - No - Why don't you come along? We're all old and you'll be of help to us And you can take a break Will you? I'm ready to go, but he won't let me I'm ready to send him, but he won't go Why are they torturing me? He's never missed a single day of training And you're inviting him for a week? Wait He thinks everything will go well if he has your blessings That's not all he needs God's grace as well Wait and see, you'll have his Training Order by the time we're back He'll join us if you allow him to Go ahead 'Police buddy' Tell me, buddy We're leaving to Goa tomorrow 7 days What? One week in Goa? BY plane We're flying! Dad doesn't know He doesn't? That's enough surprises for the day We're in sync only now Once we land in Goa, I'm no longer your friend I'll turn Cupid Hey Don't interrupt What's the use of having a great physique? Have you ever dated a girl? Have you ever hugged one? Have you at least kissed? You're a shame to us youngsters Once we land in Goa, I'll break your penance I'll change you over from a spiritual being to a Casanova I swear on... What's your name? I swear on her I might require this Safety first Buddy, where is the ticket? Is this the additional person? It's all here, your group, free and extra ticket Overnight you've made arrangements for beautiful... ...women to accompany us I appreciate you You sound pathetic Very disgusting Did I? Forget all that Where are the babes? 'Twenties or fifties Love is common to all' I asked for babes and you're showing me oldies 'It is merry time from now on' They look like they're at the brink of death Is he coming along for the pilgrimage? Pilgrimage? Do you have any more surprises in store? Traitor Get lost What is it? You promised Goa and exceeded my expectation with Bangkok That's why I am walking away in a huff Look at them You want me to suffer for ten days in the desert Not ten days It's just seven days I can't even for seven seconds You're happy being single but I like to mingle Instead, I'll hang out with my girlfriends here You have fun with the oldies Boys, don't leave Two more have to come Must be oldies again? Why don't you check them out first? As it is, they look like they have one foot in the grave And you insist that I have to stay I'm not your friend anymore I'm leaving - Hey don't leave me alone - Here they are! She looks so cute Another disappointment! What is he smiling at? Shall we go on the pilgrimage? Hello! Please come This is my grandson They are... I know This is grandma Ambujam and her granddaughter Aishwarya Am I right? Wrong I am Ambujam and this is my grandma Aishwarya This is so embarrassing I fondly call her Ambu Can I too? It's time to leave Hurry up, Oldies By the end of this trip, I will make Ambujam say 'I love you' can you? It's very easy to get a girl's attention Do something that'll make them remember us forever An aisle seat is very useful in both movie theaters and in a plane Just watch You go - Take this seat, grandma - OK What about my granddaughter? I'll take care of that Take the seat beside her and share memories You sit here Why, do you want to flirt with me? Just sit down My game will begin when we take-off I'll win her over by the time we land I wished for a 'single scoop' but have been given a 'triple sundae' I won't miss it for anything Take the window seat I don't like the window seat I'll sit here Take this bag How about this seat? We're going to take-off Say a prayer Is this your first time? Rats in your stomach? That's an understatement! You'll be alright What? Is my girl an lndo-American? Why? Look at the color of her skin Why should I? I'm making you feel jealous Look at her cheeks As white as a new iPhone Look at her lips Why is the plane vibrating? What's happening? How would I know? I am the only child to my parents Nothing don't worry I'm not scared Let go of my hand I should've left when they were uttering that prayer Everybody dies and then goes up to heaven But, we'll die in the skies and then go down Say your prayers now God save us Who is that calling God at the time of death? 'Have you ever impressed a girl?' 'Have you ever hugged one? Have you at least kissed?' 'If you die now, your unfulfilled spirit will wander' Has the pilot boozed that it is rattling this much? Don't know what to do We're dying Grandma Don't worry I've experienced this quite a few times You too You're scared because this is the first time The next time, you won't Next time? Dad, we've reached Delhi We're on our way to Haridwar The flying experience was superb Can't hear you I'll call back The tension has given me a headache Do you have any medicine? I don't Grandma There is medicine in my bag Shall I get it for you? Can you get that for me? Why did he bring it here? Is that a tablet or a balm? That's rubbish Keep quiet What is she so angry about? That was a kiss from a James Bond movie I didn't get that idea What happened? Why are you tense? You took advantage of the situation and got your way with Ambu You did all that I wanted to How dare you kiss her? I thought I was going to die You're the reason for that You described her and got me worked up Everybody screamed that the plane was crashing Didn't want to come back as an unfulfilled spirit so, I kissed her You could've come back as a spirit instead How could you kiss your best friend's girl? I am not like that That was not my intention I said sorry to myself while kissing I didn't even get to hold her So, you've that regret too Shall I book a room? You can hug her tight She could've humiliated me but she didn't She could have screamed, but she didn't As if you gave her a chance? Will she scream through her ears? To add fuel to the fire, she saw things in your bag and thinks it's mine I'm the villain now You have to help me I should apologise to her before the end of the trip In general, girls are a pain When we pursue them, they say we drool If we don't, they call us a nerd Do you know why they call girls 'Babe'? They are actually Bawling Beasts That's 'Babe' You can even handle a wild elephant But it's very difficult to handle a girl If you still want to apologise She will... Why does she sound like Godzilla? Godzilla sounds better Rogue' 'I should stay away from him for the rest of the trip' 'I shouldn't allow him anywhere near me' Murali monkey! Murali, monkey Don't you have sense? Why are you troubling me? How many times do I have to tell you? This is humiliating Let's see what happens next She talks a lot even on an imaginary call Oh, No! It's a puncture How far is the Resort from here? Quite close - Just three or four kilometers - I can't walk that far Hey, stop that vehicle Stop... Stop...wait a minute, brother Can you drop us at the Resort? OK, come All of you, come here Get in Don't jolt the vehicle Climb up carefully Come on Grandma, I'll walk You go Go and sit on top The Resort is just here You can't go by yourself Sit here I'll climb up Won't you listen? Just leave This whole jungle is full of elephants Do you know elephants? Yes, you look like one Why does she want to do her own thing in an unfamiliar place? What happened? She never listens to me It's become dark Grandma, don't worry I'll go find her No son, we will see Please come inside Why is she hugging herself like that? Please wear this You're a lowly... December 21st, 2012, The Mayan calendar... People did weird things the day... ...they thought the world is coming to an end I did the same thing I thought I was dying and kissed you out of fear It wasn't planned It needn't have been you, I would have kissed anyone who was there Even an oldie? I'm not justifying it It's wrong and I've been trying to apologise But you run away, terrified Forgive me I come from a good family too Good family? You're someone who brought a condom along for a pilgrimage I know I haven't seen anyone as cheap as you You're pretending to be a decent guy Idiot... Idiot... Stop it - You talk too much - Get lost! You're tiny, yet you have the cheek to speak like this to a tall guy! He values friendship, that stops him from retorting Both bags look similar One is mine and the other is his You took that stuff from his bag He would've refused to come on a pilgrimage So, I told him we were going to Goa Thought I will be visiting a temple in Goa He packed his usual stuff He was the reason I kissed you It's up to you to believe me If you have to scold someone, he's the one Take it from her It's not a can of 'Coke' that I can take!! Useless... Grandma, what is it? Nothing, I am tired What is it, grandma...? Grandma... Someone give the water What happened? She needs water immediately I'll be back Grandma Where are you going? Grandma... It's nothing You're alright My grandma is all I have That was so sudden, I didn't know what to do If someone you love is in danger... ...you forget yourself This is common You haven't spoken much about yourself It's explained in the school Reader Look it up I'm Murali Pandiyan, an Assistant Manager in a bank I'll soon become a Manager With his father's blessings! Right? What about you? - House surgeon - House servant? She is a doctor Would you want to marry another doctor? I know an actor who is also a doctor Do we have to travel this far to see a Saint? He's supposed to have powers We have to write our questions on a paper Even before reading it, he'll identify us and give us our answers It seems he knows all languages What's the doctor going to write? I'm not going to write anything I'm here just for my grandmother What about you? Am I likely to marry a tall, fair, beautiful girl... ...who's also a doctor like you? That's my question to him Go ahead A direct 'I love you' would have been better Would you be interested in guys who own gyms? Please write this for me My name is Ambujam Just write it down I am a doctor Will I marry a Policeman? Thanks Who is Ravinder from Mumbai? That's me You've been jobless for the last six months... ...and you want to know whether you'll get a job Isn't this your question? Yes Don't worry You'll get a job soon Thank you! Who is Ambujam from Chennai? You're a doctor and you want to know whether you'll marry a Policeman? Is that right? Say 'Yes' and I'll clean up the cobwebs on your face Don't worry Your wish will come true You will marry a Policeman You will be happily married Sit down You had a plan in mind! You embarrassed me and now play innocent I tagged along only to help you I'm to blame Why are you so tense? That Saint has said you'll marry a Policeman Isn't it? That's why I'm tense I hate the Police I've told you countless times that I don't want an ambitious husband I only want a handsome one A guy who works regular hours, a software engineer or a bank manager Can't you find someone with a risk free job? I want to lead a peaceful life Is that wrong? Not at all! The Saint's words won't come true He is a fake Don't blabber Did you see his face? You can see a glow of wisdom I couldn't even see his face How did you see the glow? Keep quiet Don't trust him He is a fake Don't try to pacify me It's a very simple trick The first person he called out is his accomplice... But the note he picked for him was actually yours That's how he had your details when he called out for you... The paper he picked for you wasn't yours, but the next person's... It's a very simple trick Do you get it? Really? I'll prove it Who is Prabhakaran from Madurai? That's me A confusion right at the beginning! I meant K Prabhakaran lam K Prabhkaran I didn't say I was 'Captain Prabhakaran' lam K Prabhkaran too My inner wisdom tells me it is his paper You sit down Wait He wishes good for all fellow beings He is in great difficulty now That definitely must be his paper Please read it 'Hey, Fake! I know your trick' 'If you want to be spared' 'Read it out as your prediction, word-by-word' Should I guess what's written in there? You're absolutely right This belongs to him You sit down Cheat! You're trying to handle it - Son! - Tell me Your friend will marry a tall, fair, beautiful doctor, just like the girl here Are you happy now? The best con man I've seen! I was really scared Don't worry You'll not marry a Policeman You'll marry somebody who is tall, clad in jeans and a jacket... ...and currently working as an Assistant Manager ...who'll soon become a Manager Are you okay with the idea? Would you like that? Tiff "I like you" "Over and over again I like you" "I don't know why I like you..." "The heart that seeks an answer has only lost its way" "I like you" "Over and over again I like you" "I don't know why I like you..." "The heart that seeks an answer has only lost its way" "Over and over again I like you" tiff "With your touch, my dear" "My hormones play out melodies" "I burst with joy" "That Love makes you eternal" "You come in person to tell me, my Angel" "I discover you in everything, my love..." "With you in my thoughts, I like myself" "Over and over again I like you" "Over and over again I like you" tiff "It isn't drizzling now" "And yet, I see the rainbow I enjoy it, because of you" "I smile to myself" "My heart is fragile" "You fling a stone and walk away" "The lifeless days I've lived You've made them worthwhile now "You're the cascade that's near me" "I like to get drenched in your beauty" "I like you" "I like you" "Over and over again I like you" "Over and over again I like you" "I don't know why I like you" "The heart that seeks an answer has only lost its way" "I like you" "I like you" He has turned a play boy into a ward boy It is late already Let us dine and go Stop at a good restaurant, I am hungry I am not hungry, you go ahead ls there an ATM close by? Grandfather, where did you go? I needed money and I came to the ATM okay Hello dad! Why is he taking so long? Oh my god! Grandfather...! Grandfather... Grandfather... I've sedated him for pain relief Let him rest for some time ls everything alright? How can that be? The bone is disjointed I advise complete rest It's painful It'll heal soon I just spoke to you over the phone I've already told you I couldn't see their faces because of their helmets An 80 year old man was bleeding! Should I be by his side or chase those guys? I'm telling you again, I didn't see their face It is a serious issue Don't disturb me hereafter I could've removed the helmet and walked out like anyone else But, you were hasty I'm going to break his neck for breaking my hand I'll find him wherever he is... ...and kill him I have to kill him Why are you getting tense? He said he didn't see our faces We're in trouble because of your temper For how much longer can we take big risks for just a few lakhs? Before the Police get on our trail, we've to do something big and settle down Are you suggesting we rob the bank? No Domestic cards allow only Rs 25,000 a day But, with an international card... One swipe... And we get 2,000 USD That's one lakh of Rupees We can disappear even before the Banks there inform the Police here By then we can safely move to another city and settle down The idea seems good But where will we get international card details? Our friend, Stephen works at a bank in the US I'll get the information through him Will he agree? Anyone in this world will yield to the temptation of easy money I'll have the details in my hand by the time your hand heals I'll figure out a way Grandfather, get down carefully Are you trying to tread safe? What has the old man achieved to get a red carpet welcome? He's only got beaten up - Open your mouth - Why? To check you brushed your teeth Open your mouth now Is it for this? What? Your word has come true My son has got his Training Order from the Police Academy, Chennai God bless you! Become a Policeman soon I'm very happy You will succeed Isn't going to Shimla for training, good news? Why are you upset about it? You seem so happy to leave me behind and attend training The moment I fell in love with you, I got the Bank Training order You may leave My phone will be turned off when I'm in training I'll call you every evening Will you spend the whole of tomorrow with me? That's impossible I've a lot to do What could be more important than me? Dad, I'll go on my own You don't want anyone to know you're my son Don't worry...I'm not coming along OK Dad Remember...be focused on your training 'No pain, no gain' You'll be trained extensively Don't while away time Stay focused on your goal I'm very particular about discipline and punctuality Understood? I'll be your point of contact for all doubts and assistance So, you're my roommate! I'm Murali Pandiyan You can call me Murali I'm Aadhimoolam Can ca you Madam'? You can call me Aadhi And which town do you call your own? I don't have the money to even buy a house... ...how is it possible to have my own town? So, are you very wealthy? Wealthy? Are you setting up a departmental store at the Academy with all this? Don't be arrogant because you've a better physique I need all this for the training here Get trained That's the whole purpose Get lost Hello, Am bu! I've reached S him la It's very cold here Shimla? What is that noise? That's nothing A polar bear is howling When have bears howled? Love has not only blinded your vision but your intelligence as well God! Help me My roommate was on the phone with his girlfriend all night I tried waking him up but he's fast asleep Murali!!! The next time, you've... ...to forget your dream of becoming a Policeman I won! What, you won? Yes Why were you frozen? Come down Calm down - It's only a punishment - Don't you get it? I've been blacklisted by the Principal on the very first day I'm a hero to my father but I'm nobody here I've a game plan... I'll fake dizziness At shooting range... I'll say I not able to see One moment Why don't you turn around? Do you want her to ride pillion? Go on I'll be pulled up He'll call me to inquire I'll keep a sad face and accept their charges They'll say I'm medically unfit and relieve me If they don't, I'll make sure they do How is my pm? My God! You are the biggest crook I know My dad will only pity me He will not get angry for sure That's it! My route is clear Do you think everything will happen as planned? Yes, it will There is a 'God send' here to help me He would've begun his work by now - He's too much trouble - I'll take care I'll take care What's his name? Murali Pandian, zodiac sign -Virgo You must be brisk and energetic You haven't hit the target even once Sorry Sir I'm unable to see The Principal wants to see you Meet him immediately You'll live a long life I was just thinking about you How is the training going? While shooting today... Shooting? While shooting questions... They were stunned They said I am too good to be here I'm on the way to meet my manager I'll call you after the meeting You said you're in Shim la... But you're here...in a Police uniform Answer me Who is it? So, you're Murali Pandiyan? What the hell are you thinking? Go inside You can leave now I'll meet you tomorrow You were lying all along Do you know why I'm here? I'm here to speak to my father about our marriage Thank God! I know the truth now I don't want to marry a Policeman and suffer all my life like my mother Why are you tense now? I have a doubt You look so beautiful But your father? Then how you are...? I take after my mother I didn't come here to become a Policeman I'm here so that I don't become one When I'm pulled up tomorrow... ...I'll prove that I'm medically unfit In a month's time they'll send me out of the Academy I'll never become a Policeman Can I trust you? Trust me I'll never become a Policeman I've had several years of experience as a Policeman before I took over this Academy But, you are just a novice! You've performed exceptionally well in your selection exams I was wondering why you weren't doing well here I'm unable to handle this training I feel giddy under the sun Obviously When my daughter hates this job, you will too Do you think I'll allow you to quit that easily? You'll step out of this Academy only as a Policeman I'll ensure that Are you taking revenge? Is this your plan to make your daughter forget me? This isn't revenge I want to help your father If I'm alive now, I owe it to your father My friend, Chellapa I knew him even before you were born Don't keep brooding over things that happened when you were just twelve A flat line indicates death even in an ECG machine If that's how it is with a machine, how can Life go on without any risks? Your father often says 'Only the worthy can be a Policeman' Sir please... I don't want to be worthy I don't want to become a Policeman and this is my only escape route Help me leave this Academy Nothing can change my mind I will never become a Policeman Let's see how you don't become one? No matter what you say or do... I may even extend your training But, I won't let you quit claiming you're medically unfit if you still insist on leaving, I'll call your father I won't hesitate telling him what you've been hiding all along Shall I tell him the truth? If you think I shouldn't, I'll give you another option We will make a deal You have to be awarded the best 'Taluk Sub-Inspector' of this program And for a month, work as an independent Sub-Inspector (SI) at a Police Station And if you don't like it or if you are scared to continue, I'll help you I'll help you get out without any trouble for your father and you I'll convince my daughter to marry you You decide now If you are willing to accept it... 'I swear in the name of God that I shall bear true faith and...' '...allegiance to the Constitution of India and ideals of the Tamil Nadu Police Service' Murali Pandiyan has been chosen as... ...the best cadet and Sub inspector of the year I told you he will make it He's your son He's bound to win Come, sir Why are you addressing me as 'Sir'? I have to respect your designation Haven't I made your wish come true? Are you happy? Happy? Wait a minute Dad...! The bullet has to be removed immediately Switch on the Operation theater lights Here it is, sir Hey, where is the P-2 Police station? Do you know it or not? Go straight and take the second right A Policeman who doesn't know the way to the Police station! That's no good! 'Are you all trying to lure one girl?' 'Displaying your glamorous thigh? Lower your dhoti' Sir, the Sub-Inspector has come 'I'll come and attend to you' I'm the head constable I'm the constable Nice meeting you I'm Arumugam, the criminal Won't you shut up? Constable, you've twenty years of... ...experience and your aim is still no good Did somebody tell you that I'm the constable? I'm the head constable Why are you changing my 'resignation'? It's not resignation but 'designation' He's an educated criminal Please come... I want a complete list of all the criminals in this area immediately 'Acid Azhagar', he tops the list I'll strike I'll strike him down Did you see that? Brother, he is the new Sub-Inspector appointed to our Police station His name is Murali Pandiyan I heard he's very strict This fellow...? Yes This is 'Blade Babu', his right-hand man This is Ravi He's a pick pocket and a petty thief His name is Kumar, he's pickpocket Balu's friend Sir, he is... Law and Order SI Aadhimoolam reporting for duty sir Can't be! Sorry, I've come to the wrong Police station Adhimoolam, you've come to the right place Come Why's he taunting me? It's your first day here and you're late by forty five minutes As a Station House Officer, may I know the reason? Definitely! I went to the temple as I'm taking charge as an independent SI Duty should come before God There again, a punch-line! I'll come to the point I am not concerned about how you were at work earlier But, I'll lay down some guidelines to be followed from now on For the next 30 days There should neither be an arrest nor an 'FIR' without my knowledge I haven't finished yet Hold on to your doubts These files are cases of pickpockets and other petty thieves These are harmless ones These files have details of dangerous criminals We're dead, if we touch them So... Thought he'll put away criminals, but he's putting away the files I'll be here at 9 AM I'll finish work and leave at 6 PM Nobody should call or disturb me after that It should be a hassle free 30 days for the Police station and me There is some trouble Sir, don't jump off Suicide is a criminal offense After l die you can take my body to the Court and get it punished I'm bald-headed and standing in the scorching sun without an umbrella... ...why do you need one? Fold it now I'll punch you Hot peanuts... Eat hot peanuts and watch the show Sir, they're selling peanuts They'll sell tickets next and make this an entertainment show Hot peanuts, sir The Police are here Make way Move aside This is our first case Don't trouble us Step down Let's talk it out My wife has deserted me How does it matter now? I smoke and drink at the bar just seven days a week Is it that big a crime for her to desert me? I don't have a wife now, I'll commit suicide Sir, don't be impulsive If a marital problem is the reason to commit suicide... ...then all married men have to die Step down Let's talk and son it out Mum, tell that bald uncle to jump off soon That's not a child that's a little devil... Can I borrow it for a second? Give it to me Isn't it a bad habit to go to the bar? Give up the habit and your wife will return How can that be wrong? What does the priest offer in a temple? 'Prasadham' (offering) That has 'dham' (a cigarette) Rascal! What do you serve as lunch for your husband? Hot, steaming 'sadham' (Rice) Doesn't that have 'd ham'? What do you serve with that? 'Sam bar' (Gravy) Doesn't that have a 'bar' in it? You idiot... Why won't his wife desert him? How can it be wrong to smoke and drink in the bar? It's a terrible mistake to have not pushed him down by now! Sir, why are you coming up instead of watching? Sir, won't you listen? I'll jump off if he comes Sir, don't come up Since you've pleaded so much, I won't commit suicide Why should I commit suicide when there is no wife around? Stop shouting - Don't yell... - Shut up... We'll get tired if we hit him - Shall I beat you up? - Won't you keep quiet? You've been hitting me the whole day Don't you have any other case? Think about it To practice as doctors, you need patients Only if students fail, can tutorials function To serve as the Police, you need criminals like us For the help that we render, you needn't be grateful to us At least, don't beat us black and blue I won't hit you Speak the truth I swear on him Tell me What do I say? I'm tired of maneuvering through crowds to steal So, we choose our favourite place gather a crowd and steal at our own pace But you figured it out How did you find out? When every head in the crowd was looking up at you Just these two heads were looking down at the purses You gave them green shins to spot them easily I spotted them as well Why don't you use your intelligence for a better cause? Who'll give us a job? You give me a job and I'll work better than your officers I'll start my work on you now I'll frame charges on you across all cases Don't file it as a suicide case Register it as a pickpocket one Poor fellow! Did you hear that? You are a superb Police officer Shut up! Sir, I'll never forget you Sir, you'll do well Murali, I have a doubt You said you're not going to work beyond 6 PM? What do you have to do after 6 PM? Wear your glasses? Why are you following me? I told you that everything is over between us Stop shouting, listen to me If you don't, how'll you understand? Nothing to understand Leave me alone tiff "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "What a waste" "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "What a waste" "Clad in Jeans" "And fancy heels" "You're showing off even when you're in the smallest of villages" "You're making faces" "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "What a waste" "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "What a waste" tiff "The kohl that costs a few bucks" "You opt to buy through EMl" "You're so full of lies" "God, put her in place" "Stop snubbing me" "I can't take it anymore" "if you end up with wrinkles your fan following will trickle" "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "What a waste" "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "What a waste" 'Hit me buddy, hit me' 'Girls are always like this' tiff "You prefer to cuddle with animals" "But, if I beg to come closer to you" "You see men as lesser mortals" "We won't squander our time And follow you any longer" "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "What a waste" "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "What a waste" tiff "Don't think we are wastrel" "We too have our prestige" "Don't think we are wastrel" "We too have our prestige" "With an ace up our sleeve" "We'll make you run around in circles" "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "It's all gone a waste" "S how-off, show-off, a big show-off" "What a waste" tiff I'll see your... Why did you slap me? Do you expect me to cajole you? You're such a show-off Your father is the reason for all these problems He wants to tie me down to the Academy He doesn't realise I've tied him down Further, he's given me a 30 day deadline I'll meet him after 30 days and tell him that I don't like the job He's promised to help me quit and let me marry you lf l didn't accept his offer that day, I would've lost my father and you I even attended the bank interview What if dad doesn't permit you to quit the Police job? Going forward, it is your dad's problem There'll be no more trouble between us Here, this is my 'Locked-house Report' I live in Pasupathi nagar I'm going to Tirupathi along with my wife I've given details of the days I'll be away You have two children? I didn't have any at first Then, how do you have two now? I watched 'The Parent Trap'... And had twins after that Thank God, you didn't watch 'Ali Baba and the forty thieves' I'll watch that too Don't worry! Will anyone dare to steal when I'm around? I'll take care The power is back Switch on the walkie-talkie charger What is this? I can begin my work now Looks like names of people abroad? It'll take two days Gently! You can resume your work What work do you do? You're so brainy, Shiva So much money in one night! Let's not deal with domestic cards anymore Only international cards from now on After we swipe the remaining cards tomorrow You take all the money and leave to Mumbai What about you? There'll be unnecessary suspicion if I leave suddenly I'll apply for medical leave after a few days and then join you in Mumbai Let's decide on a safe-hideout after I reach there Why this sudden plan? The Police didn't focus on us because of other crimes in the city But from this evening, we are the 'heroes' By now, the Police would've collected all our details and will be This is the incident that took place six months back This is from the Adambakkam ATM This is the incident that happened yesterday This is the visual from the Kotivakkam ATM Comparing and analyzing the visuals, the physical parameters... ...the costume and the design on the black pouch clearly indicates that This person was responsible for the recent murder and ATM robbery He was using domestic cards all along But, yesterday, he had used international cards... ...in four ATMs and robbed about forty lakhs of Rupees From where did he get the international card details? Who are his accomplices? In order to investigate, a 12 member 'Operation Sigma Tiger' has been formed Two teams have been formed for this operation We've prevented many crimes The public and media don't appreciate us because they don't realise We stopped it even before it could happen In spite of us arresting criminals after intelligent investigation The public thinks we are Due to Police complacency, murders and robbing ATMs... ...have raised their ugly head in Chennai again People have lost faith in the Police Let's hear what the public have to say about this They've had helpline numbers for different emergencies Now, they'll have a separate helpline for an ATM robbery There is no safety for public What are the Police doing? In Bangalore... Chellapa, aren't you leaving for the day? The DGP has asked for the crime records of this month He has to give it to the Chief Minister I'll be delayed You get going OK, see you on Monday Even they kill the ATM's security man Don't know what the police is doing... ATMs have come to denote 'Any time Murder' Very unsafe to go into one It's the same across the different States A murder and Lakhs of Rupees robbed The only question posed by the public "Are the Police sleeping?" I've been doing this for the past 30 minutes Look at all the sand that's fallen off You seem very happy Your dad's deadline gets done with tomorrow That's why OK First thing to do on Monday morning ls to meet your dad and tell him I don't want this job I'll take you out tomorrow evening I'll buy the cinema tickets You buy the dinner Inexpensive tickets on you and an expensive dinner on me You're very smart You'll fare well Don't make any last minute changes I'll be there at 5:30 PM There won't be any problem Hey! Who is that? What's the problem? Why are you both hitting the old man? He was just talking Why did you hit him? Don't hit Don't let him go Hold tight Tie his hands Dad, what happened? I'm alright That's nothing What's this? How dare you mess around here? You were spared because it was me If it were my son, he would've killed you both P-2 Police station... Sir? He is here It's the Commissioner Heard you nabbed the ATM robbers Gather all the details and hand it over to the Inspector Make sure you follow the procedure Sure, I'll do it, sir Let's go home, Dad You stay back, I'll go on my own Please come, Dad Careful Sir, should I file a report? Prepare the FIR record all the details Collect all the evidence and keep it in my drawer Shiva Twenty seven years old Grew up in orphanage, Mumbai I'm working in the credit card section of a bank Lawrence Twenty seven years old Grew up in orphanage, Mumbai I'm a Karate Instructor 'ATM robbers nabbed' 'They will be produced in Court tomorrow' I've kept all the evidence in your drawer Have you verified the details? I'm on the job Check the date Never mind, sit down How's your dad feeling now? He's alright It was a small injury I was the one who panicked on hearing the news I was at peace only after seeing him Sir, I've checked all the details It's correct I didn't take any action because I didn't want to put him in danger But he... Today is the last day Thought of bidding good bye to the job But I am stuck unnecessarily Don't worry Everything will be alright Hand over them in Court tomorrow and move on I saw Ambujam on my way here She was entering Cherian hospital Is she working there? Yes, she is doing a two month internship there ls dad home? I'll visit him Why are you leaving immediately? An actress is coming to the gym tomorrow I have to buy a treadmill to her size and alter the entrance I've plenty to do Tell me, dad Are you through with the procedure of filing the Report? Has the Inspector come? Dad, you've called me thrice already I'm at work I'll take care Please take rest OK Are you ready to leave? Where? Movie theater at 5:30 PM! Have you forgotten? It skipped my mind It's an important case I have two criminals in my custody I'll be free after I hand them over in Court tomorrow Shall we go tomorrow? - Tell me - I'll come Going to watch a movie? I'll come back at 9 PM Take charge till then Does that feel good? Do you feel good about it? It feels great Do you want to try it? I'm seething Where is the 'Locked-house Report' which I gave you earlier? It's here Where? Is it here? Do you know where it is? 'Thankee' to you for the information Thanks to you has been written as Thankee! Did you see that? It's all gone When you said no one will dare steal when you're around I should've had my doubts Sir, are you accusing me? Of course! How did that report find its way here? Answer me Even God won't forgive you Are you accusing the Police of being thieves? I'm a lawyer and I'm not scared of the Police Give me the phone Why? I'm going to make a call to the Commissioner I won't spare you Am I tense? Am I not cool? Rascal, didn't spare even the air conditioner Don't disconnect it Answer the phone, Murali Hey, I might get important calls Forget about it Watch the movie Switched off? He never turns off his phone - Have you sold the bike? - No...not yet, sir No, it's an old one There's no response in the Police station either Please understand I can't come now The Inspectors are not here Take our child to a hospital close by I'll come there directly Can't even piss peacefully UPS is just for the sake of name We have to set right the power back-up - Sir...? - What? Can I have a smoke? Are you kidding? A criminal is asking for a cigarette from a Policeman How arrogant! Once you hand me over tomorrow, I can't smoke all my life Think of it as my last wish Get your way with emotional talk! Take it Be done before the Inspector comes Thank you, sir Sir, will you be in trouble if a criminal dies when he's in Police custody? What are you saying? Hey, what are you doing? Answer me Oh God...fire!! Bring the extinguisher You open the cell first I'll bring it It's burning Hit him!!! Hey. What happened? Shiva, take our phones from the locker What happened, Moorthy? Shiva, let's hurry Hit him! Hit him We got caught because of you You're the reason Die now Let's see who stops us now Die off Die off Die now Come, let's go Let me go Let me go Come fast, let's take the money and leave this place Where's the money? Let's go 'Inspector Murali Pandiyan please come to the Theater office immediately' Any problem? I'll go check on him Your dad held onto his leg He didn't allow them to escape as that would reflect badly on you He held on to his leg till the end Those rascals shot him and escaped Dad...! Tiff "You're my loving Dad" "There's no one like you in this world" tiff "You're my loving Dad" "There's no one like you in this world" "You're my loving Dad" "Through your love, I see my mother in you" "All my needs" "You gratify instantly" "You're truly a God that grants even before I seek" "You're my loving Dad" "There's no one like you in this world" "You're my loving Dad" "Through your love, I see my mother in you" tiff Life gives everyone a chance to win You must win! Tiff "You've been a friend in need and a shoulder to lean on" "You've helped me rise up after every failure" "You veil your sorrows" "And give me a smile" "You've shielded me from the smallest harm" "You've carried me on your shoulders all along" "You're God sent" "You're my loving Dad" "There's no one like you in this world" "You're my loving Dad" "Through your love, I see my mother in you" "All my needs" "You gratify instantly" "You're truly a God that grants even before I seek" tiff I've heard a lot of people promising to give their life for somebody But, nobody does But, your father He's really great You're very fortunate to have a father like him Nothing will happen to him I'll take care of him You do whatever you feel is rig ht No matter what you decide, I'll be with you Murali, I'd asked you to come to the bank to discuss your job Why didn't you come? My work begins only now! Thank you, sir Shiva, twenty seven years old Lawrence, twenty seven years old Why are you digging up the evidence again? What's your analysis? The Police and you know only about the two criminals who've escaped But only I know about a third one involved in this case A third one? When they were escaping, the two of them got into the backseat of the vehicle Move fast - Who drove the vehicle? - That's the third person He's my target now How will you find him in such a big city? Since Shiva was working in a bank He knew he couldn't withdraw much money through domestic cards He's used his contact abroad... ...to source details of the wealthy there ...and robbed their accounts from here The Karate Instructor helped him Both of them are from Mumbai But we already know these details! I feel that the third person should be a local He must be in contact with the criminals here He must be the one who helped them make fake cards If we lookout for the person who made the cards... ...then we can find the third person In such a big city How can you find him in such a big city? Won't one criminal recognize another? I never seen such a 'bald headed snake' Thank you for trusting me with this 'Operation' Our ears will hurt with his non-stop jabber Did you hear that, Murali? We asked him to help us and he thinks he's a pan of this 'operation' This is not a good place to talk Let's talk on the way Parry's Ravi is the contact for making small-time fake documents But for bigger things like fake passports, bank documents... ...fake credit and debit cards, Tondiarpet Ramana is the contact He's educated and will do a thorough job How are you so sure about this? The chain snatcher won't rob houses The thief won't pickpocket We have our own work ethics You know we steal from crowds We find credit or debit cards from the purses we steal If we use those cards, we'll surely get caught We never risk that I give all those cards to Ramana For each card I give him, he pays me Rs 5,000 He's made big bucks using the cards I've given him You are talking about original cards How about these fake cards? I've seen plenty of such cards with him Where can I meet Ramana? Did you get the money for the passport? I've to collect it from him tomorrow Hey Ramana! Gaja is a miser He wanted to pay Rs 10,000 for everything put together It looks like a brand new TV! Will you pay me more? Am I a pimp 10 pay you more? Don't you know I don't deal with all this? Sell them to Gaja! Leave the place If a thief doesn't buy stolen goods, who else will? 'Why is he here?' 'Wonder he found out I am the one who stole goods in the lyer house' What do you want? Convert this information into a card The guy you made international cards for...he's my friend I'll pay any amount Rs 30,000 You've come to the wrong place, leave now - I've come to the right place - I'm telling you to leave He wants you to leave! I am escaped Tell me Sir, I'll tell you everything My God! Stamp paper, debit card, credit card, ration card, passport His work is better than the original He's been running a small Government office I need a passport myself I know you made these international cards Yes, sir How does he look? He only calls and that too from different numbers each time He'll call twice and disconnect I answer the third call He'll tell me to come to a specific place He'll be wearing a helmet I've never seen his face till now I swear I don't know anything else - Check whether everything is there - Thanks a lot, sir Please forgive me I spoke too much That's alright You can leave now - Thankee, sir - Where are you escaping to? It's a shame you use the mirror It's more shameful that you wear sunglasses Sir, don't leave him till he is able to pronounce 'thank you' properly - I'm sure you will get death sentence - 'Thankee' you, sir It was very difficult to nab Ramana It's been of no use He hasn't seen his face either Police theories claim that even the most brilliant criminals leave a clue behind Why are you watching the ATM visuals now? I'll tell you Make note of the time Red Hills, 845 Muttukadu, 7 PM Aren't all these ATMs on the outskirts? You're right On what basis do you refill the ATMs in the city? We know the nature of transactions at each ATM... In certain areas there is high usage and we refill every day What about the ATMs at the outskirts? We refill once a week as they don't have too many transactions When a customer uses his card at an ATM that has insufficient funds... ...the customer gets a message The Bank is alerted as well We refill cash as soon as we get the alert Did you notice something? All the ATMs that were robbed were on the outskirts and at desolate places Not just that, the ATM was robbed shortly after it was re-filled How did they get information on the ATM refills... ...and the location of the ATM Camera? You're right I'm sure someone from the agency in-charge of the ATM refilling is involved Fifty five people work here Each team has five members Two custodians, two gunmen and one driver Each custodian is given a six digit confidential password The ATM machine will open only when both custodians key in the password After they refill and close the ATM machine... ...the password becomes invalid I've already explained this to the Police The public will know we are re-filling the ATM Because the shutter will be half closed and our vehicle will be stationed outside Someone from the public could've informed them Can I have the list of the team members who serviced these ATMs? It was the same team that went to all the ATMs Can I interview them, one at a time? I'm Rajesh, the driver I've worked here for the past seven years - What about your family? - My parents live in Madurai I live with my friend - Where does your friend live? - Brindavanam Street, West Mambalam Shiva, 27 years old, grew up in orphanage, Mumbai I can imitate this voice This is Shiva We're both safe Call me on the usual number after work I've to tell you something important Who was it? Don't know who that was Someone called Shiva he disconnected after telling me to call after office hours You can go I'm Nishanth I've been a cash custodian for the past five years It's ok, take the call This is Shiva We're both safe After work, call me on the usual number I've to tell you something important - Who was it? - Don't know who that was Someone called Shiva, he disconnected after telling me to call after office hours You can go I'm Mannavan and I'm a cash custodian Father? My father died when I was very young My mother lives in Thoothukudi I've two sisters who are studying in Thoothukudi This is Shiva We're both safe After work, call me on the usual number - I've to tell you something important - I'm in a meeting I'll call you back - Who was that? - My uncle He's coming tomorrow, he's asked me to pick him up from the bus terminal Why do I have to know your personal details? You can go The next move? Go to the control room I'll follow him Where are you? You decamped with the money, didn't you? If I get you... Why are you yelling? How can you blame me for getting caught? What if you'd succumbed and confessed to the Police about the money What would I do then? Didn't we struggle only to get our hands on this money? You didn't go to your house last night Neither did you take our calls Don't try to cheat us Why should I cheat you? If I'd wanted to cheat, why would I call now? Didn't I follow your instructions of not answering the first two calls? When you called 30 minutes back, the Police were questioning me What happened? Thank God! I managed somehow When did I call? You only called me Was it my voice? I swear it was your voice ECR Road, Muttukaadu tower Shall I send a patrol car? No, they would have escaped from there now How many people did the Police inquire? Five - Did they ask the same questions? - I don't know that But they said they'll be questioning the gunman and the driver again They didn't doubt me Fool! You are their only suspect They're on your trail now Bring all the money to the Perambur bus terminal at 8 PM I'll throw away my SIM card after this call Switch off your mobile Switch it on sharp at 8:05 PM, only after coming to the bus terminal I'll call you from a public phone booth as always Where are you meeting them? Where are those two now? I don't know I don't know! I don't know, Sir Don't hit me I don't know, Sir Look at him hanging upside down like a bat This is a technique the Police use In 20 minutes, you'll bleed from your eyes, nose and ears Please leave me My eyes are burning It's unbearable, Sir Please leave me I'll tell you the whole truth We used a skimmer device and a pin-hole camera to rob Shiva taught us to use it The skimmer device is small and compact, you get them in China I'm aware of the high-transaction ATMs in the city I pretend to be a customer, go to those ATMs and fix these devices When a customer swipes his card, all his details recorded on the card... ...get transferred onto the device After that... Pin-hole camera will help us to find out the four digit password The pin-hole camera records the password and stores it on a memory card And the next day, I walk in like any other customer... ...remove the devices and give it to Shiva Shiva extracts the details from the memory card He gives me the account holder's list - Then, I take it to Ramana - It takes two days Ramana makes the fake cards While giving the cards to Shiva... ...I also give him information about the ATMs refilled in the outskirts of the city ...and also the exact location of the security cameras in those ATMs After which they both rob the ATMs He talks about a skimmer device, pin-hole camera They've put their brains to good use We've to learn a lot from them Not about robbing, but about using the brain Who has all the money? It's with me Where is it? We've retrieved the money Sir, I've installed mobile tracking software in all the four mobiles The location of the incoming call will be displayed Have you been waiting for us... ...at the Perambur bus terminal for the last 30 minutes? Do you know where we are now? We're at the entrance of the hospital where your father has been admitted Isn't your father very dear to you? Brother...? Take him to the Police Station safely Can I meet Dr Ambujam? Sorry, she is in the ICU It's very urgent Can I have her number? 'The number you've dialed is currently busy' I'm Murali's friend I have to meet you urgently Where are you now? You wait there I'll come and meet you Wait there I'll come Dad...? What happened to him? You shouldn't come into the ICU Please stay outside The pressure is dropping - Nurse, where is Dr. Ambujam? - I don't know Are you looking for Dr Ambujam? She's with us I'll call again to tell you where to meet us... ...on Beach Road, come there with the money if you don't come with the money, I'll shoot your girlfriend as well We've located the black van It's at the Chepauk Signal Shall I ask them to block the vehicle? No, don't How many Signals between Chepauk and Beach road? Three Do as I say Go straight and turn right at the third Signal from here The vehicle has crossed the Signal Disable the 'go straight' sign and divert the others to the left and right Take right...! Can't go straight take rig ht or left Move...move Don't stay We've made the diversion The vehicle is moving towards the second Signal Take the right Keep going Diverting in the right side Don't we have to head straight to go to Beach Road? Move...! Hey, black van! Move Take the right Let's take the longer route Move...move Block the right side Go straight Go straight We've diverted them to the right But the next Signal is not working ls there any Sergeant? I'll direct them to the right Stop them all - Divert to the right - You can't go straight Listen to what we say Work for the 'Metro' is in progress Don't stop Take right diversion Will you allow us to go home or not? There are several trucks coming that way It's ok...! We'll adjust 0k, go...go Move...! Move...! Hey...stop the vehicle What is it? There are no vehicles ahead of us or behind us They are planned signals divert and caught to us The Police have trapped us Turn the vehicle around Shiva, run over him When we return home victorious, to celebrate that... ...or when we come back defeated, we should have a family to comfort us If we don't have that, there is no meaning to the life we live I've come back a winner I need you, dad You should be with me always Will you be with me always? Will you? Behind every Man's success, there may or may not be a woman But, behind every Son's success There will be a Father for sure Like mine 'Dedicating to the beloved fathers'
