 

                        Miss. what do you want i told you not to come here and bother Benito Benito you are a criminal and my baby wont be a criminal like you Benito is not coming out!!! or i will call the police to take you to jail, thats what you want you asshole grandma you shut up and go back inside! you are not going out i told you, dont you understand spanish! let this be our secret my friend, keep the secret here ok? The "Magician" wants to see you congratulations little Homie Casper, look at the kids smile Gang: The gang who controls "Salvatrucha" gang your dad is waiting for you look, i know why you want to do this trip, but i dont know why i have to do it if you dont want to go, i cannnot make you, but my brother wont come for you again look, i dont need anyone, i can go to the north by myself if i wanted to. come with us, it wont be easy over there, but at least we will be together here there is nothing for you Sayra, nothing. she is here, damn, if i didnt know i wouldnt recognize her she is a lady now now you can recover your lost time we will do that on the way Mother tomorrow before sunrise we will grab the bus (Congolon) dont worry, she will be ready "The Bombilla" Tapachula, Southern Mexico here is Lucretia with the products Casper, how have you been, now you are a pederast?, the smaller the more idiots look how you beat him up, you are a barbarian tortillas, coffee, baleadas!!! Thank you! slow baby, slow.. stop it Martha Marlene. I am bored, why can you take me somewhere? where? i dont know, wherever you go when you are not here you have another girls in your neighborhood right? of course not you better not, because if i realize that you have other girl...... what? it shrinked.. oh, its normal, look now it will be refreshed do you think she will have a friend for me? be carefull my friend "Smiley", dont say anything that we didnt go to the "Bombilla" dont say anything at all so the "Magician" wont notice ok? yes not a fucking word! Little Homie, you will first earn your letters, hitting on a "Kiddo" (rival gangster) then after that, you will conquer a girl welcome to the destroyer whats up homie..... cool brother whats up Casper you dog! what, this is a little guy hu this is the "Naughty" and the "Smokin" they just arrived, they come and go to see whats going on here. they are "Guanacos" (From El Salvador) this is another guy from the gang and this is the "Querubin" the guy here, his ass is bleeding he has hemorroids this you have to earn it.. for the moment you have to share whats for the gang is for the gang he is the one that has the second voice hey, my dogs are here how was it? did you go to the "Bombilla"? yes, but we didnt find anything. The "Sol" found this with another group of "chickens", in the "Bombilla" take him out dont worry, nothing is happening, now that dog that scares you will die you fucked up you "Kiddo", you got in the train of the gang i am only going to the north, please, please!! you are already worthless you fucker we will cut you in 18 pieces and we will feed the dogs i have a family... and i am not a gangster anymore "kiddo" will always be a "kiddo" Casper, give "Smiley" a hand both of you get him point to his head. this is for the fallen Homies you fucker to the count of three, 1.. 2, 3. the first time is like this little Homie, dont chicken out. the scareness goes away, but the gang is forever now you belong to a family with thousands of brothers wherever you go, there will always be someone that protects you food is here!! you were not in the "Bombilla" today The "Sol" didnt see you i was there the whole day, and i didnt see him neither you are not playing gay right Homie? it has been many times already,, now the "Sol" didnt see you forget what i said Homie, the homies are getting altered,, i love you dog, from my heart. we learned it already,,, repeat i told you we learned it already you have to learn that number, if something goes wrong, Yessenia can help you out. Horacio, how much time left man? around 6 hours are you tired? yes you have to see it as an adventure brother, we are going to an adventure repeat the number one more time. Guatemala-Mexico Border welcome to Mexico your documents you dont have right? come here, everyone come here. ok people, first you all are going to empty your pockets and take out everything that has some value after that, take off your clothe and put it in front of you... start with the shoes we walked too much! go buy some water for her.. with what money. bring two big bottles that means you run fast this is what we have walked today if there is no immigation we will be here in two weeks two weeks?..... maybe three where is New Jersey? its not in the map look, not even half of them will arrive to the U.S. but we are going to get there. Yessenia is not as pretty as your Mom was but she has a big heart the girls are beautifull keep it, now they are your family also i dont want a picture of your family you are taking me in this trip, i thank you for that i will go call home i remember him more handsome no, the handsome one in the family is me dont tell me you are not a little happy if he was not deported, he wouldnt be here dont think in that bullshit its not bullshit you see that train thats our train, what do you say if we grab that one and go all the way to Texas i can take you to six flags tell me that you love me one more time i love you tell me that you wont hide me anymore its not that of course, you hide from me you already know all that is worth it Martha... Martha.. wait you think i dont realize what you do the whole day with your friends? you get high with other girls, and fool around the whole day Homies you two go to the trains Casper, Smiley whats up "Sol" whats up? who is this girl? Martha, he is "SOl" is she your girl? no, she is just a friend we have meeting tomorrow at the cemetery, in the afternoon ok? hey, be aware Homie, the entrance is full of "kiddos", who knows who is sneaking in with the people i ll take you home friend..... you idiot. Homie, wait here Smiley, wait. lets go there will be no train the train went off the rail ahead, there were many dead people where did you hear that. some friends of mine told me there will be no train!!! we need more money to buy the defense for the homies that are in jail finally,, some Homies have screwed up in their obligations and the "kiddos" are getting in the territory we cannot allow those dogs bringing their garbage in the neighborhood there will be "cut" for Casper and Smiley they fooled me and you know that you cant lie to the leader.... worst, lie to the neighborhood now i want to hear your version where did you go after the "Bombilla"? Smiley, where did you go? ok, your gun thats all. "Savatrucha" gang,, the gang who controls "Salvatrucha" gang what are you doing here you have to go, now! why? is it a private party? whats up Casper, who is this girl? a friend from where? i am from downtown. oh, sorry, i confused you. i was going to take her to the exit no, it wont take time Homie. if you want i can take her, or she can stay and watch but you dont go anywhere Homie. take her directlyto her house Homie Smiley, you also have 13 seconds for not saying anything against Casper this is the largest tree in Tapachula, if you go to the top, you can see very far away why Will couldnt come? Willie? you refer to Casper? ohh, i get it now. you are the reason for him being abscent sit down, i want to talk to you closer, i dont bite. so, you and Casper are more then friends i have to go has he told you anything about us? do you know what are the most important rules to keep a friendship? honesty, respect, and generosity no, no, no hey girl.. where is Martha she left. to her house? the beast took her you will find another one we are going to make a trip to Tonala you and smiley will go with me Homie one more thing, you lie to me again, and i will kill you myself Horacio, they already cleared the railway the train goes this night thank god give me the money! fast, fast! give me the money! give him the money fast, fast thats enough! go back, stay back! turn around Dad, DAD!!! Smiley, get off the train! but.. Casper get off man!!! go Smiley, Go!!! he is dangerous, are you ok? he is not doing anything to us he is gangster man we have to knock him off the train immigration!!!! immigration!!!! raise your spawn "Salvatrucha" gang Homies,, we have to talk about Casper we should all go and get him at once no Homie, water is not ready for beans yet much less with so many fucker shitting the tree they can attack the neighborhood we have to run the voice, even we dont catch him now, sooner or later the sun will light him when that happens..... i am not a sissy, thats why i returned you are lucky i dont kill you smiley, you seem not to have feelings for the neighborhood right? if u didnt have the balls to kill Casper, how do i know you didnt help him escape thats what happened right you fucker? i didnt do anything!! i will dissapear you from the neighborhood you fucker show me you are not a sissy, show me!!! send me, send me so i can show you that i have feelings for the neighborhood send me so i can look for him, and kill him calm down "Sol", hold it, hold it man. get going now, go and kill him if u want to stand out if u dont kill him, than dont even dare to come back to the neighborhood son of a bitch, he doesnt even know where his dick is!! we have to communicate it to all the gangsters in L.A. that dog cannot have even a shadow to hide!! coming or not? thank you, my name is Sayra i am Willie. he killed the "Magician" he got warned, there is green light to kill him, those are the rules and how are you going to kill him? wow!, thats so pretty! how many you got? enough to kill you all. kill him but hiding. sleep, i will stay awake you see, my family is very poor, we barely had a little bit of beans to eat once in a while you are not going to wash yourself? it feels good. i dont know, maybe later when there is less people what will you do later? i dont know. will you stay here tonight? Sayra..Sayra if i find food around i will bring you later. what were you talking with him? we can help him are you crazy? we have to stay away from him. no, you dont understand he is a killer he is in trouble i am ordering you, but he is in trouble! damn, i dont care about him, i care about you and my brother Orlando. look, we still have a long way to get there, we have to be aware, we cant let anyone separate us, ok? who is the boss? i am. i am Smiley from the Confetti neighborhood who is the boss now in the Confetti? the "Sol" we knew what happened, are you hungry or thirsty? have you ever got into one of those? me neither, in a road heading to Texas, i saw a factory where they build them. there was a letter board, very big, with the world shape, and it was shiny so beautifull i wanted to get on it. when i go through there i will see it and it will remind me of you if u make it all the way. i will make it..i am sure in Tegus i went with my friend Clarissa, to my neighbors house a crazy old lady called Leonor, she was a witch, damn, she told me with scared voice, you will make it to the U.S. but not holding god's hand, but holding the devil's spawn. if you come with us, you can show me the letter board you are talking about we are heading to New Jersey they are coming for you right? i think so, sooner or later they will find me, the gang has good memory. are you afraid? no, i live the day. what worries me is not knowing what time and which day they will kill me. so you have not seen him? he has a teardrop tatooed here. no, i havent seen anyone tatooed, since 5 days ago until now you guys. hey,, sons of a bitch!! hahaha i know about that guy you are looking for, he has a tear drop tatooed here. Thank you!! we have to get down... why? in this station, immigration is always shitting the tree and sometimes the police also so what do we do? we get down and surround the train fast, we must be alert! good day for running huh me and Smiley will go the other way we see each other in the other side of the station. hey, look at the guy, he is from the other gang take out your fucking gun Smiley dont worry Homie, these guys always miss the target except this one... where the fuck were you Homies? didnt you hear the gunshots? yes Homie, but we almost catch Casper. you left us behind with those assholes, and.. where is Casper? in the train, i want to take that fucker down. get on, Smiley, you go in the front you are leaving just like that? so what do you want go with you oh god, she really fucked up. i cant take care of you, i am not asking you for it. for god sake Sayra, realize that i am a dead man!, dont you get it? dont worry Willie, everything will be ok. you messed up, you dont have any idea about the mess you are in Horacio, Sayra is not here. oh Casper, why the fuck you came here? you are just putting me into trouble i can do what you are asking for, but really its trouble. i have to do some things first, you guys hungry? you can stay sleeping in the sofa,, do you guys want to take a shower? you are a little one well, let me see what i 've got i thought you didnt have family, i dont, she is not my aunt, i used to take people on her territory and she will take us to the border are you coming with me? lets see, try this on.. i think it fits you. the shower is over there, but dont get close to the window ok? i dont want anyone to know you are here what are you going to do with the girl? i will help her get to the border so she can find her family overthere and what do you get with all this, nothing thats good Casper, going to the border. you know what awaits for you, did you know they already called me? and what did you tell them? nothing, the truth, that i havent seen you.. but they called me yesterday you are not going to tell them right? i always do the right thing. maybe she went down to take a pee and the train left her. she left. so we wait here? we cannot wait, we have to go or we wont get there either. ok, fuck! here, thank you aunt dont thank me "Sol", its a pleasure to hear you. are you afraid? no, if i am with you i am ok the opposite, while you are with me you are not ok i dont care, i trust you this scar here, my aunt took me to leave some "chickens" to the border and in Tamaulipas, a cop started to shoot me and here, one from the 18, there was a fight in their territory this scar here,,,, is from the night that the Homies that i have defended all my life killed my love. and i couldnt do anything for her if u still trust me Sayra we both know what a loss is all that i know, is that my whole life has been worthless and that i can ruin your life too get off, go away!! i love you come on, say it with more feeling its just that i love you so much that i dont even know what to tell you i dont know how to express it if you can measure it with your hands, how much would it be? it wouldnt be possible, i would need many miles, or the whole universe to tell you how much i love you. get off you assholes!! hide, hide, hide there come here ok this card is your pass, its only valid for 3 nights then you have to leave to give space to the people that just arrived you have two meals during the day, one is the dinner and please respect the rules in the wall hey you, we dont want low life people like you here you fucking gangster not now, thats the least, you cant be here! let him go kid, let him! hey, i cant believe that you are still here have you seen my dad and my uncle? what? your uncle was deported, and...... your father is not with us anymore when we are in the other side, i want you to promise something what? that no matter what you will look for your family in New Jersey now you have to little sisters that have no father anymore i would be trouble for them, as i am for everyone not for me but you have to help them in something, working are you coming with me? yes i am looking for a boat you want to cross? come on! i can only pass one at the time the money? when we cross we give it to you go on fast. turn around hurry up and get in the water no,,,,, we have to go back!!!! let me go! Smiley.... Die Homie. my lips became sealed at this moment. when i tried to say goodbye and how would my soul be if.. i will live far away from you come to my side, come life of my own being i want to see you in my eyes and get drunk in the breath that your mouth has with the sweetness natural from your loving soul that destiny forces me with pain to let you go. abscent from you i will live woman but you live in my sad heart yours it is you are the angel that came from the sky to this tough life, to sweeten my bitter youth but if there is a disgrace that you die, or i die over there in the sky, in front of the creator i will join you a pay call please..from Sayra Hello.. Yessenia?
