 

                        Marco, we have spies. Get rid of the stuff Flush the stuff! Shun, flush the stuff! Deal is off. We have spies What? Freeze! - Freeze! - You freeze! Sir, if they flush all their stuff, we won't have a case Go Action! Bring me the gun! The gun! Can you hear me? Get down! Police! Hands on your head! Down! Don't move! Sir, Marco is gone I've arranged a hideout for you and your family What's the use? What did you tell me yesterday? You promised! I did it because you said there would be no raid and you would look out for me If they flushed it all, I'd have no case The department won't collapse if you miss this case But I could die! Marco is crazy! Screw it. Where's my money? Damnit It used to be a million, but now just $100,000 And a lifetime of hiding Is that enough for me? - 10 grand... - Hey... Let me drop you off; it's safer Be honest... Did you order the move? It's just work Bastard! You can't trust cops! You two, guard the door! He's here! No... Help! H... Help... Help me... Help... Help... Help... Still running? I'll teach you to be a spy! - Put down your knife! - Put it down now! Move and I'll shoot! Dispatch, someone is hurt Don, for that drug bust you'll be promoted; the memo's been issued Don't mope. Your team wants to celebrate with you. Here's to our... new Senior lnspector! Cheers! - Cheers! - Cheers! Each department faces different pressures These are what we must face Sir, the rookies are all here Okay Next week, you'll each find your first informant Treat each one like your girlfriend They live by betraying others, they trust no one Treat them like friends, but know when to back out But if I treat them like friends... it can be hard to back out You must be clear on this I said to treat them like friends, not to be friends We want information, they want profit Everyone is clear; the books are straight I know we all have feelings But don't think you are exploiting him He exploits you, too You mustn't let them control you Nor can you keep threatening them Keep your leash 70% tight, 30% loose Learn as you go Sir, if there is a very risky case Should we let them take it? It is their life They have already assessed the risk It's not that we don't care We do what is in our power We don't want anything to happen to them What's happening? The Taiwan Police called Barbarian is back in Hong Kong The '06 and '08 jewelry shop robberies He got away both times He's spent the money, and is back for more Find men who had worked with him Put in an informant; I must get him this time Here's the informant money, $1.5 million Tell your men to be less generous Budget cuts next year All the informants are screaming for more money Neither you nor I will get a raise. How can they? Tommy, this is Don Lee Get me the files on a prisoner serving at Pik Uk His name is... Sai-fui Ho His nickname is Ghost, Jr. I also want information on his family Sai-fui Ho I'm Senior lnspector Don Lee of Criminal lntelligence Bureau You'll be out in two days; what are your plans? No plans You started racing with your dad "Ghost" at 14 Drove without a license at 1 6 Illegal street racing at 1 8 First prison sentence at 20 After that, assault, theft, drug trafficking You've spent 25% of your life in jail Another charge and you're finished What do you want? I have a job for you while you're still clean to work with the police Me? A stool pigeon? No way You dad borrowed $800,000 before he died Wing is pimping out your sister You must think about... how to pay the debt Stay out of my family affairs I've put my card in your bag Call me if you have problems Sir, this is Don Lee I have a target leaving Pik Uk in two days Arrange a tracking team on him I'll give you the files later Heels down; keep your back straight Hi, what are you doing here? You called to tell me my shoes are ready What shoes? The heel of my shoe... Sorry, bad memory. Please wait Take your time It's hard to find a decent cobbler now Your shoes are in bad shape. Buy a new pair. We have a new shipment. Care to look?. No, I'm in a hurry; I must go - We'll talk next time - Sure - Goodbye - Goodbye Your sister is working at Wing Sing Hotel Move! Look lively Let's go! Kill him. Stop it... Don't hit me I'll take over my dad's debts You can take over nothing! Brother! Don't hurt my sister... Your dad owed my boss $800,000 That's $1 million with interest You Bastard! Let's go He is getting worse He may have to go to a mental hospital soon What do his wife and son say? His son doesn't want to know him Doesn't want to get stabbed Social Services has many of these cases Thank goodness for volunteers like you Bring it to him Careful You will move to a new place soon It's nice, just like home No... Can't go home Chop up my family Don't talk about my family... Get close to Tai Ping, tell me what he is dealing He is looking for a driver He still comes, which means he hasn't found one You drive well, and worked for him; he'll use you If you agree, I'll give you a car And money to join the race If I don't? You just stole a car Every minute you dawdle, your sister suffers Who's the bald guy? Racer Ghost's son Just got out of jail Ghost, Jr. Tai Ping When did you get out? Yesterday Give me your number Sir, Anti-Street Racing is on the move tonight - Which district? - South New Territories Sir, this is Don Lee Anti-Racing is in South NT, where my informant is working Can you talk to them? Have they started? Yes Timing is tight. I 'll try my best If you win, Tai Ping will want you It's up to you to save your sister Every minute you dawdle, your sister suffers Tunnel Exit, 8 coming your way High speed, careful Tunnel Entrance, get in position Chan, spot a car for me License plate MN5592 Let it go This is a Police Roadblock All cars ahead, stop now! This is a Police Roadblock All cars ahead, stop now! This is a Police Roadblock All cars ahead, stop now! This is a Police Roadblock All cars ahead, stop now! - Stop! Freeze! - Stop! - Freeze! - Okay, okay... Did you get away? What do you think?. Just call me when Tai Ping calls you I'll help you with your sister Stop the mounting interest The girl... is your family? Don, you know Loan Shark Shum Wing works for him Shum has a huge ego He won't talk You are second-in-command there Of course you can negotiate I'm just your stoolie; it's not my job When we make an arrest with your information I announce it's because of a mole Do this, or I'll announce it's because of an informant I've stopped the interest on your loan Pay it off, then they'll let your sister go You can see her now Tai Ping wants to see me tomorrow We'll try to meet here from now on I chose it because it is full of old people Our targets don't come here There are many entrances and exits Don't use the same ones every time Incense at Earth God's altar means I'm here Let's talk money You've heard of Barbarian? Yes Tai Ping wants you to drive Tell me if he wants to work with Barbarian Your monthly pay is $20,000 with rewards when on a case How can I repay my debt with $20,000? You'd get a raise... if you arrested Barbarian I don't decide your pay How much for finding firearms, breaking up a gambling outfit, arresting a gambler, All these have guidelines Every penny I give you and you get from me are documented by signed reports All costs are recorded, all prices set But if you get on a case and are at a crucial stage we can talk about rewards Once you've signed you'll be an official police informant Call me as soon as they put you to work I will give you guidelines Stay away from fights My immediate superior also knows about your identity In case anything happens to me he can vouch for you The Department of Justice will hold this letter, which will prove your participation is to help the police Sit inside Our driver, Ghost, Jr. Fairing, Blast, Zipper You sure can eat Crap! You're too slow You Mother! How can you say that? Bastard! Don't say "mother" "Mother", "mother"... No fighting during meals Dee Barbarian Come, Tai Ping It's our first job, so here are the terms You three carry guns, and get $3.5 million each Is that okay? Yes, $3.5 million is good Thank you, Barbarian It's fine with me Okay Ghost, Jr. drives, and gets $1 million Tai Ping and I are known faces We will stay hidden until it is time Dee will contact you meanwhile Dee's words are my words Dee Drink to everyone What's wrong? I can't drink I'm pregnant Congratulations, Barbarian! Congratulations, Barbarian! - Congratulations! - Congratulations! Congratulations! How many people were there? and Barbarian's girl This nose, these eyes, this mouth Are you sure? You seem so sloppy He looks sloppy; don't look at me Go ask his mother And the girl? She must look less sloppy, right? Did they say when they would call you? Barbarian said, to avoid you, his girl will contact us Find a way to copy her phonebook for me Change into these "Now is not the time, get an abortion" The number you have dialed cannot be reached What are you shopping for? A ring Here are our latest diamond rings Looking for a wedding ring? No Let me see this Remember it Next time you come, take it for me Merry Christmas Let's take a picture Come, take a picture Come on, come on Take a picture h ere Say ch eese Beer I th ou ght you can 't drink - Two dozen! - Coming! Why were the police chasing you? I can 't remember They always chase me Why were the gangsters chasing you? I stabbed a gang leader... ...three times If not for you I would have died that night If not for you, I'd be arrested Why did you come to Hong Kong? It hurts most... ...to be betrayed by...? Friends Family We were poor Everything my siblings and I had... ...I won on the gambling tables I couldn't lose If I did, we'd go hungry For $400,000, Mother sold me to... ...a gang leader in Hong Kong The night I met you... ...I stabbed him 3 times Barbarian rescued me, and said... ...he would always take care of me I thought he meant it The data on her SlM card You said there's a reward We've even scouted locations; how much? When we make an arrest, you'll get a bonus How much? I'll talk to my superiors I want $1 million You can't get it, I quit You're in place; Barbarian won't let you go You mean you can't get it I'll talk to another officer We signed the agreement; no one else can use you Trust me Trust you? How long have I known you? I'll trust cops when hell freezes over Continue to help me Or go with Barbarian And I'll arrest you Or do neither I will capture Barbarian And you'll be running the rest of your life Sir, We've tracked Barbarian's phone He's on Nathan Rd, near Nanking and Cheong Lok Streets Status of the signal? Target has disconnected Signal has stayed in one position and hasn't moved in an hour Tracking Team, target is extremely dangerous ...and may be armed Tell me when you locate him; let Hit Team take over Wai, drive Speak Sir, target is active Now turning to receiving station on Nathan, Parkes and Nanking Streets Okay Attention, target is walking Go to Nathan Rd, Parkes an d Nankin g Streets, n ow Wai, let me off up ah ead Attention, I h ave visu al contact He ju st passed Ma Wan g Glasses an d a moustache Wearing brown jacket, black pants Target returning to roost, Ku, take the boys in Tracking Team, guard all entrances and exits This is Ku, my cover is blown Target is at Yaumatei Car Park Everyone hold, do not enter Guard all entrances and exits Auto Team, to Yaumatei Car Park now Don't worry, I won't hurt you Sir, the signal is still in the car park Tai Ping, cops were tailing me Check on our new boys Your turn I'm just the driver You'll be rich after this. Any plans? Let my sister live well What a good brother You? Do something to make myself happy We'll always have sad times... What do you mean? Who do we miss the most? It will be Christmas soon That's when we think of people most important to us Have you gotten him a gift? Now, I will give a gift to you all I haven't received a gift in a long time I'm numb about festivals Long ago, my sister gave me some gifts Then she stopped Now that you'll be rich Get her something nice Girls like to receive gifts She will be happy Sir, license and registration Please turn off the engine Sir, please cooperate Turn off your engine, engage your hand brake Engine off, handbrake on, license What are you doing? He bypassed the roadblock Call for backup Hold on! Freeze! Stop! Stop! Search over there Have you searched there? We've looked everywhere; nothing There's nowhere to run here Impossible, we saw them go there Go back and look again You're lucky no one got hurt in the gun run I told you Call me as soon as anything happens How can I call you when I didn't know anything? Where are the guns now? I don't know How many? One AK, five pistols Six?. You're ex.cluded? I told him I'm driving, not shooting What if he makes me carry a gun? Don't shoot it Hello? Ghost, Jr. Tai Ping? Where are you? At home I'm at the door, open up It's Tai Ping Close the door You said you lived at the base; whose place is this? My grandmother's I found out yesterday... she left me this place So I'm staying here for now Who lit the incense? The granny next door Friend of my grandmother It's fresh This one? Yes Granny, did you light the incense? What is it? What's happening? Did you light incense next door? My sister often lights incense for you, so what? What is she saying? Old people... Don't get mad, it's all right, let's go back in Is that all? Yes, don't get mad... I followed you from the MTR station Don't let the police tail you Stay put, we're working soon Thank you Don't kill me! Chopped to death... Marco, don't kill me... Chopped to death... Chopped to death What's wrong? Let go Are you all right? Marco... chopped me to death! Marco is not here Marco is back... I saw him I can't escape now You saw him? Where? I saw... Marco kill I' a stoolie, can't escape My wife... He will kill her Tell my wife to run away...! Tell her to run... Chopped to death Chopped to death They've scouted ten jewelry shops Which do you think may be the target? I'm still analyzing Let me get this Speak, Chi We found Marco, OSCB will arrest him tonight I called the police to arrest Marco for you Can't trust rotten cops Don't trust... Don't trust them... Can't trust rotten cops... Marco is back, don't let him see me... Marco! Kills people Marco! Be brave, it's all right... Look at him... Watch... Police! Get out of the car! Get out slowly! Come out with both hands up! Marco has been arrested Marco has been arrested I can go home... I want to see my wife... Go home! Go home... I can go home! I want to go home... see my wife... I can go home... I can go home! I want to go home... I want to go home... I want to see my wife... Class dismissed Okay, goodbye - Goodbye - Goodbye It's all right Take him to the doctor No need to come over. I can close up All right Bye - Hi! - Hi! You're still here? How am I doing? When you are in class... I sometimes look at you To be honest, dance is not... ...one of your talents Do your shoes ...have any sentimental value? They're so worn out My wife gave me these I promised I would dance with her But I never did Now I want to, but I cannot You're separated? You've kept her shoes Why not think about getting her back?. I made a mistake... I can never have her back Your wife's report is out She has syphilis Even if you kept the child ...it would be born handicapped I thought I saw Don a few days ago Don't let Cher go to the dance school Yes, Uncle Cher is doing well Doctor said she might remember again I'd rather she never remembered We know where they are, we can arrest them any time No, wait till they take action My informant is in danger, then I've waited for Barbarian all this time I must charge him... for more than weapons concealment Your stoolie is just driving, not carrying We arrive, he surrenders, he's fine I'll see if he will do it No, tell him he must do it His $1 million has been granted We make an arrest, he will be paid When we have stool pigeons, we must be prepared When they provide information, there will be danger My son will be married in February Hot off the press, you get the first one We stool pigeons don't have friends We've worked together 4 years I'll watch over you Relax., new Father-in-law It is their life They have already assessed the risk Trust me When we make an arrest, you'll be rewarded Trust you? How long have I known you? I'll trust cops when hell freezes over Cops can't be trusted We want information. They want money Everyone is clear, the books are straight Well? The $1 million you want is fine But I must tell you No one knows... what will happen from now It's your life. Think it over Just pay me when you get your guy Hello Did Cher come today? I don't know if she's coming Thanks Bastard! You're still after her? Haven't you hurt my daughter enough? Don't ever come see her again! There's been a bad traffic accident Tsimshatsui... Where is this? Granville Circuit, Tsimshatsui Cher Hang in there Hang on, the police are coming... I'm sorry... I'm sorry, dear I promise I'll never let you see me again I will disappear... I'm sorry, dear I'm sorry Targets 1 and 2 have arrived Cougar, Sparrow, follow them Go inside, Elephant Monkey, call dispatch to check on the car KH425, see if it's wanted Stay on them. They're changing cars, things may be wrong We have to lose the cops today Fairing Remove their cell phone batteries, put them in here Yours, too Yes Ghost, Jr., go on the bridge Get out! Get out! This is Car A. They ran across the divider and jacked a car They're all gone Did you see the plates? No Where were you? We're melting the gold tomorrow Having an abortion, like you wanted I asked you, but not now Have you cared about me? What? I've never cared about you? Really? You're just worried I can't handle tomorrow I'm not in your heart; why keep me here? Answer it Hello? Sure Hey! Yes, I have another woman After this deal, take an extra share We'll go our separate ways Barbarian, are you two all right? We've scouted ten places, which do we hit? None of them I have another in mind "Please notify..." Here, you'll feel better You dare to bet with me? Talk inside Tai Ping, which do we rob tomorrow? You'll know tomorrow Just remember the layout The shop opens at 10:30 a.m. If we wait till it opens, there will be traffic So we hit it at 9:30 while they are setting up the windows Ghost, Jr., crash the door with the car Zipper, you and I will supervise Fairing Barbarian, let's discuss the price Take him out and take his share Throw him down the well Don't get his kind again Yes Ghost, Jr. Carry a gun tomorrow, you'll get extra We're one short now, don't blow it "Tell Officer Lee, 66820693, robbery at King Sang Gold on Chatham Rd" Hello? Sir, someone asked me to call you There's a robbery at King Sang Gold on Chatham Rd Freeze, all of you! What are you doing! You two, over there. Get down! Get up! Over there! Put the gold in here! Ku, it's at King Sang Gold on Chatham Leung! Next street! Hurry! Move Open it, now! Bring it all out! Hurry! Hey, come help us Danger! Inside! Go inside! Control, Officer Ku is shot Call an ambulance immediately! Burn the clothes you wore today And the guns you used Blast, Ghost, Jr. Give me your unused guns Hello? Fairing, Blast, prepare to melt the gold Tai Ping, ask when the boat is coming Tommy Track a cell phone for me Hello? Great Barbarian, the boat is here - Fairing - Yes Help load the gold onto the boat Yes Tai Ping Take ten bars Thank you, Barbarian Dee These six. are yours Here's one more Blast! Ghost, Jr., drive for me! Bastard! Fairing, drive, run over them! Run, Barbarian Run Burn it Yes Hold on, Ghost, Jr. Let's go They all wore masks All clothing and guns are burned We have Barbarian, but he melted the gold We have no evidence We can't even prove that's the gold they took Your informant bought the guns, did the job and melted the gold To charge Barbarian, he must give a statement Get him to turn witness Some of the men have escaped Do you want my informant to die? A policeman died on this case I won't spare Barbarian, no matter what If your informant refuses he won't get his $1 million Wait Whether he's willing is something else I promised him money upon arrest No one expected this to happen We can't make the charges stick I don't want to get another stoolie killed And I don't want Barbarian to walk free Your informant must give his statement, no buts I'll do my best to protect him afterwards No deal, you must do this Let her be all right... Let her be all right... This is Ghost, Jr. Did you get them? Yes Where's my money? Where are you? Are you all right? Lay down I've found a doctor I've called the police I'm a stool pigeon I called the cops to arrest them If I don't, I won't get $1 million for my sister Take the gold and run I have money; go to Taiwan with me Let's go I can't hide forever I promised I wouldn't leave my sister She's my only family You go on We will go... Lay down Take the money, go The doctor will come soon I've called all day; where are you? Almost there Main Street, 23A Thank you, Tai Ping Ghost, Jr.! Run! They went through the window Run Go No! Inside! Out that window! I've brought your money... I've brought your money... The King Sang Gold robbery... ...we did it - Call an ambulance - Yes, sir. Call Dispatch Tell them we found the King Sang Gold robbers Here is $1.5 million, repay the girl's debt Give her the rest Don, you're nicer to her than to me This is yours Don't take hers ...or I'll make the rest of your life miserable He thinks I'm his wife He gave me this money that night ...and kept apologizing... ...for leaving me and my son for so long Keep the money Please look after him for me He just wants to see you, hear you sing I'll put money in your account every month Is that all right? "l reminisce about memories gone by" "Some are happy, some make me cry" "Dreams are like life," "Happy thoughts never fade" "While sadness is in your bones inlaid" "Youth hovers" "l perpetually silently chase" "But it is gone without a trace" "l see the moon up in the sky" "When it wanes, time has passed me by" "l reminisce about the times gone by" "Memories make me smile though I cry" "Dreams are like life," "Expectations never made" "That a rock would become jade" "Like lovers" "We mean to give romantic chase" "But give up at the problems we face" "l see the sun rise in the sky" "When it sets, time has passed me by"
