 

                        Names and incidents in the film are fictitious and imaginary... The crowd is huge And there are press reporters too If your photo is out in the papers, all of Tamil Nadu will protest... Please allow me to cover your face Release Sivaji! Release Sivaji! Please move! Move! Make way! CENTRAL JAlL Move! Not one or two rupees It's a 460 billions scam! He provided food & education for all, but you're torturing him Get him! He would get at least 10 years rigorous imprisonment He laid a road in 10 days that took the government 10 years! He is a big fraud He has given employment to more than 10000 people like me He should be jailed forever! He should never be released! All of Tamil Nadu will be in flames if he is hurt even a little! - Name? - Sivaji - Father's Name? - Arumugam Greetings sir! Is yours a murder case? - A finance company scam? - No - Did you make porno films? - No Then what crime did you commit? I did good for the nation! Then you deserve to be punished! Whom are you waiting for? My son Sivaji is coming from abroad You won't respond to any number of my SMS messages But you've come to meet Sivaji - Hi sister! Hi uncle! - Hi brother-in-law Girls! They are produces of Sivaji. His parents! Mom and dad! Don't you dare strip his dhoti! Sivaji's parents are adored so much! Then what about Sivaji... - Mom, bless me! - He's an emperor of style! oh Lord Karuppuswamy! Bless you my son! - Dad! - Bless you son! - Look here! - Hi uncle! How are you! Uncle! Am I your uncle? Is that fair? You're my mother's brother! Should I call you aunty? Who are these things? These are the latest and most modern girls in the city! Sister wanted you to get married! So I brought all of them! Select one of them! I'll fix up the girl for you! Now, aren't you doing an uncle's (broker's) job! Vibuthi (Sacred ash)! Why is she smearing herself on me? India has developed! Thanks for coming! - Isn't there a party this evening? - Yes, of course. See you then. What is yourjob abroad? I couldn't explain it to others! Software System Architect. - Say it in Tamil - Software System Architect. Do you understand it now? He's a computer engineer! Cool!! Isthis Chennai? It's graceful Chennai now! We get everything from Levis jeans to Role atches! Sir, we've not eaten for 4 days! Some alms please sir! All the luxuries have come! But poverty alone has not gone! I've been starving for 4 days now. May you live long! How long are you going to stay this time? Forever! Enough of making money and working for rich men to become richer! Now I'm going to use that money to help the needy! Great Shivaji! Will your net worth be 25 billions? Yes, around that much... give or take 10 dollars! Greetings sir! Welcome sir. Greetings! Greetings! Bless you! He is the great Adiseshan! - Greetings! He has many educational institutions, hospitals & industries to his name His visiting card is elaborate, like a menu card! He is a great business magnate! He is well connected in politics too. He is exaggerating! I am just like an attendant! Friends! I was born in a poor farmer's family! My parents toiled hard for my studies! I studied abroad with scholarships and have come to this level! I want to do some good for my nation! our nation still suffers with poverty! only proper education can eradicate poverty! To make that happen... I'm going to start a university called Sivaji University It'll provide education from LKG to PhD and... ...from Arts to Medical sciences. All free of cost I am going to setup Sivaji Hospitals... ...and provide facilities from EN to open heart surgery... ...all free of cost and to international standards. I request all of you to extend your support... ...for the success of Sivaji Foundations Bye then! I am late Thank you for accepting my invitation! Good! Keep it up! Let me know if you need any help! You can meet me whenever you want! Thank you! Hi Biju, come on start! Buddy! What's all this? Girls live catalogue! Babes buffet! Select one! I'll fix the girl for you! It is apt to call you uncle (broker)! - Don't call me that! - Then, what should I call you! - Call me mother's brother! - Well, I'll try that! Hey Muns! Her name is Munuswamy! Munuswamy, a man's name? Yes, only last month had a transsexual operation to become a woman! Hey you! There are many modern girls to suit your taste! Select one! We'll arrange for the marriage! Mom, I want a good Tamil cultured girl! If we shake these girls up, they'll talk in Tamil Notjust in speech, in her breath, in her heart, and in everything... ...the girl should have a touch of Tamil culture Girl with a touch of Tamil! You're a poet clad in a suit! You'll never get married! Hi Sivaji, come on, let's dance, yeah! - Hi Vibuthi! - Wow! Smear me on you, come on man! - Wait...wait... - Don't feel shy, come on... - Hey Biju, change the music. - Which number you want me to play sir? I want to hear our kind of a song! Ajolly good Tamil song! With an exciting dance! Can you play? ls he the Sun? Or the Moon? Who might he be! Tell me the anser! Has he on over the Chera and Pandya kingdoms? Tell me the anser! ls he the Sun? Or the Moon? Who might he be! Tell me the anser! Has he on over the Chera and Pandya kingdoms? Tell me the anser! Just have a look! Who might he be! Does he have the and Ifootprint of a leopard? Tell me, ho is he? ls just a sound enough for him to shoot the target? ls it to Salem, Madurai,,, ,,,Madras, Trichy or to Tiruttani? For everyone,,, Even Tamil Nadu becomes America at his arrival! Memories of the Cauvery river and hand-ground rice still linger! Young sari clad girls and inking eyes on't vanish! Our sapling lands,,, The canal banks,,, The red-brick roads,,, The shade of the tree here e played,,, The blanketed greenery,,, The brittle de drops,,, Hot baked rice cakes,,, The trembling rail tracks,,, Rapidly floing Cauvery river,,, Betel leaves rapped hastily,,, Sharp twisted moustaches,,, All these still linger in the mind! lt's true! Yes, it's true! ls he the sun? Or the moon? Who might he be! Tell me the anser! Has he on over the Chera and Pandya kingdoms? tell me the anser! ls he the sun? Or the moon? Who might he be! Tell me the anser! Has he on over the Chera and Pandya kingdom? Tell me the anser! ls it to Salem, Madurai,,, ,,,Madras, Trichy or to Tiruttani? ls it to Tiruttani? For everyone,,, Even Tamil Nadu becomes America at his arrival! Tell me the anser! Tell me the anser! Just try staying in a village hut! Try counting the stars through the cracks in the roof! lgnore cell phone rings! Enjoy rattling of carts! Try alking barefoot, caressing the soil! We shall turn into kids! Tie plaits on Banyan tree roots and adorn ith floers! Borro sickles from Lord Ayyanar and sharpen pencils! ls it to Salem, Madurai,,, ,,,Madras, Trichy or to Tiruttani? For everyone,,, Even Tamil Nadu becomes America at his arrival! AYNGARAN DVD Tell me the anser! Spice containers at home ould still have mom's touch! No match for her country chicken cuisine! The heart ould yearn to add pets to the ration card! You get more than ater to just quench your thirst! Fragrance of guileless people,,, Can be sensed in the soil! Even ghosts ould flee from our herbal medicines Oh agnate! People here care even for the neighbours! ls it to Salem, Madurai,,, ,,,Madras, Trichy or to Tiruttani? For everyone,,, Even Tamil Nadu becomes America at his arrival! Memories of the Cauvery river and Hand-ground rice still linger! Still linger! Young sari clad girls and inking eyes on't vanish! Our sapling lands,,, The canal banks,,, The red bricked roads,,, The shade of the tree here e played,,, The blanketed greenery,,, The brittle de drops,,, Hot baked rice cakes,,, The trembling rail tracks,,, Rapidly floing Cauvery river,,, Betel leaves rapped hastily,,, Sharp twisted moustaches,,, All these still linger in the mind! lt's true! Yes, it's true! ls it to Salem, Madurai,,, ,,,Madras, Trichy or to Tiruttani? ls it to Tiruttani? For everyone,,, Even Tamil Nadu becomes America at his arrival! Cool! Hello sir! Please come! Give this in the office! Your son can join after you pay the balance Rs 800 thousands - I've sold everything to pay this. - We have nothing to spare Please enroll my son! Take this 1 .8 millions as an investment! Your son will earn more than this when he becomes a doctor! Won't you take a billion of rupees as dowry? I will earn somehow and repay you! Welcome Sivaji! Sir is calling! Please go! You may go! But pay the balance before the 10th of next month! Come on old man! - Go madam - Welcome! Please sit! Please sit! I've made all plans ready for you! I suggest you buy 20 acres of land... ...build complexes, apartments and enter the real estate business or build a star hotel... But we came regarding a university, hospital... That won't work out! I am running a university and a hospital for 20 years I take from 0.3 to 3 millions rupees for a college admission I take 250 thousands rupees for an open heart surgery! If you start a university or hospital and do service free of cost... ...then what will happen to my business? I always want us to be friends! You can do some real-estate business! I've good connections in all Government departments! I'll get you approvals in just a week's time! No sir! This is my ambition! Then, you can proceed! I've no objection! But my staff are a little violent! They won't pay heed! They'll harm my opponents! Earlier there was an Indian from London. His name is... What's his name? They beat him up and drove him off! Couldn't see him anywhere! Don't know whether he's up above or below the ground... - Are you threatening me? - No, I am not I am telling you the facts! Then, it's your wish! Doesn't matter if you don't help. I'll manage! Wish you all the best! I'll pray to God that you should succeed! Hello! - Whom do you want to meet? - Meet the Chief Secretary. Good project! The government would help you in all respects! Cool! This is Palanisami, my PS. He'll give all the details to you! It'll take a whole day to understand your project! I am busy now! If you come to the Le Meridian bar in the evening, we can talk leisurely! - Have you come from US? - Yes You would've brought foreign liquor If you bring it, we can relax and chat Can't you relax with local liquor? I gave that up a long time ago - Do you mean spending your money? - Hold it buddy! Please carry on. We'll meet there. Are we going to worship God? - No, to admire girls! - Girls! Yes, we're here to find a match for you! You wear this and I'll wear these. Change quickly! Look there! Something fishy is happening inside that car. That too, in front of the temple! - Hello! open. - Yes come in. Two men inside! Yes, both of us are men. What's wrong in that? How disgusting! What's happening inside the car? - We're changing dhoties! - Then, why was the car shaking? You mean that? lf we change like this, the car won't shake But not if we do it like this! Raise the window! - lf you shy. - You may go Something wrong. Where is the girl? - Yet to find one - What? We'll look in all the temples. We'll fix up, if we find one! Why have you done this to me? Because the type of girls you want have all joined call centers! he girls who're not in that list... ...can be found only in weddings or on Fridays in these temples! - Let me see if you can find one! - Get lost! I don't think this will work out! Didn't I tell you before? The type of girls you want have become extinct! We'll look in two more temples! And if it still doesn't work out... ...we'll go straight to Sri Lanka! - Pretty girl! - Where? There! Super! Go, talk to her! Why should l? She's your choice! I'm embarrassed, feel shy and very uncomfortable to speak to a strange woman, you know? I asked you to speak to her, not flirt with her! Go on, talk to her! - Excuse me - Yes.... What do you want? How do we go to Madras? Are you kidding? You're in Madras. - We've reached Madras - Isit? - Very kind of you! - Come uncle, let's go! Whom do you call uncle? - He is my uncle! - He is your uncle? Yes, uncle! Escape.... They've confused me! We've missed that auspicious girl! Forget that auspicious girl! Here comes a spacious one! - Gosh, she hit me with her portico! - Get lost... Place an order for some foreign whiskey and soda! - Here we've brought this. - That is for me to take home! For your project, we have to get approvals from the fire dept., airport authority ...local municipality, water board, TNEB, Pollution Control Board There are council regulations to build a medical college We have to apply and satisfy officials at Delhi! We should obtain so many signatures and sign so many papers! It will take a year! You should help us to speed it up! one more large. - What is your project's budget? - 2 billions! Pay me 2%, that is 40 millions rupees. I'll finish it all quickly! Why should I pay? Why are you so ignorant about this process? You're required to pay from the highest officials to the lowest - What if I don't? - The job won't get done They neither ask explicitly nor do they accept directly! They should be approached and paid through the proper channel! You can't do all that. But I can! one stop shop, one more large. Why should I pay? Why should I pay you all? I am trying to provide a good education and medical facilities... ...with my honestly earned money. Why should I bribe you? This approval is not for doing business but to provide service to the needy You may be into providing service for free, but I am not Without bribing you can't even build a toilet I don't require your help! I am educated! I'll follow all the rules, fill a million forms. I won't pay bribes but I'll get the approvals! - Grab that bottle! - Don't get emotional! We shouldn't anger these people! We'll get into troubles! It would be a nuisance! He's a fraud! Don't be scared of him! - Leave that bottle! - You're not giving it to me for nothing! This is the consulting fees for wasting my time! Then, what about the liquor you consumed? - That's my service charge! - You cheats! I know, you'll come back to me someday! Get lost, you bald head! Never. This looks like a violation! Is the valuation FoB or ClF? The valuation is wrong! Your construction is not in the institutional zone! A zone conversion should be done! Because it is outside city limits, get an NoC from the Tasildhar! You can't build more than 4 floors here! Read the Establishment of Medical College Regulations (2000) Have you got the RBl clearance to bring funds into India? We require a legal opinion on the sale deed! only the Central Government is authorised to do this! Ensure this is covered under CRZ. Where is Form 1 part 136? ls it under the Gupta scheme? Even if you provide all documents... ...they'll find fault in something! We have two options one is to pay them off or to drop the project! Nothing will happen here unless we pay them Didn't I say that you would come back to me? - We were waiting for you! - Please come! - Please come. - Mr. Alpanayagam (Greedy one)! - No, Aasainayagam (Desirous one)! - Isit 'Aasai'? Take okay, camera off. - Isthis being recorded? - Just fun!!? Please come! - Have it! - Cash? No thanks. Such an honest person! It is risky to accept cash I've ordered a necklace at Prince Jewellery Please pay in the name of Jamuna - How much should we pay for Jamuna madam?- What's this! I meant how much should we pay for her necklace - Have it? - What about that? About the girl? She is in Suite 35 Superb number! lf we add it up, it would make 8 If I call, the cops will be here on a raid Take the room key! They've really made me a broker! This university construction should be finished in 6 months' time Yes, it would! - Some good news! - What? - The family girl whom we saw at the temple, she is Tamilselvi!- Isit? - She is a graduate in Tamil Literature. - Very good! That's why she's employed in Adyar Musicals as a sales girl! - Her house is at Velachery! - You're great! Come, let's go right away! If we go suddenly like this, she'll drive us out! - I've another way for that! - What is that? My own way! Cops alone can't stop burglary or murders! The public should support us! Burglars normally come to homes in the guise of,,, ,,,telephone servicemen, sales representatives or census staff lf you suspect anyone, talk to them casually and lock them in a room,,, ...and call us at 2484-8100 We would come & arrest them! Who are you? officers What officers? Assistant enumeration officer from Election Commission of India. I'll explain to you! We're here to do family planning for all of you We've come to check the voters' list for Voters' lD He is very strict! lf you suspect anyone, talk to them casually and lock them in a room,,, What are you staring at? Go inside! Please come in! Who is the head of the family? - That's me, Ramalingam. - Your age? - 48 - Female head of the family? - That's me, Jothi. - Age? 42 and half. - There is a chick in your house. Ask her to come!- Chick? Ask your daughter to come! Why should she come? Ask me whatever you want! - I'll give the details! - I can't do that! I should see her in person! Else, it would be a fake voters' list! - Ask her to come! - Because we're very strict! Those guys look suspicious, dear! You talk to him! I'll take care of the rest! Stop ogling at her! Start. - Your sweet name? - Tamilselvi - Age? - 21 - Size? - 7 - Seven? - Size of my footwear! - oh God! Mom, what is this? - Can you cook? Can you make spicy sauce? Where are you going? - To the toilet. - Get lost! You can also accompany him! No need to hurry! Take your own time! Meanwhile, we'll get her details! We'll get the family details! - What is it? - Two burglars are at our home. - Inform the cops. - Don't worry. I'll take care. - Can you sing? - Do you require all this for the voters' list? They've added all these - Don't ask questions! We're strict officers. Just sing! - Mom!! - Sing something! Sing dear! He's a mischievous boy! Lord Krishna is a mischievous boy! Stop it! How long will Lord Krishna be mischievous? - Can you dance? - Show us a small performance! oh mom! What's all this? Just show them a tiny performance! - They'll come now - Who? Her uncle! Ask him to come! Lord Krishna, ho stole my heart,,,- Stop it! - Do something new! - Latest? Come...come dear... Come,,,come near me, my dear,,, Come to me, my dear,,, My life is yours, rule over it, my King,,, Merge yourself ith me,,, oh God! We're not thieves! It's all a mistake. Shut up! That day, you escaped from the temple! Please sign the FlR. I'll thrash them! - Daddy - Sivaji! - Hey you! - Uncle has come - Why have you arrested my son? Who do you think he is? A great computer engineer. He has come from the US He is worth 2.5 billions! This is his certificate. This is his passport, his credit card and his green card, A green card is equivalent to a ration card! - Are you alright? - The cell didn't even have a fan Shut up! Why did you try your con impersonating enumeration officers? We didn't try to con them... We went to enquire about her! What is all this? I've developed a liking for her. I wanted to know all about her! But he came up with this stupid idea! Nuts! Is he attracted to her? This is what we were hoping for! Aren't you her parents? Get up! Hey man! Get up! Go. Get coffee for everyone! - Also ask him to get some auspicious things!- Get everything! There is nobody in this station. We belong to Dharmapuri. We don't bother about caste and we don't accept dowry. Is this a police station or a marriage hall? Most of the love marriages are made in police stations. Don't waste time in tension. Bring a calendar & we'll fix a date. All the expenses are ours and the marriage ceremony will follow Tamil traditions. - Will you breast feed your baby? - What kind of question is this? What if she feeds it some baby food! The baby's health is important, isn't it? I breast fed my child for 5 years. He doesn't look breast fed... He looks caffeine fed! Why did you make me so dark-skinned mom? If you were fair, you'd get dirty, son. That's why. Marriage will at the next auspicious date. It will be held at Sir Raja Muthaiah hall. - Stop it! Are you all mad or do we look like crazy people?- Yes. What? Your contact is not good. What is the meaning of talking about marriage without knowing anything about us. If we let you, you'll even arrange for a baby shower function too! Come, let's go. Please give us security till we get home. Leave it be. They are too much! - There's a long queue of brides for you. - No uncle. Life will be better if we marry those we like, rather than those we get. We can advertise this at the back of autorickshaws. - Greetings sir. - Isthe minister there? Mr. Adiseshan has come. Welcome. Had you told me, I would've come myself - Take your seat. - This is not fair. A guy came from America to build universities and hospitals against me. What are all of you doing? Is it? I don't know Don't act. All the departments have signed and given permission. He has started construction - Have you too taken a bribe? - No! How much did I spend for you in politics? Don't get upset! I'll tell my PA to look after this! He has started just now There are many stages Leave it and I'll take care of it He doesn't pay heed to us We can't trust him We should stop him immediately Shall I kill him? Almost Where? There Wow! Superb! Why did you come here? We came to buy some instruments Can we get a big sized version of this? It's ok! A hand cymbal for me. For you? - For me, a girl with a flute - You at it again! If you don't mind We came to your home to know if you are a girl with family values And if you just visit the temple occasionally or all the time - What do you want now? - Your opinion You are asking for it like a snack Who are you? I don't know you from before or after! Is it? This is before And this is after Have you got it? Will you marry me now? Are you kidding? My parents told you on that day isn't it? Are you relatives, friends or neighbours? We are not related to you. How could I marry you if we don't know you? You are right. We should move isn't it? Cool! Is there any dispute? lf there is anything, tell me and I'll solve it Nothing! Then we've some dispute We'll solve it Come! Come brother. Someone has poured spicy gravy on his head You talk too much - Are you Sivaji? - Yes! - You? - Padmini Seems you are going to build a college, hospital - What about it? - Somebody doesn't like that Leave this, you build something else like a computer company Who are you to tell me that? Are you asking who I am? I am Super Subburayan, the diving fighter I am Jaguar Thangam, the leaping fighter I am Peter Hein, the flying fighter Totally in demolishing you, I am Kanal Kannan Dear! - Are you going to give any punch dialogues?- Why? Guys are giving punch in Tamil Nadu Small guys are challenging Don't want! You proceed - Fire - That's it! If you cross Chittoor, it is Katpadi If you confront Sivaji, you are a dead body Children watch the Pogo channel After 6, it is 7, who is there after him? - How is it? - lt's going to start only now You go and inform them that no one can stop me I think he doesn't pay us heed Why are you playing that? Give him something I am only to show a scene they are there to get hit - You are talking too much - Do you know it? Cool.. Why did you stop? What is that? Leave me! Come! Where? Mom, please come here The whole family is here! Why you have come? We want to socialize with you You want to socialize with us? Yes! lt was you who said you wouldn't give a bride to unknown people So, we want to know you better - Do we look like jokers? - Yes! What? Nonsense! My dear in-law, you don't need to give us the bride Let us socialize. We'll get them married if you like... Else, we'll just stay friends We don't like! Why do you decide in haste? What's wrong in socializing? Is it money lost? You socialize and see... Come, let's socialize Look here, we don't like these games. Get out! Brother! What's the problem? Sir, they say won't give a bride to strangers. But if we want to socialize, they shut the door on us Come to our house I have two daughters Get to know them well You can marry if you like... Else we'll just stay friends Come on dear! - This is Angavai (Keep-it-there) - Should I keep it there? Keep it on your head! This is a beautiful Tamil name This is Angavai This is Sangavai I think you have roasted them deeply. Sivaji, okay for you? - No sir, we will socialize with these people first.- ok. Is it fair to make them stand outside? - Isthis Tamil culture? - You are bothering us too much. Look at his eyes! Look at his color! Look at his style! Will anybody in Tamil Nadu dare say that they don't like him? - You praise me too much. - See, - He doesn't even like praise - We didn't invite them. Serving a guest is the core of our Tamil culture. Finding good people is difficult. Get to know them well. Yes, take them inside. It's my fate... come in. Cool. Come, we will socialize. Stand there. Why are you playing in the hall? Go and bring them coffee. Don't even light the stove. Where is your dhoti? - For what? - To move freely of course ...here it is! - lt is petticoat. - Sivaji catch it. - Hey give that colour. Where are your playing cards? Cards? For hat? Let's play a game. Is sugar necessary for them? Is this conch mark? No, it's vessel mark. - Do you want something? - Do you have some beer? No, there's only buttermilk. Is it? Go and get two beers. Sorry sir... - What do you want to drink? - Poison. Poison? Here it is, have some. Drink it up and leave. You are only giving us coffee. - Isthere nothing sweet & spicy? - No. We're visiting with the whole family for the first time Giving something sweet and spicy is Tamil culture, isn't it? We are not Tamilians, we are Telugu. Do you want something sweet and spicy? I'll bring some. Thank you. They've mixed cow's piss in the coffee. They're trying to kill me. Call an ambulance! In our country, people don't make way for an ambulance. This is sweet and this is spicy. - They're torturing us by giving us chillies! - Have it. - Don't eat that! - You keep quiet. I'll even have poison if she gives it with her hands. If you have this, you will suffer with a bad stomach. Don't eat it. Listen to me! He put it into his mouth. Wash room please. Thank you. Where are you going? - To the toilet. - Proceed! Somebody has cast an evil eye on my son. This is not an evil eye but a chilly eye. What happened? Nothing... A King Kong trailer was playing inside. No. We're so happy. We successfully finished the first course of socializing. For the next course, you must come home for a meal next week. - No, we won't come. - Come if you wish to... Come even if you don't wish to. He will come at 1 1 o'clock by car to pick you up. If you want to buy fruits, vegetables and flowers, he will pay for it. It is enough for me if you come. It is enough for me if you come. Shall we leave? See you on Sunday. Bye... You are going to be the dean of our medical college and I'm proud of that. oh ! that is my pleasure. Here, we're constructing an anatomy and pathology lab. - Bring that drill here. - ok sir Why did you go there? - What happened? - He stepped on live wire & lost consciousness. What ill I do? Is he alive? Heart beat and pulse have stopped. - Please do something Doctor. - Let me try Lift him. Move. Mom our son is alive. You are great Doctor. Thanks. You saved my son, you're an angel. - Many thanks. - lt's alright. Don't you know that child labor is a crime? I do wish to educate him. But I have no money. I'll give you money. Send him to school. Many thanks sir. If you make children work here, I'll kill you. Remarkable Doctor. I thought he was dead. How is it possible? We call it CPR. We can revive someone if we apply CPR within a few minutes after the heart stops functioning suddenly Even if is not functioning after CPR... ...we can re-activate it by an electric shock Cool doctor. What, you still aren't ready for lunch? We told you that day, that we were not coming. Won't you come? They've prepared a grand meal and are waiting to dine with you In anticipation, they haven't even had a glass of water since morning. Come on, let's go. - Did we ask you to prepare a meal? - We spent Rs. 8000 for everybody. We even cooked turtle. Would you mind eating free of cost? - We never wanted to come - But we wanted you to Will you leave or shall I call the police? Will you come or shall I call Sivaji? They are not coming. You come here immediately with your family. - Don't! - Hold on. We elcome her family ho are coming here to socialize ith us, Don't you think that it is too much? Cool! you are very very special guest to us. welcome. Come, let us socialize. Come on. These are various non-vegetarian dishes. Here are various vegetarian dishes. Everybody, eat as you wish without feeling shy. What are you searching for? You said that you had prepared a turtle dish We've even prepared a kitten dish! I said that since it rhymes. You're not eating properly, Have this food, - I don't want it - lt is delicious A little. - Why have you become like Pulikesi XXlV? - You are troubling me Is it? I think it is hot. Why are you eating like a baby? Have more! You have to eat like this. Come on. After we're married, we'll stay in this room. Yes. These all are silk sarees that I bought for you. These are to wear when you go out. This is to wear at home. These are matching blouses, This jeellery as bought for you, This is soap, perfumes and other ladies items. These are all healthy foods and medicines for you to have when you're pregnant. I bought everything for our baby, till its 3rd year. This is for a baby boy and this is for a baby girl. I've bought everything for you to live happily Just give your consent! AYNGARAN DVD Oh floery girl! Your smile is seet like a fruit! Your floery glance is enough Even the leaves in my garden ould bloom! The tinkle of anklets is enough! The inspiration of poets ould multiply! Come Sivaji! You're my life! Come Sivaji! You're my life! My dear! Take out your sord! And sharpen my beauty! Smear your fragrance over me! Oh tall moon! With your dual arrogance,,, Bump onto me and kill me! Come Sivaji! You're my life! Come Sivaji! You're my life! Oh floery girl! Your smile is seet like a fruit! Hey you! l am the cupid ho ould marry the silver moon! My honeymoon ould be ith the moon! There's no one but her! Oh Emperor of smiles! Care to bathe in the nectar of this floer? Oh Emperor of smiles! Care to bathe in the nectar of this floer? Will you rest in the bust till dan? Or have a nap in the eyes? l talk less ith girls but do great things! l am man of extreme action! Come Sivaji! You're my life! Come Sivaji! You're my life! Oh floery girl! Your smile is seet like a fruit! AYNGARAN DVD Words from a girl's mouth are like musical notes! In your body's crevices and aist plaits,,, ,,,l hid and it as ecstatic! In the eternal bliss,,, ,,,l hid the earth in my robes! In the space I danced,,, ,,,and made the moon marshy! Oh gosh! You have the features of a maiden,,, ,,,and sulk like a kid! You're a bag of controversies! Come Sivaji! Come Sivaji! You're my life! Come Sivaji! You're my life! Oh floery girl! Your smile is seet like a fruit! Your floery glance is enough Even the leaves in my garden ould bloom!! The tinkle of anklets is enough! The inspiration of poets ill multiply! AYNGARAN DVD - What is this, male and male? - What are you doing here? You tried to make something here. They are leaving - Can't you stay for a while? - Bye Why are you leaving so soon? The meal is over, isn't it? That's why we are leaving. You've got to know us sufficiently. Now tell me, do you like us? We came here because you bothered us. You had coffee in our home and we had a meal at your home. It's equal now. That's enough. We came here to say strictly that from now you shouldn't bother us. Stop it. Stop the work. Who is the contractor? - Stop all the work. - What is the problem? Violation sir. The Government has ordered the demolition immediately. Are you joking? We have all the clearances and have spent millions on that Most of the construction is done and now you're coming up with this nonsense In this area, a government residential complex is going to be constructed. Stop the work and all of you come out. - lf the work is stopped, I'll kill you. - Why do you get angry with me? I am a government servant. I am doing my duty. If you want, go and meet the minister. Is it enough if the officers sign? Why am I here as a minister? You should have come to me first. It is wrong that we didn't come to you first. Tell us what we have to do now? It's too late. I can't do anything now. We have finished the construction. What can I do, if they ask us to stop now? I've never asked for help from anybody. Help me, please. What is the value of your project? God, the same question again... 2 billions From that, give 25%, that is 500 millions for our improvement fund and I'll permit you. Rs. 500 millions? Why are you shocked? You will soon earn asking for capitation fees and surgeries. You will earn this in a year, won't you? I didn't start this project for earning money. That's what they all say in the beginning. How can we arrange 500 millions all of a sudden? We have invested all the money in this. I can understand your problem... But there is pressure from Adiseshan lt as he ho started this violation problem, If I want to do this despite him, I want 500 millions. Should I have to give 500 millions to do a good deed? That's why I told in the beginning that I can't. Sir...please sir... Come with me for a minute. Frauds! No use of talking to him! We have started this and there's no stepping back! He is screwing us at the right time! We will borrow to give you the money as there's no other way for us. Come on. Give the property documents for the house. Sir, the constructed area is 8,750 sq.ft. The house alone is not enough for this amount. Take this. This land belongs to him, agricultural land, bonds, shares and investments, Sign here please. Don't worry. Think about the good... Hi Tamilselvi, Happy Deepavali They are here! Mom, they are here again - Close the door quickly! - ok! Mom, they are sitting inside Happy Deepavali... I told you already that everything is over Why do you torture us again? Today is a festival. Who is there for us? You are our relatives, our friends and our in-laws. Take this! So, we came to socialize with you and enjoy bursting crackers together eating a meal together and watching a movie. You should bless us - Uncle! - What? - Get their blessings - Give them the special festival gifts - Stupid! We don't want anything! - All of you, leave! - What is this? Get out! He is pushing us out on this auspicious day Brother! Did he send you out? Come to our house - I've two daughters! - oh no, not again! You get to know them If you like, you marry - Else, we'll stay friends - That's good! - Happy Deepavali. - Happy Deepavali. Come and celebrate the festival at our home. Look at her! He has fallen Darling, they are enjoying themselves Didn't we send them away? Why do you look there? You slim one, come out! You sent them out, isn't it? Look at their enjoyment Look at this! Not me dear! - How is it? - Super. They are bursting our crackers Darling, you told me not to! Now, what about you? Come and cook! Deepavali! The festival of lights! You're the cyclone! Mom, have a look at this! Stop it! Who is she? What enjoyment is this? - Why this much laughter? - Don't we've other residents nearby? This is my house! I'll enjoy myself and I'll even spray - What's wrong with you? - We don't like this You first tell them to get out Who are you to ask my guests to leave? Did they come to your house? They came to our house You sent them out, isn't it? Then let them go back to their home! Why should they come here? They come to socialize with us - We'll socialize today, tomorrow & so on - That's it! You mind your business! Look here! They first came only to our home to socialize We have finished two courses in socializing We are the seniors! They should socialize only with us - You come to our house - You sent us out, isn't it? That was wrong! Please come home! - We'll come only if he permits us. - That is culture! Tell them! - Brother! Go and socialize happily - ok! If he gives you any trouble, you come back here - I have two daughters - Sir, we'll leave now We have never seen a family like you We were worried seeing your money and extreme love You won us over through your goodness. Give us your son's horoscope - Happy Deepavali. - Thanks. You have shown your real selves. Sit down Especially when all the documents are fine... We can't stop things after a point... Then why are you all here for me? Government is not there only for you! We have to allow a few others when they do some good, projects are for the people Why he is speaking so sincerely? He is sincere because of his 500 millions Then what are you doing for my many M's! You have gained much for the money that you've given. Let others also earn money. You won't change the orders? I can't! Everything is correct and the Go also has been filed Then, if I change you! If I cancel your rule! If I give a chance to the opposition party! Hereafter your rule is no more! lmmediately arrange for a No Confidence Motion in the assembly. Whatever it costs! Hi! Have you checked the horoscope? When can we fix the wedding? Wedding? Who said anything about that? You socialized nicely and gave your horoscope. My parents have your horoscope You came and socialized with us nicely and that's fine - Marriage is different... - How much does this cost? It's not sold here Wait! What is this? Some factors are very important for marriage Those are not right for us Is this a Kancheepuram Ganjira? No, that's a Kumbakkonam Gunjira You tell me what factors don't match No, you'll be upset - I want to see the Manager. - I'm the Manager. Get out! I'll be upset only if you don't tell me Let it be anything Just tell me Show me your hand Can you understand? This is a male hand and this is a female hand. - God! Does this match? - Who are you calling dark? Tamil Nadu will explode in flames! Lord Rama is dark! Lord Krishna is dark! Kamarajar was dark! The great poet Vairamuthu is dark! That piano is black! Grapes are black! The real color of Dravadians is dark! That's why I said I wouldn't tell you why... You shouldn't talk about two things in Tamil Nadu one is chastity and the other one is dark skin I am going to ask openly Ask her! Uncle! Cool! I don't think you're the type to give importance to skin color. I think there is some other reason Tell me! Not all that! - This is the reason - Break the door! Burn buses and burn her effigy! What's all this, not attending to your customers? Kill this customer! Keep quiet! What's wrong with her words? Madam, Ganjira... Madam, just a minute. You are fair complexioned and I am dark Isthat the problem? I'll make myself fair complexioned How can you make yourself fair? Let us make her dark by pouring tar... We must show her by becoming fair. What do you want? Fair & Lovely! We should buy one lorry full! Apply some here! Uncle!- Yes. - Why it is itching like this? - Isit? I mixed some bleaching powder into that... for you to become fairer soon. - You idiot! - Leave me! Why do you add so little? We should not add so much saffron Enough! Don't drink it fully! Your stomach will get upset Nothing will happen What happened? A phone call... oh God! Tell me what happened? I couldn't... What is this? Come, we'll run Don't be afraid! He is our boss. He's just wearing an AC suit to protect his skin from the sun - Mom, it is the devil - Ghost! What happened? What is this? You've become like 'Mudhalvan' Arjun, fallen in slush This is some makeup material! I'll be like Kamal Hassan after this AYNGARAN DVD A pot of sunlight! A pot of moonlight! A mixture of these is my hite texture! l had a dark compleion then! No I am aesomely hite! l am a born Tamilan forever! No I am a hite Tamilan! Oh gosh! You're style is ravishing! Your gait is stylish! Your smile is stylish! Your speech is also stylish! Your style is euberant, mesmerising and victorious! Even kids, youth and the old follo your style Oh gosh! You're style is ravishing! Your gait is stylish! Your smile is stylish! Your speech is also stylish! Your hot touch is stylish! Your thunderous action is stylish! Your tousled hair is stylish! Whatever you do is stylish! AYNGARAN DVD A pot of sunlight! A pot of moonlight! A mixture of these is my hite texture! Make a fuss Oh mighty arrior! Startle me Oh cupid hero! Searching for the fruit? Oh mischievous one! Gazing at me ith your eyes! Oh naughty one! Am a maiden ith extraordinary features,,, Consume me fully! Oh hite man! Golly! You're a 5-foot chocolate bar! Are you a flying saucer? Your body is shaped like an hourglass! You bloomed like a soft bud! Made ice rivers flo through my veins! Your shyness tortures me! You've planted an Eiffel toer in my heart! You eplode like a cracker! Oh hero! You're the hero of all heroes! Oh star! You're the super star! A pot of sunlight! A pot of moonlight! A mixture of these is,,, l carried a dark compleion then! No I am aesomely hite! l am a born Tamilan forever! No I am a hite Tamilan! AYNGARAN DVD Whom do you think you are? Get lost! Isn't it thunderous? Not nice at all! You are like some photo negative Are you kidding? You said I was dark, and now you say... I'm not nice after I struggled to become fair. I liked only that dark complexion of yours - This is so artificial - We've escaped! Go and wash off that white makeup! Then why did you call me dark? Forgive me! I didn't expect that you would take this so seriously Your dark skin is not the reason I lgnored you but my horoscope! Listen to this... Groom Sivaji is Chittiram Bride Tamilselvi is Avittam If we match them up, the bride will live as a widow. This match is very important among the 13 matches Both the horoscopes don't match In both the horoscopes, there are bad omens There will be a big loss. He might be in danger because of the bride. If you get them married, he will lose his life. Why do you say this? Look here! I have moles all over my tongue If I say something, it comes true You came to do good things I said this because you should not undergo any harm by marrying me Is it only this? Is this a problem? Do you know what my astrologer said? If I marry you, I'll have 10 billions... where I have 2 billions now. We asked a Kadalangudi astrologer for a second opinion Do you know what he said? That these two already married. He said they would be having twins. Which one do you believe? We can't live peacefully if we bother about all this I like you Do you? Then why should we bother about all this? Life becomes hell if we know our dying day only happiness is important Are you happy to marry me? Cool! Let good things happen! The marriage is fixed by elders to Chennai Pudupet Ramalingam's daughter Tamilselvi and Dharmapuri district Allikulam Arumugam's son Sivaji on this auspicious fifth day of January Today there as a major event in politics, A ne ministry has been formed, In the legislature, a No Confidence Motion as passed The Governor has called the opposition leader,,, ,,,to prove his strength ithin 10 days Also today, ne Ministers have been appointed in all ministries Adhiseshan! Long live! Our brother Adhiseshan! Long live! Welcome. I should come to meet you to get your blessings. You are a new Minister. I should give that respect. You have proved that you are the king maker. Thanks sir! You show that in action, notjust in words. Sir! lf you're Adhiseshan, I'm your Alsatian. I'll be a slave to you forever! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it I say! Why do you demolish that? There are Government projects coming up here like lT parks, future developments... Your construction is illegal Demolish it! What do you think? You give some reason and try to demolish You received 500 millions and said there would be no problem. What happened now? This is new Government order I'll come back tomorrow morning Within that time, you meet someone and solve this problem A government project is to be constructed in that place Which fool gave you permission? This is a wrong project We can't permit it What wrong I have done? Why do you throw me around like a ball? Is this a punishment for me, when I came here to do good? We met everybody. We had given enough to officers, ministers and everyone... You have paid those guys... To the previous Ministers We are new! We have invested more to get here! The cost of assembly seats, election expenses, publicity expenses... The cost of each MLA.... the cost of politics has increased... Now what do you want us to do? Tell me! What is your project value? How many times will you ask this question? - What? - Nothing sir! 2 billions In that, you give 25 percent, 500 millions to my growth fund I'll take care of the rest You scoundrel! - Am I asking permission to do some illegal business?- Leave it! Don't spoil it! Here they'll ask money to build a hall even for Gandhi Uncle! You keep quiet! Will you permit me or not? Show some respect! Why should I show respect for you? What are you saying in my office? You can't open this University without giving me money I won't give money! I won't give even a single paise! I'll go to court I'll go to the Middle Court, the High Court & the Supreme Court! There must be some justice in this nation I'll dig it out! You try it What Sivaji? How are you? How is your University project going? You tell me if you need any help Does this suit your position? You are worse than a snake - You won't die peacefully. - Whom do you...! That's not right. He is angry. I'll talk to you later on the phone. Loafer... It has become a case! It should be won! Will they cancel the old Go, if the Government is changed? It is wrong! It will not be valid in any court As soon as I go to court, I'll file a writ to vacate that stay. Else we'll get a stay order for this stay order This is my dream of 25 years My 20 years of hard work... I had invested everything that I had earned. I pledged all my property and my house. only you can save all this Don't worry! Have you not constructed it after getting all approvals? I'll take care of it We'll worry about my fees later You ask him to give me just an advance How much sir? 2 Millions. Is it 200 thousands? Aren't we going to save a 2 billions project? There is no money in the bank... ... and I've crossed the overdraft limit too. You keep my car as an advance What is this? I feel uneasy. You don't worry. Was I born with a car? I walked without footwear in my childhood I used to travel by bus You win this case, that's enough. Have it! You bought this car with passion - Shall I drop you at home? - No! Hereafter I'll get used to walking. Let's go! Is it true all Government Departments refused to permit you to start Sivaji Foundations? It is true... Did you bribe Government officers, in various departments to the tune of 40 millions? objection. Permission was refused just to get bribes! Don't interrupt! Your argument is over That 40 millions was given, is it true or not? It is true...but... Is it true that Minister Anbanandham refused to permit you? It is true - Isit true that Rs 500 millions was given to him as bribe?- Yes! - No more questions, your Honour. - To do good things for the country I was cornered. I was helpless. The petitioner himself has confessed that he had bribed... ...various government departments to construct Sivaji Foundations illegally This has been proved by the counsel beyond doubt. So, the stay order to stop the construction is correct as per law. This court permits the government to demolish this foundation Government need not compensate him for this What is this? It has come to this. As per my advice you would've run a 5 star hotel or real estate business They've made you a pauper What are you going to do now? Are you going to lift loads? Else are you going to become a milkman? Are you going to drive an auto? I'll get you a bus conductor's job with my recommendation Will you do it? But, you need experience for that! There is a job, which can be done just sitting at one place Will you do it? our national job! All I have are 1000's & 500's Do you have any change? Give it. oh Goddess! His job should prosper! You are very lucky I'll be the first customer. May you beg and make a living. Excuse me sir. Your loan will be greater than this house, property and the other things... Even a single property shouldn't leave here till the valuation finishes. Sorry Your Rolex watch is also in our list sir Sorry dad! Sorry mom! You go and stay in our village till I get back to a good position We are not worried We were in this situation before you left for America Come! Come, son-in-law! Now my situation is not good We will move the wedding to later I came to inform you of that ok, son-in-law! We can fix the date as you wish. No dad, this marriage won't happen at any time What are you saying? I told you already not to arrange it! You made me agree... Look what has happened just for our engagement After marriage... If anything happens to you as per the predictions... You imagine too much! What is my imagination? Why should the construction that's almost finished be threatened with demolition? Why should you become poor from being a millionaire? It's a co-incidence, damn it. No! We'll never get married in this birth. You go! Don't come in search of me May you beg and make a living. Don't come in search of me Roadside food will be tastier than food from a 5 star hotel Have this! You better go back to America. No, this is my country. Where will I go leaving this? I'll not give up doing good here How is it possible now? Using this one Rupee coin! If it comes up tails, it's the gentle path If it comes up heads, it's the lion's path Let this decide my path! From now on, I will take the lion's path! Who is it? Tomorrow morning, the wedding party will come to your house Wedding party? That means raid in our department's language You immediately safeguard your accounts and documents What are you blabbering? The matter is confirmed Top secret. Don't try to contact anyone in Delhi All your telephones are tapped Sir! Seems they've run out of fertilizer in the farm They need some very urgently You take this and go Why are you standing like this? - Which way are you going? - To Tambaram We'll get dropped on the way How can I pick up strangers? We are your boss' friends. I'm going inside here. You get down here. Get up! - Sir has sent the fertilizer bags. Keep it inside.- ok brother! Some intruders are here! Come out! Who is it? Are you wondering why the wedding party isn't there yet? The wedding was over last night itself! Now is the reception. Don't you understand? Farm house. Two members. Your total documents were stolen. Who are you? I am the hero of Parasakthi, brother! Are you thunderstruck on hearing the name? What are you going to do? Fertilizer business I started it only with your one rupee I should discuss some business matters with you. I'm waiting at the tea shop opposite the Income Tax office You come leisurely But I'll go inside within 10 minutes with this fertilizer sack - Sir, your bajjis - Thanks sir Boss wants you there. Ask him to come here Sir! Sit down! Give him two plantain bajjis and a tea. Tell me quickly I saw your books, hard disks and documents You have totally 2 billions black money...in the form of houses, land, property, cash... ...not showing in your account... In the names of others. - So what? - Have it! Have it sir! You give me half of that Not the bajji, the money! If not... All the documents will go inside the Income Tax office Look there He is Remo uncle You can go Tell him to stop Hold on! You'll lose your 2 billions in the form of seizures, penalty and be arrested I'll get 200 millions as a reward for leading them to you Whatever it is, my business will be a success Which is better? Losing everything orjust half? Are you threatening me? Sir! Get the commissioner on the phone Aren't you being funny! That is black money, my dear. You can't complaint. You should stay quiet You are a lone person. I've the Government itself in my hand I have your head in my hand Repeat! Tell him to stop Hold on! I'll give you 24 hours You arrange 1 billion I'll tell you later how and where you should bring it Have the tea. - How much? - 20 rupees You pay that We can deduct it from the 1 billion Come on! Take this! Just munch this beeda! Run for your life! Wearing a sari! ls it a Sega fight? Sivaji is alays right! ls it a Sega fight? Sivaji is alays right! Come on! Take this! Just munch this beeda! Run for your life! Wearing a sari! You can go. You get down more stylishly than a conductor Why do you get upset when you see us? Why are you disturbing me? You are making me and yourself trouble. You go! We came to buy a flute You play this You please go. She is asking us to go to another shop You behave properly with customers Flute... Look here! I am going to get a big amount within 24 hours We can open the University If we lose money, we can earn it back. Will a life come back after death? Give me a break! Why are you torturing yourself by believing the horoscope? Are you saying that I'll die only if I marry you? I'll die even I don't marry you. I'll die because I'm upset Yes, he is going to commit suicide unable to bear his failure in love - When did I tell you that? - Keep quiet! Her expression is changing. We can work out it using sentimentality Don't threaten me. Go! This is not a joke. You come tomorrow evening at 5 o'clock near Vandalur level crossing He will be standing on the track If you accept him, then a wedding. If not, then a funeral. Come! Why did you say that? - Who am I to you? - Uncle! I only did my duty Uncle, I think it is a foolish idea! That was loose talk We can't make them understand by words. only if you do something like this will it be a success. - Why do you talk like a lunatic? - You don't talk! The train is ready to leave. Do you remember all that I said? Uncle! What dear? You are joking with me isn't it? Move! lt's very urgent The train has started. Uncle, she has gone - Then it is cancelled, you leave the tracks. - Go man! Why are you are chasing the crow? Uncle, my leg is stuck Is it stuck? Remove your pants and run. - Are you suffering from gas? - Stop the train! Why are you pulling the chain? A guy is stuck in the track oh gosh! - Chain is broken. - oh gosh! Stop! Stop! Stop! oh God! I won't let you die! AYNGARAN DVD Sahana's musical notes drizzled! Floers bloomed in the Sahara desert! Floers bloomed in the Sahara desert! Sahana's musical notes drizzled! The sky opened above my head! Oh gosh! That moon visited my home! And shared a cup of tea ith me! ls it a dream or reality? Or is it love's magical chant? lt is a love saved for a thousand years! lt is a love that ill survive even a million years! Sahana's musical notes drizzled! Floers bloomed in the Sahara desert! AYNGARAN DVD Scale the anious path from,,, ,,,head to foot ith your lips! With your moustache pricks,,, ,,,release the senses! The distance from earth to sky,,, ,,,shall I fill it ith floers? In the floery path to the sky,,, ,,,shall I carry your floery body? lt is a love saved for a thousand years! lt is a love that ill survive even a million years! For a thousand years,,, ,,,this love as in store! lt is a love that ill survive even a million years! Sahana's musical notes drizzled! Floers bloomed in the Sahara desert! The sky opened above my head! Oh gosh! That moon visited my home! And shared a cup of tea ith me! ls it a dream or reality? Or is it love's magical chant? lt is a love saved for a thousand years! lt is a love that ill survive even a million years! Sahana's musical notes drizzled! Floers bloomed in the Sahara desert! AYNGARAN DVD Give me the car keys! You began this by giving one rupee My first business itself is 1 billion You are very lucky Your business has not yet finished Leave him! I won't leave him until this money reaches safely Uncle, start the car Do you think I'm a sissy wearing a dot and eating pongal? Go and look at the old police records Adhi man! - I'll kill you. - Don't sir. Why do you bother? We'll look after him. The money should come to our place The corpse should go to his place Whom stands against you? They are the top 10 thugs in Chennai They'll tear you apart You were caught alone foolishly only pigs come in groups. The lion will only come alone! There are 8 sacks of English papers - There are 6 sacks of Tamil papers - ok! There are 4 sacks of Kumudham, Vikadan You keep it inside yourself and take the money Will it be safe if we keep this much of money here? He is my classmate We can believe him 100% Now his shop and home are safe for us We have enough money We can open the Sivaji Foundation by using this. No! If he alone has 2 billions, in black money... How much does all of Tamil Nadu have? How much does all of India have? What do you mean? Have some tea! - Do you want anything more, my friend? - No, my friend Total value of India's black money is approximately 2 trillions India is not a poor country They hide it as black money Look, how much inequality exists because of that The rich are getting richer The poor are getting poorer This black money is the reason for India's poverty, We should bring out all the black money. We have to open Sivaji Foundation not only in Chennai but in each and every district. We have to provide education and job in all places We have to provide food and shelter for all villages How can you alone do all this what a Government should do? I can! First we have to find out where and who has the black money How? You take a list of rich people's auditors, accountants, drivers... ...servants and arrange for a gathering with them. They'll won't tell us the truth - I'll make them - How? For that, first we have to go to Royapettah hospital - How is it? - We can't bear the pain He didn't come to see us But you've come... You are very generous - Why do you do this job? - We don't know any other Brother, come here - What are you studying? - I paste posters on walls Why do you do such terrible things not educating the children? Who wants us to do good? What do we know other than this? I'll give you the same job, But to do good Will you come? I'll give you a good income, a house to live in, education for your child What do you say? He is calling you, go man! You useless chap! You go sir. I'll send them. We'll come boss l think there must be a discussion about the Indian Economy, Why do they call drivers for this? Thanks to all of you for coming on my invitation They hide nearly 2 trillions of black money just in Tamil Nadu alone What is black money? Will it be black? one should pay 30% as tax to the Government from their earnings. If they hide the income to escape from tax, it is black money only you all know very well about your bosses and where they hide their black money It should go towards the people's welfare So, please tell me the details of the black money Who and where do they all hide it. Good! Are you asking us to lead? - I'm asking you to save the country - How? I am going to spend the money for the people Why should we tell you this? Are you an Income Tax officer? Commissioner? or the Chief Minister? I am the PM I am an ordinary Post Man who gives people's money to the people What you do is illegal. Those who have black money and those who help them... that is also illegal My boss didn't steal anything He kept the money that he earned with him What's wrong in that? Everybody thinks this way and doesn't pay tax The Government has to increase costs because of the lack of funds What they hide today is increasing the rates of petrol, electricity, clothes, medicines... and you will suffer tomorrow. People like your boss who evades tax are betraying the public Sir! Now I understood well. Move! Ask me whatever details you want. I'll give you. Keep quiet! We can't be dishonest our profession. I don't think this is correct. Those who think this is correct can give the details here Those who disagree, can wait in the office room Get up, let's go. Come! He thinks he is the most honest person in India lt is like robbing Peter to pay Paul We should tell him and he'll get the good name It is empty I don't think it is correct. What about you? Will you give information here or will you wait in the office room? We are discussing that Cool! I think it is correct. I was thinking... When I thought about the national interest, it is not wrong. That's it! Come on! Take this! Just munch this beeda! Run for your life! Wearing a sari! ls it a Sega fight? Sivaji is alays right! ls it a Sega fight? Sivaji is alays right! Come on! Take this! Just munch this beeda! Run for your life! Wearing a sari! Hello! Minister! You have black money totally worth Rs. 1 .56 billions, 600 thousands and 36000 in the form ofjewels, gold bars, foreign exchange in Swiss banks In that half is for me and the remaining is for you Else, it totally goes to the Income Tax What do you say? Who are you? Boss. - Who is this? - Fool, it is the boss. - Who? - Fool, it is butter milk Live prosperously! Live half prosperously! Who is speaking? Who is it? Boss! Next where? Newyork CHENNAl There are many unofficial complaints Millions have been stolen. lmmediately check if any vehicle comes ith big parcel Change this money into dollars... and ask them to give this to him in New York You do this favor for one good thing This is the serial number which he has on the currency to identify himself. NEW YoRK Hello Mike! - Yeah, Salam Material received. Handover the money to the concerned party ldentity 1000 rupees Indian currency. Serial no: 5BD 714592 You split this money into small amounts... ...and send it to your friends all over the world Send the black money to India as donations to Sivaji Foundations... Black money sent has become white money Don't worry Sivaji, we'll take care of it. Thank you. CHENNAl Hi, I am Sivaji, buddy. Cool. Hi friend, you got a mail. Black money that we had sent has back as white We can spend it publicly No one can question us. We have made all the black money into white Now we have to make white those who have black money I don't understand Doesn't everyone have to wear white if they are in jail? Hello, Income Tax office? - Yes, Give the investigation link You aren't leaving even a single gap I have some copies of documents regarding black money... with names like Adhiseshan, Anbanandham involved. It will be easy for you lmmediately send the documents, - I'll send it, Sir,,, Who is that? Someone has come to see you, - What? - Pardon me. They are... We are from the Income Tax Dept. Who permitted you to come inside? Shall I call your minister? Sorry sir, we are from CBl What rubbish! You'll not go back home We've evidence that you have billions of rupees in black money. - Who gave you that information? - We don't know. I know! He has a lot of money with him. Why did you come here and not catch him? He has correct accounts for everything. This has not been accounted for,,, Will you sign this Report of Search? We've to arrest you for the crime of keeping billions of black money as US Dollars. Greetings! Today's headlines! Today, the CBl and the Income Ta Dept, have searched the homes of big industrialists and politicians simultaneously across State billions of black money recovered from them 100 key members ere arrested today for ta evasion, laundering & foreign echange crimes How did this happen? Useless guys! They brought you down to this state What are you going to do inside? Will you break stones, cut the grass, wash vessels? Shall I get you a job in the kitchen with a recommendation from the jailer? But you need experience for that... There is one job which can be done just sitting at one place. Will you do it? Thatjob is counting bars! Thunderstruck? You have made a mistake. You shouldn't have done this. You have insulted me... And it should be repaid. I am very sensitive... I can't bear it Definitely I'll give it back. Is it not enough that you've got what you've given? - Are you going to do some more? - I am Adi. Go man! I mean blind man. Cool! They have fixed me up in Delhi I can do nothing locally May I come in? Who is that? Boss! Who are you? What do you want? - Who let you in? - Money! Sir is in an important meeting. - Don't allow anyone in for half an hour.- ok! Sign it. - What is it? - Read it Is it a resignation letter? The place where the Sivaji Complex is constructed is not an occupied property or Govt. property So, this government orders immediately that all objections... shall be removed & work started on the Sivaji Complex, this is an order of the Government. - Signed by, A Kulandaivelu - lt is impossible. Rs. 500 millions is what you asked, Sign it! This is the seat donated by him - I'll not sign even if you pay money. - Why? Professional ethics. - What? - Professional ethics. Sign it! You are threatening the minister with a knife. Are you mad? 10,000 staff, police every 10 feet Will they let you escape? - Will you escape being stabbing? - oh God! - You stabbed me...is this for real? - Did I mean itjust for fun? You'll get some sense only if you see some blood! Sign it. Sign! You stabbed me in haste. The law will not leave you. You will be caught. - I will not be caught - Will you go to jail instead of me? I'll go for any number of years - Will you sign or shall I cut the cables? - I'll sign. - Sir wants you - Go! - He stabbed me - Lift him Don't take me to the mortuary. Not dead... No need of an injection, a tablet is enough,,, Clean the wound with alcohol. Give him a pain killer injection. Is this the place to joke? I thought you were acting. But he really stabbed me He will always do what he says Is he okay? No problem as he was stabbed half-way between the midline & right lateral abdomen He is safe, Has nothing happened to my brain? - Give him these medicines - The wound will heal in a week. If you open your mouth! This is only rehearsal Next time, I'll cut the entire cable! That's it! Take care! I have been stabbed The damage is too much. Will you leave that money at least? That's if you had signed it first Would you have given me then? - We would have taken half back at night - Rest? - We would've tipped off the Income Tax - What is this? Professional ethics. Professional ethics. Run for your life! Clad in a sari! ls it a Sega fight? Sivaji is alays right! Greetings to everybody! We'll rebuild all the huts as brick houses in your village We'll give education and food to your children by building schools We'll arrange for water to make dry land fertile You've to do only one thing. You should maintain this village well by growing crops If you do as per my advice, within one year... ...your village which is like this will become like this! Move! In whose place and with whose permission are you planning this? It is not necessary to get permission for doing good things This is Government land. For this, you need our permission From the Tahsildar, VAo and Munsif No one will come for work that should be done I know very well you'll come to stop it The applications are ready.Sign it, collect the charges and carry on We don't agree. Look here! Those who wish for good to happen, sign If not, just wait in that office room. Why should we wait in the office room? There will be some stuff in the office room Come. Come and get it. The office room invites you lovingly The playground is here. The old age home is here. Keep the toilet near that. Next... We can do it as per your wishes Tahsildar! - Yes sir. - Munsif! Yes sir. It is correct Start the vehicle! From this district, all the jobless people have come from uneducated to graduates You only have to sign their appointment orders If anyone takes a job, you'll be killed Who are you to give jobs to our village people? Boss! Bachelor of Social service Why are we here as legislators? - Why is our party there? - Leaders! Why do you get upset? If there's anything, come let's talk in that office room. Come... that way - Come, come and get it. - Will they provide tea, coffee inside? Go, they'll even give you full meals. - Leader! What about the matter? - lt has finished well I see it very clearly sitting in the office room. Is the post important for doing good? only the heart is important This is your area. You can do whatever you want. If you don't mind, can I sit down? oh God! What happened sir? They wedged us, they forgot to take it out SlVAJl lNDUSTRlES SlVAJl CENTRE SlVAJl HoSPlTALS Sivaji Residential Complex I was fed up by the time I could get them all bail All the black money has gone. Even if an election comes, no one has any money. He might have just constructed one college He was silent. You made him a super star! He has opened a college in each and every town. He lays roads. He brings water. He runs a private Government in each state keeping an expert team like a ministry If we let him, he'll become the Chief Minister. An enemy is not created by himself! only we have created one! Kill him! Now even the killers are with him At least, put him in jail lmpossible. He made all that money properly and without loopholes. As per law, we can't do anything! Do something. Isn't power in your hands? office room is there in his hand. Whoever goes, he switch it off Public also don't complain as they are seeing the good... Why all that? He came to my office room and disturbed my cable connections. - lt all went wrong. - Then you complain about him It will not move forward... I think we can't do anything What is his weakness? If love and order is there, then the journey of life will be smooth! Married couples should always be so prosperous Be prosperous. Bless us. No one can change fate! Let it be...you go to the temple of Lord Saturn ...at Thirunallaru and make offerings. The effect may be reduced What is this? You are very dull on the first night. I am upset after seeing the astrologer I am very afraid... First we should go to Thirunallaru Don't think about that Today is an important day. We should celebrate it happily. How can we celebrate it? You mean? There are many varieties Softly, like a vegetarian, divine How is that? Don't be mesmerised! Why're you silent? lt is just a pearl palace! Don't hesitate! Don't be anious! lt is a gift of love! Have heard stories of fantasies! lt's a gift of love! Don't kno hy! What else do we have? Want a high-spirited dream song? How will it be? You're a pretty Tamil girl! Like a letter ritten ith your eyes! Gently speaking of our bond! Would make good reading! Also, ould be tasteful! Am a pretty Tamil girl! Like a letter ritten ith your eyes! Gently speaking of our bond! Would make good reading! Also, ould be tasteful! Next? Want a lusty romantic song? What is that? Last night as so thrilling! We lost our sleep! Come my Princess Anarkali! You're my green parrot! Come my Princess Anarkali! You're my green parrot! lt is all because of you! Last night as so thrilling! We lost our sleep! Last night as so thrilling! We lost our sleep! Which type of song do you want? I only like your style and thunderous action! Do you have anything like that? Watch this! AYNGARAN DVD He's a man of thunderous action! And ould overcome anyone! He's a man of thunderous action! And ould overcome anyone! Oh pretty girl! Everyone roams around you! This commander! Would blast all religious fanatics! Am a don of all dons! My pistol talk ould be effective! Oh girl! lf you fire everything ould eplode! Oh pretty girl! Everyone roams around you! This commander! Would blast all religious fanatics! He's the don of all dons! Your pistol talk ould be effective! Breezing heart skips a beat! A seet tiny bird! You're cold like ginger beer! Your eyes are like gin! Oh don! At your touch,,, ,,,the girl gets mesmerised! An electric shock rises nicely! lf you fire two shots the girl gets anious! She topples at seeing an eplosion! With a gun, a stun gun,,, l resemble Roger Moore,,, fire! Girls circle me I've eyes even at my back! Your fun, love fun resembles Eddie Murphy's! You're my love dear! And I am the don! He's a man of thunderous action! And ould overcome anyone! Oh pretty girl! Everyone roams around you! This commander! Would blast all religious fanatics! Am a don of all dons! My pistol talk ould be effective! Oh girl! lf you fire everything ould eplode! AYNGARAN DVD Am superman! And spider man at night! Oh NRl! Your eyes spies like James Bond! The girl stands like the island Cuba and hesitates! Mercury rises rapidly! This maestro yearns like Castro to come close! Will you allo me to pinch? This nuptial night shouldn't be asted! You're like a bun, a seet bun! Am like the butter, jam stuffing! Allo me to smear myself on you! Kiss me to make me honey! My lady love! You're my fair lady! He's a man of thunderous action! And ould overcome anyone! Oh pretty girl! Everyone roams around you! This commander! Would blast all religious fanatics! He's a don of all dons! My pistol talk ould be effective! The girl! lf she fires everything ould eplode! AYNGARAN DVD If you pray to Lord Saturn as you light a gingeli oil lamp each Saturday all your problems will be resolved and all the malefic signs on your horoscope will be overcome. lt's very special for Lord Saturn to have an oil bath in the floing ater, - Are you Tamilselvi? - Yes Is your Tamil teacher's name Sitalakshmi from VSC school? Yes, how do you know? She is my aunt. We came to worship here. She saw you and asked me to bring you across - Where? - She's here at the Temple office Seems you sing well. - Isyour husband from the US? - Yes. Take your seat Don't be scared. Take your seat Who are you all? - C.B.l - C.B.l? Look here, this is not an arrest, nor are we taking you into custody. We won't harm you. Answer a few questions. That's all Do you know how long he been involved in crime? He didn't do anything wrong! How did he get money for colleges, Hospitals & factories all over Tamil Nadu? It's definitely in the proper way No. lt's black money collected by threatening people He makes it white and spends it, thus cheating the Government Do you know how many are waiting to nab him Enforce Directorate, Dept of Economic offenses? Do you know how many rich people, ministers and terrorists are waiting to finish him off? The police is also waiting to kill him in an encounter. only your information can save your husband Tell me, how did he change the black money into white? I don't understand what you want to know. Don't act innocent! You are with him. Don't you know anything? Don't be rude. Send her with me. No need for third degree treatment What mistake has she done? Look here madam, this is only an economic offense. If you tell us the truth, he'll be arrested but released in a few years. Else, anyone might kill him at any time You should decide what is best He is a good man. Nothing will happen to him. ok, madam, you can go. Sorry for the trouble. If you have any information, contact me. Hey uncle, today is my wife's call sheet There should not be any disturbance. We came out alone. If there is any work, you manage it yourself - Excuse me sir. - Hi, thank you. What happened dear? CBl called and investigated me Are you doing any wrong? I am doing good. Tell me directly. There shouldn't be any misunderstanding between us. My darling, we are one. I'll tell you... Hi, I am Sivaji, buddy. Cool. I'll hand over everything and surrender when all black money disappears Switch off, man. Keep it down! Wear your seat belt. Cool... Nothing will happen to me. You go to sleep without fear. oh God! What happened? Nothing will happen to me! You sleep well! There is danger to his life. No one can change fate. only your information can save your husband CBl! You've converted 460 billions of black money into white which to be handed over to the Govt. We arrest you for crime of money laundering under the FERA Act Nonsense! What evidence do you have? Your personal laptop computer How can you say this is mine? It was your wife who handed it over Tell me madam Swear that nothing will happen to him Nothing will happen to him. What have you done? Have you become mad? Will any wife hand over her husband to the police? - He gave you such a good life - Mom, don't talk about her She has done this only for my sake Any girl would have done the same in this situation Till I return... Even if I don't... No one should hurt her! Pardon me. Alas! This is the right chance. Kill him today in jail Else, somehow he will come out. It's impossible sir. We can unlock this computer only if he speaks the password He has arranged a self-destruct program that will delete all the evidence if someone tries to unlock it incorrectly Very clever algoritham Without unlocking it, we can't prove in court that he is a criminal Then make him to unlock it during interrogation There shouldn't even be a single toilet that he started... Get the statement and finish him off there... It's a risk if he dies in jail. We'll get caught. You take the body in the van after the investigation is over. when you stop along the Kattupakkam highway. Go have some tea across the road... At that time, we'll shoot at the van with the help of hired killers... ...to make it look as if they killed him. Sir, I am a jeep driver in the AC's office. I was helped by you. My mother was treated for free in your hospital and saved. Many thanks sir. Be careful! when you stop along the Kattupakkam highway. Go have some tea across the road... At that time, we'll shoot at the van with the help of hired killers... ...to make it look as if they killed him. You have to do me a big favour They have made a plan to kill me. I can easily escape from here. But Sivaji Foundation can't escape from the law. There is only one way to save the good that I had done for people I should die before they get a statement from me I am going to die trusting you and God After that, you have to take care of everything. What you have to do is, take a dead body just like me. Your horoscope is going to become true as you feared The love that I have for you is more powerful than any horoscope I'll come back to you even if I have to be reborn. Take care! Alas! I did this so his life would be safe And it has happened this way... Save him doctor! Come, let's go. Unlock it It's already open. Are you kidding? Seems it unlocks only if you say something. Speak! I forgot. What man? Did he say anything? No sir. Why are you staring at him? Beat him up and break his bones. He'll speak. Hit him. - I can't sir - Why? My daughter is studying medicine for free in his college. I can't hit him. You hit him! Hit him! Pardon me sir, my brother works in his mill... l can't hit him, Tell everyone to go out. Go. Get out. There are many things which have to be returned by me one Two Three Why are you counting? Should I not return this? only if I leave you alive Unlock that computer. Unlock it. You. Take this! Leave it sir. You are beating him worse than us. He may die without unlocking it. Let him die He's become unconscious. You go, we'll take care. Call the doctor immediately. What happened? He is dead. When? How much time has elapsed? The doctor has confirmed just now How? He has died due to your beating one second We are speaking from The Daily News. We got the news that he has been killed in police custody. Is it true? Who said? That's incorrect information. Hang-up. We are calling from Sun TV The news has leaked to the press. I don't understand what to do now How is it possible? He has done good everywhere. Someone helps him always! ok forget it. Take the body and leave from there. There is no change in the plan. Go that way. Come, let us have some tea. Brother, will this road lead to Tambaram? No, Ho do e get there? Switch on the oxygen. Oh God, save him! It is done. He is dead. How are you going to unlock this computer now? What if he's dead? We can open it with someone who can mimic him. Who will speak like him? In Tamil Nadu, there are many good mimicry artists who can speak like anyone. Welcome Mayilsamy Proceed! Dear! I am Sivaji speaking. If I say it once, it is like I've said it a hundred times. Unlock yourself the first time itself. How is that? Hi, don't laugh. You're not Sivaji. Will you speak like him? Watch! Dear! I am Sivaji here. Unlock yourself. Do you remember? When you were 5 years old, I took you upon my shoulders... ...and I sang a lullaby Not him, like this one! You didn't tell this before, my dear. oh, you didn't tell me this before... Hi, don't fool around. If you say the wrong phrase again... Computer will crash. This is the last chance! Speak correctly. Watch me! Hi, I'm Sivaji, Cool. Hi Shiv, one word missing. What word? I got that one word. That one word I got it. Come here. You rascal! Didn't I tell you? Everything is gone now! That total evidence in the computer is gone. Now, no one can attack Sivaji Foundation legally! Don't worry about the evidence! We've got the Government! We'll shut the Sivaji foundation gradually! When the head is no more... No sir, another head is coming! Who is it? Someone, a Sivaji's friend! Arriving from America N.R.l.! he's going to run the Sivaji Foundation in future! He's taking over tomorrow! You are invited! Who is it? - Welcome Boss. I mean the New Boss. - Thank you. Boss, He is Mr.Adiseshan. Hi, I'm Ravichandran. Nice to meet you. I like it. - What do you like? - Your bad tooth! What sir? He is Sivaji! Definitely Sivaji! Sir, be quiet. It was we who killed Sivaji. You killed him and we burned him Why do you suspect this man? It is fishy! How did the dead man come alive? Look at this, he is garlanding his own statue! Greetings to you all. I don't want to talk much! But show by my actions! It is my duty to do whatever Sivaji left unfinished. Report to me any problem that you face in any part of Tamil Nadu! I will take care! Also, those who are behind the death of Sivaji... ...won't be spared by me I'll get them punished! Thank you. Sir, will you come with us? We need to question you What do you want to question me about? We suspect that you are Sivaji! Me! Sivaji? Good joke. Sivaji was my friend. But, he is no more. This is the Death Certificate of Sivaji. You only identified the body. What is it, sir? What happened to Sivaji? - His opponents killed him. - Yes Excuse me, what happened to Sivaji? on his way to jail he was killed by hired killers. What happened to Sivaji? He was blown up along with the van. Yes All of Tamil Nadu says that Sivaji is dead. But you say he is Sivaji? If you're not Sivaji, then who are you? Me? MGR! Proof? This is my passport. This is my Green Card. This is my credit card. This is my International Driving License. Legally we have evidence to say that Sivaji is dead... ...and also evidence to prove that he is MGR. Sivaji is Sivaji... ...and MGR is MGR. Keep this villainous work for others! Get the statement and finish him off there... ...when you stop along the Kattupakkam highway. At that time, we'll shoot at the van with the help of hired killers... ...to make it look as if they killed him. Who? Who is it? Boss! The bald boss. Why have you come here? To repay you. Don't you understand? It was you who killed Sivaji. This MMS is enough to send you to gallows! With this bald head, you can fool the people that you're MGR But you can't fool me! I know for sure that you're Sivaji. I am Sivaji and I am MGR. By your plan, I died as Sivaji By my plan, I've come back as MGR You are caught. Thunderstruck? What do you want? What do you have to give? Take whatever you want! I will take everything... ...but after you're punished. How should I punish you? A legal punishment, for killing Sivaji? or should I avenge you personally? I'll ask the coin which you gave me as alms Legal punishment, if it is tails! My personal punishment, if it is the lion! A new type of punishment awaits you! First, a punishment as per law! If I press the button, all of Tamil Nadu will know your evil plans! No Sivaji. If you do that, you will go to hell! I've just come back from there! It is your turn now. Now it is my turn to avenge! Hey, it's money! I think we'll get back our capitation fees! Go and kill him. Slit his throat! 10,000 more. 10,000 more. oh no! Still, just 1 ,000 more. Just 1 ,000 more. You can't take even this with you! Sivaji continued his good deeds! He brought to light many black marketers! Everyone realised the need to eradicate black money! 500 and 1000 rupee denominations were withdrawn from circulation suddenly. Half of the nation's black money came to light! A law was passed that anything costing more than Rs 1000... ...should be paid for through Cash Cards Cash Cards were distributed like Ration Cards! Black money vanishes fully in the nation Sivaji confessed to the offense of turning black money into white and faced the legal punishment! India became a powerful and wealthy nation! Dreams should become reality!
