 

                        Downloaded From another site Wonderful hotel right? -Yes honeymoon burdayd?m I moved here 2 bala -What beautiful liked How many times did you marry? -5 In fact, but how depends on the number 6 Sorucam anything, to divorce, advice do you have? -Is difficult, the first that is, at the front of the judge or something Is needed before a new judge and former wedding wife knows it, and forcing the What then? Then do not even want to marry my life - My wife made me sell Think video. My doctor my brother What do you do? -Video chain stores sell .. Definitely do not want to stay here than bi night. I lived, and thus easier to marriage -2 My ex-wife is killing me daughter. Even refuses to talk Keep trying. Will change anything one has We came here Are you ready? Horror but lovely Yes, parachute flight Mexicoda died .. While the engine was last year .. How that this will continue? Sensiz go there I can not remove. Bi can not get permission for you? Thanks Gelicem for you, worry about Ex-wife will be there also. -I love you What if he made parachute dive? Shit Said to him last thing .. .. "bi stupid to see your face again I do not want "du. This completely o.. Accident but I think they say For entertainment there was Of course, dear. -I do not want to see my wife Marry me-gas filling me Do you offer, should I say, okay? On the beach, in church, even in the elevator We tried to have sex senle You did that? -Very funny Everyone said to me yes you no derken -Then why are you still questions? Do not you ever say no My skin no-Hep When there is going look at the latest You do not know not met even Woman's name Autumn (autumn) -What will you be back? Nonsense bi funeral I do not want to be here then .. Stop Close your eyes .. .. Bi deep breaths. As if were in the elevator. Believe me, everything will be fine. -You promise? -Lyrics Thanks -Always I love you -I love you too Wonderful I hope really ready. You have to be Barbie Autumn .. I -Nice to meet you My age in my resmen.Ya??n it? -28-I Wonderful. I love to-Shawl Can I borrow? Yes, of course-OK Henry .. you go above Barby Rose Lefay -Are you okay?? I knew you bastard Henry Lefay and everything here. Do not get $ 20 DVD player. I am writing them still -Pirates are you? -Yes Many times I have to watch them? So do you like your mother -You're in a car accident I was told Motor accident and help 're My it was written in Gerekiyormu? mail It was an accident when ta.?unu watch .. look at the stadium Acaip beautiful. A lot like goes your Why not call me ever? Come on let's change our top What has he said what? Nice How did you meet? Henry knew my family .. my mother lying Yo yo, that is when high school Something strange is it? -Very I know Henry, but 2kat?m I got him out to offer I always like mature men. And I'm not complaining-no This marriage different .. I'm peaceful. Like the previous 25 years -Of course there was that time my mother Dad, why did you call me? For business. Ronny started to drool. Now wants 50% partnership What if all lies .. I did not have anything but changing .. And you want me You know me-you I said you get help. You know your mother better and new. Nobody knows us Honey-Learning will Everyone laughs you -Everyone laughs with me not me My advice is, I think you in the hands get all the shares sold to him Takes sells. Of this style Burdayken do it. -What? -I share my devredicem Last meeting was promoted -Last meeting was not So like all diyelim.Eskisi There is no-Eski I and my former wife, 1% of the shares of the company Barbie e Lehay give-me? Everything will be very nice .. -Accepted Yapyorsunuz why this? -I did not say? Your father has deceived me before the wedding Did you know? Never cheated before you got married on. Please do understand the language, said -Please do stop? Henry wants me to transfer my shares I just want to give my daughter a gift-1kez. I made people happy, why should not he not? It would be good because my experience says. - 49% sure. Do not look at me, don 't care All in all, I vericem decision and you Just accept the will - This agreement -Okay then Forget city In addition to the media devices do not need this job -What I said? But if a situation opposite to my father through my stock I was rich, so get used to it Not like me and your shares are leave the comfortable I am grateful Let's sit down .. a little slow. I know it can also upset the You and I want to peace Bi get very good day. G?zel bi-day? A day in the non-big city Tomorrow morning 9 also you and Autumn .. Me and Autumn .. great either. -So for me, he respects you Tell him I want to divorce -Divorce me? It can not say anything. -I can not say you will .. Girl re sen this task To say that they want to divorce-marriage? It should only do what diyorum.Kim otherwise would want both? Just say you Think otherwise it does not already going to marry you? Very young, but sweet for bi girls gibi.Senin is crazy, bi consultant or going Arasan Or try Bi -Yes, that should do my best for I believe at the end be happy. Is a problem-Tek I was engaged to someone else you know. -What? -I know, but that something very bad Place where your father will hit something. -I 'm your father's daughter Father engagement .. Autumn'la married. -This is why I need your help I'll wait you here. I found you lying bastard! Why do I bear at -Give it to me at everything you do What do I do? -You slept with your ex-wife while married. -Does my wife? -Autumn We met after divorce said. -When the first second in the? All because of your foolishness I do not want any of them. Also that it I bought this to you? -Yes .. go to the volcano, we had night I have not ever going to the volcano. Disperse demonstrations over .. come on guys. I got the idea of bi .. food? Did you know that here? -No We are aging Barbie Lefay .. right? Sarah Jane .. and you I remember you. Barbie-Hi how are you? We do business in this small town girl's husband? Few things came about bi-Family Did you bat for what? I was thinking along-Lise California. -Yes, it .. ?al???yorum.Ya you? Still Freddy's statement Things de?i?mez.Baz?lar? will change I have a dream .. one day .. Saturday Bi in fact You will receive 10% discount My dream is that on the day of Martin Luther King you must be happy My dream, played on DVD players the best price and give you all of you to be happy And just this week, delivered to homes free of charge. Young handsome fun Autumn said the same of - God, why did you marry on that? While a small bedroom on the huge bi There were toy Do you remember? Had huge bi?eydi.O nerden bliyor that? Engagement, Henry had taken me to the carnival And put a gun to the clown, and were doing shots make the best shot if you were awarded the prize Henry took many hours did he and his toys. Became part of our family bi o.Her gitti?miz took him down Even my mother's house on the day .. thanks. We've connected gravat neck dress God incredible bi?eydi We also buy tickets and toys. Along the way everyone looked at us I do not know what happened to that ugly toy I know, but you have my dear father I want you to go home Find a way to fix things bi involvement. Nevertheless ya?! You were dead! You 're Where are kesicem this time! Barbie you when you came? -Bi few days ago Neighbors complained .. what? Ophelia is my father-chase He thought divorce ends Future di-even beautiful? Look at this time nudist Henry and I were playing with each other that opened the phone. My fiance said to me after looking -It was. -Fiance of problems?! Also been a fiancee, Autumn Where? Went to Bi-weekly What a nice-Di? Dad Can I bi-minutes alone? I'm going already .. help me Etsende still could not find my bra Married to someone else while doing Ophelia'yla what? Bi are engaged in subject Came here and asked what would? -No-don 't understand Ophelia when I g??s?z?m.Cidden o even kill me in my sleep And he comes along, I would change. -So why Are you engaged with someone else? Ophelia'yla 3 times married Butcher knife was chasing me with the naked How about when you were married bliyor that? -What? Tuesday. This blonde maniac make me mad. Regardless of what this woman of my life one true love And you're my darling love of my life. Great right? Your father told me what happened? -Autumn yes but my - Barbie girl's heart a little to go .. How do you break? I really like the house will be like father example mutfak?? some de?i?tiricem Autumn, be careful about how to understand my father. Know about women is Topics years dimi? You can 't overcome. -No, nothing, I say to you Forgive me, but better than you yerdeyim.Senin years old and you still only get married Why are you so wonderful, but do you think Henry many get married? I think he believes in happy endings. I oalbilir help? What do you think that guy thinks? - "No one will have sex with me than bi" I think You did make it work -And you did follow me with her involvement So were you thinking? -Maybe Did you get married? -No I have a boyfriend. Le between Sarah Jane at around How long are you with? -No, I was infected, we're not together Anyway, after breaking my heart to ask you anyway. -I have broken? You leaving me After you hear good and Johnny. Barely remember - I went on with it? -I said so Know why Really? -Yes You were at age 20 marriage proposals I consider I was not stupid Barbie, here, every man living wanted to merge his life with you bi way Okay? Early marriage is not one, but I will You always serious -I think yes You lucky girl who recently suspended? Nobody .. nobody did not I'll go to see you .. Nice So why did Come on, this bi-step Autumn'u thinking-What? I met with several times before on-marriage I seem to feel cheated I do not even know the name of Maybe I'll tell you-Name? Think After last night it's not talking Here is my new step-mother came to meet you can .. Hi Barbie Did nanny, Sarah Jane? I know Nas? Do you have any relevance to me was -13 years old? I like her darling little 3 years I said, or you You said in our first appointment. Vex your father and I di not. -Frequently me? Nothing So even if you have to get used -Don 't worry, I used my mother Do you know yet married? -Can not my problem As a child, your father left you know We all have bad things .. is that in every relationship. -B Out Now! Don 't think it would forgive you. -Sarah Jane kind of know Small but all school age o.3 's a bitch that was one of the administration o.Ne have you done? Give him time to fix. Do you want to get a clear mess-No olmaz.Biri And I'm doing it all. -Okay, come on inside you alica cake Really very nice to go to Mother say to him very ugly .. -Finished my job Come to See Barbie dolls I'm going tomorrow and bi-stupid face again I do not want to see! Gere?kten this time would be very bad -Don 't worry everything will be fine Lloyd .. nice to meet you I look good, we de.Kusura How long do not speak on the? -One year Blood can, last spring, was calling me I think it's difficult for the two of you ... I cried a long time ago for Henry Lefay. Together with other women are selfish olam?ycam .. And I'm sure all of them will be here at this funeral My mother and other women, all here .. but will be without jealousy Really scared. Introduced from too bad to put our heads in trouble before Now what? -Autumn, from Henry talks about Henry died in what he said? Marriage is a good bi - This girl insane. Are you hungry Are you thirsty? Food and drink something? -Screaming to me, bring water Where's Henry? Gone .. o-grandmother died I'll get you water What I do I do? My father never seem to die much work has lived so precise Henry ready for everything .. everything was set. Your father had changed a lot after you Spiritual world has changed a lot .. such a He knew the day would come Funeral has written about everything In his letter to me, music, guests, flowers Even a beautiful oak at the bottom of the grave we chose Only problem we Gere?kten mexico government but now he will handle the body does not Still there? -I was surprised to be here to I did not go so alone .. Henry was gone. As a spiritual journey Something that does not want to know anything definite .. Maybe some kind of happened to him and felt something so I did not take me next I'm sure someone else was there for yav?amak. -You're suspected something wrong? -Not the same person? Ophelia? God, look like the same to him What about us .. I always liked it. Who marry get married if I've always loved Who? This handsome prince? Boyfriend Lloyd, Ophelia'ya say hello. Impressed I is not up - Bi drink glass of wine? If you were coming to me from last week In the show, would monitor In high school I was out at bi -I am sure is very beautiful I you do a specific show. Barbie funeral business need to talk -Body when it comes, Autumn will handle everything My father has done everything from dead From-dead? Henry wanted to be burned in my mind .. told me everything Autumn'a would not trust yani.Okyanusa both wanted to Bahamalardan taken Do you had written? -Yes See also spoken with the other spouse's they like me to say You are the only one to experience manage bi person? Come in -You 're down and things look okay Okay, but I would like to watch, this session -Come on, I'll come soon Hi Veronica I really can is lit. I have also got to spend um yes. Business partners for 10 years you just In fact we were business partners beyond I sorucam anything, my father perish Did you? -No Why did you think so? -Ophelia said so Henry sink istiyordu.?ay?ra Meadow to-do? Autumn, the trees were bi said they chose. We chose the meadow where the bi-together His wife, Autumn -Please have really talking So the woman with him at the hotel trying to locate Be with the woman he still meksikodaysa, going to send the body But something like this happens, will ride tonight come tomorrow Okay .. I think this good news Submit good .. but there one is bi horror news Funeral 2 days ago First glance We were not close enough to close it .. en better because everyone says something Not look at anyone, though we buried the bodies. -Yes, but the accident was bi I come from the funeral home can do let me know if there is anything So your father did not know, but here According to human being, love it were going You can not even imagine -He will be interred in the cemetery do? Was said to me six meadows and trees. Henry wants to be buried ?a?yra think -It is already Even last year where we have separated -He certainly did not want something like Okay, but I was a wife Veronica were a partner. -Would you please mute your voice? Do you have spoken with the consul Meksikodaki? -No, why? Barbie-is-now what? After-Anne My father was not alone Meksikoda. -I knew it, with shamans m?ym?? Bi women. We do not know who you are. You just stay alone .. mother Grandma. Let's go All it says here benim.Vasiyetinde Regardless benim.Ne penny will be buried Friday If you want your bitch trying to overcome me. Late afedersiniz.Burda officials who? So sorry sir -I also quite I want everyone to be kept separate from biyerde. -Sir? -Thanks a lot dear Inside when I'm hungry. Where the bodies? -Great hall Also forget 2 things, slow Were you all waiting for me? Would be so fast I did not know. I see everyone I wanted to be-closed sake So you noticed? -No We are all together .. never a mergers such Come on, let's hold hands for Henry .. Here one is not in the world We are meeting a partner, especially We all know the best and worst Four of us married Henry -5 Of course, for married 2 times to me - -Of or I just earth dear Henry I want to tell good-bye Write me a letter I had store. Photocopy you are late. Had written this letter to me of the same. My wife, my son .. I'll give you a decision. Verse-child iolur more iy I wanted the idea of asking. -Can I say anything? I think that people should be Visible light -Anne is no need to stop it .. I think the Open See ya. -His wife, my decisions, I'll give you .. Henry wanted to be burned -It 's nothing Wanted was -No it will not burn! Yo yo yo! Stop! Of his father's father's father .. now what would you do To bury their own children to something? Was that a great kid I have brought up dirt bi-Selfish Was always polite to me. Henry Lefay box do? -Yes I stayed here a bit .. Is it possible? Yo yo girl needed .. I'm Barbarella Lefay. I able to finally meet Effa .. Devareaux Ben Henry's wife was a top priority Henry leaving college in Chicago wants to become a blues musician who have What was that guy either. Installed in Chicago will be realized after I heard what I have seen how Bi even Henry. No napkins in Women's toilet Nine, it does not work here. -What do you work here? Believe me, that you must be Veronica .. room, not the only one who shares my interest in Henry did not give me anything and no I did not expect the You have to be Kate. This is his wife must be a shock snein i?in.?lk but in fact you did not think so I really do not want to hurt -May I ask anything? Have a short time in Chicago opinions nerden seeing us know? Years before the Internet ever can?m.5 I had no idea the ad was Henry Lefay .. and then mail me a g?ndermi?.Bana To find out what happened Mail every day we have been. -Everyday Is it? Every day here in few days .. Bi did not. When bad lie just inside his bi I wanted to look And now look at this Henry had quite a secret. I also believe that this Let us know maybe ol.Nerden slowly eats. Perhaps nothing will be after us like something I understand you when Kate is pregnant, her terketti?i after Veronicaya you terketti?i Ophelia married and 2.kez re di? You have come a long way .. turn Effa're bi. Wanted ice cream cake can?m.Nerde are there? There is a great place down the road in the bi - Get me. -Great If you have something you want for yourself .. al Thanks Funeral from 1g?n ago Early morning, you We wanted to see if everything is ok bi Others came? -No, first you've come This way I bi few minutes alone with my father I want to stay No no no How did together? -15 Years Crazy bi was 15 years. Where is that guy? Ophelia t Did you see? What do you do Autumn'? Do not insert comments into the room Why? Why not enter? Wait a second stop - Who did this? Come Autumn Who said you can burn it? -Former wife of Ophelia? -Yes o Ophelia as a legal right to speak of but his wife, Autumn Autumndan signed paper brought Do-signed? Stay away from there! No, it is a classic bi! My car should not have given him no Be precise I want to know in a single criminal complaint Do you have a desire to have? Barbie very good, how are you doing Show me? After the funeral on my mind .. but look at Him or her from attempted murder man permission to burn ... and it has the testicular can blame inability to quit Do you have them in the law? -Do you want to learn? So no-justice system bun+yla they can do as we did when dealing Ok -Thanks Great to see you again. I am so sorry for your father Careful -Now go inside! Listen to me now .. my father here I want you to show your respect So right here, and my best yap?cam. That's why no other ceremonial burning a corpse Not trying to crush each other. Nothing does not exist! Respectful, calm and quiet morning outside! Net could be? -Yes OK then Henry's ashes will be laid Boraboraya -Don 't think Was the happiest place -Please The table above dusty .. well bi cloth should If these women talk to one of the best olcak -Grandma He wants to Pacific was thrown. Embed must-be-Blessed Ashes should be buried? Get a second permit, comments room soon olucaz I'm glad to find you here. The Mexikoda Henry'yle me. Who are you? -Henry 's first wife was a I was the last match will be Tell them Barbie So sorry. Too much for the day-Bi I lost my husband, and then ya .. I saw it was burned .. and then me terkedece?ini learned Knew you -Yes I knew him But my father sad?kt?m.Ve Sarah Jane I did not know on the Meksikoda Do I mean there were others? Bora bora was happy Am sure it -I Ash and there at?caz Long live there forever had taken He and my mother were together. He sat down .. and looked at the mountains .. you can watch forever, he said And another happy moment with me on our I do not remember Horror guy was or Why not .. we all split ash 'll be happy to areas at its But because such a farewell to my father hakederdi di? 'm Sorry Nerden tan?yodunuz my mother? My father's ashes a new got the idea Where is Ophelia? Feedback wanted to be near-room .. OK let's go Remove shoes Regardless of what Henry's ashes Kanku a discarded should To hurt me! Pausing What are you doing? Henry wanted to laid-pasifike Vermiycem hi?birinize.Oran?n did not even know the language! Some men will love this event, or Not me .. some men needed Now what are we going? Let's take another bi vase Will remain empty? Anything else-into which we will What? Sugar? What do you Nothing back from him did not ya! Middle of the road so I'm sorry to Henry I would not want to hair Could be still here As dead-still Off the face of his face, eyes scattered centipede! What would you do that?! See you in my life the most stupid mourning! Excuse me, Father has sent me Catholic seramoniler will help your thought .. but the Poles Henry'yle different bi decided There is no limit to the mercy of God .. Our prayers with Henry Lefay Amin Now 297 If you turn the page, and I I can tell you with You bastard That morning Sarah Jane went to the south Then I thought better when bi Kankun'da olucam Went on with or without the parachute We opened up with the boat The honeymoon did not speak English .. bi couple was Kankun'daki prostitutes because divorce had come to the level of My belt when my favorites I wanted to open a little I had a good time, but he wanted to leave my place And let her and the man from 150 meters water stuck Have I died or crazy .. I could have it I left my ID or something ran Take them into tequila there and I was leaking after I tried to call you but the hotel said gitti?ni I thought you and me exited I came back I had to work Wait Wait, my father how did he die? -I was going to die so that was not Why did you go there? Limit of the men in my ad allowed me to recognize when crossing the border Why did not someone call us I thought I did not kill anyone Sanar - So this morning but I did not call As for the party .. I got this out What's happening? Everyone at the funeral said Go and put my team .. I had to see. M here and there And we know he died without family man .. We've burned, their ashes to the gas station also have hair Got the idea you came to me in Bi They sent the suitcase. -I want my grandmother to stay So okay I love you -I love you too I have to say it This week before your incredible I thought it one But after seeing all that they do I have an incredible respect for you now Between good and evil that they say .. What could be worse than that? And you were great .. damn women married to me .. Are you out of your mind? Look at us now look at my family Regardless of what not to get married? False marriage-yapm?ycam I did not mean -Don 't even think about I've left the last time I do not want to remember To think that our chances of dying and .. this 2.bir for those things when you're young .. .. .. living when her father normal bi I knew you will not be Maybe we can friends -Great .. new beginning to our Funeral was beautiful ha Autumn has arrived and held a Polish man vase would take him from the rest of Boraboraya Indeed the man's face blue and was red or I just want to do what I did want to 're thrown My latest decision is not the ama.Sarah Jane did not disappear .. believe me, they - -Yes, I stopped doing this to me I OK I get it right or How Autumn was furious? Split-hair was To deal with while on nervous would be difficult or Maybe have a word with you on that .. Lipshit also give families something Call them what happened and we'll tell But I do not know how they girls T even talk about being burned Jews because they Is not even clear ash Bye -What? Bye, going back to California. You ever gonna change and if you do not change I head yiycem I love you .. you can understand I really like But my views Song of the discourse I need to talk to you After the funeral I've waited a very important Done .. I came here to go to say What does that mean? -My father always claimed B?kt?m to his mother .. .. here is to repair broken -Growth The only person in the family is that you? Get very selfish-How so? -All the funeral did you manage to Me? -Yes, I don 't know respect your father how to get ya!? Is all my fault? So poor Then removed from the coffin man Lipshit crazy woman .. burning? They are trying to do the best sorry a handful were women Onca happened .. even Ophelia'y? could forgive Show your anger at what times Bi is, Tell me that bit My daughter can not talk to me like that Since you did not like it here why immediately return to San Francisco or not? How do I eligible? I think when it comes having certain bi God makes you forget everything Because so many things .. remember Arasan is much to bear .. Why beautiful bi me from time do not talk What about Hawaii? -You were on holiday? No, I lived there -When? During the war after Pearl Harbor. We used a lot of fun there Would run club, sailors would come. Would pay them entertained Do you pay for what they dance? -No, of course Do people with time of war dance is involved? So what you did .. whore? I was no party girl -What is the difference? Pronunciation of the more beautiful The hospital with my mother when I How nice to stay Hospital or what? -Anne went to the biopsy or this morning Doctors later said good Very sorry -I Spent all these years for me alone Do not worry everything Sometimes you go to the well when there is no bi You will get a bad order He was me there. We will not make more mistakes bi You do not make the same mistakes What is it error? Excuse me, visiting hours are over. Good night my Mom diycem So I closed Can I enter? Not believe the Californiada I had one Believed I know you well My father died very weak .. did not die after Mother ill Were prostitutes bi B?y?kannemse Johnny Fregno'ylayken de I felt If my way bi?ekilde I was trying to find I mean that was bad .. orders but you give the wrong income .. but that's all. Please Do not hate me I once tried bi Did not work Lloyd to talk to you want something there Lloyd you ar?ycam The only thing left to me this .. These ashes do Me rest -No gas stations still exist Let's get drunk to go home .. However, I thought ba?ederim Then I thought .. but not One day his father as Lipshit olucam But what remained with prostitutes Kankunda hang I had never done another job .. I have to really think about it And you're like me bi selfish than .. Do you deserve a good father bi I really wanted to change Not want I left Sarah Jane but from Really? -Yes I did not get the ring I said you get Then my face was at You want some? -No thanks It cost me 28 thousand was Bi Let me see I never bi?e your life I touched you? What do you think this out to me ..? I wonder are you Mom really got over it. I have received from you -Thanks Are you nervous? -No So I guess I'm not But you will be very good point to get bi Are you ready? -Yes I did not think I would see them together -Anne I'm glad to be a good Among all the other spouse He was like Your father told me to bi getting married Each other? -Course How nice Are wonderful dear -Thanks Do you think it suits me? I was looking for A little quiet place called bi Were always escapes me of my wedding I have become all-Bridal bridesmaid Would be included in all -Yes Our ?ark?m?z Shall we dance? -Course Believe me, no point to such that I did not see Yes
