 

                        Yee nadlooshi - The Navajo term for 'Skinwalker' Human beings, who, through the blood of other humans... have gained supernatural powers. Some call it a gift - others a curse. A war has begun - between those who mean to end the curse, and those who do not want to lose their beastly powers. According to the indian legend, the end of all Skinwalkers... will be brought about by a 13 year old boy. There are some things in this world so frightening... that we pretend they don't exist... the stuff of nightmares... we tell ourselves... there no such thing... but the truth is they are out there... and closer then we fear... Silver bullets Nice touch now caretaker... it looks like your out of a job... you and your people have been defending... these pathetic creatures for a long time but it will all be over soon enough we'll attack each of these camps and destroy them... and this disgrace to our true nature will be over forever what was on the tape? you'll never find the boy in time... now... it can't be... it already began... the legend is true... where is the boy? tell me... not in this lifetime hurry. gather your men we have four days to full moon take this to Varek he goes north... tel him there's no time to lose you find this boy or it's the end of us you can see for yourself... the boy is safe... but with the red moon we should be ready for anything just to make sure you be careful the red moon's power will be very strong you will have to lock down until this is over I've gotta go, good luck and stay sharp he's gonna make it we all are this isn't a dream anymore four more days well that's good news the bad news is now y'all gotta to spend the night downstairs It's probably just a fuse I'll be right back Ralph Ralph Varek... oh my God Tell me when Varek and the're all dead so it's true the boy's alive where is he? don't hurt him that's not what I want... if you co-operate with us, then you will be spared along with your husband if you choose otherwise then you will be forced to watch him suffer in agony allowing you one last look at the life that you elected to end do you understand? good now... where is the child? we don't know we never have she's fucking lying they gotta know, Varek... you think we hadn't thought of something like this of someone like you do you think you're a martyr you might as well be holding the blade no... no... this everything is? that's it you believe her it doesn't make any sense, it is not possible Varek it makes perfect sense... they can't tell us what they don't know... no matter what we do to them it's foolproof the're dying for some kid the've never even seen? they have faith... it's all they need think of something this kid is out there I'd rather die then go back to that we'll find the child there's no alternative we'll find him Sonya You can't even see the kid's face... so that's how they did it boosted the morale without risking a thing we're wasting our time Varek... we only have four more nights to find this kid so wait... did you see that? what? right there look at the mirror Huguenun... Come on baby breathe please, just breathe Will he can't breathe. I gave him a shot this morning. I don't understand The inhaler doesn't help he just keeps getting worse and worse Rachel, he's going to be OK Tim... I want you to breathe deep and don't move... Come on sweeetie what is it? it smells like crap hey baby are you OK? do you want to see something freaky? isn't that awesome? did you have another bad dream? no, I'm fine come here you let's snuggle I love you mom I love you too baby... is everything all right? I was worried when you weren't there this morning Tim had another attack a bad one he's all right now he's sleeping so's Rachel She was up most of the night the moon... is getting very powerful this may get worse Thank God for you Will you've always been there for us I don't know what we'd do without you It's all in a days work Tim looks well yeah,he get's sick and he get's better it's his whole life... He comforts me Jonas What's wrong Rachel? there's something I have to tell you it's time for me and Tim to leave we have to I have to learn to be a mother a good mother... figure out what I want to do with the rest of my life you guys have raised him, I haven't I'm so God damned dependent on everyone here I have to learn to stand on my own two feet he's been dead over thirteen years now Jonas... what progress have I made? his ghost is all around me every time I look at you... Nana, Katherine... I still see him Come on Rachel, don't fool yourself my brother's ghost is going to be with you whereever you go you need to be strong... despite that he's want you to I'm sorry Jonas I've already made my decision Hey Doak ok... you know... you gotta give them what they want What's that I don't know, let me see what I've got in here a DVD... Yes good morning - good morning... what are you doing here? did you bring something? Nothing - the mail... you forgot your name tag oh shoot thanks Nana Pretty cool fool This piece of track it keeps catching when did we start wielding blades? A few days ago mom gave it to me... she was saving it for my birthday I caught her trying to hide it in her jewellery box... so I got it early... Nice let me see that... oh sure it looks so used... it's my dads Hey look what the cat dragged in Hey Adam How you feeling big guy? I'm hungry Right, he said it let's go get some breakfast Easy why does he have to do that? Hey I heard you had a bit of a scare last night... how do you feel? Huge! Check that out Check this out thanks Uncle Jonas an early birthday present wow dad Is that a Smile? Is Adam taking care of you? come on How about that wind last night It was pretty wild huh? shit I'm late Someone will drop Timmy at the store we'll be there. there's Courtney Hey Adam, Rachel How's Tim? All better? He's fine, thanks. Good News Tim had an attack last night... last night... Can't even sneeze in this town without anyone knowing our business Ain't that weird? I mean it's not not normal, it's not we're not here right now leave a message and we'll get right back to you, thanks Hey guys it's me where are you? I thought you'd be here by now It's geting late Where are you? Nana Do you think the moon will be red again tonight? maybe... Really? What makes it red? It's getting late, let's just get you to the store Nana Come on All we want is the boy run. stay there... I'll explain later. Right now learn how to load a gun Adam, what are you doing? We need to move now Timothy. Get Down Dad. Head straight for the Saddle Shop Stay there until I come for you I'm not leaving you Nana Do as I say Go. Get the boy. Mom. Are you OK? don't move until I tell you... We need To get to my garage Trust me Adam They're on us Where's Jonas? Let's go let's move. Give me your hand. Give me your hand Rachel. Come on. Over there in the truck Give me your hand Go! Get out of here. I can't believe Get the bandages. Let me see Put some pressure here Nana How did they find us Jonas? How? What the hell is happening? They want Timothy... What are you talking about? They want to kill him, Rachel... And they're not going to stop until he's dead. Why would anyone want to kill Tim? He's just a boy. In 3 days on a full moon, something going to happen to Timothy. Something they can't allow. We'll find Him. You know that. You're not making any sense. We're cursed We kept you in the dark all these years Because it was the best way to prevent them from finding Timothy Ever and we kept him safe Rachel. For thirteen years we kept him safe. Don't We call ourselves skinwalkers I don't understand... mumbles some crap Who are they? Skinwalkers. But not like us. It's really quite simple. We want the curse to end They don't Why do they want me? Because you are the only one that has the power... To end the curse forever. You're special Timothy... You have your mother's blood, and ours. Nana was one of us. So was your father. No, it's impossible, not my husband... Pull this thing over We're getting out. Rachel, please... Don't you get it, I don't believe you It's going to be OK, I promise. don't worry, she's safe the're locked down she needs to see it to believe it You don't like me I'm just a friend I knew your father when he was your age and Jonas and I go way back My people have been taking care of these people for a long time there's a legend, a belief that if a child.... a halfbreed.... something like that... and if he lives to be 13 years old there's gunna be a red moon... which is a signal to all skinwalkers... that the prophecy will be fulfilled at midnight on the day of your 13th birthday When they turn the craving for human blood is so intense that if they break free and feed they will become the beasts for ever and the ones trying to kill me they don't want the curse to end? To them it's not a curse the lust and desire to consume human blood is so overwhelming to them it's like drugs to an addict The first Skinwalkers were Native American they believed that the power of the wolf was a gift but it mutated and .... many couldn't control the lust for power couldn't fight the beast inside them what makes you think I can? if I live through this... what is it that I'm supposed to be able to do, exactly I don't know don't do this... Here you go little girl thanks Alan... Anytime... keep dreaming Are we going to play some pool? let's play Baby... Oh yeah, we're gunna play allright Get your hands off me we're two against one... Get off of me! Get off of me! Hey sweetheart... do you want some this? Please forgive us. we're refueled... I'm gunna head for the Stronghold allright. hey hey hey hey... you know you might even like it if you try it not in this lifetime... Where the hell are we gunna go? we follow the leader... let's go. yeah... let's get it done I'm the same man Rachel... no... you're not, not to me you've been living like this your whole life? every month? what about them? the ones coming after us when they change do they... they hunt and they kill they're addicted to blood... once you feed you can't go back... those beasts killed my husband and now they're after my son... how is a 13 year old boy going to end all of this? he's special... the nightmares, the asthma Timothy's body is at war with itself... and he needs you... we need you... so what now? How do we keep my son safe... Now we keep together... and we stay out of sight... there's just two days... we are so close, Rachel... what is it baby? I don't feel so good... ok baby I'm here... it's gunna be OK Timmy What happened? you passed out... you'll be back in the game in no time somebody get the nurse... Why don't you do a walk around? I don't know this place... I don't want any surprises... what is going on upstairs? damn it do you think he's gunna make it? he always does He's stronger then all of us put together yeah, I know that and I believe that just... I'm sick of looking over my shoulder... and not knowing who to trust... hello... how do you feel young man? Better now that you're here Tim... it's fine... cute cute huh? you had all the lab technicians scratching their heads let me guess... I'm a werewolf... not quite... but he does have a vary rare blood type... not only that but his white blood count was off the chart he gets that from me... I'm AB negative that's not it What about his father? That's a tough one We're not sure... ok... You have some pretty strong blood running through you Adam... we are so close... before we know it our live are going to be our own we can be whatever we want to be ok... we're so close wanna be a better half it's long hours... yeah, it's a pay... it's more about the benefits... how long before we can be on our way? let me go talk to the doctor... don't be a stranger... thank you What? I'm almost 13 you know he's doing OK we'll be out of here in no time Adam get to the roof... you might see something we can't Kath, you take the back entrance I want to stay here... mum I want to get out of here... we need to leave I know... Doak's gone to find someone... he'll be a minute... Car accident, head trauma take a look. Jonas... Bring the RV around now... excuse me... can we get a doctor please? we'd like to leave... Hey, what are you doing? no... it's time to die... Tim get up... go Timmy go... are you OK? - C'mon get up Come on... let's go come on. that it is mine... no... get ready doak... now. go. quick. Rachel... it's OK... no... Come on, in the truck take him Come on Come on Jonas... let's stop all of this. Brother cover me well let her go Caleb... Caleb don't make me make something I don't want to do... join me... we're one and the same I'm nothing like you I am what I was meant to be you live a lie you were wrong I know what your feeling trust me Trust you? you're killing... fellow human beings I am not human... and I will not risk spending the rest of my days as one... diseased and flawed... you are better than this... let her go Caleb... let her go... we'll make you a deal Katherine for the boy... my daughter for your son... what? What the hell is he talking about Varek? you told me that he was dead Uncle Jonas... you all told me that you all lied to me I believed that he was dead... no... mom. they got her Oh my god Jonas they got Kath they wanted him killed I thought he was dead... well you were wrong and now he's trying to kill my son... his son... we have to keep moving That bitch was your wife... it was another life... and that was your son? I didn't know... it changes nothing it changes everything... that kid has to die Sonya's right Varek this is fucked up that boy has to die I know I don't care who's kid it is you can't hesitate you shut your mouth are you questioning my resolve. the boy has no father... and I have no son Jonas this is our best chance Adam... we know this place is safe... we'll be able to wait it out here we'll protect him here tell me she isn't worth it... tell me she isn't worth going back for why are you doing this? that son of a bitch is he knows he's got my only weakness... that's why she's still alive Adam... that's why we can't go back, because that's what he's counting on they're going to torture her mercilessly and you know she won't break can you live with that? neither can I it's just one more day Adam and all this will be over everything that we believe in... lives in Timothy... everything I believe in is out there She's gone Adam and if you go back it will be the end of us Jonas... it's as safe as we're gonna ger It's time for lockdown all right Adam, you first let's go... the red moon is gonna be even stronger tonight Adam Adam, I want you to find some higher ground and keep your eyes peeled Adam Adam... get Timothy, we're leaving now... we're no longer safe here how did he become one of them? the night of the attack we thought he was dead... but we were wrong now he must have survived and he must have hunted Jonas it's Caleb. my husband... your brother... the Caleb you loved died that night... he is not dead... how could you lie to me all these years? I did it to protect you and he's taken Katherine... you don't think that I feel any of that... do you? I'm not like you Jonas any of you remember I don't have the beast inside of me you better find it for your son... or he will die? Jonas... he found her I told you not to go you led them to us I didn't see anyone everybody in the truck... we gotta go now Tim... are you OK baby? I can't believe that it was him Daddy he looked so different... he wanted to know to where we were headed the others wanted me dead he wouldn't allow it I guess he saved my life He's going to be on our tail now we'll make up some time tonight I'm sorry Jonas I couldn't leave her Yeh I know I love you I was zoning in and out they wanted to know to where we were headed... that's OK sweetheart we'll talk about it in the morning I'll finish with Kath... you two get yourselves locked up she's going to need some time I'm sorry I just don't remember it's all right I wish I had more for you It's OK Jonas we gotta get lockdown you're gonna be OK Katherine try and relax we're gonna take this one step at a time I got it Daddy, sometings wrong with me Kath what is it? get the fuck back cocksucker lock her down do it now just leave me alone I don't know what's happening I can't control it... it's impossible, they left her for dead they made her feed do it now lock her down they gave me life... what happened? Adam, she'll kill us and she'll kill Timothy... it's what Varek wanted baby... you have no idea what you're missing god it's so amazing we can feel it together... she's gone Adam, she's turned that's not Katherine anymore you can't do it you fucking coward Katherine don't make me do this. go on Adam, you gotta do it you gotta do something Jonas you shot me you little prick I'm sorry, you're gonna be OK maybe... please... she's gone, Adam, you gotta do something she's gone Adam, she's gone don't Katherine I love you Adam... you love me too that's enough baby that's enough Katherine... please... give me that... please... you were Daddy Timothy, open the door kiddo Timothy no. Timothy stay down keep the door closed Timothy... come on kiddo sit down. keep the door closed shut the fuck up it doesn't have to be this way don't you want to feel what I'm feeling think about what you're doing you help raise that boy... this is not you... you have to fight it Kath you have to fight it give me your hand give me your hand Timothy open the door. no, keep the door closed Uncle Jonas is trying to hurt me... keep driving Timothy don't. Timothy closes the door now... please stop it I'll miss you Daddy... oh my God... oh my God... there. there it is... we only have to make it to midnight... three bodies but there's no kid there's nothing back there they're all gone they're close... just one more... we're safe in here that's a steel door, locks from the inside... what are you thinking? while I'm not there. you in there with Tim you want to go out there alone? I've got a few tricks up my sleeve let me help you Jonas.. now you listen to me... after I turn I'm gonna be fighting the need to feed we're here, we can help you... on anything or anyone. now I don't know what's gonna happen... but if I feed I might lose control and you're not going to have a choice... kill me. you've gotta kill me... swear it to me... swear it to me Rachel you have no choice... it's not for another hour.. but happy birthday Timothy we just have to last until midnight... you're gonna be OK Timmy... don't open the door... shit... here sit down. we gotta go fast... please... don't hurt him... no... mom. mom, wake up please, mom get up.. mom wake up mom, Uncle Jonas is in trouble... Uncle Jonas.. No UNcle Jonas let's get the hell out of here. no... are you OK? Dad... can I help you? we'd like a room I need your names... and a credit card... it'll be cash... cash works.. sorry, my wife's a little jumpy... yeah, it's all right it's just one of those nights... so many people sacrificed their lives for me... and now I make sure they did't die in vain... Uncle Johannes was right after all I do have the power to end the curse it's not going to be as easy as they all hoped.. the power was in my blood I am wounded I'm here to be cured... for some I am salvation... for the others their destruction
