 

                        JULES: Is this the past or the present you're talking about? And this is real? This is a story, or this is real? Working on your man, Walter Weed. VICKY: Yeah, interesting career. Forty years, same division, same desk. Is this that in-transmission that's been tracking? JULES: Yep. There's an awful lot of crypto in the carrier wave, and they're using some kind of spread spectrum. Is that accurate? The name? - Walter Weed. - Yes. My wife, Elizabeth, daughter, Mary. Why is the bureau putting a close protection team on Weed? The question's why would they need to? Retiring, wheelchair-bound, mid-level information analyst. There's really nothing to tell. BAKER: How many enemies can this guy have? Tell me about April 19th. April 19th, 3:00 a.m., to be precise. Am I in some sort of trouble? BAKER: No, Walter, you're in very specific trouble. Bureau intel has decoded credible data that a multimillion-dollar contract has been put into play by parties as yet unknown. Unconfirmed information is that this is an open contract, and that multiple assets may be involved. Confirmed information from our good friends at ViCAP had the termination date April 19th, 3:00 a.m. Tomorrow? Tomorrow. And you said, "Termination date"? Your termination. You're the target. Tomorrow's the day you're supposed to die, Walter. (NERVOUS LAUGHTER) This is some kind of a gag, isn't it? Abrams is behind this, isn't he? Right. For my retirement party? This is an assassination market. Normally this level of asset engagement is associated with heads of state. Mubarak was a market target four years back. Hamid Karzai more recently. You're talking about people of great importance and power. What do I have in common with them? Why would I be a target? That's what we want to know, Walter. So tell me a story. You asked to see me, Father? I thought we should pray together, girl. Pray together and ask the Lord to forgive you your sins. You do want God's love, don't you? Of course, Father. Well, then you know what you must do. (CHUCKLES) Please, Father, kiss me first? (COUGHS) (PRIEST CLATTERS ON FLOOR) I was sent by the parents of the children you took liberties with. As penance for your sins, they've asked for nothing less than your life. (SIGHS) Sometimes, true forgiveness has to be forced upon us. BAKER: An unknown individual has put a bounty on your head that'll draw every animal who can point a gun, wield a knife, or crush a skull. Sublime, as always. This individual, the un-sub contracting this hit, is likely a major player in international assassinations. It's not likely that we'll know the size and scale of the threat against you, but we should be ready for anything. I've been employed and entrusted with a responsibility. What would happen to the world if we all abandoned our responsibilities, Marty? (SHUSHING) Look, we could... Chaos. That's what would happen. Yeah. I understand that, all right? Believe me, I do. But everything has a price, right? And I can pay. I'm talking $2,000,000. Please. Okay, okay, fuck that, fuck that. Look, I... I could get you more. A lot more. My brother, Morris Mecklen, he's got this client, Buddy Israel, he's got shitloads of cash. Two days and you'll have the money. Just two days! Please! We don't have two days, Marty. We only have now. The Mayans and the ancient Egyptians practiced brain surgery. - What the fuck? - But it was Dr. Walter Freeman who perfected it. - Depending on the position... - Don't do this. ...and the depth of the ice pick, one can neutralize pain, the language center, or short-term memory. My eyes! I can't see! Jesus. God. What the fuck? Different parts of the brain, ...different results. - Wait, wait. $3,000,000. I can get you $3,000,000. The cerebellum controls speech, Marty, not your hearing, so listen very carefully. Don't do this. The people who have employed me have already paid me, and once I've been paid, - I see the job through. - No! - No! You don't have to do this! - Otherwise, chaos. BAKER: This is like an open casting for killers. Every sociopath in the known world looking to pick up a paycheck is gonna be coming out of the woodwork. (SCREAMS) (SHUSHING) McTeague. HAL LEUCO: I have a job for you. Are you free? Free, no. Available, yes. Our intel is still in the assessment phase. What we're finding is that these assets show no allegiance to any individual government or political ideals. They're just cold-blooded killers. - (GRUNTS) Yeah! Yeah! - Fucker! Look at me. Where's my fucking shipment? Where is it? Where's my fucking shipment? They're on the base. They're on the base. All right? All right? They're watching me. They were watching so... You're gonna fuck me? Oh, I am fucking you. I want my motherfucking weapons! You motherfucking filthy... (BOTH EXCLAIMING) (BOTH EXHALE) They're in the depot. Excellent work, sailor. Dismissed. BAKER: The variety of monsters tracking you that are already more than likely on their way here is like the World Series of assassins. (CHUCKLES) Gonna make this joke about you shooting your load and then me shooting you, but it wasn't as good as "dismissed.' ' How was the old swabbie? Ring your bell, did he? Fucker said they's holding our stash in an armory just inside the depot. You know, I heard that most Navy recruits have had at least one homosexual experience before they's even midshipman, so, Sis, I was wondering, I mean, was his deck gun firing? Or maybe he was banging you while he was thinking about Popeye's forearms. Lester, why don't you just admit that you want this sweet little package all to yourself, huh? I admit I wouldn't mind a little... - Come on. Come on, now. - Don't you fucking touch me, you fucking prick. Get your fucking dirty paws off me, fucker. FRITZ: Don't you know, boy, the danger of blood relations? That's what double-fucked the Confederacy. That's how we lost the Civil War. You think you want a whole slew of kids running around whose eyeballs are touching because you can't keep your hands off your sister? Bunny Rabbit. Time to get serious. We gonna acquire us some fire. (ALL LAUGHING) (SCREAMING) KAITLYN: God damn! That's a mini! Four thousand rounds a minute. Let's go, Sling Blade, shake a leg! (CELL PHONE RINGING) Well, if it ain't the great benefactor. God damn it, Lester! Suppressive fire! Always busy, sugar. We like to keep it oiled so we's always ready to roll hard. What you got for us, honey? Why? There's a theory that this has to do with some code that you cracked, some piece of cryptology that is meaningless with you alive but invaluable with you dead. I am only medium-security clearance. Any top secrets that are disseminated are deemed declassified long before they ever cross my desk. Walter, we can head-scratch the semantics of this all day, but the clock is ticking. (MILTON GRUNTING) Oh, God, my face. What's wrong with my face? What did you do to my face? No! No, please! (SCREAMING) That's it? (CHUCKLES) I thought you were gonna cut my face. You're not gonna cut my face, are you? No. The face is sacred. But the throat... BAKER: Most of these operators we know by deed only, but they will be cold-blooded, ruthless professionals. (MILTON CHOKING) The bureau has mobilized my team with the express purpose of protecting and thereby extending your life, and that's a good thing. I trust these people with my life, and we're asking you to trust us with yours. Agent Dumare, counter-protocol. Agents Abrego and Nicholas, transport and monitoring. Sir. Agent Redstone's gonna be on close protection detail with our SAC. Hey. You'll be moved to an undisclosed location until the deadline and the bounty expire. What is the price? $3,000,000. That is mmm-mmm good. For $3,000,000... I'd kill my own mother. Actually, I did, for a lot less than that. God, I... $3,000,000? I can't imagine what I would've done in my life to warrant such... Walter. They're never gonna collect. You just give us the word and we'll go all the way to the wall for you. The exact time of kill is... HAL LEUCO: Is a non-negotiable point. April 19th, 3:00 a.m. Any deviation from this timeline nullifies any form of payment. You just have that money waiting on the 20th, sugar, and I will have something sweet waiting for you. All right, Agent Baker. My life is in your hands. BAKER: Keeping our subject alive depends in no small part on the secrecy of this op. We are ghosts, gentlemen. We do not exist. We're completely off the clock on this one. We're all being paid cash, tax-free, in an effort to leave absolutely no footprint. You all know Agent Dumare. He'll be in charge of overwatch. Agents Williamson, Osterberg, will be in charge of sniper and recon at location. Culham will be down on the street. Jules and her team will be our sole point of contact within the bureau. We're overlord 24l7. We'll have real-time sat images, local news and law enforcement feeds. Anything happens in or around you, you'll know about it immediately. WALTER: All this trouble for me. Why this guy? I suppose I should be flattered, somebody wanting me dead so badly. BAKER: Great men attract great enemies. Well, I hardly qualify. I shot a gun once on a range in Quantico, at a paper target. Well, I've fired hundreds of them hundreds of times. Don't worry, Walter. We promise not to let things get too exciting. Our location will be unknown until we touch down. That means we'll be traveling signal-free. That's no cell phones, PDAs, nothing that receives or transmits. You got them, give them up. And all forms of ID, as well. Remember, none of us exists as of this moment. So, what, things go sideways, no pension? The way you fucking eat, you won't make it to pension anyway. (ALL LAUGHING) We're T minus 30. I'll see you in transpo. DUMARE: All right, immediate mount and mobilize. Don't let the door hit your ass on the way out. Dom, I'm serious about that pension, man. I got a kid. You know that. You fucking stunad, they can't take your pension away. Not unless you do something completely horrible. Don't you remember Cabo, with the soap? WALTER: How old are you? Thirty-two? In charge of this unit? Somebody up there likes you. You're soaring up, and I'm headed down. You must have some pretty amazing memories, though. Any one in particular stick out? Meeting Ronald Reagan. (SIGHS) I can only imagine, it must've been like Moses going up the mount and God coming forth. He was a colossal figure. God? (LAUGHING) Reagan. BAKER: Sorry. Okay. God was colossal, too. Okay, gentlemen, recon takes up station and plots position. We don't breathe until they say it's good. Good to go. Clear to offload. Over. What do you got for me? Rocket fuel. Thank you. Want you to meet Special Agent Malcolm Little. Welcome to Little Jazz. These are my agents you guys are gonna be working with. This door is your first line of defense out of what essentially is a bunker. Gentlemen, you're looking at a little piece of history. Turn of the last century, they built freight tunnels throughout all of Chicago. Transport butchered steer. Back in those days, these tunnels were swimming in blood. And if it wasn't the slaughterhouses using them, it was the bootleggers running guns and liquor. These tunnels used to connect the sewer system. They sealed them shut in the early '50s. In 1955, Ike's administration came through and built the bunker. NICHOLAS: Sorry. Ike? REDSTONE: Eisenhower, rookie. Jesus, who hired this punk? If it's not on an iPod, these kids haven't heard of it. ABREGO: Don't let them ride you, Nick-Nick. You don't give it back tenfold, they'll eat you alive. Next time Red messes with you, ask him about Gearbox. - Gearbox? - Yeah. Gentlemen, the main bunker. You know, truth be told, it used to be a private speakeasy for Sammy "The Ant" Battaglia during Prohibition. Later on, one of our most wanted, Primo Sparazza, used to take his girls in here, get his little geriatric shimmy-shake on. What evac points are available to us? MALCOLM: Well, that's the good and the bad. It would take more munitions to bring down my doors than level all Chicago, but it's a warren. There's only one way in and one way out. Not too crazy about that. You guys got enough food and booze to last you about six months. Plus you have complete surveillance of upstairs, corridors, and outside the club. Seriously, you'd have to be suicidal to take a run at my spot. Walter, what do you think? I think I'm about as safe as it's possible to make me. DUMARE: What do you got here? That would be a spider hole. Jesus, Saddam renting this place from you? NICHOLAS: Wow. If you're that impressed, rookie, why don't you jump down in there? - Sorry? - No, don't be sorry. Just get down in there. Give us a demonstration. Come on, rookie, in the hole. Go on, get in there. - Go on. - Oh. Okay. Yeah. Right after you explain Gearbox. (EXCLAIMING) Rookie fights back. I like that. Okay, who the fuck told him that? (STUTTERS) That would be me. You know, I figured he ought to know the kind of man he's working with. - You fucking... - No, hey, hey, hey. It's okay. You didn't follow through. It's the follow-through that matters. Still, he nearly fucked a tranny. A she-he, bro. That's gotta fucking leave a mark. - BAKER: Hey! - Easy. You girls want to play grab-ass, you do it on your own time, not mine. - I need you right and tight. - Yes, sir. - Yes, sir. - Yes, sir. Let's load in and station up. ABREGO: Yes, sir. Fucking guineas. You get them to Chicago, they get brave. If I'm not mistaken, he sounded a little racist. Easy, the guy's a fucking hard-on. You fuck with the bull, you get the horns, right? (MAN CHATTERING ON PA) BABY BOY: Minotaurs. Minotaurs are cloven-hoofed creatures of mythological origin. You mean miniatures. Yeah. (FRITZ EXCLAIMS) You know what he meant. Yeah. You all be careful. Them clown fuckers can be dangerous, and the little ones can be lethal. I always make it a point not to cross swords with carnies and harlots, but we can use them little boys as a facade, so there we are. Yeah. They're Satan's little secret agents, collecting souls on the side. I saw one of them little bastards levitate one time, took the heart right out of a Great Dane, eat it whole, just like that. - You seen what? - Yep. Where'd you see that? Now that must've been a sight to behold. FRITZ: Yeah. Sent me running for my Bible. You still take comfort in them fables, Daddy? (CHUCKLES) Don't you blaspheme, boy. Never too old to put you over my knee and beat a reckoning into you. You're still scared of clowns, Lester. (CHUCKLING) I ain't scared of them, per se, just very mindful of their movements, that's all. (FRITZ LAUGHS) BAKER: Card tricks? Oh, a little. It's playing cards themselves that I'm interested in. They're based on the old tarot deck, cards that were used for foretelling the future. Can't tell you how handy that's gonna come in down here. You don't really buy into that old-world gypsy bullshit, do you, Walter? The psychologist Carl Jung had a different term for it. The idea being that all of nature's interconnected in such a way that the past, the present, and the human mind, through an act of random sampling, if you will, can predict the course of future actions. What's that thing I heard? It's like the deck itself was like the days of the week? Something like that? Mmm. (SIGHS) Well, there's four suits for the four seasons, 52 cards for the weeks in the year, and if you add up the pips on every card in the deck, it totals to 365, the number of days in the year. All right. Where's my card, ace of spades? It's not in here. It's not there? No, it's not. Well, why don't you look in Agent Baker's pocket? (LAUGHS) Not bad. That's good. You see one of those. How the hell did you do that? I can't tell you that. It'll spoil it. BAKER: What are these? Are these government-issue playing cards? No. I had them made. You probably think it's silly. Not at all. You love your country. You've dedicated your life to it. You want bald eagles on your playing cards, I think you've earned it. Gentlemen, should have a real nice crowd in here tonight. Cats playing? Tight. BAKER: Yeah? Who's that? Well, the feature soloist is this brother named Little. Got mad skills on the horn. Uh-huh. So, how long you guys gonna have it locked down in here? We'll hold out till tomorrow. This thing's got an expiration date on it. After that, it won't be worth anything to go after him. They gotta find us first. Even if they do, they ain't getting down there. You going back to DC after this? No, man. Working on this alias for this project I've got in Vegas next year. Cat I like to call Beanie. Ghetto retard, barely educated, brought up in a gang environment. Oh, that should be a pretty easy transition for you, then. What? I fucking hate hip-hop. You hate hip-hop? Come on. Oh, what? A black man can't hate hip-hop? I bet you tell me my favorite food's watermelon. I just can't live without chicken, huh? Just gonna snatch up my brother badge if I ain't bumping some hip-hop. - You're putting words in my mouth. - Hey, man, listen to me. Hip-hop is the unwanted bastard son of superior musical forms like jazz, blues. These kids don't know anything about Louis Armstrong, Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, but hey, when it's required of me, I be pulling hos out the club, flashing knots and nines on these niggas. You know how I do, pimp. Like I said, should be a pretty easy transition for you. Little too convincing, Culham. Fuck you. Excuse me. Excuse me. The keys to 409, please? Excuse me? Of course, sir. Sorry, I'm still new. Culham, what do you got? (O VER RADIO) All clear down here. Good, good. Just stop short of blowing strangers for bags of crack. Osterberg, how's the view? Wide open and whisper-quiet. All right, keep it primed, keep them peeled. All clear here, Baker. BAKER: Copy that. Let's get all-around sit-reps every 20. Copy that. Hey, how's my paesan doing? - Fat and getting fatter. - DUMARE: Fucking fatty. Hey! Hey! - Hey, watch it. - DUMARE: Stakeouts equal flab, Abrego. Sit-reps every 20. (KNOCKING ON DOOR) Yeah? Evening, neighbor. I'm Troy from next door. I just want to make sure that you got settled in all right. I'm okay, thank you. A beautiful woman like you in a town like Chicago... As your neighbor, I just wanted to extend every hospitality I can. Hmm. And what's that hospitality consist of? What was it? Troy? Mmm-hmm. So, so many things. (BOTH CHUCKLING) You like to get loco, huh? Yeah. - Crazy. - Yeah, really crazy. What about experimenting? Baby, I'm at your disposal. (CHUCKLES) No. You will be. BAKER: What do the cards say, Walter? Wish I knew. I never could get into cards. My grandfather, he would sit at the kitchen table and just wile away for hours. Always seemed a bit more of a time-killer to me. Well, that's not surprising. You're a man of action. Cards are more cerebral. Are they, now? So do you have family, Walter? This is my wife, Elizabeth, and my daughter, Mary. Wow, really... Wow, they're like mirrors to one another. Your wife is beautiful. There you go. That's mine. Amelia. I never figured you for a father. You almost seem shocked. Sorry. Pardon me. Well, that right there's my pride and joy. So were mine. Tractor-trailer on the beltway lost... Lost control. (TIRES SCREECHES) (CRASHES) I lost all the things I love, but through all the horrible, horrible things we have to go through, I still find that one thing worth living for. What's that one thing? NICHOLAS: Sir? I'm sorry, Walter. (KNOCKING ON DOOR) Who is it? (KNOCKING CONTINUES) MAN: Agent Dumare? Who's there? (SILENCED GUNSHOT) BAKER: Miss me? JULES: A girl doesn't want to seem too eager. Go secure for encrypt. Line secure. BAKER: What's on the grid? Nothing. You're completely spectral, and your location through everything we've been monitoring is spotless, but we did find something on our mystery man. He's been on the radar for about three years and he's been a very busy boy. Brokered at least two dozen high-profile contract kills. This guy has worked schoolboy hard to shield his ID, but I think we got a name. I mean, most likely an alias. Hal Leuco. Hal Leuco? Okay, do me a favor. See if you get any cross-corollary hits with ViCAP. Check the right-wing stuff. You know, those Limbaugh assholes, just like the boys you used to date. Never been that lucky. What are you thinking? I don't know. Maybe nothing. I just got a gut thing on this one. You got it, honey. And your heart forever? You've always had that. Bye. (SIGHS) This town's got more tunnels than Ho Chi Minh's whorehouse. The whole city's a warren of the wicked and depraved. Speaking of depraved, you lay a paw on me again, I'm gonna shove that RPG where the sun refuses to shine. (CHUCKLES) Remember old Bobby Dubap, y'all? Down out of Tulsa? That shitstain got himself keistered with an RPG. Did they fire it? Fire it? (LAUGHING) I'm telling you, boy. I mean, if you took the time now to bother to stuff a collapsible shoulder-launch RPG up somebody's bunghole, don't you think you'd fire it? Wouldn't you feel just a little let down if you didn't? (LAUGHING) Why would you put it up there in the first place? I don't know. You got your thumb up there most of the time. Why don't you tell me? Y'all are real at each other right now. Ah, don't pay him no mind. His brother Jeeves, brother Darwin up to stir, see? Now he thinks he's fit, maybe, to take over this clan. I'd rather be incarcerated than have to sit here and listen to your jibberjabber. Yeah, I can see that. You'd last about one minute up in the pen. (LAUGHING) Yeah, you'd really be reckoning with your feminine side. Yeah, well, there's gonna be reckoning, old boy, right quick. "There's gonna be a reckoning, old boy.' ' BAKER: Good to see you're prepared. Staying focused. Oh, I am. I'm utterly focused on that rack. Is that not a majestic set of tits? What? Are you being serious? What? You're joking, right? What? What the hell you talking about? Vandeven is a transvestite. What? Her vagina was made with, like, the scrotum sack. She's, like, 85% man. - Come on. Come on, Red. - Oh, fuck. Are you serious? I didn't know. Seriously? No. Go relieve Abrego and O'Keefe. Okay. Okay, Bake. You guys, you got to knock that Gearbox shit off. And if that kid gives me lip about it, I am gonna permanently alter his speech pattern, I'm serious. All right, take the kid with you. Try not to kill him. Come on. Jesus, you guys. Rookie, let's go. (COCKS GUN) You're worried about something. Lot of steel and concrete between you and anyone that wants to get to you. A name did come up, though. Hal Leuco. That ring any bells? No. Never heard of it? Never came across your desk? I haven't been involved in that level of intel in quite some time now, but if I was, I would've cross-referenced it. A name as distinctive as Al Leuco. Hal Leuco. Walter, if you know anything... Sorry, I wish I could be more helpful. - Hey! - Hey, neighbor. I knew you were a working girl. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Slow down, slow down, stud. Hey. I just got paid, okay? Make this shit happen. (LAUGHS) Wait. Troy. - Troy. - What? I like to be seduced, Troy. I like to be kissed slowly. I didn't think you whores went for the mouth. Think of all the grateful women who will be spared your charms. Hmm? (MAN COUGHS) Asshole. (SINGING) Ae fond kiss, and then we sever Look, maybe it's not just about Weed. Why the 19th of April? What's the significance of that? Well, that's gonna take some real time, sweetie, a search that broad. I'm gonna get the whole world back. Well, press it, okay? Something feels off. I ran Hal Leuco by him and he had no recollection. But I did get some preliminary kickback on that name crosscheck with potential link to what looks like some kind of veil or shadow op codenamed "True Patriot.' ' True Patriot? Now, where'd that data come from? It's just a random hit off this right-wing militia blog, which went off post-9/11. Okay, dig it out for me, will you, babe? We always do. Baker for overwatch. Dumare, you copy? Dom? Sit-rep. Where you at? Dumare, you copy? Dom? All clear here. Good. Let's hope it stays that way. All right, boys, we're getting into the witching hour. That's when the party starts, or the people go home and go to sleep. Let's hope for the best and expect the worst. I want you to keep your shifts rotating. The next three hours are critical. Anything looks out of place, I want you all over it. Keep your mind tight and your step light. Baker out. Hey, man. Help a brother out. (JAZZ MUSIC PLAYING) (CROWD APPLAUDING) (MAN WHISTLES) Baker, do you copy? Okay. Remember now, honey pie, 3:00 a.m. and $3,000,000. Put the fear of God in them. You'll hear me coming, Daddy. Lester, you just try and keep your hands off your pecker, now. What can I get for you? What are you offering? That depends what you have a taste for. And if my taste runs toward musicians who happen to have their own club? Hey, that makes you an epicurean, baby. Excuse me. Mike Gooding, CYA Records. - I just listened to that set, man. - Nice. Very impressed, very impressed. My man. Welcome to Little Jazz. - Thank you. - Hey, you want to meet the band? Sure. All right. Enjoy the show. (INDISTINCT CHATTER) Too much oil. Excuse me? You use too much oil. You're wearing Caron Poivre, which is a good fragrance for you, but it's being ruined by the oil. Bravo. You're very good about the perfume, but I don't use oil on my skin. I didn't mention anything about your skin. Think it's on the gun you're wearing. I think tonight's gonna end very badly between us. Overwatch, we got a vehicle pulling up. Like a low-rent Cirque du Soleil-type thing. It's being towed by a garbage truck. That pretend street urchin smells like John Law from here. Probably a couple hawks on the roof. It's time to set your brother loose. (CHUCKLING) OSTERBERG: Dom, do you copy? Overwatch. What's wrong with this thing? I'm not getting anything. Overwatch, do you copy? Copy that. - Check it out. - Copy that. (GROANING) Osterberg! (THUDS) Dumare, I got an agent down, I got an agent down. Dom. Dom. (EXCLAIMS) Injuns two, cowboys zero. Okay, so we got some things on the date. April 19th. On current or planned events we drew nothing, but historically, Baker, some stuff came up. Oklahoma City bombing took place on April 19th. Both the Bay of Pigs and the siege at Waco ended April 19th, and what a lot of Americans don't realize is that April 19th was originally Patriot's Day. But, Baker, April 19th was the day that Weed lost his family. Jesus Christ. What the hell is True Patriot? From what I can glean, some kind of reverse PR campaign against the United States on or around the time of widespread international criticism of the US government. So we already look bad, and this is supposed to make us look worse. Okay, what kind of ops are we talking about? Torture of prisoners in US custody, all photographed. Radiation poisoning of a Russian official by the CIA. Murder of an Iraqi family, supposedly by a US soldier, and the bombing of a subway in an allied country in order to sway support against the Iraqi war. All carried out under the banner of True Patriot. Prisoner torture, that's Abu Ghraib. Radiation poisoning, Litvinenko. Iraqi family murders, Mahmudiyah killings. Train station bombings, Madrid subway attacks. Look, I want you to dig deep on this. Okay? I want bank accounts, I want anything and everything... Already done. We got classic shells, offshore, so no one who wasn't staring at them would ever connect them to True Patriot. They're similar to the tracking accounts this Hal Leuco character is using to go after Weed. Nice. Osterberg. (GRUNTING) LESTER: Hey! Don't shit yourself, son. It's just me. Hi! I look like that dude, the one in Platoon. He's in Sniper. "One shot, one kill!" (LAUGHS) All these gentlemen callers competing for your attention. I like the single life. Look, this situation, you know what they say. Two heads are better than one. Bigger targets. I don't need your help. Then why haven't you killed me already? The night's still young. Well, hello, handsome. (BEEPS) Walter, why didn't you tell me that today, April 19th, is the day your wife and daughter died? It hadn't occurred to me. Someone says you're gonna die, the last thing you think about is the date. Something's not right here, Walter. You know how some people, they get a trick knee before it rains? You see, I get this twinge in my gut and it's never let me down, and right now it's telling me either you or this situation is full of shit. - Which one is it? Is it? - That's outrageous, Agent Baker. Yes, and I resent what you're implying. I have given the better part of my life to this bureau and my country. You have no right to speak to me this way. Hey, paesan. You check out the Latina at the bar, man? Sexy as fuck, but man, I don't trust it. It's got this serious-ass black-widow vibe type thing. I don't know about her bullet-head boyfriend, either. Dom. I'll keep an eye on her. What's with you, man? You okay? I'm fine. All right, man. FRITZ: Come on, come on. Move your sorry ass. Time is a-wasting. All right, spuds. Fire in the hole. - What the hell was that? - REDSTONE: What? - Where's our generator? - Oh, fuck. Are you serious? Everybody be cool. A little power outage. Happens all the time. Go with me on this. Everybody freeze. This woman's a wanted criminal. - Who the fuck are you? - Mike Gooding, FBI. I've been following this woman for three days. She's a wanted murderer. Now get Baker on the line. Baker, you getting this? Baker, do you copy? Dom, did you get a movement order on this? Is he with you? Man, fuck this. Everybody relax, this fucking second. Deep breaths, dry palms. We're gonna take care of the situation. I want everybody within the sound of my voice to place their weapons on the ground. Slowly. (LAUGHS) (MUMBLES) (WHOOPING) (BOTH LAUGHING) I believe we's ranged. (TRIUMPHANT MUSIC PLAYING) - Reload! - BABY BOY: Yeah! (GRUNTING) (YELLING) (GRUMBLING) Oh, shit! (ALL LAUGHING) BAKER: Someone's compromised this operation. We were invisible. We were fucking invisible. (BREATHES HEAVILY) Wait! Wait till it's safe! I'm not paid to play safe. Fuck! (EXCLAIMS) (GROANS) (YELLING) MALCOLM: Shit! (CRYING) I should've listened to you. Not my strong suit, I guess. It never was. BAKER: Dumare, where is my overwatch? - BAKER: Nick? - NICHOLAS: Link's still down, sir. Can anybody up there hear me? Osterberg? Abrego? Somebody? ABREGO: Copy that, Chief. Our door is still sealed. Locking mechanism unaffected. You hold your position. You kill anything you don't know. You understand me? Jules, overwatch is down or dead. I need full response, all available agents. I repeat, full armed response. Copy, Chicago field office deploying now. Send me everything you got. We're under siege here. I'm on it. Are you okay? No, not at all. Fuck! Yeah, yeah, yeah! Yeah, baby, go wide! Hit the deck! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Hey! Check this one out! (LAUGHING) That's not a close-quarters weapon. You could've killed us all, shit for brains! (EXCLAIMS) God damn it! And that's for taking the Lord's name in vain. I've been shot. I've been gut shot. Abrego, please. Can't you see I'm dying out here. Baker, I got Dumare on the other side of the elevator door. - DUMARE: Open the goddamn door! - ABREGO: He's hit. He needs medical attention immediately. What the hell is he doing down there? Dom, what are you doing in the bar? Why aren't you at your post? What's he doing? Abrego, keep that door sealed. What are you talking about? He's hit. He's in a bad fucking way, man. - Stand down, Abrego. - Bullshit! What, are you fucking nuts? We gotta get him out of there. Not till Baker gives the okay. Do not open that door. (WHIMPERING) I'm feeling cold, and I know that's really bad. Wait, wait. Now. (SCREAMS) My eyeholes! (YELLING) (BEEPING) (BEEPING RAPIDLY) (GROANS) Oh, dear me. Baby Boy. You did real good. There's a time for tears, Daddy, but this ain't it. There's money for the taking. $3,000,000 worth. Do not open that door. Step away, man. Open the door. - Now! - It's fucking Dom, for Christ's sakes. I am not letting him die three fucking feet from me. - Stand down now! - Abrego. (GRUNTING) - BAKER: Abrego, this is a direct order. - Hold on, Dom! Do not open that door! Do you understand me? Fuck. I'm coming! What the fuck, Dom? (GRUNTS) You're not Dom. (GRUNTING) (YELLS) Sir, I've got gunfire in the stairwell. Proceed with extreme prejudice. You are our last line of defense. (EXCLAIMS) Hold your fire! Hold your fire! It's me! It's Dumare! I think I'm hit! These guys are on my ass! I'm coming out! FRITZ: Hell! Jules, where's my backup? They're en route. But, Zane, listen to me, the contractors... Jules, the fucking ceiling is coming down. The assassins targeting Weed all have extensive government kill sheets. Wetwork for Uncle Sam. So you're saying that they've targeted US government agents before? No, that's just it. All of the vendors have been classified "liquidator," and at one point or another have engaged in illegal covert activity for the US government. Do you hear me? They've worked for us. Jules? Jules? Shit. You've been lugging that damn rocket around like a Afghani at a fucking Bar Mitzvah! Shoot that sucker! Hold on! Hold on down there! Hold your fire for a second! Any of you want to see my sister's tits? What? JULES: How far away is tactical response? JENNY: It's 20 out. Local PD's onsite in three. Just stay on it. Get my line back up. What the fuck is that? NICHOLAS: Sir? I'm a businessman. I'm here to negotiate with Mr. Weed. Stand down. Relinquish your weapon and get in the prone position. If you don't let me in, your man's no use to me. (EXCLAIMS) SOOT: Deal or no deal? No deal. God damn it, Bake. Open the door. Shut up. You're wasting time, and he's losing blood. (SCREAMS) No matter what you do, I will not open this door and if you kill that man, I swear to God, I will hunt you down. Repeat. I will hunt you down like a dog and kill you if it's the last thing I do. I'll make sure that it is. - Will that door hold? - It's got to. If our intel's correct, three minutes, it's roll credits. If he's not dead at 3:00 a.m. exactly, there's no payment. Cheer up, Houdini. You're about to live through this. Y'all mind if I crash your little party? Eeny... - Walter! - ...meeny... ...miny... ...moe. - Walter, you okay? - Yes. Nick. Come on. Come on. Come on. Oh, shit. Look, okay, okay. No, no. No, no. No. No, no. No, no, no. Cover his chest, cover his chest, cover his chest. Cover his chest. Wound. Right here. Wound, wound, wound. Okay, look at me. Breathe. Breathe. You're okay. - What is happening to me? - No, no, you'll... (SHUSHING) No, no. Lay down, lay down. - No, no. No. No, no. - REDSTONE: Just breathe. Come on. - No, no. Open your eyes. - Come on, Nick. Come on, Nick. BAKER: Come on. Come on. Come on. Fuck! Hit him again, lummox. Two more minutes and we're shit out of luck. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Get away from that goddamn door. Hey, hey, hey. This is a dead man's switch. There's enough C-4 explosives wired to my chair to bring down this entire bunker. If I release this button, it detonates the explosives. Okay, okay. I can take him. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hey, hey. Take three steps back, okay? Just stand down. Just hold on. Requesting permission to terminate target. No, Red. - Stand down. Red! - He is a goddamn suicide bomber, Bake. A dozen men are dead. Red! No! (EXCLAIMS IN PAIN) Whoa! All right? Everything's cool. Everything's cool. Red, you okay? Do I look like I'm fucking okay? No, you just shot me! See? Red's okay. Walter, you're a government official. You're about to murder your own. For the greater good. There are men outside that door that are wanted enemy combatants directly aligned against our country. They have engaged in the most heinous acts ever perpetrated against the United States. In 40 years, I have never had the opportunity to do anything heroic. Walter, this isn't heroic. This is sanctioned murder. You're sweeping up for somebody, Walter, okay? Hal Leuco fed you a line of bullshit, and now they're using you, Walter. I am not being used. I lied to you. I am well aware of True Patriot, a vicious, coordinated assault by animals like Finbar McTeague conducting tortures in the name of American interests. He stages these sessions, photographs them, and disseminates the pictures around the world. And Ariella Martinez, mercenary, well-versed in exotic poisons and toxicology. She liquidates a Russian dissident with radioactive poison used only by the US military. (CHOKING) Lazlo Soot. He murders an Iraqi family and pins it on a US soldier. Those crazed hillbillies, the Tremors? The True Patriot is a fabrication. Hal Leuco made it up. They blew up a train station in Spain. It swayed a major election, voted in a liberal president, who then pulled his support on the Iraqi war. NEWSCASTER 1: 191 people were killed today, and more than 2,000 were... NEWSCASTER 2: It seems the train targeted by the bombers were either in station or... (INDISTINCT CHATTERING) These are cold-blooded mercenaries and killers in open warfare against our government. They have been sent a contract on me to lure them here, where I can terminate all of them. Okay, Walter, wait a minute. Everything you know about True Patriot is a lie. Yes. Hal Leuco, whoever or whatever the fuck he is, he's been planning on using you for months, maybe even years in advance. Yes, Walter. They planted these stories. They stitched them together to get you here to this moment. It's blowback, Walter. Everyone you mentioned, all those enemy combatants, yeah, they've done some sinister things, Walter, but on behalf of the US government, and now they want them dead. Do you see what's happening here? This isn't about patriotism. - This is about eradication. - No. Yes, and that's what they're doing to you, Walter. - Don't let them. Don't. - No. My wife and my daughter were taken from me. By what? Chance? Ideas live on, Agent Baker. People don't. And when I roll out that door and detonate these explosives, I join the grid of destiny. I will be remembered. I will be history. You have a choice. Destiny's plaything, or avenging angel? Please don't do this. Please don't do this, Walter. Walter, please. Fuck. Come on. Come on. (GRUNTS) (SCREAMS) FRITZ: Help me. Help me, boy. (CACKLING) Help me. Help me. Help me, boy. I'll help you, you old fucker. (GUNSHOT) (BREATHING HEAVILY) (COUGHING) MAN 1: Sir? Sir, are you okay? MAN 2: Hey, buddy, you all right? Gun! He's got a gun! Whoa! I'm Agent Baker. I'm in charge. Don't. Don't move. Get down on the ground. Get down on the ground. VEJAR: Get off him! He's FBI. You four, lock this place down, check for survivors. See to Lester Young there while you're at it. Agent Baker, I'm Special Agent Anthony Vejar. I know you've been through hell, but I'm out of time. Where's Walter Weed? He's dead. You can verify that? You saw him die? You saw a body? He blew himself up into a million pieces. I'm gonna ask you one more time. Did you see a body? Did you actually see him die? He was sitting on enough C-4 to level downtown Chicago. He was a suicide bomber. There's no body to recover. We have reason to believe that Walter Weed was Hal Leuco. What? We think Leuco was some sort of cleanup man, taking care of old assets like the Tremors, McTeague, Lazlo Soot, in order to eradicate any link to True Patriot, anyone he'd dealt with personally. There's an element of shadow government behind this. CIA, NSA, agency in the black. It's unclear, but you and your men were used, co-opted. Okay, wait a minute, wait a minute. My team did an extensive background check. They tracked Weed all the way back to his childhood. He worked for the agency, for God's sakes. It was all fabricated. Leuco papered, disseminated information in the agency to create the illusion of Weed. Hal Leuco isn't even a real name. It's short for Haliaeetus leucocephalus. It's Latin for "bald eagle.' ' BAKER: You want bald eagles on your playing cards, I think you've earned it. The assassins, the money we were tracking, where did all that come from? As Walter Weed, Leuco had access to bureau intel, everything we'd been working on domestically. As Hal Leuco, he was privy to more than his share of CIA ops. We were a week away from proving the connection between the two when this happened. $3,000,000. That is mmm-mmm good. I'm glad. How could he get away with two identities, working at the highest level of intelligence? Leuco is a ghost, a will-o'-the-wisp. Now you see him, now you don't. That's why I needed to know, did you see him die? Are you sure? How could he survive that blast? How the hell did you do that? I can't tell you that. It'll spoil it. Son of a bitch. Southside bar owner Malcolm Little had no idea this morning that his place of business would be the scene of a massive gas leak explosion. Firefighters are on the scene...
