 

                        SUMMER STORM She has nothing against it that's what she said exactly Let's slow down a bit How can you concentrate on your meter when you had nearly made it with Sandra Everything on it's time So sensible Our Achim, look at him ladies and gentlemen A replica of the champions league An incredible runner and an incrediby good lover Driven by two excellent engines and perfectly synchronized with these beautiful arm movements and above all that... Stop it, Tobi Can't you even concentrate and run without making a mess, is that asking too much? OK, i get it Very funny Great! Tobi, say something You are such a bastard, you know that? Not funny Training starts at 2:00, not 2:15 This is not funny any more And i don't need an excuse from you guys I don't care Having fun were you? Then you may as well not come I only wanted to... I don't need to hear A bit of discipline is necessary I am not going out to camp and make a fool of myself Anke Don't fool around now We are going for the cup is that clear? And for you two i have a special cleaning job the entire boathouse Ritsch und Zack ! Very nice, Tobi Build power together ... Just look at Tobi Guys, keep concentrating See how she is looking at us Hold your building site jokes Chicks like this all during rowing week I am talking about the women's team from Berlin Real big city women Naughty and experienced Just like you, or not? Take start position And GO! Pig! You could help me Was it my fault that we were too late? It was your blunder I dare you Such a rat I may have a wet one Off course you are wet Mine look quite different OK i have a wet one And...? No, it's cool Let's jack off, i need to. Warm women's bodies A tight ... hot ... Lulu I can't concentrate End game That is simply unbelievable I wish you all Good Luck Our trainer Hansi Taschler Sportsman, human being and and FC Bayern fan. He will get us the champion cup for our rowing team But now no more joking My son Georg made me a promise Isn't it so Georg? The Cup must come here And i decided to sponsor a few travelling cases for the trip Gruber Farming Machines Heart at the rudder Congratulations to the Rowing Club of Starnberg Funny... you look... it must be the light today... No that's not it of course I meant... you also look good ... without any light... and further ? Is everything OK with you? Yes Cool Well then... Nice talking to you One, two, three What a shit idea When bowling it is most most important that we are completely synchronous like rowing it is fantastic when you move your ears i can even do the Cucaraca with my ears sure, look carefully very dry... it's from December I am so looking forward to our camp it will be great and you know what? Next summer we are really going away together just the two of us and where to? InterRail Across Europe, Mexico... where the grass is green By InterRail to Mexico... Of course! Deal! You think we can do this together? Well sure I thought, because you and Sandra and you and Anke You and Sandra and me and Anke when we are all together, then our friendship has ended, or? Why so? That is completely different. You think so? I try to understand Come here, we are still together We won't let the girls drive us apart You better save that for Anke Sorry I must be drunk You want to confess something? What? Did you have something with Anke? Shit... yes Don't say you two have... and you tell me this now, so casually? You horny pig! That won't drive us apart Come on, tell. Was it good? Yeah, it was nice. We don't need to make it such a big thing, really Come, we'll go celebrate before Georg takes out his radio again Shall i make a picture ? This should be documented Goodmorning everyone Is Georg not here yet? Greetings mother Martin, you forgot your lunch What happened between you and Tobi, i think is wonderful You two together, already ... I mean... I think you really fit together Well, then... Let's go to the Bergische Land It was nothing personal Tobi Cleaning the boathouse, it was a tactical measure When you drop out, everybody else will too Because they listen to you, all do. We will get the Cup, sure thing. How do you know that these Berlin women are so hot? Two years ago, they were at the Chiemsee regatta It was a mixed camp You can do a few things with them More than with this lot, in any case So please ensure that the rules will be maintained. The camping places are separated So every team will not be disturbed by another. You already know where you will be The Saxony Group Present On the west side East... oh OK The teams from Cologne and Duisburg In the South and the team from Berlin R.C. Querschlag I have to inquire about this I think you are on the other side of the water I will let you know Any questions? Is this all that this machine can give? Exactly in the middle Look, Martin has a Ernie & Bert sleeping bag You are an asshole I won't get a new one, we are not as rich as you How painful Next the leather trousers will be showing up He Tobi, over there is a catholic group from Saxony A team with all chicks Better say 'girls' if you want to make a chance there, Georg They've got such boobs I wonder where the Berlin girls are Your Jrgen wonders eh? What? Total building site level Take control of yourself Do they have to? Sandra was right, your place is much better You have better view of the water That is a pity, because... Martin and Flasche wanted to put up their tent here I see Doesn't matter back there it is also... ...very nice Come Man, i think i will take a dive You can forget that Hansi wants us to do an exercise Technics, just the technics What do you think you are doing? Two fingers, flat hand Is there such a thing as mouth-to-mouth respiration? so without using the nose? Yeah, sure. Both are possible Change positions now, guys. Can you practice further with Thea? Pleasure Oh please Anke, do I have to? Am i doing it right, like this? Where is the doctor, here? We need a doctor Is this an exercise or what? We're just doing first aid, what is the matter here? That's our Ferdl What's the matter with him? No idea He was sitting in a tree and he flipped completely We wanted to take him with us but he panicced and fainted This doesn't look good, let's check. OK who is going to help? Three people... you? Yes, Achim You two at the top, we will take the legs Just checking, OK? Please, no. What's the matter with him? Foreskin got stuck. His foreskin got stuck in the zipper. Easy, easy... Do you know what a cliche is? Do you? This is not funny, he must see a doctor. Go get your bus. That has gone to another camp. Then we will get ours Give him something cold You think we can do something ourselves? No I would not do that A doctor can give him a sedative Hello there, listen up... We are looking for a bloke who was peeping at the showers Look, that's him! Sure that's him, the pig. He comes with us immediately, or... I think that is not possible Why? Something got stuck with him While running away from the showers, he probably pulled up his trousers. Such nonsense! From which team are you? We are the nice guys from rowing club Querschlag Be very careful not to get hit by a rudder. This will have consequences, my sports friend! Is that understood? So do i get this right, you are both called Niels? You with I and you with IE... Exactly! I am Tobi and this is Achim What is your name then? Waldo and you? Georg Everything OK I really feel pity for Ferdl when something like that happens then you are the only in camp i am afraid so too your team may even get disqualified with a guy a like that No no no Ferdl takes good care of us but you would not make a chance against us anyhow We are the best Do you know where the ladies team from Berlin is? They cancelled Why that? Illness We are replacing them So the best are only replacements? Suggestion: go build your tents first and then come back to us and then we're going to have fun do you want to feel? sure There's a spelling mistake on your T-shirts No, why? Because 'Quer' is spelled with only one E, or not? Yes, but this is an English word, 'Queer' with double E Oh I see... Often translated as 'rare' or 'peculiar'... But 'Peculiar Stroke' is a funny name for a rowing team No no, 'Queer' means Gay What? An entire team of queens? Which is your tent then, sweety? Well guys, we are over there. I think it is about time to build our camp. Come Well then... let's go build our tents Ciao And Georg, we will meet again eh? What is going on? Something else got stuck again? I am glad their camp is on the other side Good idea to give them a separate place Georg, you really have a problem Well they will surely not come after you But they think you are very cute So it seems, but I can understand that It has gotten to Georg's brain What do you mean? You did not get it then? The guy was saying 'Georgie Georgie' to you I think that is very funny But you must agree that having these gays is a drag? It was quite a surprise They could have said that beforehand Or sown a pink triangle to their jackets Are you on the support team for gay rowers all of a sudden? I don't give a damn A few girls would have been cool Georg had promised us killer boobs from Berlin There's the girls from Saxony, still. Some camp. A bunch of Saxons and a load of fags! Those who have panic for gays are often gay themselves Am are getting crazy or what? Am I a gay act now? I do not have to take this shit from you This really pisses me off Guys, it is getting time to go to bed. Tomorrow we have to be fit for training I am going to take a stroll Are you coming along? Would our two couples of loving doves also be so kind? Such a pity Sleep well, will you? Tell me, do you think Tobi likes me? When you see us together? I think that everyone has his own way of showing I think he does not want anything from me Well you already had something I do not trust myself for that yet I am so afraid that he thinks my breasts are too small Just look at what features these have I beg your pardon? I do want to sleep with him I have nothing against that, in principle No I meant the other thing you just said What did I do already? Why? Was it not good then, when you slept with him? Who slept with whom? You and Tobi Who says something like that? No idea I may have understood it wrong Who told you that? Before any misunderstanding arise i will go and check again I will make some inquiries It is just great being with you in this tent Imagine we had swapped and you were with Anke That would have been too planned All the petting and the excitement of flirting And we both know, now it is going to happen for real Just like a married couple, on Sunday morning That is too boring for me But you know it is going to happen some time, with Sandra She is not yet ready for that She has a problem with her breasts Please, no talk about breast sizes now I like her just the way she is Did you close the tent? Just in case the gays would pass by and... who knows? You think one could be friends with them? Why not? As long as they do not want anything from me And what if one of them fell in love with you? Then I would definitely have a big problem I would not be able to reciprocate Perhaps they would not even be aware of it themselves I would not have thought that those guys were gay They do not look like that at all Well... radio silence now Good night Dream about something nice Try to be a bit nicer to Anke tomorrow, OK? One and GO... Two and GO... Three and GO... He Georgie! Rhythm! Build pressure together. My god, this is impossible! I will have you run around the lake, all of you! Oh my god I am very sorry When they row the way you drive bicycle then... no wonder Do you have a handkerchief? Give it to me But... these guys... they are not doing bad I knew it Exactly the boat length that we were lacking Really painful You should take care more How then, do I have to starve? It was set on 48 According to the rules i need 50, otherwise we are disqualified I have got a plan, we will put Flasche on a diet And before the match, he just has to drink two liters Yeah... and then? The camp judge will weigh him Official League weight That would not help Then he must take a diet What on earth was the matter with you? We have taken so much training The must remain a one time fallback, i tell you We will get the cup If we do not get the cup... I cannot... something like that... I don't even want to say it You tell them, Georg If we win, then your father will give us... two new winches And what do we get from Farming Machines Gruber if we loose? Nothing! Better said... a lot of trouble when he finds out we lost from the gays I don't care if they are gay or not Everyone finds a partner Tell me, when did Anke and Tobi have sex? Why? Oh, just like that Shall we? Cool! Shall we? What got into your head to go around telling such shit? Are we supposed to talk too during the excercise? How was having sex with me? Go on, tell me Sorry, i know it was stupid of me At least you see it as i do What brought you to say something like that? Do you need that? Lost your speech? Actually, I would really like to sleep with you I just don't know how to start it Can you imagine that a guy who normally is very confident that when it comes to this chapter, he is a bit shy? You mean that it would help this guy if the girl would become more active? Of course That is what he wishes for, secretly Guys, please concentrate on the essence That is what we are doing! Jesus' cause needs enthusiasts... ...He makes us free... Gnther What? Don't you know that? Hello Greetings I've got something for you because i am very sorry Take a twenty minute break Shall we go into the water? Nice bunch Hansi is right, we must really improve if we want to beat the gay team Give it a bit of water... Perhaps in the kitchen tent? What is the matter? Be so kind and find a vase for these flowers He, Georgie is coming, everybody take in positions Man, you gave me a fright Are those for me? I am Olly I need a vase Have a look in the kitchen tent over there Bye Is this the kitchen tent? Georgie, it's you! What did you ask? Kitchen tent Funny how this just folds out Ouch, that really hurt... What? Where then? ... There! Here honey, i brought you the pickles Still searching for your vase? Where can I find it? I'll have a look, don't worry Do we have any pottery? You are so sick! Bye, Georgie! He really has a problem Walking away from me? I don't need any gays, OK? Wait What it that supposed to mean? You think i belong to these cocksuckers? I don't know, don't care either It is a question of honour Nobody calls me a faggot just like that Do you think i look like a fag? You think i am weak or effeminate? No Like a sissy? Don't think so Well then! Then we can talk normal with each other from man to man I saw you on the boat before You are a damn good rower Really? Yeah You've got that certain something You've got real authority, if you know what i mean If you want, i can give you the number of Milkovitch The trainer of the National League Of course, i know who you mean If you want i could have a chat with him. Really? That's really nice of you It's allright Well then... Just a question... How does a guy like you end up with such a bunch of jerks? I am writing an essay about sexual disorientation I see But they should not find out, so keep your mouth shut, OK? Yeah, I promise OK, see you Dinner is ready I am really hungry They guy who designed Ollie's tent probably also believes that the Sayn is a river in Paris You two look like the Andrew Sisters You should look at your arm movements Do you have to? Everyone is how he is, or not? I did not mean it like that But sometimes you really behave like a girl And you do not have a feminine side? I do, but i just have more control over it I am gay because i like boys and not girls Now you are really hurting, you should be a bit more caring I think i don't want this salad anymore This guy will not be straight for long I'll give him one more day Two at the most He's got such a big tool in his trousers By the end of the week i will have converted him You can forget that, he is a real straight guy So what? Till now, i got every straight guy i wanted I will manage this little Bavarian pig too Converting straights Isn't this becoming too much of an obsession for you? Can you only talk about sex? I don't do anything for which i have to be ashamed The boy is not gay So why all this trouble? Do you have the hots for him yourself, or what is your problem? This constant bullshit about sex, gets on my nerves Is there nothing else? Sure, my fitness! When we behave like this, people think bad about gays Clich ol Take our boat for instance, why should it be called 'Petite Etoile'? It could have been named 'Champion' or 'Eifel Tower' That could be interpreted as fallic Come on, you know exactly what i mean And our Team name 'Querschlag' That hits right in the face, too Why not call take something normal, like Rowing Club Berlin XYZ There you are I was looking for Georg Down, down... Hansi, what if we could go live up there? Better enjoy the good that nature gives you That's a much better experience You have to be a stressed manager to be able to afford that Cheers! Morning Want to come in? Love to Yeah sure I am almost done What's that? It gives luck It's a present, an old Indian sample If you want I will bring you one, from South America Who? Sandra wants to go to South America, after finals and she asked if i want to go with her Her cousin could not make it and tickets have already been paid for And what about our InterRail? We can do that next year, OK? Good morning Allright? Did you sleep well? Shall we go swimming, later? Let me help you dry the dishes You don't have to I don't mind I am happy that the atmosphere is so good in the camp I would be delighted if we would win the cup Tobi, I have a feeling that you are angry with me What do you mean? You and Achim, you are like Siamese twins And I am the evil spirit, who tries to separate them You know, the adventures Achim and I had, no one can take away from us Do I hear an undertone there? What undertone? Tobi, if you have a problem, then just tell me If you can keep it secret... I can keep my mouth shut Yes, it has something to do with you and Achim He is constantly all over you I believe you should not wait much longer for having sex It won't make your breasts any bigger I have been talking with Sandra She's worried that she is driving a wedge between us But you did not talk about you having sex with Anke Why did you make that up anyhow? You lied my in the face, just like that That was just a bit of fun, overconfidence or whatever... You know me long enough, I am just a braggart And along with all the joking around... Shall we? No, leave it You are really expecting too much from me Jacking off in the boathouse is OK But a small kiss is not a total catastrophy! A real macho jump It is cold Goodday all Very sportly I am impressed Are you leaving already? We are in the middle of a training I am already too late You friend was in quite a hurry Did you have a quarrel, or what? To make one thing very clear... Achim is a friend, not my lover My god, i did not imply anything You straights always have such panic, it is so twisted About Georg, what kind of a guy is he? Well, his father is our sponsor Farming Machines Gruber It probably won't say a thing to you, but back home, in the South... He owns half of Upper Bavaria Well, see you Bye! Stay a while I would be very pleased Come on, let's have a swimming match One... two... three! Such a show-off Why 'show-off', i am just... Where are the others? What time is it, anyway? Fuck Why did I lie down in the blazing sun? Shall I put some oil on? Would it help? Better than nothing at all Shall I? Go and lay yourself down I slept through all of the training Hansi must be very angry with me I am already very late You do not need to be afraid I will be very carefull Damn This sunburn What is the matter? I am sorry, i can't do this Tobi, if you do not love me, or if I am doing something wrong, then please tell me What is going on? I am in love With whom? Do I know her? Yes Please, not Sandra I don't believe that It's not a girl Get off the bus, guys Just go straight on, to the kitchen tent What did I do? There is something wrong You have to think about it yourself I just don't know I think it is weak, you missing training, Tobi Really weak Did you have other things on your mind then sports? Hansi, i don't need to go into completely I will do my best for the Cup The Cup, the Cup... it's the team spirit that's important the others, sport and your attitude, that's what it is about Everything OK? Sure... Why would it not be OK? Just think about what you said to Tobi Sandra, what would I have said to him? Wait please They have already been served Here's the rice The older get along nicely Most comforting Hello Fine mood in here Can I talk to you alone? This is my specialty, just the way eggs should be prepared Have a try, to put it straight up. Know how to do that? It's funny Are there any napkins? Look over there Taking a dive, or what? Come with me, please Listen carefully I am really happy that it was not my mistake that it is the way it is And i have to accept that you are in love with a boy I cannot compete with that But if you intend to make a comical act out of yourself Then i can only say that you are pathetic Do you want continue lying to yourself and all the others? Absurd, isn't it? Georg is falling into his trap Is it really necessary that you have to hide behind this Tobi guy? You could be the captain just as well Possibly Your father probably is a real man of action With a lot of money and you in his shadow Exactly right He is not going to win him over You will be amazed if he manages to bring Georg round He is fully convinced that there are enough straights around... ...who are just waiting to be approached Better Bi then never By the way, the trial training with Milkovitch has been arranged Really? Thanks! No problem There's another question I would like to discuss with you Want to take a stroll? Well it's just... when the match comes up... I just want to prevent the gays to win Hey, try to relax a bit I will make sure they'll loose Cool! No problem And what's in it for me? That will be settled. Or are you talking about money? No no, not money What then? What do you think of this? Tobi, what's going on there? Pangs of love This really looks good Where's the ketchup No ketchup Then give me one of those gay sauces I meant... the sauce over there I will gay you the gay sauce and you give me the gay corncobs Dildo's for everybody I'll take another beer, want one too? Know this one? What are three gays and a blond girl doing in the woods? Two hold her tight and the third does her hairdo I am going to look for Achim and Sandra Don't need to, they want their privacy They are in a tent, and... well you understand Georg is not in our camp either I am not waiting any longer The guy has been gone for over two hours and there is a thunderstorm coming If he is in the forest, whatever got into his mind, I have to take responsibility We don't have to dramatize No way, we must do something We will come along with you What about the food? Cold buffet Where's Achim? Sandra, Achim! No, I will have a panic in the forest No worries, i will protect you With what? With these. Now i am really calmed down Come along then G E O R G! Georg is deaf I don't get it, why did he run off like a madman? It's a mystery to me as well, we were just talking and... I gave him a little kiss Not everybody wants to get your hot tongue in his mouth I can imagine that very well It sounds as if he himself already had experiences in this field Leave it Why? Was he raped by a women? So perhaps it was not his first French kiss Was it a guy? End of conversation Pity, now that it gets exciting There is someone over there! Man that's annoying! Sorry, my apologies Gay or not gay? Just to be certain, I don't want to be found by any of them gays Georg, stop this bullshit, come down Why keep standing around like idiots? There he is Man, Georg, where have you been? What did you think you were doing? Are you crazy? How can you run away just like that? Where did Achim go? Don't tell me that now those two have run off? The went in front of us, into the forest Can we continue with our party now? OK Let's go And what do we do now? They want to be alone Nonsense Perhaps they have already returned to the camp Have you all gone crazy? Achim is lying somewhere in the woods with a sprained ankle or whatever! And all you can think of is your bloody food! Nonsense, the love birds... ...admit it, you are jealous... ...of the girl, not of Achim Why are talking such shit? Your little pal here likes guys Easy, easy... He's a real guy. tell them he is straight, Anke Let's stop all this and calm down Come, let's take a little walk together I am not gay! Why can't just tell them the truth? You are full of shit and so is your team What happened to your spirit of sport? Take your gay hostile proles away from my guys Gay hostile, what does that... You don't have to relate things to the gay theme all the time Well done Tobi! Oh get stuffed, all of you Do something Where were you? Enough! We are going leave the camp and find us another place to sleep Quick, come Let me have a go Thank god! Find a room for yourself Those who are not gay Come What is that supposed to mean? Nothing, i am going to sleep here So you are going to sleep here? What sort of a move is that? I do not even recognize you I won't let you destroy what I have with Sandra It was you who said that nothing would come between us So now it is my mistake! Some time you will understand that it is not always about you But we are a team, Achim No We not a team anymore Nor best friends I think it is better if you sleep somewhere else Why don't you sleep somewhere else ? Now go! Get lost What are you doing here? Here, take something dry Thanks What was it like with you? I can't say it was easy But after that it became better But if you hide all your life you will loose yourself It itches Come here Are you hungry? Yeah sure! There is a yoghurt for every one Did you bring any spoons? Totally forgotten Morning Hi girls! Everything allright? Greetings y'all Well... then... are we all fit? We will have to decide what we are going to do for the match Now that our boat is broken I think you will agree that they boys will take the boat I am sorry girls You did not show much devotion to us anyhow Well... that is... really not true What's the matter? Am I not allowed to kiss women anymore... ...because i am gay? Yeah great A banana, anyone? What are you grinning at? Do we want to win, or what? Bravo, Tobi Only just Now we can start Let's go guys I am sorry, we have to cancel What? It is difficult to row a boat with only three people I really tried, but my shoulder still hurts So what now? How would i know? You should have told your guys before they started to fight For me the fight was great Since then, I feel so very masculine Don't you start again I think i have a solution Now i want to see some real effort You horny dumpling I think you really started something Let's wait and see Attention Shit! What? I forgot to pee Queer, queer, queer! The champion's cup of this year goes to the rowing team Querschlag from Berlin with captain Walter Peters I want to ask you if you will be able to deal with it You once said that you would definitely have a problem with it I think i need a little more time This is really hard for me I don't know right now What about the new winches, Hansi? Please, Gnther not now At least we got silver What i wanted to say... ... i am ashamed After all... i strangled my Jrgen You must be crazy You bloody bastard Goodbye, take care They won't find us even if the world goes down We hid ourselves very well for all the evil spirits who steal all the best things Then we went much too far to turn around now But we do not want to go back then even in the basement the rats have hung themselves You won't get us You don't understand What we really want We will never regret Don't want to be heroes Won't build a union Like to say no Say no to it Welcome Welcome To our world If you do not understand something it does not have to be wrong There is so much more that we can't grasp Never get to see When they hunt us and ask us we will say what they don't want to hear Who wants to go back? Then even in the basement the rats have hung themselves Subtiles by: KaZan (2005)
