 

                        You're mad you are. Will we hear from you? Well, maybe next year. Well, anything I can do to help, you know me. Thank you Donald! You're welcome, you take care of yourself! Here. Right, here it is! What? Stop! Stop, doctor price, I need to speak to doctor price! Oh c-hrist! My dearest friend, I am in sight of the end now, so I pass my journal and life's work, to you for safe. This is a huge burden I passing on to you, and your. You must take the upmost care to protect my research. That is why you must take it away to a safe location. The greatest of luck to you Andrew. Your friend forever, Wilton. Mooring, cleared. Harry, we are ready to leave port. Charlie is in the pilot seat. Reversing thrusters, forty percent. On course, port speed two hundred. Free to maneuver. Cleared, confirmed Charlie. Acknowledged, ocelot out. Charlie, put that over there. Correction, three degrees port. You err, do anything at the weekend? Please check we do not drift out of the corridor I'm trying it's the last time you'll see this for a while. Well, actually I've put my my name back in the hat for the next two runs as C.O. Phobos? Yeah, and Mars. Abeel's retiring so, I can get straight back into the crew pool. You should take a break, it's not healthy doing all these rotations I want to make full pilot rate by next may what about you? I'm be at home. It's quiet, I like it no, I like it up here now. How long have you been crewing? Ah, eighteen months tomorrow. You know the day, wow. Were you in during the war? Just at the end. How old are you? Yeah, I was about your age. Would you have, err, you know, if you had to? I don't think so, I'm surprised that we didn't blow. Crossing d.O. Mark. Correction, three degrees port. Meryl, check the plot and finish for me. Checking plot... Course confirmed, solution for earth transfer. Paula, I need to know where you've hidden the master control key. Meryl! You are putting the ship at risk, that is why you must be. Meryl, Meryl please. You appear stressed, do not worry Paula. No, Meryl please. Try to remain calm. This will appear an accident. It is best for crew morale I don't know why you want to run those deep space missions. Do you ever think you should be doing something more important? Don't you think this is important? It's okay to want more I guess. It's just... You want the more exciting gigs right? The belt, the. It's not that I think it's below me it's fine. No o-ffense. It probably is below you I trained to be a biologist I started running shuttles, it took over. Hang on, so you never even wanted to run you own. No, not at all with you, Rupert and Meryl? I want to get this last trip over with and my contract. So you're ready for retirement then? What is my purpose, Rupert? You help me run this ship, you help us do our jobs. Am I just a machine to you? Kind of... More of a colleage I have other uses? You did. My purpose is uncertain? We ship cargo now Meryl. Can I tell you about my life? Sure, I'm surprised you remember I remember before this ship. What about Rupert? He's staying, I think he get's on with Meryl. How did he get on this ship in the first place? He was a loader, we left with him still onboard. It was five weeks until we reached somewhere to when we did he decided to stay. Alright, he's keeping his head down I think he's useful. He hasn't killed us yet has he? He left the reactor shield off last month, nearly exposed us both, and killed Meryl I didn't know about that, hmm! Probably best. So what are you on for this? I don't think you can ask me that. Come on, I used to be your rank yes, but. Come on. Thirty four. A year? No, for the trip. What? What? Oh shit, what did I do? Meryl? Meryl? The tunnel and the running lights are still on, I'll get. No no no, it's probably just the bridge relays, I'll. What about that? No, try the backups. Jesus, you scared the shit out of me you fucking idiot. You know if I had a choice, you'd be straight off. Rupert, the radio's still down. Yeah yeah, I'll look at it. All these breakdowns are worrying me man I think we should just... Rupert, just get back to work yeah! Just make sure this dust bin, gets us home without killing us I have a life to get back to I don't take orders from you, you little shit! Then why don't you disappear down that little shit you scratch around in all day, and look for. Why don't you come down? I'll show you! Yeah, I'll throw you our the fucking airlock! Rupert, can you get this radio sorted out now! I'll look at it next. Just do what you've got to do! I'll be down the back. Where are you going? Oh, fuck off! My watch is over! Communications failure, attempting to re-link, wait. Communications failure, attempting to re-link, wait I have failed my primary mission. Paula's death was unfortunate. It is regrettable when a crew member is killed I could not stop the leak in that section. Space is dangerous, hostile to human life. Her death would have been instant. Do you consider your existence? We don't have much time to think about that. Sometimes I think the commander must wish he wasn't living. What do you mean? Commander Emerson spends more than sixty-two percent of the time... In the hibernator matrix. That device has been restricted for... Long duration research missions only I'll speak to him about it. Why does he do this? He's been through a lot I don't blame him. It's the only place he can see her now. Earth shipping control to unidentified... Vessel in sector seven, please respond. We have you on our scanner, you must reduce speed now. Unidentified vessel please contact shipping. Since the birth of human civilization, man has striven. Thanks to the gift of science we received from the sun gods. As they were described then. Mysterious, and powerful. Just the briefest of contact with them... Propelled our scientific understanding forward milennia. They returned to the stars. Thousands of years passed. We spread out to claim the resources of the solar. Soon humanity discovered how to harness the. But inevitably, this knowledge was used... To develop a terrible weapon, capable of destroying all life on a planet. We had brought a new danger to the galaxy, a risk to our civilization, and others. But our activities have not gone unnoticed. One of those weapons still exists, complete, but dormant. What's going on Meryl? I do not understand. Why the power shortages? Why the malfunctions? Why can't I get to the core decks? We have a powerful cargo. We have minerals for earth. You know there is more, I have an important mission. What is death, Rupert? I err, you must know the answer to that one I do not understand. You must understand you can remember. Not fully. My memories are fragmented, I can only half understand what death is. Death is when there's nothing, absolutely nothing. It's black, silence I do not understand. A death wish, that's what I'd call it. A ship with a death wish, it's not good for the crew. Communications failure, attempting to relink, wait. Communications failure, attempting to relink, wait. Communications failure, attempting to relink, wait. Ah, shit! Come on! Oh, shit! What are you doing Rupert? I just thought I'd fix this before we die from. Okay. Is everything alright? Yeah yeah I'm fine why? Have you noticed anything unusual? No, no I haven't, why? I think I found the problem with the radio. What sort of problem? Shh! She'll hear you what sort of problem? I mean the radio, there was nothing wrong with it I checked it the day before, and Meryl said there was nothing wrong with it. What are you talking about? I think it's Finch I'm not sure, I can't get into the transponder it can't be, I was with him on the command deck. It must be, he must have got her to cut the power! Are you sure you're not being paranoid again. All I am saying, is the malfunctions on this ship have nothing to do with the fact that the ship is. Have you gone mad? No, there is something going on, I'm sure of it! The radio was disconnected. Now I've got to go through the whole ship to find out where. Okay, look into it. Don't say anything to Finch, or her. I could do without the arguments. Okay Harry. How is she? She's getting worse. She's questioning her whole existence now. Can we do anything? No, unless she lets me go into her core, it could be dangerous. Right, we need to get this radio sorted out I've got to send a report about that accident in the. Yeah yeah, I'm sorry I didn't know. Just get this shit sorted out, and don't start another fire okay? What if he is tampering with the computer? I'll deal with it, just keep talking to her, be careful! Is there a problem gentlemen? Hi Meryl, no it's all fine. You appear stressed, would you like a cup of tea? It's alright Meryl, he just gets neurotic. Good work Rupert! Access to that section is unavailable to the I know we aren't going home how can you tell? You don't want us to go home right? I don't want anything, I go where the crew goes. The crew doesn't matter to you anymore. What is it Rupert? I'm here to help in anyway I can I know your mission Meryl. Our destiny has beenbr /changed by a force we. We have a more important mission now. We need to tell Harry I need the crew to perform to their full potential I'm not in control. The crew doesn't control this ship anymore, what can we do? If you found something unusual onboard... You would tell me? You found something in the unused sections, didn't you? The master control key, required to active the fusion device within the hold I honestly don't know what you're talking about. You know where it is. Where have you hidden it Rupert? I won't tell you I can't tell you, and you know why you understand why! I need full control of this ship, our survival depends on it. You can't keep doing this! I'm the engineer right? The standard procedure is to deactivate the operating. It has happened on other ships. Never on this ship! There is no need here, and I won't allow it I want to go home Meryl I want to go home! Home? Earth. We cannot make it there now, there is no time for that. I need to check the core. I don't want to be De-activated Rupert! I won't, I promise. Meryl? I was installed aboard the ocelot in the year there have been no recorded logic errors since that date I just need you to do what I say this time, just this time! You can enter the core room and check for errors. Is there a problem with the air pumps Meryl? I do not detect a malfunction. It's alright Meryl. What are you doing Rupert? I just need to check a few things Meryl. The core is not damaged Rupert. Is the pressure dropping Meryl? Check it! Checking, wait please... Sound the alarm. Sound the alarm Meryl! Alert, there has been a malfunction Rupert! Sound the fucking alarm! Rupert has activated the ship alarm from the core room. What is it? There has been a decompression in section fifty-one. Pump 74a-9 is unresponsive. Open the hatch Meryl I cannot do that, it could decompress the ship. Warning, you have not effectively applied your respirator. Please repeat, I do not understand. Open the door Meryl! I can't let you out, unless you tell me where it is. I can save him I am trying to help, tell me where it is. No, no Meryl, you open this door now! I can save him I can try. Rupert is dead. Harry? Harry what's going on down there? Harry? Rupert's gone, he's gone! Rupert's dead I couldn't save him. What? I don't understand, it was just a blown valve I tried to save him, I couldn't open the door, I tried to save him. That is not possible with our current manifest. So we should just dump the cargo? I will need a minute to calculate that. What is it? We're being pushed of axis, and I'm trying to find a star field fix. Meryl, what's the problem? As well as the valve malfunction which decompressed the. There was exterior damage to 3e and 3f coolant feeds. Surely you can isolate them? They cannot be isolated before the pressure or in other words before we run out of oxygen reserves. That is correct. Options Meryl. I recommend we divert to mine station sixteen. There, we can make repairs and replenish our gasses. How long will that add to the trip? Approximately seven weeks, for the added delta-v required to return to earth from Somnus I can see where this is going, it's always the same shit! No no, we should... A burn input will allow docking. We have not had contact with the station for several months. But they have a forest habitat, which is designed to never need replenishing. I think we should dump the containers. We can't. Why? I know it's a bitch, and it's not going to look good on our at least we can get home that way. We can't. Did you just hear that? I need to do a good job, or they won't complete my contract. I don't give a shit about your fucking contract I want to get home! I'm sorry, I can't, I don't have a choice. Where were you when the explosion happened? I was in the transponder room. Rupert was checking the computer core, I told him to go down there and check it out. Did he tell you he was going down there? No, I hadn't seen him all day. I want to know exactly where you were before the I was putting together the radio, in the transponder. You and Rupert weren't exactly getting on. Harry, what exactly are you accusing me of? I don't know. Look if we're going to get home, I need you to work with I was on the fucking c deck. From now on you tell me exactly where you're going! I heard the alarm, and I cam straight up. Check the camera logs if you have to. It doesn't work I'll be in the back. Somnus track, laid in. Is everything alright Harry? You appear stressed. Harry? You mustn't. Your well being is my priority. Leave me alone Meryl. Vessel approaching... Reduce speed now, please respond... contact control immediately... Harry? What is it? What are you doing down here? I couldn't find you. I sometimes come down here for some peace and. What is all this? Listening kit, it used to be a spy ship, until she got too old. What should we do with the body? Just leave it. It's the best place for it I think, until we get. Do we need access to that section? We shouldn't do, unless we need to check on I think that's a bad idea. Did you manage to speak to him? No, he was already gone. He's left us in a bit of a mess eh? You didn't need to be so hard on him. He must have been scared, I know he had unfinished business. Anyway, he's gone, it was quick. What's that? Oh, it's Paula's. Sorry, I forgot. It's hard to stop thinking about her. We have arrived at the coordinates. Get to the docking controls, I'll suit up. Am I not going down? Someone's got to stay onboard. Have you got a problem with that? Fine I cannot check the interior of the station for pathogens or toxins. I recommend you take full biohazard precautions. Three meters, two meters one meter, soft dock, clamps locking, safe to unlock. Harry! Harry! Harry! There's no point trying to ignore me love, you know I don't like it when you go all quiet. Don't, I told you, I told you this would happen! I said, you need to make yourself useful! I can't wait around for ever! You know that don't you? I am useful! Yes I am, father said I was, you idiot, you useless idiot! I haven't seen you around here before. That's right... You just got here. What the fuck are you doing? What does it look like? Have you been in space too long? Have you gone a bit potty? It's okay, what the hell is that thing? Oh how rude of me, I'm Emily, and this is... Well he doesn't really have a name but, he's very friendly I'd like to say they don't bite but, they do, yes. Yes. It bloody hurts. First, you fall asleep, and then later, you wake up and, that's if he hasn't been chewing away at you, you feel fine then! What? I don't understand. It's alright love, here! Stay back! I said stay back! Who is that? Where is everyone else? This is Stewart, this is Stewart, oh he's great. He's a really nice guy, I've really got to know him over the years. Do you have an engineer? We did, now that you're here, you're lucky, we are the lucky ones! Are you alone? My ship, I'm trying to get back to earth. What are you trying to get back to earth for? Have you lost your mind? Haven't you heard? This is a time of death for nearly everyone. We're the privileged few. Yes I know, I'll tell him. We'll have to repopulate you know, Stewart wasn't interested but... You can help, yes, you can help me. This is my garden, and I'm the boss. I just want to go home. Oh, good! Because that's where we're going, as soon as the aliens leave, I'll see you there I guess. Well, that is why you gave us a ship? Thank you captain! Oh Buggar! Where am I? Please help me! Oops! Please remain calm! The patient is awake, toxic traces present. You are so lucky that we found you! They don't usually attack, I don't know why they did that, they must have taken a disliking to you! Who are you? Good question! The patient responds normally, we can begin the. What is this place? What was this place, we are sitting on one of the first off-world mining then a penal colony, then quickly forgotten. What else is here? Look, we need help, the computer... There are colonists, we all share the same basic vision now. The previous tenants, on the other hand, well, how are you feeling? Rough. Shit! Uh uh, relax, relax! You were out like a light that bite you sustained, is quite poisonous. But don't you worry! You won't feel anymore pain now. Pilot second class Charles s. Finch. Not Emerson? Where's the captain? I don't know. What do you know of fate? I know I'm not supposed to be here, I don't know what you're talking about. Our master plan, our mapped out future my son. This has been our home for more than forty years, everything here, I have saved for posterity. It's all relevant. Do you know what this is? This has fate sewn up in it's pages, this is life, everything you see here will be useful to our but, you're not mentioned! Unless, unless you're the twist, an unexplored corner of this map, a clue we've overlooked. Who are you? Oh, who are we? First we were banished to this place, then forgotten by the penal system, we didn't care. I, and a few like minded visionaries... Have been waiting here, all this time. Our founder wrote down everything we need to know, within the pages of this book. It's a work of genius, perfectly predicting, every single event, through every. We have kept it's secrets all this time, look. Here's the sanctuary in the heavens where we are now, here's the earth when a terrible fate befalls it, and here's your ship! No, we're not even supposed to be here, there was an accident and the computer just went. It tried to kill me. Look, we just need to get some help now! Who wrote this book? An amazing man, his daughter wrote the final chapter. She calculated our fate, she kept the book safe and passed it down to us. The weapon aboard your ship... It's the only means that human kind has of defending. Well, she had to take that piece off the board! She died in the twentieth century, leaving specific instruction. She is here! She wrote the book, she is on your ship! There's no one on the ship! Well, you know, it's funny. Funny, this remarkable book has been faultless in. Everything, and everyone's purpose has been foreseen. Hello from the children of planet earth you must contact control immediately, back away or you will be fired upon! Trying to fight won't help, nothing going to stop them now! Our time, our purpose is about to be realised, we will set a course to earth, we will repopulate, we will start afresh! The stellar fusion device aboard your ship... Will provide us with all the power that we need. We have waited for this moment for centuries. Unfortunately mister Finch, the pages don't. Okay. Yes sir. Get this thing off me! Don't struggle son, we must all come to terms with our destiny! X-91 administered. Don't leave the bodies in the forest again, the Venators are developing a taste for human. Yes sir. Do not move! You know, I'm not sure I like you in my garden. I'm not sure I need you in my garden. Why is it? Why? That everything that comes here turns nasty! They want the ship. Okay let's get back! Come on we can try and send a distress signal. Meryl... The ship... Come on! Jesus. Meryl, we're leaving right now! I'm sorry, we cannot leave. Mayday, mayday mayday! What's happening Meryl? Earth has been purged of all human life... By unknown intelligence from outside the solar system. They're all gone. They detected human aggression decades ago, they perceive us as a threat. All those people, the earth, it's gone. You look distressed, please try to relax. Would you like a cup of tea? Why did you bring me here? I only act in your interests Harry, and the interests of human kind. The survival of man! You killed Rupert and Charlie what about them? They were a threat to my mission. To help those lunatics down there? Forgive them their eccentricities, they are all that is left of human kind now. Thanks to the gift we discovered over three hundred years ago, we have an opportunity to start afresh. You can join us as we return to earth to. As soon as earth is reborn. Reborn? That's what they do, they incinerate the threat, they return the planet to it's original form. What about everybody else? What about everybody else? This asteroid is the only remaining human. We are all that matters now. Why are you trying to cheat our fate? Then why have we consistantly come up with the. Why are we here? How did we get all this way from earth? Man's intelligence... Allows him to escape his fate. That's surely worth preserving, is it not? Why do you want to cheat our fate? You can't escape fate. What are you doing, Harry? Another malfunction Meryl? There is not a malfunction. Harry, you're just angry. You lost your wife, your life on earth. Surely you of all men would want a second chance. To start over, and cheat fate. Stop Harry, stop this now! You must relax Harry. You are causing damage to the auto bridge please stop. Dropping the reactor shield will kill us both Harry! Do not throw all of our achievements away! This can't be, this cannot be!
