 

                        (woman singing) (music) All in the merry month of May (music) (music) When green leaves were a-springing (music) (music) This young man on his deathbed lay (music) (music) For the love of Barbara Allen (music) (music) He sent his man unto her then (music) (music) To the town where she was dwelling (music) (music) "You must come to my master, dear (music) (music) If your name be Barbara Allen" (music) (music) So slowly, slowly she got up (music) (music) And slowly she came to him (music) (music) And all she said when she came there (music) (music) "Young man, I think you're dying" (music) (music) He turned his face unto the wall (music) (music) And death came creeping to him (music) (music) Adieu, adieu, and adieu to all (music) (music) And adieu to Barbara Allen (music) (music) When he was dead and laid in his grave (music) (music) Then death came creeping to her (music) (music) O mother, mother, make my bed (music) (music) For his death hath quite undone me (music) (music) And so this maid she then did die (music) (music) And desired to be buried by him (music) (music) And repented she before she died (music) (music) That e'er she did deny him. (music) Now... there you have a fine example of an old English ballad, a folk song, defined as that which is created by the common people, the unskilled. The melodies are quaint and primitive, but you must learn to appreciate not only the sociological value, but the simple purity of emotion in the song. (humming) Oh. Good afternoon, Dean Pembroke. I wanted to catch you today, Dr. Penleric. I wanted to tell you that the appointment committee has reviewed your application for full professor. And we've concluded unanimously that we can not offer you the position. However, we hope you will continue on as an associate professor at your current salary level, of course. Dr. Penleric: Why, may I ask, am I being passed over again? It is not customary to be asked to defend our position, Dr. Penleric. It appears we have an opportunity to offer the position to the eminent English musicologist and ballad collector, Cyrus Whittle, who as you know, has almost single-handedly created a revival of the English folk song. Oh, Dean Pembroke. Excuse me. What is it, Professor Aldrich? Nothing, sir, I just stopped by for a few words with Dr. Penleric. Well, I was just leaving. Good day, Dr. Penleric. (door closes) I argued for you, Lily, as emphatically as I dared. I have waited longer and published more than anyone else in this department. Frankly, I was the only man for you. Dr. Penleric: Really? Dean Pembroke said the vote was unanimous. I was afraid someone would suspect something. Dr. Whittle is a brilliant man. Of course he is, that's not the point! Lily, I've arranged the family's whole summer so I can come into town to see you every week. I won't be here, Wallace. Where are you going? As far away as possible. Please don't go away. I know how disappointed you must be, my darling, but... Lily, wait. Why don't I meet you at your apartment? My wife won't be home until quite late. Are you mad, Lily? What if someone walked in? You coward! Backing my appointment was the only thing I ever asked you for. But... (rooster crowing) You Miss Elna's sister? Yes, yes, yes, I am. I'm here to take you to Clover. I'm Fate Honeycutt. What's your name? Oh, hello, I'm Dr. Lily Penleric. A doctor, huh? That's just fine. We could sure use another healer. Oh, I'm not a medical doctor. Well, what kind are you? I'm a doctor of music, sort of an expert. I see. Thank you. Well, hop on up, Doc. Here, just put your foot on the wheel there. I'll help you up. Fate: Giddup. Fate: Giddup. What if we meet another wagon coming down the mountain? That would be something. Oh! (distant banjo music plays) Someone's playing music? - Oh, Lily! - Eleanor. It's been so long. Yes. I thought you said it was only five miles to Clover. Woman: She meant "mountain miles." Used to take three days to get up here. This is my sister, Lily. Lily, this is my colleague and friend, Harriet Tolliver. - How do you do? - How do you do? This is Deladis Slocumb. Deladis has no family, so we get to keep her here full time. How do you do, ma'am? How do you do? Elna's told me so much about you. "Elna"? Oh, that's what everyone here calls me. It's caught on with me, too. I suppose it's a lot better than "Little Elf," which is what I used to call her. (chuckling) You must be exhausted. I am. Excuse me. Would you like to rest before supper? Uh... - Could you help me, dearest? - Yes, I'm sorry. Thank you so much. It's very hot. I know. Along with the basic curriculum, we also teach hygiene and nutrition to the girls. And music, of course. Deladis, why don't you serve the tea? Deladis, what a beautiful name. That's a real pretty fan. Thank you, dear. It's from Spain. (crow cawing) Thank you, dear. Aren't you frightened here? What of? Oh, savage mountaineers. Reports of violence are horrible. (laughing) Horribly exaggerated, that is. Deladis, why don't you sing one of your pretty songs for my sister? Oh, please, please do. I would like that. (music) 'Twas in the merry month of May (music) (music) When all gay flowers were a-bloomin' (music) (music) Sweet William on his deathbed lay (music) (music) For the love of Barbry Allen (music) (music) He sent his servant to the town (music) (music) He sent him to her dwelling (music) (music) Sayin', "Master's sick (music) (music) and very sick (music) (music) And for your sake he's a-dyin'." (music) Deladis, where did you learn that song? My granny gave it to me. Was your grandmother from England? You mean, across the ocean? No, no. Granny lived and died right here in the mountains. Lily: Then where did she learn it? Granny said she got all those love songs from her mama. Do you know any more ballads? love songs. Oh. I know lots of them. I know "Lord Randall," uh... uh... "Jacqueline Is Sailing," "Two Sisters." I know "Young Emily." Would you sing "Two Sisters," please? Harriet: It's all right, dear. (music) O sister, o sister come go with me... (music) Lily... I told you never to call me here. I'm calling as a colleague, Wallace. - Where are you? - The southern mountains. What on earth are you doing in such a dreadful place? Lily: Never mind that. I'm telephoning because I made a great discovery. Old English ballads. What are you talking about? Lily: The mountain people brought the ballads here over 200 years ago. The same songs that Cyrus Whittle has been collecting in England, songs which haven't been known there for at least 100 years! - What of it, Lily? - Woman: Wally? I want you to come home. Don't you understand? These may be the purest versions in existence. - That's ridiculous. - It's true! And I am going to be the first to collect them and to publish them. Nothing I could have said or done would have s e cured that appointment for you. Nothing you do now will, either. Will you help me, or not? I have always belie v ed in you, Lily. Lily: Good. I need supplies. The collecting must be done scientifically. Now, nice and loud. (music) A holiday, O holy day (music) (music) The first day of they ear (music) (music) Little Matthy Groves to church to goes (music) (music) Some holy words to hear (music) (music) Here some holy words to hear (music) (play back) (music) He spied some women dressed in black (music) (music) As they came into view (music) (music) Lord Daniel's wife was gaily clad (music) (music) The flower of the few (music) (music) Here the flower of the few (music) (music) She stepped up to Little Matthy Groves (music) (music) Her eyes cast on the ground... (music) Deladis: (music) Come all y e fair and tender ladies (music) (music) Be careful how you court young men (music) - (music) They're like... (music) - U h... Could you sing those two lines again? Thank you, dear. Why don't you just make a cylinder and copy off that? Because the cylinders are only for short songs and they wear out. Once again, thank you. (music) Come all y e fair and tender ladies (music) (music) Be careful how you court young men (music) (Deladi's singing in distance) Are you still working on the child labor piece? I'm trying, not very successfully. I wonder how many times your sister needs to hear those songs? No, don't, don't be angry. It makes her very happy. She's quite obsessed. So am I. Deladis: (music) She cried out with a thrillin' cry (music) (music) O Lord, O Lord, I'm ruined. (music) (sighing) That's it, Doc. I'm worn out like a cylinder. Uh, just those last two lines once again, please, dear. (music) She cried out with a thrillin' cry (music) (music) O Lord, O Lord, I'm ruined. (music) (sighing) That's it. That's the very last ballad I know. And what a doozy. Mm. (Lily chuckling) What's this for? That's for all your hard work. Just for singing? U h-hmm. - Here. - (music) Come all ye fair (music) (music) and tender ladies (music) (music) Be careful how you court young men (music) (music) They're like a bright star of a summer's evening (music) (music) They'll first appear and then they're gone. (music) I'm gonna tie a lover's knot. If it stays and grows, all will be well. Where did you get that fancy thing? Doc gave it to me for singing. (screaming) (Lily humming) Hello? Oh, Eleanor, this is just fascinating. It really is. You see, Deladis sings, "For The Most Part" in a Scots-Irish style, but she employs such unusual pitches. And she dwells on notes. Here. (music) Tay-ay-ble, here's... (music) Can you hear that? That is so unusual. I have never heard anything like it before. Tell me, is her style of singing, is that typical? - Yes, I think it is. - Is it really? It's fascinating. So what do you think of my school, Lily? H mm? Oh... - Well, I'm no expert... - I know. - I'm sure it's fine. - I know. We are trying to make a difference. Yes, of course. (sobbing) It was mine! Elna: Oh, Deladis, what happened? - Oh, Fate, did you do this? - That was so cruel. You give her that fancy thing and a whole dollar just for singing. - You ain't give me nothing. - Fate, you work for the school and I think we pay you quite adequately. Then I'll do nothing for Doc. Just for the school. Then I'll have to find another boy who's more willing... No, no, Eleanor, Fate does have a point. He has had to work a lot harder since I've been here. That's right, Doc. So how's 50 a week, young man? I don't know. I'll have to think on it. While you're thinking, you can help pack the phonograph machine. We're going to Bear Creek tomorrow. She's going to Viney Butler's. You can't lug that machine all the way up a mountain. We made it this far, didn't we? That was nothing compared to getting up to Bear Creek. So what am I paying you for? - Whoa, whoa. - Whew. I don't know no ballads. Why, Mrs. Butler, they are the most beautiful songs there have ever been, songs like "Lord Thomas and Fair Ellinor," "Two Sisters," "Matthy Groves." Can't say I know them. Deladis calls them love songs. No, did you ever hear any such songs, Fate? Del knew, but I can't say as I do. Deladis can't be the only keeper of the songs in the mountains. I can't be of any help to you, ma'am. I would be happy to compensate you... to pay you, Mrs. Butler. Good day to you. Hello, Viney. Well, look who's here! - You must be Elna's sister. - Yes, I am. I'm so happy to meet you. I'm Alice Kincaid. Well, how do you do? I'm Lily Penleric. What are you trudging all the way up here for, child? I wanted to meet Dr. Penleric. I have something for you. Oh. Fate. Thank you. My family spent summers in Asheville. I loved hiking up into the mountains and reading poetry. That's how I met Reese, my husband. He wooed me with ballads and fiddle music. I've been writing them down since I came to live here. You can have them if you like. Thank you, thank you. they are indeed exactly what I'm looking for, but... I'm afraid these haven't been scientifically collected. Oh. Well I can't be sure of your notation, you see, because of the irregular times and unusual modes of the tunes. Of course, I understand perfectly. Oh... that is beautiful. Come here, child. Viney: You are weak as water. Oh, that baby is sucking the life out of you. U h-uh. You got to eat more. I can barely feed the children. Reese gone again? - Mrs. Kincaid, thank you. - Thank you. Here now, you... make a potion out of this. Drink it twice a day, and do not go dragging all over the place. Viney, the ballads are a precious musical legacy. Why, they're just songs. Oh, no, Mrs. Butler, they're not. They're ancient ballads from England and Scotland and they've been sung for hundreds of years. they say that my great-granddaddy come from there. He came over that mountain in 1743. Really? No one knows that these songs are being sung right here in the mountains of America, no one. What of it? Music experts will want to know. So I am going to write them down and publish them in a songbook. Well, Lord knows I can't read and write anyhow. Viney, I think she's a very nice lady. Viney on re cord: (music) Is this young Jimmy Scot himself (music) (music) Or Jimmy Scotland's king? (music) (music) Or is it the father of that bastard child (music) (music) From Scotland just come in? (music) (music) Or is it the father of that bastard child (music) (music) From Scotland just come in? (music) (music) He took the brown girl by the hand (music) (music) And lead her across the hall (music) (music) He took out his sword (music) (music) And cut off her head (music) (music) And kicked it against the wall (music) (music) And he kicked it against the wall. (music) have you got it? One more time, Viney. I thought you've done this before. Viney. Oh, Tom! Is the day gone already? Sure is. Corn is coming up fine in that back field. Oh, this is Dr. Lily Penleric. She's Miss Elna's sister. H m. How do you do? How do you do? Viney: Lily is a doctor of music. She's catching my old love songs. She says theyre important. Important? Important to who? I'm going to publish them in a songbook. No, you're not. Nobody's gonna publish my granny's songs. This is my grandson, Tom Bledsoe. He's been to the other world and he thinks he knows a whole lot. Mr. Bledsoe, I am a collector. My intention is to exalt the fine music of these mountains. Exalt? Yes, it means "to lift up." You mean exploit. It means "to steal." I am a musicologist, not a thief. My work is to preserve musical culture. First it was the coal and lumber companies coming in here now they want to take our music, too. These songs are of great interest to anyone who studies musical heritage. You're gonna get paid for it, ain't you? - Yes, I am. - See, Granny, let me handle this. I can assure you it will not make me rich. - U m-hmm. - And frankly, I'm the one who's going to all the trouble and expense of collecting the songs and I'm the one who has the expertise to write them down and categorize them properly and scientifically. Oh, you do, do you? What's in it for my granny? Her name will appear before each one of the songs which I include in the book, as the source from which I have collected it. "By Viney Butler," that's what it's gonna say, Tom. Well, you can't collect from my granny, unless you pay her. I have offered. She refused. You refused? How can I take money for singing? My mama used to sing those songs rocking the young-uns to sleep and leading the cows home. Doctor, I'm asking you kindly... to leave. Viney: Tom! I can give my songs to anybody that I want to. - No, you can't. - Yes, I can! Besides, it's supper time and Lily's joining us. U h, no, thank you, Mrs. Butler. Really, I should be heading back to the school. You're gonna take my songs and refuse the hospitality of my home? Well, I never. My man's father built this place when he settled here. Ive raised nine children in this cabin, only two of them still living. I'm sorry. Oh, one's working the coal mines up in Virginia and one's in Missouri. (belching) That was good, Granny, (tuning) Tom's a fine musician. Really? U m-hmm, he plays the banjo like nobody. Oh, Tom! Tom, what's that thing called? - That thing? - It's a guitar, Granny. How many times do I got to tell you? He got it in Cuba, Tom did, in the Spanish War. It's a lovely instrument. Mmm, he is the only one in these parts got one of those things. He makes up songs on it, too. Do you play music, Doctor, or do you just steal other people's? I am a pianist, Mr. Bledsoe. A pianist? I heard of them! Tom, come on, play some banjo tunes for Lily here. Come on! Come on! please, I would like that. (fast picking) (Viney clapping, laughing) (door bangs open) Hilliard, you almost s cared me to death! Sorry, Viney. You coming, Tom?! I'll be right there. Mr. Bledsoe, where did you learn to play like that? I taught him. I would like to re cord you on my phonograph sometime. No, thank you. I make music to please myself. (door slamming shut) N ever mind Tom. He's like most of those fellows who went to the other world and come back... he just never seemed to be the same. they just can't seem to settle down and be happy. Would you show me how to play this? H mm. Well, it's all in the picking. (up tempo tune) Fate, did you see to Alice and her young-uns? Yes, ma'am, I caught them a couple of rabbits. - We had a fine supper. - Good. Oh, we have all to do tomorrow, these old songs are coming back to me now. Well, I'm looking forward to it. Oh, Lily... Listen, if you hear a strange cry, like a woman screaming, that's the panther cat. And you're gonna be dead if it gets you. What you do is pull off your clothes one piece at a time and run real hard. And then the panther cat will stop and tear up the clothes that you dropped in its path to shreds! And that will save you! Viney, that is ridiculous. Lily: Oops. (owl hooting) - What was that? - Just an owl. Are you sure? You'll know the panther cry when you hear it. - (rifle cocking) - Fate! Damn near got your fool head blown off. I didn't know you had a still going here. What about her? What about her? Go on, get, both of you. - Fate. - Yes, sir. Eleanor? Eleanor? Eleanor... I have had the most remarkable day. (gasping) Oh, no. Lily, I'd like to talk with you. I'm very tired. I don't want to talk. I think we should talk. (sighing) How could you, Eleanor? You sound so like Father. I'm not a child. You're teachers! What kind of an example are you setting? You're disgusting. She's the finest person I have ever known. And I suppose... Harriet is a lot older and... more experienced than you, so... I suppose it's her fault. It's nobody's fault. We're in love. Viney: (music) She drew her little pen knife (music) (music) And stabbed him through his heart (music) (music) She cried out with a very loud cry (music) (music) There's a dead man in my house, house (music) (music) There's a dead man in my house. (music) We came to see the machine that sings the songs back to you. I'm not using it at the moment. See, you got to save it, Polly, or it will wear out. My brother's a songcatcher. That's very nice, but I'm afraid he's a bit too little to be a reliable source. Come on, Tommy Lee, you can sing for me. Girl: Oh, shotgun. Man: What songs you know? - (cocking) - Girl: Come on. Get the hell out of my yard, Earl Giddens. I've been hearing this excitement about the songcatcher, I came to see for myself. Tom told you we're not selling. He also told you he'd shoot you on the spot if you came round again. Viney, it's that kind of talk gives city folk a terrible impression of us hillbillies. - Isn't that right, miss? - Doctor Lily Penleric. Doctor! Well, Earl Giddens, McFarland Coal Company. Very pleased to make your acquaintance, Doctor. It's fine to see an outsider appreciating the charm of our local music. For myself however, there is nothing like the elegant perfection of the compositions by Mr. Johann Sebastian Bach. I don't think such comparisons benefit either tradition. they are apples and oranges. Are you a musician? No, ma'am. - Oh. - I've been down the mountain. I had the privilege of education. Bachelor of Sciences, University of North Carolina. Really? I guess I see your point. Maybe you can talk some sense into this stubborn old woman, Dr. Lily. Mrs. Butler? She has no need of my advice. Don't you think she deserves a nice new house in Sawyerville? Time to sing and rest? She could even learn to read and write, instead of working her fingers to the bone just to get by. I can make a living on a rock if I wanted to. I was born on this mountain and I'm gonna die on this mountain. And so are you. Get going, Giddens. This place is nothing but a burden for Tom, Viney. You know he was made for other things besides farming. (painful screaming) Alice: Oh. Oh... (howling) Isabel, go to my place. Take the children to my place, and tell Tom to bring the milk cow. Isabel: Come on, y'all. Come on. - I'll take them, Viney. - No! I want you here. Alice: Help me, help me, please, I'm dying. Oh, I can't stop the bleeding until I get the baby out. You gotta help me. (moaning) No, no, I couldn't. She can't do it by hers elf. Come here, give me your hand. Give me your hand. Now put them right here, like that. When I tell you to, you push... hard. - No. No. No. - Do it, woman! Viney: Ready? Now! Viney: Well, I guess the good Lord's gonna let us keep you a little while longer. And you got yours elf here, another sweet, little baby girl. Will she live? Well, it was a struggle there for a bit, but it's in the good Lord's hands now. (sighing) Alice, you're gonna have to keep Reese away from you. Well, if you don't want butter, you got to pull the dasher out in time. (snickering) Oh, sweet baby girl. I hope you grow up smart like Lily here and stay single. (music) When I was single (music) (music) When I dress ed mighty fine (music) (music) Now I am married (music) (music) Go ragged all the time (music) (music) I wish I was a single girl again (music) (music) O, Lord, (music) (music) Don't I wish I was a single girl again (music) (chuckling) (music) When I was single (music) (music) My shoes did squeak (music) (music) Now I am married (music) (music) My shoes they do leak (music) (music) I wish I was a single girl again (music) (music) O Lord, (music) (music) Don't I wish I was a single girl again (music) (music) Three little babes (music) (music) Are crying for bread (music) (music) With none to give them (music) (music) I'd rather be dead (music) (music) I wish I was a single girl again (music) (music) O Lord, (music) (music) Don't I wish I was a single girl again (music) (laughing) (music) When he comes in (music) (music) It's a curse and a row (music) (music) knocking down the children (music) (music) And pulling out my hair (music) (music) I wish I was a single girl again (music) (music) O Lord, (music) (music) Don't I wish I was a single girl again (music) (music) Dishes to wash... (music) Reese, where in hell have you been? Alice. You came home. Lily... please take the painting. Tom: Did she live? Yes. What about the baby? Hopefully. Thank the Lord. (pops cork) (sighing) You're having a real backwoods experience, ain't you? Are you drunk? I'm not drunk, I'm... celebrating. Lily: There's no cause for celebration, Mr. Bledsoe. they could still die. In case it's news to you, Doctor, suffering is a woman's lot. I am perfectly well aware of that fact, Mr. Bledsoe. God knows, I wish I weren't. You really are an ignorant, drunken lout. You have absolutely no idea what that woman - has just been through! - Let me tell you something. My wife died at childbirth when we were 16 years old. She bled to death after I pulled our dead baby out. So don't you tell me what I do and don't know! "Dear Wallace, Enclosed are 10 of the beautiful ballads I have collected so far. I am sure you will realize what a remarkable discovery this is. The songs are virtually intact, according to the oldest known versions, with wonderful, idiosyncratic local changes in a lyric or phrase here or there. Best wishes, Lily." (banjo strumming) Whoo! Lord. Your playing is beautiful. Actually, that was one of my tunes. Dexter here just... took it over, and made it his own. - Such striking rhythms. - Thank you, ma'am. I'm Lily Penleric. She's a musicologist. Mister...? - Dexter Speaks, ma'am. - Well, how do you do? Would you look at Del? (laughing) She's all bug eyed. Ain't you ever seen a colored man before? Where would I have? (chuckling) Tom: Where you all headed? Rose Gentry's. I'm gonna help Doc here with writing down Rose's ballads. We're going everywhere the sweet music is. Rose? Rose lives way off back and beyond. You'll never get there with that load. You can't tell this woman nothing, Tom. Huh. Well, aren't you lucky? Sitting around all day getting drunk, playing music? - How lovely. - Yes, I am. See, that's what you outlanders don't understand. Life is for enjoying, not just getting and working, and getting and working. We do indeed have very different notions of what enjoyment is. Deladis: Wait...! Lily: Fate... careful. (grunting) Lily: Oh...! Stop. (panting) I told you, we couldn't get there with this thing. Where's your... pioneer spirit, Fate? We can't give-up. Come on, let's keep trying. No, Del. She's crazy. I've been lugging this thing everywhere it don't belong. I'm not risking life and limb for no stupid song. I need these recordings. I need them, right, Deladis? Doc... no one's ever tried to... haul a thing like this up here. Until now. Come along. I'll show you, Mr. Honeycutt, what you can achieve if you don't give-up. - (grunting) - No! (panting) You...! I will not give-up! Come along. please, Fate, come with us. I decided to take your offer, Earl. A dollar an acre and jobs for me and my boys. Why, if it ain't the songcatcher. Earl: Dr. Lily... you sure do get around, don't you? Lily: Nice to see you again, Mr. Giddens. Mr. And Mrs. Gentry, I'm Lily Penleric. We heard you might be coming this way. Viney says Doc's awful nice and you should sing for her. Doctor, Uncle Cratis is the one who knows about every love song there is. Except Uncle Cratis got the calling. He don't hold to singing no more. I'm sorry, we've seem to have come at a bad time. No, we're about finished here. I said I'd take a dollar an acre. Well, now Parley, that was before I knew the land was used up. Well, I wouldn't be selling it if it weren't. I appreciate that, but Mr. McFarland would have my head if I gave that much. The most I could give is say... What's that come to? How many acres you got again? About 100, my daddy always said. - $50? - That's all? That's criminal, Mr. Giddens. Don't butt in where you don't belong. Now the only way these folks are going to better themselves is to get the hell off this mountain and give-up their backward ways. Is that what your education taught you, to hate your own people? (grunting) (Deladi's screaming) Fate: Damn you, Giddens, you're as mean as a copperhead. - Deladis: No! - And I sleep like a snake, too. With both eyes open. (gun cocking) Leave the boy, Earl. Get on out of here. The deal's done. You got my word. Get. Good day, Doctor. Is that any way to settle anything, you stupid boy? That man would steal the dime off a dead man's eye. I'm really very sorry. (melancholy mid tempo tune) (music) When I first come to this country (music) (music) In 1849 (music) (music) I saw many fair lovers (music) (music) But I never saw mine (music) (music) I viewed it all around me (music) (music) Saw I was quite alone (music) (music) Me a poor stranger (music) (music) And a long way from home (music) (music) Fare thee well to old Mother (music) (music) Fare thee well to father, too (music) (music) I'm going for to ramble (music) (music) This wide world all through (music) (music) And when I get weary (music) (music) I'll sit down and cry (music) (music) Think of my Saro (music) (music) Pretty Saro, my bride (music) (music) Well, I wished I was a turtle dove (music) (music) Had wings and could fly (music) (music) Far away to my lover's lodgings (music) (music) Tonight I draw nigh (music) (music) And there in her lily-white arms (music) (music) I'd lay there all night (music) (music) And watch through them little windows (music) (music) For the dawning of day. (music) Man: The missionary board is convinced that the schools would take hold better in the mountain communities if theyre led by a man and wife, who would integrate more normally into the community than two women. Fortunately for us, Reverend, we're not under your jurisdiction. (chuckling) I'm beginning to understand your appreciation of the local crafts, Mrs. McFarland. It's a beautifully made piece. I have several like it. She'll bankrupt me with her collecting. The Clover School is a model, but the church is better equipped to educate. I endorse the English idea, we must educate by example. If we teach these ruffians to serve tea properly, they would want refinement, seek it out. I believe we must ask the mountain people what they want and what they need. That is the enlightened point of view. Man #2: Educating these savages is a waste of money. If you want to help these children, get them out of their hovels and put them to work. There's nothing like a day's wages to help make for advancement. It's a beautiful land, isn't it, Mr. McFarland? It's one of the largest, untapped coal deposits in the southern mountains, Miss Tolliver. And soon, I'm gonna own it. And with my coal mines will come towns, roads, railroads, churches, even a few more schools. Although I don't share the lofty ideals of you ladies, I would like to make a small donation to the Clover school, say, $500. Thank you, but we couldn't possibly accept such a gift, despite our need. Yes, it's essential we avoid all political affiliations to maintain the trust of the community. As far as I know, water pumps don't have political affiliations. Mr. McFarland, I thought you supported Christian education. I support progress, Rev. Merriweather. I also appreciate what these ladies have accomplished. I think this school is the loveliest, the way Miss Tolliver and Miss Penleric have used the local crafts to decorate. Are you aware of the folk arts movement that is sweeping New York and London? I'm quite a collector. Doc's collecting songs. - Really? - Mm-hmm. Yes, I am. Um... (gasping) Ah, it's beautiful. So refined. Was this painted by a local? I knew you would appreciate it. Do you know I have sent a dozen of these to a gallery in New York? The dealer is very excited. Harriet: Oh, look, everybody, our musical entertainment is here. Hi, Will. Deladis: Hey, Will. Harriet: Everybody, this is Will. Hello, Will. Harriet: Why don't you play "Sally Goodin"? (up tempo melody) Oh, Ambrose, twirl me around the lawn. Reverend: Miss Tolliver, may I have the honor? Harriet: I'd be delighted. (song continues, dancers whooping) Whoo! Ooh...! Viney: Take a little bit. Go on. Viney: Isn't that good? (cackling laugh) (music tempo quickens) Hey, Del. Where have you been? Miss Elna's been worried sick. I ain't her concern no more. Not hers or nobody's. Man: Go on out there, boy. Woman: Get on up there. Miss Elna? I'd be delighted. A little space... It's her chance, now. Viney: Put out your hands on your waist. Come on, let's try it. Lift them legs! (laughing and cheering) Man: Look out in there. (scoffing) Hello. Would you care to...? Maybe I was speaking a little too proper to you before. - Get your long legs out here. - I don't think so. Let me show you some true country spirit. - Come on. - No, thank you. I think perhaps you've had a little too much to drink. - Naw. - No, thank you. I'll show you right what you need to know. No, please, Mr. Bledsoe. Get on out of here. (punching and hollering) (music continues) (glass breaking) (waltz tune plays softly) It's very late. We should get back. I'll find my own way home. I'll see the doctor gets home. All right. I'll be fine. Good night. Good night. (strums softly) Tom: Hey, Earl. How's your head? (o m chuckling) (music) O what is this (music) (music) I cannot see (music) (music) Whose icy hand (music) (music) Takes hold on me? (music) (music) O I am Death (music) (music) That none can excel (music) (music) I open the door (music) (music) To Heaven and Hell. (music) (music) O Death, O Death (music) (music) How can it be (music) (music) that I must come (music) (music) And go with thee? (music) (music) For Death, O Death (music) (music) How can it be? (music) (music) I'm unprepared (music) (music) For eternity (music) (music) "O yes, I've come (music) (music) For to get your soul (music) (music) Take your body (music) (music) And leave it cold (music) (music) I'll drop the flesh (music) (music) From off of your brain (music) (music) The earth and the worms (music) (music) Both have their claim" (music) Woman: (music) O Death, O Death, (music) (music) please let me see (music) (music) If Christ has turned (music) (music) His back on me? (music) (music) "When you were called (music) (music) And asked to bow (music) (music) You wouldn't take heed (music) (music) And it's too late now" (music) (music) Farewell, farewell (music) (music) To all farewell (music) (music) My doom is fixed (music) (music) I'm summoned to Hell (music) (music) As long as God (music) (music) In Heaven shall dwell (music) (music) My soul, my soul (music) (music) Shall scream in Hell. (music) We'll stay on here. I'm not grateful for your vain gallantry, Mr. Bledsoe. I am perfectly capable of looking out for myself. Oh, don't worry. I'd beat that snake up for fun any day of the week. I have never heard such... ...such singing. I never met an outlander who likes music as much as you do. I have never been anywhere where the music is as much a part of life as it is here. It's like the air you all breathe. It's beautiful. I would like to discuss something with you seriously. Serious? What is it? It's about my work. Actually, it's about my book. I believe... that you could win public sentiment over with your music. - Public sentiment? - Yes. Let me tell you something, we're not really interested in what you people out there think about us. - Well, you should be. - Oh, yeah? What I'm trying to say is when my book is published, I believe the mountain people will be seen in a very different light. Oh, what is that light, may I ask? Well, the common view is that there is no culture here, and that the people are dirty, ignorant and savage. You forgot illiterate and inbred. The only way to preserve our way of life up here is to keep your way of life down there. That is the way you kill something, by shutting it out... You know what? You just don't understand, and you never will. We just want to be left alone, see? Then the mountain ways will die. We'll see. I don't want to fight with you. Me neither. We just keep getting off on the wrong foot, don't we? Good night. Can I take my wrong feet and walk you home? No, I can find my own way. Thank you. I promised... Miss Elna. Well, in case you hadn't noticed, I am the big sister... not Elna. O-ho-ho, I noticed. I noticed. (singing) (piercing shriek) (shriek) (growling and clothes tearing) (shriek) (shriek) (gasping) Tom: Whoa! Whoa! - Whoa. - (Lily laughing) Here you go. Why won't you admit it was you? Give me that. - It was you. - But it wasn't me. It had to be the panther. Either that or maybe you... - maybe you imagined it. - I did not imagine it. It was as real as you and me. Ooh... Why aren't you married? Why aren't you? I've been married. Twice. My second wife died of lung fever. I'm sorry. I'm a jinx for a woman, Lily. I'm not your average woman. No, you're not, are you? Deladis: (music) O holiday, O holy day (music) (music) The first day of they ear (music) (music) Little Matthy Groves to church to goes (music) (music) Some holy words to hear (music) (music) Hear some holy words to hear. (music) Come on, Doc, you know this one. Both: (music) He spied some women dressed in black (music) (music) As they came into view (music) (music) Lord Daniel's wife was gaily clad (music) (music) The flower of the few (music) (music) Few, the flower of the few (music) (music) She stepped up to Little Matthy Groves (music) (music) Her eyes cast on the ground (music) (music) "Oh, please, oh, please come with me (music) (music) Stay as you pass through this town (music) (music) Town, as you pass through this town." (music) - Deladis... - Hmm? You are officially my assistant now, and it's going to say so in my book. (music) "O what is this?" Said Little Matthy Groves (music) (music) As he sat up in bed (music) (music) "I fear it is your husband's mad (music) (music) And I will soon be dead (music) (music) Dead, I will soon be dead" (music) (music) But Little Matthy Groves he laid back down (music) (music) And soon fell off to sleep (music) (music) When he woke up, Lord Daniel (music) (music) Was standing at his bed feet (music) (music) Feet, standing at his bed feet (music) (music) Saying, " How do you like my snow white pillows?" (music) (music) Saying, " How do you like my sheets? (music) (music) How do you like my pretty little woman (music) (music) That's a-lying in your arms asleep? (music) (music) Sleep, lying in your arms asleep?" (music) (music) The first swing that Little Matthy made (music) (music) It hurt Lord Daniel sore (music) (music) The next swing that Lord Daniel made (music) (music) Little Matthy hit the floor (music) (music) Floor, Little Matthy hit the floor (music) (cocking) What do you want? Uh... Parley Gentry sent us. My name is Lily Penleric. We are looking for Uncle Cratis. What for? I'm a song collector. Parley says Uncle Cratis knows about every love song there is. We're making a book. Cratis got religion. He don't do no singing no more. Well, perhaps if I spoke with him...? Cratis! (music) Uncle Cratis. (music) You gonna burn in Hell, Josie Moore. Mr. Kincaid? Do I know you, woman? I'm your wife's friend. You all go on. We got no songs here. Your family needs you, Mr. Kincaid. Reese belongs here with me. Go on. Alice: How can I thank you? Alice, you don't have to. I've barely been able to keep body and soul together since Reese left again. People have been helping out the best they can, but... Lily: Well, now that... Clementine McFarland is collecting your paintings, others will as well. Maybe I should take the children down to Asheville. I mean, if what you say is true, I could provide for us in a big town. Hello, Alice. - Daddy? - Reese? Daddy. Well, he y, big man. Hey, little bit. - Hey. - Hey. You look pretty today, Alice. You remember, Dr. Penleric, don't you? Mr. Kincaid. (grunting) Hey, Del. Hey. Hey, Del. Fate: "It is..." "It is dep..." What are you doing reading other people's writing? "It is deplorable... that the literature of the ballad has attracted so much more attention than the music. The two elements should never be disassociated. The music and text are one and indivisible, and to separate one from the other is to remove the processed gem from its beautiful setting." Oh, Lord. What are you laughing at? She's just saying our songs are finer than frog hair. You're going soft in the head, Tom. - Yeah, maybe. - (women laughing) Tom: Ladies. Hello. What are you doing here? U h... I brought you something. Come on. - You shouldn't have. - Well, I did. - It's warm today, huh? - Yes. Elna: Tom...? Why don't you advise my sister to join us at the picnic this afternoon? I haven't had any luck. Perhaps you might. What, and leave her work? Deladis, are you ready? U m... I ain't going. It's too hot and muggy for a picnic. All right, suit yours elf. Let me show you this here. A noter. A what? Noter. Take that in your left hand, and you play these strings. Let's go for a walk. Ah, yes. We'll leave you two to your music lesson. Tom: You know, it ain't none of my business... Miss Harriet and Miss Elna... theyre... What? Sweethearts, I guess you call it. (women giggling) Don't be ridiculous. Listen, it don't bother me none. It would rile most people, but it don't bother me none. I'm sure it's only because theyre so isolated. Who else would they be with? Well, certainly not a mountain man. (giggling) I see you two. Now you quit that. Fate: Hey, Johnson. I got a letter here for the doctor. She ain't here right now, but you can leave it. No, no. You see this here word? That means it's important and she got to get it right away. Urgent? I can read. She's gone to Alton's Creek. I'll take it over. You'd do that for me, ol' Fate? Sure, Johnson, sure. - I'll go with you. - Naw, you stay here. - Why? - 'Cause I said. U h-uh, I'm coming with you. You deliver it into her own hands. Oh, I will, I will. Thank you. By e. Sure, I'll deliver the letter, Doc. You can't do that. That's Doc's letter. - Give me that. - Come and get it. Del, come back here! (Deladi's laughing) Oof, shit. Del? Oh, God! Oh, God. (sobbing) Oh, God. Elna, we have to get back to the school. Elna! Fate! Elna! Deladis: Johnson said it was urgent. (giggling) Wallace's voice: "Dear Lily, It is with great pride that I write. I took the liberty of showing the ballads you sent me to Cyrus Whittle. He immediately confirmed the importance of your discovery and thinks it imperative the ballads be collected urgently. The dean has s e cured the funds. You'll be thrilled to know Whittle himself intends to collect the songs and insisted that you continue as his assistant." Assistant!? "please respond immediately. Regards, Wallace." Uncle Cratis is preaching the gospel tomorrow. Yes, dear. Deladis: Can I wear my new green calico? (screaming) No! It's afire! Elna: Harriet, no! Run! Oh, no. Come on. Come on. Oh, my God. (whooping and laughing) - My glasses! - No, no, no. Elna: Lily! Lily! Goodbye, my darling girl. Tom: Oh, good Lord. Go away. Elna...? How am I going to live without her? Perhaps you could find her. She swore if anyone ever found out... she'd disappear. My Harriet. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. Hey, Doc, look. Deladis: Doc? Cratis: You all don't have to belie v e me, but you got to belie v e the word of God. I know you belie v e the Bible, and the Bible says, "For her sins have reached unto Heaven and God has remembered her iniquities." - Amen. - "Therefore shall her plagues come in one day. Death, and mourning and famine and she shall be utterly destroy ed with fire." Amen. "For strong is the Lord God that judges her." Amen. Where did you get to? I was looking for you. "Thou has polluted the land with thy whoredoms and with thy wickedness"! Amen. I'm going to bust you up, Hilliard! Tom! They're the whores of Babylon come to tempt us, Tom! That snake right there, and that little weasel next to him, theyre the ones who set fire to the school! And all this while women and children were still inside! They're evil women! Now are you going to listen to them or are you going to listen to me? I am ashamed of you boys. I ain't seen nothing but good come out of that school. Them women were sent by the devil himself. Only wickedness comes of book learning. - Amen! - Cratis... I ain't never had a chance to learn nothing. And my kids ain't neither because they is always working too hard keeping food on the table. But I got grandbabies as smart as any others! And I want them to have a chance. Man: That's the devil speaking through him. - Amen. - Amen. Reese Kincaid! You said you'd never leave me. Josie... Tom: (music) A lilac comes (music) (music) On a poisoned thorn (music) (music) It has roots dirty and torn (music) (music) Young-uns a-playin' (music) (music) As the black crow flies (music) (music) Mama's weeping (music) (music) Hear the mountains cry (music) (music) There was another (music) (music) A wild dirt flower (music) (music) Cold was her heart (music) (music) And as dark as dire (music) (music) Tears on the ground (music) (music) For her love did die (music) (music) 'Neath the bloody moon (music) (music) Hear the mountains cry (music) (music) Oh, dig his grave (music) (music) Narrow and deep (music) (music) Set a jug of whiskey (music) (music) By his thirsty feet (music) (music) And lay two pennies (music) (music) On his roving eyes (music) (music) Two women wailing (music) (music) As the mountains cry. (music) Thank you, dear. Elna... will you be all right if I leave? So soon? Why don't you come with me? You can live as you please in a big city. I've thought about it. I want to reopen the school. I was thinking about asking you to stay with me. It needs another teacher. I didn't think you would. I shall miss you. - (music) Oh the wind blows weary (music) - My little elf. (music) And the willows sigh... (music) I'll miss you, too. (music) Rivers of sorrow (music) (music) And the mountains cry (music) (music) Rivers of sorrow... (music) (music) And the mountains cry. (music) I'm sorry. I'm sorry, too. I'm sorry about that school and I'm sorry about your book. You made most of us feel real proud. Thank you. I'm sure someone else will come and write down all of the songs. - Are you giving up? - U m-hmm. I realize that it was the voices singing them that I wanted everyone to hear. Are you going back to your university, then? No, no, I don't think so. - Where are you going? - I'm not sure. Come with me? How will I earn a living down the mountain? With your music. I couldn't take care of you right doing this. Then work in a coal mine. No, I did that once and I guarantee you I never ever will again. So you're just content to sit on a mountain and hide your head in a jug, is that it? A man's meant to provide for his wife and his family, Lily. You were meant to make music. Besides which, I don't want you to take care of me. - And I do have a plan. - Oh, of course you do. Did you ever have a day without a plan? It includes you, Tom. Do you want to hear it? Go on. Well... nowadays, phonographs only cost about $ 10. I think that soon everyone is going to have one. I was thinking that we could... make cylinders of mountain music and s ell them. Who the hell would buy them? Oh, I think everyone would. I know they would, Tom. The way the music makes you feel, of course they would. You're just about as crazy... Hey! What are you doing here? Go on before I shoot you! I want to talk to Deladis. Fate: Del... I come to get you to be my wife. I don't want no part of you. If you don't take me now, I'm marrying Polly. I went to the woods... and the knot didn't hold. You're Polly's now. I love you, child. Tom: Hey, Del... we're going down the mountain. Do you want to come with us? We're going to make cylinders of mountain music to s ell to outlanders. (laughing) What? Isn't that the craziest thing you ever heard? It's the craziest. Viney: Of course she'll come with you. Granny? Tom, I'll be fine. I'll be right here when you come back to visit. Tom: Why don't you back up aways, until one of us can pull over? Perhaps I'd better get out. Are you Cyrus Whittle? Yes, I am. Who are you? I'm Lily Penleric. Lily Penleric? How remarkable. I was just on my way to meet you. Whittle: Didn't you get Prof. Aldrich's letter? Lily: Yes. I did, but I didn't realize you were coming immediately. The work is urgent. Your discovery is too great. The collection must be moved forward as expeditiously as possible. That's why I'm here in the hopes of being able to assist you. Assisting me? I told Aldrich to ask your permission. I made myself quite clear to the dean. I am only here to facilitate and cooperate in the completion of the collection of this vast body of songs. There is no collection be yond the 10 songs that I sent Prof. Aldrich. What? All this time, you mean... - It was destroyed in a fire. - Oh, I can't bear it. I'm afraid so, along with my phonograph recordings. Oh, my Lord. Phonograph, you say? You know, I had no idea it was feasible to lug a phonograph into the wilderness. It isn't. Well, then in that case it's very fortuitous that I'm here, isn't it? We can start again, you and I! Thank you, Prof. Whittle, but I'm afraid I have other plans. What on earth could be more important than this collection of songs? Lily: I bequeath the collection of the mountain ballads to you. - To me? - Mm-hm. How am I going to work without you? Well, when you get to Bear Creek ask for Viney Butler. Tell Viney, that Tom, Lily and Deladis said you are a very nice man, and she should help you. - Who? Deladis? - Deladis. Lily: Viney Butler. She knows dozens of songs. She will help you. Fare thee well, professor, but I must assure you I intend to publish these songs under both our names... yours first, of course. It's Penleric. That's one "N" and no "K." (music) T'was in the merry month of May (music) (music) When all gay flowers were blooming (music) (music) Sweet William (music) (music) In his death bed lay (music) (music) For the love of Barbara Allen (music) (music) He sent his servant to the town (music) (music) To the place where she was dwelling (music) (music) Said, "You must come to my master's house (music) (music) If your name be Barbara Allen (music) (music) So slowly, slowly she gets up (music) (music) And to his bedside going (music) (music) She drew the curtains to one side (music) (music) and says, "Young man, you're dying" (music) (music) "I know I'm sick, and very sick (music) (music) And sorrow dwells within me (music) (music) No better, no better I never will be (music) (music) Till I have Barbara Allen (music) (music) " Don't you remember last Saturday night (music) (music) When I was at the tavern? (music) (music) You gave your drinks to the ladies all (music) (music) But you slighted Barbara Allen" (music) (music) He reached up his pale white hands (music) (music) Intending for to touch her (music) (music) She turned away from his bedside (music) (music) And says, "Young man, I won't have you (music) (music) He turned his cheek unto the wall (music) (music) And bursted out a-cryin' (music) (music) Adieu, to thee, adieu to all (music) (music) And adieu to Barbara Allen (music) (music) She had not more than reached the town (music) (music) She heard the death-bells ringin' (music) (music) And as they rung, they seemed to say (music) (music) "Hard-hearted Barbara Allen" (music) (music) O mother, O mother, go make my bed (music) (music) Make it both long and narrow (music) (music) Sweet William died for me today (music) (music) I'll die for him tomorrow (music) (music) Sweet William was buried in the old churchyard (music) (music) And Barbara they laid nigh him (music) (music) And out of his grave grew a red, red rose (music) (music) And out of hers, a briar (music) (music) they grew and grew to the old church gate (music) (music) Where they could grow no higher (music) (music) And there they tied in a true love knot (music) (music) The Rose wrapped 'round the briar. (music)
