 

                        Pagalavan...? Wake up, you! Wake up, Pagalava! Good morning, bro - When did you come here? - At 4:00 a.m The door was open So I came in and slept Buffalo! Buffalo! He's gotten drunk and left the door wide open What if a thief had come in? Why are you here all of a sudden? There was a problem in my home town, Trichy What problem? Don't hit him like that...! Are women so cheap? Women shouldn't be so violent?! Don't hit him Stop! Stop! He's my son! What happened? You've raised 'venom' instead of a son! What did he do? What did he do?! Come, see for yourself! Look... that's what he did! Don't try and pull a fast one on me! Oh gawd! How did you do it? How much did you spend? - 1 and a half lakhs - 1,50,000?! You could've invested that in some proper business, no? Business? For what? Dude... daiiii! You stinky bugger! Why are you barging into my time for crapping! - Are you Masa's friend? - No, Kesavan's friend Call him Masa (lazy bum) Fits him to the M! 'Human Rights Violation issue Dindigul Police Inspector sudden suspect' 'Rowdy doctor who created a stir in Chennai now out of prison' 'Celebration by his supporters in front of the prison' 'Uproar in Trichy' 'Temple for actress Nayanthara built by a youngster...!' What are your plans now in Chennai, da? - I don't know, dude - Good answer Those who came clueless really made it big here Ones with plans went back home empty handed You have a bright future, da Dude... when will you be back? It'll be night, dude We'll talk when I get back Hey! Take care of him Bye, dude Excuse me? - What? - Can I join with you, boss? Welcome to Chennai! VIJAY SETHUPATHI SANCHITA SHETTY - Wait here, I'll be back soon - Let me also come with you They've only asked for one guy... I'll go Come, sir - Good day, sir - Good day... sit down Have you been waiting for long? - No sir, I just got here - Okay, sit down How can I help you? Sir, Virudhachalam contract I'd appreciate it if you can somehow get it for us All new notes, huh? He's Mr Karnan Good day, sir Anti corruption department officer Sir...!? He'll now arrest you for trying to bribe me Here...! 'Minister Gnanodhayam considered as India's rare breed of ethical politicians...' '...has been instrumental in arresting an industrialist who tried to bribe him' People have started realizing that even giving bribes is a crime now Election dates has been announced yesterday This is being claimed a publicity stunt What's your justification? Only people who don't have publicity will resort to something like that I believe I have enough publicity I don't need all those gimmicks, son - 'Don't be scared, dear' - Shut up! Be quiet We shouldn't blow our cover Music SANTHOSH NARAYANAN 'Hey baby... will you marry me?' 'Can you get anyone better than me?' Shut it for a while, dear Hey... hey... let me go Hey! You rascal Stop... stop, da Stop, da! Catch him 'Super, honey' 'DECEPTION IS ADDICTIVE' Direction NALAN KUMARASAMY - Boss, time please? - I don't have change, man - Do I look like a beggar to you? - How would I know? Oh my God... my God...! Wait... wait Stop the car Hi I said hi - Love me - Sorry? I said 'love me Love is a pain We should straight away go to the next step maybe Why are you threatening me while we are talking? I'll cut my wrists if you don't love me You'll be blamed for my death Are you insane? No... no, don't do it Listen to me! Don't! - Let me go - Stop it! Stop it! Awwwwwwwwww! Where do you work, boss? I set the alarm in the morning, to get up and drink How can you ask me this? No, I thought maybe you work night shifts Why do you think so? Why do you think that of me? Is it a must for everyone to work? A man must eat and crap daily, in between, work a little Isn't this your concept? - It's not that, boss - Then what is it, boss? Always talk about work, work, work... wretched fellows...! Why do you talk like this? What else do you want me to say? Do you read the paper daily? They just change the date and write the same thing - That's why I don't read it - That's why... you're happy Read the paper daily You'll go insane Wife-swapping Illicit love Bank theft Bike theft Jewelry theft On top of it, actress in an ashram and a saint lying on her lap This heroine in love with a hero That hero in love with another heroine... ...who is the mistress of another director If isn't enough, youngsters turn into murderers and even commit suicide Suicide if they fail in school or college Suicide if they don't get a job or the right bride or groom Suppose, they get a bride marriage ends in divorce Divorce for the flimsiest of excuses Sneeze, cough or even if you snore! Besides all this mother-in-law burns daughter-in-law and vice versa Uncle stabs his brother-in-law And vice versa Throwing acid on his girl friend's face If you wade through all this rubbish and come to the 1st page... ...he'll report the temperature in Chennai as 110 degrees Why should a man work, huh? You work at a 5 star hotel, don't you? Who told you? Kesava told me you are a valet in a 5 star hotel's car park You could have told me you knew, no? I wouldn't have rattled my philosophy to you! It's okay It was fun hearing it It was jolly? Huh... huh! When you go to work, please take me with you I haven't ever seen a 5 star hotel in my life Do you know a Jaguar car? You know it's always chauffer driven Because there's always a driver, we'll never get the joy to park it But then, one day...! That single day in my life...!! 'A white color Jaguar car zoomed in looking right at me' 'Most importantly it was owner-driven' 'He gave me the car key I couldn't believe my luck' 'I opened the door in slow motion' 'I sat inside leisurely' 'Haiiiyo...! Awesome' 'I caressed the steering wheel gently and started the car' 'Wow...!' 'Was it a car I was driving?' 'I was driving the Almighty Himself!' 'Slowly, I weaved my way and turned... beautifully' 'Car's engine wasn't running It was floating in mid-air!' 'I slowly parked it gently' 'That's when Mr Saturn turned his malefic effect on me!' And he said, "when will you ever get this chance again, start the car" What did you do boss? I drove... a soooper round A round? You can't really call it a round I went 100 meters past the hotel gate - Don't... sir - You thieving scoundrel! - Police caught me - Did you lose your job? You're being such a dumbass Ssss... sorry! In my family, no generation has even washed a car I don't mind losing 100 jobs for creating this family history! I like your spirit, boss Naturally, someone who has built a temple for actress Nayanthara... ...will be on my wavelength! Hi, dude What, da? You've come home early It's 7:00 p.m now How is that early? He usually comes only after 11:00 p.m I'm asking you, no? You're looking dull What is it, man? What happened? What happened, bro? Tell me what's upset you You know what will happen if I file a case? Do you know how long you'll spend in jail? You're well educated Forget behaving professionally Can't you be a civilized human? You barbarian! Who on earth gave you admission in a college? You study in some junk college and buy yourself a degree Then land up in a corporate set up and give us grief! Do you know what work culture is? Have you never befriended a girl before? Is this how you'll compel a girl? Why are you ruining our company's name? You senseless bum! Which nitwit appointed you as the manager? Baldie, don't give me that blank look! Whaaat?! Lost your job? Why did you hit my friend? Why did you hit him? Whatever it is, let us talk it over Stop this right now So now we go sell ourselves for money? That's your wish Don't think I'll hesitate to hit you because this is a public place Be calm, boss Why are you provoking him, da? It wasn't a big deal when he lost his job Why is he over reacting because I lost mine? You had a job when I lost mine, no? Now what do we fall back on? How do we manage rent, food, cigarette, drinks and all that? On top of it, now a new refugee Boss, don't call me a refugee You and your ego! Not capable of getting the next plate of food Mistakes... problems very much... do you at least understand why I messed up? 'I don't know why you mess up, dear' Is the problem with me then? Think and tell me 'I thought real hard but zilch... no problem' Think about it carefully, Shalu It's our life matter, understood? 'I thought over it threadbare, sweet heart' 'I don't know' Hmph... you're a waste figure 'True, I'm a waste figure' He's not giving us balance change, dude 'I don't have change, man' Who said there's no change? I will rip him- Sit... sit down Wait, he gave me nuts as change If anyone says 'change' once more, I'll kill him Stop obsessing over it and feeling bad about it Last week, a girl called me 'uncle' As if I felt bad?! Whacko!! Oh my God! 'Honey, we are dead now' 'Let's leave right now' 'Aiyo!' Did you get my beer bottle to hit with? Don't think you are a hero! You dare touch our friend? What's all this sound? Your guy is ruining our peace here Just shut up and drink You have the gall to come to our area and play judge, we'll rip you to pieces! (General commotion) "You've been... oh my dear boozer (st)ripped off your trouser!" "Pulled into a vortex pointless Hey buddy... you're pant-less!" What, boss? You don't announce your arrival with sirens anymore? Wait for me Over here Look here! Get in... quickly Sir, thanks a lot In all fairness I should be thanking you If we don't even do this for each other, then what, sir? It's 9:50 p.m, they'll close down the liquor shops, let's zip-zap-zoom! Boss, I've been wanting to ask you something for a real long time Is this your own house? That's a really tough question There are a lot of legal problems Sir, no problem Don't strain yourself What, sir? You run a business? For a while I was smuggling Scent, shoes, laptops - 'Baby...!' - Shut up It got really boring There was no job satisfaction 'Baby! Don't trust them... problem' If you keep working for money boredom hits you, no? Do you get what I'm saying? 'Honey! Don't blabber to these new guys!' I told you to shut up Didn't you hear me? Do you want me to spank you? A woman should know her place! Sir? Whom are you talking to? 'You're a total waste piece, man' I'll murder you Don't say another word! 'You'll never learn even if you burn your hands!' 'Go to hell' Female trouble Sir, who are you talking to? Sorry, you guys don't know her, no? We have no clue She's a girl called Shalu Only I can see her She's like my girl-friend She's the only one I can bare my soul to! 'My fate! I got stuck with a crazy man like this' No fears, man Shalu is a very decent girl Look at that drawing She's Shalu She's really hot, boss This is a mental disorder, sir I think you should consult a doctor 'I'll smash your face black and blue!' Wait... cool Calm down, babe 'Who wants your random advice?' 'Get out of here, da' You asked me to consult a doctor, no? That's why she got a little angry She's slightly hyper-emotional 'My fate to listen to these idiots!' I've already done all that He gave me tablets and I took them But my life was boring without Shalu I stopped the medicine I 'liking it' basically How did you get this disease? What should I do to get it, boss?! Shut up! Sir, we're leaving I'm late for work Sir told me you lost your job? Leave it, da He's one of us You're all 3 in 'no-job' position right now, no? 'Wretched wasted mouth-to-feed!' Are you looking for some other work? No, sir... I'm trying for another job What about you both? As if we are that old, sir Why work already? Are you also free and jobless now, sir? If I tell you what I do, you'll think I'm insane No way! Of course we won't I'll tell you anyway I don't know why, but I feel like sharing it with you guys My job is... ...what you might call 'kidnapping' In Tamil, we call it 'aal kadaththal' (abducting) All this is your kidnapping victims list, sir? No... no, this is my study of how not to kidnap! What I've done will not feature in the newspaper Only if you've messed it up will it become headlines Sir, we're late now We have to leave Thanks for the drinks - Come... come, da - 'Go... go, good riddance!' - Are you scared? - No... not at all Come, da Hey! I paid for your drinks? Now I'll pay, you must eat If you call this 'idly', even 'chutney' won't believe it, da Shall I ask for the bill? Okay, sir We're done You sit in the car I'll pay the bill and join you Do you know how long it's been since I sat in the driver's seat?! Where did that man go? Shall we just take the car and leave? Shut up Let me go! Silence! Don't scream Let me go!! Start the car Sir... sir, what are you doing? Let me go, da Police are after us Start the car, da! Police... awwww! Start... go... go... go - What the heck is happening? - What do we do now? I don't know Pull along the kerb here Let's run for our life 'Rascal! My guy has breathlessly carried her with great difficulty' 'And you're ruining it!' They can't hear what you're saying, silly! Why is he on his own trip? 'Then you talk, buffalo!' Turn right... right... right - I'm petrified - Just go somewhere For heaven's sake, keep quiet - Kesavan, just listen to me - Quiet... quiet, please Shut up... shut up - 'Ask her for her phone' - Give me your phone Let go of her hand, da Give me the phone! - 'Call her dad' - What's your dad's name? Take out her handkerchief It's saved as 'dad' I won't scream Please don't stuff that stinky kerchief into my mouth! Don't panic or be foolish, just trust me Hello? Sir, we've kidnapped your daughter Yes, dad, I'm in a car They've kidnapped me - Divya... Divya - 'Don't panic, don't panic' Don't panic Don't panic 'We won't lay a finger on your daughter' Don't go to the police Because we aren't criminals We're doing this only with a good intention Son, please don't do anything to my daughter - Please...! - I'm telling you we won't But you must not do anything foolish either Son, what do you want? I'm an ordinary bank manager How can a bank manager be 'ordinary'? Son, I'm a timid person I didn't complain even when my bike got stolen Don't be scared Be calm, please Keep driving Take deep breaths Yes, nicely Breathe in... real deep Okay? Now tell me, how much do you earn monthly? Eh? Monthly salary? Son? How much is your monthly income? Rs 45,000 Do you have 45,000 now in your account? Because today is 10th of this month I have, son If I take 45,000, can you manage the rest of this month? Whaaaat?! Yes, I can, son Okay, then go to a nearby ATM Withdraw Rs 45,000 and wait I'll call you in 15 minutes - Don't do anything to my daughter - Aiyo! We won't do a thing to her! Just withdraw the money Ask your dad to be brave, dear Dad, don't be scared Please be brave Okay, sir? Okay... okay (Shalu giggles) Hello? - Sir, is the money ready? - Yes, it's ready Where should I come, son? Good day, sir Hand over that cash Check if it's right, son No need, I'll go down and send your daughter up Okay? See you, sir Here, this is for you to buy something Here, your share Sekar, this is for you This is your share This is mine Boss... how, boss? If you follow these 5 rules, kidnapping is truly awesome 1st rule, stay clear of people with power No power house If you choose a rich kid, you'll be in danger Unnecessary tension for us 2nd rule: No threats to kill No unwanted scaring Because people have watched enough films not to get fooled Must not scare them unnecessarily Rule 3: Affordable ransom money Not a penny more Not a penny less! Or else they will go to the police And we are buying trouble 4th rule: No arms, no harm No weapons for any reason Statistics say weapon is the cause for us to be the corpse And 5th rule, most important If the job gets goofed up... ...if it's not according to plan, no shame, just surrender Heroism... should be zero! Dai!! Boss, your spelling for 'kednapping' is itself wrong Come, dude Accept you don't understand Wait... he has just started himself No... I complete These 5 rules cover et al There's nothing more to learn beyond this Boss, when's the next project? I'll break your teeth... come, da Hello...? If you come by 6:00 a.m tomorrow, we'll all be a team Otherwise, forget that meeting 'Honey, how will you cope with this many insane people?!' Come out, da Let's go back! Are you brainless? Come with me now If you go begging just because you're jobless, you'll get it, huh? You'll get a job only if you search Understand? You try something too, dude There are supervisor jobs in Ambattur for those who've got diplomas... huh? Try and you'll succeed - Okay? - Okay...! Okay Aiyo! "Brother... buddy... bro Pal... comrade... amigo...!" "Blood brother... bro" "Come if you want to Otherwise just go" "Come and be naughty Or else a non-celebrity!" "No one's compelling you Don't want to... just go" "Come... you common soul Or else... out you roll" Close the door Move... move "When jobless, brain dreams these cunning schemes!" "When twiddling our thumb deception gains momentum" "Come if you want to Otherwise nitwit, just go" "Come and be naughty Or else a nonentity!" "Come or go is up to you Life is how you pursue" "Choice is completely yours You're not under duress" "A kite with holes can't fly at all Luck won't land at your porch to call" "A band of 'yes men'meet and flee in the eye of defeat" "If you want your job done plan properly with wisdom" "I'll wedge the dude who advised me I'll settle down with a job and: -) happily" "Lady, tell your son... strictly Better send him along with me!" "Come if you want to Otherwise cheapo, just go" - Call your father... contact - Do you want me to call my folks? Just pull up Let's drop him off Rejected! "Come... you common soul Or else... stick to your goal" Hey! Son... hi! Is this the place? Yes, this is the place Dai, why do you have such a long face? No reaction for kidnapping you Or when we demanded ransom from your dad We're scared, right? 'Babe, this kid is so cute and chubby' 'I adore him Can't we just keep him?' What do you want, son? An ice cream or something? I'm bored, get me some magazines? We've kidnapped him and he says he's bored! Dad My dad's calling Hello, sir Yes, it's us We're here Where? Just wait and watch You'll get caught by the police very soon Are you planning to sneak to them?! I won't sneak, but I'm just generally making a statement Why do you say that? Hit you! Poisonous little brat Come Go straight and take a left Your dad is waiting for you - Here, keep this - No, thanks Your life is in your hands I understand this only now We should make sure we don't jinx our good luck We haven't even started yet Have you been rejected in many companies before coming here? Yes, sir That's because they've black listed you - Black list? - Yes You must deal with this legally with your old company Or it'll be very difficult for you to get a job... sorry It doesn't sound that sad, man You're over reacting to this Shut up, da Fight in your ex-company We'll fix it for you 'Love, he's heading our way!' Count me in too I'll be part of your team This won't work for you You need blind foolhardiness And cold blooded intelligence 'Well said, baby... you rock!' Shut up This isn't your cup of tea Buffalo! I have all that they have And even more - Talk for me, da - That's okay, dude But why do you want to do this? We're earning now, no? Wait for a while and see As if you won't get a job Boss, I'll tell you one thing for sure Before I do something, I think a 1000 times But once I've gotten in, I won't back out Whose phone is that? Ring tone sounds new! Boss, it's from your pocket 'And I just now complimented you!' I got that chubby kid's phone here by mistake Boss, what do we do now? Go to the pickup spot Your phone will be in the dustbin... pick it up Hello... hello, sir Don't hang up on me Listen to me I didn't call for the phone - I called for you - Are you tracing the call? Even if you asked me to go to the police, I wouldn't... trust me Hello? Hello? Sir...? Tell me, what do you want? No, I like the way you dealt with the kidnap Straight forward, intelligent without harming others- Come straight to the point Okay... sir, I need you to do a job for me Sorry, we don't work for outsiders Accept our apology You don't need to, sir At least listen to my deal I'll tell you my offer To take it up or not is your call But if you agree to meet me, I'll give you Rs 50,000! And if you finish this deal you can get up to 2,00,00,000 'Think it over' We won't come to see you You must come here Why are you blind folding me? So, Pagalava... what are you deep in thought about? When do you plan to get married? What's the hurry? The car looks good But no mileage at all, da! I love dinosaurs, boss lmagine if we saw 1 now! Nayanthara is my all time favorite Too much worry ends in hair loss Just a tablet will do the trick I asked you to tie his hands to his back, didn't I? That's what I did - Yeah, I can see that - Hit me anywhere, not my head But didn't I tie his hands to his back? Have we come to the place? Yeah... yeah... we have The man who spoke to me on the phone- Is sitting opposite you Hello, sir Thanks a lot for accepting my proposal You said you'd give us Rs 50,000 for meeting you I've brought it Don't strain too much I'll take it out myself - What's your name? - 'Reliable' Kannan - 'Reliable' Kannan? - That's my name Okay, 'Reliable' Kannan Why did you want to meet us? I want you to kidnap someone Same way you kidnapped my son Why? To put it simply, I want revenge We lost 2,00,00,000, sir And our business collapsed thanks to him He needs to pay for it - Who is the victim? - Minister Gnanodhayam's son 1st rule, stay clear of people with power lf you choose a rich kid, you'll be in danger, tension- Sorry, sir We can't do this Why can't we do this? 20 million is not a joke Be quiet, you don't know anything What is it I don't know? If you keep earning peanuts, you won't even have money to bail you out Dai... shut up Don't be idiots We're doing this anyway Might as well strike gold Kidnapping once a week Nothing to be proud of!! Daiiiii...! Sir, we can't do this You can leave Sekar, drop him Sir...? Stop it... dumbass - Don't do that - Don't fight You don't have any kidnapping manners?! Shut up and sit down, da! Now he knows our faces To agree is the best decision No need Sekar, it's fine as long as he doesn't know where we stay Let him not know the way Take right after Koyembedu Then 3rd left from Nerkundram Turn right there is the EB station Left there leads to Kavimani street Turn left from the small bridge there it's the yellow house on the left 1st floor, no? Boss... he has some supernatural power - Sekar, ignore him - Boss, he really is psychic! Sekar... SEKAR... stop it You also went with him, no? Go Please, sir Do this for me I'll be grateful to you for the rest of my life Sir, come I came here relying on you Sir... please, sir Damn this mask! Please, sir We can't do anything to him but same time, we can't just sit idle Why call us over to take a bribe and then hand us over to the cops? Sir, what you're doing is wrong But I appreciate your work-ethics! What they're doing maybe right But it stinks of betrayal My brother's life was ruined by this betrayal, sir Please, sir I trust you Don't let me down 'Baby, it's time to go to the next level' 'You're a man, honey' 'Be brave... step forward' 'I'm there for you, no?' Why don't we try it? There's rule #5 anyway, no? 'Goof up, own up' Our escape route Whenever I'm in doubt, I ask God to decide Let me toss this 1 rupee coin If it's heads, we go ahead Otherwise we forget 'that meeting'... okay? Pagalava, bring that table Heads...! Tell me, in 20 million what you share? I don't want a paisa! Take it all, sir All I want is that man's disgraced face hitting the headlines... that's all What's the boy's name? His name is Arumai Prakasam - Mother? - Are you hungry? I'm thinking of quitting smoking Didn't I tell you, his planets are favorable now? I just want to start a business I've become responsible now Really? What business? Depends on how much my father is willing to invest Can I start a college if it is just 5,00,000? I can only open a roadside tea shop Very true, but be clear and frank with your father Then don't both of you wander around all muddled up I don't confuse things It's your husband who- Ey, Arumai! I asked you to do something Did you do it? No...! How will you ever reform? Pa, I need money to start a business 1st go earn some money on your own Then start a business with that money You should be ashamed to live off your father How will I get a job if I'm not a graduate? Sir, we're late for the meeting In 7 years he hasn't passed his under-grad and he wants to start his own business! Ma? What? Father refused me the money I'm going back to smoking Hey... dai! This morning alone, he's gone to 7 tea shops, had 12 teas, 18 cigarettes 4 samosas and 2 bread omelet Then he was in deep thought lying on the bench in Kodambakkam park Then again, 4 tea shops, 13 cigarettes and went back home In between, he ate 'panipuri' in a shop He's a minister's son, right? No police or-? No security or any such thing Roams around in an old TVS 50 moped We don't need a plan to kidnap this guy Just a tea shop will do 'Super, honey We are ready' Shall I stop the car here? Or in the next street? Let it be here If we know how he travels, we can nab him anywhere Rowdies have started to take films now - Who's he? - Some Koyambedu don He is called 'Doctor Doctor? I don't get it 'Why, hon, is he making an ass of himself?' He's mad - Boss, you know him? - I do Keep it inside We'll deal with it later You said the minister won't be at home 100% he isn't at home His car won't even be here after 9:00 a.m You said he travels alone? We followed him only for a day Start the car We won't do it today This plan no pick up - Why is that car following us? - We're traveling in front of them Both are the same There's a world of difference Quick... quick Start the car Be calm... dumbass Don't get hyper Out... faaast Come soon Start the car - What's happening? - Some other kidnap team! Something fishy Keep going...! Don't stop Follow them without their knowledge Didn't they go this way? - Yes, this road... go... go - Here it is... their car Drive... don't stop What do we do now? Go... I'll tell you Bro, don't we get a gun? It's automatically part of the Sub Inspector set We'll take 1 SI set and 1 Inspector set Das brother is Inspector and I'll be Sub Inspector You both can be constables Why should I be the constable? Why are you behaving like a kid? Okay, how many of you? 4, bro Then get 1 Sub Inspector set 1 Head constable, 2 Constables Brother, how many guns will we get for this? Just 1 - Total amount? - Rs 1900 Is this a film or a serial? - Fil... m - Name of the film? Dummy Police Check around and see if anyone's there Upstairs - He's alive - But passed out So where are his kidnappers? 'We will tiffen and parsel food to you and be back' - How do we wake him up? - Impossible! Dude... police Get into the car... start Go... go... go Dai! Kesava...? Then, you arranged the previous kidnapping? How much were you planning to ask your dad? Huh? I'll keep guessing the amount, you just shake your head 10 million? 20 million? 30 million? Have you called home as yet? Son, this isn't your plan anymore, it's ours...! We intend asking 20 million When ransom is 50,000 we tip Rs 1000 or 2000 Since this is 20 million, I'll tip you 200000 You must stay quiet and not be a pain... okay? What? Angry man...! Sir... sir? Good day! 1st let me go in Only your petition, sir Sit... sit Sir do you think you can win without money? I believe honesty is the best policy in politics With what margin will you win, sir? Sir, 1 last question Sir, according to Loyola's poll survey... ...this time also you'll definitely win Hello? Pull up along the kerb, please Why? Sir, you've got an important call Sir, someone has kidnapped our Arumai Hello? Sir, don't be tensed We've kidnapped your son but our needs are very limited Sir? Sir, don't take any rash decisions in anger Please listen to what we say We only need Rs 20 million Please don't go to the police I beg of you 'What, love?' He cut the line I was talking to your father and he hung up on me! Is that man mad? Take that off What did you say? I said 'watch TV' 'During election time when law has loosened its iron grip...' '...a few anti-social elements have shown their handiwork!' 'I would like to make my point clear' 'I'll only rescue my son through proper lawful means' 'And not succumb to their demands' 'Minister Gnyanodhayam-' 'Let's leave them and escape, hon! ' 'When in danger it isn't a sin' - What is this? - 'What?' Why are you in a swim suit now? He lives life 'king size', da! 'You looked tensed I wanted to de-stress you' Change your dress please and don't talk for a while The minister seems to be a crazy father! Untie him and take his gag off All we wanted was 20 million and he's moaning and groaning! If you'd asked for 30 million, he'd have just ignored you and gone back to work Finish eating We'll drop you back Is 50-50 okay? You might as well have asked for 30 million That won't work now So we'll have to settle for 20 I get 10 million and you get the same Okay? If you ask, will your father give it on a platter? I'll take care of that Is the deal okay? Boss, we are 4 of us You are single How will 50-50 be fair? It's only right to split it 5 ways I don't hate you guys That's why I offered 50-50 Otherwise you won't even get that You ruined my plan and now like losers, sending me back home You call that 'talent'! I should by rights give you only driver's wages for a day I was being humane offering you 10 million If you want it, take it Otherwise leave it Boss, I think 50-50 is okay I think so too We're doing it with his consent 'Didn't I say, honey you're a real man?' 'Throw the net and catch the fish!' Okay, tell me what your plan is I'll make the call now Strangle me when I give you the signal Grab like this... got it? Not to the extent I die but such that my voice is garbled Say something My way is unique way That's right Understand? Give me a coin 'We should take him into our team, love' 'What a pro!' - Hello? - Hello, call my mother Wait, son, I'll call her - Arumai? - Mother... maaa... maaaa! Arumai, where are you, dear? Maaa, forgive me! Why are you talking like this? I wanted to hear you once before I die- Don't say such things How sad you were born to that stupid, cheap, man! Don't malign your husband Mom, please don't stage a protest in front of the chief minister's house! My father is a poor soul Don't do anything like that even if I die, ma Don't say all that! Don't forget me, ma Order a tea for me Save him, sir, save him! Did you get only my son to use as scapegoat in your political moves? Save my son, sir His father is heartless 'Minister Gnanodayam's wife pleaded for her son's life...' '...outside the Chief Minister's house creating a furor amongst the public' 'A lot of women came along to lament and support her struggle' 'Chief Minister has called the minister to talk about this issue immediately' I heard your wife is making waves on TV Come in Shut up and just read the paper Good day, sir Sit down Don't pick up if he calls again - Another rep to Delhi...? - I don't want your stupid ideas! - Yes, man - Forgive me, sir - My wife didn't know... and... - What did she do wrong? You are not worth a pie! Why do we have you in our cabinet? To enhance our party's image Even that is now tarnished If there's an election, your wife will ensure you lose your deposit She won't go off to the opposition, will she? I won't let her do all that What do you mean you won't let her? Always trying to earn a good name Your son has been kidnapped How does integrity come into this? What do we do? Do you have 20 million hidden somewhere? No, sir, I swear I've never taken money from anyone other than my salary Okay, take 20 million from the party's funds Go and rescue your son And don't hit your wife She'll hit the headlines with it Sir, I've told the police They said they'll catch the- Mad fellow! Why the police? To mess it up? Just pay them off and get your son back Understand? Go Please drink some water at least You've got a call from them, sir Do what you want Hello Good day, sir, I am your son's kidnapper speaking I know... I know Tell me! We'll tell you when and where to bring the money and you do so accordingly We won't work tomorrow because it's Sunday But you'll get a call day after with all the instructions Just follow it Be ready with the money and to leave as soon as we call And most importantly... ...the boy's mother only has to bring the money All conditions apply You're playing unaware of your opponent's power If I ever get hold- C. Manigandan IPS Hello? I'm Gnanodayam speaking I know, tell me, brother-in-law He said I should pay him the ransom money by Monday He's threatening me on the phone We need to catch them by then Your leader has asked you not to involve the police And to finish it off simply, no? What do you mean 'simply'? You want me to pay them and beg for my son to be returned? We aren't saying this Your leader is Why should the news reach him? If you catch them why would he bother? It's your responsibility to catch them Listen to me- Sir, this phone is too small to put a tracking chip in Can you catch them or not? Don't get tensed Sit down You've been saying this for past 4 days, I can't concentrate Let me do my work Please sit down In politics if you want to be upright you mustn't have a family at all No problem, you will be followed by 2 bikes Plus a car and a jeep will follow secretly We've fixed a GPS in your car It will point out exactly where you are - Understand? - I'm scared, brother Don't play with your nephew's life, brother Listen, only after you get your son will the police even come inside Till then, forget we even exist Here, talk to them Talk Hello? Your son is fine Do you want to talk to him? Mother, don't mess it up Arumai! Arumai! How are you? Are you safe? Your son is fine He's perfectly okay Let me talk to your brother, Deputy Inspector General of police He's asking for you! To me? DIG sir, how many people are following your sister here? Look here, I've come here as her brother, not as a cop Sir, cops behave as cops Family is immaterial to them We won't take any action, understand? Sir, do whatever mess up you want to But just send your sister and the phone We'll keep giving directions to her over the phone She must simply follow it You understand? Okay Go, don't be scared If their call gets cut don't worry They'll call you back You instruct the driver Don't be scared Start the car Careful Maintain distance Keep following - Are you here? - Yes, I am Give it... give it to me Come straight inside Enter the ground Are you there? What do you see? They've covered something with a cloth Walk towards that Hurry up... hurry up Round up the area Are you near it? Yes, I am What's happening? Sir, madam is standing in the middle of the ground and looking at something Take off the tarp Put the bag in the stand underneath Keep it and move backward Money is flying, sir What? The money's flying?! Is it coming? It'll come Just wait On its way! Super, da Don't mess it up, da It's overloaded, I think It has stopped! Do something 'Oh God... gone' Wait... wait, sir I'll push it down What are you doing? This is why you mustn't watch too many Hollywood films Our guys are down there, no? Close Get his dhoti! Keep this 100 Give us your dhoti Are you guys kidding? Take 500 Quickly! Here... hold! Spread it right Catch...! Give me a 'high 5'... yay!! "What's righteous, what's wrong? If it's right for you, live it up lifelong" "What's fine, what's corrupt? Good drives evil bankrupt!" Awesome, sir We rocked, no? Boss, you used my 'remote' skill and you're giving me with just 1 bundle There's already 5 of us here, da Be happy with what you got Boss, tell him Kesava...? Thanks, boss - How are we splitting it? - What do you mean how? We already settled that That's true... but helicopter plan was mine You think you could've got it this easily without all our help? Think about it Is 50-50 fair? We spoke about this and only then decided This isn't right What is this, Das? No need to talk about it here Whatever... let us go home and discuss After we go home, you can take your share and leave What are you up to? Let go of him! Run... run INTERVAL Careful of the glass Hold him Hey! Masa... get up, da Shalu... Shalu Look at your sweet heart! Don't go, Shalu! 'I made a mistake, baby' - 'Forgive me' - Don't say that, Shalu 'I don't want to see you suffer at all' 'I'm leaving you now' I can't survive without you Please don't go, Shalu... Shalu! - Shalu! - 'You take care' Shalu...? SHAAAALU!!! Boss, what happened? My Shalu has left me and gone It's okay, leave it, boss Get up now - Come, let's go - No... my Shalu! Get up Get up, boss Let's go Let's leave before the police land here - Where's Arumai? - He has gone to get you a soda Why all that fuss? You dumbass! He has scooted with the money Come now Stop, this is it Please eat a little You've been starving Your son will be home soon Eat... please Arumai...?! Ma, I thought you'd be sad and you're busy eating here God didn't let me down Eat, son... eat God knows how long they starved you Here, let me serve Eat lots! Ma, the spicy meat balls? Oh yes! Keep eating I'll go and get them Eat Would you like to eat too? What guts to stand in front of the chief minister's house...! Where are you going? Open the door Will you open the door or not? - I'm warning you... open - What a nuisance! Get a plate Let's eat She has the gall to go to my leader's house 'The Minister's son who was kidnapped 4 days ago has finally returned home' 'Minister Gnanodayam claimed he will not bow down to the wishes of the kidnappers' 'But since the kidnappers are still roaming around freely, it is presumed...' '...they have been paid their ransom money' 'Regarding this minister Gnanodayam-' Nothing to worry, dad Just a few bruises My reputation has been ruined trying to save you My name is tarnished...! - Hey dude...! - Hi Antony Whats up? What's happening? Nothing much, da So sad...!! Yeah-aaaah! "Cash, dough, dollar, rupee, money Peso, pound, paisa, paper money" "Bundle, wad, pile, pots of money Coins, copper, silver, gold, many" "With a parasol at night I'll fly to a great height" "Can't make head or tail, puzzled On my hands I walk muddled" "Cash, funds, fortune, money Nickel, dime, quarter, currency" "Into workaholic's pocketful the spendthrift makes a hole" "To him figures don't count; he is on a spending spree" "Cash, rand, rial, ruble, kitty Quetzal, franc, euro, loot, booty" "Capital, collateral, cheque, money Savings, earnings, salary, bounty" "Legs crossed insolently millionaire me, I'll sit arrogantly" "Monkey and garland don't go hand in hand" "Spoils, stock, security, lottery" "Bundles of currency notes pour Blinding my eye to the core" "Even my dog's sale money barks bow-wow-wow... so funny!" "Paisa, taka, lira, baisa, money Shilling, sen, yen, yuan, penny" "Legs crossed discourteously, billionaire me, I'll sit pompously" "Monkey and garland don't go hand in hand" "Dinar, dirham, dinero, money More bundles, wad, pile, plenty" "Baht, ringgit, bills, bullion, money Beans, bread, bucks, even alimony!" "Cash, dough, dollar, rupee, money Peso, pound, paisa, aaah more money" "Paper money!" "With an umbrella at night I'll fly to heights of height" "Legs crossed disrespectfully zillionaire me, I'll sit boastfully" "Into workhorse's pocketful the wastrel makes a hole" "Legs crossed haughtily moneyed, I'll sit snootily" "Paisa, taka, lira, baisa, money Shilling, sen, yen, yuan, penny" "Cash, dough, dollar, rupee, money" - Hello? - It's me I really want to know what the heck you're doing What do you want me to do, brother-in-law? Are you going to catch them or not? How will I even face anyone or campaign in public? They're not regulars This is a new gang It'll only work if they surrender or if they attempt this again There's no use trusting you There's this inspector in Dindigul His name is... yes, Bramma! Will you call him to Madras immediately? Why are you silent? Not him - Why? - He's a weirdo He's always being transferred Right now he's suspended - So? - He's a psycho Just to kill he became a cop It's been years since he even spoke We're thinking of dismissing him from the department for good Then he's the right guy Hand this case over to him Listen to me when I say- 'Dindigul' Please come out, dear He's in the restroom I'll tell him, thank you Sir, we've both been transferred to Madras You must have seen the case file Kidnappers don't have a very strong background A new team We couldn't really pinpoint their motives Starting point of this case is- Look, Mr Bramma, I'm also professional and strict like you Except you have a gun and I don't We can't keep giving the kidnappers time... ...to do this again to arrest them Sooner you do this, the better This is election time now It'll be good if we can close this in a week Wait, why 1 week? Catch them in 48 hours Okay? He's just getting up and going without a word?! He didn't want to waste even 1 minute of the 48 hours you've given, I suppose You said it was a big accident! There are hardly any injuries It's all internal, brother Who's next? No one! Read the latest in the kidnap case of the minister's son? What happened? They've put Bramma onto the case Oh! Those guys are as good as dead then Bro, can you give me the paper for a minute? 'Police inspector Bramma transferred from Dindigul to Chennai' 'He heads the team to nab the kidnappers' Who's Bramma, bro? You resemble Saturn's malefic effect and don't you know who Bramma is? - I don't - Wait for a week and see That gang who kidnapped the minister's son will be confronted by the police Headlines will be 'Police wounded in their knee, gang wiped out totally' Das? Are you talking about the rowdy who makes movies? - Yes - Is he your friend? My elder brother What's bothering you? Body ache, fever every evening and I'm unable to sleep Open your mouth Okay, close Go and see this doctor If you give him this slip, he won't take any money Okay, doctor Go now What were you saying? That party is not abiding by the agreement, doctor sir If you can mediate it can be settled What's the property worth? 15 million Only big shots used to dabble in real estate earlier This is what happens if random roadside chaps and quack-astrologers interfere Come... this lucky parrot will foretell your future! Hey, aren't you the guy who lures people into 'Parrot Astrology'? - Yes, sir! - I'll hit you! Get out of here Stray dogs! You and your desire to get shortcut money If you step in here saying the word 'real estate', I'll shoot you - What's your name? - Pagalavan Are you interested in acting? Have you ever acted in a school drama before? Will you act if I offer you a role? I've been hunting for a guy like you for 6 months! Why were you looking for me, sir? You're the hero of the film I intend making! This is our film's story Listen, carefully The movie starts with a wedding Ends with a divorce Just 3 days in between Film's title...? Honeymoon - How's the title? - Good, sir Hey! My beloved brother Are you still alive?! 'Police inspector Bramma transferred from Dindigul to Chennai' What sins did you guys commit in your previous birth...? This guy is chasing you?! Brother? What do we do now? - Don't do a damn thing - Okay, brother All of you drink, shut and pass out on your stomach If you guys do anything stupid, as 'forewarned forearmed'... ...that silent killer will show-off his skill on you! In our profession, only those who zip their lips, live long - Doctor? - Tell me, my dear hero I've thought of a scene for our film, shall I tell you? We'll take care of the scenes You zip up and stick to building up your body - Okay? - Okay, doctor Das...? Hey, Das! I'll find out and tell you Let's not do anything for now Okay? Remind me in the morning There's a guy called Gilma We'll tell him this issue His ears are tuned in always Okay? - Hello... who is this? - Doctor here Doctor-bro, good morning! How are you? I'm very drunk Don't bug me with niceties - I need you to bend an ear - For... tell me? There's someone new coming to Chennai Called Bramma Heard of him? Then Chennai is in for the malefic effect of Saturn! It'll be good if the people involved leave town at once We'll take care of all that You be 'all ears' in his movements This is a risky job, bro What's the cut? - How about 5? - Say 8, bro! Don't be too greedy Take 6 and do the job Okay, bro You're taking a film I heard? If you give me a small role you'll be blessed, bro I'll keep that in mind You tune your ear to this job - Okay? - Okay, bro - What is this, Gilma? - He started with me, bro He didn't leave a single rowdy in the city Sir... sir, I don't know anything I swear Let me go Tell me the truth You didn't blabber anything? Bro, I could handle it because I was drunk If I had been sober, for sure I would have puked it out Tell me correctly You didn't mess it up? There's no problem as long as nobody knows this link But if they know it, they'll definitely blurt it out Sir... sir, I'll tell you It hurts! I'll tell you everything, sir... sir Sir, I know a boy who sells marijuana I heard that he knows the guys who kidnapped the minister's son That's all, sir I swear I don't know anything else Sir...? Where are they, son? What do you want, sir? Sir, we've already paid our dues to the cops Daiii, that's Bramma...! Sir, arrest us if you want but don't do any- '5 shot dead' 'ln the kidnapping case of the minister's son another gang's involvement has come to light' 'With more clues regarding their whereabouts...' '...the police are confident of nabbing the culprits within the next 48 hours' 'Those who voluntarily provide information will be suitably rewarded' Boss, shall we just run off to Bihar? We'll deal with this later Maybe after a year We won't be able to survive in Bihar Police have no information Otherwise why would they offer a reward? Doctor is calling Hello? Das! Where are you guys? In my room Leave the house immediately Why? Police know where you are - Leave now... right away - That's impossible You're not listening to me Escape at once - What happened? - Police Run... run Fast We don't have time for sentiments... come now How did they find out? Who is this 'Reliable' Kannan? He has sneaked for this reward 'Please, sir Do this for me' 'I'll be grateful to you for the rest of my life' I knew we'd be in this soup when I heard his name The man's a fraud! If you look at it fairly, we're not even guilty in this case They should arrest Arumai Prakash Yes! He planned it all And he has the money We're running around in circles like our behind is on fire! If it were me, I'd have kidnapped him again - What did you say now? - Nothing, forget it You are bang on! We are kidnapping him again Dai... don't I'll give you an idea to get back your lives Just surrender We'll find a way to break this case No... no We'll try this one time If it doesn't work, we'll all surrender - What are you saying? - Shut up Just get us a bike and a car, that's enough Das, this is really risky Trust me We've taken risks like this before and come out of it Just arrange this for us Keep this for safety Sir, everything that happened that day seems like a dream I was unconscious half the time Someone would hit me with a wooden stick... I'd faint They didn't even feed me, sir It was a pitch dark room They had holed me inside that They'd cover my face with a mask whenever they took me out of the room It was definitely in the city But I'm not sure I heard cows moo What is that noise? - What's the sound? - Nothing, ma Son, don't you read the papers? Gang that 1st kidnapped you confessed everything It's your turn to tell the truth now I swear I don't know anything, sir You know what this card means? Good for you if you confess by 6:00 p.m Das, start the car Start it... move fast Don't look at his jeep Just be casual I forgot the matchbox, sir He's looking our way End of our story! Just stay calm... quiet "You've been... oh my dear (st)ripped off your trouser!" "Pulled into a vortex pointless Yes, my love... you're pant-less" "Your pants are off! Your game is up!!" He's catching up Go fast... faaaast... faster - Left... left... left! - Hey, No! Right! This is a dead end...! Sir, don't do anything here Residential area Get down Get down now Sir... sir We are not worth your 'encounter' We know everything 'Keep this for safety' I'm holding a gun to your face and you're sneering at me! Sorry Get out... get out! You can pick up your car at Nungambakkam station Go... start Just buy me a beer, you guys 2 more minutes We get the bottles and leave at once How many times will you call? I saw it... the black car, right? I'm coming Come... come Get him! Get inside Start the car Keep moving How long do we wait? What happened? Wait, the boy is coming What is this? Like an interrogation scene from Captain Vijaykanth's film What did you tell the police? Shall I tell you the truth? If you guys had told my father I ran off with the money... ...he'd have forgiven you and locked me up instead But you didn't And you kidnapped me again Even God can't save you now And that psycho Inspector Bramma is here too I don't know how you'll get away from him We'll take care of that What did you tell the police? I didn't breathe a word - You didn't tell Bramma a thing? - I swear, I didn't - Then where's the money? - With me only Even yesterday, I thought to myself if you survived 'Bramma', then... ...I must give you guys 50-50 as agreed Okay Promise us something and we'll let you go Promise what? Promise us that you'll not tell the cops anything about us I swear on my father's life I won't tell the cops a thing You can leave now I can leave? Just like this? Yes Not blindfolded, I'll know exactly where you guys are... is that okay? It's fine You're being very careless Watch your back 'I swear on my father's life I won't tell the cops a thing' You immediately go and make 5 copies of the tape 1 for you, 1 for the police, 1 for the minister and 1 for the press Then see how the govt. shuts this case down I know a place We can take as many copies as we want Then why are you wasting time? Go quickly I thought of a scene for our doc-bro's story - With oranges - Oranges? What scene? I need to tell the director first We're not free enough to discuss scenes right now Close...! Boss, you're thinking about whether we'll escape from death We're thinking of what we'll do having escaped death We come with full faith, boss Come... come Get into the auto Come Sir... sir Let me go I don't know anything I swear... let me go, sir Sir, I remember now I'll tell you It's near the Devi Karumari Amman theater on Porur road A small by-lane there The 'accused' have surrendered at the Saidapet station, sir Sir... sir I'll tell you, sir Sir Aaaaaarghhhhhhhhh! 'ln a sudden twist in the kidnap of the minister's son...' '...the 4 culprits have surrendered at the Saidapet police station' 'Police have informed that they will be produced before the court today' Get in Get in, da 'I'm holding a gun to your face and you're sneering at me' Do you have any political affiliation? Why did you surrender suddenly? What was your ransom amount? Through whom? Did you surrender being scared of the police? I'd like to say something to the press How can you manhandle him right in front of us, sir? En route from jail to court or vice versa we won't escape If we are shot under the pretext that we tried to escape... ...it's planned murder and the cop responsible for it is... ...Bramma! That is why we surrendered Sir, what is your response? Why are you silent, sir? CC 843 Das and co Arumai Prakasam Leave your foot wear here Everything I say is the truth And nothing but the truth - Son, tell me your name - Arumai Prakasam - Your father's name - Gnanodhayam Were you kidnapped on 25th of October? Don't just shake your head - Say yes or no - Yes, sir How many people kidnapped you? 4 people Aren't these men, Das, Pagalavan, Sekar and Kesavan, who kidnapped you? No, sir Not them - Huh? - Not them, sir Son, don't be tensed Don't be scared Look at them carefully Weren't they the culprits? No, sir No, sir, look carefully They're the ones who surrendered No, sir, I've never seen these people before You haven't? I think... there is... your honor Case flopped? You're really not lucky Sign here - Why, sir? - Just do it Tell me No problem? Okay, bye then Sir, the 4 are in the van They are on their way What's happening, da? They made us sign We are released, no? You've been released because you signed I specifically told the reporters all that to ensure we are not killed Then? They can't 'encounter' us only if we are criminals Now we're free He can do anything Relax without blowing your top We'll talk to him when he gets here Wait... what are you- You get lost Get out of this room Come up with me now Let him go... please Where did you get this money? Tell me where you got it Where are you running? You thief... traitor Mother... maaaaa! Leave him You get out Stop this now You don't have the skill to earn money of your own! So why take your failure out on him? What did you say? Hey! Open the door Dai! Open the door now I'll lock you up for stealing this money Open the door I'll kill you when I get in I hope he doesn't do something drastic Bring the crowbar, Karuppa Surrender to the police No way can you escape Are you going to open it or not? You'll reform only if you count bars! Open the door Listen to me Arumai! Don't do anything drastic You shut up! You have pampered him too much Break the door Quickly... break the door What's he doing inside? Move... give it to me Hold it Where are you running off to? I'll trample you to death for being born as my son Maaaaa...! You'll only learn if we put you behind bars You're stealing the party's money? Dai! Make sure he doesn't escape Start the car Drive to the party office I need to see the leader He's eating... sit down You're not out begging?! I meant aren't you begging for votes? Wait! Where are you going? - Don't barge in - Let go of me Good afternoon, sir I did warn him Sorry, I needed to tell you something urgently That's why I- Don't just come in like this for any reason - Okay, sir - Tell me Beyond this I can't show you how upright I am, sir! I've brought back the ransom money lent by the party Look, the money you ga- What is this? Sir, 20 million... my son Gnyana... sit down Are you unwell, Gnyana? Sir, there are parents with 4 or 5 sons who enjoy peace of mind I'm suffering with just one If there was a son like mine in every city... ...I swear, the world would cease to exist What are you saying? Sir has asked me not to let you go Will you move now or not? Madam, even if you kill me, I won't let your son leave Just move, da Ma, I'll handle it Here, keep this - No, I don't want it - Take it, bro I'm loyal to your father, he will- Not for you, but for your kid's education - No, son - You didn't let me go I escaped on my own Is that okay? Son...? Don't mess this up Tell me exactly where they are Huh? Hang up - Pagalava! - Kesava! Where is the light switch? Where are you? Sekar? Hey! He's back, da Aiyo...! He's hitting Sekar Where is he? Das? Pagalava...? Oh no! Aiyo! You wasted wastrel!! Switch on the light if you're a real man Das, not the time to show off your bravery! Shalu...?! "I am now your eyelid I watch over you 24x7 stilled" "Is there anything that can't heal? It will vanish... this ordeal" "Why... my dear friend? Let go... to the very end" "Why this full stop now? Go away, my love" Hey psycho! Why are you stupidly hitting that old fellow? Come here! Pagalava! Where are you, Pagalava? Kesava... Sekar, is this what making out in the dark means? (Hysterical howling) This is the railway gate he told us Go... go... go Take this right Sir, continuous calls asking where you are They mentioned a transfer Come out now Walk fast Sir? It's getting late Go fast Das... Das! Get up What happened? If I ever get hold of him, he'll be minced meat - That's not necessary - What is he saying? He's saying there is no need of that at all Careful, watch your step How did you find this place, bro? Police department is my friend...! Start the car Don't worry, you guys I've arranged everything You're going to Bihar For a month No contact with anyone till then Why is he here now? You...! I need to talk to Das alone There's 50-50 here just as we agreed One bag for you Another for me Sudden affection is not good for health, Arumai You let me off the 2nd time without doing anything to me This isn't fake affection It's all real Without realizing we became a team I didn't say anything even when the police asked I kept my word too Now I need to escape from my father Cops are searching everywhere for me Don't be scared You're not a terrorist No, Das... you don't know my father I need to escape from this city for a while Please help me I'll maintain low profile for a while After I spend all my cash I'll join your team I'm a criminal too now Enough talking, boss Come out now Arumai Prakasam? What's happening here? I don't know Before someone else comes and takes you away... ...tell me how you escaped from that psycho Bramma I'm so curious my head will burst Sir... sir Department gun Sir, that's kind of a rusty old busted gun Sir...! Sir... careful Didn't I warn you, sir?! Be careful Wait, I'll be back The Inspector shot himself! Come soon, man Seriously...? Come in Sit down In this election instead of your father, you'll be contesting! Heavy loss to the party thanks to your father How long do we write off accounts in his name? The next rule is ours too In those 5 years, I want your share of 3000 million Anything beyond that is yours Depends on your talent! Sir! I object this vehemently Please do so Who asked you now? 3000 million Can you do it? How beautifully he shakes his head...! This is how a minister should be Sir, if you make a move like this, I may have to join another party Which other party is willing to take you in? Take your wife and go on a peaceful pilgrimage Your son has taken over You take rest at home Sir, don't do this Listen to me Come, sir Politics is pure Don't make him a politician The country can't handle it No, don't do it... please listen! All these days, all the fraud you've done without your father's knowledge... ...politics is exactly the same! But here, instead of swindling your father, it's the people You understand? We'll finish the nomination tomorrow and start the campaigning immediately Okay? "He who realizes 'this too will pass' is an enlightened soul with class" Sir, what will you do if you come to power? Sky is the limit! 'Nagarajan Cholan, M.A' '1 more politician in the family of the Cholans!' "He who knows 'nothing is forever' wisest soul is he, always remember" "Even if countless hurdles hinder, let's not falter, but be the pathfinder" "We cherish 'work is worship' Blood, sweat and tears, we flourish" "Let's work hard, not be a lazy lout 'bro, work like a beaver' we'll shout" "Bro, work like a dog Work against the clock" "You need some brains to succeed To respect people by words and deed" "If you are not scared to lose success will follow you to suffuse!" "Bro... victory is yours" "Wise is he who can accept change is the only constant" "Even if zillion hurdles hamper let's be beyond compare" "He who believes 'this too will pass' is a liberated soul with class" 'I, Arumai Prakasam, solemnly affirm...' '...I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India and...' '...that I will uphold the sovereignity and integrity of India' 'And faithfully discharge the duties as minister of Tamil Nadu' 'I swear this without fear or favor in the name of Tamil' How much is the amount? 50 million Can we see the minister? You can see him only if it's above 500 million But ministers are usually busy even then You don't need to see the minister They are his right hands! But you can't go and see them like this It is only because the state of the country is unstable You never know who'll rat you out No one even knows where hidden cameras are fixed So we don't let anyone wear pants and shirts inside here Are you done, dude? Not yet Machine seems hot It needs a break, I guess Why... why is there no romance in this face? Why are you looking here? Make up! Powder him up fully Act properly Or I'll kill you 'lf you follow these 5 rules, kidnapping is truly awesome' '1st rule: Stay clear of people with power' 'Remember no power house' 'Rule 2: No threats to kill' 'Rule 3: Affordable ransom money' 'Rule 4: No arms, no harm' 'Rule 5: Goof up, own up' Sir, sir... is that girl okay? Shalu...?! 'Today's headlines: Kidnapping of Home Minister Rakesh Gupta's daughter, Shalini at 9:00 a.m'
