 

                        Mom... Mom. "Jang-Jin tried to kill himself" "In hansung prison at 7am this morning." "Jang-Jin, who's on death row, is currently under medical care." "We now take you to the scene." "Jang-Jin stabbed his neck twice with a sharp object." "He was immediately taken to "A hospital under restraint." "Jang-Jin's second suicide attempt" "Stemmed from his extreme fear" "Over his soon-To-Come execution." "In january of 2005," "Jang-Jin tried to kill himself with a sharp object," "And woke up several months later after being in a coma." "This time at hansung prison..." "Death row inmate jang-Jin was released" "From the hospital today." "After a three-Hour surgery," "He is now in an unconscious state." "His doctor said that his throat was seriously damaged," "And that he won't be able" "To speak for some time." "Back in december 9, 2005, jang-Jin..." Watch soap operas instead of this stuff. Instead of making sculptures all day. Go out and meet some people... "Jang-Jin, who attempted suicide yesterday," "Returned back to prison this afternoon" "After his treatment." "Prison officials say that since he will attempt another suicide," "They hope his execution will come earlier." "A law official who wish to remain anonymous" "Said that his sentence will most likely be carried out this month." "Lee hyun-Sun reporting for mbs." "Back in november, 2005, jang-Jin..." What are you doing? That's not yours. Take it off! I said take it off! Take it off! Death row inmate jang-Jin attempts second suicide Welcome. Where would you like to go? Anywhere is fine. Anywhere? To hansung prison. Prison? At this hour? Yes, to hansung prison. Sure. I'm here to visit jang-Jin. What is your relationship with him? He's my ex-Boyfriend. How can i trust that? We can't let you in without clearing your relationship. I have to meet him. Please. Okay, hold on. Sir, someone wants to see jang-Jin. Yes, sir. I'm sorry, we can't accept any visitors. Yes, sir. Yes... yes, i understand. Excuse me! Excuse me! Don't be scared. It's a woman. She said she's your ex-Girlfriend. I was dead once for five minutes. When i was nine... My friends and i held our breaths underwater for fun. I opened my eyes underwater, And they were holding their breaths for a long time. But the more time had passed, I felt like dying. But still, I held on till the end. My chest felt stuffy and my body felt like exploding. Then all of a sudden, My head was spinning And my body was floating like a balloon. I felt weird for a moment. I opened my eyes and my friends Were crying while looking down on me. They said i was dead for five minutes. I don't remember how exactly i felt then. Sometimes i remember clearly. It's not bad... Tell me if there's anything i can do. Although i don't know if i can... Whatever you want to do. Don't injure yourself any more. Huh, ouch - It hurts, huh? - Yeah. This is the liver. Really? I'll make it feel a lot better. How is it? Yeah, just wait. - Do this side, too. - Yes. Do it softer. How does it feel now? It's nice, but be gentle. Now for the stomach. This part is the stomach, this part is... Well, this is... What's wrong? Hey. Where did you sleep? I asked, where did you sleep? Hello? Yeah, hold on. What are you doing? Spring's far away. Aren't you cold in that? Where did mommy go? Eat. And get ready for school. Dad, i have to buy crayons on the way. Okay. Go ahead and eat. Please come in. What are you doing? You can't set up anything in here. Yes, sir, yes. Pardon? Yes, i understand. Do as you like. Spring, spring, spring is here Even in our hearts Spring, spring, spring spring is here It's here in the vast field So green A new spring is here Even below the street lantern shade A new spring is here Everyone is so happy A new wind is blowing Let's hold hands and See the flowers One drop, two drops Getting wet from the spring rain Flowers awake here and there They all sing along Spring, spring, spring spring is here Even in our hearts Spring, spring, spring spring is here Spring is here This is an azalea flower that blossomed at my country home. I hated them back then. During elementary school, Every saturday my father checked my books and notes. I liked to draw in my book And i did it many times. My father used the branch Of an azalea tree to whip me. Despite him hitting me, i still drew in my books. So whenever i'd see an azalea tree, I'd visualize my father's scary face. You have such pretty eyes. It's okay. Leave him. It's over, let's go. Wait! Where have you been? Aren't you cold wearing just that? What the hell? Damn it. Is it summer this time? You want time to go by that quickly? What's with the fan? What's this? Where are you going? Look at her. - She must be crazy. - You are right. Where the stars shine like crazy let's go to the beach Let's go to the beach Where youth overflows let's go to the beach Let's go to the beach Whisper sweet love to me Let's go to the lover's beach To the beach Even though you don't say you love me Even though you don't say it I'll bury myself in love Those flaming lips When i first felt them Leaving love's footprints infinitely behind Where the stars shine like crazy let's go to the beach Let's go to the beach Where youth overflows let's go to the beach Let's go to the beach I'm going to bury myself in love I get that feeling when i die. My body suddenly Swells up like a balloon. This sound fills my ears. My eyes hurt. All i see is yellow. Oh no. I'm not here. I've become a bird. I've become the wind. I see all around. I've disappeared. I see myself from far away. There're... Thousands of me. Wait, wait, wait. Wait! Lt'll be over soon. Wait. Wait! What did i say? Sometimes i do this. I want to go into the water To feel this again. But i'm too scared to. It's very nice. I'm scared. It's possible only when there's no choice. When my will doesn't matter. It's only possible then. When my will doesn't matter. When i stand before death... That's enough. It's over. Wait! Where have you been? Are you seeing someone? Are you getting back at me by seeing another man? You should at least Have done the housework! And you've neglected our daughter! And what's with these clothes? Where have you been going? I did my part at least when i was cheating! Feels good? Yeah, it feels good. This is really important. - It feels good there. - Yes. You idiots. Excuse me. My wife just went inside. Can you tell me who she's visiting? A road blooming with swaying cosmos flowers I walk on this fragrant autumn road I wait anxiously With the heart of tinged autumn leaves i sing A long sigh forms on the leaves Hiding in the flower For hating the cold wind A road blooming With swaying cosmos flowers I walk on this fragrant autumn road I walk Fall really excites people's hearts. Just watching the red leaves of the trees Makes me burst into flames. Feels like a vague dream. This is seorak mountain. I'm fascinated while watching The autumn trees at seorak mountain. Standing on the other side, a man was looking at the autumn trees, Like you are now. I loved that man. That's enough! Stop it! I said stop it! Wait... Wait! That visiting room looked like Seorak mountain, where we first met. It's been ten years already... Not again! Let's just go to sleep. What the hell is this? Just die instead. Yeah. Not now. I said no, so stop pushing it. Not even tomorrow and next week, bye. I said not now! I'm sorry, but it's over. I won't meet her anymore, So you do the same. Why the hell are you seeing a prisoner on death row? Are you trying to blow my self-Esteem? You can't go to the prison anymore. She won't come anymore. Don't wait for her. I'll be good to her. I told you that it's over... Now go. Don't go. I said don't go! Stop it! I've been patient enough. You've done enough now. You saw me end it. I'm sorry. I did a terrible thing. Know who that bastard killed? I can't let you meet that brutal bastard! Why him of all people? Did i do such a cruel thing? You can't go over my dead body. You want to see me go crazy? If you go, Who knows what i'll do. Let's stop. Let's stop for our kid's sake. Why are you doing this? Are you crazy... Are you crazy? Come here! Come outside! Damn idiot. You bastard! "Death row inmate jang-Jin tried to commit suicide again today." "We take you to the scene." "At 1 o'clock this afternoon," "Death row inmate jang-Jin stabbed his neck with a sharp object." "He is currently undergoing surgery at a hospital." "According to sources," "Jang-Jin was to be executed tomorrow," "And the date will be extended a day" "Due to his suicide attempt." "On december 9, 2005," "Jang-Jin murdered his wife and two daughters at his home." "He was given the death sentence for his crime," "But his motivation for the murders has yet to be revealed." "Until jang-Jin was arrested," "He was sleeping" "Together with his dead family..." Myung-Hee, it's snowing outside. Hurry and look. Stop it! That's enough! The snow is falling As you've now gone away The snow is falling My heart grows lonely Painted in my dream The warm smile It's covered in the white snow I can't see it As i get hit by the white snow Seeing you walk away Even though i call with sorrow Only the white snow falls As i get hit by the white snow Seeing you walk away Even though i call with sorrow Only the white snow falls Even though i call with sorrow Only the white snow falls
