 

                        For many people, the name Stoke-on-Trent conjures up images of 19th century smoke and grime. Of steelworks, coalmines, and the centre of England's pottery industry. But Stoke today couldn't be more different. Whether you're young or not so young, Stoke has plenty going on. It may not have all the glamorous attractions of neighbouring Liverpool, Manchester or Birmingham, but come the weekend, Stoke folk really know how to let their hair down. Come on, Russ! It's another hit from Mud for all you love tigers out there. That you love to be Oh, well, now, you've been layin' it down You got your hips swingin' out of bounds And I like the way you do what you're doin' to me All right! Well that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right I really love your tiger light And that's neat, that's neat, that's neat, that's neat I really love your tiger feet Your tiger feet What the fuck do you think you are? Your tiger feet Twat. Your tiger feet All right! Bringing the curtain down on another Purple Onion Saturday. The house of L-O-V-E. Come on, bastard! Shhh! Fuck's sake, Russ. No name's, man. I told you. Yes, we're in. Wait till they see what we've got. Oh, look! He's got digital watches. Give it some hurry up, will you? You can have one as well! The coats is what we came for, nowt else. Get in, get the coats, gone. All right. So let's get fucking gone! Bobby, I've just heard something in the yard. Oi! Move! Fucking hell, man! Fucking open it! Fucking stop and fucking open it! He's coming! Bastard. Come on. Get the fucker going! Bastards! Bastards! Hips swingin' out of bounds And I like the way you do what you're doin' to me All right! Well that's right, that's right, that's right, that's right I really love your tiger light Joe! It's gone half past! Joe! Are you coming or what? 'Look at the state the country's in. 'The IRA are bombing their way around the country, 'we've had the miners' strikes' "The people of this country deserve leadership. " 'Two general elections in the same year' What's this? Your job or a bloody hobby? Another grand weekend by the look of things. You wouldn't believe it. I'll tell you, whatever they're serving in that Purple Onion, it's not doing you any good. Joe. He doesn't love you the way I do Monica. Brendan. How are you today? A bit tired, you know. You work too hard, you should rest more in your condition. Chance would be a fine thing. Wait till I show you, Tom Jones, new Vegas look. Oh, he's sexy. D'you know in Vegas, the women are throwing their panties at him? Well, he could have mine any time, all he needs do is ask. I saw the face, the face of a loser I saw the face, the face of Now, Paddy, blown up anywhere nice lately? Now, Bobby, you know I'm not into that sort of thing. Nah, that'd be some other Irish bastard, I suppose. Do you know owt about sheepskin coats? Sheepskin coats? You know, like what sheep wear, except better tailored. Cos some thieving turd's been in my lock-up and been off with a whole fucking rail of them. Me? You're thinking me? I know you, bog trotter. I know you. Always after what's not your own. If I ever find out who did do it Two tins of undercoat, a dozen bog rolls Spuds. Holy Mother Divine Jesus. Now, there's a thing of beauty. 12.00, Joe. She's out of my league. Not at all. Don't be daft, she's gorgeous. That's your problem, isn't it? Why wouldn't you be good enough for the likes of her? It's all about having a bit of self-belief. A fine looking fella like you. If you don't ask, you get nothing. Joe! Is this it? Kim Weston, she's a soul singer. Does that look like a soul album? Ah, there it is. Kim Weston. Hey, Joe. Do you know about her, Dee Dee? She turned up about a month ago on a rainbow, from the land of love. Orders imports from the States like Dean Parish, Dobie Grey, Yvonne Baker. When she orders, she give a name? Let's have a look. Right. Jane Rogers. Trimmer's. What's Trimmer's? A hairdresser's in town. You wouldn't know it. Need an appointment? I'll see if I can fit you in "Double Cookin'" by Checkerboard Squares Pretty good, that. Not the Four Tops, is it? Right. It's not. So, what's the Twisted Wheel? You'll be cracking on you know nowt about Wigan next! A club. The Wheel was a soul club in Manchester. They shut it. Said people were having too much fun. In Wigan? It opened last year. 2-8. No divvies allowed. Might see you there, then. Stranger things happen. Groovy. It'll take a day or so to settle. Got no change. Sorry. I like it, right? RUSS SNORTS Wigan? I'd rather set meself on fire, mate. "Great sounds, all night dancing." The only dance I know is the dime fly. Fly's not a dance. You made it up. Every dance is made up by someone! Anyway, Saturday nights, we're at The Onion. And I'm pig sick of it! This place, it'll blow your mind! Look. "If you're into soul, Wigan Casino will blow." But I'm not into soul. Not yet. "The Snake" by Al Wilson On her way to work one morning Down the path alongside the lake A tender-hearted woman saw a poor half-frozen snake His pretty coloured skin had been all frosted with the dew "Oh, well!" she cried, "I'll take you in" Oh, yeah. Did I mention the chicks? "Take me in, oh, tender woman Take me in VAN BACKFIRES Oh, fucking 'ell, man! Who are all this lot? "A Lot of Love" by Homer Banks All right? Been to a wedding? No, erm remember me? I come in to the salon. I thought My name's Joe. You trying to make some kind of point with that or what? It's the best haircut I've ever had. Who's that? Ah, just some bird. It was her that turned me on to this. Just some bird? I could drink her bathwater, me. Still make The Onion. Joe McCain, right? And Russ Mountjoy. Mountjoy! Monster. Charlie Hodgson? Only now it's Dexie. Everyone calls me Dexie. First time, right, you two? First time for the Cas? Oh, man, you've got something ahead of you. If you're into soul, the Casino's going to blow your mind. We heard. Listen, Charlie. Dexie. Everyone calls me Dexie. Listen DEXIE, don't want to be rude or nowt, but Hey, remember our Mandy? All right? All right. All right. Cool haircut. Thanks. I'm telling you, you've no ideia how monster this night's going to be for you. Anyway, we'll speak later, right? Monster. Charlie bloody Hodgson? Mind you, Mandy Hodgson's come on a bit since I saw her last. "The In Crowd" by Dobie Gray I'm in with the in crowd And I know what the in crowd knows Any time of the year Don't you hear Dressing fine, making time We breeze up and down the street We get respect from the people we meet Come on love, move on. Any time now. Any time. It's going to be monster. Just you wait. Stop pushing in the back. "Breakaway Part 2" by Jimmy Radcliffe/Steve Karmen Big Band Jesus, what a dump. And there's no bar on. There's no frigging bar on. Drink? Not where this place is at. The ace movers pretty much own the floor. Don't try doing a thing over there without an invite. Who's that? Alan's the main man. You don't want to know, I mean, you really don't want to know. The floor's been talc-ed. So? Stack heels feel like dancing on stilts. Leather, see? Less friction. Glide as if you're on ice. Glide like you're on ice? Ought to be right up your street, this, Joe. "Tainted Love" by Gloria Jones Sometimes I feel I've got to Run away, I've got to Get away from the pain you drive into the heart of me The love we share Seems to go nowhere And I've lost my right For I toss and turn I can't sleep at night Once I ran to you Now I'll run from you The tainted love you've given I give you all a girl could give you Take my tears and that's not nearly all Oh, tainted love Tainted love Now I know I've got to Run away I've got to Going for a scout about. Think I'll get a feel of things here. You'll get your black America here. Rarer than rare. Hand clappers, foot stompers, floor fillers. Get them while the getting's good. We've got new Tobi Legend, Jimmy Radcliffe, Yvonne Baker. Looking for anyone in particular? What? Records. What you after? Yvonne Baker. Storming. Help you look, shall I? Here's one, good price as well. Jane. Jane! "Too Late" by Larry Williams/Johnny Watson Hey, Sr. Watson, listen in to what the lady told me. She said Larry, I'm sorry I've got to go Cos I've found me a new love that I love more I know that must have been a bitter pill for you to take Sure was, man It make your poor heart want to break Guess what I told her? You and your new love Keep on keepin' on I know that lovin' feeling is gone I'm too late Way too late, baby Too late You messed up your good thing I'm through with you, girl Tell her to keep that love, man, if that's what she call it She done mess around and went made you an alcoholic. Do you want to give it a whack, then? Show these clowns what they're doing wrong? Don't look much wrong from here. How about you? I'm sober, man. I can't dance sober. How do you know? You've never tried. "The Girl's Got It" by Billy Preston Fuck off. I'm fucking off. What? Fucking off where? Anywhere. Home. Cos you fell over? Cos I made a twat of myself. I make a twat of myself wherever I go. Does that stop me going? That's you. Maybe you're used to it. You don't get used to it. Besides, the coach don't leave for hours yet. Got thumbs, haven't we? What have I told you about dealing in here, hein? Eh? Ow! Oh! Come on. Come on! It didn't happen. What you said about fucking off "Our Love Is Getting Stronger" by Jason Knight Ready? Joe! Freak on it Freak on it Freak on it, baby Freak on it Freak on it Freak on it, baby Are you a friend of Joe's from ice-skating? No, no Oh. He was in my brother's year at school. Oh, right. Freak on it Freak on it, baby Go Have you seen all his things from ice-skating? These are all Joe's, you know. Oh, really? Oh, yes. Second prize, second prize. Second prize. Did he ever come first? All right? Dexie told me where you lived. He didn't say a word. About what? Yvonne Baker. Record bought, he didn't say a word. Hardly a mark on it. You best come up. Right. I know I've made a prat of myself. Only a bit. I fell on my arse. So? We all fall sometimes. The trick is getting back up. Right, I'll be off then. Just dropped by to give you the record and that. If I was you, I'd just lose some of them moves. You know, them Top of the Pops ones. It's all in the basic step. When you get that down, everything follows. Maybe Maybe you could show me. OK. I can't deny we go better close together Too close it feels to be talking about the weather I was so happy then The moment you walked in. And they say white guys can't move. Ha. Listen. "Get ready, because soul, "rare soul is all set to grab the world by its ears and scream, get up and dance." This is your chance to be on the start, Dee Dee. Who knows how big it's going to be? Wigan? You said fucking Wigan? The explosion that's going to take the world by storm is from Wigan? Wigan, like in Lancashire? Yeah. You are on some serious drugs, mate. Where do you get your gear? Do you have any Tom Jones? Oi, try the comedy, yeah? All right, so I stake you to buy these records Which you sell here for a profit. And you buy more records To make you more profit. Which we split 50-50. A dreamer of dreams, Joe. A man of vision. 80-20. Done. Let's skin one up to celebrate, yes? He doesn't love you the way I do Ba-da, ba, ba, ba, ba, ba They said he is wholly unto you He won't let you go, ba, ba But, baby I know, ba, ba Tonight When I look at him I saw the face The face of a loser I tell you your problem, Joey boy, you don't appreciate good music. Tonight When I look at him I saw the face The face of a loser And I know I can't wait. All right? I was just passing Get the top. New, is it? Kind of. Looks the part now, doesn't he, Jane? Proper little soul boy. Just imagine he'd gone the whole hog, hey? Long leather, Adidas bag, pair of Spencers. Couldn't keep your hands off him, could you? Just imagine. What do you think, Mavis? See, even Mavis approves. Best be getting back. Thanks for stopping by, showing us your new top. Any time that you want me Just let me know If I'm not around Leave a note on my door Because you know how I feel You know my love is real So, baby, feel free Look what I've just scored. What are they? I don't know exactly. But they're keeping this lot dancing all night. When did you last get tapped up, Russ? With a girl? No, a Shetland fucking pony. I mean, what is it with chicks? Give them a genuine guy or some tosser that drives a Ford Capri and nine times out of ten you know who they're going to pick. That's a biology thing, mate. Money, fast cars. Just the stuff chicks dig. But if they stopped to see under that shit, to the genuine guy for what he is You wouldn't see 'em for dust. Easy, fella! There's plenty more space to dance back there. I saw the friendly warning. Friendly?! I told you once, only the best dance front of stage. Got to earn it! What's the damage? Call it 40, yeah? Call it 35. You're joking me, mate. Eddie Foster on white label? That's worth three and a half of anyone's money. See you next week. Monster. Does that mean we've got a thing going, then? So, what's new? Nowt, you little divvy, that's the whole point. Up and down the highway Travelling all over the land Sailing all over the waters Crossing the desert sand Meeting all kinds of women From Algiers to the London Bay But there's only one who impressed me And I love that girl to death Oh, she's quite a woman The girl that I adore Soul Galore Soul Galore, baby Soul Galore Soul Galore Weren't bad, was it? Starting to get into the place, me. Maybe I'll buy one of them bags and a long leather coat. Hey, Joe, do you think I should buy? The dying fly?! The dying fucking fly?! How come you always have to play the divvy? Fly's funny. I do it at The Onion and you fall about. You still haven't sussed it, have you? This isn't The Onion! Comfy? I hear you're a collector. Records? Bits and pieces. Business thing. So show. Kim Weston Jane digs her Yvonne Baker You Didn't Say A Word. How much do you want for it? Not for sale. It was a present. Oh, everything is for sale! Gie you ten quid. Ten? 15, then. Fuck you playing at?! My goods, bought and paid for. And my goods are fuck all to do with you. Do you hear? All right? You took your time. You weren't worried, were you? Whoa. There's nothing here to worry about. Isn't that right, pal? Ladies. Your chariot awaits. Come on, get in. Mind your legs. Get your fucking bag off the car and fuck off. Say there was this lad, right, and he wanted to get with a girl not just any girl someone he really thought was the business, you know but he's a bit iffy about asking her out in case he gets knocked back. Would this be just any lad or someone in particular? All right me. He might start by just asking. Yeah, but say I wanted to do something first something to make the girl see I was worth taking a tumble on. Maybe she sees that already? All the same if the girl was you, say what could I do that'd work? Telling me how you really feel would be a good place to start. Girls dig a guy who can open up about themselves. Show 'em what's truly going on inside. Inside? You mean in me head? In your heart's better. Joe?! Got to see someone. See you a bit later. Who loves you, baby? You silly bastard! What you doing creeping about? You could have given me a bloody heart attack! Sorry. What the hell do you want anyhow? Thought we might go dancing. Trust me. I want you, understand Want to know I'm your girl and you're my man I want to say With you I'd go anywhere Anywhere You name it, I'll be there I'm gonna love you a long, long time Let me tell you, honey You'd better believe it I'm your baby You'd better believe it I'm your baby for ever For ever and ever Think you're something else, don't you? Good enough. I've watched you at the Casino you're good enough there. Good as Alan? Alan's a mover, everyone knows that. He owned the floor at the Twisted Wheel. But the Wheel shut three years ago. Meaning? Meaning maybe what he moves best these days are pills. Sorry. Used to be an ice-skater, me. When I was a kid, like. Got up to competition level. You win any? Not good enough? Something like that. See skating, dancing pretty much the same thing, you know. More or less. I could do just about anything except spin. I'd get round once or twice and then pfft! Flat on me arse. Every time! Could never find that point of focus. Well, use me as your point of focus. Sorry. Said it would take time to settle in, didn't I? All of my life I've been longing for you, girl Still I go on after you I can't understand How I'll get by Cos I need you tonight In all of my life Back in a minute. All of my life The sun was shining The rain might never fall Monica. Brendan. But my love for you keeps growing more and more Oh please believe me, baby That's how much I love you Please stay with me, girl All of my life Yeah, right by my side Yeah, my life Monica. Brendan said I was to give you this. I've just seen Why? Said you'd understand. "I'm Gonna Love You A Long Time" by Patti & The Emblems But I'm cracked up over you and there ain't nothing I can do So I'm gonna love you Oh, yes, I am Cracked up over you Oh-oh, yes, I am Cracked up over you Baby, you don't love me And I know it Baby, you don't love me That's it. Go on. Go on, do it, go for the spin. Go on. What's wrong? Nothing's wrong. Tired. You can dance, Joe. You can really move. You've just got to let go, that's all. What's that? It must have fallen out of my bag. What is it? It's a Degas. What's a Day-ga? He's an artist. A really good artist. Look, if you pass me the sketchbook. That's Matisse, he's my favourite. He reckoned dance was the essence of life. Can you even think what he'd have made of the Casino? You can't paint that. No-one could. He could have. He was brilliant. What, that flutter in your guts while you wait to go in? Then the music just hits you. No, there's nothing like it. No, Matisse, he was a genius. He'd have captured it all. He would have He'd have walked in there and just gone, "Fuck me, this place is amazing." Anyway, how do you know so much about art? I've applied to art school. In Nottingham. You did that? Mm-hm. It's really good, Mand. They're only sketches. Wish I knew what to do with my life. No, not those. Why? Cos it's private. What have you got there? Mucky drawings? Joe! I just want to peek at it. Stop it. What the hell's going on? I'm not running a flaming hotel. Go on. Out! See you later. See you at the Casino. Business is so good right now, babe. I can set you up anywhere you want to go. Anywhere at all. But I know where you want to be, babe. I do. I know where you want to be, babe. There we go. "All Of My Life" by Detroit Soul All of my life I've been longin' for you Girl Till time stands still That's how long I'll need you I can't understand How I'll get by Something like that? Yeah, yeah. They're the ones. The sun won't shine and the rain might never pour But my love for you keeps growing more and more Taxi to Wigan, sir? Eh? If I see one dying fly Bastard thing's stuck. I can't fucking turn it off. Fucking hell, Joe. Joe! Get out. Fucking hell. Joe. Joe, Christ's sakes, man. Open your bag. Why? I've got some stuff I want to put in it. Keeler's got this mate that's a chemist, right? Says, a slack handful of these and kazzam, you're the Silver fucking Surfer. What? Are you fucking nuts? I'm not a drug pusher. And neither am I. I'm a bloody ice cream man, Joe. But sometimes it's not enough. I'm sorry, mate. I'm not doing it. I promised Keeler. You know what he's like. We don't deliver, we both get kicked ugly. We? What do you mean, we? He sees us as a team. What I get, so do you. Joe? Not now, Mand. Joe? I said, "Not now!" All right? "If It's All The Same To You Babe" by Luther Ingram/ Anthony Hester If it's all the same to you, babe I confess, I'm in distress Loneliness is getting me down My heart will break What are we going to do? WE are not going to do anything. YOU are going to do what you came here for. Flog pills. By myself? This is your deal, Russ. I'm not into it. None of it. Not any more. What if I cock up? You know me, I get stuff wrong. It's what I do. Hey, pal. Uppers, 15 for a quid. What are you going to get wrong with that? Go. "So is the Sun" by World Column What makes it hard to find a peace that will last? Even if it doesn't we can blow it too fast So many years to find nothing is done We're making progress but so is the sun Six billion people, yeah, yeah All tired of trying, baby To find some happiness Fucking move. To keep from dying there Nobody takes the time to see Do you hear me? Hey! Their first concern is always need Always need Yes it is, it's all we need! You got to come on! What is the answer, yeah, yeah? Oh, where can you trace it? Is it the meaning, we're just Tickets for next week's anniversary do are on sale now and soon to be rarer than rocking horse shit, so get them before they're gone. "If It's For Real Baby" by Porgy & Monarchs Tell me that it's not really true What you've been saying Say you don't mean it And tell me that it's still me and you It's not a game you're playing Say you don't mean it And tell me that you break up and laugh And tease me When the joke is through Is this for real, baby? Dave! Cut the music! Joe, we've got to go now, man. Come on. The gear was dodgy, man. Let's go. Joe, don't fuck about. Come on, we've got to go. Mandy. Mandy. Where's that bloody ambulance? On it's way, boss. Go and hurry it up! Mand. What have I told you about keeping your hands off my goods, hein? Eh? Get off him. What are you doing? The place is knee-deep in gear tonight. You ask where they all got it from. Check him out. Clean, boss. Yeah, well, try his bag. Bingo. They're not mine. Do you want to tell the coppers that? Get him out of here. Out, now! And don't bother coming back. If I see you again, anywhere, I'll break your fucking legs. Mand. Go away. What? You heard. Go. Please. Monica. For the love of Jesus, Monica. I walked into something. Teach me to look where I'm going, next time, won't it? And whatever happened, it's got nowt to do with you. Was there owt else? No, we're all done here. I won't keep you then. You neither. You did what? What were you thinking of? It was just a record. Records say things, Joe. Mother of God. For Christ's sake, will you wake yourself up, Joe? I just want to know how she is. Dexie. Take your coat and piss off. Dexie? Who was it? Nobody. "Be Young, Be Foolish, Be Happy" by The Tams Do-do-doo, doo, do-doo You were on the money about this stuff taking off, Joe. Be young, be foolish, but be happy Do-do-doo, doo, do-doo Be young, be foolish, but be happy Do-do-doo, doo, do-doo Don't let the rain get you down It's a waste of time A waste of time Have your fun, live everyday in the bright sunshine Visitor. Must say, he scrubs up well. Fancy a pint? So, be young, be foolish But be happy So, the get-up, what do you think? It's very Tom. Thought it might be a bit much myself. But if you have it, flaunt it, as I always say. What do you think of Cork, Joe? I hear it floats. No, the city in Ireland. Good people. Fresh air. Good place to bring up kids. It's not the easiest time to be a Paddy in this country, Joe. You can take that from me. What we doing here, Brendan? Nothing looks like. May as well call it a night. Vegas look. Suits you. I thought you wouldn't come. You thought wrong. Bobby, he's out with the lads. We should go. We've got a train to catch. Brendan. You look after yourself now, Joe. I'm away home. Whisky for the road, please, duck. Oh, all right, Russ. All right, can I get a bottle, please? Thanks. You all right, mate? Yeah. You? I'm all right. It's not really your scene any more, this, is it? I mean, you're crap in a scrap, you can't drink, and when it comes to pulling girls all you ever did was held me back. Do yourself a favour, mate. Go where you belong. Where the hell is she? Where is she? Where is she? I don't I know she's been seeing you! What would she want with me? I've already hurt you. All right, all right, all right. She left with Brendan. That Paddy? Heading where? Las Vegas. Las Vegas. Vegas? To see Tom Jones. You! You thieving little bastard! "I'm On My Way" by Dean Parrish I'm on my way You're out of my mind Flying high Catch me if you can Ain't gonna cry What a way to die. Fuck off! Headed for the life of the city Gonna spin around I need a big city woman Gonna pick this town Baby, I give you everything I ever had to give And now I'm gonna live Live Here I go, I'm on my way Out of your sight I'm on my way You're out of my mind Flying high Catch me if you can Ain't gonna cry What a way to die I'm on my way Ooh, to the city. Eyes skinned tonight, Derek. Anyone doing a dodgy here tonight with a lord in the house, and I mean anyone Righto, boss. I'm on my way out of your sight I'm on my way, you're out of my mind Flying high, catch me if you can Ain't gonna cry I'm on my way. Mandy, I Hey, get off him. You just don't know when to take fuck off for an answer, do you? Sit down! I don't want to fight with you. Oh, there won't be a fight. Not here, man. Not tonight. This place belongs to me, do you hear? This is MY dancefloor! You fat old fuck. You can't dance. What? He's challenging me? He's challenging ME? Get out of my way. Get out of my fucking way! "Breakaway Pt 2" by The Steve Karmen Big Band feat Jimmy Radcliffe Spin. Fuck off! Dave! Get off! Joe. Mand. Wait, wait! Mand, Mand! You dance really well, Joe. I don't care. They think you're great, people here, Jane. You've won it all, Joe. Go on. Go back and enjoy it. You don't understand. I want you. Listen to yourself, Joe. I want, I want. You've no ideia what you want, have you? Mandy. Mand! You're too late. I want you. Art college. I've been accepted in Nottingham. The course? Yeah. And I'm not going to have you stop me, Joe. Why would I stop you? I think you're amazing. You could be like that guy, Madris. Matisse. Ann, you're right. I'm a selfish dickhead, but I don't want to lose you, not now. You're the only real thing in my life. Do you mean it? I only come here because of you. Can we start again? I think so. "On A Magic Carpet Ride" by Gabriella Cilmi They say love has many faces And takes your head to other places Open up your heart Give your life a chance to start moving On a magic carpet around We can find a place where there is no time On a magic carpet ride We can touch the sky Like a bird we'll fly There's no end to what we'll do Me and you We could live inside a flower. We've been waiting for years to have a film recreated about the true Northern Soul, especially Wigan Casino where most of us all went. These are the original Wigan memberships, yeah. This is a gents, blue, and the ladies, pink. The last night at Wigan. If you'd hold that. It took us a lifetime to learn how we dance and practice our moves. This is my niece. I'm trying to get her into Northern Soul to keep it in the next generation, keeping the faith. It's been absolutely amazing to see all the different costumes and hear all the music out loud. A great aesthetic. It's been fantastic. To actually get a part dancing in something that's been my passion for over 30 years, it's just, yeah, unreal. Soul has been part of my life for 34 years. I know I don't look old enough, but the same with this chap here. A true Northern Soul person would feel the music. I'm feeling it now just talking about it. I get a little bit of a buzz coming over me. Certain tunes you hear, you might be in conversation with somebody and one of your favourite tunes will come along and you just Or you're at the record bar and you hear that beat, you know it straight away. "Got to go, mate". Sweating all over the vinyl. Straight on the dancefloor and away you go, like. That's it.
