 

                        Esmeralda, Move !... you've got a big bum ! O Prophet, protect her ! Courage, my daughter. By the holy forefathers ! May God deliver you safe and sound ! God protect her ! Push! Push! O Prophet, help her ! - That OK ? - Yes thanks. Not too heavy ? Karima! You alright ? Easy... There we are ! Glory to Allah ! You're blessed, it's a boy ! Go tell Hicham it's a boy. It's a boy ! Thank you God, praise be to Allah! Congratulations. Thank you. I'm back. Congratulations ! God have pity on me and my fellow creatures Glory to all that's beautiful ! I put my love in the balance of life Glory to all that's beautiful ! We all jostle each other but who sees my passion ? Glory to all that's beautiful ! The feet of my throne of joy, my children fulfil me. Glory to all that's beautiful ! When my shoulders sag, my children will support me. If you've given birth you've nothing to fear. The man is the pillar of the house and I'm ... A baby's born from the womb of the day ! A baby dies in the bowels of the night. Life...I spit on you ! A baby shouldn't die while I'm still living ! It's your right my child, you shouldn't die. Water gives life. Water takes life. Shame silences tongues. If you hide the tragedy... black tears flood the thirsty ground. Our earth is parched... that is the tragedy. In joy I have given birth... delivered of a boy. The midwife tours the village to spread the good news. Here's a bouquet of flowers Here is a mirror, see the girl for whom you make your braids. Leila, make us laugh. Is this a funeral dinner ? Sorry, father-in-law. I'm out of ideas just now. Get off to bed ! Right away ! Come on! You still defend her. What do you mean ? Not tonight...I can't. Do you still want to have a child ? Forgive me. Stop lying ! As if he could honour you every night ! I've got a hot oven... ...and he knows how to stoke it up. My man's not a wimp like you lot have. You've got a brazier between your legs. My oven needs bread every day, I can't do anything about it. If it's too hot, your bread'll get burnt ! Then I'll give it to you to eat ! So another woman's miscarried on the water-trek up the mountain ! We don't talk about that sort of thing in here. YES, we DO talk about it ! It's not as though it's the first time. Everyone knows, and nobody does anything. Especially the men ! Leila... please leave. You say that because you're barren. That's not true ! Leila's also lost a child on the mountain. I'm not the only one. Yasmina, Rachida, aren't you saying anything? Moufida? You got "the plague" too. And afterwards we're accused of being sterile ? If God gives me a girl, she won't go through that. Shut up, you foreigner ! Men should fetch the water. It happens in other villages. Water's used in the home, it's up to the woman to fetch it. It's been like that since the beginning of time. It's our tradition. You aren't the one to change it ! Men used to work in the fields, go to war. Today, most are in the towns, and what do the rest do ? They sleep, drink tea, and play cards in the cafe. They can carry water ! My husband's weight has doubled. Carrying water would muscle him up. I'll teach you how to get muscled ! I'd sure give yours some muscle. Sit down ! This is none of your business, Flintlock. That's quite enough from you, Fatima. You talk too much. Sit down. Leila isn't a foreigner. She married your son, you've received her in your house, We welcomed her into our village. One day a Frenchman asked me: "What were the happiest moments of your life? ' I replied: "All up to the age of 14." You know why. I was married off at 14. I found out about "it" on my wedding night. Not before. And like you all, I didn't see him until next morning when he opened the shutters. I didn't see it during the night. He made it all dark and just raped me. I believed that a husband sat on the bed besides his wife, and held her hand... and that it was good... that it was good... He was 40 and already had 2 children, one 10, the other 11 years old. Their mother had died after a long illness, At 14 I became mother, of children almost my own age. Then, I gave birth 19 times. Twelve dead, of which two up there near the spring. Moufida, you've had 12: You, 8 times, Yasmina, 6 isn't it ? Our TRADITION is: Half the babies we have are dead, or die. For a long time, I was treated like I had the plague. My husband wanted to reject me, he said I was barren. Today I have 7 children, all in good health, thanks to God. So, how could I have been happy after the age of 14 ? When could I ? Leila's right. It's true she comes from far away, from the south. But she blows like the desert wind... ...while we just hold our breath. The men should transport the water ! So tell me how you're going to persuade them ? We'll go on strike... ...no more love ! Yes, why not ? A love-strike ! Satan's seized you. This is a sin ! I'd rather bring water than do without my man. If Karim didn't touch me for 2 days, I'd run screaming to the top of the mountain. When he starts throwing peanuts at my head, that's the storm warning. I don't like it ! We not talking about calming down children. It's our only weapon against the men: We'll refuse sex while there's no water in the village ! Enough talk ! Are you ready to strike ? Anyway, This doesn't concern them... ...their oven hasn't been lit for ages. Doesn't concern me either. I buried my husband, and trampled all over his grave, So who are the brave ones ? You've never felt any pleasure ? Never? Why did you get married at 14 if you didn't love him? I'll get married to my lover. We'll make love twice a day. We'll only have 2 kids. I'll go travelling while he minds them. For sure ! I'll give you my donkey, he'll have a cap on his head like the tourists, and he'll carry your beautiful luggage. "Love strike" ! They're saying: "Doors and windows shut... "the naughty rooster's not allowed back in !" "The hen'll get a good night's sleep !" I didn't hear anything. Yesterday, she offered me an egg. They've got a bit of sunstroke. Why've aren't they getting the water all of a sudden ? They want to make a song and dance about it. It's the modern generation. They see running water in houses on TV, and they want to have it. Howdy, Hussein ? Come and have a cup of tea ! Later, thanks. I'm going to pick some flowers. You're joking !... And we're laughing ! I suspect Leila's behind this. It's absurd. You know the proverb : "Sow and you will reap... the earth cannot stop you." Except when there's no rain. Like that 15-year drought we had. You must marry another woman and get rid of Leila. She's no good ! Your sisters are ten times better. You should have married the one I'd chosen for you. I told you : Love brings bad luck. Why take someone from so far away ? She's a witch ! She'll be the ruin of you, and bring shame on us ! You think I can't hear the two of you ? - Even in the afternoon ! - How dare you spy on us ! - She's my wife ! - She's your mother ! Sami ! Ahmed agrees to give you his daughter, Nouffisa. What do you say to that ? I'm staying with Leila. You love me ? I'll never reject you. I'll never marry anyone else. You're my princess... you revolutionary ! Leila, you have the right to fight. It's not a sin. Enlightened lslam does exist in other places. The Islam of Light ! Your battle's a just one. Leila! Where's she got to ? She'll do anything to get out of work. You have to help me. If the strike doesn't work, we won't have any water ! Why do you want to change the tradition ? What do you want me to tell them? What should I say to convince them ? Don't you see that the idleness, lack of money, drought, have emptied the hearts of those men ? You want love to return to the village in a water pipe...? Hurry up ! Fatima, hurry up. Mama, can I go to school ? Off you go ! And don't send anyone to bring her home. She should stay at school til the end, like all the others. - Don't get on my nerves, Sami. Good morning, teacher. Hurry up ! You're late. Imam, please help me to convince the parents to send all the girls to school. Religious teaching and then primary school. At least they could learn to read and write. School's a long way off. Understand their point of view. And then, what use would it be to them ? You know very well what happens. They're more useful to their mothers as they are. Useful ?! They're infants ! If we let them do it, they'd want to go on studying in the town. Who'd pay for that ? You ? And accommodation ? And if they came back to us pregnant ? If they left for good, who'd take care of the house? Tourists! Tourists! Children, shoo !... go off home! Welcome. Tell them that this money will serve the general good. We'll repair the road and repaint the mosque. God, O my God O my God Time is not ashamed God, O my God You parted the brightness of the moon and the sun God, O my God I kiss the earth for grain and water. God, O my God I cherish my earth God, O my God My earth so full of life In our village the men pretend not to hear. Listen to your wife ! Where are the elders ? Listen, listen, they were up to it. Woe to you ! Listen to your wife ! You don't even bring the water Your arms are weak Nothing to harvest The trees are sterile Our village is ruined ! Listen to your wife ! I sing him songs but he never listens to me He listens to the wind...never his beloved Listen to your wife ! The tourists give money Where does it go to...disappear to ? Why is this fortune gone with the wind ? And you stay at home... without water for the village. There's not a hint of relief for us so this song, this dance speaks the words directed at you. No water ? Your seed will no longer fertilise our beautiful lands. I want a 'fridge and medicines I want a Mercedes... a washing machine. Yes, it's true ! The tourist guide said so. - Your mothers are crazy ! - They're witches! It's not true ! Witches! Witches! Good morning teacher ! Sit down all of you. Bon apptit. Is it true that mama made a love strike ? Just eat ! Here. It's called the Thousand and One Nights. It's one of the most beautiful books in Arab literature... our heritage. Unfortunately few of us know about it. Don't tell anyone I've given it to you, or I'll have problems. What's it about ? Love, sensuality, possession, sex, death. My princess, don't stir up the men. Be sensible. Don't make enemies about the water. Change the love-strike to love and respect. Stop ! You'll wake the children ! There's your strike for you ! Why are you all looking at me like that ? I fell down the stairs. In that Mexican show, that's what they always say when their husbands beat them. Do the ones without stairs say that ? They ask their husbands to buy a house with a staircase. You say you're on strike and the cellar door is padlocked. I know it's hard but we have to hang in there. Nice words are easy for you, Leila. Your husband loves you. Put yourself in our place for a moment. It's easy to be a revolutionary when you're rich. Woman is a rose Make a bouquet of her life. Woman is a breeze That softens the heat The woman is honey Flowing from the beehive Woman is a sea How many rivers have fed her And how many oceans has she filled ? Woman is a doormat Trampled by anyone Woman, is an animal, beast of burden for men To please him she slaves in the house Like the donkey to whom only burdens fall... Hardship to all idiots ruled by the stick ! Wake up ! If they are blind, you see for two. Raise your heads like banners If you don't want to end consumed ! Flintlock, your words are bullets... Show you love us. Your hearts are like stagnant pools, full of fallen angels and evil spirits. If you give in, you won't be loved anymore ! Stir yourselves, you cowards, show your feelings and your courage, or you'll spend your lives with one foot stuck in the mud. The village will have water, I promise you ! Let's not give up. Leila's right ! "An army of ants can bring down a lion." So, you chicken-livered cowards... Are you up to it ? You've declared a war. The imam and the sheik will summon you. You know they'll accuse you, and quote the Koran in support ? I imagine so. Can you imagine all that can happen ? You better be prepared. "In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful. "O mankind, fear your Lord Who created you all from one " and created his wife "My love, I miss you, "I dream of the day when we are in our house. "I will spend my days watching you, "stroking your olive skin "burying my face in your hair. "I will say to you: 'Te quiero, mi amor, "' mi amor, mi amor.' "Will you always love me ? "May Allah protect you ! I love you, S'lim.' Let me see ! I have to reply ! Tomorrow. I'm too busy right now. There, there...it'll go away. Thanks a lot. You're like my own daughter. Your mother, whose soul is with Allah, was like a sister to me. Help me Flintlock. I'm not strong. How can I go against my husband ? He takes me every night and he hurts me. I worry that the children will be woken. So you aren't prepared to strike. Listen. Put garlic and chillies in your hair, it'll make him sneeze and the odour will turn him off. Also wear pants and a belt that are difficult to undo. If that doesn't work, each time he makes his move get up to check one of the children and lay it between you. Tell him it's sick. He'll be sure to be fooled. And if that still doesn't work, call me, and I'll come and sleep between you. He wouldn't dare try me ! I don't understand why I'm sleepy. Before, every night... Rachida... I can't bring myself to hit her... Why am I such a weakling ? Just hit her for no reason. And never back down ! Come on, you can write to him ! I'll marry him first ! You're not working fast enough. You spend your time gossiping. We're set on a love marriage aren't we ? I'll marry S'lim and nobody else. And contraception, too. No more than 2 kids. Like that, we can travel. All in good time. "She threw off her veils "and stood naked as the day she was born. "Blessd the womb that bore her ! "It was only then that Nour realised the beauty of the princess, "that her skin was as white as linen, "and she smelled of amber and roses. "he took her in his arms, "felt for her intimate depths "to reveal her pearl... intact." What's wrong with you ? You light the fire in my oven and I gotta say no to Karim? Now I gotta throw water on my coals? It's a sin to waste my heat... and the water ! Leila, you're sadistic ! You want me to run home screaming for my husband: "Come and take me !" I'm trying to share a bit of culture with you gaggle of hens. This book is what we are. It shows that sensuality can be a pleasure. Teach me O Madam Sex-Instructor How can I pull a sex strike and still keep my sensuality: "No, I don't want to ! Yes, no...no more ! "Oh, yes, yes ! "No, no !" Stop it, papa ! Stop it ! Shut up ! Go back to bed ! You wanna strike ? Take this one ! We'll see who gives up first ! You wanna strike ? There's your strike ! And you shut up ! Happy now ? She's his wife. I won't say anything to your brother. Is there another solution ? Come on guys, we're gonna be late. I'll beat her to death if I have to ! Come on, calm down ! I'll accept anything except lack of respect ! You gotta agree it's hard work getting the water. - You try it. - It's not that far. Anyone here tried it ? What is this anyway? A lightning strike? No warning ? Has anyone asked them why they're doing it ? And the government ? Been promising us water for years and done nothing ! We put in a submission to the Sub-Prefect's two years ago ! We've done all we could. My friends... bureaucracy is one thing, the affront given by the women is quite another: They're in defiance of the Koran, defying tradition and refusing procreation ! And questioning our authority as their husbands ! And doing it in front of the children ! It's also the fault of the colonists, before independence. We're is still poisoned by their ways. I say we show them who's master ! Calm down, friends ! Sami, what do you think ? You've got some influence over the young people. I think we should wait for a decision from the Sub-Prefect, and hope our submission... Sami ! I'm asking you what you think about the strike ? Perhaps the women could be helped, in carrying the water. And a pipe could be put in using the tourism money... ...without waiting for the government. That's my advice. You can stick it up your... ! Sort your wife out or I'll do it for you ! Who are you talking about ? Your foreigner ! All because she can read and write ! It'll never happen with our women ! They were led astray. So you're happy for it to go on forever ? Why are the others so stubborn and violent ? - What's the answer ? - Carry the water. And don't let those old guys push us around ! Nassim? May Allah smile on you my son. How's it going ? Not too tough in town ? You're well ? Yes I got the money, may Allah preserve and bless you ! Listen, Nassim. I'll send some cakes for your boss at the construction site, and you tell him that I made them especially for him. Yes, thanks to God ! What ? When are you coming ? Dropped out ! Move it, donkey ! Turn around ! Don't ever do this to me when I'm talking to my son ! Turn around. Turn around, or I'll sell you at the market ! Turn around you stupid animal ! God damn you ! "Te quiero, miamor" for evermore, with Allah's love, Esmeralda.' Still on strike ? More than ever ! Ah, these women! God only knows how to get around them. How much for you and your cart ? - How much'll you pay ? - Gimme a price. Come on, we'll decide afterwards. A kilo of semolina. - How's your son ? - He'll never marry your daughter. Whadda you mean ? You gave your word ! - Witches ! - You broke your promise. They're witches ! - What'll I say to Acha ? - That's your problem. - What's she going to think ? - I don't give a damn ! Where's that witch...?... I'm going to kill you ! Stop it ! You've ruined my life ! I spit in your face ! Are you proud of yourself ? You dare to even look at me ! Stop it ! That's enough ! Loubna, go to your room ! Leila ! Telephone ! Leila, my girl. How are you ? Mama ! How lovely to hear you. Alright, thank God. You miss me. Are you OK ? Alright, thank God. And papa ? Everything's fine, thank God. And Grandpa and Grandma ? Lis says hi, too. Grandpa's lying down. He's got a bad back. Pray he gets better soon. Give him a hug from me. And Marouane, Hafsia, Hiam, Khalid? Everybody's fine. Mother, I love you and I'm so happpy to hear from you, I'd so like to see you, to see the whole family, the village... I so miss you all... Don't talk so quickly, sweetie, I'm calling on your brother's 'phone. He said I've got 5 minutes What's this about a love strike ? Is it true ? It's a disgrace ! What are people going to think ? Your dowry cost us dearly. It was not easy for your father. If he divorces you, everything's lost. And your honour as well. If you're divorced, only an old or sick man will take you. What's become of you, girl. Do you want me to come over there ? Who told you about this ? Mama, who told you ? You know you should have stayed where you belong. Down there ! Why did you tell her ? Would you 've pulled the strike in front of your parents ? What do you want from me ? Why do you hate me ? You've stolen my Sami and my husband. You've stolen my men from me ! And Mohamed? You want water to the village. A submission was put in two years ago. Why do you want to change such an old tradition, that's been in place since time immemorial ? You're not dying of thirst are you ? There are other priorities you'd be aware of...electricity. I know. It's been a year since you put in poles, meters, even doorbells. But no electricity. I am surprised that an educated man like you says that. You know how much electricity costs, indexed to oil prices ? Do you know how much all the installations, have cost already? Other villages haven't got that far. Be patient. Your wives will get electricity, then water. And what comes after that ? They'll want a washing machine. You know the price of them ? So we ask ourselves : How will they occupy themselves instead of washing the laundry ? They'll natter endlessly on the phone, like in those Mexican TV soaps. Do you have any idea what phone bills can be ? Take my advice, don't be in a rush for water and electricity, you're better off now ! Sami. I saw the head of the school at the market. Parents are complaining about you: You have a bad influence on their children. I'm trying to teach them to think for themselves. Don't forget, it's our only income. I'm well aware of that. People in the village are saying that Leila's put a spell on you. I love Leila like my own daughter... may Allah be my witness. But if you don't want to divorce her, marry a younger one to give you children. That'd bring peace... the village is divided. Don't say anything. Think about it. If you take another wife, I'm leaving! You'll never see me again! They're saying you're a witch. I shouldn't have taught you to read, I've woken the devil in you. I'm confused... do you support me or not ? I support you, but it's tearing our world apart. It's become a complete shambles. Shambles ? It was that already. But only we saw it, and we said nothing. You're just like the rest ! "The Love-Strike Village" Nobody saw anyone. I'm looking for Karim, do you know him ? Tarik! Take... What's your name ? Sofiane Ben Chedid! Mohamed. Take Mr Sofiane to Karim's. 'Bye. If you need something, call me or my wife. All the family is at your disposal. Thanks You're doing a report on...? Insects, Infinitely small ones... "The Teeny-Weenies". Infinitely small... We should talk to a journalist. He'll write an article, then the government will be aware and do something about our request. Give it to Sofiane. He's cute. He can serenade me any time. While he tickles your "infinitely small". It's war ! You and your "infinitely small". "Studying insects"...! He's taking the mickey out of you. He must be a journalist called here by the women ! We must be vigilant. Not a word about the strike ! Mr Sofiane... Sami. You have to write in support of our situation: Too many villages are still without water and electricity. This country must modernise. I'm only interested in insects. Not politics. Is the plight of our women, too big an issue for you ? You're only interested in the "infinitely small" ? Our lives... aren't small enough to interest you ? It's simply not my domain. Come on ! Sorry about that. He's snubbing us ! He's playing 'Mr City Intellectual', like we were halfwits ! he's paying for his room, and I need the money. Leila here ? - Come in. - No, tell her to come out. How are you ? Family well ? Fine. And yours ? Fine. What do you want with Leila? To talk to her about our strike, that I know you're all for, and to tell her what a wonderful mother-in-law you are. He's waiting for you at the well. Now. No risk of seeing a man up there. Try and go alone... stay away from the other women. He really is a handsome chap ! Leila! What are you doing here ? My mother died. I've come to see you. Go away ! I'm married ! Empty ? I fell. He's not here to help us. I'm tired. Is there a problem ? No, I'm just tired. They're not bringing us water. The journalist doesn't want to help us, he's a spineless wimp, a city snob, who thinks he's superior. It'll get violent. When the men are at the end of their tether, we should expect the worst. We'll fight. One of the effects of drought is the disappearance of a wide variety of insects. Those that survive are only interested in finding one thing: Water. The diversity of the very small, is dying out. With the death of the smallest... Write to S'lim ? "I want to see you, love of my life, "3 months and 6 days without holding you close. "I should see you, feel you. Why don't you come ? "I came into your village. I couldn't do more" Not so fast. "You pretended not to see me. Was someone watching you ? "I want to see you my love. "Ever so much, S'lim. "I wait for you in our hiding place, Every day. "Esmeralda." Are you crying ? No... dust in my eye. What's it like... making love ? Is it bad ? Is it like an orgasm ? Is it strong ? Is it beautiful ? What does it do for you ? Shush ! You should be ashamed ! Why ? I just want to know everything ! The Mexican women cry out loudly when they do it, but I never hear you ! Isn't Sami good ? Where are you going ? Answer me ! Pour me some tea. Sit down. Don't make war on men, don't put them down. My grandfather, and my father have made war on the colonists and other tribes to defend our tribe and our family. To defend our water supply too. While the women and children were in a safe place. Many died. The men travelled far to make enough to support the community. It's never been easy. They were fighters. Brave, courageous fighters. They risked their lives for their families. Then I and those of my age travelled further, because of drought, to make a living. Nobody made us do it. So, why ? Because it's our tradition, the cycle of our life. Today, because of the drought, nothing grows, animals have barely enough to eat, there's no work. And more war. Trying to find work and money is a war for us men. You think men go out of their way to make war ? Do you ? You just need to protect your family and your home Not make war. We should just live in peace. We women aren't afraid of peace. Leave me...I'm tired. If the strike continues, I'll have to dismiss you. All the parents are accusing you of bad influence on their children. Prove you're a man. - Your wife... I understand. I have a degree, Mr Benghazi, I can take on anything. Accounting, stock control, sales. You'll never find an employee like me. Look at your hands ? You've never worked. And your shoulders are like a woman's. Sami. How's things ? OK...you ? Thanks be to God. Mr Benghazi. I'll leave you. No, stay, I... It's OK...we're finished. What are you doing with Benghazi? He's a crook. We were just talking. Sami, we're friends. Maybe not as close as we once were. You used to be my best friend. I never would've said anything, but I'll say it now. There was a time when I didn't talk to you because you made me look like an idiot. Who'd forget your arrogance. You were top of the class, Mr Know-it-all... 'I know the answer'. You put me down in front of everybody. I wanted to be a writer... did you know that ? I wanted to be like you, and do better than you. But you managed to put me down so much that my parents didn't think I'd amount to anything. They decided I should quit school. Just like that. One morning my father said a few words and took my satchel off my back. He said: "You've finished school !" And that was that. Not another word. I've never forgotten those words. The next day he sold my satchel and my books at the market. I feel better now I've told you. Is the strike over? What's up ? Nothing. I'm happy to see you. I'm being sacked from school. I feel sick ! Stop complaining. Come and help me. - I feel sick, don't you understand? - It's just your periods. I don't WANT to be sick OR have my periods, OR be in a bad mood. I'm fed up ! Shut up ! You're a woman...you're supposed to put up with pain without complaining. It's shameful to talk about it. You made the love-strike and you...? You just don't get it ! I'm talking about our intimate condition... Get out. I hate being a woman. Thirty women of good faith are ready to come and marry the men of the village. We have informed the Grand Mufti of your wisdom and collaboration, and that it has been our pleasure to meet such a brother, a community leader, truly faithful to the Prophet. I'm very honoured by your visit and by our collaboration. My house is yours. May Allah guide us. May it please Allah. Help yourselves. Let me help you. What do you want of me ? Haven't you done enough to me already? Leila... I love you. - I've always loved you. - No ! Still on strike ?! You'd said it was over ! Papa, please stop ! Shut up ! Get to sleep ! If you don't stop the strike, your troubles have only begun ! Come on. What is it ? You lied to me ! All these years you lied to me ! And to all my family ! You were tarnished when I married you ! Not a virgin ! A whore ! And on top of that... Who are you ? I'd been promised to someone else. I loved him, Sami! I loved him ! He was the most beautiful thing in my life. Before he left me. Before I should meet YOU. I was 15 years old, we saw each other in secret. I refused him for a long time. We only kissed. - I don't want to hear it ! - Yes, you have to know ! I want to tell you everything. We were in love. We wanted to do it. Day after day we suffered. Shut up ! He promised to marry me. Six months later he was married to someone else. Chosen by his mother. A rich girl from town ! Job opportunities ! Important family ! Lots of money ! I was a nobody ! Stop. Shut up. You're finished. It's over. I lied because I was afraid you'd reject me. The same with your family. Through loving you, you understand ? What do you believe ? That it was easy for me to drag up this shame ? To make myself feel dirty ? I regret I lied to you, Sami. I love you. I'll always love you. Do you still love HIM ? Love...love... I was also in love with a boy when my parents gave me to my husband. I regretted all my life that I didn't run away with him. He must have suffered. What young girl isn't in love before she gets married ? Even Fatima... Fatima was in love with... but her parents preferred Hussein. Didn't you know that ? After the wedding, she refused to eat for a week. She was 13. A year later, Mohamed was born. Her first child. By giving birth so young, her own childhood was stolen from her. Fatima has always acted as if it was his fault. Mohamed never really had a mother's love. Right now I love Sami. And I've lied to him. You've had the chance to be loved twice in one lifetime. Is he going to leave me ? What ? You can't come in. - What are you talking about ? - You're forbidden ! Since when ?! Ask your brother Mohamed ! Friends ! Listen to me. Come here my boy. You all know Nassim, old Flintlock's son. He's become somebody of importance If a solution is not found soon, they have one! Go on, lie down. Starting tomorrow, you'll be wearing the veil. I'm fed up with having you flaunt yourself to the world. Mama, tell us the story of the snail. Nassim! I don't need your money. I thought you were working on a construction site, that you earned your money honestly... it seems I was mistaken. That's not all you sent me, but we didn't spend much. Don't send any more, we won't accept it. You aren't getting rid of her. And you say nothing to anyone. OK ? Not pleased ? My little kiss ? It isn't S'lim who gives you the letters. It's Leila. Why ? What are you talking about ? Kissy-kiss...I'm in a hurry ! No kiss...tell me the truth, I've seen you together ! Why is it you who gives him those letters? It's you who writes them... not S'lim ! Tell me ! Tell me ! Stop screaming ! He gives them to me, because his mother saw him with the pedlar. That's why he avoided you in his village. Why don't you give them straight to me ? What about the kiss for the pedlar ? Come on, we're going into action. Hurry up! There they are ! At last ! Hurry up ! Now ! Come here, Karim. What's the writing say ? "Your hearts are as dry and thorny "as this well." Burn this well ! Take that ! Auntie Fatima. What do you want ? The Imam asks for Leila to come and see him at the Mosque. I'll tell her. Take care. Say hi to your family for me ! To act against procreation, love and the authority of the father and husband, is a sin ! You will appreciate that this has gone on long enough. Sourate... chapter 4, verse 34: "To be virtuous, a woman must be obedient. "Any whom you believe to be insubordinate, "admonish them, "lay them on their beds "and beat them.' What if the drought persists or one day the insect finds water elsewhere ? Sit down. Also : It is legal for a husband to beat his wife. But the blows should not be violent. Allah is saying to the husband: The correction should be of an educational and affectionate nature, as a father who smacks a child or a teacher who slaps a pupil. How did all this come about ?! Flintlock, I've known you as responsible, wise and sensible. Your irrational action confuses children's minds. Our village has been ridiculed. I am the guarantor of order, compliance with the law, and the Koran! I remind you of your duties as women, and of our traditions. Know that the men of the village, headed by the sheik, have proposed a radical solution: To divorce all of you and bring in other women, if you persist. Stop this strike. Go home, and tonight, open your hearts and your arms to your husbands. And all will be forgotten. Your son said you are in a jihad against men. He took the righteous path of Allah. You should lead by example. A jihad against men?! We're in a jihad against ourselves, against our condition and against injustice. To improve things. My son wants to replace you, lmam, Are you aware, Imam, that my son is out to replace you ? He's paid the sheik and will pay all the others to get what he wants ! I don't know where all that money comes from. You... are going to kill me. because we loved the same woman? And when I'm dead, do you think Leila will love you more ? What are you after ? Why did you come ? I don't know. Maybe I secretly hoped she didn't love you, that she'd want to come away with me But the whole village says Leila loves you and that you... you love her too much. "That you love her too much!" That's right...that's what they say. So...what am I doing here ? I don't know any more. What is lslam and the holy wisdom of the Prophet Mahomet, that we must hail Him and pray to Him ? Is it religion ? It's the happiness from communion with Allah. Islam gives us the rules for living together, of respect and love for one another, and fulfils our desire for spirituality. It raises us ! All of us, men and women ! All the rest is just interpretation, twisting the holy scriptures for personal interest, lmam! Let's start at the beginning. The Almighty said: "In the name of Allah, The Compassionate, The Merciful. "O peoples ! Fear your Lord "Who created you from a single soul "and created therefrom its mate "and from them twain "spread many men and women." Listen to the hadith narrated by Tirmidhi: "Women are the sisters of men." The Prophet, may prayers and salutations be upon him, has wished that men and women be equal. Equal, Imam! Equal doesn't mean men at the top, giving orders, deciding, and women at the bottom, obeying, procreating. Equal doesn't mean women beaten. Yes I read, lmam. And not only the Koran. And I'm not the only one in the village that thinks this way. Why shouldn't I have the right to read, write, think, interpret ? Koran 58, 11: "And God will raise up those who believe "And those who will have received the knowledge.' Who wouldn't want women to be raised by God ? Aren't WE Muslims, the same as the men ? Imam, the drought saps our earth and our hearts. That's our only problem. As the fertile earth makes us and it's we who give life. Why do only men get to decide our future The men should be carrying the water ! So...have you put those witches in their place ? Sometimes I ask myself if you're really a woman. Why do you only stick up for the men ? Fucking shit ! Is this the only path ? There's a highway nearby. And a cable-car. So...have you joined the strike ? And some sweets for the kids. Thanks. Have you seen the way he looks at you ? Watch out, even his donkey's better looking than him. - He's a nice man. - So what ? He thinks he can "open sesame" with 3 bonbons ! Where'd you get all that money from ? Don't say anything, OK? I sold a to S'lim's wife. S'lim? Which S'lim? S'lim d'Ajdir. He's a cutie, eh ? All the girls dream about him. His mother got him married to the richest woman in the valley: Rhim...Hassan the accountant's daughter., You alright ? Yes... - When were they married ? - Three months ago. All I need is my Koran and enough to eat. Good day to you. Imam, have you conquered them, then? Are we allowed back in their beds ? Yes. But I don't know when. Maybe when the drought breaks. Look at me in the eye, Nassim. I'm your mother. Why should I have to wear the veil? You're a woman. Who brought you the world, you and your beard? Get up! Why the veil ? Why hide me ? Am I an object of lust ? An instrument of Satan ? If your father hadn't wanted me, you wouldn't be here. The veil came in in the old days to distinguish free women from the slaves, so as to recognise them. In those days, the woman with no veil was a slave, easy to own. There aren't any slaves any more. All women are free. And no woman, you hear me, should be easy to own! And if Man desires Woman, it's the will of Allah. But it doesn't make us either slaves nor objects to cover... ...just to stifle men's lust. You close your eyes ! Be strong... control your satanic desires yourself, Cover your eyes, not our faces. "Flies only crawl into open mouths ! ' Don't let yourself be manipulated, my boy. You're responsible for everything you say and do. You have a brain, you can reason, you don't have to join the mindless mob. Allah is great, and He expects us all to be responsible for one another and to the Prophet. We should be proud, upstanding respecting ourselves and our community. If you hate just one man, you hate everyone in the community. And leave our Imam alone. If you replace him, I swear before God... I'll kill you myself ! Maybe you're right: We can't continue. The imam is destabilized, and the sheik and the Islamists are delighted. They'll take power. You shouldn't start a war unless you know how to stop it. I didn't start the war. It was already there. I don't understand: Do you want to stop or not ? What do you want, my love ? Water ? Just the water, or much more ? Are you out to challenge everything ? Destroy all tradition ? What IS a woman ? What IS a woman as far as you men are concerned ? Are you saying I don't respect you ? That I underestimate you ? So what ARE you saying ? That I exist ! I exist ! You OK ? OK. - You here to kill me today ? - No, not today. I think I know why you're here. Tell me. In three days, come to Ouria, the largest village in the area. Everyone 'll be there for the Harvest Festival. And...? Nothing. You'll understand down there. You wanna write to S'lim ? Not today. If you're go out you'll get some more. They want to humiliate us in front of the world. They want to talk about their strike at the Harvest Festival And convince other women to do the same. Nawal told me everything. The other women will be here in a week. Ours shouldn't be allowed at the Festival ! There'll be nobody there to stop them... ...but I have a plan. Thank you. They know everything. They're going to stop us going to the Festival. There is only one solution... All of us veiled ! Free men salute you Vigilant and alert day and night The dove bids you welcome Face with work I never flee Sleeves rolled up Perspiring brow Peace and quiet Reinforce my heart So ? You'll see. Men, O root of truth and reality... I savour your shoulders' sweat on a beautiful morning The harvest is good What a blessing ... The woman is a bird That announces the day And turned the trees green Woman is the root Who binds the roots She is the energy Who advances time Thanks to her Time does not disappear Nor falter. They say the year has been good The year is good For the harvest is too Here is the news from our village Our men spent their time drinking tea Purses full, but with empty hearts Isn't it sad that flowers wither ? Even when men have always watered them Men water them with relish. Lend me your ears and listen carefully : No water to the village ? Then let there be no truce... A strike will be our woman's ruse ! The tourist income Should pay for water to the village Right S'lim ? It's over...we offer no cheek to kiss If you approve, write what's happening in your paper. Women, you'll become goats And who wants to see a goat in their bed ? We must never admit defeat. The infinitely small can sometimes be more majestic than anything supposedly great. Water, fresh air, life, even love can gush forth at any time. It's been a long time since I wrote to S'lim. Don't you want to help me anymore ? I didn't think you wanted to. I'm going to write. Look. What's he saying, Leila, what's he saying ? "Te quiero, mi amor!" "Te quiero", Esmeralda! Urgently, please! ! Sami ! We're eating. Sit down. We won. I've been summoned to the prefect's office. A committee's being set up. Sofiane's article created a terrific debate in the Assembly. It accused the government of keeping water from its own people. They're worried it'll be catching, and that women all over the country will join the cause, and demand other rights besides water. The government wants a swift and unpublicised solution. We've always supported the women's approach. They themselves appreciated our going by the book. Water had to be piped in order to relieve them. - A submission was submitted. - Correct. The work starts tomorrow. The whole village has to help. We must settle this quickly ! - And the budget ? - That's all taken care of. Hussein, how're things ? Join us. Later thanks, lmam. I gotta pull up some daffodil roots. Allah be with you. Get out of my sight ! Clear off ! Who are those two men ? What's going on ? They aren't from the village. This way. My princess... You OK ? God didn't make men and women the same Don't make a love-strike Rock your babies and dress them You didn't expect it ? O men, it is shameful ! Everyone in the village knows We've seen men down in the wadi... ...washing the clothes ! "Thanks for everything, Big Sister. "For me learning to read and write. "Do you realise I'm writing this myself ? "Don't worry, the pedlar got his little kiss. "Leila, I know you wrote those letters in the name of S'lim. "In the beginning I wanted it, "But I hated you for lying to me... "Then I realised I probably would have done the same "I would have saved the idea of love even if the man had shied away." Warmer than the sun The man A true lion Full of strength and spirit is the man Strong in all things is the man In my dreams he comes to me, the man And bares his secrets all to me, the man He promises to dwell deep inside me, the man Cherishing my sighs and my body. "I decided to leave. I said nothing to anyone. "I didn't know where I was going, or what sort of life I might have "but I'll be free "and I'm sure I'll find love again. "Goodbye, Leila, my sister. "Te quiero, Loubna." The earth says it can't give life without water A woman's divine spring isn't water "La source des femmes" is love.
