 

                        Every revolution was first a thought in one man's mind. - R.W Emerson Mr Inoue Karou How was your off day yesterday? Is Chika-chan doing well? Oh... It's been quite a while since we dine and took a walk together. It was really fun. That's great! How about you? Are things well between you and your girlfriend? Well, so-so I guess. I see. Good morning. Good morning. Just like an old man... I didn't say anything! Nothing at all! Good morn'. What's the matter? Good morning. Morn'. Good morning. Good morning~. You grew fatter again? I return that sentence exactly back to you, Harakawa-san. Hey, that's sexual harassment! Sexual harasser! Hey! Sexual harasser! Here you go~. Please just spare me! You're in the way! Good morning! Good morning. You came at a good time. Which of them do you think is good for today? I think the one on the left is good. I see... Will it be overly plain? It will be best to stay more plain today... You're right. You are probably right. Mr Inoue Kaoru Who are you attached to today? Policy Research Council Chairman of the ruling party. How about you? Chairperson of the General Affairs Committee. How about you, Sasamoto-san? Secretary General. And you? Chairman of the opposition party, Chichimoto-san. Just recently, she was lecturing me throughout the journey in the car. I got that too. My condolences. See you later. Be a good kid now. Do your work seriously. Inoue. Don't lose your guard. Roger. Reporter for the Diet Toyo Keizai Inc - Nonaka Saburou Ouch! Please don't do that! I prepared this one month back! Hey, isn't it a little too early? This is a pre-celebration! What is the pre-celebration for? You will know in just a while. You should try to figure it out on your own. Hey, go get it. Hello. It sounds lively on your side. Everyone sneaked away to gather here. After all there won't be any work to do today. Even though you are gathered to watch the final match of the World Cup, Please also remember to restrain your din a little. I understand. Your side will get tough later right? Yeah, I might not be able to keep in touch for a while. Let's raise our glasses if the dawn of a revolution is to come. Yes. I am looking forward to it. I can't think of anything else other than that! Isn't it about time to tell us already? What is going to happen from now on? Yusho kai - research club on political business You want to know? I'm not telling~! Welcome. It is great that you are able to make it in time. Sorry to intrude. This is Tanaka. What happened to your regular reports? Where are you now? I'm in Okayama. I am attacked after leaving from Ogata's old house. Someone is after my life. Meaning you've stepped on a mine? Ogata has forged his identity to enter the force. The real Ogata Souichiro is another person. Is there enough evidence uncovered? No, not enough. But I am sure Ogata has some kind of ulterior motive... To have forge his identity and enter the force as a SP. Please detain Ogata ASAP. We will break our bones if we touch people from other divisions without enough evidence. The fuse has already been ignited. We need to stop it before it explodes... Hey you. Don't tell me you've caught a cold. No... I am not having a cold. Well, in the first place, being sick Just shows that one lacks of fighting spirit. What kind of mentality are you having while carrying out your duties as a SP? What will you do if I caught your cold? Hey. Yes. You were one of the guards who were with me sometime back right? When I was doing the town visit. Yes. The members from that time weren't together this time round? Yes. We are separated for today. I see. So SPs do not move around in the same team all the time. Yes. It depends on the situation and needs. But we will be meeting up for a while after this. I see! Are you wavered? To put death upon the Asada Cabinet. It is now or never, to have our humane wishes carried out in the most brilliant fashion. I understand. We've lived till today for the sake of having our revenge against Asada. For me to have become a politician. And for you to have become a SP. All these are just tactics to get closer to Asada. Right? Don't worry. The plan you've drew up is perfect. There will not be any unforeseeable failures. "You and me..." "Shall live and die together." "Even though we seem to be proceeding down different paths," "In reality, we are walking on the same path." These are the words you told me in the past. It is alright for me to trust you, right? I will be waiting for your orders at the office. Okay. About the matter earlier... I understand. I am relying on you for all the matters on the outside world. Right.. I am off. House of Councillors Visitor's Reception Bag check Area Here you go. Thanks. This place is big! Big~! Look over there! See? Please show me your ID. Back of National Diet Building Reporters Entrance Is there anything up? That Inoue guy, where is he assigned to today? It's his training day today. He should not be having duties. Are you certain? Duty Schedule for 4th Division (Changes) 169th Ordinary session of the Diet House of Representative Plenary Session Addtional Deployment - Ishida Mitsuo, Sasamoto Eri, Yamamoto Takafumi, Inoue Kaoru I did not notice it. Ogata must have intervened secretly. Ogata must have sensed something about our plans, right? Even if that is so, It is impossible for Ogata and Inoue to join hands and link forces. I am hanging up. Later. Duty Schedule for 4th Division (Changes) 169th Ordinary session of the Diet House of Representative Plenary Session Sensei, your feelings now? Good morning. Morning. Mr Prime Minister, has there been a resolution with regards to the matter of distrust of the Cabinet? Your feelings now? Mr Prime Minister! Please! Mr Prime Minister! Good morning. Good morning. House of Representatives 2nd Level North Wing Inoue. Mr Secretary General, how are your feelings now? Sensei, is there movements for a rebellion? Mr Secretary General! Some words about this matter. Shall we proceed to the waiting room? Let's wait for Sasamoto. Please, a word with regards to the rebellion. House of Representatives 2nd Level East Wing Good Morning. Good Morning. Mr Prime Minister, please tell us your state of mind now. Mr Prime Minister! What do you think of the rebellion? Mr Prime Minister! A word please! Mr Prime Minister! Mr Prime Minister... Good morning Mr Prime Minister! Good morning! We've been waiting! Just in a while I am going to pull you down, right off that seat. Second Members Office Building of the House of Representatives We are here for the regular maintenance cleaning of the air-con at the 4th level Diet Members' Office. The van behind is with us too. Yes it is fine. Is it fine for this to be so easy? It's fine. This is how Japan is. Second Members Office Building of the House of Representatives Basement 3 Entrance Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Afternoon 1PM We shall start the Diet session now. Chairperson-------! Ogiwara Taichi-kun. I am putting up a Motion with regards to the passage of this Bill. Put up together with Saginuma Fumio and 8 others, As per requested, with regards to the case of distrust in Asada Cabinet, I skipped over the findings of the Committee to present this. We wish to seek approval to pursue this deliberation---! Is there any objections to Ogiwara Taichi-kun's motion? (House of Councillors) No! I recognize that there are no objections. As such the agenda for today shall be the case of distrust in Asada Cabinet. I will now allow the supporters to elaborate on their motive. Saginuma Fumio-kun. Those guys gives off a bad feeling. Did you sexually harassed that girl too? Please spare me! Scary! The real reason is because of Sasamoto-san's bullying acts right? Just in case, shall we also set a trap here too? There is no need for it. I have no qualms if they broke in through here. Ishida. Answer me. Yes. This is Ishida. Take Sasamoto, Yamamoto and Inoue to head for a search in the Committee Room No.1 on 3rd level. If we move at our whim, won't the guards in the Parliament keep an eye on us? Don't worry and just go! This is an urgent request from the headquarters. Search carefully. I understand. We are to head for a search in the Committee Room No.1. I understand. But this is an order from Chief. Let's go. They sensed something didn't they? I doubt so. Those guys are really an eyesore. Use of fire not allowed I guess we can only get down to work. Just as you've said it. House of Representative Building 2nd Level Diet Member Dining Place The policy measures are all controlled by irresponsible politicians. And until now, the public are made victims because of these irresponsible politicians. And what you see here is the Assembly Chamber in the House of Councillors. There is no regular meeting today, Thus we cannot sit in to watch the meeting. However, we can pay a visit to the Public Gallery on the 3rd level. We will explain further in detail once we get there, So please follow us in line. Since there is still some time, shall we play a stimulation game? You guys have been to the National Diet Building right? Yes. If you were to take control of the Diet building, What tactics will you use? You mean the whole of the Diet building? Let's just say the right side only, the House of Councillors. Representative Representative West South East Councillors And for your information, Let's set it such that there is a meeting going on in the Assembly Chamber. Are we allowed to use the army? No, that is too fictitious. Just as I thought. What would Takigawa-san have done? House of Representatives Member Office (2nd Building) Underground Passageway National Diet Building According to the laws of the National Diet, The only police that are allowed in the Assembly Chamber and vicinity involved in the National Diet, Are the police guards. However, The police guards are not allowed to bring in weapons. Probably they did not expect terrorists to be able to infiltrate with weapons. And of course, the police guards sited along the underground passageway connecting the Office for the Diet Members and the Diet Building are unarmed as well. But only SP are exceptions. They are the only ones who are allowed armed weapons in the Diet Building. Gain suppression. The actions that SP team A & B in the Diet Building have to first take, West entrance of House of Representatives. Is to takeover the 2 entrances that connects to the outside on the ground level. At the same time, SP team C & D are to head for the Basement level 1. South Representatives Firstly, secure the entrances to underground passageway that connects the Diet Building and the Members Office Building. And cut off the circulation of the people. Hey! Is there anyone around? Open up! Please stop! I am pleading you! Please stop banging! This is the Central Hall. Over there, there is a stand with no statue on it. Though not sure since when, there were a few stories about it. And among those stories, the most popular one is that, Politics is not perfected, but always moving towards idealism... Do you know who is "Teddy" in the word "teddy bear"? He is the President of America. And this comes to the end of the guided tour in the Diet Building. Once we are outside, we will be heading towards the main entrance. Please follow me this way. Let us all head towards the exit. The guided tour is over. Please join the rest over here. Excuse me. What are you doing! Don't raise a ruckus. The guided tour is over. Get lost now. What are the terrorist team that has infiltrated the Diet building doing? What is the best way, To isolate the House of Representatives swiftly and successfully? South Representatives That's easy. You just have to cut off the circulation of the 2 east and west corridors that links the House of Representatives and the House of Councillors. The corridors are common from basement level 1 to the 3rd level, thus making that 4 floors in total. Multiply by 2, so in other words, One just have to block the 8 corridors in one way or another That's correct. As expected from the Ministry of Finance. Your calculations are fast. Court services are indeed tough. Lift up your right leg. Put it down. Do you understand what is this? This is a land mine by the name of Claymore. There are 700 steel balls in it. If it explodes, do you understand what will happen? Humans will become just like the Disney animation cheese, full of holes. This is such a cruel weapon. Now I am going to set this in various spots along the corridor. Your duty is to be a lookout. If there is some heroic blockhead wanting to enter the corridor, Do stop them. Do you understand? With this as a chance. The rules of no weapons allowed for guards might change someday. Until that day comes, it will be good if you are still alive. Hey! What happened?! Don't come closer! Please do not come any closer! After taking down 2 no.s of corridor, Representatives West West East South Councillors All of the SP team will be moved to the 2nd and the 3rd level. And secure all the exits of the Assembly Chamber, leaving only 1 exit. And the preparations are done. What is left is the finishing touches. And no one will be able to intervene. What is wrong? Are you alright? I might not be fine. Eh? Perhaps... Are you sure to exclude Inoue from this? I am sorry for having you involved in this. I am not being forced by you. This is something I decided with my own will. Where are you going? I am going to take a look around the Assembly Chamber. What could possibly happen in that kind of place? I will be back soon. ..And looked into the flaw in social insurances for medical treatments, nursing and etc. They way he is punctual is quite heartening. And with that, the attack on Asada Cabinet on the basis of distrust without any confirmation of facts, Is certainly just a performance in order to boost your electoral votes... That is just reckless! We, the Constitutional Democratic Party, just as what Saginuma Representative has said earlier, If given the political rights, will see that this is resolved splendidly. And we reassure that we can give the public a peace of mind, However... ...Coalition government's... Stand up. Return to your seat. Silence. Is that really the sound from a gunshot? Unmistakably. Take out your pen. Do not leave anything out and record all of these down. From this moment, the National Diet Building, House of Representatives, Is under our control now. Firstly, the Diet members who are in the House of Representatives, As well as the secretaries of the members, I would like your attention please. All of the exits to the outside are blocked. On all floors, our armed members are also keeping a lookout. If anyone is found trying to make unnecessary escapes, We will execute judgment with weapons. On top of that, at strategic spots on every floor, We have also set up traps that prevents people from escaping nor entering. We have used unusually strong explosives, Thus we will not assure one's life if he triggers the bomb. To avoid useless chaos, And to prevent the waste of lives, it will be best, House of Representatives Prime Minister's Office If all ladies and gentlemen will stay put obediently in your place. And all of the above applies to everyone in the House of Councillors as well. This is your chance, Mr Prime Minister. I hope strongly that everyone can do as I said. Next, to all civil servants. We will be announcing our requests. But before that. Stand up. Wear it. Cabinet Crisis Management Control Room There is an emergency. Come in. Did something happened? There is an emergency. Concerning Ogata? National Diet Building taken over by terrorists House of Representatives Assembly Chamber ------------------------------- Stopped We have 2 requests to make to all civil servants. First. Until our revolution has ended, please do not take any unnecessary counter actions. Security Control Room We will be checking on all the security camera that has been set up in the facilities of the Diet Building. Upon confirmation of intruders into the grounds, Or if we sensed that there is something unusual going on, For the price of such stupid acts, We will make someone out of these 480 people here pay. And one more request is... Money?! Stand. Was that true courage? Or was that some rotten arrogance? Know your shame. I am going to announce the other request. First. Do not restrict the contents screened on television and do not make any changes or editing to this content. Our motives are, To not leave out anything that is happening in this Assembly Chamber, And let the public know. If our motives are not reached, Our existence will be reduced to nil. In other words, there is no reason to live. If our motives are protected in good faith, We will immediately give up our living rights. But we will also have everyone in this Assembly Chamber face the same fate. Prime Minister Office Crisis Management Center Tactics Room Among all the civil servants, Everyone must be wondering about how true is the bomb threat. Thus we will use a direct method, And show all what is the strength of the bomb. It is surely a bluff. Shall we just head up again and bring the guards down? Eh... Let's just wait for them to come instead. We cannot get in touch at all. Confirmation cannot be done. The Second Members Office Building of the House of Representatives has been hit. Get the Chief of Staff, Commissioner General and Superintendent General, And bring them here immediately. Roger. What is the reason? Why would Chief do something like that? To all civil servants, I am warning you again. If you do not wish to see the place here reduced to a pile of barren rubble, Please follow our request honestly. In the event that the plan has been carried out smoothly, We will drop all arms and surrender. In short, The best move that all of you should take, Is to do nothing and just watch the broadcast. Lastly. I am saying this to all of the public. What we are going to do now, Is to show how corrupted the Central power of the state is, And to bring to light how shallow they are. The true aim behind this revolution is to give everyone a wake up call. Going with the flow is not a virtue. Giving up is not a virtue either. In this country's system, If there is anyone who can sense these unreasonableness, inequality and untruthfulness, Pay close attention to whatever what will happen from now on. Clear your ears and don't miss out a word nor sentence. And think with your own head. Act upon it. SP, Cool! SP is stirring up some rebellion! Nation's hero = SP Think with your own head, and act upon it To your places. We will head to our positions once we restrained Inoue and co. I understand. Kiuchi. As far as possible, please do not use your guns. Roger. Let's split up to search. Inform each other when they are found. Roger. Now we will question specific delegates from all of the cabinet ministers. The people doing the questionings are the four of us. And of course, I hope the people replying will tell the truth. And we shall start. Tanabe Chief Cabinet Secretary. Proceed to the rostrum. Hurry up! Do you know about the public company Nano Medic? They are doing Research and development of anti-cancer drugs with the use of nano technology. They are the talk of the town known as bioventure. Do you or do you not know? Ah... I don't know... It was listed half a year ago and is an enterprise with a start off worth of 1.2 million. You do know right? Do you know Takeda Chiyoko? You do know that lady is a individual shareholder right? What's your relations? My wife's sister-in-law. So, How much is your profits from this private equity? Using the connection when you were still the Minister of Health and Welfare, how much illegal profits did you earn? This, isn't it the information that I contributed? That is a popular topic in the Ministry of Health an Welfare isn't it? Well, almost all my superiors knows about it. But there is no one who spoke about it. That is why we took the lead to voice it out. It is not us. It is the people who are at the scene on television. That's true. Even though the plans till this point is drew up by Ogata, Is there going to be more later? Don't be impatient. This has just begun, how can there be anyone who can foresee the ending? We also got hold of other facts, That there are many under-table donations made by other companies, We shall not go into details here. I want to avoid making the National Diet continue overnight. However... Mass communication companies mailing list This mail that contains your many dirty deeds, Will be forwarded to the many major mass communication companies. Send To the mass communication companies which received this mail, do not change the contents, In 30 minutes, put these up in the top page of your own company's website. Do not harp on fulfilling the duties as the Fourth Estate of Power, In light of mass communication companies rejecting to publish the information, The public will deliver your right punishments in some ways. Thanks for the hard work. Return to your seat. Yoshihara Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transportation. Proceed to the rostrum. Whichever you choose to do, your politician life is coming to an end. How about facing the public and acknowledge your crimes at the very end? I see. Right till the end, you still wish to betray the expectations that the public has of you? What will happen even if you do such things!? You all are putting the foundations of the country in danger. Don't you even understand that?! If at this moment, neighbouring countries come and attack us, what should we do?! Who is going to protect the lives of the public? If you guys are really grieving over the matters of our country, Disarm yourselves immediately and surrender! I am not going to make things difficult for you later on. I will do something about it. As the leader of a country, I promise! Creating made up threats and deluding the hearts of people, And taking advantage of that chance. Indeed that is something a politician would say. Don't worry. The foundations of the country will not be shaken by these. Because isn't that already tested and proven? Till date, there have been many who gave up their positions as Prime Minister with extreme ease, Just like how fast a cat's pupil change, the power can be handed over in a short time, And even if the workings of the Diet is stalled considerably, this country will not fall apart. This in the past, When you guys are dirtying your jobs, Fighting between factions all day long, Even at the price of misgovernment, This country still moved forth somehow. Is there any meaning to your existence at all? How about cutting the crap and just accept the fact? The ones who are endangering the foundations of the country, Are people like you. The only reason why the country don't fall is because there are outstanding bureaucrats. Ain't I right? That is of course! I wonder what will those outstanding bureaucrats do in this situation? They will not do anything.Though they will pretend to be doing something. Setting road blocks all around the National Diet Building. Putting up request to send out the SAT. Doing checks on all the terrorists background. Gathering legal consultants. Directing the Mass Communication Companies. Even if those orders are given, Orders to infiltrate are hard to give. The people who would give orders to infiltrate in such tough situation, Are those who turned politicians when they cannot stay as a bureaucrat. But if it was me I will definitely give such orders. What should we do? Yes. This is Inoue. Report the current situation in short. I'm with Ishida, Sasamoto, Yamamoto in the Communist Party Reporters Club Room. We are not sure of the situation in detail. You guys are not involved in the doings of Ogata right? If we did, do you think I would have answered the phone? That's true. Anyway I understand your situation now. You are to stay out of unnecessary trouble, and act as the main person of contact for us. Do you understand that? What are we to do in the case of terrorists attacking us? Don't put up unnecessary resistance and give in to them. What are we to do if you all are the cause of making the situation worse? Anyway, from now on... Don't take any actions that will dirty the name of SP, Do you understand? Hello? Reply me, Inoue. Section Chief? He ordered us to do nothing and hide here. Do you think that it is a coincidence that we are ordered to do a search at that kind of timing? Do you think the fact that we are assigned to the Diet Building today is a coincidence? Chief wants us to stop him. Let's make a move. Wait! Don't move at your whim! I found them. Chief has betrayed us. Are you fine with him dirtying the name of SP? I don't care about that kind of thing! If we don't hurry up it will be too late! Calm down! Above that, what is going on with other SPs? Aren't they restrained by the terrorists too? Other than that, They might have betrayed us too. Put up your hands. You guys too. I have a strong dislike for you since before. What a coincidence. I have a dislike for you too. Move towards one s... Inoue! SPs are strong. Restrain them. Roger. I am sick of scolding you. Sorry. Inoue. Where is the person you are to protect? In the Assembly Chamber. Our protected persons are in danger. There is only one thing that SP should do. We've got to gather all the information we can get by investigating each floors. Roger. ...with yatches in the 6 enterprises owned by your relatives, Financing them with about 3 billion from the union bank. After which 90% of the loan is turned into bad credits, That's the pace to go. Embezzling 2.7 billion in the process. Answer straightforwardly! Yes. House of Representatives 3rd level There are no enemies on the 3rd level. I think those guys from just now are supposed to be stationed here right? House of Representatives 2rd Level In the East West corridor on the 2nd level, I confirmed that there are 2 armed SP, Mochida and Takano. I am unable to check on the North corridor. House of Representatives Ground Level At the ground level of the East West corridor near the entrance, There is 1 terrorist-like guy who is armed, a total of 2 is spotted. I am unable to check the North corridor. House of Representatives Basement Level 1 Excuse me. I am being called out by National Police Agency. With regards to what course of actions shall we take, We shall leave it for later. I am off to the toilet. Yes? Are you watching the television? I am not that free. It is going on unbelievably well. If everything goes on smoothly as it is, it will end in an hour's time. I see. With regards to that, can I have your help in making arrangements soon? I understand. That's all. Later. With regards to that, please proceed. It's a wonder you didn't die. He might have thought that I was dead. You know about the situation? Yes. All the ministries are at their peak of chaos. If it is now, there might be a fluke that we can lure Kajiyama out in this confusion. I think it will take some time before we can get Kajiyama. Prior to that, we should quickly try to bait Takigawa and Ando and get them. If they know about Ogata's background and motive, We can use that to try stop Ogata. That's true. You're late. I went on a search for some stuff around the offices. If we were to infiltrate the Assembly Chamber, we've got to take control of the 2nd Level. The only worry I have is their backups getting in the way. The guys who are standing as a lookout on the outsides and the entrances, Do not have a great extent liberty, thus I doubt they can leave their position. I think it is fine not to account for them. The troublesome ones are the ones on the ground level. It will be good if we can gain control quietly without them noticing. Whether they noticed or not, couldn't we just take them down? I thought you might say that, thus I prepared these. What are these? Stuff used to set up traps. They are quieter than land mines and will have a better effect. Let's use these to bring them down. Will these be alright? Somehow I am bored. It is not like it is surprising that there are bad politicians around. I guess it there is some ransom, Or a request for a jumbo jet during the time of escape, Or some action fighting exchange with a national hero, The footage is boring. Ah... Just like the movies in Hollywood, Even if there are some useless explosion scene, it is good. In the end it is just only about teaching these politicians a lesson. It is really a boring story. You guys are really shallow. If there are guys there like you, The bureaucrats will label you as idiots and look down on you. What's with that all of a sudden. This drama is made up of 2 parts. Till now, the simple lecturing drama plot is written by Ogata-san, We are just people who had been helping out in the back. And from now on, the complicated Taiga drama plot is written by us all. And of course that is kept hidden from Ogata-san. For example if the terrorists, Deems that this certain politician's crimes are not comparable, And purposely withheld that information, what do you think will happen? And let's say that politician, Has enough strengths and charisma, what do you think will happen? That politician will gain political power all of a sudden. It is not just political powers. It is a big power that does not exist until now. And that politician will get that all in just one night. That politician will be selling a lot of favors. Well at any rate, it is us who had set this up. After this confusion has died down. We will have them dance a lot at the center stage. But at the back pulling strings are us. We will use these puppets to run our ideal country. There will not be a country in this world that can realise this. We will make the perfect bureaucracy come true. And this is what you call, A Revolution. Ogata-san only thought about destroying this country. And of course destroy is fun, But being able to control is even more fun. Don't you think so? It is really peaceful. That's true. Do you all want to play a movie quiz? You're noisy. Then.. Let's not then. Isn't it too fast to give up? This is Inoue. My side went well. My side went well too. Is that on purpose? Stupid. Quickly help to carry now. Right! I admit to all my crimes... Please forgive me! Go back now. This is Inoue. My preparations are completed. Mine too. Let's meet on the 2nd level. Roger. I am off. Take care. Well though I don't think you will die if you fell off. Can I get your help in tying him up? Just one more person to Asada Prime Minister. Finally. I have a question though. What is it? Oogata-san belongs to our side right? Then why is he taking a risk to involve himself in a real crime? If he is caught, he would probably be sentenced to death for criminal insurrection, right? From the start, he probably just likes to be in action? I have no idea too. But for sure, there is some special motivation for him. And those who knew is Ogata-san himself, and probably... And very soon the finale will start. The big climax that we've wrote. It is alright for me to trust you right? When you point your gun nozzle at Asada, I will direct my rage at Asada, And take action together with you, Putting the blame of this country's rotten system on Asada. If we are not able to get our revenge, Let's die together. This is Inoue. I've reach our position. Us too. Let's go then. Sasamoto-san. What? I still wish you will be able to hit me all the time. Don't worry. I will hit you more often than usual from now on. Roger. Let's go. Stop. Don't come any closer than that. Stop! I'm going to shoot! Did you all wear the bulletproof vest? Don't get in our way. Turn in obediently. Why are you doing this Kirishima-san? Why did you do something that tarnished the name of SP? You guys, Do you really think that your colleagues Are putting their lives on the line to fulfill their duties? I don't know. But. For SP's name and my buddies, I am putting my life on the line to protect them. If someone precious to you, Becomes a sacrifice due to a wrong drug prescription incident and is killed off, what will you do? If the person involved in this incident is one of those who are here, what will you do? This person, Is always near your side, what will you do? Can you stand it? You can still make it. Please recommend your gang to disarm themselves and surrender. Cabinet Prime Minister Asada Yuuzo. Proceed to the rostrum. You are certainly the SP who saved my life right? Yes. That is such an irony. And that person is now pointing his gun nozzle at me. The reason of saving you back at that time, Is just so that you are not killed by other's hand. Do you have a hatred against me? Do you remember a Member of the House of Representatives by the name of Naruse Hideo? A member who belonged to the same Tezuka Party. You used to favor him a lot as a senior. I remembered but I am not close to him. As a punishment if you tell lies, I don't mind shooting you immediately. I will bear with it a little more. Do you remember the cause of his death? I believe it was suicide. And the reason behind his suicide? How would I have known? Naruse is suspected to be making illegal profits from Asahi securities, And driven to desperation for not being able to clear his name, he took his life. ...is what that is being spread around. So what do you think? Even until now though the truth might be buried in the thicket, I still believe in Naruse-kun's innocence. As a matter of fact, he is a very straightforward person. Then, who is the person, Who used Naruse to open a false bank account, And put in the embezzled funds from the securities company as if he did it? Answer me! I don't know! How would I know... I will not miss the next time. When the mass communities learned about your presence behind this incident, You staged a fictitious terrorist incident. Weaving an incredible tale. And lead the public on magnificently, Furthermore, The articles on Naruse's murder reported by the mass media, Were all subdue by your money and power. All for the sake of putting all the crime on Naruse alone, You killed him off and made it look as if it was a suicide. Naruse did not kill himself. He was murdered by you. Even if that is just a speculation, stop it. Admit your crimes. I have no crimes to admit to. Stop and admit your crimes now! The day Naruse was killed on, Was his own birthday. The first eye witnesses, Were Naruse's family who came home to celebrate with him. After that, Naruse's family dispersed, They have never once been able to imagine a brighter future ahead. If you have even the least bit of consciences left, Admit to your crimes honestly. And to Naruse And his family, apologise. Although I pitied Naruse-kun's family, That is something that Naruse did on his own. I swear to heaven and earth that I am not guilty! I see. And now... Wait! Wait! This is the moment of the rise of a new leader. I understand your feelings of hatred for the evil and the want to do justice, But nothing will be resolved by the means of violence. What are you saying? No matter how right your words are, One bullet will reduce everything to nil. In the first place, if not for the explosives, who would lend a ear to what you've got to say? If you don't have guns, who would agree to what you all accused? The things you all are doing is meaningless. The label that you will be labeled with is criminals! But even as of now it isn't too late. Put down your weapons. Face me! And let's talk with earnest. By doing so, The label on you will changed to revolutionists! Put down your weapons! Yes! Yes! The thing you are aiming for, Is to be the king of all these pretentious people? It is still not too late. Put down your weapon. And face me! Put down your gun. Why did you betray me? In the first place our objectives are different. We are happy if just one bug in the country is gotten rid of. When we are old, we will have that person look after us. He will also spare us the pardon. Put down your gun. I am fine with dying for the sake of the better good. Be careful with that. It's dangerous! All right~! I shall open it. Admit your crimes! Shoot me! I will never admit to it! I see. Do you really want to die that much? Ogata-san! Throw down your gun. Don't get in my way. This guy don't worth to be saved by you twice. Why ain't you firing? If you shoot me, everything will be resolved. Are you alright?! Behind... Behind... Please come this way! Stop! Stop! Throw your gun down! Throw your gun down! Stop! Mr Prime Minster! Mr Prime Minister! Get out of the way! Call the SAT! Quickly call in the SAT! Yes, let's go! This is your last chance. Admit your crimes. I remembered. It was you. Admit your crimes. I've lost. I admit my crimes. All my things has been taken cared of. It's time for you to settle yours. Throw down your gun please. Throw down your gun please! Are you going to shoot me? Can you kill me? Shoot me! Hurry up and stop me! Really.. You fell out of my expectations. But... You are correct. Arrest me. I don't want to be arrested by other people. That's impossible. I did not bring any handcuffs along. Security Bureau - 4th District Section Yeah, I understand. Ogata is arrested. The person who arrested him seems to be Inoue. I see. The Prime Minister is fine. And there seems to be no politicians hurt. The only thing hurt is their bright careers though. Please let me be in charge of Ogata's investigations. You seem to be awfully spirited. Faking a resume and becoming a SP is not something normal. There must be some accomplices in the police force if I were to check on his resume. And there may be in other divisions too. If there are some organizations that has dark secrets in the force, We need to uncover them quickly. Shall we go get us some young bureaucrats then? When did Japan become such dangerous country? This is really troublesome! Yuusho kai Six months later It is time for questioning. Get out. It will be a while more. Yosh, let's go. Roger. What's wrong? Can you guys go ahead first? I will catch up later. That guy seem to be in good condition lately. It seems like his dizziness and headaches have gone away. Is he doing some kind of dangerous drugs? Ouch! That feels great! Feels like I am still alive! You are disgusting! Don't come near me! Ouch! Ahh.. My specs broke! Mr Inoue Karou
