 

                        1 [ Music playing ] Space. For some, it's a curiosity. For me, it's my passion, and for as long as I can remember, It's always been my dream to travel beyond our planet. Thankfully, the road was paved for me long before I was born. JOHN F. KENNEDY: I believe that this nation should commit itself to achieving the goal of landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to the Earth. After Apollo 11 took us there, becoming an astronaut became the dream of every young boy and girl in America. And the space program grew, and the stars were no longer just something to look up at, but a new frontier to explore. My father was an astronaut aboard the Space Station before becoming a flight director at Mission Control in Houston, Texas. He was there during the peak of the shuttle program, for the successes and the tragedies. Things changed after that, for my parents and for NASA, but not me. With a part-time job at NASA's Space and Aeronautics Museum, I was still looking to the stars. I know what you're thinking. "How could that scrawny kid with his voice changing get into space?" This is astronaut Charlie Duke, one of only 12 men to have ever walked on the moon. Hey, Jimmy. How are you? Here we have Astronaut, a mechanic designed to work alongside astronauts on space missions. As it happened, there was a way to go to space, Space Camp, where this year, the first prize to their annual summer competition was a trip to the International Space Station. With a dad who'd worked at NASA, I knew everything there was to know about space, which I was hoping might be just enough to make it into the competition. I can remember the fateful day it all began like it was yesterday. [ Rattling doorknob] MOW.! Mom! I forgot my key! Yes. Yes. - Ohh. - Freeze! Put your hands where I can see them. L-I'm not breaking and entering. I live here. You live here. Yeah, they all say that. I'm afraid you're gonna have to come with me, son. Highway Patrol? Space Patrol. If you're not a space junkie like I am, it's hard to explain what that moment felt like. Congratulations, Jimmy. I'm Captain Roy Manley. Your essay-- For real? Nah, I just wanted to drive all the way out here to break your heart. Heh heh. Congratulations, old sport. You're in. I bet I know why I won. I bet you don't. Because my dad was the smartest and bravest astronaut ever in the program. I win. What'd we bet? Because I know so much about the Space Station? Well, that helps. It will be nice having an expert on board. No, your poem. By Magi? You know it? It made me remember, remember how I felt in the beginning. Now... if I can just meet with your mom and have her sign a few forms... Oh, uh, that's the thing. She's a lawyer. She's at work. Just have her call me, and, uh, we can meet later and have her sign those forms then. - Okay. - Goodbye, Jimmy. Congratulations. Thank you. Come on, Tops. This can't be happening. [ Narrating ] But no man works alone, and in order to compete against the reigning champs at Space Camp, we were going to need a world-class team ourselves. - [ Fireworks whistle ] - [cheering ] - [screaming ] - Hallelujah Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah JIMMY: Tao, the rocket man. [ Applause ] [coughs] [ Chorus vocalizes ] Back in the U.S. Back in the U.S.S.R. Well, the Ukraine girls really knock me out... Sergei, this is Captain Manley. JIMMY: Sergei, computer genius. Moscow girls make me sing and shout... Did you design all these characters yourself? I do back-end code for Hallows Revenge. My buddy gives me characters for free. A practical boy. [ Choir vocalizes ] [ "Sweet Home Alabama" by Lyndon Skydiver playing ] Sweet Home Alabama Where the skies are so blue - Hurry up with that oil, son. - Almost done, Dad. Sweet home Alabama JIMMY: Rusty, the mechanic. Lord, I'm coming home to you Sweet home Alabama. Thank you, mister. Uh... that could be a challenge. [crowd cheering ] That girl thinks she's the queen of the neighborhood She's got the hottest trike in town That girl, she holds her head up so high I think I want to be her best friend, yeah Rebel girl I know I wanna take you home I wanna talk to you... - [ Clanging ] - [cheering ] JIMMY: Dani, robotics genius. [ Chorus vocalizes ] Cool. I think I'm available. Oh, you might not want to-- - [whirs] - Robert, unlink. Robert, unlink. Unlink. Unlink. [groaning] I'm sorry. It's, uh, a work in progress. [ Manley groans] [ "Don't Rain on My Parade" playing ] JIMMY: And, of course, a pilot, Lacey. It is an honor to meet the best pilot in our competition. Is there a reason you prefer drones? My father died in an F-18 when I was 7. Drones reduce the exposure risk of the pilot. Ever since the moment of his funeral, this is all I've ever wanted to become, and I can fly anything you throw at me. You sure you have what it takes to pilot a spaceship to the stars? Are you questioning my piloting skills, Captain? Hey, world I' Here I am Don't tell me not to fly I've simply got to Nobody had better Rain on my parade IHah Now I just needed to convince my mom to let me go, and, so far, she wasn't budging. Hey, Mom. How was your day? Oh, it's still in progress. [ Mom sighs] I have two motions to draft and an irrevocable trust. What's that I smell? It's nothing special, - [ding ] - just some homemade lasagna. Wow. I didn't know it was a special occasion. Good weekend with your dad? You know, they gave him a new car. He was doing such a good job, they wanted to move him up to management for much more money, but he said that he wanted to continue to work in research... So in lieu of a raise, they leased him a car. He told me. Did I mention I'm going to do the lawn bright and early tomorrow? You can build a roof, paint Tom Sawyer's fence. You're not going to Space Camp. Come here, sweetie. All right, this is the last time we're gonna have this conversation. What happened when you were three? Dad got fired. Because of a big fight over... A return heat shield. And if they'd listened to him, he could have saved all those people. Maybe. We'll never know. But what I do know for sure is that I've watched two space shuttles explode, and on one of them, I lost my aunt. Now, no son of mine is gonna enter a competition where the first prize is a ride on the next space project. But, Mom, we're not going to win. The other teams are older and totally experienced. And when you do win-- because you are that smart-- you will be the only kid who can't go to space 'cause his mom doesn't want him to. Totally. You know what needs work, kid? Your lying. Jimmy! How long are you gonna keep your dad waiting? Right there. - HEY- - HEY- You want to do the right thing here? Well, don't I always? Please don't make me the bad cop on this Space Camp thing. I won't. I promise you. - Thanks. - Sure. JIMMY: So my parents said no, but I couldn't let my dreams go so easily. Facing potential lifelong grounding and more, I decided to take matters into my own hands. All I needed was a few old voice mails from my dad and a really smart phone. [ Recording ] Apologize for what? Sally, we had an agreement. Sally, we had an-- Sally, we had a-- Sally, we had an agreement. [garbled voice plays] Sorry it doesn't fit into your schedule. Sorry it doesn't fit into y-- Sorry. I'm sorry-- for this late notice. Sally-- VOICE MAIL: I apologize for the late notice, Sally. I finished work ahead of schedule. If it's okay with you, I'd like to pick Jimmy up this Monday at 10:00 for our camping trip. Let me know. That's odd. I can't remember the last time he said, "I'm sorry." Well, I mean, if you have something for me to do, I'll stay, but I'd love to go. Actually, this trial is gonna take up most of my time next week, so if you want to go... Amazing how things just work out sometimes. I didn't know it then, but Space Camp was going to be one of the most important moments of my life. Yes. Hey, guys. Hey, yourself, dude. That's my bunk. Whoa. Sorry, "Russell." I guess I'll just sleep on the bottom bunk, unless you'd rather I slept on the floor. - Sounds good to me. - Girls, girls, please. No need to cat-fight over top bunk. Simple solution. I take. I'm Sergei. This is Tao. JIMMY: The rocket guy. I heard about you. So how did you get picked for Space Camp? I wrote an essay. I'm Jimmy Hawkins. Figures. Anyone got a Phillips head screwdriver? Name's Daniella. Everyone calls me Dani. If you call me Daniella, then I bring the pain. Also, I don't like anyone touching my robot, so if I catch you handling my hardware, I'll bring the pain. And last, but not least, if you try to short-sheet me or make me pee in my sleep-- - You'll bring the pain. - Exactly. How 'bout that screwdriver, buddy? Sorry. TSA took it when they got my blowtorch and table saw. Keep working on that sense of humor. I got a game to fix and a tool to find, okay? - Whoa. - Oh, wait. Wait. Wait. This might work. Maybe so. Come meet my roommate. [machine guns firing] Listen up, roomie. Yeah! James, this is Lacey from Las Vegas. She's the most promising and wicked pilot known to all galaxies. She writes poetry, she's an okay archer, and she doesn't have a boyfriend. This is Jimmy. He wrote some essay. Later. Um, could I borrow that? So what do you think of everyone on the team, as a writer? I don't really have an opinion yet. So you're a boring writer. Rusty's full of himself, Sergei likes to poke fun, Bao's pretty smart, and Dani's pretty cool. You left me out. You're scary. Scary? I like that. - Are you hungry? - Yeah. Food's good. JIMMY: Yeah, I really need to work on my game. As far as my team was concerned, the jury was still out. All I knew for certain was that I was not going to miss my ride to space and that I had at least one teammate that I liked for sure. Heh. You're not loving it. Could use tarragon. How do you even know what that is? I cook. Careful, Writer. You're edging toward becoming interesting. Not really. I live alone with a single mom who works late. So will you cook for me? I Will, definitely. JIMMY: Wow, this cooking thing is really starting to work for me. So don't you listen to what they say [ New song plays] Y'all know what kind of motor oil this thing takes? Uh, ahem! I don't think so. No way. This is the actual Robonaut. I can't believe this is actually here. [giggles] [ Blows] [video speaking indistinctly] [whistling a tune] JIMMY: Heh. Well, you couldn't expect me not to at least take a snoop around. This was Space Camp, after all. If I had known what was going on 250 miles above our heads, I would have called my dad from that ham radio at that very moment. [P.A.] Attention, all NASA personnel, debris from satellite collision is entering safety perimeter of ISS. Commander Koslav, this is Houston Control. You need to complete your resupply mission and have your crew return to the station. Sector four-niner is reporting a collision between two comm satellites. KOSLAV: Roger that. CREW MEMBER: Something also, high fluid thermal conditioning is-- COPY- Thermal conditioning not required. Initiating debris avoidance maneuver. Uh, we mentioned earlier about that, uh, you can expect the pump... ...0200 with 19 on the boards at 3K. Okay, Houston, debris appears to have cleared the ISS. [ Applause ] Good morning, Space Camp. I'm Dr. Deborah Barnhart, CEO of the U.S. Space and Rocket Center. Your first briefing is going to be from Commander Phillips, one of the most distinguished and well-qualified people at NASA, and he wants to begin this morning with a few personal words for you. - Commander Phillips. - [ applause] Greetings, Space Campers. Heh. So how about a bit of love for my home state of Alabama? [ Applause ] - I--I can't hear you. - [cheering ] Okay, I couldn't hear you. There. It's a pleasure to have such a dedicated group of young people as part of this competition. See, some people think that we've lost our interest in space, that your generation has grown up with other interests, but we need you. We need you, because we want to prove that that is not true, that they're wrong. Now, starting today, you'll be matched against each other in competition. Now, you will be scored on timing, strength and endurance. We will also test your science ability. Now, all of these tests are to determine not only your leadership skills, but also to see how you work as a team. Now, I want to hear my favorite words here at Space Camp, "Mission Control, we are go for launch." CAMPERS: We are go for launch! Ah. Now have a great Space Camp, everyone. [ Applause ] At the conclusion of these six days, the team that scores the most points will be the first kids to travel to the Space Station on Orion Two, the next stage of the next generation of space travel. - [cheering ] - Good luck, trainees, and let the games begin. Okay, guys, competition starts today. Are you ready? - Yes, sir. - Yes, sir. I said, "Are you ready?" ALL: Yes, sir! Tao, how much does the ISS waste collection system cost? - The what? - The toilet. $19 million, so don't let me catch you leaving the seat up again. Whoo. That's a costly toilet. Ah, Mr. Riggs. Ha ha! You're working on your sense of humor there, huh? I was just wondering if you're ready, sir, for how hard we're gonna beat 'em. Well, it looks like a leader has stepped forth. So you are ready for whatever it takes, no matter what? - Name it, sir. - Yeah? Let me see your moonwalk. [ Chuckles ] - Huh. - A moonwalk. It's what astronauts do on the moon. Come on. Give me a little bit of your Billie Jean. - [ laughs] - Yeah. A little "ooh." Yeah! Whoo! Here's what we don't do, Mr. Riggs. We don't pop off. We don't mock. We don't make fun of. We work together as a team. Now, are we ready? ALL: Yes, sir! All right. Well, dismissed. Coming through. Out of the way. Squad halt. Sergeant Conway. Titans, fall in on formation! Well, what do we have here? [ Scoffs ] Looks like fresh meat. Smells like dead meat. My dad says they're a publicity stunt. Let's go! Give me 10! 1, 2, 3, 4, 5... These are the multi-axis trainers, or M.A.T. Lacey, can you tell me its purpose? The multi-axis trainer simulates an astronaut's ride upon reentry into the Earth's atmosphere. Excellent. As current champions, the Titans go first. All right, team, let's show 'em how it's done. Let's do this. Watch and learn. [woman vocalizing ] - It's a beau-, beau- - Whoo hoo! Beautiful world we've been given From the top of the sky to the ocean... All right, Captain Manley, Warriors are up. It must be supernatural... Okay, in about 30 seconds you're gonna feel like the bottom dropped out of the world. - I'm gonna die. - Piece of cake. What if I hurl? Keep breathing. Don't hold your breath. Uhh. I think I am gonna hurl. Your inner-ear fluids won't settle. - You won't hurl. - It's supernatural Amazing life Amazing life... This next challenge is the microgravity simulator, which simulates the moon's gravitational pull, which is--Anyone? 1/6 of the gravity on Earth. Yeah. Ah, let's show 'em how it's done. - Yeah, dude. - Hey, counselor, you better be marking this down as a 10. LeBron James, how do you like me now? [ Overlapping conversations ] Hey, well, if it isn't the Warriors. What's going on, 9W5? Oh. Oh, no. [laughing] Ooh. You must be our competition. I'm Jimmy. We don't have competition. You're a bunch of dweebs, weak, reckless and undisciplined. '(owe a bunch oi have-nets. - Ah-choo! - [ laughter] - Ho ho! - Wow. Looks like you're a have-snot now. All right, that's it. - You little-- - Hey, stop. It's not worth it. We'll see you tomorrow. Space Station, I'm indicating a malfunction near the ammonia pump and coolant system. Please verify and report. KOSLAV: En route there now. Commander Koslav out. [ Electricity crackling ] NYet- Nyet! [gas hissing ] We're losing pressure. Get out of here and close the hatch. You'll be locked off. Do it! I'll be right behind you. Space Station, do you copy? During takeoff and reentry, an astronaut is subjected to extreme g-forces. The centrifuge mimics those forces. Also known as the machine that makes you puke. [centrifuge hisses] [whirring] [classical music playing ] We're getting close to three Gs now. Good. Hah. [ speaking Russian ] [ Tao moans] [ Both yelling ] [ Babbles] [ Groans ] I survive. Okay. [Sighs] Ohh. I make it. [gagging 1 [ gasps ] [ Vomits ] [laughs] MANLEY: Ah, you did well today. You should feel good about yourselves. We got our butts kicked. Yep. It's only the first day. I suggest you guys get some rest. You're gonna need it. - JIMMY: This is GRT... - [groans] KC2A. Anyone there? GRT KC2A, come in. Hey, Dad. Hey, I was just wishing you were here. Just totally aced putting up the tent. Piece of cake, huh? Uh, yeah. Do you know a Navy Captain named Manley? He came into the center yesterday while I was giving a tour, and I mentioned how awesome you are, and, well, he seemed to know you. Yeah. I used to know him. He's the guy who fired me. He's the one who didn't believe you? About the heat shield? No, no, not exactly. He actually went to bat for me until he got killed by the brass for even suggesting an abort. If they'd listened to you, they would have-- Son... maybe one of the single most important things for a person to learn is humility. When you think you know it all, when you think you're the smartest guy in the room, that's when you-- that's when you need to listen to other people. So if Captain Manley comes around again, make sure you tell him I said hi. Okay, Dad. For this next test, you have 24 hours to launch the Discovery. You will dock with the International Space Station. You will launch a satellite, and then you will safely bring the Discovery back to planet Earth. Now, before we launch, are there any questions? - We're good. - Good. Sergei. Let's light this bad boy. We are go for launch. My favorite words. Auto sequence start in T-minus 5, 4, 3,2,1. Solid rocket booster ignition. Discovery, you have cleared the tower. Commence 120-degree roll maneuver. Discovery, you have approximately five seconds for SRB burnout. Ooh. Heh. We have SRB separation. Congratulations, Discovery. - Yeah! - Yeah. - Whoo! - Awesome. Did it. Now let's prepare for the second phase of your mission. RUSTY: Now hand me the drill for that V4 valve over there. - All right. - Satellite ready for deployment. JIMMY: Don't overtorque it. RUSTY: I'm a mechanic, remember? I'm not gonna strip it. Play nice, boys. Pick it up, Rusty. Let's go. We're not gonna miss our window. - Give me a minute. - Hey, hey, hey. Quit it. No. It's not the place to do this. Fire OMS at 60% to adjust attitude for reentry. We can get there faster at 80%. What's the hurry? It's a shortcut. Don't we want to beat those guys' time? Okay. I'm not too sure about this, guys. Discovery, you're coming in too steep. You're gonna burn up. BAO: Just throttle back, Lacey. Not yet. Even I wouldn't use that much power. - Rusty. - Pushing on us. We can push back harder. Get back to your seat. - COMPUTER: Danger. - You've got about five seconds before you're all french fries. We've got multiple systems failure. - Rusty, sit down. - I can veer off. Give me the throttle! [alarm blaring ] Sit down. Sit down. Mission's over. You're all toast. What went wrong? They came in too fast. - I tried telling you. - We could have made it. Hey, excuses are the cornerstone of failure, and make no mistake, there were numerous failures up there. Like failing to ask for help or grabbing the controls or... opting for speed when precision was called for. Someone got too caught up in giving orders. The goal is to win. No.Hey the goal is to get back safely. Now, do you know why so few people become astronauts? Because it is virtually impossible. The training weeds out everybody but the best and the brightest, the most disciplined, most devoted, but more importantly, the training weeds out the individuals... from the team players, sir? Now I suggest you get back to the habitat and get some rest. JIMMY: Thanks for throwing me under the bus. You know what I can't figure out, James? I'm the mechanical genius, Sergei's a hacker, Tao is a rocket scientist, Dani is a whiz at robotics, and Lacey's a born pilot. So what's your specialty? Writing essays? Hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey. hey! Hey. HEY- The only thing you two are gonna be hitting is the showers. Now go on, Rusty. Hi. This is Jimmy. I can't take your call right now, so you know what to do at the beep. How'd you find me? While you're asleep, we inject each one of you with a homing device so we can track you on GPS. [ Chuckles ] Groundskeeper called, said there was some debris on the moon. You're lucky I got here before they sandblasted you off. I'm sorry about the exercise. Rusty's right. I wanted to succeed so badly, I lost my focus. I think I should resign from the team. Jimmy, you think you're the only one who ever took a shortcut? You? I was in Mission Control in 2003. My dad told me about it. Howl buried him? How you stood by him. Well, until I didn't. Until you couldn't anymore. You--You stood by him as long as you could. He told me he lost it, he hurt his own cause. He and I are like that sometimes. Well, sometimes being all-in, even over your head, is a good thing. It's better than wondering if you bailed out just a beat too soon. Nah, it was-- It was nobody's fault. Everybody did their job, but there isn't a day that goes by that we won't think about that accident. But you have to remember it is about the mission, not the man. You got it? Come on. Let's go. [coughing] [alarm blaring ] Emergency! We must evacuate to escape pod two. One has been compromised. Only three of us can fit in the escape pod. We must pick straws. Shortest straws stay behind. Moment of truth. I don't know, but it's been said I don't know, but it's been said Saturn Five is above our head Saturn Five is above our head I don't know, but I been told I don't know, but I been told Space Warriors are made of gold Space Warriors are made of gold Carry on, Warriors. Titans, what are the three keys to victory? Decision, domination, destruction. That's what I want to hear! Let's go. One! - Can you just get asthma? - Two! Come on, guys. We gotta keep going. Oh, why?! I didn't say we had to go fast. ["Charlie Brown" by Coldplay playing ] Stole a key And took a car downtown Where the lost boys meet Took a car downtown And took what they offered me Ooh, ooh I' All the boys, all the girls All that matters in the world All the highs, all the lows As the room a-spinning goes - We'll run riot - [cheering ] - We'll be glowing - Better. In the dark In my country, engineers, these are the people who are building a new China. We are the heroes. We are what kids in China want to be. And in America? Kids want to be Kobe Bryant and Brad Pitt. I mean, in China, we think those are your heroes. Although, secretly, I want to be Jeremy Lin. You'd be a fool not to. That kid's right. We used to have those heroes 40 years ago, biggest heroes in the world-- John Glenn, Neil Armstrong. - Bigger than the president. - [cellphone beeps] Well, not every kid can be an astronaut, but-- Hold on, Dad. I got another call. O-Okay. Hi, Mom. How are you? Good, sweetheart. What are you doing? Lying. I mean frying. Uh, we--we caught fish. Okay, that sounds good. Can I talk to your dad, please? He's down by the river. Unfortunately he is so busy, and he really can't talk, but it's raining fish. He needs a bigger net. Gotta go. Love you. Bye. Love you, too. - Jimmy. - Break's over. I gotta go back...to work. Bye. Okay. Bye, son. [ Groans ] Nice. That's the way it's handled. Yeah. Whoo! We can do it today. We can do it. [yelling] - Oh, dear. - Whoo hoo! Whoo! Whoa ho! Whoo! [ "93 Million Miles" by Jason Mraz playing ] [whooping 1 93 million miles... I don't understand. How did you-- I promised to cook for you, didn't I? Here it comes It's a light, a beautiful light Over the horizon, into our eyes Oh, my, my, how beautiful Oh, my beautiful mother, she... I know it's not fancy, but-- Are you kidding? Gonna go far If you do it right You'll love where you are Lasagna's my favorite. Just know I' Wherever you go You can always... Moon pies and marshmallows. What could be better than this? All of my life, I've had the best that money could buy, but really I'm just a simple girl and no one has ever done anything like this for me before. A glorious night Over the horizon... I want to be the first person to ever touch a star. Last year, astronomers discovered a Y dwarf star that's only 80 degrees, cooler than the human body. Trillions of galaxies out there, and you'd settle for a star. What can I say? I'm a "see the trees through the forest" kind of girl. Will you read me the poem from your essay? The poem is by John Gillespie Magee, a pilot in World War ll. "Up, up the long, delirious, burning blue, "I've topped the wind-swept heights with easy grace. "Where never lark, or ever eagle flew-- "And, while with silent, lifting mind "I've trod the high untrespassed sanctity of space, "put out my hand, and touched the face of God." Something wrong? My father lived that. Thank you. [cellphone rings] Shh. [ring] Hi, Mom. No, it's going great. I caught a six-pound bass this morning. Dad's still waiting for more. Shh. [ Chuckles ] What, you want to talk to him? Next time, then. Good night. [laughs] They don't know where I am. They each think I'm with the other one. You know, I kind of figured that out. I mean, I'm here, but I feel bad about having to lie to them. Now you have to tell me a secret. I lied on my application. You? [laughs] I'm not 15 until tomorrow. Two desperate criminals. Who'll we do if they catch us? Run away and join the circus. Soyuz escape pod is go for separation. [ Speaking Russian ] This is a stage-one alert for all staff of Houston Control. Due to deteriorating weather conditions, communication with the International Space Station is in jeopardy. Activate backup NASA control location, Marshall Space Center in Huntsville, Alabama. YURI: Soyuz emergency escape pod to be jettisoned in 4, 3, 2, 1. Okay, this next challenge is one of my favorites. It simulates liftoff. You will launch and return your precious cargo, a fragile egg, without damaging it, using only cotton balls and tissue to protect it, all right? All right, let's see. I don't wanna let go - All right. - All right. Mission Control, we are go for launch. I'll be the Challenger Of my generation's Space explorations I am the Challenger Warriors, rocket launch. Let go of this minor key Makes sense to me... Titans, rocket launch. Of knowing what, knowing what I know Whoa oh, whoa oh IOoh Whoa oh, whoa oh IOQh... a' And straight from the International Space Station, we have a special guest eggstronaut. Here to help with the eggsamination. Titans? Doesn't care But I still hate The way you just expect things to change - [ Yells, laughter] - [ moaning ] Ah, yeah. Ah, yeah. Warriors. Knowing what I know... [cheering ] Whoa oh, whoa oh IOoh Whoa oh, whoa oh Hey, check it out. We're still winning. They ain't got a shot. Hey, little dudes. In case we don't get a chance after it's over, I just wanted to congratulate you on your effort. [ Lacey scoffs ] We little dudes are kind of overwhelmed. Seriously, though, you guys aren't half as bad as we believed. - Right, guys? - Yeah. JIMMY: We're going to win this. The buggy competition is tomorrow. 25 points are awarded to the winner. We need 23. How are you gonna do that? Is your daddy gonna come back from the junkyard to drive your buggy? Hey, watch your mouth, punk. The lady here will drive against you. Really? Really. She won a worldwide competition for most skilful pilot, hand-eye coordination. Reflexes, guts under pressure. She's a natural. And after she's done driving against you, we're gonna have a whole different conversation. [ Dani laughs] MAN LEYI Lights out. Go on. Get some rest. Good night. [cellphone rings] [ring] [Sighs] - Hello. - Roy, you got a Lacey Myers over there? Yeah, I know her. Eh, looks like she doesn't meet the competition's age requirement. You have documentation? I thought this would be a cakewalk, Hunter, but these guys are good. You worried about tomorrow? Well, don't be. If it comes to it, I'll take care of it. CONWAY: Hey, what's that supposed to mean? Okay, you're not gonna do something stupid, are you? [ Chuckles ] Chandra's right, Hunter. We were all ticked off when those kids first got here, - but they've proven themselves. - Yeah. They haven't proven anything. They got lucky. I'm gonna do whatever it takes to guarantee victory. I am not gonna lose my chance to go to space. And don't think I haven't seen you fraternizing with the enemy, making goo-goo eyes at that Chinese kid. Hunter. You two better get with the program and step it up, both of you. And keep your mouths shut, 'cause if I go down... you go down. I'm sorry, Lacey... more than you know. But I--I have to call your mother. I have to send you home. [ No audible dialogue] You could just let it go. Can I? It's just a girl who loves this program so much she fudged her application by a few days. Jimmy, she broke the rules. She lied, and she's out. Now, you cut corners in space, and people die. If she goes, we have no driver for the buggy race, we lose the competition, we never go to space. That is what you are here to learn. You win as a team, and you lose as a team. This is CNM breaking news. We're live from Houston, Texas, where Hurricane Nancy has picked up steam. Simon, what can you tell us? Currently have a barometric pressure of 985 millibars, and the center is getting much closer as we speak. Marshall, this is Houston. Communication to Kazakhstan Space Center also being switched to your locale. Quiet on deck. Commander Phillips, from all of us here at Houston, good luck, and Godspeed. PHILLIPS: All right, everyone. This is it. I need all hands on deck. Get me a secure line. I need to talk to Russia yesterday. BAO: Look at their legs. They're like telephone poles. More like tree trunks. Can't compete with that. - Not without steroids. - Yeah. Bad news, guys. I couldn't convince Manley to let Lacey stay. Without our pilot, the race is over. - Time to pack it in. - Wait. I think I might have a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the moment you have all been waiting for. Now after a hard-fought week by all the teams, the Titans have a slight lead over the Warriors, so whoever wins the great moon buggy race will be our champion. Have a great, great race, everybody. Whoo! - [ Cheering ] - All right, Titans. We've let these losers hang around long enough. Now it's time to end them. Ready, big guy? You can do it, baby. Just remember what Dale Earnhardt said. Second place is just the first-place loser. Let's blow this up. As we gear up to begin the final competition of the great Race to Space, we have the Titans in first place, the Warriors in second, and the Redstones in third. You can do this, Robonaut. On your marks. Get set. Go! Ladies and gentlemen, the buggies are off, and it looks like the Titans are taking a fast lead as we start the contest. SERGEI: Come on. Come on. As we round the first turn, the Titans are holding on to a nice lead over the Warriors. We gotta pull ahead. SERGEI: We are almost there. - Come on, Jimmy. - Jimmy. Okay, we've got Robonaut. Ladies and gentlemen, a burst of speed from the Warriors team and Robonaut. Yes. The Warriors and the Titans are neck and neck, ladies and gentlemen. Whoa. The Warriors have taken a hard turn off the course. Ah, we'll never catch up. You win some. You lose some. You wreck some. We can use anything at Space Camp, right? What are you thinking? Come on. Quick! Quick! Quick! Go! Go! Go! Jimmy, hold on to your-- [yelling] And the Warriors are back, ladies and gentlemen, with rocket speed. - We're gonna win. - This is incredible. - We're gonna win. - They are taking the lead. And it looks like the Warriors - have got this contest in the bag. - Yes! We're gonna actually win this thing. Oh, God. No! Unbelievable. The Titans come back to win this thing. We have a winner! A winner! [cheering ] Congratulations to the Titans. The winner of Space Camp's Race to Space competition. MANLEY: Congratulations. Congratulations. [ Rings] [ring] Hi. This is Jimmy. I can't take your call right now, so you know what to do at the beep. [Sighs] Darn it. [cellphone rings] [ring] Hey, Sally. Hey, Andy. I'm sorry to break in on your boys vacation, but, uh, can I talk to Jimmy for just a second? What makes you think he's at my place? Your place? He's-- You--You're fishing. No, I'm not picking him up till next week. You didn't pick him up Monday? What are you talking about? Then he's missing? Did you guys have a fight? I did not have a fight with him. You left me a message. No, I didn't leave a message. I heard your voice, Andy. Hey, I'm not lying. If this is some kind of sick joke that the two of you are playing on me, it's not funny. You mean to tell me that he's been missing for days? There's a message with you saying-- You said that-- You said that you finished work a week ahead of schedule and that you wanted to take him on a camping trip. No, that wasn't me. Jimmy must have-- I don't know-- made a tape. SALLY: What are-- What are you saying? Did he--Did he run away from home 'cause I was-- 'cause I was too hard on him? [crying 1 Hang on. I'm coming right over. Oh, my gosh, Andy. What are we gonna do? - He's fine. - What? - He's safe. He's at the Space Camp. - Where? He's been there the whole time. I wasn't sure at first, but I made a phone call. Why am I still scared, not angry? Well, I'm sure you're scared for him. Don't worry. The rage'll come. I'd give it about three minutes. Come on. Let's go get the prisoner. - L-I'll follow you. - Okay. So that's it. ALL: Yes, sir! I'll see you all tomorrow night at graduation. Dismissed. CONWAY: Ahem. Captain Manley. Conway, Chandra, something wrong? [ Missile fires] [explosion ] Captain Manley. What's going on? You guys mind giving us a minute? I'd like to have a word with Mr. Hunter here. - Yes, sir. - Yes, sir, Captain. See you guys later. What's going on, Captain? We run a competitive program here, Mr. Hunter. That doesn't include cheating. Do you have something you want to tell me? [gum smacking ] [ Stops 1 Captain Manley would like to see you. Now. Captain Manley? Jimmy. SALLY: Jimmy! Mom, I-- [sobS] Sit down. There were about 30 seconds tonight when I thought you might be dead. And now I'm waiting to know why. But when something is so important and you only get to do it once, once in your whole life-- No. You lied to us. She'll never understand, Dad. No, don't talk right now, Jimmy. It's time to listen. You're old enough to take responsibility for what you do. Listen... Look, life isn't about where you're going or how fast. It's about how you get there. All right? L-it doesn't really matter what you had in your mind or your heart or how much you wanted it or how good your intentions were. All that really matters is what you do, because what we do is who we are. I'm sorry. I'm so very sorry, Mom. It's--it's not about sorry this time, so you're gonna go, and you're gonna say goodbye to your teammates, and we'll be waiting for you to take you home. In an unprecedented effort in modern history, the Russian space program is mounting what many are calling an emergency launch of a second Soyuz mission to the International Space Station. As one Soyuz rocket fuels for takeoff in Kazakhstan, a second Soyuz escape pod lands halfway around the world with three astronauts in Argentina. The question now being asked across the globe: What exactly is going on at the International Space Station? PHILLIPS: Ladies and gentlemen, we have a critical life-support system anomaly. I need you to find me someone who understands exactly what's happening up there. We're ready and watching. Thanks. Wait. I know just the guy. SALLY: You know every boy wants to be like his father. At times, it feels like I'm parenting from the moon. -[laughs] - [ cellphone rings ] [ring] Excuse me. I better take this. Hello, Commander. What? Yes, I'll be right there. - Sorry. Excuse me. - You're leaving? Yes. It's an emergency. I can't believe you. I mean, our son is an emergency. You're right. You're absolutely right, but you're not gonna believe what Commander Phillips just told me. ANNOUNCER: The two American astronauts, we're being... Sergei. Jimmy, there's a problem on the Space Station. Three astronauts escaped already, but three are left, and they're running out of oxygen. I heard something about a rescue attempt. The escape pod is only designed to carry three people, which means three crew members remained behind. In order to save oxygen, they have taken shelter in the Columbia module and powered down the rest of the station. Now all eyes are on Russia, awaiting a timetable for the Soyuz rescue launch. With no way to fix the damaged ammonia pumps, they're hoping to flood the oxygen-deprived module with hydrogen as a stopgap measure until the rescue ship arrives. We have very little information at this time, but we do have David Brookwell on the phone. There's something wrong, guys. I have a plan, but I need your help. What do you got in mind? First, I need to find someone. REPORTER: David, can you hear me? The team aboard the International Space Station are now performing emergency procedures in an attempt to reduce oxygen consumption. We can reinstate shuttle Atlantis. It won't work. The astronauts will run out of air before the rescue team can reach them in seven hours. Well, what do you suggest? Keep looking for other options. So if I hadn't called, you just would have left. Wow. I'm glad you're not insecure or anything. I was kind of hoping for a smile. I've been plotting, you know, either to get me back here or to get you to go to Vegas. I'm running on fumes right now. I've got a lot on my mind. Do you mean the astronauts up at the Station? - Yeah. - They're gonna rescue them, right? Well, they said that when debris ripped through the station, it hit an ammonia pump. Now the oxygen generators and the carbon dioxide removal system aren't working, and the only way to turn them on is from the outside. Their life support is completely shut down? Do they have reserves? How much air do they have left? Certainly not the seven hours they need. What you're saying is the cosmonauts won't survive until the rescue ship arrives? I did the numbers. They'll arrive about half an hour after the guys run out of breathable air. - You mean-- - That's exactly what I mean. What are we gonna do about it? I have an idea, but I don't think they'd believe a kid. Hey, whatever happened to, "Let's win this"? Who's stepping up now? Come on. We've got astronauts to save. - Let's get moving. - Let's go. [car horn honks] LACEY: Never mind! Sorry! Let me call you right back. Guys, you're not supposed to be here. Get back to the habitat. Captain Manley, Jimmy has something to tell you. Look, I don't have time for this, and, Lacey, you are not supposed to be here. Jimmy, you have to tell him. I know how we can save the astronauts. Jimmy, the Soyuz will fix the problem in seven hours. Except the astronauts will already be dead. [Sighs] You've got five minutes. So the Marshall Space Center up the road has the most advanced mockup of the Space Station ever constructed. We can save the astronauts in time by using remote technology. We have everything we need right here. We can connect to and control robotic avatars aboard the International Space Station and make the repairs using specially designed motion-control suits already designed by NASA scientists. Rusty. - Thank you. - You're welcome. If we can convince the astronauts to enter a state of deep sleep, allowing them to lower their body temperatures and therefore use less oxygen, this will give them the extra time they need to survive. Also, we will need to establish a communications link with a satellite, because all communications have been rerouted to Marshall due to Hurricane Nancy. We can do this if we work together, as a team. Well, I need to talk to someone. Okay. MANLEY: Andy, it's Roy. I'm on my way over. Any luck? ANDY: I'm with the Commander now. So far, I think the kid's idea is our only option. [ No audible dialogue] RUSSIAN MISSION CONTROL: Update to Soyuz rescue mission launch, 1 hour and 45 minutes. [ Speaking Russian ] [ Speaking Russian ] Sir, we may have come up with a solution. We? Uh, my team. [chuckles] Captain... your team are children. Yes, sir, but... they may have found an answer, a game plan. Oh. Well, th-that's good. Not a moment too soon. Let me get Houston on the phone, tell 'em they could take the evening off. Let me tell you, a gaggle of 15-year-olds can't solve this problem. That's the real world, gentlemen, and when they fail, no one's gonna blame them. They're only children. You know what this country needs this program for? We live in a country where children don't choose to be scientists, engineers, or--or mathematicians, not anymore, not in the numbers we need, not like it used to be, when this program was a drawing card, when a man walked on the moon, when space was a magnet, a pied piper. We're still alive, boys, but... it's a flickering flame, so don't do anything that's gonna snuff it out, that's gonna give its final deathblow. Sir, my kid's on that team, and I really think their plan might work. What makes you so sure it can't? Warriors. - Yes, sir. - Yes, sir. We just met with a buddy of ours from NASA. He said over 75 agencies are working on the problem. The best and the brightest from all over the world are on it. Now, we asked him if he had heard of anyone suggesting using remote technology to have the Robonaut on the ship fix the life-support problem. Or putting the astronauts and cosmonauts to sleep. Temporarily. And he asked, "What good would that do?" Then we said it might buy us just enough time before they run out of oxygen. You know what else he said? "Tell the kids to go back to gaming"? He said, "Right now..." "no idea is bad one." "Especially those." So why are you standing around like a bunch of otters scratching your bellies? Come on. Get to work. - Let's do this. - Yeah. Perfect. Here. These should help. Thanks. Hey, Jimmy, are--are you sure about all this? Yes. How's the program going? It's good. It's good. Good. This is all I got. - Great. Thanks. - Okay. We have breaking news coming through, Tim. The second escape pod was damaged, which means three crew members remain behind. In order to save oxygen, they have taken shelter in the Columbia module and powered down the rest of the station. [ Radio chatter] Now all hopes rest with the rescue Soyuz that's being launched out of Russia. [woman speaking Russian ] [ Man speaking Russian ] [counting down in Russian ] We have liftoff of Russian Soyuz rescue. Okay, folks, 3-dash-34. Atlantis, your secondary--secondary... How are we doing? It's mathematically impossible, sir. They're not gonna make it. Are you sure? [Sighs] I'm sure. Take over. Andy. Thanks. - HEY- - HEY- Cheering section, we need that. Excuse me. Okay, Space Camp, you're up. We've lost contact with the ISS. It happens twice a day for half an hour. We lose connection with the satellite. Unless you have another way in which you can contact the Space Station, I'm afraid your plan is moot. Dad--I mean, sir, can you fill in the Commander? PHILLIPS: Pretty good, son. How did you know that a ham radio could connect to the Space Station? It's how I talked to my dad when he was in space. Ah. Looks like you didn't fall far from the tree. You're on, Jimmy. Hello. This is James Hawkins. We're here in Huntsville. We're here to help. As we speak, the Soyuz rescue mission is on its way to you with oxygen reserves. For now, I need you to look into your MCN500 codebook. [ Speaking Russian ] Follow protocol XD78. [ Speaking Russian ] Is Russian for "is all good." [Sighs] ANDY: You're on, Sergei. Now, you're sure your program gives us remote access to the Space Station? Either that, or about 6 billion people are going to lose their cable television. Come on. I don't believe it. We have control. - [cheering ] - Ah, yes. - Yeah! Whoo! - Whoo! Yeah. Captain Manley, we sure could use all the help we can get. As you requested. Titans. It's nice to be working with you. Instead of against you. - Let's do it. - Come over here. All right, we don't have a lot of time, so listen up. This will put you in a state of deep sleep until the rescue Soyuz arrives. These canisters were developed by NASA for just such an emergency. Trust us. [gas hissing ] [ Music playing only] Now, Dani, in order to repair the ISS atmosphere system, you're going to pump 165. It's the only ammonia pump that works. - Good luck, guys. - All right, take us up. Holograph to go in 3, 2, 1. Robonaut is connecting with Dexter. [ "Elevation" by U2 playing ] BAO: Dani, the rest is up to you. Jimmy, Rusty, let's begin removing the faulty ammonia pump. Yeah, yeah Whoo ooh Whoo ooh ooh Whoo ooh High, higher than the sun... DANI: Okay, I've got Robonaut Two. Coming at you Motor City style. Elevate my soul I've got no self-control Been living like a mole now Going down... Jimmy, inside the panel you'll see two external cooling loops. Very carefully, remove the faulty pump module. So high Elevation Elevation Elevation... RUSTY: Easy does it, Dani. We need some of the ship to last. Whoo ooh ooh Whoo ooh Okay, there are three liters of breathable oxygen left. It's going to be close. Mission Control to rescue. E.T.A. for rendezvous with Space Station? 45 minutes, sir, at current orbital velocity. DANI: Jimmy and Rusty, here comes the replacement ammonia pump. Here you go, Jimmy. JIMMY: Positioning new ammonia pump now. - [alarm blaring] - COMPUTER: Warning. Debris detected in perimeter of ISS. Warning. Debris detected... Debris in the pizza box. Pizza box? Yeah, it's the 30-by-30-square-mile area around the Station. If any foreign objects or space junk gets anywhere near it, evasive action's taken. Jimmy... in seven minutes, more satellite debris is going to collide with the Station. We need to begin debris avoidance maneuver. No, no, Jimmy, hang on. Hang on. You know D.A.M.s take the pros 30 minutes to pull off. - Andy. - Jimmy, wait. We--We don't have a choice. The debris rips through the Station, and the rescue's over before it even began. There's still a chance it misses the ISS. Yeah, there is a chance, but in real life, it hits. You know, pushing tools around with remotes is one thing, but--but moving an entire space station that weighs almost a million pounds is something else. If something goes wrong, Jimmy and these kids, they're gonna carry the deaths of these people around with them for the rest of their lives. We did not buy in for that. They can do it. Jimmy can do it. If you'd seen what I'd seen from these kids in the past few days, you'd know they have what it takes. I'm--I'm sure that's true, but you're not gonna turn me on this, Roy. He's my son. It's not your call, Andy. Let's see whose orders he takes. Jimmy, begin debris avoidance maneuver. You might not have listened to me in '03, but you can't fire me tonight. Andy, let's talk over there for a second, okay? Here. Let him do it. He's better at this at 15 than I've ever been at anything in my entire life. I can't let my fear stop him. He's earned this, and I believe that he can handle it. Jimmy, I need your help. In two minutes, there's gonna be another collision of satellite debris with the Station. Start D.A.M.s. Let's get these guys home. We got it, Dad. Take me down, Sergei. I know just what we need. Thank you. Okay, Lacey, you're on. I've never piloted anything real in space before, just simulators. I don't know if I can do this. What if I screw up? You won't screw up. You're the most awesomest pilot I know. BAO: Okay, Lacey, you're on. Let's move the Station .5 degrees up and begin debris avoidance maneuver. All right, this just in. We are live from the U.S. Space and Rocket Center. They are now saying that perhaps additional debris from the satellite collision could be threatening a rescue operation. Beginning debris avoidance maneuver. Engaging Russian thrusters. Debris is coming in. Be careful, guys. Adjusting orbital velocity. Mission Control, the debris has cleared the Space Station. - [cheering ] - I repeat, the debris has cleared the Space Station. JIMMY: Great job, Lacey. Never thought I'd be so glad to see you. Okay, now bolt down the spare ammonia pump into place. Finished. - You got it? - Come on. Come on. Come on. Okay, replacement ammonia pump is operational. O2 at 5%. 4%. It's not working. Take us down, Sergei. SERGEI: The astronauts are consuming too much oxygen because the temperature is rising. Okay, well, what'd we do wrong? It's not you. The Station is supposed to rotate every 91 minutes. To keep from overheating. Yeah, we gotta get the Station in the shadow to cool it down and conserve oxygen. Lacey, how long will it take? Roughly 14 minutes. You don't have 14 minutes. You've got two. But we need more power. We can increase thrusters. Nice try, Einstein. The Space Station weighs a million pounds. Einstein! That's it. He's right. The Einstein cargo module has its own thrusters. Please, just one little break is all I ask. Okay, Lacey. Turn and burn. Look! It's working! The temperatures, they're falling! And the oxygen is stabilizing! This bird is turned, but not burned. [ Applause ] Look! Russian Soyuz spacecraft breaking 10-mile radius. Ladies and gentlemen, we are minutes away from the Soyuz docking with the International Space Station. We are now being told by Russian flight control in Korolev and NASA in Houston that there may not have been enough oxygen to keep the sedated astronauts alive. Soyuz Four, your docking entry is right on target. All systems go. Powering down Soyuz rockets four and five. Captain Gorski is on approach and about to open the air compression hatch to the Columbia module. [gas hissing ] NASA, I'm really sorry to report I don't think we have any survivors here. - Oh, yes. - [cheering ] [ Speaking Russian ] [cheering ] Mission accomplished. In the night, the stormy night Away she'd fly And dream of para-para-paradise Para-para-paradise Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh She'd dream of para-para... I'm very proud to present the first-place trophy to the winner of this year's competition, to the Space Warriors, [ applause ] [cheering ] [fireworks popping ] Two months? That's one month grounding from each of us. Consider it a punishment gift. - Mom. - Yes? Without everything you've ever done for me, we wouldn't be here right now, and those men wouldn't have made it. Ma'am. Oh, Captain. - Jimmy. - Captain. I'll see you in the stars. Captain. Mom, Dad, you remember Lacey. Hi. I'm really sorry to interrupt, but me and some of the other kids were wondering if you wanted to get a pizza or something. I suppose the grounding could start after dinner. ANDY: Sure, you guys. Go on. Beat it. Let's go, Lacey. I'm starved. And so it begins. How 'bout we get a bite? - Okay. - Come on. JIMMY: Unbelievable it was only three years ago. My grounding was longer than Space Camp itself, where the Warriors are now the returning champs and astronauts-to-be. We are, we are Whoo! Hey, guys. - Jimmy. - Jimmy, boy. We are, we are... Ah, this is crazy. Here. The ice cream's melting. We have to eat it first. A pizza for dessert? You rock. Best party ever! Whoo! - You ready? - Oh. Oh, what are you doing? Launch! [cheering ] All right, here we go. And... Okay, 1, 2, s. [ Record needle scratches] We look to the ever after - We are the strangers - Ahem. We practically in danger We know these roads here They never seem to bode well It's our predicament And we ain't even sick of it... What is going on here? Team building, sir. This your idea, Hawkins? Full responsibility, sir. So we live on the run We keep our eyes set, eyes set... Carry on. [yells] [cheering ] We are unstoppable We are, we are For the impossible We are, we are We are the kingdom come That's who we are We are, we are We are unstoppable We are, we are For the impossible We are, we are We are the kingdom come That's what we are We keep it moving This path is by our choosing When we get tripped up We call above for lift up Stay busy bashing While we proceed with passion They say we missing it But I'm inclined to stick with this We make our moves in mysterious ways We'd rather burn out than stick to the shade Not of this world, so we live on the run We got our hearts set Hearts set On what is to come We are, we are We are unstoppable We are, we are For the impossible We are, we are We are the kingdom come That's what we are We are, we are We are unstoppable We are, we are For the impossible We are, we are We are the kingdom come That's what we are That's who we are There's no disguising The truth is rising IAre There's no disguising The truth is rising To live is Christ To die is gain We're not afraid To live is Christ To die is gain So break the noise We're not afraid [echoing ] We are, we are We are, we are [ Normal ] Yeah We are, we are We are unstoppable We are, we are For the impossible We are, we are We are the kingdom come That's what we are That's who we are We are unstoppable That's what we are That's who we are IAre For the impossible That's what we are IAre We are unstoppable We are, that's who we are IAre For the impossible That's what we are That's who we are
