 

                        1 Gentlemen, as you know, the inability of local governments to cope with crime has necessitated the Federal Government stepping in to protect the American people. Our part of that job is to rid the country of the gambler the business racketeer and the illicit profiteer who have been operating within and above the law. The Treasury Department, being limited in their function, has sent you men out to gather information that will enable us to use the one weapon we have. The Income Tax Law. Millions of dollars in illicit profits from illegal enterprises have been hidden away by these racketeers inside and outside the law. No income tax has been paid on these millions. But that hidden and untaxed money will send these men to prison. We'll rid the country of these men who so far have laughed at every law. Now you men have been called in here today to be told one thing. Go after them. Get their books and statements and don't stop until you have the evidence. These are my orders. The dictum of the Secretary of the Treasury and the command of the American people. Now some of you men have been undercover observing for over a year. You're through observing. You're going into action. If necessary, you'll raid to get this evidence. There's one man, however, we prefer to take alive. Alexander Carston. It's easy enough to kill him. But to put him behind the bars is to prove that the cleverest racketeer isn't smart enough to outsmart the Federal Government. You get that, Bradford? Yes, sir. Hey, Mac, get a load of the guy in the back seat. What's so special? Listen, every time that guy goes into a joint the cash register rings up no sale. Yeah? Who is he? Look. Boy! Is that the big shot? How much a pound are we getting from the firm on laundry and rough dry-wash? One cent, and they're giving us a beef every time they pay off. Yeah? Better make it two cents and make it worthwhile listening to their complaints. They can't make no profit at that rate. No, but we can. How's that bookkeeping, Julie? Made balance. $7.000 net for the week. That's a break. The last time we was 2 cents out it took me and Gus 6 days to find it. That dame's a human adding machine. For 2 cents she'd sell you out. This dame happens to be Miss Gardner who couldn't sell you for 2 cents if you came in bunches. Boys, you better stop kidding her. She's dynamite. Always leave your books in ashes. So the District Attorney can have something to can sprinkle on his head. Get in there. Get in there. That's right. You did it! Yeah, but I had to pull a muscle to do it. If these marbles were a little bit rounder, they could dance. Playing marbles on the glass. Boy, the world has sure gone sanitary. Sure, it stopped off a little this week on account of the baseball games. But $10.000 for this district, when you figure it's legitimate, all them nickels ain't bad. It's all right. Better put in some more tables. Get an estimate on them and send them to Miss Gardner. Good night. All bets down. Number 29 on the black. An odd number. Trouble? He's got a heater with him. He's about due to go out and splatter himself in some bad publicity all over the lounge room. Who? The young broker, Nelson. Bank account never over a couple of hundred. Over sixty yesterday and five tonight. Think he forgot he was playing for keeps and with someone else's dough. Let him win 12 G and send him home in one of our cabs. Where do we throw it away? River? Street corner. Make it look like a stick-up. Profit, $500. Well, Mrs White, we've done it again, eh? If all our guests were as lucky as you, we'd be out of business. Well, well, honored with the press tonight. Hello, Armitage. Playing? No, I gave mine to the community chest. Besides, I wouldn't play with that dealer if he were wearing boxing gloves. Clever, though. Glad you're enjoying your sightseeing. Ever tried the aquarium? Yeah, their deep sea fish are better than yours but for playing on fancy variety of suckers you've got them topped. Maybe you don't like this place. Maybe that goes for you. Well, you may as well know if Carston didn't like you, I wouldn't let you in. I don't like you sniffing around here, anyway. With you here I don't have to sniff. I can get it clear out in the street. There's the guy that pays you. Hello, Joe. Hello, boss. How's it going? All right. I brought Julie along to look over those contracts. Sure, they're in the auditor's office. You'll find the estimates in the filing cabinet. Second drawer to the left. I want to talk to you alone, Alec. All right. Let's go down to your office. Sure. Broke even yesterday. The only thing I can break at golf is a lot of clubs. Drink? What's the matter, you losing your memory? What do you mean? You know I never use that stuff. Oh, oh, sure. Sit down. Have you... have you noticed how the... ...takers have been picking up for the last couple of weeks? Couldn't ask for much more. Yes. Showing a nice profit. I noticed that when I was going over the books tonight. Oh, yes, I knew there was something I wanted to talk to you about... Going over the plans I noticed how we could make the place even larger, you know... Making room for more tables... Knock out the partition between the main floor and the bar, and... Put the bar in the race floor... in the other end and... What's the matter, Alex? You sore at me? No. Just curious about the books. The books? Hm-hmm. There's a little mistake in them. $30.000 on the wrong side of the ledger. Why... they balanced. Sure they balanced. After you got through the racing. Sure, sure, I remember. I made a little mistake and rubbed it out. Hm-hmm. I made a little mistake too that I'm gonna rub out. You know what I mean? Listen, boss. I can straighten it out. You got it wrong. I'll make it up. I'll double it. I was in a jam. I meant to square it up. I've been on the level with you for five years. You know I meant to square it, don't you, boss? Don't smirk like that. I was going to make it up. You wouldn't... Would you? I got fifty grand in the bank. Every cent of it in cash. Honest I have. That'll square it up, boss. I didn't write it in your book... Boss, please, listen to me. Finished? It'll take me half an hour more if you want things checked thoroughly. I do. I'll send the car back for you to take you home. Oh, no, don't you bother. I'll get a taxi. Okay. Goodnight. Goodnight. Oh, how are you, Andrews? I want to talk to you. I don't like talking to you, Bradford. Answer one thing. Then you can go out and bite something and get lockjaw as far as I'm concerned. I saw the ex-moon of your delight last night, Gladys Warren. And? And she was so full of martinis that the green olives had to wait for the tide to come in to get past her clothing rib. And telling everybody what a heel I was? And getting no argument. Says she's gonna put the bee on you for shoving her out on the cold, cold snow. What bee, Andrews? Listen. that dame hasn't got a thing on me except to peeve. And if she doesn't stop getting her snoot full and shooting off her mouth, I'll... Chlorophorm her? I had a hunch you did that the last time. Mr Bradford, writing is a reporter's job. But talking doesn't do a newspaperman any good. You should get Winchell's salary. Hey, where's Julie? In the office. $12.697... And all in dimes. Now I'll only sit down for a quarter... Well, Little Willie, what are you doing here? Oh, heckling the proprietors, leering at the women and watching the card tricks. Say, I telephoned you before I left the office. To ask me for dinner? Listen, if could only like me as much after meals as before, this might be a romance. Answer my question. Have you eaten? Hm-hmm. Yes. I accept. I thought you said you'd eaten. Oh, but not since lunch. I'll be through in a minute If you're gonna have dinner with me we're gonna go Dutch or you'll go hungry. But you can't be broke on Tuesday. Have you been gambling again? No, I'll tell you. It's like this. It all gets back to man's best friend, the horse. Which one has been the crow-bait that you bet on this time? Midnight. I thought that was the name of the nag but it was only the time of its due end. Well, let me finish this. I'm so hungry I could eat a horse. If you'd only done that before the race you might have saved my 50 bucks. Where was I? $12.697. How did you happen to remember that? When a guy like Carson makes that kind of dough it's not easy to forget. Oh, but that's not money. That's square feet of a building. Is that why you have dollar signs in front of it? If you'd keep your nose out of my business I could finish this. What are you doing there? Just a little trinket I picked up for you. Oh, Willie, you darling. A bracelet. How lovely. Oh, it's nothing. Just a little thing I had Tiffany's run up for you. I've never seen such gorgeous diamonds. Emeralds, fathead. Oh, yes, so they are. But you really shouldn't have. It's nothing, nothing. Just a trifle. You know, if that plug Midnight had been hitting on four legs instead of three... I might have made enough money to put a down payment on a... well, on a diamond ring. Only I couldn't have worn it. Maybe you could have gotten it... on account of my not knowing any other woman. For that you get another bracelet. And if you don't get around quitting Mr Carson pretty quick that's the kind of bracelet you're going to be wearing. But it's not so easy quitting, Bill. Do you suppose you could afford to buy me a cocktail before I treat myself to dinner? Sure. Stick your tongue out. Ink on my nose again? Hm-hmm. Ever tried keeping books with a pen? All right. Thank you. Who is it? Andrews. What's the matter? You on the hot? Carston put the finger on me. That's tough. But you can't win all the time in any racket. And you can only lose once on this one. So I guess we haven't any squaw coming when we know we're gonna be finished. Anything you want me to do for you? He isn't gonna finish me, see? I'm taking a boat tonight to South America. He won't find me down there. Don't be a sucker and take that dough with you because you're not gonna make the boat. I'm out of here through the skylight. Yeah, front door, back door, or skylight, you're walking into it. I can't stay here. They'll come after me. Walking into it is easier than waiting for it. They can't put the heat into me. I'll get through them some way. Listen, Jake, you gotta help me. Help me! Helping you would be helping myself to a handful of clouds. No it won't, Jake. I swear it won't. Think of something. There's always a way out of everything. You're smart, Jake. You can figure me out of this spot. Maybe I can. Sure, I knew you could. You're smart. For fifty grand. I haven't got fifty grand. You're a liar. You got it in a deposit box. You got the key in your jeans. It's under Grace's name. All you gotta do is give me a note to her and the key. Jake. 25 G. Don't sell me out. I gotta live while I'm cooling off. By tomorrow you'll be cooling off in the coroner's icebox and 50 G won't buy you out of that. How do I now you can spring me out of this? You don't, until I get that key and the note. It's a case of either burning my brains or losing your insides. If this don't work, I'll... You'll have more holes in you than a punchboard before the night's over. Do you mind quit stalling. Okay. Go to the phone and call up the D.A., see? Are you nuts? Shut your clapper and listen. You tell the D.A. you wanted to talk about that laundry dynamiting. You mean do a solo? Yeah. Then tell him to send a couple of harness bulls up here to bring you down because you're hot. Having a couple of tons of law with you is the only thing that will get you out of this joint. If that gets me out, okay. But when the D.A. tells me to start talking, what? You tell them you're the guy that stole the car the mob used in the Franklin job. But you were not there when they planted the dyna. In other words, you talk yourself in serve for two years. You'll be safe. And by the time you're sprung, the heat'll be off. You'll settle for two years instead of a funeral. But what happens to Chuck? He goes to the hot squad. That makes me a rat. Hm-hmm. But a live rat. How does it happen that swordstick is picking up on that number lottery? The guy had an idea. Ever since the depression the grade schools in the poor sections have been selling the kids their lunch for 15 cents. So the kids have got money. He's got plenty of kids working for him in the schools. A million forty-four thousand kids, half of them spending a nickel, that's $26.000 bucks a day. Yeah. Andrews? Yeah... Okay. Armitage is gonna tip himself off and take a rap to beat the heat. He's gonna have the coppers take him out of the club. Joe. Take a couple of the boys and settle Armitage's stomach. He'll be leaving the club in about 15 minutes. That's all. An old-fashioned is nothing but a cross between a fruit salad and a slug of whiskey. Now you take a sidecar. Take another one and you'll drown. Come on. I'm a fine figure of a woman and I need feeding. I wouldn't dare to go on a honeymoon with you unless you were on a diet. Check, please. Just made it. Yeah, there goes the parade. Them policemen must have got the wrong address. They wouldn't be coming to one of Mr Carson's place. Get the paper on the phone. Rewrite. Hold on a minute for Bill Bradford. They're on, Bill. Hold on. Did Carston have any differences with Armitage? Yes, he was... Oh, I don't know. You mean you won't tell. I'm afraid to, Bill, even to you. I don't blame you. I shouldn't have asked you the question in the first place. Listen, honey face, you run along. I got a lot of chores to do tonight. Oh, I've got the horrors. Can't I stick around? Sorry, I'll stop in on my way home. Promise? Sure. Hello. Bradford. Get it. Underworld bulletry reaped a grim harvest tonight in front of the famous 122 Club. Just as the police were taking Armitage down the steps... Five men to get one. A rotten butcher. If we can't hang it on Carston this time the press is gonna run more than a blast with our departments. It's gonna run more than after the jobs of Police Commissioner and District Attorney I think we got a chance of pinning it on him this time, Walter. That's what I thought last time. So help me, I'd give ten years of my life to send him to the chair. We've got a break. Carston has killed more than 4 innocent bystanders. He's killed a thing we've never been able to lick. The public's half-baked hero worship of a tough guy. Well, tonight showed him up for the bloody butcher that he is. If we get any sort of evidence the jury will have found him guilty before you make your opening address. If we can get any evidence. Yes, if... If we had any evidence last time there wouldn't be this time... and if... Come in. Mr Bradford is here. Tell him and the rest of the newspapermen the we expect to make an arrest within a few hours. Yeah, but you haven't any idea who you can arrest. Hello, Chief. How are you, Roger? Now see here, Bill, we haven't a thing. As soon as we do... Listen, I didn't come here to get a story, but I've got a hunch I think you can use. Yeah? Yeah. That's all, Williams. Did you think of Carston? Naturally. Well, Andrews is Armitage's assistant. More than likely he's in the know. Well, suppose he is. Carston's men are afraid to talk. I have a hunch Andrews will if you bluff him right. I think you can sweat him down until there's nothing left but his yellow streak. Bluff him on what? There's something I've never been able to prove. But I'll bet 100 to 1 he did the trick. Remember the Walker case? Extra! Five mowed down by gangland bullets. Extra! Read all about it. Well, I see we made the front page again. Well, it was unlikely they got tired of them. You guys gonna eat? Yeah. I gotta go up and tell the big guy about this. Meet you in Joe's in 5 minutes. Order me a steak. Okay. See this? Not a very neat job. What do you mean? I got Armitage, didn't I? Yes. And everybody else on the block. What's the difference? The more of those guys you knock off the less talking there is afterwards. There's gonna be plenty of talking about this one. Joe, you've gone gun crazy. That kind of a guy ain't worth a nickel. I see. I see. Okay. There's your nickle. That pays us off. Surprising how much trouble a guy can buy for a nickel. Phone McKelson and tell the boys they're going fishing. Take Joe along for bait. We got Andrews out here. Remember, take the cues from me. All right, bring him in. You stay. Get everything down. You want him alone? Yes. The D.A.... the Commissioner... and myself. Hm, how chummy. What's the matter? Getting one of your campaign cigars by mistake and lose your taste for smoking? Sit down. Well, would it help start the conversation any if I told a cute little story? Let me tell you a story, Andrews. A nasty story. That no lawyer in the world could get any jury to laugh off. It's about a guy that married a little kid just when he was starting in the racket with Carston. After a while she wasn't fancy enough for him. So he walked out on her just when she was about to have a baby. She asked him for dough so he had the other dame tell her off. So she goes to a lawyer. She's going to sue him. That kind of frightened this cur because he was afraid the lawyer might tell the court what he earned and how. Well, one day the little kid was found in her apartment dead. With the gas on. But she had been chlorophormed first, Andrews. We know who did it, but we can't prove it. How do you like the first chapter of the story, Andrews? Commissioner... you oughta write fiction. That's what they call stories you can't prove, isn't it? Yes, it could have passed for fiction. If this guy hadn't dumped the other dame. Gladys Warren was drunk at a cocktail bar the other night. and talked before witnesses. Why, that lying skirt, who'd believe her? The jury. Because she told things that checked. The murder of a mother and an unborn child. Another American tragedy. The papers will love that. You'll be lucky if you reach the chair, Andrews. Because no sheriff is gonna protect a rat like you from a mob. By the time they get through with you and get around to string you up you'll look like something hanging on a hook in the meat market. Fiend, that's what the newspapers will call you. The people in the street will talk about the ways they'd like to talk to you. The mob will get bigger and bigger around the jail. They'll start yelling... Then someone will throw a rock. No! No, I'd kill myself first. Suppose you didn't have to take the rap? Suppose you could talk your way out of the chair? Sure, sure I'll talk. We want Carston. If we get him, we might compromise with you. I don't know anything about Carston. Come on. What about tonight? I'd rather take the chair, take it from the mob, anything but do a sore one on Carston. They'll take me up to the castle and work over me like they did to Ferretti. It was weeks before they finished him. Listen, Andrews, you could protect yourself. Give us your testimony and then go on just as though nothing had happened. Mingle with the mob. Then we'll spring you as a surprise witness at the trial. They'll send Carston to the chair so fast he won't have a chance to put a finger on you. Yeah, I could do that. You will or you'll go to the chair yourself. It was Carston who put the finger on Armitage. Here you are, Andrews. Put your John Henry on it. It's a pardon for you and a death warrant for Carston. Put this in the file. Now get out of here. Tell the mob we worked you over, but it didn't take. Do exactly as you have been doing until the trial when you're safe. It's a cinch you won't talk and this office won't leak. Because you're our ace in the hole and we don't want that hole to be a grave. Don't get in touch with me until the trial. It might wise up the mob. All right. All we want to know is in that file. I can get away with this if you protect me. Don't worry. We'll strap Carston to the chair this time. Gonna get him tonight? No. Use the newspapers a couple of days to work the public up into a lather about the innocent bystanders and their families. Then I'll make the pull. Carston's too smart to try and make a getaway. Besides, he doesn't know we got the evidence on ice. I'd like to see Mr Carston, please. Fifth floor. Thank you. He said to say it was Smith. A.P. Smith. You sit down and wait. I don't think he'll be long. Thank you. Yes? A.P. to see you. All right, send him in. Sit down. Mr Carston, I took an awful chance in coming here to see you today. I got something in the files and... I think you'd better read it. Hello, Mike. Hiya, Bill. Hello. Hello, Bill. Isn't anybody gonna ask you guys to dance? What do you know, Bill? Not a thing. Well, I didn't know you were out. Out and obvious, with no thanks to you and that ham you work for. I didn't say you committed murder. All I said was... that I saw some vague connection between Corrigan's funeral and the fact that you shot him six times the day before. Well, I hope I see you again. While you're out. Oh, hello, Nick. Hiya, Spike. Hello, Bill. I was just thinking about you. Yeah, must be lunchtime. Let's go now. I wanna get out of here. I gotta see Carston first. What's the matter? Last night gave you the tweaks and fidgets? It's the first time I ever came so close. Makes working here... Oh, forget it. I'm just a big strong girl that needs a couple of aspirins, that's all. Listen, you better get out of here quick. Otherwise you'll end up hanging from a chandelier screaming fire all to yourself. I suppose so. Carston's busy right now. He'll be through in a minute. How much did I promise you for a document like this? Ten thousand, Mr Carston. Julie, bring in $10.000. Thanks. Wrap it up in this. You'll take that door going out. Thanks very much, Mr Carston. Forget it. Bill Bradford's here to see you. Send him in. Julie. I have a feeling I'm gonna be pretty busy for a month or so. Is my book in shape? Yes. By the way... even the smartest bookkeeper is liable to slip in conversation. And the squarest newspaperman is liable to print it. So... don't see so much of him. If you know what I mean. Okay. Hurry up, won't you. Sure. How are you? Fine. Make yourself at home. Been reading about you in the papers. I anticipated that you boys would try and hang that unfortunate incident on me. Never mind the act, I wrote your statement hours ago. You are horrified by the brutal massacre and hope the fiend who murdered four innocent people and your friend Waxey Armitage will be brought to justice. A little standardized, but it'll do. Between the two of us, how do you guess it? I'll be arrested before the day is out. I'll be arraigned and the case will be dismissed for insufficient evidence. You think so? Much obliged. Armitage, how come? When you buy an adding machine and it doesn't add correctly... you get rid of it, don't you? By the way, Bill. I wish you'd build up some of that cheap ballyhoo on the orphanage I secretly endowed. I think I'm in bad odor with the public. You smell, to be correct. Incidentally, the managing editor's gonna bark like a seal about sugarcoating you. But you'll get it. He knows I gotta play ball for the in I've got. Run it after the pinch, will you? I don't want it to appear after I'm sprung. You know, Carston, I have a feeling that maybe you're not gonna be sprung this time. I think you kicked old John Public in the pants just once too often. And don't forget. The jury is gonna be made up of 12 tried and true innocent bystanders. Bill, the public are men. And you can buy 90% of them at your own price. The other 10 you give the choice of crawling on their bellies and being live cowards or taking it in the belly and being dead heroes. It's amazing when you have that power what contempt you have for your stupid, meek, John Public. There's only one hole in your argument, Carston. Dillinger didn't die of old age. Well, I gotta hurry. That blond bookkeeper of yours is taking me to lunch. Fine. Glad you dropped in. Thanks for the tip. I'll try to ring you with a halo in that sidelight story. Much obliged. So long. Are you serious, Bill? Sure, I like you... you don't ask asinine questions of ball games and you don't get lipstick on a guy's collar. And you carry your own cigarettes. Now, what more could a guy ask for in a wife? I'm kind of fond of you, too. That's good. Then we might as well go down and look silly in front of a Justice of the Peace. Bill, I'd rather wait a while. Well, add it up. I'm not very bright. Carston. What's that butchering egomaniac got to do with it? I should think you'd be glad to get away from him. I do want to get away, Bill. I hate the place and I hate him. He's everything that's cruel and cowardly. If you only knew how I wanted to get away. Well, here's your chance. Oh, I'm afraid to. Not only for myself, but for you. When I first went to work for him I was pretty desperate. I was walking the streets on cardboard looking for a job. I didn't know what I was getting into at first... Well, then he kept giving me more and more to do and... now I'm his personal bookkeeper. I'm the only one that knows the code they're kept in. The only one? Yes, I don't think even Carston himself could decipher them without me. If I married you he'd think there would be a chance of my talking. And Carston doesn't take any chances. Once you work for him you don't quit. Oh, I've seen people try and... well, then they'd be given a free ride to the castle and you'd never hear from them anymore. Yeah, I guess you're right. Carston doesn't fool much. There's one way, Bill. Yeah? Well... We could elope, run away. That is, if you still want to. I can't, Julie. Oh. You see... there's an assignment coming up that I wouldn't miss for anything in the world. Now, Julie, just stick it out a little longer, will you? Because this is coming up soon. And when it does, it won't take long. Sure, I'll stick. But I hope it's soon. I'm afraid for both of us. And I can't stand very much more of Carston. You can't and I have a hunch that an uncle of ours in striped pants and a beard won't. And good morning to you, Mr Quinn. Hello, Bradford. Why so gay? I've been reading that paper of yours. Why don't you fellas lay off? You know how we've been gunning for Carston. It seems like it's just no use. He's been able to beat the rap every time. Then why don't you hang a rap on him he can't beat? Got any bright ideas? At least one. Yeah? For instance? What's that? That's the bright idea. You'll find it all in there written out. Special Agent. U.S Internal Revenue. But... you're a newspaperman, been one for years. Sure, but that's not all. This government work got interesting and so I got into it. So reporting is just a front. Right. Nobody minds a reporter sticking his nose in their private business or asking a lot of fool questions. Well, this stops me. And it's liable to stop a lot of other guys, too. Now, listen, Quinn. You haven't been licked by Carston. You've been licked by a lot of local politics and brutal intimidations. Carston is stronger than the law at your command. But he isn't stronger than the Federal Law. And we're gonna use it to put Carston and every thug locked into federal prisons where they can't buy or blast their way out. Sounds great, Bill. But do you really think Carston is going to leave himself open for an income tax violation? I happen to know that Carston is cutting in on every bigtime racket in this part of the country. His take every week must run into the hundreds of thousands. Now somebody is keeping track of that money on paper. And I got a pretty good idea where that paper is. Good luck, Bill. I wish I could help you. You can. I'm gonna need your cooperation. You'll get it from this office and the police. And how you'll get it from those boys. Good. When do we start. Right now. May I use your phone? Help yourself. Hello, Julie? Bill. Meet me at the usual place at 7 o'clock. Now, don't argue. No, I can't tell you what it's about. And, Julie. Don't let anybody follow you. Okay. You wouldn't be taking a lady to dinner, would you? This is much more important than food. Oh, but, darling, nothing's more important than food. Look, Julie, just be beautiful and don't talk. Till I get you some place where it's safe to tell you something. Now, Julie, you know that you work for the worst racketeer in the country. He's crooked, cowardly and cruel. He laughs at the law and thinks he can keep right on doing it. What are you gonna do about it? What can anybody do about it? He's been arrested 50 times. The law can't stop him. Uncle Sam's law can stop him. How long since you've been speaking for Uncle Sam? About five years. What do you mean? I mean that for the last 5 years I've been a special agent. For the Internal Revenue Department. What about your newspaper work? Oh, that's just a front. A cover-up. Why haven't you told me this before? Bill, look at me. Is that why you've been so nice to me? You know better than that. I love you, Julie. Well, I... I'd like to believe that. Well you better believe that. But what I think of you and you think of me doesn't matter... ...just now. No, okay. Go on. Listen, Julie... I know more about Carston than any man in the country. And I'm not the only man in the job, either. There's an army after Carston, an undercover army. Still you can't squash him. We can, with your help. Now, Julie, there's just one thing we need. And that's Carston's private books. We've got to get them. And you're going to help us get them. Oh, but you can't ask me. You can't ask me to turn against Carston. You know what he'd do to me. You know what he's done to everybody else. Julie, it isn't as f I asked you to do it for me, it's for... well, I don't want to be waving the flag, but... you know what I mean. Well, you'll have to tell me what to do, Bill. Hello, Julie? Bill Bradford. Say, is Carston there? Yeah, I'd like to talk to him. Bill Bradford to speak to you. Thanks. Yeah, Bill? Listen, there's company coming to your house. Federal men and fly cops. Yeah. Mixed crowd. Seems you don't pay your income tax and there's a law about it. If they find those books of yours you'll be learning the jute business... Thanks, Bill. I'll repay this little courtesy some day. On your way. Okay, Wilson, it's your party. I've arranged for a police detail. And remember. Take Carston down to the United States District Attorney. And hold him there for questioning for about a half an hour. Okay. Come on, Roark, you're coming with me. They're raiding to find those books. They'll never find 'em where you got 'em. Don't kid yourself. Those Federal men tear a place apart. Maybe I could... Could what? Well, I guess I could take them into my room. Julie, you're a smart girl. But I'd rather not, Mr Carston. I don't want to get mixed up in this. Do as I say. You take them down to your room. Ray. So the flatfeet are on parade, huh? Thanks, dear, and don't worry. They're just trying to sell tickets to the policeman's ball. Yeah. They're coming up. Took them a long time getting here. Search the place from top to bottom, boys. We're just starting today, finish it fast. Get to it. Did you ever see such big feet in your life? Yeah, their brains must rattle around awful in them. Go on, get in there. Get in there before I get a concussion kicking you in the seat. Look who's the sergeant now. Mulvany. Hello, Mike. Bring your bloodhounds and magnifying glass, Mulvany? No, just a rat trap and a bit of cheese. That's all I need to catch anything around here. We're searching the place, Carston. Help yourself. And, say, if you find a fountain pen, it belongs to me. I lost it last week. What are you guys looking for? The missing link. Looks as if they got you that time, Rich. I suppose you want to look through the desk. Thanks, that's a good idea. Been reading your own publicity, eh? No, just trying to learn how the other half lived. Take it along. You'll enjoy it. The solutions are already worked out. Listen, Carston. You've been trying to make monkeys out of us for a long time but don't forget we got the advantage. 'Cause a guy looks a lot more like a monkey in a cage looking through bars than any other time. Rich, that calls for a cigar. Mr Wilson just rang the bell. Thanks. By the way, you don't mind taking a little trip down to the U.S. District Attorney's office, do you? He wants to talk to you. Not at all. I always find the D.A. very amusing. Do you mind if I call my attorney first? No. Go ahead. The D.A. might find him very amusing, too. Hey, lady. You got the wrong door. How did you get in here? I was visiting my cousin from Walla-Walla who happens to be occupying the adjoining suite, so I just had to drop in and see you. I thought you were never coming. I was beginning to worry. Never mind that. Where are the books? In the bedroom under the mattress. We gotta work fast. They just took Carston down to the D.A.'s office. Again? He's been there so often I'm surprised they don't charge him rent. Say, what is this? Wait, I'm with him. Oh, so you're the cousin from Walla-Walla. No, that's Roark. Makes the nicest photostats you've ever seen. How lovely. Maybe you'll make one of me sometime. I'd be glad to. Get a copy of each one. Get going. Do you mind if I ask you a few questions, Carston? Do I? Not at all. Shoot. You've been interested in various enterprises. seems to appear, most of them legal, am I right? All of them are legal. Naturally, you keep books. Naturally, I don't. There must be records of some kind. Yes. Where? In my head. Then you know what profit you realize from these different interests. There haven't been any profits. I'm operating at a loss. Do you expect me to believe that? I don't particularly care whether you do or not. You work for Carston? Yeah. What does he pay you? Don't answer that, Rich. You never filed any income tax return. Why not? I never made enough money. You live very well. How do you pay your servants, operate your cars, maintain two establishments. He doesn't own anything. Those establishments, servants and cars have been placed at his disposal by friends. Did you ever place anything at his disposal? Sure. What? A safety razor. No more cracks out of you, Rich. You're in here as a suspect, and not a man on a minstrel show. Sorry. Anything else? Not now, Carston. I'm afraid you knew all the answers. I'm afraid I do. Just how much longer do you think you can get away with it? Forever. That's the first wrong answer you've given me tonight. Just a moment, Mr Young. Why? I have something I want to say to you. How long do you think you can get away with it? I haven't the slightest idea what you're talking about. You know what I'm talking about. The Carstons of this country are able to keep going because of the Charlie Youngs. A few crooked attorneys giving a fine and honorable profession an undeserved bad name. Young, there isn't an honest lawyer in this country that won't cheer when you go where you're going sooner or later. You oughta save that speech for a larger and more appreciative audience. It's a warning. The moment I get the least bit of evidence to prove what I've known for a long time that you've mocked and evaded justice for Carston by legal tricks, by shady practice, by actual intimidation of witnesses, by bribery, you're going behind the bars with your murdering client. With two witnesses to your inexcusable slander of a member of the Bar, I'd advise you... Stop it, Young. These two will never be witnesses for you. Anything more before we go, Mr D.A.? Nothing more now. Bill, please. What's the matter? Well, it's 10:30. Carston will be here any minute. All right, we're almost finished. You're taking enough time to photograph the City Directory. I'll take it down to the office and start them developing. You stick around and pack this stuff up and check out. Bill! I'm coming. If you get into any trouble, telephone me. Okay. Will you get out of here. Carston's liable to pop in at any minute. Calm yourself, my dear. Everything's working out beautifully. Here are Mr Carston's books. Give them to him when he gets here. We won't need them anymore. And then try to get him amused until my men get here to make a pinch. Will they arrest him? No, you. Me? What for? For safekeeping until after the trial. I'm not taking any chances on you. Carston's apt to get panicky and try to get rid of you to get an acquittal. But you'll be comfortable. I never heard of any booby that was comfortable but let that go. Maybe I or he will end up in the morgue. Say, what was the idea of dragging us down there? That's routine. An excuse for spending the taxpayer's money. Another reason why I've never been sucker enough to pay taxes. Oh, hello. How was your little surprise party? Thanks to you, pretty well. Going someplace? Oh... yeah... I gotta go down to Washington to interview some Congressmen. I've just been up saying goodbye to Julie. Thanks for the tip, Bill. Oh, that was nothing. Just self-protection. With you off the front page they might keep me down in Washington all the time. I'll return the favor someday. Thanks. Well, I gotta run along now. So long. So long. Have a nice trip. Thanks. Swell guy. Yeah. Thanks very much, Julie. That was a real inspiration you had. Not easily inspired, Mr Carston. I was merely protecting my job. Just the same, you'll never regret it. I hope not. Answer it. Miss Julie Gardner? Yes. We're from The U.S. District Attorney's Office. We have a warrant for your arrest. My arrest? What for? That's for the Grand Jury to decide. Get your things, Miss Gardner. Oh, but... Mr Carston, this is terrible. I don't understand. It's all right, Julie. There must be some mistake. You go along with these gentlemen and don't worry. I'll get everything straightened out. All right, Mr Carston. But suppose they put me in jail. I've never been in jail before. Now, now, take it easy, Julie. They can't put you in jail. You haven't done anything. Just sit tight and don't answer any questions until my attorney gets there. Understand? Round up the boys. I think I may need them. This is Mr Carston. Yes, I want Charlie Young. United Laundries Associated: $7.832. East Side Poultry Dealers Incorporated: $22.560. American Amusement Devices: $38.200. Carston is doing all right for himself. That's only the petty cash. Here's the real item, the 122 Club. Yeah, that's Carston's ace gambling joint. $112.942, all in one month. That's low for the year. Carston was furious. Said everyone was falling down on the job. He's not going to be particularly elated when he finds out that we know exactly how and where he makes his money. And that we can prove it in any man's court. I've been waiting a long time for this. And now... Carston's lawyer is down in your office with an armful of writs. I thought so. He's raising the very devil. He threatens you with dire consequences for the false arrest of Miss Gardner. Oh, let him rave. I'm afraid we'll have to do more than that. Young is someone to be reckoned with. I spotted a carload of Carston's gangsters hanging around the Federal House of Detention. Carston isn't taking any chances, is he? Young must have tipped him off that he'd be a lot safer if we didn't have Julie. He's afraid we might make her talk. Well, we simply have to put Julie someplace where neither he nor Young can get a hold of her. Come on, lady. Gather up your homework. Gonna drop you in at my friend the City D.A. Maybe he can find a room for you in one of his nice city jails. And you know Carston. Just as soon as he finds out we've got him in a corner he'll stop at nothing to get out of it. Now, if he knew that Julie was helping us out her life wouldn't be worth a plugged nickel. I thought she'd be safe in a Federal jail but he had his lawyer down there with a writ to get her out before we even had a chance to get her in. How long do you think I could keep her in jail? That fellow Young is a smart lawyer. He'd maneuver me into a spot where I'd have to release Miss Gardner. Well, supposing you didn't have a Miss Gardner to release? I don't get you. Supposing you held Miss Gardner under a fictitious name on some petty charge. Then Mr Carston's lawyer wouldn't know she was here and consequently couldn't use his legal tricks to spring her. Not bad, Bill. Not at all bad. I guess I could arrange that. Come in, Williams. Don't you worry, baby. I'll get you into somebody's jail. Thanks. Make out an order for the arrest of Miss... Miss Joan Grey, here. Charge is suspicion of larceny. Hold her in the Women's Prison pending further investigation. I'll sign the commitment papers, then get hold of Flannagan. I want her locked up immediately. And, Williams... this is to be kept strictly confidential. Wait a minute... Mr A.P. Smith. Don't forget what he said: strictly confidential. I'd advise you not to mention it to Carston. Gentlemen, you're looking at one of Mr Carston's highest-paid stool pigeons. He was recently paid $10.000 for some information given Carston. Andrews' confession. What have you got to say for yourself, Williams? Give me the Detective Bureau. I wouldn't do that just yet, Mr Quinn. I have an idea that Williams may come in rather handy. Say, Young, what is this thing anyway? It's simple enough. You've been indicted by a Federal grand jury for not paying your income tax. Indicted. What are they gonna use for evidence? That's what stops me. Are you sure your personal books are the only records you've kept? Certainly. And you have them. Right here in this office. Then I wouldn't worry. That is, unless they sweated that bookkeeper of yours and she talked. Yeah. Say, they're holding her somewhere for no good purpose. If they get her on the stand and she tells what she knows... They'll never get her in the court if I can help it. If she starts to talk she'll never finish her sentence. Well, suppose she does. A testimony will be worthless without the books. If that's all you're worried about, don't give it a thought. I'm burning 'em right now. Then don't worry about the girl. But I think I will. Just to be on the safe side. The defendant has realized and is realizing tremendous daily profits from various enterprises, both legal and illicit. However, we are not concerned with the legality of these interests but with the revenue derived from them. Revenue upon which he has paid no income tax. Let him get a good start, so when we trip him he'll sit down harder. Alexander Carston is guilty of intentionally defrauding the government for he has failed not only to pay but to make any declaration whatsoever. He'd better produce something more than conversation or he'll talk himself into a dismissal. The defendant has made and has extorted millions from the taxpaying public without ever paying a cent in taxes himself. I object, Your Honor. For the prosecution making extravagant and maligning charges against my client without any substantiation other than his own imaginings. If the prosecution cannot sustain these charges I admonish him to cease declaring them. If Your Honor pleases, I am in a position to sustain the charges hereby made by me. And during the course of this trial I will substantiate my remarks by competent evidence... now in my possession. And you say that at that time and place you made these photostats of what were described to you as the private books and accounts of Alexander Carston? Yes, sir. That's all, Mr Roark. Thank you. Are these copies of your books? Yes. Where did they get them? I don't know exactly. But I've got a hunch. We've got one chance. They're in code. They'll stay in code. So please the court, I should like to submit these photostats into evidence for the purpose of identifying them as copies of the personal records and accounts of the defendant showing his earnings and assets and so kept as to conceal those assets and earnings for the purpose of defrauding the government. I object, Your Honor, on the ground that these documents are irrelevant, immaterial and incompetent. And at the present time have not been connected in any way with the issues of this case or with the defendant. And further, they are not admissible as evidence because they are not recognizable as such. And for all we know, they may be bridge scores or any other private markings of figures. Objection overruled. They are being offered for identification purposes only. If it please Your Honor... I shall be glad to satisfy my learned colleague that these documents are relevant to the issues of the case and are provable as being the private accounts and records of the defendant. I must beg Your Honor for a brief recess so that I may bring my witness into court. I must apologize for this unusual request. But, in view of the importance of this case, it has become necessary to take elaborate precautions to protect the life of the witness. Very well. There will be a brief recess. to give the prosecution time to bring its witness into court. Going down? Sorry, sir. This car is reserved. You'll have to take... Get back into that car. Sure Well, how thrilling. Where are all the photographers and newspapermen? They're gonna come later. By the way, how's the trial going? It'll go a lot better when you get there. With this army of men it shouldn't be difficult. I hope not. Go down the stairs, boys, quick. They must have banished the dame to Siberia by the length of the time it's taking to get her back. They've snatched Miss Gardner. I'm sure it's Carston's doing. Your Honor. I would like to request a 24 hour continuance of this case due to the sudden illness of my witness. Continuance granted. Court is adjourned until 2:00 tomorrow afternoon. You heard what I said, boys. That stands. Never seen you two before. Which one of the rover boys are you? We're from out of town. Carston figured they would know his own men. Smart. By the way, I always make a point of knowing just where I'm going and when I'm coming back. We're taking you up to the castle till the trial blows over. Carston was afraid the law might give you the chatter. Get you all crossed up. The Castle. Nice cozy place to take a girl. Yes. Just a moment. It's the Highway Police. They've got radio cars at every highway intersection Good. Tell them to telephone their broadcasting stations with the description and number of the car as soon as we get 'em. Right. All right, get your men together and tell them to wait for me in the car downstairs. Okay, come on, Nick. Now, Quinn, bring in Mr A.P. Smith. Send in Williams. Bill, I don't think you oughta go through with this. I'd rather drop the whole case, Bill. What about Julie? You think I'm gonna leave her to Carston's tender mercies? You're taking a desperate chance. I don't think so, if I've got Carston sized up right. And I believe I have. It's all perfectly simple. I don't know what you fellows are worrying about. Carston will take Julie to his castle, we don't know where that castle is... and I'm gonna make him send me there. Hello, Williams. I've got a little job for you. And if you do it right, maybe the D.A. won't work so hard on you. I'll try, Mr Bradford. I want you to call up Carston and give him a hot tip. Tell him you just heard Bill Bradford telling the D.A. that he wasn't a reporter at all but an undercover man from the Treasury Department. And that he was the guy that got the goods on Carston. Mr Bradford... Also tell him that I'm leaving your office and on my way up there to see him. But I couldn't do that... He'd kill you. He'd kill anybody that double-crossed him. Let me worry about that. Okay. Send him in. Well, hello, Bill. How are you? Glad you dropped in. Sit down. Thanks. Something I want to talk to you about. Fine, that's why I came in. Yeah? What's on your mind? Julie. Too bad she was taken sick so suddenly, wasn't it? Oh, let's don't play games, Carston. All right, then... what about Julie? Now look, Carston, don't get me wrong. I'm not trying to stick my nose into your business. I know your angle. And I don't blame you for not wanting to take the rap if you can help it. Go on. Well, I don't have to tell you how things stand between Julie and me. She's a sweet kid and I wouldn't want anything to happen to her. What makes you think something's gonna happen to her, Bill? Well, you know, with the government bearing down on you and Julie knowing so much about your business... You know, I thought you might get a little jittery and... Oh, forget it, Bill. Julie's a regular kid. Anybody that shoots square with me hasn't got a thing to worry about. You know that. Right, and thanks for taking a load off my mind. Wait a minute, Bill. I didn't know that you had such a case on Julie. Oh, sure. Just putty in her lily-white hands. But don't you go tipping her off now. Well, in that case I guess I gotta give you a break, eh? Well, that's big of you. But what for? A little reward for the nice things you've done for me. Oh, they're not worth mentioning. Now don't be so modest. You've got them coming to you and I always pay off. All right, Carston, what have you got up your sleeve? Nothing much, except that... Richard's driving down to the castle. And I thought that maybe that you'd like to go for a little ride. That is, to see Julie. You're kidding. Never more serious in my life. Richard is bringing her some clothes and I'm sure he doesn't mind taking you along. Do you, Rich? No. Well, that's mighty nice of you boys and I certainly appreciate it but... well, I can't make it just now. See, I gotta get back to the office, knock off a couple of yarns You don't want me to coach you, do you, Bill? No, but you know how it is... I just thought maybe you might like to see for yourself that Julie was being well taken care of. All right, Carston, you got me. When do we start? You ready, Rich? Yeah. Well, come on, sourpuss, what are you waiting for? You. Goodbye, Bill. I'll be seeing you. Thanks, thanks for the buggy ride. Don't mention it. 3-S-9-7-3. 3-S-9-7-3. Phone this number to the broadcasting station immediately and tell them I'll call again as soon as I've tailed this car to the city limits. Let's go. Calling all cars. Attention all cars. Special broadcast. Be on the lookout for large green sedan License number 3-sugar-9-7-3. More later. Thompson. They turned from Rodney Avenue into Highway 17. Okay, Wilson. You stay where you are and we'll call you as soon as we spot them again. Who's territory are they heading for? Cars 131, 134 and 139. Call them and tell them to call the station for instructions. There's another one of those radio cars. They're thicker than flies today. Slow down. Can't afford a ticket. Oh, that's all right. I can fix any ticket. I race with the cops. So I heard. That's them all right. 3-S-9-7-3. Intersection 49. Okay. Just took the left fork at intersection 49. They must be heading for the Lake District. Call cars 167 and 168. Calling cars 167 and 168. Attention, cars 167 and 168. Green sedan heading your way. Proceed as instructed. Calling Wilson's car. Attention, Wilson's car. Proceed to intersection 49. Wait there for further instructions. That is all. Go East toward Highway 17. All right. Stay where you are and keep your eyes open. Haven't reached intersection 105 yet. Then it's a cinch they turned off the highway ahead of it. Now look here. There's 3.5 miles from 104 to 105. They could almost crawl it in a half hour. And the map shows only two dirt roads from the main highway. One of them leads to that hideout. Call Wilson's car. Calling Wilson's car. Attention, Wilson's car. Proceed immediately to intersection 104. Believe green sedan turned off into one of two dirt roads before reaching intersection 105. Investigate that vicinity. reinforcements are being sent there to assist you. That is all. Thompson. Step on it. You know, Bradford, I never did like that fresh pal of yours. Always had you figured for a guy that knew his way around. Why, that's very nice of you, Rich. How come you got yourself into this mess. Oh, just a little mistake I think you can correct. Bill, please. Don't worry, Julie. Just sit tight. We'll pull through all right. Why don't you stop kidding her, Bill? You know you're both washed up. Well, my mother always told me to look on the bright side of things. Guess your old lady had the right idea at that. There she is. Don't touch that gate, boys. It may be hot. Come on. We'll go over. Whatever you do, keep your men undercover or those kids in there are gonners. Charlie, you take two men and try to work your way around the other side. You boys come with me and we'll try to get in the back way. Nice looking rod you got there, Rich. Yeah, this is just in case. We got something special for you and your girlfriend. All set. Okay. Let's go. Watch your step. In here, Frank. We made it as quick as we could, Bill. We didn't want to take any chance. Sure you're all right? What about you, Bill? Get up there, you rat. Hello. Hello, Rich? Well, put him on. I don't think he can come to the phone just now. He's got a bad case of lead poisoning. I wouldn't think of kidding a wise guy like you, Mr Carston. Sure it's Bill Bradford, who did you think it was? Very clever, Mr Bradford. Why, certainly. I'm looking forward to seeing you both in court tomorrow. Yes. A little matter I want to settle with Miss Gardner. Hm-hmm. What happened? Everything. My friend Bradford led them all right into the castle. My dear little bookkeeper is coming back. You're through. You haven't got a chance. We're not through, Charlie. We've cashed enough of this, haven't we? Well, we've got another payoff coming. I tell you, you haven't got a chance. I can't help you. Not now. They're not gonna put me into a cell. Listen, Charlie, I've played around this racket a long time. Guns don't scare me. But, Charlie, I am not going to Alcatraz! They're not gonna throw me into a cage for 30 years. I'd rather take a murder rap and go the quick way. Okay. Just a minute. Give this to Lauder. Wait just a minute. Wait a minute. As an attorney I refuse to submit to a search. I warn you. Sorry, Mr Young, but you know how it is. All right, take it easy. Do you recognize these, Miss Gardner? Yes. What are they? They're photostatic copies of Alexander Carston's private books which I kept in code. Would you be good enough to explain that code to the jury. Well, that's a pretty large order. Go ahead. Do the best you can. Well, you see, the whole system was based on a numerical sequence of the letters of the alphabet. For example, "f", being the sixth letter of the alphabet reads a six. Order in the court! Order! Order in the court! Order in the Court! I beg your pardon, Your Honor, but the defendant evidently wants to change the charge to murder. Bill, I think I'm going to be... The sentences on these counts of fraud, conspiracy and evasion to be served consecutively. Aggregated term of 30 years to be served in the Federal Prison of Alcatraz. Charlie Young's going to trial for conspiracy. Yeah, he's going to join his pal down there in Alcatraz in about a month. Huh? No, I'm not coming into the office. In fact, I'm about to take 4 or 5 weeks off. I said I'm going to take 4 or 5 weeks off. Maybe six. On account of what? On account of I'm gonna marry the girl. And that's news. Would you feed a lady now? That's not news.
