 

                        - partners. - through thick and thin. Night or day. Right or wrong. if you're ever in a jam, here I am  if you ever need a pal, I'm your gal  if you ever feel so happy  you land in jail, I'm your bail  it's friendship, friendship  just the perfect blendship  when other friendships have been forgot  ours will still be hot  if you're ever down a well, ring my bell  if you ever catch on fir send a wire  if you ever lose your teeth  when you're out to dine, borrow mine  it's friendship, friendship  just the perfect blendship  when other friendships go up in smoke  ours will still be oke  if you ever lose your mind, I'll be kind  if you ever lose your shirt  I'll be hurt  if you're ever in a mill  and get sawed in half, I won't laugh  it's friendship, friendship  just the perfect blendship  when other friendships have been forgate  ours will still be great  when other friendships have been forgot  ours will still be hot!  - quack quack! - woof woof! Hi. tony blair, that's me. Uh... uh, could you just open the boot, please? Hey. - - 1988. Voters with an annual income of $15,000 to $50,000 voted 20% democrat, 48% republican. In 1992 those same voters go for clinton 45%, versus 35% for bush. Why? Because we redefined ourselves. We reached out to voters who felt that the social policies of conservatives were selfish and uncaring and convinced them that we were not the old style, wasteful tax-and-spend liberals conservatives would have them believe we were. So welfare... provide welfare but with a time limit, mandate job training, get those people skills and get them back off the dole. The same with crime. Be tough on the causes of crime... education, lack of education, poverty... but be tough on criminals as well. You're gonna have to listen to what people are saying. Don't keep coming at them with ideas and language they don't want. It's a hell of a lot easier to change what your party stands for than to change what people want. Policy is only going to get you so far. If you guys are serious about putting the labour party back into power, above everything, you're going to need to get yourselves one of these... a bona fide, triple-a vote-winning political superstar. Monsieur le president. Our prime minister, john major, and my political opponents in britain, believe that they will win the next election by expressing their hostility to europe. Well, not me. let- I'm sorry, mr. blair... Excuse me. excuse me. Tony, that was terrific. They loved you. So good, I almost believed it myself. I just got a confirmation from the foreign office. It's a yes for the washington trip. - great! - meeting with the chairman of the federal reserve, reception at the british embassy- - And clinton? A one-on-one with the man himself in the oval office. With the full white house press corps in attendance. But I thought leaders of the opposition were meant to be kept at a distance so as not to upset the prime minister. - they are. - So why the exception? Well, it's obvious, isn't it? They think you're going to win. Have you seen my blue shirt? - what? - have you seen my blue shirt? I can't hear you! Well, they'll have to go to the court of appeals for that, if they have the stomach for it. - have you seen my blue shirt? - Which blue shirt? - the pale blue. - Look in the basket. Yeah, I'll see you at court 27. If I put it in the basket, why didn't she do it? - take another shirt. - I've already chosen my tie. - then take another tie. - I don't want to take another tie! It's touching. I've not seen you this nervous before. - I'm not nervous. - Then why are you snapping? I'm not sna... The last time you went to washington, I seem to remember a slightly more casual attitude. Last time I went to washington, I met with clinton's advisors. - to nick their ideas. - no, to seek their advice on reshaping the party. Reshaping yourself more like. You came back clinton hair, clinton suit... Everything minus the tarty girlfriend. Why does his wife put up with... Oh, tony, don't worry. He'll love you. Hopefully there'll be somewhere in washington I can get a bloody shirt done. Good god. they're bringing us in through the northwest gate. - what does that mean? - it's the front door, the heads of state entrance. As if you were already prime minister. - switch sides. - Why? They'll open the door on the left. You have to get out first. come on. For goodness' sake. - well, help, alastair. - Tony. I hope nobody saw that. - comfy? - Yes. Thanks. Good morning, sir. Welcome to the white house. Thank you. this is alastair campbell... - how do you do? - ... m y press secretary, and jonathan powell, chief of staff. Yes, we know. Right this way, gentlemen. First time in the white house? - yes. - Please tell me you're getting - a kick out of this. - Yes, thank you. Potus is still in the family residence right now. - potus? - President of the united states. Ah. - - heading down the staircase. Will we have one of those? On the ground floor now... into the colonnade. Not bad. 15 minutes late. You must be important. Okay, here we go, sir. Straight ahead. Be sure to ask him about the moon rock. Excellent. I'm very glad we had this chance to talk. I've always been straight with you, mr. Ambassador, so when I tell you that we share the concerns of the people of okinawa, I know that you'll believe me. Secretary perry and I have been talking through some ideas that will safeguard our security interests in the northern pacific, as well as fulfill our commitments to your people. Japan has long been a close security partner with the united states and nothing, I promise you, is going to jeopardize that. Well, it's good talking to you too. - mr. blair. - Tony, please. Welcome to the white house. I have been following your career with great interest. So you know we've taken a page out of your book. Quite a few pages, which I consider to be a big compliment. Have a seat. You know, we keep a pretty close eye on things over here, and we think that the smart money is on you... And I thought a high-profile visit with an american president might just help you across the finish line. Because I believe you're going to win by a landslide. So what you've got to realize is rhetoric can only get you so far. You can talk your way into office but you're not going to stay there unless you can deliver on the promise of your words. Well, we've had 17 years of conservative government, during which the country's veered wildly off course. If labour does get in, I'd like to make sure that we stay in long enough to get us back on the right track. I think we're going to enjoy working together. Now don't get me wrong- major's not all that bad. He's been great on northern ireland. And when you're elected it is my sincere hope that you continue the fight for peace. Oh, peace in northern ireland is at the top of my agenda. I just don't think it's reasonable in today's world to carry on with that kind of dispute. If you need my help, just pick up the phone. Thanks, I will. And don't be surprised if you feel completely, totally overwhelmed when you do get into office, because in all that time out on the road, scrambling and fighting to actually get that job, no one briefs you on what you do when you get there. - - now you seem a pretty quick study, I bet you're going to settle in just fine. So we have a few minutes before the press. Did anyone around here tell you to ask about the moon rock? Uh, they did, actually. You know, sometimes when things get stressful around here, I just shut that door, sit on the couch, hold that rock and think, "we all just gotta chill a little. " a productive meeting, mr. President? Very. we discussed a number of things including the peace process in northern ireland, which is an article of faith for me personally, as you know. Do you think you've been talking to the next prime minister of great britain? Oh, come on. that's not a diplomatic question. Look. I just hope he's been talking to the next president of the united states. Tonight bill clinton proves his title, "the comeback kid," after winning an historic second term in the white house. Bill clinton is the first democrat to win re-election since franklin delano roosevelt. - a labour prime minister in #10 after 18 years of conservative ruling. this is a presidential moment if ever there were one. Look at them grabbing at h with pason in their faces. He's their man. what a moment. Let's just listen to the sound for a second. tony blair and his wife cherie led labour out of the wilderness and back into downing street. the new prime minister promised to work for all the people. He said his government would take practical measures in pursuit of noble causes. Hey, good to see you. - hello. - How are you? Tony, president chirac on the line. How do you want to do this? In english or french? - does it matter? - Well, he speaks fluent english, as you know, but my guess is he'll start in french, thinking it'll give him the upper hand. - - I think you should stand your ground, do this in english. I'll be listening in. hello. - thank you, jacques. Let's hope so. Well, I will do everything I can to live up to that. Tony. clinton, line two. Uh, unfortunately, jacques, I've got to go. Sorry about... Bill! how great of you to call. Please hold for the president of the united states of america. right. - your call, mr. president. - Thank you. excuse me. Is this tony blair I'm speaking to or the new dictator of great britain? - congratulations, tony. - Thank you. A majority of 179. It's unbelievable. I'm gonna make a prediction right now and say that the 2nd of may, 1997, is the day that progressive politics became the default setting in western democracies. So that's your name in the history books right there. And you won edgbaston... the first labour victory there ever... and wirral south. Tony, it's sensational. Hey, listen. I've gotta go, but we're gonna see each other in about a month. - yes, indeed. - all right. We'll catch up properly then. Hey, why don't we have dinner one night, the four of us? Sherry and hillary too. Uh, cherie. I'd love that. Okay, it's a date. I'll let you pick the place. We're easy. we'll eat anything. Just no catfish or fried green tomatoes, okay? That's a promise. See ya. Did we win edgbaston? Yes. And wirral south? Apparently. He's got no business knowing that. That's just showing off. President clinton and first lady hillary rodham clinton made a detour to london to pay a flying visit to tony blair today. All the stops... - a pair of postwar baby boomers who came to power by moderating the liberal tendencies of their respective political parties. the meetings will be closely watched for signals as to what can be expected of the two men who sm to have so much in common. Are you sure I can't offer you anything? No, I'm good. I suppose you know the awful term "special relationship"? It's something our foreign office is always keen to promote. Oh, I know it. every country on earth claims it. Although, in terms of actual effect on u. s. foreign policy, israel, china, saudi arabia, and the irish republic are the ones who merit it. Still, every now and again a situation arises where... Personal chemistry between the two leaders... As well as the shared language, shared history... Is such that it could actually have some currency. You think this is one of those moments? I do actually. You have to ask yourself: all. When did it last happen that two guys on the same team, found themselves with their hands on the joystick like this? It's a unique opportunity. - yes, it is. - We take away the bullshit, all the reasons that things don't get done... the same old excuses, the same roadblocks to progress that people have been throwing up for years... We could put right-wing politics out of business for a generation. Heck, maybe forever. - the same with the old far left. - Exactly. Progressive, center-left politics is the future. What you're talking about is a... Is a whole paradigm shift. A new kind of politics for the new millennium. We build a global consensus around our ideas, there's nothing that we can't tackle. I mean, you look at the facts: I've got three more years, then al gore... That's eight years right there. And then in europe, you're just getting started. There's persson in sweden, schroeder in germany. Beyond that, there's cardoso in brazil. you're right. People are ready for this and we're on the right side ohistory. It's a sladunk. He understands the limitations of power, of what can be accomplished, he just refuses to be limited by them. He's a visionary, a true visionary. Well, before you develop too much of a crush, it's also worth remembering that this visionary is also the first president of the united states to be up on a sexual harassment charge. No, if you'd been there, if you'd heard him, you'd understand, you know, what this could mean - for me, for all of us. - Well, I wasn't there, was I? I was out entertaining the visionary's wife. So how was it with the first lady? Oh, fine... Until on the way back from the theatre she let slip how big her staff is. She has her own policy advisors, her own chief of staff, a bloody airplane at her disposal, if you please! Darling, would it help if I sent jonath out to buy you a filofax? Ha ha. - listening to her, you realize... yeah, effectively, it's a co-presidency. He takes her advice on everything. - I take yours. - Oh, bollocks. I mean, it's all boys' town with you with your jonathans, your alastairs and your gordons. You know, bill clinton was once asked who would he go to if there was a crisis in the room. He said his wife. Now you'd never say that. - yes, I would. - Rubbish. Whereas they're so tight, such close collaborators, they're effectively running that country together. I think there's something quite romantic about it. Do you know, when he was governor of arkansas, the staffers actually referred to them as "biliary. " biliary? "terie"? - "chony"? - Tony, no no. - you can't get me- - You can't... - give us a kiss. - no no no no. - Give us a kiss. Oh, stop it. It's because we're such tight collaborators. Well, that's a great strike... what did you get up to today? I was taken to see the newly renovated globe theatre - by cherie blair. - Oh, god. What did you do to deserve that? That's what we do, the wives of great men. Then we had some lunch, just the two of us. Did you swap stories? Talking about tony and me? All the things we do that drive you crazy? Your names came up. She ask your advice? I told her to shield her children from the tabloid spotlight as much as possible and to try to be herself, both of which she will discover are impossible. She's in kind of a tough spot and she doesn't get much help, which she whined about a bit. That's just the working class. You know she's from liverpool? It's the arkansas of england. She obviously adores him though. Well, he's quite a catch. It's not often you see that. What? A couple where the husband is more attractive than the wife. - he is handsome. - blair? You think so? - well, you don't? - He's got charm, I guess, but there's something about him. He's too perfect. So you prefer your man imperfect? 'cause I hate to disappoint you, hon, but my mama told me a million times - that I'm just too good to be true. - Yeah, right. Is there ever a moment when you're not stuffing that thing? So you continue to practice? You're not giving up the law? Oh, no, never. I mean, that's if anyone will bring me cases - now that tony is in #10. - Oh, that's right. - blame it on me. - what did your predecessor do? - norma major? - she wrote a book. Oh! umm... The prime minister's country house - and its history. " - perfect. Cherie's going to do one about downing street. don't laugh. - tony. - can I offer one piece of serious advice? - if it's not too presumptuous... - Oh, here we go. - ... or self-aggrandizing? - Can I make a disclaimer here? - please, feel free to ignore him. - No. please. - I'd like to hear it. - Hit the ground running. Now we got off to a bad start, and it's taken us four years to recover. The other thing is to start thinking now about what you want your legacy to be. I've been in office less than a month, - and you want me to work out my legacy? - No no no, bill's right. Because if you don't do it, other people will do it for you. Legacy is reductive. people tend to remember you for one thing. You have to make sure you get ahead and define what that is. And if you decide to take up a cause, make sure it isn't healthcare. And if someone in your first press conference asks you about gays in the military, you say nothing! People often ask me if I'm exhilarated by our election victory. Of course I'm excited about it, but I feel an equally profound sense of responsibility I feel it... ...perhaps especially about here... northern ireland. This is not a party political game. It is about life and death for the people here. The people of northern ireland have stood up to terrorist violence for 25 years. They have not been destroyed by it, but the legacy of bitterness has made the normal political give and take virtually impossible. The I. r.a. and sinn fein have a choice between negotiations and violence. My message to sinn fein is clear: The settlement train is leaving. I want you on that train, but it is leaving anyway. And I will not allow it to wait for you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The search for peace in northern ireland was dealt a devastating blow today when the ira murdered two police officers. Two ira gunmen caught them in a side street. It's believed they came up behind them and fired a number of shots into their heads at close range. all this after sinn fin attacked tony blair's impassioned ultimatum for peace as pro-unionist. gerry adams, told about the shootings at a book signg, said that on a personal level he was shocked but reluctant to comment on the political fallout. How could they do that? I merely suggest they enter talks and they kill two people. I mean, maybe I went too far. You said what had to be said and they heard it... The men who murdered those cops. That's why they did what they did. They're scared. they're scared, because after all the decades of endless back and forth and false starts there's finally a man in downing street who's not going to put up with their bullshit anymore. Gerry adams assured me that he was ready to push for a ceasefire, so that sinn fein could join the talks. He knew what I was going to say. And then this, and he says nothing. Nothing. Not a word against the people who killed those men. Well, how can I help? Do you want me to make a statement? Well, your advisors will tell you that there's no mileage in you involving yourself in the domestic problems of the u. k. Gerry adams owes me. I gave that guy visas and political legitimacy when you brits weren't even allowing him on tv. Now I want to do this right. Why don't have your guys jot down a few ideas, come up with a few lines? You'll have them before you get up. the ira has claimed responsibility for what is ultimately an outrageous act of cowardice and no one should ever make the mistake of thinking that actions of this kind represent anything equating to patriotism. I, frankly, think now the ball is in sinn fin's court. Everyone has decisions to make in life. Their decision is, are they going to be part of the peace process or not? I hope the answer will be yes. good evening. The sinn fin leader, gerry adams, walked into #10 downing street today. The first such meeting for 76 years. We had a good meeting because I think we engaged. I think we faced up to the difficulties. In many ways the engagement could be described as a moment in history, because usually the moments in anglo-irish relationships in history are bad moments. Today was a significantly good moment. It is thought that president bill clinton helped to revive the peace process in northern ireland today, proving, yet again, the long reach of his political clout. bill, thank you. My pleasure. happy to help. Sometimes it just takes an outsider to help settle a family dispute. Well, I can't thank you enough. After all these months, the peace process is back on track. Well, I guess we can jot one down for the good guys, eh? Well, we've got a real shot at this now. And we could never have done it without your support. Hey, there are no debts here. No I. o.u. s. we're just pulling together to get a job done. So if there's nothing else, I've got to go. If there's anything anytime... tonight, partly cloudy and cool, dropping to the mid-upper 50s. Weather updated around the clock... mr. president. Let's go. There's gonna be something in the news today you should know about. What? what is it? It's not that I don't know the answer, it's just a very badly-worded question. And if I did tell you the answer, - you wouldn't learn anything, would you? - Except cheating. - - right, euan, you've got one more minute on that and that's it. hello... Yeah, are you near a television? - yeah. - Switch on the news. Right. I'll have to call you back, alastair. - come on, nicky. come on. - Give it here. taken the city by storm. This just in from washington. Kenneth starr, the independent counsel investigating - alleged criminal conduct... - Stop drawing pictures and get on with it. ...of president and mrs. Clinton in the whitewater affair issued a wave of white house subpoenas today, accusing the president of having sex with monica lewinsky, a 23-year-old white house intern. Federal investigators are rumored to be in possession of taped conversations discussing the alleged affair between miss lewinsky and president clinton. The recordings, in which she refers to president clinton as "the big he" and "the creep," recalling the paula jones case in which detailed descriptions of the president's penis... okay, kids. enough. - come on. out. - come on. Out, euan. - nick. - Oh, come on. Come on. come on. come on. Out out out out out. Miss lewinsky is also rumored to have said in one of the taped conversations that "I have lied my entire life. " worse still, lewinsky alleges... this might not be the best time to be planning a trip to washington. Well, who says any of it is true? If ken starr is involved, it's probably a right-wing witch hunt, another muckraking exercise. You watch. This story could go away as quickly as it's broken. The president of america having sex with a girl half his age? Tonight, the president's own lawyer... this story hasn't even started. ...dismissed the allegations as mischievous invention. Okay, well, how- how do you know this girl? She was interning in the west wing a couple of years ago. - yeah. - I talked to her a few times. She said she was looking for a job and, you know me, I offered to help. I gave her a couple of names of people she could talk to. I was just trying to be nice, but apparently she seemed to think it was something more. She thought... she thought it was more, why? Why... why on earth would she think that? Well, I don't know. You know how it is, how people are around me. So you're telling me that you did nothing that could be misinterpreted? - no. no. - Nothing that could be misread? - no - Nothing? Nothing. I swear. Now the way they tell it, I was having sex in the oval office, midday. - oh, for heaven's sake. - Yeah, you know that's ridiculous. With all the guards and the windows around there, that's not gonna happen. These people... This is just all the same bullshit. They think they can put something in the paper and that just makes it true. The same old innuendo. The same old digging for dirt when there's nothing there. Ken starr is gonna go after you with everything he's got. They're discussing his penis in public now... "five and a ha inches with a curve in the middle when erect. " hardly errol flynn, is it? I wonder who's angrier with him now... His wife for his betrayals or his press secretary for his modest endowment? Now had it been 8" long and thick as a baguette... Oh, for god's sake, shut up. A little irritable today, aren't we? I am. why do these european summits always fill one with gloom? Because they're full of pompous, irrelevant twats with stupid accents who are stuck in the past - and never know when to shut up. - That would be the reason then. Plus events in washington will dominate all the front pages now. Which makes the whole thing feel rather pointless. Sir. morning, sir. The list you asked for on the current members of the european commission and their staffs. Thank you. Who is she? A new intern from the foreign office. You should know the tapes of lewinsky's conversation, her phone calls that are supposed to be out there... Well, are they out there or not? Well, it's an ongoing investigation. it's... The information's privileged. There's no way we can... Fine, so these tapes that may or may not be out there... Yes, well, it's been suggested they contain certain revelations about... the president's voicemails to miss lewinsky, an exchange of gifts, his... his preference for oral sex and the supposed existence of a dress with semen stains. That's enough. Whether these... tapes are out there or not, it's a "he said, she said. " we have a starstruck intern versus the president of the united states. They've got nothing. Now the best way for us to turn the tables, to stop this being personal, is to make it political, because I'm not gonna conduct a public debate about my marriage. I want to conduct a debate about the right-wing media and ken fucking starr, because they have been on our backs right from the begning. So this is what we're gonna do. the white house said to bin crisis mode, with one administration... - inside politics as mr. clinton prepares to give another state of the union address. ... the prosecutor puts the pressure on the white house intern. White house scandal is already the biggest soap opera running and the viewers show no sign of tuning out. But I want to say one thing to the american people, and I want you to listen to me. I'm gonna say this again: I did not have sexual relations with that woman... Miss lewinsky. These allegations are false. Now I need to go back to work for the american people. - thank you. - There's been one subject in particular weighing on the minds of the american public- the alleged sexual relationship between the president and miss lewinsky. Has your husband explained the nature of this relationship to you in detail? Well, we've talked at great length and I think as this matter unfolds the entire country will have more information. But we're right in the middle of a rather vigorous feeding frenzy right now. And I have learned over these last many years, being involved in politics, that the best thing to do in these cases is just to be patient, take a deep breath and the truth will come out. But there's nothing we can dto fight this firestorm of allegations that are out there. Do you think that your husband would admit again causing pain in your marriage? No, absolutely not and he shouldn't. You know, we've been married for 22 years, and I had learned a long time ago that the only people who count in any marriage are the two that are in it. And I guess I've just been through it so many times. I mean, bill and I have been accused of everything, including murder, by some of the very same people who are behind these allegations. The great story here, for anybody willing to find it, write about it and explain it, is this vast right-wing conspiracy that has been conspiring against my husband since the day he announced for president. A few journalists have kind of caught onto it and explained it, but it has not yet been fully revealed to the american public and actually, you know, in a bizarre sort of way, this may do it. You know, the longer this goes on, the worse it is for clinton. I wonder whether we might not want to take a step back. I'm on my way to washington to do a press conference with the man, jonathan. It may be a little late in the day for a step back. Come on, let's be realistic here. He's hardly bloody milosevic, is he? What he did or did not do is a personal matter. Public people are entitled to private lives, alastair. There's nothing private about his. It doesn't affect his ability to govern though, does it? Not to mention he's a friend. Tony, all political friendship is strategic and conditional. A slight cooling may be no bad thing. What? backff from the "special relationship" we've all been so keen to promote? No, not back off. just re-evaluate. And if there is any truth to the story, they're in so deep they'll never get out. Well, he can hardly come clean, can he? America elected him, knowing his history with women. If he did do it, he should make a big public apology and move on. No, his lawyers would hate that idea. They probably see it as a chance to tough it out on definition and hope that they'll all go away. Would you if you were defending him? Who? the big creep? I suppose it comes down to what you actually think constitutes "sex. " that's easy... it's intercourse, penetration. What, so blowjobs don't count? - no. - No. God. you men are pathetic. Come on, you know the deal... - eating ain't cheating. - Oh, that's disgusting. - if it ain't in, it ain't a sin. - apparently there's even a passage in the bible that supports it. - supports what? - the idea that oral sex doesn't constitute adultery. - bollocks! - Really? Ecclesiastes. discovered by clinton's rapid response team. God, they're good. It's hardly bloody fidelity either! I mean, organs from one person's body have entered another. How can that not be sex? Huh. god, this language. This is just bizarre. I mean, technically, what we're doing is having a political conversation here, but it's just... blue. Yesterday c. n.n. Put out an announcement before their nightly news bulletin warning parents the content might not be appropriate for children. - god. - which brings us back to the original question: Shouldn't we be thinking about taking a step back? all eyes today will be on tony blair as he flies into a political storm the likes of which hasn't been seen since the watergate affair. With his back against the wall, bill clinton may benefit from his close connection with the british prime minister, who is widely admired in the united states. It is likely the official agenda for the meeting between the president and prime minister will be pushed aside for questions about bill clinton's relationship with a former white house intern. There's an article in tomorrow's "new york times" that suggests clinton coacd his secretary to lie about his relationship with lewinsky. If that's true, then it implies he did lie in the paula jones hearing and he did lean on lewinsky to lie in her affidavit. Infidelity by a president is one thing. Perjury is quite another. he's here. Let me see those numbers straightaway. yes, sir. Tony, sorry to put you through this. - not at all. - We'll get through it. ladies and gentlemen, the president of the united states and the prime minister of great britain and northern ireland. Let me just start by saying that it's a real pleasure to welcome prime minister blair here to washington. Today on the verge of a new century, a new millennium, america is prouder than ever to stand shoulder to shoulder with its close friend the united kingdom. It continues a great tradition and a special relationship between our two countries. Mr. president. mr. president. - eric. - Prime minister, as a friend and as a religious man, I was wondering whether you offered your personal advice to president clinton during these difficult times of criminal investigation into his sexual behavior. That's what, in the british media, we call a helpful question. Uh, no. Michael. Prime minister, some people are struck by the warmth of the personal statements of support that you've been giving to the president. can I ask had you ever considered that might be a politically risky strategy? You heard the president talking about the special relationship between our two countries and the great tradition of standing shoulder to shoulder with one another, and I'm reminded of a story from the height of world war ii, when britain desperately needed america's help. It wasn't always certain that they would come to our help, and at one point harry hopkins, the emissary to the american president roosevelt, was sent to britain. Hopkins said to churchill, "I suppose you wish to know what I'll be saying to president roosevelt on my return. " well, he said he would be quoting from a passage from the bible: "whither thou goest, I will go; Whither thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy god my god, even to the end. " you just asked whether my support, my friendship, is a politically risky strategy? I've worked with president clinton for some nine months. I have found him throughout someone I could trust, someone I could rely upon, someone I am proud to call not just a colleague, but a friend. And I happen to think that if you look at the american economy, if you look at the respect with which america is held right round the world today, it's a pretty impressive record for anyone. - prime minister. - mr. President. mr. president. Do you appreciate mr. Blair's support? No. no. I think he should have just come over here - and jumped all over me. - Mr. president. - thank you. - mr. president. Mr. president. I hope you worked out what you want in return, because you saved that man today. He owes you big time. Who says I want something in return? Well, if you don't, it makes what you did even harder to understand. I did it because I like him. And because now he owes you. And because I believe in what he's trying to do, what we can do together. And because now he owes you. Well, is there anything wrong with that? We've been on borrowed time in the balkans. Milosevic is playing us for fools. we should have seen this coming. We got milosevic to the negotiating table over bosnia by agreeing that kosovo was an internal matter for the serbs, and now he thinks that he can do what he wants. And by the time the un is finished arguing over the finer points of international law, milosevic will have killed another 250,000 people and driven another two million from their homes, just like he did in bosnia. Now that's not going to happen, not on my watch. John major acted too slowly and too reluctantly on bosnia. This government's not going to make the same mistake. Yes, we have to make our case to the u. n. That the serbs are guilty of genocide, but at the same time we've got to come up with a credible threat to stop milosevic. You and madeleine albright are preaching from the same pulpit. So where do we go from here? We start with the full range of economic sanctions, work to get nato on board and consider our military options. What about the russians? Well, you just leave the russians to me. Boris... he's going to kick and scream just like he did over bosnia, but we just gave him $5 billion in aid, so I've got a little leverage there. I'm more concerned about europe. Well, the italians will be against any action for a start, - as will the germane. - What about the french? Chirac will want to play by the book. He'll do nothing without the full support of the international community. You've got the perfect forum there. Presidency of the e. u. For another three months. It hasn't made any difference so far. You can be very persuasive, tony. You know, I've a theory. You can take any word in the english language that excites you, like sex, food, music or money, and completely remove any pleasure it arouses simply by adding the prefix "euro. "... good morning, jacques. Perhaps you could enlighten us? We've been struggling with a small, but I think important, technicality. - of course. happy to help. - Exactly how many centimeters is five and a half inches? You'd think some of these guys would actually step to his defense. As leaders, we're all hanging from the same thin thread. But the joy of seeing an american president slip up... It's irresistible. the pressure on bill clinton to testify before the grand jury intensified today with the announcement of a deal between monica lewinsky and kenneth starr. Under total immunity, monica lewinsky is is reportedly telling prosecutors she and the president talked about how to conceal their relationship. This is what the president is desperate to avoid... the indignity of appearing at a federal courthouse in washington. The special prosecutor, kenneth starr, is playing a tough game. He is determined to question the president under oath, and he is backed by mr. clinton's republican opponents in congress. Get me kendall. If kenneth starr does have additional information, I think it could snowball into a real impeachment problem for the president. I have a very strong belief... tell them I'll testify, but I want the subpoena revoked, I'd like to have my lawyers present and we do it in the white house. First reports now suggest that monica lewinsky has changed her story to admit there was an affair and has even turned over to the special prosecutor tapes of phone calls from the president and a dress, possibly stained, that may help prove the relationship. Today her lawyer denied that information about the dress had been leaked either by him or her other lawyer. The white house claims much of this is unsubstantiated rumor, but the fbi confirmed to me today it has received the dress from kenneth starr and is processing it for testing. Are you awake? I am now. I need to... Tell you about the situation. It's much more serious than I let on. What? I'm going to say in my testimony that there... was something inappropriate about that relationship. in deposition last january I was asked questions about my relationship with monica lewinsky. While my answers were legally accurate, I did not volunteer information. Indeed, I did have a relationship with miss lewinsky that was not appropriate. In fact... - I'd like to know the distinction between "legally accurate" and "big fucking lie. " I can only tell you I was motivated by many factors. First, by a desire to protect myself from the embarrassment of my own conduct. I was also very concerned about protecting my family. The fact that these questions were being asked... what a you gonna say? I don't know. Maybe nothing. Well, they'll be expecting a statement. Saying what? That I am all too aware thh because of my public support for the president? That I find all this excruciatingly embarrassing? That I feel I had no option but to stand by him? I think not. Our country has been distracted by this matter for too long, and I take responsibility for my part... do you think she'll ever leave him? Would you leave me? No. But I'd make your life hell. ...real problems to solve, real security matters to face. And so tonight I ask you to turn away... from the spectacle of the past seven months, to repair the fabric of our national discourse and to return our attention to all the challenges and all the promise of the next american century. Thank you for watching and good night. How do you wanna do this? You first, me a few steps behind? Together? I want us to do this together. Whether or not that's possible, I don't know. I have to find my way through this in my own time. By myself. okay? Okay. How do I look? Incredible. - mrs. clinton? - mrs. clinton? - hillary, one picture. - this way, ma'am. - so what are his chances? - Of surviving impeachment? I'd say 50/50 at best. His approval rating's gone right down the toilet. Even if he does survive, his party will take such a pounding in the mid-terms, he'll be gridlocked. He's a lame-duck president. Which, of course, presents the chance for others to shine. Well, he's still our strongest ally and the best hope we've got of seeing things through in kosovo. Evil triumphs when good men do nothing. We can all sit here, throw our hands up and say, "what does what's happening in kosovo have to do with us?" ethnic cleansing, systematic rape, mass murder. No one in the west who has seen what is happening in kosovo can doubt that nato's military action is justified. 20 years ago we would not have been fighting in kosovo. We would have tued our backs on it. But we are a community. What happens in one part of europe affects every other part. And there is only one place to be and that's in the thick of it, trying to sort it out. following a further upsurge in violence, the un security council issued a resolution demanding an end to serbian action in kosovo and putting 500 aircraft under wesley clark, nato's supreme commander. Faced with the threat of a unified nato, slobodan milosevic has backed down. president clinton's personal envoy, richard holbrook, has negotiated a ceasefire with the yugoslav president who has agreed to reduce troop numbers and to allow 2,000 unarmed observers into the province. It's not enough, bill. Nate's agreement could fall apart at any second. The russians are only going along with it to keep up appearances. Milosevic isn't fooled by any of it. Well, look at you, baby brother, stepping up to the big roulette table. He's just waiting us out. Meanwhile, winter is coming and hundreds of thousands of displaced people need to get back to their villages. As far as I can tell, the ceasefire is holding. We've got observers on the ground watching his every move. He tries anything... - yeah, but look what he's done to his own people. Do you think he cares about a bunch of observers without a gun between them? It's just a matter of time. What do you want me to say, tony? Well... Unless we back up the threat of air strikes with a willingness to put men on the ground, I just... I just don't see how he can take us seriously. Look, I hate milosevic as much as the next guy, but sending troops into a sovereign state that hasn't attacked us? Now that's a pretty tough sell to congress and the american people, and I like to think I'm a pretty good salesman! Bill, if... - I know why you want to do this. I understand your ambition. You want to take a step up, but that dog just won't hunt. I want to do it because it's the right thing to do. We both want to do the right thing and mobilizing nato so it's ready to strike - is the right thing to do. - Yeah, but bill... in case you haven't noticed, there is a bookoos of people over here - looking to get me impeached. - Yes, I'm very much aware of that. Look, if we don't do this now, I guarantee we'll be forced to do it later. Let me be clear: Until milosevic does something that proves he violates the deal on the table, we do nothing. You can hardly be surprised. Politically, his hands are tied. Yeah, maybe physically too, if hillary's got anything to do with it. But he's the one who talked about legacy. I mean, it could really help to sort things out if he did the right thing over this. Being seen to be doing something is completely different to actually doing it. Thatcher always said, "no point being here if we don't do things, - big things. " - please don't start again on thatcher. The lives of those people depend on the whim of an insane tyrant and we have the power to change that. And if bill won't or can't, then it's up to me, isn't it? Right. come on, winston. Parents' evening. Thank you, marcus. What's the math teacher's name again? Humberstone, paul. - hello, good to see you. - Hello, headmaster. on a hillside above the village of racak in kosovo... 45 people hacked to death by serbian paramilitaries right under the noses of the observers. I know. I saw the news. Every station in the world is showing the same footage. We've got to stop fiddling around the edges and prove to milosevic that we mean business. If we don't, there's going to be more massacres, more refugees. The people over here, they just don't get that. All they want to know is, is this a war america should be fighting? If we do go in, bomb the hell out of milosevic, what happens if all we wind up doing is pissing him off and he ramps up his assault on kosovo? We don't even have a grantee, if nato does go in, air strikes are going to do any go. How long are you going to keep going arou on this? Til you tell me it's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do and you don't need me to tell you that. No. But it sure does make me feel better hearing you say it. the serbs say they shot several dozen terrorists in uniform, but these men wear no uniform... ...and receive no hearing from the police who separated them... - hello? - are you watching this? I am. Because this shit is bad. Yes, it is. Okay, bombing from 15,000'. I'll tell my guys to tell nato we're in. ... to find their loved ones. - "look what they've done," she cries. "it's a massacre. " and the obscene way these men and boys have died is a kind of proof. Get me the secretary of state for defense and the chief of defense staff. Yes, I know what the time is. nato's attack on yugoslavia, long threatened, is tonight under way with massive force. the stealth fighter bombers led the way for an attack that has tonight put the western alliance at war with yugoslavia. we have learned twice before in this century that appeasement does not work. If we let an evil dictator range unchallenged, we will have to spill infinitely more blood and treasure - to stop him later. - hear hear! This is not a battle for territory. It is a battle for humanity. - it is a just cause. - Hear hear! in response to nato air strikes, milosevic's forces have stepped up their campaign to drive kosovan albanians from serbia, leaving hundreds of thousands homeless. Refugees appear, of course, as a result of bombing, and everybody knows it. Man #2: where will you go now? I don't know, but mostly what I would like is to come back at my home and to live normal like... Like all europeans do, because we are part of europe. Today, tony and cherie blair came to see the situation themselves, to witness the scale of the humanitarian crisis for which many nations throughout the world are increasingly taking nato to task. Just to see these people... These completely innocent people, who've been forced from their homes, mercilessly, at the point of a gun. Some of them, as we've just been hearing, faced unspeakable horrors. I just feel we have a duty to ensure that they can return to their homes in peace. do you have a message for the people of kosovo? Well, we will not let you down. As civilian casualties from nato bombings continue to mount, european leaders are coming under increasing pressure to justify the military campaign against the serbs. Stop the war! stop the bombing! Nato out! nato out! This is a nightmare. I mean, we've bullied the e. U. into this and all we've done is make matters worse. The air campaign simply isn't working, not as currently configured. It's too half-hearted. The list of approved targets is too limited. It's done nothing to impede milosevic's ability to wage war. So all we've really done is rally the serbs. Milosevic is looking like a hero, because he stood up to western aggression and we look like fools. We're losing the p. r. Campaign, tony, big time. Unless nato is prepared to step up the bombing and commit to ground troops, we could lose this thing. Nato will never commit, not without clinton. I know you're committed to intensifying the air campaign, but I'm here to ask you to also commit to a ground invasion into kosovo to resolve this situation once and for all. Unless we do so I am of the firm opinion that milosevic will persist in believing that nato will lack the will to finish what it's started. Strategically, we have two options: The first, a limited invasion of 80,000 troops that will drive serb forces out of kosovo and create safe havens for refugees to return; Secondly, a general invasion of serbia itself with 200,000 troops, inging about the total overthrow of the milosevic regime. And actually, we'd favor the former... A smaller invasion, the air units parachuted into- - howard. If we do what you're suggesting, people will interpret it as an admission on our part of the failure of our air campaign, so politically it's a non-starter right there. Also, the minute you put our troops into milosevic's territory, you're fighting on his terms in his backyard, handing him a huge advantage. With the bombing we keep our distance, limit the risk, yet still maintain our advantage. But the bombing's not working. We all know that. Plus, even in your limited-invasion scenario we'd have to call up reservists for a conflict in a place most americans don't know exists. I really don't understand your hesitancy. We are staring a wholesale human catastrophe in the face. Are you going to send over as many troops as you expect us to? Well, that's not possible. As you well know, given the relative size of our armies, our resources. We get the point, prime minister. You're ready to fight to the last american. We have to win this. I've made a promise. Politically, I've really stuck my neck out here. Why don't we step outside for a moment? The two of us. Let me get this straight. You want me to spend billions of dollars of american taxpayer money and lose american lives? This is a battle between good and evil, between civilization and barbarity. The intervention and removal ourechristiantors responsibility. "christian responsibility"? You know, for a center-left democrat you're beginning to sound an awful lot like jerry falwell. And what about the repercussions? Civilian casualties from a ground campaign could be even greater than those caused by errant bombs without, in my estimation, enhancing our prospects for victory. Nothing could have more serious consequences - than being defeated in kosovo. - Losing is not an option. I am committed to winning this thing and I will do whatever it takes to make sure that happens. Now if you want to talk about sending in ground troops at some future date, fine. But we keep it between ourselves... Off the record. Now, on the record, here's what I'm saying, so listen up: Nato won't go for ground troops and neither will I. Well, of course they don't care. Half of them don't know where bloody yugoslavia is. - this could be the end of me. - Come on. No, I'm serious, alastair. I'm completely out on a limb here. If we don't win this thing, I'm the one who's gonna have to answer for it. Why not take clinton up on his offer to start quietly working on a ground invasion as an interim measure? Because I don't believe him. He's lied to everybody else, why should he be telling me the truth? No. no. bollocks to that. It's the chicago speech tomorrow, right? - yeah. - right. well, I want you to beef it up a bit. I want us to put his back right up against the wal hang on a minute, tony. are you sure this is what you want to be doing? This could really backfire on us. And I want every right-wing hack with an axe to grind about the moral bankruptcy of this administration to be there to hear it- front row seats. No one who has seen what is happening in kosovo can doubt that nato's military action is justified, and that military action will continue... ...until milosevic is defeated absolutely. Success is the only exit strategy I am prepared to consider. We are witnessing the beginnings of a new doctrine of international community... many nations working hand in hand, cooperating on issues that conont us all. You are the most powerful country in the world. It must be difficult and occasionally irritating to be the recipient of every demand, to be called upon in every crisis. The cry "what's it got to do with us?" must be regularly heard on the lips of your people. Yet the nations with the greatest power have the greatest responsibility. We need you engaged. I say to you: Never fall again for the dorine of isolationism. The world cannot afford it. And realize that in britain you have a friend that will stand with you and fashion with you the design for a future built on peace and prosperity for all, which is the only dream that makes humanity worth preserving. Too slow. Only me. "all hail king tony, " "chicago tribune. " "why don't we have a president like tony blair? " "the new york times. " "blair shows courage while white house vacillates," "washington post. " "listening to the british prime minister in chicago last night, one couldn't help thinking how much president clinton could learn from his churchillian younger colleague. Both these men talk the talk. The difference is, behind closed doors, blair actually walks it too. " "wall street journal. " wow. you must've been up all night writing those. In terms of public approval, you're the number-one leader in the world right now. leaders of the nato powers convened in washington today to debate the worsening situation in kosovo. ...speculation as to the determination of nato to stay the course, with some members suggesting they might be having second thoughts. ... the celebration of nato's 50th birthday but it is expected to be totally given over to discussions on kosovo. Give the prime minister and me a moment, will you? Yes, sir. - who would've guessed? - What? What a tough little son of a bitch you turned out to be, stabbing me in the back in my own front yard. - now that takes balls. - My head was on a block. - you gave me no choice. - Well, the way I see it, your head's still on the block - and I still have a choice. - That's not what your papers suggest. Oh, that's right... your new friends. "all hail king tony. " so ground troops? are you in? Maybe you ought to ask yourself this question: What kind of a king begs others to do his fighting for him? Well, if we act now, we can end the fighting. with its pledge to do whatever it takes to prevail in kosovo, nato agrees to expand its bombing campaign against serbia. Assured by nato's resolve and the increasing effectiveness of the air strikes, president clinton publicly announced the us will consider all military options - to resolve the conflict. - To capitulate is one step closer to fruition. Under intense pressure from the clinton administration, a russian delegation flew to belgrade to deliver an ultimatum to president milosevic... "remove all troops from kosovo or risk losing the support of boris yeltsin," his one remaining ally. - right away, sir. - Thank you. this job would become, in not so many years... - ...a far more substantial one than the government now pretends. Seen as the president of europe by the rest of the world... - tony. The yugoslav parliament has conceded. All serbian troops are to be immediately withdrawn. A nato-led peacekeeping force is to be deployed in the region. Kosovo is to be placed under u. N. administration. Of course clinton will claim it was his strategy, that forced milosevic's hand. We'll claim it was ours, but either way now, it's over. We've won. you've won. This is a victory for civilization. A victory for a fundamental principle necessary for humanity's progress: That every human being has the inalienable right to live free from persecution. Milosevic knows and the world now knows we will not tolerate racial genocide. Hear hear. Let no one ever doubt again the moral justification for invading another country for humanitarian ends. here on the roads of kosovo they cheer his name. But tony blair was always going to get a hero's welcome. Tony! tony! tony! and indeed those polls have closed and the first lady of the united states of america, hillary rodham clinton, has defeated congressman rick lazio and will become the junior senator from new york. Al gore and george w bush are men in waiting today. We still don't know who won the presidency. We may not know until tomorrow. as controversy rages in washington, president clinton, accompanied by his wife, headed to the british prime minister's country residence. A farewell celebration between the two men whose shared political philosophy... oh, I'm so sorry. I really do have to take this. - of course. - What did I get? "environment and public works"? What happened to foreign relations and budget? - those were the things... - I think I'll turn in. Excuse me. Well, I just can't get over how much those kids have grown. - good night, tony. - Good night. Bill. While we've... Got a moment, I'd like to... Well, I'd like to apologize to you for what happened over kosovo, briefing against you in your own media. I was out of order. In the years I've known you, you've been a good friend to me, personally, you've been a loyal friend to my party and a great ally to this country. In the end I got all the credit, credit we should've shared. It was wrong. I was wrong. I'm sorry. That's bullshit. You don't mean a word of that. - - hey, you saw the papers the weekend after milosevic withdrew... Seven out of 10 americans said they'd like to have tony blair as their president. Handsome, energetic, churchgoing, morally upstanding, maritally faithful. Are you sure you weren't born in america? Huh. scotland. Well, that too bad, 'cause you'd win by a landslide. Good evening. the opera, at times farce, is over. The fat lady has sung. The final supreme court verdict has persuaded al gore to give up. He's finally accepted that his long legal battle - has nowhere else to go. - Let there be no doubt while I strongly disagree with court's decision, I accept it. and tonight, for the sake of our unity as a people, and the strength of our mocracy... I offer my concession. Prime minister, you asked to be woken. Thank you. I- - - thanks again. - george w. Our country has been through a long and trying period, with the outcome of the presidential election not finalized for longer than any of us could ever imagine. - after a difficult election... - Thanks. ...we st put politics behind us and work together to make the promise of america available for every one of our citizens. Our nation must rise above a house divided. Americans share hopes, goals and values far more important than any political disagreements. I have a lot to be thankful for tonight, and thankful to the american people for the great privilege of being able to serve as your next president. what are you going to do with bush? I know what everyone wants me to do... Back off, concentrate on domestic politics, deepen ties with europe. That's not what I asked you. What do you want to do? I still want to get things done, bill. And I know he's not on the same team as us, but... I'd rather be in the room where the big decisions are being made than outside it, whingeing about them. I would be the senior partner now. Bush would be the junior. I could help him like you helped me, advise him. I just want to do the right thing for my country. Are you sure about that? It's in my country's best interests, quite possibly the world's, for me to stay close to the american president. Well, you can sure move your bones... Continue to use the white house to stay in the spotlight, consolidate yourself as leader and expand your legacy. I'm not sure how to take that, bill. That felt vaguely like an insult. Well, it's true, isn't it? I mean, come on. we both know that the best way to ensure that you're remembered is to link yourself to an american president. But be careful. These guys, they play rough. Their administration has been born in controversy, national shame and illegality. and it is my bet that that's the way they'll go out. So the question you need to ask yourself is what business does a progressive center-left politician from a tiny little island in europe have making friends with folks like that? But then again... I'm not sure whether you are a progressive center-left politician anymore... Or if you ever were. I'm gonna say good night. I might sleep late. I hope you don't mind. I'm tired. I need the rest. Go ahead. Sleep as long as you like. ...but to serve one nation. The president of the united states is the president of every single american. The tower is awaiting our call. - 10 minutes, everyone. - are we flight go? Yeah, we've got clearance. clear here? Me too, george. absolutely. me too. Yeah. well... - when are you going to be sworn in? - In three weeks. After eight years with the title and no portfolio, finally you'll have both. Let me know what it's like... Waking in the morning, knowing that you're speaking for yourself. - I will. - In you go, senator! Oh, bill. for heaven's sakes. Just practicing, hon. Isn't she something? Only first lady in u. s. History to win elected office. Euan, kathryn, behind the wall. - right, that's it. - Up you go. Back into the house, because if you're... so after our little talk, did you decide which way to jump yet? Hug 'im close, go for glory or do the right thing and head for home? Not yet. Well, I guess I'll have to be like everybody else... Just watching the press conference on tv, scrutinizing the body language for telltale signs. I guess you will. I guess so. - goodbye, tony. - Goodbye, mr. president. Right face! Yeah, he's just leaving now. Yeah, I've got it in hand. yeah. Yeah. yeah, okay. All right, I'll see you then. All right, get ahold of john and tell him to bring... It's my honor to welcome the prime minister from our strongest friend and closest ally to camp david. We've had a couple of formal visits. More importantly, we've had a nice walk around camp david and gotten to know each other. As they've told me, he's a pretty charming guy. He put the charm offensive on me. I- - - and it worked. A question for both of you. There's been a lot said about how different you are as people. Have you already in your talks found something maybe that you... some personal interest that you have in common, maybe in religion, sport or music? Well, we both use colgate toothpaste. They're gonna... they're gonna wonder how you know that, george. I don't know if you found any common ground or not. I think that's enough to be going on with. See you at the gym. my name should be trouble  my na should be woe  for trouble and heartache  is all that I know  yes, lonely  lonely blue boy  is my name...  my life has been empty  my heart has been torn  it must have been raining  the night I was born  yes, lonely  lonely blue boy  is my name  well, I'm so  I'm so afraid of tomorrow  and so tired  - so tired of today  - tired of today  they say that love  is the answer  but love  never came my way  I'm writing this letter  to someone unknown  so if you should find it  and if you're alone  well, lonely  lonely blue boy  is my name  remember lonely  lonely blue boy 
