 

                        SPIDER-PLANT MAN Forfliten comason better known as the spider plant And here we have very specific plants. What distinguishes them are their .... Large-tooth Grandioso Are the CBB's. How many possibilities are there to escape morda and a novice photographer? None. Safety is our priority, we the same people who protect Buckingham palace. the best ever has to know now Except that the man within in the bedroom of the queen But you .. and that boy of the newspaper that fired. and those who have intrufolate well 4 times a week. Yes, apart from these small incidents play a really excellent job. please, this part Please do not touch anything if you want to get out alive This means that something really bad is about to happen. Sorry. Oh my God is Mary Jane. and is about to be robbed. No, wait I need a costume. RENTAL COSTUMES. No, not right. Perfect. Much better Incredible. What are you? I am your friendly neighborhood superhero You remember me someone that I would like to know. Paper could be Peter. That would like to know at school. But of course not, that type is all weirdo, I would not even with him in 1 million years Fortunately he is not But unfortunately I can not reveal my true identity. what a pity. Call me. Sometimes I would see you without that costumino. Thank you. Thank you, Spider-Plant Man That was the happiest days of my life I had ceased to be a nullity. Eh look at them! Must be a sailor. Spider-Plant Man foils bank robbery. Spider-Plant Man he does it again! news outlet. Spider-Plant Man is also helping in the world of pop music. and today has also recovered the master of the new album by Peter Andrew. and now we connect with Peter Andrew Ohh ... I can now let out my new disc. Thanks Spider-Plant Man Thank you. Spider-Plant Man must be stopped! Spider-Plant Man at the end we meet. I know this voice. Be Groblin see green. no, try again. Oh. I should have known that it was her. Doc Octopus No. .. Mickey Mouse The invisible man Batman! Spider-Plant Man you have your last fabric web. Prepare to meet the Bat-Tomba. Ah! Sorry. Spider-Plant Man Part 2. Batman! Yes, I am. I do not see it from a piece I too have done many films, you know? And no one remembers most, now is all this a spider, spider that. Hey Mum has the face dipinda, I can also paint my? boxes, notebooks, and now even the cereal in your honor. people buy all their Robin Why are gone. Robin? If they go? Yes, it is clear that he was with me just for the money. You know what I drive now? The bat-mobile? - The Bat-Clio Well, excuse me, Batman, I'd like to help you solve your problems but I'm afraid to have more important things to do More important than saving the life of Mary Jane What? Help me, Spider-Plant Man Stop doing the superhero or you will die With cabbage, where is it? In an unknown part of London, do not ever discover In the Tower Bridge? cabbage is At Bat-Clio In a few minutes to arrive destination, thanks for your attention Andiamo! Where is the Tower Bridge? Let her go! No, it's time to die for you preparations for an epic fight over the tower the fight most expensive of all the films We know only one thing: another demonstration of the bankruptcy Justice Excuse me We are real Fiction The psychological problems of these two guys are the believe that they really superhero ehila I am Batman! Robin, help me! First we have to negotiate. I want the - As you wish Robin Balboa have? After this talk. Now finiamolo No Robin. Join me and we'll do 25% on all goods advertised, pajamas and also on the chocolate cereal for breakfast batman. What is the opposite of you? -Why do I do that? Wrong answer Do not give to win, and go for good sistemalo and falla finita! well and now the Bat-scouter! Well, I'm happy for what you did I am happy to be a happy boy, happy in my life and that I gained a good victory Okay, okay, I understand that you are happy Oh, Spider-Plant man are in love with you, brought to home and passionately Amami Mary Jane, would you marry me? Who is calling me "Spider-man Plant or the real man who is hiding inside? You choose I think we should go now It is hot here Already I think you should change in red the color of that dress Council thanks you END
