 

                        A WOORLIM FILMS PRODUCTION Dear citizens North Korea's bombing in Burma is... North Korea bombed the mausoleum of Aung San in an attempt to assassinate President Chun Doo-hwan 20 armed spies camein the East Sea 1 captured, 11 committed suicide Explosives and guns werediscovered The couple has a 5 year-old son in Pyongyang They named him Revolution to take over South Korea Chairman Hwang of the Supreme People's Assembly was targeted by well-trained spies from the North they disguised as relatives and approached Hwang THE SPIES INCHEON POR North Korean Foreign Minister, Lee Yong-sung will soon arrive During the Six-Party Talks in Beijing last February... I brought 'em last time We can't let this through But this is okay! Lee Yong-sung has landed in South Korea On April 11th, Minister Lee and his aid requested asylum to the Korean Embassy in Beijing He arrived at Seoul Airport today at 1 p. m. His 34 days journey here opens new hopes for reunification Yes? Let's meet in an hour Show me the goods first Try biting on it This really gets it up? Sir, the Chinese hate losing to the Americans This is 8 times stronger than the original But the wrong stuff could give you heart attacks Come on! Who cares about that? We want to get it up big and strong - Live it up while you can? - Damn right! $50,000 for all this then? Does is say 'Idiot' on my face? Fine. $55,000 An idiot, all right Damn idiot! What? Not you I'm talking about me I do this when I'm mad Don't mind me You stupid idiot! Stop living like that! You idiot! Die! You idiot! Die! Then $60,000? You're on! Where's the money? Man... - Come on - Oh please! Boss! How was your trip? You're back earlier than expected What's wrong, Ms. Ko? Are you sick? No, sir I'll be right back A friend's here What'd you say to her this time? Nothing... Is it her period? Why you! I told you to be good to her! Know how hard she has it? She pays for her sisters' schooling and takes care of her sick mother Who does that these days? Many kids are like that Where's the Viagra? What Viagra? Sell this cooking oil! It's rotting! But no one wants it You good for nothing ass! Go plant some hair, will ya! Son of a bitch! The smell! WIFE - Hon? - Where are you? Just got back How's Ji-sung? On the bench That damn coach! The game's almost over I'll be right there! Coach? I'm not saying this cuz Dong-su's my son But if he keeps playing like this I think we can win it! No problem! Right? How about a toast! - Coach? - Sure Go Yeok-buk! Go Yeok-buk! - Go Yeok-buk! - Go! Stop drinking! Great day, isn't it? Wish I could say so I'm sick and tired of seeing benches Damn this life I'm just curious Do you hate me or something? Of course not I get it Ji-sung will play next game Promise? Of course! He's our secret weapon He is? Really? We should save our secret weapon Maybe for the finals! Right! Save him for last! To secret weapons! To secret weapons! Sir? What's this? Give it a try It'll stay up for 8 hours Oh! Smoking in a non-smoking place Bastards! You know? Some folks pay to play baseball? - Really? - Yes Some people They have no shame Got a lot of money? Not coming out right? I heard of some men getting menopause Sit down and take your time in there Damn! Come out, already! Get on mommy's back Carry Ji-su and go on in I wanna chat with Ji-sung About what? Guys talk Ladies can go in first Clean the bathroom as soon as you come in I did it last time! Even the kitchen! So? You're gonna skip it this week? Of course not Go on in Let's go in Ji-su I talked with your coach today He has a good plan What plan? Ji-sung You're a secret weapon - I am? - Yes! The coach is smarter than he looks He'll use me in the finals as a secret weapon? Exactly! Let's see you swing Shoulders back Weight on your right foot Eyes open wide! Firm grasp! And swing! No! More impact! Give me that Eyes open wide! The ball is coming! Keep your eye on the ball! Grasp tight! Swing! Not too hard. Got it? I'll be right in after a smoke Get the bat and go Ji-sung! - Go! Secret weapon! - Go! Mama? Did ya eat? Did you, Mama? Just smacked down a bowl What's with the cough? Just a cold You be careful Mama! Jung-su! Can't hear me? Mama! Mama! Mama... The moon's so bright Real name, Lim Jung-su Graduated from Kim Jong-il University and sent to spy in 1989 He caught our attention during the 2008 US beef protests The candlelight protests? How? He said he led it and asked for operational funds That fool! He's a con-man, not a spy! He runs a small trade shop He goes back and forth between China for goods His code name is Mr. Kim He's just working hard to make a living Nothing happened in China? He wired some money to his family in the North Well, life is hard there Supporting his family up North and here He's got it rough If he didn't do anything in 3 years maybe he lost touch with the North? That's enough Just arrest him Something big is bound to happen, sir What if it doesn't? You'll take responsibility? If it doesn't... then too bad It's not my fault Yes? So bring him in now Or you're responsible! Understood? Yes, sir Son of a bitch! I'm planting hair with this! Report me if you can! That son of a bitch! If I catch you, you're dead! Please record your message Koo! You dare run with my money! You screwed the wrong guy Know who I am! Fool! I got special training! I could rip you up with my bare hands! Bring the money when you can Or it'll be 3 generations of hell for your family! Message recorded - Hello? - Where are you? What now? Why're you cranky? I'm not cranky! What's up? - They raised our rent - What! Again? Why's it always going up like rockets! How much more? - $30,000 down payment - What! You said things went well in China Okay I'll come home and... Talk later! Hey! Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! Come back! Anything happen after he came back from China? Koo ran off with money Koo? The bald bastard? I knew it! Sir, he's harmless Let's drop this No! He's our lotto ticket! Trust me! Just you wait Something big will go down soon ABOUT TO LOSE HIDEOU DUE TO SOARING REN URGENTREQUESTFOR $30,000 TO SECURE HIDEOU I'm not lying Don't trust your husband? It's no time to be drunk! I didn't drink! Come home, now! Okay! Okay! Late again? - Drinking again? - No, kid Give me my smokes You should quit It's bad for you Whatever! Do I smell like beer? Say, 'Ah' Ice cream and chocolate work best to cover that Really? $2.50, please Give me money! Hurry! Move! That bastard! I don't believe this What's with today? Damn it! Who are you! I didn't get my change... I bought ice cream and... Stop! Hold on Stay back! Where's my 50 cents? I'll kill you! Hold on Think I'll stab you with this? Did I get it or not? I can't remember Hold on Look, I got it! You nuts? Fuck you! Shit! Damn, I pulled a muscle You okay? Just one favor You don't know me Some stranger helped you then left. Got it? Yes Call the cops You don't know me! Okay? Or I'll be mad! Okay Am I fired? It kills me to do this I'll give you a severance I'm sorry That guy is our lotto ticket! I can't go on any longer Mom is bed-ridden and tuition keeps going up I should just drink poison and die Don't say stuff like that! If you want, I'll go quietly Damn it! It'll be rough you okay with that? My whole life was rough PEONIES BLOOMED! - What the fuck! - Pardon? I wasn't talking to you I know you had it rough Of course... Well, then Get back to work - Go on - Yes, sir PEONIES BLOOMED! The press conference for Minister Lee's asylum will begin I came to stop a war Though the people are starving, North Korea is preparing for war I'll join our brother country to try and stop it That's why I came here Instead of the money I asked, damn peonies bloomed? TODAY16:00 GENERAL YI, GWANHWAMUN They'll refuse the talks The Six-Party Talks is... North Korea's scheme to buy time Buy time for what? How many nuclear weapons does North Korea have? That concludes the press conference Excuse me Can you take a picture for me? Are you from China? No, Taiwan Thank you OCTOBER, 2001 The guest has arrived He's here KWON: KIM JONG-IL'S NEPHEW ESCAPED NORTH 10 YEARS AGO CURRENTLY, A RESEARCHER ATNATIONAL DEFENSE His wife is with him We can't do it Chief! Not the woman! Dear? What is it? Damn traitor! Dug up all that water just to make this? They never leave things be - You gained weight - What? I guess Looks way better than being gaunt - Mr. Kim? - Yes They want his head LEE YONG-SUNG Gather up the gang and rent an office Your son's name is Ji-sung, right? He needs to relax his shoulders Tell him to swing smoothly I'm off Get an office with this? What a joke! When did that guy come over? Just my damn luck! Excuse me Know where a famous restaurant called Gooksu is around here? It's across the street to the right Welcome! Where have you been? - Mrs. Wang - Yes? - How've you been? - Good Why didn't you come by? Found a new favorite place? I wouldn't do that to you I went to Europe Really? Where? COUNSELOR YOON SPYFOR 40 YEARS We'll catch up later - Reservation under Mr. Kim? - Yes So many years have passed The good old days Back then we had conviction and pride being spies Right Willing to give our lives for reunification You too, right? That's history Now, I'm busy making a living Do they send money down these days? Up to 3 years ago, they sent a little Now, things aren't the greatest up there Nothing for us to do now All the info is on the Internet Right... They bad-mouth their President more than Kim Jong-il President Park's time was best Indeed it was Those were the days The peonies bloomed Lovely flowers Peonies bloomed What? Who came down? It's Chief Choi We're in for a bloody massacre This is a steal deal! They're redeveloping the area Big high-rises will go up I'll call right back It's $100 short For what? Want a copy of real estate law? Who takes that these days? That's why you got no customers Son! How are you? Mommy will call right back Hey! Wait! Pay up the $100! What are you a thief? Why you! Your rumors are true! That you'd do anything for money! Want a piece of me? Fine, bitch! Your hubby came with money, too! You little bitch! Ow! That hurts! - Pay the $100 - Okay! I'll pay! MS. KANG SPYFOR 15 YEARS Crazy bitch! CLOSED What is it? The peonies bloomed So what? Peonies bloomed! I can't! I'm busy! I am too! I'm seriously busy Raising my kid and making money This is insane! No husband? Help me outjust once? Please? You help me! I'm cash-strapped, too Think I wanna do this? Forget it! Chief Choi came down Shit! Just say I died! Shit We all have it hard Think she can get away from Choi saying she's dead? She scared me She was so pretty back then Must be hard being a single mom It's hard for me, too Wife wants money for rent Mom wants money for my sister's wedding Why was I born a man? She's getting married? Congratulations No need Itjust costs me money Who's next? Mr. Woo - Mr. Woo? - Yes The revolutionist? What's he up to? With American farm products our cows will all die! Stop killing our cows! Incompetent government! - Go away! - Go away! Come on, Chang-sik! Stop it! Think you're James Bond? Get that away, now! Put it away! Go away! FTA Go way! FTA! Stop killing farmers! Stop killing farmers! Charge! We can't raise cows like this! Where's the democracy! MR. WOO SPYFOR 13 YEARS Said you'd burn for reunification I did? Said you'd free our country from Americans! When? Shouldn't have neglected me They don't even get rid of cows like that Why'd you come after ditching me? Don't ask me Go spill your heart out to Chief Choi Who cares! Dying is just the same Then, who'll raise the cows? How much is a cow? The feed costs $3,000 But a cow sells for $500! Cut it out! Chief Choi is here! You know him! Is Ms. Kang coming? Of course she is! What do you think of FTA? Everyone's got it so rough Why the hell did Lee come down for! Was there something between Woo and Kang? You didn't know? They were a couple Really? Did they do it? Do what? - Did they do it or not? - I don't know! - Why not do it? - Ask them yourself! It's me! Woo Remember me? How's it been? No. No What were you up to! Did you forget about me? Did ya! Damn it! Long time no see No. No It's been long Been a long time! It's been a long time! How have you been? Yes! Okay! It's been a while Greet each other, will you? You two go way back You know? Like this? Been okay? What's with your accent? What's with your body? It happens when women have babies It's been so long Good to see you How've you been? You all look well This is all I could get for the money We're not having a party This will do It's great If I gave you much money, I could pick faults But since I couldn't, I have no right to say anything I heard how you comrades were living You've worked hard to survive here Our country has never forgotten all your hard work Please keep doing your best Our mission is to kill Lee Yong-sung You know how things run here Our expertise is killing So, you set things up May I? I'm quite old now I'd like to go back home after this mission Is that possible? You'll go back with us Thank you! Woo has a question I do? About the pay? - Damn bastards! - How much do you want? It's okay. Tell me How much do you want? Long live the Democratic People's Republic of Korea! Long live General Kim Jong-il! That's good There's never been a more vicious dictator! He claims communism but we all know very well! It's Kim Jong-il, the fat pig's dictatorship! Destroy him! Destroy him! Destroy him! Destroy him! Destroy him! - Congratulations - For what? Heard you got married and have a kid Don't mind my business and get to work How could you do that to me? Why'd you disappear? Shit! Long time no see Senator Park! How've you been? Did you go home safely then? You were really drunk Do I know you? Chairman Choi! Pastor! Nice bumping into you How was your trip toWashington? Great. I got Senator Robert Palmer's promise So, the States will help? Professor Hwang? Who are you? I'm a reporter from Seoul Daily May I interview you? I see Then, he is only staying in his hideout? Because they'll try and kill him When he is so sick Damn commies! Is he sick? I heard he has heart trouble But You didn't receive as much attention as Minister Lee Why do you think that is? I came solely for a better future for my country He had a different motive What's that? Money? What money? He got paid for coming over Obviously, he needs to make a living Think he'd come for free? Must've made a deal How much did he get? $10 million U.S. $10 million? That much? Ms. Kang? Right Lee has heart trouble He received monthly checkups in the North But he can't go to a hospital here He can't walk around in public Knowing he could get killed So, a doctor visits him regularly? Our first plan is to follow the doctor and find the hideout Get your guns Grease them up ahead of time You didn't bring any? We came by plane Sorry, sir SON Must be hard raising him alone It's okay, sir Is that good? Let me try it I've never tasted coffee Bitter, but nice A successful son drinking coffee... Your mother must be proud We have one week to kill Lee. Understood? Yes, sir You brushed your teeth? Such a big boy, now Mommy will come this Saturday Must be nice Coming by plane When we came by subs, right? I swam over What happened to Kang's husband? She got divorced You should know You set them up You did? Damn fool still lost in love? Snap out of it What? He's lost in love, alright I am not! I'm a Casanova! Yeah, whatever Wash up, will ya? - You smell like shit - Quiet Where'd you put your gun? I buried it in the mountains Mt. Gwangmyeong Damn it! - Mister? - Yeah? Where'd the mountain go? Gone to build apartments Shit! That's why this country sucks! Damn it! Our guest is here I'm sorry Honey? You left this at home See you later Let's start with a blood test What's going on? Doctor! Are you okay? I'm so sorry What's the matter with him? My father insists he can't get a blood test Why? Because he's a Jehovah's Witness I'm sorry Have a good day Go straight, then turn right Where would all that money be? Think he used it all? How can that old man use it all? Unless he had a family Sure he brought the money here? You said Professor Hwang said that! But it's not like he saw him get the money I searched through the Internet He got the money for sure! Stupid? You believe that? Idiot! Remember the beef protests? Mad Cow disease was all over the Net Internet is the Alpha and Omega now It's all made-up The beef is cheap and good! Hey! Go that way! Use your head, will ya! You little twerp! How dare you raise your voice! You country moron! Damn woman! Gone mad after eating mad cows? Crazy bitches deserve a spanking! Go ahead! Hit me! You disrespectful little twerp! I'm older! Talk with respect! Fine then! Must be nice being old! With wrinkles and sagging tits! Who says! They're as firm as rock! Cut it out! Focus on the money! They did it, alright! This is it? Nice house How much is a place like this? This is why we have nothing to do In the past we went up mountains to take pics We climbed a lot Here See how many surveillance cams and infrared detectors there are and 11 detectors Can we see inside? No technology for that yet Unless we actually go inside Then, let's go in Thank you for calling How may I help you? Our technician will visit your house soon - Your address, please - Hello Your ID, please Come in Now, let's go in and 3 in the kitchen The front door is the only way in and out There are 6 guards on watch They are carrying Beretta 93 guns at all times That's the study Mostly books on South Korean politics and economy Must be reading up to settle down But reality is far from books Could wonder why he came to live here The wooden stairs creak, so be careful The upstairs guards' room is used for sleeping So, the guards take turn on shifts Thus, there are always 12 agents on guard here Is there Internet in there? No. That's everything Must be the terminal board That must be Lee's bedroom where the doctor comes out Now, here's the plan It'll be hard to sneak in with the 24 hour watch There are power lines all around the neighborhood Thus, the electric pole! We cut the electricity and sneak in But we only have 3 minutes The independent power generator will kick in after 3 minutes We go upstairs to Lee's room, kill him, then get out in 3 minutes It's a race against time Every Thursday at 03:00 the garbage truck comes So, we disguise as such and go up to the house and get to the door to the stairs That's 14 seconds From up the stairs to the room, 12 seconds Lee's room and kill him for the kill Thus It'll take 2 minutes 48 seconds to go in and come out Kang get a garbage truck and Woo go up the pole Why me? I can go up in 8 seconds The counselor and I will guide Just come out within 3 minutes, Chief Vanish into the darkness before the generator kicks in Got your guns? What? Well... A cow stepped on mine It's broken I have a gun, but I lost the bullets I buried it in the mountains, but the mountain's gone Damn too many apartments these days I'm sorry I left it somewhere Are you okay? Counselor! You smiled? Comrade! Wanna die! Son of a bitch! 'Sorry' is that easy to say? Are you okay? Thank you... If a meal is set we can't flip the table cuz there's no spoon Thank you It's for our country Don't kill him Let's all live! So you can make it back to your families! Right, Mr. Kim? Yes... I'll get it Enough with the money! I'll sell my organs if I have to! That damn bastard! Hitting you like that I deserved it Thanks Saw the safe under the desk? People don't put black money in banks The $10 million is definitely in that safe Get killed by yourself! Think of the cows! What's $10 million divided by 4? $2.5 million We hit the jackpot! $2.5 million each! Think about it Our lives are at stake anyway Let's get paid Who needs a medal later? Kang? What do you say? Think of your son Let's go! What about you? Think of the cows Let's go! Now you're talking Counselor Yoon? Me? I have some money saved up But if you guys want it, I think it'll be fun I knew you'd pull through! Now If Choi's got 3 minutes, we do it in 2 minutes 20 seconds Get everything ready while I go to Busan with Choi We go straight for the money A toast - To success! - Success! Brought the money? When is the meeting? The sea is nice - It's the same - Okay! Minus 64 seconds to get out Then, we have 44 seconds to open the safe Width, 49 Height, 57 Length, 51 How much? $10 million! That's not right! Paint it evenly! - This is all wrong! - I can do this! You don't get it! Stop it! I'll do it! - Why you! - Fool! It's been a while, Ms. Ma How's business? Getting by in the shitty economy like everyone else Still dealing Viagra? What are you talking about? I don't deal with that stuff What the hell? Last time, you asked me to... Cut the nonsense and show us the goods They want to see the goods Tell them to show the money first The gentlemen want to see the money Who'd pay without seeing the goods? Don't trust us? Think we'd just take the cash and run? There's an old Russian saying Befriend a bear but always keep an ax at hand Did you live in Russia? In Moscow for a bit Do you like? It's the best Let's see the money Please... don't... Damn it! Yeah? What? Busan? Why'd he go? Probably to catch Koo. Anything else? Nothing. Shit. Kim's just a con-man! What? Crazy son of a... Eat up. Have some more meat. I brought your favorite egg and ham. And fried rice. Try this first. Is it good? Yes! Have some, Mom How's residence? Anyone bothering you? Don't worry Everyone's great here I'm sorry Jun-sang About what? Everything You have to go early again? When this job is over let's live together Really? You don't have to work? I made a lot of money Mommy's rich Then, you can get married! Silly! Let's eat, Son LEE YONG-SUNG'S HIDEOU Ready? Where's Lee? Got it? I'll ask one last time Where's Lee Yong-sung! What's this? What? What! - Run! - Hurry! - What's wrong! - Damn it! It won't start! Bring the car around! Where's Counselor Yoon? Let's go Hurry up! What did you do! Wanna die! How can this happen! Where's Lee? In his room in the basement Where's the surveillance? This way, sir What's that? They were standing by - The old man died? - Yes But we didn't kill him They killed him, sir This was in his pocket - Anything else? - No, sir Comrade Ahn Byung-jik Comrade Baek Yeo-jin Comrade Lim Jung-su With fattened bellies don't you get what's going on? Step forward if you don't want in It was a damn bathroom You killed comrade Yoon! Go to his house and burn up all the evidence Did they do it? Do what? I have some money But if you guys want it, I think it'll be fun I'm quite old now I'd like to go back home after this mission Joo Eun-hae Can you live without me? What? Can you raise the kids without me? Are you drunk again? So what if I am! Why'd you ditch me? Then, why didn't you live well! Why'd you ditch me if you can't! Shit! So what? Think it would've worked out with us? Why not? No way in hell Both parents as spies? There's no future for us Still don't get it? Shit I'm sorry So sorry! Damn loser Stop it, hon What'd you just say? - What? - Stop it! - Want a piece of me! - Stop it! Today's your funeral! Let go! Know who the hell I am! Who cares! Know who I am? Who the hell are you! Bastard! I'm a spy! I don't believe this Tattoo it on your forehead 'I'm a spy! ' You'll get yourself killed! Stand up straight! Stay up! Damn fucking life! That bastard! I'll kill him Who? Chief Choi? That bastard's out of your league! If you're a Terrier he's a Doberman! Shit How will you do it? How will you kill him? I can't die You get me? So focus and kill Lee if you don't wanna die like Yoon Shit! When's the last time he came? He ate a good meal and gave me a big tip I'm a little busy When did he come last? Wait. Hold on It was last Wednesday He came with someone? He's heading out An attempted assassination on Minster Lee took place We're meeting at the office in an hour We must kill him Keep a distance Yes, sir Agent Sang don't lose 'em Yes, sir Squad 2, take position Yes, sir BEING FOLLOWED Walk past He's going into a building What happened? We got him Mr. Kim It's so hot What are you doing here? I'm in a rush Catch you later Lim Jung-su! Wait Let's talk Dong-su loves playing with Ji-sung So kind like his mother who died How long did you keep watch? For 3 years Ms. Ko spotted you during the beef protests She's our agent But her mother's sick She's a professor of psychology Pays for her sisters' schooling... She's an only child Grew up in a rich family Her family is loaded! Now what? Not like we'll get reunified by sending you to prison Right? What do you want? When's the next hit on Lee? You want me to be a rat? Think of your family What did they do? Just trusted and depended on you Our country is like that Get branded as a commie once and it's forever For life You get me? You'll catch a cold, Sweetie Sleeping with the bat I'll do it But keep your promise Good decision I'll get you off no matter what I checked He's agent Han Jung-wook of National Intelligence We'll be keeping watch so just act natural What's up? Meeting in a place like this I just came as Choi said Where's Kang? Are you sick? Just indigestion Get ready Where's Chief Choi? Contact point's been changed All agents move out Car 1, stay close Car 2, keep a distance Car 3, report location Standing by at point They turned right towards Sung-san Car 1, pull out Standby on the other side Went down an alley Car 2, pull out Take your positions! Ready, sir At 16:00 today We're going in to kill Lee We don't know where he is How? Mr. Kim Tell Han Jung-wook yourself What? Who do you mean? Who's that? Agent Han Jung-wook of National Intelligence! Don't know? Huh! Show him! What did you talk about yesterday? So friendly? Tell Han we're going in! If you want to save your son, you'd better hurry If Lee's not dead by the end of the game Your son will die! Got that! You son of bitch! Call Han now This is the final game between Seok and Yeok-buk elementary schools We will be broadcasting live Welcome to an exciting matchup What happened? Got a tip saying our location's been exposed They suspect you? No It came from the North Then, there's a leak on our end? There's always a rat somewhere Has the date been set? We attack the hideout today What time? - How many? - Got a lighter? If you pull anything, it's over for you and your family I don't care what happens to me But... If something happens to my family I'll blow up both countries! Pull out when you can I'll tell the agents in advance See you later - It's a hit! - Looking good! Going! Going! Gone! Homerun! - What a player! - Yeok-buk Elementary ties the game 3 to 3 What a close match! Way to go! We cancelled the press conference We'll escort you to Busan How long do I have to be on the run? Let's go, sir He is going in a van A van with plate number 2249 A van with plate number 2249 Let's go - Be right back - Hurry Mom We attack the hideout today Shit! Seok Elementary is up to bat That's it! The ball count is in his favor Run! Get Lee out of there! Freeze! Or you're dead! At this rate, we'll all die! So you betrayed us to make it alone? I have to protect my family! Would you let Jun-sang live life as a spy's son? What would you do? Yeo-jin! Wake up! Yeo-jin! Get Lee out of there! Cover his right! Hurry! Go! Protect him! Run! Hurry! Run! Let's not meet again Keep running! Go! Go! Run! Out of the way! Drive! Hurry! Mister! Wait! Hey! Answer the damn phone! Go right! What are you doing? It's over! It's not over! Call and cancel your order! Don'tjust think of your kid! Think of our home country! The hell with all that! What did you ever do for us! You and me! We live and die upon command! I was just following orders! Cut the crap and make the call! For our country! 1 out, bottom of the 6th Here's the pitch! He's tensed He needs to believe in himself! Yeok-buk Elementary is losing Hello? Why didn't you pick up! Where's Ji-sung? What? I can't hear you! Where's Ji-sung! Where else? On the bench! What's with him? - Strike out! - Han Dong-su... - Time! - I don't understand I'm the secret weapon Ji-sung Get ready to bat Yes! Here's the pinch hitter It's Kim Ji-sung Ji-sung! It's your brother! Go secret weapon! He's a reserve player Go Ji-sung! He's a backup player Can Kim Ji-sung come out on top? Strike! Go Ji-sung! - What a tense moment - Sure is One homerun could turn the game around Here's the pitch! Shoulders back Weight on your right foot Eyes open wide The ball is coming! Keep your eye on the ball! Grasp the bat tightly! He's hit! - Kim Ji-sung is down - Ji-sung! I hope it's not a serious injury Ji-sung! Move! It's dangerous! It's daddy! That's not right - Is he the father? - Not sure Ji-sung! He looks drunk! Kim Ji-sung is getting up! He's running to the mound! - Stop it! - This is unbelievable! All the players are out on the field! Ji-sung! Run! How many years do I get? Well, there is one way Instead of going to prison, how about working for us? You're asking me to be a spy for you? It's the only way you have for our country and your family There was a second attempt to assassinate Lee Yong-sung The assassins from North Korea were all found dead at the scene Next news An explosion at a baseball field... Hello? Son! How are you? Mama! I'm fine Did you eat? I made chicken soup today Thinking of you, I can't bear to eat it You used to love my chicken soup Feels like just yesterday you'd slurp up a bowl Did you eat? Son? Is something wrong? Nothing's wrong How are you Mama? Same old as usual By chance did you wire the money? I'll send it soon Don't worry Don't worry about it Who needs a big wedding anyway? Damn girl doesn't get how hard it is for her brother Did you go see a doctor? Don't worry. I'm fine Why don't you go! Listen to me and go to the hospital! Fool! Why're you yelling! How dare you yell at Mama! Come on, Mama! If you don't wanna die, go see a doctor now! You fool! Then, send the money so I can go to the hospital! Why always me! That's it! Yes! Dong-su! How're the peonies? They don't bloom that easily Sure they didn't? First time they bloomed in 10 years Got any money, pal? You know I saved Dong-su Get it straight Your son saved him, not you! Same difference, man! Lend me $30 grand? I'll pay ya in 3 months Yeah? When? Okay. Be right there Shit! Lee died Really? How? Heart attack I heard he had a bad heart Too bad So, they'll announce it soon? - I guess - When? Probably tomorrow Why? Just wondering So cold! Gotta go Call if the peonies bloom In this cold? - Call me! - I will! Take care Enough homeruns, Son! Bye! Ji-sung! Secret weapon! Relax your shoulders! WON OVER LEE'S DOCTOR CHANGED HEARTMEDICINE TO VIAGRA AND LEE DIED REQUESTOVERDUE OPERATIONAL FUND Watch it! PEONIES BLOOMED! Damn! Blooming in the winter! Directed by WOO Min-ho Here's your steak Wait What's the beef's ID? We only use Grade A American beef We're leaving Come on! It's embarrassing You still don't get it? What if Jun-sang goes mad by eating mad cow? Please! I'm warning you They did it, alright! Mom? Do you have to go again? I'll pay you $30,000 Does it say, 'Idiot' on my face? Come here you! Where's my money, fool! I planted hair with it. You son of a bitch! Let go! Let go! Cut! That's a wrap!
