 

                        1 ON SUNDAY, MAY 18, 1980 AT 8:32 A.M. PACIFIC DAYLIGHT TIME THE LARGEST EXPLOSION. EVER RECORDED IN THE HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATED OCCURRED AT MOUNT ST. HELENS. March 20. {University of Washington Geophysical . Take it away! Heads up. - Hey, Colepatrick. - What? Where's Witherford, I got some papers for him? He just missed him, he headed back to the inn. That's it. Looking good. Getting good. Uh-huh. Ow! Damn! Ooo! - Damn! - Something's wrong with Orrin. He must be high again the spacey fool. Hey! Get out of their! What's he doing? Look out! He shouldn't fly that thing. Foolish bunch of ducks! I'm gonna cut it loose! - Look out below! - Watch out! - Who's that crazy fool. - Jesus Christ did you see that? Let me at him! Get him out of there! What are you trying to do you crazy son of a buck! You nearly killed my men! Aw, relax man. - I'm gonna kick your - you ain't gonna do nothing George, so cool off. C'mon George will get him later. You all right? What the heck happened? I don't know man except for a minute there I was back at Nam pissing in my pants. What you talking about? Something hit me four maybe five times. Take a look for yourself. Incoming from nowhere. It looks like quail. Quail? There's not a man alive who doesn't wanna keep it just that way but most folks take no pride in what they done up through the day while others find the reason, there's the effort that they made and maybe that's why leaving ain't so hard. You can't win if you don't play the game and nobody hears you talking when you don't have nothing to say sometimes losing ain't losing after all sometimes the climb is worth the fall I just don't believe it. Morning Harry. C'mon Howard. This guy is gonna scare every fish out of the lake. Just likes to play with his horn that's all. What the hell does he know. I had a 14 pounder on the end of my line. All that noise you made, drove him off. Why didn't you just drive your damn jeep out the middle of the lake. - I'm sorry Harry - yeah yeah yeah. Did you come up here to shoot some tourist Wayne? I know where there's a couple that would dress out to around $200 apiece. You know those tourist Harry. Can't live with them, can't live without them. Bullshit, I can live without them. Wayne, look at those tin caner's out there. They got more damn equipment than you ever seen in your life. They got big gaffing hooks. They're gonna stab the basters with that. Hey! Don't piss in my late! Jesus. I don't know what the world is coming to. Next thing you know they'll be using radar. We need some music, and a drink. Maybe Captain Tripper could use a shot too. One for me. You know Otis Kaylor that black kid who went out to Vietnam fly's helicopters for Whitaker sometimes. Oh yeah, Otis. The local hero. Nice fellow. Got a magic touch with machines. He sure cured my old caddy more than once. Well he was pulling a log this morning over by Dog Creek and a bunch of quail bashed in to him. Damn near knocked him out the sky. Sure, quail don't give a shit for hero's and helicopters. He's up around 2-250 feet. Kinda high for quail. That's what I was thinking. Maybe he was wrong. Uh-uh. No sir I was there, I saw it. Well, if it did happen... I'm not saying it did seeing as I wasn't there. But if it did... It was most likely deodorants that caused it. You want to run that by me again Harry? Did you say deodorants? Wayne, don't you keep up with science or nothing? You outta take the Readers Digest like I do. There was an article in there a while back... Explaining how them spray thing... You know... that you fire at your armpits got some sort of shit in them that goes way up in the ion... ions... something or other. Heats up the atmosphere. To much sun gets in. Throws everything out of kilter. Yeah, the aerosol can. You think that's what it is huh? No doubt about it. Some of them killer rays from the sun got in there, drove the quail crazy. Put that in your report. Its the 20th century Wayne, you got to think up some new ideas to explain the mess thing are in. Well, I'm going fishing. fraid' the quail. Leave daddy alone. I want 3 eggs. Hay Jane! Take a look at this! I never seen anything like that in my life. Look at um. Look at all the fish. Today marks the 139th day of captivity for the 53 American hostages and signals out of Iran suggest that their is little hope for their immediate release. Mount Saint Helens, located in southwest Washington only 45 Miles northeast of the Portland-Vancouver area. May be sending out signals of her own after 123 years of inactivity. Earthquakes have been increasing in the area since yesterday when the mountain was rocked by a quake registering 4.1 on the richter scale. The U.S. Geological Survey in Boulder Colorado announced today that one of its scientist, David Jackson has been sent to the Saint Helens area to investigate the continuing seismic activity. {March 24 . Are you David Jackson? She's as beautiful as her sister. What are you talking about... sister? Mount Fuji. Uh? How old are you? I get it... you were expecting someone older with gray hair, glasses, a pipe. Not exactly but I'd though you be more... Listen I don't know what your schedule is sheriff but I got a lot of work to do. Do you think we'll be able to get my gear into your rig? Yeah, I think we can handel that. What the hell you talking about? Ever use a dog whistle? Yeah, when I was a kid, I sent away for one onetime. Well it's like that. Any earthquake or volcanic activity is always preceded by a change in the earth's electromagnetic field. The animals feel this change and they become disoriented. That's why the quail were flying so high. It's all interconnected... mountains, men, volcanoes everything. Well you know there's a legend here that a long time ago two indians got into a fight over a squaw. Got to throwing rock and fire across the Columbia River. Well the gods got tired of that and changed the indians into mountains. One of the warriors into Mount Hood... The other one into Mount Adams... Well the squaw, she became Mount Saint Helens. I like that. So whats your guess about this mount of ours, Jackson I don't have one. But if she goes... I want to be there. Hell sheriff relax. Volcano's are like people every now and then they have to burp. Relieve the pressure. They burp. . Come on. Lets get on the right frequency. Got it. Every print a masterpiece. Jackson your brilliant. Nobody hears you talking when you don't have nothing to say sometimes losing ain't losing after all sometimes the climb is worth the fall sometimes losing ain't losing after all sometimes the climb is worth the fall Shawn been watching him a long time. Okay, this guy goes duck hunting, right and he brings the ducks over to his wife... Sheriff do you mind if I sit down. Na, go on ahead. This is my wife Patty Jean and a friend of ours Linda Steel. This is David Jackson the geology fella I was telling you about. Hi. Do you come to prefer the inn Mr. Jackson? Well it sure beats living in the snow all day. Well is that what geologist have to do? Only the stubborn ones I'm afraid. Hay Cindy, could we have a couple more pitcher over here please. Have you been around these parts before? I've done some exploration further South. Are you from here? Chicago. Washed up here about nine years ago. I know theirs one hiding in here somewhere. Those things are gonna kill you. I know. I'll quit tomorrow. I'll get um. Where's the machine? Its back there. You didn't tell me he was cute. Well I didn't think he was. Well don't you think he's cute, Lynn? Yeah, a little too serious for me though. But he does have sexy green eyes. Well you girls feel free to talk dirty while I'm gone cause I don't want to hear it when I come back. You know what I mean. Well you boys don't even care what kind of scum you hang out with, do you? This guy drop any logs on you yet? Aw well, it don't matter he ain't gonna be around that much longer anyway. You keep messing with me and I'm gonna kick your butt so far between your shoulder blades, your gonna have to stand on your head to go to the john. I'm at you. I understand your gonna be doing some work on the mountain. That's right. My name's Clyde Whittaker. I own this inn and half a dozen logging operations in the area. What kind of work do you think your going to be doing? Just setting up some interments to record the amount of volcanic activity in the area. Volcanic activity. - Yeah. - Well hell I've lived around these parts all my life. We've never had anything like that. I guess that's what well find out then. Now just hold on..Just... It's just that it's just a sensitive issue. I mean theirs an awful lot of tourism in these parts. How many people do you think are gonna want to pitch their tents on a volcano? Only take one wrong word and this place is gonna turn into a ghost town. Mister either you have a live volcano or you have a dead one, but your not gonna find out quick by keeping your eye on the cash register. Old Clyde don't like to listen to that kind of talk. I never knew an old Clyde that did. - Wanna dance? - Sure. This guy's talking about volcanoes. ...used to be to hot to hold but now now there's no fire cause you've lost desire you've gone cold so I'll be leaving peaceably I'd hate to do eternity in the hell I've known cause I ain't much for misery and you don't take me seriously it sure it gets old one man's heaven is another man's hell takes me a while to see let's go home honey, I'm a little drunk but you might as well go with me that man's heaven cause you sure are hell to me you drive. Sure are hell to me You know, people here quit dancing when the music stops. Wouldn't want to break the local custom. Where the hell is the damn water pressure! Place shot to hell. How you doing there duck? Warm enough? Looks a little black around the wings. Let's see what Edie says about a duck being black around the wings. "Baste duck every 20 minutes in cherry sauce." Cherry sauce. Dammit Edie, how am I gonna baste the duck in cherry sauce? I'm all out of cherry sauce. Looks like I gotta make a load of sauce. If I had some cherry's I could make a load of sauce. What are you gonna do? The least you could do is set the table. So how 'bout you, any loves in your life? I'm afraid I have been accused of only relating to mountains. Well my marriage only lasted a couple of weeks I thought it was gonna last forever but the guy left and I never saw him again and a month later I found out I was pregnant. - Boy or girl? - Boy. You know sometimes you do the right thing even when your crazy. I saw this picture of this beautiful mountain it looked so cool and far away I just packed up my bags and left. Chad was born here. Least there's one thing I never regretted doing. Your right. mountain country is a great place to raise kids. Yeah, sure is. Would you like some coffee? Thanks Jenny, I'll call you in the morning about tomorrow. OK, bye Chad. I'm gonna make some coffee Chad and your gonna go to bed. Aw mom, let me finish this program. See those lizards Chad? Their the only lizards in the world that can swim. How do you know? Cause that the Galapagos Islands and I've been there. They have giant turtles there too. I know, I rode one once. He didn't like it much. Gee, I'd like to go there someday. - Go to bed Chad. - Aw, mom. Move it. Now. - 'Night mom. - Good night Chad. Good night David. - Don't forget to brush your teeth. - Those turtles live to be a hundred years old. - Nice kid. - Yeah, I know. Why don't we take 'em now? Shut up Curry, this is my party. He gonna pay for dropping that log. Looks like a good a place as any. You take the passengers side. I'm realty gonna enjoy this. He won't drop anymore logs. Where is that chopper jockey? Well, I guess I'll just have to bust up his gall dang car then. How's that! Ain't no place you can go except up here. All right you go over that way. You go down there. We'll get that apple mocker. George, right here. Come on. Ugh. Ah. George? What? No. Ugh. To your left. Lets go man. Hay! Whats going on here? This is private business. Get out of here. Oof. Aagh. Hay, I owe you one man. Otis Kaylor. David Jackson. You do this sort of thing every morning? Only on Tuesday and Thursday. Monday and Wednesday I go to the gym. What the hell was that? A 4.5 on the richter scale 5 maybe 6 miles away. - Felt like it was right here to me. - Yeah. Hay, your that volcano dude, ain't you. Yeah. Tell me something man. Is that thing gonna blow? I don't know for sure but she's sure trying to tell us something. We've been recording oscillations all morning. Minor quakes, 4.5. No. No harmonic tremors at present but these quakes are continues. Well, it might look like that from bolder Lloyd, but not from here. We just had an avalanche on the north face I would recommend that you call the governor. In preparations to be made for a possible evacuation. I said possible evacuation Lloyd, for Christ's sake! Gimme a break. Yeah Lloyd. Great. No, I don't want to unduly alarm anyone either. Sheriff right here. He'll take care of the local level. I'll keep you posted. I don't understand it. One minute you arrive your talking about volcano's burping the next minute your planing an evacuation. Now what the hell is going on? Jesus Wayne, I'm not planning an evacuation I just want to be prepared. That's all. What is it you wanted me to do? Is there anybody who can provide us with accurate information as to who is working, living, vacationing in this area in case they have to be evacuated. Yeah, Harry Truman would know that. He knows everything. But he's not the easiest guy in the world to talk to. I don't care about that. Can you get us together with him. Yeah sure. - Now listen Jackson. - I don't know about richter scales or harmonic tremors but I've lived here all my life and I know these people. You can't shove them around like pieces on a checkerboard without giving them good reason. Now is that damn mountain gonna blow or not? In 1883 there was a volcano in the pacific call Krakatoa. Exploded. They heard the noise 2000 miles away. 33,000 people died. That's what a volcano does. You can worship them or you can get the hell out of the way. But you'd better not ignore them. Call you later? You see, Saint Helens is just one of a great circle of volcanoes that go all the way around the pacific ocean. David, do you ever think about anything besides volcanoes? Have you ever seen the Wizard of Oz? Yes. It's one of the first movie so I ever saw. I think I was about six. I was fascinated by the tornado. Do you remember it? Yeah. It scared me but I'm frightened of a thunderstorm. I kept dreaming that the tornado was coming after me. It was gonna take me up inside where everything was swirling. And I'd go higher and higher until finally, I could see right down inside of it. Right into its eye. I'm not so sure I'd like for you to do that. Is that your are freaking truck? Yeah, that's my truck. Why? What's it doing out in the middle of the road blocking traffic. What traffic? Me asshole, I'm the traffic. Now move your damn truck. Now you've got enough room? No I ain't got enough room. This is a big car. Now you gotta move your truck. What do you mean I gotta move my truck any idiot could drive through there. Listen you hippie prick. Only an idiot would park his truck in the middle of the road. What are you on drugs are something? Now move your truck or I'll run you down. Jesus Christ. Geriatric idiot. Old fool. I'll move that truck. Doggone it! Dumb. - Hi, Linda. - Hi. How ya' doing. How's that son of yours. He's fine. Tell them I'm going to come by one of these days - and take him fishing. - All right. You with him? - Uh-huh. - He got to far over. He's gonna have to get some wood or something to put under that back wheel if he wants to get any traction. Who the hell was that? That was Harry Truman kiddo. . At 12:36 this afternoon. Mount St. Helens became the first active volcano on the North American continent in over 60 years. In Southern Washington residents were startled by the force of the window rattling blast. And in Portland people witnessed a spectacular view of the eruption. A deep crater, 1000 yards long, 120 yards wide and 50 feet deep was ripped out of the north face of the summit. Washington state authorities report that the explosion has caused a massive traffic jam on the major highways in southeastern Washington as people tried to get a good view of the volcano. And Lloyd Wagner, head of the. U.S. Geological Survey on his way to the mountain. Says today enough sophisticated equipment now is in place to provide adequate warnings of any major eruption. You say something to me on the phone about law enforcement authorities taking care of things. I didn't pass a single cop on the way up here. Every freaking highway north from Vancouver is clogged with traffic. What the hell do those stupid bumpkins think they're going to see any way. Nice to see you too, Lloyd. Don't you get smart with me, Jackson. Every time you show up someplace there's chaos. Well now I'm in charge of monitoring this mountain. Whether you like it or not. We're gonna have some order around here. You do understand, huh David? Well yeah Lloyd. I've never had any trouble understanding you. Lloyd. Don't go up there empty handed. Mr. Wagner sir. Could you answer a couple of questions sir. Sir? Sir, can you please one second Think there's more like him out there Harry? Oh sure. Maybe not as big. Grab the pole. Come on son. I've got something to show you. Start her up. That's good. Now release the break. OK. Now put her in drive. OK, go. - She's awful big Harry. - Never mind big, just steer it. Does she go fast? Like the wind. Me and the wife used to drive her 100 Miles an hour every night. All right take it easy, easy. What if I crash her, Harry? If you crash her I'll feed you to my dog. Take her a couple of days to to finish you up. All right, hold it! Did ya' ever ride a turtle Harry? Can't say's I have. Well they live on the Galapagos Islands. That's funny I don't get over that way like I used to. Turtles, huh? I got something for you. Not a turtle mind you. Don't drive off. Aw... What's his name? I don't know, he's your puppy. Well maybe I could call him Harry. Yeah, you could do that. Captain George Vancouver saw this peak as he sailed his ship up the Columbia River. On may 19, 1792. He named it Mount Saint Helens excuse me would you mind not going quite so fast. Sure man sure. He named it Mount Saint Helens in honor of the British ambassador to Spain Can you see it down here? This volcano last erupted 123 years ago. But no-body was there to see it, like you gentlemen are seeing it right now. And so we say goodbye to beautiful Mount St. Helens. Jewell of the wait a moment. Where are we going? Vancouver man, I gotta get back. I'm not through taking pictures! I wanna to go around again. No I can't do it lady. I got close to 40 people I gotta get up here by sundown. What a rip-off. Your making $500 bucks a flight. Woo! Back up you ain't being ripped off. You get a volcano to blow up in your back yard you take me up in your helicopter. Business is business. ? That funny lad, they seem to be acting up today. I wonder what the heck the matter with them? Lets go feed the chickens. Whats going on? Stay away lad. The roof! The roofs on fire! - The chickens! - Don't worry about the chickens! Dad! Dad are you alright? Stay back! It's like the animals knew. There's nothing we can do. Back in their theirs three farms. Can't get there directly. You gotta go way around. Take this logging road that comes in from the northwest. That's open. Course' you gotta drive very careful, not lose your temper. You had more than enough room to drive around at you know it. Woo, kinda touchy ain't he Wayne, this scientists fellow here. And what about the Duck Bay Area? Oh, there's just some gypo loggers in there. - What's that? - Independent. Whitaker got a bunch of crews up their. And there's a bunch of tin caners. - Tin caners? - Tin caners. Foreigners, like yourself. Dropping tin cans and plastic bags all over the place that I gotta pick up. Who else? Hunters? Good elk country in their. All told, there must be a, hundred head scattered around. Now then you just gonna tell all them folks to pack up and move on. I'll handel that Harry. Oh hell Wayne, let me do it. Nothing I like better than to tell somebody to get there ass or truck of the way. - I said, I'll take care of it Harry. - I really appreciate this Harry. You do huh? You wanna give me cash or write me a check? William O. Douglas Supreme Court Justice. By God you're right that is William O. Douglas. You recognize the weird looking geezer with him? - Did you know Douglas? - Oh sure. Good friend of mine. We even went on a five day pack trip together. I'll never forget it. I got so damn drunk I fell in the fire and burned my ass. Wasn't that funny Wayne. My ass was on fire. Never forget the sight of Douglas running through the trees trying to pour water on my ass. Then about six weeks later when he got back to Washington. He sent me a picture, you how, all dressed up in his supreme court outfit. And off the bottom of the picture he wrote, " Take it easy Harry, you wont always have William O. Douglas to watch out for your ass." All right tell me Professor wizard are we gonna all get blowed to to hell or what? I don't know for sure. You're gonna have to come down off the mountain too, Harry. Bullishit. Who told you that? No freaking way. . I don't know what's going on here. I don't know what's going on we got the Cougarette Marching Band. Here comes the National Guard. We got kids playing with balloons. It looks like Disney Land. I can't handel this by myself. Be patient everybody's gonna get served. Mary Jane I'm sorry but this order wrong. He wants them over easy. Give it to somebody else. I really can't do that. Can you please just do one over easy. No Dammit! I'm busy. Oh, what the hell is going on? Why don't you watch what you're doing? We got customers waiting. Pick this up will you. You pick this up yourself because I've had it. Just take it easy. No no no. You take it easy. You try waiting on 25 tables at a time. And being felt up by every guy with three beers in him. 25 tips, $1.50 an hour 20 minutes in the line. And still it won't be that bad because you won't have to work for shithead Whitaker. So you can take your $4.00 volcano burgers and shove um, because I quit. Oh yeah? You're fired! Whoa. Aw, you should let her hit him. Hooray I'm sorry, I don't usually lose my temper like that, but everything's been so crazy. I've never seen so many people in my life, and everybody wants something and they want it right now. I know. I thought you were going to flatten him. I did come unglued in their didn't I. It really frys me to lose control like that. I hate it! I can't stand it! Are you all right? Will you come home with me? I want you to hold me. Sargent Ferguson. Check all the back roads and check for stragglers and make sure those kids stay together. This is Sheriff Temple down here at the Turret. Make sure highway 607 is all clear. We should be out of here in 20 - 30 minutes. Get that vehicle out of here! Get that jeep going. Is the volcano gonna blow up? Hold it. Who the hell are you? I'm gonna use your bathroom. That's an official sign. I don't want anybody on my porch. That includes those steps. Wanna go to the john, you gotta get in line. That's ridiculous. It ain't as ridiculous as what I'm looking at. You should have better facilities for your visitors. These are totally inadequate. If you feel that way about it you can head out to the trees and point your ass as you please. It'll bring out the bear in you. I hope he got's hemorrhoids. Matt, how long are we going to have to stay away? I don't know. But we have to be back in a week or the animals will die. Oh boy, now what. - Here you are sir. - What is this? Wait a minute, what is this? Its instructions for evacuation sir. "In case of volcanic eruption, move away from the explosion not towards it." What a brilliant piece of advice. Presumably some young sociologists has been given a tremendous amount of money to come up with this idea. Or did you write it? - No sir I didn't write it. - Victor? Can this man do something to help us or not? ! WILL YOU HOLD YOUR TONGUE OR I'LL CU IT OUT AND SEND IT TO YOUR MOTHER ! Excuse me. - Take it easy. - Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Darlene. This is a red zone by order of the governor. You are requested to leave immediately. Take interstate 5 South. Thank you for your cooperation. Where the hell you going. Hold it, hold it! Were you going you crazy old bum? I'm going home and holy shit ain't gonna stop me. You're not going anywhere except back to where you came from. Look, I don't know who gave you a license to drive this thing but if you're not careful mister, I'm gonna have you hauled out of here. Who the hell are you? Lloyd Wagner, Chief of Operations of the U.S.G.S. - Were you from fella'? - Minneapolis. Well let me tell you something Mr. Lloyd Wagner. In Skamania County we got three chiefs. And I'm two of them. Now get the hell out of my way, I wanna go home. It's for your own good. I mean, we can't be responsible. Don't shit me buddy, I got a turd in every pocket. How's it feel to be interviewed almost every day Harry? Well I'll tell you something I do like talking to you people better, when you're not sticking things in my face. Oh come on Harry, who do you think you're fooling, You know you love the attention. The whole world's watching you. Don't mean shit to me. No seriously, I'll tell you something you can sit out here sometimes, in the middle of the afternoon it's so peaceful and quiet you can hear chainsaws 50 miles away. Clear as a bell. Then sometimes the wind starts blowing the tops of trees. It comes in gusts you can hear it coming... Then all of a sudden, right over you. And then it's gone. Don't you ever get lonely Harry? Yeah I did, for a bit I think after Edie died. But it's better to be lonely up here I'll tell you that. I've been in cities. I've seen that rat race. You stay up here awhile, then you lay eyes on a city you wonder how we survived this long. Yes sir, this country was founded by people to stubborn to do exactly what some crazy king told them. - No offense intended. - None taken Harry. Yeah, we're the only country in the world that's got a constitution that... say, we have every right to do what we want to do. Used to be people were proud to say they were Americans. That's right. I'm sorry Mr. Whitaker, but your plant is situated in a very dangerous area. Listen, I've got a responsibility to my workers. That's over 100 men. How in the hell are they going to support their families when they have to stop working. Well how are they going to support their families if the volcano erupts and they're killed. That is panicked talk. Nobody's gonna be killed. You're gonna have to stop work and your men are gonna have to move out of the red zone. You can close down and move out voluntarily... or the National Guard will do it for you. I think you better get out of here. Think about it Whitaker, one way or the other. All right whataya say, let's get back to work. Colonel, there's someone coming up to see you. They just let them through the barrier. Dr. Lucius Romarantin. Founder and pastor of the Holy Church Of Dark Arts. Rollie, North Carolina. I understand the great god Vulcan has chosen to make an appearance in this half of the world. Am I correct gentlemen? Gentlemen... there is a volcano in the area, Mount St. Helens I believe? Yes, that's right. Well I believe I found a way to appease the great god Vulcan. How you gonna do that? Colonel... You will be our holy escort to the top of the mountain. Now... you will escort Pamela and myself she's 15 years old and a virgin. After a brief ceremony on the top of that fiery inferno she will hurl herself into the jaws of that treacherous heathen fire and thereby appease the great god Vulcan. The mountain will not erupt, and your people will be saved. What do you feel about this Pamela? Whatever the doctor says. Well, doctor... I don't want you to think were not grateful you coming all the way from Rollie and all but we'd like to try a couple of other things first. Maybe we could hold you in reserve. And if we do get to sacrificing I think we'd like to use a local girl. Don't say I never gave you a chance. I don't even know if she'll be a virgin tomorrow. It's all right honey there's probably another volcano for you. You don't really believe in that stuff do you? Course I do. This is a science. Thousands of years of research has gone into this. You see these three lines right here? This is your heart and this is your mead and this is your lifeline. Boy, have you got a long life line I do, huh? Yeah, and you see the break right here. - Yeah - That's how many children you're gonna have. Oh yeah, how many? Six, seven. Seven. Sorry about you and Whitaker hun. Oh well, it's no big deal, it's not the end of the world. I didn't expect you to come back here. There's no other place in 'Coover to go. Hey look, it's Harry. what's safe? What's safe today? Well reports from the U.S. Geological Survey indicates Listen I ain't coming down off this mountain I don't give a damn what anybody says. The Governor, The President Of United States, even The King of England. As a matter of fact we have a queen at the moment. That's your problem. Do you have to keep sticking that thing up my nose? Did you see the expression of that reporters face? So you're saying that people should decide for themselves? I'm saying what I said but I ain't say it again. - Hooray - woo - yeah. - Yeah - that's really nice Harry this is Murray Saint Clair ? What's the matter? I can't believe they put that on television. Don't they realize people see that and they say " Right on Harry." "You tell 'em Harry", "We won't come off the mountain either." Dammit they have No Idea What They're Dealing With! Relax, it's OK. You're thinking of the pope. The state of emergency was declared in Washington today as smoke and ash continued to spew from Saint Helens. By order of the governor a red zone and a blue zone have been created in the area around the mountain which scientists feel is in the most immediate danger. In the small town of Cougar 12 Miles to the South it has been closed by the National Guard roadblocks to all but residents. Merchants and shopkeepers protested the action which sent a booming volcano business plummeting when the town was cut off. Well despite this action the U.S. Geological Survey and the U.S. Forest Service. Issued a joint statement today that quote. "All observations imply there is no indication that a major eruption of molten rock will occur at any time in the near future". Unquote. You're the one that put these barriers here. On whose authority. On the authority of the governor of the state of Washington. You cut me off Dammit! Look at all those people, you cut them off! You've cut of Cougar! There isn't a tourist within 1000 Miles. Right? Like you said, " Who would want to pitch his tent on the side of a volcano?" I want these barriers move now. Can't do that. By the way I understand you're logging up the north fork of the Tutal. The crew will be moved out by me within 24 hours. We'll see about that. . If nobody can get in this town, I can't make any money. And if this keeps up, I'll be bankrupt in two months. All rights, all rights. Simmer down. Quiet down will 'ya. As you know there is a question as to where the barriers are placed in this area. Now I talk to the governor's office today, we came to an agreement. The governor has delegated the authority to Mr. Lloyd Wagner to determine where the barriers are to be placed. Mr. Wagner has determined, that Cougar should be open to tourists again. All right but what about the logging?! What about the dang farming?! Hold on with you. Now just hold your horses. I also talk to the attorney general today. Pretty busy, huh Clyde. What I'm saying is, all the residents, all the workers in this area, you can go into the red zones provided you sign a simple little legal waiver which absolve the state of any responsibilities. So we're in business! Now wait a minute. Wait a minute. Before you sign those waivers, - I think you have a right to know... - Mr... Mr. Jackson. - I'm sure nobody's interested in... - Whitaker! You've been yacking all day long, let him talk. I wanna hear what he has to say. I don't think you have any idea what you're getting these people into. Mr. Wagner knows. You know what would happen if mount St. Helens... Had a major eruption... And you were standing anywhere near it? You'd melt. You'd liquify. In the blink of an eye, 1600 fahrenheit. That fast. No hair, no eyes, no flesh. You're a puddle. Now let's say you're standing five or six miles away from it. You think you're gonna be any safer there? You'll be just as dead. Only it will be slower... First the sky will go black... You'll start to gag, choke... Because there's so much boiling ash in the air it burns out your lungs. Don't worry about the logging. There won't be any. Trees will be flatten for miles. Laid out like toothpicks. Fried in the heat. The fish at Spirit Lake will be boiled alive in the water their swimming in. You'll never see them again in your lifetime. You won't wanna even look at this land. It will be worse than the surface of the moon. Don't worry... You sign these waivers... You'll go back to your homes and your jobs because chances are you won't be around to see anything anyway. You've no right to talk to them like that. It's irresponsible. Way out of line. Ladies and gentlemen there is absolutely no conclusive proof that there will be a major eruption. No matter what Mr. Jackson has to say about it! Is there David? No Lloyd, not yet there isn't. Since there's no definite proof I think we can trust Mr. Wagner's assessment and let calmer heads prevail. I have waivers for everyone to sign. So come on up here. Let's sign these things. - All right. - I need one.- Excuse me. - Just give me that piece of paper. Harry, I have a special one just for you. I don't have to sign nothing. Now wait a minute, I thought you were staying. You look at too much TV Clyde. How you doing there Professor wizard? Not too good Harry. Don't worry about it. I liked your speech. Sure as hell gave them something to think about. You melt huh? That's right Harry, that's what happens. No shit. Hell of a way to go. Give me one of those forms. Wasn't very successful was I? You told them the truth. You put yourself on the line and told them exactly how it was. I thought it was wonderful. David... I love you. Aw, you don't really love me. You just overwhelmed by my fantastic ability to get large groups of people to follow my advice. Don't joke. You affected some people in their today. You affected me the very first time I laid my eyes on you. - Linda, the whole... - Just let me finish. You know, before I met you I didn't think that I would ever want to be with a man again. I just wanted to go someplace quite and work and raise Chad. But I don't feel that way anymore. Whatever happens I just want you to know that. Chad! - He's inside! - I'll get him! Chad! David! Here's the doorway. Both of you, come here! Hang on honey, it's gonna be alright. Now as you can see these photographs there's a bulge that has appeared on the north face of the mountain it's the most serious potential hazard that we've encountered so far our primary concern is that this bulge with overextended itself. and shear off during an earthquake. As you know we have been averaging 33 earthquakes a day for the last week and a half. Excuse me Mr. Wagner but wouldn't a bulge expanding at such a rapid rate suggests that there's going to be an eruption. Well, it could be molten rock pushing up inside the cone of the crater. And if that was the case, then the answer to your question would be yes. However it is my opinion that it's insignificant. It's strictly a gravity anomaly. I have some photographs here taken by NASA. They show where the mountain is hot. So far... we don't have any conclusive data. Is there any way to find out if there's going to be an eruption? Short of going down inside the volcanoes crater and taking samples, no. I don't think anybody's crazy enough to do that. Are you sure you know what in the hell you doing? I know what I'm doing, just fly. Suppose this damn thing blows right up our ass. Just think of it as war, Otis. It'll all come back to you. Biggest damn button bell I ever flew down. Well I'll tell ya' if she gos off... You wont feel a thing. Hold on to your balls man, here we go. Your looking right down into the center of the earth Otis. There . As close as you can get. Hurry back man. Come on! Come on climb! Let's get the hell out of here! Were evacuating now governor. Theirs no longer any doubt. One of my men went down inside the creator and took some samples of volcanic gas. The presence of hydrogen sulfide indicates that magma is rising inside the volcano. No he's here with me right now. Mm-hum I'll tell him that your grateful. Thank you governor. What you did... Was the most unbelievably reckless and irresponsible act that I've encountered in my whole professional career. Irresponsible. This stunt even beats the one you pulled of in Alaska. You'd-a'-been gone if I hadn't yanked you off that mountain. What about those barriers you wanted to have moved? What about those waivers you'd advised people to sign? I advised no one to sign anything David. Because you've become a politician Lloyd. You risked the life of every single person in this community with your damn crock of shit at that meeting. You knew the bulge was growing 5 feet a day. But you didn't say anything. So don't talk to me about irresponsibility. As far as I'm concerned I have a chance of a lifetime here to watch a dormant volcano awaken. And that's exactly what I'm gonna do. I wanna watch it. All of it. Because I'm a scientist Lloyd. I really don't know what you are. It's getting to be that time Harry. What time is that Wayne? Time to get off this mountain before she blows. Time to get the hell out of here. C'mon Wayne you're gettin' to sound like the Professor. Besides you know me better than that. Dammit Harry if you don't pack up right now I'm going to throw your ass in the back of that rig. You got that? You and who else? Oh shit Harry, why don't you come staying with Patty Jean and me. Till this thing calms down. You know I can't do that Wayne. I buried my wife and daughter up here. Besides I gotta stay here and take care of my dog. Yeah, I guess you do. Take care Harry. Wayne. You know what the problem is? Like I told you before it's all those damn aerosol cans. Some of the killer rays from the sun got through, drove everybody crazy for a while. C'mon girl. Time for you and me to put on the feed bag. Come on we're having people food tonight. Otis. Let me give you a hand with that. C'mon I'm going to let you take a look at my machine. You've been wanting to take a ride. Well you're gonna get one this morning buddy. I don't wanna go. I want to stay here with you. It's not gonna be for long. A week, maybe less. That's right, yeah. Linda? I have a job to do. And when I finish I'll be coming straight to you. You know that don't you. What if something happens, what if you don't come off the mountain. - I mean I would... - Nothing's gonna happen I had a long life line remember? I love you so much. And I love you too. I always will. It's for you Chad. Now you take care of your mom you hear. And if you ready want to ride those turtles there's nothing stopping you. Thanks Otis, take care of yourself. Stay cool man. C'mon George you can do it. Well if you were on the mountain that just got blasted and you're lucky enough to survive come on in sit down again hell it's great being alive. Really it's blasted on the mountain blasted on the mountain come on in sit down and have a beer way back when people calling you to go out and get blown away come on in and get blown away right here How's it going Professor? Don't you have a home to go to? Nope. Here Harry, this is for you. God bless you. Nectar of the gods. How'd you know I had a cold? We drink to Edie. Who's Edie? Didn't I never tell you about Edie. Edie was the most beautiful woman God ever created. Everybody around here knew Edie. We had 24 years. Not bad. She's the one I bought the pink caddy for. God how she loved them gold wheels. Can you imagine, some guy offered me seven grand for that, after she died. I ain't never gonna sell her. Never! Jesus, I just realized something. I ain't played the piano for anybody since Edie died. Did you know I played the bagpipe Harry? Haven't got them with ya' have ya'? - No. - Good. I hate the bagpipe. Sounds like pigs being murdered. You know Dave, that mountain gonna blow it's cork anytime. I know it is. I think I knew it from the beginning. How come you can feel it so good and you just got here? Seems like I've been here a long time. How come you staying? Knowing what you do. Same reason you are Harry. Not really Professor. I'm gonna level with ya'. You know I got an awful lot of fans out there. I kinda enjoy all the attention I'm getting. Besides... Where would I go anyway? Come on Harry. No it ain't the same Dave I've been and I've done. Went to war, lived with a woman. I've seen a lot of times. But yours is still ahead of ya'. A lot of promise too. Your not gonna pull me off this damn mountain. This ones mine. I wanna be there. I cant explain it any better. To me... The worse thing that could happen would be. At the moment when I... felt my life slipping from me... The last thought I'd have would be. Oh God, if I'd only done this, if I'd only done that. I think that's the same no matter how old you get. Don't you? Yeah. But your gonna be dead for a long long time. Maybe. Maybe not. Nobody really knows the answer to that one. Do they Harry. Maybe we just keep coming back over and over again. Till we finally get it right. Well it's, sure something to sleep on. Gotta get going. Wanna take a couple of pictures of the mountain in the morning. Ah, Dave... Your more than welcome to stay here if you want. Thanks Harry. I'd like that. . You! Your suppose to be here at 6:00! Not 20 of 7:00! Time is money! You waist anymore of ether and your out on your ass! You understand that! Go on get to work. That ought to do it. That'll just make more smoke. Come on let's go up on the ridge. Hunny, no I'm sleeping. Vancouver! Vancouver! This is it! Dear God. Oh, dear God. I'm walking towards the only light I can see. I can feel the ash now. My eyes. It's getting very difficult to breath. It burns. At this very moment I... I honest to God, believe I'm dead. ...Believe among the missing. We do know that Harry Truman was at his lodge at spirit lake. Which was obliterated by the explosion. And that David Jackson the young geologist from Boulder was monitoring interments on the north face of the mountain when it exploded. On the international seen the price of gold... "Me..." "The worse thing that could happen would be." "At the moment when I... felt my life slipping from me..." "The last thought I'd have would be." "Oh God, if I'd only done this, if I'd only done that." "You know you can sit out here sometimes, in the middle of the afternoon" "it's so peaceful and quiet" "you can hear chainsaws 50 Miles away. Clear as a bell." "And then sometimes the wind starts blowing the tops of trees." "It comes in gusts you can hear it coming..." "And all of a sudden, right over you. And then it's gone." The eruption of Mount St. Helens was equivalent to the explosive power of 500 atomic bombs. It was heard over 300 Miles away. More than a cubic mile was instantly blasted from the top of the mountain. That's over a ton of rock for every person on this earth. Enough dust and ash to cover all of Manhattan Island to a depth of 400 feet. The blasts flattened 200 square miles of forest. Over 175,000 animals were killed 59 people are dead. According to scientists, Mount St. Helens could erupt again at any time. He told us he would never leave the mountain no matter what he did he wouldn't go some folks think he's crazy but how can you blame him because they couldn't force him from his home he said, I'm living here the best years of my life and I can't throw those memories away the lord's been good to me so has the mountain I settled here so this is where I'll stay here's to you Harry Truman they can't talk to into moving you're not going to leave your mountain home behind here's to you Harry Truman you've shown the pride of a great human if the mountain go's so I this is where I live and where choose to die (A MightyMike77020 video sub) If you like my subs please let me know at ref: Http://en.Wikipedia.Org/wiki/mountst.helens Thanks go to: Google and and Windows 8.1. Please support these organizations Here's to you Harry Truman they can't talk you into moving you're not gonna leave your mountain home behind here's to you Harry Truman you show the pride of a great human if the mounting goes so do I this is where I live and where choose to die If Matthew goes by golly so do I. This is where I live and where choose to die Bye
