 

                        The City of Anatol City of Anatol what? City of Anatol I wish I could fly ... what for? you! naughty one! careful, you ... pardon But he's going to land here! don't idle, get the guest room ready yes, running along pretty landing place isn't it charming what do you want here? get off the plane if you don't mind you're not allowed to, this meadow is private property too bad and I was just going to pick a few flowers for you what cheek! get away from here what if we stayed? well, are you gentlemen or aren't you? well, are we gentlemen or aren't we? I think we are a pity what do you say to this! what an insolent person! old man, I thank you for your ... here ... and good-bye Sonja? but that was Gregor, don't you know him? no idea, no hey you, do you want to make some money? then carry my bags into town you've raised the price by half a Kreutzer hard times in Anatol - please bless my bread, Father - blessed be God's gifts good day, Herr Gregor good day, Stefan how are you? let's not talk about it no drink, huh? hard times in Anatol come and see me at the hotel tomorrow, maybe I can help you out - a drink? - no, work here ... good-bye good-bye, Herr Gregor fresh water-melons, juicy, juicy the Gregor! of course, Herr Gregor again fresh water-melons - hello, Berthold - dropped out of the sky this time? yes ... how are you ... fine the last time he arrived his pants were frayed who knows what he's been up to out there, the adventurer Young pigeons! ah Herr Gregor, how are you? Xaver, we've no free rooms but Herr Koroschek, the entire hotel is empty shut up hallo, Koroschek you lousy old crook ah, the Herr Gregor I have the honour thank you, sir my old room's free? I regret, Herr Gregor, everything's full Herr Koroschek, the room's ready now the Herr Jacques Xaver you old house, how are you you filthy thing, always unshaven down there it's still growing, but up here it isn't anymore I hope you'll be staying for long this time, Herr Jacques since you haven't got a free room for me ... but Herr Koroschek, Jacques Gregor's room is always free, isn't it well, if you're going to pay his bill yourself again ... what was that? Xaver! That's right! you paid my expenses last time. How much? Herr Jacques, there's time for that I've taken enough time, how much? - about 600 - 600, I see here, take 1000 but that's too much premium for risk included then let me get the room ready for you at once - but the best room, Herr Koroschek - with telephone - what? - telephone, doesn't he know what that is? telephone, of course - I always wanted to have one installed - have it installed now, at once! yessir, presently Lexa, take up his luggage Lexa well, still a virgin? Herr Jacques, one question why do you need a telephone? nobody in Anatol has a telephone not even the Mayor whom do you want to talk with? with Berlin, Paris, London - London? - yes also with America what? also with America? I feel as if something banged me on the head each time the same ... so you've finally made it, Herr Jacques? big style then you can tell me your plans can you keep a secret? like the grave so can I cheers well, I'm off to Maniu to the graveyard? why? did old Maniu die? Maniu died, a year ago my, that's annoying why? has the Turkish grange been sold yet? Maniu's daughter is keeping it Franziska? the tiny little brat she isn't that tiny anymore hey! Franziska! Franziska! attention! what do you want here? I just want to have a look at you, my little dove there's nothing to see, you pig Franziska, don't be so ... but I want to marry you, you can ask anything of me, on thick carpets you shall ... yes I know, on thick carpets I shall walk, in silken beds I shall sleep that would suit you fine ??? but my little dove ... I spit on your thick carpets! I don't want a silken bed if you lie next to me, you dirty pig, you ... quite another man will have to come along for that - that's how I like you - let go of me! let of of me, dirty bastard, I'll kick in your teeth let go of me Jacques! Franziska, how are you? you're great, laughing your head off instead of helping me what are grinning about, eh peace, Jaskulksi, I'm glad to see you I have some business to talk over with you is that so? you have business to talk over with Jaskulski? and I'm just invisible to you, or what? let me tell you something, you just get out of here, the both of you Franziska, don't be so rough since I'm seeing you again after such a long time it's all that guy's fault just look at the lilacs - but Franziska ... - get out of here! let's meet later, she's a dangerous one, isn't she why are you so angry with him? but look at the mess, he's trampled down my lilacs always the fighting cockerel, like you used to be I? a fighting cockerel? - and who used to throw me into the mud? - and who used to throw stones at me? and I even pulled you out, in my generosity by my hair but how could I have pulled you out otherwise? when I think about it today, it still hurts oh Jacques, I'm happy that you're here say, for how long will you be here? where are you staying? Koroschek has become megalomaniac telephone, domestic and abroad For whom does he take the trouble? nobody is staying at the hotel excuse me, gentlemen, there is somebody staying at our hotel Herr Jacques Gregor and Herr Gregor needs the telephone what for? that's none of your d... business, gentlemen Lisa? Herr Gregor will stay for supper you'll have supper with me, won't you please set the table for two I am to do what? two plates, you oaf! why didn't you say so Franziska, since when do you act the great lady? I don't act, I am a lady I've been to the convent at Adrianopolis for 3 years, my father wanted it so I'll tell you what your father wanted when I talked to him the last time, before I left for Paris Paris? You've been in Paris? do the women wear long gowns again? Jacques, I've an idea, I'll sell everything and move to Paris say, is it true? Is Paris even bigger than Adrianopolis? stop that nonsense and listen to me you father will turn in his grave if you ever sell the estate, I'm telling you and I'll sell it anyway! I don't intend to remain stuck this dirty hole but that's rubbish! where could you go? out into the great world, to Adrianopolis where a lady belongs lady, that's all I'm hearing, "lady" you're nothing but a silly goose Jacques you ... but your shoulders are all cold and a cold shiver is running down my spine too don't cry, little one Lisa but you're totally drunk! totally? go away! just a tiny little bit you should have brought something for the child instead - milk? - and that isn't all where did you get the money from? from my old friend Gregor what for? he said he's got a job for me really! but of course, Jacques, ask me anything I want to have your salt mine, Franziska the old abandoned salt mine? my father already lost heaps of money with it and you want to have it? why? I'll explain but you mustn't tell anybody in the old abandoned salt mine there's oil oil? and? Franziska! don't you know what that means? Oil! so what? but you'll explain, won't you listen to me, it's very simple, oil, that's petrol gas, grease, everything that's needed by machines and machines are running all over the world of course, here in Anatol one wouldn't notice right here, beneath, there's oil your father and I discovered it in the old salt mine and once the oil's flowing, Franziska, you'll be rich no, millions you see, people in Anatol are so poor just look at them, most of them barely exist but once the oil's flowing ... then everybody will earn money, even the poorest Anatol will grow, prosper through me, Anatol will become a paradise a new and strong awareness of life will spread through the city and for everyone, from labour and the hope for bliss, a new unexpected happiness will be born and all this depends on the two of us, Franziska you and I I'm sure you'll help me agreed? yes and did you understand everything? not one word but you speak so beautifully - Herr Gregor, everything's all right - very well Stefan, have the ventilators been delivered yet ... the stuff we built into the air shaft yesterday yes ... no they haven't been delivered yet - notify me at once when they're here - yes Herr Gregor out with the stuff ... hello, old man Xaver Xaver! yes, I'm busy ... the people must be coming out of church soon, have you poured yet? of course, Herr Koroschek look at the pitiful state of the beer! it's all stale Vogel is again taking too long with his sermon freshen up the beer, and be quick about it I've done it twice already where's your sister, Herr Jaskulski, I haven't seen her today ah, there she is I'm going to the pub, Marina if I'm late for lunch don't wait for me - Jaskulski, I'm joining you - you're staying with me! one must hear what's going on in town, after all all right, I'll come along my brother doesn't appreciate how nice he has it with me at home he'll realize one day, but then it'll be too late here you are but you're the ... I am. And you're the ... gentleman? That's right. Then we know each other already. unfortunately hi there. drunk already early in the morning? no, that's still the effect from last night freshly drawn from the barrel hallo Jacques another beer for my friend Gregor - morning - good day, Herr Jacques well, have you already ... then I'd rather have a Vermouth very well, will be served presently well Jaskulski, we might as well make our deal right now yes, Jaskulski is always ready to close a deal you see, Jaskulski is in the business too so there must be some truth in it Jaskulski never gets involved in an unprofitable business if the talk of a water-melon seller means something to you ... he's building a water pipeline, I'm telling you to his ruin and mine but the gentleman had better be careful I'll tell you what Jacques is up to he's searching for the old Turkish treasure the late Mariush has already been digging for - he was such a fool - it never came to anything run along Lisa, he's coming oh, it's you? you've raised a row about the lilacs, Franziska look outside well? well, that's very nice of you, Jaskulski but you shouldn't have taken the trouble you know, with me that's no big deal if you want to have still more of it, help yourself I've closed a big deal today, made a lot of money I've cheated Jacques what? you've cheated him? after all, one has to look out for oneself I've sold him the bears' gully and the quarry too and he gave me 10.000 for it, the fool in cash, right on the table - you're so smart, Jaskulski - ain't I? ah, the Jaskulski! then I'll take it away again - you haven't had lunch yet? - no. I'm expecting a visitor whom? none of your business but if you must know: Jacques Jacques? why does he come here? that's none of your damned business you! if I find out that he ... that you and he ... he'd better be careful I'll watch out you can tell him yourself, there he is thank you Herr Jacques sends me, unfortunately he can't come to lunch he's too busy I see, the gentleman is busy he has his hands full today, on a Sunday then enjoy your roast of mutton you have company now Xaver, I hope you haven't had your lunch yet? only partly enjoy your lunch, everybody good day he really has a lot of important businesses to attend to one after the other I've prepared such a beautiful meal. so this is the man all Anatol is talking about I've managed at least that you've also managed that I receive you on a Sunday afternoon please ... Will you have a cup of tea with me? with pleasure, Madame Mirko may I ask the reason for your visit? Madame, I wanted to talk business with you business? in this case, hadn't you better address yourself to our lawyer? I have, already but your lawyer told me that you don't want to sell your property that's right. and for what other reason have you come? In the firm conviction that on your property there's oil oil? and I wanted to ask you if you'd like to exploit these oil reserves with me as partner Mumi come here, Sonja this will interest you Herr Gregor my granddaughter Sonja ah, Herr Gregor all Anatol is talking about how nice you are Mumi, I'm driving into town to see my girlfriend but child, do stay Herr Gregor claims we're walking on millions what? millions? I don't understand according to our geological calculations right below our feet there's oil oil? but ... you mean ... real oil? petrol? that's right but that's fantastic! but please, do sit down but Mumi, if it's true that would be wonderful do you really believe it's true? with 90% certitude but this is fantastic Mumi, then we can get away from this boring place we could travel, to the Riviera, wherever we like, the whole year - but Sonja, you were going to visit your friend - there's no hurry - cream? - tell me, Herr Gregor, how does dig for oil ... - no thank you - how does one dig for oil? - does it interest you? immensely then visit me down at the mine, and I'll show you in detail so you want to dig for oil at our place? "digging for oil" is not the right word, Madame one day I'll come along and erect a drilling tower in your garden among my rose bushes? out of the question! I've read, where's oil all plants wither but Mumi! then you could buy yourself as many roses as you like - you've got it, Mademoiselle - thank you for the compliment when will you start to drill? as soon as I've found oil myself in my salt mine stop! stop the machine! stop the machine! we'll never find oil down here, no way damned toiling it's not as bad as that! come on, get a new gouge from the depot Herr Gregor? what's the matter? the levers broke again bad luck. then change them and get new levers, that's all we're doing this already, but Herr Gregor, I'm afraid we won't make it why not? there's no end to the hard rock trust me, in 2 or 3 days we'll have pierced through Herr Gregor, telephone thank you. so, don't give up Mischka, Achtung! hallo, Gregor speaking Jacques, a telegram has arrived for you, shall I bring it down? no, I'm coming up - Fischer - Yes? where's the telegram? oh Jacques what's the matter? why can't your name be Otto? why should my name be Otto? you can type it so much easier even with two hands, see? silly brat hallo! long-distance call please presently, Constantinople hallo,hallo, Oil Company? Please speak. Anatol's on the line. General Director, Herr Gregor from Anatol Hallo Herr Gregor I'm glad to hear from you Herr Garcia, I've got your telegram what's the meaning of it? since we could be successful any minute now and you want to cut the financing! but that's not possible! a decision made by the board of directors, my dear Anatol has cost us a fortune already and that's why we have to keep on drilling otherwise all the money will be wasted listen Herr Garcia, I only need 50.000 more and we'll have oil advancing any more money is out of the question, you've exceeded your estimate three times already it's over now, not another Kreutzer for Anatol but I'm human after all, I'll let you use the machinery until the 25th not a day longer by the devil, how can I keep on drilling without money! my men will run away hallo! listen ... hallo! hallo! damned swinish business! Jacques Jacques did they annoy you? I'm telling you telephone, radio, TV, all that's imperfect if you can't smack the other guy's face if I don't find oil within eight days I'm finished you'll find it in eight days what if I don't? then you won't have to worry either we could be happy without oil yes yes and all Anatol will laugh their heads off what do we care and if someone dares to laugh, I'll kick in his teeth who was going to be a lady again? sometimes it's hard to you too, I've promised heaven and earth and now ... you'll have to "look at the moon" if only you're good to me then I don't care about anything you? with you, I could even go begging in the streets begging? but I don't want to go begging I must make it or I'll hang myself thank you get out, load off I have to get back at once come, from here you can see everything but don't get caught by the drilling master are you afraid he'll throw me out? not that, but he beats you up at once the air's bad down here hard work, sir now go and have a word with the men - and then you'll report to me - yessir listen, you two come here Jaskulski needs us all in his quarry he'll pay more than Gregor and the work's easier too are you mad! if petroleum gas gets out we'll all explode take it easy it won't be that dangerous what business do you have down here anyway? I must talk to you because of Franziska - down here of all places? - yes! I know very well that you're chasing after Franziska but let me tell you: if you don't leave Franziska in peace ... then something'll happen to you Herr Gregor look at this swinish business Kostja is stirring up the men I haven't told anything, sir what's going on here? Jaskulski has ... Jaskulski? is that so? now I see why you ... get out! and if you set foot in here again, something'll happen to YOU, got it? drive off Drilling Master call the men hallo! everybody come here! listen to him get going well, boys I have to give you all the sack today I haven't got any more money the Oil Company doesn't send any more money, I guess they've lost faith I'm only telling you so that you know how the situation is so if anybody wants to work for Jaskulski ... he may leave, I'm keeping no one but the man who wants to keep on working with me till the 25th, I'll pay him double wages when we strike oil so the man who's afraid to work for free or if he knows for sure that we won't find any oil here... he can draw his pay and leave but I am still firmly convinced that we'll find oil here! so! now you know do as you please, there's the exit and here's the drilling tower working without pay, that's not for me nothing doing, we won't pierce through anyway I don't care, I want to know how oil looks like I'd like to keep on, but my wife ... till the 25th one might risk it man, double pay! but my wife! very well, then I'll stay too Herr Gregor we'll stay Blaczko the wench from the Turkish grange is here, that Franziska Franziska? quick, bring in the cake and rose liquor get it yourself I won't serve your fine lady is she any different from me? the slut shut your trap! otherwise I'll forget that you're my sister and I'll kick you out it seems she's bewitched you Franziska! Franziska! you've come to me! to my house! what a day! come, sit down no, better over there do you want to have some wine, Franziska? or fruit and cake? Marina's bringing everything right now but you have a piano I have I thought, since you've been educated in the convent and studied the piano don't you want to try it out? see if you like it? play on [Chopin: nocturne op. 9 no. 2] what an artist that one? she'll only ruin the piano she doesn't appreciate music, the old oaf beautiful, Franziska, really beautiful ??? on the radio, he played Beethoven he ain't bad but you ... well I've been studying for three years - may I? - of course, everything, have a drink by the way, I forgot to thank you for the lilacs why don't you visit me and have a look at them if I may do you want more lilacs? or do you want ... Do you want the piano? I'll give it to you. come, have a drink from me you can have anything you want - you'd really help me if ... - always, whenever you need me very well. I need money sure, I'll let you have it, with pleasure. How much? but that's a lot of money, Franziska what do you need it for? I won't tell you. what does it matter anyway it matters a bit though if you won't tell me what you need it for, then ... then I may go now I know how much you like me, Jaskulski but stay a bit longer you'll get your 50.000 - really? - yes I'll bring them to you tomorrow, to the Turkish grange so you're a great guy after all, Jaskulski till tomorrow? get in, we're leaving and leaning out is forbidden - dangerous? - yes you! spitting is forbidden I'm going to be sick, I want to get out getting out is forbidden I see, we've arrived thank you - Where's Herr Jacques? - up there hey! Herr Jacques Herr Jacques yes? what's the matter? something to eat I don't have time you've been climbing about here for 48 hours not even an ox could stand that but I can but all this isn't necessary do come down a very important affair important? all right, I'm coming well Xaver, old house, shoot Franziska sends me she'll get the money, - even today - Franziska? the girl mustn't do anything foolish what was that, what's the meaning of that? that means: that we don't need a penny anymore, tell that to our Franziska Herr Gregor, high time it's starting sure man, it's starting Stefan, Wichta, get over there - did you shut the oil conduct? - yessir all ventilators turned on? Wichta, clear away the rubbish everybody get down get out please - Drilling Master! - here Is the conveyor equipment ready? Thank God, otherwise we'd drown in the soup I'd like so see Herr Gregor he's over there why are you in such a hurry, Herr Gregor, has the oil arrived already? not yet, but it'll be here presently don't idle, get back to work it seems I've come at an inconvenient time I beg your pardon? it seems I've come at an inconvenient time on the contrary, just at the right moment drilling master, you stay up there and see to it that the drill doesn't get stuck - am I disturbing? - not at all careful please careful Gregor oil! oil! oil! golly! there it is! oil! oil! but what's going on there, what ... to the valves! quick otherwise we'll die here like rats the whole joint is full of gas go on, faster Xaver! go and fetch Franziska sure, you "oily idol", I'm flying - what was I going to do? - fetch Franziska, you blockhead why are you pulling such a face? I'm rejoicing careful but that doesn't matter wonderful, Herr Gregor, wonderful, let me congratulate I never liked you, Jaskulski, but I didn't know you could be so mean take your money and go go now! I'm doing the best I can you don't understand me I don't want to buy you not all the money in town could do that I need you, Franziska I cannot live without you but I want to marry you come, sweetheart no, let me that Gregor needs money and I need you Franziska! Franziska! what's the matter? Franziska, we've found oil oil? what? oil? a whole sea of oil oil? oil! you! did you hear that! we've found oil we're much richer than you are now I don't need your dirty money anymore and all this is made of salt? yes, common table salt you put into your soup what you see here, this is how I imagine the new Anatol with train station, public baths, cinema and all that goes with it brand new and extremely grand - and what's that? - a drilling tower, like the one outside - and where's our house? - pulled down instead the drilling towers are standing here and this is the airport right next to the little lake on the meadow where I first saw you so you haven't forgotten? I haven't the sight was memorable look here, Sonja nobody speaks of Anatol today but tomorrow tomorrow the whole world will speak of it we've become important do you see? Jacques Drilling Master where's Herr Gregor? up in the office, Miss Franziska what's the matter with you, why do you speak so funny? we've all shouted with joy until we were hoarse all right, I understand, be quiet golly, you shall have your wine Jacques Franziska I'd like to introduce you to Miss Yvolandi Miss Franziska Maniu, my partner from today, the richest woman of Anatol, perhaps of all the Balkans my congratulations and I envy you but now I really must get home I just wanted to have a look at all this down here I thank you, Herr Gregor we thank you you've brought us luck gentlemen, do you realize what that means? oil in Anatol? that means that each of you is a millionaire the man who has property in Anatol he also has oil and where's oil, there Ledermann is indispensable gentlemen, I, Ignaz Immanuel Ledermann put the expertise I have gained in California, South Russia, Romania at your disposition, I undertake the execution of all drillings I act as consultant to all financing you wish to say something, sir I do gentlemen in case somebody sees the waiter I need him on behalf of the liquor question silence, silence I'd like to talk to you - Jaskulski - ah, Herr Jaskulski I've heard about you Xaver, where are you? I might kick you out after all you're only serving Herr Gregor, what should the other guests do? behave like you, Herr Koroschek: shout! you insolent fellow, how dare you, get back to your work allow me, Herr Koroschek, to say something you've nothing to say to me but I have what is it? Herr Koroschek for 19 years I'm working as your temporary waiter hoping for a steady employment for 19 years I'm not even allowed an evening off for 19 years you've been humiliating me to death but now this is over - do you know what you are to me... - Xaver! you are a ... no no, I'll be polite you know anyway what I meant but Herr Xaver you're not going to quit in the middle of the season too late Koroschek I'm opening my own business you're doing what? I'll build. All Anatol will be building. you want to build? with what money, Mr. Entrepreneur? you'll see, you ... bedbug the jacket's a perfect fit, and there's still room ... room but Miss Rosa, I've already written you off to your bridegroom, but you're drunk already, after only the second bottle and how! may I, my boy? please may I have a drink? yes? oh well a pity I'd much rather stay with you ("dir") be reasonable, Jacques you mustn't be absent when your Xaver is opening up people would talk... tomorrow? as usual at 6 o'clock at my place fine Jacques! good evening Mademoiselle, good-bye good-bye Herr Gregor good-bye sure. so are we fanfare ah Herr Gregor you've brought us luck I knew right from the beginning, Herr Gregor Jaskulski! Leave it alone! - be reasonable - in a few days we'll be there too then you'll be the King of Anatol make room for Herr Gregor and company waiter champagne, two bottles no, three, four five, six, seven, eight - nine - out, out Xaver, listen you wanted to have the money to open a caf, you're calling this a caf? of course it's a caf, a "caf chantant", much more fun much more fun? that's a matter of taste taste? yes, everything's here for every taste Ledermann, you're my friend come on, give him a kiss put it on my bill Xaver you pig, we're "sitting dry" doesn't matter, you'll get a new one, that'll all be charged to his account the Ledermann, he'll fix everything, my friendly host ... first he goes like this, and one day, out it comes: oil ... oil ... you! Franziska! you mean that parade horse? but she's got a whole grocery on her head shut up! get off, off! Xaver, this is wonderful I wouldn't have thought it was going to be so beautiful and in such good taste I've designed all this myself, Franziska I beg your pardon, Miss Maniu Franziska Franziska I think, Franziska, you must have a glass of champagne with me - you must - but you're so drunk but what else can I do, since you're so mean to me Herr Jaskulski, please let go of the lady we're not at Koroschek's shut up leave me, you drunkard Jaskulski, be reasonable, leave the girl alone move aside Jaskulski you're totally drunk you dog I'm sorry don't get excited, ladies and gentlemen, nothing's happened music throw the gentleman outside, but careful, he's a regular customer waltz, ladies and gentlemen, ladies' choice ladies, please dance Jacques, you've handled that wonderfully the way he fell to the ground, that was great - he'll surely leave me alone now - I hope so - and now we'll dance, shall we - no, Franziska, I must speak to you, alone Xaver, where can we have a quiet talk? over there in the private box shall I serve a liquor, or champagne? - champagne please - leave us what's the matter with you? don't you like me? no but this is the latest model from Adrianopolis then let them wear it in Adrianopolis here we go I don't want to see this here in Anatol, and least of all on yourself, Franziska - my bird too? - yes the bird too now you're looking much nicer and now the war-paint open your mouth but I only did it to please you but it wasn't quite the right thing Franziska now be a good girl and go home, this is no place for decent ladies I'm probably keeping you from having fun that's nonsense do you think I'm stupid do you imagine I don't know that you're visiting the Yvolandis daily visiting your Sonja please be ... it's all over town, but I won't stand it Franziska, don't be so mean to him he's made us all happy you mustn't scold him you see: you mustn't scold me come, be a good girl and go home no what's the matter? if you loved me just a little bit then you'd go home now oil! oil! oil! at my place I've found oil I'm a millionaire where's Jacques Gregor? my benefactor, my benefactor and how! colossal! Xaver come here kids, come with me, music, champagne champagne, one case six cases isn't it beautiful? if only it were Slivovitz evening Herr Gregor what do you say to this? great quality. Anatol oil will become a world brand Vila? what are you doing out on the street in the middle of the night? Stefan has gone mad, he's tearing down our house he wants to dig for oil Stefan! have you gone mad? what are you doing? away with it, away! away with the stuff away everything down to the last stone Ledermann must build me a drilling tower I want to have my oil too oil! oil! oil! spend the night with the child at the inn I'll fix that tomorrow Alexander, you're coming with me, you mustn't consort with those people but sweetheart, be gentle, today's a day of rejoicing - but you're drunk - thank God I am last night Samos stabbed his brother in a quarrel about a piece of land and Sakin hanged himself because of debts I don't know how you young people feel about it I don't like it but Mumi, those are teething troubles Anatol is just developing I can see that some people cannot resign themselves to it one mustn't be sentimental about it that's a question of temper, Sonja here it says, a water-melon seller's wife threw a pressing iron at her husband's head when he came home with a showgirl not every wife has such a sense of humour good day, Franziska oh Jacques I've ordered such pretty things from Adrianopolis, sweet isn't it [Canova: Cupid and Psyche] real marble hold it I don't know where to put it on the vertiko, on the piano Franziska, I'd like to talk something over with you yes, what is it? oh, both arms broken off I can't find those arms listen to me for a moment we're good friends aren't we yes of course look here, Franziska we can't go on like this for ever yes I see I'll go on helping you of course when you need anything yes yes just leave I'm not keeping you Franziska you're the most decent guy in the world don't think this place is right? don't you think one can glue on the arms again? don't be sad don't cry adieu you do you really ... do you really want to leave? yes then go! get out of here! run to that dame of yours! Franziska I wanted to part with you in a decent manner yes I know you've become a gentleman and I'm just a clumsy peasant girl get out! Jacques is gone ... good evening, General Director Herr Gregor is usually here at this hour perhaps he's still at the salt mine then I'll wait whose car is it? General Director Garcia's hey you! stay back! Herr Jaskulski but that was the last one, you must vacate the quarry now Herr Gregor ordered us to start on the job by tomorrow what? you want to dig here? what we'll be doing here is none of your business then have fun, with those rocks around here heavy ground isn't it and empty out that dynamite depot of yours too we don't want to have anything to do with it all right we aren't advancing any further on your vineyard, Herr Jaskulski I've had everything dismantled already - what? then I'm ... - it would be best to start here right away tomorrow here in the quarry? rubbish! it doesn't belong to me anymore, I've sold it to Jacques Gregor are you mad, man! here where there's oil! just a few delves of the spade below the surface. And you've sold it! but that's not possible! oil? here, in the rocks? but if I'm telling you! but then he ... what a crook the bastard! the cheat! and I thought I'd cheated HIM Paris at this time of the year is always very hard to find may I? what a wonderful transmission and no disturbances when you're driving? not even at top speed would you like to see for yourself? ah Herr Gregor Herr Garcia has been waiting for you for some time hallo Herr Gregor good day, Herr Garcia did you have a nice trip? thank you, thank you the roads are terrible, but my car is very good yes, marvelous - you're a fantasist, Herr Gregor - why? a drilling tower in the midst of those roses does credit to your sense of beauty but whether you'll be successful, at least our engineers differ about that I've been in the right against your engineers before I feel dead certain about my project don't you think the Oil Company's interest would be better served by purchasing other parcels of land? it's already been accomplished, Herr Garcia tomorrow we start drilling in the quarry, it'll probably be successful and ... by the way, here I'm working at my own risk then I wish you success, Herr Gregor he's got to have the time to see me! that would be the limit! I must see him! it's about my own neck excuse me we'll met at the office in the afternoon well, business deals sometimes have disagreeable side-effects do you really think Herr Gregor won't find any oil here? drilling for oil is always a speculation, but in this case Herr Gregor seems to have lost his head completely which is understandable I must get my quarry back, one way or another I can't help you, I bought it at the time for the Oil Company, for a very decent price but then I'm ... Ledermann has bled me dry completely five drillings, and not a drop of oil this has happened to many before, Jaskulski can't you help me out? I'm sorry, I'm in a tight spot myself and I don't know if I can break clean but you'll make heaps with your shares of the salt mine I've pawned them to the Oil Company I've put all my money into one investment so you don't want to Sonja Garcia's made me feel worried let him talk he's just annoyed that he isn't in on the deal did he impress you? - No. Only his car - I can believe that but we'll have one like that too, soon, and then I'll show you the whole world Rome, Paris, London and what else is new? how pretty The Last Night starring Kte Legoz-Vonn each shot a hit - Miss Maniu - Did you watch it? How is the film? fabulous with loads of alcohol and now I've gotten thirsty such a thirst! look where you're going, you fool ah it's you, Jaskulski will you join us for the circus, I'm paying you've treated me decently earlier, joined the ??? the sponger help yourself, Stefan, help yourself all this is very grand, dearest friend no offense, but how are you paying for all this? all on credit, my dear, just erect a drilling tower in your garden and the money starts to pour and what if the oil turns out to be vinegar? in that case, I suppose, Sonja will know what to do the good child arranges everything, without asking me of course the reason for the astonishing enlargement of your circle of acquaintances does it astonish you, Baron? I'm astonished at nothing anymore the good people are just wallowing in oil and we, on the other hand, are still sitting dry one moment, sir ... drop the genteel act, better tell me if we've struck oil so glad you could come the children are well I hope well old girl, still bustling about? and you've recovered from your accident? you mean this here? a splendid convalescence I've a hard skull, but my wife still can't sit down what a delightful conjugal life cigarette? shall we dance? with pleasure tell me, how can you bear this Anatol? I can't and what's keeping you from leaving this dump? or who's keeping you? my interests business or private? maybe both are you sweating too, Miss? Herr Gregor, we must quit now, the men have been working for 10 hours already haven't you called in the 2nd shift? but there are no more men available in Anatol! but we must keep on working tonight, at any price in a few hours we'll have oil the guys are dead tired send down to them a few bottles of wine, but don't let them stop only Jaskulski, drunk again nonsense, he's hurt no, just a cut with a knife he's gotten beaten up again have you never seen the Golden Horn, have you never heard of the wonderful palaces, marble steps down to the water - marvelous - that's where I live unfortunately all alone in Turkey? all alone? I don't believe you please another glass for me Sonja, I'm planning a big surprise thank you I think we'll strike oil tonight that's nice. it'll impress our guests I hope it'll impress you too, Sonja I'm afraid you won't be able to enjoy this spectacle. You know my view. And mine oppose it. allow me to remain neutral, gentlemen cigarette? thank you I've just talked to Constantinople on the phone just in case your plans here shouldn't materialize, I've a proposition for you yes? you're to exploit new oil fields for us what do you say to this? nothing I've a mission to accomplish here I thought so too, that you've a mission to accomplish here you thought you'd turn Anatol into something, and what did you turn Anatol into? into a happy city into an intoxicated city aren't you dancing? no, I want to "pour one behind the collar" I beg your pardon? "lift a jug" you want to have a glass of wine? no, I only drink champagne then you must take the trouble and go to the buffet yourself good idea permit me, Mademoiselle Sonja I'm determined to be astonished at nothing but I must say, in my time, a young girl didn't flirt with two men at the same time in your time, Mumi, it wasn't practical. I hope you're enjoying yourself, Herr Gregor? yes, thank you, Madame excellently but you're not dancing I was just asking Sonja to dance you're dancing a lot with Garcia are you jealous? do I have reasons for it? you're on bad terms with Garcia you know, one should beware of men like him you're afraid of him? I'm afraid of nothing but Jacques! they've cleaned me out, the dogs down to my last Kreutzer kicked me out and bled me dry and why all this? you! it's your fault you! I've never raised any hopes in you, Jaskulski, but if you believe it's my fault, then I'll help you yes, help me, Franziska stay with me, forever be reasonable, Jaskulski, it'll all turn out well again he's made you unhappy too despite your money and he's ruined me the bastard and now he's up there, making love to that other woman now I'll go up to him and beat him to death - No! No, you're staying here! you're staying here, you're staying ... you're still in love with him? none of your business come on, lie down, be reasonable we'll talk tomorrow have a good night's sleep I'll get your blanket I see there's the devilish plan there's is the place it all started and this is where it'll end. pay attention, now it'll start, I'm in the know I'm an expert Music! everybody get out, gypsies out, come on, Mirko, champagne wine, come on, everybody get out Music! march! and champagne now you'll be freed of all your worries, dearest friend let's hope so quick. now you'll be astonished! I've stopped being astonished for some time now Jacques Gregor bravo bravo - what's going on there? - we'll see about that right now Drilling Master, what's going on, tell us To err is human, a pity, my congratulations, Herr Gregor Jacques, I'm so happy, come along one moment Sonja I have to disappoint you we've struck on something but not on oil, but on water water? yes, pure spring water a benefit for the city of Anatol. but no riches for you and me - Water? - what say of my nose, old lady? it isn't pretty but what has it got to do with the water? I've always said that boy is going to build a water pipeline water? come with me, Alexander, we cannot have anything to do with such people - pardon - good evening and for this you had to ruin our rose garden? but Sonja! I don't understand you all right, this is a failure, but after all not the end of the world it's worse, it's a disgrace - to err is human ... - you shouldn't have erred you've promised too much Sonja! it's your fault anyway it's all my fault anyway Herr Garcia, I have to apologize you were right after all don't mention it, Mademoiselle I've always said you're a fantasist, Herr Gregor because I put everything on one card, you mean? I think my money hasn't been as badly invested as you think clear waters gives one a clear look at things my congratulations to you two Herr Gregor, I don't like your tone don't you start any quarrel with me, right now I'm just in the right mood a decent guy can "steal horses with me" but if someone gets fresh with me, then I knock him down! Jacques! Jacques! dear Jacques, don't be angry, something's happened excuse me, Frau Yvolandi, you must come with me at once I don't have time now Jacques, I implore you, come with me you can smack his face tomorrow you're right come on a charming evening, isn't it I agree and when I came back with the blanket, he was gone and he'd cut the telephone wire - drive faster, who knows what he might do - don't worry, the watchman at the mine will have caught him and besides, that Jaskulski can go to the devil if you had seen him, he was in such a state ... state ... state - all Anatol is in a state, as if everybody had gone mad in the old times everything was different yes I know, it's all my fault I and my damned oil you too start harping on that bit look your Jaskulski, there he is on his way to the bar you mustn't go in there, he'll beat you to death on that occasion I'll ask him what he's been up to down there and you drive down to the mine office and enquire if anything's happened, will you all right hey Jaskulski, drunk already before midnight Jaskulski, avec plaisir, at my place, for free Hey Jaskulski, since you're drunk too, don't lie about it you can drink what you like, I'm paying for you for me? nobody has to pay for me I don't need money anyway nobody in Anatol needs money anymore yes, you can eat and drink as much as you like and nobody will have to pay that's my champagne you don't have to pay either today one guy pays for all of you him Jacques Gregor there, look at him, your oil-king have a last look at him because now he's finished finished, finished what do you mean? have you ever seen a firework? that's what I mean but now you'll see one now you'll see one that'll leave you dumb folded and I, Jaskulski, have set it alight I did it, and now you're finished and I'm finished, and you all will be finished, finished, finished man, go to bed you're totally drunk but if you've done some swinish business down at the mine then I'll show you, tomorrow tomorrow? tomorrow! what was that? Jacques! Jacques! my oil! my oil! but it's no use anyway now Gregor, come and help me! let's get out of here Int. Oil Comp. oil! oil! oil! oil! oil? oil! oil! oil! I'm a millionaire oil! Jacques! Jacques! Jacques! Jacques! Jacques! Jacques! Jacques! Jacques! Jacques! Jacques! Jacques! oh Jacques! Jacques ... oh Jaskulski Franziska I'm a millionaire you! Jaskulski Jaskulski Jacques Jacques Jacques Jacques Jacques Jacques Jacques Jacques Ah, Franziska Jacques Stefan Stefan haven't you seen my husband? Vila Vila I don't care about anything I had nothing but you you've lost everything your oil, your money what on earth are you going to do now? tell me brother, what are you going to do? sell water-melons poor Anatol let them, Jacques what's Anatol to us we can be happy anywhere we'll go somewhere else no Franziska, we'll stay now most of all yes the end
