 

                        Hey! What are you doing here? Huh? Come, let's wring our hearts out Smash that pot of the night And get lucky... ...with that piggy bank Heart and spleenin squeezed out times Life...just a game of conches and coins Hit the road, partner Its time bang-bang! Hey, Mrs. Rosy has come! Rise and shine my babies... Good morning teacher! Good morning my sweeties! Please sit down Thank you teacher So... Cleanliness is next to... Godliness Yes, Godliness Stanley... Stanley What happened? What happened? You know Miss, my mother had sent me to the market I was walking down the street without bruises And then I saw a big crowd And then I saw a big boy And there was a very small boy I went more close and he said ''Hey! A kid!'' And then he hit me I got very angry I held his legs and I threw him This side and that side And then I punched him here And I punched him there And then I hit him, kicked him And punched him And then there was a stone... and I threw it on him! So did you kill him? No No Then he dogged the stone and said, ''Sorry''... Okay, Stanley... go wash your face. Yes Miss Hey! Where're you wandering around? Where're you wandering? Toilet Why? Don't you it at home and come? Which class are you from? C... F...the same thing Anyway get on with it Stanley, complete the story, please My mother sent me to the market to buy vegetables On my way, I saw a huge crowd So when I looked closely... Hey, Mrs. Iyer has come! Good morning, teacher Sit Thank you teacher Okay students... What was your homework yesterday? To choose a topic Quiet! Quiet! To choose a project topic Yes. You all have chosen a topic? What is your topic? Human body What is yours? Yours? Food Global warming Very good! Global warming! Miss! Miss! - Yes Food - Miss! Miss! That's it! All of you sit down. Hands down And sit straight with your spines erect! This is your science class! Where are your textbooks? Page number 11 Stanley where is page number 11? When I was packing my timetable... What? - When I was packing my timetable My sister... My sister tore my page... What is on page number 11? Food! So I think Stanley must be feeling hungry That's why he ate up the page,right? Give him your book Read Read Stanley... Stand straight Yes, Food First para Need for food... Loudly! The title of the poem... The crow strutted like a swan The crow strutted like a swan Hat on head, scarf in hand Hungry crow ate up Hungry crow felt nice The crow strutted like a swan Hat on his head Scarf in hand Scarf in hand Has anyone... opened his lunch-box? I can smell potato chop... I sure can Who's opened his lunch-box? Who's opened his lunch-box? Sai Sharan Shetty, Did you open your lunch box? Did you eat the potato chop? I can smell it here Shame on you! If you do this again I'll march you straight to the Principal's office The crow strutted like a swan Hat on his head Scarf... ..in his hand Children, shut your books I'll be back Hey Sai What happened to him? What did you do? What's happening here? Nothing. Coffee for Parera teacher So get on with it Okay Oh Hello Mr. Verma Good morning teacher Hey Stanley Where are you going? Complete the story first I'm very hungry. I have two Rupees. I'll buy some potato chop and bread Let me share my Lunchbox with you today Wow! What's that? Potato stuffed roti Who cooked it? My mummy Your mummy? Yes How many? Two Can I have some, please? Sure Hey! Give it back! Give it back, Stanley! What's this? Where's your lunch box? I have two rupees with me I'm going to buy potato chop and bread What're you doing here, then? ...Dipping in his lunch box? Get going now! This boy always eats from others'lunch boxes What was the need? What's in it? Potato stuffed roti Who made it? My mummy Your mummy? How many? Two Give here... show it This is wonderful. Give more. Hey... Somewhere inside... Does a Stanley hide? Somewhere inside... Does a Stanley hide? Image, like a penciled sketch... Little saint wading through innocence Never waiting nor hesitating Elves and fairies giving guard... To that melting dissolving face... Did you leave it behind In the maze of memory? Hey! Somewhere inside... Does a Stanley hide? Hey Stanley! What are you looking at? Nothing Page number 31, everybody Why are you talking? What are you doing? Am I giving sweets or what? On the same page, everybody? Human body Please take out your pencils And start underlining important words There is marrow in the hollow part of the bones... Why are you pushing me? Half of this table is mine You're taking my table If you keep pushing me, where will I get place? I can see you people are enjoying your science class... Why don't you do one thing, Stanley? Just get up... Get up Get up, Stanley...Very good boy And you, Mister Walter Get up... Get up Now take your textbooks and your pencils And go out and stand Get out. Come on, quickly Face the wall Go out and stand What are you doing? This is a zoo? Face the wall, that side Go there Mr. Verma, have some What's this? Cookies They are homemade It's not yet Christmas Everyday is Christmas! Umm... Verma, have some What's that? Chickpeas You should also try getting your lunch box once in a while... I'm having to grindchickpeas at this age Are you managing? Yes! At it! And you? The usual? Egg sandwich? Will you have some? No, I'm vegan on Tuesdays Sure, sure. Here, have some... But its not Tuesday today! Good morning, sir Your noise is echoing through the corridors Sit down! Thank you, sir... Open your Hindi workbooks A... for apple A... for apple Open a fresh page And write 20 times What's happening here? Stanley! Walter! What's going on? Sir, he's pushing me No Sir. He's pushing me Stanley... You write with your left hand? Yes sir - Huh? Writing with your left hand? Yes, I write with my left Get up Do you eat with you left hand? Not good,child for education, never the left hand Write with your right If you write with your right Everything will go right, understood? Sit down Come on. Start Very good, Yash Gangan. Good work You're through very early You're through too? Hey! Ask Stanley... Stanley... There's a football match When? - After school After school I have to go home Call your mother and inform her about the match I don't have money That's not a problem Aman has a mobile phone He hides it in a secret pocket Aman has a mobile? Yes Aman, give me your phone Here, Stanley call your mother Get on with it Hello Mummy! Can I please play football after school? Food? Don't worry about food. Aman's getting food for all of us. Aman's getting food for all of us. Can I please play? Thank you, Mummy! I love you, Mummy! Bye! Aman, here's your phone Stanley is joining us Come on, Stanley Unaware of hunger or thirst Unaffected by class divide Unaware of hunger or thirst Boys, hurry up the food is getting cold Unaffected by class divide Bathed in sunshine, all sunny Morsels of happiness, not too many Innocent heart believes in any... Lost yourself in crowded herds, have you? Rosy, what happened? This essay is so funny! And who has written it? Stanley That 4th F boy? Yeah Stanley Fernandes? That boy never carries a lunch box Eats from others' boxes You understand teacher? - Yes He puts his hand in other children's boxes Rosy teacher, Father's called you Yes There's a situation We've lost a lot of time due to closure at the time of swine flu Now what do we do about this? We'll complete what we can comfortably What difference does it make if we miss out 5 lessons in the curriculum? No No! We complete our portion every year Why not add extra periods? You know I've been talking to other teachers as well And they seem to be agreeing to what you're saying So post Christmas we'll add three extra periods after lunch I guess father If you say so, we'll follow it We'll do it Good morning, children Good morning, teacher Sit down Thank you, teacher How are my babies today? Fine I'm also very fine because you all have written such lovely essays! Please distribute the books Ayaan... Give this to SaiSharan... Yash... Stanley, you've written a lovely essay! Children, you must hear what Stanley has written He says, ''My mother Leaps out of the buses And jumps into the trains'' Is she a super woman? Yes, she is? Come here I've got something for you Toffee! Okay, mummy reminds me, after these Christmas holidays, We're going to have three extra periods So for that we're going to have two recesses... One small and one big recess Why don't you just write it down? And for the bigger recess, you'll get big lunch boxes So that my babies don't stay hungry... Please tell your mummies that And..... What happened? Stanley what happened? Miss, he's is pushing me He is putting his elbow every time and not letting me write Are you a left-handed person? Yes And you are a right-handed person? Yes No problem, just shift places Exchange... Come on, quick You go that side and stanley will come this side Life is very simple Don't talk in circles Quickly take a lick Then smack your lips and groove Season of innocence Sunshine of friendship Relationship's sprouted wings Bud-like its form Life is very simple Don't talk in circles Bound by threads of noodles... Need nothing else from life Stanley, what's in your hand? Want to see? Sure May childhood glide on... Just like this And the flame of friendship kept lit Life is very simple Good morning my children Good morning teacher Sit down my sweeties Thank you teacher Yes Stanley? What? 'I'd like to be' - by Anonymous I'd like to be a postman And walk along the streets Calling out, Good morning sir! To gentlemen I meet I'd ring every doorbell All along my beat! Perhaps I'll have a parasol In case of rain or heat But I wouldn't be a postman If the walking hurt my feet Would you? Happy birthday Rosy Miss! Come here You were so good. My mother gave it to me He recited such a lovely poem So a big hand for him and a chocolate Page number 74 Hey! Who are you? I... uh... Stanley... Who are you? How did you get inside? What? Oh! It's you! And what's this? Magic! Akram, get started Stanley what you making? Magic! Wow! Wow! Wow! Whose made this? Stanley! Stanley, its beautiful You know, I wish I had something like this in my house for Christmas You can have it What? You can have it Thanks Rosy Miss, you're not inviting us for your wedding at Christmas? Sit down! Good morning teacher Good morning. Please sit down Thank you teacher I see you all are in Christmas spirit Very good! Very good! But where is the project? Miss! Miss! Very good, very good Everyone is ready? Okay, okay Very good, very good What is this? Teacher, lighthouse What? A lighthouse What? Ugh! Fish! And so much coriander you wasted! Is this global warming? No Greenhouse gases? No Parts of body? No Then! Throw it out of my class, okay? Throw it out of my class Now, one by one Everybody will give me their project Okay One by one means one by one. Sit down Thank you Come now everybody Get ready for the class photograph Come on Thank you! Merry Christmas! Happy New Year! I shall see you when I'm back Merry Christmas! Enjoy yourselves Remember to get your lovely Lunch boxes for your second recess Is this okay? Yes miss A penny for your thoughts, Verma? Poor kids, burdened with 3 extra periods now Hey what you mean? Big, big lunch boxes will walk in! Keep your hands ready! What are you saying? Put them in the boxes! What fun! Happy New Year! Hey Lunch Box! Hey Lunch Box! Hey Lunch Box! In the making... Lunch Box! Aromatic Lunch Box! Shiny-shiny Lunch Box! Not just veggies, dal and rice Not just mushrooms and cheese Not just fenugreek, cream and peas But loaded with mother's Love and her care! Hey Lunch Box! Hey Lunch Box! Good morning Sir. Namastey Sir Yes... that's better Everyone... Namastey Sir Namastey children Please settle down Wow! The year has begun on a great note So many lunch boxes! And this shiny... four tiered... steel lunchbox.. Who's the owner? Sir, Aman! Really? Aman Mehra... Is this your box? Yes sir What's in it? Sir, food Of course, I know there's food in it Can't be pebbles But what's the food? Don't know Sir Don't know? I think... I'll have to make a trip After 6 periods At lunch-time, lets unravel the mystery of the lunch box They kept on checking these baskets as they were going out To check what is in the basket But they were just full of sweets and nothing else Boys, LewisCarrol wrote Alice in Wonderland but he was also a mathematician You know what he discovered? Multiply 9 by any number, you add the total and the answer is 9 Arise o pain of passion Stir up the yearnings of the heart Listen to the song of tear-- What's it? Just bread and butter? No, no. Thank you Panditji, are you listening? Arise o pain of passion Stir up the yearnings of the heart Yearning... waiting... The thing is... The size is small Long, long trousers and small, smalllunch boxes? That's not good You should learn from the 4th Std. boys Aman Mehra A boy this small... But his lunch box? This big! A shiny four-tiered steel lunch box Robust, strong and healthy Sir Yes How did the poet rescue humanity? The thing is...we were discussing lunch Run...... Sir, Sir Yes, tell me Sir how has the poet... No, not now please! Later, we'll talk later... Verma, here you are! You have to hear this... the funniest one ever You should have seen Johnson at Rosy's wedding Arise o pain... All empty? And what are you licking? Never get your own lunch box and keep picking off other's boxes Because of you I won't get to eat today Came running all the way... and you, Aman... What was the rush? Finished everything But Sir...when did you say? Huh? I didn't say? I came to the class... and I...didn't I? No Okay... I'll come tomorrow... okay? Stanley... Don't feel bad Hey Stanley! Where're you going? Home... Hot, steamy food! Mummy has cooked Call us also I will. Now can I go? Go Full meal! I'm always happy! Stanley? Hot, steamy food today too? Yes... I'm going Wow! Stanley? Hot, steamy food today too? Why are you lying? Abhishek saw you outside school yesterday You don't go home but just wander around outside What's the problem? Tell us what's the problem Dad took a flight to Delhi Got a ticket for mom as well So mom left There's no one to cook... so... Okay, lets do one thing Until your mom returns we'll share our lunch with you But... what about Grumpy? What about him? That's if manages to find us! Where are the scoundrels? Excuse me. Where's the Principal's office? Its lunch-time now... Ramakant? Good afternoon sir Are they upstairs? No sir May I come in Father? Yes? Rajendranath lutshi, the new history teacher Of course, of course. Please come in There's a class right after lunch So do you want to begin today... ...or you could begin tomorrow, if you wish I'll begin today Right, in that case, please have lunch with me Actually... I have my lunch box Ah! All the best then All the best Mr. Lutshi What's this? Mutton? No, no! Yam and beans... That's yam and beans? I can't believe it Why don't you try some? Here... Okay if you insist Verma... he's just joined At least spare his box I always get by, this way or that Mrs. Iyer, what have you got? Rice pancakes Can I have some to taste? Its over Aman Mehra and party... Where were you'll yesterday? Sir, we were under the primary staircase Huh? Under the primary staircase Why under the primary staircase? Sir, Parshu told us not to eat in the classroom It messes it up That's why we went there Fair enough Parshu was right It messes up the classroom not to eat here Primary staircase is fine Huh! I'll have to make a trip Huh! Good afternoon sir Now who are you? I am Suchit I am Tushaar Good afternoon sir But... Where's my Aman Mehra? Said they'd be under the staircase No one's come here, sir Good afternoon sir Mr. Verma, please have... Sauted Kerala bananas! Sauted Kerala bananas? With onions and tomatoes... Shall I? Please So, Aman Mehra and your party Where were you at lunch? Sir... Sir... Huh? Under the staircase 2-3 boys were already sitting So we went to the ground As they said it was their place Ground? Hey! Aman Mehra Huh? Spine Gourd! From our Maharashtra It's tiny and green and spikes all over Tastes like bitter gourd, though. Please have some Have some Searched every inch of the ground But Aman Mehra and party was nowhere to be found Where were all of you? Abhishek! You always have an answer Why is your mouth not opening now? Sir... we were at the Amphitheatre as it was very hot on the ground We were at the Amphitheatre Yeah... it was hot... It was hot on the ground Amphitheatre, cool-cool, eh? Good idea! But where's Verma? Dont know Must be trying to find us Look, look... There he is! Look at him! Running like a hungry lunatic! Aman Mehra! He's gone mad! Carrot dessert Please have Good afternoon sir What're you staring at? What're you staring at, huh? You little rat! Gnawing rat! Gnawing and gnawing Made a joke out of me! Sir, sir... ground! Sir, am phi theatre! Sir, staircase! Never felt so small ever in my life You little rat! Stand up! Stand up! Lunch box! No Lunch box... No school! Stanley, I am talking to you! Look up! Look up! No Lunch box... No school! Cursed cur! Get out! Get out of here! Enough insult... Way too much! Don't want your food! Good morning sir! Thank you sir! Abhishek shut the lunch boxes... Not hungry today Who's this little fellow? My son, Jahaan Oh! This is Jahaan! He's really grown! Of course! Yeah! You brought him to school today... how come? What to do, sir? All these extra classes are no good! Where will I keep him? Well, there's something important The Theosophy Society has sent a circular to the school. They are hosting this concert called 'A wonderland called India'... that's the theme! Very good! Okay, now, this is for children from different schools to participate It's an inter-school concert Now, I think we can certainly send some promising boys from our school to participate Hmm? What do you say? Yes, of course What do you say? But who will take them for rehearsal? Parents or teachers? An elf. An elf sits on a twig He was not very not very big Not thin it's gone! Elf, elf! Take care of yourself! He's coming behind you To seize you and bend you and stifle your song! This is unfair! The best boy isn't here today! What they'll do? God knows who'll they send for the concert? Aman, give me your mobile phone... Why? Remember, Stanley had called his mom during the football match I saved that number The phone is saying this number does not exist Must be something Hey do you know where Stanley stays? Must be somewhere in Chakala... Where? - I don't know Stanley hasn't come? No sir Hey Abhishek! I saw your friend, Stanley... Where? Stanley!!! You know yesterday the teachers were testing the concert I missed it? Then what! All because of Grumpy! Here! I tore this from the notice board for you What is it? The concert rehearsals are in Juhu The address is give here You better go to Juhu Fold it and keep it with you safely Go... don't miss it! Hello! Who are you? Which school you're from? I'm from Holy Family High School... What is all this? Concert! Is it your concert? Look at this teeny-weeny boy Scale the milestone Look at this teeny-weeny boy Scale the milestone Will just will at heart to do Only that and he's in stride... Look! Teeny-weeny boy has taken flight Look! Teeny-weeny boy has taken flight Look at this teeny-weeny boy What's his problem? Stanley ate from my Lunch box and not sir's! Why is Grumpy after Stanley only? This is not fair teacher We informed the proxy teacher that Stanley wasn't there Who would go in his place? This is just not done! Wedding cake? Satiated? After throwing Stanley out of the classroom? You don't have the right to take a child out of the class And what for? For not getting a lunch box to class? Does the principal even know about this? No He's just a child Have some shame Mr. Verma Wow! Awesome! Hi there! What's your name? Stanley Stanley, which school are you from? Holy Family High School Holy Family... We'd sent a form to your school... Why did they not send you? Because I didn't have a dabba... Dabba? What Dabba? Lunch box... Lunch box? Anyway, you want to dance, Stanley? Yes... You want to dance? Superb! Give me five! Stanley! My friends... I am very happy to announce... That... That... That... That... That I am selected for the inter-school concert Superb, Stanley! Superb! And... And... This would not have been possible with you, my friends Abhishek... thank you There is a big surprise tomorrow! What's the surprise? Tell us what's the surprise? If I tell you now how will it remain a surprise, huh? Mother Mary... my lunch box! Sir, lunch box! Stanley's lunch box! All this... for me? All this Now can I attend classes? Why didn't you come to me Stanley? Anyway... He's gone Grumpy's gone! Stanley! And he's left something for you Yours truly, Babubhai Verma My dear friend Stanley This grumpy train without cars is headed for the scrap yard I've been taught such a lesson That today I can't face myself How will I look you in the eye? Forgive me Stanley I promise... Grumpy will never return A for... apple... Prayers of pals In case of slips and falls Like soft bandages of love Look! Teeny-weeny boy has taken flight Greetings! Greetings! Welcome aboard... ...this flight of celebration of a wonderland called India! Mother and fathers... Hold your hearts... And watch your babies who have come together from 50 schools of Mumbai to take you on an enriching journey fasten your seatbelts... A wonderland called India is taking off He has made place in every mothers heart And its spread among children too He has made place in every mothers heart And its spread among children too What value would you put to this What value would you put to this Every single moment precious Hold your hearts patrons! Teeny-weeny boy has woven a big tale Look at this teeny-weeny boy Scale the milestone My father... Let my country awake Stanley! Hey! You were so good! It was so nice to see you like that! So special! See, I told you about him? He's so good! We'll drop you? No! My mom is in that car over there Sure? Yes Okay, I'll see you in school tomorrow You were very good! Come, Stanley Come Good night Father Thank you Father Good night my child Good night Bye Father Bye Stanley Where did you go? Didn't you know it's a Sunday, today? And what's with this costume? Don't you know we are packed with customers on Sunday? And who'll do your work? Your father? He died long ago on that bike with your mom! And here I am stuck with a bad penny like you! Now you're going to just stand here or go and work? Get out! Akram, you should have come We had great fun there! All the moms and dads were there Everyone was clapping for us! He hurt you again, didn't he? Is it paining? Forget it but it was great fun there! You should have come! And your uncle? Would he have left me on Sunday? You know, even Rosy teacher had come And Father also! They were cheering us! What's this? The renmains of the day cottage cheese with spinach Wow! And this is Vegetable Pulav! Vegetable Pulav! Wow! And this is peas and cottage cheese cottage cheese? Wow! And rotis! Stanley's lunch box is ready now! You should've told me earlier I'd have given it on the first day itself Anyway all this is chucked away But all this isn't mine All this belongs to your uncle anyway But my uncle doesn't belong to me You said it! Have no fear He'll never get to know Hurry up! You must be starving... You mustn't have eaten since last night Hurry up! I'll get the food out How's it? This is yummy! After all, who's made it! It's not after all! Stanley... quick I also need to crash Rock-a-by... Rock-a-by... my baby boy... Rock-a-by... My baby boy... Apple of my eye... Rock-a-by... Goodnight Maa Goodnight Paa So close... I can hear your heart beat... As you drown into sleep... Rock-a-by... my baby boy... Apple of my eye... Rock-a-by... Rock-a-by... Flood of memories cause a spill Tears well up and tipple... Rock-a-by... Akram! Mad hatter! Get up! Bye bye! I'm off Thank you This night has no dawn For better or for worse... this is home... Today it's not your lunch box But Stanley's lunch box that's going to open Take a look at it... And this... To cook these special potatoes my mom woke up at 4am... She works still 6am I've tasted all of it Trust me, its yummy! Vegetable Biryani Potato and cumin seeds Cottage cheese Rotis Who made this? My mom! And now everyone's invited for lunch! Enjoy everyone! It's yummy! This is really nice! You sure you don't want? This is the best cottage cheese that I've tasted in my life! My mother went all the way to Kharstation, to get this Cottage Cheese from Punjab Sindh, the best place to buy cottage cheese! And she cooked it at home She's cooked it very well! The best place to buy cottage cheese! This is the best cottage cheese dish I've ever eaten! Tell your another... it's excellent!
