 

                        See me, see me, I'm so hot Look at me blushing, I can't stop Wow, I really need to chill Get a grip on how I feel I wanna get under your skin And find out if I can make you blush Blush, blush, blush Hands in your pocket Back to the wall You're never gonna fly If you're afraid to fall Bring it, bring it on down Get it off the ground Bring it to the world Sing it to the world The melody is free I'm looking for some harmony Come on, let's go! Good luck to you, girls! Remember you are the best! Thank you, Mr O'Brien! Sing it to the world The melody is free I'm looking for some harmony Where have you been? You're 15 minutes late. Sorry, we had car trouble. You're too young to be driving. Go, go, go. Rings around the world Bring it to the world "A" you're amazing "B" you're the best "C" I told you, I told you I knew the alphabet - "D" is for dreams - Sweet dreams - "E" like on Earth - My Earth You know in my book You always come first - We don't need permission - Late bell's out of commission Sign the petition To light up the sky Don't ask why Just do it Do it [electric buzzing] Beauty, beauty, beauty That was weird. What was that? Nothing, nothing, nothing. Just some kind of electrical problem. Are you girls ready to kick some... Butt? Do you have to be so crude, Jeff? I'm trying to teach them to be ladies. [burping] Sorry, mama. Ladies? I'm not raising ladies. I'm raising what? - Superstars - Superstars - Superstars - Superstars Superstars Okay, girls, come on. Let's go. You're up next. Parents, you can't stay back here. You've got to go back to the theater now. Let's go, girls, now let's get out there and win, win, win! One for the keeper! Break a leg, break a leg. Nice outfits, girls. Wow! Thank you, Mr Wiggs. He was being sarcastic, Cameron. You girls have got five minutes. Not six, not five and a half. Five. - Losers - Losers - Freaks - Freaks Yeah, well, at least we can sing. What did you say, geek? - You heard me. - You better watch your mouth, girl. Do you wanna do this or not? Come on. No cat fights. Come! [meowing] - Come on, come on, in. - What is their problem? Their wigs are too tight. They look like a bunch of plastic dolls. Let's just focus on what we have to do here, you guys. All I wanna do is sing All I wanna do is dance All I wanna do is sing What do you think you're doing here, Alanna? We have to go on in five minutes. Last chance to win, guys. Six is better than five. And I already know all the songs. Hello? I already told you, we don't need anyone else, Alanna. And that's my song you're singing and you even changed the lyrics. I made it better. You should be happy I even want to sing it. Would you just get out of here? This is bad karma, guys. You should be helping an unwanted child succeed. You'll be sorry about this. And you'll be sorry if you don't get out right now. Let's go, Alanna. Come on. So annoying. You'll never win without me. I'll put the kibosh on you. You'll get warts on your face and your hair will fall out. Get out of here. All right, you guys ready? I'd like to welcome you all once again to our little theater in the town. So happy to see all of you here today. Our next performers are five lovely daughters... Okay, get set. You know who you are. Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the Wiggies. [applause] Hey, guys. I got my wig, I know the song and I'm ready to go. Get out of here, you idiot! - What are you, crazy? - No, I'm just ambitious. Just go! They're gonna regret this. I speak with dead people. And what do they say? They complain a lot. I see you around school All the girls want you Because you're so cool Every time you walk my way and say hi I get hot and bothered And I don't know why Yeah, yeah Shimmy, shimmy, I'm so hot Look at me blushing, I can't stop Wow, I really need to chill Get a grip on how I feel I've got big plans for you And I 'Cause I know I'm feeling you When I Blush, blush, blush, blush Every time you look at me I'm smiling uncontrollably I blush, blush, blush, blush You know how to get me hot 'Cause you really put me on the spot Really put me on the spot What a feeling What a feeling I'll be back. What are you doing? I think I'm having a panic attack. - I feel faint. - You're fine. We haven't got time for this, Cameron. Oh, no. I can't feel my fingers. I can't feel my lips and tongue. How am I going to sing? Okay, girls, you're up, let's go. That was five minutes already? Doesn't matter. Come on. Let's go! - Come on. - I just tore my dress. What the heck is this stuff? Chewing gum. Those Wiggies put it there on purpose. What am I gonna do? I don't know, but the show has to go on. Scoot. Don't worry. I've got some safety pins in my purse. - We can fix this. - Come on, quick, quick. All the girls, all the girls If you're with that special guy Then I know how you feel inside You are so adorable You're giving my heart a rush All I want is you, all I want is you Boy, you give me butterflies Boy, you make my temperature rise When I look in your eyes I blush Wait. I Blush, I blush - Nice going, girls. - Thank you, Mr Gaines. What a shame. You know, you should try fixing that with some bubble gum. - Bubble gum - Bubble gum - Bubble gum - Bubble gum You know what to do. They make me sick. You just have to ignore them. They're just trying to distract us. How about that, ladies and gentlemen? Just does my heart good. To see such talented children. And as they always say, the children are the future. [Gaines] And just as we adults, in the past were the children of the future, which is now the present, our present children are the future's future. [laughter] Yeah. Our next performers are a fantastic group of feisty firecrackers. Let's give a big Gaines Theater welcome to the 5 Ovations. [applause] Okay, here you go, guys. Oh, thank you. - Thanks. - Thanks. - Good luck. - Thank you. Hey, guys! We're the 5 Ovations and we are here to rock your world. Come on, girls, let's show them what we got. [whooping] Can you bounce to the beat tonight? Can you bounce? Can you bounce? Everything's all right Can you bounce, bounce, bounce Everything is gonna be all right The bass is bumping In the club tonight As the DJ plays my song Everybody else will bounce along Can you bounce to the beat tonight? Can you bounce? Can you bounce? Everything's all right Can you bounce, bounce, bounce? Can you bounce to the beat tonight? Can you bounce? Can you bounce? Everything's all right Can you bounce, bounce, bounce? Sometimes you need to get away Take a break from the world today Have some fun to unwind Just get out and have a good time [sneezing] Nothing can bring me down today I'm gonna dance all my troubles away Can you bounce to the beat tonight? Can you bounce? Can you bounce? Everything's all right [sneezing] [audience laughing] [sneezing continues] You're going to have to give it up, girl. That's the trouble with bad people, they make everyone around them feel bad. But they won by cheating and that's the second time they've done it. It's not fair. Well, who said life is going to be fair? Just because you want something, that doesn't mean you're going to get it. So what about all the stuff you used to tell us about, "If you can believe it, you can achieve it." Do you still believe it? I'm not sure the audience even liked us today. So maybe you have to practice even more. We already practice every day. You've got to feel the music. It's got to be in your blood. Maybe you should just sing all the time, like they do in the opera. You're crazy. So let's try it. What do you want for your dinner? Pasta, pasta, pancetta, pie? Something sweet or something rich or maybe some delicious chocolate pie Not good, they make you fat They'll make your belly bigger than mine Make me happy, make me smile Maybe I'll sing you a lullaby Look who decided to show up. You did it again, my God. Are you serious? - Yeah, here's the old man. See you later. - See you later, man. Did you win? No. I thought I told you to stay away from those bums. I was just coming home from football practice. I don't care where you're coming from. It's where you're going that matters. And I don't want you with those bums. Can you understand that? Yeah, I understand. I'll just have to stop talking to everyone I ever grew up with. Am I going crazy here? No. Football practice was yesterday. Dumb is dumb and there ain't nothing dumber. That's what your daddy used to tell him and I can see why. [O'Brien] Dumb is dumber and there ain't nothing dumber. Turned off the electric again. I thought you paid it last week. I didn't have the money to pay it last week. I'll pay it in the morning. You want me to get you some dinner? You go ahead without me. I'm going to sleep. What's the matter with him? He's getting old. He's not making as much money as he used to. He'll be back at Smiley's if we don't keep an eye on him. I saw the sun and felt a chill You're back in town Looking scared and beautiful And asking if I'm around Those demons you're running from Just leave them and head for the sun When the world stopped turning I kept it burning Tonight our song begins again Another dance for me and you One more chance to see it through I could swear I'm not missing... That's pretty. No, the lyrics aren't right. They're too sad. People like things that are more positive. And when was the last time you bought a CD? I don't have to buy one to know what people like. - You got any money? - What do you think? We don't have enough to pay the rent. Gramps gets paid tomorrow. I already included that and we still don't have enough. So what do you want me to do about it? Nothing. You never do anything anyway. You're the one that's got all the hidden money. [sneezing] Hey, you want some pepper? Why don't you just take a long walk off a short pier, jerk. This is really getting on my nerves. Just ignore them. They're just being stupid. Did you guys hear the news yet? Now what? CDS Television is having a best music video contest with the finalists singing on national television for one million dollars. And the Wiggies have already started rehearsing for it. What? Let me see that. - And it gets even worse. - What? Well, you have to make your own music for the video and you know whose music the Wiggies are using? - Whose? - Mark's. - My brother? - They start rehearsals here today. What do you mean, here? Mr Wiggs, he already rented the gym and a professional choreographer from Los Angeles. How can they afford all of this? Mr Wiggs owns the biggest wig factory in America. If the Wiggies win this competition, I might just puke. Two, three, four and five, six, seven, eight and one. Look at that boy dressed so fine Anyone can see, girl What's on your mind Go on and ask him his name Time for you to get into the game You can't win if you don't play, If you want him, don't walk away That boy is poetry in motion This is really sickening. They must be paying him a lot of money. They're just feeding his ego and he's too stupid to know it. Hey, get back! Giving me the notion That my devotion will be well received Kept in his heart Under lock and key I pray that's the way It will always be How will I know if it's real? We have to make our own video. And how are we going to do that? I only know I know how I feel And what I feel is so real I can't deny it no more I can't fight it no more That boy... - Oh, my God! - Is making me realize That these butterflies Are here to stay - That boy has got me mesmerized - That boy Terrified he might walk way - How will I know if it's real? - That boy - That boy - If I only know I know how I feel - That boy - And what I feel is so real Come here! What are you doing? What does it look like I'm doing? I'm practicing the dance so I can join the group. They need some talent like me. That boy Well, you're too small. - I'll wear high heels. - You're still too small. You know how many little people are in the world? No. How many little people are in the world? Billions! If you hire me, you'll be a hero to every one of them. You know you're pretty good, kid. What's your name? Alanna Wannabe. And I'm gonna be. You're gonna be? You know what you're gonna be? You're gonna be out of here. - You'll be sorry, mister! - Get out of here! [soft music playing] Hey. What's the matter? You didn't wanna show them where you really lived? What's your problem? I can't believe you can be this dumb. You're just jealous like everyone else. No, I'm just smart enough to know when people are using me. They're not using me. I'm using them. Yeah, right. That girl just wrapped you around her little finger like that. And when she's got everything she wants, she'll dump you like a sack of garbage. I don't care if she does. At least I've got someone listening to my music. So, why don't you give me one of your songs and let me try and make it famous? I'm already exclusive. And what does that mean? That means I'm sticking with the people who know how to win. - How's it going, bro? - What's going on, man? How's the little sister? I'm not your sister and he ain't your bro. Little miss chili pepper strutting her stuff! You gotta teach her some manners, man. Some manners. God bless America My home sweet home God bless America God bless America God bless... Keep up the good work, kid. You're doing good. Hey, mister! You took my $10. You need to give it back. What are you talking about? You know exactly what I'm talking about. He took a $10 bill out of my hat and put it in his pocket right there. You're out of your mind, kid. I just gave you a dollar bill. What are you trying to pull here? He took my money and I can prove it. This happens to me all the time. I got the number from that bill written down right here. I didn't take your stupid money, kid. Yeah, you did. I got a picture of your fat little fingers taking it right here. What are you guys trying to pull here? You're a couple of scam artists? What do I need their money for? I just won 5 grand on a big spin. You know what? You two are sick. I ought to run you two out of here. Yeah, you're guilty, mister, and you know it. - This is guilt money. - You're scam artists. So, how much dough did you get? Sixty dollars. - Here. - No, I don't need your dough. That was a nice trick you pulled there with your phone. You, too. Nice trick with that little black book. And if you're smart, you'll put that on White Lace in 10th at Belmont. You know, she's gonna be a long shot. A horse race? Yeah. This morning I was having my cappuccino and I heard Libby the Pipe tell Skinny Joe about it. The fix is in. It's like money in the bank. Yeah, right. I got a grandfather who's bet his whole life away. I'm not planning on making it a family trait. Well, it was just a thought. You have a nice day. Yeah, you, too. Hey! Did you really have that picture on your phone? Did you really have those numbers in your book? - Happy birthday, Larry. - God bless you, child. How did you do? Good enough. Where's Gramps? In his room. I just checked. He isn't there. Well, I saw him go in there. If you let him take that money, I'll go crazy. I can't believe it. He took everything. He told me he was going to sleep. I knew this would happen. I just knew it. Relax. Maybe he just went to get some groceries or something. You don't know where he is right now. You know what, Mark? You're just lazy. You don't care about anyone but yourself. [Mark] Whatever. - [bell dinging] - And there they go. [indistinct chatter] You can do it. Let's go. That's it! Hey, you can't come in here, kid. What are you doing, Grandpa? This is it, baby. This is the big one. I can feel it. You take that kid out of here right now, O'Brien. She's gone. I need that money back, Grandpa, and I need you to give me your paycheck, right now. All right, here we go! Stretch it out, baby! Stretch it out! It's all we have to pay the rent and live on, Grandpa! Don't you be worried about money, darling. We're going to be rich. I'm doing this for you. Come on, Jimmy, time to make your move! What's he doing? Move those legs. Show me the money, show me the money! He pulled it! He pulled that horse. How much did you lose? How much? [O'Brien] It was a sure thing. I knew it. I was on a winning streak until you broke it, honey. You broke the rhythm, darling. Hey, kid, you gotta get out of here. You shouldn't take money from this man. He's not in his right mind and you know it. Stop that now, darling! It's enough of that. I can't believe you did this, Grandpa. What are we going to do now? All right, let's go. Get your hands off me. - [announcer] It's the 10th and final race here at Belmont. - I'm going. The only long shot in the race is the lone filly White Lace at 50 to 1. I wanna put 50 on White Lace to win. Kids can't bet and you've already been told to get out of here. Make the bet, Grandpa. You don't want to be betting on that mare, darling. She's only got three legs. Just do what I tell you. It's my money. Okay, okay. You're as stubborn as your mother. You heard the girl. 50 on White Lace to win. I'm not placing the bet till she's out of here. I'm out of here as soon as you give him that ticket. You heard the girl. You're just doing this to punish me, right? I'm doing it because I believe. [bell dinging] [announcer] And they're off. With Copperland and the filly, White Lace... Slim Jewel, Crosstown and Sleepless lead the pace with Crosstown taking the lead. At first furlong, Sleepless moves ahead of Slim Jewel. At the back of the pack, filly, White Lace looking like a wallflower. Moving up on the rail, Copperland is coming to life. Moving up to the leaders but he is not alone. The only filly in the race, White Lace, is now making a move on her own. At ninth furlong, it's Crosstown that's still in charge, followed by Slim Jewel and Sleepless. But here comes White Lace, moving up on the outside, looking strong. Come on, sweet pea. Do some magic. [O'Brien] You can do this. Come on, sweet pea. Make my night. Make my baby smile again. It's White Lace! [screaming joyfully] Darling, darling! We won, we won, we won! - How much did we win? - 2,500 big ones! Wait! This is terrible! I'm getting as bad as you are. Wonderful! It runs in the family. It boils in my blood. - And guess what? - What? We can double it on the next bet. Oh, no. You're not betting this money. I'm going to use it to pay the bills. Oh, come on, darling, have fun with it! - I'll be right back. - Where are you going? To see a friend. Well, don't lose the ticket. - What are you doing here? - Came to see the big winner. You got any more tips? Yeah, and lots of them. All you gotta do is let me manage you and the group. We don't need a manager. [scoffs] Didn't look that way yesterday. You know those Wiggies? They made you look like a bunch of clumsy fools on that stage. So what would you have done? Wouldn't even have happened if I'd been in charge. If I were there, they would have been swimming with the fishes. So how much would we have to pay you? You don't gotta pay me nothing. You scratch my back, I'll scratch yours. All you gotta do is help me find somebody. What kind of somebody? Somebody that stole $90,000 from my family 12 years ago. That's a lot of money. Yeah, you bet it is and I'm gonna get it back. Because the stress put my pops six feet under. So, what do you say? You get us the gig and we'll give you the job. Now you're talking. I'll be giving you a call later. Name is Joei. You have a nice night. Yeah, you, too. [dance music playing] [man] Welcome to the school charity jam sponsored by the Wiggies. Cameras flashing in front of you Beats, all the beats Full swing for me And I can't wait, wait Wait, wait, wait Get lost in the moment It's time to escape, escape, escape I don't need a fantasy When your dreams come true Can you feel it? It's calling you, calling you He's such a traitor. How did they get permission to film here? Money. - From what? - From the dance floor - From what? - From the dance floor - From what? - From the dance floor - From what? - From the dance floor Move, move, move From where they calling From the dance floor Your turn is up, your turn is up Your turn is up From where they calling From the dance floor Your turn is up, your turn is up Your turn is up Guys, what are you doing? Get out of here. Did you see what they did? Let's just forget about it, you guys. Besides we need to move on to something more positive. Like what? Eric Bateman. Eric Bateman? His dad owns a recording studio where they have all kinds of equipment. Like cameras that we can use to make our own music video. And how did you know that? He likes Cameron so he talks to me all the time. I cannot stand Eric Bateman. He's so weird. So you like the Wiggies better? All you have to do is be nice to him. Not in a thousand years. He's not a bad person, Cam. In fact, he's really smart and he could probably help you with your homework. That's a very good point. Nice try, guys, but that is not going to happen. No matter what you say and that's final. Okay, so I'll do it. If we're going to make this happen, we're all gonna have to make sacrifices. I'll be right back. Well, you better not tell him I like him or anything. So, how's it going, Eric? Good. I was just talking with Cameron and she said maybe you could be able to help us make a music video. What kind of music video? Like, you know, the one they're making over there. [Eric] And what would I do? See, you would be the editor and the director and of course, the camera man. But we would need to use your dad's studio to record our songs. How are you going to pay for that? My dad charges a lot of money. Well, I was sort of hoping we could do it after hours, you know, when there's no one around. You mean without telling anyone? Just me, you and Cameron. And this was Cameron's idea? Came up with the whole thing. Then why didn't she come here and tell me herself? Because she's too shy and you know how that is. So, you're gonna help us? Because we really need you. Okay, but you're gonna have to use my brother for the recording. He's the only one who knows how to do it. Okay. You made the right decision. We're gonna make you famous. My God! She did it! I'm an addict I'm at recording habits You would do it too if you had it It gives me purpose The reason why I keep working We are recording, Saturday night. Yes! [phone rings] - Hello? - [Joei] Brittany? Yeah, who's this? - It's Joei. - Who? Your manager. Oh! It's the agent. [Joei] Listen, I got a job for you tomorrow at 3:00 to 5:00. And your grandfather will have to take us there. Can you do that? If there's enough money. How much are they paying? - 200. - $200? No, 200 pennies. Stupid! Well, if it's a real show, we'll probably need some dancers. Dancers? Yeah. And they'll need to make at least $25 each. Can you arrange that? Done. I'll text you the address. Okay. See you then. Bye, Joei. We got a job! [all] Yes! The music, the music, the music is dropping you [woman] Okay, ladies, let's give a big hand for this week's guests, the 5 Ovations. [snoring] [Brittany] Hey, listen up! If you want a groove Better make your move When you hear that beat Gotta move your feet No time to chill You better take that pill 'Cause there ain't no way You'll be sitting still Burn it up with those crazy feet, the beat won't let you down Keep it cool when you feel the heat and get down, get down Jump it up with those crazy feet Never hitting the ground Feel it when you dance Dance, dance, dance Come on! Go, baby! You got it! Let's see you dance! You got it! Go ahead, girl! If you want a groove You better make your move When you hear that beat Gotta move your feet Just hear that rhythm now Dance, dance, dance, dance [applause] Thank you, thank you very much. You're very kind. Now for something everyone can dance to. This is a song Tatiana wrote herself. All I wanna do is sing Nobody ever knows All I wanna do is sing When everybody hears me Sorry about that, folks. Unfortunately, everybody wants to be a star. Now here's the real Tatiana! Sitting in my room Writing my new song The music is right But my lyrics are wrong You're driving us crazy, Alanna. Is there a problem here? What are you? Some type of a tough guy? Just get of here before I slap you so hard your mother will feel it. Remember that deal we made about you helping me find that missing person? Yeah, is he here? No. But someone who knows how to find him is. - Who is it? - He's in the boiler room. We need to go and show him something. - Are you ready? - Sure. - What are we gonna show him? - Mugshot. It belongs to an old friend of his involved in stealing my pop's money. What if he doesn't wanna help us? Don't worry about that. He'll be singing like a canary by the time I get done with him. Here, put this in your cheek and look tough. I need you to watch my back here. - What is it? - Licorice. It's like tobacco. Just spit it when you feel like it. [door opens] [door shuts] [Brittany] This is creepy. Just stay close to me. - Smells bad, too. - You can always smell a rat. [growling] I got this. Don't worry. Get out of here, you idiot! [whimpers] How does it feel to be a chihuahua, tough guy? Suck on this. Hey! What did you do to him? You know how much money that dog is worth? Same thing I'm gonna do to you if you don't spill the beans. What beans? What are you talking about? Do you recognize this guy? - Benny Brains. - Yeah, Benny Brains. I need to know where he is. Right now! Who are you guys? We're your worst nightmare if you don't answer the question. Yeah. [clanging] I'll be dead if I do. You'll be dead if you don't. And it will be a lot faster with me because I'm right here. What is that stuff? - Streptococcus agalactiae. - [whimpers] It kills anything living in ten seconds unless you get the antidote. Right, poodle face? [whimpers] - Now spill it or die! - Wait! Wait a minute. He changed his name to Sally Burns and moved to Philly after he got out of Sing Sing. That's all I know. Philly? What's he doing there? I don't know. I haven't seen him in 10 years. All's I know is he's out there waiting to snuff anybody who comes after him. [clanging] So I won't pay him your regards. You should take a bath, you smell like low tide. Let's go. - [Brittany] Can that stuff really kill you? - [Joei] Just the price. Perfume number five. Dogs hate it. Right? [whimpers] - Yeah - Listening Let it show Hey, beautiful. Sorry I'm late. The snow caught everybody by surprise. How did you do? Not my best day. Nobody wants me. - What are you talking about? - Nobody wants to sing with me. That's ridiculous. You're the best singer out of the whole group. They're just being mean. Yeah, well, I'll cry about that later. Right now, we're gonna have to make our own music video. Sounds good to me. Hey, what will it be? Pizza or Chinese? - Chinese. - Chinese it is. The big problem is I can't get any background dancers. And if we wanna win this thing, we gotta hit it big. What about your cousins? They're both great dancers. They're in Florida, Dad, and I need them now. Wait a minute. I got a better idea. - What? - Big surprise! Okay, listen up. This is no fire drill. You're working for me now. Get in line! You are the background dancers and your job is to make me look good. Do you understand that? [all] Ma'am, yes, ma'am! So... What are you doing? We're not even performing yet. I'm making the video of the video being made. Whatever. Just please get back. Go. If any of you guys think you know how to dance, step forward. Okay, well, let's see what you got. [Alanna] Okay, okay. Let's not get carried away. Remember, I'm the star here. Let's do some stretching before we start. I don't want any of you guys pulling muscles. Come on, guys! [all grunting] Whatever! Just try moving your hips. [Alanna] Okay, forget that. Apparently, you don't have any hips. Just sway your big bellies. Come on, people! I can't believe I have to do this! Let's go! I wanna see some good things. You have a belly, use it! Let's go, people! Okay, I think we're ready. Let's go, guys! I've got the world on a string I'm sitting on a rainbow Got the string around my finger What a world and what a life I'm in love Eric, we're here! Sorry, Eric. We had car trouble. That's okay. My brother's waiting inside. Okay, good. Say something. So how's it going, Eric? You're looking good. Good, thank you. When you were a young boy Did you have a puppy That always followed you around? Well, I'm gonna be as faithful as that puppy You know, I'll never let you down 'Cause it grows stronger Like a river flows And it gets bigger, baby And heaven knows And it gets sweeter, baby As it grows Do I love you My, oh, my Yeah, river deep, mountain high Yeah, yeah, yeah If I lost you would I cry? Oh, I love you, baby Baby, baby, baby Baby Baby Baby Oh, baby Oh, yeah Do I love you My, oh, my River deep, mountain high Yeah, yeah, yeah If I lost you, would I cry? Oh, I love you, baby Baby, baby, baby [screaming] See you later, suckers! I just slipped that in for fun. I didn't think it was going to be funny. It's not supposed to be. Well, maybe we could make it into, like, a comedy or something. [Cameron] People like to laugh. I don't wanna be laughed at. Maybe we should do something modern like something upbeat. Sounds like a great idea to me. We can't afford to do anything else, you guys. The Wiggies are already on their third idea. If it's not good enough, then you've got to do something better. Like what? Well, what do you like? I don't know. Okay, so what do you hate? Boys. I think I know a song we could use. Why don't you give it up, girls, and come work for us? We could use a few extras. - Extras - Nerds - Losers - Freaks Friends of yours? Yeah, right. [clinking] Okay, girls. Etiquette. Remember all the wonderful little things I've taught you that make us better than everybody else. Soup to nuts Mind your p's and q's Sit up straight Or you get no food Eat your bread Like the upper class do With a knife and a fork No crumbs on you Girls, girls, listen to Dad - Don't make him mad - Don't make me sad You're the best girls That a dad ever had We're the best girls Any dad ever had Soup to nuts Mind your p's and q's Sit up straight Or you get no food Eat your bread Like the upper class do With a knife and a fork No crumbs on you - If you gotta burp - Keep it under your shirt - Full of gas - Get it over with fast That's what civilized people will do A rite of passage For the privileged few Soup to nuts Mind your p's and q's Sit up straight Or you'll get no food Eat your bread Like the upper class do With a knife and a fork No crumbs on you [gurgling] [Mrs Wiggs] What are you looking at, Jeffrey? I think my soup is talking to me. [croaking] [screaming] Daddy! Daddy! Get rid of it! What is it? Get it out! I'll get it. Allow me. Who are you? Throw it away! Throw it! Did you order this? No. What are you gonna do with it? Take it back to the sewer unless you want me to crush its head in for getting so close to your daughter. - No! Get rid of it! - It's okay. It's okay. You're a lucky guy. She loves you. Joei Battalucci. I'm the kids' new manager. The kids? What kids? "What kids?" The 5 Ovations, new kids on the block. What's going on? Frog soup. And let me tell you something. If you do anything to impede their progress, you're gonna have to answer to me. Capisce? Is that like a threat? No. A promise. No! Get away! Dropped your good luck charm. You'll be needing it. Thank you. - Losers - Nerds Freaks [laughing] - Thank you. - You're welcome. - I thought you were great today. - Not me. [croaking] Halictus. That's his Latin name. - Sure you don't want any? - Oh, no. I'm fine. So, I found that guy in Philly. - You mean, the snuffer guy? - Yeah. We need to go show him something. I already got you doing a commercial up there next week. [Brittany] Tat and Blaze can't go next week. [Joei] So three will be fine. [Brittany] What kind of commercial is it? [Joei] Not dancing, I can tell you that. [Brittany] Are you saying we can't dance? [Joei] Are you kidding? I've seen stiffs with better moves. [O'Brien] Are you sure you don't want me to come in with you? No, I already met the people. Don't worry. We'll be fine. Call me when you finish. I'm going to visit a friend. - Good luck. - Bye, Mr O'Brien. OTB. What's that? Off- track betting. Don't worry about it. [Joei] I got plenty of dough if we need it. [bell rings] Here we go. Here we go. We are ready to do this. Everybody ready? Okay, you two, clear out. Okay. This, this is the product. This is what pays the bills. This is the Big Kahuna. When you hold it in your hand, I want you to imagine it's like gold in your fingers. - Can you feel that? - Yeah. - Yeah. - Well, is it okay if I imagine it silver instead of gold? [Cameron] I think it's prettier. Yes. Yes, you can. Okay. Roll camera. [man] All right, here we go. Picture's up. - [bell ringing] - Let's roll sound, roll cameras. Sound speed. - Camera speed. - And action. This is it, this is gold Drink it up, wow, it's cold You got to shake and wake it Pop the tab away Shake it and wake it Pop the tab away Shake it and wake it Yeah Cut! Cut! What are you guys doing? You're supposed to look like you like it. - It doesn't taste good. - What are you talking about? - Yeah, it's really yucky. - Is this the real product? Yes, sir. Give me that. When you drink it, you have to love it. [burps] - You sure this is the product? - [man] Yes, sir. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Let's get some new cans and try this again. Listen, kids, you did great. Remember, you're actresses, so when you take a drink, I want you to imagine it's like chocolate chip ice cream. You like ice cream, don't you? - [together] Oh, yeah. - Yeah. Okay. Let's rock and roll. Okay. - [bell ringing] - And background. Roll the camera. [man] Roll sound, roll camera. [director] Sound speed. And action. This is it, this is gold Drink it up, wow, it's cold You got to shake and wake it Pop the tab away Shake it and wake it Pop the tab away Shake it and wake it Yeah Cut! Cut! That was the most sickening thing I've ever tasted. I can still feel it in my mouth. Sorry, Joei. It's okay. They were happy in the end. Okay. Twenty minutes until we're being picked up. Why don't you two go and get something to eat? I gotta go around the corner with Brittany. - Give me. Give me. Give me. - I'm starving. Come on. So, what if this guy we're after is really a killer like the other guy said? You know how big a germ is? So small you can barely see it. But then, bam, goes right up your nose. That's what we are. Two germs ready to strike at anyone who gets in our way. And, of course, I have my bag of tricks. - Nobody's here. - Oh, he's here. [Joei] Hello! Anybody here? I already told you before. That's not what happened. Wait. Wait a minute. Hold on a sec. What are you kids doing here? We don't open until 6:00 pm. We're adults, anyway. You gotta get out of here Listen, Mr Benny. We're not here to throw our money away gambling. We just want to show you something. Turn it over. There's more on the back. You know what, I'll call you back. - Who sent you kids? - Doesn't matter who sent me. It's the numbers to the safe on the back of that card that matters. Seven numbers you gave to someone who robbed my pop out of his life savings. And I wanna know who the bum is. What are you kids doing? Wearing wires for the FBI? It's her money, mister, and you better do what she says. - Or you're toast. - [chuckles] I'm toast. - Will you let me handle this? - So you're old Batty's kid? Yeah, and I'm proud of it. Now you've got ten seconds to give me the bum's name or you'll wish you were never born. Is that so? You know what, kid? You've got guts and I like that. But you're starting to get on my nerves. So it's time for you two to get out of here or I'll throw yous out. Always happens. No one ever listens. Time's up, Benny. [hissing] [squeaking] What the heck are you doing? Getting rid of another rat that ruined my family. Wait a minute. What are you, crazy? Look, he didn't even tell me his name, all right? He gave me money, I gave him the numbers to the safe, but that was it. Now get this thing out of here! I think you need to tell me more, Benny. What? That's all he said, all right? Tell me more, Benny. He told me to buy stock in this company called Apex, okay? Right? Apex Industries? - Yes. - And did you buy any? No. But I watched it go through the roof of the NASDAQ, okay? Just get this out of here, or I'll kill you! Oh, my God. You better watch. If I find out you're not telling the truth... - Yeah, yeah. Come on. - [Joei] ...it'll end up in your bed. [Joei] Have a nice day, Benny. [hissing] [Benny] Goodbye! [squeaking] [Brittany] Do you think that really could have killed him? No, it's old and its fangs are removed. That was crazy, I almost had an attack in there. [puffing] I'm one in a million And I know you feel it The confidence And attitude that I have So how was that? It was okay. You should do it again, though. It just doesn't work without guys. It's like we're saying it to no one. I agree. So you guys wanna meet some boys? [together]Yeah. Okay. Do you guys wanna make a music video? - No. - Sure. Do you guys know how to dance? What kind of dance? Like this. You're mine - What's that? - That's not a dance. - What? - Guys don't dance like that. - So how do they dance? - Like this. Show 'em up, Dean. Show 'em up, Dean. I'm one in a million And I know you feel it The confidence And attitude that I have Looks good. And you'll be mine in a matter of time Matter of time, matter of time I'm one in a million And I know you feel it The confidence And attitude that I have I'm one in a million And I know you feel it You sounded good. I thought it was great. - Me, too. - Yeah, I think you're a genius. Well, I guess that's settled. - So, what do we do now? - Send it out and keep our fingers crossed. New York, here we come. Are you sure it will go out tomorrow? They pick up at 10:00 am, every morning. So when do you think we'll hear something? They're going to announce the selections next Friday. - That's cool. - I hope we win. Hope we win. - You bet. - You better. Did it work? Never fails. All right, let's do this. I wanna make them squirm. Squirm it is. I'll make them throw up. Two hundred thousand. That's how much we each get if we win. Is that enough to buy an airplane? - Why do you want an airplane? - All the stars have them. I can't believe you guys are eating. Aren't you nervous? I always eat when I'm nervous. What's with the dot? She's been chanting and meditating for our success. [girl] Is it true? Is it really true? - What happened? - We got into the finals. - Are you sure? - We're going to New York. Oh, my God. We're going to New York! We're going to New York! Quick. Call your mom. See if anyone called us. - She just dropped us off. - Call her anyway. We're going to New York. You're not. Forget the call, geeks. They posted the winners and you didn't make it. [chuckles] [Brittany] We didn't make it. That sucks. What are you drinking? I'll take a skinny water. "Skinny water"? I'll take two of those. Oh, and a pepperoni. Small or large? - What do you think? - Large. [beeping] Did you find that guy in New York yet? Not yet but I'm working on it. Apex Industry was bought out by a big company. And that company was bought out by an even bigger one. But, like I said, I'm working on it. Do you think the guy you've been looking for is responsible for all that? Yeah, I'm pretty sure of it. Well, we got little miss big mouth and her big shot manager. - What do you got here, girl? - Give me that back. - Or what? - Just give her the hat. The little rat speaks. What're you gonna do, fatso? Kick my feet? - Are you talking to me? - Yeah. I know you're not talking to me. Because if you're talking to me, which you're not, I have a few friends that wanna say hello. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What do you got in here? You can bet it ain't your mama, sucker. [screaming] [electric buzzing] Get it off! Get it off! Get it off! Look at your feet. - What is that? - Electric eel. [Brittany] They're getting away. [whistles] How are you doing, darling? I have had better days. That's what I hear. Sit down. I made some of your grandmother's favorite Irish stew. Do you know Mark is still seeing that girl? That's what I hear. She's going to eat him up and spit him out into little pieces. And it won't be the last time, either. He's got all the same weaknesses your father had. You think he was a weak person? Well, he wasn't weak in a weak way, if you know what I mean. But he had a whole bunch of bad habits that were always going to get him into trouble. All I remember was him holding me and being nice. Do you remember what he looked like? Yeah, he was a looker. I reckon that was the cause of the problem. Your mother never thought she could trust him. They used to fight about that? Like cats and dogs. Fight got nasty, she called the cops, they took him to jail. When he walked out of that place the next month, he just kept on walking. So, why did he leave Mark and me? He was that angry. [phone rings] - Hello? - We won. We're in. We're going to New York. - What are you talking about? - CDS just called Cam. One of the six winners was disqualified for lying about their ages and we're next on the list. - We're in the semi-finals. - Are you kidding? No. I'm gonna call Blaze. I'll call you back. CDS just called. We got into the finals. We're going to New York. Glory be! Ta-da! [car door shuts] - Ta-da! - What happened, baby doll? - Ta-da! - What? We're going to New York! We're going to New York! Yeah! All right. New York, New York, New York. [helicopter whirring] [horn blares] [siren wails] [man] Welcome back to New York for the Teen Music Video semi- finals. Our next contestant is Alanna Wannabe performing "Dreams." I had a dream I'd like to be The star of a show one day And I have a dream It's not far away I'll be the one on the stage Sometimes I get nervous But I won't lose my focus I want this more than you know Go after your dream The dream Oh, I know that your dream It will come true It's only a moment away from you Go after your dream The dream Now if you just go out And you pursue The things you want in life Will come true Yeah, yeah, yeah Go after your dream Yeah, yeah, yeah Go after your dream Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah Go after your dream The dream Now if you just go out And you pursue The things you want in life Will come true Yeah, yeah, yeah Go after your dream Yeah, yeah, yeah Go after your dream Yeah, yeah, yeah Go after your dream Yeah, yeah, yeah Go after your dream [applause] - Hey, how's it going? - Good. How about that, ladies and gentlemen? Is she adorable or what? [Dexter] Alanna Wannabe. At least, that's the name she gave us. It's amazing how talented these kids are, Alicia. [Alicia] Yes, it is. And next up are our fifth contestants of the day, the Wiggy Sisters performing "Superstars." [applause] We ain't no ladies We're superstars We're sugar babies Sweet like a candy bar We never walk We only ride Four wheels beats two heels We got our pride All kidding aside We're so high The mountains look small We can fly No building's too tall Gravity can't hold us down We got the world spinning around us The Sun and the Moon bow down to us Down to us, down to us Yeah So clear the way For the superstars It's a lucky day When you know who you are It's okay to dress like us Walk and talk and act like us Can't look back when you're all that We're so high The mountains look small We can fly No building's too tall Gravity can't hold us down We got the world spinnin' around us The Sun and the Moon bow down to us Yeah, yeah, yeah S-U-P-E-R S-U-P You are A superstar, a superstar, a superstar Yeah, yeah We're so high The mountains look small We can fly No building's too tall Gravity can't hold us down We got the world spinnin' around us The Sun and the Moon bow down to us [applause] That was amazing! What a great song! Let's give these five talented girls a big hand. [cheering] It looks good. It should. It cost a fortune. And now, for our last contestants of the evening, a group of 12-year-olds calling themselves the 5 Ovations. [Alicia] Let's welcome Brittany, Tatiana, Blaze, Maya and Cameron, performing "Scream." [applause] Wanna tell you a story About boys and girls Who is the best in this world? Girls are so pretty Don't you know? What's the matter? - They stole my song. - Are you kidding? No, they changed the lyrics. You should sue them. My dad has a great lawyer. Don't worry about it. Paybacks are painful. We're celebrating, yeah Check it out, girl You got nothing, nothing, nothing I hear you talkin' But, boy, you ain't got nothin' on me I hear you talkin' But, girl, you got nothin' on me I'm one in a million And I know you feel it The confidence And attitude that I have Baby, what you got I know that you think That you're so hot Boy, I'm gonna give you Just one shot Baby, gonna put you on the spot All I wanna see is just what you got - Got it? Got it? - Got it, got it - Got it? - Got it good Wanna see what I got I rise to the top Baby, don't you know I'm the cream of the crop Stop, you ain't gotta lie to me 'Cause everybody knows That talk is cheap Please, I ain't gotta front for you I'm the leader of the pack And I brought my crew You brought your crew Yeah, I brought mine, too Now, baby, show me What you're gonna do True, I don't think you're ready yet You know I'm cool by the way I step I'm one in a million And I know you feel it The confidence And attitude that I have I'm one in a million And I know you feel it [farting ] The confidence And attitude that I have Hey yo come here, girl 'Cause you're one of a kind And you'll be mine in a matter of time, matter of time, matter of time What is that? This is great. I never thought the girls could be so funny. It's not supposed to be funny. [screaming] This is disgusting. It's the Wiggies. Someone must have gotten into your computer and re-edited it. I'm gonna be sick. I'll go with you. The Ovations, ladies and gentlemen, and what a sense of humor they have. [Alicia] I'm surprised at how much comedy these kids have dreamed up. [Dexter] Well, they certainly were funny and the audience seems to like it. We'll be right back after this commercial break with the final results. - You made it too funny. - I thought it looked great. That's the problem, you idiot. It looked too good. What are you guys talking about? I re-cut their music video and she's blaming me for making it too funny. - Are you serious? - You should be happy. - They stole your song. - You guys have flipped your wits. - What's your problem? - You're the problem. I'm out of here. Mark, don't do this. It's just a stupid game. That's all you guys do, play games. [audience laughing] [coughing] Are you okay? It feels good to get it out. You have a little something on your chin. I do? Your hair, too. I look like a sick Muppet. They're announcing the winners. Come on. I don't wanna see those idiots win. People liked us. Come on. We still got a chance. Come on. And the third finalist is... The Wiggy Sisters. I love you. I love you. I love you. I love you. My girls! My girls! Yes! Yes! So how does it feel to be in the finals? Amazing. This is, like, the best thing in my life! Incredible. It's like a dream. It's awesome. Well, congratulations to you all. And the last finalist is... The 5 Ovations. [cheering] We won. We won. Tell me it's true. Tell me it's true. It's true. - I can't believe this. - Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. I think I'm gonna be sick again. Come on. [applause] So, how does it feels to be in the finals, girls? It's fantastic. Wow, wow, wow. I actually feel sick. - I'm blown away. - Me, too. So that's it, ladies and gentlemen. In just one week, these four amazing acts will be here on CDS TV performing live for the grand prize of $1 million. So make sure you tune in. Good night and God bless. That's the dumbest thing I've ever seen. You were the best, by far, baby. The background dancers were just too old. They didn't look good. Next year, honey. We'll win for sure next year. I'm not waiting until next year and I'm not giving up. Hey, you gotta get over it, kid. They've already picked the finalists and we need to move on. My name is Alanna Wannabe and I'm still gonna be. - You got that? - I'm with you a 100%. [soft music playing] - Hey. - How you doing? Okay. I heard what happened today. I'm sorry. It's okay. At least I left her. And I'm sorry about your song and changing the lyrics and everything. We shouldn't have done that. No, it's cool. - I thought it sounded pretty good. - You did? [Mark] Not that good. So, what are you doing for the next show? I don't know. We need a new song. Do you have anything you'd be willing to give us? I'd be nice to you for a thousand years. Well, I was working on something for them. But I'm not sure it's right for you guys. What do you mean "not sure"? It's a big dance number with a lot of intricate moves and... We can do that. It's beyond what you guys do. So you have someone in mind? Jasmine. Jasmine? [Arabian music playing] She's really good. Yeah. And she has lots of friends you could put in the dance to make the show really great. I'll see you tonight. All right, I'll see you later, baby. Kisses. I love you. I love you, too. That was great, Jasmine. And you, too, Spence. And what do you do? Anything you want. I'm very flexible. Care to join me? Not today. But you all get my vote. - Me, too. - And me. So, you wanna join us? Wait a minute. You're gonna have to talk to me about that. You know we don't want another singer, Alanna. Surprise, surprise. Jasmine is my cousin. My very favorite cousin. And guess what? I'm her personal manager. And I also manage Spencer and Victoria as well. You gotta be kidding me. Our mothers are sisters and we love each other a lot. Let's try and work this out, okay? What do you guys need? It's very simple. They join the group and I come with them. No way. No way, no play. You'll get them plus me for the same price. What a deal! You're becoming really obnoxious, Alanna. Are you sure we can't just do this on our own? We need a big dance number and the Wiggies already have seven new dancers. - Is that true? - Yes. Let's just give her a chance. Thank you. Thank you very much. You know, you really are a smart person and I'll tell you why. Those Wiggies are planning to put fleas into your clothes before your next performance. And I think you should get them before they get you. Splish, splash, I was takin' a bath Long about a Saturday night, yeah A rub dub, just... Come on! Thinkin' everythin' was all right - Good evening, Mayor. - Good evening to you. And your dress is lovely, Dorothy. Thank you, dear. You don't look so bad yourself. You remember my daughters, Zoey and Ziggy? [together] Good evening, Mr Mayor. There was a-splishin' and a-splashin' Reelin' with the feelin' Movin' and a-groovin' Rockin' and a-rollin', yeah, yeah Bing, bang, I saw the whole gang Dancin' on my living room rug, yeah - You see him? - No. Hey, I'm here. Oh, my God. You scared the heck out of me. - How are you guys? - Did you check the place out? Go up the stairs, down the long hallway, third door on the left. I'll see you later. Look what you did, you stupid fool. I'm sorry. Yeah What are doing here? Plumbing. My dad's fixing the toilet. Well, you better get back in that toilet before I have you arrested. Splish, splash, I was takin' a bath Long about a Saturday night, yeah A rub dub, just relaxin' in the tub Thinkin' everythin' was all right There was a-splishin' and a-splashin' Reelin' with the feelin' Movin' and a-groovin' Rockin' and a-rollin', yeah, yeah [Joei] Okay. Let's go. [Joei] Get the first wig and turn it over. - What if they get on us? - They're frozen. It'll take you a couple minutes before they warm up. Well, I stepped out the tub I put my feet on the floor - Get down. - ...opened the door And then a-splish, splash I jumped back in the bath Well, how was I to know There was a party goin' on? There was a-splishin' and a-splashin' Get the rest. Ladies and gentlemen, America's number one wig maker Mr and Mrs Wiggs and their talented singing, dancing daughters. Oh, when the sun beats down And burns the tar up on the roof And your shoes get so hot You wish your tired feet Were fireproof Under the boardwalk Down by the sea, yeah On a blanket with my baby Is where I'll be It's working. It's working. - Under the boardwalk - We'll be having some fun - Under the boardwalk - People walking above Under the boardwalk Is it part of the show? Under the boardwalk, boardwalk Fleas! [screaming] - Flea - Geek - Nerd - Flea And our next finalists are the singing group, Diverse, who will be performing "Thing For You" by Collective Music Group. Hey, girl, I got a thing for you I'm not a Backstreet Boy or 'N Sync I'm not a Jonas Brother but I can sing And, girl, I got a thing for you I got a thing for you Beyonce, Britney, Rihanna, Whitney, in my dreams they wanna get with me - But, girl, I got a thing for you - I got a thing for you I'm just one guy in this big old world And I'm trying to get you To be my girl I won't ever give up on us To have a relationship Built on love and trust I'm not a Backstreet Boy or 'NSync, I'm not a Jonas Brother but I can sing Doesn't look like they're gonna make it. How terrible. They must have broken a fan belt or something. Oh, my God. Look at that. We're gonna be late. Come on. Come on, we're gonna be late. Come on. And we're all one big family But it's deeper still So unbelievably free That I am you and you are me One day, we'll all be free Yeah Yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah I know it's gonna rain With a shower Let it rain down Let it rain down Heaven knows Come on. Let's go. It's starting. Goodbye. Goodbye. Come on! Come on! So many people. Oh, my God. - Thanks. - Good luck to you. I hope you win. With the power Yeah Heaven knows With the power With the power of love The Minarettes, ladies and gentlemen. What an inspiring group they are. [Alicia] And we'll be right back with our next finalists after this commercial break. Howdy, folks. I heard you had a little car trouble. We're doing just fine. Thanks. Yeah, well, guess what? You're not gonna be doing fine after tonight, when my girls whoop your girls. Well, I sure hope you got something to settle that stomach because you're gonna be eating those words. Well, guess what? I love to eat. [indistinct chatter] All right. Wait here. You girls ready for the big disappointment? Hey, guys. Did you guys hear a voice? I think it came from those peanut dummies over there. But don't forget, we're superstars. - All right, girls, you're up. - Just watch and learn, leprechauns. Let's just focus on what we have to do, you guys. CDS Television is proud to present the second finalists for this year's Teen Music Video contest. From Atlantic City, five very talented sisters who call themselves the Wiggies performing "Dancing Girls." Here they come, here they come Here they come Put the hot spotlight On the dancin' girls tonight Pretty little Wiggies from Atlantic City Take the stage Claim your prize Give it up for the fantastic five The boys are rappin' Finger snappin' Girls are tappin' into that scene Walk in rhythm, talk in rhythm Caught up in this dancin' machine Turn the beat up Burn the street up Make it hot Girl, you know what I mean We're on fire livin' the dream Come on, world See the dancin' girls Spinnin' around Lookin' out of this world We're not leavin' this night to chance Exercising our right to dance Make a crater on the moon Get on up and rock this room I wanna be your dancin' girl Say you wanna be my dancin' girl My dancin' girl Let me rock your world Right where you want me Is right where I'll be Here on this planet Where no one can see I feel this sweet emotion Keep comin' over me Feels like a river flowin' It's up to us to keep it goin' I'm holdin' on to you Doin' a dance for two To make my dream come true Let me take hold And watch me closing my grid We don't got it Fantasize in You can move to the beat And you can drop at the bass Why don't get out your seat And we can shine in this place Make a crater on the moon Get on up and rock this room I wanna be your dancin' girl So you wanna be my dancin' girl My dancin' girl Baby, come on over here 'Cause I'm out of this world Yeah, I'm off of this planet And you're so hot That I don't think I can stand it Turn the beat up, burn the street up Make it hot, girl You know what I mean And I'm gonna flip the script And I'm gonna get you with So move your hips I'm gonna step with you with Come on, world See the dancin' girls Spinnin' around Lookin' out of this world We're not leavin' this night to chance Exercisin' our right to dance Make a crater on the moon Get on up and rock this room You know it. We have it. Yes, yes, yes. The Wiggies, ladies and gentlemen, and they certainly put on a show tonight. Hey, no way we can beat that unless we bring down the house. That was amazing, Dexter. It certainly was. The scores are gonna be very close so let's keep those phone calls coming, folks. My hands are sweaty. Don't worry. If you choke, I know your part as well. Thank you. Hey, how's it going? Good. - What are you doing here? - I need to see you when this is over. I found the guy from New York. You did? Yeah. I'll meet you here afterwards. Okay. I told you it was gonna be an exciting night. And our next contestants, who also hail from the great state of New Jersey, have surprised everyone with their competitive spirit. They certainly have. So let's welcome the 5 Ovations, who will be performing an original by Mark O'Brien, called "Shooting Star." [applause] I am T2 intergalactic space traveler with a female interface. Make me dance. Can you feel the heat Burning up inside Colliding with a universe A million miles wide We'll find our place Riding on the wind Our time to shine is about to begin Somehow tonight We're gonna find our way This ain't no ordinary day I'm gonna show you the light Ride with me tonight Kiss all this gravity goodbye Kiss, kiss Just do a moon dance Everybody take a chance To come with me tonight and follow In the light of my shooting star I am T3 intergalactic space traveler with a male interface. Make me dance. Nobody knows what lies beyond today No one can change What happened yesterday So let's move on to tomorrow And take another path Then maybe baby you and I Can have the last laugh I'm gonna show you the light Ride with me tonight Kiss all this gravity goodbye Kiss, kiss Just do a moon dance Everybody take a chance To come with me tonight And follow in the light Of my shooting star My shooting star My shooting star [loud applause] So are you scared that we're going to win? Don't worry, honey. They'll never beat our girls. Wow, what a fantastic group of kids. And remember most of them aren't even teenagers yet. So, hold on to your hats, ladies and gentlemen. We'll be right back with the winners of $1 million right after this commercial break. So, who is he? What's his name? Kenny Rich. He's upstairs. Upstairs where? Upstairs in this building. He owns the network. - CDS? - Yeah. You've gotta be kidding. Look, I can't do this on my own. I need you to go with me. Come on. They're waiting for us. Okay. Meet me in the dressing room when this is over. Okay. So this is the big moment, folks. People from all over the country have phoned in their final votes to see which one of these four amazing groups will win $1 million, a record deal and the contract to appear on CDS' television specials for the next year. The envelopes, please. And the fourth place winner is... The Minarettes. [cheering] The third place winners will receive $50,000 plus a six- day vacation to Cancun, Mexico. [Dexter] And the third place winner is... Diverse. [cheering] There's only two groups left. [Alicia] That's right. Only two groups. And the group coming in second place will receive $100,000 plus first class tickets to Paris, France. So the next name I call is the grand prize winner for this year's competition. [uplifting music playing] The grand prize winner is... The... Ovations. [loud cheering] What? Is that... That's my daughters. Thank you. Let me just finish that board meeting in 15, okay? Those kids are gonna be stars. Get them into the prime-time line-up now. Yes, sir, Mr Rich. [phone ringing] Okay. It's at the end of the hallway. Are you sure you wanna do this? Yeah, I'm sure. Let's just get it over with. Okay. So are we gonna use any snakes or scorpions this time? No, he's too smart for that. I think we should just tell him what we know and give him a chance to do the right thing. And you think he'll do that? I don't know. - Hi. - Hello. We need to see Mr Rich, please. I'm sorry. Mr Rich is a very busy man. He doesn't see anyone without an appointment. Well, maybe you can just tell him it's something very important. Send them in to the board room. I guess he'll see you now. - It's the first door on the left. - Thank you. Come in, kids. Grab a seat. - Who are you? - Joei. She's my manager. Manager. Well, would you like some coffee? No. So who sent you here? Nobody sent us. Really? So what do you want? A loan or something? No. I got it. You wanna re-negotiate our contract. We just wanna ask you a few questions. Fire away. - You're a very rich man, right? - Very. And you made all that money by being smart, right? Cut to the chase, kid. You tell him. Okay. In 1996, you stole money from a safe in Philadelphia. Then you used that money to become a very rich man. And because of what you've done... That's incredible. - Who told you this story? - It doesn't matter who told us. What matters is that you pay back the money that you took. And help take care of people whose lives you ruined. Or what? You're just gonna go to the police? No. Well, you can't go to the press. I own the press. You don't own it all. I think you should just do it because it's the right thing to do. Who told you this? Because everybody that knows this is dead. Listen, I'm Joei Battalucci and that was my pop's money you stole. Now give it back or you're in trouble. This is insane. This is too good. Holy hallelujah! Oh, my God. This is great. I'm being threatened by kids. This isn't funny, Mr Rich. Hell no, it's not. And I'll tell you why. Because that money that was in the safe, your pop stole it from the government. Tax money. Why are you being so mean? You think this is mean? I'll show you mean if you don't get out of here right now. I'm not leaving here until you give her that money back. You crazy kid. I can cancel your record deal. I don't care about your record contract. And keep your money. I don't care about your money either. You wanna go back to whatever dump you came from with nothing? It's better than working for a creep like you. Dumb is dumb and there ain't nothing dumber. What did you just say? Dumb is dumb and there ain't nothing dumber. I said you're dumb, kid, now get out of here. You said, "Dumb is dumb and there ain't nothing dumber." What? What are you looking at? I can't believe you did this. You knew all along, didn't you? What? You know exactly what. You just used me. - Brittany. - What the heck is this about? She's your kid and she just realized it. That would make anyone sick. My kid? Hey. Brittany. Wait. - [Joei] Brittany. - Oh, God. Brittany, wait. I'm sorry. I thought I'd get my money back and you'd get your dad. Well, it didn't work out that way, so just leave me alone. I don't wanna see you anymore. [breathing heavily] [coughing] [Brittany] What are you doing? I can't breathe. What are you looking for? [puffing] - You'll be okay. - I don't think so. It's not your fault, Joei. It's his. Don't worry about it. You're still my friend. Thanks. You know, I got some mean electric eels. Throw them in his bath tub. Light him up like a Christmas tree. I like that idea. - Let's get out of here. - Okay. Sorry I made such a mess. No problem. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello! Hello! Hello! Hello! Hello! [knocking at door] Is anyone gonna get that? [knocking continues] Brittany, come down! We wanna show you something! [girls] Brittany, get down here! Get down! Come on, Brittany, come on. Get down here! Come on, Brittany! Brittany, come on. Brittany! Come on! Who did this? It's not even Christmas. It's your dad. He bought gifts for the whole neighborhood. Maybe there's stuff for us. [woman] No, honey, that's not. Can you believe this, kid? Your old man came back and made amends. And I thought it was about time we get the family back together. And you think you could just walk in here and make that happen just like that? Yes, I do. And you know why? Because blood is thicker than water. Well, I wouldn't bet on it. Come on. Come on, smile a little. Smile for me. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be gone this long. I love you. And I'm sorry I did this to you. Will you forgive me? I'll think about it. - She's tough, Dad. - Tell me about it. Of course, she's tough. She's my kid. And what about all the other people you've hurt. What about Joei and her family? I took care of them. I bought them a house and gave them enough money to retire on. Is this true? - It's true. - So, why isn't Joei here? She's gonna be at the party. Party? What party? They're having a party for everyone in the contest. Even the Wiggies are coming. Come on, y'all, you ready? We're gonna have a party Here we go, y'all Look out now Turn it up I wanna hear it Keep the music going all night long He's a keeper. You must be the missing dad. Yes, I am. Alanna Wannabe, of course, that's my stage name. I'm gonna have to change it now that I made it big. Well, pleasure to meet you, Miss Alanna. - I understand you own a network. - Yeah, that's right. Well, if you wanna improve your ratings, hello. Well, I... What are you doing, Alanna? Oh, nothing, Just saying hi to this wonderful dad of yours. Give me a call. We'll do lunch. A little entrepreneur, this Alanna Wannabe. Happy? I'm working on it. What do you want me to do? Buy you a house? No. Okay. Whatever you want. Just name it. Come on. Pick one thing and I'll make it come true. I want you to bring back my mother. Oh, my God. Honey, I wish I could do that. I will not let you down, like I let her down. Okay? Just... My little baby. Turn it up I wanna hear it Keep the music going all night long Turn it up You know it's getting near You need it, you got it You never wanna stop Just think of the day Working for the man Try to find a way The best you can You can just see There's something more Try to succeed At what you're looking for - All you got to do - Is just believe All you got to do is just believe - You can let the music - The music - Set you free - Set you free Turn it up I wanna hear it Keep the music going all night long Turn it up You know we're getting near it You need it, you got it You never wanna stop Turn it up, you know We're getting near it You need it, you got it You never wanna stop Turn it up I wanna hear it Keep the music going all night long Turn it up You know we're getting near it You need it, you got it You never wanna stop Turn it up It's gonna be a lot more difficult to win next year. Don't worry about it. I got it all figured out. You can bet on it. All I wanna do is sing Nobody ever knows All I wanna do is sing When everybody is near Nobody ever knows Doesn't matter where I am And I don't care if no one's listening When my heart says to let it show It's time to let it go All I want to do is sing Nobody ever knows All I want to do is sing When everybody hears me All I want to do is sing Nobody ever knows All I want to do is sing When everybody hears me Yeah Listening Let it show
