 

                        1 New gun spins me around New gun spins me around New gun spins me around Right there. I like that. Yeah, that's good. Tom, turn your head a little this way, eyes at the camera. Kaleil, tilt your head a little more. Yes, right there. Okay, I'm ready. You guys leaving? I'm going to start an internet company. Do you want twists or braids? I- I don't want twists. - Do you want braids? - No, I don't want braids. You want two open ponytails? Yeah. Okay. Well, that's what you've got. Okay, look at me. Look at me. It's okay. They're actually... If you look, they're pretty far off. One's up in the front, and one's in the back. - Do you want them even? I want them even. - No, no. - No, I don't want them even. - Don't move. This is not good enough. - Gonna get them more even. - Even. I know. Life is tough, babe. There's a lot of hardship in life. And one of them is your father doing your hair. That's one of the hardships of life... that little girls have to deal with, just like you. - How's that? - It's beautiful. What do you think? Oh, my god! You're wearing a suit that matches. - I'm wearing a suit... - And a tie. - And a tie. I have an important announcement to make. And that is that we have a new C.E.O. He has recently left Goldman Sachs... and is now on full time with public data systems, Soon to be govworks. - So, Kaleil, welcome to the team. - Thank you, tom. - We're glad to have you here. - I want to, in the same vein, Thank you guys for your patience. This is the beginning of a great thing. And I'm grateful to all of you for the confidence in me... that we're going to be able to make this happen, And we are going to make it happen. Just look at that on the screen... and tell me this is not the brand of the 21st century. Govworks. Com. We got it. This is it. Well done. Do you use e-Mail? Are you on the internet? - No. - Do you use e-Mail? - I really do. Yes. You do? Let me ask you a question. We have a company. We're choosing between two names. One name is Govworks, Or nextown, N-E-X-T-O-W-N. - Nextown. - If you were going to invest... - In Nextown, that's right. - Why? - Sounds better. I don't know. It just attracts me more. I don't like government. I don't like being a company that's called "GOV". Less than ten minutes ago, we were slapping high fives, And giving hugs and spreading love. And now you're ready to quit the company. What company do you work for? - Nextown. You work where? In the next town? - No, no, do this with me. What's the name of your company? - Nextown technologies. - I work for Govworks. - What do you do? We're an internet portal. We facilitate interactions... between local government and their constituents. We help government work. Do you have $11? I have four bucks. This is "charge it day". - This is the billion dollar start-Up. We can't pay for dinner. You know what? Forget about investors. What do you want? I want the company to be called unto Caesar. Com. - That's the whole problem. - Okay. Hi, I'm Kaleil coming to sell you a $2 million systems integration, Uh, Mr. Mayor. And I'm from unto Caesar. Nice to meet you. - Yeah. Come on, now. I can live with it because I love it. At this point, Kaleil, why don't you... close your eyes or take a walk, and come back with a decision. Because that's ultimately what you're going to have to do. When you come back the decision is going to be final, And we're all going to be happy about it. - I'm gonna go meditate. I did what I do before... every major decision in my life. And that is sit and meditate. And I decided that... we are Govworks. - And that... - That's it. Let's call it Govworks. Com for now. We're not entirely sure it's gonna be it. But you go to Govworks. Com to do basically anything you do With local government. It's a tremendous market space. It's a vertical market of $586 billion. When you look at parking tickets in New York alone, It's about a $500 million market. There's a lot of money sloshing around in this marketplace. To get a few crumbs means a lot. We think we have a set... of relationships that can make this happen. It's a matter of execution. You'll get the money, you've seen that. You'll get the money and the team. I think it's a business that goes. Who's the competition? The guys that potentially keep me up at night... You know, sidewalk. Com or city search... or somebody deciding that they want to do this. - That's why speed is king. - Yeah. First mover advantage... They'll be like any other market. There'll be two, three people who make it here. One who gets half the market, Two other people who share the other half. And everybody else loses. Kaleil. Come on. Let's get out of here. You need to get dressed. You can sleep in the car, but let's go. You slept for two hours. What more do you need? You're a superstar. You don't need more than two hours' sleep. Come on. Come on, get up. Let's get out of here in five minutes, all right? I can't believe it, dude. We're here. You keep saying we're in San Francisco. This is not San Francisco. This is silicon valley. It's ringing. Is that a cell phone? - Hey. - Hey, it's tom. Hey, baby. I want to pass on some good news. I can hardly contain myself. I've got a lunch at Kleiner Perkins at noon. Fantastic. I just got off the phone with the guy there. And he said, "we really like your idea. "We know everybody in the valley. "We just want to talk about the idea. "We'll help you shape the idea as well. If we're able to do this, we can move extremely fast". It's startin' to pay off for us, man. I want you to know that I have probably... Probably five or six people coming in for tech interviews tomorrow. So, it's like an unbelieve... I've already cancelled a couple things for tomorrow. It's an unbelievable schedule. - Thanks, gentlemen. - Bye. Okay. These guys are freaking out. It's fucking awesome. Now we're actually doing something Outside the office of Kleiner. Oh, my god! It's beautiful out here. Anyway, it's really nice. It's really nice, so... The last point I was going to make for you is that, um, "Works" has a very specific meaning in the software world. It refers to a very lightweight, low-End product. The guy basically gave us very candid advice. Does not like working with government. Felt like we have to be on the west coast To run an internet business. Was, uh... Said we were passe... because we went in with documents Instead of a computer presentation. Said that we were, uh, two to three years behind the times. That we didn't have anybody with start-Up experience. He didn't like the sapient relationship. Didn't like the idea of limitation experience. He was just there to tear us apart. He said the east coast sucks. He said if you have a business on the east coast, You're gonna spend all your time here anyway. Sounded as if he did it out of the goodness of his heart. This guy doesn't get it. End of story. Or we can switch... No, we've got to switch at west fourth and get this one. Seven hundred billion, I would guess. It's one of the larger funds in the country. If you need recognition, I've got it. I'm not sure you and I have met. I'm tom Herman. - Tom, Dave Hexler. - I've got three cards. Who wants one? - I'd love one. Thank you. We're not, um, replacing government. To answer your question, three years from now... we want to be a place that facilitates... government processes that make economic sense to us, And the place you think of three years from now... The first place you think of to deal with red tape locally. You think, like, "There's got to be some application on Govworks. Com". I'm very interested in the building space. People will come in to town hall and say, "We can't find the building plans". There's an obvious solution: We get a digital camera, set something up in the vault. Someone requests a building plan on-Line. It gets uploaded to our server. They give us $50 and they've got it on CD rom. Having said that, that's not the business we're into. No, but it is a business, and part of what we can do. Stuff doesn't change. Like tom goes into this story... about digital cameras In the basement of someplace in Springfield. It's got nothing to fucking do with our business. And it's like I could talk about some retail business... in Virginia that I think... It doesn't matter that it's like neat... or it occurred to him when he was in Springfield. It makes us look unfocused, and he does it again and again. What the fuck! Fuck! Swear to god, the business will fail if he does that. Tom, Kaleil. We need to have a strategy discussion immediately. I don't care if I miss the first data meeting And you miss the rest of the day, Because we're giving different messages to different people, And we can't do that. We can't have a meeting with strong capital Where we give one message... and you walk in the room and say, "I disagree, I disagree. This is the other way we're gonna do it". It's really, really painful for me... to, to try to make this successful... when I feel like I have to fight at each juncture... every single day on the same issues, man! Please call me as soon as you can on my cellular. I just want to kind of open it up to discussion. Maybe I feel more strongly about it than... Than other folks. And maybe... You know, maybe there's, uh... - When I sat there, I wasn't thinking, "oh, here's a V.C. That we want to impress". I was thinking, "here's someone who's on our team, "Who's funded us, "Who wants to have a discussion about our strategy, And we should play devil's advocate in both directions and..." We should all trust... that any one of us will represent a vision of the business... that will be seconded, and "thirded," and fourth and fifth... by other people on the team even if we don't really know. Even if the part that we're seconding is, "We're exploring that. That's something we're debating". Even if it's like, "we're really excited about this". Even if "this" might change later. Then we'll all change at once And have a unified story while we're changing. But because we're... The act of the contradicting each other... is so much bigger... than actually what the substance of the conversation is, 'Cause that's what they're looking for. They're looking for it from day one. - I would agree. But again, We were in our confrontation and debate space. We should never be in that space in front of anybody. - He's the lead investor in this company. - He sets the price, right? This guy is price setting in the second round. The impact in the room... I understand that. I don't want to hear it anymore. The chairman and former C.E.O. Of Jackson security is in Atlanta? And the chairman of the Maynard Jackson youth foundation. You're going too fast. After the Jackson securities... He's the chairman and founder Of the Maynard Jackson youth foundation. As many of you know, Kaleil and I went to high school together. We've talked over the last couple of years About starting a business like this. And back in November when he called me and said... This was after almost a year of throwing ideas back and forth, Like virtual tombstones and on-Line wedding registries, And a whole host of other things. He called me and said, "how about parking tickets?" And I said, "wow. That is the best idea I've heard in a long time". And thank you, Kaleil, for leading us here. Finally, I would like to invite... Maynard Jackson to close for us. He's, as you know, a three-Term former mayor of, Uh, of... - Atlanta. - Atlanta, Georgia. It's great to have him on our board of directors. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. I see this group as more than a company. I see this as a mission. I think there is great success down the road, And I think the primary reason for the great success is... it's a legitimate idea to help people. And, incidentally, we're gonna make a lot of money. That's the best of all the worlds. This is an enthusiasm shout. So everybody stand up. Take your hands out of your pockets. Put 'em by your side. Get a deep breath. I'm gonna ask you, "what are we gonna do?" You're gonna say, "rock 'em". But you're gonna lift this roof. When are we gonna do it? Every day. How are we going to do it? Every way. - Are you ready? - Yes! - What are we gonna do? - Rock 'em! - When are we gonna do it? - Every day! How are we gonna do it? - Every way! Whoo! This is like... What a day. Can't get my fucking phone out of my pocket. Jesus! I'm so tired, I'm nauseous. I feel I'm on the verge of collapse. When is your sister gonna be available? Does she want to answer phones? Yeah, she's fine answering phones. Bottom line is, where are we roughly in the checkbook? To the closest zero. I thought we would be there. - Like around 20 "K," right? - Yeah. Plus the hundred, so we're back up at like a hundred. Yes. Plus Julian's dad wired a hundred, right? - Yeah. What is the... Who is the biggest hitter on the planet... that we can have call highland? Who is the... Who is the biggest hitter that we know and like... that can call bob Higgins at highland? Chris Davey? You got Chris Davey? You want to get on, George? Chris, this is a big call for all three of our professional lives. I have a favor of a lifetime to ask you. We could be done with this financing process With one of the best V.C. S in the land. We really want highland. If you can help them understand... Our business model, We could really make this big, And the rubber's hitting the road, like, now. This is definitely what we were waiting for. We're really excited. This is the kind of buy-In that we needed. Hey. Thank you. - Sure. - You look really good now. - Shut up. - Irresistible even. - Shut up. Good morning. How are you? - Good. How are you? - Is bob around? - Yes, he is. And your name? Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. Want a card? - Tom? - Yeah? This world we're about to enter is like... I get a real kick out of this stuff, So I'm gonna be a bit of a... - No problem. Hard ass. As much as you'd rather be back in the office, I'm realizing that I would much rather for you to be here. - Done. - Is that okay? - Yeah. This is Kaleil Isaza Tuzman from Govworks. Com. I need to speak to Isaac. He's not in the office at the moment. Can I take a message? Or would you like his voice mail? - Let me ask your advice. It's an urgent call. We're at highland capital in Boston. They've just put a term sheet on the table. - Uh-Huh. - And Isaac is our counsel. - Right. And we have, basically, about an hour window... to sign or not sign this thing. We're about to transact definitely the biggest transaction of my life. And it's a pretty big number. They're offering to put in a $17 million investment in the company. - You can understand my, uh... - Yeah. We're basically negotiating the sale of our baby here, so... I'm sure glad you didn't go back. This would suck to be here alone, huh? - Yeah. I'm glad you got a good night's sleep too. - Yeah. Not as much as I would like to have. - No. Where the hell is our fucking lawyer? It's embarrassing the hell out of us That we don't have legal representation. I mean, really. It really doesn't make sense. And we need to get eyes on the term sheet... and we need feedback now! - Let's just... - Let's dump them. - After they did this, yeah. - Absolutely. I mean, it's ridiculous. It's ridiculous. Tom, I think my computer just blew up, And I did this whole spreadsheet. What happened? Has your screen... The screen... Little things started appearing on the screen... and breaking up different applications. And then I did a shutdown. Isaac speaking. - Hi, Isaac. How are you? - Good. How are you? I'm okay. You have us in the lurch here. I apologize, guys, But I've been out of the office, and I'm still at the printer. Been here for the last four days. We've done our diligence on these guys, and they have... They're the only V.C. At this point. I've visited probably 12 of the top 15 V.C. S in the country. They're the only ones that everyone likes. We want to do this. The question is... Do you think we're getting screwed? These guys are talking all nice About how they don't want to be too in our faces, And they want to let us continue to run things. And they're not gonna be too controlling About who we bring in as other investors. And all this stuff. You definitely get the sense... that once all is said and done, They're gonna definitely be aggressively... managing this investment. Bob Higgins from highland just walked in the room. So whenever you guys are ready, just let me now. Bob Higgins, this is a partner of Wilson, Santini, Isaac and Vaughn, our primary counsel. - How are you? - Great. What's the total amount of money we're raising? Up to 17 million. It's good that you're asking 'cause it's changed from that document. On the investment section in the beginning? I think maybe you should have Isaac... Are you going through this for the first time with Isaac? - Yeah. Maybe you should have him go through it with you. I think you guys should feel well-Educated on the legal issues. If we want to have lawyers involved, that's okay with me, But I'd just as soon not. You don't have your attorney there, do you? - Correct. Why don't we split the difference and do a cap at 180? Split it between four and five "X". Are you okay with that? - You had said four to five "X". - Four and a half. - Four and a half would be 180. - All right, fine. And we agree on everything else, because if we keep reopening... You reopened the options, which I think was terrific. You asked Isaac, "how do you feel about the options?" - I was asking for his opinion. - I know. - I don't want to agree... - We're not reopening. I'm open to these as soon as we can resolve all issues. You know that I'm trying to finish this up. - So let's finish it up. - Are we there? - I have one more question. One more question. I'm thorough. We agreed... - I'm agreeing to none of these things... until we surface all of the issues. Highland is not gonna give us anything. They are more trouble to us at this point. They're a pain in the ass. They're telling us what to do With the fucking board of directors. They are giving us a lousy valuation. They're diluting the shit out of us before they come in. And, and we're wasting our time, to boot. I'm tired of these... Of this shit! I just wanna raise some money and go do the fucking thing. The best things in life are free but you can keep 'em for the birds and bees money that's what I want that's what I want money, all I need that's what I want yeah that's what I want money don't get everything it's true but what it don't get, baby I can't use money that's what I want that's what I want, yeah all I need that's what I want We closed ten million of the deal, uh, yesterday. Yeah. So what do you think's gonna happen, Jose? I think it's gonna be highland, Kleiner, Eight and six. And we're gonna go I.P.L. In six months. - You're gonna be a billionaire. - That's what I want. You're gonna be a billionaire. I'm gonna be a lowly millionaire, but that's okay. Dude, you know, Kaleil's two favorite words... Are "heuristic" and "prolistic". I'm so sick of hearing "heuristic" coming out of your mouth. "Heuristically, you know..." It's a holistic, heuristic... No, it's heuristic and it's query. And I'm sick of hearing both. "Query? Query it. Query as to whether or not..." Kaleil will say heuristic again. And "visceral". Visceral's another good one. - Mr. Cheung. - What's goin' on? - It's time to get to work, man. - On what? We've been working all night on the business plan. We've been leaving you messages. We're over at Kaleil's place. Everybody's there practically. It's a significant stake, and he put money in it But if he doesn't believe in the business and That's why he hasn't left his job... This is Kaleil, man. Look, the entire team has been here... basically the last two days working on this. And, you know, I don't know what the deal was When Julian came over, But I'm gonna be fucking disappointed if you don't get Over here and help us out. There's employees busting their ass for the company, - And it's just not fair. - He's a minority shareholder, And you guys can buy him out. - It's Chieh. - It is? - Yeah. What's up, dude? - We heard you put this together last time. This is what we worked on. Here's the revenue. These pages are basically the revenue model, And here's the outcome for three scenarios. Tom, the reason I wanted to call you... I know it's an awkward time. But it makes a hell of a lot of sense for a lot of reasons... to buy out Chieh and Susan at a dollar a share. Think about it. From his perspective, it's quite a nice thing. You walk away with a half million bucks. So, Chieh, what are we gonna do? I don't think it'll get ugly. There shouldn't be a need to come to that. I hope. I would be stronger than that. It won't get ugly. We all are friends, so we'll make this work. One of the saddest things about business... And I never realized it before... When you watch ideas, like anything... Maybe this is how parents feel about their children. But when you watch 'em grow, there's kind of a sadness... to what they grow beyond what you can do for them. It really is. Step outside of yourself. I know it's not your style. But make an extra special effort to give warm fuzzies. Okay? Trust me. It'll go a long way. Let's figure out something where you, I and tom Don't get bogged down. That's the best thing. Chieh, how old are you? Twenty-Four. Twenty-Five in October. Dude! Hello? Hey, Chieh, this is tom. I wanted to get a chance to talk with you. The cash alone seems like a sum of money... that I would be... I wouldn't know what to do with. What I don't understand is What has changed between today and yesterday. My point is, we are founders. We're not just employees. We put together with a lot of sweat, And a lot of the value of the company... And all the capital was created in the very beginning. Hey, Chieh, calm down. You're going to be sitting at Goldman, Sachs... making a half a million dollars, and you'll be fine. Chieh, I'm-I'm fighting for you on this issue. Don't turn on me. Yeah. Bye. What was the final proposal? Mayfield's attitude has been like this. They started at talking about $500,000 as a buyout for Chieh. And they've gone like that each day. And I've been telling Chieh that each day. "Chieh, every day this gets worse". He thinks it's gettin' better, And it ain't gettin' better. It's gettin' worse. He put up cash, he worked hard... The man worked... after hours for... about four months, five months. Um, and put in presumably $19,000 of his own money. His career is totally intact, he didn't take any risk, And would be walking away with $400,000. They would prefer if he just took all the cash. They could take over $410,000. It's hard to... It's a sweetheart deal. He also insinuated to me on the phone All kinds of other nasty things he can do. If he thinks I'm gonna respond well to threats, - He's sadly mistaken. - You know Chieh the best. Definitely. Is this something we need to be worried about? He's not gonna get any mileage out of me. I'll smush him. I don't like being threatened. I think he realizes his legal case is weak. That doesn't mean He couldn't sabotage the Goldman relationship, Sabotage the potential Goldman I.P.O., Sabotage the business, Sabotage us personally. It's disgusting. - Could he get on the phone with Ezgov? Why not? He could do whatever the fuck he wants. He couldn't get on the phone, But he could send him a manilla envelope. Chieh, it's tom. Are you awake? - I'm awake. Let's blow this right down to its assets. This is about money for you. And you want 800,000 bucks, And this offer is $400,000. It's sad and ironic that it's about that, but it is about that. So I'm feeling extorted. We don't want to have a litigious situation, And don't B.S. Me. It's about the money. It's obviously about the money. So just tell me how much money you need. I told you this morning... Right. You want $800,000. This offer's $400,000. Do you want cash or equity? Can we split it down the middle? It's not gonna be through the V.C.S. And it's gonna have to be, you know... - It's gonna have to be personal. - That feels right to you? That we should pay you off cash out of our pockets? Not cash. There we are. So, um, sounds like... we need to give you $700,000. You... Now, given that we are... giving you $700,000... Is that worth it for their relationships? Look, he's answered the question. He's already answered the question. That's how it goes, but that's the answer. That the money is definitely more important. Okay. Hey, guys, it's... Let's do it. Chieh, if you thought I cared about the number of shares at all, You're way off; I don't even know how many shares I own. - Hey, Tommy. - Yeah? Gimme a hug. Did that hurt you a lot? - Yeah. That was much more personal for you than it was for me. - It was. - I'm sorry. - Hey, tom. - Yeah? Y-You're one of the, um, The most amazing people that I've ever known. You fit into that category too. Definitely. The V.C. S won't close until this is a resolved issue. Okay. My personal solution with Chieh Should not stop the financing. We're running out of money, tom. Jose's flipping out. He's tearing his hair out. We don't have money. - Do you want to call him? - No, I don't want to talk to him. Each page is in triplicate. What'd you tell him as far as the retreat is concerned? I told him to go to hell. Did you really? No. I said, "you're not invited. Please don't come". In about that tone and in exactly those words. No one likes getting nabbed for a traffic ticket, But one web site Is pitching away to keep the police at bay, sort of. It's a web site that meshes with your local municipality, Allowing you to pay everything from tickets to taxes virtually. Kaleil Isaza Tuzman is our guest. Welcome to digital jam. I promised I wouldn't garble it too much. Why don't you say it once so we get it correct? Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. It's been happening my whole life, so I'm used to it. Uh, you got 15 million bucks in the Mayfield fund. Are you looking for another round anytime soon? I think they reported that as a slightly low number. We raised almost $20 million From a number of players in the west and east coasts. We might do another round in the next few months. Which would mean that on paper the company is worth what now? Current valuation of the company is just shy of $50 million. Surprise! Speech! Speech! Maybe I'm speechless. Thank you all very much. This is, uh... This is wonderful. And I don't think I could ask for a lot more To happen on my birthday. And I have a lot to do before I turn 30. - How old are you now? - I'm 28. I want to toast my partner and brother rat. - Tom. - And back at you. And all of you... for all of the wonderful, wonderful work... in making this dream a reality. And another one. We need a drumroll for this. A serious drumroll. And the grand prize goes to... Jose and Pam for closing $18.4 million! Whoo! I'd like to welcome you all, and thank you for coming... all this distance this morning. It wouldn't be a true summer camp adventure Without a camp director. So I'd like to introduce your camp director. - Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Richard Herman. This is a very proud moment for me... as it is for tom's mom, Susan Herman, right there. Tom and Kaleil, who spent their high school years under my roof... and under Kaleil's mother's roof Dreaming and scheming about their futures. So I was excited and proud to have that honor... of being the first one to write the first little check. Whoo! I am tom's dad, in case you were wondering. Now, I know, it's kind of peculiar probably, For me to expect you to sing at, uh, Five minutes of 9:00 on Saturday morning... After you've been driving all night, but let's do it anyhow. From the beginning. I wanna wake up in the morning where the purple lilacs grow where the sun comes peepin' into where I'm sleepin' and the songbirds say hello hello I wanna wonder through the Wildwood where the fragrant breezes blow and drift back to new Hampshire where the purple lilacs grow I'd love to tell you a little about this place... we're in right now, 'Cause it's one of the more special places in my life. It has somewhat of a cathedral feel to it, And it's always been one of the places I've come to meditate. If you're really silent, You can hear the wind going through the pine needles above... in a really remarkable fashion. And it makes it an even more special place to meditate. Hey, Tommy, it's Kaleil. Wonderful weekend. You're a superhero for what you did. I thought it was fantastic for the team, And thank you for your flexibility with me... as we struggle through some of these leadership issues. Tomorrow we have a news crew in... From a national TV show called Despierta, America, Which means, "wake up, America". This is all Dora's wonderful doing. Senator Gonzalez can't know that Dora and I are dating. Could I ask the people that are at both ends to get closer, Because we're looking for the visual effect Of a lot of people screaming together. If you can use your hands... As excited as you can get, As visual you can get, the better. Okay. I'm gonna say the lines. Don't worry about what I'm saying. You just have to say the big ones. Si is the first one. - Si. - Si. - Ganar. - Ganar! - Siempre. - Siempre! - Trabajando. - Trabajando! The "J" is a "ha". Maybe when you say the last one, trabajando, You could put your right fist up. That's... No, no. No. No. No. That's the symbol of the Nazi party. We're not doing that. I'm serious, we're not doing that. Asi. If you want to do it like this, fine. Si! Ganar! Siempre! Trabajando! I wanted to get me a dog. I wanted to get me a dog but he doesn't want to get me a dog. He's telling me that if I move in with him, he'll get me a dog. Then every time I get close to making this decision, He kind of backs out on the dog a little bit. I really want him to get me a dog. He can take the dog to work. I figure that if he gives the dog the name, Then maybe he will be more attached to the dog. I really want to be with Kaleil for many, many years. And I'm proud of him. And I'm sure this is going to slow down a little bit. I'm sure he will be proud of my career as well, And I will be proud of his career. But this has been a very interesting time. And this whole Govworks situation Has a very human side to it, Because you see a whole bunch of guys acting very grown up... with their ties, and their cuff links, And their little pens, And their credit cards. They look so, uh... They, um... They're such grown-Up gentlemen. But you know what? They're not! - Right now I'm in the zone, mom. - In the zone? I am. I'm doing what I want to be doing. - I'm so happy. Is everything all right? - Everything's fine. Then why are you calling me at 1:00 in the morning? I could've been sleeping. Well, are you in love with Dora? - I don't know. - You don't know? I don't know. I'm taking it slow. Take it slow, that's great. No hurry. The problem is, I go into zones of being attracted And not being attracted. You go through... What is that? I go through ups and downs of being attracted to her. - Ahh! I never don't like her. I never don't love her even, but I go... That's important to be aware of. - Yeah, it is. Maybe it's fear. It's, like, getting to commitment you have fear. Dora says some things like, you know, "You have to buy me a puppy. It's either a puppy or a child". And that kind of thing freaks me out, mom, 'Cause I don't want a puppy or a child. Hi. Hi. Kaleil. David, this my mother Ani. This is David Carmel. - Pleasure to meet you. - Good to meet you. He's been doing a decent job. A decent job. She's only proud when I, when I do something... When I do something k'velling, when I do something nice. This kind of stuff doesn't make her proud. How do you mean that? The outward accomplishment stuff is... I don't know. The outer accomplishments are a reflection of the inner too. All right. - So it's not like... You know what I mean? It's not like I mean... - Very good. It was nice of you to give us a buzz. I didn't think you'd want me to. So I called. "If you want me to stop by, just tell me. I understand if you don't". - Why not? - That's how I am anyway. I don't know Atlanta that well. You guys on peachtree? - Seventeenth peachtree. - Okay. - Yeah. It's a totally strategic move on Kaleil's part to, uh, To invite the competitor in and see how they operate, Especially if they're not at this level. I recognized his face from the web site I look at every day. I thought, "oh, my goodness. What is happening here?" Mr. Camp, this is Brian Mundy. - Brian, David camp. - Good to meet you. - Your name is familiar. - Chairman of Ezgov. That's why it's familiar. How are you? Good. How you guys selling? - Excellent. What's the big trade secret you're dying to ask of us... And that we're dying to ask of you? What's the big launch plan question of the day? - I don't have any. - Come on. No, I don't. I can't believe you came in here just out of... Pure goodwill and curiosity. You've got to get to know me. That's definitely the kind of person I am. You'll be surprised. Down the road you'll say, "why did Brian do that? That really helped us". I'll help anybody I can. That's the way we are. - Chris, Brian Mundy. - Nice to meet you. - Sean core, Brian Mundy. - Hi, Sean. Brian is the chairman of our chief competitor, Ezgov. So you've got the bug planted now, or what? You're gettin' a lot of flack! I don't know why. We didn't slander your company. We just heard about you a week ago. Uh, I don't know what I did to freak everybody out. You probably don't want to go home wearing this. - I think you should. - That's awesome. I love your logo too, by the way. - It's this man's. - Is it? Yeah, it's David's doing. I don't know if it's the right size, but I can adjust it. Are people gonna be surprised When you walk into your office in that? The only thing I ask for is a trade. I've got your card. We'll send one up. - Perfect. Good deal. These are great. Good to meet you. I appreciate everybody being here. We're real excited about... Government going on-Line, We're excited about Ezgov. Com being that destination. We will be available next door for interviews, And we look forward To developing a relationship with you all... in the months and years to come As we deliver more applications over the internet. Let the Ezgov. Com revolution begin. See this, ironically, As a positive event in this marketplace. Not... There's no smoke and mirrors in that comment. They see it as a sign of fear. Where's... They see it as a sign of fear. They know we're launching. They're launching something that is not comparable. The are following our footsteps. They're using our language. They're using our ideas. And it's okay. Imitation is the best form of flattery. I refuse... Refuse! Refuse to loose. I will... There are some people in this room... who have known me for quite a long time. And I get my fingernails into the wall. You have to drag me away. I will not... not lose this fight. So hang with me. This is gonna be a fun ride. I felt it in my bones. I was trying it over the last couple of weeks. Tell people I could feel it's gonna get bumpy. That's what happens when you've got a great idea, And we're in a big market. It's gonna get bumpy. It's gonna get rough-And-Tumble. - Let's stick to who we are. - Before we cheer for Kaleil... Don't cheer for me. I think his leadership in this kind of situation... is what is really gonna make this happen. I know a lot of you feel very differently now... than you did about three minutes ago. That's because of his ability to lead a group. I wanted to add a couple things to that, Not the least of which is... I've never seen Kaleil lose a fight either, Except possibly with me. - Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Robert Pitt. - How do you do? Kaleil is Govworks. Com. Last week they closed an $18 million round. They're going to make municipal government efficient. Good luck. - Thank you. It's quite a challenge. - It's a $600 billion market. - All these markets are big. It's a matter of who's gonna make money in them. That's the big question. He's the former president of New York telephone, But is now running the world. - It's a good thing to do. - Not quite. Head of the free world. - Yeah, not quite. Mr. Rockefeller, before he sits down. People keep saying, like, It's great, it's amazing, And how it's growing and all the rest. And yet, each morning I wake up with a morbid fear. It's, like, just making sure the business survives another day. The V.C. S are not in this for charity. Scoping is strategy. It's what you're gonna do... If we make scoping decisions, And you come back and say, "I don't like how this ended up. Let's re-Scope it..." There's a certain point at which you do have to give up... a little bit of the strategy to us. We can't all do everything. I totally trust you... in the, uh, in the venture capital space. I think that my strategic input... into the building of our product is important. - Nobody disagrees. - I think it's... Is it more important than getting the money? - It's not more important. - I agree. We might be at a place where we might have to compromise... to a certain degree, and you... Part of it is a compromising ego. It's not an ego thing. And I'm not saying you're not important in the process. But I strongly feel there's a limited bandwidth... and there's a lot of stuff to get done, And you need to focus on the financing stuff. The scope of our product, which I was a person... that was deeply involved... with creating the vision of the product, Is a point in which I need to be involved. I won't feel comfortable moving forward if I'm not involved. Let's set aside a time when it's convenient for you. Maybe it's from 8:00 at night to 8:00 in the morning. We should do a weekend block. That's what we should do. I'm not available for weekend blocks. I'm with my daughter on weekends. End of story. I didn't tell Tia that I wasn't gonna see her this weekend. Sit down and eat, dad, right now. - Sit down and I get a lap? - Yes, look. Pick me up and look. You can't jump up? - Sit here? - Yep. - Sit in your lap. Do you want to read a book with me before I go? - Where you going? - I have to go tonight. I have to go. - I want you to stay. - I know, but I can't. You're gonna hang out with nana. You're not usually as upset about this. We'll do that build. We'll test that build. We'll test it all day. We'll go live onto the site. We'll test it all day on the site Saturday, Sunday. Then we'll go public on Monday. In the "ask," I said "parking tickets". And it says, "help us refine your question. "By park, do you mean last name park... or first name park?" That's horrible. Parking tickets. You mean the last name or the first name? "The last name park or..." - Has anyone gotten a good answer... - To anything at ask? - No. - Not that I know of. - Let's try speeding tickets. I put "speeding tickets" in... And it gave me the name of the personnel director in... I don't even know what town. Charles speed, the personnel director at Amarillo, Texas. Jesus! All this ask function is is an embarrassment. Yesterday he was asking me, "Is may your first name or is may your last name?" The next biggest issue, Which everyone here in the room discovered, Is ask. Ask just simply doesn't work. I can't release this site. I can't put it into the market. There's some very angry board members, And I don't want that anger to come onto my head. We've raised $50 million. We're out in the market raising another $100 million. We're in a market space that could have... The leader in this market space is gonna be... a multibillion-Dollar company. It's the largest uncharted territory on the net. David, when are we gonna have a chance to see the final site? I'm still away a step from the home page. It's not done yet. Actually, you can see it from home. As soon as it's up, it's up. But I don't know when to call you and say, "that's it. That's the final one". I'd like to sign off before it goes up. - Yeah. Right. - Go downstairs and close-Test it. - That's a very good idea. Close it off. Thanks very much. Testing is over. - You may continue from home. - Okay. Good. Let's do that then. Guys, I've asked the entire Govworks test team... to continue their work from Govworks. This is stuff that can be done from a different facility. This is much more efficient. We have a lot of people here. We have momentum. We're going into a big week. We're paying them eight and a half million dollars. I understand. Who cares what they... Seriously, it doesn't matter. The least they can do is keep the damn floor open. Just get him to take one out. Hey, forget it. You realize... - David, I want to keep this floor open. - I didn't... Tom said that. - Okay, great. We're keepin' the floor open, guys. I'm sorry, guys, about the back and forth. I'm sorry about the confusion. - All right? Thank you. - Got it. I'd like to pay my parking ticket before we go live. So you don't want to pay it on the live site? That's it. Transaction complete. It is a cool little engine. Can I take my two seconds right now, then, as people are leaving, And just say thank you, it's been an incredible weekend. The engineers who are here... working for the last however many days... It's been amazing. Thanks a lot. Let's go drink some beer. Thanks, everyone. We're live tonight. We did it. What an amazing weekend. Kaleil was right. We should've pushed for this point. We did, and we're there. I think it would be good now... I'll just go over to Kaleil Tuzman, The Cofounder and C.E.O. Of Govworks. Com, - To talk, and the floor is yours. - Thank you, Mr. President. I have the great pleasure to be sitting next to professor Putnam... who used to be the dean of the school of government... where I intended to finish my graduate studies, and didn't. Um, so... I feel... particularly empowered. When it comes to democratic representation, There's nothing that can fulfil, really, Atomic-Level representative democracy like the internet. It was fun. And afterwards, they showed you talking to Clinton one on one. Oh, really? - Speedo swears you handed him a business card. - I did. - Yeah, right. - I did hand him one. Right. - You seemed like... - I also talked to him about the C.E.O. Job. - Did you really? We were watching it. You were definitely telling him, like, you know, - What the options package is. - I told him about that stuff. I told him that when he moved to New York... that he should consider... a job with us if Hilary wins. - He'll be... So... - Yeah. It was unbelievable. Just call and say, "I'm here. I'm okay. It's okay. "I'm doing okay. I love you. "I will not be able to see you for four or five days, But I'll call you tomorrow". One time, "I will call you". Kaleil says, "you measure my love in phone calls". It's not in phone calls. It's that if you pick up the phone and say, "Dorita, I'm gonna be working. "I won't be seeing you for a couple of days. I love you and I am okay. Are you okay?" "Yes, I'm okay". With that you can keep me going... three weeks. Hello? Hello? Andressa, I'm terribly sorry to wake you at this hour. It's Kaleil. Um, we have a little bit of a situation. We had a break-In to the office last night, And it looks like, from the dynamics of the break-In, It looks like it could be corporate espionage. Uh, they forced entry into my office, Went to the trouble of disconnecting my computer cable, My security cable, and stole my computer. It's totally ransacked. - Could've been. - We're assuming a coworker? I'm not assuming that, but I would say that it's likely, Given what I see so far and what I've heard. Most of these were opened, And the fronts were ripped off a lot of them. Everybody has access to the elevator? You have a shut-Off, you have a key to... - Yeah. - Floor by floor? Yes, we do. The lock on the fifth floor wasn't working, But we were only letting in people we knew. - Mm-Hmm. - I have bad news. - Okay. Okay. I had some files in my legal section that are missing. They went directly to your computer, To your desk, to your files, To Nicole's, to Patrick's. Fuck. Uh, I've had better days. Yeah, well, as I look around the office... it looks pretty clear to us... that they were looking for specific information. It occurred sometime, we believe, between 1:00 a.m. And 6:00 a.m. I think I know what time they were here. It was when my computer was shut down. There was actually no security violations, But the computer had some weird errors on it. It was shut down and recorded it around 3:21 a.m. It's totally premeditated. This is not a random burglary. They can definitely get in, And they can definitely make a mess of our site. They can redirect our site to a porn site... very easily if they had all those things. Listen, Kaleil, you know, we learned a lesson, - And... - I hope it wasn't a fatal lesson. Yeah, I hope it wasn't a fatal lesson, too, but maybe it was. Maybe it was a fatal lesson. Maybe you're right. I mean, we learned a lesson... And right now, you know, we deal with it. We've got people that have come in... That are helping us do the shit we need to do. As usual, we'll do the best that we can... And deal with whatever happens... And not get too upset about it. We still live in nice places, and we'll both move on to great jobs. So, uh, you know, That's, like, worst-Case scenario. It would've been a fun year. We'll go start a different company, Do something a little less... sensitive. Ay yi yi. What is this, like, hand signal that you're doing? - I'm sorry? - What is this, like, hand signal? You have to look to answer that question. Why are you being so mean to me today? Because I haven't seen you for a long time. Every time I call you, you're, like, "I'll call you back," And you never do. I do call you back. - No, you don't. - I do. I left you four messages in the course of three days. I said to leave me a message if you can't get ahold of me, And you didn't. - You didn't even call me. - No, don't badger me. Okay. Well, what are you doing? You're not looking up things anymore. You're writing an e-Mail. - That's because I finished... - And I'm going to leave you. - Everything closes at 10:00. - Do I have to... Oh, so you're going to write an e-Mail and not tell me? That's what you're doing now... while I'm sitting here reading? It sounds so stark when you put things that way. You know what? You're supposed to already be on vacation by now. I'm not ready. Almost. Any minute. Bye. Can you take this back? Uh-Huh. Hold on a second. She's mad. Well, not just a bad day on wall street, A record-Setting bad day on wall street. Friday the 14th of April 2000... No less, the anniversary of the sinking of the titanic... A titanic struggle today for investors. In pointage terms, it has never been this messy, And it has never been this bad. Our business is in serious trouble. Our business is? Give me the ten boxes. - A lot of reasons. Okay. - I just want you to know the degree of urgency. I don't think that I felt comfortable... telling you as an executive in the hall, - And I just think you should know. - Because of the revenue numbers? Yep. I think we're personally at risk. I've had some pretty ugly conversations... with board members over the last couple days. What are you saying? That the board would consider... Getting rid of us 'cause of this? - Yeah. They were just... They're probably... I mean... That's cool. You're concerned about the problem. You're concerned about the revenue. I don't want to give you the wrong idea. I'm deeply concerned about the revenue, But I'm not concerned about the board. Okay. Um... I'm not personally at risk anyway. Oh. Okay. I mean, I could be at risk for losing the job. Potentially. Theoretically. Again, that would surprise me, but that's possible. Um, but that wouldn't be the end of the world for me at this point. I think this is a serious crisis, tom. For 27 days... What are the requirements that we're trying to fulfill... you know, at a very bare-Minimum level? - You know... - At a very bare-Minimum level, Our business requirements are very simple, And they haven't changed. We need to be able to collect credit cards, electronic checks, Debit cards, We need to be able to collect data on these things... And we need to be able to pass it to municipalities. - Right. Listen, I... I hear you, I want to involve you guys, And I understand that you guys think you know better than me. - But... - We don't know better, But we know that what we have today doesn't work. You don't know that! What we have today does work. That's the problem... Then why are we fixing it? We're fixing it because there are problems. It's not gonna do everything we want it to do for the future. It's a great first step. All right? We built... - We're not gonna get anywhere in this conversation. And it's not like we have a bunch of geniuses learning code. That's not... - I just don't want you guys to tell us, "Stop what doing you're doing, Wait ten days for us to figure out what we want..." So you can build something totally from scratch... based on what you want. If you want to work together... Is this a conversation you want to end by walking out? This, I guess, tension, uh, Confusion about the areas that you're gonna take on, The areas you're not gonna take on. I do want you to know a little bit about... how my relationship with Kaleil works, Because, you know, we're not really co-C.E.O. S, But in some ways we really are, Because at the end of the day, we have an agreement that... That decisions regarding the company... are made by the two of us together. As a result, I find myself functionally responsible... for a lot of things that go way beyond technology. That's fine, but, you know, Respect that there's a structure for a reason. Roy just sounded like he was about to, You know, have a nervous breakdown. I'm just parking out front right as we speak. I'll see you there. Bye. Right now, there's no other way to put it: We are getting blown out of the water. Our site is not as good as our competitors' site... Sites. It's not. And that should scare the living daylights out of all of us. I'm a little frustrated as well, tom, That it has to be laid out as a priority. It should be the M.D.F.'S priority all the time... to beat the competition. We need to be given clear directions... so that we can focus our energy... on whatever it is that is the most important thing. It can't just be, you know, "make the site fantastic". That's just simply not specific enough. When I talk to somebody out there, and I tell them... I want to raise 200 million bucks... at a humongous valuation, That they should, hopefully, you know... The first thing they gotta do is to go into our site. After they go to the site, they go, "Hmm. Who are they competing with? Ezgov. Link to GOV." And that happens to me every day. Every day today. We're too far behind. We're getting hurt. We're getting hurt in ways that you guys don't see. - No, I see. Because Jose and I are on the front lines of that kind of pain. We know how it could be a fatal blow. What do we do? What I'm hearing from you is that, Uh, is that you think I'm not the right person... to lead this company strategically on technology. I know that on the ground, I'm not the person to manage technology day to day. I'm not the engineer, and I'm not the project manager. That's why I'm so excited about Vassoo. He knows how to operate the technology part. He's gonna do a great job. I don't want this conversation to be about Vassoo. I need this to be about... About, uh... About you and me. Okay. You don't respect my authority. It's safe to say it's difficult for me not because, you know, I get high off of you respecting my authority, But because I have a job... that I'm trying to perform. It's very difficult to perform that job... when that's the case. You know, I spent the last 20 years of my life on technology. Now after I get to the point... where I'm able to build an organization to do that, I'm just gonna... If we're co-C.E.O. S, then we're co-C.E.O.S. But don't tell me anything different. If that's the way it works, then I need to know... that that's the way you think it works. And you know what? I'll leave. It's the same discussion we had before. You know, it's not gonna work. I- I-I... So I need to know what it is you want to do. Then I'll make the decision about whether I stay. - Okay. I'm... I'm gonna go on vacation for two weeks. I'll communicate with you... and I'll communicate with Jerome and Barbara. That's about it. And, uh... it's very difficult to do. You know that I have... I love you. These are difficult things to say, because, uh... You just need to make sure that, uh... Neil Weisenfeldt... His rent received on the 20th... and that Alyssa is taken care of. Alex, this is tom Herman. How are you? Good. I haven't spoken to you for a while. I'm at a point where the company is considering... bringing in some, ah, some more senior talent. There's a very good chance that I'll be leaving, And I need to negotiate a settlement with our board... basically. As they try to consolidate leadership with one C.E.O., I become more and more of a problem, and I understand that. I am. That's my nature. They've asked me to take a three-Month paid time-Off... with continued vesting. I feel I should settle now instead of settle in three months. Tom's a friend of mine, you know? We've been working 20-Hour days... for a year and change on this stuff, So it's tough. But it's important to separate the business from the personal. - Yep. - It's the right thing to do... from the company's perspective. He was basically the one that got me a start, Gave me the chance, you know? I have gotten legal counsel at this point, And my counsel has told me, "don't leave the office". Said, "go back in and tell them..." And this is what I'm basically telling you... "Go back in, tell them that you're ready to work things out... "and that you don't want to take a vacation... until you're given formal notice..." Of something or other... that is in writing and is sent to my counsel. Well, I wish we weren't on this path. I- I-I understand... I understand you're following counsel, And you're doing what you need to do. So I... I know that in... Yeah. And so, you know, I would do the same thing. I just... Please, as you go about this process here, Anything you can do to keep the team... Even if you don't agree with what's being done, I'm trying to keep it as positive as possible, so... It's not something that the rest of the company... needs to know about. It could be between you and me and the board. - All right. It could have a settlement attached That includes a significant cash component. I've requested that. I'm assuming that the board is working on that. But now I'm telling the board I will not leave the office... until, um, until that is dealt with. Please... Please don't take my change in attitude... as anything personal. I still honestly have as first and foremost in my mind... the interests of Govworks, But not to the exclusion of... Of, uh, doing what my own legal counsel suggests I should do. Okay. Thanks, tom. So... - I feel like I'm on the verge of becoming... Of getting into a sort of a nasty fight with the board. - About what? - About my termination. Just take a month, and, like, get some perspective. You know? Get some perspective? But what's gonna happen in a month? I can't leave if Vassoo has everyone pitted... against each other, And the entire tech team's going to quit while I'm away. - That's my problem. - No, it's not anymore. But it is my problem if I have 1.2 million shares in the company. Hey. Hey, guys. I wanted to let you know where I am and what I'm doing. Let me write it down. - There's not much to write down. - Okay. You can pass this message onto Kaleil if you want. Whatever. I've been working... - On the Louisiana state portal thing... - Okay. - With A.M.S. And with Microsoft. - Okay. And I am continuing to finish that stuff. - I'm here to work. - Okay. - I like my job. - Okay. - And, uh, so I'm doing it. - Okay. This letter is a request for termination. Why don't you want to negotiate this... or talk about it before you go to this... You and the board are on board with that? Okay. Because you understand... that if there is no possibility for a cash settlement, It's going to get very ugly, and, I would add... that I would, you know, much prefer that, Uh, that you chill out a little bit... instead of precipitating this, And let me stay in the office... while you try and work out an adjustment... to my employment agreement... so that I can comfortably take a leave of absence. Obviously, I want to support you in making that happen. I don't know. You're making a mistake. But I understand you need to run the business... as you need to run it, So, um, that's your prerogative. Thanks for the letter. Bye. - Sorry, guys. - That's okay. Go ahead. Actually... why aren't you in the executive committee hall right now? 'Cause I'm... Officially just walkin' around with you... to make sure everything's cool. They asked me to do that, so I said, "great". - Here. - I didn't know what that meant, so... - Um, yeah. - I'm gonna hit the road. - Great. Have you... Have you just been downstairs? - Yes. - Everything's all set? Yes. Tom Herman has left and we've started security measures... - Do you know where Darren is? - Darren is behind the office. We were just on the phone with him and Karen. Darren has started the security process. Tom is no longer with the company, And he has been escorted out of the building. No. And, uh, measures are being put in place. People are gonna have to show their I.D. Coming in... and stuff like that. Uh, no, no, I'm not kidding. - Good night. - Good night. - Good night. - Keep an eye out tonight, okay? - No problem. - We dismissed someone today, And we've had security issues in the past. - All right. Okay? Let me give you my card. Under no circumstances... Don't let anybody sweet-Talk you to get in. If the person shows up... whose picture you have there or anything, It doesn't matter what they say. You know, if you have to force them in a room from the building, Just do so. - Okay. Okay. - All right? Thanks, man. Okay. Thanks. Bye. Oh, god. This sucks so badly. He said... I could not have... I could not have... I mean, he said, "If tom's acting like a Mensch and he's like a grown-Up... and he's doing things that are productive for this company, Then I'm gonna be supportive..." Of him having what I think is an outlandishly generous offer Of half of what he... That would give him in a year and a half, Two-Thirds of his total ownership. Um, but I'll tell you, If he's acting like a shit, and he's calling, and he calls me, And he's acting like a pain in the ass, Then he's gonna get exactly what he deserves, 'Cause he's acting like a kid in a grown-Up world. The thing is, Joel's being harsh. Joel is very harsh, but he's right. He doesn't trust me. He doesn't trust me. He doesn't trust me. That was painful for both of us, tom. I think that you got bad counsel. And I... And I... You know, I say that not with a lot of information, But with some conversations about it as well. I don't say it with no information. I told you that yesterday... when I was on the plane from Pittsburgh. I think that was bad counsel, And I think it put me in a really difficult position. There was basically no alternative. You wouldn't leave the office... on a vacation or on a leave or anything... unless there was a termination letter in hand. You gotta believe me, tom. I did not wanna terminate you. But I did feel strongly enough about the need for your absence. But that doesn't mean I want you out of the business. It doesn't mean I want you to lose anything... Money or pride or anything. Even if this business is a failure, I want everybody who's involved... to know we did all the things that we should have done... to make it as successful as possible. Uh, as some of you may know right now, As of yesterday, tom Herman... is no longer a part of the operational... day-To-Day of the business. I've known tom since we were 14 or 15. I love him, And this has been one of the more difficult experiences, Really, of my life. And I think that for him it has been as well. He and I have built this company together, Just we have all built this company together. It just so happens that he and I built it together... since the first day. Probably a natural question is, "What's your relationship with tom right now?" And the answer to that, honestly, is, "I don't know". As difficult as it might seem, in tom's honor here, With respect to him, I'd like to do the cheer. I'll-I'll-I'll lead it this morning. I haven't done it in months. - Govworks, are you ready? - Ready! - What are we gonna do? - Rock 'em! - When are we gonna do it? - Every day! - How are we gonna do it? - Every way! - Yeah! Hey. Boy, those your new pajamas, huh? They're purple. Hi. Hi, mom. Hello, my honey. Come on in. Next week will be my first week out of the office. That must feel good. Now, it's the power-Politics part that's a little hard to stomach. Yeah. - Just to see people you started with... - Yep. - ...who are engaged in that. He's aggressive. He's gonna get what he wants. He's certainly Machiavellian, but... The values that you grew up with were... that people came before things... and that the intensive energy... that goes into anybody's... personal life and professional life... has to do with caring for people, And how they are and how they feel. That didn't seem to be part of this new world. People's personal feelings. - Right. - I disagree. Well, you didn't share any of your personal feelings... For example, that you were no longer at Govworks. I had spoken with you the night before, Thursday night. I said, "how are things going at work?" - You said, "fine". And I'd actually... That was Thursday night, you said? Yeah. - Yeah, I'd already gone through all this. I just wasn't ready to talk about it. I didn't see any point, because I was... I was, uh... It wouldn't have been a nice conversation. Does it have to be a nice conversation? I'm your mother. All I'm saying is, I'm not sorry that that part of your life is over, Because I don't think that's a healthy way of life, And I didn't like... what it did to you. Maybe I wanted a way out. The issue of time is not a top thing to recover. The issue of time is, like, number eight... The issue is time will work itself out. What's happening in the company is we have flat revenues. We have... Bloated infrastructure. We have... a sale cycle that is much longer than we anticipated. We have implementation processes that are more complex. We don't have a clear path to cash... yet. We have some acquisitions that we are working on... that may not work out. Um, and we have a bunch of bullshit personal stuff... that takes up people's time, When none of it's gonna mean anything at all... if we don't make a successful company. That's what's happening. Hey, Tia. Was it a good show? Don't you understand that I'm being pushed out? Yes, I do. So why should I sit back and let that happen? - Tom, you don't... Be rational about it. We don't have a case. - I am rational. Our employment agreements don't protect us. We don't have any legal case. - That's fine. Only thing you can do is screw up the company... and screw up yourself. You think this about equity. Let me tell you two things. First of all, it's about equity for me. It's not about ownership. It's about the business. It's about what I'm doing, what I'm building, What I've been building. - I think that's about you. - Yes, that is about me. It's about growing and learning of building a business. They don't care whether we grow and learn. I understand that. I understand that, Kaleil. That's... I'd rather see Govworks fail... than risk personal relationships. They're just more important. You know... The thing that I'll probably remember... more than anything else about the last year and a half, tom... is the moment... when you told me you didn't trust me. Things change. That's the best part. - Daddy! - Yes, Tia. Not yet, but close. I also want you to know... despite any and all the other things... that may or may not be happening, I, uh, have had a great time over the last year, And I... I love you. - I really do. So... - I love you too. I'm sorry that things are the way they are, but... even if I'm angry... Ow! Help! A little help. A little more. Okay, I got it now. I got it. No help. I got it. No help. I got it. - You okay? - Yeah. Sell, financial bankruptcy. There's not going to be an orderly wind-Out. Are you guys still implementing cities? The sad thing about it is... the business has finally turned the corner in that respect. It's very, very tragic. We'll end up with zero. - Not even stock. We won't have that. Huh? Right. Zero. Absolutely nothing. Wow. You ever talk to Dora? - Dora? No, not since she moved to Florida. - Have you? - A little bit. That was the saddest fallout... Of... Of the entire two years from my perspective. - But... - No, it's not. The saddest fallout was us... from my perspective. Then Dora, Then all the investors and people that believed in us. You're never gonna go anywhere. It is your baby. It's gonna stay that way. Even if you set it up for adoption, There's the genetic link, so it's not gonna go away. So if I turn this up, then you'll have to pay a royalty? Yes.
