 

                        Wind. There is nothing as fast Pull you coastwise like a flying. it is totaly ... well, extreme. That is me. Megan Larson. is the average teenagers Girl -And that is Kater. He is not even approaching the average. here, Megan. It was sick, Megan best you. -Thank you, Kater. -would you be my girlfriend? Okay. Mam! Dad! Dad and I decided to get back together. - and Iam not going to act like a little freek again - Cool Megan, as the most popular girl in school, I Heather Hartman, hereby welcome you in the popular group. Cool Dear diary it is only like as my dream. Die,Alien, die! Trevor, do not. Now already Are you going to get us I am just saying, you can not be a Men in Black trevor. - Why not because, you only one person. - I want to be the man in black. As Will Smith. - fine, whatever. Plus, I want to be a mumy. - why not a mail man? dad we do not see him much any more he is always busy, seem like Sometimes I can barely remember a time when we were all together. But still I will always do okay, pick up your stuff. Rocky, come on. Trevor. - Okay, we are up. Fun in the sun. Let me get this. Just a second Halo? Fred Larson. Yes, I know, I know. - Let's go. I know,that is fine, just get rid of my ass. Dad, come on.that is fun just bare with me one second just Hold a second Any problems, just give me a call. No, I ... Any time. OK. Nice talking to you. take care. Ok, then.bye well dady, if you want a woman to split up, then you have it, I guess and then there is mom Probably the only person in the planet who loves surfing as much as I do. she is Definitely not the typical mom. krakers? - Oh, I love Krakers. so do I, but not for breakfast. Is that it? - Do not be silly, Megan. what kind of mom give just Krakers without soup Mom, can not have soup for breakfast. why not Megan, soup is good food. Broky like soup for breakfast. don't yout? Broky is a dog, he drank from the toilet . Okay, let me see what can I make you, Meg I can make you a wondurdul tuna sandwiches I Do not want you to get the wrong idea. Mom is not usually not this bizarre. it is just a bit of bad luck she is been little bit distracted And if you think about it, the Life is really cool that way. Oh, we forgot not them Get Fast in the tent! may be mom is lonely. But enentually she set a couple of dates. is he alwayws so enthusiastic that is nothing. Last mother's date is still in the body cast body cast? - they sound like a full recovery. But I have my doubt OK, I'm not the popular, in diary I see it right now. I mean, if it was not for a week last year. Beside I was related to tube or somthing. actually, I got to told them that I was And when Heather found out that I was not ... it was bad. you are not your cousin, Megan I have a cousin who looks like her. and she sings pretty well. You can't sit on our table anymore. I am telling you Kater em you, claws is that pulls would be totally cool. that would be miserable idea. And what about the x-ray vision? - Changing the shape? that be fresh the truth is, the diary I want to be in the popular group only for one reason. Kater Kolbern the most extreme kid in high school. last year he skid down the entire mountain. Well, he fell mostly, but he was still totally radical. Does anyone know the answer? Kater? What? - Mr. Singh! - Do you the answer? Mr. Singh, I do not even know what the question is? for long time I do not Think Kater does even exist. But then there is this wind surfing and coming to my mother's store ... Man, you should see me in the air, I was getting yesterday like a big time rap after rap. Dude. Hey. Hey. - I know you from schools. What is your name again? - Korgan, Migan ...? Fegan. - Megan. Can I have some chips? - Yes, go ahead. Man, they are cool. what are they? - barbecue I mean With cream and onions. Windsurfing is cool you know, because ... there is wind, right ... Aand also there is surfing so you like windsurfing I have never thought it that way Thanks for chips ... Megan. See you on the water I like your hair - thanks I know. It is now all in my diary Because everything has changed. - What do you mean, you met a guy? - His name is Cosmo. - Cosmo Cola. - He sounds like an alien. Is it? - I did not notice, Trev. Wait a minute, where did you meet this guy mom - It's very silly I was windSurfing ... It was rediculous, but it is great too Meg, he wanted to rescue me from the waves. - Mom, you were not drowning. - Sure, but not the point. He was willing to help. - I have bad feeling We started talking, and he just clicked. are you alright? I saw you being blewed up by the wind. - I'm windsurfing - I'm Koz. glad to meet you We talked for hours, I guess I mean, He has this ... childish like quality, that I found so refreshing - Candy? - Sure. Okay. And where is that Cosmo Cola from? Canada. Yukon. Mom, there no place called Yukon Yucon, it must be deserted it is mystery or something. and his daughter was there. - his daughter? - Ariel, she is 14 years old too - Meg, is not that great? - Possibly. Meg, do I look like a peach? Okay, bye. I'll be back soon. Hey? Mom. Why not let anyone listen to your music? -Because. Well, at least there a good reason. since this night is a good night every body finally going to meet. Are not you excited? Do I look excited? Come on. Help me clean that I wanted to prepare a chicken ... I hope this Kozmo likes hot dogs ... - He's a gourmet? Megan, be nice. - I'm always nice. New people are not allways so bad you know. I mean, Sometimes change can be a good thing, if you welcome it. He will not comming for last Supper, I hope Since when you have such a sharp tongue? you still think at the things you don't say Dear, it mean a hole lot to me if you at least to try Kozmo make me realy happy, you know Meg may be you like him too just give him a chance Probably mom is right. - I will try May be, I think that he and Ariel would be great If you like them, they must be great, right Of course, you like and modern dance, but people go there. It must be them. Will you get the door, Meg? Sure It's going to be great. It'll be great. It will be Great, please let him be great. Megan Larson! Megan Larson! Mom! you have no idea how happy, that I finally met you are You Kozmo? It should be a quiz, Megan. I love Scrabble. It was worse than I could possibly imagine, Diary Are you a good alien? Or a bad alien? Good, mostly. But sometimes bad. Like now, Hah I love dogs. Tiny brains in such a large powerful bodies. Kozmo! - Kathy! I'm so happy to see you. - Me too. I have gas ... . I mean juice. This is for you. Thank you, Kozmo. Where is Ariel? she is out In the car. she does not like the wind. She does not like the wind? actually, wind can be very frightening. If you do not understand it. And you're an alien, the wind would blow you away. Exactly, right Of course, wind can also a wondurful way of meeting people. Will you go out and help her in, Meg? - Mom! Megan. Okay Hello? Arial? what are you doing under there? - I fear the wind. Dear Diary, I do not make sense of this strange planet called Earth. Every time I look at this terrible vehicle The bubly flesh, the flatt face, the gas with yellow hair that grow out of that tedious scalp. I can only think of it ... I am grotesque. the same dream comes to me almost every night I am back on my home planet of Zirkolan and once again, I'm in a beautiful pink ball of gas. I'm floating next to my beloved Fanul Oh, fine, handsome and intelligent Fanu. How I miss floating with you. I miss my true self. My essence. I long to be Zuizav Zirkalona once again And there are mother and father as well. They floating by my side Oh, the joy, the rapture, the bless I knew we'd have to leave Zirkalon, Diary I knew my dad's life was in danger because he was a freedom fighter. I knew as well, that Savad was repressive emperor and that we are not completely free on Zirkalon. But I have never expected that we will have to leave so suddenly, Diary. It all happened so incredibly fast. And in one peep moment, the mother was lost forever. She became part of a great kosmik gas. It's strange, Diary without horror and the bad customs it seems less than one four bond the one factor that Zirkaloncim need to survive. A element known as CO2. ?? of gas. it just to be I became desperate, Diary. Desperate for any help in navigating this strange and frightening place. Then I turned to our neighbor the spiritual guide Serena Su. Get Gandhi, away Picasso. - Ariel, I know what troubles you. - you do? In the month that you and your charming father moved in, I perceived that you're different. yes -you don't feel like you belong here. No. - And in this you are correct You have lived many, many times before, Ariel. most recently, you were a cowgirl on a large ranch in Montana. you are crushed by cows you are not yet psychically recovered from this do you feel the truth of what I am telling you? Do not speek. I am a psychic. I already know what you are thinking I can see very Clearly exactly ... it sound like Serina Su flying in her diary but of course, she can't read my mind. she is already go a pathetic person. But she at least possess somewhat a gaseous manners. But what is not even that matter now? , Dairy Now the gloom and terror so Utterly induct my life - Well, what you think? - I hate it, Dady. You think here is so ugly and solid and heavy I know it is hard, Ariel. I miss our home too There is truely nothing like a great day of floating. expanding in the heat Contracting when it is cool off why simply we do not go back then we will be near mamy Mom has ... turn down, Ariel. beside, I will be prison for ever in a frozen cube - We escaped here to be free. - Free to be idiot Life on earth is full of wondrous possibilities. one can do or be whatever he wants here This is a dummy an artificial tube, that one can speak through. Hello, Ariel. How not to love the world in which so is not exist? you are completely unbalanced, Dad. And those names that you gave us. Ariel and Cosmo Cola. where you get it? , Pathetic. and those Earthlings pay me money for worthless stuff that we brought with us. This are quite valuable here I miss Fanul so terribly dady. please, Can I communicate with him ? He would not betraye me, I know he would not. Fanul is the son of the emperor SaVada You're my daughter. It is not possible. - but dady ... - I am sorry, Ariel Look how beautiful day, Ariel. Being a solid is'nt be great thing? Life on earth is fun, Ariel. I only hope for some day ose be the same. What can be less fun than this? I want my boyfriend back. I want to see Fanul and I want to go home The Wind? The Wind! it can't hurt you, Ariel! I'm falling apart! I am really falling apart! we feel the wind! Fanu, Fanu,why must you be the son of the emperor, and I be the free fighter daughter it is just like a tragic storyb and Grokni, two star cross bubbles. But we will meet again, Fanu, for I will come home to you. but Until I do, I must try to hold on to the beauty and majesty of my Zirkalon inheritance that will keep me going Zirkalon, Zirkalon ????? Zirkalon, Zirkalon deliver us soon Wind was blowing bad, Ariel. I knew I had to save her. So I jumped in When I reached her, she was not afraid at all I saw you being blown up by the wind. - I'm windsurfing. she is the most remarkable creature Kathy Larson? - Let ... ... the most beautiful human on the planet, Ariel But this is unthinkable. Mom. Your mother was an extraordinary bubble Ariel. And I will never foget her We had many memories together, and I will always cherish those memories just As I always cherish seeing your mother in you. But we live here now and I think we need to make a life here We are humans now, Ariel and we need to live with other humans I think Mom would not want us to be alone and unhappy. Do you? Tonight , Ariel. We visit Kathy and her children at their home. we are goning to have a wondurful time, I guarantee. But I'm not a wonderful time, Dairy. In fact, the evening was a hideous torture from the very start I feel the wind. Okay it is pretty much stopped would you like to come out? No, no, no! Do not threaten me, monster! - He is just barking - then, beat it Your voice is loud and vulgar. And you're an alien too, are not you? I need water. - Is she alright, Koz? - she is Just nervous. can you go and check on her , Megan? Sure, why not? Ariel, are you Okay? You are all wet. I fell into the sink. in the sink? do you want to dry off? Your room seems pretty culture - Thank you. try to wear this. They are far too large you can wear hers, if you think that will fit you better I will do those Did you just drink the whole bottle? - I did not. - Yes you did Why your voice like that, you try to be funny or somthing? Yes, I am trying to be funny. - I am funny. - You are freaking me out Here, use this. - Stop the wind, stop it! You are incredibly neurotic about your hair, you know that? Everything is ok back there? It's all very fine, Kathy Larson, thank you. Good. Dinner is ready. Looks like a nice, is not it? - It is better to remain silent. I love food don't you like hot dogs, Ariel? - I do not like food. nothing? cheese? Sandwich is Kikiriki Butera? Noodles? Food is messy. Yes mother, Ariel is on a new diet of juice. At that moment, diary, I knew that the creature called Megan Larson will be fearful and spite But at least, I was ready for it Now what happen next by okantno shocking and Gazly surprise Kids, Kathy and I have somthing would like to tell you. Megan, Trev... Ariel. Kozmo and I know that we both come from very different worlds. And we have not known each other for very long and we also understand that things has not gone exactly and smoothly as we were like But when two human beings -They feel for each other the way we do However, we just have to follow our hearts And even though it may seem sudden Congratulatio kids we were engaged Do you want to say anything, Megan? I was left speechless when my mom asked oh Diary, I guess, I was speechless later Mother, he is a freak about high Oh, Megan. - he is he is loud and bizarre and dresses weird. As a crazy clown or something I like her. And I think she is an alien. But I think it's good. Mom to be in my room if you will. He's not going to be a new play mate, Trev he will be your new father. Stepfather, Megan, and Ariel will be your stepsister. let us not even go there - Ariel is nice. - She is what mother! - I fall into the sink! - May be she meant a bath. And the thing with the hair dryer. - What was that? I think she is pretty Yes, you are seven, Trev you don't know any thing And that affects the way she talks Oh, ho! Oh, misery! As if in a bad piece ?? em. I think you have been silly - No, no, I think I'm smart. Mama, you have been silly Meg, I would never marry anyone you absolutely hate but I have to tell you, Cozmo and I are very happy together, and I think this may be the real thing, so I wish you at least give him a Chance. and try to get along with Ariel too Mama, I tried, she is scary I heard that she likes to sing. may be you can make music together. Fine. Forget that Ariel is in a new place, Megan. she is long away from home a million light-years, Probably Trev! ah ah She lost her mama few years back, did you know that? -she did? So far from home, she has'nt had it easy. give her a brake Great she start school with you tomorrow Did not you have a bike in the Yukon? - Of course. I'm just out of practice. Dear diary you some more to find? I just knew what everyone was thinking what that weird with Megan? Is that Magan's friend? If so, then Magan is weird too And then the weirdest thing happened Do not you make youself invisible? - Probably. Shall I try to - Too late. Hey guey - Hi Megan, who's your friend? This is Ariel. She's not really my friend. how you gueys know each other Over on their parents. Ariel is from the Yukon. Yukon. cool So, Ariel, you like ski? I like bubbles, I like gas and water calms me. Cool. -can't argue with any of those I do not get this. Halo! she is perfect gorgeous -she is not! That , - just because you don't want her to be, does not mean she is not, Megan I hate to have her for a step-sister. You must feel so inferior Inferior? In relation to it? she is a total psycho! she can't even ride a bike with training wheels May be she does not want to. May be she is subversive. like, she fell on his face. How is this subversive? The way she dresses. so original, so fresh This is not original. My aunt Ana is also dress like that for years. I will tell you one thing Kater think she would not be cool. Kater thinks I'm cool. Megan, as your friend that is really pathetic. - I'm going to talk to her. - why? she is like, a visionary. Ariel, why you put on many layers? I would like to protect my Assets that intense I can not believe it! And what is the volume of swiming the pool? Megan? - Ha? The volume of the pool? Oh,...Midium can any one else answer the question Ariel. I assume the issue visualize trapezoidal size of the swimming pools, Mr. Sing? And I assume also the depth of the pool measured in meters, the volume of fluid measured in kiloliters ... I asume, if this is the case, and the water is not higher than 32c, the answer is 13.34 kiloliters. Ariel that is correct I heard that her IQ, like, a 300 I heard that is dating, Prince wiliam I heard she tutor Bill Gates. They do not understand, Mishel. Ariel is not any of those thngs she is like ... an alien from another planet. Yes, the planet on which all great. - No, Planet of weirds She feers from wind, Mishel. Well, wind is scary. In a way. I can not believe you said that. Unbelievable, her first day, and already sits on popular table Megan! Megan! Heather Hartman called you Go. Go! I love how you protect your essence , Ariel. Definitely. And you're totally try to cover up shatter the myth of in current bike. Ariel told us that you will be a Step-sister, Megan That it is Not an issue You are still Lucky I think that Ariel is such a total package she is wise, deep and mature. Plus she will be great down here you knows what Conditioner she used, Magen? as far as I know, she just falls into the sink. Falls into the sink. We should try that You can sit to our table too, Megan. if you ... ? Why?. Thanks, your majesty Wonder if there's a sink in here that could fall. you are such a revolutionary! I am nausea of this. She is like totally Chaleging Albert Einstein. - She is Albert. chill Megan. This is pathetic. Oh, Fanu. How I miss you darling Ariel, you talking to that bubble, Ariel? The bubble, as it condescendingly call it, is the love of my life ??. How poetic she is she is not a poet, she is pathetic! yes I know! Get to class Diary, it is becoming nightmare when care of biblical proportions. By the seventh period, Ariel could set her hair in fire and run around like a chicken, and people would have thought that she was cool. Actually, she would not do that all But, you get the idea, Diary. But the worst part was that the worst is yet to come. Mom, I do not want to teach Ariel how to windsurfing. it is something about share I do not want to share with her. - Megan! -Mom! Megan! -Mama! - Megan! -Mama! Megan! this could go on for hours, you know Do not you try a bit more, honey? But, Mom, I can't be better. and Ariel, she is terrified from the wind How will you teach that to windsurfing? she does seem to hop on that thing I do not think you behave like a mature, Meg. I am not? Mom, you are the one who is marrying to a Complete stranger. Koz is no stranger, Meg. In fact, in some way, I feel I know him Better than I have known anyone anywhere. do you know, the term, sole mate, honey Mom. OK, I will make you a deal I promise that I will take Ariel out to the water, and you promise that you will never choose that word again. Deal I am just going like a lot there and you are going to come there afterward? What? - I feel the wind. you are going have to pass that And then it happened. From that moment on, Diary, it was war. Dear Diary, just when I thought it could not get any worse I learned the word high school means Do not yiu become such invisible? - Probably. Shall I try Too late. Hey, Gueys. - Hi Megan, who's your friend? This is Ariel. She's not really my friend. At feeding time, I was invited to chair which seems that great importance for humans At this table Conversation was patheticaly empty and meaningless Everyone thinks she is like a Totally enigma, Ariel But I know what you really are. You do You are a making a cosmetic representative, Right? Megan! Megan! I love the way you put your essence, Ariel. Definitely. And you're totally try to cover up how like mundane by ???. since you two are going to be step-sisters, Megan -Well, That it Not really a sure thing - You're so lucky. I bet that Megan so jealous of you. that she must be just like you why would anyone want that Both are so empty. - Horrible! -Monster! Yukon is the law! It was cool, man! she is such a revolutionary! you are going to have to pass that When we arrived in the afternoon on the beach in ??, I have had enough I was afraid for myself, yes, but if can walk Like Megan Larson. would not the wind destroye her? watching her going back in the water, I felt myself being fall apart again. I was just about to go rescueing Megan Larson ... Hey! Ariel? I am Kater. you know, your clothes are wet? I intended to rescue Megan Larson. Oh, she is fine. What's your interest in disgusting when ?? na bag inhabited, Which? Oh, Oh, Ariel. that a way harsh I mean, I thik it is disgusting. Actually I think it is very un-disguting. because you are having bag you can do. OK, yeah, I guess I do. what is the alternative? I wish I be gas. pure gas. you'r kind of weird ambition. So, you like ... you want to be my girlfriend? I found you are a pathos and shallow, Okay, may be I am all those things Shallow definitely pathos? ... I do not know what that means, but surely I could be like that too, Now listen , pathos and shallow people have feelings too. check it out? it is a Party! Hey, Megan, how is your life? Fine. Come on Ariel. Ariel! Now diary,I am feelig on Zirkalonu: I?. - has to drown. See you, Ariel. I just want you to know that I am awsome, Ariel Pardon me? you may think you fool everybody else, but you are not fooling me. I think that what you are doing I do not understand. Do ?? la're here with their juice, The way you are talking in your wack songs and you think they hear you over you miss apprehend me, Megan Larson. No, I think I apprehend you very well, Ariel Cola. you'r like a total bad seen why you wish my distruction, evil Megan Larson, why? Because since you come in, you have taken every thing I want. Well, fine, have it. you Leave Kater alone. I do not want Kater I do not want any of this . I Only want to go home. what? I just want to go home. - you do? I'd give anything to leave this horrible place with its strange creatures and solid objects and Talents disregarding You like us because we are not good to bubbles? Only I wish to go home. To see Fanula. The gases So, you do not want your dad to marry my mom? - Of course not. And in that moment, Diary, strange and holy bond was born between evil Megan Larson and I. When Dad and Kathy Larson went out this evening, evil Megan Larson and I found her to watch her OK, Trev, it's time for bed. But Megan, it is not even six yet? and I even had not dinner. Enjoy! Ok, take it with you Ok, first all we have to do is to convince parents that we are best friends. I do not understand this, evil Megan Larson. How the two creatures that dislike each other as we do can possibly convince others that we are otherwise? there is a thing we have in US may be you have hear of it, Ariel It's called acting. That night, Megan Larson is revealed as the true evil architect like "In love and war, she said Sometimes the bubbel seem brightest a sense of thought I respond it Starring! - she did not understand the reference Well it's all right It is alright to be me In a solid or gas liquid or stone Friendship my heart you never alone this actualy was not bad -I am surprise I like it as well We had an Extremely bad time together, dady, and now we are the best of friends. We can not wait to be Step-sisters, mom. He samples extreme cookies, Dad. And now that we've become so close, she told me the sweetest thing. Koz thinks you're the funniest and the most refreshing the simplest girl he ever met and all he has talk about, is how life privilege, bumbling, and intangible. All this in the best sense, of course. Is not that sweet? And so our evil plan began. without tell roasted toe and one salad Enjoy it! And his flight from Hijavate and its wondureful migration and the end of his adveture Now chapter 16th On the shore of GIEI gum, on the Dune Nagov Woodoo, Kozmo, What are you doing? Just Spider on the wall there. But I just in the middle of my poem - But the beetle, Kathy, look! It's time for karate Pumba, I think you're on to something. I will say. Being popularity is the best reason to do anything If you become an elephant, everyone would love you Are you making fun of me, Koz? Of Course not, Kathy If you think I am such an air head Why did you ask me to marry me? How could you ask such a question, Kathy I love how fun and free you are, and I like the way you look I am fun, free and cute? what about my mind, Cosmo? I have never seen your mind, Kathy. It is very unkind thing to say ... Cosmo Cola Why you acting like this, Kathy? - Like What? - Like shrill stray gas in day time TV show. you behave Like inconsiderate snob, Kozmo. I had no idea that you can be such a termagant term...what? termagant-loud, obnoxious woman This thing is over. Kathy! Kathy! Kathy! what you two are Doing? Nothing Of course, as Megan said, one fight was not enough to end their relationship entirely But, the next move was mine. As you know, dady, Megan and I , now, are best friends. We so long to become stepsisters. And in this spirit, she has shared her confidence with me. Gives? you see dady, Kathy only acted the way she did, because she was testing Cozmo. She knows he can be fun, like a carefree child, she need to know that he can be a real man, dady And on time she wants him to be happy, right? Perfect one. Let's see how it is working You look great tonight, little lady Keep calling me little lady, Coz Don not you worry a bit about that, mam I'll take care of everything. Except on Sundays, when I will be watching football on TV all day what on earth, you are talking about? are you looking to my woman, fellow ? - Koz? - No, sir. well do not. And fix me a steak, son. fix what you got . Raw We do not have steak, sir. You do not have steak - This is a pizzeria, sir. Bring me the mainly pizza you got! and put up gummy beans on it What is up with mamy and Koz? They have a grown up talk How come you guys look so happy then? Go play, Trev. am I very stron, dummy? Yes, very. Am I dependable, dummy? Absolutely! then let us take Here in US we have an expression: Mission accomplished In the Yukon we say Gaseous matter expanded Well. ... Gaseous matter expanded, then Your plan is a wise, Megan. - I could not have done it without you, Ariel may be that I still wrong ?? well understood. Now Kater will understand it may be I misapprehended you as well This was strange, diary Megan and I were sharing a pleasant conversation. We just mamanage to make our parents hate each other, and now we are starting to like, or at least tolerate each other I only acted that way because I thought you want me to You mean so much for me And I thought that you want me to act the way I did Who said that? oops! This is not good. I thought if Cosmo like that, and you want him like this ... we can all working somthing out This is the most rediculous answer I've ever heard, Megan Give me a few minutes. I'll make it more convincing. Ariel? Oh, Shame on my name I disgraced myself and my family for their selfish reasons. No, Ariel. Ariel, do not cry. We know this is not easy. - We understand, do not we, Koz? - Of course we do I guess it is not easy to be an alien. I can not do this no longer I am sorry father My darling Fanu, please come and save me from this horrible place I feel expectedly Yours, Soviza. please whatever you do, Fanu, you must not tell your father the address about where we are. Plan A was totally failure, Diary, but I definitly have a plan B. Sometimes I wonder for a second if I am doing the right thing here I mean, Koz is a complete freak of nature, but he can't gross on you A Ariel? It is really not her fault if everybody mistake her weirdness for coolness And yet ... all we have to do is to make them fall in love with somebody else. Like, my mom, she was totaly in love with my dad. Well, not quite love exactly actually, I think even they do not like each other much, but they were married for 10 years. And have me and Trev. - since they ended their relationship? horried -Jezivo. -grotesque -Loser! What about your dad? Is anybody he met who is even like your mom? Your mother, Kathy larson, nost and sweetness that reminds me of my mother. In this sense, my father enjoy the company is that mater, my mother seems get along better with your dad, than she is ever with my. I think they laugh a lot more Yes, they do. And Trev loves your dad. And father loves Trev. but anyway ... there is one individual Do you know the spiritual Serena Su? Is she thinks, she is like Napoleon or something? Well, she is quit this guey, nevertheless but her manners were calm and harmonious That is right. Here's the plan. We'll tell our parents that we throw a party. Do they make amends. Parents obo ?? happen when they want ?? that they make up ??. I'll call all and there. A chemistry will take over My Father will meet Trev this weekend. it is Perfect I do not know how to tell you this You were right, Trev. Koz is an alien. I know that. - he is bad alien. He is not. Trevor, when have I ever lie to you? Every day. Well, this time, and I am not Kozmo is one seriously scary alien. I did not wanna have to say this, but ... Look - My plane ... - My plan to take over the world. by Cosmo Cola Chapter 1. Eat Trevor. What I need to do? Mom and Koz will be back in a couple of minutes, and my dad and Serena Su will be here too What are you doing? Ariel, what are you doing? I am preparing food. We put the food in different bawls? they are actually different parts of the meal Do not they all end up in the intestinal tract? Yes, yes, but ... Soon I will get insane I'm Serena Su. You must be Megan. Hi. Come on in Ariel! My sweet! its been day Where's your father? Can I come out now? - Go back to bed, Trevor what is that lady? - She is a bad alien too Go back to your room, okay? Borky, you were Mickey Mantle. The famous baseball player. if you two could play a game together. Oh, my! It was wonderful! It's sick! I rode underneath the boards. - you really did Wow, look at that! Great job girls. dady, look who is joining us our neighbor, Serena Su. what is the news, Serena Su? you possess such a savage molest, Mr. Cola and yet there is in a child crying out for tenderness and Compasion actually, this is my stomach. I must be hungry. Hello! I'm Kathy Larson. Kathy, you were a nimbus of mistrust. That's right, I got it in the market ?? nom center. Humor can be effective defense, can not you, Katie? Only oblivion people who have no sense of humor. would you like thing to drink , Serena? - I will have a chay(Tea) Megan. Ariel. what you girls are up to? I will get it - Dady! -Hi What are you doing here today? - Megan told me to come today - she did? I thought dady might want a drink before dinner About that,Honey I still have some work to do Is it OK to pick you up, gueys and bring you back to my place? Can I bring my stuff home and work while you watch TV.? what you say? But, we can not dady... because ... Trev ...is sick. Really, he is. Come, I'll show you. Elizabeth, I will come to join you Elizabeth! - Fred Sanford! Excellent! Elizabeth! -Trevore? If you and mom stay together, can I still play with Koz,sometimes? Even he is bad? Who is Koz? Dad, are you sure you want stay here for dinner, as long as you're already here? Things were not going exactly as I planned, and in the kitchen , Diary, it was even worst I must tell you Serena Su, that many if not all of your ideas are highly incredible, if not impossible. you are Blocking the trauma, Kozmo. You did die in civil war. I promise you I did not You realy did, and you were a raccoon in another life. Where did you come up with these things? I am highly sensitive, and I am also passionate I know what is going to happen. - Really? - Yes, it is a great ... I do not know what you Kids are up to, Megan but if you want to come to my house for dinner, We better get going I've already lost an hour. Then you will now be 7.23? Very funny - Who are you? -Kozmo Cola, Cathy's fiance. When did this happen? It was kind of sudden. Kozmo and I met shortly after he and Ariel his daughter, moved from the Yukon. Yukon. Population: low (it always ??) No one lives in the Yukon. Anyway, we were very happy together and we decided to get married. I need an anti-acid It is not an antiacid you need, but it is harmony. - What? - Your soul is that of a warriors. at least to be calm and not excited. You are very perceptive I ... I'm Serena Su. Fred Larson. It time Mom, can you can sit next to dad. And Koz and Serena can sit here, right next to each other. You know, for a nice mix and all Trevor, not there. You give, and you give, and you give, Fred 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. And what you ask in turn? A little respect, a little consideration It's true. Well, girls, this looks ... Very inventive. They used my recipe. Perhaps, I have to clean yous aura. I have not anyone cleanes my aura before. You must let do a psychic reading ... This had to stop, Diary That was right on the verge of falling in love with the Blair witch. That was the first thing I could think of I know, I know. It seems totally mean But in that moment all I think of is to make these people mad to each other ... But even that did not work. at last! The Perfect moment! Have I ever used the word "debacle", before, Diary? But this was definitely one, may be it was a fiasco. Whatever it was, it was not good. I looked over at Ariel, and she looked super strange it was like she is falling apart, or something And when I followed her, the weirdest thing that ever happened. I'm not even sure how to describe it She has no body! She has no body! It is a snowball! What are you talking about, Megan? - Get away from me! - Megan, What is wrong with you? What is wrong with you gueys? Did not you hear me? she's an alien! May be you feel like an alien sometimes, Megan? I've seen this reaction.before. it is highly uncommon Many children fear changes of this magnitude. Megan got to used to this current little arrangement not sharing you, at least for another parent. With your intending marriage, that balance will be upset This alien's story is merely an attempt to prevent that from happening then you think it is allright to get through with the wedding? As long as that is what you want, I think it is imperative for her sake - How I look? - Great. This all will work out, Meg. I promise. - Mom, he's an alien I know, But after I marry him, he will become a citizen. it is not what I meant. I know. Is there not anything I can do to stop you from marrying Koz? You promised that it would not marry him, if I do not like him Megan, I have thought about this long and hard and I talked to the doctor about it. If I for one second thought, that your fears are justified ... I know he is different. But this makes him so wonderful Kozmo makes me so happy, honey I know that this marriage is going to make this family happy too. - do you think I'm going crazy? - We're all a little crazy around here. That's make us so special. I love you, sweety - I love you too, Mom. Everything is going to work out just fine Thank you. Deadlines. Hi, du ?? o. Megan, you look beautiful. Yes, your beautiful daughters, you are more lovely than you cornflakes in root beer Thanks ... I guess. Where is Ariel? should be coming shortly. She need a moment of meditation, to ... collect herself. Or may be she get back to the sink. Goodbye Zirkalone. Goodbye Fanu. Goodbye Soviza. Hello Soviza. - Is it possible? You are...? - It is I, Fanul. Sleep well ?? I ?? grateful to see you! Soviza, such physical proximity is repulsive me. I am sorry, Fanu We need to go quickly. Dad or Cosmo Cola, as he called here will that commits marriage with Earth woman, Kathy Larson, in less than an hour. Your father is very dangerous to me, Soviza. He wants a change What is that attitude about the changes, Fanul? Change is bad . Things must remain exactly as they are. But change is not always bad, Emperor. Soviza. already, This planet has poisoned her mind. He could be frozen solid, Soviza It can be reversed , but only in my pleasure. You would not want your father to be frozen forever, would you Sovisa? - No. - Good, then you will lead us to him. Would not you? Is toilet busy? Oh, sorry. Wrong room. Hello, Serena Su. Ariel, my sweet. Who are your charming friends ? This is Mike. His father Doug. They come from Jukon. It's my pleasure. - You will lead us to Kozmo Kola. There is no need to be so tense. Would you like a nice relaxing gum? Be silent! What annoying creatures these Earthlings are Perhaps you're right. Perhaps that we are annoying creatures ... We? They ... But Emperor, there more to it than that. These are earth friendly and wrath, and their bravery will surprise you, if you gave them a chance. Sometimes one must be cruel, in order to be kind, Soviza. Fanu, guard the prisoner I shall find Kozmo Cola. - Fanul, please. - He's my father, Sovisa. I have no choice. I wish I did The intruders, alert! Intruders! Execuse me, Where you want me to put the case of the root beer? I'll assist you with beverage. Come on, young Trevor. we will banish the villains Together. Megan, can you find Ariel? We are about to start In a minute. - Megan, if you see Mrs Kola,tell her it's a lovely day for a wedding. Of course, I'd rather be windsurfing. No doubt. Megan, I'm serious. Go and find your sister. - She's not my sister. - I'll go get her. Where is she? Come on. I that blackberry? I mean, I've never seen such brown color before Ah? What is that? This is Serena Su. What are you talking about Arijel, what is going on? who is he? He is Fanu. - Your boyfriend, Fanu? He and his father, Emperor SaVad have come for my father. I knew this guy was not invited. But ?? this will put your father? My father was a freedom fighter in the Zirkalonu. About...? - Zirkalon? - a whole planet. Your were entirely correct on all, Megan My father and I are aliens. Why did you come here? Just to make me feel inferior or what? We came to escape from political repression in Zirkalon We stayed because my father fell in love with your mother. Is that it? You got stuck in a whole new planet where you do not know anyone? that is bogus I changed my master, and I upset the nest 6 months. I guess I no much to help, right? - You can help me now, Megan - Well, I can try - What? - I was quit Wrong about you. You are not cruel, heartless being I was imagined You're actually incredibly brave and fearless - You have my feeligs - You are compare to me. I thought, and you proclaimed dictator, dude? Watch out on this, Fanul. - Yes, father. - You are Extremely rude, you know that? Silent, fear! Man, seriously, I should improve my vocabulary Check it out, it is a Party! Hey, Megan, Ariel. Now, that is pretty unusual. Thank you much, I love it. Hi. Can I help you? I am looking for the one called Cosmo Cola. I think it is out. If you see him, would you tell him that we will start in ... ... 15 minutes ... you have taking me far from home. Are you ready to pay for your crimes? - SaVada? - Emperor SaVada, to you You will come with me, now. Oh, I've never seen such grap before you want to Trade? Trevor, this is my friend, Mr. Savada - He loves to play hide and seel - cool, me too. Let us count to a hundred, and I will come find you - Ok, but no cheating. - I promise. after you Fanu, please I can not, Soviza. I'm sorry. not to weep, just Listen, I am here now. Okey! What? this full scan on you , Megan. Mint? - It is strong. - Exactly. you know what, my father like Megan and Ariel the other head I hear you, brother. you see that Betty and Veronica. [Cartoons] that is free of choice. Do not, my brother, give 5! never mind, man how did you decide yet, to end this traitorous captivity may be, but you got to work with me here So Fanul, you must have a lot of powerful back in your home planet You know, being the son of the emperor and all Well, it is a great honor to do my father speeding and time consuming. don't you have any time for fun? Well, my duty come first , but sometimes I was allowed to float. It is most enjoyable. - And how do you do that? First you need to be a bubble. - I don't think I can do that. So it is kind of a limitations? around here we have a lot of free time, - do not we kater? Oh yes! - a lot of choices. Like windsurfing, skateboarding ... O, o, Fanul, you like jump into the river and floating down into the ? Now that's extreme! - It sounds like a good recreation. Definitely. We recreate constantly. That is the cool thing about earth. Like last year for instance, I totally glided down the mountain. I think mostly I was falling, but it was great. I was all ... about that! And what other things we do, Kater ? Yes, what other choices do we have here? Oh, yes, we have 18 different flavors potato chips, all of which are excellent. Except yogurt, it is kind of weird You see, Fanul, on this planet is all about freedom of choice. Can you imagine, people here are free to fall down the mountain, to eat chips of various flavors to be emptied and vegetables ?? not. Exactly. And your dad like a tyrant, dude. I do not even know that I knew that word He does not want any freedom at all. He was, like, frozen that lady Ok, maybe she looks cool , but it is not In fact, here it is the antithesis of cool it suppose to be uncool I think I understand. - Oh, that! Well, May be it's time to stand up to your father? For, like freedom and liberty For this is the only planet in the entire universe with 18 dif- ferent taste of potato chips. You got to think of that. Tell Fanul. I know it has ?? in itself. I know that goodness and justice make up the core of your being. Let's get out of here, folks. I can see why you like him. He is kind of cute I found him more appeal Come in deportation grid, prisoner. - SaVada, listen! - Traitor! for the crime of questioning my authority ... I hereby sentence you and your daughter to be eternally frozen Please not Soviza, take me! Good, Fanu, Did you bring the girl? Yes, Father What is this? This is not Soviza. No, but I'm her step-sister. And it happen to be my stepfather you have there And you better let him go now. Okey? stop it - What is the meaning of this - It's time to make some change, Father. Change? Clearly your mind has been whooped When we get back home, I will remind you that the price of changes, is eternal freezing. - Now enter the Grid - Not until you let them go - Put the prisoners in the grid! - No! you are not keeping Kozma! Do mrdaj, naduvenko! Do not Mess with my family, dude. Absolutely! Stupid kids, do you challenge my authority! incredible I'm sure he will be here any moment now Your vaccume machine has no effect on me This is bad Arijel! Hay! Try this size, sucker! Not the wind! Not the wind! Trevor, rocks! Do not you see that we have the wedding here? What kind of behavior allright - Super! - Unreal! That was so cool, Trevor. Does that mean that Koz again can be a good alien? - Dady! - Ariel! - Thanks Megan Larson. - we're family. We suupose to attend it you need to get married Really, thank you, I'm sorry, at any minute. - Kathi! -Mama! - I'm sorry to kept you waiting. - I will wait Forever for you Honey, Have you seen Serena? Kozmo, repeat after me: I Kozmo, take thee, Catherine, to be my wife. I Kozmo, take thee, Catherine, to be my wife to have and hold From this day forward, to have and hold From this day forward, to love ... Fred Larson. Well, Diary, there is some things will never change. No, that is fine. ring me any time. to love honor and cherish Do you have to go back to Zirkalon? While my father was in this condition, It is up to me to govern our planet. I'll come back. after I make a few changes. Life on this strange planet continue confuses and amuses me, Diary I thought my life was completely over, When I came to Earth But now I see that it was only the beginning. New boyfriend who, despite once and actually kind of cute and new stepmother Even new best friend. Well, Diary, this is the part where I admit I actually learned something in the last couple months. I am. But I think I'll just keep it to myself I mean, who would ever believe us any way Let's just say thanks to my new half-sister now has a popular table place for everyone. My Stepsister
