 

                        1 Why are you here? For how long? The same time you got here! Ching-Mao! Ching-Mao! Ching-Mao! Auntie Wu! - Auntie - Mei-Jung Are you here for Ching-Mao? Is he here? I haven't seen him Either at the library or dorm - No lecture today? - The class just ended Come visit our home with Ching-Mao during the holiday - Chi-ming's came back from school - Chi-ming's back? I'll be there if he's going This place is off limits for girls I'm not going in. Bye! Good Bye Ching-Mao Auntie Don't shut yourself in while others are having fun I didnt know if you'd any warm clothes in this chilly weather Have some water A sweater It was Chi-Ming's but you two are the same height Auntie Give it to Chi-Ming. I'm fine. Chi-Ming has another one Auntie I don't need pocket money right now Keep it I didn't want you to know this It's not mine It's from your mother She's here again? In my home Please return the money to her I'll never take her money You're young Once you're at my age You'll then understand No-one is perfect People makes mistakes You refuse to see her And take her money She is really hurt by all this Hurt? Her? She never care about hurting others Oh, child! Auntie Would you mind doing me a favor? Next Thursday will be my father's 10th death anniversary But I have a test that day - Can you light an incense stick for him? - I would have done so regardless You remember everything Your father would have been so proud To have a son like you - No need to send me off - Thank you I'll come visit you some other time - Don't trouble yourself like this - I know What a coincidence! Where are you going? Nowhere I saw Auntie and you walking out of the dorm So I followed you Let's go to Cafe Astoria My treat I'm not going Then you're buying, how's that? - I'm really not bluffing - Wow, really? There's Chi-Ming Can I get you something to drink? - - Okay - And you? - Juice Okay Rarely do I get to meet our top student here Not interrupting anything, am I? Nonsense A new female professor is teaching essay analysis in the Foreign Language department Have you chosen this course? No Why not? She lectures solely in English and listening to more English will make your life oversea easier Who says I'm going oversea? Then why work so hard? We don't study just for going oversea Ching-Mao My mother just went to your school Have you met her? I just sent her off I saw your mother crying in my home when I came back yesterday Go and see her Chi-Ming, how's the workload at your college? - How do you find the time? - I come back for you But you're ignoring me What's so great about me? I'm too busy for this Ching-Mao, how can you just left me here? You know the way home His temper is getting weirder Thinks he's so great with all the top grades Think all he wants! I'm not going out with him even if he were the last living boy in the campus! Is this seats taken? - No - Thank you Ma, let's not sit here Come, sit Come, sit by the window - Where to? - Taipei We're going to the same place then - I couldn't believe it at first - Why would I lie to you? You look so young for a mother of a boy I married young, turning 30 this year Must have taken good care of your body. You look 26 or 27 Such a jokester! What do you do for a living: a merchant or something else? - Have a small business - Oh Ma, why haven't we reached Taipei? Already you're getting impatient. Told you not to come Mandarine, sir? - How much is it? - 5 bucks for 3 Should be enough - Have one - It's too much One each - Take one - I can't accept this It's fine Don't be so formal - Thanks - It's nothing Little bro, have one No! Ching-Mao, don't be rude! Take it, brat! - Have one - I don't want your thing Take it! - Ching-Mao, where are you going? - Bathroom! Go see a doctor if you're sick Why keep looking at me? Looking at me won't cure you Brother and Sister Wu kept saying in Taipei You're welcome at anytime They got good doctors in Taipei It's not cheap and I don't want to be a nuisance Just wait and die if you're such a miser Give me some! Ching-Chang, give some to Little sis - No! - He never gave me any Go play outside - I'll tell Papa you bullied me! - Don't distress him Or I'll give you a beating! I dare you! What's all this racket about? Outside, you two So irritating Ma, where are you going? So dirty! Ching-Mao, wash your sister's hands Ma, I want to go with you Ma! Stay at home and Mama will be back with lollipops Mama never took us with her Papa, I'm going to buy a pencil Why are you here? For how long? The same time you got here! Ching-Mao! Ching-Mao! Ching-Mao! Ching-Mao Did you tell your Papa anything? No and I'm not going to He's sick so I don't want to distress him I'm the only one who needs to know Ching-Mao, you're most well-behaved in the family And Ma's favourite I still held you as you slept after your brother and sister were born You even said Ma was the prettiest in the world Remember? You're still Ma's favourite Don't cause trouble for Ma Then don't cause trouble for us Auntie Wu I have a request Please come to Jiayi I've something urgent to tell you Papa's life depends on it You must come Yours Ching-Mao Chu Auntie Wu Ching-Mao What's happened? How's your father? Hey, cabbie! Auntie Wu My father always listens to you and Uncle Wu Please convince my father to go to Taipei So he can receive treatment I sent your Papa letters And messages via your mother Why didn't he come? My Papa is trying to save money So little brother and sister can go to school Our home will fall apart if he doesn't get well soon They're fighting again? Don't cry or people will make fun of you Mama is with another man She went there everyday Left Papa alone in the house - Don't talk nonsense - I saw it The man she met on her way to Taipei Does your Papa know? Please don't say you come at my request - Bang! - Ouch You'll dirty your cloth - Auntie Wu - Mama Wu - Auntie Wu - These snacks are for you Hui-de, what brings you here? Bo-Ni, you're looking healthier Than the last time we met No need to console me Come inside How's Brother Yang-shian? I haven't returned any of his letters My sister, have a seat Fetch a cup of tea for Auntie Don't be sad One leaves this world eventually Have a seat Where is Wen-ying? Why isn't she here? She went to buy grocery What a coincidence Today is Ching-mao's birthday Look at me, not even a present Yang-shian wants you to come to Taipei To have an examination So we'll know your condition See if a surgery is needed Can't keep going on like this I know it's incurable When did you get a medical degree? Can't get well by lying on bed all day Think of your children You can't have no regard for your health - My sister! - Don't "sister" me Heed to my advice If you respect me like your own sister - Ma - Ma - Mama Wu is here - Oh Big sis, when did you get here? - I could have picked you up at the station - I just got here Bo-Ni said you went grocery-shopping I did But I forgot to bring my purse You sit and I go get my purse Don't bother She is family Just have some noodles You came all the way Even help out in the kitchen I'm in the kitchen everyday A day without the kitchen Feel I've left something undone Once we women become wives and mother Must accept the life Do you still remember? You two met in our home Of course You and Brother Wu were the M.C. for our wedding Bo-Ni just likes to play huqin and hum Peking opera tunes Honest with no unhealthy hobby He's not perfect But he is a faithful husband We've so many children already How can I not understand him? He is not well You need to make sacrifices Stay with him, at home I was by his side every day What else can I do beside this? Seems you don't even talk to him anymore The illness is tormenting him Don't make him angry You don't understand: he needs to rest I'm doing this for his own good Why would I make him angry? Ma, where's mine? - You two wait - I want noodles It's your brother's birthday - The children can have mine - No, you go first Ching-Mao, why ain't you eating your noodles? Come, you're 12 years old now Few more years, and Ma can retire Little bro, have mine I don't want it I even put an egg for you - I'm full! - Ching-Mao! Have it your way! Throwing tantrums the last few days And now being so insolent He can finish them later It's your fault, spoiling him like this Papa Are you going to see the doctor in Taipei? It won't better my condition But not going will make it worse Ching-Mao is right Listen to the child We can't prolong this any further Ma, I would like go with Papa to Taipei tomorrow Suit yourself You two already made the decision behind my back All passengers... I'll be going then Thanks for everything you've done for us I'll never forget it So does Ching-Mao Take care and don't stress yourself See you soon I still want to pay you two a visit Knowing the result, now I can prepare myself Everyone will leave this world, sooner or later Ching-Mao, take care of your father Don't forget to write Take care Papa When did you come back? Why didn't you call me? How's the trip to the hospital? What did the doctor say? What's this? Wow...shoes! You bought them for me Let me try them on Just the right size and the style is not bad I couldn't afford them then And you remember! What did the doctor say? Ching-Mao, go back to your room Oh Tell me, who is that man? What man? Don't play dumb! You really think I don't know? You went to your tryst everyday I said nothing Hoping you won't over-doing it Now you even brought him to our home! I'm glad you know Why don't you berate me and kick me out of the house? I hate your cowardly looks, like a tortoise You don't even deserve a beating Slapping you is just insulting myself I want the children to have people's respect Wait for them to repay you then If you can live that long I don't need Ching-Mao to repay me But he will remember you're a terrible mother The children know nothing But you'd know Although I'm a mother But I am also a woman! Can't you at least wait? I don't have much time left I wonder how long you can last? Beat me, I dare you! Papa! Papa, Papa Papa, Papa Papa Papa I will never forget this, I will never forget this Anything you want me to do: just say the word I will do it The children... Don't you worry, I'll take good care of them Papa Papa! My home is in Pingdong I seldom visit my cousin My cousin I did not know much about his friends I think it's best if Mr. Wu manages the whole situation Of course Bo-Ni was my classmate He's worked for the company for years It will compensate him generously Then there's the matter of his children We should arrange something for them Cousin-in law can... Sure We need to discuss the matter with her Big bro Big bro Little bro, why are you here? I was all alone and got scared Ching-Chung, where's your Ma? Didn't your Ma tell you to keep her company? Little sis bumped her head Got one big gash There was so much blood Ma took her away I...I'm too scared to stay home alone Stay here then Have you eaten yet? Hungry? Ching-Mao, you also haven't had your supper Let's get a bite to eat You must eat something Listen to Auntie Big sis! What should we do... With our lives from now on? For you Life will be easier from now on Big sis How can you also slander me like this? Ching-Mao Ching-Chung In front of the children As well as Bo-ni's cousin I want to discuss something with you Tomorrow after the ceremony And the burial I want to take the brothers To Taipei What do you say? We will raise them properly What gives you the right? I gave birth to them So I should raise them Don't fight me on this He asked us to do so Because we went way back He used to call me "Big sis" It's my responsibility to raise them properly Who can confirm your words? I'm not dead yet! This is unreasonable! It's impossible to reason with you And Ching-ping I think, Zong-bao You are Bo-ni's only living family Do you want to adopt her? No-one can take them! You want to take away my children Never I'm a bachelor who is living on the East Can't taking care of children Cousin-in law just windowed She can only rely on her children And the children might not want to leave their mother Finally, someone reasonable Ching-Mao, you decide then Your mother or Auntie? Auntie, I want to live with you You ungrateful brat! - Who reared you? - Papa! You! Don't touch him! Are you here to beat your son? Cause more trouble And I will ask you to leave Ching-Chung And you? Ma That's fine That's settled then We're not trying to rob you of your children Once Ching-Mao has grown up You can take him back We will not stop you Ching-Mao, let's go swimming I can't swim Come on, I'll teach you I don't want to Acting all uppity Eat our food, use our things Who do you think you're? Not even after I promise to teach you You're just like your mother So unlikable You! Ching-Mao, let go! Chi-Ming is at fault here How can you talk to Ching-Mao like this? You're grounded for the week And apologize to Ching-Mao - Auntie, it's my fault - No Chi-Ming started this Chi-Ming Ching-Mao, if Chi-Ming says something rude again Tell me or Chi-ming's sister Never resort to force Use violence to settle things is barbaric Ma, say no more It's Little bro's fault Ching-Mao is the mature one Come, let's wash your face Want me to do it for you? Ching-Mao Ching-Mao Want to see a movie? I'm not going Go and have some fun Pruning flowers is my hobby Go, come on Snow White and The Seven Dwarfs is great Big sis, I also want to come Finish your homework? Yes Okay, you can all go Who are you looking for? Does a boy called Ching-Mao Chu live here? Little bro Big bro Little bro Why are you here? Anyone with you? Rode the train alone without a ticket Found him crying, asking for his brother Took me a while to get the address - Thank you, officer - Don't mention it Since this is the right place - I would be leaving then - Take care Where is Little sis? Little sis...she... She what? Little sis...she... She..she is dead After Papa died, Ma got a lot of money She gave them all to that man That's your Papa's pension Mama and that man went to Lake something Didn't even take us along Little sis had a fever during the night She neither cried nor screamed She didn't take the medicine the maid gave her I wanted to find Ma but I didn't know where to go Little sis had the fever for many days The maid didn't know what to do Soon she's gone as well By the time Mama was back Little sis had stopped talking Ching-ping Ching-ping Ching-ping Ching-ping Ching-ping You can't! Ching-ping - What are you doing? - Ching-ping! Ching-ping Get out of the way! Ching-ping Bastard! Ching-ping Ching-ping Ouch! Fuck your mother! My Ching-ping Ching-ping That man was like a mad dog He almost beat Ma to death Mama wrote a letter to Cousin-Uncle She told Uncle how that mad dog bullied her Gambled all her money away And beat her all black and blue Uncle treated her really well Can you think a way out of this? I can't face anyone again But for Ching-chung's sake I can't keep living like this Don't be sad Leave him first I can help supporting you and your son Don't worry I didn't know how the mad dog knew this But he came to the restaurant I'm warning you Go near her again and I'll kill you Go! Go, I say! Ma Ma! Mama disappeared the next morning He wanted me to find her Going to beat me to death if I couldn't I didn't know where to find Mama So I came to Taipei to look for Big bro Karma She made the mistakes Yet the children suffered with her Ching-Mao, do you know where your uncle lives? We must find your Ma No, I hate her to death! I never want to hear from her again Mei-Jung - He's calling you - I don't know the guy Ching-Mao Chu, apologize - You made her cry last night - You! Bye-bye I apologize I was being moody and unreasonable Moody? In a better mood now? This is not the first time Left me without a word Whenever you got upset I'm not your seismometer I can't stand your mood swings No need to apologize, good bye! Mei-Jung Please listen to me The girl you spoke of Did she have a sweet face And delicate features? I couldn't get a good look But they seemed to be close Then it must be Mei-Jung Zhang Used to come to our house You also know her How can I not? Not so frequent now Do you know why she stop coming? She feels embarrassed bumping into me What's this all about? She and I went to the same high school We're pals Ching-Mao used to play with us Then they started dating Just left me on the side This kid really is something Even stole other's lover Why didn't you duel him? As his elder, how can you talk like this Chi-Ming and Ching-Mao grew up together They're closer than real brothers And you encourage them to fight each other for a girl Big sis, I was joking No use fighting him Had better grades Came first in the entrance exam I can do nothing about it Ma, I have a train to catch Girls will fall for you once you start to study hard I'm going to have a talk with her With whom? Ching-mao's girlfriend If I can't even meet my own son I certainly can't let others rob him away Get one thing straight No-one has taken away your son You misread my words I don't mean you It's normal to have a girlfriend You still have Ching-Chung Forget about Ching-Chung If he isn't so lazy Then I won't miss Ching-Mao so badly Put your feet down Can't help it I have fallen in love for her There is only rice How can I eat this?! This is abuse My Ma is not here and you let me eat this?! I'm not forcing you Buy your own food then - Give it to me - What? Stop pretending Ching-Chung, you're almost 20 years old Show some consideration I'm a factory overseer Not a banker You keep asking me for money If not you, from whom then? My Ma married you So you should support us Am I right? Everyone knows I'm an excess baggage A baggage must carry something Take it 20 bucks? Not enough for a cup of tea I need to pay for the movie and dinner Get out! You're telling me to go Why took me in then? I should never have taken you in No wonder The Wus didn't want you Not even half as good as your brother Never bother to study Didn't finish any school Gave you a job in the factory Bailed after 3 days! Now stay in the tea room all day None of the girls there love you Try going there without a dime I'll settle the score with you after Ma comes back Don't you pawn my watch! - I need it for work - Give it to me What are you two doing? Two grown men fighting...ain't you two ashamed? - He's going to pawn my watch - He wants to kick me out You must discipline him He insulted me Stop the quarreling like children Yield to him I didn't get to meet Ching-Mao But I saw him in the distance He didn't see me But I'm on the right path Don't bury yourself with papers You look like a corpse Next time I will be able to meet him You're still going? Next month Forget it He doesn't want to meet you Always coming back empty-handed What's so wrong with going to see my son? It will save me some money Do you know how much your trips cost? Your cousin was better than you in this regard He never complaint about the way I spent money Sometimes he even insisted on buying me things Yet you pushed him toward death Do you really have to hit the sore spot? Still talk this nonsense Why not manage this home instead? Discipline this son Don't keep running to Taipei Just one more time If I fail again I'll never go there again Ma, going to Taipei again? Be back in a few days You just came back Why? Big bro clearly doesn't want to see you I'm here You barely look at me I'm your son too You're being biased I know what you're trying to say Only one hundred? Take it Ma, have a safe journey For Ching-Mao Mei-Jung Zhang, someone is waiting for you in the reception room You were fighting just two days ago Now you're sending him things Not embarrassed? Go to hell Bye-bye You mus be Miss Mei-Jung Zhang Yes And you are? I'm Ching-mao's mother He is at the boy's dorm I know I'm here to see you Any lecture this afternoon? I want to have a chat with you Someone told me you and Ching-Mao are close Sometimes That's what love is all about This is what makes it interesting Ching-Mao has a weird temper Very obstinate Be more understanding He's a little different But you really like him Am I right? Auntie Chu I don't know how to respond to this He hasn't told you my surname is Shen now Sorry, he might have told me about it But I forgot Has he seldom talked about me? I asked him about you once He then refused to talk to me for days He still refuses to forgive me Ten years He doesn't even want people to mention my name I'm my mother Look at me I'm at my early forties Already looking so old You know why? Because I thought of him all the time Why didn't you go and see him? I just told you the reason He refuses to see me I went to his school He refuses to meet me I waited for him at the Wu's house He didn't even go there Just because I made a mistake When I was young He hated me And hates me ever since Auntie I will try to persuade him Mei-Jung To tell you the truth Before I met you I instinctively disliked you But now I've met you I changed my mind You know what? I thought If I couldnt have him, nobody would Not anymore now I'm willing to give him to you After you're married If we can live together I'll take care your children for you Auntie What are you talking about... I'm very candid Help me Persuade him to meet me I only want him to know What I feel How much I love him Then I can pass away peacefully Auntie Where do you live? I used to stay at the Wu residence Every time I cam here Too embarrassed to trouble them anymore I'm living in Hotel Wei-xing right across their house For how long? After getting your reply But I'm not confident I can convince him At least a reply Auntie, I'll be going then I'll do my best Thank you, Mei-Jung (Ching-Mao: Wish it stay forever by your... Mei-Jung) Auntie Look at me, opening your card For him? It's his birthday tomorrow That's why I chose today If you can convince him I'll treat you two to a feast Auntie I also hope he'd come Where have you been? You wasn't at the dorm Take a break with me this afternoon? Quite a cyclist Performer-level 6 years as a paper boy Every single day How can I not be? You're in a good mood today I'll try to control myself from now on Be always calm I'm a weird guy A prune with a bad temper You must be miserable Others would have broken up with me already I've thought about it But I couldn't do it You've always been so forgiving to me Are you also so forgiving to others? They didn't give me the chance And they didn't deserve it Like your mother? Who told you about her? Auntie Wu I'm also a woman And if I have a son Refusing to see me for ten years I would have killed myself You don't know my mother And you're not like her This is the first time You call her "mother" It sounds comforting When she comes to see you again Don't avoid her Let's not talk about her Why? We all have a mother Why can't we? I received Auntie Wu's letter today Urge me to go home The letter especially asked me To bring you along Are we still going to talk about your mother? Ching-Mao! Ching-Mao Auntie Welcome, where's Ching-Mao? The living room. Let me help Don't dirty your dress Auntie Everyone's here? The kitchen is all greasy Out, out Boys have no place in the kitchen Out, out Out, out - Auntie - Mmm? I need to speak to you Ching-mao's mother's here - Where? - In the hotel Yesterday she came to talk to me Wanted me to convince Ching-Mao to meet her Have you talked to him? I don't know how to tell him He became angry once I mentioned his mother Convince him to change his mind Can you? Okay I'll give it a try Auntie, we're waiting for you No need to wait for me Mei-Jung, have a seat Uncle, you know I don't drink Today's an exception I've high blood pressure Normally she won't let me have a drink Mei-Jung Make yourself at home Nothing fancy Just fried noodle for Ching-mao's birthday Auntie I would have forgotten about it if it wasn't for you It's others who should do the remembering Thank you You're 22 years old now I watched you going from primary school to high school You'll soon graduate from college How time flies All thanks to Auntie and Uncle I don't know how to say this To you, Uncle and Auntie Don't drink so much Today is special Chi-Hui sent a letter to you from America It's her present for you Big Sis sent a letter It's in my pocket Let him read it after the meal I didn't say he can read it now - What's the hurry? - Come, eat I sent in the report card Chi-hui's teacher did the scholarship application As for the travelling fee We'll take care of everything Just go when the time come Don't worry about a thing I wasn't so sad When my daughters left to study oversea Now you're also leaving I... Uncle Auntie You treated Ching-Mao so well The year my father died I was still a school boy I thought I'd never go back to school again I never dreamed I could one day go study abroad This is all due to your hard work Otherwise no-one can help you Why all the tears? He's not leaving tomorrow No need for this There's something else You've always listened to me, right? Go and see your mother She didn't forget your birthday She's waiting for you in the hotel I know the hotel I can take you there You knew? Your mother came yesterday But didn't have the courage We talked about many things Ching-Mao For the last 10 years I'm in no position to judge How you treat your mother Although she mistreated your father She's still your mother You can't admonish her She kept coming to see you You just kept avoiding her She always went back in tears You should go and see her this time Not to forgive her But to ask for her forgiveness Uncle, you're right to admonish me I'll go and see her Hotel Astoria Which room does Mrs. Shen stay in? No. 15 Thank you Ching-Mao Ching-Mao, child I'm no child of yours! You got the wrong person! Ching-Mao Let's go somewhere to ease your troubled mind Don't go back to the dorm Let's go to Cafe Astoria There's no need to console me. To tell you the truth I now hate all women Nor can I trust them No-one will live a happy life with me She used to be good to my father Used to love my father But she killed Father with her betrayal You are good to me And so understanding But what will you be like in the future? Break up with me then So I won't kill you with my betrayal But a word of advice Just because your mother was unfaithful That doesn't mean all women are like her There are some who are like her But also some who are like Auntie Wu Do you have the ability to discern And find a woman like Auntie Wu - Mei-Jung - Let me finish! By generalizing all women in the world You will end up with a lonely, miserable life You're graduating from college soon Yet so childish So pathetic Hiding in your room Instead of going to the graduation ceremony? I'm not graduating As an audience Your beau looked magnificent Valedictorian Delivering the farewell speech So eloquent Everyone applauded I tried to look for you I would have been so proud if I were you Proud my ass Be it first in the school Or first in the world, I'll not speak to him again What's wrong with you two? What a stormy relationship Inseparable when you're in love Vicious when you're fighting Auntie Mei-Jung You came as well! Have a seat How can I not? Where were you? I want you in the picture Come, come to my house Auntie, I... I don't want to see him again This has nothing to do with Ching-Mao I'm the one who invites you Get closer Father Take a picture of Ching-Mao and I Okay, stand still I'm quite a photographer Wait Let us all be in the picture Come on Auntie, I'll not be in the picture with him Then we take the picture later Come, sit Come, sit Don't be mad I'll teach him a lesson You two have chat I'm going to lie down for a bit Why don't you two sit? - I'll sit with you - Sit anywhere you like Ching-Mao Someone should be at your graduation But she didn't come You know why? Auntie Let's not talk about it I waited until now to tell you Else you'll forever misunderstand her I... That day you went to see your mother Just so happened a man walked out her room Was I right? So you just pushed your mother away Do you know who he is? The hotel chef She asked him with the best of intention To prepare a feast Auntie, did she tell you this? The next day she came to me in tears Saying you see her as immoral Didn't even let her explain herself Before she left, she told me She'd never come to see you again Seems we need to go to Pingtung Why are you going? Last time Mei-Jung went there with him So he has to trouble Mei-Jung again Mei-Jung I'm not obliged to go with you Big brother! Excuse me, you brought a lady Have a seat Let's sit Didn't know you're coming This is Miss Chang My brother How are you? Please, sit. Ma said Miss Chang was your girlfriend Only you in the house? Ma went to the hospital With Uncle He's having an operation Which hospital? They didn't tell me And I wasn't home then They didn't even left me with a dime! For how long? About a week For what? The stomach is rotten completely Rice gruel all day long How can he take it? The surgery Will remove half of his stomach He can't die I don't want to be an excess baggage again You're here to? See Auntie To see Ma? How strange Ma went to Taipei ten times just to see you You refused to see her Now she gave up And you decided to visit her Got any cash? You really don't know where they are? I'm not lying Either in Tainan or Taipei And it's a big hospital If it wasn't for you The illness would killed me I did it for myself Let's rest a bit My eldest son rejects me My other son is a disappointment Who will take care of me If you are not around? Tell me Do you treat me better than my cousin? Look at you Keep putting salt on old wounds The mistakes of my youth Now I have only regrets You don't look so old to me Flatterer Be more careful, you brat! Mr. Shen, you're back Feeling better? I was lucky All thanks to my wife Ma, you're back I've a surprise for you My Ma My uncle - My girlfriend, A-shiou - Auntie Your girlfriend? We plan to live with you first We'll move out After we're married - Married? - Yup We can now stop worrying about you. Get some tea Ma, there is something else Big bro was here Ching-Mao? Yeah, he came with his girlfriend His girlfriend was also very pretty But I didn't know the name of the hospital How can it be? Why would I lie to you? He's going to the training center in the army Then he'll study oversea In other words He's luckier than me Look like you have to go to Taipei Go Go Big bro Wu Ching-Mao just left Half an hour ago To do military training Hui-de and Mei-Jung went to the train station to see him off - The train leaves at? - 15:40 I still have ten minutes You'll not make it You can visit him in the future After ten years Can't even wait for another second I won't be able to make it Please, as fast as you can We'll visit you next week Auntie, no need for you to stay Mei-Jung, goodbye Please, hurry! Hurry This is killing me Bye, I'll come visit you with Auntie Don't forget to write I'll come visit you Beware of the two-way traffic Ching-Mao - Ma - Ching-Mao - Ching-Mao - Ma Ching-Mao Ching-Mao Ching-Mao - Ching-Mao - Ma Ma! Ma!
