 

                        Golden scales is not meant to be in a pond, because it will become a dragon when wind meets Cloud. The world's best world Fighting Association, their leader Conquer lives his life to unite the martial arts world. With the Mud Buddha's words, If only he gets wind and Cloud together, he will get his wish to unite the martial arts world. For his dream to come true, He killed wind's and Cloud's entire families. In order to carry out their revenge plans, the young wind and Cloud become Conquer's disciples, waiting for a chance. Conquer taught us all our kungfu. To kill him, the only way is to use Flame Kylin's blood to increase our power. You could be possessed! Wind, that's too risky! Wind, be prepared to sacrify! Control the devilish Flame Kylin's blood with your Ice Heart Knack or else you'll lose your mind and be completely possessed. You will become a manic-depressive killing machine. Wind! Don't do it! Cloud, wind and you are the only two people carry Flame Kylin's blood. To increase your power, you have to awake the Flame Kylin's blood in your body to be possessed by Flame Kylin. Cloud, you must remember wind's devil blood and yours are connected. When wind is using the Kylin's blood, you cannot use it. If you do, he will immediately lose all control. Wind! Cloud, if there comes a time I cannot control the blood, you must kill me. Conquer, it is time for you to pay for everything you have done. I succeeded because of you, I will be destroyed because of you! Nonsense! Wind, use the Ice Heart Knack! With a heart clear as ice, nothing can stand in my way... Cloud, if I can't control it you must kill me! Wind, I will be with you! Get Ready! Fire! Jue, did you dream of revenge again? Jue. No! I promised master. Master, there is a man outside by the name of Duan-Lang, who has a letter for you. Bring him in. Come with me. Lang, the famous Ao family of the Sword worship villa. Why are they hiding underground? The Sword worship villa was the Emperor's appointed sword-making workshop but because of some false charges of rebellion the Emperor had executed the entire clan. The only survivor was Jue who escaped, along with Kay who was from the same clan they fled as far as they could. I am Duan-Lang, here to see Master Ao. Just by walking through your clans, I saw the sword skills of your villa is most masterful. Reminds me of the glory days of Sword worship villa. Cut the nonsense. I heard that you have been looking for Flame Kylin's blood for many years. I have come here with good news. The Flame Kylin has already extincted from this world. Then how can you possibly find me some blood of the Flame Kylin? There are two people who carry the blood and are alive. Lin-Yin Cave, Flame Kylin The day wind and Cloud killed Flame Kylin was the same day they took the blood. Why should I believe you? Because the complex relations between Duan family and the Flame Kylin since its origins. The Kylin Sword? In order to get the blood of Flame Kylin out of wind and Cloud, you're going to need the Duan family's Kylin Sword. And what do you want for this? The world Fighting Association You are quite audacious! You dare searching Mr. Chow's belongings? Please cooperate and follow the rules. What rules? If there is any damage, can you afford to pay up? No, no. Don't you have dignity? Remember that you are guards! What can't he afford to pay back? Let me take a look. A circus! What is this all about? Mr. Chow, Mrs. Chow... Captain C, it's Mr Chow's 50th today. They hired a circus to perform the whole city is invited to come and watch. Still need a search? The thing is, we'd just received news about the Bat Gang coming to ambush the city. The Bat Gang? Ambushing the city? Then we should hire more guards to keep us safe! Hurry! Mr. Chow, please don't worry. With me here, the Bat Gang is not able to do anything! All knives, swords and weapons should be given up here! Let me search thoroughly. Such a big circus! Mr. Chow likes it big! Rich people like to show off. If the Bat Gang comes, they'll be the first to be robbed! You are right. Mum! It's an elephant! Look! An elephant! Excuse me, sir. What are you doing? Hurry! Get my little dog back. Yes. Chase them! Hey! You little thieves! Hey doggie, stop running! Quickly, the little dog has gone over there! Hurry! Looks like I'll have to do something... Yeah! Hey! Careful! Thief! Give my money back! Hey! This way! Captain C, we couldn't find anyone over there they have gone that way, hurry, chase them! Yes! You flasher! She hits because she cares, scolds because of love! That was close. You should practice kungfu more. If I wasn't here, there'd be no one to save you. Yan, Mrs Chow loves this little doggie very much. How much is the dog worth? The little dog is mine! Don't you dare touch him! Ying Sister, you won't sell the little dog will you? That depends if you're a good dog. You dare barking at me?! I'll sell you, you know? Huh! You pee on me! Little dog? Little doggie? Yan, stop chasing. Come back, quick! Doggie! Little dog, where are you? Yan! Stop chasing! Come back! Little dog, why are you barking? Yan! Danger! - Yan! Don't be scared! - Sis, quick, run away! Just ignore the body! Run, quick! He's still breathing. Save him! Okay. Don't move. Go away! Come, help me. Yan, hurry up! Sis, he might be a bad guy! We'll see when he wakes up. Yan, look, are my biceps as big as his? Wow, amazing, his biceps are bigger than your head! Cloud, I must find you. You beast! Sir, are you looking for something? I want the best gravestone you have. This way please. Quyang white marble, this is the best. OK. What name shall I write on the gravestone? The grave of Brother Cloud No problem. This gravestone is the last thing I can do for my brother. It must be the absolute best. Table for one? This way please. - He has a weapon! - Where's Captain C? Where is the man with the weapon? Upstairs. Long hair, I have not seen you before. From where did you enter the city? Are you deaf? Captain C is asking you a question! From where did you enter the city? From the mountains in the south. Are you trying to fool me? The south is all cliff and deep valleys. Does that mean I cannot enter the city there? I don't care where you come from, I have to take your weapon. Let go! Sir, our city is under a no-weapons regulation right now. No one is allowed to carry any weapons. Knives and swords have no eyes, mistakenly hurting someone is not good. Knives and swords ruin lives! Revenge ruins lives! We are only following orders and keeping your weapon temporarily. That long-haired guy is pretty good! Wonder where he's from. You nearly got my arm chopped off! I won't let you get away from this! I didn't mean to, it was an accident! Why would wind be here? What happened to him? I don't care. Anyone from the world Fighting Association should be killed. Mistress is coming. Mistress. Mong, this is wind from the world Fighting Association. If he wakes up, he could kill us all. It's better to kill him first. I want to know why he came here. Bring him inside. We are hiding here because we want to get away from the world Fighting Association. I'm worried that we will expose our identities. The reason that we are hiding here is because we want to get away from senseless killings. We'll be fine if we are more careful. Friends in the martial arts world and those from the world Fighting Association, in the defence and protection of our Association, our leader, Conquer, was killed by Cloud and wind. We in the world Fighting Association are extremely sorrowful. However, a kingdom cannot exist without a king. Our most urgent issue today is to agree on Tung Huang as our new leader. Tung Huang? New leader? What ajoke! You're absolutely right! So let me be the leader. It's Duan-Lang! You? You were thrown out of the world Fighting Association a long time ago. How dare you speak to your new leader in that tone? It's a crime punishable by death! By you? You aren't able to! You deserve this, you busy-body! Die! Zi-Tan-Hua, you really have no idea how to treat a lady! Even a beautiful lady is coming after you! Conquer, you always look down on me, but look where it brought you - death at the hand of your two disciples. Open your eyes and see who is sitting in your place! Is me, Duan-Lang! Fish in a boiling cauldron know their days are numbered, why would the bird who knows the nest is dangerous still waits for the wind? Since when did the world Fighting Association have such a master? You are... Names are useless, and so I am Nameless. Master Nameless, I, Ao Jue, am honoured to meet you. Ao Jue? You are from the Sword worship villa? Ao, looks like you haven't caught any fish today? Only small ones, and I am not interested in catching small fish. Ao only wants to catch big fish. It would erupt another bloody storm. It would be devastating for the masses. Master, you worry too much! The big fish is here! If the big fish is gone, all the other fish lose their bearings and chaos will ensue. The weak are the prey of the strong this is the way of nature, you cannot blame me! Humanity is also nature's way, waging war on others disrupts peace. Didn't the Sword worship villa make their swords for righteous purposes? Righteous and evil are both scholarly lies, both nonsense! The Sword worship villa pledged loyalty to the Emperor. Why couldn't the Emperor recognize right and wrong? Why did he kill my entire family? The Sword worship villa that you claim is righteous, is gone. I am from The Blade Manor! Hatred is the fountainhead of evil. Ao, why can't you leave the hatred behind and live a life worth living? When the nature has no mercy, people has no loyalty, don't blame me! It's not easy finding someone who appreciates my music, let me play you a line! Oh? The shadow of sword? Stubbornness won't do you good! Why don't you let go of your anger? No one can stop me! Sister Ying, the Chow family bodyguards are here! I'll deal with them. Chai, stay calm! You have no where to go! You really don't want to live, do you? Dare stealing Mrs Chow's little dog! There are martial arts experts here! Run! Sister Ying, he's good at kungfu! What's your name? My... My name... I don't remember... You don't remember your own name? It doesn't matter if you don't remember. You can work for me. You are the youngest. He should work for you? Why not? Then I shall give you a name! You're pretty good at fighting. Let's call you "Chopper"! You can chop vegetables and you can fight! Chopper is a great name! Mr. Chow is choosing bodyguards today with a martial arts contest, we have a winner. Chen Dong of the Chen-Fist-Clan wins. Next! Are they hiring bodyguards here? Wow. I smell alcohol. Are you here for the famous drunken fist? We've already chosen eight bodyguards. Look! I'll fight all eight of them together! You look down upon us! Go to hell! Wow! Just hire him is more than enough! Deity of wind Kick! You're right, it's wind. We must tell boss. Here's the money I owe for the alcohol. Mong won't kill him. What shall we do? Kill him first, if not, we're doomed. Mong will blame on us. Go prepare some poison we'll persuade Mong after we've killed him. Stop! Look! He and Cloud were the ones who killed Conquer. You almost killed the wrong person! Mysterious Healer, stop! Lang! Smells good! Really good! She's your woman? Such a waste! Where is the stuff I want? This toxic leech can poison human blood. The poison will work within a day of entering the body system. No matter how great your kungfu skills are, you'll still be poisoned and become a dead person. Excellent! You live up to your reputation. If you ever need anything, let us know. Northern wild Horse! Be my guest. I didn't want you to come with me because I don't want to scare you. Lang, is Mysterious Healer trustworthy? Mysterious Healer is unpredictable, it's difficult to tell. But, as long as you satisfy his desires you could get him to betray his parents. You want to make Flame Kylin's blood into poison, and... After Jue has killed wind and Cloud, you'll poison him with that? Killing two birds with one stone. Very smart. Chopper, come here! What are you waiting for? You have to earn your living here. I will teach you how. Wow! It's great here! Let me through! Get out of my way! Ouch! That hurt! Why did you hit me? You're so useless! Look at me! So you do it then! I give up! How can you see with yourself blind-folded? Your senses are pretty good! Try and steal my bag! Come! Ahhh! Flasher! No! No! Chopper, I saved your life. I need you to do something for me! Okay. What do you need me to do? You need to get the little dog back! Hold tight! Wow! Haha! That's awesome! Chai, Mi, Yo, Yan, you all go look for the dog. Okay! Remember to be careful! Chopper, you come with me! Let me. Wow! This is amazing! These treasures are all unrighteous. Unrighteous? Yes, we should take them all. Chopper, be careful! Are you okay? Hello! Huh! Arrest all of them! Captain C This has nothing to do with the children, let them go! Young lady, we've caught the thieves and the loot! But since it's your first time and you were coerced, you may go! You! Stay behind! What do you want? Don't interrupt. This is men's business. I've not seen you before. From where did you come from? The south mountains. You're also from the south mountains? With that Kylin tatoo on your arm, you must be hiding something! Take him away! You dare to resist arrest? He's still alive! How come everyone from the south mountains is so good? Father, why are we called the Sword worship villa? Many years ago, our ancestors came across some superior metal. They wanted to forge an invincible sword. They called it "Jue". But anyone who tried to forge this sword would die for no reason. The sword was uncontrollable, it was too fierce. Father, a fierce sword is a good sword! But man should not be controlled by the sword. Being possessed by the sword means losing all humanity. Yes, father. Our ancestors felt the evil side of the sword was too much, so they bury it inside a stone cave before it creates trouble. They ordered that none of their descendents should learn how to use it, and made sure every year the sword was worshipped to protect the family. Master, the Emperor said our Sword worship villa was planning a rebellion. The Emperor's army are already here. I was such a fool working for the Emperor all these years! Master! Master! Kay, I know Jue likes you. But your kungfu is the skillful type which contains negative power which will work against Jue's powerful approach with positive power. Promise me you will never marry him. Hurry, get him out of this clan. Hurry! Master! Father, I've found where Flame Kylin's blood is. We can get the Jue sword out of the stone. We can get our revenge. To revenge the death of my father and the execution of the Sword worship villa. And the destruction of our ancestral graves. The Evil Emperor! This really is an evil sword! Excellent! He is from the world Fighting Association. If we let him stay, it'll only bring us trouble. He killed Conquer, so that severs all his ties with the Association. Mong, you can't use our brothers' lives as gambling stakes. Wind, I am not killing you for anything personal, but for us to avoid the storms of the martial arts world. Master wind, stop! Fire Monkey! Mud Buddha! This is fate! Master wind, fate has arranged that we meet again. - Good! - Good! Chopper, come over I guess you are trustworthy. This is the money that we've managed to save. What do you want to do with all this money? We are all orphans, everyone discriminates us. In order to survive, we have to steal. I want Chai, Mi, Yo and Yan to have good living ahead of them. I heard if we get to the coast line towards the east and keep traveling eastwards by boat for a month you'll see a beautiful island called Peng Lai Island. And when I've saved enough money, I will bring Chai, Mi, Yo and Yan there. Boss! You said wind is here? Yes, he is in the village. Bring me to him. Everyone else go to Chow's mansion. Go! Oh? What happened? Don't open the door! Old-Evil-Bat! Wind, do you remember this scar from ten years ago? I will return it to you double fold. Help! Take everything with us! Come on, let's take some too! Sir, please, can you leave a little for me so I have enough to retire? If you died today, you wouldn't need to worry about a thing. Take everything! Please don't kill me! Help... Save them first. Mong! Don't move. Mong, are you okay? Cloud! Wind! Cloud! Sir, we were lucky that you were here last night. If not, our entire city might have been wiped out. Yes. Sir, I've discussed with the elders of the village, we'd like you to be our sheriff, to protect us. Sheriff? That means he'll have to catch us? He is under me, he can't arrest me! The devil blood of Kylin has total control over wind, its a point of no return. If the devil attacks again, we'll all be dead. Mud Buddha, please guide him to the right track. I hid because I did not want to face the world again, to foresee the future. He saved you before. You must help him. He goes against the wishes of gods. I don't know if I can help. Mud Buddha! Wind is not visible, dreams are not real. Hesitation can bring a lifetime of regret. Where are the Bat Gang? They are all gone. My head... Sir, will you take me as your disciple? Captain C, what happened? I'm useless, I'm a disgrace to the whole town. I'm just a coward. Captain C, get up first! Mr. Long hair, please teach me kungfu. The man with the Kylin tattoo on his arm took everything from me. I have to get it back myself! What? A man with a Kylin tattoo on his arm? I've thought about it, there is no reason for you to give up being sheriff and be a thief! Just go. When you are sheriff, you won't need to hang out with us thieves. I won't be sheriff. You should stop stealing things too. I'll take care of you all. We'll all go look for Peng Lai Island, okay? Fantastic! But right now, the most important thing is to heal you. To recall your memory! Ying, why are you smiling like that? Like what? Chopper, come here, quick! Mama bird is hurt. Cloud! - Ying! Help! - Ying... Help! Hold tight! Ying! Ying! The birds! Are you ready? Go! Get him! Don't let him go. Wind, how did you meet Cloud? Cloud and I had unhappy childhoods. Our parents were both killed by Conquer. But we had the same thoughts, in order to revenge, we need to become Conquer's disciples to learn kungfu! I am wind. Wind? Cloud? I finally got wind and Cloud together! Ha... what was he like before? He and I were completely different. Why did you kill them? They had no means of protecting themselves without their mother. They will suffer from pain. Therefore, it's a blessing to die young for them. And now, Cloud isn't like the way he was before. Will you tell him about his past? No! All these years I've known him, I've never seen him smile. To see him being happy now is a blessing. My father and I both hope for the blessing of a new life. Your father? My father left the family in order to pursuit for the best martial arts expert. Even when my mother passed away, he didn't come back to say goodbye. I hate him! But when my mother died, she didn't have any hate or regret. It changed my thinking. I know. My mother hoped I could give my father another chance. When one revenge ends, another begins, there's no ending of it. Cloud and I have spent half our lives planning our revenge. Who would have known what comes after revenge is not peace and joy. Cloud was known as the god of death. I never would have imagined his happiest times would come when his past is forgotten. When you leave the anger and stubbornness behind, life changes entirely. Wind! Come and play with us! This is the first time I've seen you being happy. We've never played together. I feel so blessed. You've finally found your only brother. I am happy for you too. And another person who cares for me. Mong. I'll stay here with you to wait for your father's return. There are ups and downs in life Do you feel very blessed now? If you want your brother to feel the same, you should leave here immediately. You have the Kylin in you and the Kylin's deadliest enemy is Cloud since you guys are connected. Success because of wind and Cloud, Failure because of wind and Cloud. The lives of wind and Cloud are intertwined in both life and death, if you want to have good lives, you will have to be apart, and both should stay out of the martial arts world. You thought your brother died because of you, but if he knew you were so upset and guilty, he wouldn't blame you. I didn't worry if he blames me I just want him to be happy. Will you drink with me and my brother? Sure! I must leave this place. Why? I'm going to a place that I belong to. My brother promised me before. If it were you, would you have killed me? Yes! Because we are also brothers. Take care. Mong! It's Kay! Kill her! Wind! You? Cloud! Wind! Wind! Stop! It's me! Don't move! Don't let her leave alive! What makes you think you two can stop me? Quick! Someone get Captain C! I only want wind and Cloud. I will kill everyone who is in my way! You! Shadow, I will remember you. - I have to go and help! - Do you want to die? I am the sheriff of this city! I have to save the people! Coward! You! Why didn't you wait for me? I am the sheriff of this city! If you want someone to fight, fight with me! The blood of Flame Kylin is finally here! Master Ao, save me! It's wind! I want him alive! Try this weapon specially designed for you, the Kylin Lock! - I have to help wind! - Yes! Yan! Careful! It doesn't matter whether or not I am Cloud what matters is that we are friends. After I save him, I will come back to bring you to Peng Lai Island. Okay? Master Ao, it was my fault, because I was late Kay was killed by wind. After you took Flame Kylin's blood, even Nameless cannot challenge you. It's only a matter of time before Master Ao can rule the entire world. I will do anything I can to help. Leeches? Kay was killed by the Kylin Sword. I am a master swordsman. You think I wouldn't be able to tell? Are you thinking about Mysterious Healer right now? I invited him here already. You think I want to drink the blood of Flame Kylin? I want the blood so that I can release the sword from its bindings. I don't want the martial arts world, I want the entire world! Catch him alive! You want to save him? I'll exchange him for the Flame Kylin's blood. Wind! Release him! The Ao ancestors are watching. Today, Jue will release the Jue Sword with Flame Kylin's blood. I'm not afraid of the curses on my descendents! To get my revenge, I have no regrets! Sword and man unite! Release my friend! Release him! Excellent! An excellent sword! You are honoured to be the first victim of the sword! Jue Sword, you really are the king of all swords! Nameless? Jue, you can still save yourself from evil! This sword will kill its master! Give up the sword! Shut up! If I kill you, I will be the king of all swords! No one can kill me! The shadow of the devil? Wise use of your sword makes you ajustice, but evil use will make you the devil. Let the sword ofjustice break the sword of devil! Careful! Give up your sword now! If you are possessed by the devil of the sword, you will become the Kylin devil! Wind! Cloud! You two devils! They will fight to the death! They won't stop until both are dead! If you want to save them, release me now! How can we save them? Quick, tell me! There is only one way. Stab them with the Kylin sword, bring out the Kylin blood so they can be themselves. Ying, wind is here! Quick, come and help me! If you want to kill wind, you have to kill me first! Ying! As long as you're alright... Hurry, kill wind. He has lost his humanity, there's no turning back for him. No! There will be a way to save him! There must be a way to save him. If you don't kill him now, the repercussions will be endless. Cloud, don't you want to find out about your past? That day, when wind asked me, would I have killed him if I were Cloud, the old me would have. But for now, I would never give up on a friend. I will always remember these happy days! Chopper, Sister Ying, I can see the island! THE END
