 

                        COOLEY: It looks like she drug in a real crowd, don't it? PRICE: Sure does. Looks like it's gonna be a full house tonight. Hey, what do you say we run in and check out the show? (PEOPLE CLAPPING) How we doing here? We all set? Hey, big crowd, huh? Yeah, and not one of them's got a pot to piss in. I never should have let myself get talked into this dumb benefit. I could be making some real money tonight. All right, let's get this thing started. (CROWD CHEERING) MAN: And now back home again the one, the only Ellen Aim! (BAND PLAYING) Lying in your bed and on a Saturday night You're sweatin' buckets and it's not even hot But your brain has got the message And it's sending it out To every nerve and every muscle you've got You've got so many dreams That you don't know where to put 'em So you'd better turn a few of 'em loose Your body's got a feeling that it's starting to rust You'd better rev it up and put it to use And I don't know how I ever thought that I could make it all alone When you only make it better And it better be tonight I'll be there for you tonight Even if you don't have anywhere to go You go down on the pedal and you're ready to roll And your speed Is all you'll ever need All you'll ever need to know Darlin', Darlin' You and me we're goin' nowhere slowly And we've gotta get away from the past There's nothin' wrong with goin' nowhere, baby But we should be goin' nowhere fast It's so much better goin' nowhere fast Stalkin' in the shadows by the light of the moon It's like a prison and the night is a cell Goin' anywhere has gotta be heaven tonight 'Cause stayin' here has gotta be hell Dyin' in the city like a fire on the water Let's go runnin' on the back of the wind There's gotta be some action on the face of the earth And I've gotta see your face once again And I don't know where I ever got the bright idea that I was cool So alone and independent But I'm depending on you now And you'll always be the only thing that I just can't be without And I'm out for you tonight I'm comin' out for you tonight Even if you don't have anywhere to go You go down on the pedal and you're ready to roll And your speed Is all you'll ever need All you'll ever need to know Darlin', Darlin' You and me we're goin' nowhere slowly And we've gotta get away from the past There's nothin' wrong with goin' nowhere, baby But we should be goin' nowhere fast Everybody's goin' nowhere slowly They're only fighting for the chance to be last There's nothin' wrong with goin' nowhere, baby But we should be goin' nowhere fast Godspeed Godspeed Godspeed Speed us away Godspeed Godspeed Godspeed Speed us away We're goin' nowhere fast Godspeed We're goin' nowhere fast Godspeed We're goin' nowhere fast Godspeed Speed us away We're goin' nowhere fast Godspeed We're goin' nowhere fast Godspeed We're goin' nowhere fast Godspeed Speed us away (CROWD CHEERING) Now! Hey, what the hell do you think you're doing? Get off the stage! Hey, you guys shouldn't be doing this! Hey, we don't want no trouble! Let me go! Let me go! No! Let me go! Put me down now! Let me go! Let me go! Help me! (SIRENS WAILING) Get them! (SCREAMING) Them Goddamn son-of-a-bitches! Hang a one-eight. What's with that guy? Watch out! These guys are gonna pay! (SCREAMING) Someone help me! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Can I help you? Coffee. Cream and sugar? Just black. (MAN WHISTLING) Oh, you guys really know how to come through a door. What are you trying to prove? We just came down from Kings Park looking for a good time. You guys already missed all the excitement. The party's over. The Roadmasters are hungry. And when they're hungry, they eat. The Bombers have brought this act through The Richmond already. All you're doing in here is looking like punks. Is that right? We're just gonna have to mess the place up. And after we mess your place up maybe we'll mess you up. Oh, you got a problem with this, pretty boy? (CLINKING) Try it again, punk. Go on, go home! What do you think of my new car? It looks great. Why don't you sell it and buy me a new window? (TIRES SCREECHING) Tom, come on, slow down. Reva, there's no point in stealing a car, if you're not gonna ring it out. When are you ever gonna grow up? Why should l? This is more fun. Let me give you some news, Tom. The Bombers and this guy Raven Shaddock, they stole Ellen Aim. (SIRENS WAILING) How the hell did that happen? Oh, shit! Goddamn cops! Okay, buddy, what the hell do you think this is? We don't go for that kind of speeding around here. Now let's see your license. Sorry, Officer, I must have left it at home. Tom Cody. It's been a couple of years since I've had any trouble out of you. Hey, Ed, I just came home to visit my big sister. You're not gonna have any trouble with me. Glad to hear it. We don't need somebody coming back here trying to give us a hard time. Come on, Ed, he just got back. Give him a break. Yeah, I'll give him a break. Get out of here, Cody. Yeah, and anymore driving like that and I'll give you a ticket. Asshole! Who the hell does that guy think he is? Well, he's always been a real bad ass. I busted him a couple of years ago. He had a pistol in the glove compartment of his car. A real punk, huh? Yeah, he belongs in jail with all the other juvenile delinquents. You sure I'm not gonna be cramping your style with any guy tonight, huh? No, not tonight. I bring one in now and then but there's nothing steady. I never seem to find the right one. Yeah, I ain't having much luck in that department myself. Look, Tom, you were always real close with Ellen. She wasn't like all those tramps you used to run around with. Reva, it didn't work out, okay? Well, somebody figured out how to make it work with her. She's been living with a guy named Billy Fish. Who's that? He's done some rock joints in The Battery. He started managing her act. Yeah, she was always interested in going somewhere. Tom. She's not just your old girl. Reva, what do you want from me, huh? You know what I want. You want me to go rescue an old girlfriend who's shacked up with another guy? Thanks a lot. Tequila. Hey, Tom! Tom Cody. It's been a long time, pal. How's your hammer hanging? How's it going, Clyde? Well, not so hot. I got beat up trying to save your old girl. I could use a little help with those guys. You should have been there, Tom. It would have been like the old days when we were in school. We'd have kicked ass. Hey, bartender, you gonna shoot the shit all night, or do you wanna get me another drink? Hey, Tom, would you get a load of this little heinie? She thinks she owns the place. I'm just trying to get myself a drink, pal. Well, maybe you've already had enough, babe. You gotta be kidding me! Do I look like I'm kidding? You know, maybe you ought to pay up as well. You've been driving up a tab here all night and we're not real big on credit. Are you trying to say that I can't pay? Yeah, let's see the color of your money. There. Happy? Yeah. But now I don't like your face. You know, everywhere I go there's always an asshole. Hey, you got any preferences? I've always been a tequila man. Let's get out of here. The name's McCoy. I'm a soldier. At least I was up until about a year ago, ran out of wars. Yeah, what's your spec? Motor pool. Nothing fancy. But if it's got wheels I can drive it and I can fix it. That's funny, I just got out a couple of months ago. Been R and R ever since. Yeah? How'd you like the army? I liked shooting the guns, but I didn't win no medal. Hey! Is that your car? Yeah. Nice. Yeah, I know. I just picked it up. Hey, Cody? That's your name, right, Cody? Yeah. You got a spare bed? You want a quick tumble, huh? Hey, you may have a rough time with this one, and I don't wanna hurt your feelings, but... You're not my type. Yeah, I guess it kind of figures. I ain't had much luck with women lately. Yeah, well, you'll live. Something tells me that getting girls isn't exactly your problem in life. Maybe some other time, huh? I doubt it, but anything's possible. Hey, look... About the spare bed. I'm just passing through this district. I don't know anybody. I'm between jobs and last time I heard hotels cost money. Get in. My sister's got the bedroom, I got the spare, that puts you on the couch. Thanks, man, I appreciate it. Yeah, no sweat. There you go, McCoy. I'll see you in the morning. Hey, you always walk around packed, huh? I told you, I'm a soldier. Yeah, well, don't go pointing that thing at me, I wouldn't like it. I don't go pointing it, unless I'm gonna use it. Yeah, right. No, you don't get by on pride It'll run over you But since you let me down I'm hard to be around I don't know what I'm gonna do He could never be you He could never be you (KNOCKING ON DOOR) Okay, you got it. I'm gonna go and get her. But I ain't doing it for nothing. You tell this Mr. Billy Fish to meet me at the diner tomorrow at 12:00. Me and him are gonna talk some business. Oh, there's a girl I picked up in the Black-hawk sleeping on the couch. Give her some coffee in the morning, okay? How come she's sleeping in the front room? Why don't you go ask her? (WHIRRING) Hey, Pete! Hey, look, I really needed a place to stay, so thanks for the use of the sofa. Oh, that's okay. You're the first girl Tom ever brought home that used it. Yeah, well, sometimes it helps a guy out if you don't make it so easy. He could use a little help in that direction. Maybe he ought to meet a few more like you. A fellow came through here a couple of months ago. Tapped out. Had to part with this outfit after a card game. Real unhappy about it, too, 'cause it's all custom stuff. I tell you, if Tom wasn't going for being number two to her music, so he just took off. He was crazy about Ellen. He was just the kind of guy who doesn't like to admit it. Yeah, sure, I know the type. I'll tell you something. Some people never talk about their feelings, they got them deeper than anybody. Other people never talk about their feelings 'cause they ain't got any. What's your story? Me? Just looking for work. You must be Billy Fish? Yeah. So what gives, and make it fast my time is valuable. You want Ellen Aim back, I'm gonna get her. You and what army? I can see you two are gonna get along just fine. I want 10 grand. Easy. All you gotta do is earn it. I'll earn it and you're gonna help. Reva told me you used to live in The Battery. I started out there. It's the shits. I wouldn't go back to that dump if you paid me. You're going! I need somebody who knows their way around. I don't think so. It's not my scene. If you want your meal ticket back, get in the car or otherwise the deal is off. Look, Cody, you sound pretty dumb, but nobody's that dumb. I'm the one paying you. That means you go get her, I wait here and you bring her back to me. You smart guys. You always figure you can hire a bum like me to do your dirty work. Well, not this time! Can you really get her back? You got a better volunteer? All right, I'll go. She's real important to me. You know The Battery's gonna be nothing but trouble. Yeah? Well, I'm getting paid for it, right, Fish? That's right, Cody. You cut me in, I'll back you up. I don't think so. Hey, what's your problem? We're not taking no skirt along. Look, I don't think you can handle it, okay? What do I gotta do? You know, people don't exactly have written references for this kind of work. You should know that, Cody. I need the job. I'm plenty good enough and I ain't gonna let you down. Listen, skirt, let me make it simple for you. Take a hike. All right. I'll cut you in for 10%, but get this, you're working for me. I tell you to do something, you do it. You don't do more or you don't do less. And if you start dragging your ass, I'm sending you home. Got it. Hey, what is this? Get serious. I'm not paying you any extra to take some sweetie pie along for company. You drive. Don't worry about it. They always hire bums like me for jobs like this. Look, I'll take you through The Battery where the Bombers hang out, but I'm not taking any risks. I'm not paying you to add any thrills to my life. That's not how it works. You got a real big mouth, Fish. Look, butch, I buy and sell more people more valuable than you every day. You know, it's hard to figure out what's more pathetic, the way you talk or the way you dress. Let me tell you something. These clothes are worth more than you make in a year. I can see working with you two is gonna be a real dream. BILLY: If they got her anywhere, they got her at Torchies. It's a real knockdown joint, no class. I used to book bands in there. It's right in the middle of a big factory. It's the shits. You'll love it, McCoy. It's just your style. Okay, Cody, what's the plan? How do you figure on handling all these guys and their motorcycles? You start killing Bombers, we're gonna be in worse shape than we're already in. I don't have to kill anybody. The motorcycles don't run so hot when I'm shooting holes in them. Some neighborhood. Everything's dead. What a place to come to. Just keep going straight ahead and then make a left under the bridge. What are you? Giving me orders now? Look, I know my way around. That's why you brought me along, remember? I'll take care of giving the orders. Get under the bridge, pull over and kill the lights. Well one bad stud moved in my neighborhood Well one bad stud moved in my neighborhood He's big and man I know he ain't no good He don't wear no hat, and Lord he don't wear no shoes He don't wear no hat, and Lord he don't wear no shoes He just hangs on the corner singing old country blues O, well, one bad stud One bad stud One bad stud One bad stud I said, one, one, one, one, One bad stud If he likes your baby, you can kiss your baby goodbye If he likes your baby, you can kiss your baby goodbye 'Cause the girls all love him like a schoolboy loves his pie He loves his whiskey, he loves his rock 'n' rye Yes, he loves his whiskey he loves his rock 'n' rye You know it takes ten bottles to make that fool get high O, well, one bad stud One bad stud One bad stud One bad stud You know, you're making things real hard on yourself. You act nice, you and me fall in love for a week or two and then I let you go. Nobody gets hurt. You see, I ain't such a bad guy. I just get excited around pretty girls. O, well, one bad stud One bad stud One bad stud One bad stud I said, one, one, one, one From now on either of you make any mistakes, I'm making you walk home. Walk? I'm not gonna walk around here, I'd get killed. You got it. What about you, McCoy? Are we gonna do it or are we gonna talk about it? You're right. BILLY: The main drag is around here somewhere. What the hell's that? Guess you don't know who I am, do you? Things have gotten kind of funny around here. All kinds of strangers coming around, sneaking through the alleys. What the hell we talking to this creep for? Let's get out of here. My gosh, you're scared. What's even funnier, you're afraid of me. I'm just trying to get away from you. We got some business here. Oh, you're dumb, and you're short. Real short. (LAUGHING) You're after that girl, aren't you? What makes you say that? Come down a back alley, 10:00 at night carrying a bunch of guns, I don't figure you're here to give The Battery a new coat of paint. Where they keeping her? Torchies, second floor. Don't tell them I told you, though. Pay him. Yeah, pay me. I'm not gonna pay this jerk! Listen, shithead, you give him some of your money, or I'll give him some of your money. Don't call me "shithead." Hey, you gotta keep moving forward. That's the whole point of things, and I thank you now, I appreciate it. Why don't you buy some soap? I don't need this guy to tell me she's in Torchies. I said they had her at Torchies. I am a shithead. Okay, Fish, you get back to the car. I want you in that doorway over there in 15 minutes and I mean 15 minutes. Are you crazy? They'll notice me in a second down there. Don't worry about that. I'm gonna give them a couple of other things to worry about. What about her? I thought she's supposed to do the driving? Get moving! And you better be ready when we get there. Do you trust him or are you just desperate? You take the front entrance. I'm going topside. If you can work your way upstairs to help me out, fine, if not I'll handle it! Just what I always wanted to do, Cody, take on the Bombers. Hey, baby! I've been around the world And every man bleeds the same But when the lights are dim You never know who's to blame I don't want no scars to show I don't want no one to know So I'll be killing time in the blue shadows No other place for me to go No other place for dying slow So I'll be killing time in the blue shadows I've been around the world I take credit for the things I've done But when the lights are dim I'm not the only guilty one I don't want no scars to show I don't want no one to know So I'll be killing time in the blue shadows Hey! How you doing, babe? Come around here much? Only when I wanna check out some real action. Well, you're talking to the right guy. Says who? Says me. I like a guy that's got confidence. All right. (WHISTLE BLOWING) No, that way's the card game, huh? We're going down here. We got a party room. Check it out, huh, baby? This is the party room. How you like it, huh? I've had a lot of good times here, so, let's party, huh? Hey, killer. Can l take my jacket off first? Yeah, you can take off whatever you want. All right. Now, listen to me, buddy. There's just one thing I want you to do, and that is to keep quiet. Hey, come on, babe, what is this thing loaded? We're gonna play a little game. You Bombers are gonna like it. It's called "lights out." No other place for me to go No other place for dying slow So I'll be killing just killing time So I'll be killing time in the blue shadows I've been around the world I take credit for the things I've done But when the lights are dim I'm not the only guilty one Knock, knock. I don't want no scars to show I don't want no one to know So I'll be killing time in the blue shadows (COCKING GUN) Go ahead and take that money, sweetie. You better pray you make it out of The Battery. I don't think she's after the money. You know poker's a real interesting game especially when you've got all the best cards! Next time it'll be right in your nuts, pal. You know what I mean? Guys, it's been a slice. Who are you? McCoy. I'm a big fan. Yeah, great, come on, let's go. MAN 1 : Who is that guy? MAN 2: Look out, it's surrounded! MAN 3: Get this guy out of The Battery. TOM: Move it! Move it! This way. Follow me! Jesus, Ellen, am I glad to see you. I thought you were gone forever. Cody, get in! This ain't no time for checking out the sights! Take off! I'm gonna run these guys for awhile. I'm staying with you... You're not going with him! You stay in the car! Stay with your boyfriend! McCoy, meet me at the Grant Street underpass. Right. If we don't see you, Cody, have a nice life! McCoy, can't you drive this car any faster? I don't want any Bombers sneaking up on us! Let's get our asses out of here real quick! And where's this Grant Street anyway? I never heard of it before! You sure you know where you're going? Turn it off, Fish! You sound pathetic! Well. Looks like I finally ran into someone that likes to play as rough as I do. Yeah, this must be your lucky night. I'm lucky? I guess maybe I am. And you're dumb. Real dumb, if you think you can pull this off. I think you're forgetting something. I got the gun. I can get guns, smart guy. Lots of them. Now why don't you tell me your name. Tom Cody. Pleased to meet you. I'll be coming for her, and I'll be coming for you too. Sure, you will, and I'll be waiting. Listen, I say we give it a couple of minutes then get out of here, okay? What are you talking about? I'm talking about saving our ass. We got a lot to live for, Ellen. He came and he got me! I'm not going back without him. Don't worry about him. He's getting paid a lot of money to look after Raven. What money? What do you think he's doing this for love? You think he's doing this 'cause he's your biggest fan? He's getting paid, dear. He takes his chances! Hey! Too bad, Billy. Looks like Ellen's old flame decided to show up. Okay, we're on the move. What's this old flame stuff? Didn't you know? Ellen used to go with Cody, real hot and heavy from what I hear. You know what I mean? What, is she kidding? Let's not get into it now, okay, Billy? Hard news, huh, shorty? Look, Cody, we've had our differences, but it looks like we got it made now, huh? We'll just zoom along here for a couple of hours, then we're home and dry. I got news for you, it ain't that simple. We gotta bury the car. Bury the car? What are you talking about bury the car? He means we're gonna get rid of it, stupid. He's gonna get rid of the car? What's wrong with the car? This is what I'm paying you all this money for? To come up with these brilliant ideas? Why don't we just hand ourselves back over to Raven and ask him to shoot us? You two go ahead. I wanna talk alone with Tom for a minute. What are you talking about? What are you going with him for? Hey, I don't like the way this looks, Ellen. I'm paying the bills around here. How about some respect? So what do you wanna talk to me about? I got a lot to say to you, Tom. No, you don't. You have nothing to say to me. You wanna talk to somebody, go talk to your boyfriend. Look, what was l supposed to do? I had all that work. Things were going real good. Things were starting to happen for me. Yeah, so, bye-bye, Tom, right? You're the one who took off and joined the army. Let's forget all this. It's history. From now on I'm just like you. I do what I'm good at and I do it for money. Is that why you came and got me? That's right. Billy Fish is paying me 10 grand. I just can't believe you'd do that. Maybe you'd better get used to the idea. I wonder what they're talking about? Who says they're talking? Cute. It was just a joke, man, you know what I mean? How big a thing do you think they had anyway? From what I hear it was real major. Yeah, well, she's with me now. Yeah, right. Against a big tough, good-looking guy like you, Cody don't stand a chance. I hope you two got everything straightened out. Yeah, we got a lot straightened out. It was a real eye opener. I think I hurt your girlfriend's feelings. I'm real sorry about it. What does he mean he hurt your feelings? What'd he say? Did he say anything about me? What'd he say? Tell me! I'm tired I'm thirsty I'm wild eyed In my misery Timeless In your finery A high price For your luxury Sorcerer Who is the master Man and woman on a star stream In the middle of a snow dream Sorcerer Show me the high life Come over Let me put you on ice I'm tired When I need you badly Wild eyed In the middle of your dream Timeless Hey. Hi, you guys. Hey, what's the hurry? Where you guys going? We're nobody, we're going nowhere. Nobody goes nowhere. Look, knock it off, we're not interested in conversation, okay, moron? I know you. I know who you are, dig? I love your stuff so much, I really do. Look, if you love me so much, why don't you just go away and leave us alone. No, look, I'm your biggest fan, really. Let me go with you, okay? I won't be any trouble. And I'll tell you guys something, you gotta get off the street, 'cause the cops know the guys that hit The Battery will be coming through here. Shit! We gotta get a new set of wheels. Great, we just got rid of the old wheels. Wonderful leadership, Cody. Hey, what's the matter with you? Are you looking to get yourself run over? Me and my friends need a lift. So what? This ain't no muni bus! Need a lift real bad. Now look, let me make it real clear. Nobody tells me where to take my bus. You dig? Well, we're very flexible. We'll take you where you wanna go. Anywhere you wanna go. You just say the word and we're with you. You folks just hop right in. Just make yourself at home. I'm driving. Hey, Bird, what the hell you doing, man? Hey, how you guys doing? My name's McCoy. Don't worry, we're not gonna hurt you none. That's great. Well, I'm glad to hear that. We're the Sorels. I'm Bird. These are my associates. This is Lester. My man B.J., and that's Reggie. Aren't you Ellen Aim? That's right. It is Ellen Aim. Hey, Ellen, you guys need an opener or anything? I mean, we're good. I mean, we're real good, but we just can't seem to get anything going. Hey, look, what gives? I handle the management and the booking. Now, you guys just shut up and leave Ellen alone. Look, I know how tough it can be getting the right gig. Baby, you don't even begin to know. Man, what did I tell you guys? Will you just cool it? Hey, if you got any chance at all of missing the cops, it's through here. Yeah, so what are our chances? Horrible and terrible. Oh, that's just great. Look, we don't wanna mess with any of these Ardmore cops. They busted me a couple of years ago, threw my ass right in jail 'cause I wouldn't pay them off. BILLY FISH: What'd they bust you for? Disturbing the peace. They said I got out of line in some bar, you know? Great. I love a girl with class. This is great, just great. You wanna help change this tire, shorty? Changing flat tires isn't exactly my line of work, dear. If that's the case, then why don't you just shut up? (MOCKINGLY) Why don't you just shut up? (MUMBLING) Then I try and write songs, you know. I just can't seem to figure out how to do it right the way you do it. You know, I can't figure out how you work out the rhymes and the melodies and you make it all come out. Somebody else writes the songs, Billy buys them or steals them, I can't write for shit. I always thought those were your songs. I just sing them. Yeah, but when you sing them, you make it yours. That's the way it is, right? I guess so. Who knows? The famous Sorels sure put a lot of money into that bus, huh? Listen, Cody, I didn't know you had a thing with Ellen in the old days. You better get some smarts. Learn to adjust to the fact that you're out of the picture now. You see, Cody, I do things for her. Things that a guy like you could never do. Things that matter in the real world. You know something? The only trouble with kicking the shit out of you is it would be too easy. You keep your hands off the suit, buddy. Come on, hurry the hell up with that flat tire, already, let's get going. THE SORELS: Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one Countdown to love Ten Remember when you didn't love me Nine Now all the time you're thinking of me Eight, life is great You're all I'm living for This is my countdown to love Oh, this is my countdown to love You are the one love in my life I know you feel that way too Oh, what a thrill when I'm holdin' you near All of my wild dreams come true Four Forevermore you'll be my lover Three It's you for me there'll never be another Two Together forever we'll be as one (LAUGHING) Pretty good, you guys. Oh, this is my countdown to love Cody? All right, Ellen, Baby Doll, down in back. Fish, McCoy, we're working for the Sorels. Fish, you're the manager. I'm way ahead of you, Cody. What, do you think I gotta be a genius to know what you're going for? I'll handle this. I'll talk us through. Hey, guys, how's it going? I'm the bus driver here for the Sorels. We're on our way to play a gig at an after hours joint. The Sorels. The singers. You know them, right? No. Never heard of them. You know what's going on here, don't you? Look, man, all I know is we're running real late. Well, babe, some outfit just broke into The Battery and burned half of it down. Really? Knock off the crap, will you? As far as I'm concerned anybody that goes into The Battery and does some damage deserves a medal. Well, let me tell you how we look at it. Look, cut the shit, okay? You guys got a big job to do, we're trying to get where we're going. Now, let us through, or you wanna come to some kind of financial arrangement? Well, what do you think, Harry? Well, I think what we got here is a model citizen. I knew you guys talked my language. Keep it coming. You guys take a big bite. That's right. Nice to see there's some integrity left on the force. You know, you're just a little too anxious to buy us off. Spade musicians with a big wad of money. All right, everybody off the bus! All right, now this is how we're gonna play it. You're gonna walk off this bus like there's nothing wrong. Get me? All right, down on the ground! Do it! Now! Get over there! Don't worry about it, fellows. We'll be out of your face in no time. You know, some of you guys got some cute little asses. Be a real shame if I had to blow them off! Stay down! Oh, shit! All right! Son-of-a-bitch! Come on, man, let's get out of here! Come on! (FRANTICALLY CHATTERING) (EXPLOSION) Go! Go! Shut the hell up! McCoy, pull out in a back alley, we're gonna dump the bus. First he dumps the car, now he's dumping the bus? Code 00! Code 00. Blockade at Cross and Ardmore. Suspects armed and dangerous! Repeat, armed and dangerous! Broke blockade! Heading north on Ardmore. Cannot pursue. Do you copy? God damn it, this is the blockade at Ardmore, come back to me. Come on. (SIRENS WAILING) (EXCLAIMING) Come on! Come on! We had a $1 ,000 in that bus! I lost my clothes, the luggage is gone, all the sheet music is gone! This is great. We're on our way to the Richmond. No bus, no nothing. You shouldn't have stopped, Bird. He ain't a real social kind of guy, is he? Really? Gee, I think he's a real sweetheart. Cut him some slack, will you? He was there for you tonight. Yeah, he really earned his money. You know, you got a real funny way of saying thanks when someone saves your ass. Why don't you go sit with your pal Billy over there. I guess he's more your kind of guy. Yeah, I think maybe I will. Don't worry, babe, everything's gonna be okay from now on. We're gonna be great. Hey, Reva, Ellen Aim's back. And guess what? Tom's with her. Is he okay? Oh, he looked all right to me. Chief? (PEOPLE CHATTERING) Tom. Reva, cut it out. We made it. Everybody's in one piece. What about that, Ellen? You okay? Yeah, I'm all right, I guess. No, she's not. She's tired, and she's been roughed up. I'm gonna take her back to the hotel so she can get some rest. This whole thing started 'cause I had to do a gig in this shit hole. I should've stayed the hell away from this dump! Is that the way you feel about it, Ellen? Yeah, I guess I just wanna get away from here. Get back on the road. Now you're talking, kiddo. Come on, let's get out of here. I hate you for taking money to come and get me. That's telling him, Ellen. (PEOPLE CHEERING) I guess she doesn't like you much, Cody. She doesn't seem real thankful. Yeah, one thing about you, Cooley, you catch on real quick. Yeah, that's right, Buddy, and I get the job done. Good. Because I think it's just starting. (ENGINE REVVING) What the hell does he wanna talk about? Tom Cody. I want Tom Cody. I wanna nail that son-of-a-bitch's head to the sidewalk under that marquee that says Ellen Aim on it? And just to prove to you, I'm gonna be a nice guy, I'm coming in with just two of my men. After I take care of Cody, there'll be no more trouble. You do your job, man. Keep the peace. (THUNDER RUMBLING) Hey, Cody, I need a drink. Come on, let's get out of here. Maybe I can get lucky and pick a fight with that bartender. No, not this time. Hey, McCoy, look, I'll get you your money later, okay? Is that all you got to say is, "I'll get your money to you later." Yeah, that's all I gotta say. What else do you wanna hear? Hey, look, I did real good back there. So what? I'm all out of medals, besides you're getting paid. You know, Reva, Ellen Aim was right about one thing, your brother's a jerk. What's your problem? You're feeling pretty sorry for yourself... Don't start on me, Reva. She comes back to town, tells you and everybody else it doesn't mean a goddamn... Yeah and the worst part is she runs off with that creep Billy Fish. You know, Tom, I didn't ask you to go out and get Ellen Aim because she looks great on stage. Well, what the hell do you care... I care about you! And this town! Look, if you're gonna fight, you're supposed to fight for something. You and Billy Fish are the same. You're both selfish! All you two are really worried about... Hi, Ed. I came to talk to your brother. Come on outside. Raven says he has to face you alone. Right here in The Richmond. I'm ordering you to get out of town, Tom. I want you on a train tonight. If Raven comes in here to face you, I'll be waiting for him right here with a lot of guns. I'm throwing his ass in jail. I am not gonna sit around and watch two maniacs play out some little game about personal honor. I want you gone. If you're still in town tomorrow morning, I'm throwing your ass in jail right next to Raven. Look, you did real good rescuing her, Tom. You surprised me. 'Cause I didn't think you had it in you. Now, surprise me again. Do something else real good, be on that train tonight. (KNOCKING) Yeah, come in. Hey, I'll get lt. Who is lt? What the hell are you still doing here? Oh, hey, look, see you guys later, all right? I've been expecting you I know what you want. Ten grand. I'm as good as my word. I pay on time. You know you play rough, Cody, but you do a good job. You should do a little more work for me when you get a taste of what that money'll bring you. Then you'll realize I'm the one with the brains around here and you'll start treating me a bit nicer. You know, nobody ever had a hold on me the way you did. I would have done anything for you. A long time ago I would have thought you were worth it. Not anymore, babe. Where do you get off talking to her like that? She's way out of your league, musclehead. This is the grand I promised McCoy. You can keep the rest. You know what's wrong with that guy? He's stupid. I'm sorry, Billy. What are you sorry about? Where are you going? Where you going? ELLEN: Tom! Tom, wait! Tom, wait! What was I supposed to do? I hadn't heard from you in two years. You didn't even write me a letter. What did I do that was so wrong? You gotta go away. You fought enough fights, you can let this one go. With both of us gone, maybe... What do you mean both of us? Us! I wanna go with you. We could be together. You'd really come along with me? In two seconds I would. Please? Well, if it isn't my old pal, Tom Cody. How's it going? Great till you got here. I've just been talking things over with Clyde. You remember he and l used to be real close. Hey, Tom, tequila, right? Here's what I owe you. You did real good back there. I couldn't have got her out without you. Maybe I rode you a little harder than I should have. Don't get sentimental on me. I wouldn't know how to handle it. TOM: Hey, I got a problem with Ellen I gotta talk to you about. MCCOY: Yeah, I understand about these kind of things. You know, Cody, I was actually in love once myself. It didn't work out. You're the kind that makes bad picks, huh? He was the worst. He lied to me all the time, cheated on me. Well, if I ever run into him, I'll give him your best. Of course, you know, that's before I was a soldier. You're real crazy about Ellen, aren't you? Yeah, I don't know. I guess I am. Hey, there's nothing wrong with it. Nothing to be embarrassed about. I ain't embarrassed. I just know it ain't gonna work out. Ellen and I are going in different directions. It's nobody's fault. Maybe you're right, 'cause you don't look like no back-up singer to me. Look, I'm gonna need your help tonight. I gotta do something I don't wanna do. Come on. Tom. This is not The Bayside. This is something back in The Richmond I gotta take care of. What are you... You get as far from here as you can. You run until you hit The Bayside and you can hang out there. Sure, tough guy. When's this train take off? I gotta get back to The Richmond. We don't. Look, lady, I gotta get moving. It's important. Well, you ain't gonna get there on this train. Hey! Maybe you better think about it. The Bombers have gone crazy. They're doing everything they can to seal off The Richmond. Let's go. What the hell are you doing here, Clyde? I told everybody to get off the streets until this thing is over with. Yeah, but I wanna see Raven run from up close. Just stay out of the way. Well? Real simple. There's no showdown. Tom Cody ain't here and neither is the girl. I don't get it. Get off your bike, Raven. I ain't too crazy about jails, Chief. I got a better idea for you. (HORN BLOWING) Holy shit! They're here! They're here! I told your friend Cody I could get a lot of guns. Hey, get out of my way! What the hell! What is this? You can't get away with this. You think you can ride into any town and kidnap anybody you want? Now, get the hell out of town and leave these people alone. Sorry I'm late. I got something special in mind. I brought them along just for you. Well, my plan went to shit. Let's see how you do. Kick his ass. (CLANKING) Nice, huh? (PEOPLE CHEERING) Get him! Drop him! (YELLING) (SCREAMING) Tom! (GUNS COCKING) Let's get out of here! No more timing Each tear that falls from my eyes I'm not hiding The remedy to cure this old heart of mine I can dream about you If I can't hold you tonight I can dream about you You know something, Waldo, we're gonna be rich. Yeah. Long live rock and roll. I can dream about you If I can't hold you tonight I can dream about you You know how to hold me just right Moving sidewalks, I don't see under my feet Great, huh? My new discovery. I'm gonna take them right up the ladder. Yeah, they ought to make you a lot of money, Fish. Look, don't worry, Cody, I'm not gonna stand in your way with Ellen. I know how it is between you two. There's one thing we both know, Fish. She needs you a lot more than she needs me. Yeah, she needs me, but she loves you. She'll get over it. She's used to me being unreliable. Is that what I'm supposed to tell her? You're okay with words. You'll make her feel better than I could. Take it easy, Cody. Thanks. I'll take it wherever I can get it. Climbing up from the pain in my heart 'Cause it's you that I need. I can dream I can dream Everybody! Yes, I can dream I don't understand it I can't keep my mind off loving you ove you forever Oo, now baby I'm caught up in the magic I see in you There's one thing to do I can dream about you Guess you're just gonna cut out, huh? Yeah. You know me. Yeah, I know you. You're the guy with the right hook. Is that it? Is that all you've left to say? Look, I know you're gonna be going places with your singing and stuff, but then I'm not the kind of guy to be carrying your guitars around for you. But if you ever need me for something, I'll be there. I can dream about you I'm gonna press my lips against you and hold you tight to me I can dream about you You know you got me spellbound what else can it be I can dream Dreamin' about you (PEOPLE CHEERING) I've got a dream 'bout an angel on the beach And the perfect waves are starting to come His hair is flying out in ribbons of gold And his touch has got the power to stun I've got a dream 'bout an angel in the forest Enchanted by the edge of a lake His body's flowing in the jewels alive And the earth below him starting to shake But I don't see any angels in the city I don't hear any holy choirs sing And if I can't get an angel I can still get a boy And a boy'd be the next best thing The next best thing to an angel A boy'd be the next best thing I've got a dream 'bout a boy in a castle And he's dancing like a cat on the stairs He's got the fire of a prince in his eyes And the thunder of a drum in his ears I've got a dream 'bout a boy on a star Lookin' down upon the rim of the world He's there all alone and dreamin' of someone like me I'm not an angel but at least I'm a girl I've got a dream when the darkness is over We'll be lyin' in the rays of the sun But it's only a dream and tonight is for real You'll never know what it means But you'll know how it feels It's gonna be over, over Before you know it's begun Before you know it's begun It's all we really got tonight Stop your cryin' hold on Tonight Before you know it it's gone Tonight Tonight is what it means to be young Tonight is what it means to be young Let the fire be started We're dancing for the restless and the broken-hearted Let the rebels begin Let the fire be started We're dancing for the desperate and the broken-hearted Let the rebels begin Tonight is what it means to be young Before you know it it's gone Say a prayer in the darkness for the magic to come No matter what it seems Tonight is what it means to be young Tonight is what it means to be young Before you know it's begun Tonight is what it means to be young Before you know it's begun I've got a dream when the darkness is over We'll be lyin' in the rays of the sun But it's only a dream and tonight is for real You'll never know what it means But you'll know how it feels It's gonna be over, over Before you know it's begun Before you know it's begun It's all we really got tonight Stop your cryin' hold on Tonight Before you know it it's gone Tonight Tonight is what it means to be young Tonight is what it means to be young Let the rebels begin Let the fire be started We're dancing for the restless and the broken-hearted Let the rebels begin Let the fire be started Tonight is what it means to be young Before you know it it's gone Say a prayer in the darkness for the magic to come No matter what it seems Tonight is what it means to be young Hey, Cody, how do you like my new wheels? I found it in the middle of the street. Somebody just dumped it. Finders keepers, you know what I mean? Maybe you need some company, huh? Yeah, I don't mind if you tag along. I guess this is my big chance, huh? Hey, cool down, big guy, I already told you, you're not my type.
