 

                        Quick. Follow me! Kill him! Archers. Cover us! Yes. Sir! The rest. Follow me Kill! I'll kill you all! Son of a bitch I'll kill you Son of a bitch Your Highness. Are you alright? Su, let's get out of here! Ma, stay behind. Yuan, come with me Yes. Sir! You bastard! Son of a bitch Bastard! Son of a bitch Ma! Yuan, please take the Prince to safety Su! Go! Your Highness I'm afraid Su has perished Dead? Are you sure? T ake an elite team to find General Su Dead or alive. I want him here! Yes, sir Su is back! Soldiers. T ake him to the doctor Yes. Sir My dear brother Your Highness. Colonel Ma and I are back Su. You've been exemplary Have a seat Thank you Su You saved my life I'll ask the Emperor... ...to make you Governor of Hubei I am grateful for your consideration But I cannot claim all the credit Yuan is more capable I know Yuan is your foster brother... ...and the blood brother of your wife But he is too reckless You need to control Yuan I hope you'll accept Comrades! General Su led us to countless victories Enemies have fallen under his sword Let's toast our triumphs! Cheers! Ma. This is for you I can't accept! A great sword deserves a great warrior! You don't like it? No Of course, I do Then it's yours Thank you Put it to good use Yes! I promise Why aren't you drinking? A warrior should watch his drinking A sip with our victory is OK I'll ask them to come drink with you With you here, I am not needed You're my brother. They'll respect you You must take care of the troops when I'm gone Why is it? T aking the promotion so soon. Your Honor? Nonsense! I've decided to go home What? You just won a big battle This is your time. Don't walk away My mind's made up. I leave tomorrow Honestly, you're more suited for battles I've asked the Prince... ...to make you Governor The Prince despises me I know But if I'm not here... ...he will look at you differently Since we were little I always got what you don't want I do not feel like a man We grew up together. I share everything with you You really don't want to be Governor? I seek the highest ideal in wushu And I want to start my own school... ...so I can teach others When my wushu practice flourishes... ...I'll realize the true meaning of life My other wish... ...is to have a family with Ying... ...and live peaceful together You and my little sister... a family? Su I wish the two of you all the best! You've been so kind One day... ...I'll repay you That's great! Guests come to see my parents My parents are not in I ask the guests to take a seat... ...then pour them tea One more time! Snake! A snake! At your feet! You lied! Look at you. A mother and still so rambunctious You don't pay any attention to us You just practice wushu all day Who doesn't pay attention to you? Mother! Father! What about me? Help! Save me! What's going on? I want to play You two are parents... ...but act like crazy children Father Grandfather Little Feng Give me a hug Grandfather Have you been good? I have some news Yuan is coming back for a visit My brother is coming home? Grandfather! After all these years... ...I knew he'd return one day Ying, let's get out the best wine We must celebrate My son Yuan is now a Governor I suspect this is more than a homecoming You must be cautious Father, you worry too much Are you still thinking of his real father? Yuan never uttered a word about him He knows why you killed his father Not mentioned does not mean forgotten You raised him and Ying as your own Ying is my wife. We are one family There should be no hard feelings Stop worrying I hope you're right Thank you! Thank you! This way please! Thanks! Thank you! Hurry, hurry! Father's school opens today I want to watch the Lion Dance Ok Lower the carriage Raise the carriage Do you still remember me? Of course. You're my only brother Little Feng. This is Uncle Yuan Little Feng You're Su's son You should be brave Father really misses you Really! Then let's celebrate his birthday I have to tell you something T ell me tomorrow Come! The three of us we look like a family My dear Father Happy Birthday Your timing is perfect Everyone missed you We're so happy you're home Father, I have not re-paid you... ...for raising me and Ying My health has deteriorated Age has taken its toll I don't have many good days But I pray everyday... ...for your safe return Come We have much to catch up Come! Grandfather! It was I who killed your father Su loves you as his brother Please spare his family Father You think so little of Su, your own son? You father went too far with the Five Venom Fists He turned evil and killed many You I had to stop him I have perfected the Five Venom Fists Did you think I will ever forget... ...that you murdered my father? After you killed him... ...you forced me to be your son You told the world... ...my father deserved to die Right? I am the only one you should hate Your son stole my only sister Governor. We've got her Mother! Don't ever touch my sister! I never blamed you Ying, we are finally together What will you do to Su? Uncle, what's in your hand? It's a pig's head Let's go pay respects to your maternal grandfather Let us go Su treated you as his blood brother Mother Thank you Excuse me! This way please! Young Master! Something terrible has happened What's going on? Yuan killed the Elder Master He came for revenge Young Master Father! Father! Father! Father! Father! Father! Father It's been 1 8 years T oday, I've finally avenged your death Forgive me for taking so long Come, Little Feng Brother Little Feng, come here Pay respects to your maternal grandfather Governor. Su's here! Yuan. How could you? Stop! Iron Twins, stand down I must welcome my brother-in-law Yuan! Father always treated you as his own How could you? Su Be careful Su, run. We'll will be OK Your blood will be an offering to my father It's dark gold armor It's sewn onto my flesh inch by inch I am invincible Your fist is harder than a blade Five Venom Fists? Su! Su! You know what your father said before he died? He begged me to spare your life! You have no humanity I've hated your family... ...for a long time Father! Little Feng! Uncle Little Feng! Please don't hurt my father Little Feng Run Stop! Stop! Run. Little Feng Uncle. Please stop Come here. Little Feng. I'll stop For the sake of your son, I'll let you go Brother Brother Su! Father! You're Little Feng's Uncle Ying. Don't! Mother! Ying! Someone save her! Ying! Governor. The water's too fast Su Su! Dr. Yu, he woke up! Su! Good No more worries. He's OK You're... This is Dr. Yu She saved our lives and treated your wounds Ying told me everything You are safe now I am the only one here on Beidou Mountain You can stay as long as you like Thank you Keep still. There're still traces of toxin in your blood Luckily you're strong I was able to expel the toxin Someone not as tough would be dead by now Be careful. My blood is toxic No worries Dr. Yu has researched every herb She is now immune to all poisons I am eternally grateful! I must thank Ying. She tends to the wine-making... ...so I can focus on my research She's a wine-maker? She sells her wine in the city... ...and distributes the money to the poor She also provides medicine to the sick A true angel of mercy You are making too much of what I do These needles will aid my research I'll walk you out Most people harbor hatred... ...without realizing the value of life One life is connected to many hearts Ying What's wrong with my arm? The tendons are torn Dr. Yu said you'll be OK With time, your strength will return Eat something You should've stayed with Little Feng Why suffer here? Yuan will not harm Little Feng If I didn't save you, you would die Look at me I can't even hold a rice bowl How can I save our son? You never accept defeat I am just an invalid No, you're not an invalid! You always seek a worthy opponent Now you've found two Yuan... and yourself Su! Su. It's OK Here. Hold this Use your right hand Come on! Hold it So what if I can hold it I'm still useless! Are you all right? Are you afraid? Yes. I am But I'm more afraid you'll give up You're the only hope for our family I'm waiting for you to come to your senses You always seek a worthy opponent Yuan... and yourself You're not an invalid You never accept defeat T ry some Now I understand... ...why your wine is so special Why? Because it contains your essence Oh. Stop it! Soon my strength will return And I will rescue our son Great levitating skill! I've never met a skilled master like you Please take me as your disciple Why? For revenge? How do you know? Your eyes revealed everything! T o be our disciple... ...you must first defeat the God of Wushu The God of Wushu? How can I defeat him? Your right arm was damaged Now it's healed But you've lost your confidence, right? No! I have not lost confidence. My arm is fine You might die... ...fighting the God of Wushu If my skills are weak... ...what's the point of living? Are you afraid now? Go home if you're scared Never! T oo slow Quicker! Quicker! T o challenge someone like you... ...is a dream come true... ...for me What did they do to you? Nothing! Only the weak die at home A warrior dies on the battlefield Su! Finally you've come to your senses Yes, like you said... ...I'm the hope of our family God of Wushu! God of Wushu! I'm here. Still alive! You've recovered? Your right arm is worthless Let's chop it off Scared? Again! Ying said your arm has strengthened T ake a look Let me check how you're doing Alright! The toxin's gone Thank you so much My body has healed And I'm getting stronger each day I must go practice. Please enjoy dinner Ying Su has gone too far with his training That's not possible Please listen His pulse is erratic His heart is racing... ...and his eyes are blood-shot He's going mad This can't continue. His training must stop Dr. Yu, he's with me everyday He goes off to the Old Sage daily... ...and returns home with wounds I see it with my own eyes On Beidou Mountain... ...we're the only ones here I know it's hard to believe Old Sage and the God of Wushu are supreme beings Just like you, they come and go.... Have you ever met the Old Sage? No But... I believe in my husband How many times have I told you? Do no enter my practice chamber! You don't listen! If you die, I'll be alone forever! Uncle, my feet hurt. Please don't lock me up If you try to run away... ...I'll chop off your feet Uncle, I won't Little Feng You're my only family now I will not loose you I will protect you So no one can harm you It's been another year I wonder how Little Feng has grown I've been thinking After Little Feng's rescued... ...we'll move to the plains We'll hold hands like this every day I haven't seen your smile in a long time Su After we save our son... ...would you spare my brother's life? He's part of our family If he lives... ...I'll make sure he cannot fight again Heavenly God. Please bless our family I pray that we shall never be apart We shall never be apart I must find a way to defeat you Have you ever met the Old Sage? Su has gone too far with his training God of Wushu. Let's go again You may be strong. But I'm stronger I will defeat you Ying. I'm home I almost beat the God of Wushu today He's really powerful But I'll defeat him one day That's enough I now realize the way to defeat an enemy I said. That's enough! What God of Wushu? Are you alright? Su Do you know you're going mad? What? I said, you're going mad I'm getting stronger And I'm more powerful than before I know you miss Little Feng I went to the cliff to watch you practice I didn't see the God of Wushu... ...or an Old Sage You were alone It's all in your head. Don't you realize? You went to the Cliff? I promised the Masters not to bring... Wake up! You were practicing by yourself Don't you understand? That's impossible Look at my wounds They are real You did it to yourself I know you suffer so much Are you not feeling well? If you love me, you have to believe me It's you Making me want to be strong I need you to believe in me Guests come to see my parents My parents are not in I ask the guests to take a seat... ...then serve them tea Guests come to see my parents My parents are not in I ask the guests to take a seat... ...then serve them tea Little Feng Let's go home Go home, alright? If Little Feng hears me sing... ...he will stop crying Su We are husband and wife We share good times... ...and bad... ...and this wine together Su, you show great improvement Yes! I've become much stronger Even your confidence has returned Ying says I'm going mad She says you're an illusion What do you think? Who are you? Who are you? Who am l? It's not important What's important is you're ready for revenge Ying is right You are just in my head Leave me alone! I never want to see you again! Ying! Ying! Ying! My Dear Su Watching you live in your own fantasy scares me I fear I'll lose you and our son forever It is now clear to me that I must go save Little Feng! We made a promise. Our family shall never be apart Wait for my return. Ying Please How long has he been in here? Little Feng! Mother! Little Feng! Little Feng! I thought I'd never see you again! I miss you so much! Why are you in chains? Hush! Uncle may hear us Ying? You're alive! This is great! This is great! Finally, we can live happily as a family It's been so long Do you know the pain I've endured? I think of you every day You've had your revenge. Now let my son go Is Su dead? You decimated him He can never fight again Please let us go Now that you're here I'll never loose you again He's here! He's here! Close the gate. Quick! Governor! Su is fast approaching! Su! Ying. I am so happy Gratitude! Hatred! It all ends here! Then you must deal with me first! Mother! You're scaring your son Does this make you happy? Happy? I've known only sorrow since you left I can only fight for what I want You understand? Good! That's more like it, Su! Su, I should have trusted you! I was wrong! Ying! Guards Tie her up Little Feng! Mother! Little Feng! Mother! Uncle! Don't kill her! Little Feng! Let go! Mother! Little Feng! Su! Little Feng Mother! I won't kill your mother But if I'm killed by your father She has to die with me Because we're one family But I will not lose Bury her in the forest! Little Feng! Mother! Little Feng Mother! No matter what happens. You must stay with your father Remember our family shall never be apart! Mother! Promise me, Little Feng! Promise me! Mother! Governor, it's been done Does anyone else know where she is? No Good! Get up! Yes. Sir! Kill him, Brother! Quick! Father! Little Feng! Where's your mother? You'll never know Father, stop! We need to find Mother! Father, don't kill him! Father, you're killing him! Stop! Father! Don't kill him! Uncle, you can't die, please live Little Feng, he is our enemy! He buried Mother alive Only he knows where she is! If he dies... ...we can't save Mother Let's go find her! Forest... In the forest... Ying! Mother! Mother! Ying! Where are you? Mother! Ying! Mother! Mother! Ying! Mother! Ying! Mother! Ying! Mother! Mother! Ying! Ying! Mother! Here! Mother! Ying! Mother! Mother... Careful! It's hot! Here it is, go! Roast potatoes! Sweet roast potatoes! Roast potatoes! Mister, how much is one potato? Two copper coins! I only have one coin. Can I get one? OK. Consider it charity Here. One for you Thank you T eacher! T eacher! Wake up! Get out! Our T eacher's dead! Money won't bring him back Your T eacher is inferior. Our fighters are better Stop! Master Ma Head of the Wushu Federation? Master Ma. Please arbitrate What happened? They lured our teacher to a match for 30 silver coins Said he'd get 5 coins if he surrendered But it wasn't a match. It was slaughter Accidents happens. People die He did surrender. Your men still beat him to death That's outrageous! How can you call that a match? If you have any greiviances, settle it in the arena All right! T ell your people... ...if I win, they'll close the arena And go back to where they came from! Deal! We'll be waiting Here. T ake this. Buy something to eat Wine... Wine... Wine... Wine... Excuse me! Who is this guy? Oh. My god! How did a stinky begger get in here? This is not Ying's wine This is my wine. Give it back! Don't push me Get out! You stink! Don't touch me Just wait! I'll get someone to kick you out Hey, come here if you want to drink! Wine Is this Ying's wine? Drink, and you'll know Wine... Wine... Give me the wine! Wine... Wine Clear head. Drunken Form Mind meets fist Stop obsesssing about form Heart and fist are one T o lose is not to lose T o win is not to win Offer wine to the Gods Hug the barrel in farewell Raise the jug with tons of strength Drunkeness is fake. The fist is real! A good fist is an unstoppable fist T ake it and drink up! Father Father A broken heart needs mending What are you doing here? From now on, let me take you... ...to where you want to go What a stench Master Ma This is the lunatic I told you about Su Can? General Su? Oh... he is a General? Su, it is Ma We fought many battles together What happened to you? You don't remember me? You gave me this sword. Don't you remember? Su. Wake up Foreigners... ...are killing Chinese fighters for amusement I have to... ...fight them tomorrow Win or lose. I've no regrets I've always looked up to you A warrior once told me... ..."a great sword deserves a great warrior" What happened... ...to that great warrior? He... ...died with Ying Mother! Su! For the sake of your son, pick yourself up Su! I return this sword to you Ma! I've never asked you for anything Please take care of my son Father! What are you saying? Su! He is your son! Look at me Do I look like a father? He has no future with me Only suffering I beg you Please take him away! I see Don't worry I'll take good care of him I won't go with you! Father Don't send me away, we must stay together Who will take care of you if I'm not here? Father. I won't go, I want to stay Father. I won't go You don't need to take care of me. Now go! Father. No! Go! No! Listen! I only need wine, not you Understand? I don't want to go Su! Father! Su! Go! Father! Open the door! I don't want to go! Open the door! Father! Father! Uncle Ma I'm sorry But I can't leave him He might be crazy. But he's my father And we cannot be apart I understand. Little Feng Come to me if you need anything Think of me as your family T ake good care of your father! Dear Father I promised Mother... ...that I'd always stay with you Our family shall never be apart Uncle Ma! We've come to support you Ma! Su! Can you get us in? Of course Father! Get out of here! Su! Su, are you all right? What are you doing here? We have a dress code He's with me. How dare you! After you Have a seat I need to check something We know you'll win, Uncle Ma! Ladies and Gentlemen! Now, the most important match of the day! The challenger is Master Ma... ...Head of the Wushu Federation Versus... ...Killer Anton's lnvincible Wrestlers No time limited No holds barred No set number of fighters Weapons are not allowed The last man standing wins The prize is 1 00 silver coins! The odds right now are fifteen to one Final bets now... The prize tonight is 1 00 pieces of silver Show me how you can break... the Chinaman's neck the way you do these iron bars The Challenger Master Ma! You win boy... ...or don't even bother to try and come back The defending champion. Malotoff Are both fighters ready? Ready! Go! Y es! Stop! Uncle Ma! Uncle Ma! Uncle Ma! Don't hurt Uncle Ma! Let me go! Father! Malotoff, what the hell? Have you lost your head? Father! Help! Father! Let me go! Father! Get up! Malotoff, get up! Uncle Ma! Are you OK? Father! Finish this Chinaman once and for all! Grab it! It's a three way fight Father! Be careful! Father, don't fight anymore! Run away! Little Feng. I never back down Father Father! This will help you on your way You will feel no more pain now Now go! Win the prize Father. Please stop! Father. Please stop! Don't let him rest! Father... He just violated the rules Father Ladies and Gentlemen Stay back! The last of Killer Anton's wrestler is out Only the Chinaman is left Get up! In accordance to the rules Get up. Father! If he can get up... Get up! ...he is the winner Get up, Father! Su Father, get up Father, I beg you. Get up Father, get up! Please don't die Father, I beg you. Get up Get up now. Father! Su! Su! Get up! Ying Did you see that? I knew it. You've perfected your skills Don't leave me again I've never left you I was always by your side Father, wake up, get up quickly Father, get up Father, wake up! Father, get up Get up, Father! Don't leave me Father, get up Father. You're awake! Get up! Quick! Get up! He's up. The Chinaman is up He wins The loser will be banned from this arena Ladies and Gentlemen According to our rules The last man standing wins And today's winner is... ...the Chinese Man on this stage That is my father! Kid. Let me teach you a trick Look at me I saw the hole in the first place You are a fake I'm sorry
