 

                        1 Don't get too close to me I don't love you Hearts break so easily Nowhere is safe for you, honey Feed off my energy That's an order Stop kissing up to me I don't reward good behavior Truth is unfair I am your weakness Deadliest bite Try if you dare You're already mine Pretty girls learn to work it early Call in my fantasy Operator Flatlining into me Pull the plug, see you later Truth is unfair I am your weakness Deadliest bite Try if you dare You're already mine I am your weakness Deadliest bite Try if you dare You're already mine Pretty girls learn to work it early Pretty girls learn to work it early That's my dorm. Cleland Hall. This campus is huge, Katie. How will you ever get around? There's a set of wheels for you. Probably sixty grand, plus options. And all that on top of the tuition here? I guess some parents have money growing on trees. Well, you're in the clear dad, all my loans were approved and the college has a bikeshare program, so I'm good on the transportation front. We should hurry because I have to get to the bookstore by four. All right, we'll get you settled. It's only two, you'll get there. Okay, that's the last of it. Thanks dad. Yeah, sure. Mom, I got it really. Right. Well, we should get going before traffic hits. Your dad's got a bathroom installation first thing in the morning and... ...and you have school. Okay, well uh... bye Katie. Bye, dad. I should probably move the truck before the meter maid shows up. I'll meet you down there. Okay. What am I gonna do without my interior designer? Who'll help me figure out where to put the Lazy Boy when the new curtains go up? You know exactly where I think that eye sore belongs. It's your Dad's favorite chair. It's his favorite thing in the whole house. I can't get rid of it. I beg to differ. I know how hard you worked to get here. So make sure you have some fun, okay? You've earned it. I love you, mom! I love you too, baby. [Keyboard clicking] So how exactly do you meet a Sugar Daddy? It's just like online dating. You fill out a form about yourself, and say what kind of guy you want to date. And membership is free for girls. Daddies have to pay. Age range for guys? No older than 35. What if he's really rich? You should listen to the pro, Rochelle. [Laughing] Fine, 40. Tessa!? Older guys like something more steady and they're willing to support your career goals. Like Leo. He totally gets my modeling. Leo is not 65, he's 40. He's a very mature 40. Take it from me, I've done this a long time. You'll meet some guy in his 30's, who's already made his first 10 million, he'll sweet talk you into kinky sex on your first date and then flame out. You'll never hear from him again. Hey you should use that picture of hers, the cheerleading one. It's adorable. Ugh, really? Me, cheerleading? Oh yeah, guys love that. They've all got high school fantasies. I find that a tad disturbing. But they also want girls with ambition too. So, I'll add that you're Phi Beta Kappa to your profile. [Message ping] I did not just get a message. Already?! Oh yes you did! Ugh. Yikes, if he were such a wealthy stud he'd pay to get his teeth capped. It's a full-time job just weeding out the guys on this site. Yeah, that's true. Not to mention how many dates end up being a total waste of time. That's because you date a bunch of guys at once, Sasha. Never mind you. Here you go. Thanks. You know, I really think Ken could be the one. You know how many times I've heard that before? All right, it comes to $470.52. Yikes... I wasn't expecting it to be that much. Don't you know our school motto? "Welcome to Montlake. Now open your wallet." [Chuckling] Guess some of these are supplemental so I... don't need them. Well, you could open an account. Pay for what you can now and put the rest on credit. I'm pre-med, so I take advantage of that. Okay then I'll take all of them. -Cool. And this one too. First year here? Yeah, but I'm a junior. Just transferred from Worthington Community. Worthington? It's a drive east, a long time. Anyway, there's not much of an art history department there. Art history... what dorm do they put you in? Um... Cleland Hall? I'm right across the street, frat house. I'm Sean, by the way. Katie. Can you move it along? You just... sign it I'll do the rest. Okay. Great. Thank you. Hey, see you later. Thanks. My first week, I had three offers to be whisked away for spring break. One to St. Barts, Paris for shopping the next... I can't even remember. But it all beats getting drunk with frat boys in Palm Springs. [Message ping] Oooh, check out this guy. He doesn't look too bad. Hmm... let's check out his finances. Oh, no forget it. He hasn't completely filled out his form. He's a scammer. Creep. Too bad, because he's a cutie. Not to worry, plenty of sugar in the bowl. [Message ping] Perv. Poser. Oooh, what about this guy? He's ancient, but I like that suit. Leo has one like it. Wait, I know him. Or, I know of him. He's brilliant, richer than god. Started countless businesses. Yeah, he's older than god too. That's okay as long as... wait, do all Sugar Daddies want sex? In the 14th century the hierarchy of Venice decided they needed a building to demonstrate the city's new wealth and power. So this structure, the Doge Palace, was born. Who can tell me what is unexpected about its design? Oh, well it's Katie, again. The Byzantine architecture relates more to their trading partners to the East than the late medieval architecture of northern Italy. Very good, excellent. [Upbeat music] So tell me, what is Saul Williams doing on a Sugar Baby website? How do you know my real name? I always do my homework. And you seriously under reported your net worth. That's gotta be a first. That's an interesting way to start an initial meeting. What should I be doing? Stroking your ego and 'Yessing' you like everyone else you know? You sound like my wife. Very forthright, just like you. Married Sugar Daddies are a deal breaker, just so you know. She died, three years ago. What, you didn't find that out in your research? Oh my gosh. I'm so sorry. So am I. Ovarian cancer. That's so tough. And proof positive that money doesn't buy everything. I'm well familiar with that. Now be sure to read the relevant chapters in your supplemental text before next class. I understand the bookstore ran out of copies. Who doesn't have one? Please share with your classmates until the bookstore stocks up. Hi, I'm Katie. I already read the pages if you want to borrow my book. Oh, Tessa, thanks. When do you want it back by? Next week. Or, maybe the weekend? I may want to re-read the pages. I can come by your dorm and pick it up? Oh I'm off campus. That's fine too. [Phone ringing] Hey babe! How was your trip? That's because I wasn't there with you... Sure, come by any time. Photo shoot's not till next week. Friends have encouraged me to date, but... not easy to do when you've been married for 40 years. On top of that I'm out of town three weeks out of every month and the few women that I have briefly dated are not happy with that. They wanted more commitment and that's something I'm not prepared to give. Let me be straight with you. I'm not in interested in trying to hook you. I don't want to be Saul Williams' trophy wife. I want to be Saul Williams. I see... I'm double majoring in finance and business. My goal is to graduate, get my MBA, and not end up $250,000 in the hole. I don't have rich parents to pay my way. I was raised by a single mom. So what exactly would I be getting out of this arrangement between us? A date who looks gorgeous on your arm and knows how to talk business with your clients. And when you need feedback on a new product, you will always get my honest opinion. And the arrangement will only cost you three thousand a month. Wow, you're starting very low... I'm well aware I could be charging a whole lot more. I don't want designer purses or my hair done at a celebrity salon. What I want are my bills paid and three thousand a month will cover that. When you need me, I'll be there. If you want space, you can have that too. And I'm not going to have sex with you. Please! If you want sex, you can afford the best in the business. So are you telling me that for $3000 a month, I don't even get a striptease? Come on, Saul. Didn't you just say, money can't buy everything? [Laughing] Very good. Katie. Oh, hey. I'm very impressed with your contribution in class. Have you spent much time in Italy? No, I've never been. I just took a couple courses at Worthington Community College. And I just like reading about it. Yes, I can see that. Have you thought about the Montlake summer fellowship at the University of Florence? Yes, I'm going to apply. Glad to hear it. Use me as a reference. Really? Thank you so much. It's an excellent program, very prestigious. A real calling card. That's what I've heard. Going there would be a dream. Good. Thank you. I'm ready to close the financing and now you tell me they're on the fence? I'm leveraged up the ying-yang. Look, I don't care what time it is in Shanghai. Please, just get on the horn and make this happen. Leo, what do you think? Which dress do you think is better? This one, or the blue one I had on before? Leo, this is important. I'm up for a huge ad campaign. Which one do you think is better? God, you're gorgeous. You're gonna take back the one you don't wear, right? Well, if you let me keep them both, I'll show you what I bought for underneath. I gotta get to work, put out a fire. My sexy fireman. You got a friend that can join us for dinner tonight? I've got a colleague in town, he could use some company. Hmm, well Rochelle has a new Sugar Daddy, so she's out. What about Sara? You mean Sasha? Right, Sasha. She's cute, good at a party. Maybe too good. Plus she's got her hands full with two guys at the moment. Not to mention that hunk, Ken, who's head over heels for her. Too bad. Anyone else? I think I might know someone... Smart girl. Go on, get out of here. Right, right... Hey, Katie! Hi! Hey I'm glad I caught you. I'm here to give you one of these... It's a keg at the frat tonight. It's nothing special, we do it every weekend. But if you wanna come by, feel free to. Sure, it sounds fun. Really? I mean cool! I'll, uh, I'll see you there. [Message ping] [Message ping] [Message ping] [Keyboard clicking] [Message ping] [Street traffic] Hi. Hi, I'm looking for- I've been trying to reach you for hours. Costa is screwing on the financing. Need a backup plan. Tessa, it's Katie! I'm just getting out of the shower! Make yourself at home. Are you kidding? It's a Von Hoffman turn of the century. This is worth like- It was a gift. I don't really love it. Sorry, I'm obsessed with this era. I can see that. You want a drink? I've got vodka, tequila, a bottle of white wine somewhere. No, thanks, I'm a lightweight and if I crash my cruiser who knows how much Bikeshare will charge me. Wow. That's you, on the cover of Euro-Couture magazine? Come on! That photo's ancient, like, spring two years ago. Hey my friend who gave me those chairs is coming out tonight. We're going downtown, wanna come? Actually I sort of RSVP'd to this frat thing. I didn't know frat boys took RSVP's. This one guy invited me, I sort of said I would go. [Phone ringing] Hey babe. Miss me already? No, no dinner tonight. I have a go-see next week and I'm getting fat... [Loud dance music] Thank you. Hi, I'm Cory. Hi. Katie. Looks like you need a refill. [Laughing] I just got here. Have you seen Sean? Yeah, over there. Thanks! Bottoms up. Hi! -Katie! Hey, you made it! Are you doing okay? Yeah, I'm good. I'm better now that you're here. Hey, um, do you... do you want a- [Vomiting] Oh! Ewwww! [Wincing] Ugh! Ewww! [Knock at the door] One second, I said! Hurry up! Come on! Hello? Hey Tessa... it's Katie. What's up? Is the offer to go out with you still good? [Sophisticated jazz music] Welcome to Sky House. I read about this place in my Seattle guide. You're a member here? It's my home away from home. I am way underdressed. All the guys are like GQ types, and I'm in jeans and- Chill! Your ass looks great in jeans. But still, invest in an LBD. -LBD? Little Black Dress. While you're there, invest in a pair of stilettos the higher, the better. Scrunchies went out in the 90's! You should wear your hair down more anyways. And that plum lipstick is trying way too hard. Here put this on. Wow, it's a major improvement. You ready now? Okay, let's do this. Hey! Hi. Katie, Sasha. Sasha, Katie. Hi. Hey. New guys? Yeah well, Ken's been giving me a hard time. So I took your advice, went back to the sugar bowl, and look what I landed. These guys are all richer than sin. Tessa is awesome. Yeah, I get that. Come on. Leo. Hi babe! Hey. Leo, this is Katie. Katie, Leo. -Hi! Hi Katie. And this must be James. Pleasure, Katie. Is the champagne chilled? Glacier. Here take this. If I give my business card to someone, I never feel guilty about writing the night off as an expense. Excellent tax advice, Leo. Wow, nice cards. Obviously it doesn't take much to impress you, Katie. You should have seen her lose it over my chaise lounge. Where are you from? Worthington. It's a long, boring ride from here. Don't know it. Katie is in my art history class. You're showing up for classes this term? Screw off, Leo. I can't help it if all my go-sees happen to be during the day. So... is your company K2 Design based here? No, London. But our clients, mostly commercial real estate developers like Leo, are from all over the world. I'm lining up the financing on two properties... So you get to travel a lot, that must be nice. For me, yes. For my wife it wasn't so much fun which is why she's now my ex. What about you? Oh no, I'm not married. I'll let you two get acquainted, we'll be right back. What I meant was, what do you want to do for work? [Laughing] I want to get a job at an interior design firm, and then once I have enough experience, open up my own shop. Oh, no, no no. I'm good. Come on, it's not a school night. Okay. Do I like him?! He's ridiculously hot. He has that sexy English accent and he gets what I want to do with my life. Of course I like- [Gasps] Ow! You all right in there? No, I'm not. I had like two or three glasses of champagne. I told you I'm a lightweight. I'm gonna stay over at Leo's tonight. Is it okay if James gives you a ride home? I think I'll manage. [Car horn] They were really going too fast or maybe it's all that champagne? [Soft piano music] I should get you home. Why? It's not a school night. I need to be on a call to Europe in an hour. You're such a tease. Not always. You know, I always stop in Seattle on my way to Asia. And that's a trip I try to make at least once or twice a month. Such a busy boy from Leeds. What I'm trying to say, Katie, is... I would really love to see you again. And I'm saying, I would love that. So, Tessa, what do you think? Looks great, if you're going to a funeral. Which you might be, given how old Simon is. Saul. And this is the only thing of yours that fits me, Tessa. It looks conservative! That's what you want, right? He invited me to an angel investing panel at the finance conference that he's hosting. And he catered a dinner from Morton's. All that and a few dinners this month? Are you sure he doesn't expect you to put out? He likes my ambition. The fact that I have career goals. I can't believe this! This model is everywhere! You're a million times prettier. Yeah but, she's like twelve. She has no wrinkles. Tessa, you don't have wrinkles. Why else would they hire her again for a skin product? She just did a huge Victoria make-up campaign! You'll land something else, you always do. I just need more exposure. Hey! Katie. Hey. I went by your dorm the other day but there was nobody there. Look, I'm really sorry about this weekend, the party. I feel like... I don't know how to say it, an ass? Don't worry about it, seriously. Ok, I mean... truth is I can't really talk to girls that well without two drinks in me. You're doing okay now. You're being really cool about all this. Can I maybe, make it up to you this weekend? Umm, I have a friend in town so... maybe another time? Yeah, sounds good. Do you want me to put this book on your account? Yeah, that would be great. I know I owe another payment. Actually, your account is paid for in full. Uh, that's impossible. I owe $400. No, check it out. Look! Zero balance. Says there's an envelope here for you. Here. It's my rich uncle. Lucky you! Yeah. Oh hey, don't forget your... Right. Why did you tell James I owed money to the bookstore? I didn't. Then how did he find out? Look, James wanted to give you a gift. But something practical, something you would really like. So I told him a lot of students have accounts at the bookstore. He doesn't need to be giving me gifts. We just met. It's weird. Well, he wanted to. Like I said, I thought it would do more for you than a designer handbag. And it's not weird, Katie. It's two people who like you, Tessa and this guy who wanted to do something nice for you. Look Katie, I didn't mean to offend you. I was sure he said something to you about it. About what? There's nothing wrong with getting a little financial help when you need it. And we all need it. Why would you need it, Tessa? Your father is Charles Bouillette. He watches me like a hawk, every penny I spend, my bank accounts, my credit cards. And I'm trying to launch a modelling career, okay? I need new headshots all the time, clothes, makeup. Guys like Leo and James, they get it. They have the resources and they don't mind helping out. They want to help. It's what rich guys do. Ken spoils me. Especially when I ignore him. So they help by giving gifts? An allowance is part of the arrangement. Isn't that hooking? What? Hooking is about sex. Having an arrangement with a sugar daddy is about companionship with a guy you'd want to spend time with anyways. Sophisticated men who take you places and show you things. And expect sex in return. Oh, so you wouldn't wanna have sex with James? Yeah, that's what I thought. Look Katie, James is important to Leo. I wouldn't have introduced him to just anyone. But you're perfect. Brains and beauty, the whole package. True, she wouldn't. This is all really confusing. Actually, its pretty straight forward. You're smart, you're ambitious. You're gonna graduate from college with a ridiculous amount of debt. And what, try and land an internship? That doesn't pay? We're all in the same boat, Katie. I don't know, but I really wish you had told me all this before the bar. Why? So you could act like this? All judgemental and holier than thou? It's just not me. Whatever. Katie! Hi. Do you have time for a quick word? Sure. Well I'm sorry to have to tell you this, but you didn't get the University of Florence summer fellowship. Damn. It was very competitive and they just had too many qualified candidates. Yeah, um... Well, thank you for letting me know. No, no... hold on, Katie. From your performance in class, it's obvious you deserve to be there. So I did something I've never done for any student before. I spoke to the members of the jury and they've agreed to add an extra spot for you. Are you kidding? No. That's great! Thank you so much! The downside is, while I got the fellowship to pay for the course you have to cover your own flight and room and board. But you can get a deal at a pensione and inexpensive food on a meal plan. Okay, uh, how much will that run? Around $7000 for the summer. I just don't think that's possible. I'm already maxed out on loans. I literally have $22 in my bank account. Can you talk to your parents? They're pretty much tapped out now helping me however they can. Look I know it's tough. But this program is a feeder into the top interior design firms in the country. Believe me, I know. I really wanna do it. I'll hold them off for a week. See what you can do to make it work. Okay? Okay, I need two new outfits for my new headshots. You tell me which ones you like best, and I'll let you borrow whatever you want for your next date with Saul. Better start on my two week juice fast so they'll fit. Hold up the blue one again. That's it, yeah. James, asking you for this money is really embarrassing for me. The $7000 will be transferred to your account first thing in the morning. I only need half to secure my place in the program. The final payment isn't due until after Thanksgiving. You'll rest easier not worrying where the rest of the money is gonna come from. I'll pay you back as soon as I can. Stop it, you're not paying me back. I'm not looking for a handout. I've been working since I was 15, helping my dad, waitressing, babysitting... I'm sorry, I really don't mean to come off as ungrateful. It's just- I get it. You pride yourself on your independence. That's what I like about you. Listen to me, I've been there before. I know how hard it is to do everything on your own. This program in Florence is a great opportunity and you shouldn't miss out. The last thing you need is more debt hanging over your head. And I wouldn't be doing this if I couldn't afford it. So no more talking about paying me back. Can you do that for me? I want it out of your mind. It's out of my mind. Okay. Let's have a little fun, shall we? Come on. [Click] [Garage door closing] Oh my gosh. This is amazing! One of the perks of being an investor in the company. You get keys to the showroom to take people on private tours. The detail and... Ahhh! Where is this piece from? I picked it up at an auction in Holland. It's a coastal contemporary piece by Adelaide Wilder. It's exquisite. A client wanted that couch. But I decided I wanted to keep it for myself. Did you already pay for it? It's yours? Yes, why? What are you thinking? I think we better christen it. Is that right? [Flute jazz music] [Flute jazz music] This is a depiction of the lady attempting to seduce the man, who's resisting her advances. -So she's a prostitute? -No, she's not a prostitute, she's a courtesan. Although I admit these days the distinction is a little harder to understand. [Phone ringing] Owen, hey. Hey, baby bro! Hey just to let you to know, I'm gonna be in town tomorrow. Thought I'd take you out to dinner. Right on, where you wanna go? Heard of this place that's supposed to have a lot of hot chicks. Where's that? I don't know exactly. It's called Sky House. I can meet there around 7. It's classy dress code Sean, you got a jacket? Yeah yeah, I think so. Where is this place? I'll text you the address when I find it. Later bro. [Hangs up] Hey Sean. Hey. What's up with you? I found out yesterday I got an internship over the winter break. Wow that's cool. Doing what? Just a study-work thing for pre-med students. Basically assist a medical outreach team. Anyway, I'll be going around villages giving out vaccines. Wait, Sean... villages? Where are you doing this? Congo, Africa. Congo. Wow, that's amazing! Yeah, tell that to my parents. They're pretty freaked. Well, I can kinda see why. It's really far away, and I don't know, maybe kind of dangerous? Honestly, my parents would find a reason to worry about me in the next town. But that's what parents do. Yeah, sounds familiar. Hey, what about you? With the great art history program... I hear Hickman's a real hard-ass though. Yeah, she's my favorite. Yeah, I bet. What's that supposed to mean? I've worked in that bookstore for two years, you're the first person that's come in and bought every single supplemental text there is. [Laughing] I don't believe you. Oh hey, here's my study partner. Oh, cool. I have to go soon anyway. Great talking. Yeah. You too. Hi, Sean! Hey. You okay to study? Me? Yeah, why? I don't know. Maybe you're a little distracted? Yep, distracted. I've got some client money to play with. Here's the brochure. All mid-century modern. That's my favorite. Have you ever placed a bid before? Sure. For $15 lamps on eBay. It's basically the same thing. Apart from the three extra zeroes. I've got something here for you. What's this? Open it. James... And this, as well. Didn't want to get lost at the bottom of the box. It's for shoes. I couldn't remember if you were a six or seven. And a bag. I know how ladies love to accessorize. James... (Stammering) This, this is all too much. I can't take all of this. The dress alone is worth a fortune, please. You've helped me so much already. Well, if it will make you feel any better, you'll be the one helping me out this time. I need a date for the museum this Saturday. There's a gala opening. For the opening of the Picasso exhibit? You keep surprising me with all these nice things! You're so appreciative. I like that. You don't take it for granted like other girls. So you do this with other girls too? Sorry. I just don't get how this whole thing is... supposed to work. Katie, I like giving you things. It makes me feel happy. But if it makes you uncomfortable, I'll stop. No one has ever given me something so beautiful before. I don't know what to say. Say thank you and that you'll go. Ladies! Katie, this is Rochelle. And you know Sasha. Hi, nice to meet you Rochelle. Hey Sasha. Hey. Champagne? Always. Heard you're a brilliant interior designer, Katie. Oh, that's just Tessa doing my PR. She's good at that. Well, my friends are fabulous, powerful women who will be the top of their industries in five years tops. Anybody asks, I said it first. Rochelle is the business major here, she's working on getting her MBA. Then she'll be a CEO of a Fortune 500 company. Make that Fortune 50. We're out. Oh, I'll get it. Another bottle of Veuve LaPlante please. Dipping into your Italy internship fund? Don't worry, you can always ask for more sweetie. And Sasha, how do you describe Sasha? A label whore? Don't you love my new shoes? Another pair? How many times have we been over this? You have to stop spending all your money. Why? Her tuition is covered. What does she gotta worry about? I didn't buy them, okay? You remember Ken? -No. He took me shopping. Said I just had to have them. Ease up Sasha, you're freaking Katie out. To Katie! (Everyone) To Katie! [Glasses clinking] So Katie... what kind of guy is your type? James. James is my type. Who's James? Leo's business associate from London. Speak of the devil. -Hi Katie. Katie, you hit the jackpot. I texted you from the lobby. Sorry to interrupt, ladies. I don't know how I missed it, sorry. No worries. James, you know Tessa. This is Rochelle and Sasha. James, hello. Pull up a chair James, stay a while. We have to be across town by eight. I thought it started at nine! No, I was wrong. Ok, well we better go. Sorry to drink and run. It was nice meeting all of you. Have fun at the gala! [Laughing] Wait. Katie, we're late. I have to give you this now. If I don't, I'm gonna end up telling you what it is. I'm horrible at surprises. It's a tie clip. Darn it. Sorry! You didn't have to get me anything. I saw it and I wanted it for you. Just because. Do you like it? It's very thoughtful of you. Okay, now we can go. Tess? What? What is this? An inquisition? I just want to know if the charges are right. $1200 at the Sky House last Thursday? I was out with the girls. Two nights at the Bayside Hotel Monday and Tuesday, fine. But an $1800/night suite? Was that with the girls too? That was for my photographer, okay? He did my headshots there. We talked about using someone local this time. This is important. I need the top fashion photographers in the business. This is for Paris Fashion Week. Don't tell me... I get to pay for that trip too? You want me to beg for it, is that what you want? This is the third round of headshots. Does it really make a difference?! You need a new strategy! You're right, I do. I'm sorry. I'm moving to New York. Where the real modeling work is. Tessa, how many times have we been through this? I can't have you 3000 miles away from me. And I can't keep putting my life on hold for you! I'm 23 years old. There are girls 17 and 18 getting better modeling gigs than me. It's over Leo! Tessa... What are you still doing there?! Go, get out! Please, babe... I can't lose you. Whatever you need, whatever you want. You want that new electric car? I'll get you one. I love you. There's only one spot in the garage, Leo. I'll get you another one. I'll get you two. I'll get you whatever you want. Just promise me no more talk about New York. ngs go viral, the sky's the limit. I agree, Don. The apps in the portfolio have enormous potential. But the business plan has some major holes in it. I had an expert look at it. I'd like to talk to your expert. Walk him through our projections. It's a her, Don, and there's nothing to talk about. Your client wants me to invest, I have to put my people in to run the shop. That's my bottom line. They'll never agree to it. You're missing the boat, Saul. Boats sail every day. I'll take the next one, bye-bye. I didn't say you should pass! Even if the projections are shaky, I still said these apps are gonna be huge! You young people, you have no patience. Five, four, three, two, one... Well, an old man can make mistakes. [Intercom ringing] Yes, Judy. Donald Smith on Line 1, Mr. Williams. Yes, Don. Alright Saul, they'll take the deal. Great. I'll have my lawyer draw up the papers. Thanks Don. Want to celebrate tonight? I meant to you give this last time I saw you. I told you before we're up to date on payments. It's not a payment. What is it? Open it and you'll find out. A letter of recommendation for business school? At my number one choice? It's a formality. Or it will be when I call them on the phone for you. I know the Dean we sit on several boards together. Saul, are you kidding me? You didn't have to do this. In my entire career, do you know how many letters of recommendation I've written? And meant it? Three. Two of them have gone on to run multi-billion dollar companies. So don't screw it up, it's a very high bar. Thank you, so much. Dinner next week? I'll be in Boston with my son and grandkids. I'm leaving on the weekend and I'll be gone for a month. Saul Williams, taking a whole month away from the office? Well, something's been pulling me to spend more time with them. But you watch. I'll be there for three days and they'll send me home. Good. What will I do without you? I will have to go back to being a boring college student. I'll see you after Thanksgiving. [Car door opens] [Soft piano music] Did you get my text? I was out shopping. My bad. Wine? You look like you need a glass. More like a bottle. James and I had this amazing night at the gala. The next morning he left for Europe, and I haven't heard from him since. I get it, he's at auctions and there's a time difference but how busy can he be to not respond to at least one of my texts? It's been two weeks! How many times did you text him? I don't remember. More than five? Less than ten? Less than ten. Are you texting him as a stage one clinger or do you need money? I mentioned money once. I dipped into my Italy fund again to buy my dad his birthday gift. I'm short $2000 and I have to make the final payment right after Thanksgiving. Katie, there are ways to ask a Sugar Daddy. Dropping it into a text is not one of them. I know, it was stupid. I hate this whole money relationship thing anyway. It's so confusing and stressful. I like him, Tessa. For real. I think when he's not consumed with his work, he really likes me too. I have no idea where his head is at, if that's what you're asking. I barely know James, I met him the same night you did. What do I do? You have to talk to James about it. Really? I have to have the talk? What other choice do you have? You want to make sure that you're on the same page. But do it in person when he's back in town. [Phone ringing] This is Tessa. Miss Bouillette? Yes, Tessa Bouillette. I'm calling in regards to pat due payments on your car lease. I have no idea when the payments were made on my car last. Well our records show- I don't make them. Call the person who does. And who usually makes the payments? Leo Granger, here I'll give you his cell. Please hold ma'am. (Whispering) Leo's going to love this. This may take a while. That's fine I'm ridiculously behind on all my classes. And I haven't started the term paper that's due tomorrow. So... see ya. Katie, text James again and I swear to god I'll confiscate your phone. Sorry, was that Leo Ranger? No, Granger. G-R-A-N-G-E-R. Our records show payments are past due. What are you talking about? Hi I'm Peter, a friend of James. Katie. Are you waiting for James? He was supposed to meet me here. 25 minutes ago. Actually he got pulled into a late meeting. He could have texted me, saved you the trouble. No, I'm happy to help a Yale buddy. Compliments of the gentleman, miss. You don't have to do that. No, no no. -Thank you sir. So, can you join me for dinner? Thank you, but I've got to get back to studying. Finals are right around the corner at Montlake, and I'm way behind. Borderline train wreck. I know you need $2000. So that's what Yale buddies do for each other? They pass off the girl when they're through with her? Provisions for my road trip. Tell me you're not going to spend the entire holiday studying. Well, Mallory invited me up to her family's place for the day. You're gonna screw in her childhood bedroom. That's so hot. We're study partners. That's it. I've seen the way she looks at you. What the hell is wrong with you man? I don't try to screw everything that moves? It's that other girl isn't it? Katie. I can't afford Katie. What do you mean? Is she rich or something? She hangs out at Sky House. Really?! You know what they say about college girls who hang out there. I know. Damn... No time for exotic excursions. I'm spending Thanksgiving getting a jump on the reading list for B-school. When is Saul coming back? Sunday night. Four weeks as it turns out is a very long time. I kind of miss him. Someone finally gonna get some? Maybe. After all, Christmas is coming. If anyone wants to do Istanbul, I'm in. Where is Leo gonna be? Who knows, somewhere with his wife. Why is Leo still with her? It makes no sense. They don't have kids and she knows about you. He's with her because she bails him out every time his finances go south. Financing must be pretty bad if he's going to be with her for four straight days. What about you Katie? Is James taking you somewhere fabulous? Katie screwed up. She made the mistake of confusing her sugar daddy with a rich boyfriend. Stop with all the pressure. It's okay. We're gonna find her somebody new. The best thing to do is to get right back on the horse. There's lots of guys with lots of money. Give her time to grieve. It's fine, I already have plans to go back to Worthington. It's my dad's birthday and I promised my mom I'd be home for Thanksgiving. I need a drink. I'm going to need another 5- 10 minutes with this turkey. No problem. I'll give Dad his birthday present before we eat! She's been waiting for this all day. It's in the den, dad. Now listen, having you home is enough of a present. Come on, dad. Move it! All right, all right. Hurray! Should I be blind folded? Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up! TA-DA! Happy Birthday! Was this your idea? No, Katie's. I didn't even know about it until the delivery man showed up. You know how hard this thing was to hide in the laundry room? I know this is a big change, dad. But I promise, its just as comfortable as your Lazy Boy. That chair costs $1500. Believe me, I didn't pay that much. It's a knockoff. Well, if we can't make a mortgage payment, I guess I can always sell it. You do that, dad. Sweetie, your dad's just worried about how much money you're spending on us. You're in school, we don't want you getting further into debt. I'm not getting further into debt. I picked up work on the side! You mean waitressing? No, I'm consulting. (Stammering) What does that even mean? I'm helping clients out with interior design. But what do you care? You've made up your mind, you don't want it! (Whispering) It's $1500. What'cha looking for? Your stash of wine. I definitely need some. (Wine pouring) Here you go, sweetie. But be careful. You sure didn't eat very much at dinner. Hey, are you okay? You've seemed really on edge since you've been home. Everything's fine Mom. Just... forget about it. Okay. Katie, I have your laundry. Thanks, Mom! [Message ping] Mom, what are you doing? That's private! Is that where all this stuff is from? Those men? Katie I want to know what's going on. Nothing... it's just a dating website. To find men who promise to do what? Pay your rent? They're not paying my rent. Well it's a website where men pay women for something. It's not what this is about, Mom. Well, what is it about Katie? If a guy gives you gifts and likes you, what's the problem? Gifts? Okay, fine. I wanted to go to Italy. There's this summer abroad thing at the University of Florence. It's an amazing program and I got in... but it costs $7000. For heaven's sake Katie, why didn't you call us? Talk to us? I thought it was too much to ask, and it is too much to ask. After all you've done... If Italy was so important to you I would have sold Grandma's jewellery. Maybe I didn't want to make you feel like you had to sell Grandma's jewellery! That you would even consider this as an option. I'm choosing a man who will support my dreams. Maybe if dad had done that for you, you'd have gotten that graduate degree you always wanted. Your Dad is a wonderful husband and father. Are there compromises I've made? Yes. But I can live with them. Can you really live with yourself if you're seeing men and accepting gifts like this? That's something you're gonna have to decide for yourself. [Door closing] [Sobbing] [Message ping] Yeah, right. Miss Rochelle. Welcome back. Hi. Do you mind if we go for an early dinner? I'm dying for a steak. My son and his wife are vegans. Don't tell me, tofurkey for Thanksgiving? It was awful, you have no idea. Is Morton's okay? I have a better idea. Room service. As in hotel room service? I thought this was never going to happen? You old people have no patience. Change of plans. Bayside Hotel, downtown. Yes sir. [Knock at the door] What? What's wrong? Tessa, are you okay? The mailbox is full. Now he blocked me? Bastard! Who blocked you? Leo! He got back into town last night. He was supposed to come over and he never showed up. He totally screwed me over! Okay, okay. Hey. Drink this. Slow down. Tell me what happened, slowly. Apparently Leo hasn't been making payments on this condo for two months. He totally neglected our arrangement and didn't talk to me about it! What? Why? Something about money troubles. Maybe his wife finally put her foot down. They're going to take everything. My furniture, paintings, all of it. How is that even possible? Well he paid for it so I guess legally it belongs to him. Or his bitch wife. Either way, he's taking it. If I don't come up with $15,000 in two weeks, I'm gonna be out on the street! Okay, can't your dad help you? I know you don't want to tell him some things, but in this situation, he's gotta help. If my dad had any money, he'd put it in his arm. What? Okay, I don't understand. Isn't your father- He's not Charles Bouillette, the billionaire. He's John Bouillette, the deadbeat dad who dropped me at my Grandma's when my mom died. He's never sent me a Christmas card or called me on my birthday. And when I first got here, those bitches with the fancy clothes, and the nice cars and their tuition all paid for, they thought I was related to the famously rich Bouillette. I let them believe it. I thought it was hilarious, them kissing my ass. The girl raised in a trailer park. That's a big secret to keep all this time. You keep so many for so long, it's hard to know what's true anymore. Or if it even matters. You're the first person I've told. I'm glad you did. I should have dumped Leo months ago. For a sugar daddy who wasn't overleveraged out of his ass. I had offers. Loads of offers! Maybe there's another way. What about modeling? You are so good at that. You know how much a print ad pays up here? Nothing. The real modeling work is in New York. All that time I wasted with Leo. I should have moved so long ago! There was this guy who contacted me, what was his name? Martin? Michael? He was for real, he was one of the Forbes 400. Tessa... Tessa... maybe it's time for a break. The lifestyle, the money, it's like an addiction. You took the money just like I did. You're right, but if I keep doing it, I'm afraid I'll start believing that's all there is. I know not every relationship is about love. I guess I just want to believe there's a possibility. Don't you? Love is invented for poor people. I'm dropping my membership to the site. I just came to tell you that. [Soft instrumental music] Saul? Saul?? (Yelling) Saul! [Painting shatters] [Glass shatters] [Message ping] [Message ping] [Dialing] Tessa! Saul died! What? He's dead Tessa! What happened? I don't know how it happened, we'd just started doing it. Where are you? In a room at the Bayside. Okay, you need to calm down. Do you hear me? How am I supposed to be calm? Aren't you supposed call the paramedics when someone is dead, or the police? No, you call no one. Do you understand me? You want to make a name for yourself in this business, don't you? You don't want to be known as the girl that some famous rich guy collapsed on. What about his family? He has a son. He has grandkids, Tessa! I should call them. And say what? "Hi, I was doing your dad in a hotel room when he keeled over and died?" Listen to me, Rochelle. You did nothing wrong. Of all the ways to go, this would be the top of any guy's list. You're not his wife, you're not his mistress, you're not even his girlfriend. You had an arrangement. That's it. That's all it was. I know. Walk away. Just walk away. [Dialing] 9-1-1, what is your emergency? Is someone there? Hi, yes. My... my friend just died. What's your location, please? Remember finals are next week. I'll have office hours on Thursday. Professor, I wanted to let you know that I won't be able to go to Florence this summer. It's just too much of a financial stretch. Well I understand. I'll contact the program administrator and let her know. You should follow up in a few days and see if you can get a full refund. I'll do that. I appreciate everything you've done for me. I'm gonna work really hard this summer, save up, see if maybe I can re-apply next year. I'm happy to go to bat for you again. Thank you so much. [Soft instrumental music] [Mailbox creaks open] [Mailbox door closes] [Guitar rock music] Hey Sean! Hey Katie! Someone in your frat blanketed my dorm in flyers. Yeah, they tend to do that. So, where's the keg? Here, let me show you. I could use a refill myself. Okay. That's so weird. Sean told me Katie is totally into that Sugar Baby stuff. What? Oh, hey. What, you don't have the guts to say something directly to my face? What the hell? You're telling people? Jackass. Katie! Katie wait! Do you know anything about that? What? About people calling me a Sugar Baby? My account at the bookstore is confidential, you- It's not like that, okay? Listen! What? Look, I don't know... okay. I saw you at Sky House the other night, I mentioned it to Cory, there's rumors flying around about what college girls are doing there. You should have had the balls to just ask me! I didn't know anything! Okay? Yes, there was a guy okay? Someone I fell for! But it doesn't happen like you think. It just isn't that way... You don't owe me an explanation. Wow! I guess you're life doesn't get complicated. That must be nice. Why don't you admit you're as judgemental as the rest of them? I came after you, didn't I? Yeah and I bet now, you wish you hadn't. But you know what, that's my fault. I probably should've waited till you were drunk. Because you do better with girls then, right? t took my statement. Said they might have more questions for me later, but for now, yeah. Did you ever talk to any of his family? They wanted nothing to do with me. You called it. You didn't listen to me. and that, I didn't call. I couldn't just walk away, Tessa. I miss him. I understand, Rochelle. You found somebody you really cared about. Yeah last night, Bruce took me- Wait, what happened to Ken? That's what I'd like to know. Anyway, I went out with Bruce and we're at this really nice restaurant but all I could think was, this would be great if I could be here with someone I really loved. Well, there are lots of men with lots of money girls, who will whisk you away. Three cocktails and a shiatsu massage, and you'll forget about all your troubles. I'm going back to being a starving student. And Tessa, you should focus on your modeling. We don't need them. [Glasses clink] [Knock at the door] Katie? Dad, what are you doing here? I, uh... I took the day off. You didn't have to do with that. I told mom I was renting a U-Haul to get all my stuff home. I'm not here to help you move. You drove six hours to tell me that? You really could have called. All right, okay look. I will help you move. Okay...? But not until you graduate. Wait a second, you want me to graduate Montlake? You never wanted me to come to this college in the first place. You were right, I was wrong. Okay? I'm sorry. I can't stay here, dad. People, they know. Oh so you're just gonna run away because of it? You're going to drop out before you even finish taking your finals? I've made a mess of everything. I don't know why I thought it was a good idea to transfer to Montlake in the first place. Well from what I've been told by you, is that this school has the best art history department in the country. But I guess you can always switch to accounting at Worthington Community and take over my bookkeeping. Unless you want to start crawling under people's houses to fix a sewer line? I think you're forgetting I've been in a crawl space on a hot day. Wasn't that my job one summer? That's right it was. I'd like to think that's what turned you away from plumbing and towards art history. (Katie) Dad was right, as usual. I decided to come back to school after winter break. And I was glad I did. Yes, the whispers and stares continued for awhile... but it was worth it. Not just for my studies... but to reconnect with old friends. Hey, Katie! Hi! How was your break? Pretty good. Hey, how was the Congo? Complicated. Oh yeah? Yeah. Life can get that way sometimes. It sure can. Hey listen, you were right. I was pretty judgemental about all that stuff that happened before the break. Guess being ten thousand miles away can kind of put things into perspective over there. Thanks for that. Hey, do you want to grab a coffee sometime, or...? For sure, I want to hear more about Africa. All right. Well what about now? Let's do it! I'm gonna stop by the quad really quick to get some money from the ATM. No, it's my treat. You sure? Yep that's the deal. I'm buying. All right! [Soft piano music] (Katie) bumped into someone else too. A little later that semester. Hey! It was a little tense at first. hadn't seen any of the ugar Babies in a long time. But it was really good to see Tessa again. We got caught up on a lot of things, like Sasha... After all her time in the sugar bowl, Sasha found her on-again off-again guy, Ken, was now on-again. Strange, yes... ut even stranger was what essa told me about Rochelle. She got called to a special reading of Saul's will. Where she found out that Saul left her a tiny nest egg, enough to pay for her MBA, and then some. And as for Tessa... she took the plunge and moved to New York to pursue modeling. Not that she gave up her sweet tooth for the Sugar Baby lifestyle. Tessa was, and I guess still is, y. who will always go back sugar bowl for a new guy. ope she'll be able to get she really wants that way. I love her and wish her the best. Then there's me. I'm finally going to Florence, on a post-graduate scholarship this summer. Sean says he may come visit. But either way, I'll be living my dream, my fantasy. And not playing a part in someone else's. The end.
