 

                        All units, look for vehicle IN995, in silver. Out to all. Is that the car on the radio? No way. Can't be They're moving in We have to help them No, we're here on... intelligence work But we have a situation. I'll go check Cover for me Come out, Snake I'll get at least several millions Hey Police Freeze Drop the knife... Drop the gun... Shane, I'm going in Drop the gun or I'll kill him Calm down. I'll co-operate Now drop your weapon or he will die in drain Easy. Shut up or you'll die faster Drop your gun Mate Take a deep breath If you go for his heart he still has 8 seconds to react Hit his reflex nerve Every cop carries a gun But not every cop has the guts... to take a head shot OJ can. He has the eyes of a sniper A sniper's rifle determines... an operation's success If anything affects... its accuracy A sniper's aim alone is useless You must protect your gun What do you think, Shane? He seems quite confident You need that for the Special Force Right? Make sure he won't get too confident though Look further out, keep your balance Look towards 11 o'clock from here How far away is that red building? A bus is 10m long The way I see it, the beeline aside should be 400m It's about 120m from here Sir, the hypotenuse is 410m Keep your fingers sensitive. Use this Watch your breathing when you fire They're not in sync, and hold the grip casually, not too hard Know what women say about men? Hold them too hard and they'll flee Let them go and they'll come back You must use your heart when you hold a gun Without gadgets, you use your judgment Range, wind direction, wind speed, temperature, humidity All in your mind Watch my breathing Your body shakes... with each heartbeat Learn to overcome it Take a deep breath, exhale slowly Fire when your body is most steady Hartman won 4 years in a roll You're a top shooter too? Hartman had a flu that year Who's Lincoln? He's the only one on the team Who could hit 500m in full speed wind Where is he now? He left 4 years ago He was our... best shooter But nobody likes him He was neck to neck with Hartman What do you think of them? We should promote the capable Lincoln is top shooter 4 years in a roll Hartman has better... commanding ability Lincoln, you're promoted to Sr. Inspector Kindergartens are like robbers I thought I was off the hook... when the kids got to primary school Now here's another one Say something, ok? You like it spicy? The food inside was tasteless Bathe with pomelo leaves... before you sleep Here's $20,000 Let me know if you need more Thanks You picked him up? Dropped him off near his old house How is he? Better than the last time I saw him I think he's recovered Keep an eye on him I will He only took $20 from your money I'll give you the rest tomorrow We can finally look at our wedding pics together I went to jail right after the wedding I'm sorry to have kept you waiting He's welshed on his debt. I'll hire someone to beat him up Save the dough Just pour gas over him and he'll pay up Pfft... You dumb or what... Allowance for this month What the hell? Toll fees? Is this how you greet your dad? Spend smartly Smart my butt, you butt hole You think I... really need your pennies? Get smart yourself Smart ass... There you go again. I should've just transferred you the cash You think I wanna meet you here? Don't get all high and mighty on me So what I'm a gambler You were raised by these mahjong tables too Now you're a cop, and you're shunning... your old man? Look at you. On the beat even in a storm If you're so smart, why aren't you the Chief of Police? As if you are some big shot Easy, Uncle. Have a soda What a skank. So this is what you call classy, huh? Good one, Bro Hypocrite Your dad is quite a brute. Is he a gangster? Gang, my ass. He used to co-own that mahjong parlor Boss, win it all, take them all Lucky all the way He had his heyday But he just can't accept his heyday... has long gone He thinks I can't make it, I'll prove him wrong Daddy, let's not go to Mom's this week Why? You don't want to see her? She's always on the computer She only cares about the stock market She lives alone. Just keep her company I'll pick you up tomorrow after lunch Alright What is it, Jenny? Jenny Mon... Please sign here, Mr Fong Thanks Mr Fong Someone left this for you Wear this. It'll bring you luck Let me find you a job I can manage Quinn Whoever you work for, it's a job This time you got 4 years, next time 8 How much more time do you have? Forget the petty jobs. Come work for me Even if something goes wrong we'll go to jail together I have it all planned out We'll intercept our bro... on his way to the doc Escort 1, turning onto Tim Mei Avenue Get in, Phil Bro Bro Quinn wanna rejoin our gang, how's that sound? I didn't say anything You saw what happened today Who shot the cops for us? Why did he help us? We must trust each other Tao is the muscle, you're the brain You don't need me. Who cares? How long have you been here? Nothing but piddling shit What I do is my own business You're my bro. I'm responsible for you It's hot, where's Quinn? He's gone Let's eat Sir I heard you were the best You could hit 500m in full speed wind You're the first, I'll be the second And the first to hit 600m Your breathing... will slow you down How will you beat me? Breathing in and out is too slow You better learn to hold your breath Iceman Let's see who hits more in one breath Senna won't compete off the tracks But he's dead Every man is competitive by instinct Or else he doesn't have what it takes Their sniper... can hit 350m They're the best on the team? Yes, Sir OJ Sir You know the drawback of holding your breath... while you fire? Nothing It's quick and steady It suits me just fine It lowers the oxygen level in your blood Your heartbeat will increase and your sympathetic nerve will be too active Your hands will shake a lot A sniper with shaky hands... is useless It's too dangerous I have met Lincoln, that's how... I don't care You're under me. You take my orders That's how we shoot here I will not tolerate any other way Yes, Sir Commissioner They used a sniper to rescue Tao Yip What's your strategy? The sniper is nothing to worry about We have... the best shooters I have total confidence in them Under the leadership of Hartman Fong We will apprehend... Tao Yip and his gang As a police sniper, what's your view? Any comments, officer? You want to challenge the HK Police? I'm waiting for you Don't take it personal something happened to the team It was Lincoln's last mission Tao was the prime culprit in the scene We had the bank surrounded Lincoln was my partner on 1 Hartman and Metal on 2 We waited a few minutes... but received no order to move in What happened? One of the hostages... was the son of the bank owner They wanted $100 million for ransom Prepare to move in Sniper team and assault team stand by Hold it. His family will pay the ransom Alright. Everyone, back to one Who fired the shot? As a sniper, Lincoln was impeccable That's what... the Special Force needs Hartman recruited you... because of your confidence too But over-confidence... may ruin you Lincoln Explain to us, why you fired that shot? I saw Tao about to pull... the grenade pin I had to... neutralize the crisis Did you report this... to your superiors? If I had time, I wouldn't need to shoot As Lincoln's partner, did you see Tao pull the grenade pin? No, Sir. I was... only the spotter a subtle movement like that could only be perceived by the sniper, not the spotter You were the sniper on 2 Have you taken... your eyes off Tao? No, Sir You saw... every move he made? Yes, Sir You saw him... pull the grenade pin? No, Sir Lincoln, you're suspended as of today Your case will be forwarded to the Department of Justice No one can support your testimony Why isn't anyone there to stand behind me? Hartman must have seen it, even if others didn't He was sentenced to 4 years in jail for manslaughter You'll need dynamite to... blow the vault I have a plan The vault is very near... the Police station Leave the cops to me You missed and failed to kill me 4 years ago Never thought you'd saved me the other day It's our destiny will come in 2 minutes each carrying 5 cops. 25 in total SDU, assault team and sniper team... will have you locked down in 10 minutes You won't be going anywhere, Tao How much should I pay... for my freedom? A lot He was a cop I don't trust him... either He's been watching us. I'll get him I've been worried about you You're really working for those men? Everything I do is for us You won't be sorry? Only those who owe me will be sorry Jenny Go get Daddy a bottle of water Why did you do it? No matter what you have lost you still have us Why were you the one who saved me? I don't want you anymore Don't you get it? Why did you save me? I don't want you to see me like this Go away Get out Daddy, your water Thanks Who gave you this? A guy How's your wife? She's fine but a bit emotional What are you going to do? I'll play it by ear I must... look after her There's a reason for everything I have seen Lincoln Shane, I need a favor What is it? Take a week off What do you have in mind? You're my only friend... on the team What do you mean? What are you planning to do to the team? It's you who hijacked the prison van? You were a cop If you want to know, ask Hartman For 4 years, I've never asked you or doubted you I won't ask again after today About Lincoln's sentence was your testimony the truth? I told them what I saw Lincoln had no reason to fire that shot He judged everything from his perspective He thought he saw Tao pull the pin and assumed I saw it too He thinks I was lying He killed the hostage because of arrogance He thought each shot was within his control This phone and SMS are... related to the hijack of the van I know Lincoln did it, but got no proof Too many cops were wounded We can't let them run wild We must catch him Excuse me What is it? Have you seen this man? He just moved into 8A Thanks - Get out, go - Stop... Damn Tao, run Officer down... Call for backup Back off Don't move Back off Watch out. He turned on the gas Iceman and Forest King on 2 OJ and Metal on 3 Virus and Russia on 4 Rabbit, you're the backup. Move it No. Rabbit and Metal on 3, OJ as backup Why wait? Move it Go. Go. Go We're preparing the money and the car Some of the hostages are sick Can you release some of them? Not until I get the money S1 on PO S2 on PO S3 on PO S4 on PO Inspector Fong We have cut off the gas supply Call off the negotiator. Assault team stand by Bravo ready Charlie ready Hostages are blocking the view S1 cannot get a head shot What about S2? S2 negative He's stepping out with a hostage Assault team, corner him to S3 and S4 Charlie in Bravo in The gas has not cleared away Hold fire. Corner him... Stay back or I'll kill him Back off Back off. Back off Back off S3, S4 stand by. Shoot to kill S3 negative What about S4? He's coming this way He stopped by the exhaust fan and found cover Find your position S4 negative S5 confirm Head shot, shoot to kill Stay back, I said back off Officer Are there any casualties? You took a clean shot... under the circumstances How do you feel? I have no comment Save it for those bastards... when they are arrested Care to comment? Say a few words Come on Didn't you hear me? I said shoot to kill We need him alive... to crack the case That's none of your business Our job is to kill the criminal and save the hostages, not to crack the case Every cop wants to crack the case, Sir I know I can do it. I did nothing wrong It's not for you to decide People could have died... if you missed I'm a sniper I shoot only when I'm confident I can hit the target Why are you picking on me? Why should I? I'm your commander. You do as I say No one should act on their own If you can't deal with it, just leave What now? How can we save Big Head? We'll do this deal first When this is over, I'll do everything to save him I know him. He was in my cell He's crazy Are you alright? I'm fine Can you still do it? Of course Assault team stand by Sniper clear Assault team, in... Tomorrow is an important day After tomorrow, your victory and glory will be yours again We'll go anywhere you want... and never come back I haven't felt your presence for a while Now I can feel it again Of course We'll be happy from now on Lincoln, who are you talking to? Crystal Crystal is dead What are you saying? She's not dead She's right here with me You better face the reality, Lincoln Reality? What is reality? You're a cop, so was I Why? Why wouldn't anyone help me? I was doing my job, not out to kill anyone Why? Why won't anyone defend me? Why won't they help me? Why? I know... You're afraid of me You can't beat me because... I'm the best As long as I'm here, you'll never be top shooter Lincoln, stop before it's too late You did nothing wrong, they did I want justice Justice? You shot me You call that justice? Why won't you leave me alone? I didn't mean to kill you. Don't blame me I'll pay you back You shot him 'coz you're arrogant You have no right to be the top shooter You defamed me because you're jealous You'll never beat me I lost everything because of you Hartman, it was all your fault It was your fault... It was your fault... Calm down It was your fault Leave me alone. I don't wanna see your face ever again Sniper team, attention Salute Tao, here's your bomb disposal car Inspector Ho, this is Lincoln We have your Sr. Superintendent you will send me... Hartman and his team or the hostage dies Hartman, you have never beaten me I'm giving you a chance... to be top shooter Lincoln Lincoln Lincoln Inspector, put Tao on the phone What's the meaning of this? You lucked out 4 years ago. Someone took a shot for you We'll see if you're still that lucky I'll fire only once Stand behind me. Hurry Quinn, you're not cut out for this Without me and Big Head, quit while you can Run Stop. Raise your hands Assault One, in Sir Lincoln is shooting everyone in sight Almost all of our men are wounded He won't let the paramedics inside He'll blow the car in 30 minutes Whatever personal grudge you have I can't afford... any more casualties Take care of him Lincoln picked this 500m terrain It's advantageous for his attack Forest King, Rabbit, locate him The others spread out Find the best range for a head shot Sir You're the only one on the team... who can take a head shot from 400m We'll cover for you at all cost Find Lincoln... once you get inside Whoever spots the opponent ahead, will win this battle Rabbit, search Forest King, 470m, 10 o'clock White sedan behind the blue coach Decoy. Move... Hartman, what's the situation? The car will blow in 10 minutes Cover. Fire I shot him down... Don't mind me Iceman, go cover OJ he's a better shot... for this shooting range OJ Remember what I told you about the drawbacks of holding your breath? He's using a.50, it's much heavier He'll be slower in every move He can only take 5 shots in one breath I'll be the bait Grab the chances and thuds the best shot in your way while he tries to shoot You're wounded. You can't go out there After Hartman was hit why did he smile? I don't get it I thought every man... was born competitive Is that right or wrong? because of their anxiety to win It's not worth it Today I am the top shooter I will take on anyone who challenges me Experts can co-exist
