 

                        Why have you brought me to your farm house? Do you love me? What kind of question is this? Tell me Suhasini. Do you love me? Forget about it. I have a gift for you. Really? I loved you Suhasini. But betrayed me. Pain of heart, Pain of liver. Gave the heart, took the pain. In my heart, Pain of disco. All these words have no effect on me. Why? Why? Because... I'm the pain killer. Chucky You're all just flies in front of me. Why? Because, I know karate. You should also learn karate. In Delhi man is still helpless. He can get hurt anytime. Jimmy Jimmy, Where are you going? Oh God. Jimmy, Anyone there. Suspect coming towards Masjid Lane. Suspect coming towards Masjid Lane. Anwar calling sir. Sir, Please come now. Or our suspect will escape. Good stuff? Looks good. Sir we are right behind the suspect. Opium Ganja Brown sugar, heroin. You've opened a general store or what? What? Tell your boss I'll give Sir. This parrot is offering 30,000 for the release. What's you name? Pakistan Occupied Kashmir? No sir. Padanam Om Kumar Bribing me? and just 30,000 So it's like that. You tell me yours. Sir, where are you taking the stuff. What are you doing? Your illegle stuff wanted to take a leak. You ruined my dreams. Do one thing. Leave the poison bussiness. Become a minister. You'll earn money and I'll salute you too. I don't like yap... yap... What I don't like? Yap yap... I have called this meeting because... I need to talk about something very important and deep. And that issue is Global Warming. Human has done nothing about global warming... ...he doesn't even think about it. That's why Us animals have to take some steps. You're right my Lord. Nowadays I don't have to jump in the water... ...I stay wet in sweat. It stinks. I have a solution for your problem. Use deodrant. Nothing will happen with deodrant. we'll have to do planting everywhere. So the earth can stay cold. But big brother, here's a tree. There's a tree. Where will we plant then? In the city, We'll all go to the city. Let's go. Nice take, Sehar. Thanks. By the way We the contract for Little stuart in china. So start practicing. Dubing will be next week. Why would I forget? Ma'am you forgot your mobile. Hey gang what's happening? Nothing much, just watching Jackie Chan's martial arts. What about steps? What about steps? Even Nach Baliye's participants learned the steps. But pain... Learn to control the pain. For example. Did I feel pain? No. You're coming with us to the movie, Right? He'll have to come. He's paying for the tickets. Where did you learn Chinese? I was looking for the voice of a Chinese mouse. for stuart little in china. See you day after tommorow. Bye For now police have said to the Delhi people... ...that Suhasini's murderer will be caught soon. But the important question is when. What if the murderer kills another one till then. It's clear that Suhasini Pradhan's murderer... ...is still roaming free in Delhi. Sehar? Not Sehar. Shamsher. Shamsher Singh Bahadur Singh Channa, Who are you? I'm Sehar's mother. We were just talking about you, You're still studing? Not studing, I teach. I'm a teacher. Let me talk to Sehar. Ma'am. Mom's calling/ Yes Mom. Who was that? It was me Mom. You've started again. Okay tell me, you're coming in vacations, Right? Yes. I'll come once the exams are over. And I need to think about you wedding too. Mom you should work in TV serial. Then you can say. Get married My child. Aunty. Who's this? Ritu. You can find a boy for me. I'm dying to get married. The one you marry will die Ritu there's no effect of your company on Sehar. Aunty look for a boy who has a brother. Both us will get settled. Good idea. Right? Mom, this FM will bore you full time. Bye mom. Bye Aunty Here It'll look mind blowing on the dress I gave you. You're looking gorgeous, Where are you going? Sehar! yes. We both are going together. Where? Disco. Hi Danny. Hi Ma'am. My drink please. Your usual ma'am? Okay, right away ma'am. And for your friend? She'll have milk. Should I order your usual? Breezer Whatever Hi baby One breezer and a blue lagoon. Duffers What did she say? Listen, I've taken the doctor's appointment... ...for this Tuesday. Please don't forget this time. I won't forget. I have a dream, a wish man. What? I wish if I was a airplane. Airplane meaning? Twin towers are right there and I would have entered into the. She's calling. Hi sexy have fun That guy opened my zipper. Why shop is closed today? Show me the papers. I've put them on mortgage. Then show me the duplicate. I gave the duplicate to a passenger. Why? I needed to pay the lease for the originals. So gave him the duplicate on mortgage. Tell me one thing. Are you a film writer? No sir. Empty the car. Tell everyone to come out. Excuse me Please get out of the car Do have the car permit or the bus permit? I asked for the bus permit, what can I do if they gave me car permit? You're going down son. Now you'll have to pay the fine and receipt will be ripped to. Sir circumstances have ripped enough. Shirt, pant. What else? Pay the chalan of 5000. or give me 500. Do you the change for 1000? Not in front of everyone. No. Do you see that food stall? Go there. Ask him for the change and give my 500 to him. Okay? now go Thank you Excuse me. That officer sent me... ...to get 500 hundred from you. what for? How would I know? office sent me so I came. Officer It's all right. Here. Thank you. All done officer Be careful or next time you'll pay 1000. Who'll pay!? oh off course me. My mistake. What am I saying? Hi Sehar Hi guys. What's up? Sehar, Where were you? Why? What happened? What's up? Why are you all well dressed? Forgot everything. You don't remember anything. Today we're going to the movie and you were missing. Today? No, Next year Good that you're here or we were going to give your photo in the police station, It's a very confidential matter. I'll handle this case by myself. I don't have the money my girlfriend has the money. Where's the girlfriend? Wait 15 minutes. She must be coming. In 15 minutes I'll pick and drop 2 passengers. I'll pay extra for extra time. Lakshmi is calling. Pickup Hello Lakshmi. Why is father stopping you to come? Hello Brother, She's not coming. Lakshmi, What are you doing? For your love sake. For my fare sake. Talk to your father. Why isn't she talking? Is she mute? Battery's down. My meter is down. what about that? I have two. They're useless for me. Take it. Two tickets of the movie, sell them. It's more than the fare. Movie's a hit. It'll be sold. It's a hit. Right? It's a hit. God what else I'll have to do? Selling tickets or begging Do you want the ticket? Oh no Houseful. Does anybody want ticket? How much? Does it look like I'm selling vegetables? How much... What's the rate? You think I'm Chameli. Asking the rate. Oh you want the ticket. I want 10 tickets. You can fit on the handle of a seat. Why do need 10 tickets? I have 91/2 people with me Ten for 408. Is it a bus ticket or cinema ticket. These are for 400. Rest of the 8... I'll give Xerox of it. You're playing with me! You don't know, who am I? I'm am Chucky. I'm Chucky. You're Lucky. I didn't hit you. I'm Chucky the Pain Killer. I can see that. Tablet of 100 mg. My inner animal will come out. You look like an animal on the outside. You have a gang! Excuse me what's your problem. One second you're visible. One second you're gone. Give me my money, Who you are? Me, I'm Mr. India, can't you see, Wear a red glass, You are a thief, and you're accusing me, Give me Rs. 420, It's Enough, What's going on? I'll make an arrangement for your breakfast, You idiot, If I'll give you a slap then you must lay down here, You, Scoundrel, Stay in your limits, Shall I say? Fire, Blood is outside, But bullet is inside, I've been shot? Correct, How am I looks like? Oh! My God, Mrs. Goyal! Look at you, It seems this dress is only made for you, Hi, I think, you're looking out of this world, This is real you, Mrs. Goyal. Ritu, What's the need of talk a lot? I said right, She's looking out of this world, She looks like Alien, Ok, Listen, Yes, Last night from disco, One minute, One minute, What happen here? What? Which kind of scratch on your neck? Look, You forgot it again, And you were making double minded to go to the doctor, Who did this all? Do we have eyes on our ass? Who did this all? How do I know? Who did it? Who did? Why did? I don't know, Where he did, I can't forget it, Hey, Ballu. Kumar! Bro Ballu, Yeah, I' heard, you met an accident, I am finished, I'm demolished, I can't my face to anyone, Nothing happen, Someone shoot hit, and bullet just touch it, Bullet was trying for a chance that it's gone with touch, Bullet just whipped me up, My all foundation has upset, You just look at the positive side, If the bullet will stuck then it's gonna be blockage, You scaring me, Excuse me, Sir, Yes, Sir, Which court you're from? Me, I am from Bang Goth, I mean in which court you're from? I am in black coat, Are you a lawer, Nope, I am an actor, I was going for an audition, He's my customer, I'm his customer, I used his car, We used to travel, You're not a lawer, Why didn't you said before? You didn't asked. Dress like Lawers, You should say that you're not a lawyer, You dress like police, would you say that you're a police officer, But I am a police officer, I didn't deny it, Move, Shut up, get lost from here, As a policeman he's talking like a watchman, Ghost! You didn't brought me in an asylum, I'm so scared, Quick, Ghost! Ballu! She was there, Where I've been shot, Where's the Ghost? Where is the girl? I can't see any one, We came here to find Ghost, And he's looking for a girl, He's a police officer, Hello! Doctor, Dr. Waliaa! Yes, I am getting, I am getting your prescription, Two spoon for morning and evening, but this cough... Will it be fine? Sorry! Yes, Ritu, How are you? Fine, She's Saher, I told you on phone, Yes, Yes, Yes, What's the problem? Actually, I don't remember things, I forgot them, Like the way from home to studio, then forgot cell phone in studio, then dial a number and forgot what to say, Put some milk on gas, then forgot to switch off the gas, Yes, Sign a voucher, forgot to take money, Yes, And lock up home then forgot the keys inside home, But, How do you know that? Because, it happens with me too, What's your problem? What? I am Ritu, I bring her here, Oh, Yes, Yes, Yes, I forgot it again, I don't believe it, I'm so sorry, I didn't know that, he's so... so big, Yeah, you're right, I can't forget anything in life, but can't forget this stupid, I don't know why? anyway listen, You just go, I have to go at Rama Aunt's place, We suppose to get lunch together, Not today, please, Ok, bye, See you, Can't you see, You hit my car, pay for the damage, Otherwise I'll call the police, Who do you think you are? Hit my car, Sir, He hit the car, He's the son of Minister Khurana, pay for the damage, Otherwise I'll call the police, Will you call the police? Yes, I would, What do think? Call them, Call them, Hi, I am Rajeev Randhvaar, Give her ice cream in my account, Ice cream is finish, Get away, Listen, Come here, Today's Indians, They drink Coke, Pepsi, Forgot Lemonade, Still Heart is Indian, FTV, MTV, CHANNEL V, forgot weather casting, Still Heart is Indian, Reserve Bank is empty, All money deposited in Swiss Bank, Still Heart is Indian, Look, You don't know whose son of I am? Who's my father? Even you don't know, Whose your father? I know, whose son of I am, But you people don't know, that who's my father? Anwar! Now' he'll say that he's the son of some MP, Son of Raj Khurana, Yes, I am the son of MP. Raj Khurana, Do you think, we are fool, I am the son of MP, No, Yes, No, Yes, Yes, Yes, Hello! Hello! Sir, I'm ACP Rajveer speaking, Yes, Rajveer, say, Sir, your son hit a car, and I slap him, He didn't tell me that he's your son, There is no thing like timing, Some thing happened, Or I'll do something, No, Sir, I handle everything, Ok, Sir, OK, When he'll become nice, You have to tell me before, Didn't hit hardly, No, Do you want first aid? No, Go, You go, Show is finish here, You did well, Sir. When if it's not working smoothly, You should curve your finger, Help, Someone try to kill me, He's following me, He's gonna kill me, Do something, Sir, It's a personal case, May be, He came to stole your purse, Then he should steal purse, Why he tried to kill me, Today's Thugs are so advance, Few days before, What's her name? Suwasni Pradhan, Suwasni Pradhan, She's been murdered, Are you scaring me? I am not scaring you, I'm telling you the forecast of Delhi, You come with me, Where? Police station, But why? Now it's a police case, We have to take your statement, Anwar, Madam's scooty mirror has damaged, Take your time to fix it, I would, He's here again, Why you took me here? I'm police officer later, first I'm human, I thought some loyal girl come to police station... ...I don't like it, You give me your statement here, I'll manage it, infect, Here's Lassi is too good, You, Me and... So, Sehar Thapar, How do you know my name? Delhi police, Our network is like that, You're from Chandigarh, Sector 18, How do you know? Delhi police, Yes, And what you do like... with cartoon characters. Dubbing? Yes, Dubbing, I can't believe it, How do you know that? Same answer, Delhi police, Actually we made from different sand, With our uniform, with our country, with honesty... Take this, This week's money, they are all 3000 Boss sent them, You're giving me a bribe, Giving a bribe to some honest officer in uniform, When your duty finished? get lost from here, A person who's so famous, people trying to make it bad, but what we can do? Phone's ringing, Hello! Seher, Mom, I supposed to call you, Actually... You know what today... Listen to me first, You remember Sadhna Aunty, I gave your photo and biodata to her son, He belongs to Delhi, He's in police, On a good post, What's his name? Rajveer Randhava, He's such a good decent and honest guy, Take this Sir, One thousand more, I can't give you more, ACP Rajveer Randhava, Mom's name Sadhna Randhava, How do you know that? Delhi babes, Our network is also amazing, You came here three years before, How do you know that? Delhi babes, You're Leo. And most important thing, What? You're the biggest briber officer, Bye, I am not corrupt but a correct police officer, I also drink the milk's cream, Just drink this Lassi, I hate cops, Keys, Get lost, What I've done? Take this, They are five thousand, Finish it, Otherwise I'll finish, Hey, Listen, Give me cream, Dude, Anwar, First I like someone's nonsense, Sir, Don't you think she's so young, She's 25 years old, I am talking about height, Delhi is not a good city, Don't roam late night, anytime, anywhere, anything could happen, Good Morning, David day, What pinky? You came early morning, What should I do? I came three days before, I'm tired to ring bell, No response, I came to your shop two days before, If that was close, what should I do? I think you forgot my shop's address, Shut up, I'll bring the money, Bring all 400, Why 400, It's only three days, not three, but four days, I am giving you 300, I'll talk to Mr. Sharma. Madam, Police! you brought police for 100, Pinky, Pinky, Who's pinky, Me, You, Madam, I fixed your scooty, Yes, May I stay or leave, You're alone, and you can't trust these people, I heard on TV, Why you came here? ACP calls you in station, Why? Because I called much people for you, Who's he? Recognize him, dear, I'll take his, recognize, I've seen him before, He, No, no, He can't be, He's a local MLA of our sector, You people gave him vote, He's inside prison since two months, He can't be. They're insulting us, I am the journalist of Jago news paper, I'll protest for it, They bring me here, and stands me in a que, I was drinking my tea, They also bring me here, Shut up, Shut up, So it's the Delhi police, If you call me here next time, or send your body builder friend to my house, then you should see, what will happen, It's be very bad, I think this girl's crazy, You work so hard and this... She's really crazy, She calls you body builder, You are the journalist of Jago India, I'll wake you up, You're driving Rikshaw, Taxi Drive it right, I'm driving it, You must be please to me, You know what happened to my ass, Raj Kumar Santhoshi's here, I thought I gave him my Rawaan audition, I'll play a role that people will forget every villain like Mocambo,Gubber, Autograph, Photograph, A graph like you'll never see again, Bank balance will reduce like bank won't balance it, Yes, Madam, Where are you? Madam, I am on Rajpura Road, Good, come to my place, I have raise kamini atjatpur house, I can't trust anyone else, All right, Kamini, Kumar, What a good combination? Tell her to sit behind, My this face would touch her, Come, Bye, Kamini, She's Kamini, this bitch, Shut up you bloody Raawan, I am warning you if you call her Bitch, She's more than sister for me, She looks so afraid, Why you tied up her mouth? Her nature is aggressive, some times she get anger, But Ballu, You should care my Kamini, Yes, Bye Kamini, See you, Do you like Kamini, Scoundrel, Useless, Bitch, Kamini, Man sleeping on foot path, And you sit in the car, If I told to Dharam Jee, He's gonna drink your blood, What happen? Why your Rawaan's smile is shut? You just celebrate your Dasera, Today Raawan is dying like Dog, Stop the car, K.K Kumar and Kamini, What a combination? She was running behind you with love. You left her, Every dog's day has come, Your day will come soon, Ballu, label, look at there, That fraud, I won't spare her today, You crossed the limits, You're amazing, Give me my Rs. 420. What? What? Did you see Raawan, He is my evidence, Tell her, You're the same guy who was shouting ghost in hospital, I won't become ghost again, You tell me, Are you ghost? Just shut up, I don't know you, get lost from here otherwise, I'll call the police, Call the police. What happen? Who says? They both are following me, Kiss, Aunty, Gunda is not an abuse, He's not abusing you, His Hindi is weak, he's not understanding, let him go, I don't need your money, Lets go, Ballu, Thank you, Brother, Come with us, quietly. He changed his knife's direction, Hello, Greetings, Is it your father's shop that you're closing it, What are you doing? Now this key... ...you'll put it from my Dhoti. They will beat you so badly. What are you doing? We suppose to escape from here, Get them, Who hits you, Sorry, You hits me, I was trying to save you, But I am trying to save you and you're hitting me, I'm fighting with them, And you're hitting me, Definitely, Why you're moving? Cut, Cut, I'll cut your hair, you scoundrel, You, man without tongue, Call my mom and tell her, that I couldn't come home, I'll come home after hospital, What was need to fight with them? That girl is your relative, You also came here for that girl, I only visit to see, What's happening inside? Don't know, what's going on with me? That taxi driver, who always asking me money, his friend, who afraid of me, he says, I am a Ghost, And that day, when you came outside from the hospital, I got attack in basement, today, it's the limit, Some people try to kill me, What? Oh My God! It's like that... then all things you... why don't you call the police, No, No, forget the police, It will be another problem, You don't take tension, and aunty is also coming after exams, By the way, did you prepare for your auditions, I recorded an interesting voice, Then pratice on it, Come on guy, pace up time, You take off your shirt, I'm taking off my jacket. You drive a car, I'll follow you, You just drive a car, Whose voice is that? Master's Why you were sounding like that? I didn't Are you south Indian? When you were gone after that? After that I went to home, And then Saturday night we went to disco together, then, then next morning, I went to return DVD to library. But that was closed. then, then I return to society and we all were gone to watch movie, I met that taxi driver there, We didn't go to watch movie on Sunday... but on Monday, It means you... went to disco with Ritu on Sunday, No, Sir. We went to disco on Saturday night, And Movie, On Monday. So then... What did you do on Sunday? I can't remember anything. So it means one day from your life... ...is missing. Sunday. Anwar Sir I want one more picture for this board Whom? That son of a gun missing Sunday. Sir There are more reasons in this case more than Madam. This tape could be the first clue of this case. Not clue Reason to start the investigation. I can't remember anything. In last few days have you met someone Who's behavior is strange. Except me No I mean Someone who talks about knowing you but you don't know him yes That taxi driver and his friend. Taxi driver Don 3 Why? Is Shahrukh Khan retiring? No, He'll play my father and I'll be his son Don. Ballu brother my heart wishes... ...that once I get casted my aim in life will be fulfilled. Hey your aim of casting is not just difficult it's impossible. Hey stop talking and drive. Don't stop. Don't stop. He'll ask for the autograph. Where do you want to go Mister? I thought Taxi is empty. Yes it is empty. Don't mind him. Come on. Seat is empty. Kara Khamba? Yes sure. Will take you anywhere. Ballu Where did he go? Hello I think he's homo a type. Drop him off. He's homosexual. What are you saying? No, No. We're just talking. It's good to say good things. He's saying he's dying. What time is it? My watch is dead. Your time is also dead. How do you know? I'll tell you. Mister. You didn't pay the fare. inside. Come and have it. Have it! Hey he's saying have it! He's looks harmful. Ballu, don't. Don't you do it. Let him go. We'll leave. No man, Kumar. It's our fare. I need the money. I'll have to take it. I'll have to take the chance. You going alone inside. Look if I shout, come to save me. Okay? Okay, blow a whistle. Mister. Mister I'm here to take the fare. Where are you? What? Begging with the glasses on! You're well being. Move on, I'm in tension. Hold on. Hey what are you doing? I don't want to see it. Anybody home? You! Hey it's me. Hey I was just calling him. I didn't shout. I didn't come here by myself He brought me on gun point. Look there's a whole gang. Why did you close the door? hey don't come closer. I'm telling you. I'll shout. Mister rape is a greater sin than a murder. Greater sin mister We dropped you home so nicely And you don't want to leave us for anywhere. Mister I have a superman audition, My reputation will be ruined. Talk from there. Look... one should work in his boundaries. We always work in boundaries. What police? The man is trying to rape me. How can I get the police? Police! Police See... That what they call a man. He's still standing. Nothing happened. Sorry sir What is he made of? I will shoot you both. Wait, wait. Handle the officer. Oh damn He's a police officer. Hey say something. Don't walk so much. You'll get tired. If you would told us earlier None of this would have happened. We respect policemen so much. I swear. My favorite game is even thief and police. My favorite song is even about police. Horse went to the street corner. There was a barber on the corner. Barber attended the horse. But where's the police in it? Police was in the barber's disguise. I don't like Yap Yap, Yap. What I don't like? Yap Yap, Yap Do you know Sehar? We know it very well. Every street. We know every corner. hey shut up. I'm talking about the girl. The one you asking for 420. She's a ghost. Ghost! Sir, my fare 420. she has to pay. But she won't pay. How can I forget that night? That night I had play Bat and Witch's Terrace. Hey Ballu. How was my play? Kumar, Your play is hit. Amazing play, I had fun. What are you saying man? Didn't you see people were laughing holding their stomach. I laughed so much after a long time. Man it was a serious horror play. Really? But you know that. Public doesn't know that. Hey Ballu, Don't tell anyone. No, man. You're my friend. Customer! Don't stop man. I'll have to stop, how will she get in. Is it a local train? Hello Madam. Where do you want to go? Where ever you want to go. Madam speak straight. Where do you want to go? Straight Okay, get it. We'll go straight. Madam? Madam, you shouldn't be out at this hour. It's Delhi. Where shall drop you? Nice song Madam, Tell me straight. Where do you want to go? That's what I'm asking. Straight where? Straight Right Left Straight Hey Dracula bite her man. Look Madam For the last 30 minutes you're having me parade. Left, Right. Left, Right. And my fare is on 420 now. Where are you going? Hey Madam At least pay the fare Ballu, Forget about your 420. This girl will give you Let's go Hey what let's go! First pay the fare. First drop me off. Drop you!? Again! Drop you where? Now tell us straight. Where do you want to go? Now don't say that you want to go out of Delhi. Where do you want to go? Drop me off outside Delhi. Damn... What kind of trouble is this? Enough of her Now it's our turn, Stop the car. Hey girl. Do you know? Who are we? In this area Few days back A girl was murdered. Suhasini Pradhan We murdered that girl. Believe it or not. We chocked her until... ...she fluttered and fluttered... ...and died. Now you that who are we? I've been looking for you both. Because I'm that girl. Who? Suhasini Pradhan Believe it or not. Are you scared, Ballu? No I'm not scared. My face is always like that at night. I never noticed before. Come let's go Look... Why are you joking with us? Only humans do jokes. We'll drop you anywhere you want. Where would you like to go? My favorite weekend spot. Graveyard. Graveyard. Few days back... What happened? A girl's post-mortorm was going on. My spirit went inside that body. Poor doctor I stabbed him with the sissor. And then I chocked him. Until? Until? Until his eyes came out. Why are you creating double voices? Eyes are two. Right? Then doctor was all wet in blood and I pushed him in the washing machine. Don't be scared Ballu. Death is inevitable. It's nothing to be scared of. I'm frightened as hell. And you're lecturing me. Hey look at my life... ...my home, wife and kids, I have nothing. I still have a family to start. Save me from that washing machine ghost. I don't want to die a bacholor. I also want make a life. Do something. Cross! I saw in a English movie A preist puts away the ghost by drawing a cross. Hey he was a preist and you're a driver. But cross is the same. She ran because of the cross. Ghost Show your self Am I scared of you. I have the cross. We'll see later Let me go, Kumar. I'll give her two slaps. I'm not scared. We'll see about that later. This is the story of that night. After that we saw her few times at some places. We found out that she isn't a ghost. She was playing us. It means everything happed. And nothing happened. Sir, I say. You should let us go. Aresst that girl. She's a very twisted girl. then we... ...saved and took the beating. Why should I believe... ...that you're telling the truth. How can someone come up with a story like that? We're telling the truth. Daily at 8:30 A.M. Darya Ganj Police Station. Station! Darya Ganj is very far. What are you doing? Sir, We should... ...put both of them in Darya Ganj Police Station. We'll be there at 8:30. No problem. Sure Darya Ganj We'll be there How will come if you don't go. Right. Jahangir, Shah Jahan, Akbar. Who made it? Can't he see red color? They shook hands just like that when they met here for the first time. Who? Rajiv Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi But Rajiv Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi met outside India. You know that? You're a twisted guide. First you told us that Shah Jahan made the Kutub Minar. Land was getting expensive so he had to sell it to neighbours. I'm giving you the inside information. And you're... Today I'll roam here. But tommorow, Where? Darya Ganj Police Station. Police Station! Why? Do you know Anarkali? Do you know here mother? No. Anarkali's mother... ...filed first F.I.R against Akbar... ...right there. I heard that, Don't call me honey. Money? Tommorow. What tommorow? You ate today and you'll pay tommorow? Bhagat Singh was right. Had them running by hitting with his shoes. But they have the bussiness. Wow madam. Now you're bringing police with you. Ballu, what you said to Rajveer. Is it true? I'm sorry. You had so much trouble because of me. No trouble. Lost 420 Rupees. Got beaten by police. Every morning I have to give attendance in the police station. I have to sit there for income has stopped. Can't get enough food. It's not a problem. No trouble I'm sorry but it's not my mistake. Then, Is it my mistake? Do I look like a thief to you? It's not like that. But I keep forgetting things. You forgot to pay my fare. You see this file. I have a kidney problem. I came here five year ago from my village. My family thinks that I'm living here in comfort. I have no problem They don't even know about this. I saving pennys. you know. I need to save 400,000. After every 15 days. I need to go for dialysis. And I can't miss it. My life has gotten cheap. And living has gotten expensive. Ballu I don't have a hope. I truly believe. That your every problem will be solved. Here, You money. Thank you. Hey hero Bar is closed sir. But your mouth is open. Fool. Have you seen her. I'm not in this bussiness. Shut up. He's our A.C.P. And she's our sister in law. My sister in law. Have you seen her. Yes sir I have seen her. She came on Saturday night. She's a wonderul... and great dancer. Go on. If you ever see a girl with that much concentration... I'll make you a bar dancer from a bartender. Answer only what I'm asking. Who did she came with? Ritu madam was with her. And Hiren and Dhawal was also with her. Who Hiren and Dhawal? Hiren and Dhawal, She went out with them. Where can we find them? Here, At disco. They come daily around 11:00. Are you dancing or you've been shot in leg? Sir, I'm trying. Hey Dhawal. People like these, Aren't they coming often in the disco? Hiren, It's a fashion now. Baywatch at home. Gay watch at disco. Sir he also thinks that we're gay. Man, We're becoming the icon. Hey leave me, We're like that. Hey don't touch man. By the way, What are you doing? I do only this sin every time. I'm a man, I love men. Forgive us, Sir. We'll tell you everything. We'll tell everything about you. Anwar, Do you ever feel like gay? I've never tried sir. Why? Who know? What if I like it? Sir, I'll tell you everything clearly. Sir, That night the girl... She had us both. I gave 500 to the bartender... ...to out drug in her drink. Excuse me, Ma'am your purse. Thank you, Ma'am enjoy the party. Drug was kicking in. She started to getting high. Saw we took the advantage of the moment and we took her with us. But when we went outside we his uncle in the lobby. His uncle is very horny, Sir. We were afraid that his uncle might leave his two girls... ...and grab the one we had. That's why we sat her there and we took off. But when we came back no one was there. That girl was gone. After that day we never saw her again. And we gave some money to the bartender... ...to have her friend informed that she went home. Anwar Ritu brought Sehar to the disco. Hiren and Dhawal took her outside. And she left here in Ballu's taxi. Story is clear up until now. More... We'll have to find out. When you told me about Hiren and Dhawal on the phone. I felt like killing them both. Nothing happened to you. Now we've come that far I'm sure we'll find out everything. What do you do? What they say cartoon character's... Dubbing, yes dubbing. Say something. I'm suppose to have a script. Not lines. I'm giving you the lines. Say whatever I'm saying. What shall I say? What shall I say? I mean. I mean. Let me think... Stop it. Stop it Look, I don't like yaping I only like you. I only like you. I love you. I love you. What are you looking at? Bhabhi's here, Any problem, I found a special things int this tape, Yes POK, when your stuff will arrive, my stock is ending, Who is this POK? Did you heard his name? POK, the same drug dealer, Name... It's a finest quality stuff, Your mind will be blown up, It's fine quality stuff, Listen, It's a one time grateful stuff, Well... It looks Ok, but the police is quite strick these days, Police, ACP here, DCP here, police is in my pocket, You think we are coins, its such a good incident, POK. Your pocket and my gun, both are filled, Who is he? Hi, I'm ACP Rajveer Randhava, ACP? Assistant Computer Programmer, We sell out stuff on internet, World Wide, international. I speak, One minute, Ok, What Sir? Last time you sold my wrong stuff into good stuff, Now let me sale my stuff to this babe, I'll give you Gate Pass. Not a Gate Pass, I need an information, Look, POK, We both are wicked in his view, We'll do one good work, My be our both sins will be away, Yes POK, when your stuff will arrive, my stock is ending, Whose voice is this? He's our Vansal. Vatsal and your connection? Same, Demand and Supply, I sold drugs, and he buy, Famous Cardiologist Dilip Seth's son, ACP, I am Cardiologist Dilip Seth, This Vatsal is my son, I am visiting police station more than my clinic, How long you police officers would embarrass us, There is a misunderstanding, Sir, called him first time, Do you know this girl, She's our Bhabhi's. Mine, We are not asking you, Asking your son, No, I don't know her, Tell the truth, otherwise, Sir will beat you that... your father have to make your open heart surgery here, Yes, I know this girl. I told you thousand times, don't mess with these girls, You remember what happen last time, Her boyfriend is still searching you, Forget it, We'll see, what happens? Ghost! Come to my front, I don't afraid of you, Leave me label, I'll slap him, Stop, Stop, Now, what happen? Look at there, Excuse me, Hello! Wanna Lift? Lift? Where you want to go? Same place that you have to go, What's your name? My name, Seher, S for Seher, She looks drunk, Do one thing, Park the car some dark side, Are you insane? You forgot last time, Police interrupt that time, Wanna make your programme, during drive, Yes, Lets make a programme, Good idea, Can I come behind? Yeah! She's hot man, I am hot? You're hot, It's really hot, Yes POK, when your stuff will arrive, You take off your shirt, I'll take off my jacket, Tonight, I have stuff hotter than your stuff, You drive, and I'll come behind, You just drive, Dude. I'll start it, You drive a car, Dude, What are you doing? Don't take her side, Sit in the car, Come. You are such a short tempered. We didn't get this chance daily, then, you should realise that, All right, I understand, You first, Now, turn the car. I can't see her, Where she's gone? Do one thing, You look over there, I'll see here, After that night, I've never seen that girl again, And your friend, Where he's gone? Next morning, His dead body found, Hi, ACP. Since last week, police is behind him, for interrogation. Who did, when happened? My son's stuck, ACP. Please, Please help us out, Where did happen this accident? South Avenue. Which night... Those two guys gave you lift... One of them is murdered that night, What? Police thinks that... some girl did that murder, Police thinks, But I don't think. Why police think that girl did that murder, Because they found a bracelet besides dead body, Henceforth... But... Police thinks... And usually you don't wear bracelet. Do you? It's... can't be yours, It's mine, How I... If I did that murder... I'll bear a punishment, Don't worry, Seher. Nothing will happen to you, I am scared, Rajeev. Don't worry. Police thinks that... Neither me. Shut up, otherwise I'll hit the car... What are you doing? I won't silent now. After so long I found my formula, found my inspiration, Now, I'll sing a song, I'll compose it by myself. I'll act and come to screen, You should watch your picture, Nobody else will come, Lets Rock. Hail, Mother. Let's rock, public will through some rock on me and you, Bhagwan's screenplay is amazing, Ballu. A guy who acts... He can't get a chance of acting, who builds his body he get the chance, Guy who sung a song, he get the chance of acting, I can't build my body, I will sing a song, I'll come on screen, and become a hero. You just watch, Come outside, Ok, Come outside, I'll raise you asylum. You keep your money, paper, car, even I don't need your friendship. I can't become a Bhojpuri star to sale this car. What's wrong? fighting. We're fighting for you? No, First you decide, what you wanna be? Actor or Singer? I want to be a Singing actor, What are you saying, Singer is singer and actor is actor, I'll sing and acting too. You have to be an Actor to become an actor and singer for a singer, He's an actor, who came to screen, How can it possible, Monkies are also coming on screen, We both are talking... I saw him before, He's the same, His tongue turn around, It's good that his mouth is shut. Please don't mind, Lets go from here, get in the car, One minute, One minute, They are escaped, Go, Let's go, Catch the car, You, Would you go Chandni Chowk? Yes, I would, You also wanna come, Get in, get in. Why you drive like this, Left, Right. You son of left right, look behind, Is it race, It's not a race... they're coming to kill us. Mr. Rajveer, look... Some mobs are behind us, Save our lives, Why he's laughing? He's gone mad with shock, I am not mad but you. Music director's here and behind inspector, look... Name? Azeem Bajaj. Father's name? Mo, Mo, not your mother's name, Father's name, That's what, Master Bajaj. He's a school teacher. Where from? Da... Da... Darjaliger. Da... Da... Da Door. Darbanga, Bihar, Say it right, Now just adjust your language, And say quick, Why you want to kill girl? One guy... send me with girl's snap. He told me on phone, kill her, Who was that guy? I don't know, He calls me from PCO. May be it's his call. Speak as I say. Tonight, Girl is suppose to be come in Karavan Disco. We'll kidnap her from there, You just reach there. Teflon, Famous by Date,Rape,Drug After take a doze of it, you don't remember after 10-15 hours. because of this drug, lot of girls had been raped. That's why our government and police always warn the people. that never take a drink from stranger. Heren and Dhawal gave you that same drug. And I did murder with that doze, Murder is attempted, but not you, someone else attemt that. Now might be you're the witness, That's why you've been attacked. But Rajveer, I don't remember, Only you know that, not him, And tonight, he will come in Karavan Disco. to kill you, Don't be afraid. We'll catch him. It's dangerous to take Bhabhi there, I knew it, Anwar. But we don't have another choice. Now we have to see that... who comes there, Rajveer! Rajveer! ACP Rajveer. What's going on? Point of Minister, And illegal works, Still Heart is Indian, Which murder was happened in South Avenue, that attempted by your son. What nonsense? Why should I kill some one? I didn't kill anyone. All right. If you won't speak then... That girl will speak. What rubbish? Dad! Dad, what's happening? What's going on? I don't... Who's she? I don't know this girl. This girl saw your son was attempting a murder. Did you really... saw him... to kill someone, What do you say? If you will confess at the front of media then... your punishment might be less, Otherwise, we have other tricks for confession, Yes, I did it, I killed Sanjay, Suwasni don't... love me but love my money. She had an affair with that Sanjay. That night... that night, I saw sanjay too. He sat with that girl. You look over there, I'll see here, You'll never change, What should I do? I can't get rid of Delhi's babes, One was yours... and she's another, Why you and Suwasni did this to me? Because, you didn't do anything. That's why I did... I didn't left any evidence. Except this. I didn't have any personal against him. But killing him was necessary. I killed Sanjay. I killed Suhasini. I'm because of me you people... You're amazing madam. The voices you made in the car could also scare Ram Gopal Varma. Why the long face? What happened? I've been driving for too long. Fuel was burning anyway my heart is too. I don't what else is burning. I know, I'm not getting any money. Anyway it's alright. Don't worry Police has awarded you both What are you saying, Sir? Amazing Just joking Just joking Raj, A murdered happened. Who did it and how? We found out. But How did get home on that night? He will answer your question? That's why used to say that don't stay so late. Take care of yourself. And that drugged drink... ...had you sleep for the next day and night. That's why your... ...Sunday was missing. So many incidents at once. You know Raj, I've made my decision. It's better than going to station every day... ...I should marry a police man. One is right beside you. But Anwar there's a problem. What? He takes bribe. He used to. Now I've become a very sober, sweet and decent man. Police man secondry But first I'm a human. Now just... ...you, me and... Honesty. Sir, it's all here, like you asked. You're bribing me! You're bribing a police man, Do you know it's big crime? Your timing is great. They can't let anyone live with decency. I don't yaping. What I don't like? Yaping Yaping You don't like it. I don't. Let's go A.C.P Rajveer married Sehar. On Sunday. And he stopped taking bribe. Our Ballu's life also settled. His kidney operation was successful. The Ballu who used to have ...now owns 20 cars. And me Kumar, Kumar Mangat. I became a star. Superstar. of interior movies.
