 

                        Viva Summer Vacation!! See you in the fall Summer Make-up Course Japanese History Summer Make-up Course Japanese Classics ...equals 3 Oops, is that really a 3? Oh, I got it right If X is greater than 1, the top one, if it's less then the bottom one Summer Make-up Course Math 13 Students Molten Cheese! More like sludge So? Go, girl Check this out Disgusting Shoot Lucky them Oh, I wish they'd lose the game Why, when you're going to play for them My friends invited me on a trip to Hawaii Oh, I wish I could go Quitting the Band Oh, I wish I could go Um... Did you contact them? We can't be late . We've got to go Oh, sure, you're right I'm sure it'll be fine Um... Give 'em hell! Cream Yoneyama! Has it already left? The brass band bus? Huh? Yeah, it just took off... What about the lunches? I have a wake to cater. What's up? Um, teacher, the Inches for the brass band The guys got some other delivery I think we should take care of them They're really stuck without their lunches Ready? Hey what's up with this? They treat the brass players like royalty Gimme a bite Hey, me, too I'm from Class #1 How about you? We're all from Class #3 Our teacher's "The Hag" You've got Kubota, right? Lucky you I'm on a diet, so I'll just have a little bite Me too! Hey! You can't do that! They won't notice one missing lunch. Is this where we get off? Huh! Shit! Get off! Get off! The lunches! Open up Hawaii Nakamura! You again! Sorry. Come see me after the game! Oh, sure Where are those lunches, Nakamura? We can't keep playing, we'll starve Sorry, they'll be any minute now There's a train back in an hour What do we do? It's so hot Got anything to drink? Drink from the rice field Where's a vending machine? My makeup's sweating off I'm getting a sunburn Want some sun block? Me, too Put some on my hand Weren't you into tanning salons? Shut up, I've got a new philosophy I've had it! Im a mud puppy Look, it fell out Where were you guys? They said you left school ages ago You've got real attitude for a loser Gratitude's one thing, but skip the scolding Sorry We brought these to you out of pure team spirit Oh, I get it, that's enough Please pass them out already Why should we pass them out? Oh, all right, so we'll do it ourselves Finally, lunch Hey, what about me? What? We're missing one What? Don't look at me Let's go Karaoke! Yeah! Yeah! What's wrong? It's just... What happened here? Banzai! Banzai! No real guys are this cool Can you make a flyer for the town meeting on your computer? It's real easy, right? Yeah, but not for me Don't know how to use it My Lovely Computer You hounded your grandma You hounded your grandma 'til she bought it for you The manual's so badly written, I can't understand it Unbelievable Can't you stick with anything? I'll never buy you anything again Now, now Hello, this is the Suzuki's Oh, this is Sasaki, is Tomoko san at home? Oh yeah, it's me Oh, it's you Hey, turn on the TV, the news What? Why? Just hurry You can't do that! during the Northeastern High School Baseball Championship game, all members of the 42 piece Yamakawa High School brass band and their music teacher, were hospitalized for nausea and stomach It seems their lunches What happened? Come see this! Tomoko's school her school! school officials are in no mood to celebrate their victory Our cameraman, on hand to shoot the game, captured images of the students on their way to the hospital Initially the stadium area was mobbed with ambulances, but the game finished without major disruptions Oh. Hawaii. Did you catch that? Ha ha ha So I just got word that since the whole band is laid up and can't make the next game they're looking for substitutes Powwow at the music room 9AM But... I've got make-up math Oh, that's right But who'd be dumb enough to give up 10 days of vacation for brass band! In light of today's severe summer heat, officials suspect that the lunches were improperly stored Inoue, Coach wants to see you Quitting the Band Um... You here for the brass band? Can you play anything? Move Sorry. Um... Our band split up We're itching to make some noise We only play these, but if they work for you, we're on Um, there are no guitars or basses in a brass band You say something? No This is hopeless Hey! You've got some damned nerve laughing and chattering like that! It's all your fault... How come I'm the only one stuck in this mess! Did you get the word? Your make-up teacher's been told you all have to join the brass band! Why the hell do we have to do that! It's obvious! You're the ones who ruined those lunches Where's your proof! Maybe they were already bad That's right They even said so on the news I know your secret You guys ate one on the way Isn't that suspicious? Your little secret will be safe if you join the brass band Hey, time for class Get back into class What's up? Oh nothing... Teacher! What are you gabbing about? It's too hot Talk one at a time Um, can any of you read music? Nobody? Anyone play an instrument? Huh, please listen A brass band needs at least We're still way short Any of your friends play instruments? Look, look Praying mantis kung fu! Wonder if it's true that drumming burns the most calories. You here to mess us up? You're lousy on cymbals but a real piano whiz Um, no, I just practiced as a kid... Wow he's so cool A fair showing Who knew you had it in you Um, but. You know the score, right? As seniors, this is our last chance There's no way we'll win without the band I've got a shot at the starting line-up I'm counting on you! You know, there are two kinds of people in the world? No. People who succeed and people who are quitters - which are you? Dunno. Hey, what've those got to do with a brass band? What? What'd you do? What's up with this? Um... it's just the style I had in mind You've heard this in school, right? This stuff. is called Big Band jazz You aren't enough for a brass band, but enough for Big Band But jazz is for fuddy-duddies For intellectual-types swirling brandy snifters. Can't we do something cooler? Who's holding out for cool, when our baseball team's on the line I say you gotta do what you gotta do Huh? You're completely hopeless It takes natural talent Ouch, my cheeks hurt I bet something's stuck in there Your lung capacity's pathetic Why are you in such bad shape? We're gonna have to practice like hell Are you guys really up for Big Band? Of course... Hey, how come they don't have to run? You're scared of 'em Don't be stupid! They can play, they don't have to I've had it Me, too I should've stayed put in that make-up class It was all your idea! "Fake rehearsing, then out out "Get out of make-up class, too Kill two birds with one stone' You're the one making eyes at that senior baseball player! This practice is just a big waste of time I'm wiped Blow at the tissue and keep it up against the glass, as long as you can I've got my own damned tissues! This is so ridiculous Just do it OK get into position Ready... Go That's it! Inhale from your stomach, not your chest You spotters back there, make sure their stomachs fill up Three sets of 30 sit-ups and back extensions When you're done, bottle-blows and mouthpieces Yes? Getting a jazz band together? They're all useless No, they're doing their best What's the point? They just want to cut make-up class They're not serious about music Nice catch! You're hanging in there We're counting on you Sure What on earth do you see in him? But he's so cool With his shaved head All the baseball players shave their heads Let's split while he's away C'mon, OK! Where do you think you're going? Bathroom Liar! You really have to practice There's only a week left 'til the game! Won't even let us pee! Give it back! You're the loony one! Thief! There's no way this kind of practice will make us musicians We were hopeless to start That's right Look! How come Sekiguchi can do it and you guys can't? I think I'm getting the hang of it Right! Try it backwards now Starting to enjoy it? Of course not! There's just no alternative Gee, thanks No big deal What's up with this? I went and bought it I'm bringing it to the game tomorrow You a rich kid? Yeah Get it together Not bad, huh? Not bad? We're actually performing for people I'm getting butterflies Oh, here you are What? Um... You're all better now? Yeah We've heard all about what you've done. Thanks so much Been practicing Big Band, right? Not a bad idea, coming from you, Nakamura I'm sorry we sort of forced you guys into this But we're fine now Leave the rest to us, OK? But, um... Thank God! I was terrified we'd actually have to play Make-up courses are just over and it all worked out What! Was that really your scheme all along? Of course it was! And you fell for it Why take this stuff seriously, when it's such a dead end! What a relief Enough already Thanks, guys Shoot Sekiguchi, what are you doing? Um, I... Forget it, c'mon! Forget it What's their problem? Thank you. For excusing them from make-up What happened? Did your teacher die? Nakamura! We just ran into each other Two outs in the last inning, huh? This is hopeless Inoue, #15 is up at bat. What? Inoue! Go for... Inoue! Go for it! Bring it on! Strike! Strike! It's your last shot! Swing! Inoue! Swing hard! It don't mean a thing if you ain't got that swing! One more pitch and you're out! One more pitch and you're out! Here it comes! Mine! You OK? What? What's wrong? Shit! You're all still spacey from summer vacation. Get with it What's up? Come in No. Where's Nakamura Takuo? Oh, he quit What? You want to join the band, too? No Um... Hello Hello Yoshie what's the hold up? Let's go Up we go Want the tenor sax? No, I'm just looking Do you have any used ones? Used ones. Pawn Shop Ebisuya 30000 Yen 30000 Yen Of course I won't buy you anything that expensive Of course I won't buy you anything that expensive Why not? C'mon Youll never stick with it anyway Mommy This is cheap useless I'm home! Play Station open! What's this? Mommy, my game's missing What? There it is! I'll get a job and buy it back! Where are you going with that? You! That's enough! What's going on? Stupid, idiotic sister! But listen, what about instruments? Can we borrow them from the band? Not a chance Steal 'em? Buy 'em But aren't they expensive? If you buy 'em used, there's lots of cheap ones I'm not convinced about used ones. They may be damaged, or retain their former owners quirks Then how will we get instruments? Buy new ones like you, you rich brat! That's unfair "Thats unfair" I don't talk that way "I don't talk that way" You idiot "You idiot" Sure, I'm an idiot You finally caught on How about a sponsor? The way soccer players wear corporate logos? You know of any booming corporations around here? My Dad's business is booming I'm not wearing "Kubo Gynecology' on my back There's no point in our marketing anything anyway Not very realistic Kayo, your Dad works in a bank Can we get a loan? They'd fire him for that Um, I... Not you There's lots of part-time jobs at the supermarket My sister just got hired as a cashier That's it! Off to make money, make money... That's 1,000 Yen change Thank you Welcome. 50% Discount Me, too Will you try or new, local wine? Delicious, I'll take it Thank you Please try it Please try it Please. Hurry, it's closing Watch this Horse Racing News The curry flavored one's great So's the cheese-topped one Try the chocolate one We could get in serious trouble for this What? Let's add a little wine I don't think you should Why not! It'll give it class! Say, you jazz gals. Are you all working hard? One of these days you can perform live outside the store Let me try one of those Oh, we're just about to steam them... What about our salaries. Not a chance Don't you ever come back We're screwed. We'll use what we've got to buy the best we can How come? You're the only ones who got fired Besides... right? I already bought some Alba I bought a Vinton bag and pooh Tasaki pearls Our money's almost gone, right? That's right Are you serious about the band? It just seems like such a hassle. You what's up? Time to go bowling Oh, hi, sorry, sorry Yoshie wanna play? I can't Oh, yeah? Anybody else wanna bowl? Did you know, there are two kinds of people in the world? No. People who can chill and have a blast and people who can't... which is better? I'll go with having a blast! I've had it! We'll start our own jazz band We're stuck. Can't we get another job? Um. I. When I was little, I gathered matsutake mushrooms on grandpa's mountain for a really good allowance Why didn't you tell us? Got one! And why am I stuck doing this, too? It's dangerous for a bunch of girls to be in the woods Especially me I'm definitely pervert bait More like bear bait How dare you! Found another one! How many do we have? I'm starting to feel faint. We should've started with this I found one, too! No, that's different That mushroom's poisonous That's the prized matsutake Amazing, does your family own this whole forest? No Just how far can we pick? How far? Don't these woods belong to your grandpa? No, they belong to my mother's friend's cousins grandpa Grandpa... He isnt really your grandpa! Japanese can be so vague. Is this actually legal? Everybody! Look! Warning! Trespassers will be fined 500,000 Yen Shit! Run! What about the mushrooms? Run! I'm sorry, I'm sorry Im really sorry! Sorry! So sorry! Well done "In Appreciation for Tanaka Naomi' Curtains for the Big Boar 5 High School Students Triumph "Who conquered the boar that had been ruining crops "Herein, we express our gratitude.' We did it! Amazing! Now we can buy those instruments Should we find another boar? I felt a little sorry for that poor boar He was raiding fields. It was God's justice! I told you, used instruments work just fine Hey! What are you doing? Oh, no! The pits It won't budge What are you doing? Look What? What? Where'd it go! Where'd it go! This is exactly. what I meant about used instruments Then why didn't you say so before we bought them? You're the only one who has a clue! Get with it! But... Don't "but' me We spent all our money! What do we do now! You might be able to fix it. Don't tell me... Oh, my, he's kinda cute These the chicks? You chose them over us? That's a helluva attitude You've got a helluva nerve showin' up here You tell 'em You're the band breakers You said you'd repair stuff Yeah I did. That's why I told you to come here I'm still crazy about you I'm so over you I know that. But that's OK Long as you know my feelings You, too, bro? I don't feel shit You giving up? Shut up! You chase your own dreams, Hiromi I'll root for you from afar Cut the crap! I hate it when you wimp out like that Things are kinda complicated. Now you're crying again. Kick the depression, be a man That's why your looks don't match your music That's why we quit the band But that's OK Just getting to see you again is plenty We decided to form a folk duo We've even got a new song Will you please listen to it? All right, we'll listen That's what you want, right? It's called... "You Ditched Me but I Love You' "Do you mind "if I weep out loud? "I'm sorry thinking of you again, "brings tears to my eyes "Cry baby wimp, coward "God I'm hopeless" This is great Look, look, this is pretty This? How's this? It's 1.5mm short God, you're picky Who cares? No, find a perfect fit Look what I found Watch it Watch it Cut the noise You're a community menace What the hell! Cut it out! Why the hell not? We paid for the Karaoke room Using my electricity, too! The other guests are complaining about the noise! Dammit! Where are we gonna go? Listen, you could play that stuff at my place Hip Jazz from the Swing Girls - Cut it out! - Sorry You call that crap jazz! If you wanna play at band do it at school Cut it out, cut it out Your music's wrecking my business Never should've asked you Give a call if you get another gig Not very likely Where's Sekiguchi? Thank you Who was that? I can't see very well... Some guy I don't know... I think He said we gotta have swing Swing? What does he know? That hitting the same groove matters more than the notes Oh, yeah? Wait a second! Hey hurry Pack up Somebody help After him! Wait, mister! Mister, wait! Hey, wait! He's getting away That's not a very good idea. Amazing He's really swirling brandy. Um... why'd you run away from us before, teacher? I hate kids Besides, when I hear you massacre the music. it ticks me off! Don't touch! You have to handle records with care This album's by the sax player Cannonball Adderley It's called "Poll Winners' It's a rare one, you can't find in Japan I'm sorry This is Eric Dolphy, recorded live at a New York club called the Five Spot, back in 1961 Playing in his band, Booker Little, on trumpet, on piano... He's so cool On bass, Richard Davis, on drums... Jazz 101 Get Really Good Really Fast You mean, you got this for us? Yeah, yeah. Figured that'd be a good place for you guys to start I knew it, you're going to teach us, jazz. right? Way to go! Please, teacher Oh, no no Please Guess I'll go with free improv... That's enough Forget about that stuff until you've mastered the basics Sorry That was just a big mess How long have you been playing sax? Jazz 101 I ordered the sax and the book together 3 years ago, and practiced for a week, but I never got anywhere There's a lot of men like that They just do it to get girls Why'd you decide to take it up again? I have my reasons. I bet it's for a woman You know it For sure It's not like that this time! Whats wrong with you two, belittling me! Calm down, now But you don't read a note of music, right? I'm sorry What an idiot! With my technique, even a beginner, can learn to play very well. Trust me For starters let's focus on the beat Jazz is played to a unique rhythm... You accent the backbeat With most music, you accent the top of the beat But, in jazz, it's the opposite Just follow that beat, you can jazz up anything Try it No, no All wrong Huh? What are you doing? Is this jazz? Are you nuts? No, it's not Wow! It sure is jazz now Swing! Mom, who are they? Don't look On Sale Today So this is jazz... Just like street hawkers. Thank you, thank you And now for our one-day specials That's just 198 Yen The price is only good today Tomoko dinner's chicken-egg rice bowl After 7, we'll eat without you You mean pork-egg Leave me alone... Aki, we're going inside the store I'll watch my sister play See you tomorrow What the hell, those chicks ditched us. Expensive! For real? They added an extra zero in there What do you want? Got any used ones, right now? Sell those designer rags you're wearing and you can by new ones Look at this! Student Music Festival Band Application What? You already knew? We just found out. An annual music festival in the city The city! It's our chance to play a big concert hall! We have to! Of course we do! Say, teacher, you'll conduct, right? What? Um... If you insist... Excellent But not so fast We haven't been invited just yet We have to audition with a performance video Audition? You mean there's a jury? They usually accept you, unless you're totally hopeless Oh, good. How pathetic if we don't make it When shall we do it? Today? While we're at it might as well find a pretty background Right on Here, all yours I'll send it off. Thanks for coming on a Sunday No big deal Um, teacher, about that last part, are you sure that was OK? I always feel like I hold back on that high note It's this spot, in the song Could you coach me privately. But you know... I thought you were fine Oh, teacher... How dare you! Sorry! I'm pissed! Idiot How about this look? I wanna look cool Really sharp and grown up Spying? What a shock How long have you been here? From the start You were checking out our uniforms? I hear you guys auditioned, too? Yes As a jazz band? That's classified No, any magic tricks? We all get cut in half It's Big Band jazz Oh, right of course To a classical musician, jazz is like It's hard to catch the rhythm or get into the music What? Then what about all those jazz albums on the shelf? Oh, about 2 or 3 years ago, Ozawa, the math teacher, started leaving an album there every day You mean he liked you. He was so dedicated, I invited him to play with us, but then he suddenly stopped coming I wonder why? I wonder Say, we heard back from the Musical Festival have you? Not yet. There aren't ever many applicants, I'm sure you'll get in Just don't copy us, OK? Music Festival Application Video I'll live my life loving my trumpet That's impossible No, it's not, not at all I kiss it every day! I just remembered something What? Let's go home together You promised to take me to a great noodle shop Next time, OK next time? Do you have a stomach ache? I know you're going to get noodles alone That's not it Leave me alone, idiot! What's wrong with her Please be on time! Shit! Why can't I hit it? What a shock! I got it! I hit it! Hey, where'd he go? How does this look? Fine YAMAHA Music School I can't take it! I've told you repeatedly you have to play with the same feeling as the others I've never had anyone take so long to get it From the start, then You're lousy! You pest! I never learn anything new! I'm embarrassed, but do you mind, not letting the others in on this? I swear I won't tell them If I tell them the truth, they'll lose faith. I'll give up conducting for the music festival You guys are on your own It's here! Thank you! This year, due to the unusually large volume of applicants we accepted bands on a "first come first served' basis. Unfortunately. Make me sexy, OK? That's impossible Kubo Gynecology My family's money, huh? Kubo Gynecology Kubo Gynecology Family money. What's that? A good luck charm There, done Strange. What's wrong? You've been strange all day Um. Um What about your hair, Tomoko? If you're not cutting it at least bleach it a little Oh, I'll pass Oh, bleach my hair! You seem really down There's something I havent told Tanaka, did you try your jacket on? I can let it out if it's tight All right, I'll try it Tomoko, do you feel bad? Oh, I know you'd understand. Sekiguchi, go check the train schedule! OK Um! I really need to tell you this! Listen up Our conductor, Ozawa, can't make it to the festival tomorrow Oh, no! Yoshie, I just ran out of bleach Oh, no! Um... Morning. The brass band always gets royal treatment See you at the Hall Let's swing! C'mon, Tomoko Take off your jackets We've got to alter them I want to keep it on longer Did the train make you sick? Wow! A confession of love! I always get sick from riding the train so I didn't have breakfast But lunch is so far away, maybe I should eat something Maybe I shouldn't. What do you think? Um... I've got something important. A tree fell across the track because of the snow There's no telling how long it'll be blocked Oh no! What'd we do! Hey we'll walk let us off That's impossible Call taxis on our cell phones? Oh, no, I've got no signal! Um... This is hardly the time to get lovey-dovey Listen up everyone About today's music festival. What! I can't believe it What'd we work so hard for. Oh, no, I can't take this! It's completely ridiculous I should've known things were going way too well for this gang Shit! Ridiculous! Everybody, quiet! Hey you guys! The snow held up another band, so you get their spot What a shock. We raced around looking for you You came just for us? Even I have my moments Oh, no! I left our uniforms on the train! No time to go back It's too bad 20th Annual Student Music Festival You get this? They're so late As for the Swing Girls from Yamakawa High School, who won a last minute spot, their train has been delayed by weather... How lame Impossible? Can't make it? Unfortunately, and so we conclude today's Music Festi... Wait! We'll play! The Swing Girls will play Oh, wonderful They made it Um, please listen There's no time, later No, um. So, as our final act a Big Band jazz ensemble, rare among high school bands, The Swing Girls One two three... five Just wait! You tell 'em. Go Jazz girls! They're tuning up I wonder if their instruments got too cold There's more music? Love you, love you, love you Teacher! There are two kinds of people in the world People who swing and people who don't I taught them! My students! My students! I taught them! I thought you'd taught them Jazz... it's cooler than I thought Juri Ueno Yuta Hiraoka Shihori Kanjiya Yuika Motokariya Yukari Toyoshima Miho Shiraishi Naoto Takenaka Fumiyo Kohinata Eriko Watanabe Mtsuko Sakura Kei Tani Produced by Chihiro Kameyama Yoshishige Shimatani, Ryuichi Mori Executive Producer: Shoji Masui Co-Executive Producers: Kazuyoshi Seki Masamichi Fujiwara, Takehiko Chino Producers: Daisuke Sekiguchi Shintaro Horikawa Script Consultant: Junko Yaguchi Music: Mickie Yoshino Hiroshi Kishimoto Director of Photography: Takahide Shibanshi Lighting Director: Tatsuya Osada Sound Mixer/Editor: Hiromichi Kori Production Designer: Norihiro Isoda Editor: Ryuji Miyajima An ALTAMIRA PICTURES production FUJI TELEVISION NETWORK, ALTAMIRA PICTURES, TOHO and DENTSU present Written and Directed by Shinobu Yagchi Linda Hoaglund
