 

                        You take your master home! You can go back to your mistress, Terka. I am not going to bother with your burial. Perhaps I've been everywhere, to dances and funerals, in forests, on lakes and rivers, living sinfully and virtuously, I've travelled a lot - now I am tired. HUNGAROFILM presents: SINDBAD Starring Screenplay based on short-stories by Gyula Krudy. Written by Zoltn Huszrik Music Director of photography Director ...Ladies... I'm a lost prince and I'm looking for a wife. What's your name? Dusky. Strange. You'll think of me in the dusk even if you don't see me again. Say your name once more so I should never forget it. When the Moon drives her yellow donkeys towards the river, I'll come to you. Men can only see me in the dusk. The hand of the clock is nearing twelve. And I'm thinking of you. If you didn't shine for me, my star, I would no longer wish to live on earth. "The hand of the clock is nearing twelve, and I'm thinking of you. If you didn't shine for me, my star, I would no longer wish to live on earth. " Are the flowers still white in the garden we met? My darling, my love, my betrothed. Poor little dove. I love you. I suffer deeply for you, my lady. My secret hail, do be soundless, as a fragrance, just shine brightly like a star, upon a summer's night. Silent moon, look down on me from the soft, blue skies. See the tears that my beloved one is bringing to my eyes. Oh, forget me, never feel guilty. A rose you are, get married! Your flower is in full bloom. No, Sindbad, don't. Why is it that women love the sea? Looking for my husband, are you? Strange. You look so familiar. I really didn't expect you... I didn't know you were still alive. What brought you here? My God, what a strange coincidence. I never think of you. Why should I? Well, how are you, Sindbad? Why do you want my husband? I suffer from insomnia, and I forgot to bring any morpheme along. And you came here of all places? There are so many doctors in the centre of the town. My husband is just a peasant doctor. But we get along. I am not extravagant. You know me. I always wore my old hats, even when I was a girl. Yes, I remember. We're quite happy. It's quiet around here. In summer we sit under the poplar and I listen to its rustling. The poplar... My most faithful, old admirer. You used to like the theatre and the balls. Believe me, we're very happy. Going already? Won't you wait for my husband? I only came because of you. You're leaving... but I... I just thought you wanted to meet my husband. Or maybe you'd say something. I used to believe in you. There was something in your voice that smoothed me, made me happy... when I was sad... Why did you say you loved someone else? I take lots of medicine to make me sleep. But all the rest is true. I've only one ring, this green one. Tell me, has anyone thought of me? I often did. Always. You've kept me waiting for ten years. How often have I seen you in my dreams, how I hoped that once, just once more, I'd see you. When we went to Budapest, I looked for you everywhere we went, but I never saw you. But if you had really thought of me, and dreamt about me, you would've come. You were deceitful, as always. My husband. You won't leave town yet, will you? Can we meet again? My queen, Majmunka! Scoundrel! You dare to show your face again? I'll kill you. That's all I can do to you. I've been crying for three days. I found out about you and that ugly Imola, for whom, three years ago, I myself took food and drink to that horrible prison. You, with that woman... I'll kill you. I can't bear this shame. The whole house is talking about Imola and everyone asks amazed: "Are you still alive, Sindbad?" I swear none of it... Silence! It's too late. You'll die. Young women only corrupt you. They only teach you sensitivity, which one has no need for. I see you're hungry. I've made a cock-soup. But you've forgotten, my rose, to put marjoram into it. I know where your heart lies. I often heard it when you loved me. If only she was a pretty young girl! But to humiliate me with an old woman... That's too much to bear. My uncle often told me in my childhood that a real man can even love his great grandmother. But if I could love ugly, old women like your friend, Imola, how could I be loved by women who're young and beautiful? Like you, Majmunka. You should be proud of your lover, my queen. You convinced me, scoundrel. You're my last love, Sindbad. Is it all over then, the glorious life I lived by Fanny's side? I WISH YOU A HAPPY 1873. I got this from the man who loved me the most. We'll read it in your country house. We'll go to the little Polish resort. We'll travel all over the world. I'll abduct you into the wonders of rich life. I wonder if Fanny knows that I'm leaving the capital? We'll spend the summer in the country, I'll talk to our limetrees, our horses, our cats... - Wouldn't it be nice? - It'll be lovely. I'm a sentimental woman. I heal the sick trees, the swallows recognize me. I bequeathed a foundation to our church. After I met you, I've made out a new will. Everything is yours. And I've quite a fortune. We'll visit my poor uncle's grave. What a kind, distinguished face he has on the pictures. And how he loved me. He forgave me everything. We'll never part again. We'll never part again, will we? When everyone had deserted me. I felt that my life, love, and my beauty were over, my dead mother stretched her hand towards me. She said: Today, you'll see him. I decided to put on my best dress. The one you first saw me in. I wanted to please you very, very much. Nonsense. Forgive me for talking about trifles. I set out as if I knew the way to you, as if I was following myself in the twilight. My instinct led me towards the Danube. How long did I walk? Time gets stirred up like sand. Suddenly I heard the voice of a policeman. He asked me not to commit suicide. I could still be happy, happy, happy, happy... You loved me very much then. When our love was still aflame, when our life was happy as the birds' and our kisses had no end, and when we got carried away, we thought we were the chosen ones, the only lovers, God's own children, souls from the Sun and the Moon, then you promised we'd die together. Die? Come to my place! The house is empty. I'll say farewell to my mother's picture. You'll kill me softly. I'll look at you until death closes my eyes. I know you'll come with me, you won't leave me alone in the great unknown. I'll follow you. If we stayed alive we'd part again, and weep and sob in dreadful suffering. And who knows if we'd meet again in such wonderful love? My love. We'll die, Sindbad. The Sun will rise without us, we don't see the day break. But the day is breaking. Oh, is it? I cannot die in the daylight. The milkman's coming, my husband's train will arrive. I'll be invited to the country for summer and today I'll visit my sick brother. Some other time, Sindbad. When we meet again, one night. Everybody must start life anew. Naked. So that he shouldn't dread the things that lie ahead. The acacia knows when to bloom twice. The frog and the mouse sense the changes in the weather. Only Man cannot foresee tomorrow. You know, sir, it's only worth living for women. My only one... She pretends to be a Russian princess with a line by Pushkin on her garter. I see you're still interested in profligate girls. I don't understand you. You saddle me with these dancers and are furious if I'm not rude to them. But I expected you to be rude. You're foolish, my pigeon. I only loved my vanity and the feeling of my superiority. Who might love Euphrosina now? Where could her ribboned shoes taken her? I only loved you. Even now, you're thinking of someone else. I always knew when you loved me, who you loved and for how long. I had time to think about it. Here is this small notebook. Here I write everything that I don't want to forget. Let me see, here is July 21, 1900: "Two hours in a carriage with drawn curtains with the lawyer's wife. " This pleasure drive was repeated every week, from July to October. I had a sad childhood. Unclad shepherds, and goddesses on the lids of snuff boxes were my companions. And swans, violinists in breeches and wigs, mail coaches worked in enamel. Later, my father brought an old man who read La Fontaine to me. I don't remember his name, but when he looked up from the book, a pair of unforgettable, wonderful eyes looked at me. My first unhappiness led me back here to the old house. It was autumn. Our old Frenchman was still alive. He watched me unawares from a corner. When I'm in trouble I always come here. In the hope the old man is still alive. You were desperately in love with Fanny. How I pitied you! She was a dear, faithful mistress. There were dreams in her eyes, and enchantment in her voice. "My sweet one... " she would say, and fondled me with her soft palm. Oh dear, oh dear! Aged thirty. Two false teeth. But her hair is genuine. And this one? Why do you want to complicate my life? You make me miserable. We spent a drowsy afternoon in a church in Buda, then we wandered among the graves in the old cemetery, where leaning against the rusty railings she defended her virtue, her peace of mind. While I was standing in front of her with my head bent down and thought of the goldsmith's wife. No, I'm not like the other women! I'll die if you desert me! I swear, I'll die! I haven't even noticed, your hair is turning grey. Your voice sounds like a cello. I like that very much. This wasn't the beginning of my downfall. Here we are. God be with you, Sindbad! God be with you, Florentine! I hope, we'll meet tomorrow again! If chance wants us, we'll meet. Good-bye! I won't come tomorrow. There's no point carrying on. I never get acquainted with women who'd want it. That's why I've stayed young. I'm completely disillusioned with you. My sweetheart, no reproaches, please! You've put your dark glasses on again. Life is a chain of beautiful lies. There's no emotion more moving than love. In our age, when noble feelings, like piety, loyalty, friendship... ...and patriotism are disappearing from our lives, only love can conjure up bygone illusions. We need the tenderness of women more than at any other time. For every woman, even the commonest one is akin to the Moon, the world to come, and superstition. Only women can improve men, who've become debased and they should be given every chance to carry out this charitable act. Don't talk about that, Sindbad! We know each other for a long time. You're an ugly, grey-haired, puffy-faced, corrupt man. I can no longer entrust my honour to you. I haven't any memories. I've always been a good woman, the best mother and a faithful wife. As it is written in obituaries. Some kind of fancy is missing from my soul. I'd like to keep a name in my memories. It always starts like this. I'm not starting anything. It always starts like this. I'm only sad that no one will ever whisper sweet lies into my ears. Please, sir, lie to me. To amuse you I could invent a romantic adventure about a hysterical princess, who fell in love with me at first sight. But instead I'll tell you this: Women were good to me, because they never loved me. No one? No one was curious to know what I wore under my coat. Yet you must be an interesting man. Why didn't women love you? Because I didn't lie to them. I clenched my teeth and the words "I love you" have never left my lips. I dreamt about keys last night. In the book of dreams Monday means pleasure. I wonder whether they still drink strawberry brandy in the Blue Barrel? Forget-me-nots? Well, what do you want to say? I want to die. And I will die soon. You'd make a pretty bride in the world beyond. Please sir, would you see me home? God bless you! And thank you for walking me home! Lovely child, you wouldn't regret loving me. Please, wait in front of the house! I'll throw you a flower from my window when I got to my room. You seem to be a good boy. Are you there, sir? You should spare those two old horses. What are you looking for in Cat Street? You. You're probably after some girl. I don't like it when you deceive me in front of my very eyes. I was looking for you. I haven't seen you for ages. Maybe you've not forgotten me. I don't forget that easily. Though I haven't had the pleasure for three years. You know, Sindbad, I no longer... I love you like a forsaken, forgotten mistress. But like a mother. And I know you so well as if I had born you. Remember, ten years ago you were ill and could only fall asleep if I stroked your back. You promised then to take me to the circus. But you never took me. And I don't go anywhere with anyone, but you. No reproaches, Majmunka! You went to the circus quite a lot as a girl. It's almost the same as the music hall. Yes, but the horses! The horses, the horses... We've seen enough farces, Majmunka. Let me tell you this! In spring, when women's handkerchiefs are full of the germs of love, we'll go up to the hills together! We'll cross the Danube in a horse-tram. The bridge will rumble beneath us. A couple from the country will sit opposite to us, and they will keep asking: Is it far to the Imperial Baths? We'll pass an inn where an accordion is playing. But we won't get off. We'll travel on. The coachman will hoot, the couple will inquire again. From the Buda hills fragrant air will blow into the coach, and we'll sit there like a happily married couple. I am a retired civil servant, and we've been married for twenty years. We have 1000 forints saved up, and we want to buy a house in a suburb. There in the little garden you could raise ducks and geese. Oh, you! Isn't this better than going to the circus? Of course it is, you scoundrel! Good day! My! I didn't recognize you, sir! It's been a long time! I had a friend here, called Valentin. Do you know him? - Yes. You want to do business with him? You've improved in your old age! When we last saw you, you did nothing, except wasting your time. We'll send the lad to fetch Valentin, if you like. I'd like to see you on New Year's Eve because I'm superstitious. My darling, my love, my betrothed. Lord, please let me sleep, and give me peaceful night! Spare me from the prattle of women. Help me to forget the fragrance of their hair, the strange look in their eyes, the taste of their hands. Lord, protect me from them. Marry me, please! It is the fate of the stars to fall to earth for each other. Who'll listen next year to the tale of the tinker eaten by wolves? Remember when you took on my sins at confession, because you had no sins to confess? Yes, but you had to pay a kreutzer for each sin. Now I'm asking you to do it again, take on my sins, Valentin! Tell me what I must take on. I've cheated, I've stolen, I've lied, I've swore, I haven't observed the fasts, I haven't been to church. I've committed everything, except murder. And adultery? Yes, that too. I wanted to seduce the mistress of a friend. Maybe I did seduce her. And I bought her an apron with stolen money. What'll you pay me if I undertake all this? What can I give you, who've saved my life so many times? Are you any good at exorcism? Of course. You'll pay me by exorcising the devil from my wife. Marika? Yes, I married Marika. We lived peacefully for 20 years. A few months ago, I have a new lad my workshop. Ever since, Marika's been quite wild! You know her. Drive the devil out of her! I won't let you corrupt this good man! This is Marika. By May, I'll be a sumach tree or a dockleaf. Life was worth living when one could enter gardens secretly at night, knock at windows, say sweet words to waiting women. When one could burn, wilt and laugh happily. Someone's approaching the house. Someone's thoughts are here. Euphrosina! Where've you come from? Why can't you find peace in the other world? I wanted to see you once more. I daren't even dream. My life is full of sadness. Even my dreams are pried on. I have to get married, Sindbad. I've become mistletoe. I still found the gate and was soon sitting with the goldsmith's wife. I could have been the comb. Fanny! I am very sad. Everyone's deserted me. My lovers are dead, or have grown old. Do you remember when we met here? I thought I'd die of excitement. I cried because that was my first rendez-vous. It was wonderful, I was the happiest woman in Buda. Thank you for corrupting me. At least I have lived. I cannot live. Leave me alone with your nonsense, Sindbad! Is Amalia still alive? Would you show me the locket you are wearing? It belonged to my mother. To my late mother. I'm asking you because your mother was a good friend of mine, a very long time ago. It's my father's picture. From the time he was in the army. Are you married yet? Yes. And I've two lovely children. Paula! Good gracious! Weren't you expecting me? Didn't you dream about me? I did once, last week, or last night. But I've foolish dreams. How come you're here? I wanted to know how you were. Remember? We sailed along the Danube, and the captain was in love with you. Not in vain, I hope. Please! I never saw him again. I was yours then. I loved you very much. How easily you say it. Isn't my being here enough? I came as I wanted to kiss your hand. Do turn around! You haven't changed a bit. There's no one to care for me. Though I'm occasionally ill. Is your heart empty then? Foolish boy! You think I could forget you? You snake, you lying snake. How many times you've forgotten me since then! I've a marvellous plan for the afternoon. Take me home! I live quite near. I always look for sober people and I only found drunkards. They say you've no profession. What do you live on? I regret that the loiterers are now extinct. I like to wonder around without money. I do a bit of writing. The actors say, you live on thin air. Their only measure is the fees they get. So you're not an adventurer! What a pity! Sindbad, help me! There's no softer bed than the snow. Life, life, once so tedious sacred life, how good it feels to come back into you. What's your name, my friend? Vendelin, at your humble service, sir. - Are you married? - I was, sir. - Did she die? - Something else happened. Though I'm not very fond of carrots... May I bring the marrow-bone, sir? Dear Vendelin, I must warn you to bring toasted bread with it, not buns, for they are unsuitable for this sort of things. And make it as hot as my darling's heart! Now you can bring the beer, but in a beerglass! The barman can keep the froth. The innkeeper must be a rich man. He's generous with the froth. Now tell me, what happened to your wife? She left me, sir. I worked in the Casino as a young waiter. At that time, Mr. Szemere and Mr. Uhtritz were my clients. The jockeys used to wait outside, the trainers sat in the corridor. Betting went on late into the night. And we waiters were friends with the jockeys. I could rarely go to the races but I knew every horse. Of course, I never won. What roast meat do you have? You have roast duck, but I eat enough of that at home. Yes, duck with red cabbage. You know, Vendelin, I prefer game for lunch. In the old Lippert restaurant you could have the best game dishes. Old Lippert himself liked hunting he was trainer in the rifle-club. So I always went to his place to have hare. Pheasant stuffed with chestnut... Are they Italian chestnuts or Hungarian ones? Just chestnusts. Well, if the bird's all right, I'll have it! Why do women scrape carrots so furiously? Here's the pheasant with smashed potatoes and pickles. Where are the different types of mustards? I like hot, home-made mustard and French mustard as well, but English mustard is my favourite. One day, the Baron Wiener-Waldau said to me: Venedline: I want to make you a lucky man. Bet on Duke Festetich's horse, Patience, every time she runs. Patience... it sounds familiar. And if you'd only know her, sir! I nearly forgot! I'd like some tender beef. Tell me, have you a piece of beef on or off the bone? I don't mind having sirloin, though I prefer rump. What I'd like best is a cut of meat that is called "Tafelspitz". That's what I'd like to eat. With tomato sauce and spring onions. Innkeepers with any self-respect always have them. After the game? Who am I to be told what to eat? The course-inspector's daughter, too, was called Patience. Am I disturbing you, sir? The Baron Wiener-Waldau who was fond of me, once asked me, if I would like to marry Patience. I married her. And that was my undoing. I loved her deeply. She ran away and became a cashier in Debrecen. Now I'm ready for half a litre of good wine! So, Patience became a cashier in Debrecen? She filed for a divorce from there, when a foolish country gent asked for her hand. That foolish country gent was me. I was Patience's second husband. Did she leave you, too? Did she bolt again? Where is she now? One must make peace with it. I'll go wherever you want. We'll leave tomorrow night. I was born near the river, and as a girl I always saw babies in the water. And now I have no children, I've only you. She was only twenty. Death has no light, and no shadow. But it has a faint smell of rosemary. We got rid of a pair of worn trousers and a nickel-plated watch chain. We no longer need greetings and lies, the requisites of this worldly life. You're the only one, Majmunka. How lucky I am that women are so unfaithful like the morning dew. So my turn comes up from time to time. Florentine is dead, her blood fled with her dreams. You bought me this Paul de Kock book, remember? I now only sin when reading. So I've settled my account with life. I've no more ambitions, no hopes. I sit on top of a tree like an old bird and I'm glad that there are still some who can believe in life, in love. It's you, I love. Let's go to bed, shall we? You want me to speak with the goldsmith's wife, don't you? Well, yes. I've gone mad. The devil has taken my senses. I hate myself so much I could bang my head at the wall. I went to see my mother. She's well. She lives as she used to years ago. She looks after her bit of land and grape. She doesn't depend on anyone. She's not like me. They were of a different breed as we grew up to be. They knew how to live. They knew how to live well. These people know nothing about the beauty of life, about a good meal, about a good rest. I don't like the world of today. They say it's a transitional age. But I never wanted a transitional age. I don't remember having asked for this life either. I surely didn't pull any strings. I no longer want to know what's there for a Hungarian to be happy about. What's your favourite tune, Doctor? Play "Fly, my swallow"! Do such old customers ever die? We must live in the shadow of the spire. What trouble can true love bring? Our lady-organist may leave us any day, if she hears people gossiping about her. You really should return to the world, however little you understand it's way. The trouble is, I know no more about life than a child. I don't know the secret of how to behave, what to say, how to succeed in life. I ought to be living in a garden or in a hospital, planning. Only planning. For as soon as it comes to action, I make a mess of everything. I miss the nail. I have so many sins that at night I daren't stay alone in a room. The celebrated doctors in Budapest! Can't they do anything about a little nightmare? I'm not afraid of you, I know you won't give me bad advice. At night, when we reach the holy place, stay by the church wall, and sleep among the old womenfolk. Strange images dance before my eyes, yellow, like the waters of the Poprad. All gentlefolk are slightly crazy. My father kept the postmistress' old shoes in a drawer. And you can't get a name out of your head. Her name's Dusky. So that's what robs you of your sleep. The pilgrimage will come to nothing. You must sleep out in the open so that the devils don't find you. Do devils exist at all? Of course! But they daren't follow us here. The days of my senses are drawing to a close. This gentleman can't sleep. Make him sleep! Women! Wake up! Heal my heart, mother, please heal me! Your father died of heart failure, too. Bad meal, false wines, and even falser kisses poison your blood. - When shall I die? - There are still many ahead of you. Dreams, dreams, sweet dreams, Now, I'm closing my eyes. Blessed be your coming, my life's a dream, my dreams are my life. Winter Fairy! Dear God, I'm here again at last! Thank you, Sindbad, I'll always be grateful to you. Winter Fairy, God be with you! God be with you, Sindbad!
