 

                        To hear the radio conversation KQQK by della Syntnef Tonight's guest is ... Dr. Jeremy Lanz psychologist, lecturer ... ... Special issues of incest and author of best sellers "Incest family taboo Welcome Dr. Lanz Dr. Lanz your book ... "Incest family taboo seems ... ... Has divided the scientific community and is responsible for ... Today many cases of incest want to tell us what you think before proceed to the first call? So ... first let me say that my research in this area is the most comprehensive and has prove that I'm right again and again. Uh ... I condemn in the next book the effects of inbreeding ... ... And I know that it will create noise shows that women who satisfy their men initially turn their fathers with her daughters ... ... The concept of complete some gaps in the relationship ... on the other hand, many wives turn to their sons ... as sex objects because of lack of the former spouse Let us take a solution and a The first call is in line ... ... Listen ... ... Crazy wife on the radio ... Ha! Do not forget the crazy brother may be the crazy wife ... Hello ... may be insane as a fuck ... should be more careful ... Yes definitely ... Hey you're in the air ... Hello ... Hey you're in the air. Charles I by Tia Mateo ... I read your book and I think you're off topic ... according to my knowledge no one associate with incest separation ... Charles I disagree with you ... There is a great deal of lack of partner with incest. in my next book ... are you crazy ... Thank you very much Charles ... Hello KQQK radio you are in the air ... I was married two months. and my husband likes to see me but have sex with another man. and should be with the married forever ... and beginning to like it considers this an anomaly? Yes ... basically I do not .... I suggest you and your husband to see a specialist immediately. Thanks We speak with Dr. Jeremy Lanz on incest Your phone calls please Be in the matter ... Sorry Dr. Lanz but it seems to me ... Uh ... should be more specific deepen the causes that lead in incest Well, yes ... The truth is that there are more major causes for this issue I believe that to explain and current families are the root causes problems of society I'm certainly convinced ... that they grow up both leaf plot to protect themselves from external factors. For example in my family I have two daughters ... which have a nurturing ... and attending a private girls' school until they graduate Why is decorated? will not go out tonight so it is Naiomi? Do not mind Robin No it will go out tonight right? Richie will come here. What? Never enough for you? When will this stop? God knows what his father said. You heard on the radio today. Nobody knows I will not stop. What do you always say. Better to make sure your bed. I am leaving out of here ... before ... I checked do not worry. Goodnight Naiomi ... Come on Richie ... Come on, come on ... took you SAA ... Richie ... Put him in my sister so could not say anything against me Like what? Blackmail! Come on Richie go I have never seen anyone sleep so ... Okay boy ... Youngster ... What do you think you here? Get out incestuous What a shame ... Oh! no ... Warned repeatedly Naiomi Lanz ... will not tolerate such behavior the school of Mrs. Fletcher. But Ms. .. Ms. Allison .. We call to your father morning. Better to start to gather your stuff. I do not understand such behavior Sodom and Gomorrah ... I can not tell you ... How sad it is Naiomi your father ... You better get up and assume your responsibilities boy No thanks Sorry Naiomi ... Your favorite ... Love me sweet daddy .. It broke his heart ... You saw what you did Naiomi? Always put me into trouble. Oh! Shut Robben You are not alone in having problems. I think I can look back anyone at this school? So why do not we puzzling before? There koimosouna ... Enjoy it ... And this is thanks ... I thank you got it ... I do not know how to talk about everything what I do ... We help you ... Joann ... So Joan ... Dr. Lanz has his way ... you two ... leave them all to go out. this will overcome your problem Good morning to all ... I am glad to see you. The Joyce will be here in a minute and to introduce you to Mrs. Cole ... Ms. Cole, I am glad you decided to come ... I'm so nervous Dr. Lanz ... There is nothing now that You must be nervous ... Everyone has the same pain and the same stress with you. So ashamed ... No comments ... We'll help with the meeting to overcome the shame you feel ... You ask me to anaskaliso ... Take me to come when the team will be finished. Ahh ... just come and get me OK? Mom ... I still do not understand why it should to include in our team. I mean ... I know you said you would not know but ... Sure ... but damn ... If the book Dr. Lanz say about us ... No. If Dr. Lanz said ... talk to us .... then we talk. I stopped the problem. That is that we have. He gives her the fucking ... Do not mixed them ... Sorry mom ... everything was fine until you and Brian started to do this. If you will not be quiet because strefomouna your brother Aaaah ... Better to go in ... I do not want to be with you there ... Okay this is no time for games. How soon will integrate the team? In any case. ... Third Party I know that it took ... because they disagreed with my son. I apologize from all I thought that Bob would with you ... So Bob decided ... it is better to remain private sessions. We need to tell someone before I start to go crazy. Go ... nothing more to go ... As a matter of incest ... Hate ... comes as a fantasy in my mind I can not think of anything else ... And now ... Jimmy is now ... I want and this ... First I started with a son ... now another ... Not ready for the team more ... Ok we have another member here ... know the Joan Kocher, modern ... First day of the second number. Hello everyone. I would be grateful ... To introduce you to Joan who is with us so you will not feel alone ... Aaaa ... I'm Richard Knight and here because ... jumping on my daughter. Hello ... I'm Betty Knight and I relationship with my father. My name is Jeff and Ward raped my aunt. But I asked ... Come on Jeff ... okay ... aaaa ... I thought I asked for. I am Joyce and ... and I love and My two sons. Now Joan ... Would you like to talk to the group on your experience? Not ... Well then ... Who would first to speak tonight? You Joyce? Me? I ... I have two wonderful sons. In Gkreik Jr. and Danny ... a beloved daughter, Sherry. One ... one day I got Junior with his sister ... I can not describe how painful ... was to 'see my kids together. I thought my world collapsed. I started to drink constantly. I just sat and watched ... Joan is the top ... and I thought how nice it was my son ... Not what they did ... but how it reminded me me with my husband. A real man ... passionate ... I felt my senses to revolt ... and ... The Junior is ... has a great body ... I mean ... still looks like an ancient Greek god And ... I was drunk ... and just ... wish to find him. late that night came to my room and ... learn ... and the promise ... I would not say to his father. Well the one brought the other ... and ... I tried to tackling ... but I was sick ... very sick ... Come on now what are you doing here? She should be here by Jeremy soon .... It's a job. And I will miss the next one hour ... Shit. Come on. What ... Let me show you All right. The Naiomi got this morning. Really? School work? -Yes Because he was upset in the morning ... The girls will return home? What had to say Naiomi? The poor child was scared. I asked to speak to Jeremy That's why I'm here I do not know what we could do that ... Already tried to talk to him ... I know that my brother is a fucking care ... But this is a good guy and My daughter is not the Jeremy ... Even if you do not know ... I do not want to fuck it I understand what you mean but We can talk now. I know that he understands and agreements Every night his father Junior left the city for work ... The Junior walked up the stairs and sat in bed with me I felt kaflone ... I talked to him ... Okay I will try And ... I put the dick in Raised in my wet pussy I could not resist when I roused her body and soul ... How long did you say this .... continued? just yesterday I was at the knees ... and the suck ... had an orgasm swallowed the ... ... Swallow ... Got time to talk about it Brian? I'm afraid not. So I think it is quite for now ... Hey ... you outta here next Thursday ... ... Then perhaps Miss Cole is ready to participate. I do not know. Hi ... I had a wonderful session today ... They said about us ... Junior had ... asked me why I started I love ... But I do not want to stop. Nor me. Not yet ... Bitch ... torn whore ... Jeremy sorry. I do not blame you, Bill Get out. Get out of here ... get your stuff and go. Jeremy ... listen Please calm down ... Not Think girls ... I want to stay married to Jeremy, I want our marriage to survive. -Get out of the house. Get out of my life. Please listen to Jeremy. The following Naiomi fucked up your footsteps. I will speak ... ok Okay ... This is the story. Richie came up to help in the study. Exam ... after nystaxe. And Mrs. Allison came in and created a theme for nothing. It supports the robin? I will support but do not want nothing to do with both of you. No need to go Robin, new life ahead. Anyway Naiomi I have to give battle. Think I'll sit around discussing me school behind my back? We will not know about you. All that is heard for me and Richie. Oh! Naiomi Richie is so windbag ... Everyone will listen to the radio. I'm so pissed off ... You were always so pissed off. Drink this ... I know he loves you ... I know since I got married ... the first time that we love ... She loves ... It's my fault I swear to God do not blame anyone other than Only me. Do not think the prosecution girls ... These girls ... saints are ... not prostitutes like their mothers. How cute is me? Well ... Hello ... Hi Uncle Bill Talked to his father? I tried my baby but I could not ... They are angry? What did he say? Naiomi this ... There must tell you. You can get other things you when I will not be here ... I do not want to rejoin. Dad, what happened? Daddy can not you and Mom to debate it again? There is nothing left to discuss. Come on, Dad ... Please, Dad ... Your father will not to change his mind. Girls want to come with me ... But Dad ... Do not talk to me my young. Mrs. Allison called me from school today. You're the same as your mother. Any kind ... Then I go to Mom and Uncle Bill ... Come Robin ... No, I'll come with you Naiomi ... It is the first time apart ... I know ... I will miss Naiomi but watch. You know mom, but I do not want him leave it alone. Of course I understand sweetie ... I think you are very generous father. Are you coming? Do not worry, dad will take care of myself. So we ... I will always be here ... I'll be everything you ... everything. We're always a bit my life sweetheart. Thanks Dad. Incest Chapter 23 ... Robert Scott came to see ... has trouble sleeping ... This devastated the son of Paul After he turned to another son by Jimmy He was 20 years old then Come on dad I made a delicious meal. Me Are Kapers Come back. Do not leave me Will do not leave me to die ... A! caught me. I'm leaving ... Such is the love? Geez ... I know why you bring here every week. I can not pretend ... No, you're really good. He said, and Tolkien. I heard it. Just do not want to pull my pants. Ridge went to the other. The other girls are great. And this guy is tasty. In this ... What are you looking ... Keep up the work. Yes? Yes. Nikki would not decide to get up? Where is my sword you left on the floor? Where is my Indian? Give me my hat. Good boy. Okay go. We did not do anything now right? Your new text. Tell me how I die for love? Yes -Yes ... -I come in once knocked cry okay? It's good I like it. How will I die of love this is ridiculous ... I can not pretend to know why do not forget okay? Let's start for a minute, okay? I can not believe that even using notes finish until tomorrow Learn your words Naiomi going to work very I can help Mickey undertook you okay Okay do not care. Stop interpret Come Ok when we go to page 23 on top in practice 2 to 3 Forget Mickey did not do anything if not turn the Don Well you Gloria? Let's take it from the top Don is the director and will wait Go fuck yourself Luke is ridiculous with these novices will wait for the Don It is a waste of time I have not ... I do not know where to start Naiomi wait come back I think you are physically I think they just want a special training And I'll spend my nights free I do not think You deal with jazz or ballet Trust me you are good perhaps better Will guide I have an idea I will give you a chance singing a few lines and look how you feel Follow me OK let's try Okay see 're at the beach with your favorite cousin here is lay down on the beach you were always in conflict with cousin but you afraid to tell him Hey cousin not done yet ... when you were kids you used to play doctor and nurse together But now that you grew up you do not know even if you remember Ok Well Okay then ... And two out of the water This removes her clothes You take off your clothes ... Grab the move ... Sorry Yes Don Don Necessary? I mean, do all students? Of course it is necessary you have to be in the film Well it's shortly after the swim Okay ... ok Oh! Naiomi It was beautiful the water was beautiful Let me give you a dry Remember when we were kids and play doctors I could not forget I thought you forgot the I remember you used to say ... I'll show you mine if you show me yours I know. And we called it your own? In Gouetzi Yes yes and when we slept together ... trying to put the Gouetzi in my cave say the cave because it was dark and dark Yes yes ... Well ... still remember how it seemed The Gouetzi me ... but I do not remember how was your cave V1 yes See? Are there so furry little more now Yes ... As I see there ... Wet ... I see .... still have caramel? E.. E.. E.. Do not do this Remember the last time? Not ... rather not remember I got my dad and flew out. And my rained so hard I could not sit for a week I remember you liked ... No ... not to hurt So stop jokes After following After I came to your room and feels nice when you are the owner of my Gouetzi To hurt ... very bad The first time since you liked ... No lie When she wanted to lick when it came out all the juice ... No ... no ... -No I was not "Yes you were Maybe this help you to remember ... No, I was maybe it was another Come Naiomi Yes ... Oh! I remember The I-Gouetzi Yes is Gouetzi Let me see Are you sure that this Gouetzi the same? Yes ... Come on think it's time ... I do not want to start I mean, I enjoy ... come Yes Yeah okay ... Let us continue the effort. -Okay ... Okay I remember when ... when I was less and used to come to sleep me ... my room Yes yes ... And let him put the Gouetzi you in my cave but ponage ... because Gouetzi was very high to my cave Yet I think it is ... Not not look ... I have an idea. if in Lick ... Mmm ... good so juicy ... will now slip into and feel good ... Okay, but ... Do not hurt. even very narrow Dinner was served, Mr Dine Do not mind Dinner is ready Oh! yes ... Baby ... Hey You Me? Yes There came the team yet? Let me see ... it's Thursday huh? In half an hour We have you seen have you? Robin Robin I am Gregory Fraint You can call me Jr. Okay Jr. Being in the band? Me? No. I live here My father is Dr. Lanz Well I will see you around Junior next Thursday? Ok give me the keys I drive Not Try to get poutanaki not afraid to get them ... Naiomi not think it is time to prepare the dinner? Told again and again I do not hang around at home Half-dressed listen listen ... is a child ... joke wanted car I do not know what you think by being wandering the Naiomi Alice is ridiculous So ... you has a weakness I do not want to encourage is a sensitive age are you on about nothing is my daughter I told you ... I promised ... we heard not hear anything is in the bathroom Okay ... what about us; sometimes I think he loved me because I married your brother come here ... I apologize if I raised my voice I love my baby you have no reason to envy anyone Come on ... give me a kiss Naiomi Naiomi dinner is ready dinner was served, Mr what is the reason; -Special reason I love to cook for you I do not know what you want to prove but did Enjoy the best dad in the world both new and well Daddy I miss my mom ... you; do not think any they will speak to the concentration Thursday; anything that interests But Dad interested to know about everything ... -But I do not want to tell you Naiomi says that the talk about incest Yes we do what motivates people To do this, Dad; Naiomi I want you go to bed now sorry mom Goodnight Uncle Billy goodnight sweetheart I go to bed and you both good night fun; Yes are you happy with me; dumb question think; I do not think it is stupid would you be happy with me Naiomi if it was not with us; What makes you ask this; I believe that if we just the two of us more often will be enjoyed ourselves You know we would be more comfortable ... would do much more noise when we admittedly something you have in your mind Come ... Naiomi is so new her body is young and tight I do not think is bad I think the look and I know he looks at it and can not get her hands off you Bill since you said I have been unable means nothing You're the one I love to fuck every night and lights ... So you want to make me explode; Come on baby ... look like a challenge with these black ... Stop Dalton what do you say after the show for an appointment Dalton, not my dad 'll pull out after the show if you pursue it and forget any word I know ok ... listen little to break your leg ... to break my leg; do not know what that means; is an expression of spectacular old jewelry for good luck. Ahh ... thanks dinner was served, Mr ... Mr was served dinner .... Thanks 4 not be late not ever be late we would like to hug you got something better for today? like a rendezvous with nature tonight ... Hey remember me I am the Junior course is Thursday Day incest ... correctly I bring my mom every Thursday -Right ... want to come for a drink; Yes indeed ... I'm ... I do not know how to begin I come here every week helps me so much I know how difficult it is dear but you do the first and most important step that you come here We are 100% with you Joan -Thanks when to start; Tell us what has happened just tell us their all. So to start I had never come effective date or boyfriend had I went to school and girls all the girls talking to boys ... for bare and beautiful Your parents were strict; so very strict. Telling me that All boys have one thing on their minds Sex ... -You have brothers or sisters; only one brother. When we were young we were very close. When I grew up I went in his room and seeing him masturbate This will very lit ... actually with irritant that he knew that the track then went to my room and I was getting a brush to malakisto ... sometimes with vibrator when my parents were not home let me open the door because I wanted to and he watches me And he watched; Yes he did. I do not know when but I guess he did and how come in my room this hard thing and I put it made me have an orgasm What kept it; Months ... maybe years I do not know so much on my mind and then one day ... I was in the bath I dreamed ... I knew that my parents were not home ... I started to masturbate feeling the water around my pussy ... the water penetration was as if someone was coming inside of me I mean that I could not give myself an orgasm I was at the height when I got up ... and the corridor I thought my brother saw had to go through his room I go to my Come on. Non- I want Joan -No, I I tried to suppress but it was stronger than me and I knew there was a way to stop him because deep down much like the but he wanted me too Why is your mom here the day of incest; should not you through with it; Yes I suppose so I do not go there no way Come Robin Not I want to know ... aimomichtike with you; your mother; a break you did with your mother; Come tell me you did with your mother Jr; I know ... with lights ... get ... Yes -Go to your room. -No why not ... Why I do not know if I say the truth or not ... I think to do to light a you have my word for it I want to watch Show you what; if I see a mother with you too ... that makes me so hot ... I'll let me do what you want whatever you want ... What collection ... Ms. Makgouair ended; No, not even stepped out for a drink I would hide under the hall ... I will wait and watch ... first your mother and ... after me. I'll see you later, Mrs. Maguire. OK, sweetie What our story told by Joan I'm burning to death 're going to get out of here soon -No -No; -No need to go home mom Please come with me. -What do you have in mind Jr; You okay with this mother; surely you; I will upload too high ... I miss you and work in all .... so long ago Yes, by yesterday evening agree bastard but I love you do you like so; Oh! not Jane ... Robin ... I go for more whiskey. do not leave ... -Will never find better Hey Uncle Billy will not go to the movies with mom which is the mother; He went alone I came to read more You know Uncle Billy because we ourselves do you can do that I did with my dad I do not find the same me Stop reading talk to me Nice because you want to talk for boys because the school thing; For the life of a big city All right. Tell me about you and Mom it was love at first sight; I stepped on; I do not remember stupid ... I prefer to talk to you For me; Ok to watch them make love with mom What you're saying ... -Do not play with me I know I know You have great imagination, you do not know anything ... Yes, I know Imagine what happens here and both of us imagine I want to make love when gamiemai What do you think I think; you what I feel inside me ... You never know what you think I'm your uncle You're more than that ... Why are you talking about ... So close ... I feel so close to you as I have not felt for any throughout my life I want to be that you do love Oh what I'm going Dad, I'm not dressed Oh! my little girl you are not yet; I did not want my sweet just I talk to someone Here I am Daddy You know as far as I can remember You were always so unhappy. Naiomi to blame too; whether the mother; you are not sure sweetie I knew when I married your mother she was in love with my brother just thought I would do to love me maybe it was my mistake but is too late I was tolerant, condescending, thing unusual about my job prevailing myself insured My World never really on my own but always lonely But Naiomi And I loved And I love It is different sweetie. The people I am a woman. My wife Dad might need help and we be included in your group Did you see make you laugh ... I like ... good night Good night, Dad. Alice ... Alice ... please reply Forget baby will do anything for you ... everything will do anything for you dad ... everything good daddy; I understand, Dad ... I understand ... You're mine .. you're my wife now ... Yes Dad ... I'm yours I promise to love me a price ... We do For now and forever until the end ...
