 

                        JANG Dong-gun WON Bin LEE Eun-joo Memorial Site for souls of the Korean War We're contacting the families of those we've identified We'll call you soon Who received the file for LEE Jin-seok, number B-38? LEE Jin-seok? I did, Why? I checked the list of remains and the photos He's not on K.I.A. or M.I.A. list Not even on the survivors' list? LEE Jin-seok... Identity search for participating soldier the list of participants... Still alive? Grandpa! The Army Headquarters is on the phone! hello? I'm with the Korean War excavation team I'm calling to confirm some information Are you LEE Jin-seok who fought at the battle of Dumillyong? That's right We've identified some remains as LEE Jin-seok's Oh... you did? But I am LEE Jin-seok Is there any chance... it is LEE Jin-tae? No, it's definitely LEE Jin-seok I'm sorry to have bothered you, sir It's probably someone with the same name What did they say? Was it about your brother? I thought it would be since it was a call from the army Grandpa, can I help with the garden? Could you drive for me? I can drive him Don't worry, Mom The site is on a mountain and you aren't well I'll call her later You got sick after your trip to China to look for your brother Yes Why don't you go start the car - Yeah - Make sure you've got an ID It's a restricted area Don't worry I've got enough IDs OK then Are you going to wear your sneakers? I'll shine shoes instead Jong-Ro, Seoul 1950 Shoe shine! Shoe shine! Shoe shine! Shoe shine! Shoe shine! Shoe shine! Shoe shine! Shoe shine! Shoe shine! The middle ones are new from Italy They're beautiful It's a work of an art The heels are high and the stitching is superb Well... I like low heels better They look more comfortable - Really? - But I bet you can make so much better than those It'll take a few more years I'll be so proud when you make shoes at a shop like this someday - What did you buy this for? - You wanted to have one You look great! Thanks, Jin-tae Ice cream! Ice cream! - Hey, ice cream! - Yeah! - Give me a real cold one - Why don't you buy two? - Just one is enough - OK Here's one, nice and cold Take it - You've already spent too much - Take it! - Yours? - I don't want my teeth to rot - How much is it? - It's 2 won - Thank you - Have a nice day! - Take a bite first - No way! - Come on, it's melting! - You eat it Jin-tae! The tram! Shoe shine Where are you going? We have to go home! I've finished the math homework I'll teach you something new You have to teach me tomorrow! Mom! You haven't finished yet? What does it look like to you? We're busy! - Jin-seok's here, too - Hi, Young-Shin! Stop that I'll put some on a plate It's okay, Young-Shin I told you not to do that Come here - Come on, I'm not a child - Come here Thank you! See you next time! Where did you get this barley? I got it for signing up for some kind of National Correction League - National Correction League? - I think barley for my name is a good deal I wish mother had done it, too Nothing's ever free I could kill for free food Hurry up and close the shop Dad's waiting! Dad, Jin-seok scored the top for his last exam Isn't that a good job? He'll make your dream come true Please help him enter the best university next year And please keep him healthy He was very sick last spring No, but I'm fine now Young-shin, Mom says to come in! Remember her, dad? Jin-tae is going to marry her this fall Mom's worried about such a nice girl marrying such a rough boy It'd have made you so proud... Mom, the kids must be hungry Jin-seok, let's clear the table Why don't you go help mom Open the pot! Again! Here, use this from now on I made it from my skirt Don't lose it What did you like the most? The meat! - I liked the cookies - I liked the fruit! Can we go swimming? No, it's too late We have to go home and sleep But tomorrow is Sunday We have no school... It's too hot to go to bed - No... - Please, please... You look really happy I wish everyday were like this No more, no less I know, Jin-tae is a little rough but has a warm heart... Don't worry. It's not cold Shall I show you? Jin-tae, I don't want to do it! Why are you changing the heels? The high ones look great! They look great! Are you gonna sell them? You wanna buy them? If the price is right I just might You'll never have enough money to buy those shoes! Hey, why is this pronunciation different form the spelling? Didn't I tell you not to ask me about spellings? You don't know the second grade's stuff? Shut up and go get more shoes Okay, I was going to Hi, you're gonna teach me math today, right? - Why aren't you at the library? - You haven't heard? A war has broken out Any soldiers on leave are to report to duty right away This morning the armed forces of North Korea attacked South Korea But our brave soldiers are fighting courageously and pushing them back Citizens should not be deceived by the groundless propaganda of the north Informing you once again at the 38th parallel... What are all these? Are we moving? We have to carry all these Only food and clothes I told you! Don't worry I won't ask you to carry Uncle's house is way too far - Put that stuff back - No, I'll carry them We can't carry all these! I'll carry them! I'll carry them all! Don't be stupid! I told you I will! We'll be back soon I told you How do you know that? No one knows what will happen! The shop is just starting to do well Somebody will take it while we're gone What about the KIMchi pots buried in the yard? And the vegetables I planted in spring? They all will be fine until we get back What if you're drafted? Only if they need their boots shined We have to hurry The North's solders are getting close And the streets are packed with refugees Hurry up, Young-ja Let's go Mother! Mom says we must stay together all the time - Put Young-min on here - Young-min Hold on tight We won't be long, okay? Jin-seok, come on! Jin-seok! Hold hands tight! Young-ja! Dae-gu, July 1950 What the hell is that train sitting over there for? I told you trains for civilians are not running! Where's a pharmacy? I don't know Let's go to the war front And destroy the communists! We must protect our country! I think we have to give up the train - What about that one? - It's leaving for the front - Is Jin-tae back? - Not yet Jin-tae will bring you some medicine in a minute Salute! Excuse us, but we're on official business Men between 18 and 30 step forward Between 18 and 30! It's nothing serious Just step forward - What's going on? - It's nothing serious, don't worry - What year were you born? - I was born in 1921 Step forward then It will be over soon so please cooperate Between 18 and 30! How old are you? - Ei... eighteen - Step forward - What's going on? - and also people at the back... step forward - Men between 18 and 30 - Don't go You don't need to follow their orders Don't worry, It's just some questions, I guess - It's going to be okay - Come on, let's go Everything will be fine I'm still a student - I'll be fine - No, Jin-seok! You aren't allowed to go - Jin-seok! - No, Jin-seok! To position! - Salute! - student soldier Loyalty! Back to position! Don't worry It's going to be Okay Give this to Young-min - What happened? - Jin-seok... What happened to Jin-seok? The soldiers took him with all the young men he's not back yet Jin-tae! - We'll go - We'll fight We'll win! - student soldier! - student soldier! - volunteer soldier! - volunteer soldier! Brave volunteer student soldiers long live Korea but now brave soldiers Where are you going? I'm looking for my brother You're not permitted in here You'll have to leave - Jin-seok! Jin-seok! - Stop right there! Jin-tae! Let's go! This isn't the train to uncle's house We're leaving soon Sit down My brother got on the wrong train We're getting off I said sit down You must be mistaken We're refugees not soldiers You've just been drafted, too Then who's gonna look after my mother? You? Sit down! That is an order You order your soldiers We are leaving I told you to sit down! You must be mistaken Why can't you understand Jin-seok get off now! Jin-seok go, now! Stay still! Jin-tae! Jin-tae! Jin-tae! My brother has a problem with his heart He can't even run Tell that at the training camp Only those without arms or legs or who can't talk or hear At war, they're called patients Jin-seok, Jin-tae! Jin-tae! What are you doing, you bastard! Mom! - Mom! - Mom Jin-seok, Jin-tae! Mom, Young-shin! - Jin-tae! - Mom, here, here! Mom! Mom, here! - Jin-seok! - Here, here! - Jin-seok! - Mom! Mom, here! Mom! Go to uncle's home first We will meet you later I'll take care of Jin-seok Don't worry! - What happened to your face? - Take care of mom Don't worry about us You take care of yourselves You must come home! You must come home! Jin-tae... Mom! Mom! Jin-tae! Jin-seok! Mom! Hey, help me Fucking bastards! Pour that all over! You communist dogs... I should have burn them to death Fucking bastards... - KANG Yong-jin! - Yes sir! - KIM Ki-tae - Yes, sir! - LEE Jin-seok! - Yes, sir! Excuse me, sir - May I have a word with you sir? - Go ahead This is my younger brother Please let us stay close He's just a student and knows nothing about war I'll teach him Please Alright Here, Nakdong River is our last line of defense If this place is taken the next is Busan, and then... we've got nowhere to go but into the sea If you retreat I'll kill you myself This is where we live or die Write your wills and whatever you wanna leave put it in here, Got it? - Attention, salute! - Sir! Damn young punk What does he know about death and wills? Okay, let's say hello - I am GO Yong-man - I am LEE Jin-tae Let me ask you something Are you two related? - He's my older brother - You're brothers? Damn! I thought they were only supposed to take one per family! Who's going to carry on the family name? Is the country going to? Those bastards Forget the will! Forget it! You never know when the next meal will come Eat this shit Just call me Uncle Yang He's the eldest in our platoon He's a self-proclaimed fortuneteller but he's never right Welcome Don't ever take your helmet off Many get their heads blown off while sleeping I'm Sergeant LEEM I hate anything red especially the reds! I am Tae-soo, I escaped from North Korea But don't mistake me as a commie I'm Seung-chul I was a student but I volunteered to fight Say 'Hello', PFC Jo Whatever for, We'll all be dead soon anyway - I'm PFC Jo - I am Yong-goo Just call me radio man I am KIM Cheol-soo I go by Ban They are asking me to fight, eating this? No water or soup at all? And mine's so damn small! You don't want it? Give it to me Eat it Jin-seok! Jin-seok, are you okay? Jin-seok, you okay? Stay right there Stay put Jin-tae I told you to stay there! Jin-seok, Jin-seok! Hang on, Jin-seok! Please keep breathing! Jin-seok, You can do it Jin-seok, breathe in! Now breathe out More, more! Spit it out! Now breathe in! Jin-seok, You can do it Deeper, deeper, Jin-seok! You're okay! Okay, okay You're fine Please send my brother to the hospital I'll blow up their tanks or bring you their commanders I'll even carry a bomb - into their camp - There is one with an epileptic Another has pulmonary tuberculosis One in 3rd platoon has rheumatism Another with with heart disease And one with pulmonary tuberculosis Need more? Should I send them all? Who'll fight then? Life and death crosses here every second If you do what you've said and I can even send your brother home! I'll do whatever I can do if I can send him home That's the spirit we need You have to give to your country before asking for something Just for your information it's been done before There, a father and son were in the same unit who could send his son home Wanna know how? Wills are for dying people You've got to be strong I wish all this would just be a dream I want to wake up in my room I'd tell you about this over breakfast I would tell you that I had a strange dream Then I would go to school and you and mom would go to work Don't worry We will be just fine Urgent call from the battalion bunker, sir! What is it? The 2nd and 3rd have lost their positions Damn it! - Wake them up! - Yes, sir! Everybody, wake up! Everybody up! Up! Area 721 and area 734 have fallen into the enemy's hands Additionally, our supply route has been cut off This means we're isolated Remove all the rocks They're shrapnel waiting to happen Area 731 and 732 are gone We're next! The bastards are gonna hit us hard, like dogs There won't be anyone left to bury us Let the commies come! I'll kill everyone I can! Attention! Sergeant HUH, KOH Yong-man LIM Tae-soo, KANG Hyo-Yul YANG, JANG, LEE Seung-chul Get armed and come with me What's going on? There's an order to plant mines on the defense line Shit, that's right under their noses So what? I have to go there? I'm going, too Yong-man is out Jin-tae is going, instead Rest of you get back to what you were doing Yes, sir! - Damn, I always get the shit - Jin-tae! - Jin-tae! - Hurry up! Those commies will take over anytime They slaughter the families of soldiers and cops That's why we've got to win this war! If we lose, the commies will kill us all! Win to live Win how? Eating mud? Get back to work! Aimed fire! Hide yourselves quick! - Get down! - Seung-chul! Don't move! Be careful of the land mine Seung-chul! Yang and I will go get him! Cover us! Seung-chul, hang on hang on there! I'll be there soon so don't move! crazy bastards, don't shoot don't shoot! the kid's gonna die! we have to go quick! Let's go! Where's private LEE you bastard! I don't know sergeant - Jin-tae! - Only a few left Let's finish them! Jin-tae! No, retreat! Now! Jin-tae! are you out of your mind? Hey! LEE Jin-tae Quick, you bastard He was shot in the stomach and on his leg Hold on - Hurry up! - Hold him tight! Hold tight, you bastard Take it easy Seung-chul! We must take him to the hospital Hey, you bastard! There's no way to carry him out! Sew him up right now! - Hurry up - Sew him up! - What should I do with this? - Hold on, bastard! You okay? LEE Jin-tae I'll kill you if you do that again I mean it One more minute he would have died Got it? Why the hell did you go for that mission? Tell me You weren't on the list but you volunteered for it Why is that? I don't understand why you did that Just forget it What if it was you laying there with your guts open! Promise me you won't do that again Promise! Alright All I need is just water Why the hell are they playing that music? They know we're isolated They're gonna drive us crazy Remember the ice cream? It was so good Back home, you can eat it till your teeth go numb I wonder what mom and Young-shin are doing... I bet... Mom is really worried about us Uncle would be taking good care of them I miss them all Young-guk, Young-ja Young-min... I should've... set the dog free - Seung-chul - What's wrong? Okay there? Make him lie down Uncle Yang... my stomach hurts Don't worry You'll be okay Where's my leg? You call yourself doctor? Don't see the maggots? What are you good for? Food? Why no more? Damn! It's about time! Give us more! Stop, you bastards! My ears are exploding! Are you gonna make us go through hell? You want to give up Nak-dong River? Seung-chul! Seung-chul Put it down Seung-chul Why couldn't you wait just a little longer? Dismiss - Go back to the trench - Shit! We're going to die here like dogs? Starve to death or shot to death Who says we're gonna die? They haven't given us food or water for days! We'll die an honorable death Soldiers are human, too! What's the honor when starving to death? - Shut up! - You crazy bastard You'd go to them for a piece of bread It's better than starving to death Okay then, go on! Go join the commies I'll kill you before you get there Surrendering is better than starving to death like animals! Who gives a shit who wins! Is that ideology important enough to kill each other over? You finished? This is totally different from our fight against Japan! You damn communist! Fuck, give back your badge! you crazy fuck! Stop it, son of a bitch - Let go, let go! - You son of a bitch! Stop it, son of a bitch Okay, let's die, you bastard today, okay? We're gonna die anyway - Die, fucking bastard! - Take it easy! The communists slaughtered - his entire family - I didn't do it! This ain't circus! Go back to the bunker! This is it? Let's attack them We're so weak we can - barely lift our guns - One more day and we'll be eating corpses Or surrender to the commies They wouldn't expect us to attack them We've got nothing to lose haven't we? Let's go in and wipe them out I will fight! I will, too! I will follow too - I will go too - I will go along - I will go - Hey, count me in - I'll go too - Me too One mistake can - kill us all - Let's go and kill 'em all! Sir! I don't understand why I'm out of the mission You're not qualified I am! Let me join them! - I have to be with my brother - It's too late I'm begging you, I want to fight with others Your brother begged me to sit you out and now you wanna go? What are you risking your life for? - You need a medal, too? - What medal, sir? Attack! Attack! Fucking bastard! Fuck, kill 'em all! Die all of you... die! Please... don't kill me I'm only 15 I just got drafted Please don't kill me Please... Die... Die! Watch out! They are coming from side! Jin-tae, where are you going? Come back, Jin-tae! Jin-tae! I said come back! Jin-tae! Jin-tae! Jin-tae! Son of a bitch! If they take this bunker we are finished, Got it? Yes, sir! You fucking babies How dare you betray us like that? Hurry up! You are lucky to be alive Jin... tae! Jin-tae! - Jin-tae! - Jin-seok! Are you okay? Good Let's go get some water Jin-tae... Why do you volunteer for every single risky mission? For a Medal... To send me home? What the hell are you doing? You think you're bulletproof? Every second I see someone killed! Are you mad? Suppose you get the medal! I'd be happy to go home with leaving you dead? How could I look at mom and Young-shin? You're still young and ill But I'm a soldier now Don't ask them to sit me out again You and I should be together We live and die together Ifyou do this again I wont' forgive you Don't get me wrong Already 15 dead from our unit alone but no one knows who's gonna die next... If I can live staying behind I will stay behind - Please understand me - No way! You want me to watch you die? I won't die, until I get you back home safely - Let's go - Jin-tae! You know I want both of us to live But if only one gets to go I want it to be you You alright? You all did a great job! Besides our victory there is one more good news! The U.S marines made a successful landing at Incheon We'll push in as they make the 2nd attack into Incheon Your bravery exemplifies the men of this battalion Raise this flag on Mt. Baekdu by the Chinese border Yes, sir! Seoul, September 1950 Mr LEE, Could you look at the camera when you are taking the picture? Mr LEE, Could you look at the camera when you are taking the picture? Why were two brothers from the same family in the same battle? We had no other choice but to volunteer the army in order to protect our country from danger We heard you did a great job at Nak-dong river Any other motivation for fighting so bravely? My only motivation as a soldier is to fight to prevent my family from suffering under the oppression of the communists! Jin-tae! I'm going to send a letter home Tell me what you wanna write We have to send it with a local Do I have to do it now? - Sergeant LEE - Yeah! Let's do it later I have to go to the reception We've got to ask one of the people on the street! - Sergeant LEE - Yeah! You write something for me See you later! Jin-tae! What is this? Are you kidding me? Give me some eggs! Give me the eggs Behave yourself! Come on YANG! Come on, an egg! Is there anyone from in Manri-dong? Who lives in Manri-dong? I don't remember the last time I ate like this! Nothing but vegetables! Where's my egg? So, do you like it? You know, Jin-tae is really going to be on TV? You saw him with the American officers and the cameras flashing That's Sergeant LEE as of today And he's squad leader of the 1 st He was talking well 'For the families oppressed by the reds... ' A hero is born You envy him? Then kill the communists! He sure does have a face for TV My gosh, this guy doesn't know anything What do you know about photogenic? That kind of face is good for nothing practical He's nothing compared to this Damn, what a knock out! How did you get a wife like this! I told you to look at my son, not my wife I saw you looking at her breasts! Give it to me My son'll be a General like MacArthur someday I also have a wife in the North - MacArthur! - When'll this damn war be over? I thought it'd last only a week When you go home you go back to school It'll be soon, since the U.S has joined Yeah, right Your home is near here isn't it? If your mom's back in Seoul she'll be searching for you two Just one each! - Congratulations - Thank you Jin-seok! You know what this is? This is the chocolate you wanted so much Just tell me if you want more They will give me more any time I tell them Yes, I drank a little Don't worry You'll be home soon It's only a matter of days before I put this flag on Mt. Baekdu You should be sleeping It will get rough from tomorrow - Did you send the letter? - I asked someone I don't think they're back in Seoul It's getting cold at night You should go inside You felt like a stranger today I kept worrying I've been thinking about things There's one thing I want you to do Please forget about the medal It's not worth it You're the only brother I have... And we have to go back alive You know, right? I was so scared when dad died and mom couldn't speak anymore But you helped me get through it all Jin-tae The day after tomorrow You were supposed to get married to Young-shin I hope you think about Young-shin And all our family not only me Pyongyang, North Korea October 1950 He surely didn't get out yet You can't let him go! You must get him alive, got it? The commies are hitting back hard! Where's their captain? Shit, sons of bitches! - Cover me - What? Sergeant LEE! Jin-tae! A few more up there! I saw them! - Cover me - Too dangerous! - My brother's in danger - Sit down! Get down It's dangerous! Come with me Yong-man and KIM come with me! - What's going on? - The captain is escaping This isn't your business The 3rd platoon is here for that! The 3rd is waiting on the way out! This is an order! - Don't go - Come on! Sergeant LEE! Damn! Sergeant LEE! Sergeant LEE! Sergeant LEE! Stay still, don't move you son of a bitch Stay still, don't move! you son of a bitch! Yong-man - Don't move! - Shoot me Not now! You think I'm gonna say a thing? Get up! Yong-man, please wake up Yong-man! Am I gonna die? Yong-man Medic! Kill me now! Yong-man, don't give up! I won't let you go! Yong-man! you okay? - Yong-man, come on! - No, Yong-man! Yong-man! - Get up! - He is the captain! I got him! I got him alright! - Yong-man - Yong-man! - Come on! - Yong-man... GO Yong-man To position, salute Back to position We'll continue over to Aprok River near the Chinese border I hope every one of you get there safe and alive Let's leave What's wrong? The medal... who are you really doing this for? You love being a hero don't you? Promotions, parties interviews... Who knows? You might even be battalion commander, right? Keep this in mind Yong-man's son, Min-seok will grow up without a father And bear a grudge against you forever - Stop it - If you'd listened to me back there! He wouldn't be dead! Do you know why he died? Do you know what you were doing while he was dying? What good is the medal when people are dying for it! Not another word What the... This is Seagull One The communists have slaughtered all the villagers Roger Report to headquarters Let's take care of the bodies This is Seagull One We will take off after recovering the bodies at Dongjin, Over! Help me Please find my mom Please find my mom - Don't cry, I will help you - Help me Medic! Medic! They even left traps! Don't let even one of those bastards live! Get up, you communist bastard Son of a bitch! Die! You dirty pawn of American imperialism! Please, don't kill me Fuck, son of a bitch Get up, you fucks! Go on and sit down! I surrender - Hey, you! - I surrender - How many are in there? - There are five They'll come out, too Please don't kill us You killed them, right? No, they were dead when we came One more lie, you're dead, got it? You killed them? - Don't shoot! - Shut up! Don't lie to me! Oh, please! Yong-seok! Jin-seok! - What happened? - Jin-seok! I was forced to join the North Korean army or be killed Now it's okay don't cry Drink this Should I report? Jin-tae! Report that all the enemies were killed in battle - What are you talking about? - They'll be excess baggage This is Yong-seok! He was like your own brother! All I see now is a communist I am Yong-seok your friend! I know shoeshine boy Yong-seok but that's not you PFC LEE, move away! We're not communists He was forced to come here! You step back! - Did you kill them? - No! we didn't! Really! He says he didn't! - I don't believe a commie - They are animals! - Get out of the way! - Jin-seok! - Come out! - Let go! Don't kill me! Jin-tae Please don't kill me Jin-tae... Jin-tae Get your hands off! Kneel down! - You dirty pig! - Don't kill me Go ahead and I'll report that you kill unarmed soldiers We're no better than the commies killing civilians! You are all crazy! They're hostages! You saw what they did! They're animals! If we kill them we are animals, too It was them who started the war! We're the same No better, no worse! Okay, kill them Shoot! What are you waiting for? Shoot! Shoot, shoot! Go on and shoot! Today's your lucky day! Get up! go, you bastards Hye-San-Jin, far northern Korea November 1950 Yong-seok Jin-seok! Take it Boys! Have some - Are you okay? - I feel fine Take your time I filed a report about you with the regimental office Thanks a lot Jin-tae is... not who he was He's so changed Just before I left, I met your mom and Young-shin Really? How are they? When did they come back home? Just after you were drafted She wanted to be home in case you came back She asked people about you Whenever she saw me she cried I reminded her of you two And the noodle stand? Frankly... she isn't well What's wrong? Is it serious? I don't know exactly... but she couldn't move well Young-shin was having a hard time, caring for everyone The commies wouldn't let her run the stand She attends rallies all day long It's the only way to get food Don't worry, though Things may be getting better I miss the noodles your mom cooks The loser doesn't eat for two days! Do it right, bastards! - Won't you do it right? - Kill him! kill him! Do it right, bastards! You want 5? You ain't hungry? You crazy bastard do it right! You see now? Like this! Like this! Think of him as South Korean pig Like this! Fight until one gets knocked out If not, I'll kill both of you You got it? You got it! Who's going to be the damn South Korean? You do it! You don't need to You don't have to It's you and me now - What the hell are you doing? - Isn't this a game? Fight, or you'll die of starvation - Stop it! - Come on Come on, son of a bitch! Come on! There you go that's the way We're not done yet! We fight until one of us can't get up! We fight until the end! - You are killing him - Let go! Anyone tries to stop me I'll kill you, too! Get up, or you'll starve to death! Come on! Fight or you're dead I said, fight, you pig! Bring it on! Bastard! Many of our brave soldiers sacrificed their lives for their country And the long awaited victory Is very close - Just stay still! - It hurts! I can't help it When the hell can we go home? And General MacArthur has ordered UN forces to advance to the north The victory is ours You all did a great job Reunification is right before us... Victory! What's going on over there? We're going home! home! Ok, let's kick some ass! It looks like the war may be over soon I wouldn't be so sure I heard Chinese will back the north That's just commie propaganda Uncle Yang what do you think? The Sunspot and Great Bear are losing energy now and... We will be home before the New Year You really sure this time? What the hell! Okay, I believe you Sergeant LEE Sergeant LEE Congratulations! He'll get the Medal of Honor! I expected it you would get it You got it for catching the captain alive The commander is really pleased - What is that medal of honor? - You idiot! Any time 'honor' is in the medal's name, it's good Tomorrow the commander will award it himself tomorrow Let's give him a big hand! Sergeant LEE, now you can be a soldier forever Jin-seok! Let's talk Make it short I'm on duty You can go home soon Then go back to school right away You missed a lot You're the one that needs to go home You're sick I'm not going home You'll do what I say - I don't want anything from you - Listen to me What's wrong with you? I worked my ass off for that medal! This is a great chance for us! For you, not for me Have you thought about what the medal means? I don't care I needed one to send you home That medal costs Yong-man's life! I won't go You have to go to college! What good is college now? I hate everything you stand for Don't tell me what to do Do you really mean that? I will make my own decisions Don't tell me what to do You really want either of us to die? Then, you go home instead! What did I risk my life for? I didn't ask you to! I want... you to go home alive I also want to go home y'know But you are our family's... dream and hope! I never regretted giving up school and shining shoes for you Mom happily broke her back for you Do you know our sacrifices? I know all Why am I the only one you think about? If you think about Young-shin and Yong-man, you couldn't have done it I don't care what you think as long as you can go home The command post will leave first Take the classified documents and burn the others Yes, sir! One more telegram Retreat to 2nd rendezvous point Date of Order 09:00 hours Regiments 12, 13 and 25 are already retreating US army is retreating, too How many Chinese reinforcements are coming? For Woon-san city alone at least 100,000 They'll fire on us any minute, sir Hurry, they're getting close Sergeant LEE what are you doing? What the hell! Everything was going so well People of Chosun fucking liberated We'll never get home before New Year! We're just gonna leave? How stupid! Shouldn't we die here? This is wrong! We should be fighting Stop bitching and hurry up! I wanted to believe your shit but look at this! Hey, make it fast! Get the jeep ready! How far are we gonna carry them? - Don't move! - Who the fuck are you? Get him! Oh fuck! Hold! - Sergeant Huh! - I'm alright, retreat Medic! Call the medic! Sergeant Huh! Bastards... Where's my arm? Stay back or I'll kill him! - Put the dagger away! - You come closer and I'll kill you! Kill them all! Don't come any closer Don't come any closer Hurry, just kill them! Don't come any closer Shoot him! Step back! Ifyou come closer this bastard is dead! No! Yong-seok, come on! Yong-seok! Yong-seok! Are you crazy? How could you... How could you do that to... You bastard! Stop this! Bring him back! You're a murderer! What the hell are you doing? You two knock it off! We're all gonna die! We've got to get out of here! How come... we're retreating without fighting? Jang-Dan, near the 38th parallel December 1950 Line up, line up! Line up, line up! Staff Sergeant LEE Jin-tae You're awarded the Medal of Honor for your actions in Pyongyang your remarkable bravery and actions at many battles and for going beyond the call of duty 'December1 st 1950 President RYEE Syng-man' Staff Sergeant Lee Jin-tae! Congratulations you've finally made it! Thank you! This should have been a formal occasion, Sorry to the 3rd rendezvous site to the 5th rendezvous point Be at your locations by 18:00 hours tomorrow All forces will be reorganized there Now you'll go to your assembly areas Dismiss See you at the next site - Sir, may I have a word with you? - Go ahead Sir, it's about my younger brother I'll make an official request with the division commander Thank you, sir I'm afraid we'll be pushed down to Seoul I'm afraid we're going further to the south, across Nakdong You know where Jin-seok is? He left a minute ago - By himself? - Yes He said he was going to see your mom She is sick - Get on quick! - Let's go! Mom! Mom! Jin-seok! Young-shin! Jin-seok... Thank God, You're alive This isn't a dream, is it? I'm on my way to reassemble I ran into Yong-seok He said mom is sick She's feeling much better now She's back at work How is Jin-tae? Why didn't he come? He's fine He's really busy right now That's good Mother is so worried Are you KIM Young-shin? Yes, I am but? Come with me You're under investigation For what? What? - What's this, who the hell are you? - Jin-seok! - Tell me what this is about - Step away! Stop! Stop right there! Shoot if you dare Put her on Put the son of a bitch on! Check if he's a communist Young-guk, go home! Don't follow me! Get off! - Young-shin, Young-shin! - Jin-seok, Jin-seok! What is this place? This is where we investigate commies like Young-shin! You're making a mistake We'll see about that Get in there! LEE Jung-ja, JUNG Kook-sup KIM Young-shin Get up! Aim! Don't even think about it Let's not hurt each other Get up, Young-shin Jin-tae... Where is Jin-seok? He was taken into the front building What's going on? They just said I was under investigation and took me here We're executing traitors according to the law I don't care what you're doing - I'm taking her - Then you're a commie, too! - I don't think so! - KIM Young-shin, 23 signed up for the communist party on June 23 We have her signature! I did it only for food I didn't know what it was! She worked for the communist party 35 times And participated in numerous communist rallies! We were starving I have to get food somehow! The South Korean government gave us nothing! Shut up! You step away - Don't be stupid - You're dead, too Touch her you're all dead! This is the last warning Step aside Don't move! Or you won't walk out of here in piece Do you know what you are doing? I'm stopping you from killing innocent people Get her out of here! You wanna save a whore? She was with every single North Korean officer! Shut your damn mouth before I'll blow it off! That's why she isn't fleeing - That's not true - Don't pretend you don't know - It's no use denying it - No, that's a lie - Go now! - Last warning If you take her out of here you two are commies too No, Jin-tae Jin-tae, believe me Get the hell out of here! Bring them out and go! - Now! - Stop right there! Young-shin! Young-shin, hold on! Hold on, Young-shin! You... still have the handkerchief You don't know... how much I missed you I... didn't do anything shameful, Believe me Nothing, Jin-tae Young-shin! I can't die now... How can I die now? Our young brothers... people... Jin-tae... Young-shin! Young-shin... Young-shin! Young-shin! Why did you question her? You know you killed her you killed her, you... You killed her you murderer... You shot members of the Anti-communist Federation? The Medal of honor doesn't give you the right to shoot anyone How can we fight this war with screw ups like you? What happen to contact with the headquarters? I'm still trying, sir How can we hold out for Send my brother home! My former commander promised to What kind of bullshit is this? You earn a damn medal and your brother is discharged? You only have to report it I don't believe this! I don't give a shit what he promised you! You think this is a business deal or something? He started it How dare you talk back? Think of what you've done! Lock him up! What a waste of Medals! Urgent message from the 1 st company! Put him in the cell! I don't give a shit about the order. Just retreat! I'll take responsibility All companies, retreat! God damn! - Open the cell - You're crazy! Give the order! Those commies will kill you first I only want my brother out Not until we finish examining your heads first Give the order, Now! One more thing... the hostages... Burn them! - Change that order! - Put the gun away - I said, change the order! - This is an order, Remove the gun! Change the order! Burn the warehouse down it's an order! Medic! Medic! Open the door! Jin-seok... Jin-seok... Let go, you bastards I'm the chief Military Hospital, Tae-Jeon South Korea, July 1951 Jin-seok! You look well Thanks, You saved my life I thought I was dead in that cell I did too when you got shot as we were coming out Someone up there likes you - When do you get out of here? - Next week How nice to be discharged! I bet your mom needs your help This damn war should be over The battle around the 38th parallel is still bloody Everyday so many lives are lost but we can't take any ground I bought them on my way Thank you again And... your brother sent... This letter home... but it was returned to the camp You keep this I doubt he retreated then I've searched everywhere, but... I don't want to know - I don't care - PFC Lee Jin-seok! You're wanted in the counseling room Thank you Our decorated hero turned into a communist It's a serious problem for us and a good propaganda tool for them At first we didn't believe it But his fiancee was executed as a communist That must have affected him He doesn't know what communism or democracy is Then how come he turned into a communist! He wouldn't have done this If he thought of his family I suppose there must be a reason You, too are a suspect, unless you give us a good explanation I don't care about Jin-tae The Jin-tae I knew was just an innocent shoeshine boy... who loved his family especially his brother The one who's got the medal and leads 'Flag unit'... He is not my brother What happened to Jin-tae? I was questioned, too You had lunch? How can you eat right now? Unthinkable! We expected him to become a captive, but how can he become a communist? After seeing his fiancee shot to death and then... He must have thought that you were killed in the fire He loved you so much I don't care about him He's crazy about medals they must have offered him a good post! Maybe the damn commies Offered him a better post! You see? Dear Mother I miss you every day Please stay well until we get back And don't worry about Jin-seok I will definitely keep Jin-seok safe War is tough but Jin-seok is doing fine, don't worry Please say hello to Young-shin When I'm back home I'll make you happier I promise Be careful in this cold weather It's very cold Take care of yourself, mom All these patients came from the battle near the 38th parallel Your are crazy to go back there How can you be sure that you'll even find him? You'll be discharged in a week Think about your mom! Please listen to me, Jin-seok! See you soon You've to take care of Young-shin's brother and sisters! Jin-seok! PFC LEE Jin-seok! Take care, you bastard! We attack up the middle of hills Then battalions 1 and 2 flank the hills from both directions As I said before in this strategy We have to take out 'Flag unit' at all costs! Don't forget we've moved the operation up 1 day A question? When will PFC Lee join the mission? He'll sit this one out Since the Americans moved the attack up 24 hours there's no time He'll speak over the microphone - Sir! - What is it? I'm LEE Jin-tae's brother It's an honor to meet the brother of the traitor! Unless he sees me, he won't believe it's me I have to go We start the attack in an hour There's not enough time If he sees I am alive he'll come back for sure! - Please let me go - Out of the question! Sir, please! Answer me one question Is this for your country or your brother? Just read the script over the speaker No enemy movements detected, sir! F-86 Sabres are standing by Artillery units are standing by - Loyalty! - Loyalty! - Where is the script? - It's not been delivered yet We thought the Headquarters would give it to us Wait a moment Check personal arms, a dagger grenades, extra magazines - To position! - To position! - One, two, four, eight, six - one, two, four... move military power K-9 Osan first arrival formation landing begun Military power and all present stationing complete Sir, PFC Lee is running toward the enemy unit - What's going on? - He just surrendered What? Surrendered? If you lie, you're dead Why are you here? I came here to see my brother The leader of 'Flag unit' - What! - Please let me see him I'll kill you if you're lying Check it out A yellow dog is here saying he's the brother of mother owl Confirm - Let me talk to him! - Confirm - He doesn't know I'm alive! - Shut up! Negative Says his brother is dead Please, let me talk! Jin-tae, it's me Jin-seok! You're a damn spy What's your mission? Spit it out before I blow your head off! Let me talk to him He'll know it's me Stop screwing with me! - I'm begging you! - What are you here for! - Oh, please! - Speak up! - I'm begging you - Sir! We've got an order to bring him to the security unit Get him out of here! Dearfellow North Korean citizens despite months of struggle our army is stil holding on strong - How far away is 'Flag unit'? - Ask the security! Reckless behavior will only bring death Alert! Air attack! Alert! Air attack! - Hurry up, let's go! - You're Goddamn crazy! Where is 'Flag unit'? Fix bayonet! Fix bayonet! Where the hell are you going? He's a dog from the south! It's 'Flag unit'! I'm gonna kill you, you crybaby Kill 'em all! Kill 'em! Son of a bitch! Jin-tae! You southern bastard... - Die! - It's Jin-seok, Snap out of it! Bro! I'm Jin-seok! - Wake up! - I'll kill you all Jin-tae! Jin-tae, please! Please, brother! Jin-tae! Sons of bitches! You South Korean piece of shit! - Jin-tae, please! - State guard bastards! Please come to your senses! Look at me, I am Jin-seok your only brother! - Die! - I am your brother! Die, all you pieces of shit! - Retreat! - Bastards Retreat! State guard bastards... Jin-tae, get up! You have to come with me! Let's go, we have no time! Bro, get up! We have to go! We have to go now! We have to get out of here Please, get up! Don't you think of mom? You have to take care of Young-shin's grave! You promised many things! You can't die here! You have to live to see me go to college, come on! - Jin-seok? - Jin-tae! You're really alive Go! No, Jin-tae! I won't go alone - Just go - No way! - Get up and come with me - Listen I will surrender and come home after the war I was making shoes I'd give to you when you go to college I haven't finished them so I won't die, Hurry! - I won't! - I am okay - Do as I told you, go! - I wont' go without you - Go! - Let's go, we must go together Then both of us will die - No! - Listen to me! Look at me, Believe me I found this after the fire Give it to me... when we meet again You have to come back... You have to come back! You promised... to come back and finish the shoes... But what are you doing here? I've waited for so long! What happened to your promise? Say something! Please say something... I've been waiting to see for 50 years! Please say something I shouldn't have left you alone back then! Jin-tae... Jin-tae! Jin-seok! Jin-seok! Jin-seok Let's go to get some water Let's go to get some water Let's go to get some water Go! How have you been? We are going back to school, y'know - School? - I can't wait to go to school - How about you? - Me too, of course
