 

                        Time was apart the wind to fly away and I caught on him butter why to stay oh why to stay but he be gone for all that I could say for all that I could say that he be gone for all that I could say for all that I could say ...time. I believe in, believe in, believe in... love... And with your eyelids closed continue to look upward... Now take a deep breath and hold it... Hold, hold, ready, three, exhale... let your eyes relax and let your body float. Imagine yourself floating, floating down, right through the chair. As you concentrate on the floating... i'm going to concentrate on your left arm and hand. Your left hand will lift upward, your left elbow bend... your left forearm float into an upright position. Sometimes you may get a feeling of a magnetic pole on the back of your hand. Now your hand in this upright position becomes for you a signal... to enter a state of meditation. Are you for your body or are you not? Are you for living or are you not? Now of course if you're not for living keep on smoking... arrange for a cremation and end it all in smoke. But if the idea of living is still exciting... concentrate on this feeling of floating and at the same time listen to these three critical points. For you body smoking is a poison. You need your body to live. And you owe your body this repsect and protection. Then reflect on what this means to you in a private sense, and bring yourself out of this state of concentration this way: Roll up your eyes and do it now and at one just let your eyes open slowly. And when they're back in focus, slowly make a fist with the hand that's up And as you open your fist slowly... your usual sensation and control returns you let it float down. Now suppose one or two hours have passed... and you want to do the exercise but you don't have privacy. Here's the way you camoflage the method, you make two changes: First you close your eyelids then roll your eyes up... so that the eyeroll is private. Second, instead of your hand coming up like this, let it come up like this. With a smile on you face, and a heart to embrace, everybody needs happiness, everybody needs love. With a hope and a sigh, and a tear in your eye, everybody needs happiness, everybody needs love. Give love with all your heart... -and it all comes... -Thank you, next. I would like you all to know that i'm also an acrobat. I h... I hear the cotton woods whispering... Thank you, next. I wanna see the fields of gold and green,, I wanna see the things i've never seen... What's your name? -Arlene Baker. -Jeannie Tyne Arlene Baker. Jeannie Tyne. Jeannie Tyne. -How old are you? Would you go over there please. Hello. This is Lynn Tyne, Jeannie Tyne's mother. I'm sorry to bother you, have you heard from the girls? Well Jeannie and Corinna were supposed to go to the city today. No you're wrong Mrs Tyne. Corinna hasn't been to the city today. I don't understand. Mrs Divito could I speak to Corinna please? Well it's just that I... I thought that maybe she didn't tell you that she went to the city or... maybe Jeannie said something to her and... No I don't think so, no i'm sure, no no, she didn't. Thank you. - You talk to Jeannie Tyne today? - No. Erica Enright, Bonnie Marcus, Jessica Harper. You should see the girls in the bathroom. They're all throwing up. They had coke, they're so nervous. They're all throwing up in the bathroom. Are you here to audition? So am I. Are you professional? - No, are you? - I can't even sing very well. Salty... Salty rain... Oh God damn... Oh God damn... I think i'm i'm crying. Oh God no i'm crying again. And i'm losing ground, I must pay the cost, as the wheel goes round happiness is lost. I can't raise my hand coz it hurts so bad, and when I tread on the times i've had. Here I stand just waiting and waiting, here I stand just waiting Here I stand just waiting and waiting, here I stand just waiting But if you should go, I just want you to know... I'm sorry. Can I come back? Next please. The party's ending, the night is landing I start to shine on you and me. Here in the starlight please don't say goodnight -until we make our -memory- a melancholy baby. -Let's get a little -sentimental, -let's start holding -hands -let's start making -plans. -Think what we're missing, -when we're not kissing, -Let's get a little -sentimental, -turn the lights down -low, -troubles -come and go. But while we're together, -we can live -forever... -There's time for sorrow, -maybe tomorrow -but now it's time to hold me -tight. And while i'm dreaming, -forgive me scheming -To win your love, haven't I the -right... to fall in love tonight? So... -Let's get a little -sentimental, -let's start holding -hands, -let's start making -plans... But while we're together... Sorry. What's the words? Let's get a little sentimental... Lynn... Why do you think she ran away? I'm not saying she ran away. I'm just speaking generally. Did you check her room? Whose on the line please? Is it a wrong number? I can hear somebody breathing. Still breathing. Can you? speak freely? Just answer "yes" or "no". They hung up. I was born into a world full of angels and kings And there was someplace to grow and someone to be. And even in the darkest of storms you knew that the sun was still there and even the horses had wings. It was that special kind of world with its heart set on laughter, and a star was meant to be touched and a dream to be after. And at the end of each day was the wonder of each night and even the horses had wings. That was the world, that I knew as a child. And it can't be me that's changed, it's got to be the world. And somehow we can mend it, we can make it like it was, we can make it like it was before, when even the horses had wings. - Does she smoke? - No. - Does she smoke a lot? - No, not at all! I'm dying in a world, that will die before death, because angels don't exist and kings never laugh. And i'm afraid i've forgotten I believe, that there really was a world, where even the horses had wings. Didn't you ever fit her for a diaphragm? No she's just a baby. I thought she had one and it was missing... You know what I mean? Alone now and there was something I meant to do, but it's been so long ago I really can't remember what it was. Horses? You can't sing well? Neither can I. I sing so flat. I'm awful. But when I take this mighty Quinn, I sing so good. I sing so beautiful. What's Mighty Quinn? Acid. When I take it... It's good stuff. Do you sing well? No. Do you want one? Long term physical effects, are not yet known, so i'm gonna have another drag and just get stoned. - No you can't! - It's all over. It's over, I hear it. It's not over. I know but I sing so... ... the more I watch the movie. The long term physical effects, are not yet known... Short term physical effects are so groovy... Short term physical effects are so groovy... Larry, please! You know what the chances are I... go out in the middle of the night and find her... just wandering around in the streets? I don't know where to start. It's a million to one. Am I right? It's a million to one shot. I just can't have it on my conciensce that we're just sitting here doing nothing! What if she's out there and she needs us? We can't just sit here. You just have to... But the point is 'out where'? Where am I going to look? Do something! Do anything! You can fuck the lillies and the roses too, You can fuck the maidens who swear they've never been screwed. You can fuck the Russians, and the English too, You can fuck the Germans, and every pushy Jew. Fucks the queens, fuck the kings, fuck the boys with the very small tings. Fuck the birds, fuck the pigs, fuck everything with a thorny twig. Who can fuck the astros, and our nurses in white, you should fuck the uglies, just... to be kind and polite. You can fuck the moon, and June and the sea, But before you fuck them first... you must fuck me. Christ, your her father! Can't you just get up and go out, is it too much to ask? What are you gonna do? What are you gonna do if I go out there? What happens if you get a phoncall? I can answer the phone! - Do you have a picture of her? - Yes. Can I see it. This is one I always carry, it's the one in my wallet. That's four years old. You're kidding! That's too big. It's too heavy. You know what I mean, I can't carry that. Yes I can. Lynn, we're at the station now. - Here are four pices sir. - Thank you very much. They don't know anything. They've checked the hospitals... there have been no accidents, nobody's been arrested. I don't know, they've given us the name of some places... where the kids hang out in town, we're gonna go look at them. - What do you want? - Scotch. - Scotch. Two. I'm sorry to have dragged Tony into this. That's alright. He has to get up early in the morning doesn't he? That's alright. He doesn't sleep anyway. I see the house, it's very quiet You mean tonight, before you came over here? Yes. - And before that? - This morning. And before that? Last night was bowling... But in the morning... twice. Twice? He's crazy. I can't even get undressed and he goes... I was doing the dishes the other night and I took off my blouse... so I wouldn't ruin it. He came in... In the kitchen? He's an animal. Do you wanna know what happened? He woke me up in the middle of the night, told me to get out of bed and he wanted me to... What? To sing. To sing? Sing. I got out of bed... and I sang. And he said: "Sing louder" and I said: "What about the neighbours?" "Sing louder" so I sang louder and he wanted me to dance so I danced. And then? - What did you sing? - It's really stupid. Please tell me. - I'm embarrassed it's so ridiculous. - Don't be embarrassed, what? - Smoking is a poison for my body. - That's very good. Now two: I need my body to live. I need my body to live. - Yes, now... No tell me, tell me! I owe my body this respect and protection. Roll down you eyes then open them. Like a fist, tight tight fist! I came down dah wid my hat pulled in, doo dah doo dah... I go back home wid a pocket full of tin, Oh, doo-dah day! Gonna run all night, Gonna run all day. I bet my money on de bob-tail nag, somebody bet on de bay. I think we should get some fresh air before we go home. I think they're here. Yes? Yes. Yes this is Dr Bronson. Yes. Who am I speaking with please? Oh Mrs Tyne! Alright hang on, i'll be right back. Jeannie, momma knows that you took something. Honey I have to know what it is. Did you take something with a needle? Did you smoke something? Did you take a pill? Ask her if she sniffed something, I read they sniff it. Did you, did you sniff something? Honey, momma not gonna be mad at you... I just have to know what it is, it's very important. I don't mean to nag at you but... if I don't ask you, you're not gonna tell me anything. You won't tell me so I have to ask you. She's alright, she came home by herself. Tell momma. You know Dr Bronson... He told me to ask you what you'd taken. and then he'll tell me what to do. She's alright, she's on something but she's gonna tell me what it is. Jeannie it's very important that you tell momma what you've taken. What's the matter with you? Are you out of your mind? - You are drunk! - What do you mean she's on something? What kind of a father are you? What do you mean i'm drunk? Because she's on something, i'm drunk and i'm going to hit her! You went out to look for her and you got drunk. Did we find her? Come on Jeannie out! Come on out, out, out. Does she know what a great father she has? Do you know how many times i've tried to give up smoking? Tell them Margo. - Tell them! - Eleven! Doctor Bronson! She never told me what she took! You talk to Doctor Bronson. Hello. Hello. That's strange, he doesn't answer but I hear breathing. Jeannie! Hello. Yes this is she. Yes. Yes. Yes, my daughter is... What? Miss? Could you do me a favour? If you could look at that picture and tell me if you've seen that girl. It's my daughter. No, not her Maybe you could hang onto it and if you do recognise her... It's got my phone number... Could I look at those pictures? Thank you. Miss... Yes? Take a look at that. Look over there, in the booth. See the girl? It's this girl. - It's the girl in the picture. - I don't know. No that's not my business. Leave me alone. Look at the picture and look at the girl, it's the same... - No, I don't know. - What do you keep... What's all this? What if my...? No. Is Mr or Mrs Lockston...? Mrs Lockston? Mrs Lockston, do you have a missing daughter? Tyne, Larry Tyne. It doesn't matter Mrs Lockston, you don't know me. I think I found your daughter. She's in a luncheonette... What? No, I saw her picture in a luncheonette... Yes i'm sure it's her. Her picture's in a luncheonette and she's sitting right here. What? I don't know, wait a minute i'll find out. What's the address here? I don't know. I don't wanna tell you nothing It's on first avenue, between 6th and 7th. It's just a little lunch counter. Yes of course i'm sure it's her. I'll wait, yes right here. Miss, can I have a cup of coffee please. Excuse me, can I talk to you for just a second? Let me ask you a question. Hey creep, what are you bothering my chick for? I'm not bothering her, I just want to ask her a question. Your bothering her. What are you doing off your stall? Sit down and take care of what you gotta take care of. -I'm not bothering anybody, it... - So what are you doing with her? It so happens this girl's a missing person. Where'd you get my picture from? - Nancy Lockston. She's missing from... - You a detective? You carry a gun? - No, I happen to be a father. - Her father? - No. Then what are you worried about? She's not your kid, she's with me. I got her, they want her, they can't have her, she's mine. Wherever she is, goodbye. Oh lessons in love are free say you, Yeah lessons in love are free. And he took me by the hand, he showed me where to stand he said: Lessons in love are free . Oh bother, do you bother, you're blowing my mind, you tell me that we are one, but how can I be you when I got myself to do, he said: Be me and you'll be my son. Nancy! Nancy, come back here! Lady you didn't pay! Nancy, will you stop! Lady! - In here! - What? She went in one of these places, I called you, i'm Mr Tyne. Oh thank you. To je hrza! J u nemu. I'm terribly sorry. Please don't you be sorry. My goodness it was so sweet of you to help me. I don't know how you find anyone in this city. I know... It was so kind of you to call me. How long have you been a member? - I beg your pardon? - You are a member aren't you? - Of what? - You're not a member of SPFC. I don't know what that is. It's the Society for the Parents of Fugitive Children. You've heard of it haven't you? I don't know. It's very well known. It's been in all the newspapers. We had an article in Time magazine. Didn't you read about it? I think I read... you know there's been no reason for... me to pay any attention to anything like that until now. - How long has she been gone Mr Tyne? - Larry. About a week. - What about your girl? - Mine's been gone for 7 months. I don't feel any responsibilty for it. I'll tell you what my philosophy is: I think that everything that happens to us in life is... it's just another life experience and we should get everything out of it we can. It's a life experience. You know what I mean? It's a marvellous philosophy. You know, you could... could find that this experience could be a very profound one for you and your... You are married aren't you? You're not divorced or widowed or anything like that? No. Well Ben and I, Ben, that's my husband... we found since Nancy's been gone... just in looking for her it's brought us closer together. Really our relationship is closer... more profound. Maybe you and I can look some more, together... for your girl? - Not up on those roofs? - No no, I mean on the street. Oh yeah, that would be very nice. I'd like that. - Good. Let me make one short phoencall, ok? - Alright. Lynn, don't get excited... I have not found her but I have found someone who's seen her and she... She's arrested. She's arrested for shoplifting. She's in jail. She's 300 miles away. We have to bring her home. She's in upstate New York. We have to gp and bring her home. It's Sunday, as it was a week ago. Seven days eternity. People living, I want to live too, But it is Sunday... What did she steal? A Japanese portable television set. Sony? Mitsubishi. - Mr & Mrs Tyne? - Yes. Where is she? - What? - I said where is she. - Where's who? - Where's our daughter. -She's sitting right over there in the bench. -No no that's Corrina Divito. No, this is Jeannie Tyne. - Now wait a minute. Your Mr & Mrs Tyne? - Yes, of course but... - What's your name? - Corrina Divito. Please Mrs D.. Mrs Tyne! Go ahead, what's your name? Give me a couple of minutes. Thank you very much. - What happened? - I don't know. This girl is not your daughter. She now maintains her name is Corrina Divito. She says she know nothing of your daughter's wherebaouts and used her name as an alias at the time of apprehension to... For fear of parental disapproval. I'm sorry this had to happen, but... If you'd like some coffee? When that call came from the policeman, and he asid Jeannie was arrested for shoplifting, it was so awful. Anything but that, anything! And then when we went there, and we saw that little girl sitting in the chair, I wished it had been Jeannie. Look Lynn, there's nothing wrong with her. She's not under arrest, she hasn't had an accident. She's off somewhere having a terrific time with her friends... she's having fun while we're breaking our necks running around and... driving from place to place like a couple of maniacs. If we were smart, we'd be having as much fun as she is! That's what we ought to do, go somewhere and have some fun! - I'd like another gin gimlet on the rocks. - No no no, wait a minute! - Another gin gimlet on the rocks. - Hang on a minute, we've had enough. - But you're the one that said... - Just the cheque please. - No, just a second... - Just the cheque, that's all ok. We've had a good time but we've got 4 hours drive back to New York. - Are you tired? - I am tired. - Are you very very tired? - Yes i'm very very tired. Well why don't we stay the night? I'd like that gin gimlet now... on the rocks. Honey don't take the keys. Sit here. Come on, let's go to sleep. Oh, I wanna dance! I'm tired. I can't do that kind of dancing. - Yes you can. - Oh cone on! Well let's just watch them. Or we could just look at each other. - Ok. - Look at me. - Ok. - You're not looking at me. - I am looking at you. - You're not seeing me! - Of course i'm seeing you. What am I doing? What am I doing? Well look i'm gonna go to bed. If you wanna come on, come on, if you wanna stay here, stay. - Is somebody sitting here? - No. - Somebody was sitting here? - Yes. Are they coming back? No. My name's Norman. - This is my friend Schuyler. - What? My name is Schuyler. - That's a funny name. - Yeah, he's a funny guy. - What's your name? - Lynn. - What are you drinking Lynn? - Gin gimlet on the rocks. - Gin... what? - Gin gimlet on the rocks. Gin gimlet, alright. -You didn't look funny to me. -He's got some funny stories, he cracks me up. You could take him to a funeral, you'd be on the floor laughing. Tell her that... you know, that one about Bob. It's the funniest story I ever heard in my life. But this is not a joke, this is a real story. It's a story, it's a joke. If you tell something terrible very funny... people are gonna laugh, don't you understand that? -Gentlemen, it's been very nice. -You gotta go to the little girl's room? - Very nice meeting you Schuyler. - You coming back? Lynn? What are you looking? Go after her, she wants you. - She doesn't want me. - Do you want her? - No. - Can I go after her? - If you want to. If I want to! What am I up here for, to play ping-pong? Don't turn on the light. It's me Schuyler, you know... the funny guy from the bar. I'll be with you in a second. I'll be right there. Camptown races sing the song... Camptown races five miles long... Gwine to run all night!, Gwine to run all day. I bet my money on de bob-tail nag, somebody bet on de bay. - Do you have anything you'd like to add? - Yes I do. We have with us this evening Miss Ellen Lubar. She is seated right over there. Now Miss Lubar has been away from home for six months. She may have seen your child or children as the case may be, and she will be very happy to answer your questions if you will... form a line and show her pictures of your child. You might be one of the lucky ones. and you might be able to locate your child through her. Yes, let us give her a good round of appause! - I think I know her. - This is my son. Honey, somebody's waving at us. Hey Ben, I want you to meet a friend of mine. She's coming over. You know, you remember that man I told you I met. Excuse me please. Hello, how are you? Momma? Momma? Is anybody home? Friends... - Ladies and gentlemen... - Annie come one, were starting. - See you later. - Nice seeing you. Friends, as you know, the purpose and the aim of our 'Society for the Parents of Fugitive Children' is not only to try to find those children, but to try and understand them. How many times have we found our children, only to lose them again? And perhaps the most difficult problem we now face lies in the fields of understanding the urges and pressures... that lead our children into the taking of drugs. And with us... please! Please ladies and gentlemen. With us tonight we have the eminant American psychologist Dr Besh, Dr. Bob Besh, whose book you probably know. Doctor Besh? Friends, everything I emphasised at dinner is all true... but really useless. For you to understand your youngster and what he's going through... you really have to have a similar experience. Friends, I propose that we conduct an experiment here this evening. As you know, or many of you I think know, i'm a lawyer and what i'm doing here now is illegal. However there are considerations that transcend the legalities of the situation, and that is the consideration of our children, about whom we're all deeply concerned. And that is why this marijuana, which I am told is particulary pure in form, and therefore perhaps particulary effective as to reaction. Is what I propose you indulge with here... with me. This is my first... indulgence. And perhaps this will aid us to understand hopefully, what it is that our children are involved in and perhaps why. To help with our experiment tonight... we're all fortunate to have one of my patients, Vincent Scarelli. Vince? Alright. This is a joint. The joint has two ends. It has one end which is rolled shut and another end which is open. Take the joint with the open end facing you firmly between between your thumb and index fingers, like this. You know what i'm saying? Then you take it and put it in your mouth, like this. Then you take out a match, you light it... you put it to the end and you inhale very deeply like... Like that. And as you inhale, curl up the edges of your mouth so that you let in alot of oxygen along with the smoke. It is very important to get a mixture of grass and oxygen. After you inhale do not exhale immediately, but inhale very far into your back and hold it in with your diaphragm for a count of ten. Potom And then exhale, preferably through your nose. You got that? Now the other thing you must remember is that after you inhale you take the joint and pass it to the person sitting next to you. Do not, repeat, do not hold onto the joint. This is called bogarting the joint and it is very rude. So you take it and you pass it to the person sitting next to you until the joint gets passed around and it's very very small. That is called a roach. - The remnant is a roach? - Yes. - Roach. And I will collect those. Now, are there any other questions before we light up? Yes, you said we should count to ten, how fast should we count? Just fast enough so that you don't pass out. How many years in prison does this represent? A man in Michigan was sentenced to For a person whose quit smoking... is it dangerous? Marijuana contains no nicotine. Any other questions? Yes. I think we all had drinks with dinner. The dope and the alcohol, mix? Oh they'll mix. Thank you. Alright everybody, now we're going to light up. Get your matches ready. Strike the match... We're waiting for you. Very good. Light the joint. Inhale. Pass the joint. - 8, 9... - Think of bogarting hands. Don't forget to curl your lips. Hey lady, don't cheat! - Who me? - Yeah you. - I have trouble with my windpipe. - Well just pass it along. - Do you feel anything? - No. It smells like stinkweed. Do you feel anything? And now, feel anything now? Nothing! Just relax everybody. Relax and just fly. Feel like a big bird. Breathing, all creatures are, brighter than that brightest star, you are, by far. You got inside of me, close as you can be. You kiss my blood, and the blood kills me. Relax, just breathe. That's all you have to do, just breathe. Let the rhythm take you and go with the music. Just fly away. Float, just float all the way up. Just feel your whole... dig your whole body just floating away. Gentlemen... - I think i'm beginning to feel something. - Well go on! Vibrations. It's like a strange fuzzy. See, isn't it beautiful? Beautiful Just do whatever you like, whatever you feel like doing. Whatever comes into your mind. And go with it, go with it all the way. Don't hold on. Relax and let it happen! Don't sit on it, just... Let it fly! What is it? Here it is! Don't think about it, just move with the moment. Take the impulse and move with it! You kiss my blood, and the blood kiss me. I don't feel anything. Oh what a beautiful house. Hey Ben, come here, look! No, that one over there. - Look at it here. - Yeah, looks very nice. - Look look! - Now look at it here. - Hey, that's the damnedest thing i've ever seen! Ain't that something? That's remarkable. That's what I mean by a work of art. Oh, they got a bottle collection! Cards, are we really gonna play? We are gonna play a hand of the duchess' fanny. But I don't know how to play that. It's very simple. We're not gonna play that, we're gonna play... - I don't know how to play anything. - You mean you don't know how to play poker? I never heard of anybody who didn't know how to play poker before. I don't wanna lose. I don't care what happens, if I don't lose it's ok. No, if I lose I quit. Well that's silly. I don't think this woman's got no backbone. I know but we're having her operated on. I wish I said that! We are gonna play... I wish you had to! We are gonna play, Texas one card showdown. - I never heard of it. - Everone takes one card and the low man is the loser. - Wait. - What? - I'm not ready. Ok, you ready now? - Are you ready? - I'm ready. - Oh she's ready ok. - You cut the cards Larry. You want to take the first? - I don't wanna be first. - Lynn? Anybody but me, you! Ok. I knew it, I knew I would lose. I don't wanna play, i'm gonna lose. Well, c'est la vie. - Ok! - Ok what? Come on, you gotta take something off. She's gotta take something off. Yeah, you have take something off. The rules of Texas one card showdown is that you have to take something off. - I did. - What did you take off? - My shoes. - Hey, she did! Look! - You gotta take off... - Hey those are beautiful shoes! - Thank you. - This is Texas one card showdown! - Throw them behind you. - That's Rhode Island showdown. They would lynch you in Texas. You're beautiful! - Bravo! - Again! Go ahead. - Who is it now? - Not me! Larry. Over! Again! Everybody clap along now! I want everybody to clap along! He's got the whold world in his hands... He's got all the lost children in his hands... I like this game! He's got you and me brother in his hands... He's got the whole world in his hands... My compliments to the chef. He's got you and me sister in his hands... He's got the whole world in his hands... He's got everybody in his hands... He's got the whole world in his hands...... It's me! You're gonna let me play this game? You got a dirty laugh lady. Oh come on, you can't sit like that. Seriously, several doctors have told me it's very bad for your spine. You're a bad man. Cheers! She's wonderful you know! - Come on, draw. - I can even reach for it. I didn't lose this time! Okay, oh see. He lost again. I don't know, he hasn't got anything to take off. He's naked! Okay Larry get up! You don't have anything to take off, right? I think that we should be going. Yeah I guess that means we better. Let's go Annie. Yeah Ok, I guess that means we better... - I guess we better be going. - Thank you... for taking us into your home here. Watch your trousers there. It was... thanks very much. Annie! It was really a terrific evening wasn't it Ben? - Are you ready? - Yes. Oh, I have to get... You know that marijuana's really amazing. The way it affected... I'm so high. Night. Don't you think we ought to talk to her? I just don't... I don't wanna argue. I don't wanna argue. Are you alright? We were worried about you. Where were you? Were you with a boy? You were with a boy weren't you? Do we know him? Don't you think we should get to know him? Don't you think we should meet him? You tell him that we would like to meet him and you invite him to dinner here. And if he's not a coward, he'll come. Do you understand? This is Jamie, this is my father. Come in. Hello Jamie. I'll get your mother. Come in, sit down. Lynn... There's nothing to worry about. Don't cry. So you're a... you're a musician huh? What do you play? He plays the organ and the bass and the piano. And he sings. Ah, Really? He writes his own music too. You make any money at it? How much? Last year I made $290,000. What did you say? $290,000, before taxes. It's a very funny thing. You see alot of things that a government are doing, it makes you kinda angry. So you write some songs about it. You try to reach as many people as you can. In the end you end up paying for those very same things that made you angry in the first place. I guess I accept contradictions. But I live on a very frugal budget. I'm saving up so I can buy an intercontinental ballistic missile. I think that we ought to change the balance of power a little bit. Maybe after dinner you'll sing something for us? - He didn't bring his instruments. - Well, he can use the piano. I really don't know. I'd like to hear something, I really would, i'm interested. I really don't know if I could, under the circumstances, get my rocks off. Take my hand, i'm a stranger in paradise, all lost in a wonderland, a stranger in paradise. If I stand starry eyed, there's a danger in paradise, for mortals like who stand beside, an angel like you. Feeling sore and I saw the world is spinning. Let us fight no more, carry with a tide. And i've been lost, find a new beginning, kill ourselves no more, were on our own side. And the world is happy, for we've joined along, we're alone no more, we're a part of their soul...
