 

                        "Heaven hath no rage like love turned to hatred, Nor Hell a fury, like a woman scorned". William Congreve - 1697 A tale about two girls Born the same day in the empire. One in the palace, the other on the desolate Isle of Sorrow. One named Tanis. Her mother was the Queen of Abelar. The other called Kara. Her mother was a vampire demon. Tanis was born a Princess with privilege. Kara was orphaned and became a servant slave. Different mothers, but sired the same father. Therein lies the tragic seed of these 24 tales. Two girls on a dark quest. Haunted by visions of their destiny. Struggling to control urges. A child of light... A creature of darkness... This tale begins with Tanis' dark vision of the near future. So, where is this renowned father? Will father show his face to you, sir? A shallow womanizer fashions himself a dashing wit. Perhaps he cannot hear your whimpering, sir. Pathetic palter. "Tales Of An Ancient Empire" First Tale "Resurrection Of Sin" Three Weeks Earlier Isle Of Sorrow off the coast of Abelar Very quick. Move. Some other dog beat us to the treasure. Hear that? No, please. Mercy. I will serve you. Abelar, does it still exist? Abelar? Ah, yes. Ruled by a queen, Eldoria. She has passed on. Her eldest... eldest child Ma'at is queen now. Really? I won't harm the queen, but I will make you do with her seed. Not that it matters now. I... I was wondering... - how... how your enemies... - To dust. That will sting. And now? And now, say, "l won't feel anything except a little sting". Second Tale "Call Of Destiny" The Kingdom Of Abelar Tanis. Tanis. Are you listening to me? - Sister. - It is upon us, your dream. It's happening. After all of these years, the Sorceress has somehow returned from the dead. Levana. Please don't go. Go, Lenor. Please, find safety. All of you leave at once. I will alert the General, Your Highness. And we must find he who saved us before. The Mercenary? Your father. But, our father is dead. He died saving Abelar from the Sorceress. Your father is not mine. I was sired by the king but... you... you were by this mercenary. Mother said you were the king's child to protect you. You must leave the past behind. Our kingdom needs us now. Kingdom Bush is not my father? No, but he who is lives. If we so be separated mother said this will lead you to him. With this token, he will know you and you shall know him. And this will help you to understand the sorcery. My Queen. They are within the palace, Your Majesty. You must come now. You have to go. No, come with us. My Queen, you both have a long time to struggle. I've trained you well, Your Highness. You are ready for what comes. Stand. Third Tale "Succubus" We can make sure of your safety if you follow this hall. It will lead you out of the palace. But what about you? My duty is to remain here, Kara. No. If you stay, then so will I. You can do nothing more here, Dernier. The Royals will scheme to save their skins. We will be left to fend for ourselves and not always with the truth. They have no regard for us. But I am sworn to... You have sworn to love me, Dernier or was that just to weaken my will. I love you. Then save us my love. - I must kill the infected. - Leave her. She's a friend. It's your wish. Fourth Tale "Crossing Thresholds" There, it leads to a quay where our boat waits. - It will take you to Durris. - Durris? An outlaw city? If he still lives the people there will know his whereabouts. Tanis, I'm fine. Remember what I said. If we so be separated, you must find him. We've run out of time. Run, Tanis. - But sister. - Hush. You're not a child but a Princess of Abelar, a leader with responsibilities. Act it. Find your father. Save our people. They count on us, Tanis. - I can't do this alone. - You must. Go. Now. I command you. Do not look back... or rest. It's been what, 20 years? Where's your mother's lover? What was his name again? It seems to have slipped my mind. He has not slipped mine. Why, of course. He sent your father to the Abyss. I must have thought of a million different ways to make you and your mother suffer, but nothing was ever terrible enough. I mean, how do you repay someone who buried you alive for 20 years? Nothing smelled like life, Your Highness. You must be wondering how is it she is back looking so wonderfully restored. Clearly, we watched your destruction. Clearly, you shouldn't have given the final rights to a high priest with designs on your throat. A pity he perished with some mysterious plague upon his return. Who knows what lives in dust? And who are you? Go, go. - Where is my seat, Your Highness? - I'm not sure. Kill her. Get the girl. The palace is lost. - The Queen is dead? - Or worse. What are they? Vampires. But we will not die tonight. I could fight harder. You leave the killing to me. What is to become of us now or the kingdom? My master is the son of a race. But, there is always a need for a pretty servant, and there is one against me as well. - What is it? - Hush, hush. Why the guards they are so daunting? They're trying to kill us. What? It is read. - It's my fault. - No. On your life run. I have always loved you. I will. Fifth Tale "Initiation" And now, a ladder across the Abyss that I might free my father. In my stead, you will awaken my seed. She is the true daughter of my race, and though half human, she will be human no more. Ah, Dernier. - I'm sorry. - No, you're not. You used me. What? No, I loved you. Really? Yes, right, I was using you, Dernier. You are evil. Becoming a vampire isn't even the worst of me. That and more. Are you going to kill me now? Bite my throat, drain me of my blood? I want you. I could soothe you, Dernier. You could use someone like me for a slave. I have too much over the past. I will bring victims to you to fulfill whatever dark fantasies you have. I will do whatever I have to do for you? You are a monster. I will bow to you, Kara. Kara, bow to her. Life takes many forms in many worlds and she's in her final metamorphosis, her chrysalis. Why me? You are special. But you've always known that. Special in a way that no one else could see until it was too late. And even as a child, you have always been cunning, intelligent, depraved. You have tried to blend in or be a human, safe, but even as a child you knew you were different, filled with dark corruptness. Are you ready to be free? You're free now but not yet fully transformed. I have pity for those who can walk in the curse of light and among these creatures. We have much more work to do before we can be safe. I sent the princess to the reefs. If she's dust, find her. Know what she's plotting, and most importantly with whom. Why me? Because she will know and trust you when she's most vulnerable. And if I refuse? You've hungered for this day when you could be who you are and what you are to let those dark urges free. Mother said this will lead you to him. With this token he will know you and you shall know him, and this will help you to understand the sorcery. You're not a child but a Princess of Abelar, a leader with responsibilities. Act it. Find your father. Save our people. Douras My princess. You shouldn't have been wearing this? Please. Sixth Tale "Gathering Of Helpers" - You cheated, Dog. - What? Go weep to the gods. You will die. I shall cleave your thick ugly faces. No dog cheats me and lives. Thankfully, I'm not a dog but I do like to cheat. Now, I'm gonna have to kill you like a bitch pup. Holy shit. I want this man. She wants me. I'll tell you what, wench, let me kill this dog and then I will bed you so hard... Somebody you want me. Wench, you've diminished my reputation. It could be diminished, sir? Why bog me, did I do your mother, huh, or, uh, sister perhaps? The last of it, the late great Abelar and how it came to be overcome. - Sir. - I mean no disrespect, lady. I noticed your cloak. It came from the palace guard. So, it is. Like yourself, I barely escaped these foul creatures. I'm here to spread the word of what these eyes have seen. - You've seen much. - Aye. In this one world. That's why you're here. You've seen far too much, sir. Brother and sister? Different mothers but a common father. And you say we were meant to find our father? Exactly. And together we're to destroy the Sorceress Xia and return Abelar to the people. Uh-huh. So, Princess, you speak for the Royal House? That is correct. How much am I to be paid to save your precious Abelar? Paid? I didn't mention anything about a bounty. We do this because it's right - and just and it's what we should... - This sword will not be drawn until it received proper compensation. You disappoint again. Oh, my lady, one night in bed with me and... I'm your sister. Half. How could I expect any nobility from a pig like you. Wait. Look, your tail holds a certain fancy, but I am in need of coin and I'm willing to take your word that there will be a bounty. What do you know about him? Well, not much. Nothing at all. Nor a trickster? Aye, but this trickster knows where our sister may be, and to her our dear father. A sister? Where? About that bounty? If your word proves true, then you shall have it. I gave you my word. That should be sufficient. I am called Aedan. And what are you doing here? What? Can't a brother help his sister? After five years? No. This comes with some terrible price. You're not a woman with many an option. There's a foul tempered undertaker and eventual traitor wanting to see you skinned at dawn. And what is this act of brotherly love going to cost me? It's more privilege than the price. We get to save Abelar. I don't think I'm dressed appropriately. Plus, of course, there is a bounty. And where would you get real bounty? From Abelar. She's your sister. But maybe a... little more. Well, what is your name? You would like to sit down and have a drink with me, huh? Tell us the tale, sister. A fortnight ago the Sorceress Xia captured Abelar. My sister, the Queen, was murdered. Xia? Didn't father put that Devil wench down or is that another tall tale? Well, clearly he didn't put her permanently down, thus creating an opportunity. She's back and she's taking Abelar with sorcery. Which is to say she's infested Abelar. Don't you have any conversation for me? You are so beautiful. It's all Greek to me. She will continue to feed, to spread her darkness until the next full moon rises. - And then? - Oh, this part is good. Xia will open the doorway to the Nether Worlds. You were saying? Thus ending our very existence. It's all so dire. You see, sister, there's no bounty too great for saving this world. Say we fancy the idea for a moment. And that there is this massive bounty in gold, of course. Aye, what makes you think us three here can stop this Vampire Queen? I told her we're lovers not fighters. When need to have a plan, something less daunting, more rewarding. - I am at a loss. - We should take the traditional action, and hire mercenaries, like our dear father. Yes, yes, but we're under time constraints. In only a fortnight the moon will be full. - I have a thought. - It was only a matter of time. Malia, you will find father and see if he has any ideas on the matter, and I with what funds to princess has on her presently will arrange for a dozen armed men. Not just any men, no, no, no, but the type with honor and courage enough to win back Abelar. By the gods I've heard that there are experienced barbarians in nearby Primeria, precisely the type of warriors that we needs. So, the Princess... she can wait here at Durris for our return, you know, holding down the fortress - sort of thing. - Or let us split the funds you possess, give us both a chance to hire the best warriors we can find on our way. Aye, that could work as well. Well, sister? You take me as a fool at your own peril. You are both much less than I'd hoped. At the prison I spoke to the magistrate and he gave me your recent histories, - theft, assault, cheating, embezzling... - Right. - Pick pocket and street whore? - I have never picked a pocket. You're both are the lowest of character, but my sister was firm and we must find our father and you are my only hope. We'll need horses. I can acquire them. - Are there other brothers and sisters? - Ah, yeah, yeah, she's a day's ride away in a village called Chiba Agreed then to Chiba Village. Our father still lives? I suppose. Last summer he was carousing in the secret of Nobu. That was years ago. The dog is likely dead as a cock, though, rotting in some dungeon. - 55. - 50. And I suggest we seal this fast. What's going on, sir? Having an adventure, sister? - A bitch dog. - Come to lose again? It isn't long now. An entire new world. I use Xia's body as a conduct. It's a doorway. What have you learned? The princess seeks one like her father. The warrior who helped with Mitadonia. He can see us fall into the Abyss. Reduce her to dust. Should I kill them now, the Princess and these two fools? Learn the whereabouts of this father. As you wish. Chiba Village I tried to find father once right here. - What was it like? - Ah, it was like this... except for people trying to kill me. - It's early yet. - Maybe they'll remember you. Oh, Malia, they would if they were still alive. I meant what was it like to see him? I didn't see father. I found Rajan, our half-sister. Stay put. What does Rajan do here as a trade? You mean when she's not drunk or passed out? Hello, sister. I have a wonderful opportunity for you. No, thank you. It did not work out last time. It's only because you lack a sense of humor. What do you think they seek? This drink. Sister told me great stories about father... although I thought she spoke of a hired mercenary sent to save Abelar. That was before I knew he was my father. The man who I thought was my father, the King, well, he was killed by Xia. You really want to know who father is, God's truth? Yes. Our father is the lowest form of cowardly dog, a man who takes advantage of wives or widows, sells out his cohorts for coin and runs from a real fight. That's who father is. What's the matter? You don't like the truth? You married, have sons? Luckily, no. They're not so bad to look at. Your whores? Rajan, say hello to your sisters. - More family? - And with your help, we four... will save Abelar before the full moon. The full moon is six nights away. Time is short. Ho, an adventure. Alana. Alana? I'd forgotten her. She's all grown and ready to leave this stink hole. Alana, your favorite uncle has returned. Don't you remember me? I remember. As formidable as she is, the girl is but a girl. I meant no offense, niece. I taught her a few things in my days as emperor's assassin. Yes, I can see. Sir, this is the most serious and most dangerous mission. It's the Sorceress Xia we must destroy. The Vampire Queen. - Yes, and it is not suitable for a child. - You think I'd be afraid. Look, it's time my Alana saw the world, had a few wild, bloody adventures. And vampires and sorcery are all a part of that. The truth is, she will love many and leave many more choking on their entrails. A sister, hah? And a princess no less. Do you plan to rob her? Give me a little credit. This comes at a good time. I was worried. How so? With my adventuring and killing days were behind, I wouldn't be able to give her proper parenting. Oh, betting brutes, horrible wars, ghastly death, and it's all still ahead of you. I am sure it's all with my daughter. The gods must choose to smile upon me. You would really cut my throat back there? Of course, uncle. Yours particularly. Sweet girl. What of grandfather? Might he want to go as well? Grandfather? Our father? Aye. He might crave one last good battle before setting down the sword? - He's still killing? - Oh, that rascal, his sword is always poised. Want to meet the old dog? Oh, let's be off. There are kingdoms to save and men to bed. I prefer wenches. Then he lives? Why not use your sorcery to destroy them all? Sorcery hasn't been needed until the full moon, but it's now needed instead of your cold steel, Kara. Her father was a great sorcerer callously taken by gods let alone by human yet this one day. But how is that possible against their power? Because there exists a breed of creatures who fears nothing. So they can accomplish anything. You describe a distinct human trait. We cannot chance these five meeting up with one called father. They would alert him. Aye. So what do you suggest? I think an early strike as they arrive in Nobu Village should do it. I would need two of those like myself, day walkers. And the father should be found. See who wants their blood. After I manage this task. What do you wish to be made, queen? No, I want my soul back. After all the power you have felt in your veins? I want to be who I am, what I am, not one of you. Should I fear you, Kara? You know what lies within me and I am what you need me to be. Should I fear you? You already do. Seventh Tale "Reckoning" We will wait 'till there is some separation. Then take them one by one. I don't expect much resistance except by the princess. All in all, they are a pathetic group. He comes here every evening to sell his catch. Catch? He's a fisherman now. Now, now, ladies, you'll have to accept my apology. I must leave. There's an adventure in the offing. Now, mark my words, if I didn't have to go off and save Emperor Micah's kingdom, I would surely have you all to bed... again. Can I see that spear right there, please? Never mind. There, why the long face, huh? It is for the grand adventure that we live. And it's not just the adventure itself. It's the willingness to risk everything for it. Something chased you off the street. What is your trouble, girl? Something very terrible. And what was that? A vampire. I know it's dead, but still I saw the things. You see, I believe you, girl. This day there are vampires in Nobu. So, I'm off. Oh, my, could you send an old rogue off with a proper farewell? I believe we have an adventurer here. I can taste it. May the gods smile on your adventure, child. The next time a warning would be nice. Where can I find her? Come now. Levana, - Kara? - Your Highness. You know what do with them. This is your life now? I have no life just the sins. Bleak and bleaker. That princess and they that hold it are under the sword. Mind your own business, sir. Nobu has always been a refuge where marriages are by and large human. Now changes come to Nobu. The world evolves. Aye, mostly for the bad. Do we have a quarrel, sir? Have we met? In the days before I sought the peace of the sea, I knew your kind. Well, maybe I am sick but I was pleasured by the killing. They deserved to die. I loved hearing their suffering, seeing their terror, and the begging and screaming. There was real pleasure in that. Sometimes life does not unfold as it should, and I do not have to explain myself to you. I ask again, do we have a quarrel, sir? I am presently engaged. Eighth Tale "Reckoning Of Sins" Did I do your mother, huh? So, where is this renowned father? Will our father show his face to you, sir? A shallow womanizer who fashions himself a dashing wit. Perhaps we cannot hear your whimpering, sir. Pathetic palter. I know you'll have my head for that, but not if I have yours first. What is this? I would appreciate that back. Come and take it. I ask you once if we had a quarrel. I knew the princess. Now we have a quarrel. Joy that's not marred by love. We have much to celebrate now that the full moon is seen. You, me, the great love affair we shared. The love by which you destroyed my father, and had me with your stick to dust. But I harbor no grudge. Well, perhaps just a bit of heartbreak and spite. And bring that ridiculous rebate of a weapon of yours. Tales will continue "Tales Of An Ancient Empire" "Red Moon" What does that make him? Is he an active vampire or is he a quarter vampire? I mean, what... what is it? Do you kill everyone you see? "Tales Of An Ancient Empire" You know, next time a warning would be nice. Translation: dima360 [notabenoid.com]
