 

                        When we catch you! Wait, you'll see We got you No need to resist What's this? You got me there You think it's a game? Ah! Here is your money You don't think we're even with this Don't hit me in the face I want to become a model Let go of me Stand up Stop! Oh! You're late What were you doing? I had to take a leak You take bathroom breaks on your free time Ouch! You're OK? I'm fine Cheers Cheers Thanks to all of you Thank you very much Mr. Mayor thank you for the beautiful speech really beautiful My lavish bribes didn't go to waste We, the Kirishima Group celebrating in Sapporo Have met our 20th anniversary with success and this we entirely owe to you We need to congratulate a wonderful person Maki, the singer Thank you We're happy... Maki, here there is a piano maybe you'd do us the honor I usually don't do this but... for my beloved Toshio I love you too, Maki Liar The only one you love is the woman sitting there Delicious The white wine too So easy to drink soon I'll get drunk Mr. Matsuo from Hokkaido Nippo So many of them? They came out well ...and the data? It's all here a bit dirty but... Thanks, you're a life saver It's not gone on the Internet right? The $3,000 you pay will guaranty its safety Could you make it sure before I pay you? Mr. Matsuo, haven't we deserved our 3,000? Ah, you're probably right To me it's fine like this A famous journalist married with kids, a gay relationship Do not say that It's OK Here is your receipt I deducted the tax Very kind of you Should you need me again please call this bar I'm mostly there evenings See you, take it easy You're alright by me Your part time fee Great! Shoot! There was another SD card Just discard it, your journalist won't know You're right I'm sorry, suddenly I don't feel so good No problem Even I have had enough for today I'm free now Oh no! I think I forgot my cell I'll get it for you Maybe it's in the ladies room I'll be waiting in the car See you Help me! Let me go! Stop this Let her go Help me! Let her go At the snow fair they all turn mad Why can't you be a typical Susukino boy sometimes I'm back home good evening Shall we resume our game "SankYou" A gimlet please Bourbon soda ...and snacks please Whose turn? Yours Takada, let me teach you the mysteries of Othello head & tail black & white So easily switched as people are Population 1,900,000 Sapporo, Susukino, the most northern major city in Asia This is my city I work as a "private eye" Yes, I'm a detective Phone Call to the Bar You're late, imbecile This cover smells Sure I had it at the animal shelter It belongs to a cow! They didn't mention if it's for human use You should know without being told You take it from a cowshed you could guess That watch isn't working Tell me now Why am I in such predicament You really don't care It all started with a call I received last night Hello This is Kyoko Kondo Kyoko Kondo? Kyoko Kondo? Little Kyoko, it's been a long time What do you do now? just come over Excuse me who am I talking to? I'm Mrs. Kondo who paid you $1,000 You don't check your account? I haven't check today Is a job request? I'd have another reason to pay you? I hope you're the right person Who told you about me? You told me you forgot? Where did I? If you don't remember I'll keep it secret My internal alarm sent me a warning Better not get involved with her If I don't know you I don't move Really?! Where do I send the money back? It's a present You don't treat people like this You don't have a cell phone? I don't It's useless and it's a constraint As a detective your not too resourceful Don't tell me what... Hello?! What's this about That Kyoko Kondo had stressed me and it would keep going till she dies Yes Ah, thank god you're still there I'm sorry about before Forget it If I don't tell you my name and circumstances You can't help me? She was playing the damsel in distress I thought I could remain anonymous But I'm in such trouble I'm not too difficult to be won over... Couldn't you help me? There is no one else I can trust In that case... Really?! Go ask something to Mr. Minami a lawyer at the Economic Office in Sapporo "Where was Kato last year, February the 5th?" Just this? Just this What if he doesn't tell In that case tell me how he responded You are from pest control? Recently global warming has increased Even in Sapporo the need for pest control Well, owing to that... owing to that our market is expanding Therefore I'd like a legal consultation I see, I see How about it? You don't seem to know But we handle only major companies So a small company like us Should not come here? I'd say, you need a better match for your needs Well Your putting me in a fix For example, Sir If I told you I'm recommended by Mrs. Kyoko Kondo? Who did you say? Kyoko Kondo You don't know her? Well... No Ah, I see That Kyoko Kondo Told me to ask you "Where was Kato last year" "February, 5th?" What are you talking about? It's alright if you don't know Excuse me for the trouble Hi Gen! Hi! What an ugly outfit What's this thing dangling? I just got a $1,000 job Good for you come here Come inside, a Russian blond, top and bottom I'm sure she's Japanese again How did you guess? Gotta go What?! A person about to die sees his whole life in a flashback As a movie played Is that true? Untie him Help! Anybody? Anyone? Help! Help! The Genghis Khan dish you prefer with mutton or lamb? with mutton or lamb? What do you mean by that? It doesn't mean anything Just like your life You illiterate monkey non fare Battuta! I was only trying to make you feel comfortable Like a taxi driver that gets on people's nerves Your quite a character You can't be serious Can't be Precisely it can't "can't be" I'm sorry, don't do this Don't You'll see a nice movie Too bad you won't tell about it Bastards, let me out! You'll pay for this Don't Fermi! Bastards, let me out! I'll kill you! You'll remember this! Piercing motherfucker! To it's lamb This is not the point! Still lucky you? You untied yourself They wanted me to untie myself What was the point then? A warning? Like: "stay out of it" So why can't they just say it? that night Kyoko Kondo called me at the bar and I reported to her like a gentleman But I nearly croaked! That gang wanted to whack me! What? "it cant be"? That lawyer sent them Calm down How about Minami? Did he ask something? He said he doesn't know Kato He's lying Really? His face betrayed him Perfect, thanks Wait wait... Tell me why did they burry me alive? Lucky you it was soft snow Oh, yes of course it could have been hard That's not the point, idiot! I've been flattened like a pancake! And for that you'll be amply rewarded The reason I got away... Is also a warning for you For some unknown reason... If you go any further you're dead Another time... I may request your help again No way, you see... LISTEN! I lefts behind that dreadful experience... as usual I got back to office work... It came up! allowing myself modest pleasures... Susukino is the best! What pain! renewing an old silent friendship... First time you come home right? You're so white! taking a well deserved rest in the morning at the usual cafe, coffee and spaghetti It's another brand? You noticed? You're always so disgusted So this time it's special for you How is it? I'm even more disgusting there is no room for feelings in my life This is a rule I set for myself... the USSR were so hung up on rules, they disappeared anyway Fucking lawyer! I decided to take my revenge Seiwa Corporation...? You know them? I can't eat anymore This logo... And enter the all-star characters, let's go I can't take anymore curry... Quick start the engine, follow him Quick! Che sonno! What is it with that old piece of junk! You badmouth her she takes offense, apologize! Sorry, he don't mean it - WTF?! - do it now Sorry Sorry, sorry I didn't mean it - Dai, che la macchina se ne va - Su, conto su di te! This Takada talking down to me Is a loafer assistant in a university but he is also an instructor in a karate dojo he could sleep all day... he is my chauffeur Hang on you can do it Great, she did it! good girl! Let's go, here take right What is that tawdry logo? the Hanaoka gang, locally the most lowlife yakuza they are a vulgar lot Come down School for the Fatherland Heavenly Dojo devotion Heavenly Dojo? Where did I put it? First step for my revenge on Minami and Co to follow the track of Heavenly Dojo Here it is Heavenly Dojo is the training ground of Hanaoka gang This right wing association is a cover for they business This much I knew Double margarita Double What? It's the drink he used to have Who? Broken hearted He was promoted and sent to Okinawa Really you didn't learn your lesson last time The fact is... There is nothing you can do about love OK, nothing you can do but... He is right There is nothing you can do about love Love drives people mad Men are miserable beings We got it all wrong tonight How about a raincheck It's fine, you were a distraction You remember the Palace Paradise in Susukino? The " Palace Paradise"? Could be last years... Or the year before in fall? There was an arson and a casualty One woman Did they catch the arsonist? No But the cops were onto a guy named Taguchi He was a trainee at the Heavenly Dojo What happened to him? A week after the arson they found him dead on the Ebetsu river side Cause of death: glue sniffing OD eliminated? Most probably but deads don't talk As for the Heavenly Dojo they said he hadn't showed up for 2 month Here, the press archives on the case Here you got the coordinates of those involved Sorry I made you do this So here you are Rascal, this is a violation of our agreement You took advantage of me, shame! My bad... when I have evidence I'll pass it to you Until then loan it to me No If it's a loan... I want it back now What do you mean? Seiko Matsuda - Blue Lagoon Enough! Matsuo kept singing Seiko Matsuda for more than 3 hours they even made me join their jumble... I can't stand anymore You had 3 glasses Alright... I can know a bar run by a splendid Madame I don't mind provided they're real women You'll have fun... Really? Welcome Mr. Matsuo May I introduce myself? It's an honnnononor... You may have briefly met last year Really?! You're funny So you're Mrs. Saori a moment If you had a business in Susukino, please call You can see me in this bar... They're all girls' cards... I ran out of business cards! The transvestites we just saw took them... It's alright I never forget a face Madame Please marry me? You're not married right? Even if you were I don't really mind Please marry me? Back off... This conversation is taboo Why? Madame's husband died last year Sorry, I had no idea He was attacked after the party you attended last year Where that eminent businessman spoke? Toshio Kirishima, president of Kirishima group This man was your husband He was trying to rescue a woman Typical of him And he left me this establishment I want to make this place even more magnificent In his memory Please I'm with you wholeheartedly! Ah thank you Courage, let's drink You too Madame Cheers for the Madame! cheers! while Matsuo and I were crying and drinking... I guess none of you is a tranny? How about the report on the daughter? "The remorse that comes with a hangover" "Is like a sick dog with his tongue sticking out" "that bites the most sensitive part of the soul" What is that from? A poem from Sakutaro Hagiwara Long before I was born He left it behind specially for me A considerate person This Mr. Hagiwara Really Fire in a Residence building One woman dies A suspect in the arson Real-estate speculation related crime? the police identified the body as the tenant of " Snack Kyoko " who was resisting eviction Kyoko Kondo Kyoko Kondo?! Now she's getting interesting... I found a lady who'd worked at "Snack Kyoko" Mrs. Kyoko always dream that restaurant, so much much courage to work, but This is translated as: Just when her dream to open a restaurant came true speculators wanted the building but she resisted She felt committed to the person who had given her that place about that person Kyoko said: Long legged Uncle A man with long legs The arsonist is an asshole Never forgive him Hey, where are you going I went to that asshole's home Yes? Excuse me the ward house sent me I'm Tsubaki "protection of youth against glue sniffing" glue sniffing? Yes To avoid tragic cases like Akira Mrs. Taguchi if you could tell about your son My son was really an idiot I'm partly responsible too I pretended to be interested in her opinions And here is what Yasuko his mother told me Akira was born in a coal mining region when it closed the family moved to Sapporo Kohei, away from the mountain didn't find a decent job he turned abusive on his wife and son for such reason and more young Akira had followed the slippery path of delinquency So when he entered the Heavenly Dojo I really felt relieved But soon the cops came "where is Akira?" He hasn't been in the dojo in 2 months I was so worried that he'd committed something The next day... They told me he was dead I'm sorry Crying is all I've left... I should have done something for him! Sorry I'll serve you tea Don't take the trouble That's a huge TV It don't fit in this house, right? The old man got lucky at the race tracks lately He said Akira showed him Who are you? You're the police? No no I'm with the protection of youth... Liar, you're lying I told you to not let anyone in Hey hey, hold on This gentleman came to help youth like Akira! Calm down, what's this Out! Wait! You are destitute, right? Yep, destitute Would you like a 50" TV? Yes I do You're so destitute you can't afford it I can't How will buy it? What if a horse brought me money? A horse would bring you money? It never happens right? True enough C'est la vie That old guy, where did he get the money from? Another call from that deceased Yes? I'm Kyoko Kondo Thank you for the new $1000 credit This time where do I get buried? Will you take the mission? We're on the same boat It's not as dangerous as before I think Call "Shinko" company and ask to see Kato And then? Just to check if Kato comes I don't even know his face I'm sorry, you should have a identification sign I got it, good idea Am I right in trusting you? The feeling of distrust is reciprocal One day I'll tell you everything Thank you for your help This affair will not tarnish your reputation My reputation? Don't you mind that Oh you're such a genius OK, I'll be at the bowling's bar Just tell Mr. Kato I want to talk to him 572 Regarding last February the 5th, he knows Ah, wait... If he could carry a magazine for identification For example "Manga Pinkie" Tell him to carry "Manga Pinkie" Me? I'm bald with a beard Alright then thank you very much The old girl is disoriented In fact, why do you care so much for that Kyoko Kondo Well I'm responsible for her What if she's a fat tranny Just her voice on the phone would be cute What the fuck?! You... I needed just one more I couldn't care less about Takada's opinions, yet I wanted to see the deceased Kyoko Kondo's family A person using the name of my daughter? Is that it? I'm sorry if the question seems silly but... Would a person take Kyoko's place to enact revenge for her? I... Maybe No, it can't be such a scary thought Whatever one does Won't bring my daughter back So please allow me another silly question Would you know Uncle Long-Leg? What? The person who gave the restaurant to Kyoko I guess her father did Your husband? No, not him... Not exactly Kyoko's father is not my husband When Kyoko was born he suddenly disappeared disappeared? He used to be a coach in a student organization It seems there was a serious dispute I don't really know but Some decisive event occurred He had a strong sense of justice He was a wonderful person and he simply dumped you? Although he dumped me I'm stupidly attached No, it's not what I think In any case it belongs to the past So her real father gave Kyoko the restaurant? It wasn't said clearly but I guessed How can I meet him? It's impossible He died too last year He died? He tried to rescue an unknown woman But he got killed A freak death typical of him You mean he was Toshio Kirishima? You know him? Toshio Kirishima is Kyoko Kondo's father? Two years ago I lost Kyoko And Kirishima in February February? Precisely during the Snow Festival Which day of February? The 5th Where was Kato on the 5th of February? Apparently both cases are related Is she your younger daughter? Yes with my actual husband She's studying abroad She and Kyoko didn't get along I went where Kirishima had been killed Thank you for coming the other night It's nothing... Come anytime Sure Mrs. Saori! Kyoko Kondo...? Do you know her? What? No... nothing - Hi - Hi - Going to work? - Yes Have a good day Hot! It's hot! The ramen is hot! Watch where you go idiot! What is your restaurant? You scolded me, idiot Pay for the damage Detective crook What? It's you Thank god Unusual reaction to us? 667 Has our gang has become popular? Just babble What do you want? We need the report on the daughter! If you don't deliver the boss gets mad She's is attending regularly her singing lessons I didn't write a report because nothing happens There was nothing to report You have to report that there is nothing to report This guy, Aida, was born with a Yakusa face born in Sapporo he served the old Kirihara "family" in my youth I was a repetitor giving lessons to his boss's son until he threatened to cut my dick if the kid didn't improve the boss who has no restraint with women had an illegitimate child raised in a respectable home and I have to report periodically the boss himself became a good-natured old man the gang is not what they used to be which offered an opening for the Hanaoka gang from Osaka By the way do you know s someone at the Economic Office Named Minami? Minami? It's OK if you don't know him Hold on What do you want from him? He owes me something I'm trying to get back to him OK I give up... Isn't it interesting? Minami is an ex-district attorney now a lawyer for Hanaoka He recently opened an office on his own He is involved in all their gang's business abroad Business abroad? Capital invested in Korea, Taiwan, China Takugin Bank took a dive in Hokkaido, it was him In Susukino new residence building growing like shrooms The project Susukino Keep some for me! All gone like subprime mortgages Who was their front? Minami... he is connected at the House of Representatives No one knows how much he's earned with Hanaoka When they turned their attention to the Palace Paradise Taguchi from Heavenly Dojo smashed all opposition Akira went too far and a woman died Kyoko Kondo They finally shut her up You suddenly woke up Who's behind that? Obviously who bought the Palace? You want me to check? A Yakusa volunteering? You take care of the daughter I return the favor I cannot come to the phone right now Please leave a message after the tone You idiot, it's always your answering machine... Hey, give me some time Getting on my nerves Please come anytime Take care Ahhh! Stop Please I beg you Where do you get so much money for your fun? It's none of your business Really? At the tracks! I win at the horses races... The races, really? Wait! A loser like you I'll get you back up if you listen to my story? Yes I want to listen A year ago in September... The cops came to your home for Akira about the Arson at the Palace Paradise After the police went I think you called the Heavenly Dojo then Akira answered the phone? The next day he was found dead The version of the media Akira hadn't showed up at the Dojo for 2 months Strange... He was there on the phone the day before Without warning the police you immediately called the Dojo you wanted them to pay for your silence I know I'm right As a novice blackmailer You manage to get money from yakuza Because I have a tape A tape? As evidence They can't even touch me You sold the life of your son to get the 50" TV? What an excellent father Shut up, shut up What do you know... What do you think you understand? If only we had stayed in the mountain... None of that would even have happened... But you... What do you know!? Nothing I have no time for your lamentations We humans without choosing where we are born nor choosing the body or the mind we are thrown into the world with the responsibility to live good for those who can enjoy it but the others how do they manage? The Hanaoka gang is not there Few kids too So "good luck" You're coming along Freelance Journalist Our ideal is the same as the agricultural soldiers You know about the agricultural soldiers? Of course, my great grandfather was one In that regard... We gather the underdogs of the society In the same way the colonizers did We offer them a new light on the world to live with Japanese pride It's a wonderful purpose! What is he doing? He is in training, sorry Not allow to talk to strangers You got a girlfriend? Please... You're bleeding Takada, enough now If you can excuse my boorish chauffeur If we could get back to our topic... Don't you have kids resilient to education? that boy who died at Ebetsu Was one of your students? Yes unfortunately Akira Taguchi, if I remember right He was huffing glue? As for him... He had already deserted here He was a natural born loser It saddens me to admit our limitations, but The day before he died... A person says he was here Who said that? Who knows He hadn't showed up for 2 months ...that you want people to believe? It's the truth We should go now We'll remain here for today Why would you go when our faction is back Unfortunately we don't have time... Another time maybe Don't rush, tell me what you came here for Put your toy back in your pocket! Have a good day Mr. Clutz What a coincidence! Take our guest inside! Yes! Let's go? Come down Don't fuck with me! There! I'll kill you My nose! Take that Let's go Wait Don't leave me here My nose come You had it coming! Ouch! Please take me away from here! You darn...! - Please take me away! My glasses Take me with you They're coming, let's go Come on! We are in deep shit...! Now we're in deep shit Stooop! Please go I'm sorry, I'm sorry Excuse me I'm sorry Please we are sorry You too say it Sorry, sorry, you're a good car I'll give you good gaz The 'high octane' brand! Excuse me, please - That was close - we nearly died in there Shit, they broke me a tooth By the way... Hold the wheel What? They broke my shoulder I can't move that hand I thought I would end up like Akira So what's your plan now? You can take him at your place for a while What are you talking about? He'd change his mind and betray me calling the Dojo If I keep taking beatings like this I won't make it till the next Sapporo Bike Circus Good enough, you'll become a ghost and haunt them So... what should I do? Get out, boy OK Look here Your last chance for a fresh start Go to the police and tell them everything No, too risky It's the best thing you can do Face life bravely True? Yep "Boys, be ambitious" Sure but... Otherwise... you'll find no safe place on this earth you may escape to Istanbul You know where Istanbul is? No, I don't the next day as agreed I was waiting for Kato at "Shinko" with my chauffeur You got it? That Kyoko Kondo is a plague, no doubt WTF! Today is not your training day What have I to do with Kato? I apologized already? Il pay you double I told your clearly already I don't get it This Kato will never come I had an appointment at the dentist's You... usually The kanji in "Seiwa"? You could read "Kyowa"? Not "Seiwa"? Right You could would read "Shinwa" A matter of opinion? "Shinwa Corporation"... "Shin-Co" is a short for it Look over your shoulder discreetly Discreetly OK discreetly Hey, I told you discreetly This means that he is... Kato from "ShinCo" He's coming here? Right You asked him You pay Hey wait... What do we do? Give me the phone Mr. Kato... Is expected at bowling track 3 He's gone? Im asking you Kato from "ShinCo" came Really? What are you trying to do? I'll leave that to your imagination What face are doing right now? This too I'll leave to your imagination How about a beauty who wears glasses well? To avenge Kyoko you're trying to get at Minami The Hanaoka gang And their underground force: the Heavenly Dojo We can work together I'll think about it I have no will before a woman saying " I'll think about it" You can't take up such opponent alone I'm not alone I got it Whatever happens, you can call me I can't even contact you outside the bar I'll get a phone You're transgressing your rule? To protect a client Thanks Thanks You fell for her? The fat tranny The fact is? If the boy speaks to the cops They all fall like dominos in line? No, not that simple Why? No evidence Just looking for it is considerable trouble They'll all protect their secret at all cost Hey, what's with you? Wait You're of no use to us anymore Here... There is no tape Really Then we want the money back Yasuko... This pays for the TV set Basta... This for your prostitutes Please, enough Where is the tape? "Today is September, 23, 2009" A person about to die sees his whole life in a flashback The last movie you see will be the life of a worm To me it would be unbearable! Hey, Mr. awful... Hey, Mr. Are you OK? Hey, Mr. Often... We went there together he liked the lions even for hours in front of that cage Mr... Hey Mr. Talk to me He's gone Mr. Let's go Leave me alone Ti ho detto di smetterla! I won't let you Kato! Wait here What are you gonna do? Improvise You'll get killed Don't come You'll get killed I don't wanna die idiot, don't chase him It's none of my deed Even though, you had info Inside strife at Hanaoka's? or an amateur? You have no idea? No, it's impossible What do you mean? Kyoko Kondo who died in the fire Was Kirishima's daughter I didn't know that That's why Kirishima wanted to unveil the truth He came too close so they eliminated him? Supposed you were Kirishima With a strong sense of justice Seeing a rape before his eyes What would you have done? You'd play the knight in shining armor? They set him up like that But there's a problem They need to know his weakness To elaborate such a plan The truth is... I have very interesting Intel "Milkyway Enterprise"? On the site of Palace Paradise they build an amusement park This is the owner Which would mean... This is the puppet master Kyosuke Iwabuchi from Osaka president of Milkyway Enterprise Ex-leftist, now converted to fixer for companies in Osaka The godfather of Osaka? His son Mitsugu is the actual president Like a Michael Corleone Accompanied by a beauty They get married soon it seems Saori?! - You know her? - Who is she? Toshio Kirishima's widow Marrying Iwabuchi? She is of ill-repute in the business world She uses men as steps for her social ascension Stepping on Kirishima's head... she's now the queen of the Corleone family? and gets Kirishima's inheritance as a prize So this is the answer to the previous riddle The wife knew Kirishima enough They're heading to Saori's club That's as far as I go They people are way above my league Madame, the detective has arrived Alright Wow, fantastic, I can't afford this Thank you I'm glad you decided to come again You remember me? Sure, I can't forget; you have a drink? Whisky straight, double Bourbon Soda for me Please so? As I told you a great beauty She's looks like Queen Marie Antoinette Don't exaggerate... The spitting image At the end they had to cut her head You're getting married? You bring flowers every day to that crime scene Never tired of playing the young widow's part? I came so close to fall for you You see? My client on the present case I wondered if she was you I kind of hoped it was What a waste Is it just what you came here for? I'm sorry to disturb you Madame, Mr. Minami is here for you With your permission Mr. Minami, welcome - The president is upstairs? - Yes Take good care of it - So I don't change anything? - Yes Sir, this room is private We are friends, aren't we Mr. Minami? We enjoyed the ride your friend gave us last time Very entertaining I came to thank you but unfortunately for him We just saw him mumble a few words and die No doubt his flashback movie was dreadful Who are you guys? We are an unknown pest control company Because of global warming even Sapporo is invaded with roaches It's true Even here I see 2 fat one In addition to the 4 I see her Sure, arrogant and huge What did you say, asshole? Uneducated clients However much they pay are not welcome here - see yourselves to the door - Yes Then... all the best I kept inquiring about Kirishima his murder and the arson everyone kept quiet fearing retribution but it was different when they spoke about his person He was loved, the boss Was an idealist, but still a boy at heart He sure knew how to throw a party Often we would hang out until morning When he married that young chick I had a bad feeling We lost a precious friend The president... Was an adorable person Today I want to apologize Apologize? The other day When you said "he dumped me, I'm so stupid!" I thought you were right Abandoned with a kid and still excusing him I thought, what a stupid woman This is the truth No My mistake Toshio Kirishima was as you said A great guy Thank you Thank you On the counter OK, thank you You're slow Bye Thanks, see you again Hey, it's not my fault You're awake? You're the guys from the bar You need to withdraw from your present case My present case? That Russia should give us back our Northern Territories? We're not in a teasing mood If you want to talk business untie me, idiots Or you pervs talk only with bondaged men? What's this?! You're really gonna do it? I'll hurt you I get it I throw in the towel You speak one way but you do another Not at all Even with money you won't let go You're mistaken Just give me money and I'll drop it I'm sure you won't Please, enough You teamed up with that gang? We belong to no gang Simply a woman came and begged me A woman? Saori She got you You know what she's hatching up? I don't give a shit I'm disposed to whatever she asks A beautiful life, she's your first love probably Saori even as we speak Is getting fucked by Iwabuchi "ha ha" Enough Shut up, shut up Shut up, shut up A frail and disheveled type Always hanging around here Takada I'll forget it all I'll abandon Susukino Where are you? Detective? You here? Hey you're alive? Hey wake up Please switch off your phones the projection of the movie is starting You're a hopeless case You don't need to talk I was seeing rainbow colors I thought I was seeing a movie, but they were Susukino's neons I wish the movie was that beautiful when I die what's important? friends? money? no need to tell, I was alive Mr. Detective wake up, wake up Lift him gently Boss Efficient, uh? well There's nothing we can do Let it go I won't lose my only friend Here I'm sorry What? I've been beaten so much I can't really control myself Hey How do you feel? You had your husband and his daughter killed And you appropriated all his assets? There's a park near my place The kids play, but one of them is bad He stealth snatched other's toys Breaks they bike But when there's a fight his favorite excuse: "You can't prove it" What are you talking about? He thinks, if you can't prove it, it didn't happen The idiot Yes, idiot But he'll grow successful Especially in this country Without the law they are still solutions If you try to touch one hair of my client I'll kill you all Why would you go so far? For you it's just another case, right? Because of me Taguchi's father was killed Even his innocent wife Besides I came to deeply appreciate The defunct Toshio Kirishima If we had been drinking as friends We'd have spent the best moments together To leave it at that is too sad I'm out of ammos That night I received another $3,000 Kyoko Kondo called me one last time You're all fine? Yes You? I fell great Really? In 2 days Saori and Iwabuchi get married I know I haven't received an invitation though I'll do like Dustin Hoffmann in "the graduate" I have a favor to ask Last one As usual it will get me into a heap of trouble? No, it's just time consuming First you call Saori at the "Concerto" It's high time Tell her that Minobe from Otaru wants to see her She'll be taken aback Tell her to go to "Harbor Light" in Otaru What time? It will be difficult for her to come before the wedding But she's got to come She'll come in a haste Monitor the place tomorrow and the day after So when she shows up, what do I do? She won't come alone Take pictures This will be the decisive proof? Yes This will be the end of them all But she knows me, what if she sees me? A professional should know how to do, right? I need you there, this is the end of the game I bought the phone In case anything happens, call me Alright Could we meet when it's all over? If all goes well We'll have a toast Sure Obviously my call made Saori nervous "I have no business in Otaru" she said it's a free country do as you please thank you for using our ferries We hope to serve you again soon Tomorrow the decisive battle The wedding is at 4 What's going on? You are Kyoko Kondo, right? Who are you? What are you trying to do? did you kill Kato? Under the bench What? Look, you'll see You 're manipulating people I owe you so much Wait, what are you going to do? Thank you so much Wait Please don't do it I beg you As a detective I have to protect my client I have to protect you Good bye Wait Saori "I'm so sorry for all the trouble I caused you" "I owe you to do my duty without a doubt" "you may not believe me, but" "I loved Kirishima with all my heart" "I don't know" "if he was happy with me" "but I was with him" "like I never was in my life" "when that fire happened and Kyoko died" Darling "Kirishima started to inquire about the fire" "Iwabuchi had already betrayed him in the past" "He had cornered Kyoko and others" "he was the boss" "Kirishima intended to have him arrested" "then he got killed" "his death was so sordid" "that I died the same day" "I decided to take revenge" "the more I infiltrated the enemy" "the harder it was to proceed" "so I requested your help" Let me straighten it Thank you "you probably don't remember" "3 years ago, my first Christmas with Kirishima" "you were lurking in front" "you helped me out with a stalker" "you told me about Minami's reaction" "then I knew Kato was the executor" "I knew who to take revenge on" "I'd do anything for this revenge" "and as you did not back off I sent you away" "now I have no sadness nor fear" "rather I feel serene and fresh" "thank you from the bottom of my heart" "Goodbye" "Saori" "PS:" "when you said you'd come to like Kirishima" "it really made me happy" Run faster I knew immediately which one Saori was Are you OK, Miss? Thank you for your help You have good taste for watches For your boyfriend? Yes If you need me to inquire you'll find me at this bar No need, he is wonderful My bad, I wish you the best I'm back "if you use it I'm sure" "it will make Kirishima happy"
