 

                        "Based on real people and events" "Chung Chun-Tao, known as Ah Tao..." "...was born in Taishan and adopted as an infant" "Her adoptive father died under the Japanese occupation" "Her adoptive mother sent Ah Tao..." "...to work as a servant for the Leung family" "She has served four generations of the family..." "...over a span of 60 years" Ah Tao was already with my family when I was born At 20, I went to college in the States At 30, I came back to Hong Kong And since then, Ah Tao has been with me That is, until two years ago... How much? H K$6 per catty HK$6? Pick whichever ones you like, I'll cut the price Okay, you want ones with big heads and tails This one is okay? - Enough? - Yes HK$16 What a fussy one, bruising all my stock... She's coming! - Sister Tao! - Good morning Morning... - Good morning, Sister Tao - Morning - Sister Tao - How's business? Fine, what do you need today? Garlic Okay, take your time Muzi...Muzi... Ignoring me, Muzi? His wife's run off - I'll put my coat on - No rush And my glasses Take your time! Why's it so cold? No placemat? How long this time? Two days Haven't had ox-tongue in a while... It's ages since I had ox-tongue You want more angioplasty? Forget about it! You had crab today You shouldn't eat ox-tongue I like it stewed (Beijing) What's that? Snacks for them No, no, they're still talking Take it away! The reason the set's larger... ...is that it wasn't big enough! If... You explain it to him Same problem, you need it to be bigger I need space for a table and three stuntmen Not to mention the lights! What about that? What can I say? What'd you expect me to say? Of course, you all have reasons for wanting more We have an A Team and a B Team... Working on top of each other How can I shoot in such a crowded corridor? Have you ever shot a film before? - A film! - Gentlemen... The art department has maxed out the budget! Films have budgets, you know that? I made films while you were still in short pants! I've had it! Hey! - Talk to him! - Director Tsui... - Same problem, what's the point? - Please calm down Sit down, sit down Calm down Please sit down, both of you Just sit I don't think it helps to fight like this It won't help us to achieve... ...a good outcome Right now, we're over budget Maybe we can cut costs... ...in the post-production? Or maybe I can raise the budget a little bit Great performance! My performance? Awesome! You think I was acting? You were great! You should be an actor for real! I wish I didn't have to 'act'... But how else to trick him into adding 5%? It's not tricking... You don't know It's tough being a director Shooting a film is like giving birth The key thing is to see it through to the end Otherwise you end up with a robot! Okay, okay, I get it But keep an eye on your spending, okay? Roger... Don't nag, okay? - All I'm saying... - Stop going on about it! I'm starving! - Waiter! - Here! - Waiter! - Here! One moment... What is it? I'd like to have... - ...tofu - Tofu And... - ...a portion of lamb ribs - Okay - And the mutton - Okay And ten wheat buns Shit, I don't eat lamb... Never mind, I don't like it either When he's finished that lot... ...you and I can have sashimi together Why not now? Okay But I don't eat anything raw Just get my order, and get a move on! And you? What are you going to have? Vegetables - Is this okay? - Okay - Hey... - What? I want the set to be twice the size... Come on... Kaka, what's the matter? Where are you taking those pretty little paws? Ah Tao! Ah Tao! I forgot my keys! Ah Tao! I forgot my keys! Morning, Roger - Hello, Vincent - Do sit down Are you alright? It's nothing You don't look well I'm a bit rushed today, so I'll keep it brief Fine You've calculated the interest wrong There's a US$100,000 discrepancy We went over it The contract is very clear The bank is supposed to charge us LIBOR rate But you're charging us the prime rate You can see it here I highlighted it See what I mean? I'll correct it immediately One more thing... I know today's a public holiday in the US But if our office in Beijing... ...doesn't get the second payment this afternoon... ...we'll have to close down the production... ...and sue the bank for all our losses Michael... Please call up Mr Leung's company account Go through it in detail And follow our agreement to the letter I'm sorry, Roger It's alright No need to see me off Gotta go, see you tonight Hey! I've been waiting for you all morning! The air-con in the conference room drips It's this way Over there This is my namecard I'll let you know when I change jobs, Miss Excuse me, I'm terribly sorry... Where's the problem? Which air-con is it? Excuse me... This way... I'm terribly sorry How's the food here? Good Then why aren't you eating? I'm full Have an orange You go ahead Not right now... I haven't eaten yet Leave first if you're hungry Go get some lunch I just talked with the doctor He'll discharge you in a couple of days You'll have to come back for physical therapy You'll regain up to 80% of your movement But you'll need to watch your diet in future Get one stroke, you get another Don't worry I've been thinking... I can hire a maid, hire one... ...who speaks Chinese So you'll have someone to talk to What time is it in San Francisco? Afternoon Call your mother for me Why? Tell her I'm retiring Retiring Why? I want to live in an old people's home Are those places expensive? You'd like to live in one? Yes, how much will it cost? Don't worry, I can pay for you No... I have money, I can pay I have money HK$5,000 for a single room HK$4,000 for a shared room HK$3,500 for three-to-five sharing If her total assets are less than HK$30,000... ...we can apply for social security for her But we don't pay commission for that Commission? Don't you know about that? There are so many scams out there In some homes... ...they do the paperwork for you... ...to claim social security payments And they pay you HK$500 per month But it's just a scam The money they give you... ...is charged back on their bills We're not like that We run a straight business here Everything's out in the open Can I see a typical monthly statement? HK$580 per month for diapers? That charge depends on the brand used Also on the quantity That one is water-tight More expensive That old man often needs to change his What is "escort charge"? - Escort charge? - Yes The escort accompanies the old person To medical check-ups, physical therapy... To massage, acupuncture and so on The charge depends on who the escort is For illegal South Asian immigrants, it's HK$150 For Mainland Chinese, it's HK$200 For holders of HK ID cards, it's HK$250 The most expensive ones are mixed-race Chinese They're HK$300 That's just a fact of Hong Kong life It's an advantage to have a foreigner with you Your charging structure... ...is quite complicated! Is that all? No...I want to know... ...if you have registered nurses, health workers... ...pharmacists, dietitians... ...occupational therapists, physiotherapists... Okay, okay... I'll ask my superior to explain to you He wants to know everything! The guy's trying to make trouble This is my boss "Grasshopper"? "God of Wealth"? Let's chat over there Long time no see! Right, long time no see How ya doing? That auntie... She's your girlfriend? Sorry... You can't tell at first glance... But her cleavage is really something Those young chicks have nothing on her How about you? - How about you? - You're a big shot now What are you working on? Nothing much... Well...Three Kingdoms - Another version? There've been so many - Right Right, another one every few years Got a part for me in it? You must be kidding, it's an action movie! I could have a go, couldn't I? It's hard work How so? What if you got hurt? No insurance, no pension... That's true, at my age... ...I wouldn't recover from a fall So, tell me about... This place? Well, six or seven years ago... ...my girlfriend... She sort of suggested... ...investing in old people's homes So I decided to give it a go It's seriously profitable We've made a bundle You know, Hong Kong's population is ageing Demand is high, so we've opened more branches Both sides of the harbour Before you know it... ...we'll outnumber convenience stores! Just tell me which area you need It should be around here, I think We've always lived here Right, once you're used to a place... ...it's hard to die anywhere else You and I are about the same age It's not for you, is it? Are you okay? No, not for me Your mother? No, it's for our maid She's worked for us for 60 years How old is she? More than 70 You're so kind-hearted Looking after your maid It's touching to see And meritorious! Let's see...I can... ...give you a 20% discount No charge for air-con or heating And lower charges for escort service We'll do all we can... ...to make her stay here pleasant To be frank, she might well die here Is that too blunt? Hard to believe... ...she's been with us for 60 years Are we there? - Yes - This is it? Ms Chung Chun-Tao! My name is Choi, I'm the supervisor, welcome! Watch your step It's alright, I can manage Take it slowly Watch your step Take care... Slowly... This is where you'll be living Sit down Sit over there This way... Would you like a wheelchair? No... You're doing well! We don't have many single rooms This is the comfiest one Sit down Slowly Don't stare at me Unpack all your belongings We'll put nametags on everything Including your clothes, shoes and socks That way, your things won't get lost These are the nametags If you have any valuables... ...take good care of them Or you can ask us to keep them for you But if anything gets lost... ...we're not responsible I don't have... That's good Then just unpack everything If you need help, press that buzzer Need any help? No I wish everyone was like you Take a rest first Dinner time! Dinner time Open your mouth, Ma'am Open your mouth Swallow, Uncle Eat up What's the matter with you? What the hell? Don't you know how to eat? Look at you! Sloppy pig... Headmaster, let go! What are you doing? Look at him! "He who hears no counsel is a scoundrel!" You're so messy, are you crazy? I'm giving this to you You're new here? I saw you come in None of your family was with you, right? They're all in America These aren't my false teeth! Who took mine? How can I eat? Here, these are yours Idiot! What should I call you? My name is Chung Chun-Tao Chun-Tao? That sounds like a maid's name Am I offending you? Just call me Ah Tao Ah Tao That sounds better! Keep your opinions to yourself! Never mind him Let's eat You like our dishes? I want to go home... No family here... I want to go home... I want to go home now... I'm leaving, you know? Leaving... I want to go home... Alright... I'll take you home - Going home... - Yes, you are Come on... I'll carry your luggage for you I'll go with you I'll see you home Slowly, now... Going home... Go home...go home Ah Tao! What are you doing? Stop that! Let the cleaners do it! Is this place alright? Fine - Used to it now? - Yes Just stop that! Don't, let me do it Come on, let me Come on... Don't... Tell me if you need anything I'll bring it for you I don't need anything Are you sure? Shower gel? Tissues? A change of pyjamas? Better to have two pairs Yes, alright... Okay, I'll bring them next time You're so busy... When will next time be? Probably next week Stop that Leave it When you next come... ...bring some fermented tofu With chilli You don't like the food here? I haven't had tofu in quite a while If you haven't had it, you don't need it! Not good for your health anyway Maybe I should get you a cell phone Then you could call me if you needed anything No Don't waste your money I can't use one anyway I could teach you No... I can always ask the nurse to call you I guess so You don't need to worry about me Do you remember when your grandma had a stroke? You remember? You've forgotten already You were away She had a stroke... ...and then got better She was much better... Then she had another I'm much better off here People take care of me Your son? No I thought not, he doesn't look like her God-son? Yes Ah Tao, you're very lucky... ...to have your god-son visit you Stand on the spot and twist... You're not getting it...come on... You take a break Auntie Kam, come on... Let me take the lead... You're so... So... Hey, newcomer! Come on, let me show you how I...you go to hell! I can hardly move! Then you should exercise more! Don't be too stubborn at your age! Follow my example, I have many interests I swim, I learn English... And I dance... You need interests, or you die! I'm right, aren't I? Right? Uncle Kin, stop this tomfoolery What? I'm just communicating! Come, sit down My name is Mui They call me Mui Gu This is my mother Hello Just call me Ah Tao Tao... Have some sweet soup No thank you, I can't take sweet things I see It's nice of you to come here... ...to see your mother That's not it I'm here to see her I have regular dialysis They have a machine here, it's more convenient I'm old... Too old to take care of her I had a stroke I told you... ...not to give the flat to your son You wouldn't listen Now he's dumped you here... ...and never even visits you! You're our mother We agreed to go halves on your expenses here I've paid my share I can't force him to pay his Tell Ms Choi here to ask him for the money! So much for your precious son! It's his answering machine again Don't worry... You can settle the account here later You walk ahead I can wait - Tired? - No We can sit for a while Sit? Alright How many times do I have to tell you... ...not to talk to them like that? Why would they listen if you talk like that? How can we get the permit we need... What? Approved? It's been signed? Okay, okay, I'm sorry I was wrong Fine, fine... I'll check my schedule and see when I can come Okay, bye Any seats? Sit anywhere Granny, you can sit here - Thank you - You're welcome Thank you Thanks - You're welcome - Thanks Can you clear the table? Ready to order? What kinds of fish do you have? Garoupa, sea bass, butter fish Any sea bream? Garoupa, sea bass, butter fish Which would you like? Garoupa And some steamed vegetable No oil, no salt and no soy sauce So, nothing at all on it? - That's right - Okay - Hey! - Yes? One bowl of steamed rice One lunch set between the two of you? So? Okay - Your fish - Thank you You go ahead You're not eating? No, I'm not hungry I have a meeting later You know how much we eat at those meetings Come on... Here, let me do it I wonder how Kaka's doing at Mrs Chan's place? I'm sure she's fine Better than if she stayed with me I can't even take care of myself Here... Thanks Thanks How is it? The fish is not bad... But the sauce is too salty Next time we'll bring your own soy sauce! You were always so fussy, you spoiled the rest of us Bro, the taxi outside is about to be ticketed Do I look like a taxi driver? Aren't you? I fix air conditioners Ms Choi, these grapes are nice - Are they sweet? - Here... I don't want it either I haven't won a single game Just wait... The "4"? Your turn You can have this Uncle Ha! - Don't fall asleep! - It's your turn Which tile to play? I'm sleepy I want a nap, I'll stop playing Uncle Ha! What the hell? What shall we do? My wife says she's picking up our son Then we'll drive to Scotland for the vacation Well, you fancy joining us? No... My daughter wants to go to Japan Maybe we can juggle the schedules... Anyone want ice? I do Okay What is that? Something dark, looks good... Ah Tao made that just before her stroke It's ox-tongue Good, it's ready to eat - It's edible... - Better if it was reheated Hey! You should serve it cold Can't you wait? Defrost it Can't be done... We don't have a microwave Never mind, just warm it on low heat slowly Let's get started We should finish the game first Okay - Had enough? - Come on Enough? Then... Okay, slice it... - Shall I slice it? - Go ahead You're better at it Of course, when it comes to food... You're the expert - Let me do it - You're messing it up - Don't rush... - Let me do it - Try it - What a struggle! Watch out or I'll cut your arm off! Hey, let me get a look-in! That's my slice! - That one? - Perfect! Great! Tasty, not too salty... It should be sliced thinner What's happening? Mahjong! Off dancing again, Uncle Kin? No, to Shenzhen I hear that in the Futian district... ...they have a matchmaking agency for old people! Are you sure, Uncle Kin? Just RMB100 to buy a hope! Come with me, Auntie Kam Let's go together How about you, Ah Tao? The "2"... That's yours No, yours Okay, let's race for it - Okay - Ready I didn't even get to "3"! Well, we'll let you have it... ...for being the one in our class... ...who brought us those great dishes from Ah Tao Remember... how we came here after practice? Tao always cooked for us We always left full to bursting! She always dressed the same way Black pants, white top...pretty cute Those pants were too short Fancied her, did you? She looked pretty good Aren't you off to Shenzhen? It can wait Ah Tao, your god-son on the phone Hello? "Once there was a fatty" "Went to worship with a catty..." "...of pork, his ass it itches" "Dies with his side in stitches" "One for water, two for skin" "Three for the thirst that'll do you in" "Four for the pimples blotching your face" "Five for liquor, six for death" "Seven are monkeys, eight are their tails" "Nine for the hospital with no bed" "Ten for the car-crash which busts your head" "And Miss Hong Kong kisses you off!" Know who we are? Roger's old classmates! You have to list our names! Who was it who broke my bowl? Wow, you still remember that? And the one who peeled chestnuts for me... ls Hengzi there? What a memory! Is Ah Chun there? Ah Chun, say something! Ah Tao, miss you... ...your stuffed duck dish! Not to mention... Your taro cake, your steamed crab... Your marinated chicken... And, most of all, your beef brisket Ah Tao! Shall we all come and visit you? No need! Just tidy the place when you finish eating Don't worry, I'll do it Ah Tao... I'm off to Mainland China tonight I'll visit you when I get back Okay, take care, no need if you're busy Hello? Hello? She hung up - Just like that? - Yeah Breathe in... Okay, now push...slowly...a bit harder... That's very good Just a bit higher... Right, that's good Fine, now let it down slowly Very good! Alright? Now, one more time... Try to keep your back straight k You've made real progress! Today, let's do it one extra time Concentrate! Good, keep hold of the rail Stand properly Stay balanced Clasp your hands together Clasp them, very good Hold them up in front of your chest... Now, push them outwards! Stretch! Very good! Now, laugh out loud! Very good! Okay, grab the rail again... I'm much better now We can take the minibus The minibus Let's take the minibus! Ah Tao, button's off Can you sew back, please? Oh... Please... Wait a moment... I'll do it later Ah Bill, sit down! Sit down first Come on, sit down Ms Choi... Good morning! Where's Ah Tao? She's been expecting you I'll fetch her Ah Tao Your god-son's here Let me just sew her button first Okay, alright... Let me It's done Ms Choi... I won't be back for dinner Okay, Ah Tao won't be back for dinner! Hello! Good morning Hello! Morning morning. Why's she frowning like that? Ah Tao, long time no see! Good morning Who's that? From Block 80 Come in... What are you doing here? Why are you back here? She knew you were coming I gave her the keys, she let herself in Clever cat, you can open the door! See? My slippers are still here! Don't run off! Stop! You want to go? You want to go somewhere? We must get you a new servant Hey, come here! Come and sit here! Come on What is it? Bamboo leaves, pearl barley... Four bowls simmered down to two Have one now... And take the other back with you Well... It's as thick as a paste! Like porridge! Critical, as ever! You need one box or two? Two Two - Where? - Here Can't get parts for it now So? Throw it away No... Just put it here, it's an antique! Keep it...now give me a hand Open that cupboard I'll do it...watch out... You stay there I bought that when Jason was born And you want to keep it? Of course! Leave it there What about the rest of it? I'll hang on to them What about these? Those. Keeping them? For now, yes You have quite a collection! I do See this? What is it? A five-dollar bill, the first money I earned The first? - Five dollars? - Yes So little? It was quite a lot back then Five dollars could buy an apartment! Are you sure? This old school uniform needs a wash... You kept my old movie magazines! Yes You know, Dad wouldn't let us read them Right, so I had to buy them I won lots of prizes in their competitions Soap, - ballpoint pens... - Look... Lux soap! Have you hoarded many bars? Only this one Smells good Yes, it does I carried you in this sling You used to cry so much I carried you on my back in this every evening That stopped you crying You wouldn't stay in the house These photos... It's a good chest It's kept them in good condition See how you looked back then See? Look at your eyes! How old were you then? Well... - I think... - Never mind, forget it Come on, be good You can do what you like here But when you're staying somewhere else... ...behave yourself! You always did listen to me Don't be annoying Let's go Let's go I'll tell you right now... I won't do dirty or dangerous work No window-cleaning, no toilet-cleaning... And I won't touch men's underwear I won't serve more than one client And when you entertain guests... ...I don't wash all the dishes afterwards I had an office job in Central If the company hadn't closed down... ...I wouldn't have retrained as a domestic help How would you cook rice? In an electric rice-cooker of course, Granny! Better to use a clay pot, Miss Do you know where to buy live fish? Especially live yellow croakers? My master only eats fresh steamed sea fish When he's home, make him slow-boiled soups And every second day... ...cook abalone or sea cucumber Your 'master' must be quite something! I think you should look elsewhere... ...and stop wasting my time! Picking a wife for Roger? Ah Tao, how much is your god-son offering? I wouldn't mind working for him part-time Thinking of getting married? Ma told me you had lots of guys chasing you A greengrocer A fish-stall owner, A haberdasher, they all had their own businesses - No - Why not? Well? They all smelt fishy Even the haberdasher? Fishy! Fishy! You had a crush on my dad! No way! Nonsense! Why don't you get married? I like one of them... She got a PhD at 24 What's wrong with her? No She's a good one You don't like her eye sockets? Fishy! Nonsense! There's another one who's tall and very pretty... Looks like a model She is a model now - Really? - Yes She's with Aaron Kwok - Really? - Yes - Nonsense - It's true You! You're just too picky! Too stuck-up! You... I hear Uncle Kin is chasing you? Nonsense! Uncle Kin is...not that bad No You're just too picky! No Why not? Disgusting! In what way? Don't mind me I was just passing I have some fresh egg tarts No thanks, have them yourself You're always doing things for me Let me treat you once Come on, they're delicious - Come on... - Okay then... Have them while they're hot You should have them yourself! I can't, I have diabetes I need some money for my medicine That reminds me, lend me HK$300 Your god-son is always giving you money HK$300? Well, HK$500 would be even better I don't have that much HK$300, then HK$300 I'm leaving the egg tarts here There's so much pollution in Hong Kong If Ah Tao were still with us... ...she'd make soothing fruit linctus for our throats Wouldn't she? You're busy every day And now you're looking after Ah Tao too Do you get enough rest? All you can do is nod? Let me... No Alright, I'll fetch... Ah Tao, sit down Roger, you get a vase In there Ah Tao, I brought you some birds' nests The small one's in syrup For you to eat now The other one isn't seasoned yet Put it in the fridge You can add sugar or salt, as you like I'm so happy that you've come to see me! There's no need to bring me things too! Ah Tao, don't be silly We're the same age When I was in hospital that time... ...you brought everything and looked after me That's what I should do Come on, have it while it's hot You even brought a bowl? I have bowls here How is it? Did you add ginger? Should I have done? Yes, otherwise it smells fishy I tried it, it's okay Not fishy? Let me taste it again Fishy! You haven't told Ah Tao the good news yet? Oh, I forgot to tell you! Jason's wife will have a baby in June Congratulations! You'll have a great-grandson! That's wonderful! Congratulations! Yes... How are the others? Doing well? They're all doing fine Sharon's husband will retire next year My health is still alright You look great I still drive the old folks to church on Sundays By the way, do you often pray? I do Here... This is for you I can't accept it Please take it Ah Tao! Ah Roger has spent so much on me Please take it back Roger should look after you It was hard for you to help raise him This is just some spending money Ah Tao! I can't... Buy the late master a bouquet for me I really can't... Well, you must like these... I asked for two extra pairs on the plane You're always saying your feet are cold Thank you, these are fine Here... It's so lovely...it's for me? Yes, keep it for yourself Thank you You spent a lot It's nothing All these good things! I'll come to see you again You don't need to come if you're busy Roger, spend more time with your Ma I will Remember to put the birds' nest in the fridge We must go Bye! It's so tight... It's supposed to be birds' nest Hey, don't! Don't block the TV! Stop pretending Let's eat! Ah Sa, bring some bowls! Roger! Turn it down a bit! You have to make so much noise with the paper? Roger... I've been thinking You should get back our flat in Sham Shui Po Fix the place up Then Ah Tao could live there... ...for her last few years Before we moved to America your father always said... ...he'd like Ah Tao to live there when she retired Roger... Are you listening to me? Or are you just nodding? Roger, did you hear what I said? I did There's still one sitting tenant there But I think I can handle him It's hot What is it? Tea with honey Not like Ah Tao's, but it'll do Okay? Get up! Get up! What are you staring at? We're taking back the flat! You have three days to clear out! Think they can handle it? It's done! Roger! Is it done? - Hey, is it done? - Yes! Please count it No need for that! No waiting around, no cuss words And no need for death-defying stunts! Just tell brother here when that scumbag will go In three days! - Many, many thanks - You're welcome Thanks a lot...Bye! Teatime! Your son is spending New Year in the Mainland He won't be back this week You'll be here alone unless you come with me No, your brother told me on the phone... ...that he'd be here to pick me up Please call him to check You should go! Go with your daughter and celebrate! Your son is busy You're luckier than me, you should go - Go home - Miss Kam... This is for you May all your wishes come true in the New Year The same to you! Since your god-son is away... ...please spend New Year with us Thank you, no, I'm staying here Wait... - Let me get you a red packet - There's no need for that! No, I should! Just a moment... How much is this? HK$48 And this? HK$28 HK$28? Sounds like you have a full house! We've just had dinner, I'm so full So your New Year is tomorrow? That's right Remember to give red packets for me I can't do that... You can fly over and do it yourself! I'll pay you back! How's the New Year there? It's quite lively here We had sausage with chicken And I love having... ...Kaka staying here with me She's so happy now You should thank the staff for allowing it They were really nice about it But she has to go when I get back, you know? Ah Tao, this is Jason! Kung Hei Fat Choi (Happy New Year)! Kung Hei Fat Choi! Ah Tao, this is Sharon... I wish you good health...Take care! To you too! Ah Tao, this is Roger again Do you really recognize Jason's voice? Of course not! She's been here longer than anyone This home has changed hands a few times No-one has ever come to visit her Apparently her whole family emigrated in the 90s And no-one has heard from them since Who pays her fees? The government Stop that! I could apply for subsidy too You could Why are you back now? I'm the supervisor I have to give my staff time off at New Year What about your family? Come Handsome feller Gorgeous gal Now, don't run about! Wait for me! The one behind us is a movie star? Appears on ATV You sit here I have to greet guests - Don't run off anywhere! - I know it. Roger! Look who's here! Thanks for coming, Mr Chow You do have 'face'! Wonderful... Congratulations! Young man... Don't smoke, you'll get lung cancer Sorry, I don't speak Cantonese... You...no smoke... Smoking causes lung cancer Oh, I get it... What's wrong? Is he bothering you? No, no, he... Hey! Ning Hao! What are you doing back here? Everyone's out there Well, it's so crowded there... What are you doing here? Having a quick smoke! He's a very famous director Let me introduce her, this is my aunt I told him you're my aunt Hello, Auntie Roger! - Madame Lo - Congratulations Great movie! Thank you This is my aunt Did you drive? My car is here, we can give you a lift No need, thank you We don't have far to go Alright then, we'll be on our way We must meet for dinner sometime Sure, sure - Bye. Thank you - You're welcome She's so polite And friendly But terribly thin Movie stars are quite weird They're always trying to lose weight Then it's a good thing you're not a star! As the movie began... ...I saw your name in huge letters You spotted that? Yes! If your father could have been here... ...he'd have been so happy to see it Are you sure? Of course! You're kind to say so Thanks for bringing me to the premiere During the movie, I saw people standing up I thought they were going to the washroom But they didn't come back They left because the movie isn't good They didn't want to meet the director afterwards It's not good? That's impossible! It is good - Really? - Good. But I saw you doze off My eyes were a little sore, that's all Eyesore? Really? Who's in there? What's the matter? Someone's collapsed Ah Tao isn't back yet? Sign it Don't be sad Keep it safe Don't be too sad, take care You're not in very good shape The equipment in that home isn't adequate! Talk to your family and social worker Maybe you can move to a better nursing home Mary... Bring me the catalogue of false teeth Coming Granny, your teeth are all loose You'll be able to chew better with false teeth How? No, I don't want false teeth How can you eat without teeth? They cost a fortune And I wouldn't be using them for long Don't listen to her, order a set ' Okay ' No! - What's wrong with you? - I'm old, I'm useless - I don't want false teeth - Why are you so upset? I don't want them Stop this, you need to have good teeth You're back... Where is she? Mui Gu? She asked me to tell you... The car from the nursing home came early She couldn't wait to say goodbye to you She said to look after yourself She'll call you if she has time Thank you It's so hot... Uncle Kin I...I just got so confused I lost my wallet on the street Lend me two or three hundred How much? HK$300 Uncle, you should come more often! Thanks for taking me out What's the hurry? She had a sudden fever Then stomach pains It's an inflammation of her bile duct She needs immediate surgery I'm not scared They can do whatever they want God will arrange things, right? The Bible says, to everything there is a season A time for tears and a time for laughter A time for birth and a time for death A time for heart surgery and bile duct dissection - Painful? - Yes Better to laugh than to cry, anyhow A time for steaming melons And a time for salted eggs The joys in life are the fruits of our sorrows From hardships come our best experiences We must know hardships ourselves... ...before we know how to comfort others Oh Lord, protect Ah Tao Spare her unnecessary pain I beg your indulgence... ...to grant her small wish She wants to see the newest member of our family My nephew will soon bring his new son to Hong Kong If Ah Tao isn't needed in heaven yet... ...please let her stay with us for a while longer Thanks be to heaven - Amen - Amen Now we commence the first birthday ceremony... ...for Jonathan I'll repeat what I said in Korean... It's usual for a child of Korean ancestry... ...to have this ceremony at the age of one Different gifts are placed on the table We observe which one the child chooses It's a possible indication of the child's future This belonged to your grandmother-in-law Now I'm passing it on to you And these little things are from me They're for you Group photo time! Over here please, everyone Ah Tao! Ah Tao! Look towards the camera Alright, ready... Look this way, please... Slowly... - Come on, let me - Slowly... You go first I'll come when I've parked the car Okay, we'll be fine Haven't been here for a while? - Can you manage? - Yes Now we have the place back, you must take a look What's so funny? I was just remembering... ...how much Ah Tao doted on you Ma wouldn't let us have soft drinks So Ah Tao would smuggle you a Coke But not me You're jealous? Of course! After all these years? Absolutely! But it paid off for her You look after her so well now She's well rewarded I think both of us are lucky When I had heart surgery a few years ago... ...she helped me through it She certainly speeded up my recovery Now she's had a stroke And it's my turn to look after her Wouldn't it be disastrous if we were both ill! I think God must have a supercomputer... Keeping everyone's destinies in order Don't you think? You spend quite a bit on Tao every month Can you afford it? No problem, I can manage She raised me, and my son too How about this... You cover her expenses while she's alive And I'll pay for her funeral... ...to show my gratitude And how about I buy you a soft drink? No need! Have some water You first... It's for you! You're the host here, I'm your guest Next time I come... ...I'll expect you to buy food... ...and cook us all a good meal! I will Come on... Thank you Thank you Tao, that fridge is an antique! Yes Remember the first fridge we bought? We had watermelon together? Yes... Master told me to buy a watermelon... ...from the market I kept it in the fridge... ...and we all shared it that evening Old Madam didn't like cold food, but she tasted it That's right... I must tell you, Old Madam asked me... ...to have some ointment ready... ...in case she got stomach pains! Hello, ladies and gentlemen! We're so happy we can visit you... ...for the Mid-Autumn Festival Today we're here with ten remedial pets The first one is called Kaka She's now four years old Very lovable, but she can be quite naughty Now, the others I'll introduce them This one is a poodle Fifi You can play with her And DouDou, is a cat And other one called SingSing And Big Uncle Big Uncle is not human, is a dog "You're the only one in my life" "Only you can perk me up" "In this ever-changing world, my heart is ever yours" "My heart goes out in songs of praise" Great! Cut! May you have good health Good health to you! Happy Mid-Autumn Festival! This is for you Good health to you! I wish you health and happiness! Hey, Roger! Is it you? Bing! What are you doing here? Well...family... Really? That's great Haven't seen you in ages...Doing well? Fine! And you? You want one? No, you don't need it! Let's have tea sometime! Sure Happy Mid-Autumn festival! Why are you taking them back? These are just props We have to visit other homes We'll send the moon cakes over in a few days Got any cash? Lend me two or three hundred Again? Don't think I'm a soft touch! Are you still sick? Or just itchy? - Kin... - You're crazy What? Let him do what he likes while he still can I have some change... I have change...Take it How much? HK$300 Again? Alright You're so generous...you Ah Tao Okay, we're off! Happy Mid-Autumn Festival! Bye... Stay put, please stay put! There's another group coming! Be good sports! Let's try ballroom dancing! Scared? No Faster? Yes, faster! I can't do it! Let's take a break, okay? Faster! No... Let's have a... Are you putting on weight? I get out of breath so quickly Want...have... It's hot I want to have roast goose Wait... Roast goose... Wait... - Look at you - I want to have roast... Roast goose Roast goose rice noodles She's had two strokes and has emphysema All her functions are failing There's nothing we can do Shall we just let her pass away? Think about it and tell me Okay Call you later Hello, Carmen? Yes I'll stick to the schedule and fly tonight Okay You've made your decision? Yes Anyone to see her one last time? No Then I'll reduce her prescription Yes I have work in the Mainland I'll be back in a week If... If she passes away, please send her to the mortuary I'll do the paperwork when I get back Hey, lend me HK$100 HK$50? HK$30? "Reunions and partings are equally hard" "The listless east wind, the withered blooms" "The silkworm spits out silk until its death" "The candle weeps tears until it gutters out" "The mirror in the morning reflects wispy hairs" "The chill evening moonlight, declaiming poems" "No road to the magic mountain..." "The eager bluebird quests in search" It was a blessing to have Ah Tao... ...working in our family for so many years Thank you all for coming today Uncle Kin Please sit down
