 

                        ( screeching ) ( thunder crashing ) Baron! Baron, you mustn't-- Baron! ( gasps ) ( bird screeching ) ( bird screeching ) ( intercom buzzing ) ( indistinct talking ) Man: Uh-huh. Yeah, yeah. Who the hell is he? He doesn't mean five cents at the box office. Besides, I got Byron Orlok. Yeah, yep. Anyone for a swim? So he won an Oscar. Who the hell remembers it besides him? For that money I could get Sandra Dee. Huh? I discussed it with Sam. Well, he feels that Pat Boone's wrong for the part. You want to see those dailies now, Mr. Smith? In a minute. Have him stand by, Ralph. You were late. Somebody kept me up till 4:00 in the morning. Oh? Anyone I know? How did you like it? I liked it. You did? Mm-hmm. I didn't. But thanks. Okay, okay, good-bye. You smoke too much. Tell them to send that pic right out. Byron, you see our ad in the trades? No. Ralph, send that print back to the exchange, would you? This picture's going to open up In a hundred theaters tomorrow. Great film, eh, Jenny? It's all right. Gonna clean up. Is this the new script? Has everybody read this? Sam? This is a work of art. Thank you very much. No, I'm serious. This is a very important film. This is the kind of property I'm going to be proud to put my name on. You writing this down, ed? It's a good script, Sam. Don't you think so, Byron? I'm not making any more films, Marshall. What? What, Byron? I'm retiring. Since when? What is this, a gag, Sam? Hey, wait a minute, wait a minute. I put up front money on this script. Monday I sign a deal with AIP. It's all based on the understanding That I got Byron Orlok. I never signed any agreement to that effect. You never signed anything On the last three pictures we made. We shook hands. Now, come on, what is it? Is something troubling you? I understand you didn't like this last film we made. Not at all. I think Sammy directed it very well. That's why I let him write this new script. Haven't you read it? This is a real new change of pace for you. Okay, everybody out. Let me talk to Byron alone. Please, Marshall, no scenes. You owe me a minute, eh? Come on, Sam. Let me fix this up. Byron, old pal, what's wrong? This isn't like you. What the hell was that all about? I Don't know. He didn't like my script, that's what it was all about. Oh, stop being such a paranoid. What do you mean, paranoid? I sent him my script yesterday And today he retires from pictures. What am I supposed to think? I'm sure he hasn't even read it. I'm just afraid it's much more serious. What about your job? He hasn't said a thing. What if he goes back to England? He's always talking about that. Would you go with him? Would you like me to stay? That's up to you. Marshall: Don't feed me that! I kept you alive for the last three years! He can fix anything. You think you're bankable with any of the majors?! You think they'd know how to put together A package for you? If it weren't for me, The only place you'd be playing is in the wax museum! Call me. ( crash ) There's goes another ash tray. Herr Michaels! Your turn. Okay, run those dailies now. You want me to fix up the mess you just made? Get him back, boy director. Go and talk to him, like you're supposed to be so good, 'cause your next picture just walked out the door! That's why I will. 14, take five. All right, and action. Byron! You didn't say good-bye. Stop it, Sammy. Don't be his errand boy. It nauseates me. I didn't come out here because... I know you came out to save your own little opus. Well, that's true. Because without you, there's no picture. Rubbish. Anybody can walk through the special effects for you. It's not that kind of picture. And there's nobody else for it. The part is you. Sammy, you're a sweet boy. I'm not trying to be. But you can't possibly understand What it feels like to be me. I'm an antique, out of date. All right, what are you going to do? Plant roses? Actors Don't retire. Six months and you'll blow your brains out, Byron. I'm an anachronism. What does that mean? Sammy, look around you. The world belongs to the young. Make way for them. Let them have it. ( hammer clicks ) I'll take it. I've always wanted a gun like this. It's a beauty. Yeah, it sure is. Hey, you see? That's Byron Orlok over there. Oh, yeah, yeah, that's him. You see a lot of movie stars on the strip. I thought he looked familiar. Okay, now, you want the case, too? Oh, yeah, might as well. Sure, why not? It's only money. Will you take a check? Yeah, sure. You've been in before, Haven't you? Sure. So's my dad, lot of times. Besides, you have an honest face. You want me to toss in some ammunition? Yeah, a couple extra clips, if you could. Okay, I can stamp that for you. That's okay. How much altogether? Comes to $249.60. Okay. Thanks a lot. Here, Don't forget your receipt. Oh, thanks. See you. And then I'll tell the hotel what time we're checking out. Good. What a nice boy Sammy is. He's the only one I feel sorry about in all this. He thought maybe you didn't like his script. Doesn't he know I Haven't read it? I told him that. Good. I couldn't tell him why, though. Oh, come now, Jenny. I'm too old for playacting. It's no fun anymore. How about a drink? All right. I think we should celebrate my freedom. ( rockabilly playing ) ( radio tuning static ) Hey, baby, it's the real Don Steele show. I got to get the devil out of here. I'm going to be out there shoulder-to-shoulder, Elbow-to-elbow, with the rest of you thrill seekers. Here I come ready or not. And who's going to sock it to us? We're going to hock it and lock it out there, right? On 93 KAJ Boss radio. And you know what happens when delicious Don goes hog wild On your receiver, right? Thrill seekers of mine, are you ready? Thanks very much for saying what have you, hey, Dave Garroway, Johnny Ray, Anita O'Day, Curtis Lemay Sirhan may, x-Ray, el Rey and a one-horse open sleigh. Dennis Day, Marvin Gaye, George day, Sammy Kaye, Swinging with the car in the next Lane, If you love me, you have to love my suit. Can you dig it? Here he comes. Get ready to take a trip along the strip with him. I'm hip, can you dig it? You better believe it! Bye! ( deejay chattering ) Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! little Johnny probably wants to shoot...  ( dog barking ) ...Just a moment when we continue our news. This week on the Saturday night movie, James Stewart, Lee Remick and Ben Gazzara star In Otto Preminger's compelling production Of anatomy of a murder. Man: You're guilty of murder-- premeditated and with vengeance. That's first-degree murder in any court of law. Woman: Here, I'll do that, dear. The unwritten law's a myth, lieutenant. There is no such thing as the unwritten law. Anyone who commits a murder on the theory that it does exist... Woman: Goodness, I feel so tired. That bazaar's going to be the death of me. Younger woman: Oh, why Don't you sit down-- I'll take care of this. Suspenseful viewing. Saturday night at 11:15 on channel 7. Woman: I'd like to know where that husband of yours is. He's been late every night recently. That job is... ( crash ) Younger woman: Oh, darn! Woman: It's all right. No harm done. Younger woman: Oh, here, let me get it. She has not spoken, and she carried no identification. Her head is covered with bandages, But doctors at county general say Her hair is light brown, cut short. She was treated for severe scalp lacerations. Doctors think she might be suffering From some mental disorder that would account For this apparent stupor and muscular rigidity. Her clothing has been taken to the sheriff's lab in the hopes That it could help establish her identity. Woman: Turn the TV down, Will you? I thought I heard the car. Man: Hello, girls. Woman: I thought I heard you. Man: Mmmm! Smells good. Woman: Did you remember to call the Irwins, dear? Man: Of course I did. Dinner ready? I'm starving. Woman: But Don't you want to wait for Bobby? Man: What do you mean? Isn't he home? His car's here. Younger woman: It is? Bobby, you out there? Coming. Go wash your hands, daddy. We can eat right away. That's the best news I've heard all day. Hello, sir. Hi, son. How's it going? Okay. Hi, mom. Hello, dear. Come on, sit right down. Hi, Bobby. Hi, honey. Where have you been? Just washing my hands. Oh, well, we were worried about you. You certainly came in quietly. We didn't hear the car or anything. Have you been home long? Just got in. Ah, that looks good. I didn't have time for lunch today. Where were you? Oh, Robert. Well, before... ( TV plays quietly ) We thank you for the food we're about to receive, In the lord's name, amen. All: Amen. Working you hard, Bobby, boy? Not too bad, sir. They certainly are working him hard. Pass Bobby the rolls, Ilene. Oh, did you order those tables For the bazaar, dear? Didn't I say I would, Charlotte? What took you so long? Give me your plate, Ilene. What do you mean? That bazaar is all I hear about. Well, you were so late. I'm sorry. Oh, the boss made me stay late. Give me your plate, Bobby. Got to give you some potatoes. Had to file some things. Hey, guess who I saw coming home? Who? Byron Orlok. Oh! Really?! Yup. Did he scare you? Yeah. No. I was driving toward the freeway, And I saw him standing on the sidewalk talking. Well, to the future. Ed: I'll drink to that. Just get me a drink. Oh, my God, I forgot all about you. How could you forget about me? Have a seat, ed. We had a date, 6:00. What? I forgot to tell you. What's the problem, ed? No problem at all. I just wanted to go over the arrangements For tomorrow night. What's tomorrow night? That personal appearance. What? At the drive-in. Yup, now everything's been taken care of. We got one of the big l.A. Disc jockeys To introduce you, Kip Larkin, And I think you should meet with him Tomorrow afternoon at 3:00, if it's all right with you. I'm not making that appearance, ed. What? I'm not making That appearance. What do you mean, Byron? It's all set. It's all been taken care of, the ads, everything. Byron? Now what am I going to do? Would you please bring me a phone? Man: Yes, sir. Ed: I Don't want to get upset. I'm not going to get upset. Ed: Thank you very much. What are you trying to do, get me fired? Byron, you know, you do Have an obligation here. I have no more obligations, and it's quite relaxing. Marshall? Uh, we got a little problem here. I'm with Byron, and, uh, he says He's not going to do that pa tomorrow night. Marshall? He wants to talk to you. He just went to the John. No. No. ( whispers ): He knows you're here. ( whispers ): I am here. He says to tell you, this has nothing to do With any difference between you two. There's a lot of innocent people affected here. Tell him I can't quite see him in the role of public defender. He's not buying it, Marshall. Orlok: If he's so interested In the welfare of the people, Tell him to stop making pictures. He doesn't care about the people. My interpreter. Why Don't you talk to him, Byron? I'm in the middle here. Don't call him back, ed. Why torture yourself? That's my job. I get paid to be a masochist. He's going to sue you, you know. And he'll win. I've got a little money. Did you know I graduated from Princeton? Summa cum laude. I majored in English literature. Well... I think that I'll go and get drunk. So long, folks. Good-bye, Eddie. ( gunshots ) Hey, deer season opens next week. Huh, what do you say? Great. Think you can get your wife to let you go? Don't worry about that. ( chuckles ) Yeah, it'd be good for us. Get away from the girls for a couple of days. Getting flabby. Hey, maybe we'll ask Pete and Tim along. Just four guys. Sounds great, sir. Okay, we'll do it. You ready? Ready. First one misses sets them up. ( gunshots ) Damn it. ( gun cocks ) Hey! What are you doing?! You know better than that! I was just checking the elevation. That's just how accidents happen. Never point a gun at anyone. Sorry. I wasn't thinking. All done? Yes. Good. What about my Chinese lesson? I didn't think you felt like it anymore. Oh. Well, how about another drink before dinner? No, thanks. Ah, still sulking, huh? No. Oh, yes, you are. You've been sulking around all evening Ever since my little scene with ed. I have been upset. I didn't know it showed that much. You Don't have to go on being my secretary, you know. I know. I Don't want to Break up a romance. I Don't want that added to my list of sins. That's not why I'm upset, and you know it. No? Well, I feel no remorse, I can tell you that. The thought of never laying eyes On Smith and Loughlin again fills me with Joy. So you can just stop Being my little oriental conscience. You really are in a foul mood. Not at all. I'm just tired of your baleful looks. Is that why you're trying to pick a fight with me? Look, my dear, I know you have an oxford degree, And perhaps all this is quite unworthy Of your many talents, But you are only my employee. ( sighs ) There's an old Chinese saying. With the rich and powerful, always a little Patience. Very clever of the Chinese. I have an idea. Why Don't you ask smith for a job? Then you can be with Sammy all the time. It would be easier If my concern were purely selfish, wouldn't it? I really couldn't be less interested. You'd love it If somehow you could convince yourself You'd been betrayed by everyone. Then you'd really be happy. No guilt, And full of self-pity. Quite a speech. You ought to hear it in Chinese. ( door opening ) There are one or two of us Who care what happens to you, Though I can't imagine why. Jenny, I'm... ( sighs ) Sorry. ( knock at door ) Come. Good evening, Mr. Orlok. Where would you like this? Oh, anywhere. It doesn't matter. Uh, the dinners are in the warmers, sir, Under the table. Thank you, sir. Good night. Enjoy your dinner. ( door closes ) Man: They've got another one now. Man: Who? Are you ready? Who? Joanie man. ( laughter and applause ) Joanie man. Joanie man? Wait till you hear this. What does she do? Yeah. She takes off everything but her earphones. ( laughter ) Mm. Well, I have to go to work now. Well, I think it's just awful. Can't you get switched to the day shift? Oh, it's only for a few more weeks. Yes. In the fourth row? Yes. Do you really? Yeah, from Lenny's. Oh, no, no, no, Joe, fourth row. Fourth row, behind him. One, two, three, four... I'm giving you a memory test now. I'm taking you back to south Philadelphia. Do I remember? I remember the lady in green. Do you? Evidently, that must be her daughter... That's right. Because I know the lady... the lady in green...  ( both humming ) Pardon me? Man: Lily from Philly. Lily from Philly. Lily from Philly! Last week, it was Millie from Philly and... ( television fades into the background ) Hmm. Don't go. Ooh! Bobby, Don't be silly. What? You could call them up, Say you were sick. One night, what's the difference? Oh, it's not right. What should I wear? Come on, just tonight. Oh, and besides, it's too late now. They couldn't get a substitute For me that fast. Oh, what do you mean? The phone company's used to emergencies. Well, what if it was an emergency. Well, it's not an emergency. Should I wear this sweater? ( television plays in the background ) ( applause on television ) Oh, it's got a run. Oh, well. I want to talk to you, Ilene. Hmm. What about? Hmm? I Don't know what's happening to me. Why? ( applause on TV ) Oh, I get funny ideas. Like what? Oh, you mean, like That I shouldn't go to work tonight. Does this run look too bad? ( laughter on TV ) You Don't think I can do anything, do you? What? I think you can do anything you want to If you put your mind to it. That's what your mother says, anyway. How do I look? ( laughter on TV ) Ooh, ooh. Bye-bye, dear. Oh, Don't take my car. Hmm? Take my mother's. Oh, why? Well, I've got to change the oil. Oh, okay. Bye. Ilene: Uh, Bobby wants me to use your car tonight. Is it okay? Charlotte: Why certainly, dear. The keys are in the ignition. Ilene: Okay, well, bye now. Charlotte: Good night, dear. Robert: Good night. Charlotte: Drive carefully. Ilene: Uh-huh. Bye. ( footsteps moving away ) As a matter of fact, She and you are my first undiscovered talents. That's right. Yes. I am probably the first one. Yes... ( car door closes ) ( laughter on TV ) I'm still waiting. No, you're not. You are right now a very big personality In the home of every television owner. Yeah! ( laughter and light applause on TV ) My press agent... ( laughter on TV ) That Busby sure looks good for 72... ( laughter on TV ) The band feels good tonight. Isn't it... Isn't it great to do this Without boo-boo jumping in? That's right. Uh, have we something there you want to, uh... We're having something A little bit new I think tonight. We ought to keep talking, and we won't have to do it. ( laughter on TV ) I just like to get in the mood with you. I like to feel, like the Corsican brothers. ( laughter on TV ) It's more like a dolly sisters. ( laughter on TV ) hooray for Hollywood!  Now here's a message. Oh, yes! Well... Isn't he silly? Huh? I'm bushed. So am I. What did you need your car for? I'll be happy when that bazaar is over. What? So will we all, huh? Oh, I, uh... Got to check some of the hoses. Okay. Well, good night, son. Come on, Charlotte. I'll be right in. Good night, sir. Commercial announcer: ...And at very little expense. You look tired, dear. Don't tinker with that car all night now. I won't. You really like that insurance job, Bobby? They keep you so late. Well, sure, it's a good job. I spoke to your brother today. Oh, yeah? Everyone's fine. The baby has a cold. Oh, that's too bad. Charlotte? Well, good night, dear. Not too late now. Promise? I promise. That's a good boy. Charlotte? Coming. These worries need not be yours With the kind of protection offered you By Grant of Richmond, The old line company that cares about you. Pick up your phone. The number's in the white pages. Give us a call, and let us do the worrying. That's Grant of Richmond. There's a branch near you. Here now, ladies and gentlemen, is the young lady That we feel very happy and proud To have discovered on our show. We know you will enjoy her, And we know you'll make her feel welcome, 'cause this is her first return visit to our show. You know what happens? They get so good, we can't get them back. Can't afford them. Will you welcome now, miss paid March? ( applause on TV ) ( dog barking ) ( crickets chirping ) ( dog barking ) ( clock ticking ) Uh, bob, mayor get off all right? Yes, sir. He told me He wanted me to come back here, sir. That's right. Sit down. I want to talk to you about a parole I've been trying to get. You know, it isn't as easy as it sounds. There are over 2500 men in here, And they all want me to do something for them. The fight's at 2:15. ( clock ticking ) Tea, madame? Oh! I wish you wouldn't sneak up on me like that. I never see you coming, I never hear you coming. I just look up, and there you are. ( knocking ) ( sighs ) Who is that tapping at my chamber door? ( knocking ) Sammy, I was just thinking about you. Where is my script? Come on in. I was just watching a relic I had a hand in. Just-just give me my script. I'll give you a drink. Well, that's different. Hey... The criminal code. ( all yelling at once ) Take it easy. I've had too much already. ( growling ) I saw this at the museum of modern art. ( chuckles ) Smith's right-- I am a museum piece. Howard hawks directed this. I know. Here. Thanks to him, it was my first really important part. ( crowd yelling in distance ) ( crowd continues yelling ) Have you seen Jenny? I was supposed to call her. Why didn't you? Shh! ( crowd yelling in distance ) Well? Shh! ( crowd yelling in distance ) ( yelling crescendos ) ( whimpers ) ( crowd roaring in distance ) TV announcer: Yes, folks, You're looking at the world's largest used car dealership On balboa boulevard, in the City of Encino... ( sighs ) He really knows how to tell a story. Now look at this... Indeed, he does. All the good movies have been made. What'd you do with my script? Oh, I Don't know. It's over there someplace. I wrote a hell of a picture for you. For you as you really are. Uh-huh. A tired old man. No, no. This was last week when you still had some guts. It took days to convince Marshall. "a work of art." Should have heard him when he first... When he first read it. I Don't know. I Don't understand it... You sit still for three lousy, terrible, lousy scripts we did, And finally, you know, I come up with something good, And you quit. I Haven't even read the damn thing. Well, why not? God, geez, it's hot in here. Sorry. I guess I feel the cold a little more than I did. Open a window. No, it's all right, it's all right. ( sighs ) What's it all about? What? Everybody's dead-- I feel like a dinosaur. ( chuckles ) Well, I know how people think of me these days-- Uh, old-fashioned, outmoded. Well, not after this picture, they wouldn't. You can't change your whole lifetime with one picture. And what have you got if you quit? Oh, Sammy, what's the use? "Mr. Bogeyman, king of blood," they used to call me. "Marx Brothers makes you laugh, Garbo makes you weep, Orlok makes you scream." ( chuckles ) And once I thought I'd be an actor. Oh, it's not that the films are bad... I've gotten bad. I couldn't even play a straight part decently anymore. I've been doing the other thing too long. Of course you could. And even that isn't the point. You know what they call my films today? "camp. High camp." Wait a minute. I want to show you something. My kind of horror isn't horror anymore. There they are. Look at that. No one's afraid of a painted monster. The only thing you've said that's right... Is about this. Which is why you ought to do my movie. ( chuckles ) Oh, a-a-and you Don't play Some phony victorian heavy. You play a human being, And you could play the hell out of it. If I were your age, I'd play it myself. I'm going to go offer it to Vincent price. I think I'd better go home now. I think you'd better stay here. I think I'd better stay here. Come on, come on, you'll be more comfortable on the couch. Get up. Here. Hey, hey! I'm very drunk. Hey, that's my bed! ( groans ): Oh... Good lord. I'm as drunk as he is. Shh! Sorry. ( sighs ) ( match being struck ) ( car pulls up outside ) ( engine shuts off ) ( car door closing ) ( door opening ) ( door closes ) ( exhaling ) Leave the light off. Bobby? Yeah. Why are you still up? Please leave the light off. Why aren't you asleep yet? I have a headache. Do you know what time it is? Don't forget the hall light. ( light switch clicks ) ( door closes ) ( Ilene yawning ) I can't see a thing. ( clatter ) ( groans ) Honestly, why can't we Turn on the light? It hurts my eyes. Oh. ( yawns ) Well, it certainly was a busy night tonight. God, I'm exhausted. Seems like everyone was calling long distance. ( water running ) ( brushing teeth ) ( water splashing ) ( water running ) ( exhales ) Good night. Good night. You want to talk now? No, you're tired. Oh, I sure am. Well, aren't you going to go to sleep? ( exhales ) I just want to finish the cigarette. Okay. Well... Good night. Good night, Ilene. ( crickets chirping ) Ilene: Mmm, good morning. Charlotte: Good morning, dear. ( bell rings ) Charlotte: Oh, that's the grocery boy. Coming! M-morning. What are you typing? Aren't you going To go to work? ( gunshot ) Ilene? Ilene? Bobby? ( gunshot ) ( gunshot ) ( lock turning ) ( loading bullets ) ( lock turning ) ( birds chirping ) ( children playing outside ) ( dog barking ) ( water running ) ( water running ) ( water turned off ) ( paper towels tearing ) ( clattering ) ( door shuts ) ( engine starting ) I like to hear you say that you love me  but you Don't have to tell me all the time  'cause I can tell you're thinking of me  I can hear you in my mind...  ( engine roaring as car pulls away ) ( clock ticking ) ( man moaning ) ( groaning softly ) Ah! H-have you gone mad? I was having a nightmare. I opened my eyes, the first thing I see Is Byron Orlok. Very funny, very funny. ( groaning ) Oh, what time is it? ( clattering ) ( groaning ) Noon. ( knock at door ) I'll get it. No, no, no, no. ( knocking ) Oh-oh, oh. ( pounding at door ) Good morning, my dear. Good morning. Oh, not so loud. Here you are. Suite on the super chief to Chicago, Suite on the 20th century to New York, First class on the queen Elizabeth to Southampton. You have to leave tonight at 8:00 If you want to catch the ship. Jenny? Suite to Chicago, suite to New York, First class on the Queen Elizabeth-- Cancel them. I might as well make that personal appearance tonight. No, Don't say anything. I'm still retiring. But I told you I wanted to go home on the queen Mary. What happened here last night? He had a guest. Boy, you just made my headache worse. You can do that lousy pea. Instead of my movie. Buy off your conscience. So, I go back to television, and you take my girl to London. You look worse than he does. I feel worse. Go wash up. No, I got to go home. Oh, no, you're going to stay and help me With that thing tonight. Martyr... Go on. Order some breakfast, would you, Jenny? Oh, I couldn't eat on an empty stomach. Hello, Eddie? This is Jenny. I have good news for you. Byron's going to do the drive-in. ( car radio playing loud music ) ( lowers music volume ) ( music continues ) Hiya, Roy. Hiya. Could I have, uh, Okay. ( coughing ) Oh, and a box of the 12 gauge. What size? Four buck. Good bit of shooting. Anything else? Nope. Okay. How's your dad? He's okay. ( coughing ) Damn flu going around. Spent the day in bed yesterday. The whole day. Oh, yeah? Yeah. Um, Could you charge that to my dad? I'll check. ( coughing ) ( coughing ) ( dialing phone ) ( coughing ) Sign here, bob. Going out with your dad again? Yeah. Here you go. Thanks a lot. What you hunting this time? Going to shoot some pigs. Good luck. ( coughing ) ( bell jingling ) Hey, groovy, groovy. Now, uh, somebody announces me on the P.A. "uh, Laddies and James, papas and mamas, "here's your boss disc daddy, "the winner spinner with the sounds around, Kip the hip Larkin. Let's harken Larkin." All right, then after you finish plugging your show, You introduce Mr. Orlok, and we can get on with... No plugs-- not kip the hip. I am just going to tell them What a big thrill this is for me, And that's no put-on. When I was a kid, Mr. O, I must have dug your flicks four zillion times. You blew my mind. Obviously. Beautiful. Is that beautiful? All right, come on, Let's, uh, let's go on. Hey, man-- Direct me, C.B. I'll try. All right, after Mr. Orlok comes out And says a few words... That's when I hit him with the questions From the kids in the audience. Got them right here. All right, let's, uh, let's hear them. Yeah, groovy; uh, Mr. Orlok-- 'scuse me, uh, do I call you Byron Or Mr. Orlok? It doesn't matter. Mr. Orlok. Mr. Orlok-- groovy. Got some questions here from the fans out there. Mr. O, how do you like being in motion pictures? What's the next one? ( phone ringing ) "what's the next one?" ( chuckles ) "is Byron Orlok your real name?" Sammy, this isn't very interesting. ( phone ringing ) Jenny, can't we hold up those calls? Dick, dick, um... ( clears throat ) "what is your next flick going to be?" Sammy, this is dull-- Deadly dull. It's going to be my last appearance, And I'd like to do something that... Yeah. Hey, what are you cats talking about? Why Don't you tell them a story? You know a few scary stories. Yes, I might perhaps do that, yes. Well, what's taking you so long? Hey, you know what they're doing, man? Orlok: Well, now, let me think. I... I think I know a short one That might do. Let's hear it. Yeah. Hey, what about these questions? Orlok: Ladies and gentlemen, Boys and girls, I'd like to leave you with a little story To think about as you drive home... Through the darkness. Once upon a time, many years ago... There should be a pin spot while they see my face As I'm talking. Once upon a time, Many, many years ago, A rich merchant in Baghdad sent his servant To the marketplace to buy provisions. And after a while, The servant came back white-faced and trembling And said, "master, when I was in the marketplace, "I was jostled by a woman in the crowd, "and I turned to look, "and I saw that it was death that had jostled me. "and she looked at me and made a threatening gesture! "oh, master, please, lend me your horse, "that I may ride away from this city "and escape my fate. "I will ride to Sumara, And death Will not find me there." So, the merchant loaned him the horse, And the servant mounted it And dug his spurs into its flank, And as fast as the horse could gallop, He rode towards Sumara. Then the merchant went to the marketplace, And he saw death standing in the crowd. And he said to her, "why did you make a threatening gesture To my servant when you saw him this morning?" And death said, "I made no threatening gesture. "that was... That was only a start of surprise. "I was astonished to see him here in Baghdad, "for I have an appointment with him tonight... In Sumara." ( music playing loudly on radio ) ( tires screeching ) ( music stops ) ( soft, high-pitched whining in distance ) ( whining louder ) ( mechanical whirring ) ( whining very loud ) ( gunshot ) ( tires screeching ) ( four gunshots ) ( gunshot ) ( gunshot ) ( tires screeching, second gunshot ) ( clicks ) ( groans, hisses ) ( gunshot ) ( high-pitched whining ) ( gunshot ) ( gunshot, tires screeching ) ( gunshot, tires screeching ) ( tires screeching ) ( crashing ) ( footsteps on stairs ) Hey, what are you doing? Hey. ( screams ) ( siren wailing ) ( siren wailing ) ( sirens approaching ) ( siren wailing ) ( sirens approaching ) ( radio playing rock music ) ( tires screeching ) ( horn honking ) ( siren wailing ) Radio DJ: Now we're going to go-go with this sound! ( upbeat song playing ) ( siren wailing ) he was on his...  ...Leaving town  he just stopped by to tell me that she's gone  ( siren wailing ) ( tires screeching ) how she laid 'em down  they all heard my baby humming the California...  ( tires screeching ) they all stopped by to tell me that she's gone  oh, how she used to love to dance that ol' grizzly bear  ( siren wailing ) I guess she's gone to Frisco  to dance it there  because when I woke up this morning  she was gone  she was gone  oh, she was gone  yeah, she was gone  she was gone  she was gone  she was gone  yeah, she was gone.  Good evening, sir. One, please. All right. DJ: Squares, go home. We only want the winners here 'cause this is The winner spinner with sounds around. Hit to hit now. We're gonna play a record for you, and we're... That's one-fifty and two. Thank you. Mm-hmm. ( gentle rock and roll playing ) when I go by Baltimore  need no carpet on my floor  come along, follow me  we'll go down to Galilee  and it's a green, green Rocky road  ( fading ): promenade in green  tell me who y'all love, tell me y'all...  ( engine starting ) I really did mean one thing I said last night, Jenny. I Don't want you to return to London with me If it's going to... Upset any plans. I never make plans, you know that. If you mean about Sammy and me, It'll probably make things go one way or the another. Mmm. Do the Chinese have a saying for that, too? ( easy listening music playing ) ( children talking ) ( boy shouting happily ) ( easy listening music playing ) how can you care about me  when you can't even see me  standing alone by your side  you tell me that you won't let your pride   without you, I can't...  aah-aah...   to love and understand you like I do  always knowing what to call you   I sometimes wonder why...  ( children talking and laughing happily ) promenade in green  tell me who you'll love  tell me who you'll love  who you'll love  who you'll love.  ( wheels squeaking ) ( slow rock music playing ) ( children laughing ) ( easy listening music playing ) ( radio static ) Is Byron Arock here yet? Byron Orlok. Orlok. I Don't know, butch. He's probably here. ( clamoring ) Good evening, Mr. Loughlin. How are you? Are the folks here yet? No, no, you're the first one. It's starting! It's starting! ( machine humming ) ( dramatic music playing ) ( dramatic music playing on speaker ) ( thunder rumbling ) ( bird screeching ) ( knocking ) ( knocking continues ) In the name of the government of France, I order you to open this door! ( hinges squeaking ) Your pardon, young sir. I was at my devotions, and I did not hear you. I'm sorry, sir, But surely I made enough noise To wake the dead. The government of France. I've seen the uniforms of many governments in my time. What do soldiers of France want here? Shelter, for one thing. Permit me to introduce myself. Lieutenant Andr Duvalier. Baron Hector Verig von Leppe. I suggest you will find better shelter in the village. Thank you, baron, But I've had my fill of village inns. Surely you wouldn't want to inconvenience a French officer? Come in. What do you see, lieutenant, Of a plain but noble house? Relics, ghosts... A noble heritage is something to be proud of, baron. I'm afraid we've forgotten that in France. Ah, yes. Your name-- Duvalier. Your family? My father was the count Duvalier. Was, till they came one morning... Forgive me for reviving painful memories. You must be cold and tired, lieutenant. Some cognac? I would like that, baron, thank you. Stefan? Stefan: Yes, sir? Cognac for our guest. ( thunder crashing onscreen ) God, what an ugly town this has become. Well, we certainly have a lot of police out here. ( siren wailing in distance ) Baron, I wonder if I might ask, Who was the young woman I saw in the window Before you came to the door? Young woman? Oh, I fear you're mistaken. No, I'm not mistaken; I saw her. Dark hair and eyes, about 20. Oh, I'm quite sure you think you saw someone. I am in full possession of my faculties. Please, allow me to show you something. You should never believe Everything your eyes tell you, young man. Is that the girl you think you saw? Of course... Before you say anything else, Examine the portrait closely-- The signature, and above all, the date. 1786? But that's 20 years ago. Incredible. The same girl, and she hasn't changed a bit. She has been dead for 20 years. ( thunder rolling on movie ) ( ominous music playing on soundtrack ) ( dialogue continues ) ...For a ghost, she's a very active Young woman. You're speaking of the Baroness von Leppe, my wife. ( sharp intake of breath ) ( gunshot and glass shattering ) ...Not quite as much as I had thought. The girl in the window... Lieutenant Duvalier, The only occupants of this castle Are Stefan and myself. You are the first visitor since the turn of the cen... ( people clamoring ) Good evening. Hey, Mr. Orlok, it certainly is a great honor To have you with us. That's very kind of you. Where do you want us? Uh, well, we have a little stage Right up in front of the screen. Come on in and let's have a drink. It's on Marshall. Oh, thank you very much, But I think we'll just wait here in the car. ( clamoring ) When do you want us to interrupt the film? Do you have to interrupt the film at all? Yeah, we're just waiting for Mr. Larkin. Oh. Sam hasn't come yet, has he, ed? No. Well, then, We'll just go up front and watch. All right. Uh, when you go in, just turn around And go all the way up to the front, up by the screen. You won't be bothered there, Mr. Orlok. Thank you very much. All right, Ludlum. ( clamoring continues ) ( movie dialogue continues ) And her lover? Stefan took care of him. Later, I made up the story that she had died. No one ever knew of her betrayal of me. ( sharp intake of breath ) ( gunshot ) Turn out the light! The light! ( gunshot ) Hey, look, I-I'll take a look. ( gunshot ) Stay in there! Keep down! ( movie dialogue continues ) ( gunshot ) There's somebody shooting out here! ( gunshot ) Open the window! Duvalier: Has anyone else except yourself...? ( dialogue continues ) You think I'm mad, Don't you? Right now, baron, I'm not sure just what I think. Ah, but Don't forget, you saw her, too. Strange not to hear any reactions, isn't it? ( movie soundtrack playing ) ( bell ringing ) Take this gun. Escort the lieutenant to the castle. ( bell ringing ) If he resists, kill him. Look, baron... ( thunder rumbling in movie ) ( sharp intake of breath ) ( gunshot ) Somebody's drunk. Careful. Roll your window down! There's a sniper in here! ( gunshot and glass shattering ) ( sobbing ) ( movie soundtrack playing ) ( thunder crashing onscreen ) ( film fluttering ) Shooting! Somebody's shooting! A sniper! What? I can't hear you. Will you turn that thing down, Eva? What? There's a sniper here. ( engine starting ) ( sharp intake of breath and gunshot ) Turn those lights off! ( gunshots and screaming ) ( child sobbing ) ( gunshot and glass shattering ) ( engines starting ) ( horn honking and glass shattering ) ( horn honking ) Those damn kids again. Baron von Leppe: You're not alone. ( engine starting ) ( horn honking ) Somebody's shooting at people in there! ( tires screeching ) Let's get out of here! ( horns honking and engines running ) Von Leppe: ...With our love. Well, They seem to be loving it, Don't they? What's going on? I Don't know. We can't find the manager. ( car honking ) Hey, C.B. What's happening? I Don't know. Sammy: Is Mr. Orlok here yet? Yes, yes, he's right down by the screen. Which side? On the right. Okay, thanks. ( horns honking ) ( horns honking ) ( phones buzzing ) Baron von Leppe: God knows I have enough upon my conscience Without the senseless murder of a young man Who never harmed me. How do you know what harm he plans? Want him wandering around the castle...? ( horns honking ) ( engines revving ) ( trigger clicks ) ( metallic clanging ) ( honking and shouting ) ( engines revving ) Woman: A man went crazy! What's going on? What's going on? I Don't know-- people said There's a sniper out there someplace. Go to the booth and tell Bill to stop the film. ( horns honking ) Baron von Leppe: You happen to return to... Let me see who you really are! What kind of a woman are you? Where are you? Turn out those lights! Turn those lights off! Why doesn't Bill...? Bill's been shot! He's not moving! My God, it's true then. Turn the lights off. I'm calling the police. Get Orlok out of there! My God. It's me! Open up! ( horns honking ) Here, I got one. ( footsteps ) That man has a rifle. ( gunshot ) Hold there. ( gunshots ) ( sirens wailing in distance ) My, God, Jenny! ( tires screeching ) ( sirens blaring ) ( trigger clicks ) ( horns honking ) Turn this on! Man: There he is! Take care of her. Mr. Orlok! ( horns honking ) Jenny! Oh, I'm all right, Sam, but... What? Byron... Watch it! There's someone going up there. ( gunshots ) ( trigger clicking ) Officer: You okay, Mr. Orlok? Sammy: You all right? Is he clean? Yeah, he's clean. Is that what I was afraid of? Hello. ( sirens blaring ) All right, boy, let's go. Hardly ever missed, did I? ( crowd clamoring ) It's all over now. Clear back. Stand back. Let's go. Clear out. It's over now. Let's go. ( siren blaring ) Byron, wait a minute! ( horns honking, sirens blaring )
