 

                        Seibei Iguchi Hiroyuki Sanada Tomoe Rie Miyazawa Directed by Yoji Yamada Not that way No, no, no! Thank you. You may go After a long illness my mother died... ...when I was five She had consumption... ...so from when I can remember I wasn't allowed near her Thus I have almost no memory of my mother Ito... Ito... You poor little darling! I am from Unasaka, in the northeast in what is now Yamagata Prefecture Before 1868 it was the castle town of the Unasaka clan... ...a small fief of 70,000 koku of rice per year well done, one and all That's it for today Sakaguchi... I've heard there's a good drinking place in Hakkenmachi... Oh, you mean 'Hisago'? Feel like a drink? A fine idea Kawanami, will you come? I will Iguchi? For a change? Not me, thanks we can't twist your arm? If you'll excuse me... Twilight's not very exciting is he with a sick wife, two young daughters and an aged mother in his care... ...my father was unable to drink with his colleagues He had to hurry home every evening at dusk I was told the men he worked with... ...gave him the cruel nickname of 'Twilight Seibei' THE TWILIGHT SAMURAI Ito... Father! Up you go! Your face is dirty Father's back! Welcome home Codfish stew tonight, Kayano? Don't drop it I'm home, Mother How are you this evening? Of what household are you, sir? I am Seibei Iguchi of the Unasaka Clan, Castle Stores I see... She's getting worse. She doesn't even know her own son! Kayano, I've simmered some burdock. Take some Thank you. You're always so kind to my daughters Naota... you can go home now Yup Good evening But Yazaki, can't we do something about Twilight? His kimono's all ripped and hardly ever takes a bath There's this smell when you get close to him It just won't do! Yes, sir. we all find it very hard to stomach we've asked around about finding him a new wife... ...but no woman would want his situation Indeed! He's got two young girls a senile old mother... ...and 20 of his 50 koku gone in debt Any woman who went to him would have to take in work Yes, he owes money all over the place I don't know how he paid for his wife's funeral Not even selling your sword would pay for a funeral like that A funeral! That's something I have to worry about, too My father's not going to last much longer Kawanami's lucky Young parents and a pretty wife! You'd better go easy with her It could hurt your work Is that why you're always cat-napping on the job? I am not! Listen to him! Kumi... Welcome! Isn't she gorgeous! Kume... Bed-time, Gran Good night, Seibei Good night It looks like she remembered me The Master said: To rule a land of a thousand chariots... Kayano... That's Confucius, isn't it? when did you start learning that? At the end of last month The teacher says... ...from now on even girls will need book learning That's good When I was a boy I read Confucius over and over again Father... If I learn to do needlework... ...someday I can make kimonos But what good will book learning ever do me? Well, it probably won't ever be as useful as needlework But you know... ...book learning gives you the power... ...to think However the world might change if you have the power to think... ...you'll always survive somehow That's true for boys and for girls All right? Yes Keep reading, then Tseng Tzu said: Each day in three ways... ...I ask myself... ...if I have faithfully carried out what I undertook for another... My mother's illness had left my father deep in debt As Grandmother lost her wits, all the housework, the gathering of fuel... ...and the field work fell to him Left with little time to attend to himself... ...he gradually became unkempt and grimy As his daughter, I felt terrible about this Wipe off that dust! They're coming! His Lordship attends! Kawanami! Quick! Provisions' Vital stores of food for when the clan must fight, or the castle... ...is besieged Next we have the Salt Storehouse... Here you have your beans green, soy and red... We pay particular attention to keeping them dry Dried giant horse-radish dried fiddleheads, miso paste... Kusaka! This is dried codfish... ...very important provisioning in times of war How much have we got? Iguchi... Iguchi? You may answer directly By your leave. we have ...by weight approximately How long does it keep? Between five and ten years This here is the oldest we have. It was acquired six years ago This dried cod from Kansaki is best It holds its taste for ten years That strange smell I noticed is it you? Clan retainers must serve as examples to the common folk Keep yourself clean Yes, Milord! Carry on Idiot! Sir, I... I'll speak to you later But... Be quiet! Iguchi! You damn fool! The story spread throughout the castle My father became a laughingstock My Great-Uncle came from the main house in a foul humor Hello! Hello! Seibei! It's Uncle... I'm in for it now Is anybody here? what, are you all dead?! Coming! Kayano, make some tea Who is it? Great-Uncle! Disgraceful! You appeared before His Lordship unbathed, smelling like dried cod The unpleasant impression you created... ...shames the house of Iguchi That was inexcusable I went to Senior Retainer Terauchi and apologized for you His Lordship is a generous man so he did not find fault Had that been his father, though... ...this would have meant hara-kiri! I never dreamed it would cause so much trouble I beg your forgiveness Kayano? How old are you now? I am ten years old Are you working at your lessons? I'm learning needlework and Confucius A girl has no need of the classics All you need is to write women's script Too much book learning and you'll never be a bride You can go I am here today on an important matter A marriage arrangement You need a hard-working wife to escape the misery you are in A village-headman acquaintance has an unmarried daughter... ...whom he agrees to marry to you He knows you are poor, have two young daughters and a senile mother I'm sure you realize that you are in no position to demand beauty You need a healthy wife with big haunches to bear children Her face is of no concern So I'll proceed with this if you don't mind With all due respect I must differ How? I am not nearly as miserable in my living as you may think Of course, offending His Lordship by appearing unbathed before him... ...was wrong, and I vow never to repeat it However... ...watching my daughters as they grow day by day is... ...how shall I put it? It's like watching crops ripen or flowers grow in a field I enjoy it very much I'm not sure if the lady of whom you speak... ...would understand that Who would understand such foolishness?! You've always been like this... ...tormenting your poor father with this prattling of yours! What has your marriage got to do with crops in a field? Then I beg leave to speak more clearly I ask that you not concern yourself with questions of my marriage You defy the main branch of your family?! You are welcome here Kinu... are you well? I am, thank you May I ask of which household you come? I'm your damn brother! Take her away, Seibei She's a nuisance Mother... Most unseemly! what will the neighbors think? Tie her to a post somewhere! 'Expect no more help from me! '... ...shouted my great-uncle as he left in high dudgeon Can you do that? Let me see Here... twist it as you fit it in Is Gran asleep? Yes Good Father... Gran was crying, you know Uncle shouted at her Poor Gran! Do you like Uncle? You don't? I hate him He came to talk about a new wife for me, but I said no I don't want to take any help from him You'd think we were buying a cow! All she needs is to be healthy that's rude to the lady as well Are you two lonely... ...without a mother? I'm not lonely if you're here Me, too That's my girls Do you want the toilet, Gran? Look! Butterbur buds! Get lots, all right? what's that? A child! The poor thing! He's nothing but bones! where'd he come from? Matsukawa, maybe Rise to Buddha! As children we loved to go gathering herbs... ...by the river in early spring But those were times of famine The cold melt water often brought the bodies of peasants... ...dead of starvation Aim... Fire! All of you, watch me Elbows up... Brace the right knee... Seibei! Sorry to keep you waiting You went to Kyoto? Yes, with the Majordomo to talk to merchants there and in Osaka what's Kyoto like? I had high hopes for it but it was horrible I've never seen the like of Miyako-oji Boulevard Filthy masterless samurai from all over the country everywhere... ...cursing and swearing in dialects you can't understand Then someone shouts 'Divine punishment! ' and the swords come out The Kamo River's full of headless corpses all swollen up... I thought it'd be geishas in Gion... Dear me! Prime! Aim! Fire! Misfire! wait! what's wrong? Ow! Fool! I told you to wait! They're a bit late The Choshu clan may have been beaten once but they'll be back with Satsuma They'll snuff out 250 years of Shoguns like the wind does a candle what's our clan doing? Our leaders aren't thinking! How would you like to go to Kyoto? The Emperor's palace is short of guards I'll recommend you You'll see how things are Someone like you shouldn't be stuck in a field here right now I'm afraid you over-estimate me The times are changing when they do, I'll give up samurai status and be a farmer That's what I'm suited for You're a strange one But you always were No ambition at all Oh, I nearly forgot... My condolences on your bereavement Burn a joss stick for her You didn't have to... I wanted to send my sister to the funeral in my place... ...but she was having some troubles of her own I'm sorry Miss Tomoe? what's wrong? You know she married the son of Captain Koda... It turns out this Toyotaro is a mean drunk. If I'd known I'd never have agreed A mean drunk? He'd hit her, kick her... She'd come running to my house to get away I was worried one day he'd kill her... ...so I got the Castle to order them divorced Divorced? Just recently So now Tomoe's back at my house Really? And here I thought she was the wife of a fine 1200-koku samurai I had no idea I made a mistake. She's gone through hell because of me well done, one and all That's it for today Sakaguchi... Sakaguchi! Feel like dropping in at 'Hisago'? You want to see O-Kume! Quiet! You come too, Kawanami Again? Damn right! I'll be going Iguchi... You should come see the girls Take your mind off things I'm fine, thanks. Iguchi... Don't waste your breath Look, Naota. The azaleas are out Yup Kayano, Ito, I'm home! No one's here... welcome home It's been a long time Uh... perhaps there's... um You were out when I came by... Have you forgotten me? I'm Iinuma's younger sister, Tomoe Oh, Miss Tomoe! I didn't know you I've just seen your brother today He told me what had happened So you know all about it, then? Yes Because of that I'm back living at his house There's nothing for me to do so they have me weaving I came here to escape You're very welcome Let's go inside Your sock... Oh, yes... It seems your father had forgotten me! we always played together! welcome home Kayano, Ito, this is Miss Tomoe we're, uh... Childhood friends He always used to tease me I did not! I got a present Me, too Aren't they pretty! Mother, I'm home welcome home Do you know this lady? She's Miss Tomoe the Iinuma girl See? She remembered me That's good. And of course you remember me, don't you? Of which household are you? I'm your son You are, are you? Hello Tane, watch the hotpot It was as if our house was brighter from the moment Miss Tomoe arrived I've never forgotten It was when I was five I always wanted to do whatever the boys did Once I was climbing a pine tree and a branch broke... ...and I got hurt Really? Yes! Your father happened to be there that day... ...and he carried me piggy-back all the way to the doctor! I think he was 12 or 13 His back was this big! Just like a grown-up's He made me feel so safe... Do you remember, Seibei? I remember something like that... when I was nine my mother told me... ...I couldn't play with boys any more I was so sad... Being a girl's no fun, Kayano Drip, drip drip... ...come our Chonbei's tears Drip, drip, drip... Let's catch his falling tears... ...and wipe them away... wipe them away... Let's take his tear-soaked kimono... ...and wash it clean... wash it clean... Let's take the kimono we've washed... ...and wring it out... wring it out... Let's take the kimono we've wrung out... ...and hang it to dry... Hang it to dry... You haven't changed at all, have you It's as if I'm a completely different person That's not true You still smile just like you used to You don't have to console me I know I've changed People told me how radiant a bride you were... ...when you went to the Koda house I don't want to remember It's very late I'll leave you here Say hello to your brother Your beard's growing out... It's so soft! Iinuma! I want the truth! That man's here! My husband... My ex-husband... I'd know that drunken voice anywhere I'm going! Your master's leaving Hands off! I'm not drunk! My sandals! Iinuma! where's Tomoe gone? I told you, she's at her aunt's You're lying! Please! Keep your voice down! There are elderly people here! To hell with her Listen, linuma... If I'm not good enough for Tomoe she's welcome to leave But linuma... ...I've got a bone to pick with you You went to His Lordship and got him to divorce us Squire Koda, I've told you time and time again... Shut up! You made me a joke in front of the whole castle! I demand satisfaction! Squire Koda! My sword! Stop this, will you?! Tomoe... where've you been till this hour of the night? where I go is no one's business but mine And I'll say this, too I am not your wife now It's 'Miss Tomoe' to you Tomoe! Get inside! Perhaps that's enough? who are you?! I am Seibei Iguchi friend to Iinuma Perhaps I could accept your challenge in his name? But here we are in the town And you are drunk Let's settle this another time when the alcohol has worn off If you've put yourself forward this way... ...you must know how to fight I make no such claim Fine. we fight tomorrow Tomorrow? By the river behind Hannyaji Temple, at the 8th hour? Done Behind Hannyaji, 8th hour See you Seibei, he's serious! Are you? I had no choice He's good with a sword It'll work out I'll say good night Don't tell Tomoe about this wait! what if you kill him? The Clan forbids dueling I'll think of something Good night Naota... we're going Ito! Yu Tzu said: Harmony is the greatest beneficence of the rites Good morning Sit down! I'm leaving This is no good. I'm slow You think you can take me? Damn right! Then get ready He's afraid! Hold it! I said last night I'd take your place! I should do this You're no match for him Go over there and watch I'm sorry I'm late, Squire Koda I will be your opponent what's that stick? My school of swordfighting uses this for practice Do you mock me? Draw your sword! A sword might kill This stick will not It will break bones at worst I won't take this from a samurai of your rank! I'll cut you down! watch for the draw-and-slash! You can still apologize The apology is yours to make with a real sword, you'd be dead Do you apologize? Or do you continue? Splash some water on him That'll bring him to Come on, Iinuma You're all right? Don't tell Miss Tomoe about this Or anyone else, either Those men will talk No. A whipped dog doesn't bark Is that soy sauce? Over here Excuse me for interrupting. I am Zenemon Yogo, Master of the watch I know that Are you the 'Twilight Seibei' who thrashed Toyotaro Koda... ...and left him with a great big lump on his head? I didn't really 'thrash' him He asked for a match, and my sword caught him on the head Koda is a drinking companion of mine The other day... ...he came crying to me, asking if I would take revenge for him That's the kind of man he is But it seems you can fight what school are you? Many years ago I trained under Toda-Sensei So you're a disciple of Jinsai Toda? I merely attended his dojo Perhaps we could try a match one day I'd be no match for you I'm afraid. If you'll excuse me... I wish I wasn't getting old I can't read once the sun sets First your teeth go then it's your eyes And how's number three? That went long ago! That's it for today, everyone I'll be going Excuse me Sir Twilight's gone? Didn't you hear? The other day 'Sir Twilight' fought the son of Captain Koda A fight? And what happened? wood against steel Sir Twilight went bang! Knocked him senseless He did? I always thought he was strange I never thought he was a fighter, though Maybe we shouldn't be calling him 'Sir Twilight' You think he knows? Sure he does Fumi! It's raining! It's raining! Is the laundry in? Yes! welcome home Miss Tomoe was here She left you this letter She's got even nicer writing than the schoolmaster Let me! No! I have finally learned what happened from my elder brother I must apologize for all the trouble... ...I have caused you I am, however, delighted I very much want to see you and thank you in person Today I intruded upon you and with your daughters... ...cleaned your house and did your laundry Please do not scold your daughters for allowing me in I would like in the future to be of what use I can. written in haste To: Seibei Iguchi, Esq. From: Tomoe Tomoe started coming every second day or so The two of us looked forward to coming home from school we're back! Hello! You know what the teacher did today? He farted out loud! She cleaned with us did laundry with us... ...and taught us to cook On rainy days we'd practice calligraphy and sewing And she'd tell us all kinds of stories, the like of which... ...we'd never heard before Finished Bring this line over Finished! That's good, Ito! Hey! Stop it! Ito! write on your own paper, all right? No! Don't you look nice! How much fun it was to go off to a festival in kimonos... ...she had made us Shoo! Go away! Samurai then were strictly forbidden to attend the festivals... ...of the peasants and townsfolk... ...but Tomoe cared not a whit I remember well what she said: It was because of the peasants that we lived as samurai why are you catching them all? we're using the same bait! You're trying too hard The fish sense it Your shoulders are too stiff It's like swordfighting Aw, stop lecturing! Show me your rod This hook's too big! Seibei... ...I want to talk to you It's about Tomoe She's had a few proposals She's beautiful and talented There's not many like her in our clan Any good ones? She won't say yes and I can't pressure her I asked her, half in jest if she'd like to marry you You what?! we may be old friends but that isn't funny! She didn't take it as a joke She said she wouldn't mind... ...and turned all red That's enough! You're both making fun of me! You dolt! She was serious Stop it Listen... ...I've already put her through hell marrying her to Koda If it's all right with you I'd like to make that up to her It's a bit sudden... I don't need an answer now but I will within two or three days I might have to go to Edo You've been really busy lately what's going on? You probably haven't heard A month ago... ...His Lordship's dead He is? why have they kept that from us? They're not agreed on who's going to succeed him The Castle warden, Lord Hori has asked the Shogun... ...for permission to adopt His Lordship's third boy, Tadaatsu... ...and seize control himself If that happens the clan will split and blood will wash away blood I might not come through this unscathed myself So if you could give me an answer before I leave for Edo All right I'll answer you I'm very grateful to Tomoe for all she's done for my daughters... ...all the cooking and sewing and everything else It's like a dream come true However... ...having her come to my house as my wife is something else again She's a daughter of the Iinumas a 400-koku family She doesn't know what life is like for a 50-koku petty samurai Are you sure you're not under-estimating her? She's very much her own woman It'd be fine at the start But when it sunk in that 50-koku would be her life forever... ...she'd be sorry My late wife was Hers was a 150-koku family She never got used to the fall in status Rise in the world, she told me or my family will grieve She said that all the time after she got sick I don't want to put Tomoe through that torment Tomoe's not 15 or 16 I'm sure she'd thought about what she said No more Let's forget this Let's try up there It's a girl! what a stink! Rise to Lord Buddha Eat your fill in heaven! Let's call it a day From that day forward Miss Tomoe stopped coming... ...to our house Make way! Stand aside! Turning left! The warden has returned! Go! what's that?! It's the alarm! Stop what you're doing and listen I have important news from Lord Hori, Castle warden... ...who returned this morning from Edo The 12th head of the Unasaka Clan Lord Tadatomo, died of measles... ...at the beginning of this month He was 32 years old He was a good and wise ruler intelligent and tolerant... ...a true hero Only last spring we had the honor of meeting him... ...and having him speak to us Iguchi, you haven't forgotten that, I'm sure what a fine and gentle man he was! Senior retainers will remain in the castle The rest of you are to leave and pray for the repose of His Lordship's soul This could mean open war! I doubt that... ...but Lord Hori's sure to go after His Lordships reformers Dispositions'? Yes which side is our Commissioner on? The reformers or the Hori faction? He'll be with the mainstream Just like me while there were fearsome rumors that the Castle was preparing for war... ...it didn't seem to involve petty samurai like my father All right? we wanted to ask Father why Miss Tomoe no longer came... ...but for some reason we couldn't This was because even in our children's hearts... ...we knew something had happened between them Squire Iguchi! I'm sorry you've come for nothing My husband isn't back from Edo I expect him in a day or two Has he written anything about what's happening in Edo? No There was a letter yesterday... ...but all he talked about was what he wants to eat when he gets home That's good I'm sure you know they're handing down dispositions Some people have even been ordered to commit suicide I was worried about what might have happened to Iinuma I'm happy to hear he's all right Give him my regards when he gets home You came just for that? Yes Good day It was very kind of you Carry on where's Squire Iguchi? He went away where are you going? Squire Iguchi may still be close by why do you want to see him? No reason in particular I haven't seen him for a while I'd like to say hello wait! Tomoe... ...it is unseemly for a young woman to be seen talking... ...with some samurai on the street And you are a returned bride with a proposal being discussed You shouldn't be doing that in broad daylight with people around I've been meaning to tell you that for a long time now what's wrong with a girl talking to a samurai? Are you questioning your elder brother's wife? Shouldn't I? You should not A young women does not question her elders with 60 from last month that comes to 550 mon Could I have a receipt? You know the bath fee went up to seven mon last month Prices are going up everywhere Could you pay more for these cages? with things as unsettled as they are... ...no one's buying insect cages Could you ask your boss for me? well, I'll ask I take this work as seriously as my duties I understand that If you'll excuse me Come on we're not thieves we're just picking up some insect cages from Squire Iguchi. Is he doing piece-work? Hello! Hello! who is it? Commissioner Kusaka It's very late, I know I'd like you to accompany me to Lord Hori's quarters Yes, sir They said you don't need full formal dress Just a hakama skirt So you're Iguchi's girl? How old are you? Five You're a sweetheart I'm ready Kayano... you all get to bed Let's sleep Seibei Iguchi of the Castle Stores... That'll do Iguchi, come over here we called you here this late because an awkward situation has arisen You know there was a revolt among our retainers in Edo? Yes, sir Fortunately no word of this reached the Shogun His Lordship ordered Shima Hasegawa and his faction to commit suicide But one of Lord Hasegawa's men Zenemon Yogo, Master of the watch... ...says he was merely following the orders of his superior... ...asks why he should be punished and refuses to commit suicide If you want me dead come and kill me,' he says! And with these disgraceful words has barricaded himself in his house This evening we sent our Master of Foot, Genba Hattori, against him Zenemon Yogo! I come at the order of the clan! But he died himself He's a 'one-sword' fighter No one in the clan is his match we were talking about who to send against him... ...and your name came up Iguchi, raise your head You're a 'short-sword' fighter of the Toda school? It's been years since Toda-Sensei taught me I merely attended his dojo we don't have time for modesty we've learned that you were an instructor at his dojo He must be beaten inside his house The short sword will help there That is another reason we have chosen you Kill Zenemon Yogo by twilight tomorrow That is an order from the clan's Senior Retainer Kusaka... what's this man's stipend? for a net of 30 That must be hard, with two young daughters and an aged mother Bring us the head of Zenemon Yogo... ...and life will be easier Do you accept? Answer him This is an honor You shut up! well? By your leave... I am ashamed to say that over many years of hardship... ...with two daughters, a sick wife and an aged mother... ...I have lost the desire to wield a sword A serious fight the killing of a man... ...requires animal ferocity and calm disregard for one's own life I have neither of those within me now Perhaps in a month... ...alone with the beasts in the hills I could get them back But tomorrow, I am afraid is completely impossible I ask that you extend the honor of this commission... ...to another man what complete and utter nonsense! we are not here for foolishness from a petty samurai! Your clan orders you to kill Yogo Do you understand that?! The Clan's orders are His Lordship's orders The very thought of refusal is an offense! You are relieved of your post! You are expelled from the clan! Please, warden... what do you say, Iguchi? Do you accept? Of course he does! Don't you! May I request an evening or two... ...in which to give my answer? You may not!! You will answer now! I obey I accept the commission... ...to kill Zenemon Yogo well said! An officer will call at the hour of the snake Have your preparations made withdraw Iguchi... Don't worry. who's Zenemon Yogo anyway? You're sure to win I have decided exactly that Good One should, however always prepare for the worst That's true. The worst can always happen In that event, Commissioner this will be farewell Thank you for everything you've done for me Please convey my regards to my colleagues in Stores I understand. And, uh... ...I'll take responsibility for those you leave behind I'll see they are looked after That's a relief to hear All the best to you A strange noise made me open my eyes Looking for the sound, I saw my father sharpening his sword He looked so strange it was hard to believe he was my father I still remember clearly how he looked that night The Heart Sutra: The bodhisattva clearly saw the emptiness of the five states... ...thus relieving misfortune and pain Form is only emptiness emptiness only form... we're going Kayano! The Master said: A man cunning of word and smiling of face... ...is rarely benevolent Tseng Tzu said: Each day... Naota, do something for me Yup You know Miss Tomoe's house in Nishikicho, don't you? Yup Go there, and speak to Miss Tomoe Now, this is important You have to see Miss Tomoe herself And then say... ...'I'm really very sorry, but could you come right away? I'll explain why when you get here.' All right? I'm really very sorry... ...but could you come right away? I'll explain why... Uh, I'll explain why... I'll explain why when you get here when you get here That's fine. Hurry Look where she laid her egg! Could you come... I'll explain why when you get here Whatever's the matter at this hour? I'm really very sorry... ...but could you come right away? when you get here... uh... He'll explain why? Squire Seibei sent you to tell me that? All right. I'll get ready I didn't think you'd come The clan has ordered me to go and fight... ...another retainer I'm going out under orders so I must be properly dressed... ...and I can't do my hair alone I'm in a bind so I asked you to come If you can spare the time could you help me? when do you have to go? The hour of the snake There's not much time where's your kimono? It's laid out over there Naota, boil some water who's coming for you? A clan officer Naota, will you wait out by the gate? Sit down. I'll comb your hair May I ask why... ...you're going out to fight? I can't refuse a clan order Petty I may be but I'm still a samurai Bamboo baskets, hampers! Bamboo baskets, hampers! Your elder brother... ...asked if I would take you as my wife I refused Did you know that? Yes, I did But... But since that day... ...when I told him no... ...I've started thinking about you Now I think of it ever since we were small... ...and I made dolls to give you... ...I always dreamed one day you'd come to me as my wife That dream stayed with me even after I got married... ...and you married Koda It's never faded I'm going out now to fight to the death I'm going to win and return to this house At that time, if I were to ask you... ...to be my wife... ...would you accept? A few days ago I had a proposal... ...from a retainer in Aizu I accepted. I've been very rude I should never have asked you to come here No I'm happy that you asked me I've been a fool Please forget everything I've said Really? A retainer from Aizu... That sounds like Are they here? Yup well, I'll be going Thank you very much for everything Um... ...I'm afraid I can't wait here until you come back I pray with all my heart... ...that luck is with you and you come back safely Naota, see Miss Tomoe home when she goes Take care of the kids Mrs Iguchi... ...how are you today? Fine, thank you Of which household would you be the daughter? Me? I am... ...Squire Seibei's childhood friend... ...Tomoe Sir... Squire Iguchi? Zenemon Yogo has closed himself in with the shutters down That is Genba Hattori Master of Foot we should remove his corpse... ...but no one can get in Take care Zenemon Yogo is no longer human He is a beast! Leave to enter! Sir Twilight... So they sent you? Zenemon Yogo... by order of the clan, I come for your life Draw your sword, please Have a drink? I know you're all keyed up but I'm going to run Run? Yep I want you let me get away If you please I didn't expect that from the clan's best one-sword man My orders are to kill you I can't let you escape Don't be so impatient You can kill me any time I'd like to talk to you Have a seat It's a nice day Sit down what's going on? They're talking Even if you escaped where would you go? Over that mountain and I'm out of the clan's domain There are masterless samurai everywhere I can lose myself in them go to Kyoto, to Edo... If I do that for a few years... ...the world will have changed The samurai's day is done This isn't the time for that talk Pick up your sword, please I am under orders from the clan to... Like hell! You're the clan's errand boy out to claim a reward Have a drink I was an errand boy, too I served Lord Shigemasa Toki Twelve years ago he was ordered to commit suicide... ...after a power struggle within his clan Then I wandered for seven years with my wife and daughter... ...in search of a new situation Seven? with no income? Of course not I did manual labor and helped peasants plant and harvest... ...to get a little rice Or we'd slink into a temple and beg alms there sometimes Three years ago the Unasaka clan made me an official retainer... ...but by then hardship had killed my wife I'm good with a sword but I'm hard to get along with... ...and I can't hold my liquor But this time I promised myself it'd be different I would do my duty as a true Unasaka retainer I worked hard to do that My superior was Lord Shima Hasegawa He liked me, and did all he could for me To me... ...the tasks he assigned were the tasks of the clan His orders were the clan's orders and I carried them out faithfully what was wrong with that Twilight? why do I have to cut open my stomach? I haven't come here to answer... ...that kind of question I heard your wife died of consumption. Is that true? I'm surprised you know that And her fever went up as night came on? Yes Consumption is a hard disease And it's catching My daughter died of consumption caught from her mother You're not the only one who's suffered How old was your daughter? Sixteen when she should have been a bud swelling into bloom... ...she died... ...nothing but skin and bones A sad, sad sight I'm very sorry to hear that Her ashes She was a pretty girl with pale skin I guess Lord Hasegawa took pity on me He gave me money for a funeral well above my station If only for that... ...I'm very much in Lord Hasegawa's debt what's your stipend? A sick wife, and children all on 50 koku? That must be hard Doctor and medicine alone cost a ryo and 2 bu a month Piece work wouldn't cover that I borrowed from relatives but it still wasn't enough Sometimes we didn't even have tomorrow's rice left I know how bad it feels to see the bottom of your rice chest You've had hard times, too where I really ran into trouble was my wife's funeral The family's main branch wanted a funeral that wouldn't shame them I couldn't afford it I was desperate so I finally sold my sword It was a fine sword I'd inherited from my father... ...but I figured the age of the sword was over I'm afraid this is just bamboo You're going to kill me with a bamboo sword? No I learned short-sword from Toda-Sensei I meant to fight with that Short-sword? You mean to kill me with some kind of cheap trick? You're not taking me seriously are you wait! I won't have it! I only told you that because you wanted me to let you go! Draw! Sir! You're very good... If you want to run now's your chance After I kill you Draw! Sir! There's still time to stop Calm down and think! You haven't rested since yesterday You're already breathing hard You mock me Sir! Continue this and I'll cut you down Is that what you want? That's fine by me Draw You've cut me, Twilight This is what you get for taking me lightly Have a seat will you let me go Twilight? That was... ...my intention It's dark I can't see Hell Twilight... Is it over? It's all yours Careful! He's dead! Ito... Go buy some tofu Don't lose the money Miss Kayano! It's the Master! Ito... ...I'm home Miss Tomoe! Father's back! You're still here... Thank heaven! I was sure... ...you were dead! Finally Miss Tomoe became our mother My father was happy But peace prevailed in our house for less than three years with the Meiji Restoration came civil war Our clan supported the former Shogun... ...and fought as rebels against the emperor's government During this 'Boshin war'. ...my father was shot and killed Tomoe took us, her step-daughters to Edo, now 'Tokyo'... ...and supported us until we were both married Now she sleeps with my father beneath this stone In the new Meiji era, many men who had worked with my father... ...rose to positions of great authority I often heard them say... ...that 'Twilight Seibei was an unlucky man.' But I do not agree My father had no desire to rise in the world... ...and I don't think he considered himself unlucky He loved his daughters... ...and the beautiful Tomoe loved him His life, I think was short but full I am proud to have had such a father
