 

                        He said, that the day he climbed from out of the mountain of bodies, he was already dead All my men are dead I am the only one left That is because you have a good life I pretended to be dead My men, over 1600 strong Fought for 3 days and nights All gone The Kui Army bastards just stood the rear and watched. Watching my men die one by one All dead ... He said, he met a woman that day and spent a night in an abandoned run-down house He wasn't sure if it was the bowl of gruel, or the woman that made him feel that he was still alive Where can I get some rice to eat? Go wait in front of the old house on the main street He said That on the first day he met me The sky was ashen, just like his mood But I remember vividly, that it was a clear day Glaring to the eye After you've eaten, come and work to repay your lives After you've eaten, come and work Food! Come, eat! You fight well ... follow me! I'll bring you to see big brother! What work is it? Robbery! Steal army provisions! He later said, that we were foolishly brave to dare to steal from troops I replied, that there was no food within a 100 mile radius When you're about to die from starvation, I doesn't matter who's provisions they are Charge out! Kill! Quick! Kill the leader! That day, not only did he save me He also taught me [?] When beating a snake, you must beat it 7 inches, To catch a thief, you must first catch the king Brother WuYang Look It was from 'that' person That's what Generals wear Brother WuYang is a General Brother WuYang is a General What are you thinking about? My home They're back ... Don't be impatient, come, we have food! Tonight we're going to have a feast! Why are you alone? I ran away from home By your accent, you are from YangZhou? You picked up on it? How did you pick that I had a YangZhou accent? Have you heard of the YangZhou market? Thats where they pick out the prettiest girls, teach them the arts And after they've grown up, sell them to rich men as wives, right? But ... When I was 15 and about to be sold A childhood friend stole me back He even killed someone and took me to hide in the mountains as a felon. He didn't realize that you'd changed, and thought that he was saving you He is a good person Rest in peace! Rest in peace! Big Brother's rules Leave an empty place at the table with a full cup, to honor the dead. Were you a commander in the army? It's in the past now Why did you leave? Come, drink! We were Imperial troops, and had agreed to join up to eliminate the enemy The Kui Army promised but did not deliver And we could not suppress the enemy So all of my men died The world is big, but not bigger than the bond between brothers-in-arms Right? Without comrades Life is not worth living WuYang Time to eat Will the new people in the village, stay? With rice to eat, who will leave? Yes, there's one named Pang, who is quite impressive Whether he will leave, I do not know Doesn't it look nice? I got it from a body Do you know what this is? No idea A protection charm Was that night real? I stayed there waiting I thought it was but a dream If you'd already run away, why did you come back? I've run away many times It seems a good idea, but each time I come back Why do you come back? One's fate should be decided by oneself Hide here ... why are you taking our food You want to hit me with your rod? -Hit me! Hit me! -Don't move! Don't move! Stop! How old are you? You'd hit a grandmother? Don't move, I'll shoot! People will die! I'm not afraid of you I'm serious, I'll shoot. I'm serious ... I'm not afraid! You kill me! You Nobody move Why aren't you looking at me? Did you think that by raiding our supply cart, the provisions would be all yours? I'm giving you a chance today [?] report yourselves to the imperial government Leave! If we only had guns, we'd fight them It'd still be suicide Living like this, I'd rather die Being a bandit is a dog's life; always on the run Why don't we join the army? In the army, we'd get paid With the money we can buy food for our families In the army we'd have weapons. With weapons, no-one would dare attack us. The village would have true peace We are bandits Would the government accept us? The Kui Army is a big military power They won't even bother with our little band But ChenGong needs manpower His Lu Army is constantly being harassed by the Kui Army And he wants to be a major military power If we side with him, it would be perfect timing ErHu, grasp this opportunity And let today's events, never happen again Fine Bandits We have to be the best! In the past you were a Qing soldier Now you want us to join the army? You have no loyalty Why should we trust you? Swear a blood oath Today, Pang ChingYun Cao ErHu Jiang WuYang Swear an oath, to be blood brothers [?] In each other we entrust, to save from danger [?] Together in prosperity or difficulty [?] If an outsider disrupts our brotherhood [?] By our oath, they must die [?] If a brother disrupts our brotherhood [?] By our oath, they must die [?] With the heaven and earth as our witness [?] [?] Together in one heart He later told me, He didn't believe in blood oaths I asked what he did believe in He said that he believed in Brother ErHu and me Wait, take these shoes Be careful on the road Mother won't be able to see you again Mum, I'm leaving Brother ErHu Shi JiMiao has taken a group of men He only said one thing That he'd rather die than join the army I heard You led a battalion of men to suppress the enemy in HeChuan But they all perished You disappeared for 2 months, and you have the audacity to return? Lord Chen At the battle of HeChuan Lord Jiang sent the Kui Army to guard my left wing He Kui, fearing the enemy, retreated 30 Li This is how my battalion of men all died The whole army perished And you were the only survivor? I didn't die So that I could come back to see you, Lord Jiang How many men do you have? Eight Hundred Give me another 800 And within 15 days, I will take SongCheng A soldier should not tell lies I will take SongCheng in 10 days Fine I ... I will give you another 1500 soldiers But there will be no pay That's not necessary After I take the city, I want half of everything Pang ChingYun Your banner is [Deer Mountain] Well call them the Mountain Army then Thank you, my lords You're taking a gamble With the lives of 800 men War has always been a gamble I won't gamble These 1500 soldiers are ChenGong's foundation If they go ChenGong will lose all power in the Imperial court So when will you make your move? My soldiers Will only serve to make your force look more threatening This is your only chance for victory Otherwise The Kui Army will forever have you under their feet Big Brother They're all faulty Over there are 200 guns It will be a difficult battle There is only one way to win A blind charge, to destroy their artillery A battle of ruthlessness Comrades Tell him, who is the fiercest? We're the fiercest! Our armies are separated by 300 paces Their guns have a range of 200 paces Arrows have a range of 100 paces We need 200 men in the frontline to charge Followed by 200 archers When they fire, don't stop. Continue the charge Follow it through to the end To let the archers gain that 100 paces Many men will die I'll go! Who will go with me? The families for those who go will be paid extra Those who die, 2 pieces, those who live 3 pieces! Go make your fortunes [?] Come Damn it, I'll go! Me too! Include me, I'll go ... Me too ... I'll go ... Me too ... Defeat SongCheng! Seize gold, seize food, seize land! Defeat SongCheng! Seize gold, seize food, seize land! [?], the victor has already been decided We are merciful, surrender and we will spare your lives Kill! Fire! Kill! Fire! Fire! Fire! Kill! They're almost all dead, why aren't we going yet? Don't you ever forget On the battlefield, there can only be one commander Kill! Release the arrows! Release! Brother! Brother! Brother! Ready! Blindfold the horses Charge! Save Big Brother! Big Brother! Don't pull it out! Hold steady We're really going to die here! We made a blood oath We pray not to be born together, but to die together! Well said Even in death we need to take something with us Everyone we kill counts! Charge out! Kill! Insane! Those 800 men have thrown 5000 soldiers into chaos We can fight! We desperately need this victory! On me! Charge! WuYang! Lord Li Pang ChingYun can be considered a blessing Pang ChingYun, it seems we have a destiny together Seems you've found yourself a treasure there With the SongCheng battle, you've made name for yourself Pang ChingYun I'll put another 5 battalions under your command. How about it? [?] It's like adding flowers to a bouquet -Lun DaShan -Present From now you are responsible for transferring funds Thank you, Sir Pang ChingYun There's an old friend from the Kui Army waiting for you He Kui Present My Lord General Pang Long time no see As you already know each other, you should continue to cooperate together You conquer the cities, and he'll defend them With him here, how'll we split it? Lord Li Lord Chen I trust you're agreeable with this? I'm scared that he'll be too slow to keep up First we'll take SuZhou, then Nanjing How about it? What are they laughing at? Nanjing is the enemies heart To break Nanjing, you must take SuZhou first If the war ends, they have nothing to gain They won't let us fight SuZhou Can they do anything if we do go and fight? Inserting the Kui Army was so that they could keep an eye on us Come quick, they're back! XiaoWu XiaoWu .... XiaoWu's shoes .... XiaoWu ... XiaoQi XiaoQi, my son! We were no longer bandits He said, that bandits only kill for their own But we, were risking ourselves for others I'm willing to be this kind of person You've lost weight Big Brother said, that this time we'll be back in 3 years I know that you don't like it here Once I'm done fighting, I'll take you somewhere nice to spend our days Where's Big Brother? He's just outside the village He said that he won't come in We set out early tomorrow morning Remember All's fair in war Begin! Kill! We're here to take over defense of the city And let our comrades indulge themselves for 3 days Seize money, seize food, seize land! Come out, the battle is over Come out Come on out Don't be afraid You haven't eaten, right? Are you hungry? What are you doing? Miss! Are you going to watch? GouZi, I'm leaving Brother Pang Move! What is it? Why are you holding me? Move! What is it? Harming the innocent, will be punished on the spot! Brother ErHu! Big Brother, what happened? Rape of a girl Looting the city for 3 days, these are the rules From today, this sort of thing cannot occur in our ranks We've always done this We were bandits, now we're soldiers If we don't change, we won't accomplish anything If we continue to do this We'll be just like those Kui Army bastards Rules must start somewhere. That day is now We've just finished killing their family members Now that we're here You want protect them? Who will fight for you in the future? Big Brother Listen to me Look at them They get it You don't need to kill them, right? What are you doing? Hurry up an admit your mistake! Big Brother, we were wrong. We won't do it again! Big Brother, we were wrong. We won't do it again! GouZi I can't hear you, say it again! GouZi, quick, admit you were wrong! Quick! Say it! Say it GouZi! Big Brother, we were wrong! Big Brother They know they were wrong, let them off In the past, when I was an official I saw a merchant on the street Hold down a poor person, and give him a beating Until his body was covered in wounds and bleeding Without any reason Just because he was poor And this poor person, didn't utter a thing As if it was all completely right and justified From that day on, I promised If I was in charge, these things must never happen The army is there so that people do not get threatened I'm telling you, not being threatened by others Does not allow you to threaten the commoners yourself Do you know, in doing so, you ruin my heart's ambition? At that moment, we were moved Afterwards I found out It was all a lie That was the start of his change Stop Is it your place to kill my men? Get lost! Big Brother Let them be Who do your lives belong to? Who's are they? Big Brother's Big Brother, we'll never do it again! Close your eyes It will be fast I always thought People are killed only in wars and looting Now I know Even when doing good, people need to be killed I promise that I'll finish this war quickly We'll take SuZhou in 3 months Oh GuZi Why are you the same as Pang ChingYun? [?] Wanting to take SuZhou with a few thousand men He doesn't know his limits! I'm just looking out for ChenGong If you kill the roots, there's no grain You're dead Victory and defeat exists on a knife edge If I go here And it connects Pang ChingYun will rise to the top in one fell swoop At that time And you think I'll let Pang ChingYun connect? Pawns Are useful to everyone [SuZhou City - One year later] SuZhou City has become a death trap Those who attack it die The Kui Army just waits outside How long are you going to gamble for? I heard I heard there's a God Who at noon, gives everyone in SuZhou named Huang, And just randomly dividing it out Lets over 5000 people fill their stomachs No matter how they divide it up, it never ends Pig [?] Arrives every day Sit down Sit down What if I go into the city and kill General Huang? Those who go never come back I don't need you to sacrifice yourselves I'll go find Li Gong Get provisions, and cannons Our battle at SuZhou, is already against military orders I'm still useful to them You two should leave Give me provisions, and I'll take down SuZhou My men can only die from battle, not from starvation I'm begging you! The Lord has already said, he knows nothing about any fighting in SuZhou We'll go to the Kui Army Big Brother, we can't ask them! If you can't do it, then go back Quick, run! Quick Come, grab hold They tried to climb the wall And said that there was food inside No, I've got to go in Give me provisions, and firearms We'll make an exchange If I don't give you, SuZhou is still mine I'm talking about Nanjing I'll fight the battle, charge the city, take the casualties The Kui Army just needs to be there for appearances sake Nanjing, we'll split half-and-half And we'll join hands into the city Are you willing to be under the feet of those 3 old men forever? We need to take down Nanjing first So the Imperial court knows it had nothing to do with He Kui But we only have 10 days food left So we must be fast to take down SuZhou God is kind To bring you here at this time It's for protection At the 'Mou' hour If you don't see red smoke from the city walls My men will take you away Tell Big Brother and WuYang that, ErHu was a good man The General is back General Pang, the provisions have arrived General ErHu has entered the city Said he saw red smoke in his dreams Which represented his success Friend, did you bring what they want? Everyone says that there's food in the city If this continues, we'll be eating each other I promised them that they'd eat well and dress warm And in 3 years return home to enjoy their riches It's 5 years now Tomorrow, we charge the city Elder brother's wife I like to see people's faces SuZhou is surrounded It's been a year since I've seen a new face So when I heard that a new person was delivering opium ... I've already quit It can only relieve pain My wife's grave is in a small forest just outside the city I want to go see her But I can't Do you know how a prisoner feels? SuZhou city is like a big prison. It's been too long already I want to leave, but I can't You want to enter, but you can't Except if ... I let you in Your fellow villager You joined the army; he followed me Quick Sir, the time has come Prepare my horse Escort Mrs. Zhao ErHu left a message Said that he was a good man If I survive I'll marry you Outside there are 4000 half-starved soldiers If you kill me SuZhou will turn into a ghost town Everyone will die I also have that many soldiers They will defend every inch of SuZhou Until their last drop of blood Everyone back Throw down your weapons Surrender I sold my business Closed my shop And joined the rebel army From that day the word 'surrender' disappeared forever If I don't die Everyone in this SuZhou prison will never get out Let the troops go home to their farms Do not abuse the commoners in the city Rest in peace Ready ErHu! ErHu! Get ErHu I want to see ErHu ManTou (bread) Do we really have to give it to them? They won't agree So many captives, how many mouths How many army provisions do you want to waste on them? Big Brother Sparing their lives was a condition of surrender The stores in SuZhou were gone long ago Our provisions will only last 10 days We need to save it to fight Nanjing Fight Nanjing? Big Brother, fight Nanjing? The Kui Army gathers its forces And can attack Nanjing at anytime I can't read, don't give it to me Tell me, where did the food come from? Where? The Kui Army Why did you deal with them? [?] If we fight Nanjing, SuZhou city becomes an empty city Do you feel comfortable handing them an empty city? Big Brother, listen to me ... You listen to me! If these people pick up a gun, they become soldiers ManTou! ManTou! Open the gates! Let them go No! Pang ChingYun, I knew that you were a liar Imperial dog! Look at this ManTou It was originally for our men You want to give half to these people And another half to the citizens Our men laid siege the city for 9 months Starved for 9 months Tell me, this ManTou ... Should it be for us, or them? I don't care Release them Release! Release! In a while After they've eaten I promised that they would live All's fair in war. This is a war Without trust we are animals Brother Er Big Brother is right Move Get out of my way Let go of me ... let go ... Let me go! I promised they would live! Ready the arrows Quiet You can't kill them! Release again! You can't kill them! You can't! Release again After that day Brother Er never spoke to me again I felt bad, but I had no regrets I'm returning home Who's with me? ErHu You can't go We still need to go fight Nanjing You want me to watch you kill more unarmed men? They were soldiers Who had surrendered They're still soldiers Do you remember what you told us before? You told us to remember, not to threaten the common people What have you done? You stood there and killed all those poor people, do you know? Without poor people, who would fight wars? Xiao Chun, Xiao Wu, Xiao Qi. Who wasn't poor? But they were soldiers And soldiers die But in Nanjing, there are over 1 million citizens If He Kui enters first, then it's all over To fight Nanjing, I need you Do not go If you leave, the soldiers will change The Mountain army will start fighting itself Do you know the result? Do not force me Whoever makes a move of Brother Er, I will kill Brother Er Whatever happens, you can't leave If you leave, our family will really be finished ErHu Kui's troops are already on the move If we don't move now, we won't make it I guarantee to you After Nanjing I will put down my arms You will see, in the future, that my decision today was the right one Fine When we enter Nanjing, I'll be watching you If you're right, I'll kneel before you If you're wrong I will kill you Go! Cao ErHu Pang ChingYun Jiang WuYang Kill .... Fireworks fill the sky, Nanjing falls, The cannons fire a salute, the Empress prospers [Nanjing - 1 month after takeover] Rest in peace! We swore that we are all men of the Mountain army If anywhere in the world, someone is starving or being threatened Someone is suffering from injustice The Mountain Army will be there! Distribute the military pay! Zhang WenFang 5 pieces ... Wang XiaoSan ... ErHu, do you know what you are doing? Privately distributing military funds is a serious offence! After we entered Nanjing, half was promised as military funds If you won't distribute it, I will help you You must remember In the army there is only one commander This commander is General Pang Hurry up and thank him Thank you Lord Pang Again Thank you Lord Pang! Thank you Lord Pang! Continue the distribution Wang XiaoSan, 3 pieces, Wang Lao, 4 pieces Lord He To fight Nanjing, you gave him provisions After entering Nanjing, now you're the beggar I'm going to kill him sooner or later If one step is slow, every step is slow The Empress wants him to [?govern] JiangSu So what? He Kui This time, there's nothing I can do If we can drag Cao ErHu over to our side He will never be able to keep the JiangSu position Drink up! ... swore a blood oath [?] [?] Righteously under heaven and earth Prayed not to be born together, but to die together [?] Together in prosperity [?] Lord Cao You fought the battle But the accolade was given to another Are you angry? So what? This brotherhood that they sing about If you were brothers Why did he leave you holed up here? Make you break your promises, and be laughed at by the people Cut out this weed Join with me, and everything is solved. Nanjing will be ours to use Think about it, Lord Cao General He is looking out for your interests Come Well struck The little revenge that you take on him is easy But your anger inside is harder to solve Lord Cao, take your time to consider it. No rush Lord He Are you wondering, how long it takes to get from the Palace gate to here? As a youngster standing outside the Palace gates, I wondered the same thing But by the time you get here Your temples are already grey It took a total of 30 years A shame, I almost can't walk anymore Xiao LiZi Empress says You are still young, [?] Empress also says Pang ChingYun fought hard to take back Nanjing And bequeaths him the golden jacket, and the JiangSu [?governorship] Hurry and give thanks! I, Pang ChingYun humbly request the Empress exempt taxes in the JiangSu region for 3 years to help save the people Permitted My thanks, Empress You kill in SuZhou, and save in Nanjing Lord Pang is a leopard who can change his spots You really are an official to unite the country It is because Lord Pang doesnt belong to any faction That he got the Empress' blessing Nanjing is yours [?]But Lord Jiang is angry about the sickness from the south And He Kui is eager for action Can you hold your position? Lord Pang, [?] I've looked it up Take the post at noon on the 8th of April A good day for the people, the country and for you Very auspicious [?] Your actions should be purposeful Lord Pang, [?] you should live well [?] Live well I have a official business to attend Excuse me [?] [?] But the people in the manor are all heavily armed soldiers Lord Pang The Empress is concerned I will disarm the Mountain army Good If Lord Pang's army comes to a close Then you can focus on your official duties Your Brother Cao ErHu Says that he wants to leave SuZhou, then what? [?] Chaos In Nanjing Privately distributing military funds Was a Mountain Army man named Cao! My Lord, it's dangerous My whole life, has been like skating on thin ice Do you think I'll make it to the other side? You're awake? I'm awake Maybe they're right Nanjing Doesn't need people like me I want to return home Are you willing? I don't need it any more What is it? Master Er, something big has happened The Kui army is rebelling, He Kui wants to kill Lord Pang It's nothing Master Er Big Brother Master Er Big Brother Master Er Where is Big Brother? Lord Pang left for the capital, but hasn't returned You've decided? Then I'll go Who are they? Imperial guards from the capital Get the red tablecloth, we'll need it in a while We'll need this in a while Act quickly -3rd Master -What's this? Is there a guest? Don't you know? Lord Pang has invited Lord Cao for dinner They've reconciled Big Brother has returned? I heard he's coming back in the afternoon why have all the guards in the household been changed? General Cao, wait! General Cao I've received report that Lord Pang will take the JiangSu governorship He Kui wants to rebel Lord Pang can't enter the city He will meet you at JiangHuZhen to discuss the countermeasure Get WuYang to join us there with his men WuYang I'm looking for Brother Er Brother Er went to see Big Brother Pang You're hiding something from me There are a lot of new people in the yard You are making a move on Brother Er? Because of his wife? You've forgotten our blood oath? When is Brother Er arriving? Give me the time! 'Hai' Hour Brother Er is arriving at 'Hai' Hour You wait for me You scared me Elder Brother's wife WuYang has come to bid you farewell Are you leaving? I'll deliver you Where am I going? I'm waiting for ErHu to come back I've just made dinner for him Because of you, Big Brother wants to kill Brother Er That's not possible. It can't be. Come down I won't I need to put up these curtains Have you ever seen curtains as beautiful as this? I haven't seen curtains as beautiful as this for over 10 years Yesterday in the shop, I also saw a red one I wanted the green one, but also the red one I asked ErHu what I should do? ErHu said Green one this year, Red one next year Next year I'll be 29 After 14 years of war I didn't die of starvation, or get stabbed It's because my life is big Next year I have to put up the red curtains Next year I have to put up the red curtains Come down You won't kill me, I won't let you kill me If I don't kill you, how can I save Brother Er If you kill me, can you save Brother Er? I don't know But it's all I can do If an outsider disrupts our brotherhood They must die! And risked their lives to earn a bite to eat These were the first comrades in the Mountain army And the 3 of us, were their leaders Today, I need a good place to send you off I said once before That one day, you will realize I was right This time next year, I will offer you a drink And tell you what I have done over the year I've just returned from the capital I want to tell you, we've suffered 5 years of hardship Today Our hopes are about to come reality You will eventually understand XiaoQi and GouZi's ... Deaths were worth it The men of SuZhou Their deaths were also worth it You ... You ... were also worth it You wanted to commit mutiny in SuZhou I would have killed you then But I couldn't do it But now the Imperial court The Imperial court wants you Tell me, what can I do? ErHu Rest in peace Big Brother Don't kill Brother Er Big Brother Big Brother Don't kill Brother Er His wife is already dead Don't kill Brother Er His wife is already dead There's no reason for you to kill him now Big Brother His wife is already dead [?] [?] Pang ChingYun's ceremony to become JiangSu Governor Will be at noon of the 8th of April He actually killed Brother Er Before, he said killing GouZi and the captives, was so that the common people would not get abused He was lying It was all for himself But he had forgotten, our blood oath A fence with only 3 supports Without Lord Jiang It seems somewhat quieter Quarter till noon Stop! Brothers who kill my brothers Must be killed! Brothers who kill my brothers, must be killed The time has come Don't keep forcing me! Brothers who kill my brothers, must be killed WuYang I beg you, don't fight on Brothers who kill my brothers, must be killed Pang ChingYun Pang ChingYun is a talent, but he doesn't understand politics Nanjing was a key point The Empress wants to calm her kingdom, so why would she rely on an outsider? A pity, this is fate It is noon. Cannons Blood oath Quick Pang's death, is by the hand of Jiang WuYang! At that moment, the ceremonial phrase echoed in my head Although not born together, we must die together
