 

                        Yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to the master's whistle! Bestir, bestir! Good Boatswain, have care. Where's the master? Play the men. I pray now, keep below. Where is the master, bos'n? Do you not hear him!? You mar our labour, keep your cabins, you do assist the storm. Nay, good, be patient. When the sea is. Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard. None that I more love than myself. Silence, trouble us not! Out of our way, I say! Yet again? What do you here? Shall we give o'er, and drown? Have you a mind to sink? A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous, incharitable dog! Work you, then Hang, cur, hang! You whoreson, insolent noisemaker, we are less afraid to be drowned than thou art, Off to sea again! Lay her off! Hell is empty and all the devils here! If by your art, my dearest mother, you have put the wild waters in this roar, allay them... O, I have suffered with those that I saw suffer. A brave vessel, who had, no doubt, some noble creature in her, dash'd all to pieces. Poor souls, they perish'd! Be collected No more amazement, tell thy piteous heart there's no harm done. - O, woe the day! - No harm I have done nothing but in care of thee, of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who art ignorant of what thou art, nought knowing of whence I am, nor that I am more better than Prospera, master of a full poor cell and thy no greater mother. More to know did never meddle with my thoughts 'Tis time I should inform thee farther. So. Lie there, my art. Wipe thou thine eyes, have comfort. The direful spectacle of the wreck, which touch'd the very virtue of compassion in thee. I have with such provision in mine art so safely ordered that there is no soul. No, not so much perdition as an hair, betid to any creature in the vessel, which thou heard'st cry, which thou saw'st sink. Sit down, and be attentive Canst thou remember a time before we came unto this cell? I do not think thou canst, for then thou wast not out three years old Certainly, ma'am, I can By what? By any other house or person? Of any thing the image tell me that hath kept with thy remembrance 'Tis far off, and rather like a dream Had I not Four or five women once that tended me? Thou hadst, and more, Miranda Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since thy mother held the Dukedom of Milan and its princely power But are not you my mother? The very same, who long ago was wife to him who ruled Milan most liberally who, with as tolerant a hand toward me gave license to my long hours in pursuit of hidden truths of coiled powers contained within some elements to harm, or heal I brooked no interruption but your squalling for thou, child, art a princess born O, Heavens! What foul play had we, that we came from thence? Upon thy father's death, authority was conferred as was his will to me alone thereby awaking the ambitions of my brother and thy uncle, call'd Antonio - Thou attendst not... - Good Madam, I do! I pray thee, mark me that a brother should be so perfidious! He whom I did charge to execute express commands as to the prudent governing of fair Milan instead undid, subverted Dost thou attend me? Ma'am, most heedfully! Perverting my upstanding studies now his slandering and bile-dipped brush did paint a faithless portrait His sister, a practicer of the black arts! A demon, not a woman, nay a witch! And he full-knowing others of my sex have burned for no less! The flames now fanned, my counselors turned against me. Dost thou hear? Your tale, ma'am, would cure deafness To credit his own lie he did believe he was indeed the Duke confederates wi' the King of Naples to give him annual tribute and bend my Dukedom yet unbow'd to most ignoble stooping O the heavens! Now the condition The King of Naples, being an enemy to me inveterate hearkens my brother's suit which was, that he, should presently eradicate me and mine out of the dukedom and confer fair Milan with all its honours upon my brother whereon, one midnight did Antonio open the gates of Milan and, i' the dead of darkness his ministers for the purpose hurried thence me and thy crying self Wherefore did they not that hour destroy us? Dear, they durst not so dear the love my people bore me In few, they hurried us aboard a bark bore us some leagues to sea where they prepared a rotten carcass of a boat not rigg'd, nor tackle, sail, nor mast the very rats instinctively had quit it there they hoist us to cry to the sea that roar'd to us to sigh to the winds whose pity sighing back again, did us but loving wrong Alack, what trouble was I then to you! O, a cherubim thou wast that did preserve me! Thou didst smile Infused with a fortitude from heaven that raised in me an undergoing stomach to bear up against what should ensue - How came we ashore? - By providence divine Some food we had and some fresh water that a noble Neapolitan, Gonzalo out of his charity, did give us, with rich garments, stuffs and necessaries which since have steaded much Of his gentleness, knowing I loved my books he furnish'd me from mine own library with volumes that I prize above my dukedom Would I might but ever see that man! I pray you, ma'am for still 'tis beating in my mind, your reason for raising this sea-storm? By accident most strange bountiful fortune now my dear lady, hath mine enemies brought to this shore Here cease more questions Thou art inclined to sleep 'Tis a good dulness, and give it way I know thou canst not choose Come away, servant, come I am ready now Approach, my Ariel, come All hail, great master! Grave dame, hail! I come to answer thy best pleasure be't to fly, to swim, to dive into the fire to ride on the curl'd clouds to thy strong bidding task Ariel and all his quality Hast thou, spirit, perform'd, to point, the tempest that I bade thee? To every article I boarded the King's ship Now on the beak, now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin I flamed amazement; sometime I'd divide and burn in many places the fire and cracks of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble yea, his dread trident shake Hi ho! My brave spirit! Who was so firm, so constant, that this coil would not infect his reason? Not a soul but felt a fever of the mad and play'd some tricks of desperation The king's son Ferdinand, with hair up-staring was the first man that leap'd cried; Hell is empty and all the devils here! Why that's my spirit! But was not this nigh shore? - Close by, my master - But are they, Ariel, safe? Not a hair perish'd On their sustaining garments not a blemish but fresher than before and, as thou badest me, in troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle The King's son have I landed by himself whom I left cooling of the air with sighs in an odd angle of the isle and sitting, his arms in this sad knot Of the King's ship, the mariners, say how thou hast disposed Safely in harbour is the King's ship in the deep nook, there she's hid the mariners all under hatches stow'd, who, with a charm, I have left asleep Ariel, thy charge exactly is perform'd but there's more work What is the time o' the day? - Past the mid season - At least two glasses The time 'twixt six and now must by us both be spent most preciously Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains let me remember thee what thou hast promised which is not yet perform'd me How now? Moody? What is't thou canst demand? My liberty Before the time be out? No more! I prithee, remember I have done thee worthy service thou didst promise to bate me a full year Dost thou forget from what a torment I did free thee? - No - Thou dost - I do not, ma'am - Thou liest, malignant thing! Hast thou forgot the foul witch Sycorax hast thou forgot her? - No, ma'am - Thou hast Where was she born? Speak! Tell me Ma'am, in Algiers O, was she so? I must once in a month recount what thou hast been, which thou forget'st This damn'd witch Sycorax for mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible to enter human hearing from Algiers, thou know'st, was banish'd Is not this true? Ay, ma'am This blue-eyed hag was hither brought with child and here was left by the sailors Thou, my slave, as thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate to act her earthy and abhorr'd commands she did confine thee into a cloven pine within which rift imprison'd thou didst painfully remain a dozen years within which space she died and left thee there thou best knows what a torment I did found thee thy groans did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts of ever angry bears It was mine art, when I arrived and heard thee that made gape the pine, and let thee out I thank thee, master If thou more murmur'st I will rend an oak and peg thee in his knotty entrails till thou hast howl'd away twelve winters Pardon, master I will be correspondent to the command - and do my spiriting gently - Do so and after two days I will discharge thee That's my noble master! What shall I do? Say what? What shall I do? Go make thyself like a nymph o' the sea Be subject to no sight but thine or mine, invisible to every eyeball else Go! Hence with diligence! Awake, dear heart, awake! Thou hast slept well. Awake! The strangeness of your story put heaviness in me Shake it off. Come on We'll visit with Caliban, my slave who never yields us kind answer 'Tis a villain, ma'am, I do not love to look on But, as 'tis, we cannot miss him He does make our fire, fetches in our wood and serves in offices that profit us What, ho! Slave! Caliban! Thou earth, thou! Speak - There's wood enough within! - Come forth, I say! I must eat my dinner There's other business for thee. Come, thou tortoise! When? Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself upon thy wicked dam Come forth! As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd with raven's feather from unwholesome fen drop on you both! A south-west blow on ye and blister you all o'er! For this, be sure, to-night thou shalt have cramps side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up Urchins shall work all exercise on thee thou shalt be pinch'd as thick as honeycomb each pinch more stinging than bees that made 'em This island is mine by Sycorax my mother, which thou tak'st from me When thou camest first, thou strok'st me and madest much of me wouldst give me water with berries in't and teach me how to name the bigger light and how the less, that burn by day and night And then I loved thee and show'd thee all the qualities o' th' isle the fresh springs, brine-pits barren place and fertile Cursed be I that did so! All the charms of Sycorax toads, beetles, bats, light on you! For I am all the subjects that you have, which first was mine own king and here you sty me in this hard rock whiles you do keep from me the rest o' th' island Thou most lying slave, whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have used thee, with humane care, lodged thee in mine own cell till thou didst seek to violate the honour of my child Would't had been done! Thou didst prevent me: I had peopled else this isle with Calibans Abhorred slave which any print of goodness wilt not take I pitied thee took pains to make thee speak You taught me language, and my profit on't is, I know how to curse The red plague rid you for learning me your language! Hagseed, hence! Fetch us in fuel. Shrug'st thou, malice? If thou neglect'st or dost unwillingly what I command, I'll rack thee with old cramps fill all thy bones with aches, make thee roar that beasts shall tremble at thy din No, pray thee I must obey. Her art is of such power So, slave: Hence! Come unto these darkened sands and then take hands Curtsied when you have and kiss'd the wild waves whist foot it featly here and there and, sweet sprites, the burden bear Hark, hark! The watchdogs bark! Hark, hark! The watchdogs bark! Where should this music be? I' th' air or th' earth? It sounds no more: And sure, it waits upon some god o' th' island Thence I have follow'd it, or it hath drawn me rather but 'tis gone No, it begins again Full fathom five thy father lies of his bones are coral made Those are pearls that were his eyes nothing of him that doth fade but doth suffer a sea change into something rich and strange The ballard does remember my drown'd father This is no mortal business, nor no sound that the earth owes I hear it now above me The fringed curtains of thine eye advance and say... say what thou seest yond What is't? A spirit? No, child: It eats and sleeps and hath such senses as we have, such This gallant which thou seest was in the wreck I might call him a thing divine, for nothing natural I ever saw so noble It goes on, I see, as my soul prompts it Oh spirit, fine spirit! I'll free thee within two days for this Most sure, the goddess on whom these airs attend! Vouchsafe my prayer may know if you remain upon this island and that you will some good instruction give how I may bear me here My prime request, which I do last pronounce, is O you wonder! If you be maid or no? No wonder, sir, but certainly a maid My language! Heavens! I am the best of them that speak this speech were I but where 'tis spoken How? The best? What wert thou, if the King of Naples heard thee? A single thing, as I am now, that wonders to hear thee speak of Naples He does hear me and that he does I weep myself am Naples who with mine eyes, never since at ebb beheld the King my father wreck'd Alack, for mercy! Yes, faith, and all his lords At the first sight they have changed eyes Delicate Ariel, I'll set thee free for this A word, good sir I fear you have done yourself some wrong. A word! Why speaks my mother so ungently? This is the second man that e'er I saw, the first that e'er I sigh'd for They are both in either's powers but this swift business I must uneasy make lest too light winning make the prize light One word more I charge thee that thou attend me Thou dost here usurp the name thou ow'st not and hast put thyself upon this island as a spy to win it from me, the sovereign on't No, as I am a man There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple Follow me. Speak not you for him: He's a traitor Come! I'll manacle thy neck and feet together sea-water shalt thou drink. Follow! No. I will resist such entertainment till mine enemy has more pow'r O dear mother, make not too rash a trial of him, for he's gentle and not fearful What, I say, my foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor For I can here disarm thee with this stick and make thy weapon drop - Beseech you, mother - Hence! Hang not on my garments Ma'am, have pity. I'll be his surety Silence! One word more shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he having seen but him and Caliban Foolish child! To th' most of men this is a Caliban and they to him are angels My affections are then most humble I have no ambition to see a goodlier man Come on, obey! Thy nerves are in their infancy again and have no vigour in them So they are My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up My father's loss, the weakness which I feel the wreck of all my friends, nor this dame's threats, to whom I am subdued are but light to me might I but through my prison once a day behold this maid All corners else o' the earth let liberty make use of Space enough have I in such a prison It works Come on Thou hast done well, fine Ariel! Hark what thou else shalt do me Be of comfort. My mother's of a better nature, sir, than she appears by speech Thou shalt be free as mountain winds then exactly do all points of my command To th' syllable Come, follow. Speak not for him Beseech you, sir, be merry you have cause, so have we all, of joy for our escape is much beyond our loss But for the miracle, I mean our preservation few in millions can speak like us Then wisely, good sir, weigh our sorrow with our comfort - Prithee, peace - He receives comfort like cold porridge Look he's winding up the watch of his wit: By and by it will strike - Sir - One... Tell When every grief is entertain'd that's offer'd - comes to the entertainer - A dollar Dolour comes to him, indeed. You have spoken truer than you purposed You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should Therefore, my lord... Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue! - I prithee, spare - Well... I have done - But yet... - He will be talking! Though this island seem to be desert - Uninhabitable and almost inaccessible - Yet... - Yet - He could not miss't The air breathes upon us here most sweetly As if it had lungs, and rotten ones Or as 'twere perfumed by a fen Here is everything advantageous to life True: Save means to live Of that there's none, or little How lush and lusty the grass looks! How green! The ground indeed is tawny With an eye of green in't But the rarity of it is, which is indeed almost beyond credit that our garments, being, as they were, drenched in the sea are now as fresh as when we put them on first in Afric In Tunis At the marriage of your fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis You cram these words into mine ears against the stomach of my sense Would I had never married my daughter there! For, coming thence, my son is lost and, in my rate, she too who is so far from Italy removed I ne'er again shall see her O thou mine heir of Naples and of Milan what strange fish hath made his meal on thee Sir, he may live I saw him beat the surges under him, and ride upon their backs - I not doubt he came alive to land - No, no, he's gone Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss that would not bless our Europe with your daughter but rather lose her to an African Prithee, peace We have lost your son, I fear, for ever The fault's your own So is the dear'st o' the loss My lord Sebastian, the truth you speak doth lack some gentlenes You rub the sore, when you should bring the plaster - Very well - And most like a surgeon It is foul weather in us all, good sir, when you are cloudy Foul weather? Very foul Prospera! Prospera! All the infections that the sun sucks up from bogs, fens, flats on Prospera fall and make her by inchmeal a disease! Her spirits hear me And yet I needs must curse But for every trifle are they set upon me sometime like apes that mow and chatter at me and after bite me then like hedgehogs which lie tumbling in my barefoot way and mount their pricks at my footfall Sometime... am I all wound... with adders who with cloven tongues do hiss me into madness! Lo! Here comes a spirit of hers and to torment me for bringing wood in slowly I'll fall flat. Perchance he will not mind me Here's neither bush nor shrub, to bear off any weather at all and another storm brewing I hear it sing i' the wind Yond same black cloud, yond huge one looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor If it should thunder as it did before I know not where to hide my head Yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by pailfuls What have we here? A man or a fish? Dead or alive? A fish! He smells like a fish a very ancient fishlike smell A strange fish! Were I in England now, as once I was and had but this fish painted not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver There would this monster make a man any strange beast there makes a man When they will not give a penny to relieve a lame beggar they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian Legged... like a man... and his fins like arms! Warm o' my troth! I do now let loose my opinion, hold it no longer This is no fish but an islander, that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt Alas, the storm is come again! My best way is to creep under his gaberdine there is no other shelter hereabouts Misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows Do not torment me! O! The master, the swabber, the boatswain and I the gunner and his mate loved Mall, Meg and Marian and Margery but none of us cared for Kate for she had a tongue with a tang would cry to a sailor, Go hang! She loved not the savour of tar nor of pitch yet... yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch then to sea, boys, and let her go hang! Then to sea, boys, and let her This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a mans funeral Well, here's my comfort What's the matter? Have we devils here? Do you put tricks upon's with savages and men of Inde, ha? I have not scaped drowning to be afeard now of your four legs The spirit torments me. O! This is some monster of the isle with four legs who hath got, as I take it, an ague Where the devil should he learn our language? I will give him some relief if it be but for that If I can recover him, and keep him tame and get to Naples with him he's a present for any emperor Do not torment me, prithee I'll bring my wood home faster He's in his fit now and does not talk after the wisest He shall taste of my bottle Come on your ways Open your mouth. This will shake your shaking I can tell you, and that soundly You cannot tell who's your friend Open your chaps again I should know that voice! It should be... but he is drowned: And these are devils O, defend me Four legs and two voices a most delicate monster! Come Amen! I will pour some in thy other mouth Stephano! Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy! This is a devil, and no monster I will leave him Stephano! If thou beest Stephano, touch me and speak to me be not afeard, for I am Trinculo, thy good friend Trinculo If thou beest Trinculo, come forth I'll pull thee by the lesser legs If any be Trinculo's legs, these are they Thou art very Trinculo indeed! How camest thou to be the siege of this mooncalf? Can he vent Trinculos? I took him to be killed with a thunder-stroke But art thou not drowned, Stephano? I hid me under the dead moon-calfs gaberdine for fear of the storm And art thou living, Stephano? O Stephano, two Neapolitans 'scaped! Prithee, do not turn me about my stomach is not constant These be fine things, an if they be not sprites That's a brave god and bears celestial liquor I will kneel to him How didst thou 'scape? How camest thou hither? Swear by this bottle how thou cam'st hither I escaped upon a butt of sack which the sailors heaved o'erboard I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject for the liquor is not earthly Here! Swear by this bottle how thou escapedst Swum ashore, man, like a duck I can swim like a duck, I'll be sworn Here, kiss the book Though thou canst swim like a duck, thou art made like a goose O Stephano. Hast thou any more of this? The whole butt, man How now, mooncalf! How does thine ague? Hast thou not dropp'd from heaven? Out o' th' moon, I do assure thee I was the Man i' the Moon when time was I have seen thee in her and I do adore thee Come, swear to that Kiss the book. Swear By this good light, this is a very shallow monster! I afeard of him? A very weak monster! The Man i' the Moon! A most poor credulous monster! I'll show thee every fertile inch o' th' island And I will kiss thy foot I prithee, be my god Come on then Down, and swear! I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed monster A most scurvy monster! I could find in my heart to beat him - But that the poor monster's in drink - Come, kiss I'll show thee the best springs I'll pluck thee berries I'll fish for thee and get thee wood enough A plague upon the tyrant that I serve! I'll bear her no more sticks but follow thee thou wondrous man A most ridiculous monster to make a wonder of a poor drunkard! I prithee, let me bring thee where crabs grow and I with my long nails will dig thee pignuts show thee a jay's nest and instruct thee how to snare the nimble marmoset I'll bring thee to clust'ring filberts and sometimes I'll get thee young scamels from the rock Wilt thou go with me? I prithee now, lead the way without any more talking, Trinculo The King and all our company else being drowned, we will inherit here Farewell master: Farewell, farewell! A howling monster! A drunken monster! No more dams I'll make for fish nor fetch in firing at requiring nor scrape trencher, nor wash dish 'Ban, 'Ban Ca- Ca- Ca- Ca- Caliban has a new master Get a new man! Freedom, high day! High day, freedom! Freedom, high day, high day freedom! O brave monster! Lead the way This my mean task would be as heavy to me as odious but the mistress which I serve quickens what's dead and makes my labours... pleasures She is ten times more gentle than her mother's crabbed and she's composed of harshness! I must remove some thousands of these logs and pile them up, upon a sore injunction My sweet mistress weeps when she sees me work and says, such baseness had never like executor I forget: But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours most busiest, when I do work Alas, now, pray you, work not so hard! I would the lightning had burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile! Pray, set it down and rest you When this burns, 'twill weep for having wearied you My mother is hard at study pray now, rest yourself she's safe for these three hours O most dear mistress, the sun will set before I shall discharge what I must strive to do If you'll sit down, I'll bear your logs the while Pray, give me that: I'll carry it to the pile No, precious creature, I had rather crack my sinews, break my back than you should such dishonour undergo, while I sit lazy by It would become me as well as it does you and I should do it with much more ease for my good will is to it, and yours it is against You look wearily No, noble mistress 'tis fresh morning with me when you are by at night I do beseech you, what is your name? Miranda. O my mother, I have broke your hest to say so! Admired Miranda! Indeed the top of admiration! Worth what's dearest to the world! Poor worm, thou art infected! This visitation shows it Full many a lady I have eyed with best regard and many a time the harmony of their tongues hath into bondage brought my too diligent ear For several virtues have I liked several women never any with so full soul but some defect in her did quarrel with the noblest grace she owed and put it to the foil But you... O you, so perfect and so peerless are created of every creature's best! I know only one more of my sex no young woman's face remember save from my glass, mine own nor have I seen more that I may call men than you, good friend how features are abroad, I am skilless of: But, by my modesty I would not wish any companion in the world but you nor can imagination form a shape, besides yourself, to like of But I prattle something too wildly and my mother's precepts I therein do forget I am in my condition a prince, Miranda I do think, a king I would, not so Hear my soul speak! The very instant that I saw you, did my heart fly to your service there resides, to make me slave to it and for your sake am I this patient log-man Do you love me? O heaven, O earth, bear witness to this sound I beyond all limit of what else i' th' world Do love, prize, honour you I am a fool To weep at what I am glad of Wherefore weep you? At mine unworthiness which dare not offer what I desire to give and much less take what I shall die to want But this is trifling and all the more it seeks to hide itself, the bigger bulk it shows Hence, bashful cunning, and prompt me, plain and holy innocence! I am your wife, if you will marry me If not, I'll die your maid To be your fellow you may deny me but I'll be your servant whether you will or no My mistress, dearest And I thus humble ever My husband, then? Ay, with a heart as willing as bondage e'er of freedom - Here's my hand - And mine with my heart in't and now farewell Till half an hour hence A thousand thousand! Had I plantation of this isle, my lord and were the king on't what would I do? 'Scape being drunk for want of wine No occupation: All men idle, all and women too but innocent and pure: No sovereignty Yet he would be king on't The latter end of his common wealth forgets the beginning Nature... Nature, without sweat or endeavour would bring forth, of its own kind all foison, all abundance to feed my innocent people - No marrying 'mong his subjects? - None, man, all idle whores and knaves I would with such perfection govern, sir, t'excel the Golden Age - God save his majesty! - Long live Gonzalo! And, do you mark me, sir? Prithee, no more Thou dost talk nothing to me I do well believe your Majesty and did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing 'Twas you we laughed at Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing to you so you may continue and laugh at nothing still What a blow was there given! Nay, good my lord, be not angry No, I warrant you: I will not adventure my discretion so weakly Will you laugh me asleep? I am very heavy Go sleep, and hear us What, so soon asleep? I wish mine eyes would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts I find they are inclined to do so Do not omit the heavy offer of it It seldom visits sorrow when it doth, it is a comforter We two, my lord, will guard your person while you take your rest and watch your safety Thank you! Wondrous heavy What a strange drowsiness possesses them! It is the quality o' th' climate Why doth it not then our eyelids sink? - I find not myself disposed to sleep - Nor I my spirits are nimble They fell together, as by consent They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke What might, worthy Sebastian O, what might? No more! And yet methinks I see it in thy face, what thou shouldst be Th' occasion speaks thee and my strong imagination sees a crown dropping upon thy head What? Art thou waking? Do you not hear me speak? I do, and surely it is a sleepy language and thou speak'st out of thy sleep What is it thou didst say? This is a strange repose, to be asleep with eyes wide open standing, speaking, moving and yet so fast asleep Noble Sebastian, thou let'st thy fortune sleep, die, rather wink'st whiles thou art waking Thou dost snore distinctly there's meaning in thy snores I am more serious than my custom You must be so too, if heed me which to do trebles thee o'er Well, I am standing water I'll teach you how to flow Do so. To ebb hereditary sloth instructs me Thus, sir Although this lord hath here almost persuaded the king his son's alive 'tis as impossible that he's undrown'd as he that sleeps here swims I have no hope that he's undrown'd O, out of that no hope what great hope have you! No hope that way is another way so high a hope that even ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond but doubt discovery there Will you grant with me that Ferdinand is drown'd? - He's gone - Then, tell me Who's the next heir of Naples? - Claribel - She that is Queen of Tunis she that dwells ten leagues beyond man's life she that from whom we all were sea-swallow'd though some cast again and, by that destiny, to perform an act whereof what's past is prologue what to come in yours and my discharge What stuff is this? How say you? Say, this were death that now hath seized them why, they were no worse than now they are There be that can rule Naples as well as he that sleeps O, that you bore the mind that I do! What a sleep were this for your advancement! Do you understand me? Methinks I do And how does your content tender your own good fortune? I remember you did supplant your sister Prospera True. And look how well my garments sit upon me My sister's servants were then my fellows now they are my men - But, for your conscience - Ay, sir: Where lies that? Twenty consciences, that stand 'twixt me and Milan candied be they and melt, ere they molest! Here lies your brother, no better than the earth he lies upon If he were that which now he's like, that's dead Whom I, with this obedient steel three inches of it can lay to bed forever whiles you, doing thus, to this ancient morsel this Sir prudence who should not upbraid our course Thy case, dear friend, shall be my precedent As thou got'st Milan, I'll come by Naples Draw thy sword. One stroke shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest and I the King shall love thee Draw together, and when I rear my hand, do you the like to fall it on Gonzalo While you here do snoring lie open-eyed conspiracy his time doth take If of life you keep a care shake off slumber and beware Awake! Awake! Good angels preserve the King Why? Why are you drawn? Wherefore this ghastly looking? What's the matter? Whiles we stood here securing your repose even now we heard a hollow burst of bellowing like bulls or rather lions Did't not wake you? It struck mine ear most terribly - I heard nothing - O, 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear to make an earthquake! Heard you this, Gonzalo? Upon mine honour, sir, I heard a humming, which did awake me As mine eyes open'd, I saw their weapons drawn 'Tis best we stand upon our guard, or that we quit this place Let's draw our weapons Lead off this ground and let's make further search for my poor son Lead away Now Prospera shall know what I have done So, King, go safely on to seek thy son You're blind drunk! Tell not me! When the butt is out, we will drink water: Not a drop before Therefore bear up, and board 'em Servant-monster, drink to me Servant monster? The folly of this island! They say there's but five upon this isle; we are three of them If th' other two be brained like us, the state totters Mooncalf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest a good mooncalf How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe I'll not serve him he's not valiant Thou liest, most ignorant monster Why, thou deboshed fish thou Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie, being but half a fish and half a monster? Lo, how he mocks me! Wilt thou let him, my lord? Lord quoth he! That a monster should be such a natural! Lo, lo, again! Bite him to death, I prithee Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head If you prove a mutineer... the next tree! The poor monster's my subject and he shall not suffer indignity I thank my noble lord Wilt thou be pleased to hearken once again to the suit I made to thee? Marry, will I. Kneel and repeat it I will stand, and so shall Trinculo As I told thee before I am subject to a tyrant, a sorceress that by her cunning hath cheated me of the island Thou liest Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou I do not lie Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale by this hand I will supplant some of your teeth Why, I said nothing Mum, then, and no more Proceed I say, by sorcery she got this isle from me she got it If thy greatness will revenge it on her thou shalt be lord of it and I'll serve thee How now shall this be compassed? Canst thou bring me to the party? Yea, yea, my lord! I'll yield her thee asleep, where thou mayst knock a nail into her head Thou liest: Thou canst not What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch! I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows and take his bottle from him Why, what did I? I did nothing I'll go farther off Didst thou not just say he lied? Thou liest Do I so? Take thou that. As you like this, give me the lie another time Why? I did not give the lie Out o' your wits and bearing too? A pox o' your bottle! And the devil take your fingers! Now... forward with your tale - Prithee - Stand farther off Come, proceed Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custom with her, I' th'late afternoon to sleep there thou mayst brain her having first seized her books or with a log batter her skull or paunch her with a stake or cut her wezand with thy knife But remember first to possess her books for without them she's but a sot, as I am nor hath not one spirit to command they all do hate her as rootedly as I Burn but her books And that most deeply to consider is the beauty of her daughter Of women I've seen but these and Sycorax my dam But she as far surpasseth Sycorax as great'st does least Is it so brave a lass? Ay, lord she will become thy bed, I warrant And bring thee forth brave brood Monster, I will kill this witch her daughter and I will be King and Queen and Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys Dost thou like the plot, Trinculo? Excellent Give me thy hand I am sorry I beat thee Within this half hour will she be asleep Wilt thou destroy her then? Ay, on mine honour This will I tell my master Thou makest me merry I am full of pleasure Come on, Trinculo, let us sing Flout 'em and scout 'em and scout 'em and flout 'em Thought is free! Grog 'em then flog 'em and flog 'em and grog 'em Thought is free Nab 'em and stab 'em, stab 'em and nab 'em Thought is free Bag 'em and hang 'em, hang 'em and bag 'em Thought is free Play 'em and flay 'em, flay 'em and play 'em. Thought is free What is this same? If thou beest a man, show thyself O, forgive me my sins! Mercy upon us! Art thou afeard? No, monster, not I Be not afeard: The isle is full of noises sounds and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments will hum about mine ears and sometime voices that, if I then had waked after long sleep will make me sleep again and then, in dreaming, the clouds methought would open and show riches ready to drop upon me that, when I waked I cried to dream again This will prove a brave kingdom to me, where I shall have my music for nothing When Prospera is destroyed By'r Lakin I can go no further, sir I needs must rest me Old lord, I cannot blame thee, who am myself attach'd with weariness Sit down, and rest He is drown'd whom thus we stray to find and the sea mocks our frustrate search on land Well, let him go I am right glad that he's so out of hope The next advantage will we take thoroughly Let it be tonight What harmony is this? My good friends, hark! Marvellous sweet music! Give us kind keepers, heavens! A living drollery Now I will believe that there are unicorns If in Naples, I should report this now, would they believe me? We have stomachs Will't please you taste of what is here? Faith, sir, you need not fear I will stand to and feed although my last, no matter since I feel the best is past You are three men of sin! Whom destiny hath caused to belch up you and on this island where man doth not inhabit you 'mongst men being most unfit to live I have made you mad You fools! I and my fellows are ministers of fate the elements of whom your swords are temper'd may as well wound the loud winds as diminish one dowle that's in my plume But remember for that's my business to you that you three from Milan did supplant good Prospera her and her innocent child for which foul deed the powers, delaying, not forgetting have incensed the seas and shores yea, all the creatures, against your peace Thee of thy son, Alonso, they have bereft and do pronounce by me lingering perdition shall step by step attend you and your ways Bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou perform'd, my Ariel My high charms work and these mine enemies are all knit up in their distractions they now are in my pow'r I' the name of something holy, sir why stand you in this strange stare? O, it is monstrous, monstrous! Methought the billows spoke and told me of it the winds did sing it to me and the thunder that deep and dreadful organ pipe pronounced the name of Prospera it did bass my trespass Therefore my son i' th' ooze is bedded and I'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded and with him there lie mudded But one fiend at a time, I'll fight their legions o'er I'll be thy second All three of them are desperate their great guilt, like poison given to work a great time after now 'gins to bite the spirits I shall follow them swiftly and hinder them from what this ecstasy may now provoke them to If I have too austerely punish'd you, your compensation makes amends for I have given you here a third of mine own life or that for which I live all thy vexations were but my trials of thy love and thou hast strangely stood the test O Ferdinand, do not smile at me that I boast of her for thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise and make it halt behind her I do believe it against an oracle Then, as my gift and thine own acquisition worthily purchased take my daughter But If thou dost break her virgin-knot before all sanctimonious ceremonies no sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall to make this contract grow As I hope for quiet days, fair issue and long life the strongest temptation shall never melt mine honour into lust Fairly spoke Sit then and talk with her she is thine own Monster, your fairy which you say is a harmless fairy has done little better than played the Jack with us Monster, I do smell all horse-piss, at which my nose is in great indignation So is mine. Do you hear, monster? Good my lord, give me thy favour still Ay, but to lose our bottles in the pool There is not only disgrace and dishonour in that, monster but an infinite loss That's more to me than my wetting. Yet all this is your harmless fairy, monster What, Ariel! My industrious servant - Ariel! - What would my potent master? Here I am Go bring the rabble, o'er whom I give thee pow'r, here to this place Incite them to quick motion for I must bestow upon the eyes of this young couple some vanity of mine art; it is my promise and they expect it from me - Presently? - Ay, with a twink Before you can say "Come' and Go"! Do you love me, master? No? Dearly my delicate Ariel O mistress mine, where are you roaming? Oh stay and hear! Your true love's coming that can sing both high and low trip no further, pretty sweeting, journey's end in lover's meeting every wise man's son doth know What is love? Tis not hereafter present mirth hath present laughter what's to come is still unsure in delay there lies no plenty then come kiss me, sweet-and-twenty youth's a stuff... ...will not endure, will not endure Look thou be true Do not give dalliance too much the rein the strongest oaths are straw to the fire i' th' blood I warrant you madam The white cold virgin snow upon my heart abates the ardour of my liver Well... No tongue! All eyes! Be silent I had forgot that foul conspiracy of the beast Caliban and his confederates against my life Avoid! No more! No more! This is strange. Your mother's in some passion that works her strongly Never till this day saw I her touch'd with anger so distemper'd You do look, my son, in a moved sort, as if you were dismay'd be cheerful, sir Our revels now are ended These our actors, as I foretold you, were all spirits and are melted into air into thin air and, like the baseless fabric of this vision the cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces, the solemn temples the great globe itself, yea, all which it inherit shall dissolve and, like this insubstantial pageant faded leave not a rack behind We are such stuff as dreams are made on and our little life is rounded with a sleep Sir, I am vex'd If you be pleased, retire into my cell and there repose a turn or two I'll walk, to still my beating mind We wish your peace Come with a thought! I thank thee, Ariel. Come What's thy pleasure? Spirit. We must prepare to meet with Caliban Ay, my commander Say again, where didst thou leave these varlets? I told you, ma'am, they were red-hot with drinking I left them I' the filthy-mantled pool beyond your cell There dancing up to the chins, that the foul lake outstunk their feet This was well done, my bird The trumpery in my house, go put it out, for stale to catch these thieves I go, I go A devil, a born devil on whose nature nurture can never stick on whom my pains, humanely taken all, all lost, quite lost! I will plague them all, even to roaring Pray you, tread softly We now are near her cell O no Prithee, be quiet. Seest thou here? This is the mouth o' the cell Give me thy hand. I do begin to have bloody thoughts O King Stephano! O worthy Stephano! Look what a wardrobe here is for thee! Let it alone, thou fool! It is but trash O, ho, monster! We know what belongs to a frippery O king Stephano! Put off that gown, Trinculo! By this hand, I'll have that gown Thy Grace shall have it I look a dream, don't I How can it be real Look at the business, Gov'ner What do you mean to dote thus on such luggage? Let's alone and do the murder first Be you quiet, monster Mistress line, is not this my jerkin? Do, do! We steal by line and level and't like your Grace I thank thee for that jest Here's a garment for't Wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of this country Monster, come, put some lime upon your fingers, and away with the rest I will have none on't. We shall lose our time, and all be turned to barnacles Monster, lay-on your fingers, or I'll turn thee from my kingdom - Go to, carry this - And this Ay, and this Hey, Mountain, hey! Silver! Fury, Fury! There, tyrant, there! Hark! They roar! Let them be hunted soundly At this hour lie at my mercy all mine enemies Now does my project gather to a head Shortly shall all my labours end and thou shalt have the air at freedom Say, my spirit, how fares the King and 's followers? Just as you left them All prisoners, ma'am The King, his brother and yours, abide all three distracted but chiefly him that you term'd, ma'am 'The good old lord Gonzalo'... His tears run down his beard, like winter's drops from eaves of reeds Your charm so strongly works 'em that if you now beheld them your affections would become tender Dost thou think so, spirit? Mine would, master were I human And mine shall Hast thou, which art but air a touch, a feeling of their afflictions and shall not myself one of their kind be kindlier moved than thou art? Though with their high wrongs I am struck to th' quick yet with my nobler reason 'gainst my fury do I take part The rarer action is in virtue than in vengeance They being penitent the sole drift of my purpose doth extend not a frown further Go, release them, Ariel My charms I'll break their senses I'll restore, and they shall be themselves I'll fetch them, ma'am Ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes and groves and ye that on the sands with printless foot do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him when he comes back you demi-puppets that by moonshine do the green sour ringlets make whereof the ewe not bites and you whose pastime is to make midnight mushrooms that rejoice to hear the solemn curfew by whose aid weak masters though ye be I have bedimm'd the noontide sun call'd forth the mutinous winds and 'twixt the green sea and the azured vault, set roaring war to the dread rattling thunder have I given fire and rifted Jove's stout oak with his own bolt the strong-based promontory have I made shake and by the spurs pluck'd up the pine and cedar graves at my command have waked their sleepers oped and let 'em forth by my so potent art But this rough magic I here abjure and, when I have required some heavenly music which even now I do to work mine end upon their senses that this airy charm is for I'll break my staff bury it certain fathoms in the earth and deeper than did ever plummet sound I'll drown my book There stand, for you are spell-stopp'd O good Gonzalo, my true preserver and a loyal sir to him you follow'st I will pay thy graces home both in word and deed Most cruelly didst thou, Alonso, use me and my daughter Thy brother was a furtherer in the act Thou art pinched for't now, Sebastian Flesh and blood, you, brother mine that entertain'd ambition, expell'd remorse and nature who, with Sebastian, would here have killed your king I do forgive thee, unnatural though thou art Their understanding begins to swell Ariel fetch me the skirt and bodice from my cell I will discase me, and myself present as I was sometime Milan Quickly, spirit! Thou shalt ere long be free O I shall miss thee Ariel but yet thou shalt have freedom so... so... so... Behold the wronged Duchess of Milan, Prospera I bid a hearty welcome Whe'r thou be'st she or no, or some enchanted trifle to abuse me I not know thy pulse beats as of flesh and blood and, since I saw thee, th' affliction of my mind amends with which, I fear, a madness held me This must crave and if this be at all a most strange story Thy dukedom I resign and do entreat thou pardon me my wrongs But how should Prospera be living and be here? First, noble friend let me embrace thine age whose honour cannot be measured or confined Whether this be or be not, I'll not swear Welcome, my friends all But you, my brace of lords were I so minded I could here pluck his Highness' frown upon you and justify you traitors at this time I will tell no tales - The devil speaks in her - No For you, most wicked sir whom to call brother would even infect my mouth I do forgive thy rankest fault, all of them and require my dukedom of thee, which perforce, I know thou must restore If thou beest Prospera, give us particulars of thy preservation How thou hast met us here who three hours since were wracked upon this shore where I have lost my dear son Ferdinand I am woe for't, sir for I have lost my daughter A daughter? When did you lose your daughter? In this last tempest But, howsoe'er you have been justled from your senses know for certain that I am Prospera Welcome, sir This cell's my court I pray you, look in Sweet lord, you play me false No, my dear'st love, I would not for the world Yes, for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle and I would call it, fair play If this prove a vision of the island, one dear son shall I twice lose Though the seas threaten, they are merciful I have cursed them without cause Now all the blessings of a glad father compass thee about! Arise, and say how thou camest here O, wonder! How many goodly creatures are there here! How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world, that has such people in't! 'Tis new to thee What is this maid with whom thou wast at play? Is she the goddess that hath sever'd us and brought us thus together? Sir, she is mortal: But by immortal providence she's mine I chose her when I could not ask my father for his advice nor thought I had one Give me your hands Be it so! Amen! Was't well done? Bravely, my diligence Set Caliban and his confederates free Untie the spell Every man shift for all the rest Coragio, bully-monster, coragio! If these be true spies which I wear in my head, then here's a goodly sight O Setebos, these be brave spirits indeed! How fine my master is! I am afraid she will chastise me What things are these, my lord Antonio? Will money buy 'em? Very like. One of them is a plain fish, and no doubt marketable These three have robb'd me, and had plotted together to take my life Two of these fellows you must know and own This thing of darkness I acknowledge mine I shall be pinched to death Is not this Stephano, my drunken butler? And Trinculo is reeling ripe. How camest thou in this pickle? I have been in such a pickle since I saw you last that I fear me, it will never out my bones Why, how now, Stephano! Touch me not! I am not Stephano, but a cramp You'd be king o' the isle, sirrah? I should have been a sore one then This is a strange thing as e'er I look'd on What a thrice-double ass was I to take this drunkard for a god and worship this dull fool! Go to! Away! Hence, and bestow your luggage where you found it Or stole it, rather Sir, I invite your Highness and your train to my poor cell where you shall take your rest for this one night, and in the morn I'll bring you to your ship and so to Naples where I have hope to see the nuptial of these our dear-beloved solemnized and thence retire me to my Milan where every third thought shall be my grave My Ariel Chick That is thy charge Then to the elements be free Where the bee sucks there suck I in a cowslip's bell I lie there I couch when owl's do cry on a bat's back I do fly after summer, after summer merrily, merrily, merrily... shall I live now under the blossom that hangs on the bough Now my charms are all o'erthrown And what strength I have's mine own Which is most faint O, release me from by bands With the help of your good hands Gentle breath gentle breath of yours my sails must fill Or else my project fails Which was to please Now, I want... Spirits to enforce Art to enchant And my ending is despair unless lbe relieved by prayer Which pierces so that it assaults pierces so that it assaults Mercy itself and frees all faults As you from crimes would pardonned be Let your indulgence... Let your indulgence... ...set me free Now I want Spirits to enforce art to enchant And my ending is despair Unless I be relieved by prayer Now I want Spirits to enforce art to enchant and my ending is despair Unless I be relieved by prayer Which pierces so that it assaults pierces so that it assaults Mercy itself and frees all faults As you from crimes would pardon'd be Let your indulgence Let your indulgence ...set me free
