 

                        This is Detroit right around 1958. And that was me right there, Otis Williams, 17 and about to burst. J7 Oh, I can't help it J7 J7 I can't help it .0 J7 I can't help it J7 J7 I just can't help it fl Back then there were mainly two choices for a young man like me: The assembly line or music. I know now that I was destined for the latter. What I didn't know was that I was living in the city soon to be known to the world--. As the birthplace of Motown Records. I remember it like it was yesterday, The exact moment that singing became the most important thing in my life. Al! Al! Al! Otis! Up here! Hurry up, man! Hey, you're late. You already missed The Chantels. Let's give a big Detroit welcome to The Cadillacs! J1 Now they often call me Speedoo but my real name is Mister III J1 Now they often call me Speedoo but my real name is Mister III IJ Don't come meetin' bandit fellas III J1 and takin' other folks' girls III J1 Well, some, they call me Joe some, they call me Moe II D But just remember Speedoo is the name that people show JII JII Well, now they often call me Speedoo III J1 Bu! my real name is Mister J1 Whoa-ooh! J1 Well, now some they call me Moe II D Some, they ca me Joe D D But just remember Speedoo is the name that people know JII JII Well, now they often call me Speedoo III J1 Bu! my real name is mister J1 I1 Now they gotta call me Speedoo II IJ till they call up makin' pretty girls III I want this one here. The Tony Curtis? Oh, no, no. Oh, D. A. That's the one. I think with your head shape, you'd want the New Yorker. The Tony Curtis it is. Man, this stuff burns! Whool Now, the longer you keep that on your hair, the straighter it'll get. Whoa! 000M And I thought y'all were singers. Whool Oh! Ooh! Mama? Mama, where are you? Wherever there's work to be clone. Ooh! Ooh, you did it! - Oh. - Y-you like it? I'll let you know. Here. Look at your head! I'm home. Look at this place! Allan, what'd I tell you about leaving your toys all around this house? Boy, what the hell did you do? Looks like he lost a bet. It's called a process, Edgar. I know what it's called- I'm just wondering what he was thinking when he got it. Well... I like it. Just decided. Come on. Sit down. HeJp me. And this better not be about that singin ' mess. I kiss butt to get him an interview for the assembly line, And this is the thanks I get. I'm thankful. If you were, you'd go and wash that out right now. Mama, tell him it don't wash out. - Then shave it off! - Man! Honey, all the kids are wearin' these styles these days. Not any kids of mine. And as long as he's livin' under my roof and eatin' my food, he'll be livin' by my rules. Now that could be changed. Where are you goin'? I tell you where I ain't goin'. I ain't goin' to work on some damn assembly line. That's for damn sure. Otis! Show respect. I'm sorry, y'all. Especially you, Edgar. You always done me right. But I'm a singer now. That's just the way it is. Let's say grace. J1 Oh, what a night J1 J1 I'm going to love you, dear J1 J1 Oh, what a night J1 J1 I'm going to hold you, dear J1 J1 Oh, what a night J1 I! I'm going to kiss you, dear I! I! That's why I! III I love you so J7 J1 That JII III I won't forget III JII Ooh, no J3 IJ All those things you have told to me IJ J1 I won't forget 'em, baby oh, no, no, no, no J1 D Things 'm my heart D J7 Won't let me forget your love J7 1-7 Your love J7 D Oh-oh-oh-oh what a night III IJ Oh, oh, I wonder wonder, wonder, wonder J1 Come on. Come on. J1 Who wrote the book of love J1 J1 Chapter one says to love her J1 D To love her with all your heart D III Yeah, yeah, yeah III J1 Chapter two you tell her J1 I1 You're never, never, never never, ever gonna pan D - IJ In chapter three remember D - III Remember III D The meaning oi romance D D Romance D J1 In chapter four you break up let's give it just one more chance IJ J1 One more chance JII J7 Oh, I wonder, wonder who, who, who IJ - IJ Who wrote the book of love J1 - We need to learn some more up-tempo tunes. No, we need to practice harder. I! Yeah D Most of all, we need him. fl Who wrote the book J7 III of love III Rright from the start, I was the organizer. You see, Al, Richard and Pee-Wee were always running off someplace. I got the Red Sox. Yeah. Where are y'all goin'? You're supposed to be workin' on lyrics. I gotta work the dairy with my dad, o. We gotta get something new. There's a lot of competition out here, you know. Hey, check out Lamont- He thinks he's so cool ever since he got signed- Who got signed? Lamont Dozier, man. Fox Records. Man, why does everybody Get signed but us? How many time I gotta tell you? Because we ain't workin' hard enough- Don't you go talkin' to me about work. I'm the one who gets up 4:00 to go drive a milk truck-. I'm not talkin' about that kind of work. Look at this car! I'll see you later. And you. All right- Hey... You. Wait a minute. Wait, wait, wait. Why don't you stop? I just need to talk to you for a second- What's the matter with you? Come on, I'm not gonna hurt you. Wait. Oh, come on, man! Hold on for a second. Wait, wait, wait! Hey, man, you have got to calm down. I'm Otis Williams of Otis Williams and the Siberians. Oh, man! Shoot, I thought you was trouble. You sing with the Voice Masters, right? Yeah, well, not no more- Well, this is your lucky day, see, 'cause we happen to be looking for a bass singer, And your voice knocks me out. Yeah? Hell, yeah! What, you don't get told that all the time? So what do you say? About what? About singing with us? Oh, yeah, yeah. But it sure enough ain't up to me. Hello. Miss Franklin? And who might you be? - Uh-- w-wait, ma'am. Ma'am? - Time's up. Time's up! I'm Otis Williams. You see, I got this singing group. And you want my Melvin? Well, I guess that's what it comes down to. You know, Melvin's already recorded. Oh, yes, ma'am- Got both of his records. Mm-hmm. What's the name of this group of yours? Otis Williams and the Siberians. Listen, Otis. Now, my Melvin has always been just a little too trusting with all these groups. - How I know you different? - Ma'am? I'll tell you what. If you'll promise to look after him, do right by him... Then I'll think about it. I promise to do my best, Miss Franklin. Everybody calls me Mama Rose. You might as well too. Melvin, come on out from behind that tree. - And zip up that jacket. - Yes, mama. Y'all come on in here and get somethin' to eat. Come on. Come on. Siberians! III Earth angel, earth angel J7 J1 Will you be mine J1 D My darfing dear D III My darling dear J1 J3 Love you all the time III D I'm just a fool D J7 I'm just a fool III III A fool in love with you J1 III Earth angel, earth angel J7 J1 The one I adore J1 Hey, hey! Guys! I1 Now and forever D come on. D Ever more I! J1 I'm just a fool J1 J7 Fool in love with you III Pass the ball! III I fell for you Jil D And I knew J1 Hey, girl, you know I'm talkin' to you. J1 I hope and I pray J1 Jil that someday III J1 I'll be the vision of your happiness II Who are they? They sound good! Mmm! .57 Earth angel Earth angel 1-7 fl Please be mine .67 D My darfin' dear D I'll see you guys later, okay? Bye. J7 All the time IJ Bye. J7 I'm just a fool III J1 A fool-- J1 D with you I! - Thanks, gentlemen. - But we ain't done. You've done enough. All right. Come on, man. Let's go to the library- I'll just have to finish up on Saturday night. - A date? - That's fight. I can't. Why? - Josephine. - Yes, mama? I think it's time for you to bid your friend good night. - Good night, Mr. -- - Williams. Williams. Nice of you to stop by. Good night, Mr. Williams. A-and a good night to you too, ma'am. Mm-hmm. Saturday. Saturday. D There's a moon out tonight D J1 Whoa-whoa-whoa-ooh IJ III Let's go strollin' JII J7 There's a girl in my heart III III Whose heart I've stolen Jil J1 There's a glow in my heart J1 Now wasn't that sweet? Hey-dee-hey-hey. Joltin' Joe Howard here sending a special request to y'all out there in radio land- If anyone knows the whereabouts of Otis Williams, tell him they got ten minutes-- What? He said my name. Yeah, yeah, right, he said your name. Once again, sending out an A. P. B... To one howling Otis Williams. Come on down to 1953 Cranebrook Avenue. He said my name- He said your name. Bones, he said our name- He wants us to come down to the radio station-- Oh, somebody write down that address! Write down the address. - 1953 Cranebrook Avenue. - He said my name. - I ain't got a pencil! - Get us to the station! - Forget it. I got the address. - What about the girls? - Jo's house is on the way. We can drop 'em off there. - Say what? Get outta here quick. Quick! Go, man! Oh, watch out! Hey, hurry up, man. Hurry up. Get us to the station, Al! Al, don't park in front. Why not? Man, we in a milk truck, that's why. You happy? Beside myself. Let's go- Comin' to you live from WCHB, It's most definitely the Joltin' J-O-E... Gettin' down to the nitty in this Detroit city. And now this one from Mr. Excitement, Jackie Wilson, He's real petite, light on his feet, and he wants y'all to be loved. This cat's pillow's never dry because he's got lonely teardrops. Don't tell me. Otis, right? Yeah, Otis Williams-- Hold on a second- We gotta get your ass into the recording studio-.. And my ass back before Jackie's last teardrop falls. Come on. Do you wanna go? - Come on. - Okay, let's go, let's go. Th-this is a window. Come on. Keep real quiet. Management doesn't like it when I leave the show unattended. Especially if it ain't exactly station business. I ain't tryin' to jolt myself out of job, know what I mean? Look it here. Guess I need to cop some milk on the way back. Don't let appearances fool you. Lotta records been cut here. Besides, Johnnie Mae always gets the job clone. - Gotta go. - Who's Johnnie Mae? I'm Johnnie Mae. Johnnie Mae Matthews, Your manager, producer and promoter. Now get on in here. Hey, hey, hey, guys- Let's get started. All right. We're ready. My group is here. Uh, Miss Matthews, with all due respect... I'm Otis Williams, and this is my group. Oh, excuse me! I thought y'all wanted to make it in the music business. - Well, yeah, but- - let me break it down for you. You see, I've been watchin' y'all for some time now, And I think I can help you make it. Starting May 8, you could be appearing at the Belle Isle Silver Jubilee. May 12, grand opening, milkefs chevrolet. May 19, opening at-- For the Miracles-- St. Stephen's community center. - That's what I'm talking about. - Shall I go on? Man, what you waitin' for? O, shake her hand. Shake her hand. Come on. All right, all right. Well, let's get movin'. Time is money. My money. Oh, and by the way... I'm changin' your name. Hmm? Otis Williams and the Distants, take one. J1 Come on, come on come on, come on J1 .5 You know you make me wanna love you- .67 Hey! We're tryin' to make a record down here! From the top. Take two. D Come on come on D IJ You know you make me wanna love you in the morning JII J1 In the morning IJ - .0' In the evening .7 - fl In the evening 1-7 J1 In the nighttime it's the right time JII J1 In the nighttime J1 JJ Iris the night time I wanna love you .57 fl I wanna l0 ve you IJ D Come on I1 D Come on D D Come on now IJ I-I Come on III J1 I wanna make love to you J1 All right, o, where is Al? I'm starting to think he's gonna blow this place- He knows he's supposed to meet you, right? I told him about 50 times. We go on next- Y'all better hope they play a long set- Who's that? Oh, hey, man, that's the Primes and the Primettes. They're on right after us. I hope they don't sing as good as they walk. Dollar says he's been drinkin', o. Where you been, Bones? Hey, how y'all doin'? You late. That's a SO-cent fine. Yeah, I'm here, and I'll sing any "skinny behind" group into the ground- Yeah, I'm talkin' about you. Cool it, Bones- I'm just tellin' it like it is. What y'all call yourselves? Otis Williams and the Distants. - And who's Otis? - That's me. Well, hello, Otis. And I'm Josephine. Hi, Jo. I'm Flo. This is Florence Ballard, Mary Wilson. I'm Diane Ross. We're the Primettes. And this is Paul Williams and Eddie Kendricks, the Primes. Yeah, and back to you, Diane. How'd you get to be so Prime? Why don't you mind your damn business? She's spoken for- - So back off. - Why don't you make me? Why don't the two of you just cool out, all right? - We're cool. - That's not the way it looks. The Rumblers! In our continuing tradition... Of showcasing the finest you're gonna see, Please help me welcome to the stage... Otis Williams and the Distants! Yeah! VVhoo! I gotta go. I love you. Come on! Come on! Yeah! Yeah! We're Otis Williams and the Distants, And this is our newest single, Come on. " One, two, a one, two, three, four-- I! ba-ba-ba-boom ba-ba-ba-boom D I1 ba-ba-ba-boom ba-ba-ba-boom D I1 ah D I1 Come on, come on come on, come on D D ba-ba-ba-boom D IJ You know you make me wanna love you in the morning JII J1 In the morning IJ IJ In the evening in the nighttime Jil IJ In the evening IJ J1 In the nighttime it's the right time JII J1 In the nighttime J1 J7 I wanna lo vs you J7 .0 Come on .57 I1 Come on come on D D Come on now D J1 I wanna make love to you J1 They sound good. Yeah, but, uh, look at 'em. They're just standin' there. What's this? J1 I wanna be your everything I1 J1 Wah, wah, wah J1 J1 Do you think about me D J1 Ooh, do you think about me JII J1 I wanna love you with all my might J3 IJ That sweet and wonderful dame III J7 I wanna make love to you f! It's Smokey, and he's got Berry Gordy with him! J7 I wanna make love to you f! I! Yeah, yeah, yeah Come on I! I1 Come on come on D D Come on now D D Come on, come on now I! D Gstfin' tired Getfin' tired D D Come on I1 D Come on D Otis Williams and the Distants! - Whoo! Come on! - Otis Williams and the Distantsl Top that. And now they're back. Hey, hey. That was great. Thanks, man- The Primes and the Primettes. Mom, mom! Oh, y'all were wonderful! Oh, wonderful! Al! Oh, honey, you were so good. Jzsciiyfl D Just a little bit longer J1 III Just a little bit III IJ Longer D III Stay just a little bit JII .17 Please J7 J7 Please, please Please, please fl J7 Just a little bit longer fl fl Tell me you're going to J7 I! Just a me bit I! D Now your daddy don't mind D D And your mommy don't mind D I! R we have another dance I! D Yeah, just one more D I1 One more time D D One more time D III Oh, won't you stay J1 They're good. What? fl Just a little bit longer J7 Shut up. They're all right. IJ Please won't you say you will III J1 Say you will J1 I1 Won't you place your sweet lips I1 D to mine I! D Won't you say you have me D D All the time D JII All the time JII n StayJil J7 Just a little bit longer J7 .67 Just a little bit longer; stay J7 III Just a little bit please IJ III Please, please, please III J1 Just a little bit longer J1 J1 Please tell me you're going to J1 J7 Just a little bit J7 Hey, there goes Berry Gordy. Let's go. IJ Come on, come on come on and stay IJ J1 Come on, come on come on and stay J1 J7 Stay IJ How're you doin'? Oh, couldn't be better, sir. A Mr. Berry Gordy, right? Yeah, that's right. Thank you. Uh, Otis Williams. Oh, Otis. Hey, man, you guys were really good out there tonight. Smokey better watch out- It just isn't fair how good we are. We've got other songs. - D Piano's kid, Pacds kid D - D Bang, bang D D Yeah, Pam's kid D D Bang, bang D Thanks. Uh, excuse me, sir. I just wanted to, uh-- Oh, uh, this is Blue. Hi, Blue. L-I mean our bass, Melvin Franklin. I just wanted to say this is such a great pleasure to finally meet you, Because the things you're doing with Motown are great. Thanks very much. That's nice to hear, guys. Thank you. I appreciate it Uh-- uh-- Uh, do you guys have a manager? Yes. No. I mean-- well, you know. We haven't signed anything- It's complicated. You know, a friend-- Listen, if you guys ever figure it out, Here's my card. Nice meeting you. It's our pleasure, Mr. Gordy. Card. Card. Here comes Johnnie Mae. Holy-- whool Damn! Miss Matthews! Hey! Do you like it? Like it? Shoot, I love it- Where'd you get it? New York City, baby. Cut that deal at RCA, Walked half a block down to Broadway, paid for it cold cash. Go on. Check out the upholstery. Genuine leatherette- Hey, hey, I said check it out, not mess it up- So our record must be doin' good, huh? You tell me. Does this look good to you? Oh, wow! Whewl So when is pay day? As soon as those royalties start pourin' in, baby. But that's our money right there, right? Can't we just divvy that up now? Fellows, I'd love to, but we got bills to pay. - What bills are those? - Promotion, for one thing. Air time don't come cheap, you know. Palms gotta be greased- That's it? What's with the third degree? Don't y'all trust me? Oh, oh-- no, no, no. Sure we do. Just tryin' to learn the business. Well, learn it on your own damn time. And don't be confusin' my money with money you ain't even earned yet. Y'all ain't my only group. You know, as a matter of fact, just get out. Get out of my damn car. I don't know what I was thinking--. Letting you ungrateful buds drive in it anyway. Yeah, but what about the car? - Ain't your car. - It says our name right there. Ain't your name, either. Not no more. The car, the name, it all belongs to me. The songs too. Get on my damn nerves. Can she do that, o? Can she take our name like that? I don't know. No money? I'm sick of this crap. I quit! What? I quit! Just like that, Bones, you gonna up and quit on me? Wait up, Al. I'm with you. Richie. To hell with you. Oh, no. Come on, Richard. Damn! I mean, just like that they're just gonna up and quit on us.-. Just because they ain't gettin' paid! Yeah. Maybe they're right, o. I can't believe you just said that, Blue. We are not quittin'. We got a card. Just don't have a group. You hungry? I'm always hungry. Mama Rose's? What's up, o? Better be good news, 'cause I can't take no more bad. Well, you best believe it's good news, man. Who'd you get? Singer and dancer. Yeah? Yeah? Lay it on me. Paul Williams and Eddie Kendricks, man. The Primes? Well, once upon a time. What happened? What you mean what happened, 0t? These cats are now available. I don't know, Blue. I just don't like their attitudes. Oh, now come on, 0t. You know they sing good. They move good. They hungry, just like us. And they wanna join our group. Now I'm tellin' you, 0t, I'm tellin' you... These cats called me up beggin' to join our group. You know what I'm sayin'? Hey, y'all! They begged? Yeah. Well, you know, practically. Now the point is, what harm can one rehearsal do, right? Come on. Hey... When you get done here, you can come do my yard. It was a joke, man- Ha-ha! Hey, how y'all be? Hey, how y'all doin'? Hey. So, we heard y'all wanna join our group? - Your group? - Yeah. I thought you said they wanna join our group. Al! My man. Well, what do you know. Oh, we can do better than that. A one, a two, a one, two, three. I! Ohhhh D I! Mower D D Oh, mother of mine D I! Oh, mother I! D Oh, mother I! J1 The things that you told me-- J1 Wait, wait, wait, wait. Hold it, hold it, hold it. Look, fellows, we sound good, but, um, You know, just standin' there and snappin' fingers... ls fine, you know, if you some old cats. But see, we're young, and I'm kind of frisky. So we got to move. You know what I'm sayin'? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, that's what I thought. - All right. - So why don't you show us what you got? All you're doin' is steppin' back like this. One, two, three and snap, snap. You got it? Like, one, two, three and snap. D 0h, mother I1 I! Oh, mother I! D 0h, mother I1 I! Oh, mother I! Now go to your left. Go to your left IJ Oh, mother 1-7 Your other left. Oh, come on, man. We some singers. I don't see why we have to dance. We're just tryin' to sell some sex here, so you gotta move, all right? Besides, we gotta give the folks somethin' to watch while I'm singin' so sweet. Oh, man, it be pilin' up in here today. Come on, Al, come on- Let's get it together now. Now back from the top. Pick it up. Here we go. D 0h, mother I1 I! Oh, mother I! I1 Oh, mama I! I! Oh, mother I! J1 Oh, mama J1 Hazel I! Oh, mother D Now they're rehearsing 'm my house. .7 Oh, mama .0' Owner's ready. Knock, knock. Hey, how ya doin'? They just gettin' started. How ya Gain"? Lord have mercy. If y'all ain't five of the handsomest men in Detroit. Y'all don't even need to sing. Just parade back and forth. D Oh, mother I! Now we had a group. Eddie and Paul turned out to be just what we needed, and Al, who quit almost every week, was excited too. And here it was, the Hitsville building, home of Motown Records. Mary Wells, Marvin Gaye, The Miracles, The Marvelettes. It was too much. Well... We're here. Melvin, did y'all hook up with The Primes? Looks that way, don't it? Man, y'all gonna kick some ass. What ya callin' yourselves? The Elgins. Elgins? Like the wristwatch? Yeah. Cool. Well, good luck. Why, thanks. Who are they? Oh, that's Jimmy Ruffin and his little brother David. They both cut solo records. Motown? No, no, man, but they're hoping. Hmm. Well. Go on. I'm gain'. I'm sorry. Mr. Gordy's in a recording session. He'll have to get back to you. J1 Please, Mr. Postman look at me... J1 Excuse me. I'm Otis Williams. Hi. Martha Reeves. Uh, Mr. Gordy's expecting my group for an audition. Group name? Well, he knows us as The Distants, but now we go by The Elgins. Like the watch? Wait here. Hey, so, what'd they say? He said to wait outside and come up with a new name. New name? Damn. Yes. Thank god. No, no. Look, Blue, don't worry about it, all right? What we'll do, we'll put our heads together... And just come up with a new name out here, hmm? The Edsels. The Pontiacs. The Corvairs. Oh, no, no, no. - The Radicals. - No. - The Spectacles. - Testicles. Uh... Probably not. Yeah. Sorry. The Hearses. The Undertakers? The Stiffs. No, no, guys- Guys, look, it's gotta be somethin' forbidden, you know? Somethin' that everyone wants but no one can have. It's gotta be somethin' sexy. Pop. Yeah, yeah, snap those shoulders up- Hey, y'all, they're ready for you. Whoo. All right, guys, let's do it. Hey, we can't leave nothin' to chance. Lord, we call on you to give us the faith... And the courage to make the most of this great opportunity that you've given us- Amen. Amen. Now let's do it. Ooh, yeah. So, you guys come up with a name for yourselves yet? The Temptations. "Temptations. " Not bad. Not bad at all. Okay, gentlemen, let's hear it. I! Ohhhh D I! Mower D D Oh, mother o! mine D J7 I've been blind J11 I-I So blind III J1 The things that you tell me, yeah J1! J1 Oh, mother IJ J1 I paid, I really paid 'em no mind J7 J1 Oh-oh-oh-oh IJ J7 Oh, please, oh, please forgive me, yeah J7 fl Oh, mother H J7 I know I was wrong J7 J7 Doo, doo, doo, doo fl J1 But now, now I know, yeah J1 J1 Oh, mother J1 IJ Mother of mine IJ III My place my place is at home III J1 Can't you see I've been cryin' IJ III Oh, yes J1 IJ He's been cryin' D III Almost dyin' JII J1 Almost, almost dyin' III JII Oh, mother J1 III Please, mother III J1 Oh, mama J7 III Please, mother III I1 Oh, mama I! D Fflease, mom D J1 Come on and tell me now J7 III How much of mom's love J1 D You don't undersmnd D D Doe-don, doo doo-doo, doo D J7 When you said That you were wrong J7 J7 Doo-doo, doo I! IJ Yes, it was that your girl J1 III Doo-doo, doo J3 IJ She put you in such a whirl D III Doo-doo, doo J3 J1 Well, I'm not gonna be no fool no more III J3 Be no fool no more J1 J7 Oh, I'm so sorry now J7 J7 Mama, it's gonna be all right J7 D Oh, mother of mine D III Mother of mine III Well, did you like it? No. I loved it. I loved it. Huh? Motown? Yeah. All right. We did it. Congratulations, guys. Welcome to Motown. Thank you. My pleasure. - Thank you, sir. - Yeah. Hey. hey. hey. guys. guys! Hold it up, hold it up. Yeah, Temptations forever. Yeah. Ever, baby. Jo. We got it- Motown signed us! Berry Gordy said he loves us. What's the matter? Otis, I'm pregnant. Don't worry about anything. Everything's gonna be fine. So I became an instant family man. Our son Lamont arrived right on schedule. If only our careers had happened as fast. - J7 Why don't you come, come J7 - Oh, yeah, I like that. I1 To my paradise I! D Ba-a-a-a-by D D To my paradise D I got it. JII Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh III I1 Come back, ooh-ooh To my paradise D D Ba-a-a-a-by D D To my paradise D The Temptations became part of the Motown machine, Jil Why don't you come J1 Berry Gordy's assembly line approach to artist development- IJ To my paradise JII we had vocal coaching from Maurice King.-- And countless sessions in Motown studio a... With the in-house band known as The Funk Brothers. Berry Gordy himself wrote and produced most of our first records. I1 With her back in my arms again I1 And there was choreography by a legendary dancer, Charlie Atkins. Paul and Charlie... Didn't always agree. Jil With all your talk III J1 And l-l-l-l don't wanna wake up J1 J1 Don't wanna wake up III J1 Don't wanna wake up III D Oh, no, no, no D Probably the most unique part of the whole operation... Was the quality control meetings. Berry borrowed this from his days working at the Ford plant. He would gather key executives, songwriters and producers together, And every record would get voted on for its hit potential. For the longest time, it seemed we couldn't even get a record they thought was good enough. Who thinks it's a hit? Okay. If you were down to your last dollar, Would you buy this record or a sandwich? Sandwich. What's next? J1 I want a love I can see J1 IJ That's the only kind that means a thing to me III IJ Ah-ah-ah IJ J1 Don't want a love you have to tell me about IJ J1 Ah-ah-ah IJ JII That kind of loving I can sure do without J7 IJ Ah-ah-ah IJ J1 I can sure do without J1 I1 Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah I want a love I can see J1 Smokey Robinson was the next to take up the challenge, And we knew we had a hit. I1 Don't wanna be going by something I heard now II J1 'Cause, baby, action speaks louder than words J1 All right, who thinks it's a hit? As good as it was, it wasn't good enough. It didn't even make the charts. Two years had passed, and we were starting to be known as the Hitless Temptations. Don't worry, y'all. Next record'll make it. I hope so, 'cause I'm startin' to wonder. Well, I ain't. Why are we rehearsing on Christmas? If any of y'all had any sense, you'd go find yourselves a real job too. Merry Christmas. Once again, there he goes bein' a jerk! Once again, man, you know, he's right. I can't afford one baby- Here I am, about to have my fourth- Come on, Paul. I know it's gonna get better. Don't see how. Hell, if Smokey and Berry can't write us a hit, Then maybe it's no! the songs. Know what I'm sayin'? Well, hey, look at it this way- We ain't got nowhere to go but..- Up. See, now that's what I'm talkin' about, y'all. See, I feel it. We're all gonna be big stars. Happy new year! J1 Should auld acquaintance J1 D Be forgot D D And never brought to mind D J1 Should auld acquaintance J1 D Be forgot D J1 And auld lang syne III J1 For auld lang syne, my clear III D For auld lang syne III III We'll take a cup of kindness yet J1 D For auld lang syne III Thank you for coming out- Happy new year! We love you! More, more! More, morel Whoa'. Happy new year! Man, you guys hear that? Let's go back out there. Oh, they lovin' us. I say we go out there. Okay, let's sing Chuck. " Man, we ain't goin' back out there. And why not, Bones? We just got done singin' "Auld lang syne. " hell, I'm tired. Now, look, it is not often that we get asked out for an encore. We got family out there. We got friends out there. Hell, man, our boss is out there, man, and he wants an encore- So I feel like singin', all right? We all feel like singin'. - I said I'm tired. - Bones, man, I am so sick of your crap! Not nearly as sick as I am of yours. As a matter of fact, don't say nothin' else to me. Why is it that you have to be so negative? Huh? Why is that? Let me see if I can explain it to you. - What's wrong with you, man? - I quit! - Come on! - You're stupid! That's it. You're out. He's gone. You can't tell me I'm fired, Eddie! Well, I'm tellin' you- You're out the group! Gonna fine me 50 cents? That's it. You on your own. Fine. D We I! D You know you make me wanna D II Shout, shout J1 D Kick my heels up and throw my head back IJ I1 Shout, sham D I! Throw my head back and come on now D III Don't forget to say you will J1 J7 Don't forget to say Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah III J1 Say you will JII III Say it right now, baby J7 J1 Say you will JII D Come on now III I1 Say, say J1 J1 Say that you love me J1 D Say I1 D Come on now H I1 Say I1 II Say that you want me J1 Ladies and gentlemen, Jimmy Ruffinl Come on up hare, Jimmy Rufin. Yeah! Yeah! III I still remember J7 II When you used to be nine years old III D Yeah, yeah, yeah I was a fool for you JII III From the bottom of my soul J1 III I want you to know J1 J1 I said I want you to know right now J1 J1 That you've been good to me, baby J1 J1 Better than I've been to myself II J1 And if you ever leave me J1 III I don't want nobody else Jil J1 Hey, you know you make me wanna III I! Shout I! D Yeah, yeah D J7 Shout; shout .0' fl Yeah, yeah J7 D You make me wanna D D Oh, yeah D D Shouk D II Shout, shout J7 III All right all right J1 II Shout, shout J7 III All right, yeah JII My baby brother David Ruffin. Come on up, man. Come on up. D Wait a minute I! Yeah, David! II I feel all J1 come on! Come on! 11,411 njghtfl J1 I got my woman J1 IJ I feel ah-ahhh IJ Oh! Oh, oh, oh! J7 Every time I think about you J7 J1 It feels so good to me You know you make me wanna J1 II Shout, shout J1 J1 Set my brains up and throw my hands up IJ II Shout, shout J1 JII And kick my heels up and come on now J3 IJ Take it easy take it easy IJ III Shout, shout J7 D Take it easy IJ III Shout, shout J7 D Ooh, come on now D D Shout, shout D J1 Shout, shout Jil III A little bit softer now A little bit softer now IJ IJ A little bit softer now A little bit softer now J1 J1 Shout, shout IJ J1 Shout, shout Jil III A little bit softer now A little bit softer now IJ J1 Shout, shout Jil J1 A little bit louder now A little bit louder now IJ J1 Shout, shout Jil J1 A little bit louder now A little bit louder now IJ J1 Shout, shout Jil J1 A little bit louder now A little bit louder now IJ I! Shout I! D Hey-ey-ey-ey D - I1 Hey-ey-QV-Q'! n - D Hey-ey-eV-e'! n J7 hey-ey-ey-BY J7 n hey-ey-ey-ey-ey I" J1 hey-ey-ey-BY-QY n n ney-ey-ey-ey-ey 11 J1 hey-ey-ey-ey-ey J1 J1 shout, shout, shout J1 I! shout, sham I1 I! shout, shout D Mama Rose, would it be too much to ask for some more? David, this is your third, right? I ain't really ate nothin' since last year. That's a good one. "Last year. " He's got a point- Some more corn bread for rne, mama? Now, how come that don't surprise me? Here. You know what his nickname is, don't you? - That's not why they call you Cornbread, is it? - Mm-hmm. You ain't never seen a guy eat that much. Man, talk about hungry. These families down in Birmingham used to eat this clay for dinner- Oh, man, please! I'm serious, man. They used to eat red river clay, man. They used to have some of that down in Mississippi too. Wasn't too bad with some hot sauce. - Where in Mississippi? - Down by meridian. Oh, yeah? You know, we all from down South. - Really? - Yeah. I just really wanna sing with y'all. Well, there's gonna be a whole lot of singin'. And we have some rules. I hope not too many, 'cause I ain't too good with rules. Why not? Well, my mama owed some pimp some money. Instead of payin' up, she gave me to him. He had a whole lot of rules too. Break any one of them, a strap came out. Seems like most times, strap just came out on its own though. Well, we don't have no straps, and what rules we do have... Are meant to help keep us chuggin' straight ahead. - Can you dig it? - Sounds cool to me. Real cool. Yeah, real cool. Give me some. Slap some skin. Hey! H3PPY new year! Smokqy! He Smokey bah)', how ya doin '7 Damn good show tonight. David, that was bad. You wanna know bad? David's in the group now. He's a Temptation. Temptation. Congratulations. Come on, Smokey baby. Sit down and eat. Oh, no time, mama. Got Claudette waiting- I just stopped by to say have I got a song for you! - Can you dig? - Yeah, we can dig it. Well, happy new year. All right, baby. Give Claudette a kiss. Happy new year. Y'all be careful out there. Temptations. Temptations. It was the new year, and for the first time... we had the right combination of singers. We had been rehearsing that song Smokey had written for us for almost two weeks, And we all liked it a lot. L! was a cold, crisp night, And I remember lookin' up at the four of them and thinkin', "This is it. This is the night that's gonna change everything. " I1 You got a smile so bright I1 J1 You know you could have been a candle J1 I! I'm homing you so tight I! J1 You know you could have been a handle J1 D The way you swept me off my feet III J1 You know you could have been a broom J1 I! The way you sme so sweet I! J1 You know you could have been some perfume J1 IJ Well, you could have been anything that you wanted to III I1 And I can tell I1 I! The way you do me things you do D IJ The way you do the things you do IJ J3 Oh, baby III III The way you do the things you do Jil I! As pram; as you are ooh-ooh D J1 You know you could have been a flower J1 D If good looks was a minute JII J1 You know that you would be an hour II Hey! Daddy's on the radio, baby! Yo, baby girl! Hey, you heard, huh? Huh-huh. Yeah! Are you proud of me? Check it out. Number 76 with the bullet. IJ Well, you could have been anything that you wanted to III I1 And I can tell I1 "The way you do the things you do" hit the charts... Just in time for the next Motor Town Revue Tour, one of many we would be on. Gonna call me, now? I'm gonna call you every night. Promise? I promise. Let's go, let's go. Come on, we gotta get on the bus. You know I love you, right'? Send this to the kids. One, two, three and four- I love you. Love you too. Bye-bye. B ye-b ye. Love you, Lamont. Aside from the fact that we had to leave our families behind for a month, these tours were fun. Sometimes a whole lot of fun. Bye! All the Motown acts would go out on these tours, Maybe five, six, seven at a time: Martha and The Vandellas, The Supremes, Marvin Gaye, Mary Wells, The Miracles, everyone. IJ I'm stickin' to my guy like a stamp to a letter III J1 Like birds of a feather we'll stick together III D I'm tellin' ya from the start III J1 I won't be torn apart from my guy II Mr. Gordy made sure we were properly chaperoned. And I'm sure they did their best and all, but, well, Let's just say they couldn't be everywhere. D I'm hohiin' you so fight D J1 You know you could have been a handle J1 D The way you swept me off my feet III J1 You know you could have been a broom J1 D You know you smell so sweet III J1 You know you could have been some perfume J1 No. Wait. We're not gonna do the sniffin'. What are we gonna do then? Why don't we do this? We open up the perfume and put it on- I like that idea. You're not doin' it. Fl You know you could have been some perfume J7 Jil Some perfume III IJ Well, you could've been anything that you wanted to III I1 And I can tell I1 III The way you do the things you do Jil IJ The way you do the things you do IJ J3 Oh, baby III D As pretty as you are D J1 You know you could have been a flower J1 J1 If good looks was a minute J1 We traveled all over the South. Many of us had left as kids and had forgotten what it was like down there. Seein' that rope was a harsh reminder... That things hadn't changed much. I! And baby you're so smart I! J1 You know you could have been a schoolgirl J1 IJ Well, you could have been anything that you wanted to III Jil But I can tell III I! The way you do me things you do D IJ The way you do the things you do IJ III Oh, baby, yeah J7 D You make my life so rich III J1 You know you could have been some money III Hmm. Oh, man! Do you need some help? Can you hold the wheel steady? Okay. Get your asses back up north! I got somethin' for your asses! I got somethin'l Hey, David, get back here! Come on. What's wrong with you? You don't have no gun! Come on, everybody- Get back in! Get on the bus. Just get on the bus! They might come back- III Ooh la, la, la, la J1 J1 I did you wrong III J1 My heart went out to play J1 III But in the game I lost you J1 D What a price to pay D D Hey, I'm cryin' D DOohl-l D Baby, baby D Yo! D Baby, baby D III Mistakes III J1 I know I've made a few J1 III But I'm only human J1 I! You've made miskakes too I! D Whenever I'm with you D I! Somethin' inside D When we went on tour again, my marriage was in a lot of trouble- Life on the road was having its effect on all of us, especially Paul. J1 This little girl of mine J1 J7 I wanna say she's so fine III I! And each and every day I! III I make sure she has her way Jil By the time we went back down south, Hallelujah, the rope was gone. I like to think our music had somethin' to do with bringin' the folks together, but all I know, it was a wonderful sight. J1 The girl's all right with me J1 J7 You know the girl's all right III J1 The girl's all right with me J1 J7 You know the girl's all right III D She's so good to me D D I guess that's why I feel fancy free J1 J1 Just to see the glow in her eyes J1 J1 Makes me once again realize II J1 I love her with all of my heart J1 D And I know we'll never never part III J1 I never heard about her goin' or playin' J1 D Guess that's why you always hear me sayin' JII IJ The girl's all right with me III J1 You know the girl's all right II J1 The girl's all right with me J1 J7 You know the girl's all right III Hey, Ruff, we're ready to go. I'll be there in a second. Somethin' wrong? No. Nothin's wrong. First time everything's right. The first time in my life I belong to somethin' that's right. Well, it's just the beginnin'. It's just the beginnin'. Let's go. We got a few minutes before the show. I wanna go over this song I got laid out for you, okay? I wrote this one for David, Eddie. Cool. We're gonna start this off with a "C", then we're gonna jump to an "F". There's no music during "I've got. " It's gonna open up on I've got... Sunshine... on a cloudy day. " J1 When it's cold outside J1 J1 I've got the month of may J1 Keep it nice now. Sweet. Here's the change-up, during the chorus. III I guess you say J1 J1 What can make me feel this way J1 Hold. III My girl III oh! All right! So we'll start it off-- David, give me an "I've got, " and then I'll hit "C". Let's double up when I come in. Take us back to church. I'll take you to church. I've been to church now. Hey, quiet. Oh, my god! J1 I've got sunshine J1 J1 On a cloudy day J7 Shh! Shh! Look at my boy. J1 When it's cold outside J1 J1 I've got the month of may J1 That's my bflbY! J1 I guess you'd say J1 D What can make me I! J1 Feel this way J1 J1 My girl, my girl, my girl I-l - J1 Talkin' 'bout my girl I1 - J1 My girl J1 III I've got so much honey J1 I! The bees envy me I! J1 I've got a sweeter song J1 D Than the birds 'm khe trees D III Well, I guess Jil I! you'd say D See your daddy? D What can make me I! IJ Feel this way D Y'all singin' so good! III My girl Jil I1 My girl I1 J1 My girl J1 D Talkin' 'bout my girl IJ I1 My girl I1 J1 Ooh J1 n Hey, hey, hey 11 - Whoo! - J7 Ooh J7 I! Yeah D III I don't need no money J7 D Fortune or fame I! D I got all the riches, baby IJ Damn! III One man can claim J1 D Well, I guess you'd say IJ J1 What can make me feel this way J1 I1 My girl I1 J1 My girl J1 I1 My girl I1 J1 Talkin' 'bout my girl II I1 My girl I1 J1 Talkin' 'bout my girl II J1 I got sunshine on a cloudy day J1 IJ with my girl D IJ I've even got the month of may with my girl III J1 Talkin' 'bout, talkin' 'bout talkin' 'bout my girl II Oh! Oh! Ch! Oh. my god! D The best things in life are free JII J1 But you can give them to the birds and bees J1 - IJ I need money J11 - JII That's what I want III - D That's what I want IJ - JII That's what I want III - D That's what I want IJ - JII That's what I want III - D That's what I want IJ - JII That's what I want III J1 Your love give me such a thrill J1 I1 But your love don't pay my bills I1 - IJ I need money J11 - JII That's what I want III - D That's what I want IJ - JII That's what I want III - D That's what I want IJ - JII That's what I want III Ha-ha. Too much. Success brought much more than any of us bargained for. We were workin' nonstop-- rehearsing, recording, touring-- Not to mention radio promotions, press interviews and photo sessions. That's why we were happy to finally relax at the annual Motown picnic. Hey, hey, hey. Lookee here. Whoever said success makes you the person you really are... must've had David in mind, Because he started to become someone none of us recognized. It's mighty funny how he can show up here, but miss out on rehearsals. Who's that guy with him? I don't know. Must be his driver. No. You mean his valet. Well, welcome to the festivities. Hey, David. Hello, y'all. Miss Terrell- Lookin' as fine as ever. You too, baby. Miss Terrell. Tammi. How you doin'? What's up, little man? Hey, Tammi. How you doin'? I'm gonna get somethin' to eat. Do you want somethin '? I??? okay Don? take too long, baby. All right. Hey, Tammi. Are you gonna take Lamont over to the sack races like you promised? Sack races, like I promised. Sack races! Come on! Okay. All right. Go do your family thing now. Hope you win somethin'. How you doin', man? It's a pleasure to meet you. I'm Flynn. Flynn. All right. Nice to meet you. I'm Flynn. Flynn who? It's just Flynn. Flynn's my man. How are you? Good. I'm enjoyin' this picnic. Go get that bitch. All right. How y'all doin'? Nice to meet you. Hey- - David wants to talk to you. - Excuse me. David, can we talk to you for a second? Hey, hey, hey. Yeah. About what? About rehearsal and about Tammi. Tammi? Yeah. What about Tammi? Why don't you go easy with Tammi? What am I supposed to do? Let her flirt with every man in the park? You know how women are. She just needs some attention. Yo, I don't trust no woman. Maybe the problem is, you need to show her some respect- Y'all is mama's boys, And you don't know nothin' about me and women. Excuse me. Whoa. Hmm. How you doin'? What's up, David? What's goin' on? All right. We cum here, okay'? Where are we gain"? Where are we gain'? Come on. We just got here, David. You're tryin' to embarrass me in front of all these people. I wish I hadn't married you- Did you see that? Yeah. J1 I know you wanna leave me J1 J1 But I refuse to let you go J1 I1 If I have to beg and plead for your sympathy J1 J1 I don't mind 'cause it means that much to me J1 D Ain't too proud to beg and you know it III - They love it when I do that, don't they? - Yeah, man- Hey, fellas, how you doin'? Treats, baby. Flynn, or whatever your name is, you need to go. J1 But if I have to fight to keep you J1 J1 I don't mind weepin' J1 Okay, Dave. I'm gonna leave you boys a little sunshine. Why don't you take that little sunshine along with you? Ooh. We're gonna be friends. Good friends. J1 Ain't too proud J1 Boy, Norman just kept whippin' us and whippin' us... The other day, huh? I don't think I can get any better, though. That ain't the way I see it. Oh, yeah? Well, hit me up. For one, you missed a very important meeting. Not to mention our last few sessions. I'm not even gonna count the rehearsals. And it's probably because of all this crap you keep shovin' up your damn nose- Well, maybe I don't need as much rehearsal as some other folks. David, this can't go on. What you got to say, Blue? "That's right, Otis. Whatever you say, Otis. " No, David. It's like this. Either you gonna straighten up... or we're lettin' you go. Blue, you all right with that? I'll miss you, but not if you're hurtin' the group. Hurtin' the group? I'm the best thing that ever happened to this damn group! Nobody's bigger than the group. Yeah, well, they ain't stupid. I'm the one sellin' the records. They cumin' to see me. They comin' to see The Temptations. Ain't nobody comin' to see you, Otis. You wish you could work it the way I do, But you can't, 'cause there is only one David Ruffin. And without him, ha, The Temps ain't nothin' but a group in search of a David Ruffin. As a matter of fact, I've been thinkin'. We should call the group... David Ruffin and The Temptations. Yeah. That sound good to me. Y'all beggin' me not to leave you. J1 And I refuse to let you go J1 Yeah. David Ruffin and The Temptations. Hmm. What do you say? That ain't never gonna happen. Then I'm gone. Fellas. Fellas, you know I'm just kiddin', right? Come on, you know I always be kiddin'. Yo, fellas, we successful now. Lighten up. You's too uptight. Enjoy the fruits. I'm gonna see you at rehearsal. I'm gonna be there on time. I'm gonna be there before y'all- Bye. Thanks for comin' over. They tickle me. They believed rne. I am talking crossover, gentlemen. Crossover- I'm talking about broadening our scope, Getting you out in front of the mainstream white audience. Now, I brought somebody in from L. A. They're gonna manage both you and The Supremes. Rebecca, send Shelly in, please. Thank you. So, what's he gonna do? I'm gonna let him tell you himself. Gentlemen, say hello to your new manager, Shelly Berger. - Otis. - Shelly. It's a pleasure. Melvin. How you doin'? It's a pleasure. Paul. Eddie. I'm a huge fan, fellas. David's feeling a bit under the weather. Couldn't be here today- Why don't you explain the plan to the guys? The plan, gentlemen, is to get you on all the major television shows, Your own specials, theater in the round, Las Vegas... - And the Copacabana. - How are you gonna do that? Mr. Gordy's approved a four-week tour with The Supremes, And then we cut a new album-- an album with standards. - Standards? - Talkin' middle-of-the-road, white bread america stuff- Burt Bacharach, "Man of la mancha, " Henry Mancini. What's this album supposed to do... Besides piss off our fans? It gets us to the Cope, Paul. And that opens the door to all the rest. It all sounds like great money to me. Listen, guys. This is a major step for you and for Motown. Look, look. What's so wrong with what we're doin' now? Hell, we're the biggest-- - Biggest black group in the business. - What's wrong with that? Nothin'. We're talkin' about bein' the biggest group, period. The biggest group in the world. So, what do you think? Right now, I really don't think it matters much what I think. Gordy says he's gonna put a lot of money in this project. It ain't about the money. I mean, look. Our music, that's who we are. Man, radio made us. Do you really think that the jocks are gonna get behind a bunch of sellouts? Come on, man. Come on. Why don't you give it a chance? The "Mellow Mood" album did what it was supposed to do. We made it to the Copa. At least, most of us did. Where the hell's Ruffin? You tell me, because I don't know. How much time we got? Two minutes. This is getting old. Otis. Melvin, fellas. Where's David? Oh. We gotta talk. No, we don't need to talk to you. - Maybe before. - Before what? Before I became David's manager. Manager? What the hell are you talkin' about? Where is he? Y'all go on as David Ruffin and The Temptations, he's right here. You tell David that we goin' on with... or without him. So that's a "no"? That would be a "get out"... or be thrown out. Okay - I have had I! with his crap. I know, I know. We gm mo much cumin' up. We need David. What? J1 I never met a girl who makes me feel the way that you do IJ IJ You're all right D D Whenever I'm asked who makes my dreams real III J1 I say that you do D JII you're outta sight JII D So fee fi o ium I1 D fee fi E0 Eum D J7 Look out, baby tease here I come J7 fl Look out; here I come IJ J1 I'm bringin' you a love that's true J1 IJ So get ready so get ready D J7 ahh, ahh, ahh, ahh, baby J7 J7 gonna try to make you love me too J7 IJ so get ready, so get ready 'cause here I come III Jil Get ready 'cause here I come III I! I'm on my way I! Jil Get ready 'cause here I come III D And I'm bringin' you a love that's true JII - I! So get ready I1 - D So gek ready D J7 Ahh, ahh, ahh, ahh, baby J7 J7 I'm gonna try to make you love me too J7 J1 So get ready, so get ready 'cause here I come III J7 Get ready 'cause here I come J7 J7 I'm on my way J7 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'm David Ruffin, and these are The Temptations. I1 Your love is fadin' I can feel your love fadin' J1 J1 Girl, it's fadin' away from me J1 I1 'Cause your touch your touch has grown cold J1 I1 as if someone else controls your very soul J1 D I've fooled myself as long as I can III IJ I can feel the presence of another man III J1 It's there when you speak my name J1 J1 Speak my name II I! R's 'yust not the same I! III Ooh, baby I'm losin' you Jil I! R's 'm the air I! D R's everywhere D III Ooh, baby I'm losin' you Jil I! Losin' you I! I! Losin' you I! J1 When I look into your eyes J1 III a reflection of a face I see J1 J1 I'm hurtin', downhearted and worried, girl II J1 'Cause that face doesn't belong to me J1 III Oh, it's all over your face J1 III Someone's taken my place Jil J7 Ooh, little girl I'm losin' you III D You m] hard to hide D D The emptiness inside D III Ooh, baby I'm losin' you Jil J1 I don't wanna lose you J1 J1 I don't wanna lose you, babe J1 Yeah! D I can tell when we kiss from the tenderness I miss III J7 Ooh, little girl I'm losin' you III III I can feel it in my Bones J7 III Any day you'll be gone Jil J1 Oh, baby I'm losin' you J1 I! Oh, my dear I! D What happened to the love we shared III I! Losin' you I! D Oh, I'm losin' you IJ Did you see everybody stand up and go, "Yes, David! Yes, David!  You should've seen their faces when I laid it on 'em. "I am Mr. Ruffin's manager, and he ain't goin' on. " They almost wet their pants. Otis's face? Pitiful. And you ain't even bein' unreasonable, baby. Martha Reeves and The Vandellas. Uh-huh. - Smokey Robinson and The Miracles. - Of course not! - Junior Walker and The All Stars. - David Ruffin and The-- What's their name? David's history. Wait a second. - You think about this- - Think about it? Get your stuff together, Mel. You're flyin' on a big hate. Look, man. David is a big pain in the butt. So he is out. This ain't the way we do things. We have to vote. All right. I vote he's gone. I say he stays. Paul? Look, I say-- hell, I say he goes. - Okay? So he's out. - Mel ain't said. Go on. Tell him, Mel. I ain't so sure, Al. I mean, this is a big step. We made the group! We can't let him break us apart! I'm not sayin' that he didn't mess up, right? But David has always been David. You know that. And you know he don't give a damn about nobody but David. Finish the damn vote, Mel. In or out? David. I need you to read this, please. What-- Are you crazy? I'm sorry. Y'all is stupid! David, please. Get off me! Y'all ain't nothin' without me! I made your asses! You can't fire mel Do you hear me? Do you hear me? Y'all can't do me like this! You ungrateful son-of-a-bitches! So now what? We want The Temps! We want The Temps! We want The Temps! We want The Temps! We want The Temps! We want The Temps! We want The Temps! We want The Temps! We want The Temps! Lord, continue to shine your love on us, and continue to bless brother Dennis, Who's lifted us higher than ever. Amen. Amen. So you all ready to kick some butt? Oh, you damn right. Temptations forever? Temptations forever. Dennis Edwards, our old friend from The Contours, replaced David Ruffin. He was a great singer... And a lot less trouble than David had been. J1 Childhood part of my life it wasn't very pretty you see IJ J1 I was born and raised in the slums of the city III JII It was a one-room shack that slept ten other children beside me IJ III We hardly had enough food or room to sleep JII J1 It was hard times J1 D Needed somethin' to ease my troubled mind III D I'm doin' fine I! D Up here on cloud nine D D Lisken one more time D D I'm doin' fine I! D Up here on cloud nine D J1 You can be what you wanna be J1 - J1 Cloud nine IJ - III You ain't got no responsibility III J1 cloud nine J1 J1 Every man every man is free J1 IJ Cloud nine D Jil You're a million miles from reality IJ D Reality is over III D Oh, yeah D D Over, up, up and high D J1 On cloud nine J1 - D You're as free as a bird in flight D - J7 Cloud nine IJ J1 There's no difference between day and night II J1 Cloud nine J1 J1 It's a world of love and harmony J1 IJ Cloud nine D Jil You're a million miles from reality IJ D Reality is over III - fl Oh, yeah J7 - .57 Over; up J7 IJ Up and high on cloud nine III I1 You can be what you wanna be D - J7 Cloud nine J7 - J7 You ain't got no responsibility J7 D Choud nine D I! Every man and his mind is Eree D J1 Cloud nine J1 The audience loved every song we did that night. Thank you. Thank you. It's so good to be back home... In Detroit-- Where it all began. Detroit! And before we say good night, We'd like to leave you with a song that you made one of our biggest hits- I love you too. J1 I know you wanna leave me J1 Jil but I refuse to let you go III I1 If I have to beg and plead for your sympathy J1 I1 I don't mind 'cause you mean that much to me J1 J1 Ain't too proud to beg yes, you know it II I1 Please don't leave me, girl I1 II don't you go J1 IJ Ain't too proud to plead, baby, baby III I1 Please don't leave me, girl I1 II don't you go J1 J1 Now I heard a cryin' man III I! is ha a man I! D with no sense of pride D J1 but if I have to cry to keep you J1 J7 I don't mind weepin' if it will keep you by my side III D Ain't too proud for beggin' sweet darlin' JII D Please don't leave me J1 IJ Whoa, don't leave me, girl J1 JII Don't you go JII III Ain't too proud to plead, baby, baby IJ I1 Please don't leave me, girl I1 J1 Don't you go J1 D Now I got a love so deep in the pit of my heart III IJ And each day it grows more and more III I1 I'm not ashamed to crawl and plead to you, baby J1 J1 If pleadin' keeps you from walkin' out that door II J7 Ain't too proud to beg J7 J7 Yes, you know it I! IJ Woo-hoe, don't leave me, girl IJ IJ Please don't leave rne, girl III D Don't you go D IJ Ain't too proud to plead, baby, baby III I1 Please don't leave me, girl I1 J1 Don't you go J1 I! Baby, baby, baby I! What's wrong with you, man? You out of your damn mind? I'm gonna whoop your ass! - Do you hear that? Do you hear that? - More! More! More! More! I'm back- I quit all that stuff, 0t. I told you he was clean- - I don't care. - I'm straight, man. Can't you see I'm straight? He's straight. Listen to him! Man, tell me I'm back in the group, man. Tell me I'm back- No, you ain't in this group. Don't you get it? - You blew it. - The crowd went wild when he went on stage. He's the one who blew it, Corn. Paul. Corn. Blue, baby. All lim asking y'all is for another chance. Come on, now. David, I'm sorry, but you got to go. Get out or get carried out. I ain't goin' nowhere- You said I was a temp for life. How 'bout that promise, 0t? You ain't no Temptation no more! Y'all ain't the same without me! Oh, yeah? Not the same, but nominated for a Grammy. That's mine! No, no! That ain't you on "Cloud nine. " That's Dennis' voice. David! Shelly, tell 'em that you ain't the same without me- Please show Mr. Ruffin the way out. Come on, man- Tell 'em how y'all ain't the same without rne. Tell them! He ain't me! He ain't no David Ruffinl Get him out of here now- Yo! Without David Ruffin, y'all ain't nothin'l The Temps without David Ruffin are some fake-ass Temps! Do you hear me? You fake imitations without David Ruffinl Makin' a big mistake, Otis. Ain't no one man bigger than this group. Now you remember that- All right. Come on, now. That's my son's Grammy. All right. Get close, now. Get close, now. Get close. Okay. - Come on. Yeah. You got him? Did it go? Let's party! All right. All right. - I'll get that. You know, me and Haze almost jumped into the When they said, "Best R&B performance, The Temptations! " Everybody, it's Berry Gordy calling from California. It's Berry, y'all! Hey, mama. I'll take that. Oh, my god. Berry. Berry! Everybody, Berry said he's sorry he missed the party, and he is so proud of us. Yeah- We love you, Berry. We love you. We love you. Yes, yes. You know we love you. Yes. Couple of weeks, la-la land. The group is stronger than ever. All right. D You can be what you wanna be D Paul- Honey-. What? Why, baby? Oh, stop. Can't you put it down, baby? No. I wanna make a toast. All right? Okay. Make your toast. Damn, you're makin' me forget. Oh, yeah, yeah. To Haze and Mama Rose. Now you wanna drink to Haze and Mama Rose, right? You wanna drink to them? You know I wanna drink to them. All right. Okay. Hey. To Haze and Mama Rose, for makin' all this possible. Yeah! All right? Cheers. That's right. Paul, I think-- look, let me tell you something, all right? You better leave me alone. All right? Hey. Hey, hey, Melvin. Hey, listen. D I can sayfl J1 This is mine you can't take it J1 J1 as long as I know I've got love II I1 I can make it I1 J1 for once in my life J1 III I have someone who J7 I! needs me D D Mmm, for once I! D I can sayfl J1 This is mine you can't take it J1 III As long as I know I have love J1 I1 I can make it I1 J1 for once I can feel J1 D Wat's somebody's D I! heard my I! J1 plea III I! tor-- D Oh, honey, honey! Once-- Okay- All right. Let's go home now. In my life-- No. I didn't finish singing the song right here. You 're makin ' a scene. I'm makin' a scene. Wh-what do you mean, I'm makin' a scene? Huh? - You're hurtin' me. - Paul, let her go, all right? - Get your hands off of her. - Please don't embarrass us. Don't embarrass you? Why? 'Cause I'm singing lead I'm embarrassing you now, huh? Hey, Eddie- Get up off me. Hey, listen, man- I sang this song on national TV. Now I can't sing it in mama's house. - Mama, can I sing this song? - Paul. Paul. Mama, can I-- I sang this song on national-- come on, Paul- Get him out of here! Paul! Paul! What's wrong with you? - Come on now. It's all right, baby. It's all right. At least we did somethin' great together. Could help you, uh, tuck him in tonight. Otis, how long has Paul been like this? Just seemed to sneak up on him, and one day he was someone else. Hell. I mean, he's the one who would never even take a drink. What are you gonna do? Wish I knew. Mama, come on. Hey. Just, uh-- Lamont! Come over here. Say good-bye to your daddy. By now, Josephine and I had been separated for some time. She made it clear that we were not gonna get back together every time I saw her. Take care of yourself. Go- Race you! In here we're seeing perioticular erosion, Which explains your pain and limited range of motion. And up in these areas, evidence of joint space narrowing... Compatible with cartilaginous thinning. In a nutshell, if you don't hang up your dancing shoes, you're gonna find yourself trading them in for a walker. Do you hear me, Melvin? Well, you know my mama bundled me up every day of my life, And I still wind up with rheumatoid arthritis... But I'm dealin' with it. Not with cortisone, you're not. The stuffs not a medicine, Melvin. Just eases the symptoms. Ain't that what I want, doc? No. You keep doubling up your shots, arthritis may be the least of your problems. You ever been a part of something bigger than yourself? It's a beautiful thing, doc. Your system needs a rest. Yeah. Can't rest, so just give me the shot. As your doctor, I have to tell you. You're taking a big risk. I can't think about that noun I just need the shot. When can you think about it? Look. Just give me the shot. Please- D Psychedelic shack that's where it's at IJ J7 Psychedelic shack that's where it's at J7 J7 Ooh, yeah J7 J7 Psychedelic shack that's where it's at J7 J7 Psychedelic shack that's where it's at III I! Yeah D Jil Ooh D III They got a cat there shoutin' the blues J1 III Talkin' 'bout payin' some clues J1 I1 People walkin' around recitin' poetry J1 D Yeah, screamin' guitars D J1 and a thousand colored lights J1 I1 Baby, I'm tellin' you this place is really out of sight II J1 You can have your fortune told J1 Jil You can learn the meaning of soul III - .17 I guarantee this place will blow your mind .0 - J7 Blow your mind J7 - J1 Don't you know it's IJ - III Right around the corner JII IJ Oh, yes J1 III Just across the track IJ D People, I'm talkin' about III J1! the psychedelic shack, yeah III - J7 Psychedelic shack that's where iris at J7 -flGeton up/J J7 Psychedelic shack that's where it's atJ7 J7 Mama, mama, mama J7 J7 Psychedelic shack that's where it's at/J fl whoa J7 I! Yeah D DHey I! Paul-- Paul! That was a disaster. Yeah, Shelly. We know, all right? Next show's in 45 minutes. No way he'll be ready. - He'll be ready. - Falling down drunk doesn't get better in 45 minutes. You know what we have to do, Otis. No. If Paul's not on that stage, I'm not on that stage. The Temptations are known for precision. I don't know what that was. What's it to you, Shelly? You ain't up there. I might as well be, Eddie. Mr- Gordy holds me responsible for everything that goes on out there. I'm responsible for Paul. Yeah, Eddie? Then where we you when he was getting plastered? I said it. I ain't goin' on without Paul. Tell 'em to turn down the lights on Paul. Richard. I need to talk to you. J1 I can turn the grayest sky blue J1 I1 I can make it rain whenever I want it to J1 J1 Oh, I J1 J1 I can build a castle from a single grain of sand IJ IJ I can make a ship sail huh, on dry land III Jil Ooh D JII But my life is incomplete and I'm so blue IJ J1 'Cause I can't get next to you, girl III IJ I can't get next to you, babe III J1 No matter what I do IJ D Just can't get next to you D III I can't get next to you, babe III D I can't get next to you I III I1 can fly like a bird in the sky I1 J1 Hey, I can buy anything that money can buy II JJ Oh, 1/2 J7 I can turn a river into a ragin ' fire J III I can live forever if I so desire D .FI Ooh JII III Unimportant are all these things I can do J3 - .6' Cause I carftget next to you, babe J7 - fl I can '1' get next to you fl J7 I can't gel next to you J7 fl no matter what I do J7 I! Oh, oh, yeah, yeah I! II Chick-a-boom chick-a-boom III D Chick-a-boom-boom-boom I! II Chick-a-boom chick-a-boom III D Chick-a-boom-boom-boom I! Poor Richard. He was more nervous singing off stage than he had ever been... When he sang with us in the early days. We have to take turns watchin' out for Paul-- Be with him 24 hours a day, keeping him off the bottle. Then he'll be all right. For how long, Eddie? Long as it takes. Well, we gotta keep Paul here. Things just got to be too much, doc. You know? Is he gonna be all right? I don't know if Paul's ever gonna perform again- Physically, he might not be up to it. I have to get back to Paul. Richard could fill in for Paul until he's well enough. No. Eddie-- I said no. Paul's not leavin' the group- - He can't talk, corn. - You need to check yourself, Otis- There's nothin' wrong with Richard doin' the concerts. "Everybody for the group. " who's the group for? Who did it ever stand up for? Who did it ever make sacrifices for? Now you want Paul gone. You think we could've gotten a contract with Motown without Paul? Waitin' for Paul to get well could mean The Temptations die. Think about it, Eddie. Paul wouldn't want that. It's just until he gets better. Otis is gonna throw Paul away like Alabama trash. I don't wanna let him. I'm tryin' to save Paul. I used to have a soul, Melvin. Corn. Ah, it's good to see you, man. You're lookin' sharp as usual. I knew you'd show up eventually, though. I heard about Paul- They got the doctors and everybody in on it. And you next. Me? Yeah, you. I sang my girl, " "ain't too proud to beg. " look what they did to me. Paul is gonna be gone, and that's your boy. Shark's eatin' his own guts, Corn. And after you, ain't gonna be nothin' but Ot and Blue. And he gonna eat blue too 'cause that's the way them types is. Better quit. Save yourself some dignity. You don't know what you're talking about, Ruff. We're supposed to be back in the studio. When Paul gets better, we got the tour. Yeah. The tour. Hey, Corn. You 're bigger than them, Corn- just like I was bigger than them. And you wait till your next hit. They gonna come after you. You better leave... Before you get fired. Go ahead. Nothin' but the best. Hey! Look who's back. Baby! Yeah. All right. Oh, man. Hey. Yeah. All right. All right. I'm glad to see you, Paul. Oh, well, you know I'm not gonna miss a smash. So you heard. Yeah. Eddie told me. He said we got a guaranteed smash. Yeah. Norman outdid himself on this one. Hey. And then, baby-- Then, we're takin' it straight to the Copa, you know? - Oh. Oh, the, oh, me Copa. - Yeah. Thought we weren't takin' any gigs till Paul got well. Well, you know- Somethin' came up, we had to take it. Then we go on tour right after. With Paul, right? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm, I'm goin', right? - Hey. Hey, if you're feelin' up to it. - Yeah, he's up to it- Yeah, yeah. You know me. I'm up to it. Whoa! Hey, baby. All right, baby. - Well, let's just see how the rehearsals go, huh? - All right. All right- All right. It's good to have you back. Ladies, can we check some levels? All right. All right. You gotta be ready. You hear me? Oh, baby. I'm ready. Yeah? D Each day through my window D I1 I watch her as she passes by I1 D 0h, yeah D III I say to myself JZI J1 You're such a lucky guy J1 J1 To have a girl like her J1 IJ is truly a dream come true D D Out of all of the fellas in the world JII I! She behngs m me I! IJ But it was just my imagination J1 J1 Just my imagination J3 D Runnin' away with me D I1 It was just my imagination J1 D Runnin' away with me D J1 Shoo J7 IJ Every night on my knees I pray III - J1 Dear lord J1 - J1 Hear my plea J1 D Don't ever let another take her love from me JII J1 or I will surely die J1 .0' Her love is JJ fl Hes ven/J/ .0 D When her arms enfold me IJ J1 I hear her tender rhapsody J1 D but 'm reafity D I! she doesn't even know me D D Just my imagination D D Once again D D Runnin' away with me D I1 It was just my imagination J1 D Runnin' away with me D J1 I never met her I can't forget her II fl Just my imagination .57 D Ooh, yeah, yeah, yeah D D Runnin' away with me D I1 It was just my imagination J1 D Runnin' away with me D Paul still wasn't well enough to come back, And David's words had hit their mark. Eddie Kendricks quit The Temptations. Come on. Let's see what you got. I'm not impressed with all that fancy stuff, huh? Yeah, I see you. Come on. See, that's a double dribble. You can't do that, Lamont- Sure I can. Oh, no, no. See, that's cheatin'. Shut up and play, dad. Ooh! That's what you get. Missed. Hey. Hey. Oh, okay. Wanna play like that, huh? Yeah. Go! Go! Come on! Come on-- boy, what is wrong with you? You don't play fair. Why are we even playin' this stupid game anyway? 'Cause I wanna spend a little time with my son. Since when? I wish you'd just stay on the road. That how you feel, Lamont? Lamont. Lamont, you my son. So you go on and say what you feel you need to. Why you always on the road? It's my job. That's what I do. It's your job to be my father. Yeah, that's right. So do it. Be my father. Come here, huh? You know I love you, hmm? Mm-hmm. Startin' right now, right here, I want you with me every step of the way, okay? You mean it? Yeah, I mean it, little Knucklehead. Huh? Okay- Come on! Otis! Oh! He Maxine. Good to see you. Paul's been waitin' on you. Now is that my angel? Angel, my foot. The angel just whooped my butt in basketball. You better come give me a hug. Oh, look at you. You're so big. Well, you go on in. Urn, Paul's in the living room. Hey! He-hey! Look what the cat done drug in here! Lamont, you want me to get you some pop? I'm all right. Yeah, that'd be great, Maxine- Hey, bud. How are you doin'? Little Knucklehead- Why don't you come over here and sit with your uncle Paul? Get on down right here. What you been doin'? You been playin' basketball? Huh? Real good, s0-- How you feelin', uncle Paul? Oh, hey. Hey, you know what? I'd feel a whole lot better... If your daddy's offerin' to let me back in the group, huh? But you know nothin' would make me happier. But you gotta get well first. So, um, when's the next tour? Starts in Cleveland at the end of the month. Cleveland. Cleveland in a month, huh? Well, then why don't you, why don't you let me back? Why don't you help your aunt Maxine? Yeah. Go on. Are you still drinkin', Paul? No, man. Nah, nah- I've been, I've been sober for about three months now. - What did the doctor say? - Th-that doctor don't know... Th-that just bein' out there on that stage-- you know what I'm sayin'? Bein' out there on that stage is the only thing that's gonna fix me, huh? Oh, you know ma, Ot, man. We, we walked into Motown together; man. Man, I'm goin' crazy out here, sittin'-- Just sittin' out here like this. Man, don't make me call up Eddie and David. Don't make me do that, man. I'll start my own group. Okay? You want me to do that? I'll start-- pretty soon, there's gonna be more ex-Temptations than Temptations. Better think about that. 0t. 0t, man. or, listen to me, man. You listen to me, man. I'm gonna die. I swear, I'm gonna die. All right. You know, so when we-- no. I'm, I'm gonna show you. I'm gonna show you I'm ready for this. I'm gonna show you Paul Williams still got it. Big Mr. Otis- I'm gonna prove to you I-- look, these are the steps here- J1 If good looks was a minute J1 Right? Mmm. I taught you these damn steps. D You could have been an hour D right? Mmm-. Jil The way you stole my heart III J1 Ooh, ooh, you know you could have been a cool-- II Hey, man. You all right? Hen men, don't- 1001K man. I don't need no hey), men. I got this. All right? Yeah. I got the steps, right? You doin' better. You damn right. I'm doin' better, man. So just-- Just come on. You damn right. Right. I got 'em, right? I'm doin' this. I'm all right, man. Okay? Now I got the steps, right? Come on. Maxine, I think it's time we go. Y-you think it's time that you go? Wait, wait, wait, wait. What, you gonna leave here without givin' me an answer? You gonna always be a Temptation, Paul. I mean, all the guys can't wait for you to get back. But you just not ready now. Maxine, good-bye. Oh, baby. He's an arrogant, pompous snake, Shelly. Read that- What am I reading? "the third of September. " What about it? Norman's got that man dyin' the same day my daddy died. He won't change the date- Well, that's why we called you, Shelly-- Because he refuses to change the date. Where's Norman? Norman's late. As a matter of fact, Shelly, Norman is always late. Now we've been sitting here, waiting for hours now, right? Now, Shelly, that ain't right- So believe me when I say somethin's gotta change. I am gonna hurt him, Shelly, if he don't make this right. Why you let him treat us like this, huh? Where's Berry? Mr: Gordy sent ma. Have you talked to him, Otis 7 No, I tried' to talk to him. Otis, did you talk to Norman'? This ain't no ballad. I told him a ballad. He's writin' hits. You can't argue with that. Well, well, well! Sounds like the creative juices are flowin'! Norman. Yeah- What's this "it was the third of September" crap? It's... Just a lyric. Wh-what, you got a problem with it? I think you know m y problem with it. That was the day my daddy died. So? I didn't know that. - Oh, the hell you didn't. - Change the date, Norman. No, no. Change the song. I ain't changin' neither. Then I ain't singin' nothin'. Edwards, look. The third of September's the day your daddy died, huh? Now, man, how could I know that? It's just a coincidence, but, but use it. I mean, ain't that what artists do? What did I ever do to you? No passion, but now you got some! Just who are you to tell us where passion is? Man, what difference does it make? I mean, as long as I'm writin' the hits. You know what I'm sayin'? The hits. Now, when y'all get some of this, maybe I'll listen. Oh, come on, Norman- Uh, well, you know? Makes me no never mind. I mean, there are plenty of other artists out there, linin' up, Hopin' that I'll cut it on them. Now why don't everybody just... Take it easy? All right? Now since we pa yin ' for this session, whiz; We're gonna do the song. But after this, thing's have got to change. Good. Let's go to work. Why? Tell me why? What do you mean, why? I1 It was the 3rd of September I1 III That clay I'll always remember Jil D Yes, I will J1 I! 'Cause mat was the day I! I! that my daddy died I! III I never got a chance to see him J7 D Never heard nothin' but bad things about him JII I1 Mama, I'm dependin' on you to tell me the truth II J1 Mama just hung her head and said, son III I1 Papa was a rollin' stone I1 D Wherever he laid his hat was his home J1 I! and when he died D J1 all he left us was alone I-l I1 Papa was a rollin' stone I1 D Ah, yeah D D Wherever he laid his hat was his home J1 I! And when he died I! J1 All he left us was alone J1 D We, we I! I said I'm fine. No. I'm gonna talk to them. I'm gonna talk to them-- I'm down there-- I'm goin' down-- I don't want you to- You need to stop doing this in front of our children! I'm telling you that you can't do this in front of the-- in front of-- Get out! J1 Hey, mama, is it true what they said II D That papa never worked a day 'm his fife D D And, mama, some bad talk goin' around town JII J1 Sayin' that papa had three outside children and another wife J1 J1 And that ain't right J1 D Heard some talk about papa doin' some storefront preachin' J1 D Talkin' about savin' souls and all the time leachin' III I! Deafin' 'm dirk D J1 and stealin' in the name of the lord J1 III Mama just held my head and said J1 J1 Papa was a rollin' stone IJ III My son J1 D Wherever he laid his hat was his home J1 I! and when he died D J1 all he left us was alone I-l D Hey papa was a rollin' stone III D Wherever he laid his hat was his home J1 I! and when he died D J1 all he left us was alone I-l What's wrong with you all? What, you want me out of the way too? Tempmfions forever! Temptations... Forever! D Hey, mama, I heard papa call himself a jack of all trades III J1 Tell me, is that what sent papa to an early grave II J1 Folks said papa would beg borrow or steal J1 I! to pay his dues I! I! Hey, mama I! J1 Folks said papa never was much on thinkin' J1 D Spent most of his time chasin' women and drinkin' III I! Mama, I'm dependin' on you I! J7 To tell me the truth III J1 Mama looked up with a tear in her eye and said, son J1 I1 Papa was a rollin' stone I1 II Yes, he was J1 JII My son J1 J1 Wherever he laid his hat was his home I! and when he died D J1 all he left us was alone I-l J1 My daddy was JII J7 papa was a rollin' stone III D Yes, he was, yeah D D Wherever he laid his hat was his home J1 But you've worked so hard! You said, Temptations forever! He'! - HEY - Just keep lookin' at the box, Tryin' to wrap my mind around the fact that I... Buried my best friend today. You know, if it wasn't for Paul, I would have never left Birmingham. Is that right? Yeah. You know how he could be-- Pushy as hell. Yes. So, what do I do now, Blue? You live, and that's... That's hard. I ain't even gonna lie to you about that. But... We move on. Always the rock. You gonna be all right? Yeah. See you around. Yeah. Corn? We'll always be family. Nothin's goin' right since we moved to California, Shelly. We ain't had a hit since "Shaky ground, " and that's, what, two and a half years ago? Whitfield ain't changed, and Berry's off makin' movies. Los Angeles ain't been very good to us, shell. Things will change. Well, I don't see how. I guarantee it'll change for the better- Every group goes through a dry spell. We're not talkin' about some dry spell here, Shelly. Come on, Blue. We're talkin' family here. This ain't about you, Shelly. We just think it's time to go. Every relationship has its ups and downs. You don't walk out on the first sign of trouble. Well, that sign's been worn out from flashin'. You know what? I don't accept this. Well, don't accept it. Just look up and see us gone. This is the way you treat me-- your friend. You give me this to carry to Berry-- that you're leaving the Motown family? We're trying to tell you it don't feel like family no more, Shelly. And believe me, Shelly, you've been great to us. Blue and myself will never forget that. Then give me a chance. We can't. Give me a couple of days. We'll work it out. All right. I'll talk to Berry. But, please... Don't do anything yet. So what now? - Shop for a new label. - And if no one takes us? There you go crossin' bridges again. Don't talk to me like I'm some damn fool, Ot. All right? Hell, I! aln '1' like we 're multimillionaire-s, slttin ' up in here. Can't just retire if things don't work out. What's that supposed to mean? Look, if it's money you're worried about, We'll be makin' a lot more touring and singing golden oldies. We'll make out. All right? Yeah. We left Motown and went to Atlantic Records. The first shock was that they sent us to their black division. Suddenly, it was more about color than music. Motown had spoiled us, but we could always work someplace... Because people loved those early hits. Man, we only sold half the house. Well, half a house still deserves a great show. You know, we gotta be strong examples for the new guys. Yeah, you're right. It wasn't lost on us... II Boogie down J1 That Eddie had two number one records for Motown. David had hits right after he became an ex-Temptation, But by this time, he was in a dry spell too. J1 Let's boogie down JII Not that I was rootin' against them, But I'd be lyin' if I said we didn't still feel the competition. As I think about it, Every time I thought things couldn't get worse, They up and did. Oh, my god. Uh, excuse me, Miss. Hey, how you doin'? Oh, oh, oh, come on, now. You can't run away from me. I'm not some thief-- some thug. Just wanna talk to ya. Let me help you with those. Thanks. You welcome. What's your name? Angela- I would have helped you sooner, but you were walking too fast. Hey! Hey, man! Hey! That's my car, man- Come on! Hey, you ain't takin' my car. I said you ain't takin' my car, man. Hey, don't I know you, man? Unless it's hilda gonna give me my sponge bath, I'm sleepin'. Oh, it's you. No sponge. There sure is an angel on your shoulder. Do you know how lucky you are? Do you know? Everyone keeps trying to tell me how lucky I am- "Melvin, you so lucky. " Probably the only cat in town that got shot yesterday. Now if that's lucky, you best believe I don't want any. Yeah, I know that's right- Did the guy think he killed you? Mmm, I don't know. I guess that's the freaky thing. You know, we up in my car, wrestlin' and stuff, And the next thing I know, he pulls out a gun... And ham, bam. Then all of a sudden, he recognized me, And he kicked my butt out my car. He recognized you? Mm-hmm. Was it Ruffin? Nah. Ruffin would have killed me. So when you all head off on this european tour? Oh, no, no- We're not gonna go. No, no. You gotta go, man. You can't sit around here, waitin' for me to heal. We need the money. - Are you sure? - Yeah. I'm sure. I mean, at least we're still hot over there, right? I sure hope so. I'll be ready when you get back. So, Four Temptations went off to Europe. For the first time, I was without my partner. When the tour was over, I needed a rest, so I went home to Haze. Your mama ain't been feelin' too well. What's the matter? Well, I'll let her tell ya. Haze. Come on- Let's go inside and see what your daddy brought you. Yes, ma'am. Come on. Mama. Mama? Oh. Bab)'- Ah. It's so good to have you back home. Yeah. How are you feelin'? Better now. And what was wrong? Some doctor says I got cancer. Mm-mm. Cancer? Nah. It ain't nothin'. You know, the treatment's worse than the disease. I was feelin' fine till they started curin' me. Why didn't you call me, hmm? Because I'm gonna beat this, Otis. I am. Ain't no cancer gonna keep me down. Me and Rose and Edgar- Yeah. We gonna be right front and center when y'all play Vegas. - I know that's right. - That's right. And we gonna meet-- Sammy Davis Jr. Sammy Davis Jr. I Anything else? Oh, no, baby. No. You done given me... Everything already. You set out and done just what you set out to do. And I want you to know... That to me you ain't just a success in show business. The way you come through the rough times... And continue to keep it together. You a success as a man. You a success as a man. Hey, hey. What's with the weepy eyes, huh? Oh, baby, I, uh-- You've made me so happy. I could cry if I'm happy, can't I? I love you. Oh, my sweet baby boy. Oh. J1 Sunshine, blue skies J1 D Please go away IJ J1 My girl has found another and gone away J1 D with her went my future D J1 My life is filled with gloom D J1 So day after day I stay locked up in my room J1 III I know to you J1 III It might sound strange J1 D but I wish it would rain J1 I! Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah I! I spent as much time as I could with Haze... Before it was time to tour again. The good news was that Melvin was back in action. But our records on Atlantic were not happening. We left there right after one album. And for the first time since we were the dist/ants, The Temptations didn't have a record deal. Although Eddie had been really successful after he left us, by this time, his fortunes were the same as ours... And he was back to playin' small clubs like Chappy's Lounge. D Keep on truckin', baby D D Got k0 keep on truckin' D I1 Got to get to your good lovin' J1 I! Yeah D D Shame I! I1 I've let it control me I1 I! Yeah D III But as long as I am inspired J1 J1 and those lovers talk by the fire J1 I1 Oh, keep on truckin' baby D Jil I got to get to your good lovin' III Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest Temptations, And one of my closest friends, is in the audience. Help me welcome Mr. David Ruffin. Would you be upset if I asked him to join me for a song? David and I sang... on some of The Temptations' biggest records. Let's see if we can bring some of that magic back tonight. D You surely must know magic, girl IJ fl Because you changed my life J7 J1 it was dull and ordinary J1 J1 but you make it sunny and bright J1 IJNowfl D I was blessed the day I found you IJ IJ Gonna build my whole world around you III J1 You're everything good, girl and you're all that matters II Dtomel-l IJ Baby, you're part of every thought III J1 I think each clay D D Your name's used 'm every phrase D n my lips say J1 I1 Every dream I dream is about you J1 J7 Honey, I can't live without you J7 D Baby, baby D D Baby, baby D D Baby D J7 You're my everything J7 I! You're my everyming I! IJ Don't you know, baby you're my everything III J7 When my ways were dark J7 J1 Everything I1 J1 And troubles were near J1 I! Oh, you're my everything I! J1! Ooh Jil J1 Everything III Mr. David Ruffin! You know I'm not sayin' that you my everything. I wasn't tryin' to embarrass you, though. Man. I'm gonna tell you, I've been doin' my own thing for a while. That applause we got tonight, that was a Temptations thing. We were the voices, David. 'course we were. The people wanted us. Still do. Why don't we do somethin' about it? We're Temps, just as much as Melvin and Otis. They why don't we do somethin' about it? Me and you? Yeah, that's what I'm sayin'. I'm serious. It's crazy. Why? First of all, we'll mess it up. Yeah, you right. But it could be a lot of fun. Actually, it could be a whole lot of fun. Melvin and I looked up, And there were two groups of Temptations. David and Eddie got with Dennis and two other guys, and they went out on the road- And the hardest part was that we couldn't stop 'em. D Because of the color of the skin IJ J1 Run, run, run but you sure can't hide II IJ An eye for an eye a tooth for a tooth III J1 Vote for me and I'll set you free III D Rap on, brother D D Rap on D J1 Well, the only person talkin' 'bout love thy brother II D is the preacher D D and it seems nobody's interested in learnin' III I! but the teacher D D Segregation, determination demonstration, integration III J7 Aggravation, humiliation obligation to our nation III D Ball of confusion III D Ball of confusion III J1 That's what the world is today, hey III J1 Around and around and around we go III J1 Where the world's headed nobody knows J1 Melvin and I got with Berry, and went back home to Motown. Not long after that, someone came up with the bright idea of putting together a reunion tour. IJ Oh, great googamooga can't you hear me talkin' to you now J1 D Ball of confusion III Sometimes a good idea should stay an idea. What's you doin' here so early, man? It's 1 :00- I've been callin' you all mornin'. What's wrong with your phone? There's nothin' wrong with my phone. This place is a mess. I told you. All right, listen, man. This is a big, big, big opportunity. You with me, Ruff? What you talkin' 'bout? It's early. I'm talkin' 'bout Otis. Motown and them want to put together a reunion tour. Who? Motown, man. Are you hearin' me? I don't know about you, but I need this pretty bad. I knew they'd come crawlin' back sooner or later. See, David? That's the same attitude that got your ass fired in the first place. I wasn't fired. I quit. Yeah. If you could convince yourself of that, How's about convincin' yourself to show up and make this money? I'll let you call it. Good. We gotta meet with Otis and Motown. 'Course we do. 'Cause we the voices, And we know they want the voices. - Blue, what's goin' on? - Hey, Glen, Dennis. Melvin, can you sign this? Oh, absolutely. Could I have your autograph? Eddie. How you doin'? Hey, just like old times. Thank you. Even better. Guys, come on. We gotta rehearse. Are you gonna make another album? Has anybody seen David? An hour late is early for David. Well, we got 15, 20 songs to do, guys. What's that? I don't know. J7 Baby, I'm Iosin' you J7 He's early? Well, I'll be! You have got to be kidding. Feelin' all right? You got a fa var? Daylight sa vings ain 't for another month. And now it's gonna snow in California. Hey, this is the new me. I'm on time, and I'm ready to work. Now, what y'all gonna do? Excuse us, Mr. Ruffin. We should work. This is like Paul's favorite move right here, right? Hey! Hey! Hey! Owl There be some stiffness in this room. Thereis no stifiness. I??? fine. Come on. To the right. Ruff, show me that move you used to do. I used to come through it, put the mike behind my back, turn around and-- Oh! I ain't doin' that. You know what I mean, right? Yeah, I know what you mean. Uh! Yeah, a circle. Yeah, I wanna do this. He seems to like it. Get in the line. There you go. We still got it. We've gotta keep it that way. There you go, man. Not bad, guys. Not bad. But we can do better, and we can definitely dig deeper. So just so you know, if I have to, I will be hard on you. You should've never stopped bein' hard on us. He's right, 0t. Some of us need that kind of stuff. We're rehearsin' same time tomorrow. How you doin'? Pretty good. I'm scared, Ot. That it might actually work this time? Yeah. What you make of Ruff, man? One of them drugs he took must've accidentally fixed his personality- Don't worry about me. I'm doin' just fine. I'm not worried about you, partner. J1 I never met a girl who makes me feel the way that you do IJ IJ You're all right D IJ whenever I'm asked who makes my dreams real I say that you do IJ III You're outta sight III D So fee fi o ium I1 D Fee fi E0 mm D - IJ Look out, baby 'cause here I come Jil - J7 Here I come J3 J1 Ahh, ahh, ahh, ahh, ahh J1 J1 Now I'm bringin' you a love that's true J1 IJ So get ready so get ready D J7 Ahh, ahh, ahh, ahh, ahh J7 J7 Gonna try to make you Love me too J7 I'm in. I'm in. Oh, you in now. - Now I'm in. - You came in without any money. You wanna see some money? Yeah, I wanna see some money. III So in love and sad as can be J7 J1 'Cause a pretty face got the best of me J1 J1 Suddenly you came into my life III J1 and gave it meaning and pure delight III J1 Now good looks I've learned to do without J1 D 'Cause now I know it's love that really counts J1 J1 Beauty's only skin deep yeah, yeah, yeah J1 J7 I know that beaulfyis only skin deep fl fl beautyis any skin deep IJ J7 Yes, indeed J7 J7 Oh, yeah I! D Now you speak your words warm and sincere D D It lets me know that your love is near III IJ A pretty face you may not possess III J1 but what I like about you is your tenderness J1 J1 A pretty face may be some guys' taste J1 .FI but I'll take lovin' in its place III J1 Oh, yeah IJ J1 I know JII D beauty's only skin deep Yeah, yeah, yeah IJ JII and you know that beauty's only skin deep III I1 Oh, baby Oh, yeah D I1 Beauty's only skin deep I1 J1 Whoo D JII beauty's only skin deep III D Yes, it is I1 D Oh, yeah D I1 My friends ask what do I see in you J1 J1 but it goes deeper than the eye can view II J1 You have a pleasin' personality IJ Oh, my gosh! J1 and that's an ever-lovin' III D rare quafity D J1 Now show me a girl a girl that's fine II J21 and I'll choose the one with true lovin' every time III J1 'Cause I know beauty's only skin deep III Oh, my gosh! D Whoo-hoo oh, yeah IJ III Beauty's only skin deep III J7 So if you're lookin' for a lover J1 J3 Oh, yeah III IJ Don't judge a book by its cover JII J3 Oh, yeah III I! She may be fine on the outside I1 D Oh, yeah D I! But so untrue on the inside I! D Oh, yeah D - IJ Oh, yeah J1 - J1! Beauty's only skin deep III I! Yeah, yeah, yeah I1 D Oh, yeah D J1 Beauty's only skin deep Oh, yeah J1 D Whoo-hoo J1 JII beauty's only skin deep III D I know IJ Jil I know, I know it's only skin deep III I1 Yeah I! D Oh, yeah D I! Yeah D D 0h, yeah D Hello. Hey, Jo. How you doin', girl? No, no. He's in the shower. Everything all right? Oh, god. I'm-- I'm so sorry, Jo. No, no, no. Let me, uh-- Let me tell him. Let me do this, all right? All right. Bye. Man, did you hear that applause? We were tight tonight. Whatever everybody did before the show, Tell 'em don't change it. Yeah, will do. What, you drinkin' for two now, Blue? Who was that on the phone? Have a drink with me. You know we don't have no time for that. We got people we gotta meet downstairs. Have a drink with your friend. I don't want a drink. Who was that on the phone? Josephine. Is everything all right? No. Everything's not all right. So lay it on me, man. It's about Lamont. He-- He fell from the third floor of a construction site. But he's gonna be all right? No. 30-. So you're telling me... that my son is dead? Are you telling me... That my son's gone? All right. I can get through this. I can-- I-- Oh, Blue. Hey. I'm fight here, OK. You know? I'm right by your side. When I got back from Lamont's funeral, It was beginning to look like the reunion tour couldn't survive the reunion. And once again, David was David. Well? Bellman at the hotel said he put David's stuff in his car early this morning, 6:00 A- M- Dave was still wearing his tux. And? And he drove away. So we don't know if he's gonna make it to Cleveland. We can only hope. What is this, huh? The third time? I know- He's doing this on purpose. He knows we get paid based on all seven temps bein' there. The promoters were afraid of this. No, I was afraid of this. Benny, drive off. Next city. Front me a fifty. What do I look like? A banker? My autograph gotta be worth grand. Oh, yeah? Who are you? David Ruffin and The Temptations. We deal in cash around here, my man. Cash. Come on, man. Help-- I need cash. Two tickets to tonight's concert. I'll be there. So lay some ice on me now. You gonna perform? That's right. These tickets say the concert is Saturday. So? So, today's Sunday. It is? Yeah. In that case, I ain't gonna be there. Missed another show! Help me out, will ya'? I'm a star! Sig, show Mr. Ruffin the door. Let's go, man. Hold on! Hold onl Just wait a second. Brand-new lincoln outside. - I'll sign you over the pink slip. - I ain't got that much. Then give me what you got. And get some more. I know you can get some more. Give me what you got. Give me everything! Take it easy, man! Ease up! And that lincoln better be there, too. Let's go check it out. Wow. You know what this means? Yeah. That we're gettin' old. Gonna have to start lyin' about my age. Like you don't already. I hear you talkin' to them young girls. Oh, brother, please. Oh, now you're just gonna run away. See, you don't like the truth. Ah, here they are. The men of the hour are back. Blue, Otis, congratulations. My friends, you deserve it. How about a toast? A toss! it is. What else? Temptations forever. Tempmfions forever. Where're you goin'? I wanna talk to you about somethin'. Otis, can I have a word? David, Eddie and Dennis just walked in. Shelly, you don't look too happy to see us. David, fellas. ls there a problem? No, there's no problem- It's just that Otis wasn't expecting you. We're cool. We'll just go up, get our award, and split. Don't let me get started on him. Anyway, believe it or not, I am happy to see you. And congratulations. Thanks, Shelly. "My Girl, " "Cloud Nine, " "Just My Imagination, " "Papa was a rolling stone. " Need I say more? Ladies and gentlemen, the rock and roll hall of fame... is proud to welcome The Tempting Temptations! David Ruffin, Eddie Kendricks, Otis Williams, Melvin Franklin, Dennis Edwards... And posthumously, Paul Williams. Here you go. Hey, man. Good to see you. Congratulations, Otis Williams. Mr. Ruffin. Ahh! Good to see you. Good to see you too. Eddie. Otis. You deserve this- Thank you, man. Thank you- For Paul. Each of these guys had been a major part of our success. And here we were, together again. And for the moment, we were friends again. IJ Well, you could've been anything that you wanted to III J1 but I can tell J1 D the way you do the things you D He had come off the tour with a briefcase full of money. No one is exactly sure what happened. Almost a week went by before the John Doe in the morgue... was identified as David Ruffin. All I know is it was a tragic loss. Oh! Hello. Mrs. Franklin? I know I must look like a troublesome gangster, But I was just wonderin' if you'd be so kind as to let your son sing in my group. We're good. We really are. Melvin, you come on out from behind that tree... and-and zip up that jacket. You sure I won't get whooped, mama? Oh, child. Mama, that's a lot of food you got here, even for you. You got enough to feed an army. I don't know what came over me. I was out there in the kitchen cookin'... And I was listenin' to some of your early records. And I started hearin' Eddie and Paul and David, All of 'em, laughin' and carryin' on. And my hands just took over, And I started cookin' everything that I remember everybody loved- Yes, I did. It's a lot of food, but... It's all right. Oh, baby, what-- what was it that got Eddie? It was lung cancer, mama. That's right. That boy sure did love my corn bread. He was a sweet boy. Y'all was sweet in your own way. I see you still polish up my Grammys there, mama. Oh! Now, you know, that's right. I keep 'em right here. Yes, I do. So I can see 'em every day. I proud of y'all, baby. Yes, I am. Mm-hmm. Hmm. All right, Mall I want you to start eatin ' somethin ' now, baby. - Mama, I'm fine. - I want you to eat today, baby. - Mama-- - Put some stuff on your plate. Stop fussin' with me, all right? I'm fine. All right. How about somethin' to drink? Okay- I got some lemonade in the frigidaire. I'll be right back- Look at this. Look how young we were. Do you have any regrets, Blue? Ah, hell, no. Now don't you go carryin' no regrets around on them shoulders either, oat. You know, about Paul... or Eddie or David. Or me. 'Cause above all the bad times, you know, We really had the best of times, you know. Yeah, we had some good times. No, brother. We had some crazy-ass times. All right. Here we go. Here's the lemonade, Mel. Thanks, morn. Oh, lord, I left them short ribs in the oven. The short ribs? No, no, mama. No short ribs. We can't eat no more. We got to have the short ribs. Mama, mama. Let me get it, all right'? Show y'all I'm still good for somethin'- - You sure, baby? - Yeah, I'm sure, mama. In fact, I'm so sure, I'm gonna take the long way around. Watch me work. I told you he's doing fine. Lord have mercy. Otis. I wanna thank you. For what? For bein' what these boys needed most. And what was that? Levelheaded. You was the one that kept it all together. Yes, you were. I wanna thank you. Thank you. You know, you were always too kind. But what we needed most was a bass singer. And you supplied that, so thank you. Mmm. Look at all this food. Mmm-mmml Blue, come on and hurry up and get in here, boy, before this food gets cold. I'm hungry. Mmml Melvin? Blue? Oh, Blue. J1 I'm really gonna miss you III J1 It's really gonna be different without you III IJ Time is gonna be hot and slow D D For the rest of my We D I! I'm gonna be thinkin' about you I! J1 Yes, I am III D Time came when you had to go D I1 I'll miss you my buddy J1 III I'll miss you my friend J1 fl I promise my love for you J7 J7 Will never end J7 I! 'm your finest hour I! I1 I was there with you I1 D and without you D I! Things won't be the same I! D But there's a higher power D J1 That we answer to J1 IJ and you heard him callin' your name III J1 Really gonna miss you everything about you III J1 Your smilin' face J1 IJYesl-l J1 I know you want us all to be strong III D Reafly gonna miss you D J1 I know you're gone to that magic place II I! Singin' you a brand-new song D J1 I'll miss you J1 I1 I'll miss you my buddy J1 III I'll miss you my friend J1 III I'll miss you my friend J1 J1 I promise my love for you III J3 I promise my love for you J3 J1 Will never end JII JII Will never end III D Reafly gonna miss you D Al! Al! Al! Otis, up here! Man, you're late. You already missed H16 chantels. A lot of times, it's that bein' special... that made them hard to work with. But I loved every one of them like my own brother... And I always will. J1 I've got sunshine J1 I! on a doudy day I! III when it's cold outside D J1 I've got the month of May J1 J1 I guess you'd say J1 J1 What can make me feel this way J1 I1 My girl I1 J1 My girl J1 III My girl Jil - J1 Talkin' 'bout my girl I1 - J1 My girl J1 III I got so much honey Jil I! The bees envy me I! fl I've got a sweeter song .67 D Than the birds 'm khe trees D J1 well, I guess you'd say J1 J1 What can make me feel this way J1 I1 My girl I1 J1 My girl J1 - J3 My girl J7 - JII Talkin' 'bout my girl III III My girl Jil III I don't need no money J7 J1 fortune or fame III J1 I've got all the riches, baby III III One man can claim J1 D Well, I guess you'd say IJ J1 What can make me feel this way J1 I1 My girl I1 J1 My girl J1 J7 My girl J7 JJ Talkin ' 'bout m y girl J7 D My girl Talkin' 'bout my girl III D I've got sunshine on a cloudy day with my girl III J7 My girl J7 .57 I've even got the month ofmay J7 J7 with m y girl J7 fl My girl 1-7 J1 talkin' 'bout, talkin' 'bout talkin' 'bout my girl II D Whoo-hoo J1 J3 Talkin' 'bout my girl III I1 My girl I1 J1 My girl J1 D That's all I can talk about is my girl III III My girl Jil Tempmfions forever.
