 

                        I sit down It but I have to leave Because I have to present the history, he/she had already told it to you we will Speak then of this we Go, they are 10 histories Not we will continue with this until you marry me TO this I am devoted Hello Hello, I am Jeffrey Good Ok, I have the 10 commandments there And I will give them 10 histories Each one according to the commandments So hands to the work Pardon to arrive late By the way, a short history, my wife... ... no, I won't tell them this Ok, a long-short history my wife and I have been bad We agreed in to go after the... ... and to have a great day of purchases Not I will count them He/she will put on of bad and... .. also, you not... ... they didn't come... ... to listen my shits, certain? I came to give them 10 histories and arrive late, so... ... for that don't already make it That the party begins History not. 1 NOT YOU WILL HAVE ANOTHER GOD MA THAT ME REVISE THE PARACHUTE BEFORE OF JUMPING This ignition? Hello to all I will jump These nervous one? No, like I will be nervous I will marry - Bring it - These nervous one Look that high we are It is like in the movie Titanic I want them to throw me as to their friends you already know it Ok, let us make it that the party begins Excuse... - ... he/she forgot their parachute - Please tell me that it is joke No, it is not joke Oh not, Steven! Steven oh my God Are you well? No, really not It seems to be well, but... ... their body this so buried one that it cannot take off That would kill him That it is supposed that he/she makes? Alone to leave to my engaged one there buried? If But I suggest that both return to their normal routine Don't sunbathe Do You Know Restaurant Fun? There is a show tomorrow We would rot... forget it Pardon that you said? - Anything, did I say as these baby? - Horrible Ok, we are to the air in 30 seconds We will marry in the house of the beach of my parents and. If very beautiful But now it seems that it will be here If, it will be... ... he/she already knows, there ... and it will be... No, this well Ok, 5, 4, 3, 2... Thank you Jake, I am here in a field away from Homesdale Where Steve has been buried in the earth the last two months I suppose that you know that you are hero's spice You have some words for your growing fans group? No, really not He/she is a man of few words But many followers They gather by day or at night to have something of the one The buried Hero This Halloween will be a little but... under earth I Am Steven Montgomery, if they remove me I die The Fever has begun Montgomery we will make the unemployed that that Steven Montgomery to their body We will be buried low earth and we will make sure that they don't move us I will be direct because it is my style Not you are amusing With that act, never you achieved something in this city - As they allow to enter to people as her? - I suppose that taenia mentions - Not another time passed - But it is worth Sr. it is Sr Montgomery in the line 1 Steven... ... they come and we will make a history in the TV, what do you say? Do you never play? He/she would make it but if I make it as the other ones as you would know that I am? - Where this Steven? - Here, as always Hello, Steven I have two tickets for the world series, do you want to go? No, in fact not - For that not? - Because I cannot move, Fred If he/she made it, he/she would die We all die to know will your character leave at some time? Not I mean a lot... But I will say this Probably not, for obvious reasons I would have been embarrassed for two years As agent of Montgomery all world calls me The world has changed Without moving When I began in this industry... it is like a Trail Blazer... I believe that it is very safe to be in the hat of Brando America loves my things... Steven Montgomery, hero, superestrella... ... God There was a tragedy in Texas when a group of adolescents I jump intentionally of an airplane Without parachute Obviously to imitate a man that they come as a God Steven Montgomery Turn off that shit What this happening here? Who these people are? - Not it is what you believe - Not it is what you believe Kelly, waits He/she waits Not I can move Damned it is I cannot move Not wise to where to go This well, listen to me I will take care now of you Will you make it? Clear Ok, to the air in 5, 4, 3, That he/she has the monkey in common with Feed Newton, anything Think again, both sometimes they are brown Steven, I have bad news your program has been canceled The girl that was here taenia 16 and something happened I thought that taenia 18 Not it cares, it was here - I thought that her already wise - Not Steve cares... - ... you had sex with her - I thought that it was she "dedeando!" is the same thing, don't you understand it Steven? Shit, give me another work Not I have anything Steven Let us face it, you cannot leave without dying I don't make the rules It is like the market is managed I have to take this... Hello, Johnny Franco I am blocked here that it happens? He/she looks, you have to decide quick, because... At the end of the day, there won't be but... Three years later What did it pass Steven Montgomery? In the last three years that Steve has been outside of the air He/she chose a calm life Blocked in the earth Always Before it pleased me Now I hate it Thank you Lewis They are all the news for tonight, I am Brein Vincent And me James Stanfold, good night Do they come like it works? It was the first and I have nine but In total they will be 10 And they know what is 10 It is as if we didn't have but Good, we go to the second history Do we go? No, don't help me in anything Not he/she knew that you were here Undoubtedly not wise, not you nobody cares but that your same one - Gretchen - Don't tempt me today, you will lose Do they come that? Am I crazy? Not wise that was here God, goes to the point, there is not something that could... ... before never we fought before we laughed at those people If it broke that knot I would laugh so much They knew that laughing is the best medicine? No, he/she would not need medicine to break it It is this way like he/she was laughing It was so much time ago I laughed so much that he/she already forgets like it is I sit down it, I didn't want to bore them with this... ... oxydon 3 It is this way like he/she called himself that oil Good, let us return to our 10 histories We Go with the No. 2 The duck, the news NOT YOU SWORE IN THE NAME OF GOD IN VAIN Improving your Spanish? If, a moment Very well You hear yourself as my grandma That not so good fu As it is, I want that know Tony It will be in Mexico this summer Very well Oliver I will be able to improve my pronunciation Mexico Do you see what we have Gloria? For that don't leave with me? God willing it felt this way, but not Not you can be my girlfriend Every day, during five years I introduce you to Tony, your temporary substitution As these? He/she had not seen you - Hello, pardon, this better one? - A lot The system this here I wrote you here the instructions and if you need something - you can call me... - Hey relaxes you He/she takes your vacations Drive crazy you, have a good time Tony can get ready them certain Tony? Perhaps be right - I want... - If I want... ... to catch your teats, if! No, I don't believe that it is that what you try to say A moment Prove this... it is very sweet "Thank you" Alfonso, but... ... "tired" by my airplane He is Jess I like in knowing you ... our gentleman and savior Jesus Christ Oh Oliver, if, Oliver Oh Jess Who demons are Jess Nobody, Oliver - These exaggerating - Exaggerating? That it would seem you that Patricia told you to half... Lament this From when you exercise? That you speak? I found it below I thought of giving him/her a little of flavor to my pectoral - Flavor to your pectoral? - That? Flavor to my pectoral Not you There is something that I don't like That you think Rachel? That I deceive you? Allow me to guess, I knew to a girl in the coffee It is as if you take something hot with a glove you didn't burn - Twice? - Not he/she will say that - Then I can... - Please, continuous They saw, boys It questions my pectoral I sit down it it was not my intention... Ah if, here the third history goes NOT YOU KILLED Scalpel Forceps This well? - Scissors - scissors - It is everything - Good work, Dr Richie Thank You Mattie - Every time that I move. - Hey seems that we have a couple... Dr. she has a horrible pain from the operation Oh if Do you see this? Not it should be there This cutting the knives The scissors prescribe They are causing most of the pain I leave the scissors inside of my wife? - If, it is this way - How could it make this way an error? Not fu error, I made it as joke - Does he/she joke? - No, relax you - As joke, I made it as joke - Not I understand Clearly he/she doesn't know me, I joke a lot My friends know it If, I joke, the thing is that he/she has to understand my sense of humor I believe that it is everything, Natty Your you were when it operates her throw the scissors in their belly For that made it? if I remember well, he/she made it as joke - Now you do go? - Dog son, serve looks at that of the... ! ... stomach of my wife, now! Baby - This dead one - What? Do wait, is a joke? It is a... no, this dead one He/she still wants him to remove him/her the scissors, seemingly not - He/she murdered my wife - Hey, fu a joke As joke, does he/she know that? It is very violent, I have that to fly Let us be direct He/she says that you accent a I orchestrate surgical in their body... ... knowing it and deliberately I have been a good surgeon during 20 years Good citizen, a father, family man... a husband It put those deliberately scissors in their body? He/she would never make something that hurt to some patient, fu a joke - Did it put the scissors? - They belonged to practitioners - Did it put the scissors? - During the last 20 years Did it put the scissors? - Did it put the scissors? - As a prostitute joke Ladies and gentlemen of the jury I would like a joke As much as to this type In the school, me and my roommate We put to an oriental inside of the cajuela of my corvette It is a joke But it is a joke... ... and later fu murder - Objection - Accepted Refused Alone I joke It is one of the many examples I already heard too much, I am here to close up of for life For the murder of Sheyla Contiella Their lordship - Will we have the same thing? - Clear does he/she want to go by everything? As he/she wants - They arrived to a verdict - It is this way, their lordship Us the jury, we find to the protected one... ... guilty Murder in first grade Not to say this, but what I said 3 hours ago was not? - But they insisted in... - But their lordship, the system works this way Is it as well as does the system work? Please, say but to the world we want to know it The Verdict is, as there was him said before Life imprisonment, for Dr. Richie Is a joke? I don't believe it If it was for my, it would send it to the death Damned imbiles - Thank you their lordship - Ah, your... - Your in contempt - Me? For that? That I will make? I knew that there are vacancies in the plant He/she can that it is better than this You were very good in this thank you From now on, you will be Is it handcuffs of Bost No, I already have wife, you will should to take somebody but But it is worth you that you are quiet the muzzle and begin to suck me the verga I joke Very good Not it is joke Make it you are for sure you will be the whole day Oh if, this playing basketbol It will be outside hours - Oh not you... - Which the alternative is? It ruined your glorious day I want to make you love before your session It is terrible about the love of the women I believe that we would should to see the points Don't misinterpret me, I offer you a same salary But there are some differences You want to be in the front line I don't believe it The Russian will come and they will want to be in your boobies You are so sexy when politics languages - When you finished with Rachel - Soon - soon - alone you make me promises Him you, is complicated you will have that to have patience I will make it this week This is the following history It becomes touching Can you feel? You HONORED Your Father and Mother - Is he/she a boy or girl? - I will say this way it, the first are boy... ... here the boy Not comes. 2 Oh my God Is there ace in that vagina? I love it My small ones I will love them until I die We have already grown I believe that it is moment of telling us the truth About that? about the fact that your and dad are white and we are black certain Wise that this day he/she would come The year before they were born He/she was the reporter for the local newspaper And I had to opportunity of interviewing to all the big stars Denzel Washington Morgan Freeman ... to all And although it was married with their father And it was very in love of the one From time to time After the interviews These stars They caught me Mom, leave you of things did you have sex with them or not? - As I said... - Who is our biological father? One night after one he/she interviews... ... take the opportunity of... ... to catch with Arnold Zuartzeneger and... They need that I spelled them to him if I... F... Or... Z... K... ... Or... D... To... R... N... Or... L... D S... Z... - ... And... - Mom - you Allow it to finish ... W... To... R... And... N And... G... G... ... And... R You Say that Arnold Zwarszenegger is our biological father? If, for that reason they are so high He/she always told to all that they were high because they ate a lot - As you can be sure... ? - Positive It was with the only one with the one that I was in that moment And I made myself a test of blood to prove it How you explain the color dark of the skin? Him you, believe me, him you About that conversation I have been thinking a lot and I have decided it is better for you that they know their true father Really? If... so... Without but that to say He/she has returned, and here it is The man, schemes it Their father The incomparable one, Arnold Zswarzenegger Hello children I Am Arnold Finally I know my two children It will be fantastic Do they want to go to the bar or something like that? he/she suckles He is not Arnold zwarzenegger - Could you wait in the room? - Clear egresare Look, I tried to arrive to Arnold but now he/she is a politician and I could not pass the reception that type is it covers its events Alone he/she wanted to give them an idea of like it was this well suckles thank you We will try him to work Those are my beautiful boys Return Dad son You that this owes to be difficult for you so many levels He/she makes but of one week it would not have imagined this after canceling a great battle but that the international star and governor they already know who is Arnold Zwarzenegger To have me to my, replacing it to the one and to make them feel comfortable comfortable and complete To know that they have two biological parents and to be African-American American it should be difficult not so much you don't have to fake the voice of Arnold if you don't want look, to be honest with you it is sometimes but fcil to express my true feelings making this personification there are things that he/she can say but that Mark Jakempson many We go Look at my so sweated children he/she suckles, true Arnold szwaurzenegger it is as this I have not spoken with the one in years according to memory Oh my God Van to hate me for this reason I made some... Not it was Arnold Szwarzenegger It was... That explains a lot Then discover the true truth And the test of blood that you said? It was for the... And like I am? What can we make? No I can make a good Eddie Murphy - This well - Same difference Do they remember? They can think that our family is a little different But do they know that? It is our familla and it is what counts Who goes to say who he/she is your father Is he/she the person that and did it raise? Or he/she is the person that gave you their DNA Or perhaps it is a type that this in your house imitating comedians That it is the same one that your biological father If they ask us? It is the I finish The type that this at home imitating a famous comedian that it also raised to famous other comedian who is your biological father - I Am Gratt Jeffey - and me Ted Jeffey And we are the Siblings Jeffey Gretchen is an incredible wife but Liz makes me feel young and I live and the sex, hey the sex If, but it is worthwhile to throw 20 years of marriage for a moment? - The monogamy is... - what maintains the society in foot ... biochemistry... to deploy our... .. as soon as you burn the truth you will be but happy I am happy with this - Not him these - I am really it They were 24 good hours but it is with who I sleep If he/she had my milk free you could be so sure He/she would begin to catch cows It is easy to say it for you I have children It is the only reason to continue this way when I wake up You live in a world of fantasy Perhaps but I take a pill to feel well Not you to the one who to believe Ave or Scottie What is been... ... we have 10 histories and I won't disappoint you I promise them to him NOT YOU COVETED Does one scheme as of hospital? for that would make that? it is ridiculous The problem of being a hero do you know that? we will have one it schemes this way Affection would not know that to make on one schemes this way I will investigate it, if I can with the Video casetera can with this I configure VCR - Hey - Not it was intentional I sit down it Jake do you know that dad loves you certain? - Pope loves you - I configure VCR - Ray! - Not it was intentional I sit down it Jake do you know that potato loves you, certain? Pope loves to his small one already him you dad That? MARS Oh sits down it Wednesday I have to have another Thursday Friday Pardon affection had not seen you Friday You see yourself as shit Your also as 125 dollars, not so much that you can have with 5 dollars? McDonalds Burger King I love them, some changes and they are but famous It is this way I really love Ray thank you This is the radioactive nucleus of where the energy comes so that you connect their you scheme electric Doesn't it become very hot there? Don't worry, we are perfectly safe here We know that we make Attention, this it is not a mockery This is not a mockery, all the levels... This happening! There are many children that can be exposed at dangerous levels of radiation! That demons will make? The substitution will be able to fix everything in the following hour Impossible, where we go to does to find scheme this way in this city? - I have an idea - That it happens we already have many problems In a reality show... - That that is? - It is a panel of celebrities Not you! - I was hardly happened - we will speak later when we concentrate Your dad doesn't maybe have a heap of you scheme this way? Not there is here neither nobody I don't have my key It is an entire relief the one to leave the house Your you said it another beer gentlemen me if give me two dog son we go, don't die not now In the news, 75 children they are dying as a result of an accident in a nuclear plant The hopes finished the one not to be able to enter to those houses It is reported that they had dozens of you scheme that they would save their lives Collected without reason by two neighbors that unaccountably they have not been opposing Formally this being pursued the one in charge of the nuclear plant The details to the moment the bill Have you been deceiving me one year ago? He/she finished, long! I am fed up with your lies of your excuses and your... ... lousy stone chart To where it is supposed that he/she goes? For my it vetoes to the hell Veto with your small prostitute Not he/she is a prostitute he/she is an actress and you know it one is also considered magician You know that that your you cannot make... Not say anything of that that you can be sorry - Don't say it, I notice it to you! - Veto to fly, Gretchen Veto to fly Prostitute's son! Ok, something that to speak... NOT you WANTED THE Woman DE YOUR NEIGHBOR They have not shown up they have just transferred me Oh a pleasure, Glen Richie You are the one that killed to one of their patients it was a joke If it was joke, I understand it Finally somebody understands it He/she makes a lot that I am not out Something new that to say? - It is good - Do you joke? this type has a social problem I tell it to you, they have a social calendar better than none if for some reason salts there won't be reason But it is not so bad here I am addicted to that Pardon It would bother you if I sit down next to you No, it sounds very well but... ... I don't believe that it is good idea I have a great partner and it would violate me for that reason It is my luck I should know that they would take you That but I can say Do you know that? to the devil, we are alone two people enjoying their company To who he cares, I say first the security The heat The life is interesting He/she looks, you that you already have owner And I respect that totally But your and I are so similar When I pass that of this type, I said the life is interesting and your also said it It is the type of moments of those that I speak I sometimes wonder as serious if it was me the one that violated you every night you know I believe that I sit down the energy of our friendship - and you project it in something that is not - No, me not... ... I don't project it I can see you without you chewed as if we were in another side you would hit me in the mouth and it would violate you Without your consent, clear That is very valiant Of that it is violating - He/she looks and I have listened - But I cannot simply change it is not so simple - I will already fix it - Not be of the type... Not I can I don't have left it a lot, see you later To where chingados do you believe that you go? Buster, we have to speak Oh not, don't tell me Dwayne Not it is easy, Dwayne asked me him to be its dog, and I am not sure of wanting or... ... noq to want to be their dog Tell me that it is joke No, this time not We have gone by moments emotional, we know it this cell explains to it but that anything wise that this day it would arrive Listen to me... you have to make what you have to make Whenever your ass be violated I suppose that it will be this way for somebody who is every night and it is what it cares he/she joked ahead long of here veto these busy one? he/she read a paper but I can make it but late that it happens? speak with the great buster and... ... it seems that I take it well this is wonderful Do you know what means, not? if him you The king is the but big All that I have made It has been expressed intensely The life is to delight day by day The hours will be patient and yours... ... leave it in our hands and take you our hearts Everything is this way Do make state drinking? No, alone a little I believe that we have that to leave tonight I have an idea that such if your and me we stay and we speak be not so wet blanket I want to leave, I want to leave of party 24 hours a day do you know it already not? I say, you will leave Gretchen for my, truth? - Clear - If! Would you buy me a ponny? NOT YOU STOLE - that they have a good time - Thank you You have made me the best of the channel 3 And he/she can that you are the girlfriend of Steven Montgmoery that this blocked in the earth But tonight, we are those but happy of the world and he/she could not love you but Hello friends, I am Oliver Swallow And me Gary and I renounce - Gary - Your you are the one that has the hand in my ass - Or somebody laughs enough - He/she leaves alone the girl To the chingada, as you call yourself affection? - Me? - Undoubtedly to you, I don't speak with your boyfriend Hey Kelly because you don't wait for me after the show and I will show you my hooter Not it is amusing He/she allows to hear what Gary says - Idiot - When he/she says you can unite He/she is a great comedian Oh my God I believe that it was part of the act can you be quiet one second? Affection is our moon of honey, we should take champagne - To return to the room - Please, I have just had dinner hello friends - We love the show - Thank you Can I speak with Gary? Clear Hey baby, is glad me that you liked the show For that don't come undone of the one and we will be able to speak You showed me your hard verga as you said? I already have to leave Well for that doesn't leave that Gary comes with us - Affection believes that... - I will hit you in the face That Gary says, we go to the field This a little tired good night You are maybe... Not I am gay because I go out with small and Gary is not Gay because he/she is a marionette that I bought in a company in Chicago Good night Kelly, we go... He/she hoped to lose the virginity tonight I have go to walk Really? Because it would rot... ... to go with you hello I have many condoms I want to make it Does he/she know where was the it finishes time? thank you to call to the police We should call to the police I sit down it I thought that him toward but not I had never felt so happy for a long time we always make the same jokes I no longer find amusing Your you were there when my engaged one it was buried - And it continues there - it continues there You said that taenias girlfriend, but when it was the it finishes time that you came out? She dies to go out with you Do how many point out you need? then our marriage it is a farce perhaps be right You that I am right I am for sure to her he would love to hear that of you It is a madness That you make here? Gretchen... hello it was in the neighborhood I thought that it could happen to shit Not it is a good moment for that don't return tomorrow? Can I enter for single 5 minutes? Tomorrow perhaps doesn't have necessity to shit Who this in the door? Jeff, you already know to... .Then your and Jim... - If How this Liz? well In fact we look for a ponny A ponny can be delicious As I said, it is not moment so that you shit But it was good to see you, you are brilliant It is always well you You are tired - These taking... - Gretchen I can speak for five minutes without you attack me for that reason? - Rot then - Am I taking my Oega Trifsico, ok? Alone that not in the same way It is for that reason If it is for that reason That you are lucky, Jeff Also your, Gretchen NOT YOU LIFTED REINFORCEMENT TESTIMONY The new one this awake one As not, if it hurts me the head And definitively I will need something but you to what you refer You Need a Lionel Rynold It is always the shit for that lick this way it? It is a good question and there is a history, friend Len Renold, in fact existed Before that he/she lived in New York No, the history begins before Did you count your history or mine? The first in the history of he/she Quarrels it is when it left the school And I work AD in Washington He/she opened locks It was difficult because not taenia fingers Their prostitute open door wants take You paid for that reason, he/she Quarrels! So for that reason they call to this Life does Quarrel? There is but in the history Some years later, he/she Quarrels he/she worked in the streets - Give me one second - Not I do have toa the night, does it work or that? Don't speak to me, leave me to concentrate Do you know that? Forget it God that passes them For that reason he/she was not able to to maintain a work He/she wanted to play the piano - These discharged - That? Because I sit down passion for this reason? - If - Do you know that I knew? That it is of the racist organization If, it is this way Undoubtedly if Finally he/she Quarrels he/she found something in what was good To say lies You know that she sucks him/her the eggs to somebody in a party? Wise that your he/she suckles was it in and prostitutes' service? Take away from the director, he/she wants to catch to all the children - He/she quarrels it was in the summit of the world - Does he/she quarrel that there is? Aaron, you knew that that did it pass the lizard? You knew what passed him/her to your face? Until he/she heard something Evil dogs really And all were infected to if same With an illness of transmission sexual human and they planned to begin an orgy to infect to the whole town This way the one Quarrels he/she wanted to notice to all A moment for that those dogs were infected with a mortal illness? They were immune Listen all, don't have sex with the dogs they plan to have an orgy You always lie for that we should believe you Hey has gender together all - Not you - To who you will believe him/her to he/she Quarrels or to the winning dog It began to lose weight For that reason they call to this Does Liar Quarrel? Because it is the same thing every day gentlemen - See you later friends - That the one is he/she Quarrels? This is the place it is not necessary a lot to look What you see is what there is That you waited for 850 a month What you see is what there is or that you waited for The station MIR there out In the space? I take it to me Sr. dalton - Dalton... Timothy Dalton - As the 007 It is this way The keys NOT YOU WILL MAKE ADULTERY As you have been? Your dilo first As this Liz? we finish she was very young - As this Jim - Not I work Their penis is too big I say, for a while it was grandiose God, very well I sometimes think of that and. ... I have a small orgasm No... oh waits Here he/she comes But you know, I don't work - And where you live? - I have this new home It is an empty place without stone charts That good that changed Gretchen could never apologize For what I happen You came out of you limit them I should never tell it to you not after him that I happen with- ... with you and your brother thank you Perhaps you would want. ... a cup of coffee I would love it, but after finishing with Liz, let us marry and I won't make the same error you already know, adultery With who you married? it is brilliant - The star of Broadway - oh if this prides of that and also of the oscar I see that it has been useful it is as "thank you" - that good to see you - equally Gretchen loves you so much I want you to return If. no that there is of your wife I will call him/her and I will tell him/her that he/she finished Diane As these? that? As if he/she shitted dollars Him you, terrible work he/she looks, I have you bad news I saw. to my former wife Gretchen and... as I will say it Diane, I sit down it a lot Really? You are brilliant, we could make it I will make that my lawyers do send you the documents, ok? This well, I will make it I have to leave I have to leave, Diane YOU SANCTIFIED ON SUNDAYS AND DAYS OF PARTY we will arrive late at the church the children are already in the car I am sick, I believe that they have poisoned me You should go without my Totally naked? completely naked The whole time that they left to the church The whole morning He/she is intriguing Oliver And I eat it was you on Sunday - we could be together - That I will tell to Gina It invents an excuse - That? - Buimia - It is something gay' - No I am very heterosexual I like girls But even so I like life We are alone a couple of types heteros That they don't go to the church to be naked not you, doesn't like me In fact serious Hey that made you to change opinion? Really these nude that it is your penis And your bottom there You are right For that not and ntras and do you take off your clothes? well I have q ue to tell it to you I thought that this serious good But this, is very good Is it very good, not? I have many Cd's do you want to hear something? Do you joke? It is my favorite one That we listen? Killing me Softly? That is too much We go a little but deep That such an east The contemporary flavor The grace of the universe That was grandiose - That well we pass it - For that don't come next Sunday' Not you, would feel a little guilty if I don't go to the church Marty, God not necessarily he/she wants us to go to the church every Sunday Take it as being given or rest of the normal life and to celebrate their great creation And that bigger creation For my there is not he/she swims well that to be here, and to move the balls It is a great point But I have a question To how many boys but should he/she invite? On following Sunday Who invite it to the one? It is the I finish that I need Week 5 I like the music I always know them Wise that serious good Week 7 And it was no longer angry and it was completely outside of if As their own wall Week 9 We finish early in the church and your wife goes in road This here! That we make? Hello potato? as your gangrene he/she goes Better Oliver, does something happen? For that? You act strange and I want to know that it happens Affection, you deserve to know the truth Friends Every Sunday, dozens of men come here And they get undressed - I already see - Not we go to the church again That you think of that? I will tell you what I think If you have one again party of nudes in my house... ... in a Domingo You can kiss me the bottom when saying goodbye a moment Gloria Listen to me I have been a good man all my life I have taken care of my children and to my wife I give to the church I never knew about flying I have never caught to a prostitute So leave us this day that every Sunday we have to make this That is the worst way But I felt never so well there was really something Not this wrong to be naked in one Sunday Comely that would want to make it Present them this history Not they could get lost it I read that of the charts but don't listen the wisdom I should never betray my wife but I made my work I gave them 10 short histories And we don't die for that reason
