 

                        My name is Julien. I'm 15 That's me there Well - going on 15 Trouble is, I'm in love with my cousin, Julia She's great looking from any angle See for yourself, better than Venus You know, the nude on the half-shell Anyway, that's what I think That's Poune, Julia's sister Naturallly she's my cousin too Supergirl She can talk 5 minutes without breathing or thinking The trouble is she's in love with me. I don't get 5 minutes alone to piss That's my Aunt Adele She's their mother She's obsessed with calories She thinks they gang up on her and make her fat That's my sister, Clair Forever plucking her excess hair If it didn't grow back, she'd be bored She's all set to marry for money... Him Forget it, a dull subject My mother, very nice but plagued by financial worries That's why she took in boarders A German scientist who fled the Nazis... with his daughter And a fading actress who fled the talkies That's my father... very dapper Next to him, we always look like poor relatives - or slaves These are the slaves... Monsieur Lacroix, estate-manager Madame Lacroix, his wife Mathilde, the upstairs maid Justine Madeleine and Angela, the housemaids Antoine and Mathieu, the farmhands Monsieur Bazu, the mailman Looks like it'll be a great summer It's 1939 and all's quiet as can be TENDER COUSINS You could move a little quicker, and dont dawdle Me, dawdle? And that? Breakfast, Madame Mathilde... come here, I want to talk to you Morning Morning. How are you, have a good night? - Oh, he's ugly. - Who? Mussolini bathing at the beach. He's a fright He must love spaghetti Stop your barking, it's me. Good morning, ladies Morning, Monsieur Bazu Is he hungry? He's always hungry, Rex Nothing for me? No, Madame Clementine. Hollywood's still waiting Oh, the plumber, him again For Mademoiselle Adele. It's a striated basalt It's lovely It's a stone Would it be convenient to remove your bicycle from the marmalade? I'm sorry. Goodbye, ladies, have a pleasant day Your mail pouch, Monsieur Bazu, but whats in it? Stones Stones? To build a palace - Good morning, dear - Morning, Aunt Agnes Had breakfast? Morning Well, I must run. I'm a little scared Be careful all the same She'll be up on Prince for the first time I found a poppy! Bad dog. I'm so sorry dear I thought you were the dog I hope you weren't hurt No, it's nothing Wherere my tweezers? A little, a lot... You're getting on my nerves Passionately Stop it Well, I try Leave me alone! Hi, Antoine. Can't win them all Sorry. You see it all, don't you, my poor darling? Listen, I'll tell you another secret Im in love. Mustn't tell What we need here is real men. There you are. Look at her Go on, take the tray. And put your clothes back on Can't do everything. Ive got my hands full And she knows how to use them It's pretty clear Hitler hasn't spoiled somebody's appetite Madelon pours out our drinks full measure And in the dark, we feel around her skirts He beat his wife with a hickory stick... Courage, courage... and when hed beat her once, he'd beat her once again... Why'd you take the straps down? You think I wouldn't understand? They'd make marks Charles, what is it? I want! Behave! You're crazy Youre a nuisance. Youre obsessed Ive got a right to. I have, don't l? In Venice, I thought we decided Madelon pours out our drinks full measure, and in the dark Eat. What a miserable mess Order is just appearance; it passes like present time Thats it? Madame Agnes' orders All the boarders who don't pay... crack! Even Mademoiselle Clementine... She's late You have a letter from Berlin - Thank you. - Give me the stamp Why don't you give me a horse? In Venice, the horse What would Justine say? Oh, Justine is like me.. liberal-minded Yes, she's modern ideas, and she's not stupid Stupid and more Well, can't win them all. Bad luck Come here, Rex Just look at the poor creature, really Stop playing with him Julien, at last Julien, my love... I dressed Rex up like an aviator Did you notice, I've grown two inches - Tell me later. - All my teeth are in Julia got a horse... for passing all her exams, and I got zip Hello, Mom A big hello. I've been waiting for you Wait, you get one more... the wetter The better Are you hungry? Yes, he's hungry. Very hungry Then off to the kitchen because your aunt's devoured it all Come on, let's go He's nearly grown up See, just the way it was Monsieur Julien, youre so big - Im hungry. Anything to eat? - Sure - Justine... - Yes, Ill fix you something Move over A little drink of wine? What happened to you, your cheeks red I banged it on the barn door, that's all Sure, a barn door - with All of you, butter your bread Wake up, Mathieu, pass me the butter Yes, Mathieu, wake up. Pass her the butter You two, you're too much One drinks, the other sleeps Hey, show him your snazzy boots. Did you see his boots? Theyre nice Hey, what's this... what's this bulge? What is it? Stop already Hey, Mathieu, look Mathieu's asleep; you going to wake him up for that? Besides, the children We know all about it, don't worry Well then, you see? You're the only one who doesn't know Leave me alone, go find your barn door I have the ball right here - Have your paddle? - Of course I have my paddle Perfect - Well, toss me the ball. - The point of the game is... when I have the ball, I hit it to you You be kind, don't make me nervous No, really, dear. The car is right there I want it super clean! Let's do it Concentrate. Service You're not ready, pick up your paddle My seams are twisted; just a sec... then you can serve Wearing hose to play? You didn't take your trousers off, did you? Well, whats the score? Always 15 to 5 Nice doggie Oh, there's your brother Hi, Julien. See, I'm learning ping pong And my creams, you remembered? - They're on your bed - You saw Mom? Baby, do you mind? Save these outbursts for later What's the rush? You're ridiculous, you know that Hi. Give me a kiss Shh! They're concentrating Well... here we go First, the left hand - You wear brassieres? - Evidently I shave Second, the left knee... everything harmonious You get my notes? Your notes? Oh, your books I'll give the rhythm, one two, one two I get it Third, the chest... open Our roses, youve seen them? A forge! Breathe in, out I brought you something Misfire Bravo. You made me break a nail Look, baby, it's aesthetics or it's sport. Have to choose I'll tell you one thing. Go on, but do it alone Oh no, you chose a bad moment. Go away. Here, go chase this Julien, you're always last Thank you for bringing the veterinary creams I dont want a dog What's he done? Today, July 5, 1939, after years of searching I believe I have isolated a soul That's marvellous And you're going to sell it Really, Charles, to who, the devil? Who's that girl? The Prof's daughter. Doesn't like boys Whats this? A Swiss knife Its for you Its nice, thanks A soul, how would you describe it? It is highly volatile Speaking of volatile... Hurry up, hurry up You scared me. Stop it, Im on duty What do you care whether those bastards eat or not How about letting me taste? Justines coming back It tastes better from your hand Let me go. Madame won't be happy Who cares? But shes not good now It's damn sure her husband won't make her happy Watch out for the rooster And Fougerasse Lavignole? Lavergnole Lavergnole, still nothing? No, but it's always a long wait with him Her husband? No, her impresario. I suppose her lover You know what lover means? Are you going to show a film? Dont talk at the table Leave it. Yes, about Anna Karenina Are there any lions? I know something's gone wrong Oh, the rooster Oh, thats right, just like dogs You, stallion, go back to your stable we'll talk about this later. And what's that? Its the rooster Pick it up Cover up It's not my fault, they jump out by themselves Come here; Ill fix you... Here No wonder, missing a button Go on. The rooster! Hey, baby, show the ring to Madame You love jewels You've come It's tiny It's an investment Exquisite My dad is the only man who could find diamonds in the bottom of a sink Is he a plumber? Charles father made a fortune in bathroom fixtures My wife adored jewellery Youre always thinking of your mother A real bitch May I have my ring back, please? The rooster was fit to be tied You remember coming here when we were kids? Is it still a long way? Wait for me! Wait for me! I can't go so fast It hasn't changed Hey, wait, slow down, I have to pee One for all and all for one Let's stop here With a horse, at least nobody has to pedal Its dirty You're never happy Look, it's Charles A breakdown? You can't get anywhere Okay, you win. Come on. Take care of my bike Hey, what're you doing? - lm looking for something. - What? Would it be a Swiss knife? Yeah, I suppose How come youve got it? In a way, I did a trade For what? A secret What? It's about Charles. You can tell hes in love You sure? He's sticking his lips out Stop, you're tickling my ear Your cheek's all red Where would l get make-up? From Claires. Later, Ill tell you a terrible secret about Charles Ah yes, what secret? Go ask her to dance I don't know how to dance Neither does she, go on I can't dance I want to You dance terrific, like in the movies Is this what the priests teach you in school? It's the last bottle The Mayor wants a word. He refused to go away He can return tomorrow when Edward is here He insists I'll see him Save a little champagne. I shall surely be needing it Wait, I'm really thirsty That's the rhythm She doesn't know how Time to learn. Shall we try? I don't want to anymore Just when I was getting good That was the Mayor. He wants extravagant payment And all for a water bill The Popular Front, what nonsense Professor... it's the last one Naturally it hasn't been chilled And your hiccup? It's fine July 5, 1939... I danced with him Feeling his warm breath on my skin drove me crazy I think he loves me, but we mustn't. We must be strong I rather pity cousin Julien, poor fellow If he knew a great love, it would transform him My goodness, it's all so difficult A soul Its cold!... Who is it? Its me Not now Its urgent Come in What do you want? I have to talk to you It can't wait? Please, leave us Well, go on I can't watch you play the fool with that man Together you look ridiculous What man? You know who Close your eyes What? Close your eyes. I'm rinsing Go on And have you thought about Claire? Care to scrub my back? Oh shit Im bored here. You want to play anything? Quiet, Im thinking What good's that? You want my advice? You're wrong to think Look at Charles; he never thinks, and he makes out Whos that? Julien, come and look Don't make any noise, quick Julien, hurry up... you won't regret it What happens when you see a naked girl? Come on, quick, don't want to miss this Help! One, two, one, two How do you do? Why are you stopping? Anything wrong? Motor's overheated. Want to swim? I didn't bring a bathing suit Who cares? Wait a sec. Can I drive it? Okay, take my place Do I start the engine? Later. Well, you see... this leg here... you use to accelerate But the other one, this one here, puts on the brakes Your hands are icy Look, relax, you're a bundle of nerves The keys What about the keys? - They fell down there. - Where? - Somewhere down there. - I can't see Oh, the flowers. I'd better go get a nice bouquet Don't see any keys Stuck. Oh, damn Move over. Ill do it I'll look for those keys Shit, I cut myself Are you hurt? Let me see Help me You're bleeding Don't leave me like this No, please... youll make me fall No, please stop feeling me You've got long legs Because you're on your knees. Oh, get up, get up Im fine here You must stop There's a grease stain on your dress Look, we could go swimming. Oh, let me go. A wasp Did I do something? No, a wasp, it stung me - It did? Where? - On my thigh - Show me where - No, not on my foot Your foot, yes The keys, I see the keys Where? Monsieur, you have traces of red on your lips Thank you, Lacroix Crap Hello, Papa dear. Didn't forget my bridal gown? No, of course I brought it Look at that What's it like, describe it? Lace everywhere That's great, bravo Enough ribbons, you're sure? Yes, lots of ribbons. Hello, Mathieu Here, Mathieu, you take it, but handle it gently Just a second. Here, Mathieu, something for you Come on, let's get inside Charles, don't look, it's bad luck It won't make a difference! What a silence Close the window, it attracts bugs There, on your desk are Tomorrow Tomorrow. You must speak to the Professor and to Clementine They both owe for three months She was up for a big role A flop. Ah, the Mayor was around He wants to speak to you How will you ever pay all those debts? My boat is so small... and the sea is so large Now you have a boat? A small point, thanks What delicacy: I get the same as the farmhand In the old days, you preferred artists You're right, it does attract bugs You may not notice from your boat, but you have a family including a son... who, at the moment is in the depths of puberty Oh, what a pleasure to chat I remind you, you're marrying off your daughter cheap You're the one who's marrying her off... to a toilet bowl Enter, don't stay there, it's only me I can't sleep What're those? My first souls Pink for girls? The colours are for pleasure. The souls have no sex Where do you find them? When anyone dies, hup. I reach out and catch one I've had this one here for 20 days What do you do with them? I just observe... then I let them go They're not property, not my souls Here today, gone tomorrow Like love? Like love. You are unhappy, young man? It is good now and again. Too much joy makes you an idiot Take a look... I was teaching at the University I had a big house, a wife... Ah, the sun, you'd think you were in Italy I was in a film there, a costume site Florence, Sienna, Capri Spaghetti Mussolini With Gustave, the Venetian marmalade Venice isnt only canalettos Eating flowers now? Lets talk of Gustave He sees a casino, he gambles away our shirts He was so sweet afterward He had a splendid death. Where's my daughter? With her horse. A brilliant idea you had you flat broke and you give her a horse A tiny present for her graduation You marry off your daughter, so you can fix up your house Charles, where are you? Im right here, baby What're you doing? Im thinking About your breasts Think of something else That's worse You're not thinking about her? Who's her? You know very well You mean the kid? What an idea You're lying Id like to know what's going on in your head Hey look, it's Charles Hey kids, scram To your house Com on, I have an idea Hello, little sheep Whats wrong now? Get down I admit, I prefer you like this You're sleeping? Shall I show you what we'll do in Venice? Close your eyes You feel how warm I am? Now, you promise me to be very good Charles, a sheep is stealing your car Can I come in? If you Like My poor Monsieur Julien, still getting punished? You're too old for stunts like the car I don't need their company Your bed's very nice... compared to ours Can I lie down with you? Oh, am I tired Relax, I won't eat you Ever kissed a girl? Evidently On the mouth? Often And you said a lot of pretty things? You want to tell me? Right now? But you did't say anything You must have learned a poem in school It was snowing... We were defeated by his conquest "But not once before had the Eagle bowed its head "Oh, sombor day" I think we should get more comfortable "The Emperor returned on his mount "In the distance, at his back "Burning Moscow... "In the distance... it was burning "Moscow burned" But what possible interest would he have in Poland? Why not Belgium? With him, you never know What does he want? He wants Poune and Julien Professor, do you think dogs have souls like humans? Its entirely possible, Mademoiselle We can't stand that noise Rex Do you insist on more punishment? Did he really damage your car? But there's the sheep too Oh, who cares! Ill get him Don't you know any other poems? Don't you know any other poem in Latin? Oh shit, I'm on vacation If Antoine ever saw this, what would he do? Don't worry, I'm joking What are you doing to him? Edward, come here, quickly You really not hungry? Want a cigarette? I guess she's pretty mad Shell calm down. Mathilde is being sent away But I gave her the address of a friend in Paris Don't blame me That's between you and you When you start to smoke, don't blame others Anyway, for next time try not to get caught Tell me exactly when you got up today - 6 o'clock. - In a pig's ear Here's the new girl She's so young Put down your case, you'll see to it later Show her where her room is The rule here is up at meat 3 times a week. One Sunday in 4, you go and see your mother Don't have one And at Christmas; a gift from the boss With little Jesus to bless all that You, silence Here, sit down! Right here. Hungry? A little Give her that - Tell me, what's your name? - Agnes - What? - Agnes We'll have to change your name because Agnes here is the boss That's a pain in the neck We'll call her by another name then Madeleine, that's pretty Quite pretty... Madeleine Its nice, Madeleine We agree, then, she's Madeleine, right? This'll make it legal Right. I name you Madeleine You'll put away a nice nest egg here Dont listen... and dont let her bother you That's my fianc And the boss? Don't worry about him. He won't bother you Its Madame who's the real boss. She's got all the bucks They're rich? Oh no. All she has is the mansion; propertys gone they've spent everything Quiet, woman, is it any of her business? Its only natural she wants to know They've all got 2 left hands Tell her what she's to do Shall we finish that letter? You said: "My dear mama... I am well The food here is good and tasty. I sleep well every night I hope my letter finds you well and in good health Signed: Mathieu What about sending her a big kiss? lf you want It's a real mansion. I know the Mistress Seen my car? What do you want? I have to talk to you. The new girls just arrived I have to talk to you. The new girl's just arrived and Charles has already pounced on her There's already a meeting arranged What're you babbling about? I told you it's all arranged - You sure? - I heard everything Come with me A note to Julia? Oh, you want her to meet you ...when the rooster crows. Why did you sign Charles? Put it in Julia's room, and don't let anybody see you More sentimentality Charles, are you here? Monsieur Charles... Are you here? Madeleine... are you here? Are you here? I'm here, Monsieur You came... Why are you trembling? You aren't going to do anything silly? Don't be afraid... over there Please don't Yes, Madeleine, yes... I beg you. No, Monsieur Charles... You bastard! She didn't show up at mealtime - Did you really look for her? - Of course Have you searched the barn? No, Ill go there - Sacrophage isn't in the stable. - Is that it? Did you see Julia? No, I have a headache. Anyone got an aspirine? Justine, it's me, open Go to bed. I'm scared of the storm Then you shouldn't be alone Go to bed, I told you I swear I don't know what's wrong with her... Angele What? Who is it? Its me. Listen, do storms scare you? No. Go away, I'm sleeping Madeleine... Stone deaf It hurts. How old are you? And nothing ever hurt quite this bad Not this bad, no Well, you were lucky then. Pain begins early for some And once it starts, it won't stop And there's nothing you can do? You can always dream Since it's your birthday tomorrow, they're yours Are they real? Real, fake... what's the difference? Today I took a decisive action I helped my cousin Julia rid herself of that imbecile Charles For a while it will be painful If only I didn't love the idiot so much... Nature's got it all wrong. I have the feelings but not the age, and he has the age but no feelings Happy birthday Happy birthday, Mademoiselle Julia, you're aging fast No faster than you. You'll be sick This is nothing What do you want, baby? I want an orange juice A what? Iced Iced? In your condition? A iced orange juice No, that's lemonade I said orange juice An idiot She was in a bad mood Yes, very happy Can I try? No, youll stain your dress, they're fresh eggs I bet I can My turn You must walk very carefully Lift the dress up Another pin, please I look all right? Put down your collar. Oh, there's a button missing The princess? Yes, coming. Professor, what are you doing here? You mustn't look Do I make the announcement now? One minute, Im not ready What a handsome young man He's our Casanova. He has a terrible reputation Hurry, please, everyone's impatient I still haven't learned my lines You wait till the last moment At last Tonight, to honour our dear Julia on her 16th birthday we have the good luck and the honour of seeing Mademoiselle Clementine Granval, in scenes from Fantasio, by Alfred de Musset Are we the Queen of Spain? They're splendid; where'd you find them? A gift; they were Clementine's Then they've got to be fake Why? What's wrong? Tummy ache And what's this? I broke an egg How pale the setting sun is, my Lord All nature's pitiable tonight Good tobacco, good beer You must be bored, Spark Why do you say that? No, why do you say that? I... I dont understand this Ah, the solitude in the soul of man Drink to forget... All such nonsense Right you are Quiet, that's enough What a miserable thing is man Unable to leap from a window without breaking a leg Don't want to see the play? Oh, the theatre. Id rather stay and watch you Give me a glass of cider How old are you? You want one? No thanks Come closer. Do you like it here? I won't eat you Julien was good, wasn't he? Go ahead... don't just stand there. On stage, quickly There, that's your place. Get closer My God, it's Mathieu Tomorrow or perhaps later, you depart for Mantua and with you your wedding gown Why should I hold ill feelings for you? I have no reason to desire your death Maybe fate will reveal it to you Maybe fate has revealed you I can elude it no longer Him, I understand Silence Should I not put you out the door? Me? No, that's the line, say it Its the child of misery Will you be quiet Ill put you to bed I cheated on you but you don't know who Yes, I do - Bet you can't imagine. - I know... With her That's not true No, it's true. Tell her We'll talk about it later. Come on, Antoine Aren't you going to slap my face? Go ahead, slap me Take that Go to bed and sober up You did it on purpose, didn't you? Is it your plan to make me your confidant in tragedy? - Madame... - What's the matter? The Mayor... the Mayor is here Please don't send me away... It's so amusing here Look, your governess arrives, pockets bulging with mysteries Ill be damned! Is it quite the moment? Madame, I truly hope that I couldn't care less, believe me Look, the Mayor is here. He's barged right into the party Please kick him out Ill need a pair of scissors; Don't rip it. Calm down Bravo Im not the star, she is - I'm honoured. - Delightful Mathieu You were splendid. I assure you, you were Im glad, thanks, but Im really not used to doing this lf you wanted to, you could go far Go where? Ill explain later. I'll see you in the park Julia, will you do me a favour? Yes, what? No, I won't. No, please. It was a present Theyre fakes I don't care You'd better do it anyway Here you are. The jewels of the family No, Madame, it's too much Take good care of them. A queen has worn them Poune, youre the leader Come, mama, come with us Not at my age You're young, mama, come on I can't go on Sure you can Mama, you alright? What's wrong? Nothing. Im alright Go on, join the parade You, you detest all of them - that right? You would like to see them all dead Yes. Are you psychic? No. Im not a mind-reader or anything At your age, you have emotions you can't control and pity always comes too late I won't be like that, I swear it I'm already a monster My soul, if you saw it, would be as black as coal at night Its entirely too soon. Its transparent Yes, crystal clear... and light... like a bird Im sorry, you haven't seen Mathieu? Do you know the legend of Tristan and Isolde? Its a love story from history You like them... love stories? I might, but Im not really sure I will be Tristan tonight The grease paint is running Yeah, I guess I sweat plenty I don't think Im made to be an actor Im certain that your mouth is like ripe fruit You sigh? Its my brassiere, Madame Tristan What's going on? Why are you going? - It's war. - What? War's been declared Have you heard? Yes... what happened to Clementine? She fainted You returning to Germany? To make war on us Im too old for this silliness Im not old enough Then, my young friend, we two are very lucky Lucky? Of course, you'll see Its sweet to die for one's country of old age It looks like this'll be the last one Its time to go. Well, goodbye You'll have plenty of work now Try to stay awake Don't, you'll scare us all Let's go, back to work Don't catch cold Don't try to be a hero I promise to be a coward Don't do that, Mademoiselle It's all right, leave it Personnel may now return to the kitchen, thank you Ill be crazy with worry Dont pout, Im off to the station. I'll be back And be careful of the Germans There you are. Be good to Mama and your sister Sure, I know Wait a second You too. You going to see Hitler? I might, who knows? Have a bonbon You're the man here now The train Wait Shell make them miss the war Take this along, it always brought me good luck lf you get to Berlin, you have the address Charles, hurry up, we're waiting on you Don't lose it Wait... Mama, stop the car Hey, you men... the first casualty of the war Alright, let's get going Sure, here we go. Cover up, Monsieur Julien, you'll get sunburn My shirt's sticking to me Like this Angele, get cracking I can't go any faster Poune! What are you doing? I was milking a cow. she doesn't like it Tough piss Never mind, do your homework - Haven't got any. - What? All my teachers've gone to war Really? Well, we'll see about that Can I be of help? Careful there. Feed the chickens There's some grain in there Youll allow me? By all means, Professor Where's Mathieu? In the woodshed, finishing his night It hurts Ill show you the best way to take care of it Feel it? Its balm from my heart Our Justine's a pretty girl, no? Come on, nobody's working. You're not at a golf party Julien, come walk with me? Not yet, we're not finished Ha! Finished? It'll be a while This war's getting off to a great start Look at that bundle Mama said to see you. I got a sunburn Im not surprised the way you were working on the haywagon today Go on, stretch out over there... and take off your shirt This is an old remedy, it never fails Its cold, I know. Ill be gentle Is that you? Yes. Taken on our wedding day. Goes back a long time Is that Monsieur Lacroix? No, that's our son I never knew you had a son He died You should have seen Monsieur Lacroix's hat on our wedding night. He was so clumsy I was no better, I suppose It had poured. I've never been so wet I didn't stop sneezing our whole wedding night That better? There was a fiddler there No matter what, Monsieur Lacroix wore his hat He danced with it on And so I said - we were exceedingly polite "you look like a mushroom under your hat" He choked and blushed but the hat didn't come off I was certain that he'd sleep with it on We got undressed How cold and humid the room was You have a young girl's skin May I tell you... tonight, I am worn out All day, I have chased the chickens Any news in your letters? The offensive is imminent General Comelle sends his best regards He sent me an officer... a bright young man from our region He knows every hill. We chat like old pals Old pals And what's happened to your souls now the war has started? I am worried about them. They are all deflated My dear baby... Life here is terrible We're all cold and hungry. But we stand fast My men have upquestioning confidence in me matched by my own. They obey my ardours... orders You would be proud of me, my baby, your... Poor Charles... He is miserable He can't handle his men and they mock him He is the butt of one joke after another. Don't tell Claire And where'll you go, Professor? America, with any luck. You know, I still want to live Ridiculous at my age, no? No, why? Well, now it is too late. Old people get set in their ways And you're lost And do you have any plans? I suppose they'll have to wait till after the war It has barely begun Well, perhaps you could return to America Why not? Anyway, you will be leaving next week Why? Because your room is rented Monsieur Julien Julien, come to the table Monsieur Julien... what are you doing here? Playing little Jesus? I fell asleep I can see work doesn't agree with you Oh, goodness, your shoulders I hurt all over Those priests didn't build up your muscles you've got a long way to go. With me, it's different Here, feel Don't be scared. Go ahead, fell it I might hurt you You couldnt if you tried Go on Don't take it away - it feels warm Of course, that's a bit softer Because it's not for working. Dont be scared. It doesn't hurt, you know Open it if you want Do it I know they're hard to unbutton. You're doing fine Caress the nipple Gently Don't pinch it. Theyre sensitive kiss me Undress me Undress me Well, do something. Don't leave me like this Would you turn around? Why? Are you shy? A little Hurry Wait You're pretty quick Are you angry? No. But after this... you mustn't be so emotional Its pouring You're telling me... and it's the day to clean windows You can forget windows today Add some sugar, it'll give him energy Last ones of the season And still no word from our men Im starting to worry Here, some brandy. It'll fortify him For Julien, the flower there? Yes. He's delicate, Monsieur Julien Its true, he is delicate. Touched his skin? He's still a boy. He'll grow Oh no, today, it's my turn Go ahead, go be the May Queen Go find me a plate Now, 6 and 4 is 10; let's see one... 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, Park Place, want it? If you want to buy it, you'll have to mortgage don't want it Its your turn. It's getting exciting Ventnor Avenue Are you crazy? Just a little bit Go ahead Just a little, come on Well, just a little No Go on, just a little No You said you would Mine. And with a hotel on it Pay up, you'll have to mortgage. Bad luck Served a property tax, pay to the Treasury 2.000 We won't use that one. Here Aren't you playing? What is it? She's such a bad loser! Its none of your business Little shit Don't expect a letter. We're not pen pals Don't look at me like that Ill be' back, I don't intend going off to war Write to me, your Aunt Agnes Now, you be good Goodbye Ill come to the station Answer Julien He can do what he likes - I can't stop him Thank you Why're you mad at me? Im your pal Maybe you think we're friends, but we're not Out of her head What's this thing? I wondered where I put it. I use it for exercises Clementine... I've come to a decision Im leaving with you. Its all decided If you agree Ill write my mother when we're there, explaining my decision When we arrive... where? Wherever youre going I packed a suitcase. I'll be ready. You'll see Ill manage all the details Im sure you will Please, don't joke. I can't stand it Ill never cause you any problem Im the one who would cause you problems Im sick... finished Yes, I mean it. Im flat broke Poverty doesn't scare me You know what it is? An empty stable is poverty to you or a dress you wear for two seasons. The real thing you don't know Here, look Quite a group Is that you there? Its you It was. Where he went, women used to adore him But he died penniless He was always joking He'd imitate a horse when I needed cheering up An alcoholic, a hopeless drunk This is my husband. Now he sells door to door And this one He's a millionaire with influence Will he remember me? What's wrong? Crying? Leave her alone - Who asked you anything? - What? What did you dare say? You heard me You are completely crazy Ive heard that before Don't touch me Im never going to You're beneath anything, you're disgusting A stupid egoist. You're putrid. And to think I loved you I still owe you one I loved you, you hear? I had all your letters. I'd find your hairpin and save it What a joke Stop it, Julien... It hurts Let me go Clementine? She left Im scared What do you know? I'm scared too See that bird? He can fly across a continent and never land once It must be wonderful, gliding through the sky Hey... Balloons Shall we go? Will you give me the Swiss knife again? Yeah sure, baby, sure Don't speak to me like that Ok, baby
