 

                        #Laser Subttlng# Come on Gkhan Move on Wait, honey! Lve got the Are you sure you've been You came and rented a place here - Excuse me We are cose. It's somewhere am not going a step further What happened? Are youtryingto make me sick? Who n their right mind would rent a pace Why not? What is wrong with it? You realy are trying to dr ve me crazy Look at the shthoe you br ng me to fwe got massacred here no one - You are exaggerating honey Just take alook around you Hey Whats with al the goddamn no se? Jump that bitch and come upstairs, hubby Th s is also totaly normal Buket! Buket come back here pease? Hey Who do you th nk 'm taking to? Fuckers Go and play Buket, you could at least have a looked Besdes, ts not such Coudnt we just make Buket. Have seen as much as needto Gkhan #He is lying dd not escaped #But yesterday we had a phone contact #My husband is not look ng after us Jont smoke that shit at Whats go ng on? Why would I be fght ng? There was ths nasty woman just ke our sent them both packing You know what you can do with When you were sti h ding ipsticks ...was out there gett ng fucked - Here. Have a drag and chll out Turn the damn th ng off So. Let's hear it then Wel, there's not a whole lot to tell You mean Buket waked out She didn't even ook at the pace The girl has a po nt though You can fnd whatever Thieves crooks, druggies You make t sound ke, wed be We'd shut the front door on al that True! It's not a probem for you Jont give me a hard t me Why don't youtry to understand? Look g r! The guy from ths morning What a damn cut e! Hes just my type Wel, he is not mine #Welcome home Buket # # aready sang # Gkhan. # Ck I wi s gn... Are you ready? #. Turn out the ight and seep # maybe gone from here Ch my God! Hes here! My hubby's here. Come, come... Shes some lucky woman You cal that luck? 'D rather go wthout than have a man R ght sure... Hey whats going on there g r? Gkhan How are things? Good and you? Same as ever. Come in Take a seat. How is writ ng works? Not bad. Ost some of my notes wanted to have a ook for them don't think they are here. Lfthey wl check Buket's room Let's st and drink a coffee CK, you prepare the coffee wl look # aready sang # Gkhan # st I feel yourwarmth #f I coud ony nuzze up to you - What? Sweetie Seraps mum is here Al right then see you tomorrow Sorry. - Where is he? - Serap why are youtakng him? What are you doing here Gkhan? 'M lookingfor my notes. Ts best if youtwo talk. I was go ng So have you found your notes? No Fne, than they are not here So that means you can also go now - Buket s tjust al about the house? Anyway 'm knackered What are you do ng with that plow? We bought it together, do you remmember? Fne, Gkhan! Then take s there someone ese with you? None of you business ts a over don't want you in my life anymore How can you say that so casualy So whats happened to make t fn sh? - Is there someone ese? Youve found out everythng now Wil you piss off out my lfe now? Go away. G rs! My hubbys got h s pilow Come on hubby Come on my man Jont laugh, bitches! You've got my guess your hubby s a b t of a womanser He gave Sanem the eye on hs way past So when are you going to sp I the beans? Jont play dumb wth me girl t hasnt escaped me Let's hear t Wel... Theres noth ng to tel, mama. Swear, there's realy Look at me gr! Jon't afra d that I am My lps are seaed. Once I sealed them Now go on spil the beans Hayat told me wasn't alowed Ch God Jont Isten to her girl fits gong to happen, it wll Come my darling. T coud realy happen? Sure. F you want t to. What the hel are you do ng here? Shell be right down - Let the g r catch her breath at least twas bang-bang-bang morn ng and n ght t hasn't taken you ong to haven't forgotten them, mama That's why Jont give me that! Lts fne for you . when you get mature and . nip and tucks here there and Go down r ght now g r s #s there someone ese? # #Yes there is There s some else # Cne more? Yes want to have Thank you Excuse me Just a second #Son where have you d sappeared to? - Mum My Mum! My mum - What Why are you shout ng? #And tak us through what happened #We heard from hm at the beg n, . # #. But forthe astthree years #J d he just run away and thatwas the - What's going on? Which ones your mum? #What kind of problems did he #They usedto fght They just couldn't #Wel, thats why my son pushed off# #But fhe ony knew how upset hs father #Hes been eating his heart out wshing #He had a stroke and hadto spend days n #He wondered his son was wth us# #Al right. Then ets make another appea have to close the phone nowmum rented mum rented haven't been do ng anyth ng, mum 'm fne mum fne. Have you seen someth ng hanging out? Fuck off! Litt e brat Are you goingto cal your mum? Cant How can? F I turned up ooking ike this How do you know? Jidnt you see They must mss you so badly. They dont mss me Come on get up. Tidy yoursef up Hayat wil start bitching soon #Gkhan. #Ok! I w I sign... Are you ready? #Urn out the I ght and sleep with me # maybe gone from here #yourweep ng vo ce echoes n my ears# # st I feel yourwarmth #f I coud ony nuzze up to you Sanem # ke couds before the ra n# Whats that you're h d ng Nothing... How are you feelng s ster? Stop try ng to change the subject Let's see Come on Whats this now? Wel, you use t to record sounds and Jo you take me for an d ot, g r? What lm askng s what Nothing. Jont tel me the boys don't know No doubt t Hes not Hey gr! You d dn't n ck it No Why would I do that sster? A star's falen out. - Come on make a wish Anyway you make a w sh when you see The word's on its ass Come on Tme to go down CK. Ill be right there Jont let Hayat see that thing. Sanem. - Helo. Rememberthe other morning we met. Roundthem al up Let me go Set my arm free bastard Hayat - What shalwe do wth this one, chief? Fuck off! Jon't et me see you - What the hell is that? - You have beaten the sht out ofhim Fuck you How many s that now? Stick h m in the undercover car Fuck off, asshoe! Or 'I arrest you Get out ofthe car! Fuck off Wel, that's the way things are understand. Or at east But this life you lve, is not rea lfe My name is 'Hayat' (means lfe), aunt Thats enough for me wl take my son back to Whats she go ng to do there? You think woudnt tel anyone f anyone happened to ask, Id say Hed get unempoyment beneft At east Id see my Thanks for everythng mama We're aways here for you, don't worry Youd be well enough to go Hey some ucky bitch you are You landed on a fours again Let's two ofus wa t outs de for a bt - Besides someone wants to see you Your mum's here You were out of t when she turned up. We've taked a bt There's nothingto worry about We expained things as best we could Jont upset yoursef t doesnt matterwhere you are Come on gr, you'I ony make me cry Youre always welcome here Take this also. Am com ng mum am wa t ng Take care of yoursef #my eyes are swolen wth tears# #he last passenger journey #Are you recording aga n? # Let's sng us a song and We can not have fun ke that Just spin around a b t and Sure, baby. Were used to Come on gr! You get up too No just g ve me a break Get up girl Get up You sneaky lttle whore Fuck you Whose guy do you think youre jerking - Jon't ht me, mama please. Ddnt do anything Who the fuck are you? Who do you think Who do you think you are? Hes mne! He's mine ts al over. It's fnshed - He's mne, mine mine. Fuck off! Get the hel out of this house Fuck off Fuck off Get out of this house Fuck off You have stolen my Hayat Fuck off Fuck off Youve wrecked us Fuck off Fuck off Come here Come on Lvng with that woman s pa nful We grew up together. Twas Cf course everyone knew Cne day, my dad grabbed me Hed beat and beat me. He tod me that f you want to get out of They found an innocent g r who didn't The b tch Hayat was't seen married Then on top of a that Anyway, she turns up one day. Couldnt believe my eyes when I saw her There was a white dress on her. Her ha r was blowng wth the wind. You would think she was an angel. She said I came here to take you with me She said we wil be happy together was out of my mind talked to my sef Are you happy? Did you chose this lfe by your own? What about ths woman... th s chi d? What are you wa tng for Uncha n your self this s your After that... After that wellwe are here Wel, that's enough of me What's go ng 'm not stup d, you know don't know. Nothing Seeng theres nothng to tell Cff you go downsta rs Get up girl - What about Hayat mama? Gave her some pls And by tomorrow she' have forgotten s it done yet sster Nane Yes ts done Have you They are waitingfor you inside t I hurt lke hel, mama twon't hurt. It wont Hod on girl Hod on Stop! Wa t haven't even pulled it off yet Have no pty Nane Keep stl You'd be in trouble if am taking to you Yes you Jont waste yourtime standng there can't get t s she sick or someth ng? Pardon me? Poor daring, you dont know Shes got a customer, that's what I mean see. Very good to you For God's sake If you nsist on waiting Jont hang around here lke my pimp Come on Jo have to wait - Wel go out frst tme for aong t me wl brng t mama. Woman habits! What can you do mama? Whacko! Whod ook at you when What you realy mean is Shut up What do you think Sure am a pr ncess Hayat's not home right now know Thank you honey. What are you do ng, whacko? Just hang on That piece ofpaper with Look throughy am... It's not here Then call and ask. No answer? No Where on earth has she got to? Wel, don't expect me to get up now and You shoud have memorisedthe number L ke you gave me the chance Go on then. Go get t have my eyes on the wa ter anyway You know what? Now go on, get moving Jont th nk lm done wth you yet 'm the greatest fucker n the unverse 'm not only good at fuckng, but a so But dontworry 'I teach you all Sanem Sanem Sanem! Sanem What have you done? Fuck What have you done? S he dead? Get up You have to get up Get up 'm going to cal an ambuance You have to go now. Jo you understand me? You have to go Go now Fast. Good morning Good morning So you ddnt run away th s t me Yes dec ded to stay a wh le thought maybe we could Sure. Why not? The tea w I soon be ready 'm Gkhan by the way Sanem. Nce to meet you Good morning Good morning 'm going to watch Cenk's rehearsal What are you ookng at? Just checking the mornng news. G ve this to me. - Whats going on? #Transvestite Gang Spread Terror #Two of them was arrested #The poice is searching the third one # s it her? Who? You know, the girl snging to You I stened to the tape? Jont answer - He's not answer ng. 'I expla n ater, Serap See you See you. For God's sake safety of don't understand how t was happened How can you say that don't Jont you know what are you do ng? You are a wicked bastard Watch your tongue Be smart or I wll blow up your head Musa Mr Musa. Cam down a lttle b t please Nobody has seen let's just get rd of t swear ts true that two Cne ofthem s me and the other is you. Jo you aways drink so much No No, I dont That day was a one-off. Jo you aways ask so many quest ons? Sometmes. F I am curious. Have to answer ths t me - I have to answer th s t me Can you gve it back pease? - It's not the t me to pay games. Please Which of us does t look better on don't know Have you ever seen a woman You ask such dffcut questions Al rght. I make it Cr one that k sses better then me? Whats gong on? Are we st I not takng? Jo you have to see this guy? Have to see Gkhan Cenk No cant get it. Why do you have to How many tmes do I have to tel you? Am curous that someth ng - Also he s my. Am going Cal me when you start to Jont be ridicuous Cenk Jamn t Jont answer the doorto anyone Al r ght There snt any make-up stuff n th s What kind of stuff? Wel, lipstick blusher, eyel ner na What colour? You choose. Ch and a ha f-decent mirror please Al r ght ts for my g rfriend Helo! agar how are you? She wanted the address? J d you give it to her? CK. Talk to you later Sorry guess I got the wrong house No youve got the r ght house Ch rea y? Where is he then? Told you hes out Wel, who are you then? Enough Gkhans not here Youd better Ch yeah?! Who...? Forget who you are Whats a freak lke you ts none of your damn business who am Helo. Want to gve you some So you remembered Anyone come by whle I was out? She did You didn't answer the door d d you? Cf course dd. Why shouldn't? Who do you think am? Why dd you get these? To cut your ha r Now Buket knows youre here we can't We needto get away for a while So why d dn't you get a wig? Want you to wearthese No We need to do this said no! Lm not wear ng these and You have to dont have to do anything This is the way am! I am what you see know 've read t Lsten. Dont want you to be anyth ng else 'm just asking you to change how you You cant try to change me ike some 'm not tryingto change you. Then what are you try ngto do? What if you dont fancy me? Promse youllfancy me stll Wil youfancy me? Promise OK. Come on. There are some things need. - Wa t ' be r ght back You can sit overthere Gkhan Welcome Whats up? You dont usualy drop by St down - What do you want to drink? Tea, coffee? 'M in a bt of a hurry. You n a hurry? agar can I stay at your pace Cf course you can. Why are you even ts kind of a tr cky situation Any chance I can have the keys now? Sure. The backup key s. Somewhere... here. Take t then. Thanks See you! Keep the pace clean J d you put us at risk just forthese? Yes just forthese We amost got caught But we didn't, did we? G ve that them to me Stop mess ng with my bag and To a fr end of mines place s it safe? There wont be any problem if you. F I what? F youre a b t carefulthe way you act. How do you want me to act? You want me to act lke a guy, dont you? Wel, I mean. Should be eaving you r ght here So al th s bulshit was because - I m not ashamed of anyone. I just. Cut your ha r wear these rags What wll you want from me next? Enough Shut up Whats wrong? Ts not to your lkng? Jont tak anymore Helo Helo Where's Gkhan? N the bathroom 'm aglar. You? Yes you...? agar was just about to get an introduct on How about we have a word? Sure buddy let's tak What the hells go ng on here? Haven't had a chance to explain Expa n? What are you go ng to expa n? CK, wait. Jon't say anyth ng s he a fag? Look, are you out of your mind? What the fuck do you think youre doing ts only for a short time. Look Gkhan Cpen your ears and don't want some we rdo fag in my house f youre goingto stay fne But get Turn down the volume a bt wl you? What do care? Suppose the guy cuts our throats or walks - Stop cal ng her 'him" agar Gkhan just dont tel me can't beieve you Hey Hey! Jont touch that don't seep wth her. - We just need a bt ofhelp from you Besdes, just look at h m Hes probably Hes sure to have A JS Where did you suddenly Buddy told you not to touch don't want youtouch ng anyth ng Stop! Jon't even sit down ts best if we go now Yes coudn't agree more What are we go ng to do now? Am thinking on that. 'Ve created al kinds ofprobems Youve had to move out because of me And now youve had a We'I talk about these later. The guy there keeps starng at us Let's go Good evening Good evening think we've met haventwe? No don't think so. We were just eavng actually Wel, good night then So who was it? Honesty cant remember just dont get what Sleyman was doing Bro, he was totaly hammered They accosted hm on he street And he took them for reguar women He was completely out ofit Ctherwise whatwould a stra ght guy be Who was that guy? Just a guy. Was he a specal customer of yours? S th s the pan you dreamed up? Te me f you have a better idea f youd done as said What didnt I do? F youd acted ike a guy at aglar's cant act like a guy Watch what you say gave up my famiy, my education Jo you expect me to deny what I am now s t so hard after everyth ng Besdes, arent you a man Hey who's there? You just dont understand me #Turn out the lght and sleep wth me # may be gone from here tomorrow #Your weeping voice echoes in my ears# # st I feel yourwarmth #f I could ony nuzzle up to you #My eyes are swolen wth tears #The last passenger #The last passenger was you. #
