 

                        - Clean up those plates - Okay " Dai! " Sir! Haven't you been asked to close shop by this hour? I was about to wind up but that big chicken shop closed only now We get business only after they close Allow us also to survive sir Don't try your tricks with us It's the truth sir No one comes to joints like ours Everyone goes to big places like those What can we do sir? Enough! Pack up your things Hello? It's me Elvis News bulletin tonight will carry an exclusive report I've sent The case where the civil supply minister was exposed accepting bribe Don't forget to telecast, its exclusive I'll be right there okay Sir, we'll get into trouble This fellow appears to be a TV channel reporter Better not rub him up the wrong way You will be forced to run around to justify yourself - Better to leave - Okay, let's go Phew! Gone! Escaped only because of you sir Which TV channel do you work for? I don't work for any channel It was just a ruse Think they're very smart! Still clinging to old bullying tactics He's terrible! A tiger! - How much'? - Rs 22 2 steamed pancakes and egg roast curry Pack it up - Shall I pack and keep it ready? - Okay How do I reach Vand ross Junction? Yes, but if I explain you'll lose your way Pay me return fare also, I'll drop you okay - Okay - Keep the packed food ready okay. We Sir, you can sit with me These ladies will get off soon Hey Gopa, will anyone be hooked? Money you earn during day do you splurge it like this at night? I've got better work to do sir! He's training to be like Mammootty in the film Valsalyam Day and night he thinks only of his family One liter of petrol that used to cost Rs 30 is now Rs 70 I can fill 10 liters of petrol for the money you charge My dear chap! Petrol alone is not enough You have to apply some grease also If not, the gear box will rust and become totally useless Sister! Who is your client today? A Hindi speaking guy Malayali's are the best ones They'll just lie quietly and that's convenient for us Oh God, let it be some political party member I can easily prosper in life using him! Hello? What is it my son? Ayyo! When I come home, I'll bring you the drawing book, okay? Now go sleep my dear Hey! stop here! - What an awful brake! - You ain't seen nothing lady! - How m uch? - Rs 50 Which apartment did he say? God knows! I wasn't told, let's ask Vasu'anna Shall we go sir? Some people beg for a living While others sleep around - How m uch? - Rs 30 Do you drive only at nights? Of course not, we sleep only by 3 AM and are awake again at 6 If it's not a problem can you come to Jawaharnagar at 8.30 morning? Sure! Why not?! - Okay - What's your name? - Gopan - Okay Okay sir, see you - I want a room - Write your name and address here It will cost you Rs 300 Room # 8 "When all those wild rose apple trees" "Burst out in full bloom one night" "Little breeze that went looking for a handful of nectar" "Why did you scratch on earth with your fingers?" tiff "When all those wild rose apple trees" "Burst out in full bloom one night" "Little breeze that went looking for a handful of nectar" "Why did you scratch on earth with your fingers?" tiff "Shade giving trees slept through the night along roadsides" "As moonlight faded away from earth" "Filled with yearnings, desire goes in search of a partner to spend the night" "Why did the breeze go to those shores" "...of fiery fires where red hot coals were fanned alive" "Why did the breeze go to those shores" "...of fiery fires where red hot coals were fanned alive" "When all those wild rose apple trees" "Burst out in full bloom one night" "Little breeze that went looking for a handful of nectar" "Why did you scratch on earth with your fingers?" "Why did the breeze go to those shores" "...of fiery fires where red hot coals were fanned alive" "Why did the breeze go to those shores" "...of fiery fires where red hot coals were fanned alive" Sir? I am here -xxx-Team Splash-xxx Shall we go? - Sir, what do you do? - I don't belong here I am from Kurichy in Kottatam looking after dad's rubber estate But actually I want to script a movie I have written some, without dad's knowledge I must meet a good director Why don't you meet the guy who directed 'Beautiful'? Who knows, you might be his savior! - Who is that? - I don't remember his name sir The hero is always lying on a bed throughout the film Why? Is it a Kambi movie? No, probably his parents forgot to vaccinate him against polio In this mad rush to make money where's the time to look after children? No problem The papers for pollution test is missing Hey! Stop! Opfin! Lower the glass I say! Fellows out to harass early morning! Open up guys! Sir he refuses to lower open LIP Oh! A set up for pleasure eh? Knew it seeing the darkened windows When playing around without your wife Don't forget to wear the seat belt I know it sir! For safety right? My foot! Such games will be caught on camera like those and sent home Your wife will then seal your fate Zip up and get going dude! Wear the seat belt Hey! Stop! Where's your helmet? I am on my way for an interview Already I am late, may I go? You don't need a helmet for your interview But when you ride on roads you need it Please sir let me go, I'm late Come here! Pay the penalty and go! Hey! Get the wireless guys! Stop him Don't let him go Sir, the wireless is missing We get good appam and egg roast here sir Come sir Sit sir Chechi (sister)! You okay? That dried up twig is that cow elephant's mahout! That deep sigh said it all Chechi, he is in the movies Skit...sct... I write scripts for films A script writer Shall I get you oothappam (puffed up pancakes)? My oothappam is very famous here Sorry! Shall I get appam (fluffy pancake)? My appams are also- A piece of puttu will do for me - What do you want? - Appam - Where's the toilet? - Go this way, you'll find it Sir? Be careful! See that you don't knock down the pancake batter kept near the toilet Hello control room? Good morning sir Come on play Hello, control room? I am not here to tell you who or what I am Now the time is 9.10AM At precisely 10.45 AM there will be a bomb blast at Little Angels school I repeat 10.45 AM Repeat I repeat 10.45 AM - What's your name? - Bhaktavatsalan Bring me a tea And no foam please! What a policeman, asking for tea when a bomb is about to go off My dear chap, stop confusing issues okay?! Yes sir I mean, no sir! Shankar, if a wireless set lands in the hands of a stranger... ...it means serious security lapse on our pan We should trap him Sir, Won't our problem be solved once the life of its battery is over? Sir, with so many Chinese markets and grey markets replacing the battery is quite easy and a simple job If the wireless is kept switched on for a minimum of 15 minutes only... ...we will be able to de-activate it from here Otherwise it's impossible Sir all these are just hoax calls just to make us run around Buggars call from public booths with a 1 rupee coin and claim... ...there's a bomb here or there And once you go investigate, nothing is found - ls your kid in this school? - No, he's in Christ school That's why you think this way When there's a bomb threat to 626 students and 24 teachers ...do you think we should shut up and sit here doing nothing? Never ever judge your enemy - Shankar - Sir We are moving Sir, now-a-days more than dialogues they use a peculiar slang instead of normal talk They talk like this ls your film also like that? My film is a thriller Oh then it will have plenty of police and fights right? Gone are the days where... ...the hero flexes his muscles like a body builder Youngsters these days play with their brains New games where they strike a match in petrol and write their story That will be superb! Well, the audience too have to like it, rig ht? - The audience is most important these days - That's true Let it go You can't go Go - Stop - Let go Hey! Move it this way The road is blocked Come quickly Let it go The kids upstairs have been moved You go this way And you this way Fast! Be quick! Below the benches This room Come, next the last classroom Come on Sir, I think it was a fake call Good sister, nothing to worry There is no bomb inside All clear now Everything is ok You can take the kids in Nothing to fear Come on, go to your classes Stop! Sir! Hey cover the kids Come on! Don't be afraid Go! - Back off! - Move I say Goodness! This is deep trouble! - Won't you be late for you appointment? - That's okay I'll change the tyre right now sir Da! Do you have to fiddle with your vehicle in front of the jail? Bugger off! Sir I will shift Lets not go via the school Someone's placed a bomb and that road is blocked Have these bandicoots started bomb blasts here also? Not only them, even dead Bin Laden will come back alive Because there's wealth in millions here Padmanabha swamy temple wealth Sir I don't think this will be solved I have to take it to a work shop When the curtains fell after a half hour bomb drama... ...the police finally found only a harmless country bomb What did they gain? People delayed for a wedding A candidate who missed his interview appointment The police have to give an answer Commissioner Dev is here to answer our questions What have you got to say, commissioner? The safety of those kids was our priority Everything else was secondary Do you see this as negligence on the pan of police? Shasheendra! Why don't you get the cistern of the toilet fixed?! Commissioner can you hear me Can't you store at least a bucket of water here? Shasheendra, can you get some water? Or at least get me some paper The commissioner appears to be busy Let's go to our next segment Her blessed journalism! A bunch of do-gooders! Sir, it was Sugunan's wireless that went missing Sir it was while I was checking Stop it! Checking my foot! Hiding behind trees and thickets like thieves Look at him with his paunch full of shit! - Shankar - Yes sir Study the camera surveillance Check the CCTV footage Fast-xxx-Team Splash-xxx Sugunan Come here Do you get Dum Biriyani nearby? What biriyani? Dum biriyani Buy one for me Sir what about my job? Don't worry I'll take care of that This is a good violin - How much does it cost? - Rs 4500 - I'll come this evening - Okay Sir, I wasted a lot of your time didn't I? That shop opened only now - Did you call him? - No there's time - Who are you buying the violin for? - Muthu my daughter Her violin teacher has asked her not to attend class unless she got a violin Have you got what ever this dum or gum biriyani? If I have to buy a violin for Rs 4000 I have to run this vehicle for 40 days Some idiot took off with my wireless set I will surely get my hands on him What a wasted day Yes! Yeah, that's the one! Zoom it We got him Yes, that's the guy A guy traveling in an auto Pass the message Quick let's move He's only a short distance away from us Next lap the game changes The real game starts from there All stations and control rooms All stations make a note Awireless set was lifted from a police jeep at Thycaud junction by a guy in an auto Sundari' All junction sets please not and stop the auto Traffic stations make a special note Aman has gotten away in an auto named Sundari Control room message is not clear Call control room for further information Sir, can I give you a superb story for a script? What is it? I got it from the puncture shop Sir, how is the story Isn't it superb? The police, government and the city is within his hands now Did they catch him finally? He's born to a combination of Maradona amd Messi The kind of game he plays is such When Messi strikes a goal there's a face missed out by everyone The one who passed the ball to Messi His face will always be in a shadow This stranger is also like him Let him play Let him play the game well Hey! Look out a vehicle! Hey! Move aside Help him out Da! Where is the guy who was with you? Sir, he was in there Push him into our jeep Will you stand aside?! Just take it away from here Sir, the auto driver has been brought here Good! Let's go Sit, sit - Gopan, you aren't hurt, are you? - No sir Don't be worried Do you know why you've been brought here? - No - I'll tell you - We need your help -I will sir Good Shankar Sir! Here is the Dum biriyani you asked for Hey! Cash not necessary I got it free from the hotel There is another job fit for you That also has only 2 letters in it Go pay that hotelier for this - Sir! What about the charges against me? - Good you reminded me Shankar Now give him the suspension order Quickly - Sir, what's our next step? - He is in this city But we don't see him He's able to see us He's enjoying each blunder we commit But we will find him He's just an ordinary buggar doing extraordinary tiff "Which is this wind? That crosses mountains to reach here" "From where did this storm arise? Awind so strong and beautiful" "To a thousand flowers with hearts that burn, this wind is a chant of balm" "Whatever this wind, whoever it is These winds so righteous comes to awaken" "Whatever these winds, wherever they come from" "They are here to accompany the right against wrongs" "Breaking down barriers" tiff "Bamboo groves and jasmine on hillocks" "Branches of fragrant Acacia all swayed in glee" "Dragon flies that sip on nectar lost their way" "Like flower petals in the breeze, that fluttered away" "Whatever this wind, whoever it is These winds so righteous comes to awaken" "Whatever these winds, wherever they come from" "They are here to accompany the right against wrongs" "Breaking down barriers" tiff "Winds you've got to see to believe their strength" "Eyes burning with fiery red coals of anger" "Breaking the tender branches of the Alstonia tree" "Raging, this storm comes dancing the 'theyyam dance" "Whatever this wind, whoever it is These winds so righteous comes to awaken" "Whatever these winds, wherever they come from" "They are here to accompany the right against wrongs" "Breaking down barriers" "Whatever this wind, whoever it is These winds so righteous comes to awaken" "Breaking down barriers" Sir, he's back on the wireless Stan Commissioner here Tell me Long back in 2005 in Mumbai at Mahim police station Awireless set like this was stolen They got it back in 2010 lam not going to do anything like that I called now to return this to you It's okay, not a problem Just a prank as a citizen I'll see that you don't be penalized for this Tell me where are you now? You belong to the old cadre, don't you? I just asked seeing the love you shower on me Are you mocking me? You don't know me, be warned! It is actually the opposite You don't know me, sir Isn't that why I am playing this game And making you play it as well? The simple harmless bomb you got this morning from school was just a trailer from me Now the actual game begins lam going to give you a gift bigger than what you got from school Wrapped in glittering red paper I've left it in a restaurant on MG road I give you 20 minutes, sir Just 20 minutes Retry? Hello? Hello? Damn! Come on move Quick disperse Sir, I give you 20 minutes Just 20 minutes Go inside Look here Sir, nothing here Sir, nothing here Move on next Moving into Statue Hotel Sir, everything's clear here Next Its clean sir Shankar next Move them aside Search is over Clear! Search is over Nothing found Be quiet! Move The second threat in city by the unknown man, also turns out to be a hoax Police are here, following the threat issued... ...of a bomb placed in some hotel at MG road They are now trying to solve the public pandemonium following this The wireless set stolen from the police... ...was used by the unknown to issue the 2nd threat Occupationmminister Travels in a car with red light All very good to see Do you know how many days since I properly was in touch with my wife? Sir may be you should visit a fertility clinic Don't act over smart! I was talking about being in touch over phone Forget that! That guy has really tied you up in circles right? Sometimes, authority has no effect at all Even if it is Obama, indigestion could make him also faint in weakness Come to the point His second message too was hoax right? Yes sir We could not find anything What is your opinion? Sir the first one was a harmless bomb And 2nd time we drew a blank I think he's playing a game A game he has no control over himself Is this a pointer that terrorism is not too far in our state also? I don't know sir We are going to trap him soon Very soon Great - I think we got him - Go ahead man We have traced his location It was from Palayam we got the last signal Make it fast A minor mistake and we'll miss him Move aside Move! Get him inside The unknown person striking terror in city has finally been caught by police He has been taken to police head quarters for further questioning Get out! Come on, move I am not that unknown terrorist I swearl am not him I am Sudhi Police call be robber Sud hi Bhaktavatsalan sir Sir Sir I do know him He does all the petty thieving in city - What is happening? - Tell us you!!! The other one, the other one Next to that, sorry Is that the one? Or give me the yellow one Yes that's the one Got it - It's not cold - Then I don't want it Irritating fool! What do you want? We've traced the signal sir Move man Oh! Was it yours? I was looking out for you Here take it It's yours, take it leave me Sir, this is a sketch of him Good - Sir sketch is ready - Good, see that it reaches every where Even after 3 hours, police are not able to nab him The common man falls prey to the actions of this unknown guy There is a huge line of vehicles unable to keep up time schedules Let us ask our people what they think It has to be solved as soon as possible - Does it reflect police apathy? - Yes it does What are we to do? We are put to great trouble Either the common man has to decide or government has to take a decision - The police are unable to identify him - That shows the police inefficiency Just a minute What do you think of this unknown chap? Whoever takes law in his own hands will be punished Brother? Brother, thanks This is the opinion of people Shankar how far is the school from MG road? Hardly 2 KM And the time between these 2 incidents About an hour There's quite a crowd between the 2 places At peak traffic hour it takes almost an hour for any vehicle to pass this way Moreover, Gopan's auto fell here That means he was actually traveling here to here So his target is here This 2 KM stretch I want details of all events happening or about to happen here Sure sir You can just wait there I want to meet Shruthy who reads the news Sorry sir she's busy right now You can't see her I have something of utmost importance to tell her Sir I've already told you she's going in to read the news, you can't see her now I have seen you somewhere Where are you from? Katayikonam, why? Shruthy this bulletin has to include this story It's very important Okay I'll take care of it "Whatever this wind, whoever it is These winds so righteous comes to awaken" "Whatever these winds, wherever they come from" "They are here to accompany the right against wrongs" "Breaking down barriers" tiff "Bamboo groves and jasmine on hillocks" "Branches of fragrant Acacia all swayed in glee" "Dragon flies that sip on nectar lost their way" "Like flower petals in the breeze, that fluttered away" "Whatever these winds, wherever they come from" "They are here to accompany the right against wrongs" "Whatever these winds, wherever they come from" "They are here to accompany the right against wrongs" "Breaking down barriers" tiff -xxx-Team Splash-xxx "Winds you've got to see to believe their strength" "Eyes burning with fiery red coals of anger" "Breaking the tender branches of the Alstonia tree" "Raging, this storm comes dancing the 'theyyam dance" "Whatever these winds, wherever they come from" Has this guy stayed here? "They are here to accompany the right against wrongs" "Whatever these winds, wherever they come from" "They are here to accompany the right against wrongs" "Breaking down barriers" "Whatever these winds, wherever they come from" "They are here to accompany the right against wrongs" "Breaking down barriers" Hello okay Shankar come fast Close the door What happened? Hello? Sir please come its important Shankar, howlong for the live program to come on? No way sir We can't do anything Midday news It was after a lot of deliberations and discussions... ...that we decided to conduct this program Many of you may think that we are doing this to increase the rating of our channel - Yes sir - He has to be arrested immediately No sir, if we arrest him within TV channel premises, it will become an issue What do we do now? Just shut our mouths and watch the show We leave it to you to decide We present him before you Isn't he the guy I saw in the auto? - Can I speak? - Yes, please go ahead This is the first time lam talking for a TV channel So if I commit mistakes please excuse Many people viewing this may recognize me You have given me a name after the fiasco of the last few hours Unknown guy Next you may want to know the answers to 3 questions Whol am, howl am here and why? It was a few years back that I resigned... ...my job in America and reached our own native land Remy a? Are you doing all that in this condition? Its okay May be okay for you Leave it there, I'll do it - Leave 'n there Remy a - Over, 'R's done Meenu's 3rd birthday What is that? Don't know, probably belonged to previous tenants Hey! Anu what are you doing? Get down I want this I told you many times Get down! How can you do this in your condition? It's okay You are pregnant Understand that But nothing's wrong with me Can't you just tell me? Is this the one? What? What are you going to do with this? Are you going to fry me? Next time you do this I'll just... Hey! My new born baby Say 'Happy Onam' - Happy Onam - Good Just see to her Don't allow her to go late on her birthday The van has come Take the bag Hold the bag - You'll trip - No mom My daughter - Eat up your lunch fully - Oh I forgot Thank you Come fast Bye dad Bye mom Bye Come She always wanted a cycle! This will definitely be a surprise S he's com e Go fast Don't spoil it like last time okay? 1,2,3 Happy birthday Meenaks h I's ho use? Anu! Anu Anu, get UP Get me my phone I'll ask Kurup'ettan about this I did tell the house agent that you must be told everything Obviously he has not You must know that family well sir 'Jan 23, 8 year old molested Capital city in a state of shock' Happy Onam Today we are going to celebrate our daughter's 8th birthday We are planning to make it a memorable celebration Bye dad Thank you Bye Meenakshi Bye Come dear, you can sit in front One ice cream please Daugmer'.! Oh God! Oh God! My daughter 'Driver of a school van molests Girl of 3rd grade class dies' 'Meenakshi's death Tragedy that shocked the state' 'You are watching the arrest of the accused, school van driver' 'Meenakshi died after the school van driver molested her' 'Also a member of a political party He was in hiding after the incident' 'Police found him after a secret tip off regarding his whereabouts' 'Massive retaliations and protests in different areas following this' You are agitated because you are new to such incidents These are regular incidents I see on the channel since the last 10 years May be Bal'etta, do you know that kid is not even as old as your grandson I know it...l know it very well I also know why you are so furious too Come with me Come The school van toppled into the man made Parvathi puthannar canal near the temple Little Hearts Kindergarten School van of Petta lost control when its wheel skid against... ...the root of a tree in the narrow road causing it to fall into the canal 9 children and a lady helper were in the van Although residents of nearby started rescue operations immediately... ...the African algae and strong undercurrents hindered their mission This happened in July 2011 The driver and 5 children were rescued But 4 kids and the lady died All children are either LKG or UKG kids Chief Minister V S Achyuthanandan and other Ministers along with... ...police officials visited the place of incident Accident in September 2012 These 2 separate incidents happened because the backwaters were ...too near the road and did not have any barriers After the 1st incident there were plenty of agitations and protests And the government gave assurances of immediate action But sons of guns and buggars of council... ...just one week after that went their blessed ways Bloody rascals! A year later again, 5 kids were lost to their parents in the same place This is the scene when the corporation... delayed just for 2 days, clearing the garbage... ...that were dumped from hotels and houses Every night like going to attend a wedding bearing a huge gift... ...they come in cars bearing the feathers and fowl wastes to be dumped on streets As if the place was their ancestral properties But is there anyone who sees the pain... ...and tears of an entire village affected by this? The Police had to escor1ther2 lorries of garbage that had to come to Vilapilsala In 1st week of April 2008, young girls taken away to Mangalapuram and molested Every such criminal activity goes scot free Because he is backed by a politician or a VIP But is there anyone who realizes... ...the hundreds of homeless women being harassed? Enough please! The reason why such dastardly acts are repeated... ...is because we have no inclination to retaliate Today, the newspaper is just a thing... ...to be read in the toilet till the time we crap! In this world where each one lives only for his own family... What does media matter? And what is ethics to him? He has gone from this so called God's own country a long time ago This land is leased by the Satan today Satan like us, who live within our own selves Why Bale'tta, has our native land alone become like this? I too had the same thought as you just did What use is it, if we alone try to change? Forgetting all that I had heard and seen I returned to my old life living like everybody else Busy with only my own life Acommon man, slipping from one busy schedule into another 'These are the scenes our news team captured' '...using hidden cameras on the eve of August 15th' 'Melpara committee member, a small issue in property' 'Please help him out of it' 'Hey! What is it? Go away' 'This man who is supposed to be undergoing punishment...' '...lives in luxury with his political influence' 'Today Meenakshi is no longer alive' 'And the man responsible for her death is living a life of luxury' 'These comforts he enjoys is also our hard earned tax payers money' 'We must be ashamed' 'Where is law? What is the justice in this?' Shall we go? All of you saw the video that shocked everyone We should have remembered that child Remembered Meenakshi's family who were devastated by it None of you reacted But I did It's me da I need your help I must meet you urgently We have one day only Afew hours of day light actually A minute mistake and all our plans will shatter So the game starts from here Pay the penalty and go dude! Hey stop! Where is your helmet? I am going for an interview sir I'm already late You don't need a helmet for the interview But you do need one to ride on roads Please sir I am late Let me go 'That was the day I was waiting for' 'The culprit was brought to the court' Da! Do you have to fiddle with your vehicle in front of the jail? - Bugger off! - Sir, I will shift Let's not go via the school Someone's placed a bomb and that road is blocked Have these bandicoots started bomb blasts here also? The jeep has started They will be taking a detour They'll need 45 minutes to reach MG road Hey! Look out for that vehicle Turn it around There's a block here We'll go the other way Hello control room What? Sir a bomb scare in this school Please turn and go this way sir From MG road once they reach the old road you have to take over okay? Sir this road is blocked You can go to Vanchiyoor this way What's this? Road block What man? Stop it SiOP I abducted him to actually kill him But I did not kill him I don't know if what I did was right or wrong It is for you to decide I have hidden him safely at a place In a house # C 21 at Chengalchoolai Hey! He is right here in our own colony! Come on guys! Move aside Move! Move! Move! Move aside I say It is not the system that has to change We have to change Every bit of news we read in papers is not to forget... ...but to be remembered always As a reminder that one voice raised in protest against a wrong must be joined by 100 voices more Excuse me Remya just delivered A baby girl How do I get this off me? Thank you 'With this we end our live transmission, thank you' There are losses for me to bear when I cross this threshold I may be punished for taking the law in my own hands I don't know if I can even see my wife and child I don't mind As long as at least one person will agree that what I did was right... ...to convert my losses into gains The doors that opened out for me did not lead me to losses Every voice that rose for me belonged to my own native land Move aside Move back Walk with me No! Shankar leave him alone Move aside Like he said today, it is not the system but we the people who have to change He is being recognized not for a wrong he didn't do, but for a right he did A 1000 voices support him today Even the government is forced to accept the strength of that voice Meenu? Meenakshi pick up the phone Where is she? I may be delayed Where is she? What do you want to say? She has only one job To watch your stories of valor on TV - Give it to her - Okay Dad's on the phone Who is this mom? Your dad's most intimate friend Talk, come on hold the phone What are you doing my dear?
