 

                        Yes it also has do you have id? I love india you can also speak hindi do you know its illegal to work on tourist visa? I know do you like india? And indians? Sorry i forgot in future dont forget what did you see in last 1 year? What you did there? You want to go there again? There is no chance for us to speak truth remove your clothes if i use double o in your name than it become e can i give donation for police force? If you will ask so many questions then they will be very suspicious so many peoples are selling jeans on god's name will you break it? Your muscles are also old what happened in puna? Orphan house has registered god's name it will take time i came to know it after 8 months after 5 months i came to know he went to an orphan age i dont know how much time it will take more lts good that you have come here where is old man? Cannot you see any difference? Wait for 1 month then i will buy home theatre for you your room will be a cinema is this the way to say thanks? Nothing there is something fishy i have to check today i will not leave you did you see my tie? I have wear this for you what is your problem? You know i cannot do it if you will not try it then how will you know? It will be very slow do you trust me or not? I told you no what is your problem? Then you say i dont meet i'm not saying everytime. I want for 1 time i just wait here and see your face right from ahead i know dont fool me i'm a foreigner thats why dont fool me go ahead did you get your visa? Did you get your visa? I was thinking i want to go for holidays how much is your ticket? Its ready. Do you want new york ticket? Your phone is ringing since morning everyone is asking for you i need 1 hour in afternoon you take 1 hour and waste i have to meet immigration officer did they know anything? They know but they dont give me any information my mother hates him this is our story when she will come? She will come soon i also want to speak this kind of good english they dont know how to drive. They cannot drive without pressing horn they forget driving when they are drunk whole city becomes a driving school do ask about digging everywhere digging i dont know what treasure they finds sometimes here and sometimes there sometimes i feel government do this to fool people people feels our country is doing progress have you ever been to lucky signal? A book published on it bermuda triangle a movie is also made on it do you know what happened there? Everyone lost there even radio transmission are lost nobody can reach there do you understand? Your hindi has become very good now vegetable seller asks correct price now vegetable seller asks correct price you have not dont exercise i live on 4th storey in without lift building you have to take care of your feet you are there to take care of them tell your idiot boyfriend to give money he has done a mistake when he is coming? do you know how his father died? In his childhood he was living with his father his father was a drinker one day he was hungry then his father went to take food he sat on wine machine when he sat gas cylinder was blast he was searching for his father for 3 days on every amawas night he fasts for his father i was standing whole day infront of wall i did not had milk at home then he went to buy milk on his way he drunk i think i'm also waiting for him until now i dont like people with beard they look like gangsters when they eat, they look very illeterate what are you doing? Its my home who is he? You dont know him and you let him come inside he was standing at the game i want to go washroom let him come outside i'm not going with him where is the key? Where is the key? I cannot control do here i want something do you want food? Where is the key? Do you want chinese food? Where is the key? I have some soup i dont want he does not know i think i'm disturbing you his name is arjun patel my dad's name was arjun patel when he came from london, he became benjamin patel he has sent a letter and arjun patel was written on it i knew him we have to give a name to a person when he comes to orphan house why you are searching him? Because he is my dad i want to know and meet him he was very strange his pass was cancelled in orphan house you know it when he was writing letter to you i was with him in the door what else? Before leaving he said 1 thing he is buying a house in mumbai versova i'm searching a man in versova i know his name. I want his address he is a postman. Talk to him can i talk to you? I'm from england i'm searching a man in versova you speak english very good can you help me? We cannot tell anyone's address i'm busy i want to give donations for your festivals if you will get any information then call me if i will get any letter then i will know. It will take time can i get your number? You dont have visa what can i do? Are you going for vacations? My body is paining what is this? You remove your clothes? I wash my hands what is this? I did piss in my clothes i'm going outside are you going anywhere? I want to talk to you she does not want to talk to you she is my girlfriend it does not suits me i got allergy golden is ok. Will you please shut up? All time you speak non sense on the phone i'm talkin to you dont shout here. She cant talk to you it happens in your custody. You are also involved in it its not your problem has she done anything with you? Not all clients are like you do you want massage or not? Dont stare me. Or else i will take out your eyes yes say he is about to come what will you take? You dont have any onf his photo where you were whole day? I called you many times. Prashant came here 3 times can i sleep here tonight? Can i sleep here tonight? You daily come i use to talk to you your mother loved me becuase i love emily i told her to do abortion your mother told her dont go to doctor i come here to meet you why you come here? Why you come here? Why your mother did not tell you everything? Its your mother's mistake you asked me for hand job
