 

                        Mr. Orange. Mr. Pink. Mr. White. Get the fuck out of the way! Move! Move! Get the fuck out of the way! Sorry, I'm fucking scared right now. Will you please hold me? Okay. Here, I got you. Are you gonna bark all day, little doggie? Or are you gonna bite? Hey look, you two assholes, calm the fuck down! Hey, back off! What, we're on a playground here? Am I the only professional? Have to do a fucking handstand? Well, I don't know why I came here tonight I got a feeling that something ain't right I'm so scared in case I fall off my chair And I'm wondering how I'll get down the stairs God damn you Joe. Don't make me do this. Larry, stop pointing that fucking gun at my dad! It gets boring around here. I write down the lines of the entire film. What each character says. We always say lines from some of our favorite films. And we kind of thought why don't we do those films? Be those characters? Got The Fighter. Pulp Fiction has a lot of characters. That all of us can play in. Reservoir Dogs is a perfect one. It makes me feel like I'm living, sort of. 'Cause it's kind of magical, a bit. This is the mighty W.O.O.D., the musical voice of Lumberton. At the sound of the falling tree, it's 9:30! If I didn't have movies, life would be pretty boring. And there wouldn't be any point to go on, you see? So movies opened up another world. But I always thought I would be a lonely person, live in solitude. That was just my view. So... and it's shown a lot in movies too... The shy, lonely kid... That was my childhood. The Hare Krishna religion. The God is Krishna, and he has ten children with every wife that he has. And our father was, like, enthralled by that. So he had this idea of like, you know, having a big group like our own community, our own race here. It's almost like a tribe that you have. And we're gonna have all of them grow long hair and I'm gonna give them all names of the oldest language on the planet... Sanskrit. There's Govinda, there's Narayana, Krsna, Jagadisa, Mukunda, Bhagavan, and our sister, Visnu. She's sort of special in a way, like she almost is in a world of her own. And he had names for three more children that he wanted, but as it so happens, my mother caught up with age and then she couldn't have children anymore. I love coffee, yeah. I like take six or five cups of coffee a day. You know, my brother made his own top 30 list. I actually had my own ideas so I made my own list. All of us agree that The Godfather I and II is number one. - Number two for me is JFK. - I agree. - JFK. - My second favorite movie. Number three for me is Gone With the Wind. I love Gone With the Wind. And The Lord of the Rings. Who doesn't like The Lord of the Rings? So I put it fourth. All we have here is a variety of different... See we have Citizen Kane and Casablanca, which most people consider to be the greatest movies ever made. Most people consider Citizen Kane number one all the time. We have a collection of horror films like, Manhunter, The Hills Have Eyes, Blue Velvet. Is that a good sound? That is a good sound. My parents didn't always encourage us to communicate with society. So we were kind of shut off, always lived in this apartment in New York, lower east side, Manhattan, and we never really communicated with people. We were taught by our father not to talk to strangers, you know, the whole thing, but it was farther than that. It was like, don't even look at people. We didn't make any friends. We were home-schooled. Also the fear of that my parents had because it's New York anything can happen. My father kind of... I felt he overdid it, like he was almost too worried, too concerned. Winter, we'd literally almost never go out. Every year was unpredictable. In the summer, there was more chance of us getting out. Sometimes we'd go out nine times a year, sometimes once... And at one particular year, we never got out at all. I always like metaphorically described our childhood as like him being the, uh... landowner and us the people who work on the land. But if you want a more dramatic setting, we were in a prison. Yeah. And at night, our cells would lock up. He was the warden. If you say so. Tell them. Sidney, Sidney, come on, you know me. Sidney, look at me! Come on! Boys and girls of every age Wouldn't you like to see something strange? Come with us and you will see This, our town of Halloween This is Halloween this is Halloween Halloween, Halloween Halloween, Halloween In this town we call home Everyone hail to the pumpkin song Halloween, Halloween, Halloween, Halloween Halloween, Halloween... - Yes? - Mr. Pizza guy. - Who? - Mr. Pizza guy. Mr. Hollow, say hello. Yes, face man Freddy Krueger! And now where's my little Sammy? Oh, hey. This is the whole script. It's about... 116 pages. Uh, when you came in the building, was everything okay? Yeah. - Nobody bothered you? - No. Okay, I'm just checking. You're actually our first guests to be invited over. That's true, actually. Excuse me, the onions... I can smell the rosemary and the thyme. - Yeah. - It smells very nice. I just hope this is enough sauce. I need you to taste the sauce, see what's missing. If I can add something else or... Should I add something else? Maybe a little more oregano. It's okay? - That's perfect. - It's okay. - Yeah. - Okay, good. - We can get this fire started. - That's very good. You know, there's people who talk about them. Why don't you go to public school? You should go to public school, and, you know, you're missing all the socialization, and I realize that though I went to school, and I know a lot of the socialization is not positive socialization in school. But you can see, I mean, the neighborhood that we live in is not that great and so we've kind of kept our distance from the people who live... And it's not anything like, oh, we... you know, we think we're great or they're not all right. It's not that, it's just, you know, for me it's not how I was raised. I grew up in the Midwest, and I lived in the middle of the farm country. Careful. Yeah, so, you know, we try to keep them like, uh... just a little bit removed from that. Mukunda made this, and I made this. This turned out not that good. See this? When they open to put bullets, it actually can open like that. - Is that The Beatles? - Yeah, that's The Beatles. My father puts loud music. He loves music. - I think he drank too much wine. - Maybe. Yeah, actually, he hasn't come out of the room yet, so... He's like a hippy, you know? And he doesn't like socializing too much. He's very like a little sort of... How do you say, isolated, like, around people. I have Thanksgiving like an Italian. I eat and eat and eat and talk like a gangster. Happy Thanksgiving and salud. - Salud. - Salud. - Happy Thanksgiving. - Happy Thanksgiving. My father, he doesn't love the idea of working. He calls it being a slave to society. This is a country gone wrong. He's one of those people that believe that the government is a sneaky organization. That we're all controlled, we're all like robots, and that we need to break free from that, and he shows his rebellion by not working. But he loves the idea of music. He was like, "if we could get a record contract and play music for albums, you know, that's different." This is our mother when she had longer hair. Who's that? Is that you? That's me. I've always wondered why she fell in love with him and why he fell in love with her, like, how did that happen? They're like from two separate countries. From what my mom tells me is that she wanted to visit South America, so she was traveling a lot, and she met this group of people. They were like... hikers. They knew the Inca trail well, and he was one of them. Very free style, you know. They wore their hair long. They knew the place, like, they would give people tours, especially white Americans. Besides him being you know, charming, and very friendly, he was... he had a way about him that was, like, very unassuming. It felt like I didn't want to just... Be with someone or be interested in someone who was only concerned about, you know, uh, the next new coat they were going to buy and the next new pair of skis, and what, you know, I don't know, which restaurant they were gonna eat in. You know, because those things to me are not that important. Like it... and it just seemed like, you know, we really had a common ground there for how we thought about things. And what we... what we thought about, you know, what this life is. You know, and how life should be lived, you know. I thought, oh, this is somebody who really sees things in a different way than most of the people that I had acquaintance with. My dad always thought that he was better than anybody. He always said so himself. He said he was God. He said he was enlightened. He said he was the one who knew everything. Well, I think I can say that the most positive thing that came growing up with our father was, for me anyway is... I always, you know, I thought a lot. Because we weren't so open, you know, like outwardly in our childhood. I was always in my head. I remember a lot. It's one thing I have that I kind of curse at. I'll sleep on the floor. No, I'll sleep on the floor. We were frightened kids, like you're a kid, you're just seeing things. You don't know what it means but it frightens you. So I was frightened. That's one of the first memories I have. 'Cause I would hear dad and mom arguing. There was always a slap, just... he would slap her. What she felt, we felt sometimes. I mean, we were part of it. If you're living in that kind of situation, you're gonna get it, too. Look at me. Look at me! You see this is how crazy Batman's made Gotham. You want order in Gotham, Batman must take his mask off and turn himself in. Oh, and every day he doesn't, people will die, Starting tonight. I'm a man of my word. I'm here to see Bruce Wayne? I'm sorry, Mr. Wayne doesn't take unscheduled calls. Our father is the one that brought movies into our lives. He'd just fill our heads with movies all day long. We've got like, I don't know, 5,000 movies including VHS's, DVD's. And I think the fact that we went with the idea that there's another world out there, because we didn't know the world, so we kind of had no world, and I think the movies helped us create our own kind of world. But we would always know the difference between real life and the movies. This outfit is made out of cereal boxes and yoga mats. That's a yoga mat and the hard parts you see is cardboard from cereal boxes. When we do it, I have to get in the mind of the character. I have to be as strong as I can be to play Batman, 'cause it's a responsibility, sort of. That sounds pathetic to some people because... But to us and to our world it is very personal. After I saw The Dark Knight that made me believe that something was possible to happen, not because it was Batman, it's because it felt like another world. I did everything I could to make that world come true to escape my world. I was 15 years old and I wasn't allowed to walk out my front door. I wasn't allowed to... go in a specific room I felt like going in. I wasn't allowed to leave a room when I wanted to. If he put us in a room, we have to stay there until he says you can go. Our dad was the only one that had the keys to the front door, no one else, not even our mother. Unless our mother went to an appointment or something, if it was an emergency. It's scary not having... Having to want to break out of that, that box. It was a Saturday on January, 2010. I was 15 back then. I woke up by like 9:30 or 10:00. I got dressed up in black. I just unlocked the door and just said to my youngest brother Jagadisa, "wish me luck". I wore the mask so nobody would recognize me, nobody at all, and my father was out that day getting food, 'cause we were low on food. And he was going out to get a lot of food. So he usually is gone three hours when he gets foods and, uh, I just had this urge to all of a sudden, just go out on my own have no one recognize me, and if my father saw me, he wouldn't know it was me. Went around two blocks just going in whatever store. Went into a bank, went into a grocery store, went into a pharmacy. Eventually, someone called the cops 'cause someone in a mask, that... that's not normal. But I felt like I was Michael at that time. And I just thought to myself, you know, can I survive bullets? Um... well, one thing led to another. They handcuffed me and, uh... We went to... we went in the elevator. We went to where I live, but they said I'm gonna have to go to a hospital, And, uh... Well, they ended up just taking me to the hospital, so... There was a good side to this. 'Cause this is first time my brother started connecting with other people and it was sadly the patients of the hospital. But some of them, not all of them, were like crazy, crazy, not like the "Cuckoo's Nest." It was different. It was more like suicidal kids, kids who weren't happy with their life, kids who were depressed, and he had a whole story there, but he brought a lot of joy to the hospital, kind of. We were really happy that he came home. We all baked a meal for his return, which is lasagna always. It's always lasagna 'cause we love lasagna. I was scared to come home. I think my daddy was frightened of what I just did because no one had ever done that. That was the day I kind of like tore off the soldier necklace and threw it and walked away. Since that day, I said I refuse to talk to you. I refuse to take your orders. We're no longer father and son anymore. I'm sorry, it brings a lot... of emotion just thinking about it back then. I'm not gonna cry. Did you guys ever talk about going outside? - By ourselves? - Yeah. Like, did you know Mukunda was gonna do that? - No. - Did anybody know? No, nobody knew that. Maybe he mentioned it, but... We weren't... like, we didn't think he was serious. 'Cause we all used to say a lot of things But we never did anything. We always saw a bad thing coming, like, it's not gonna end up well. The thing is we couldn't do anything about it. The only thing we could do about it was just... get through it... and... not break. I think like most people would go insane after experiencing a life like that, whereas all of us didn't... I think it's... it's because of our mom. She always... kept our sanity. I love her and she loves me He put himself in a position where he was gonna have to to do ten years in prison. That's what he did. Krsna shaved his eyebrows. It's probably why he doesn't want to show himself. Oh, he's right here. You shaved your eyebrows. Yeah. So that's new, eyebrows, I got a bad hand. I got a bad hand. - How you doing? - I'm doing good. Yeah? Yeah, I was just telling Crystal how much we fight. They gave me a therapist after I got out of the hospital. They said I should see a therapist. She's helped me out getting my email address 'cause I knew nothing about computers. So she's been kind of a help. She has. My brothers are also seeing her. It sucks. I don't really talk about my feelings. I don't... she doesn't... She has no idea of the kind of person I am. I'm like, "yeah, yeah, yeah, whatever you tell me, you know." Our family union has a problem with now is that they want us to go to a real school. Over my dead body they will. They ain't gonna make me go to a real school. My mother would be out of a job. She would have to then work in the streets, work out there. I'm not letting my mother work out there. New York, no, no, not in New York. She's more together here. She gets paid. We get paid every month because she's homeschooling, so it's like she has a job. She's approved, of course, to be a teacher. She has like the license and everything. They approved her, house of education. So that family union can't do crap or anything. You're an FBI agent. What is your specialty again? - Chemical weapons. - Don't mention that. You're going all the way from Tibet to Mongolia, says it'll cut five hours out of the trip for everybody that's going there. What I really wanted and what I really saw... I really thought that when I was raising my children that they would be growing up in a place with, you know, green fields and... But they didn't have that. And you know, I feel... because I had that, and I wanted that for them. You know, and to be able to go out and roam the forest, that was important to me and, um, you know, just to go out and play in a field or have someplace, some fields that were close, or, you know, how you see in movies. You know, kids go running through the neighbor's meadow you know, to get to their... the forest that they built some tree house in or something like that... Something like that. I'd always thought I wanted that for them. But it didn't happen. My brother did it again, just walked out, and then suddenly I went out, and my father didn't get angry, and then all of us started doing it. We decided to go as a group together alone for the first time. That whole process of them getting into their own happened gradually. It's not like it was one day they followed the rules and the next day they were doing whatever. It wasn't like that. It happened over a period of months, but it certainly opened the way to normalcy. I'll be right back. Well, what did he expect when all of us become of age, we're still gonna do things his way? His system was just like a ticking bomb. I really understand, totally, you know, where they're coming from. But I can't, you know, be too candid about that. But, yeah, there were probably more rules for me than there were for them. Yeah, I know. - Look at that. - Whoa! That fucks with your eyes. This is like 3D, man. Look at that. Look at those freaky trees. - Think about all the leaves. - Those are big fucking trees. They look like... I feel like I'm in like the Fangorn Forest in The Lord of the Rings. Oh, it's very fresh out here. - You want to go for a swim? - No. No, what swim all the way to fuckin' Brooklyn? You must be Jules, which would make you Vincent. I think fast, I talk fast And I need you guys to act fast if you want to get out of this. So pretty please, with sugar on top, clean the fucking car. Don't be looking at me like that, all right? I can feel your look. Oh, man, I will never forgive your ass for this shit! This is some fucked up repugnant shit. Jules, did you ever hear of the philosophy that once a man admits he is wrong, he's forgiven for all his wrongdoings? You ever hear that? Get the fuck out of my face with that shit! Motherfucker who said that shit, never had to pick up 80 pieces of brain on account of your dumb ass. I got a threshold, Jules. I got a threshold for the abuse that I will take. - I could blow. - Oh, you're ready to blow? Yeah, I'm ready to blow. Well, I'm a mushroom-cloud- laying motherfucker, motherfucker! Every time my fingers touch brain, I'm super fly TNT. It's motherfuckin' cold, man! Come on, get it out. Come on, do it. Turn around. - Did he fix this? - No. It's broken. Yeah, I know that's totally busted. I don't feel safe now knowing that the door's open and there's no lock. Today, we had a little surprise. Out of nowhere, I just heard banging on the door. And I saw a kind of... At least I heard, it sounded like a saw... - Drilling. - Drilling, yeah. And by this doorway, I see what I usually see in the movies... swat teams, people with helmets and shields, machine guns just blast in. Told everybody to get on the floor or get their hands up, put us against the wall, and handcuffed every member of our family. They had a search warrant for... possession of weapons. A gun they were looking for. They said a 38. Basically, it was like Inside Man. All... the only kind of weapons they found were props. They take out all our machine guns, all our handguns, knives, and it was all fake. They basically found out the kind of things we were into. And they complimented us and they said like, "We're sorry about the break-in." We had to see our mother get handcuffed... and put against the wall... and she was really uncomfortable sitting in those handcuffs. That's what really pissed me off. They've begun communicating and relating in the world. They are probably seeing how the movies are like real, but not real, and how the real life is. It's hard as a child being influenced by that. Too much of anything is, you know, is not good. And I think that they probably had too much of that. We never took a train before. We were always afraid of trains. We were always freaked out about the kind of people that hang around. You know, we heard about the muggings and stuff like that. It is weird, I admit, but there you go. We don't need the sun. We are vampires. Yeah! - Oh, there's the beach. - Yeah. Oh, shit, there's people all over it. - I ain't going in there. - Fuck that! - What did you expect? - Forget it, man. - Just stay a little back. - Yeah, man. Forget it. I ain't going in that water. I ain't going in that water. Oh, yeah, Lawrence of Arabia. Whoa, it scratches! No idea. - I'm afraid of the water. - You are? Yeah. That is salty, man. Whoa, man! Heads you go, tails you don't. It all comes down to this. Ladies coming this way. Here we go, man. If it drops on the floor, it doesn't matter. Right. Heads you go, tails you don't. Heads! You go. This is part of the Two Face in Dark Knight thing. - You're coming with me. - No way. Danny, come in the pool! - Call again. - Tails. Looks like I'm not going anywhere. Come on, Danny. Come in the pool. Danny, come into the water. Let's break some rules, man. Let's break some rules. It's not... no, I don't break rules. Last time I did that, I almost got arrested, twice. You have all these rules! Oh, shit, son of a bitch! - Come on, man. - Nah. - They're all out there waiting for you. - No, it's all right. Besides, I like to be the guy everybody says, that guy never went in the water. That guy never took his shoes off. You need some sunshine You need some daylight You need some sunshine You need some daylight I don't think our father knew we had it in us to have that kind of power. I guess he always saw us as the little boys who couldn't, and then we transformed into the boys are gonna. The boys can. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Jungle life, I'm faraway from nowhere On my own like Tarzan boy Hide and seek I play along while rushing cross the forest Monkey business on a sunny afternoon Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh I just can't talk to him anymore. I can't stand to look at him. It's just... When I look at him, Everything I see... in him feels wrong to me. Yeah. I felt good for my kids. I was glad to see them standing up for their own ideas and beliefs. Hey, this is me. I'm doing this. I'm trying to see both sides as well as my part in it as well, but I've felt stuck in the middle for a long time and that's been a real challenge. If some part of Oscar understood what, you know, why they were, like, rebelling and why they were going on their own, another part of him was like very anxious and very worried because, you know, he felt like, it wasn't... the timing was off. It wasn't like the right time for everyone. And, you know, my... my point of view was that, well, it must be the right time because it's happening, you know. It's so... I mean, if it wouldn't be, it wouldn't be happening. That's how I kind of felt about it. Well, done, Spider-man. Before we actually met, it's like before we met, you should have seen us like one year before we met. We would not have said a word... I mean, nothing. We would have been completely silent. It would have been like... You would have been watching zombies just walking by. I learned that "Google" was a new word that I'd never heard of. "Cool", "dude", "nigga"... Oops, sorry. And... well, basically, "like". Like, I went to the store, and there was, like, these, cool pianos, and I was like, "whoa, that shit is, like, awesome". So I'm hearing that all the time. It's not annoying, but it's getting old. Monday's Valentine's Day, right? - You have dates? - No, I don't. I wish I did, though. Seriously. I can't tell if it's women's or men's perfume. I can't really tell. It makes no difference, right? Perfume is perfume. I literally have no idea what to say to a woman. I mean, it's easy for you, guys, like, but... For me it's... I don't literally don't know what to say. You ever heard about people that say... say he is absolutely unlovable? Some people are like that. It just doesn't happen with them. Love just doesn't find them in life. Some people like that, some people want to live alone. Some people they really want to live with somebody, only they don't know how to... They can't fit in. - He's drunk. - My dad's drunk. Again? He was drunk last night. He's drunk tonight. He's probably... he drinks way too much, so it's a boring story anyway. I swear to God I'm gonna get him back for this. What's going on here? Just take it easy, okay? Oh, God. I think he's losing it. Yan, just enjoy yourself, sweetie, tonight. - Okay. - And see, uh, you know, whoever you want to talk to you know or you don't know. - You know, just enjoy yourself. - Okay. Enjoy yourself, have fun, Jagadisa. You have fun. Yeah, have fun, Govinda, yeah, enjoy yourself. - I love you. - I love you. See you. First tickets to a movie theater... Really exciting. I hope we come out alive. Start spreading the news. So tell me what you're looking for. Everybody loves HDTV... That was a good movie. I'm gonna remember this night for a long, long, long, long, long, long time. Me, too. And to actually think the money is gonna go to David O. Russell or Mark Wahlberg or Christian Bale. That's awesome. That's exciting. I play that guy in The Dark Knight. Batman Begins. He thinks there's somebody following us. I guarantee there's somebody following us. Nobody's following us. - No, there's nobody following us. - Forget it, forget it. I remember being very kind of scared of going out into the world. I felt so out of place. I still feel out of place. I don't know if I can ever get over it. Because I was always afraid that I had so little knowledge of this world. I mean, being in my home all the time that... That I almost wouldn't... that I wouldn't know where to start. I kept going out and trying to achieve what I wanted, trying to do what I want to. But my biggest fear was, you know, being so... so ignorant of the world that... that I would just wouldn't be able to handle it. Did you ever think of saying sorry to them? You know, like, you know that I wanted that, you know. I gave up on facing my father. And I don't think there's any good chance for him to change... Not with the things that happened. Sometimes there are things that you just... You just don't for... You just don't get over. You just don't forgive. There are some things you just don't put behind you. It's... There are some things... that peop... that you just can't live with. Okay, Lucy's jumped in. - It's okay, I can take her. - You take her. What? Oh, when? Oh, aha. You are? You know, you sound the same. You sound the same that you did 50 years ago. Well, I just... Well, I just want to say that I love you so much, mom. You know, I just love you so much. But I just want to say that I've... you know, it's like... It's not like I've ever forgotten you. I've never... I've always thought about you and you've always been in my, you know, my thoughts. Yes. Um, well, I know exactly what you went through. I have seven children, and I... Yes, I do. Oh, mom, it's so good to hear you. I'm so glad I called you. Yeah, sure, all right. All right, I love you, mom. Thank you, all right, bye-bye. Yes! Yes, yes, yes! Guess what? Mom just talked to her mom. - You did? - Yeah. Yeah, I called her in Michigan. So what now? Oh, she's gonna hop on a plane and she'll be here tomorrow. She's going to be 88 tomorrow. - Whoa! - Yeah. She was like, "whoa, this is a shock." - I want to meet her. - Yeah, yeah. Does the old man know you called her? Yeah, he knows that I was gonna call her. How's he taking it? That's why he went out. What's his problem? Well, you know, he's afraid that they're gonna you know, do something and make problems. What are they gonna do? I don't know. They're family. They're your family. I know, well, he's afraid because they made problems before a long time ago. He was the one that was making the problem not them. Yeah, I'm so glad that I called. That... you know, it's like, oh, giving in to my fears or what if this, or what if that? And I don't know, you know, it's like, oh, this could be bad and that could be bad. And, yeah, it could be bad and it could be very good. You know, and you just don't know until you do it. Hello, kitty cat. I heard about this website called Mandy. So I posted that I'm looking for P.A. jobs, and this job popped up. I just wanted to see of all the four of us, how many of us watch Game of Thrones? Raise your hands. I do it all in the night. Anyone here watch Breaking Bad? - I finished that recently. - I finished it, too. I saw three seasons in three days, four, five and six. It made me fucking crazy. Where do you want it? It's going up to my room, which is another flight of stairs. - Up there? - Yeah. So this is where you'll sleep tonight? Yeah. Okay. There's gonna be a lot of head bumping in this room. You should also take a look at your defenses. In case a robbery happens. This one's bitchin'. This one... Oh, I'll take that back, this one's bitchin'. I know I'm gonna miss them, but... I think, like, the universe reacts to your wishes. I'll bring my mom over when the time's right. But right now, I'm just gonna enjoy this for a little bit. Is this the end of the beginning? Or the beginning of the end? Losing control or are you winning? Is your life real or just pretend? Reanimation of the sequence Rewinds the future to the past To find the source of the solution The system has to be recast Try and set your arms down if you can. See if you can cover your chest. Can you pull it? I'm working on my own film. It's about this man sitting in a chair and looking through a window as different feelings go by... like anger, grief, happiness and love. What does this look like to you? - Like fear, anguish... - In shock? - In shock? - Yeah, yeah. My family is gonna be in it, most of them, and this girl, Chloe, who's really cute and she can be sexy, too. - Are you ready for your close-up? - I'm ready. Okay, let's get this show on the road. All right, guys. Let's get Chloe. Okay. Oh, careful, this moves. It was all fear, basically. The fear was... was put in... And I still have fear. I still have fear to this day. But who doesn't? So... It's the Chrysler building. Look at that hillside there. Look at that. Look at that hillside. That is... look, would you look at that? That is beautiful. Oh, look at that. Oh, jeez, look at those big pumpkins! The kids are loving them. Before the day I die There's five things I want to ride Bicycle, tricycle, automobile Virgin's mother and a Ferris wheel I want to be an airborne ranger I got to quit smoking. Oh, that's so damn good. It's probably the best damn apple I've ever tasted in my life. I could live... I wish I could live in a place like this. Maybe a little further away... Out in the middle of nowhere, but... It's very nice out here. I'm grateful my mom's here. I always wanted to go on a trip like this with her. Come on, Krsna. See what they're doing. Let's go see what they're doing. They're okay. Yeah, so what, you know, We haven't been around them all day. It's all right to be around them, See what they're doing. Yeah. Yeah... Come on, I want to see what they're doing. Come, Krsna. It's hard to go off and go off and go off. You and me haven't had a chance to walk through the orchards together. Yeah... yeah, not yet, that's right, Mukunda. That's out. Nice! Hit this one.
