 

                        Every morning, I will cycle around the apartment Many people in the city are still in bed How many days in a year do people living in the city witness sunrise? Every morning, I vow to be the first to greet daylight Sunrise to me is breathtaking It has some kind of magical effect on people Whoever brushes with it will feel happy and joyful In fact, the joy it brings can be carried out through the day So, I embraces the warmth of sunshine affectionately and pass on my happiness to others Xiao Ying cannot see I was informed that she is waiting for a cornea How I wish she can see this beautiful world because this world is full of surprises Ouch... I totally agree with the government! Backseat passengers should fasten their seat belt! You guys are terrible! Never fasten your seat belts! There are no seat belts! Such a "modern" car! Exactly! Invest some money. Ke Li, why are you late? The dancing class is going to start soon! So early?! Didn't I tell you about the change of time yesterday? Oh, right. I forgot I will be right there after I change. I won't be waiting for you. Hurry up! Bye bye This old junk needs a coat of new paint! Look at the paint! That's right! And the worst part, there is no air conditioner! No air con will die Pack up! What a junk? What a junk? What a junk? Freaking hot! Will you sit? Will you?? Hold up Hold up Hold up.. Thank you.. Here, let me help you. Thanks. Here we go....Fatty! Let the lady go first ok? Lady's first, Be gentlement! Oh! How dare you touch his saxophone! This saxophone is very important to him. Even we dare not touch it. You die hard! Sorry sorry.... It's ok, bye bye! Hehe... Fatty! It's the sixth floor! Not the seventh floor! Where is it? Where? Let's go shower ok! Hey? You live next door? Let's have tea whenever you free ok? Sam! What are you doing here? Do I have mails? -Yea. Here. Who is Lin Yi Xin? Lin Yi Xin... Here he is... Please sign over here. Yea I told your mum She should know where her son lives right? So she can send some money for your installment right? Can't woo any girls without a car! Maybe you should get an air conditioner since your car don't have one Or perhaps repaint it The mee is here Self service! Where is Xiao Long? Xiao Long, what are you doing in the toilet? The mee will be gone soon! Fatty! You must be kidding me! My bowl is so small and yours so big? I'm fat...... Don't be like that... I'm a big eater too! Let go of my hand! Even Xiao Long is not my match! You wanna fight with me? Asking for trouble! Hi! What a coincidence! Sorry! I'm late You know how bad KL's traffic can be Even for a minor accident, people always stop to see if there's any dead?! What's the fascination anyway?! Oh, let's not talk about this. Let's talk about.... The weather is so hot out there! Lucky you are here since there's air conditioner. Oh, let's not talk about this either I am going to a famous salon for interview later It will be great if I can work there So, I'll finish up here early. I'll just make you up a little But don't worry! Even if it's just a little, it'll still be pretty! If you don't believe, you can look into the mirror... Oh no...... Ask your friends. You will know then Who are you looking for? I'm Yi Xin. I'm here for an interview, for the post of guitar and singing teacher. Please come in, the Dean is waiting for you inside Please come in Hello Dean, I'm Yi Xin. Please call me Candy, please have a seat. So, how long have you been playing the guitar? More than six years Please have a seat You sing in cafe? Why do you want to be a teacher here? To make extra money Make extra money? Playing music to earn extra money? Do you really know music? Let me play for you Hold on! I will sing and you play. Let's do the "Sunset Song" (Cantonese song) (Cantonese song) So are you a stylist now? Yes How long have you been doing this? About ten years Wow that's long? So, within these years, any special creations or celebrities' clienteles? Celebrities' clienteles? Yea there is some like.... Namely Danny.. Leslie.. And most recently, Michael.. Their makeover is very unique their new look were so extremely special that it brought tears to those who see it Until that extend?! Yes! -I would really like to have a look then Excuse me Winnie, Puan Sri has been waiting for ten minutes. Please take care of him, I'll be right back I'm sorry. It's ok. Haha... hey! Can you stop laughing? Alright...... Is that so funny? Can I ask you about this? Can crossover? Why not?! Dead or alive, they are human beings too And besides, everyone's going to die one day I know that if I put heart to it I'll become famous stylist one day! Oh..Actually I have a dream too! What's your dream? I want to be an outstanding dancer you think I can do that? Brilliant! Of course you will! Like the saying your thinking affects your behavior, your behavior cultivates your habit and your habit eventually destined your fate, know that? Waa! Look at you! You are turning into an auntie now! Excuse me! I'm not an auntie! Even if I am one, I am a sophisticated one! Ok? Ok ok please eat... A toast to our dream! Cheers! Stop! Why are you late? Don't you know that we are all waiting for you guys? Sorry, we were late because we were house moving earlier That the reason but no worries we'll sing two more songs to compensate Love singing so much?! Follow me then! Please come here.... Huh? Huh? Hey! They are our neighbor! Neighbors? Hi! Hurry up and sing the birthday song Birthday song is great! Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday to.... Excuse me... please? Hey! How can you sing a birthday song without any expression?! Let me sing ok? Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday to you... Make a wish! -Ok! Yea....! Thank you! Yea...! So much fun here....! Let's eat! Why don't we take a group photo in such a happy occasion?! That's right! Ready, one two three! Today's the birthday of my best friend Zhang Jing Yi This guy with the guitar What a coincidence to be his neighbor He seems distance.. But somehow.. His voice Attracts me... Iike a black hole.. Hi! How are you? What you want? Can you stop rapping? What I want to say is.. Even though you don't know me I am definitely not a rascal. You can call me Baby And I'll call you honey! And this phone will become our 'baby' This dialogue sounds familiar. Did you copy from a movie? Definitely not! 100% local production! Made in Malaysia! So... What do you want? Well, since it's your birthday, this gift is for you Oh.. Now I understand. Thank you, thank you! Actually there is discount for this phone. Come look for me if you want it Your actual gift is here Take it Don't forget to call me tonight! Oh... And don't miss me! But.. Your door is... I'm sorry... Call me. Bye Silly trick! But... kind of charming... Seven eight! Alright, let's stop here today Both of you can leave now. Xiao Li please stay There is something wrong with your movement earlier That turning... Yours...... That one...... Doesn't seem right...... Try again Wrong... You should focus here! You must look here Ready... Turn! Wrong! When you turn, your body must be straight! Your body must be straight. Let's try again... There is still something wrong. Let's try again... I got an announcement! What? You made someone pregnant? So you are getting married right? That's not true! But you ARE that kind of person... Stop talking nonsense! Eagles' band is going to be famous! Are we producing an album? No... Someone invites us for world tour? That's great man! No! Then?! Spill it out! Stop the suspense! Can you see this?! Can you see what this is?! It's a piece of paper! 2009 Rock and Roll "Music" competition? It's Band! Huh? Competition? As long as we take part in this competition, we'll have the opportunity to be famous! Yeah! Loving music is not to take part in competitions What are you talking about?! Don't you dream of singing to the world?! I don't want to take part in that competition! But this is a good opportunity Do you know that if we take part, we'll have the opportunity to be famous?! We'll become famous man?! Famous ar!!! Even if don't participate in competitions, our music will still be appreciated If you guys want to take part please go ahead! If you don't participate, how will they know who you are?! If they don't know who you are then how will they appreciate your music?! Who will listen to your songs? Be co-operative brother! Let me tell you something. In this society, you will win if you have the money! Do you have money?! You?! Or you?! Are you looking down on me now?! You say I don't have money?! Well yes, I don't have any now but so what?! Don't be rude! Hey come on! I wonder why we named our band Eagles?! Now? We should call ourselves Ostrich instead! Ostrich is good enough! Remember! No more Eagles now! Eagles are gone! We are Ostrich now! Ostrich great! Quail sounds good too! Quail? Quail? Sounds kind of delicious... I have not eat yet... Extremely hungry... Supper time...! Unhappy? Just because of your band again? Forget it Let me share with you In the 18th century a great musician Beethoven once said As long as there music is in our heart... Anything can be tuned into beautiful melody Just like the following part Props! You've open so many bottles! Finish it! GREAT! Hey? Why stop playing? You played so well! Didn't expect you to know saxophone, sing and even play the guitar. What is your name? My name is Yi Xin. I'm Ke Li, you can call me Xiao Li. Oh yea I accidentally knocked down your saxophone the other day You seemed overly anxious Is it very important to you? My dad gave it to me What a great show it shall be if you and your dad can perform together My dad passed away This saxophone is the only thing he left me with I've got something to tell. -Please go on You are an awfully dancer! I'll work hard! But when have you see me dance? Are you waiting for someone? Yea Recently a few young men moved in, right? Yes. Who are you waiting for? I'm waiting for Yi Xin Oh Yi Xin. Who are you? I'm his mother Hi I'm Ke Li, you can call me Xiao Li Xiao Li He won't be home so early Why don't you wait inside my house? No, thanks. Then, I'll wait here together with you He's back Yi Xin! What are you doing here? I'm worried about you I brought you some money. Please take it. I don't want your money. Do you think money can buy everything? Get out! Just like how you abandoned us Why are you still standing here? How many times do you want me to move! Get out! How can you do this to her! She is your mother. It's none of your business! -You! So charming! I've a lots of his photo Can you send to me please? Ok Is this who they're talking about? Charming? Xin Er, Xin Er Is that you? You have the wrong person. Xin Er I'm your mother! Please come home with me Xin Er... Xin Er! Why are you so naughty? Refusing to come home? I've been looking for you for so tough! When have you become so naughty! -Hey! Stop! Are you alright Xiao Li? Who is she? I don't know, I don't know her, she probably have the wrong person. Xin Er I'm your mother! You must be the villain! You're the one influences my daughter away! I'm going to kill you! You dare to fight?? Xiao Li, are you alright? Let's go! You thug! Don't take my daughter away! I'll kill you! I'll kill you! Xiao Li! Go to hell! Mummy! Why is your hand bleeding? Painful? Let's go hospital! Who are you? You are not my daughter! Where is my Xin Er? Xin Er! Let's go I'll bring you to the doctor What are you looking at? Organ donation Look at this, it's so meaningful! Yea, I think so too... Shall we... Miss, can you borrow us your pen? Thanks Xiao Li you're injured! - Oh I'm alright now Please be more careful next time. What are you writing? Organ donation! -Donate organ? You should sign for it! Donate organ? Are you Crazy? What if different organs are lost here and there when you are awake? Look at you! How can you turn something so meaningful into something so unpleasant?! Definitely donating! Jing Yi, can you please pass me the form? Especially you must donate! -I agree! Miss, do you have pen? Thanks Look at me. As a Malaysian We should be compassionate. Sign your name. Why am I signing? You are donating, right? Are you alright? You are not mad at me anymore? How old are we now? Still want to do the "l don't friend you, you don't friend me game?" Come on! Don't worry. I am not a baby. Please sign here then... I will absolutely donate I love helping people it's just so meaningful Doctor please I have high regards for young people like you to have such a caring and compassionate heart. Actually, when people passed away Their organ will no longer be useful to them But if we are able to use these organs for those in need We can save another life... It also means that we can prolong our own legacy through another life It's so meaningful So we have to take care of our health In order to help others in future, alright? Thank you doc. -I'm worry about you man Is your hand still painful? Are you alright? I'm alright Actually that woman doesn't have any bad intention I pity her I pity her too Do you still hate your mother? I don't even treat her as my mother. -Why? My dad is a musician My mother remarries a richer man because my father was poor Not long, my dad died of illness I'll never forgive her I like the sound of saxophone I can feel it's subtle delicate sensations You are very sentimental I didn't mean to be so fierce to you the other day It's alright. Actually I am very fierce as well Do you have blog? Then, do you like cycling? Not so into it... Hey! Why are you always so cool? Is it? This is it! Exactly! This smile! Remember to smile more, look so charming... I came to understand him more now as he share with me his story We are closer than before. Alas! Mine was a very long story Whenever I think of it It will make me cry! And I detest being like this! I just encouraged him to smile more and lead a happier life Just like how my brother heartens me To be positive in living Toast to good health and youthfulness! Most importantly prosperous business! Great!! Mr. Kang, to be frankly, you are exceptional! You can sing, can act and owns a cafe How much more wealthy can you get! Of course! Don't you even think of surpassing me! Yeah right! Talk about it when you won the Pop Star Competition! Don't miss this opportunity! You like to eat, eat then! He's right you know. It makes sense. Alright, Yi Xin gets it. Actually... The party today is for both of them... Since you are alright now Another important thing about both of you... Ar... haha... Don't tease them anymore. They are nothing but... What! Just lovers alright? I always thought you like me all this while So, you like her huh?! Let's eat... A lot of people out there are anticipating your singing What about a local song? No problem! I'll do it now! Big round applause! Datuk! Since you like my singing I shall sing you my own composing Yeah! Mr Kang you're the best! Saya tinggal di Petaling Jaya, sebelah kanan ada 1 Utama Sebelah kiri ada lkea, Tapi saya I Love Malaysia! Yeah! Great! Mr. Kang! Please come down! What do you want? I have been listening to you for so long You sounded terrible! And you call this singing?! If this is not singing, then what would it be? Playing a trumpet? Don't stop me! If this is the case, those singers behind me Can be considered to be singers too right?! These two behind you looks more like apes man! How can you sound rude like that? You can sound rude but not me You sound power than anyone else?! We are all striving to expand our local singers and local productions. We gentlemen make full use of our tongue not our fist, alright?! So, prove to us then if your singers can sing as well as you said Make full use of tongue not fist, huh?! Let's go on the stage! You see, Mr. Kang! This is what singing is! And you call this making full use of your tongue not fist?! Let me show you the real deal! Vick! (Chinese song) (Chinese song) This is what talent means You have one?! I have one too! Let's see?! -You think you have it all?! I'll show you more! (Chinese song) (Chinese song) (Chinese song) I think you have no more to show! -Who say so? Get off your legs! That's her... (Chinese song) (Chinese song) Mr. Kang! Don't be so arrogant! Thank you very much! I will be back! What? Not again?! What a coincidence! Waiting for someone? Ah? No... Yes... Is your hand still painful? A little Good Xiao Li are you alright?! You gave me a shock! Where else are you hurt? Let me see it? You seem fine I know you can't be possibly calling me if you are in a serious condition, right? Let's go eat something. But you can't take seafood What else we can eat...? Oh yea no seafood! We'll have salad then. Let's go. Your friend? Do you want to eat? Ah... Ah.. Means no... Ok let's go then Let's go... Why are you not eating? You say cannot eat seafood But you took me here to have fish?! Yea fish consider seafood But fish is another type of seafood It is not poisonous. And so we can eat. I say can means can ok?! Come take more fish and veggie Wasted! Finish it! Another thing Who is the guy just now? He is my neighbor Neighbor? His eyes looked peculiar when he gazes at you I think he's into you! That's not true! See! He saves my life Save your life? In that situation Anyone with humanity will save your life ok? If it's me? I can guarantee that you will not even have a scratch Not even a single drop of your hair If it's you? I think I am the one saving you instead ok? Let's eat! Ok... Yi Xin, there's seafood noodles in the kitchen Left half of it Do you want to eat? Something is wrong! Someone seems overly moody! Why you look moody? I thought you are going for dating Kisses until fainted only back home? -That's right! Hello Xiao Li... Tomorrow? Yeah, I am free Alright then see you tomorrow Bye! - See you tomorrow?? Dating already! Abandoning your friends now! Come let's go for a drink now! Knew he won't go... I'm starved, do you want to eat? Go and eat! Everyday eat just like a pig! There are a lot of guitars here! Can you help me choose one? I want to give it to my friend Sure! But I don't know which type of guitar your friend like You decide. I know nothing about guitars This one! This one should be ok! Alright, this is for you then! -Why? Because when saving me the other day You accidentally broke yours So I am replacing you a new guitar But... I have a request I am going for a dancing competition If I am chosen I'll be touring around the world This is my dream, I hope you can give me support! That's not a problem It's just that this guitar is way too expensive No worries Take it as my investment on you In future you must play me beautiful songs What about we share? Why are you so fussy? Alright then promise me another thing Why do you have so many requests? I hope you will take part in that band competition Hey! Why are you like that! You should smile when you receive a gift Smile! Let's go, pay money Young man no use to be only thinking Action speaks louder Lift up your leg! Young man, why are you still deliberating? Otherwise... It will be too late and you will regret if you continue seating here Understand?! Brother Xin! Look! Eagles' band is getting recognized! There are a lot of people viewing the site I designed for your band Actually, your band is getting popular You should really consider that competition. Ok? Ok? I'm might not be talented But I believe that my hard work will compensate my short comings I really don't mind working extra hard To fulfill my dream If only I can reverse time I will choose to give up my dream That fateful day, l insisted dad mom and brother To take me for a dancing course registration in Kuala Lumpur After registration Happily we head home... Only... To be traumatized by a merciless accident We are all sent to the hospital I was petrified! My dear brother a national bicycle racer Lost his leg! He is now a disable person! He cannot cycle anymore! Not only he did not blame me He encouraged me to take it easy as it was an unintended accident Don't blame myself! I must be strong and live my life happily ever after Dad and mom passed away Grandma who is already very male oriented loathe me even more She starts treating me as if I am some kind of ill fated bad luck star You're a doomed disaster carrier! Why are you still standing here?! I don't want to see your face! Get out of my sight! Isn't it not enough that you've caused your parents' death?! What are you thinking? Get out! Out! Out! Grandma, calm down! I'll have a look on Xiao Li Ouch! Xiao Li! The day has come But why am I still not dancing properly? I really feel like crying But I cannot give up yet This opportunity is so hard to attain so I must not give up easily Even if the world thinks I may not succeed As long as I'm able to dance I'll prove to everyone! Li Ke Yi's sister's, you will make it! Just like a bicycle As long as I continue cycling I'll reach my destination eventually however far the place may be Don't give up! I'm Yi Xin Are you the cool guy, Yi Xin? How do you come across my blog? Saw your message in Eagles' band blog Your encouragement not sincere enough... Hey?! Xiao Li, is that you? Of course it's me! Who else? Tell you something, I finally signed up for the competition Band competition? Great! I'll go and support you! I'll go and support you too Ok! But... you must not laugh at me! I thought you asked me to smile more often?! Oh ok... I'll make it! All the best! -You too! Be more serious today guys The reason is... I am going to singing today! Yeah! Yes sir! So many people! Ready...... One, two, three! -Hold on! The phone is ringing! Fatty! How many times must I remind you?! Never answer calls when working? But it's your phone Is that so? We must answer all calls What if it is business opportunity?! Oh... What is the matter? Let's pack up and go! Go?! But why?? Yi Xin has decided to take part in the competition! Hurray!! Get down here! What do you think you are doing? So many people waiting for you guys to sing but still jumping up and down then?! Yeah! We don't need to sing anymore. -Let go off my hand! We are taking part in that competition! It's none of my business whatever competition you want to take part But it is you that encourage us to look forward this competition right?! And by doing so, we need more time to practice right?! Even so you don't need to stop singing now right? No! We have to! When have I agree to it? -You had! Did l? -You did! Great! You guys have got guts! You can go now! -Yeah! And no salary for you! Vick! Hey Gorgeous! You called me? Music! ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) ( songs continue...) Waa! My name is... That's too rough... Not a fighting game... This is our album we hope you will accept it This is not a proposal! Silly! Try another one... This is our album please accept it Not bad huh?! Ok! Hi! How are you? Hi hi! I'm Li Xiao Long...... No No! I'm Xiao Long...... No No! I'm...... I'm Xiao Long from Eagles' band This is our new album hope you can accept it Thanks... Oh, actually we've got a program, 'lntroducing New Local Songs' in our radio station It's to boost up our local artistes and we support local music profoundly Let me try to arrange something for your band, alright? Thank you so much! You are so kind! Thanks! ( songs continues...) ( songs continues...) ( songs continues...) ( songs continues...) ( songs continues...) ( songs continues...) ( songs continues...) The bands that can proceed to our next level are Rosevelt Fire Music and Eagles' band! Congratulations! Relax and just dance Don't think about being chosen or not I can do it! I'll prove it to my brother and also my grandma I really hope That grandma can see me dance What about you? Have you ever think about forgiving your mom? Happy birthday! -Thank you! How do you know it's my birthday today? I saw your organ donation form the other day Oh... Allow me to sing you a song. -Alright. Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday to you... Happy Birthday to you... (songs continues...) (songs continues...) (songs continues...) (songs continues...) (songs continues...) (songs continues...) Happy Birthday to you... Make a wish Come and eat cake! You too! Want to dance? You know how to dance? Have I say I don't know how? Oh ok... I think should be no problem for Jing Yi She is a good dancer right? but Xiao Li... Hey, what are you talking about? Xiao Li can't? I said Jing Yi Ok! I said Xiao Li Ok! Hey no worries... Everything's gonna be fine ok? Ok?! Ok! This is weird. Everyone is leaving but why aren't they out yet? What took them so long? Come on think about something! I'm thinking now already! Here they are! Ok! Hurray! Both of you please stop! I ask you! How about Xiao Li? Xiao Li... Xiao Li... Never mind. Forget about that! We'll take part in singing competitions instead. Let's go practice in karaoke. I'll pay! Let's go. Ok great! Are you alright? It's ok we'll try next time Actually... I MADE lT! -Really??! Xiao Li! Brother! Brother, why are you so late? Brother! I MADE lT! Wonderful! Finally your dream came true Where is grandma? She didn't come He is my brother Hello! Brother, this is Yi Xin Nice to meet you! Xiao Li told me a lot about you Big Brother! Nice to meet you. What do you do for a living? I own a bicycle shop. Great! We can work together in future Let's me share with you our plan... Come on! Discuss more over dinner ok? Let's go celebrate! Let's go! Go... Grandma... I have been chosen I'll be touring around the country And I won't be back for a while... Grandma... I'm leaving... You have to take care... Xiao Li! Don't cry! Don't worry... I'm here... About grandma... I will take good care... You go and pursue your dream Hopefully everything goes well. I will always support you. Finally, I'm chosen to represent the dance tour around the country I really wish I can share this joy with grandma But... grandma I wonder when she will ever forgive me. Yi Xin I really hope for the day to come When grandma and me You and your mom Can all dine together...? And be happily ever after Let us share the joyful day together Alright? I'm hungry let's eat? - Ok! I know there's one good Japanese restaurant around This bicycle is so cute Not bad Others model is pretty cute too That one not bad too Welcome! You can create your feature on it! You can create a model with your girlfriend's image and place it along the bicycle Do one! Sure! Like I mentioned before, we have a good opportunity working together Our company service is very efficient We can help your business expand bigger Our concept real suit you... sorry Most importantly We are efficient, effective And our procedures are very simple If you need to dispatch anything So feel free to use our service I like your idea! Let's work together then! A toast to our future flourishing collaboration together! Thanks! Opps sorry... Thanks! I'm starved Let's go eat something So you can play the piano Have I ever told you I don't know how? Why do you like this song so much? My parents loved this song They used to sing me this song when I was little whenever I hear this song I can feel their warm embracing It's as if my parents are still here Protecting me Stand by me Let me protect you from now on Let's eat! You too! Tell me frankly, why are you here suddenly? Because I miss you! Miss me?! Alright then! Let me help you with a nice hairstyle. What kind of style do you want? Wait... You are not here for hairstyling, right? What's up? Nothing... Ermm, can you do me a favor? Favor? What's up? Since you're a famous stylist now Can you please style for a band? A band? That Eagles' band? That's right! You're genius! -So this is the reason you're for me?! Ok I'll do it! But one question... You like one of them? Who?! That eagle who can sing right?! NO?! No?! Look at you... Why is your face so red then?! Must be! -Hee... Let me do some preparations. Wait a minute. Stop eating! Yi Xin, Leo had promised to become our stylist! But you guys have to do your best ok? I don't usually style for "people" ok? The clothes are ready for you guys, take it! So dull? So small? You are Eagles not Fat-Gles! Look at you Fatty! You should keep fit! What a brilliant idea! Shall we do some exercise tomorrow? Build up stamina ok? You sure will lose to me! Lift up your leg! Lift up your leg! Excuse me Aunty! Don't you know I just bought this shoe? You... You... You call me Aunty??! UNCLE! Call me Beauty! Every day I've been wiping this floor But you people nonstop stepping on it When can I ever stop wiping then?! Aunty! Don't call me Uncle! I'm "lncle" means very "ln" uncle ok? Stop eating Fatty! (song continue) (song continue) (song continue) (song continue) (song continue) I feel so energetic after cycling I want to make a wish! I wish for all the girls around the world to like me! What do you say huh? -Just kidding! I wish everyone around the world can listen to our music! Then I wish to be the most outstanding female dancer in the whole wide world! I want everyone around the world to acknowledge that our local Chinese music is the best! I just wish to endorse all the delicious food and beverages! You Fatty only thinking of food! Opps... Eagles' band is the BEST! I want Eagles' band to become the best in the whole wide world! I want to be the most popular dancer in the world! Cheers! Cheers! Winnie This band is marvelous! I know them very well, they compose their own songs Even can dance! And most importantly they sing very well! If we can sponsor them It's going to be a win-win situation for both parties So Winnie what do you think? If this is the case... I truly support our local artistes and local productions I say we should go ahead and sponsor them. Really?! -Yes! Dad, finally I made it to the finals Please bless me for this! Shu Fang... I'm so sorry Because of my own selfishness I've destroy our family's happiness you left home due to my infidelity One thing I can never forgive myself is that... I never have the guts to tell Yi Xin the truth And misled him to misunderstand you... With fears of losing him I dare not tell him the truth I hope you can forgive him Please don't blame him. He is innocent I sincerely hope you will take good care of yourself And lead a happy life If I were given another chance I will surely appreciate you And cherish our love Take care I am sorry All these while I've misunderstand you Please forgive me. My dear son Mom Up next let us welcome Fire Music! But this makes me look girlish! Who say so?! Isn't it pretty??! Yea yea... pretty! That's right! This match you Ya right?! This match your "chicken" Jing Yi, is Xiao Li here yet? She said she will be slightly late Miss her already?! That's not true! Let me get my hair done. -Alright! This really match your "chicken" -ls eagle "Chicken" - Is eagle! But it looks like "chicken" Eagles! Let's welcome our special guest Katherine Chan Kai Ting from New Pro Star (songs continue) (songs continue) Get ready, hurry up! Always didn't pick up the phone! Eagles! Hurry up and get ready! Hurry up! Why you guys still here? It's your turn now hurry up! Hey bro! Hurry up! Everyone is waiting for us! Dun worry she will come, let's go! Let's pass the stage to the most energetic performer The Eagles' Band! (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) Eagles! Come on! (song) (song) (song) Yeah! If she is sent here earlier to receive immediate treatment She might survive Since she is an organ donor Her organ will be donated to those in need We shall put that into order Let me finish off with the procedures I'll see you later Why are there so many irresponsible people?! If only they send you in earlier You will survive You are just so young Why..? On the sixtieth day we met She left this world But she left with all her happiness behind I will never forget her When I saw that little girl, Xiao Ying I can felt that warmth I used to feel I know it's the legacy of Xiao Li's life continuing on. Just like saxophone If you don't blow it You'll never hear melodious music Just like a dream If you dare not step out you can never reach it Xiao Li I've finished I hope you'll like it I can hardly believe it... The very first time I make you up Is in a place like this This is what she left behind Before she met that accident I've repaired it I believe it belongs to you (song) (song) (song) (song) Sealed coffin ceremony. Grandma Grandma! Xiao Li is gone! Why can't you forgive her?! Don't stop me! Go away! Let go of my hand! Grandma! Please don't be like that... Stand right there! Shut up ( Ke Li singing ) She left this world earlier than me She's considered not filial You think she can rest in peace like this?! Xiao Li! My dear granddaughter Xiao Li! Grandma has long forgiven you! You listen to grandma now Please go well Go with no regrets You can rest peacefully now Do you know that? You're my dear granddaughter Why take my granddaughter away from me??! Xiao Li! Oh my dear granddaughter! As a local singer-songwriter We should have our own principle I'm certain that if we insist on our own principles pursuing our dream We will be successful We can do it! Great! Thank you Datuk! Yeah! I've lost! I won! Ermm... Why? Can't I meet sis Xiao Li recently? I would like to see her (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song) (song)
