 

                        I've wasted a lot of my time looking for you It's strange, how you're the one who comes to me So, you're ready to tell me all that happened, right? If the same thing happened to you... You might not ever want to see anyone again. Are we almost there yet? This stuff is heavy and you won't let us use the elevator What's the big deal anyway? Will you just stop complaining! It's damn annoying! Damn it! We were doing fine playing in Bangkok But no, we had to change the scenery Who's idea anyway? Mine I found a better paying place for you What else do you want? In Bangkok better musicians will just eat us alive. Isn't this place here close to where you live? Why don't you go sleep at your place so we have more space here. That's none of your damn business. Come on guys We'll play cards and in a couple of hours it'll be morning. Hey! What's the matter with you? Go to the bathroom if you need to take a piss. Totally insane! Hey, What's that you're staring at? See that piece of cloth? Did you see it when we came in? I don't know Didn't notice it... But I didn't You bastard! Always trying to scare me. Hey! I didn't see it either This is the first I've seen it. Hey!What the hell! Hey!What the hell is wrong with all of you Just this and you all look as white as boiled chicken. You asshole! This is your idea of a joke? Don't you dare! Don't! I'm serious! Boy! How are you? What are you holding me down for? If you don't quit it, I'll get serious. Where the hell did Kob go? Don't know what's wrong with him Just left one after the other. Why is it so hot in here? Who the hell turned off the air conditioner? Noone did Uan, what's wrong? Oh, it's nothing Who took this down? If we don't put it back, we won't hear the end of it Hyai, put it back. Why me? Just do it. Can't a friend ask you to do something Hey! If you can't do it then don't. I'll do it myself What the hell is wrong with you! Hyai, where are you going? Hey! Hyai! Damn you! Now, I have to do it Uan, What's wrong? Hello? Pim, don't do anything Just quickly come downstairs. Wait Hello Hello Nui, let's go Nui...Wake up Nui... Nui, let's get out of here... Nui You all saw it, right? Boy! Boy! You're going to be Okay Boy! Help! Boy!... Boy! I think it was more of an accident... What do you think? Hey, what are you so afraid of? That woman Pim, Have you called his home? Pim... Pim Did you call? I called but noone answered. I want to go home And what about Boy? You're going to just leave him? He's dead! But he's your friend, man But I'm going home I thought you said you didn't want to go home Didn't you say that your home was worse than prison So, how come now you want to go home? I don't know But right now I want to go home I also want to go home My name's Tawan, I've been here for so long I can't find my way back home Take me back home with you. What the hell? We don't live at the same house. That's alright I want to stay with you. Crazy! It's Okay, I'll have someone else take me home. Wait. Well, where do you live? Here, this is my home. Here, let me see. Is it the same? Who's the woman in the picture? Oh! That's my sister Saeng Daow She works in the hotel Don't know what she does She goes upstairs with men for hours. It took days before they found her body hidden under the bed but without her head. Did they catch the person that murdered her? HeyWait, forget about that now So, where's her head? He cut off her head and tied her hair to the air condition vent. And how did they find her head? You dumbass So smart on everything else They found it the same way you did. Get away! Don't come near me! Get the fuck away from me! I said don't come near me! Stay away from me! Put the gun down Put the gun down Put the gun down Kob Kob don't! Stop shooting! Kob put the gun down first Kob! Kob! Kob! Kob! What the fuck is wrong with you! Don't you leave me! Let me go! Let me go! I don't want to die! I want to go home! Go home! Let go! Kob! Kob! Hurry! Kob! Did all of you normally do drugs? No Really? But from what you're telling me now it's completely opposite to the police report The hallucinations could've come from this. The police found it in your friend's pants after you all took off. Anything? Noone knows of anybody by the name Tawan Noone by that name was ever on the patient list either And what about the dead body that was found in the hotel? Everyone claims that they've never heard of this and of the headless body ever entering this hospital at all. We're talking about a dead person here, not a patient Noone here knows. Damn it! Who the hell do you want us to ask? I don't know what her name was She had no relatives or friends So, we just cremated her even though they haven't found her head. Did the hotel claim any responsibility for this? Noone wanted to talk about it After the cremation, everyone just went silent They didn't even bring back her head So, it's become a curse that anyone who sees her. will either die without reason or go completely insane like Saem. So, there was someone who saw her like we did? Saem Saem, come out here Saem was the one who took her head out from the air condition vent From then on, he has seen her face everynight while asleep He didn't dare fall asleep until I took the curse off him. How's that? He had to sleep in the coffin with a person who died a violent death every night before midnight for 7 days with my help will release the curse. Does this mean that all 4 of us must do the same? And what about the lady behind you? Won't she also join you? Behind us? Who? There's only the 4 of us Hey! Aren't you like blind? No wonder Saem didn't want to greet you It's because she also came with you... You see, I've never heard of anything like this before But if there really has been a murder committed and even the Buddhist priest knows about it then so does the police Manoon, I want all the details on the prostitution murder case immediately. On that day the Buddhist told me to stay inside the temple church while the rest set out finding those dead coffins before their time runs out. What happens when it becomes after midnight? Hyai, What the hell are you looking at? Did you notice All the cars are blinking their head lights at us. I blink in return but then they honk their horn at me. There!There's another one. Damn it! What is it with these damn dead coffins?... So damn hard to find Are we going to survive this? Shut your fucking mouth! Damn! That's it Can I not go? I want to go home Just drop me off at home, alright pal? Damn! What the hell is your problem? PleaseI'm asking you Here, turn here My house is just here. Aren't you afraid to die anymore? I'll be safer at home The most I'll get is a good beating At least my father won't kill me Turn hereTurn here Stop. Stop right here. You don't believe in this curse, right? If I do, then what? I'll have to sleep inside a coffin like that crazy guy? Right, you guys go ahead We'll see what happens tomorrow See ya! Hey!... Wait! Hyai! Nui...Forget about him We can look for it by ourselves. Where is everyone Ma!... I'm home! Hey, little one Did Aunty spank you again Sir, there's only 2 coffins Is there maybe just one more? You got two for one damn bottle of whisky What else do you want? Why don't you die, then you'll have another one Hey! Don't have to be rude. Calm down, man It's better than nothing. Gets two and complains We've got to hurry back or we won't make it on time. It's already past midnight The Buddhist priest said the ritual won't work That's not true He's lying to us It's hard enough finding the coffins he has to do the ritual What have I done wrong? Why do I have to wait for death? Uan, when it's time we all must die There has to be another way Another way? What other way? Anyway I'm going to die Even the Buddhist priest can't help me. That ghost will break my neck You too, she don't let you servive. We get the curse, all we get the curse. Finally, all of us can not servive. Uan, that's enough Where's Hyai? We can't leave him alone. What's wrong Nui Hurry up. Hyai! Hyai! No more! No more! Let me go! Help! Help me! Don't come near me! Wake up Wake up Is this the wrong house? No, I remember the mailbox. Alright, then let's go in. Hey! I'm not going in I'll wait in the car It might get stolen. How the hell is it going to get stolen We'll be right out We'll just drag Hyai out to sleep at the temple... It's safer. I still want to wait here. That's okay Nui Let him wait. I can guess that it was suicide Your friend had problems at home. Before we left his house his parents came back We didn't know how to explain it to them They wouldn't listen They just kept blaming us And where did you go all that night? That night we decided to go back to the temple But Uan Uan had this stupid idea. This is the safest place. Aren't you going to keep it for the ritual. Let's just get past tonight It'll be kind of like being reborn Don't think of me in a bad way I'm asking you Nui What? Close the coffin for me. Okay. Uan, wake up. Uan. Uan. Uan. The reason for his death. We believe it to be caused by lack of oxygen But what do you expect from someone stupid enough to sleep in a coffin with the lid closed But actually he didn't close it all the way He left an opening for air to breathe. There's only the two of us left. Pim, would you like to meet Saeng Daow? How?This is not a living human being. Are we just going to wait for her to come to us? But where can we find her? We'll start from the place where she was murdered. He cut off her head and tied her hair to the air condition vent. Did you see anything strange? No, none at all. Here, that's all that is left Oh, there is one thing that you should know Saeng Daow was pregnant when she died. The letter that the hotel employee gave us was written by Saeng Daow but was never sent We decided to go to the address that was on the front of the envelope and deliver that letter hoping that it might release her from this pain and suffering she is in. Who let you in? I'm sorry Excuse me Ma'am Ma'amThe name on this letter is addressed to you, right? It's a letter from Saeng Daow. Saeng Daow Saeng Daow my child Saeng Daow ran away from home a long time ago I never received any news from her I didn't know where to find her Her father died when she was just a child I raised her with the money from my new husband. Who's the girl standing next to Saeng Daow? Oh, that's Tawan My other daughter Saeng Daow loved her sister very much They went everywhere together, never were separated Tawan was close to her sister, she cried wanting to go too Saeng Daow just ran away and didn't tell anyone She left her sister even though they've never been apart Tawan must've been really lonely. And what happened to Tawan? Tawan would just keep herself in the room Everytime I saw her she would be sleeping here I never thought that one day she wouldn't wake up Who's in the next room? That's just my husband He's probably hungry Go on It's getting dark, I think the both of you should be going It's dangerous driving back at night Go on now Go on It's nothing Go, go, go, go And don't come back I'm sorry Saeng Daow. So, we still don't know anything, right? Why is Saeng Daow so angry at us? It might not have anything to do with us at all She probably just doesn't like us. and wants to kill us because she's crazy So, what now? You want to go back and sleep in the coffin? So, I can die the same way Uan did? No, thanks We'll just let the Buddhist do the ritual for us first It might work. Don't you want to know more about Saeng Daow? The more we know the faster we die Oh...Did you see anything over at her house? Like what? Like under the bed? Sa...SaSa Saeng Daow You've wasted a lot of time already Will you please tell me something I can put in my report? Like in the accident Did anything peculiar happen? I really can't remember much of it Everything seems to be a blur. Pim... Pim... Where are you?... Pim... Pim... Pim... Pim... Where are you?... Pim... Pim... Pim... Where are you?... Pim... Where are you?... Pim... Come out of there... Pim... Come out of there... Pim... It's dangerous... Come out of there, Pim. Pim... Pim... Pim... I don't know what else to ask you All your responses just end up back on the same story It's because of a ghost Alright then, what about your friend?... Where is he? We had a difference of opinions... He thought that the Buddhist priest would be able to release him from the curse by performing the ritual So, he went back to the temple to try the ritual one more time. What about you? Don't you think of doing the same? If I did I probably wouldn't be here now telling you about it. Because from then on, Nui just disappeared. To this day, I still can't find him. Your story is quite unbelievable It's creepier than any book I've read But your characters seem to have the same names as mine I'll tell you what I'll tell you a story of my own I had a suspect here once, waiting for interrogation He was a psycho We believed he killed people as a sacrificial offering What ever that is Later that night, he tore his clothes off and hung himself on the jail bars There was a writing on the wall written in blood He might be the murderer in your story So, do you still see Saeng Daow? Is she here now?... Anyway, you're probably tired You can go but I'll still need you to come back and make your statement one more time I hope you'll cooperate. If the same thing happened to you You might not ever want to see anyone again. With all do love and respect to my dearest mother. I'm so sorry that I ran away without telling anyone. I know it must've caused you much pain and sorrow. But did you know that this daughter also felt the same pain and sorrow as you did? All I could do was cry for what I've done to you. I'm such a bad person for leaving you and my sister isn't that right mother? But please believe me mother. I have my reasons in making this decision. If I had to stay in that house any longer my life would surely be filled with such heartache and would finally end without meaning. Please don't ask me to go back to that house because I don't think I have the courage to face you or anyone ever again. My sins can never be erased for as long as I live and I will never forget the people that have done me wrong... especially those men which to this day I curse them all. In conclusion I ask you to please explain to Tawan so that she understands because I really worry about her. She is still so young and probably very disappointed in me for what I've done. With Love, Saeng Daow
