 

                        Her name was Odessa Cotter. I called her Dessie. As best as anyone knows, she was the first woman to rock me to sleep. There wasn't anything extraordinary about her, but, I guess there's always somethin'... extraordinary about someone who changes... and then changes those around her. That's me. - Morning, Mary Catherine. - I was only seven years old. Excuse me, Odessa. I didn't mean to run you down. - Is that a car or a boat? - It's a piece of sausage. - You tell her, sweetness. - Odessa, we're having a cocktail party tonight, so I'm sending you to Oak Park with Mary Catherine... - just as soon as Claudia gets here. - Yes, ma'am. Honey. - Look what you did. Boop. Gotcha. - Has anyone seen my racket? - Oh, I know where it is. - Bye-bye. - Bye. - Oh, my clubs. - I wanna cut something. - Not today, young lady. Ah, your hands are sticky. - Oh, she's been beside herself for weeks. - That's 'cause you never discipline her. - Where are you going? - One guess, Sherlock. - Trey and I are playing at the club. - Oh, well. - I wanna see Trey's car. - Here are my clubs, honey. - If you can get 'em to the pro shop. - I'm givin' a party tonight. Catch Sara. She's on her way to the club. I can't play with the grips like that. Thank you, sweetie. - I'll see you at 6:00, huh? - See you at 6:00. Odessa, just have 'em waitin' out here at 3:00. - I should be back from the beauty parlor and Junior League by then. - Yes, ma'am. - You be good, Mary Catherine. - I will. Bye! Feel a tickle comin'. Go on. Y'all come on now. It's time to eat. Hey! Hey! What you doin' here? Can't you hear me, nigger? What are you doin' in this park? Just takin' care of Mrs. Thompson's... Don't give me any of that mealy-mouthed crap! Now, this park is whites only, and that means niggers like you best answer with "yes, sir" when spoken to. I don't care who you're takin' care of! You don't understand nothin', do you? Go on. Get your stuff together and get on out of here! Come on, Mary Catherine. Get your friends. We got to go. I never heard such nonsense in all my life. Let me just see about this. Hello. Could I speak to Commissioner Sellers, please? Mrs. Norman Thompson. Well, would you tell Clyde Sellers... that one of his policemen threw my nine-year-old daughter out of Oak Park? He knows who I am. - I really appreciate you coming by this afternoon. - Oh, not at all, ma'am. - I'm just sorry about the misunderstanding. - Thank you. Mrs. Cotter, I would like to apologize on behalf of myself, the police department, and the city of Montgomery for what happened today in Oak Park. Hope y'all come back to the park someday soon. I hope I didn't cause you too much trouble, Mrs. Thompson. I'm sorry if I embarrassed your maid in front of the children. Thank you. - Thank you very much. - You're welcome, ma'am. I regret that this happened in the first place. - Well, send the commissioner my best. - I will, ma'am. Shh. Y'all come on inside. Alabama's got a small line, but they're agile. Oh, my God. How's my little Boo-Boo? Tunker's here. Tunker. Tunker, welcome. - Hello, Norman. - I'm glad you could make it. Yeah. It's a nice-lookin' party here. - Yeah. We try. We do. - Hello, Miriam. - That a bartender? - Yeah. - Does I has to tip him? - Well, being you're my baby brother, why don't we just say that the drinks are two bucks, all inclusive. Thanks. Thanks. Hey, y'all lucky to get a bartender at all. The niggers are all movin' to Philadelphia. - Why's that? - 'Cause they hear there ain't no work in Philadelphia. - I don't get it. - Honey, you never get jokes. What? Tunker, don't be so loud this close to the bar. - Oh, he didn't hear me. - You better be careful. She'll have you out there apologizin' to him. What's this? - Nothin'. It was just somethin' stupid, that's all. - I'd like to know. Go on. Tell him. Some young policeman threw our maid out of Oak Park. Mary Catherine and her friends were right there, and he was extremely rude. So I called up Clyde Sellers, and he had him come out and apologize. Well, what were you doing sending your maid into that park anyway? Tunker, she was takin' care of the children. But you shouldn't have the poor fellow come out and apologize to a nigger, Miriam. That's plain old wrong. Tunker, it's not like she was parading her own children around the park, for heaven's sakes. And you know, I did grow up with a maid, and I've had them all my life, and I know what's right and I know what's wrong. And I will not have my judgment impugned by some wet-behind-the-ears patrolman... or by you. Excuse me. Oh, hi, Liz. How are you? She's a hellcat, Norman. I always thought so. Mr. Sandman Bring me a dream Make him the cutest that I've ever seen My world was a bubble when I was seven. Wars could have been going on outside our front door, and I would have been all the happier. Thank you, darling. - In a way, a war was about to start in Montgomery. - Hey! - A war of wills... - Give that back! in the cradle of the Confederacy. - It began on a crisp December day. - Hey! Give it back! Give it back. Give it back! Mama! Where you at? What you comin' in here screamin' like a banshee about? A lady gave these out to everybody after school. I'll read it to you. "This is for... Monday the"... Boy, you can't read. We're gonna die of consumption waitin' for you. - Can so! Give it back! - Franklin, give him the paper and let him read it. Watch it. "Another Negro woman has been arrested and thrown in jail because she refused to get up out of her seat on the bus... for a white person to sit down. It is the second time since the Colvin case... that a Negro woman has been arrested for the same thing. This has to be stopped. " "We're therefore asking every Negro... to stay off the buses Monday in protest of the arrest and trial. Don't ride the buses to work, to town, to school... or anywhere on Monday. You can afford to stay out of school for one day, if you have no other way to go except by bus. You can also afford to stay out of town for one day. If you work, take a cab or walk. - Please, children"... - I heard about that last night. - That woman was Miss Parks. - Rosa Parks? Yep. They had to bail her out of jail for sittin' in the bus. - See, the problem is... - I'll tell you what the problem is. I ain't never seen people get so worked up over a piece of paper. - I think it's dumb. - I think you're dumb! - Shut up, Franklin. - I bet nobody rides the bus. - Franklin, sit up. - Well, if that don't get all. Here we are without a car, and somebody tellin' us not to ride the bus? Theodore and Franklin ready to follow along like lap dogs. If that ain't cuttin' your nose off to spite your face. She's mad 'cause she ride the bus out to Newtown on Saturday, - to see that boy she think like her. - Shut up. I'm tired of hangin' my head in the shadow of crackers. I wanna ride at the front of the bus. Lord, we thank you for this food we're about to receive. Watch over our souls tonight... and help us live your word tomorrow. In Jesus' name, amen. Right around the fence. That bus is as empty as my grave. It starts to rain, people get on that bus. No, they won't, not unless they stupid as you are. Mama! If we can't ride the bus, then do we have to go to school? Boy, you ain't never took the bus in your life. Now get in there and help me clean off that table. Hello, Mrs. Thompson? This is Odessa. Mrs. Thompson, I think I'm gonna be awfully late to work today. Odessa, this is Monday. You know how badly I need you on Monday. Yes, I know, Mrs. Thompson, but, as I said, I... Well, this wouldn't have anything to do with the boycott business, would it? Well, Mrs. Thompson, the buses usually come past my house pretty near full, but today there ain't a soul on 'em except the driver, and this last one had a police car following it, - so, ma'am, I ain't likely to ride the bus today. - Hmm. Well, I was goin' to Curb Market this mornin' anyway. - You live down on Cobb Street, don't you? - Yes, ma'am. Well, then I'll meet you on the corner of Court and Mildred in about an hour. - Thank you, ma'am. - Okay. Bye-bye. Odessa, I'm not gonna be able to carry you home. Mama needs help with Shelly's dinner, so I'm gonna have to go over later. Yes, ma'am. Go and show your mama how you're helpin'. Oh. That's sweet. Good evening, ma'am. Whose turn is it to do the dishes? - Theodore's. - No, it ain't mine. - Well, who did 'em last night? - I did 'em. It's Theodore and Franklin's turn. You got a choice: clean the dishes or clean the outhouse. - Mama's home! - Good. She can do the dishes. After you called, we waited for you to come home, Mama. - We just ate while we waited. - He's been waiting all night to say that. - Can I fetch you some supper? - Theodore and Franklin keep makin' fun of my cookin', and Daddy won't get them to stop. Still comin' to that mass meetin'? It's in 15 minutes. - Selma, get your coat. - What? Listen to a bunch of preachers talkin' 'bout us plain folks wearin' out our shoes today while they drove around in their cars? No, thank you. I put in my time at church on Sunday morning, not Monday night. - Can I go, and Selma watch Franklin? - I wanna go too! "I wanna go too!" Theodore gets to have all the fun. - I think she cut up the cleanest parts and fried it. - Shut up, fool. Mom, I'm sorry about supper. I think it got worse as it got cold. Just let me get my shoes off. I'll be ready in a minute. Mmm. I got to give that girl some cookin' lessons. - Mama, your feet. - I just got to get me some shoes that fit, that's all. I'll get up and change my dress. I'll be ready in a minute. Don't wanna be late. Might not get a seat. You quit that horsin' around in my... Get off my bed! - Get in there. - Daddy? You can't let her walk down to the church. Don't worry about it. It'll make her feel better to go. It really will. The only weapon that we have in our hands this evening is the weapon of protest. And we are not wrong. We are not wrong in what we are doing. If we are wrong, the supreme court of this nation is wrong. If we are wrong, the Constitution of the United States is wrong. If we are wrong, God Almighty is wrong. And we are determined here in Montgomery, to work and fight, until justice runs down like water, and righteousness like a mighty stream. Well, now, ain't you all full of the day? I haven't felt this good in a long time. Course, when I got up this morning, I like to die. Once I started movin' around, I felt pretty good. - You walked all of that way across town? - Yes, ma'am. - Ooh, that's a long walk, woman. - Yes, indeedy. You know, you come into town and go to one of the mass meetings. You feel like you could walk forever too. Mmm, I gots me a ride to work, and I sleep through it most of the time. I don't need no inspiration. Odessa. Now, I hear that gettin' up early, movin' around, does a soul good in the mornin'. I just wonder what it does for 'em in the afternoon. Pass me not, O gentle savior Hear my humble cry While on others thou art calling Do not pass me by O savior, savior Hear my humble cry While on others thou art calling Do not pass me by Savior, savior - Hear my humble cry - Hear my humble cry While on others thou art calling Do not pass me by I think I'm gonna have to ask Mrs. Thompson for some days off. You be careful. Lot of folks losin' their jobs. Christmas next week. Yeah. Mrs. Thompson ain't as bad as some. She called that policeman out for me. I ain't never seen a white woman do nothin' like that before. Odessa, don't you go foolin' yourself 'bout that white woman. She don't know us, and she don't want to know us. She may have a heart of gold, but she the one that sent you to that park, and you ain't have no say in it. That policeman was apologizing to her, not you. Well, still and all, I cannot keep comin' home too tired to do the cookin' and too late to do the cleanin'. - You can always take the bus. - What? What did you say? I guess it's like the preachers say, "There's an easy answer for everything. " Nobody said it was gonna be easy. Mary Catherine, will you stop messing with that silverware and sit down in that seat. I'm just playing. I'm sorry I yelled at you. Odessa's got a lot of work to do. Odessa, I'm going to Junior League, so you'll have Mary Catherine. - Yes, ma'am. - Is that all the silver you've done? I've been feeling a little poorly today. Well, you've been feeling poorly all week, and next week is Christmas. Yes, ma'am. Now, I know you can't ride the bus, and I'm not a taxi service, but I can't have you come in here in the mornin' and draggin' around all day, Odessa. Not this close to Christmas. I go to Curb Market early on Tuesdays and Fridays, so I can pick you up between 7:30 and 8:00 on those mornings. Until you can start riding the bus. The other days, you're gonna have to get here on your own. Mary Catherine? Mary Catherine! I don't want you to go tellin' Daddy I've been carrying Odessa to work. Now, I've got a good reason for this, okay? - Yes, ma'am. - No slips. Santa might get unhappy. Understood? Okay. Bye-bye. Of course, what I cared about that Christmas were the little things... the presents I'd asked for and the way I thought my older sister owned the world. Mommy, Mommy! - They're here! They're here! - Oh! - Hi, honey! - Hi, Mom. Father says you never wrote a Christmas list. - I did mine a month ago. - Jeepers, Boo-Boo. - I'm not Boo-Boo. - Yes, you are, Boo-Boo. Let me get these bags to Sara's room, and then I want to take you all out for a surprise. - You mean after dinner. - No, I mean now. - Honey! - It'll be a lot of fun, honey. I know Sara's hungry, and I just made her favorite, chicken tetrazzini. - Ew! - Mother! I stopped eating chicken tetrazzini when I was nine years old. Besides, I had my heart set on eating at The Elite. - She made me promise at the airport. - Honey, I've been cooking all day long. I promise, I will eat cold chicken tetrazzini all week. This is the... the new subdivision. It's... 41 lots. I wasn't gonna bring you out here till Christmas, but, they put up these, uh... these street markers, and I was just sure that somehow you were gonna find out. Look. - Is that named after me? - It sure is. And, honey, look. Over there, that's Mary Lane. And it runs into Catherine Court, so you have two streets named after you. - Really? Two streets? - Yes, indeed. And way back there, you can't see it, but... that's Miriam Street. So now all the women in my life have somethin' named after 'em. And years and years from now, you can look back and know that people lived their lives on your street, and whenever they said where they lived, they used your names. Merry Christmas. The air force has spotted an unidentified object on radar coming south over Alaska. Fighters were launched from bases in Alaska to confirm the sighting. They say it appears to be a small sleigh flying in the air. Could it be Saint Nick? They've run the same Christmas Eve story for centuries. You'd think this entire city would die of boredom. - What's wrong with it? - I mean, who do they think they're kidding? Nobody who really believes in Santa Claus is listening. You don't still believe in Santa Claus, do you? - No. - Good. If there was a Santa Claus, he would have surely swooped down and replaced that old thing. Well, I wouldn't hold my breath waiting for that to happen. I know. I'm back in Montgomery again. Harness the mule. It's time to go down to the well and draw some water. - Miriam. - Shh. I'm right here. Shh. Honey, you're gonna have to tell me which pile to put these in. Relax, honey. It'll be fine. - I like the layout. - Well, let's see. Mary Catherine. Honey. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas, honey. Now, wave. Wave to the camera. Good. - Okay. Sara? - Come on. Merry Christmas, honey. Sweetness? Mary Catherine. Whoo! - Hold on. Hold on. - Look at the presents. Come on, Mary Catherine. Merry Christmas, Odessa. Miriam, the Eighth Army has arrived. Good morning, Odessa. The turkey and the ham are in the fridge. They're thawed, and the turkey is ready to be stuffed and cooked. Now, the casseroles still need to be cooked. 375, but not until 1:00. We can't have cold casserole. You could get started on the deviled eggs though. And when Claudia gets here, one of you will have to vacuum. Now, don't forget to put out the milk punch. Last year, we were halfway through the day, and nobody thought to put out the milk punch. Oh, I know I must be forgettin' somethin'. Oh! Merry Christmas, Odessa. - Merry Christmas, Mrs. Thompson. - Mother! Do I have to wear this stupid dress? Sara, I ordered these dresses specially for all of us. Now, they're cute. Mother! Dessie, look what I got. Isn't she pretty? She's got three whole outfits, with shoes and socks and everything! - Three whole outfits! - Look at her bonnet and her dress - and the ribbons and the shoes! - Oh, she's beautiful! Oh! Wait until you see what else I got. He come runnin' down the stairs, be so excited, he'd fly right on right on and hit his grand keister. Land on the road. Does he still do that? Now let's see if Tunker wants some of these limas. Hey, did you see that thing in the paper this morning? - I think Grover Hall has lost his mind. - What are you talking about? What thing? Didn't you read the paper this morning, Norman? He's talking about the ad that Grover let the coloreds put in the paper, demanding that we give in to them. Well, it's stupid. It's about one of the stupidest things that ever happened to this city, because who really cares about the buses? Ah, you don't understand. This is just a test. In the paper this morning, they said they want all the bus drivers' jobs. - Wouldn't that be great. - No. It seems to me... that the way to handle this thing is to play it down. Supreme court's just itching to force this whole issue. Let 'em sit where they want. It just won't work that way. I, for one, won't stand for the niggers in Montgomery running around yappin' about how they won. And don't you think it's gonna have consequences. Norman, don't you understand? If they get by with this bus thing now, in a few years you won't even be able to have this Christmas dinner... 'cause you'll have to have the maids sittin' right beside you. It's Communism is what it is. Just a bunch of Communists. All of 'em. None of 'em are from Montgomery either. That Martin Luther King... He hasn't even lived here a year. These niggers just want too much, and they're not willing to work for it. - Rolls, Mrs. Thompson? - No, thank you. Well, that's the way I feel. I don't care who hears me. - Thank you, Odessa. - Thanks, Dessie. Thank you. Claudia. Claudia, Odessa. That was a magnificent meal. It was. - Here's a little something for you. Merry Christmas. - Thank you. Merry Christmas, Odessa. We, uh... We were just talkin' about the bus boycott. - Claudia, I know, I know you get a ride with your husband. - Yes, sir. But, Odessa, you're here five days a week. How do you get to work? - Today I walked. - I mean, on a normal day. Well, I can't take the bus, Mr. Thompson, so I... I just... will find me a ride where I can. But if it were safe to ride the bus... you'd still rather walk than sit in the back? Yes, sir, I would have to say I would. That's a long walk. Yes, sir. Mighty long. That was... It was a delicious meal. - It really was. Merry Christmas. - Merry Christmas, Mr. Thompson. Well? Well... I see your point... - but I can't blame her because I don't think she's a problem. - The hell she's not. Why don't you get a new maid, get a white maid? - Mother, she's been with us for nine years. - She's a problem. She's not uppity like some. Not to your face. But slowly, they all start asking for more, doing less. Norm? You got a good family, good community here. When was the last time you locked your door at night? Never. If you give in... what do you think is gonna happen to this city? What do you think is gonna happen to your family? No, you gotta hold the line. We all do. And if she'd rather walk... bleed out the soles of her feet till she begs to ride that bus. Ooh, Mr. Thompson had a look in his eyes when he asked you 'bout gettin' to work. Girl, I can't believe what you said. It's one thing I learned in this life is when you got your hand in the lion's mouth, it's better just to pat him on the head. Mr. Thompson's all right. He didn't mean nothin' by that. But I tell you, Mrs. Thompson's mother almost got a plate of rolls busted upside her head. - Ooh, and on Christmas Day. - Mm-hmm. - Lord, spare that woman's soul. - Mmm. I know you got to work here, but if she said that to me, I'd have thrown those rolls down and given her my apron, told her the next time I serve her is the day after she walks to my house - and cooks my Christmas dinner. - Go ahead, girl. But I tell you, see, I sit up there and let her call me a lazy nigger, and I'll walk. I'd walk until I got no legs left if I thought it was gonna give my children a better shot in the world. You work so hard, have some woman say what that woman said, and make you wonder who gonna be sittin' in the backseat in heaven. - And on Christmas Day. - Mm-hmm. - See you tomorrow, girl. - Okay. I ain't takin' that. Listen, I gotta go. All right. Bye. See you. Merry Christmas. Y'all ain't gonna make me late for Christmas service. We ain't goin' nowhere without Theodore. Besides, you don't look like you're dressed yet. What are you talkin' about? Mama, you just don't look ready. Theodore! See if you can find something in there for your mama to wear. Has everybody gone crazy? - Merry Christmas. - Merry Christmas. - Merry Christmas, Mama. - Merry Christmas, Mom. Open 'em. I don't know how you did this. I don't know how I did it either. Well, you know, ain't... they ain't gonna wait for us over at the church now. Come on, y'all. Here. Mm-hmm. Well, come on. Mama's gonna find out she's been hoggin' that phone and tan her hide. I gotta go to the shed. Get them lights straight before I get back here. Well, yeah, I could get there if I wanted to. Yeah. Why not? Stop! Get away, stupid. Sorry. Excuse me. All right. Hold on. I'm gonna leave right now. Yeah, I can get there. Yeah, I got a way. I'm hangin' up the phone, all right? All right? Okay. Bye. Shoot. Everybody's lost their minds. - Where's Selma? - She went down to Leticia's for some hot chocolate. Did Leticia call? What you got behind your back? - Nothin'. - What is it? It's just somethin'. Stop! Let's see. About worth a shit. Open your hand before I break it! Did Selma give you that quarter? I can't say. You hurt my arm. Damn! - I don't want no trouble. - I'm just riding the bus, sir. I ain't caused no trouble. I don't want any trouble. You understand? - Yes, sir. - Okay. Selma. Damn! I don't care if God himself comes down and asks. You don't tell nobody that Selma and I left. I know. Kickin' us out of class. - My dad is not gonna care. - It's his fault, not ours. - I know it's his fault. - Huh. - His dad won't care. - Never does. - My dad will. - Hey. We got a nigger on the bus. She must be from out of town. She must be. - Hey. Hey. Do you wanna have some fun? - Yeah. We're gonna have some fun. Have some fun. She's kinda cute too. Yeah, for a nigger. Go on. You from out of town? He asked you a question. No, I'm not from out of town. You call him "sir. " Sir. Hey, in case you hadn't heard, niggers quit ridin' the bus around here. Or ain't you a nigger, girl? Say "I'm a nigger, sir. " - Say it! - Y'all are gonna have to sit down back there. This girl is sittin' where I wanna sit. She's supposed to be at the back of the bus. All right. You three, get off the bus... right now. I said, now, or I'll call the police and have you thrown in jail. You think I won't do it? You think I won't do it? Old fart. Don't bring your trashy ass back on my bus again. I'll call your daddy. Damn fools. I'm gonna teach you to ride our bus! Your water's in the ditch, nigger. - Mommy. - Never mind. Come on. Catch that nigger! Come on back, nigger! What do you want? What did I do wrong? - Why'd you run, nigger bitch? - Get away from me. Get away! Don't talk that way to me, nigger. Leave my sister alone! Why'd you push me, nigger? - Hit him! - No! No! Go down, nigger! Hey! If you wanna hit someone, hit me! - I'm sorry. I didn't mean to get you hurt. - I'm not hurt. Get his ass in the car. Let me take you home before I get lynched. - I didn't wanna fall. - You stood long enough. Hello. My God. What happened to your face? It's my fault. I tried to ride the bus, and Theo got beat up by some white boys 'cause of it. You tried to ride the bus? Is that what you're tellin' me? You tried to ride the bus, and that's why his face looks like that? What's wrong with you? Wash your face, Selma. Get Theo cleaned up here. If you own a car, but you must be at work during the day, we have fine young men who can drive your cars, allowing you to still contribute to the boycott. And now the choir will sing "We're Marching to Zion. " Those of you who can help us with the carpooling, come forward during the singing of this song. - We are marching - We are marching - Up to Zion - Marching up to Zion - That beautiful city of God - That beautiful city of God - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - We're marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - Oh - City of God - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - We're marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - Come on, children - City of God - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - Marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - City of God - City of God - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - We're marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - City of God, Hallelujah - City of God - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - Marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - City of God - City of God - Lord, we are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - We're marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - Wonderful - That wonderful - Glorious - That glorious - Victorious - Victorious - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - We're marching up to Zion That beautiful city of God I'm sorry I'm late. I just had this stuff to take care of downtown, and I didn't see any sense in making the trip out here twice. I've got this club luncheon, which means I have to go to the beauty parlor... as soon as I get back, and then I have this Junior League thing this afternoon. - Now, what is he doing? - Oh, they're tryin' to break the boycott. They just follow behind people and try to give 'em tickets. You just drive nice and slow, Mrs. Thompson. He'll go back to the lot. Is that the big boycott carpool stop? Oh, yes, ma'am, I believe it is. Is that woman drivin' for the carpools? Well, I don't know if she is, but I know there's a lot of women from the air force base who do. I come to find out from Odessa, they are drivin' these maids around on a regular basis. - What? - There are white women drivin' for the carpool. - Are you sure? - Yes. Odessa says they're from Maxwell Field. I should have known they were Yankees. But they had police out there, and they were followin' people around. For a while, Odessa and I thought they were followin' us. - Miriam, are you drivin' your maid to work? - No, Laura Ann. Two days a week I go to the Curb Market, and I just pick her up on those days. And you were talkin' like you thought those white women drivin' the carpools were wrong. You're just as bad. Robert says this whole boycott would end tomorrow if - people like you would stop drivin' their maids to work. - Is that what Robert says? Well, my maid has a car, so I don't have to worry about it. Well, I told Cathy, that if she wanted to boycott, that was fine, but she'd be on her own. She fed me all this junk about: "Oh, I's not wantin' to boycott. I's just walkin' 'cause I can't ride with all these police and stuff. " I told her, "Fine. Just be at work on time and don't leave early. " One club. Well, you better well believe - she's sittin' up front at those church rallies. - Pass. - One spade. - Pass. I don't really care what happens to the boycott, but I do care if I have a maid, and if that means drivin' her sometimes, well, that's what it means. Two clubs. 40,000 local Negroes continue to walk and ride in carpools, as the city buses roll without passengers. An announced settlement with Negro ministers proves to be an empty promise. In day 49 of the Negro Bus Boycott, dramatic new developments from City Hall. Good evening. I'm Carl Stephens, WSFA News. Mayor Gayle announced today he was calling off negotiations in the Negro bus boycott. Must be Tunker. I have to go. Honey, that's not polite. Sit at the table when we have company. Hi! - How's my little Boo-boo? - Oh, she doesn't like to be called Boo-boo anymore. - They make fun of her at school. - Aw... Well then... I will never call you that again. If you just... Give your Uncle Tunker a little - ... sugar. - ... sugar. Ah! I always liked Mary Catherine better anyway. That's the type of name you'd expect for a princess or a queen. - 'Cause you are a princess. My beautiful little princess. - We better be off. - Well, good luck. - Luck? Citizens' Council don't need luck. Not with men like your daddy. Oh, I thought you were going to a business meeting. - No. Citizens' Council meeting. - Oh. Norman, could I talk to you for a minute, please? Norman. These are the people you said couldn't count to 10. You're gonna go to one of their meetings? The whole thing has just gotten out of hand. And now the mayor, the city commission, they've all joined. So for me, it's either joining this group or the Klan. Oh, honey. That's not true. The mayor and the commission are politicians. They'd join the circus if they thought it'd get 'em reelected. You're beginnin' to let your little brother lead you around by the nose. Listen, I don't care whether you like Tunker or not, but don't you tell me what to do. I'll make up my own mind, and I'll join any goddamn group I please. - Are you ready? - Sure. - Well, this is not at all what I expected. - Yeah. See. No white sheets. No secret oaths. You mean I don't get to learn a coded handshake? - Is that what you're tryin' to tell me? - Norm Thompson. - Yeah. Oh, hi. Jeff Sewell with Avalon Brothers here in town. - Oh, right. Nice to see ya. - Glad you could be out tonight. - Thank you. - By the way, I've just been put on the planning commission. - Uh-huh. - If you ever have a zoning problem, you give me a ring. - I can put you right. - Thanks, Jeff. Over half the small business owners in town are members of the council. You mean half the white small businesses. If you call what the niggers do business, Commissioner Sellers. - How you doing, Clyde? - Holdin' on. Didn't think you'd be out here after that phone call I got from your wife a while back. She was right though. The police department's gotta keep its nose clean. Hope you can get the rest of that country club crowd to some of these meetings. If the niggers keep pushin' the way they are, - we'll get 'em off the golf courses for ya. - No, no. What I want is to get 'em on the course. Best caddy I ever had was a nigger. Testing. One, two, three. Testing. One, two, three. - I know the journey... has been hard. - Yes. Yeah. - Many of you are tired. - Right. Yeah. - Still tired. - We've seen the city, and it's turned its back on its black children. We've seen the mayor and city commission, which has taken a stand... - for injustice... - Yes. Amen. - and bigotry. - Yes. - Moses. - Moses. - Moses! - Yes. Moses. - Fought the pharaoh long and hard for his people. - Yes. - What? Oh! - But Moses stood tall for his people. Tall, yeah. When the children of Israel... were led out into the wilderness, - they didn't walk for just one month or two. - No. - They walked for 40 long years. - All right. All right. They just bombed Reverend King's house. Wait. Let us pray. - Father, I've just heard terrible news. - Yeah. I've heard that a bomb was thrown at the house... of a young man so full of spirit. Father, we pray... - in thanks, for sparing the life of Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. - Yes! - Lord, be by our side. - Yeah. These dark days... hold our hand as we walk through the night. - Yeah. - Yes. - Lord, don't pass Montgomery by! - Yes. - Don't pass Montgomery by tonight. - Yeah. Oh. - Is there anything you need, honey? - No, no. When's Odessa gettin' here? Well, she's probably gonna be a little late on account of the rain. Isn't she usually here by now? Not really. You mean she comes in late a lot? Odessa gets here just fine every day. Now, I've got to go. She'll be here soon enough. Miriam. Yeah. Just how does Odessa get to work? Well, I was goin' over to the Curb Market today anyway, and that's over on Madison near where Odessa lives, - and I was just gonna go ahead and pick her up. - You're gonna do what? How often do you drive her around? Well, I go to Curb Market twice a week. - That's it. - Here I am tryin' to hold my head up as a white man in this town, and you're cartin' a nigger maid. No wonder none of 'em are ridin' the buses. They have you to carry 'em around. What should I do? Odessa walks to work three days a week. She can walk five. You can just get on the phone and call her now. - Norman. - Now, damn it! Hello. Yes, ma'am, I can be to work. I'll just be a little late. - Oh. - Miriam? Damn. I'm sorry I got so upset before. - Can I talk to you for a minute? - Yeah. I know you don't keep up with things. Even I thought this boycott business was silly when it first started. And if it wasn't being made into... such a circus by the coloreds, I'd still think it was silly. But... ...it's not anymore. And drivin' Odessa to work, it... just wasn't the right thing to do. You know that. I think Odessa... has been a wonderful maid for us, and when she's here, that's what she is: A Maid. And that's not the real Odessa. We don't know that woman. Can't ever know her. It's like... a dog knowin' a cat. It's a different species. And you drivin' her to work is tellin' her that she's just like us. And she's not, and she never can be. Even if I thought you didn't understand that, and I know you do, I still couldn't let you drive her to work. Do you know what would happen to you... if the wrong people saw you? You saw the pictures from Tuscaloosa when they kicked that niggra out. There are people here, now, that are ready to do those things. Don't go off on your own. You ask me. I know what's best. Mrs. Thompson? - Mrs. Thompson? - Odessa. I didn't know if you'd make it. I did the breakfast dishes. Mrs. Thompson... why did you call me at home, and tell me you couldn't carry me to work anymore? Well, if... If you won't ride the bus, Mr. Thompson doesn't see why I should have to suffer. I ain't asked you to suffer, Mrs. Thompson. It wasn't me, Odessa. It was Mr. Thompson. He was home with a cold today, and he found out. Let me get you somethin' dry. - Here ya are. - Thank you. So, what are you gonna do? I don't know. I can't walk, and I can't ride the bus. Can't you just walk until this whole mess is over? Mrs. Thompson, you a good woman. But I gotta find me another job. I gotta quit. I gotta be able to take care of my children. Well, uh, I understand. You know, it's... It's funny the way people are. This mornin' Norman was actin' so sick, and then he found out I'd been drivin' you, and he got so mad, he jumped out of bed. I guess that got his blood goin', and he started feelin' better and went on to work. Norman's just always been where everything's segregated. That's... That's just the way he thinks. When I was 15, my girls club went on a bus trip across the country. It was in the '30s, but my family had some money, and, I remember we went to Portland, Oregon. It was the middle of the summer, and it was hot, and, the bus driver found this public pool for us. We went swimmin'. Then these two colored boys came and got in the water. And let me tell ya, you've never seen 20 girls get out of a pool so fast in all your life. We just... We just didn't know any better. But I remember watchin' those other kids in the water. And they just kept right on swimmin' with those colored boys, and, they didn't seem any the worse for it. So the rest of the world around ya is... livin' that way, and so you just don't question it. Years ago... I decided I'd live with Norman for the rest of my life. And part of that means livin' the way he lives. But sometimes... Sometimes Norman says things. It makes me wonder if he saw as much of the world durin' the war as he thought he did. But he's a good man. He's a good provider. In a lot of ways, he's a better husband than I am a wife. He's better with the children. He... You know, he can say a word and make 'em smile. I can't do that. Mrs. Thompson, he can't be a mother to 'em. Odessa. You do the motherin'. I saw the way you held Mary Catherine when she had the chicken pox, and you hadn't even had it. Mrs. Thompson, anybody would have done that. I wonder. Would I have done that for your daughter? Mrs. Thompson, I don't want your children to grow up scared of mine. It's just that a lot of the wives are scared. I'm a little scared. We all scared. But what's scarin' you, Mrs. Thompson? Who you are? Or who Mr. Thompson wants you to be? - Hi. - Hi. - Here. - Oh, thank you. - Let me take your coat. - Thank you. - How's your cold? - Oh, I'm miserable. I feel like crap. Well, that's nice, honey. Odessa walked to work today. - Oh, you told her she had to? - In the rain. From Cobb Street. But she's not walking again. - No? - No. You have your job, and I guess you do it just fine. My job is to run this house. And as long as it's clean, supper's cooked, and the laundry... the laundry gets done, I don't... I don't think it's any of your business how it happens. Wait a second. Aren't you forgettin' who pays the bills around here? Well then, what time should I be ready tomorrow? Ready for what? Well, I'm gonna go downtown with you in the mornin' and help you with your job. You seem so intent on helping me with mine. Or if you don't like that idea, I do have a college education, so I'll just go out and get a job of my own. It'll probably be somethin' secretarial, but I'm sure I'll manage. You will have to take on a lot of the housework, which will include finding a maid who can get out here. But the money I earn will be my own, and I'll do with it what I damn well please. - You're serious... - And that includes givin' it all to that Reverend King and the Montgomery Improvement Association, so they can put an end to this whole boycott mess. Now, do you really care if I drive Odessa to work? We're havin' pork chops for supper, and I told Mary Catherine that you'd read to her before she went to sleep. Did you get Mary Catherine to bed? Yeah. What are you doin'? Oh, are you just not gonna talk to me? Honey, there's no reason to be so mad. - Norman, talk to me. - You already made up your mind. - No need to talk to me. - Honey, I'm doin' what I think is right. Where are you going? Norman, I'm still your wife. Yeah, that's all you are. Odessa, come on, sit up front with me. Odessa, how does that carpooling system work? Well, I don't use it often, Mrs. Thompson, but I believe that drivers come at the end of day, to places like Cloverdale, and they pick up the women that need the rides. It's a little more organized than that, isn't it? Yes. Yes, it is. They look for the ringleaders of the boycott, they pull 'em over and give 'em tickets. If they see too many coloreds in the car, they pull them over too. I'll probably get lots of tickets. You know, Mrs. Thompson, it ain't just tickets. Once you step over there, I don't know that you can ever step back. But the boycott needs the help. Mrs. Thompson, this boycott's gonna survive without you drivin'. Odessa, I wanna do this. I wanna help. There's a lot of ways you can help, Mrs. Thompson. You can just write a check. If I wrote you a check, it would be Norman's money. This is somethin' I can do. This whole mess is just about ridin' the bus anyway. That's what it is now. But we gonna win this thing, Mrs. Thompson. When it's all said and done... people are gonna look at you, Mrs. Thompson, and they're gonna say that you were part of this. Well, let people say what they're gonna say. And what about when it isn't just the busses? When it's the parks and the restaurants? When it's colored teachers in white schools? What about when we start votin', Mrs. Thompson? 'Cause we are. And when we do, we are gonna put Negroes in office. What about when the first colored family moves into your neighborhood? You know, Mrs. Thompson, ain't nobody gonna think any less of you if we just turn around and go back to the house. I don't want all them beans, Selma! Eat what you're gonna eat, and I'll let you have the rest for breakfast. - Mama! - Don't be a crybaby. - But it's beans! - Hush up, and let's say the blessing. I'll say it. I'll say the blessing tonight. Lord, I'm gonna ask you to bless this food for which we are thankful to receive. Watch over our souls tonight, and help us live your word tomorrow. And, Lord, please watch over Miriam Thompson too. In Jesus' name we ask this. Amen. I got my reasons. - Amen. - Amen. - Amen. Hi! I'm with the carpools. Y'all goin' downtown? Yes, ma'am. Mornin', ma'am. My mother began drivin' five and six days a week. My father knew she drove Dessie, but he didn't know she drove for the carpools. I may be a little late, so I'll get my own dinner. - I am... - You know, we all are goin' down to this thing this evenin'. You comin'? - Well, I was plannin' on it. - Yeah. Listen. I want you to come see somethin' with me first. - Say 6:00, 6:15? - Okay. Good. Good. When we started stakin' this place out and takin' down tag numbers, we, uh, came up with a few surprises. That, uh, wagon registered to you is one of 'em. She's been here the last couple of nights at this time. Drivin' for a few weeks, apparently. I didn't find out until this mornin'. - Well, Norman, you had to know. - Not like this! I'm sorry, but now you can't ignore it anymore. - Well, I won't. - Now... She's got Mary Catherine over there. Don't go makin' a scene in front of the child. Let me go. Hmm? - This is my problem. I can handle it. - Yeah, handle it. At home, in private. Not in front of the girl and a bunch of niggers. I can get rid of 'em. I'll get 'em out of there. Let it wait for a few minutes till things start up. Then she'll wanna leave. - Yeah, well, don't you get cute with me. - Hey! I made plans to be here tonight a long time before - we found out about your wife, and so did you. - Huh, Christ. Give me five minutes. Hmm? Let's go. - Winston. Good to see ya. - Good to see ya. - Charlie. - Hi. Police pulled out about 20 minutes ago. There are a couple folks already here. All right. All right. - ... Gay Meadows in the middle of the day. - Mm-hmm. - We need some cars on those routes. - Okay. Now, uh... Miriam. - Do you know him? - Yes. - Is he trouble? - No. I can handle this. Excuse us. Miriam, you shouldn't be here. Is that Mary Catherine over there? You shouldn't be bringin' her into a place like this. Well, Tunker, I don't think it's any of your business. I don't think you heard me right, boy. I'm okay. Miriam, don't be tellin' me this isn't any of my business. - Well then, don't try to run my life. - You should leave. - Tunker, there are some women dependin' on me for a ride. - Can I help you? They'll be here any minute. - I'll leave then. - Yeah, you got an ashtray? If you don't have any business here, I'd appreciate it if you'd leave the lot. Well, if you don't mind, I'd appreciate it if you got your black ass out of my face. Miriam. Miriam. In a few minutes, 150 men are gonna shut this lot down... any way they can. I think Norman might be interested to find out why his little girl was smack in the middle of it. Winston, what do you think I should do with a nigger like this one? Charlie! - Charlie! - Get off my back, nigger. - What's happening? - Come on, baby. - Charlie! - You gonna hit me, black boy, huh? Odessa, we've gotta go. You ain't drivin' your nigger maid out of here. Get away from my car. No, you get away from your car. You wanna act like a nigger? Then you just get your daughter and walk with the rest of the niggers. What do y'all think we ought to do with Mrs. Martin Luther Coon, huh? - We're gonna show you what we think about niggers. - Martin. Martin! Martin. All right. If she leaves, she walks with the rest of the niggers. Miriam, you lost this one. Let's go. - Get her out of here. - Don't let him treat you that way. - Shut this parking lot down. - You a man or a mouse? Go to hell, Tunker. Just go to hell, you... ignorant son of a bitch. Let's get these niggers out of here! Mommy! Mommy! Get 'em out of here! Get 'em out! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! Walk, nigger, walk! You were told, nigger, to get out of here and by God, I'm gonna move you! Open up a space to let her through. We can get her out of here! Why you still standing there? You bunch of niggers think you can come in here and cause trouble without thinkin' we're gonna do anything about it? Well, I got news for ya! We are gonna do somethin' about it, hear me? We're gonna move you right out of here! What are you lookin' at? I said move! I want you to move right now! I said move, lady! I don't want you starin' at me. I want you... Shining Upon me - From within - Walk, nigger, walk! So right I've Bade the world And its follies Adieu I've started In Jesus And I'm Going through I'm Going through Yes, I'm Going through I'll pay the price Whatever Others do I'm Going through It would be years before I understood what standin' in that line meant to my mother. And as I grew older, to me. I'll take the way With the Lord's Despised few I started In Jesus And I'm Going through 50,000 boycotted the buses in Montgomery. I knew one. Her name was Odessa Cotter. - Subtitle - Completely fixed: titler - We are marching - We are marching - Up to Zion - We're marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - City of God - City of God - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - We're marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - Oh - City of God I come to say to you this afternoon: - However difficult the moment... - Yes, sir. however frustrating the hour... it will not be long. - Because truth crushed to earth will rise again. - Yes, sir! - How long? Not long. - Yes, sir. - Because no lie can live forever. - Yes, sir! - How long? Not long. - Not long. - Because you shall reap what you sow. - Yes, sir. - How long? Not long! - Not long. Because the arc of the moral universe is long, - but it bends toward justice. - Yes, sir. How long? Not long! - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - Marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - City of God - City of God - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - Marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - City of God - City of God Let those refuse to sing Who never knew our God But let all the children of our heavenly king Spread their joys abroad - Hallelujah, we are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - Marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - City of God - City of God - Oh, we are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - Marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - Wonderful - That wonderful - Glorious - That glorious - Victorious - Victorious - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - We're marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - The beautiful city - Oh, come on - Of God - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - Marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - City of God - City of God - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - We're marching up to Zion - To that beautiful - That beautiful - Wonderful - That wonderful - Glorious - That glorious - Victorious - Victorious - We are marching - We are marching - On up to Zion - Marching up to Zion That beautiful City of... God
