 

                        1 Father... Do they really exits in this world? They?.... Whomever are you talking about? The 12 spirits... The 12 false idols. Don't you know. They exits in every corner of this world. Then....What do they exist to do? They exist in every war, famine and every disaster. Then why do they hide? If they are being discovered The human race will turn to god The Rosicucians will be in contact. They say one of the spirits was found in korea. I can't contact father Zheng qi fan in Korea. Are we to go to Korea? Seoul Success! Let's go, time is running out. Quick Opposite Lord..please don't abandon us. Exorcism- A catholic ritual to free the lifeforce takenby the evil spirits. Solemn Exorcism, according to church law 1172, can be used to exorcise evil. Priest , the Archbishop and Exorcist combination's existence Vice Exorcist, clergymen who help the father. The possesed-a person whose body houses the evil spirit. the rosecrucians will find out which of the 12 spirit from the symptoms exhibited. The priests This is Priest Bei De Luo Jin Feng Xin He and Priest Zheng Qi fan who is retired were once a team. Everyone says he is a blockhead in church school Also particularly well-known in Francisco is a very stubborn person I chased this man away once. And he came back again. Totally doing things in his own way. He was not permitted and so he was fired by the archbishop. While the possesed child, is named Li Ying Shen, an average high school girl. Under this circumstances-Exorcismus There is a need for the ritual of exorcism. In mostcases we have Priest Zheng who resides in the hospital for the exorcisms. We will help as vice exorcist. Priest Jin, you are putting us in a difficult position. Brother Bei De luo, in any case you should have seek my opinion on doing it. What are you talking about. Dean, i had tried to seek your approval many times But everytime i brought it up with you, you said it's not important. This is the umpteenth time you are bullshitting me. If people found out that the Korean church is performing exorcism in the 21st century. I heard is someone we know. Yes, he is a church fellow in Seoul. We found out at the hospital that he has symptoms of possession after the accident You should pray for him. Should'nt we just do a simple psychological treatment for him? I had made my prelimnary judgement according to the basic rules of exorcism. I made contact with the possessed and made a diagnosis. Her condition significantly differs from the average psychotic patients. Father, i can't sleep, I hear wierd noises. What noise Everything, even insects talking. The decisive factor here is that the possessed can attract animals. So the simple dead spirit. In another words a random spirit. The majority can be exorcise with rituals. What if it's not a simple dead spirit. Theres very few cases of this in Korea. If so, it'll be one of the 12 false idols the Rosicrucian are looking for. I know i know People are so fickle, celebrating jesus birth on christmas. But saying such things will lead to a debate of rational vs ethical Even faithful clergymen too. Enough, watch what you say infront of the archbishop Though i don't understand why is everyone afraid But now there is a child suffering. Are we to ignore it? I heard all your preaching. You should know the impact if the word of this gets out. And so i officially object. Do you understand? This is final, please leave after this meeting. As per the agreement, a civil doctor and a vice exorcist on duty. Do you have the right priest? Professor Pu Xian Zhen from the Saints Way church hospital have been informed. As to the vice priest in the exorcism ritual Actually he is a Priest. Thats why it is so important. Therefore, the conditions required will be many. I try to end within a week She is jsut a child, can't be anything special. Li ying Shen,Ying Shen, Come open the door Li ying Shen Why are you asking me about the accident that occured a few months back again. We don't really know that priest If the exorcism is done, it must be done wrongly or done heretically. Is not it This is information of graduates from the Church school, it is confiential. It is under the juridiction of Francisco You are like asking KBS about MBC's information. Ok, i am hanging up. Why are you all coming to the school. I have been praying, anyway i am here. We are here to look for a vice exorcist. So I'll look around Vice exorcist must be fluent Latin German and Chinese to convey words of the priest. We need to fight evil spirits. So he must be agile, brave and open-minded. Must be a brave person. But also it has the wisdom to withstand the temptation of the evil spirits. He also must have a strong body to withstand the long hours of exorcism. Troublesome, troublesome. If he atteneded lectures of Father Zheng he will understand the nature of the ritual In your case, hey you punk. When you fall asleep, spirits might possess you, you punk. Come out, come out, so sorry. Lastly, must be born on the year of tiger. On the year of tiger, then it's 98 86 86 Must be born with a sensitive soul. Why is it this punk. Walk slowly, you seem unstable. I am walking slowly. Principal and priest must be very angry right? I was too absorbed in spiritual prayer do so this semester grades You're the only bad student that's required of the job of vice exorcist in 10years. Just like this from the last, became the 1st, and then back to becoming the last. " Matteo Ricci " chapter 10 verse 16 Seventh grade Jia de 86 year of the Tiger right, parents did not register the date wrongly right? Yes, of course. Alright How's school life. Great, under the lords grace. You can reach the seventh grade. must be with the grace of the lord. Yes Theres a good news and a bad news. Which do you want to hear first? I want the good news first. Good news is the archbishop has come to visit us. So he will sing hymns with all the students. Thats great news. Yes, and the bad news is. You can forgo the event this time round. Why only me? Father Kim and retired Father Zheng from Francisco are informal members of the Rosicrucian Performed and exorcism on a child last winter. But the boy commited suicide is in a vegetable state. Including myself, several priests are helping the exorcism In the convent there's a vice exorcist is having some trouble I am not the replacement, ri.... It's nothing, you just need to listen to the priest. Vice exorcist, it's just a vice. Why me. If you don't want to do it then don't, join the choir and be happy. Am i the only person who can do this? Hmmm. The is the information the priest left, you can read it. Shutup A pious tougue There inside contains the address of where the priest live previously. You can go there if theres a need. I heard he is not meeting people, but i am sure he willl meet the understudy. You go and find out what happened Ma Qin Hao fellow, where are you. Who are you? The dean ask me to come. Why did he ask you to come? I am be the vice exorcist for this coming exorcism. The door is open, so i came in. Sorry didn't know that you were eating. What is your rank in the church. I am the vice exorcist. Sending me a random punk my way. I am not young, nearly 30. If you are born in the year of tiger you must be 62. I am 74. This is a textbook and notebook, Vice exorcist need to do recording. Ah, text and notebook. Sir why did you quit. My body is failing me. and i need to take care of my parents. how are your parents. What are you doing, why are you curious about this. Sorry. Hey,from now onwards you must listen to me. Inclusive of where you go. Fellow Pu, open the door. Let's meet. Come on out. I see you sitting in there inside, come out No, priest. You might not be able to see me this time. People will be sent there. I quit. No, its not like that. I can't accomplish anything with that meatbag. It will be fine if it's enough. Open the door i am not joking. What do you mean its enough, buck up priest. Just help me one more time. Don't you pity the child? I let you go. Where did priest Jin go wrong? You may go. Sorry, i am going. Fellowman, how are you? Is there really a situation. There might be. That crazy kid there. Rosicrucian society Choir singers Jin Feng Xin, Bei De Luo Shen, Pu Xian Zhen Priest Jin, quickly pray you punk. The praying priest Jin who spreads his word Ying Shen awake? Ying Shen I can't sleep, i keep hearing wierd noises 1AM Priest Jin What noise? Shen Ying Every thing, even the conversation between insects. Priest Jin Its like a flu. What? you mean it's psychosis? I saw it on the internet. I know myself the best. It will be fine after a brain surgery. What do you have in your pocket. What? Isn't this a voice recorder. Hmm, why is this here. Ying Shen itchy? why does your body keep fidgeting? Father didn't you just touch me? I didn;t I really like you, but why are you always like that. I don't like it But you can't say even if it hurts? I don't like it But Run Run Please speak properly. The whole fiasco of the rosicrucian society sending Latin fellomen to korea must be in relation to the child. God often give us opportunities in various ways, this is a good thing Who is it? Church dean Sorry i am going to rest Had a nightmare? Yes What did you dream Killed a dog. Not bad, seems like you need to help me. Today is lunar 15/7. Ghost Festival , also known as Obon in Buddhism a day where negative energy is the highest. It's the only day where heaven allow spirits to spread merits. Today is the only chance we have to save the girl Ah, fine Hope in, ill drop you at the train station. I would never have met you if any later. why do you set off so early Have to fetch something from the dean in the capital He uses you for everything really. That. The Exorcist has been exposed, it's dangerous and so its prepared by vice exorcist You did your homework. How about Priest Jin. You are meeting for the first time today. Yes, we only spoke through phone. Nervous, What can we do about it. Just curious. Curious hmm. Do you remember the last words of the Pope in his inaugural speech? Erh. People of reason and wisdom We the catholic church It is very rational and popular religion The fight against superstition and irrationality has been full of difficulties to be what it is today. Because you have to go I will send you It is not public knowledge, you should know. Yes i know. And its not for you to help Priest Jin. Italian Bride Place of death Soul fled Novenmber 29 same day. I am the light of the world. People who follow me Walk out of the dark Life is Ying shen ah Think of the method for praying for digestion. Forgo your sacred happiness No Father I really can do it, 1 more time please Concentrate Dean and professor from the capital have contacted fellow Pu Regarding the girl Did something i shouldn't have. Lets take some photos secretly. Whats going on? The archbishop needs confirmation. Don't do it bit by bit, get all the facts straight before coming back. Now it should stop people Good day, Dean wen, i am vice exorcist Cui Zhen Hao Priest Jin ask me to come Priest Jin? Priest Jin Fan Xin Priest Jin It was sent a fortnight ago, isn't it here yet Please contact the company who sent it out. Please confirm has it reach korea? Grace of the lord I must get it today. Yes Priest Jin says we need it today. They oonfirm they have sent it out on their side Father Priest Jin I am sorry, please bury him, he had alot of hardships in his life. Theres a reason i did it It isn't like that. Priest Zheng has woke up. Looks like we will only be there tomorrow. I will contact you once i get hold of it. Blockhead Thats their problem Ridiculous When did i ask you to do it. I do not have the final say here. On their side I don't know, i really don't know Did you steal it, or did you make it, you figure it out. Yes you told me some time back, but he doesn't have it what can i do. Enough Untill you can get that, you stay in church and pray Why did you give me this job. Hey punk, so its my fault. Youngsters are so impatient. Please please please Whats the use of begging me? I'll give you a call in a while. Hang up on me? This is.. This is serious. This is wierd why it smell so much What smell Ever since Priest Zheng woke up, Theres a bad putrid scent. Got it, you go rest. I'll go take a look here, i'll call you if theres a need Alright Ah, Fan Xin is here. Do you know that i miss you. You have grown scrawny. Is there something going on? You know whats going on. Gotten heavier right. It's gotten heavier, like several people in a body. Fan Xin, I dreamt i went to heaven last night You should have stayed there, why did you come back But there was a huge spider gradually climbing towards me there. O, spider? That spider climb towards me and the smell I didn't know what smell was that,then i found out that's the smell of heaven What happen after Then i waited patiently That bugger bit my leg. O, that must hurt. I thought it would hurt, instead i became much sober. But i suddenly thought of you. Aren,t you always disatified with me? What are you talking about? I like you very much. Fan Xin, stay with me today. I don't think i am left with much time. You lie down. Don't you know that i am busy? Where you going? Are you going to refuse your teacher's last request? Not letting go? Just a mere dead spirit and you want to stop me? Theres no one other than you. Mini brotherhood Wheres that guy? It is to destroy dead spirits Let the evil and the dead spirits of the world answer my call, Fan Xin Please send them back to hell. Wheres that guy? Ah, Professor Pu What business do you have with profesor Pu O it's fine. What are you doing? Priest Jin ask me to come. Priest Jin I know, the item has been taken back. Wheres that pig? Pig? Fellow Pu, that pig? Yes. We already have a connection. That vice exorcist That kid will have diarrhea if he eats spicy food. If you open the door, he will go to the toilet by himself. Erh. You should come over. Do you want to replace professor Pu? Yes Why? Priest Dean gave me his permission Do you know how many have come here before you? The number is in the tens. Go back. Aren't you accompanying today? Where is that guy? Reply me Fan Xin. I need to know. Where is that guy? Need to stop you guys. Speak to me. The male who went with you. Who? I will go by myself today. Thats why i go. Priest deaconask me to understand the situation. I will reconfirm this time round. No matter what happens. I have not lived this life fully Emptyness and falsehoods I wasted all my energy. Thereby my power lies in my lord. My compensation is with my lord. Bi Isaiah Chapter 49 Verse 4 Is it your favourite part, father? Really until the very end. This is call bell of Francisco, practicing monks will ring the bell when pasing by woods with evil spirits. Made in San Francisco This is a national treasure in Assisi I need this, what more can i do Hey. Watch your back. Understand what i mean? My respected lord, my beloved god. Look down upon this bell. Save us from evil and the threats that stem from evil. Protect us from the corrosion of evil. Alright i am here. Moon? No, It hasn't risen yet. Alright i am beside the market. Alright i understand, immediately. Pfft, you are not ordering a dog around. Let's go. The child's father accepted a settlement after appeal Do not miss any facts and come back crystal clear on the facts. We should ll stop him. How are you. I am Cui Zhen Hao vice exorcist. Ah, lock that pig outside. Why did you bring a pig to a barbecue shop? Don't you have a conscience. Sorry. Everything is very natural right. What did you eat, you look pale. What. Occasionaly people says that of me. Really young, so young. Sit down. Where do you live? Long Ren Shui District. Ancestry home? I am born there, oh, the property prices must be through the roof. Whats your father's occupation. It's the usual teaching position, same with mom. Are they catholics? No only my mom. Siblings? A younger sister. Traffic accident? That one is much better. Suicide. No, just that an incident happen. What incident. Come, tell it to me in detail. Hmm, It's fine, forget it. Bitten to death by a dog at 9. Bitten by a dog? Oh wow that's interesting. Tell me in detail. Whats so interesting about this? Yeah, but why are you so sensitive. It's all in the past. Let me see, if you are killed by a beast you'll wander in hell, you know that right Oh, such tragedy and so young, what can be done? I am going to cry. Left with a son after the disaster. And the son wants to be a priest. Went into church school with 100% certainty Doing something thats not suitable and pushing on with difficulty. Of course this doesnt mean anything. I thought once i become a priest. my sister will go to heaven, what an idiot i am. Parents hurt alot deep inside. Oh, oh! This is really interesting. Why? Isnt it like this? You really know alot, it's no wonder you are exorcist priest. Everyone have a past, you are no different. Then whats your past like, father? Nothing special. Why? It doesnt matter if you dont know right meatbag. Want a drink? I never drink alcohol, forget it then. Why did fellow Pu stop doing the rituals? He is very timid, doesnt match well with the job. Ah, everyone don't like to talk too much. Those things are just like convicts. When their existence are discovered they hide immediately. Theres no escape in that instance they are found. Luckily, theres a possibility that a male spirit might possess a female body. Its equivalent to a forced surrender, this to us is real good luck. Then we just have to catch him. Thats right. We just have to catch him. Dear brother, do come frequently, i nearly forgot how you look like. Is it here? Is this a reply to me? Take care of yourself. I understand, don't worry. Dear brother, i am giving birth next month, remeber to come and see your nephew. Seems thinner, is this the original? Yes, its confirmed. You sure official Pu have received a lawsuit? Yes. He didn't say anything? No, there was nothing more to say. Hey. We are now going to see a 5000 year old relic. get excited for me. On your command, Pu sir. Did you do your homework before coming? Jesus won't let them go, so the demons came out to possess pigs body. Matteo Ricci chapter 8 verse 31 I know This is it. The top floor Smoke a ciggarette before going up? Are you afraid? No, exorcism is actually a battle of momentum. From now onwards, we are Dragon's sun triad. If the owner won't leave, make him. I will act accordindly, you just need to help on the side, don't get caught. Don't look, don't answer, you only need to pray. Be studious. What are you looking at? Nothing. You're really a sensitive being. Why can't i be sensitive? So much talk back. Hey talk about the characteristics of the idol The idol is divided into serpent lion and scorpion The exorcism situation here is during the war of 1942 in china.. enough. The ultimate goal and extraction stages The purpose of the ceremony is to force the idol to reveal its name,if the image is positive energy,put it into the water. Wow you seem to gradually be able to do something.Lets go. Hey, continue to jump, no rest. Yes. Sorry. Seriously, feel like leaving. Where are you looking at, You crazy? Hey, go change your clothes. Today is really the last day. How many last time is this? This is too much. Today is really the last day. Don't you see this is such a mess? Are you using witchcraft? He is a mystic, and he is quite powerful. Oh, today is such a waste. That child is in a coma, it must be her who is trapping the evil spirit. Direct the child to heaven. Then aren't you killing the child? Don't think of it as murder. If we trap that, thats equivalent to stopping it. Heart wrenching things thats happening in South East Asia. How can you say this. The exorcism is on a high school girl, just a high school girl. Do what you are meant to do. Priest. You came today too. Yes, i am here to kill you. This cannot work, so sorry uncle. Do you see anything? Sorry, theres blood. Its not witchcraft, its serpentine. Its a male form, oh since when do we have male form in korea. Did the young girl come, come to exorcse. Do what she is suppose to, a witch has her own responsibilities. Thats right, we can only accept fate. The ritual is prepared. Alright, i will go up straight away. Finally a decent helper this time, but too young. Yes young, but very tough. Whats the christian name. Jia De Who gave that name to you? I gave myself that name, becaus i want to be different. Should buy some good ones. Turn around, don't need to tidy those, turn around. Whats that? This is female secretions. The life of our dear priest do not have this. Turn around, turn around. This is also a cover up skill. The male form when meet with positive energy will become more powerful. Come come, this would help him. This will benefit professor Pu, it is not easy to come by. Alright, this is fine. Toothpaste. Put a bit under your nose. Professor Pu, arent you starting your work? Yes, coming. Come on, give it your best. Oh please, do your job with more spirit. This is termed professionaly as Ma Er Duo Luo. The putriscence, that the possessed emits. You should know about it, the story about jumping off the roof of the hospital. Uptheenth time of suicidal behaviours. Theres even talks of suicide. Actually, it was found out and tried to run. Tried to possessed a male body but failed Please sign. What are you doing, faster prepare. Wow, what a bright moon. Theres only 1 such day in a year. Hey spread this carefully, this is a way of saving your life. Yes Now we must be at least 1metre from the salt, we can start the ritual after finish spreading the salt. Alright. Need the prayers of St Micheal in the order of Korean, English and Latin Yes, I understand. And this protection prayer is the prayer of liberation Yes Vice exorcist, start recording now. Start your prayers. The Lord will give us protection. The Lord will not give protection to sinners like satan. I will tell you this in the name of the Lord. Pray Sinners like satan, will be cast into hell. Amen Take it out. Now you will narrate everything that will happen. He won't believe it anyway. Father. I look alright now right? You seem to come alive again. Thank you priest. Can't you help me loosen this? This is to protect everyone who is in battle. I am Ying Shen, Father. Look, i am alright now. God and eternal life. Mom. Doctor, free me. Is there anyone who can stop this man. Dad, mom please help me. This man is touching me. Is there no one? This man is carressing me. Please save me. The rulers of hell. And the heavenly gods, please bless us. Please stop satan from controlling us. To accept the Lord's words , please convey our prayers Weaken the power of all evil. Expel them Evil spirits and curses Or curses spread by evil to hinder our visions. Protect your followers from harm, we pray with sincerity and fervor. Eliminate jealousy and curses Turn them into love and victory. We pray that you protect us. In return, we raise the intensity of prayers of thanks. My lord is with you. My god. My respectful god. Raise your hands to free us from evil and chaos. Protector of the spirit and soul. All evil will flee Destroy evil spirits and evil doers who carries jealousy and malicious intent. And so through your protection of us. We give thanks from the intensity of our prayers. God will be with you, do not be afraid. God is our shepherd, god is with us. My lord is with you. Please protect your followers from evil. In the bright light of all the archangels and the confessions of saints. Amen Damn you Ba He. Didn't i let you rape your sister-in-law? Informer without courage. The father of lies is the beginning of a murderer The father of lies is the beginning of a murderer In the name of the Father and the Holy Spirit where did you come from? In the name of the Father and the Holy Spirit we ask you. Where did you come from? We are here and we are there. We wander here and there. We shift in and out of 2430. When did you come here. When did you come here. Speak! All you monkeys. When you reach 3,254,630. How long do you intend to stay? How long do you intend to stay? Speak! How long do you intend to stay here? Speak! How long do you intend to stay here? Your existence have been noticed, you will only suffer if you stay. You have been discovered. You will only suffer, Suffering. Pain. Disease famine War I have been among you all in peace times. Look through your history and ask again. Forever, Amen. In the name of the Father and the Holy Spirit we ask you Why are you here. In the name of the Father and the Holy Spirit we ask you Why are you here. People with wisdom. Heed my words. Be like the rest of them outside, behave as if you did not see and live on. Homo sapiens ants. Dead spirits tell me. Speak! Why are you here. Why are you here. We are here to prove you are monkeys. Homo sapiens Humans Who is the most powerful guy protecting you all? Who is the most powerful guy protecting you all? You humans never hear the sound of falling star He has already overcame the world why is he there He has already overcame the world. Why is he there? It is you who don't see what i am talking about. This damn meatbag has caught us. I will find a safer place. This bitch has hold on to me. A few dead spirits have come out. 4 types have emerge. Dead spirits are all out. Give me holy water number 4 and the red satin I will prove it. You are all just monkeys. Now we just need this guy to say his name and we are done. Prepare of the ending. Yes. Lord of heaven is not going to respond to you. Dirty and smelly.. Your lord in heaven. Lord save me. Lord save me. Lord save me. Evil! Expel. His days are coming. Evil! Expel. His days are coming. Listen! The voices that are calling to you with renew vigor! Listen! The voices that are calling to you with renew vigor! In the name of the living saints. Go back to where you came from, undead spirits. Mommy Mommy Mommy Father In the name of Archangel St Micheal and the Seraphims! In the name of Archangel St Micheal and the Cherubims In the name of Archangel St Micheal and the Angels! In the name of Archangel St Micheal and the Cherubims In the name of Archangel St Micheal and the Seraphims! In the name of Archangel St Micheal and the Angels! Get a grip Jia De. Male form Male form Don't look. In the name of the lord i command you. Evil beast. Reveal your true form. Four years later, you will die in prison I'll dig out your newborn nephews eyes next month. Francisco Bell Dig out your sister's womb. Look at me! Didn't you want to look at me? What is there? But am still quite curious. What is there? But am still quite curious. But fellow Pu, is there really anything? Be afraid! Be afraid! Go back! Look at your arm Your arm is going to rot. Talk about it later. Theres nothing here. There only a crazy person here. Dear brother don't go. Brother. Save me! Brother! Brother! Run away. Aren't you very good at it? Let's go! Why didn't you run further? Forgot to wear my shoes. All fled, only you are left. I have a debt That time. I could not go back Too afraid of the dog that is biting my sister. Because it's huge. It's not your fault. Because your sister is too young. Beasts do not attack anything thats bigger then themselves. Aso foul smells sometimes make us feel despair You all are no different from beasts. But God did not create man like that Yes I used to know the old fellow who say the same thing. Jia De Yes, I am here. You are crossing the line. I know. Theres a possibility of pestering demons disturbing your sleep for the rest of your life Alright Nobody knows and nobody will compensate you Sons of humans Do not fear them, Do not fear what they have to say. Even if your life is surrounded by sharp thorns. In an adverse envoirnment Do not be afraid of what they have to say. Do not shiver even if you see their face. Yes Priest, Ying Shen's breathing and pulse is normal, everything is fine. I am a doctor, mam. Why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? Who do you think you are? Who do you think you are? Bad person. Why do you treat my daughter as such? Something is happening here. Please send the police over. Please stop now. Do you know who is helping us desperately? We are not the only ones fighting the battle. Time is running lets directly call out and extract. You have Cane sugar and sulphur right? Yes, I brought it. You are not an understudy priest anymore. You have to be with me and help me summon the last spirit. Alright Dear lord, please have mercy. Bold evil spirit, reveal your true form. What are you? 342 collapsed bridge 5 collapsed building 5680 deaths 6682 human births I command you in the name of the holy lord, reply! Why are you here? I hate all of you. 40275 die from drought. 85938 black balloons explode. 7284430 deaths All of you will be destroyed. I come with darkness. Do you want to exterminate the human race? Return to where you are supose to be. Tell me your name. Tell me! What is your name! I hate you all. I hate you all. I hate, really hate. Tell me your name quickly. Malphas Priest i will hold on to him tightly I am alright priest. I will hold onto him tighly. I command you in the name of the lord. Leave Malphas. I am sorry Ying Shen Be at peace Go to heaven. Ying Shen. I am depending on you. I am depending on you. I am depending on you. Ying Shen. Next is the most important step. Throw that pig at least 15 metres into the river. It will be dngerous if it's more than 1 hour. We received a report. Get hold of this guy. Yes.Understood. I am leaving now. Come over.Stand here. I'll get right out, you wait here for a while I am sorry but I have to go now Father. There is a homicide going on. What is this? I am going. Stop moving. Homicide occurrence, homicide. Step back. What's all this? Stop right there. Stop right there. The road is wrought with hardships. May God bless Careful in the front. Halt. That person sign the form. The child was originally brain dead. Only going to Goyang or Paju. Please hurry to the nearest Han River Bridge You better go to the hospital sir. Please hurry. We are here. Father, your face. If the time has passed, then the last remaining exorcist will become his host This means that you will be in danger
