 

                        3hours ago One warm doner for 2 o'clock. Room 607, The Westin Grand What do you have to say about the missile test results? Korean NlS Surveillance vehicle The estimates you gave us were off by over two kilometers. Yuri Russian arms broker Our technicians were not present for the test. Smaller arms and the older missiles are not a problem. We worry about the new missiles. Hey, what just happened? We lost audio. Do something. Korean National lntelligence Agency Berlin Office The Russian's opening his laptop. - Fix the damn audio. - Hang on a second. - Are you getting audio? - They're not closing the deal yet. Who's that pretty boy? I'm not getting anything. Nothing on ClA, Ml6 or Mossad database. What the...? A ghost? I haven't seen one of those in a while. If you don't purchase the new missiles, we will not provide the additional weapons. Assim Anti-lmperialist Arab League And then we run another test with North Korean technicians. What do you say? Somebody fix the goddamn audio. Let me call you back. Surveillance department North Korean embassy, Berlin I don't make the decisions. I only follow orders. You have the new young leader now. You must be more flexible comrade. Flexible? You claim to oppose imperialism, but you negotiate with this imperialistic logic? Our terms are non-negotiable. Lee Hak-su North Korea's ambassador to Germany Excuse me. What's the problem between you? You came to sign the contract, not negotiate. This is the most reasonable deal I've seen in years. You're both being stubborn. You're slaves to your pride. We cannot match his price in dollars. And what about Euros? I can speak to him about that, at least. Get the helpers ready. First, you sign the papers, then you bet the money. The transfer first. Action. Action! Okay. Abort! Abort! The deal is off. Get the hell out of there! This is the Mossad! Our cleanup squad's here in ten minutes. Dagan Mossad (Israeli secret service) Don't make this any worse than it already is. We can end this here. We've got no interest in your weapons deal. We're only here for the Russian broker and the Arab. You've got plenty of other clients to do business with. Target on rooftop. Proceed to service corridor on the opposite side. Distance to target 150 meters. Come quietly. They train you to put the gun on the temple? I just need to know the terms and confirm the goods. I turn my head and the bullet misses me. Alright, let's go. The Berlin File. Your spectacular screw-up could reverberate all the way to the Presidential House. This is an absolute diplomatic nightmare. And for what gain? We got the deal on tape. Did you get the conversation? Or the actual goods on tape? You've got nothing to confirm the deal terms. No recording of the conversation. Exactly what do you have? He put a gun to my face. What proof do we need? And because of that commie, one of our men sustained a severe injury to the spine. We still can't escape blame under international law. You opened fire based on speculation, - at a person whose identity... - Don't dump your crap on us! For fuck's sake. You've got no information on this supposed North Korean agent. Are we even sure we're dealing with North Koreans? Who's going to clean up this mess? Who? Fuck... Berlin unit under Chief Kang. Prepare to be disbanded. Mr. Inspector, disbanding the team isn't going to solve the problem. A third country party intervened at the scene. A third party? Give me that. It's not the weapons trade we're after. We're tracking down Kim Jong-il's secret account worth 4 billion dollars believed to have been moved from Macau to Europe before his death. If we find that account, we get the upper hand in issues regarding aid to North Korea. It's unlike you to make such mistake. Yuri is an arms broker wanted by the US government. That explains how the South Koreans knew about the deal. But Assim is an anti-American activist. Why did Israelis show up, not the Americans? The leak must have come from one of three parties. Either the Russians sold the information to the Israelis or the Arab was a double agent working for the Mossad... Or it came from us. Pyo Jong-seong. Watch your mouth! Jong-seong, listen to me carefully. Do you know who's on his way from Pyongyang? Dong Myung-su. Why would they dispatch an agent when you're out here? They don't trust us. Foreign offices are put under scrutiny under the new leadership. Even you, the Republic's hero, need to be watched. - Take care where you tread... - Comrade Ambassador, have you forgotten what my job is? I'm only saying... I will not make an official record of your statement. Is that all I am to you? An object of surveillance? You're losing your focus. These are all speculations at best. Where is intelligence? Intelligence. You gotta do better than this to transfer to US office. The agent in charge, Jung Jin-su, I heard he stirred up trouble in Libya, too. These old-timers hung up on anti-communistic ideas are just burdens. I prefer not to see his name on your next report, understood? I trust you'll take care of it. Bring me results. Man, I told you to stay clear of Korean restaurants. Are you pissed off at me for not covering your ass? It's my birthday today. I felt like a bowl of seaweed soup. So, I came to this restaurant where no Koreans come. For a bowl of home-made soup. I meant to give you a heads-up about the account. But I missed the timing. That's your excuse? Timing? Cut me some slack, man. This is not some sloppy industrial espionage job we're dealing with. I have a political position to consider. Screw you. What political position with commies? I don't even make left turns at intersections. Anyone in my position in any organization, prefers to work with someone that listens to you. Do you know what your problem is? You make people uncomfortable. Why are you sitting with someone so uncomfortable? Fine, I'll get off your face. What do you want from me? You can get rid of me. You can transfer to the US office. But our man who got busted by the commie today, he'll be confined to a wheelchair for the rest of his life. Just do your job. I'll do mine. We have a reservation under the name, Ryun Jung-hee. Upstairs, please. He's already here. He proposed this meeting. So, he'll pick up the bill? Didn't I tell you to take off your wedding band? It takes more than translation skills to be a good interpreter. There was a discussion at the bundestag regarding North Korean diplomats who got caught smuggling cigarettes. ...caught smuggling cigarettes. Why is German parliament concerned with what happened in Austria? Didn't we explain that it was a simple misunderstanding? If this becomes a pattern, it's hard for them to help with our medical supply issues. They need to set a clear position on the matter... We payed him up out of empty pockets. And that's all he has to say? 22:00, Hackescher Market tram stop All I need is the grounds to convince the parliament. You know how things work. Everything needs to be recorded in Germany. He is so shamelessly blatant that it makes me blush. Sick bastard. Take a good care of him. He wants a more personal gesture. They need to set a clear position on the matter. We payed him up out of empty pockets. And that's all he has to say? All I need is something to... What brings you here? Without calling me. It's late. Wash up and go to bed. Take a good care of him. - Let me look at your wound. - It's not necessary. Any news from Pyongyang? What news? We're way past due to return. We don't make decisions. We follow orders. We can at least apply for relocation. When did the comrades at the embassy last had their self-criticism? Can't you just ask me why I want to go back? I guess I thought wrong. I forgot that you're Republic's hero before you're my husband. Oh my God. Help! Somebody! There is a dead woman here! Waitress commits suicide by overdosing Let's find a new way to meet up. Kids these days they try these fancy new techniques always end up gettin' their asses handed to them. And these guys like you and me, two old dogs, with old tricks, - but we're still kicking. - Enough with the old dogs. You really makes us sound old. I hate yo break it to the pal, but we are old. So, what can uncle Marty do for his favorite ally? I need to know if that guy's in your database. A North Korean? White or Black Ops? A ghost. You heard about the Westin Hotel kidnapping two days ago, didn't you? He was there. And You were there too? Ah, fuck... You knew my team was tracking Asim and his network! Way to bend me over the barrel, pal! I had no time. If I got that fucking commie I was gonna hand over the others as my Present. What the hell with your present. You told me you'd leak any intel you had about the North's weapons deals! And now, you tell me the shit hit the fan. Hey! Shut up. Please. I got you a very special present. I got you a very special present...? Look. A guy named Sigmund, who is the German ODA vice-minister had a meeting with the North Korean ambassador. At the end, the ambassador told his female translator to take good care of Sigmund. I'm going home at the end of the month, alright? The only thing I want on my plate right now, - is my wife's home cooking. - Hey. Hey, old dog! Sorry. Your Foreign Affairs would love it. What got you delayed? I had to take care of something upon my arrival. I wasn't informed of your delay. Watch this and you'll understand. Back then, orders never contradicted each other. They all had the same voice. That's not how things work now. The new Comrade Commander doesn't like the old ways. You recognize that woman? Yes, it's my favorite restaurant. Germans like it, too. So do the South Koreans. They suspect you have a leak in Berlin office. It's not possible. The most trustworthy is the one to be watched most closely. Comrade Stalin said that. Did you inform the Party about this? I made a record of it. Wouldn't it be better coming from you than from me? What if there is no evidence? The Party says there is a leak and you disagree? That means the Party is wrong. It makes the Party incompetent. Say that again. Who sold the information? The woman... The interpreter for the embassy who made a reservation under the name, Ryun Jung-hee. The waitress was an informant for the South Koreans. You know the accusation is false. Are you suggesting that Dong fabricated the confession? Whether it was fabricated or not isn't important. Your wife's name came up in an inquiry conducted by the Security Department. A name that Pyongyang wanted to hear. If you try to defend her when the Party says she's guilty. That makes you guilty, too. There is no solid evidence other than this confession. Even you said that the leak about the weapons deal could have come from us. For someone in my position, you always have to have an answer if not an alternative. How much time do we have? 48 hours. There's storm coming, but no place to hide. Are you sure it was this woman? Yes. How's work these days? Same as always. What you said the other day about Pyongyang... Do you want to go home? Let's not talk about that. I believe we can live with our heads held high even if we are poor. Our facial recognition analysis found three men showing over 85% match. These two have plenty sources for lD verification. Bring up the travel agent. But there is hardly any record nor pictures of this man. I only found one taken at a culture promotion event. Gotcha. Ouch! Damn it. - Hey! Interested in something hot? - What? A North Korean official stationed in Berlin just filed for defection. To America? No, he's asking for political asylum through the UN to some third country. When's next contact? What brings you to call me at this hour? I have to drop by the embassy. Did you have lunch? I'm on my way to the Parliament library. I can't have lunch with you. I'll see you at home, then. Moran Peak 4639 requesting Comrade Ryun's signing out record. The next station is Brandenburger Tor. Negative. Is the Parliament library close to Brandenburger Tor? It's at the Bundestag station. Next to the Parliament building. What's in Brandenburger Tor area? Embassies. US and British embassies are in the area. This is a confidential communication. I'll report it myself. Are you going out? You didn't say anything to me. US embassy When is the next... When is the next contact? When is the next... When is the next contact? Long time, Comrade. Still have two more days. Did you put a tail on her? I'm not here about your wife. How can a perfectionist like you. Let this happen under your nose? Something doesn't add up. Is that an official statement? We'll know soon enough. I'm not accusing you of anything. The guilty will stand for their crime. Why are you really here? It's a sticky situation. And it's a matter outside my authority. One happy family. There is a reactionary seeking political asylum. Someone from the embassy. It's Comrade Ambassador. Comrade Lee emptied out the embassy's strong box. This device will self destruct after checking Your password will be verbally confirmed upon point of contact. The agent key-phrase is, It looks like it's going to rain. Your answer, verbatim, is, But I've lost my folding umbrella. Your password will be verbally confirmed upon point of contact. The agent key-phrase is, it looks like it's going to rain. Your answer, verbatim, is, But I've lost... This is the time and venue of rendezvous. What's taking you so long? What? What's taking so long? You're the one that wanted some private time with the guy. We're gonna head to the U.S. Embassy, And enter the safe-house. - You mean the laundromat? - Excuse me. Do you speak English? No. We've got about the three hours until the official time of contact, so, factorin' in travel, I can spare you about an hour. We can say you work for the company and that you're interrogating him. That's as far as you and I take this. After that, it's every old dog for himself. And regardless of what happens here, the ClA has no affiliation whatsoever with this operation. There should be absolutely no records, do you here me? - What's he offering you? - We're not sure yet, But he mentioned a file, some kind of shady account they've been managing. The Kim Jong-il account? From Macau? Oh sweet Jesus. I wouldn't that make everyones fuckin' day? You owe me pal big time. 3737 G406. 11 o'clock Target's location confirmed. Don't stand out Blend in, idiots! Did you tap my phone? You're out of your mind to interfere with ClA business. How is North Korean ambassador a ClA business? It's ours. Stand back if anything happens. I'll take over. Hey! Hey! You, son of a...! Target is getting away He's heading to the subway. Team A follow the subject. Team B go across. We gotta snatch the bastard before anybody else. Jong-seong. Think about what you're doing. We'll talk later. Freeze! Put the gun down. This is our turf. You don't want any more trouble... Motherfucker! Take it easy, man. Listen to me carefully now. Go back to the headquarter. Find everything you can on the ClA agents out here. - But it's ClA... - Shut the hell up. Another word from your mouth and I'll chew your brain out. Hi, Daddy. I love you. Good bye. No. Come on, Cindy. You knew my team was tracking Asim and his network! Way to bend me over the barrel, pal! Send me the address of the travel agency. Why did you do it? I want you to think hard why Dong Myung-su is here why your wife is being suspected. You were planning to abandon your family and defect to the West. This is all part of a scheme set by Dong Myung-su... No, his father Dong Jung-ho to take over the Berlin office. Dong's father wasn't an ally with the new leader and yet, he survived. How? When Kim Jong-un's men pocketed profit from illegal weapons trade. The deal was handled by Dong Jung-ho. When the Americans tracked down the Macau account. Dongs had to clean up the mess in order to stay in the game. What did you get her to do? But you don't believe anything I say. Questioning is in progress. You can go in. Jong-seong, when you're blocked by the sea, sing 'Arirang' a semitone down and 'whistle' the chorus. The Party wants to see and hear for themselves. Tell me what you want to hear. I'll give an answer you want in return for a quick death. Your family is never your concern even to the end. There is nothing I can do about them. He talks as if he's being framed. Your name and position. Lee Hak-su. I'm an ambassador of Democratic People's Republic of Korea to Germany. Why did you betray your country? I just sent you the address of the travel agency. Frequent address changes suggest it's a front company. Shouldn't we notify Chief Kang? I'll take care of it. Hello. There is a break-in in my building. The address is Einstenufer 9D. It's the travel agency building. What happened here? Why did you lie to me about where you were going this afternoon? Do you have anything to say to me? You knew about it all? You weren't going to say anything if I didn't? I don't know where to begin. I suppose I missed the right time. Tell me how it started. It was an order from Comrade Ambassador. Not out of my will. You're not giving me an answer. Perhaps I don't know what you want. What have you been up to? What am I supposed to do? Entertaining guest was an order. But I assure you. This baby is ours. This man was asking me about an event at the square. And this is where my obstetrician is. Why didn't you tell me? I thought you wouldn't believe it's ours. What I think is not important. Tell me the truth. This is the truth. Why didn't you say anything earlier? Did you ever listen? Do you know what it's like to endure this kind of filth? Our first child It's been two years since we lost her How much the little thing must have suffered... Have you ever thought about that? So what? Were you going to have an abortion? How can you say such a thing? We'll go to the hospital tomorrow. If it turns out to be false... You'll report me as a spy? That will give you a peace of mind. That's what the Party wants to hear. Today, Comrade Ambassador made an attempt to defect to the West. Write down all your whereabouts in the last seven days. Did you get her confession? We still have time. I must have interrupted at an inconvenient time. How did the interrogation go? Successful, thanks to you. His body will be repatriated to Pyongyang. Good work, Comrade. I haven't found any evidence tying Jung-hee to her charges. Relax, man. Congratulations. You have passed the loyalty test. All this was necessary because of Lee Hak-su. After Comrade Chairman Kim Jong-il passed away, foreign funds coming into Pyongyang dropped considerably. While all focus was on ensuring successful transition of power, there was a suspicion that Lee Hak-su would smuggle his private assets and defect. And your name popped up in the process. A group of us including myself insisted that you would never betray the Republic. The Party's position, of course, is not the same. So, I suggested that we test your loyalty. How can we suspect the loyalty of a man who will report his own wife if there are suspicious circumstances? Agents from Security Department will pay you a visit shortly. You'll return to Pyongyang and be promoted in recognition of your loyalty. Congratulations, Comrade. You have saved me also. How much did you hear? You're a coward. What the hell are you doing? Once they find out what you're doing to me, you're a fucking dead man. what do you think will happen to you? Today a North Korean fucking commie blew a hole through my friend's head. At Brandenburg Gate? My friend was ClA tracking Asim's group. If I report your lD and tell them that Israel is working with the North Koreans who took Asim, your fucking face will be on every ClA watch-list in the world within 48 hours. What now? Do you want a cool diplomatic dispute with America over this? About a month ago, Pyongyang contacted Mossad Collections. I'm not here about your wife How can a perfectionist like you let this happen under your nose? The guilty will stand for their crime. They told us that if we gave them the opportunity to replace a few of their people in Berlin... Then they'd hand over the man they do business with. Asim. The weapons deal had to fail. It was the opportunity they needed. Did someone on the inside betray the North? I only know what I need to know, but... I think the North Korean agent at the scene was double-crossed. There is a sudden noise in the house. Be careful. Wiretapping You have the phone records from that time? You want those? I never mentioned about reporting you I have recorded everything you've said here. The word came out of your mouth How can I have passed the test? It's a trap We must run Do you want it deleted? Then you're gonna give me your conversation with the fucking commie. Did you finish packing? We'll make some record for reporting purposes. Looking for this? Idiots... I warned you to be careful. Didn't l? Allo... Abdul! Allo. Sorry I'm late. So... what happened to your brother? The Mossad executed him without trial. I found the rat who gave your brother Asim over to the Israelis... If you get on it now, you can still catch him. Who is it? It's someone we both know. Pyo Jong-seong. Take this. A shooting incident was just reported to the police. A North Korean interpreter lives at the address. Hey. Can you tap ClA satellite communication network? Put a surveillance on all channels within 20km radius. Are you out of your mind? Just do as I say for once. Tapping is your expertise, isn't it? - See you again. - Watch your back. You're going to run into the Mossad again one day, and it won't be pretty. Man, you talk too much. Do you have a room? I prefer not to fill out the register. Are you alright? We should treat your wounds first. Hey, policeman. I'm from the consulate. Here to lD the victim. OK? Can you speak English? - Nein. - No? We got a call from a Korean student... No problem. Just a moment. An Asian from the consulate is here. A single precision shot each to the head and chest. These bastards are not circumcised and their dental work suggests they're North Koreans. I gotta get moving. - Hey! Halt? - Hi. I'll be right back. Idiots. Alright. He killed all of our comrades and escaped. - He's good, huh? - We'll get him. Okay. First, have your men search every hotel within ten kilometers. Their names will not be on record. So look for a couple who paid in cash and checked-in in the last 1 0 minutes. How certain are you of this? It's what he taught me. If you're being hunted, hide right under the hound's nose. Allo. Hey. Allo. This is a direct order from the boss. Search every hotel within 10Km radius. Look for a man and a woman who paid cash and didn't fill out the register. I'm sending you their picture. Sir, the keywords 'North Korea,' 'Abdul,' and 'Assim' emerged on ClA satellite network. - Language used is Arabic. - Arabic? What's the location? It's concentrated in the 1 0Km radius of the shooting scene. Give us the traitor. I'd like to, but I need to get them back as a set. Hey, listen man. If I become the director of Berlin. Then we can cut out the broker. Everything will be cheaper and faster. We can pack up some super-notes for you if you want. Because no one better dollars than we do. But that's only after you drag out this bastard's corpse, isnt' it? Trust me. Where are you? It's a couple? Jong-seong, when you're blocked by the sea, sing Arirang a semitone down and whistle the chorus. there was a suspicion that Lee Hak-su Arirang would smuggle his private assets and defect. When Kim Jong-un's men pocketed profit from illegal weapons trade. The deal was handled by Dong Jung-ho. And your name popped up in the process. The Whistle When the Americans tracked down the Macau account. Dongs had to clean up the mess in order to stay in the game. How can we suspect the loyalty of a man who will report his own wife if there are suspicious circumstances? I want you to think hard why Dong Myung-su came here and why your wife is suspected of spying. Listen to me carefully. Dong Myung-su is setting me up to make it appear that I sold classified information. He is trying to turn me and Lee Hak-su into traitors and take over the Berlin office. If that's true, what are we doing here? Can we ever go back to Pyongyang? We'll go separate ways from here. Where will you go? I can prove our innocence to the Party. You must trust me. The Party, the people, even the fatherland can all suspect me. But you... you should have believed in me. Will you defect or something? How can you be so cruel? Kill me whenever you want. But now is not the time. We're not here to kill you. But if you continue to resist, we have no choice. You have ten seconds to decide. One. Two. Three. We're getting out alive, all three of us. Seven. Eight. That's all you gotta think about. Ten! Hey! You only got the woman? You said there would be only two! You gave us incorrect information! There was another man there. What? Another guy? A Yankee? They said he looked like you. It's a South Korean. Welcome South Korean guy. You've really gone too far. This is getting interesting. Let me get this straight. My team breaks up the arms deal Yuri set for Asim and you'll hand both of them over to us? I don't believe you. Take the wheel, if you want to hear the rest. It's been so long. This is why I like you so much. Why do you think the Mossad let you go at the hotel? From Macau to Berlin, arms dealing, diplomatic office, spying, assassination and defection. How do they all link up? The account that Lee Hak-su held as a hidden card, the 4 billion dollar fund that Kim Jong-il left behind is the key. After his death, they had to transfer the funds to the new leader and change the people that manage the account. Neither Pyongyang nor Lee Hak-su could trust each other. As far as Pyongyang is concerned, the diplomatic offices' loyalty to the new leader is questionable. So, they decided to change everyone with those they trust. You've been discarded in the process. You're totally fucked. You're wrong. It's not the Republic that betrayed me. Do we use different Korean in North and South these days? You need to get the facts straight. This is all Dong Jung-ho's act. Who? The father of the assassin that killed your ClA friend. The secret account belongs to Dong Jung-ho and his allies, not to Comrade Chairman Kim Jong-il. Lee Hak-su was part of that circle and got betrayed. Where the hell is that bastard? Think about who you saw at the hotel. Your husband has crossed over to South. It's over. You can't be waiting for the scumbag who abandoned his wife to save himself? Think about it. Testify on your husband's double-crossing charges. I'll take care of the rest. Do you expect to live after what you have done to us? Who would know about it? Who knows about this place? The person who used to use it. It's me. All the sausages you ate must have slowed you down. What took you so long? How are the South Koreans treating you? Let my wife go. Wouldn't I need a witness for a testimony? After all, isn't it true that you're collaborating with the South Koreans? Put her on the phone. Are you safe? I'm fine. Be strong and hang in there. For now, do as Myung-su tells you. I'll come and get you soon. What use is giving her a false hope? Watch it if you want a clean death. I'll die when I feel like it. So, cut the crap and get your ass over here now. If you let me go, I'll get you the account. Pyo Jong-seong, do you take me for a fool? If I don't go, you'll never find that account. Nor can you find your wife. An innocent woman will die. Everyone dies. She's carrying a baby. It's not mine. I'll convert. Request for backup denied The company denies all involvement The backup's going to be a little late. Too many people can put the safety of the hostage at risk. I can do this alone if you have my back. If we get her out, will she cross over with you? She may refuse. Let's just be honest while we're at it. You're willing to risk your life for your wife who may not convert? How am I supposed to understand that? It's harder for me to understand why you're risking your life for this. It's my job. There is no reason for doing your job. You just do it. It's my wife. There is no reason for saving my wife. Is he really coming? It's going to be a while. He won't be here till after 4AM. Standard KGB attack time. When humans are weakest. Like that. The sun will come up soon. Have you had a sniper training? I used to get reward vacations for outstanding shooting skills. Secure position. Be careful. On the perimeter, two North Koreans and two Arabs. Two Arabs by the center table. One North Korean by the window at 3 o'clock. Hostage is... on far left corner tied to a chair. She seems to be in... good condition. Shake your head if you can hear me. Shake your head, damn it! Son of a bitch. You can't kill a man like that. Revenge is a dish best served cold. What happened to your South Korean buddies? I can't bring in retards to catch an idiot. Bring the hostage over and check the perimeter. She made a few attempts to escape while waiting. Your family didn't have to do this to take control of the Berlin office. You can't have two heads on one body. You can endure hunger, but can't endure headache. Is that the kind of trust you have between Comrade Commander and your father? Comrade Commander is a human, too. Men betray. I came here to be the traitor you want. If you let us go, we'll live in hiding for the rest of our lives. My confession to treason is in that voice recorder. The kind of things you'll do to live. It's an honor to hear the confession of the Republic's hero. Comrade Pyo betraying the Republic. This is so exciting. Let's hear it, shall we? Before we do that, Let me ask you one thing. Did you frame my wife knowing that her obstetrician was near the US embassy? Obstetrician? That's right! Your wife is pregnant. It was a lucky swing. You're the one that built up the story. Isn't it your specialty? Making a criminal out of the innocent. I, Pyo Jong-seong, a warrior of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is having a self-criticism session. The party wants to replace the Berlin branch. But right now, replacing the current officials isn't justified. Motherfucker! Play the rest. If we ambush the deal Yuri is onto with Asim then you will have the justified reason to replace the current officials, right? Right. So finally you Israelis will have Yuri and Asim, Like you've been wanting. We can hand them over. Explain yourself. Didn't I always tell you? You always get your temper get the best of you. You think you have it all? Look at what you got yourself into playing a hero. I admit you were a good teacher. Are you alright? You must leave me if you wish to live. Don't be silly. I know how you feel. Then stick it out to the end. Are you okay? It's okay. I'm on your side. Do you think you can move? Go on. Inject me. You know killing me won't put an end to this. I'll put in a good word for you to my father. Let's just call it a day here, eh? Men betray. What's your hometown? It's okay. Let's go. Come on, Jung-hee. We still have so much to talk about. Let's go now. We can go anywhere we want. I'm sorry. Jung-hee, wake up. Please. Jung-hee, come on. Come with me. Where are we at with the procedure? Application for Defection Application for Defection At the last stage. He could convert to our side if he wishes or choose a third country through the UN. Good work, everyone. Let's wrap up this investigation here. All documents regarding the account or Pyo Jong-seong must be destroyed living only the minimum record to be classified as class 1 secret. There are still a few remaining procedures. The President has announced a new gas pipe project during his visit to Russia. We concluded our negotiations with Pyongyang. Their last condition was for us to hand over the account and Pyo Jong-seong to them. Will he be purged along with Dong Jung-ho? Why would Dong be purged? He is the one that set up this deal. You know those types don't go down easily. Get off. Get out of the car, you goddamn commie! I can't watch a commie like you Live a trouble-free life. Go. You failed to protect your wife and the baby that she was carrying. You even betrayed a man who risked his life to help you. You betrayed your country and the people. That's who you are. Live in hiding all your life Looking over your shoulder. Live like that. Like a dirt. Don't even think about letting your heart out to anyone. Don't think about revenge. Just lay low breathing shallow. Like the most common people. It's me. How have you been? Did you hope to live after what you did to my son? You're not going anywhere. It's not just us who's after you. You don't have to find me I'll come find you. Make it fast. I'll make you pant like a dog begging me to kill you. Vladivostok, one way.
