 

                        Watch the birdie! Come on, have something to drink with us. Come on, drink with us. Drink it, drink it... Do you want gold? Yes. You are excrement. You can change yourself into gold. You broke the looking glass. Now break the stone. Each stone has a soul, formed by the work of millions of years. The tarot will teach you how to create a soul. To know. To dare. To want. To be silent. The same force the vulture uses to seize the ox is needed by the ox to receive the vulture. The fish thinks about his hunger, not about the fisherman. It is the master who seeks the disciple. You want to know the secret, but man can achieve nothing by himself. To accomplish the alchemical work, you will have these companions. They are thieves like you, but on another level. They are the most powerful people on the planet. Industrialists and politicians. My name is Fon, my planet is Venus. My business is devoted to the comfort and beauty of the human body - beds, mattresses, fabrics, clothing, cosmetics. My father is the creator of this empire. He is deaf, dumb and blind. Before making a decision, he consults with my mother's mummy. He puts his hand into her sex. If it's moist, it's yes. If it's dry, it's no. These are my wives. I make love to them only during working hours. They begin as workers, then I promote them to secretaries. We know that people want to be loved, not for who they are but for what they appear to be. So we have created a line of masks, that have the texture, warmth, and smell, of living human beings. A customer can have any face she wants. Every face is unique and lasts a lifetime. She can wear her artificial face to the grave. Our make-up department for corpses eliminates the appearance of death. Not only do we beautify cadavers, we also equip them with electronic devices. They can kiss their family goodbye... ...participate in their own last rites... ...or give a live show. My name is Isla, my planet is Mars. Every morning I wake up my male secretaries. I manufacture and sell weapons. We produce bombers, hydrogen bombs, ray guns, deadly bacteria, anti-matter waves, carcinogenic gases, etcetera. We are experimenting with a drug to create delusions of grandeur. Another drug turns harmless people into wild beasts. The young generation needs arms for its marches and sit-ins. We have psychedelic shotguns... ...grenade necklaces... ...rock and roll weapons... ...mystical weapons for Buddhists... ...Jews... ...and Christians. My name is Klen, my planet is Jupiter. My house. My wife. My chauffeur. - My lover. - Hi! A thousand a week. My art factory. We produce a new line of art every season. We created a love machine. To make it live the spectator has to work with it, guide it, receive it, give himself in the act of love. With this electronic rod he will rub its mechanical vagina. The spectator's skill will determine the machine's ability to reach a climax. My chauffeur is a bad lover. He didn't know how to satisfy it. But this woman, I know her techniques very well, will produce the electronic orgasm. Frigid! My name is Sel, my planet is Saturn. My customers are children. We manufacture war toys. Workers needed in the miniature plastic bomb shop. We have an electronic computer programmed with the politics of the government. The government is our client. We feed the computer data on coming wars and revolutions. It tells us what kind of toys to produce to condition children from birth. If the government calculates it will be necessary to wage war against Peru, our machine studies the Peruvians and tells us what to do. We manufacture hyper-sexed brown native vampires, who can only be destroyed by a cross the color of white skin. We create a laxative that induces vomiting. We name it after the capital of Peru and tint it with the color of the natives. We started a comic book campaign. For 15 years in advance, we condition children to hate the future enemy. In 15 years these children will go off to war, to kill Peruvians with pleasure. My name is Berg, my planet is Uranus. Our window is the wrong size, I don't like it. Berg, why do we have that enormous hole in the wall? Close it up! Our little baby is hungry. - Have you finished the report? - No. The president wants the report. Hurry up! Hurry! I am financial adviser to the president. To save the country's economy, we must eliminate four million citizens in the next five years. Begin the operations of the gas chambers. Gas schools, gas universities, gas libraries, gas museums, gas dance halls, and gas whore houses, etcetera. I hate you! I hate you! My name is on, my planet is Neptune. I am the chief of police. This is the most beautiful day of your life. Of your own free will you came to surrender part of your body to me. You decided to undergo the initiation that 999 other heroes have passed. Your sacrifice completes my sanctuary of one thousand testicles. This is the holy book. Learn to believe in me. on is the truth and the power and the light... My name is Lut, my planet is Pluto. My business is architecture. Where is he? He's there, he's there! No, no he's not! He's up there. There he is! He's up there! Go get him! Come on, let's go get him! Where is he? There he is! When we built this multi-family complex we made a big mistake - we lost money. We gave them small gardens and windows, we installed water, lighting, and heating systems. This was a wrong concept. A man doesn't need a home, all he needs is a shelter. If we can sell him on the idea of a shelter, we can make millions. A worker will come here only to sleep, he won't need electricity or water. He won't have to cook, we'll condition him to eat at the factory. These are communal latrine trucks for the entire building. You have power and money, but you are mortal. You know you cannot escape death. But immortality can be obtained. In old traditions they speak of holy mountains. The Meru mountain of India. Mount Kunlun of the Taoists. The Karakoram of the Himalaya. The mountain of the philosophers. The Rosicrucian mountain. The Cabalistic mountain of San Juan De La Cruz. There are many other holy mountains. The legend is always the same. Nine Immortal men live on top of the mountain. From the highest peak they direct our world. They hold the secret to the conquest of death. They are more than 40,000 years old. But they were once like ourselves. If others have succeeded in conquering death, why must we accept it? I know where the Immortals live and how to obtain their secret. In this ancient Rosicrucian manuscript, I found an etching of the Nine Immortals and the place where they live. The holy mountain of Lotus Island. Some men join forces to assault banks and steal money, pieces of paper. We must unite our forces to assault the holy mountain, and rob its wise men of their secret of immortality. But to conquer the wisdom of the Immortals, we too must become wise men. The elements of chemistry are many, but finite. So are the techniques of enlightenment. To reach it more quickly we will combine the techniques. With the correct formula, any human being can become enlightened. The Immortals are a group. If we are to succeed, we must cease to be individuals, and become a collective being. Burn your money! Thief! If you don't want to die, kill your money. We shall destroy the self image, unsteady, wavering, bewildered, full of desire, distracted, confused. When the self concept thinks, this is I and that is mine, he binds himself and he forgets the great self. - His feet stink like a rotten dog. - He has beautiful teeth. I can't stand the smell. When he puts all your bones back together, you will like his smell. Man learned to cultivate the earth by weakening the plants, wild plants remained as they were at the moment of creation. They are the humble guardians of the secret. The flower knows... you don't need to ask it. The dog will take your senses away with him. He can see for you. The delicate scent of flowers is the fragrance of the universe. I eat the flower, and its perfume is my blood. Together we form a dog, in search of the sacred flower. Together we form a flower, in search of the sacred water. This is the moment when the word is made flesh. How many people are you? One, two, three, four, five... We are nine. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine... - One is missing. - Yes. Here is the missing one. He drowned. He drowned. This is the ceremony of death. The grave receives you with love. Surrender yourselves to death. Return what was loaned to you. Give up your pleasure, your pains. Give up your friends, your lovers. Give up your family, your past. Surrender what you hate, what you desire. You will know nothingness - it is the only reality. Don't be afraid. It's so easy to give. You are not alone. You have a grave. It is your first mother. The grave is the door to your rebirth. Now you will surrender the faithful animal you once called your body. Don't try to keep it. Remember, it was a loan. Surrender your legs, surrender your sex, your hair, your blood, your organs, your bones. You no longer want to possess. Possession is the ultimate pain. The earth falls over your corpse. She comes to cover you with love, because she is your true flesh. Now you are an empty heart, open to receive your true essence. Your own perfection, your new body, which is the universe, the work of God. You will be born again, you will be real, you will be your own father, your own mother, your own child, your own perfection. Open your eyes. You are the earth, you are the green, you are the blue, you are the Aleph, you are the essence. Look at the flower. Look at the flower. For the first time, look at the flowers. Now, you are a group. Do you want to perform miracles like Christ? See what would happen if you did. Concentrate on this starfish. When you see the size of an elephant, you will never miss the target. Our thoughts have forms. You have a monster in your mind. We will help you. Throw the monster into the water. He can't swim, he will drown. Fool, destroy your illusions. Free yourself from the past. We have crossed the great waters. Congratulations, you made it to our shores! This deserves a toast! You're not the first to come to Lotus Island in search of the holy mountain. I drink alone because newcomers are always abstainers. In time they realize that the best liquor in the world is at the Pantheon Bar. Come. Come. Come. I have everything - food, drinks, beds, baths, men, women. These illustrious travelers came here to find the holy mountain, but they preferred The Pantheon Bar! The real holy mountain is here - in my words, in my poems. If I write rose, it blooms in my hand, And the bees come to feed on my poetry. Our bees make honey, but your flies make shit. The cross was a mushroom. And the mushroom was also the tree of good and evil. The philosophical stone of the alchemists... ...was LSD. The book of the dead is a trip, and the Apocalypse describes a mescaline experience. In these flasks... ...are all the holy mountains. And in this beautiful young man... ...is eternity. To conquer a mountain is easy. I can go through solid matter. Nothing stops me! In a minute I will cross the holy mountain. Wait for me here! I got to the other side of the mountain in less than a minute. - How long until you reach the summit? - No, I can only advance horizontally. That's enough. From bottom to top, I can't do. But anyway, I am a champion! I have conquered the holy mountain horizontally! Horizontally! I am a champion! I am a champion! I founded the academy. I give the awards! Here you can win a trophy every year. Idiots! You don't know what you are losing! You could have made history and we are already forgetting you! Help me! I can't go one step farther! You're not afraid of falling. What frightens you is climbing. - Rub your clitoris against the mountain. - You're terrified of success. Give yourself to the world! I can't lie anymore. My hand is frozen. You were never able to forget your body, never able to pry yourself from that love. Now the thing you love most is stopping you from reaching the top. You must sacrifice part of your body. Cut off your fingers, or go back! We have mastered the difficult part of the mountain. Now the way will be like a garden. Nevertheless, at this height our minds will decompose. And we will suffer the vision of death. - Lies! - If you don't believe, wait for us here. When I return, I will show you the difficult way. There are the Immortals! Meditate here for three hours before you attack them. And you? You don't need a master now. You can win by yourself. Goodbye. This is the way we may reach that summit. Then we will master our bodies. You know now what you must do. You don't need anyone, you are a master. Cut off my head. Now you can begin to learn. Unite yourself with this good woman, who came here only because she loves you. Forget the summits, reach eternity through love. Return to your country. I leave you my tower and my alchemical rooms. This is your family and your people. Change the world. Sit down. I promised you the great secret and I will not disappoint you. Is this the end of our adventure? Nothing has an end. We came in search of the secret of immortality. To be like gods. And here we are. . . mortals. More human than ever. If we have not obtained immortality, at least we have obtained reality. We began in a fairytale and we came to life! But is this life reality? No. It is a film. Zoom back camera. We are images, dreams, photographs. We must not stay here! Prisoners! We shall break the illusion. This is Maya. Goodbye to the holy mountain. Real life awaits us.
