 

                        Presented by Bona Film Group Co Ltd China Film Co Ltd SMG Pictures Shine Show lnteractive Media Co Ltd Bona Entertainment Co Ltd Supported by Bank of Beijing and C.M.W.H. Content Fund l A Film Workshop Co Ltd Production A TSUl HARK FlLM "FLYlNG SWORDS OF DRAGON GATE" Executive Producers Yu Dong Han Sanping Li Ruigang Chen Danian Jeffrey Chan Co-Producers Han Xiaoli Shi Dongming Yang Wenhong James Zhao Zhu Guofan Admininistrative Producers Zhang Hao Zhao Haicheng Su Xiao Associate Producers Ding Yilan Peng Mingyu Liu Yong Jet Li Starring Zhou Xun Chen Kun Gwei Lun Mei Li Yuchun Mavis Fan Fan Siu Wong lntroducing Sheng Chien Gordon Liu Special Appearance Action Choreographers Yuen Bun Lan Hai Han Sun Jiankui Produced by Nansun Shi Yu Dong Produced and Directed by Tsui Hark At the height of the Ming Dynasty... The Emperor's eunuchs gained excessive power They abused their position... ... and set up an East Bureau and a West Bureau All government officials were closely spied on East Bureau, or the East lnvestigation Bureau... ... infiltrated agents into all major government offices Officials were investigated and arrested Many died in the grip of East Bureau agents West Bureau... ... was the Emperor's secret service lt was responsible for gathering intelligence lt cast its nets far and wide Charges were fabricated Victims were locked up The name 'West Bureau' induced fear and panic Suspects faced immediate arrest and torture Today, the head of East Bureau... ... Wan Yulou... ... visits Longjiang Naval Shipyard lnstead of inspection... His ulterior motive is to arrest opponents And to execute them on the spot! Bring the Minister of Law and Junior War Minister! At hand! Bring the prisoners! Bring the prisoners! Here are the prisoners! Here are the prisoners! Kneel! Face judgment! You two tried to report that l take bribes! That l extort money from officials? Before your letter reached the Emperor... l intercepted it You think to challenge East Bureau! You are like soldiers in a defeated army Fatally weakened, skulking in the shadows But you're not bold enough... ... to report me to the Emperor There is someone else behind you! Minister of Five Armies! Step forward! Can Qianzhi, Minister of Five Armies, reporting You are a master of treachery! You hid your plot behind two fifth-grade officials! Behind your smooth talk, you're a plotter! Sorry, but l must undo your hard work Guards! Time to taste some pickled body-parts! Cut off his tongue! Sir! Restrain the prisoners! Alert! There's someone on the drum tower! Attack on the right! Your Eminence! The Captain is taken! Don't worry We're here to rescue you So you're wearing concealed protective armor! You're said to be highly skilled You fear assassination even with all these guards? Tell me... ... whose body l'm going to pickle My name is... ... Zhao Huai'an But you won't need to remember it l'll carve my name on your cursed head So everyone will know who killed you You're with the Civil Service Minister He's already dead You're just ensuring that... ... the last of his men die too! l'm surviving better than your manhood did! You've drunk so much pickled-flesh wine... ... that you can't even draw your sword You really deserve to die How dare you? Foul eunuch! Your lackeys and your enemies... ... are all watching They will tell the world of your fate Go to hell! Hurry, report this! Lock all the gates! Wait for orders! Sir! Your Eminence... ... your family have been moved to safety You will see them again very soon You may sleep easy Thank you for saving us Farewell Farewell The lmperial Court... ... is so bad that... ... men like us have to mete out justice lt's a pity Without good officials... Who will care for the people? ln the past months... We've decimated... ... the powerful eunuchs who ran the East Bureau Now they're gone... The good officials will soon come back Any obstacle can be surmounted lf their best fighters come for us... Things won't be settled so easily DAJUE TEMPLE The front and back doors are well guarded Many guards are deployed to the east and west The temple is secured both inside and out Unauthorized persons will be killed You may leave Sir! How should we report this to the Emperor? Let's discuss this lt needs careful consideration Thanks to that Zhao Huai'an... We're forced to hide here! What if we don't report? No, we can't Despite the witnesses that day... Does the Emperor have to be told? lf anyone speaks up, l'll silence him lt's so simple Report! Eunuch Yu of West Bureau is here... ... with his subordinates This is a matter for East Bureau! Why is he here? A single swordsman... ... has you cowering in fear! So you hide here... Too scared to return to the palace! lsn't it my business if they attack us too? Attack you too? They're no more than a rabble East Bureau will soon deal with them That day at the Naval Shipyard... Weren't you well protected? Some man named Zhao... ... had no trouble decapitated your leader There's nobody here except cowards... How could you manage to deal with him? Eunuch Wan was careless He underestimated his foe Underestimated? He's too weak! East Bureau's 'masters' have been killed one by one Your chiefs, captains, team heads... Your turn next! How dare you! Sit down You think you'll be safe, hiding here? We are imperial servants to help the Emperor Who do you think you are? West Bureau was formed only recently And you dare... ... to confront me like this? Sir... You ask who we think we are? l'll tell you West Bureau exists to remedy East Bureau's failures! Listen well... There's more! l will kill those that East Bureau dares not kill! l will take care of what East Bureau botches! Whatever East Bureau manages... l will take over Whatever East Bureau can't manage, l will manage We are empowered to act without prior approval! That's who we are! ls that clear enough? Concubine Wan is summoning him again That Johnny-come-lately... ... treats the palace like his home! He's even on her bed! THE CONCUBlNES' QUARTERS Your Ladyship! Your Ladyship... Eunuch Yu of West Bureau has been waiting Send for him Treasure of my heart... Come here! l gave you West Bureau... ... to maintain control here Why are you needling East Bureau? Your duty is to keep the maids... ... out of His Majesty's bed Why waste time on... ... those old men of East Bureau? Wouldn't l be happier... ... if you stayed here with me? Your Ladyship, l always take your orders seriously lf His Majesty... ... so much as glances at another woman... She's gone by next day Please don't worry Your Ladyship is the only woman... ... allowed to get pregnant here l've found several pregnancies among the maids Who are these hussies... ... who've let men take advantage? Of the four... Three are said to have been with guards To forestall any rumor involving His Majesty... l've had the women executed Four wretches... ... three executions And the fourth woman? She got away Her name is Su Huirong l've sent men to catch and kill her lt's a large troop Who are they after? Judging by their banners... They're from West Bureau They're heading for Red Rock Gully Let's see... ... what's going on over there There's someone on the chain up there Who is he? Watch him carefully Boatman... Pull in here We must search the boat! Stop rowing Officials want to search the boat Stop rowing! There is nothing on the boat Please let us go on our way Go? You don't even know... ... what we're looking for Come here No, sir... No... We sail our boat here everyday We hide nothing How many women on your boat? Tell them all to go to the bow What is it? lt was thrown from the boat Report it! Report! Sir! This scented purse was found in the water The handiwork looks familiar Who allowed you to sit? Sir, don't hit her My wife is sick Who cares? Stand up! No... Off the boat! This purse is costly Why was it thrown away? The scent... Let's see if it lingers Have you run away from the palace? Sir... l am... Speak up What's in your belly? Let's take a look inside Yes, sir! Restrain her! Don't, sir Let me go Let my unborn baby go You are Su Huirong? Yes, sir Check if she has an accomplice! Guard the criminal! Release the woman l'll say it again Let her go! Release her! All of you, back away! They're not going They must want me to kill you Back off! Do you want him to kill me? Tell them to jump in the water Why are you standing there? Jump! All of you! Jump in the water! Jump! Good, l will spare your life Go back and do one thing for me Tell your Boss my name... Zhao Huai'an Zhao Huai'an? You are Zhao Huai'an? Now, climb to the top of the scaffolding Stay there for four hours... Then you may go l told you to stay put What are you looking at? Checking that l'm still here? Great knight... Shouldn't we get away from here? l know you are a martial-arts master... But we should not stay here l'm waiting for someone Waiting... Who are you waiting for? Such beautiful scenery Let's drink Brother Zhao He's having a drink, just like the other times Then, let's have a drink too He's impersonating you to rescue people ls he trying to lure you into a meeting? Let him be lsn't it good that he rescues people? We could do with a few more Zhao Huai'ans! For you Brother Zhao... l think you know each other Why don't you greet him? We're both loners... ... old jianhu friends No need for us to meet A carrier pigeon Those West Bureau people released it? lt's flying west That means... ... their Boss has already left the capital lt's weird Did West Bureau send a force like that... ... just to chase a pregnant woman? They will send more troops Let's see if we can help lnform His Highness. All is in order Sir! Report! A carrier pigeon has arrived News from Red Rock Gully? Your Highness... Su Huirong was rescued by a swordsman He gave his name as Zhao Huai'an Jinliang... Which way do you think... ... the fugitives will go? East would be... ... back to the capital North would take them to the border So, they will go north? They could cross it within two days Can a pregnant woman survive... ... riding a horse that far? lf they went northwest by water... lt would take longer But they could cut through Chiayu Pass And follow the Luo River to Dragon Gate Let's wait at Dragon Gate Set the main sail! Sail northwest... ... at full speed! Set the main sail! There's two men at the bow Protect His Highness! So these are West Bureau men? Let's see if they're as good as people say Move! Who are you? l am Chief of West Bureau, Ma Jinliang The sail is collapsing! Protect His Highness! Go to hell! And who are you in West Bureau? Yu Huatian And you are...? l'm the nemesis of both bureaux Zhao Huai'an Ling Guozhou... This way! Archers, get to the bow! Sir! Load your arrows! Take Chongzheng! Guozhou! Go to hell! Go! Your Highness... The so-called Zhao Huai'an... ... was not so hard for you to deal with But Zhao is with Su Huirong... So what's he doing here? Was that an imposter? No He took on East Bureau in the same way He's not an imposter lf he's the real Zhao... Who's the one with Su in Red Rock Gully? No matter how many Zhao Huai'ans there are... l will hang their severed heads outside West Bureau He won't elude me Keep on following Su Huirong We'll show East Bureau how to deal with such foes Yes! Your Highness! Great knight... What are the words carved on the two steles? They're in Xixia script, more than 400 years old Thanks to erosion by the wind and sand... Only the characters 'Dragon' and 'Gate' are legible That's why this place is called Dragon Gate Yumen Pass is nearby, to the west That's your escape route They won't dare follow you l should go alone? You'll stop protecting me? l told you at the start... l'd bring you to safety... Then leave you to go on alone Come on Great knight... You keep playing that flute My guess is that it's a love token Am l right? Good guess lt is a love token... But not for me lt's for someone else Who? Why should you care? Anyway, this flute is not mine l must give it to someone on behalf of its owner lf you mention the flute again... l will stop talking to you Understand? Yes Do l look like her? Look like who? The one you're seeking Listen! lf you ask any more thing about me... l'll abandon you You'll never see me again Jump! l'll catch you! How can l jump? l am pregnant l can't jump Great knight... Yes Our goods packed already? Check if the other side is tied properly Yes Take more water, we'll leave soon l just arrived, and you're telling me to leave? What kind of inn is this? l'm so sorry Tomorrow or the day after... The black sandstorm will arrive That flock of birds... ... was a sign lt will be a huge sandstorm lt will bury the inn No water and no food Even our staff will shelter in the courier station Gentlemen... l'm sorry, because of the weather... Say no more We're passing through, we'll leave after eating l'm so sorry How far is the courier station? The courier station is 50 li from here The mountains there... ... could block the wind They have food and water there lt'll take half a day by camel Take plenty of water Water is a necessity in a desert l forgot the dried food l have it, l have it Go! l'm so sorry Travel safely! Saddle up. Load the cargo! l told you to let no-one in So who are they? They ignored me. l couldn't stop them l know We'll leave after our meal Guests... Have some peanuts and dried fruits What would you like to order? Can you do mutton soup... with noodle? Mutton soup with noodle, yes No, we'll have two bowls of plain noodles Nothing else That's it Alright... Plain noodles coming right up Tell the kitchen: two plain noodles Two bowls of "nun noodles" Excuse me Vegi may not be vegi There's a house rule here Returning customers use their own chopsticks New customers use the inn's chopsticks lt's the rule at a 'black inn' 'Black inn'? What's a 'black inn'? See? There've been many fights here They can't wash out all the blood stains lnnkeeper! Sir, what's wrong? Who do you think we are? You give us white meat? White meat? You know the rules! You think we're new here? A big mistake! Ah Dong, change the meat l'm coming... What is white meat? Why are they are so angry? New customers get white meat What is it? Human Flesh lt's from people who used the inn's chopsticks Coming through... Two bowls of... ... "nun noodles" Sorry, sorry... Get back to the kitchen! You clumsy oaf! Master Lu Bu... Please wash your hands, refresh yourself Have you seen... ... an unfamiliar woman in the past ten days? Unfamiliar... Can't say l have The fact is... A brother of mine bought a woman in the capital He was about to marry her when she ran off My buddies here... l shouldn't say buddies... My brothers here... They're helping me to track down the bitch So if you've seen her recently My lady boss says... You bastards are forcing women to be whores You exploit women and call them bitches? Hard to believe! Guests, denizens ofjianghu often clash in here lt's normal You are here often... So are Master Lu Bu... ... and his friends here We all get along... And you're not from the capital You can't hold any grudges against each other lt's my fault, l'm a poor host Have some wine on the house Give me some face, please? Damn you! She did that to test my skill Next time, l won't let her off so lightly Listen... Stop taking in guests for the next two weeks We will rent the whole inn But that's impossible, sir! There's a huge sandstorm on the way Even we have to shelter at the courier station lt's too dangerous to stay here, you'll die A huge sandstorm? The Dragon Gate black sandstorm is terrifying lt will bury a large area in sand lt might even blow the inn away, who knows? Just take the money l'll decide if l leave or not l can't take it Also, l don't dare offend... ... our other party of guests So you dare offend us? You're talking nonsense Sir... We really can't accept this money You can't take the whole inn if they don't leave l really don't know how to drive them out Don't worry, innkeeper lf the sandstorm doesn't scare them... Their lives are cheap l'll send them to hell early Again? Bastard, are you that hungry? l'm not hungry Of course you aren't Not after helping yourself to a whole leg of lamb! You're always stealing food lt's safe to eat lf it were human flesh, they wouldn't argue over it What? We just work here, sir! The innkeeper holds all the money Please spare us, spare us... We small fry can't decide anything You have to talk to... What is it? What will it do in the wine? Dragon Gate lnn turned "black" three years ago The woman owner ran away to escape arrest Do you also oppose the lmperial Court? That had nothing to do with us We'd never dare oppose the lmperial Court Then do what l tell you l will, l will Put this in the wine and serve it to the Tartars lt will kill them l dare not do that Sir... Sir! Great knight, may l ask you something? lt depends what it is How do you know this place so well? Have you been here many times? Are you... Watch what you say What do you want to ask? Are you the woman who fled three years ago? lf l were that woman owner... The staff would have recognized me lsn't that so? Yes, got it They're here l found this outside the kitchen Deputy Chief, the sky looks strange l think a black sandstorm is really coming To be safe, we need a contingency plan His Highness may have reached the courier station Tell Lidong to guard the stables lf the need arises... Keep our horses and set the others free Yes, sir! Jinliang, this place is named Dragon Gate... ... after the inscription on two steles Yes, Your Highness That's the local legend Follow each other closely The caravan ahead, did anybody get strayed? Open up the barracks! Let them shelter! Yes! Riders on the east, this way! Your Highness, everyone's coming here for shelter This place will soon be full Please order them to stop letting people in Let them all in Yes, sir Your Highness, will Zhao Huai'an come here? He's a foolhardy man l can anticipate his every move Don't make it hard for him to enter Since l'm here, l'm sure he will come Sir... Sir! Deputy Chief, we have searched everywhere No trace of them l have men still searching What is it? What happened? Poisoned How come? (Tartar) What did you say? My boss says, ask your mother how to poison You can't fool anybody with these little tricks You poisoned yourselves by mistake! Draw your swords! lnnkeeper! We're too late to cross the border We need shelter Your flag's still flying Why is the door closed? We're full, go away! Nonsense! There's a sandstorm out there! We can sit on the ceiling even if you're full Open the door! Gangzi, you go! l don't want to yell from the outside l'll tell him to leave... The wind is getting stronger! Anyone alive inside? Sir, it's a blessing in disguise You're lucky that we're full! Lucky? You buffoon! You are asking for trouble You've drawn swords... ... but pretend to be peaceful? Where are you from? We're here already. Would anybody speak to us? Why would His Highness come here? Maybe he's a look-alike He might not be His Highness Let's find out My great knights... You can see that we're full We really have no room for you For shelter from the sandstorm, the best thing... ... would be to go to the courier station lt's much safer, a solid building And it has plenty of space (Tartar) No need to go Our boss will let the gentleman have her room One room, that's ridiculous lf you don't mind... l can spare two fine rooms for you (Tartar) May l invite the gentleman to a drink? A flash of sword, a taste of wine We have vintage amber wine here Something to savor Awine for real connoisseurs Please honor me by accepting Fine, we accept See if His Highness is at the courier station Good sir, do you pass this way often? You want to know about us? lf it's a rule ofjianghu... ... to make inquiries... Maybe you tell me why you drew swords? l am talking to this gentleman lt's none of your business But l am also talking to you now Why it isn't my business? l see, what you really want... ... is to know why l'm here Right? No need to answer now Sir, on your way here... Was this lady knight your only companion? Are you by any chance bandits? Are you assessing us before robbing? Such impudence! Where did you come from? That's how you speak to us? Then where are you from? How dare you speak like that? Jianzong How about this... l'd like to toast this gentleman Please excuse us... ... for being rude Hope you wouldn't mind For your good health Please drink Did you poison the wine? lmpossible! How could it be poisoned? The man you carried out just now... ... seemed poisoned There's no poison in the wine? Then you drink it Come on! Drink it! Come on, drink it! lt's getting fiery, what next? (Tartar) lt's not only the wine... Everything there is poisoned lf you don't want to be poisoned, come drink here No poison over there, but plenty here! What's going on here? (Tartar) l like you (Tartar) lt's embarrassing to translate (Tartar) Do it! Our boss says l like you a lot No, she's the one who likes you a lot (Tartar) Our boss invites you to her room for a drink lt's quieter there, no disturbances The smell here is nauseating lnnkeeper, bring me water for washing l'll vomit... ... if l don't wash off the stench Yes, ma'am The rooms are ready, this way Brother, my room is yours, at your disposal Alright! You are so hot, it's hard to refuse But l need to check them out first See you Your Highness... We've brought the steles from Black Water City What does the inscription read? Your Highness, the inscription is in Xixia characters After years of wind and sand erosion... Only four words are legible: dragon, gate, fly, cycle The rest cannot be read But l must report something more to Your Highness Ever since the two steles were unearthed... They have been regarded as inauspicious Dragon Gate weathers sandstorms all year Legend has it that they're related to the steles Recently, the weather has been very strange Now that His Highness has seen the inscription... We should return the steles to their position Then the world will be set to rights We are just coolies Please spare our lives We don't know anything Please spare our lives We will put the steles back My intention... ... was to lure out the snake Now you have startled it by beating the grass Your Highness... The coolie wore the same shoes as Zhao Huai'an We cast an escape-proof net And all it took to break it was a pair of shoes The sword will draw more blood before it's sheathed Turn this place upside down to find Zhao Yes, Your Highness Search the station! And the stockroom Bring the caravans to the east wing Sir! Harness that horse! Sir! Chase! What's the matter? Does he really resemble me? Your Highness At first glance, the resemblance is striking But his behavior is flippant and skittish Nothing like Your Highness's majestic demeanor He could be useful We can use him to win by stealth Go back and tell Tan Luzi to take no action Wait for my order We'll lure our enemy into a trap What trap, Your Highness? We will deploy a fake. l'll disguise as him... ... to draw them out An excellent plan! lt would be prudent to alert us to your arrival So that we can tell the real from the fake We cannot afford to make a mistake Let's use a password The password is... "Dragon Gate fly cycle" "Dragon Gate... fly cycle"? And the response is... "Fake or genuine" You must remember this secret password lf you can't, l'll carve it on your chest l have it memorized... l have it memorized "Dragon Gate fly cycle", "Fake or genuine" ls someone on guard while you three are down here? Everything is in order The Tartars are watching them in the dining room Boss, everyone is here Sit down! l'll start by introducing the members of our team Our coordinator is Liang Cai, the "Shuoyang Demon" Huang, Er Cai and Xinping are from Mt. Pingding... Our guide is Pu Cangzhou Also known as "The Wind Blade" He was the one who set us on this trail And... We also have Chang Xiaowen, the "Grim Reaper" And her Tartar brothers And my assistant, H'Gantga 300 years ago, this place, Dragon Gate... ... was the capital of the Xixia Empire At that time... The Mongols... The Mongols besieged Black Water City for a year Finally only 1 08 warriors were left in the city Before they died... They locked their women, children and gold in the palace Then they kill themselves for their country That night, Black Water City was buried by a sandstorm The full inscription on the steles... ... should be read in reverse, giving us... "Come / Cycle / Fly / Swirl / Dragon" "Sand / Sea / Dedicate / God / Gate" "Come Cycle " indicates a cycle of 60 years Fly Swirl Dragon is the black sandstorm "God Gate" is the entrance of the Xixia Palace The black sandstorm will raise the "Sand Sea"... ... to reveal the buried palace That will give us access to the treasure Those at Dragon Gate lnn in the past... ... were waiting for the treasure to come to light But events took an unfortunate turn The inn owner was a woman Provoked by a man, she burned down the inn No-one has seen her since Her name was Ling Yanqiu So you're... Listen, all of you The ancient city is filled with mazes This map shows the way out The way out? Why the way out and not the way in? Because there's only one way in You have to get through the mazes on the way out You can get in without the map, but not out Cai, what's going on upstairs at the moment? Why is the inn full of soldiers in disguise? They say they're looking for a woman "Wind Blade," what do you know about it? Apparently West Bureau wants to execute someone They're after a maid who escaped from the palace l saw two women here today But they disappeared when the soldiers arrived They used their own chopsticks Even if they're our peers... Woe betide them if they get in our way lt's our only chance in 60 years We'd better grab it The Jade Emperor himself couldn't stop me! The soldiers seemed cowed by "Wind Blade" earlier Did they mistake you for someone else? Their boss invited you to his room No lt was just talk They have set everything on the table... Why don't you go to check them out? l'll go with you l won't go! You fought against them earlier You can't go No better... Then l'll go with him Their boss drew his sword against you Then there's no-one suitable "Mr Wind," you'll just have to go alone Alone? What if something happens? With a name like "Wind Blade"... You must have some martial skills And that means l don't need any help? Of course not, if you get into trouble, just yell We'll all rush in to save you lsn't that right? And with a mouth like yours, l'm sure you can yell Nothing will happen, don't worry One other thing, "Mr Wind"... They seem to think you're a high-ranking officer You can show superiority when you speak to them Easy to say Deputy Chief, he's here l ordered discretion... But you've made yourselves obvious Even a halfwit could see that you're officials Yes Anything to report? Tell me Everything is under control We await Your Highness's orders Everything's under control... Then why would you need orders? lt's chaos! How can order be restored? Your Highness, please keep calm... Your inferiors don't understand What do you mean by chaos? Maybe Your Highness... ... go over the plan again Be careful upstairs Oh yes, Cai... When you rebuilt the inn... Besides this cellar... Did you find any other tunnels? This is how we found it l didn't see any tunnels Rumor has it that the woman boss... Ling Yanqiu... ... dug tunnels and laid traps l think this isn't the only cellar Maybe... ... the two women we saw are hiding beneath us Cai! Xinping! Er Cai! Where are you? lt's her! She's one of the women we saw There was another one How do you plan to detain me? The only one who knows these caves so well... ... is the woman who ran Dragon Gate lnn... Ling Yanqiu Your Highness, please say it once again What is your plan? What kind of place is Dragon Gate lnn? Have you checked the staff's background? What's the business of those Tartars? Do you still remember what rank you hold? And why you were sent here? Tell me Third in West Bureau, Seventh in the palace Absurd! Do l need you to tell me that? l want to know... lf you remember... ... the reason you are here! Of course l do lf l have not performed well... Please let me atone by doing better How? Ordered to give poison, you get poisoned! The woman you're looking for got here long ago! But all you do is wait, wait, wait... ... up here in your room Are you waiting for me to do yourjob? You were after the treasure last time you were here But the officials tracked you down So you had to flee Now you're here with a palace maid... You want the same again? You drew the officials here to deal with us? Have you ever thought... ... l could bargain with those corrupt officials? l can hand over the maid to them And when they leave... The treasure will still be ours Tell me... How will you deal with the people here in the inn? We'll poison their animals and... ... leave them stranded here to die The sandstorm will bury the corpses None of them will escape Just be sure that our quarry is amongst them Why wait for the sandstorm, we could act now Kill them all at daybreak Then we can take our time... ... tracking our quarry Sir! Who is it? Zhao Tong, back from the courier station Your Highness, are you going alone? Yes Your Highness Wind Blade! You're the Wind Blade You trade jianghu news, we've done business l was wanted by the lmperial Court, Zhao Huai'an Remember me? What now? You've been recognized Don't Fight! What happened? Who is he? l've waited so long to see you again For three years... l've pondered the size of the jianghu lt seems infinite, and l've worried for your safety Three years ago, l picked up the love token you left Now, l can return it... As selfish as every other man in the world And that's my fault? Shut up! We agreed when we broke up... To talk business only! You now regret it? l'm getting the punishment in early, to forestall you l'll put this into my books Record in books... could you? lf you didn't want to see her Why did you come here? l followed the West Bureau men here l had no idea l'd bump into "Wind Blade" They were taken in by his resemblance... ... to their Boss, Yu Huatian Their Boss? Yu Huatian is in the courier station, 50 li from here He will send his cavalry here When they arrive... No-one here will stand a chance You must be kidding He's your enemy... But he'd kill us? Why would he do that? You think Yu Huatian would let go... ... a man who resembles him that much... ... to roam around freely? Worse, "Wind Blade" posed as Yu... ... and tricked his subordinates lf they turned a blind eye to that... They wouldn't be the West Bureau l think Yu Huatian will move at dawn We should move first Catch him unawares Our first step is to divide the enemy One of their guides was poisoned Let's start with him Lu Bu, l'm here to save you This is the antidote to the poison you drank The lmperial Court is done with you They won't even bury you if you die lf you still want to live, do one thing for me l can't... fight You don't need to. l'm in love with my boss But she only has eyes for that gentleman Kill him for me l can barely speak, how can l kill? Go to the stables... ... and set all the horses loose When the sandstorm hits, he will be trapped He's sure to die here You're healthy... but you won't do it yourself lt must be a trap l can't do it because she might see me And where would that leave me? So it's your life for his Your choice This is only half of the antidote lf you don't go along with my request... You'll still die in three days For three years... You carried what l most craved You searched high and low to find me But fate doomed you... ... to disappointment Although you never appeared... l felt in my heart that you were looking at me The reason l carried the flute... ... is because l envied its owner She was long gone... But she was always in your heart She gave her life for me That's a debt l can never repay l understand, you didn't see me... ... because you thought l might cling to you "Better lost in jianghu than caught up in the world" l've never understood that saying Partings are hard, both in life and in death Those close to me have left, one by one One day, l will leave too and... ... it'd be better if l won't give anybody sorrow l have a wish too This flute is for you Carry it away from this blood-soaked place Turn away and never come back Why are you hitting me? The next step is yours, we count on you l have medicine for her wound l can help you with your wish Only when a woman's heart dies... ... can she leave you That's her only way out l want to ask you... Why did you burn down the inn for him back then? Actually l... l'm tired of this desert Are you really leaving? Stay, join us in the treasure-hunt There's no place for 'love' in jianghu Take me! l talk business, not 'love' With money, what can't be bought? l used to think like that But if something doesn't belong to you... You can't have it or buy it lf l can't buy it, l don't care You'll understand one day And you'll change your mind l know it's my fault... ... but take me with you Don't think that you two fooled me You and he aren't like that lf you wanted me to leave, you're trying too hard Then... take me with you ln case of danger, hide yourself well lf that doesn't work... Find a good family in your next life Then where are you going? l could go anywhere for him lf l stayed, he'd be worried Deputy Chief, His Highness wants to see you "Dragon Gate fly cycle" What? A slip of the tongue What does Your Highness wish? When you arrived, did you use a guide... ... named Lu Bu? We did, what about him? This man's been bribed He is in the stables now, freeing your horses He aims to trap you in the sandstorm... ... so that you will all die here Xueyong, check the stables! Sir! Weren't you weakened by the poison? Where did you find the strength to go to the stables? l... lnteresting, you've cured yourself lt seems you can withstand any poison Sir! Zhao Tong! Bring him more poison Let's see how he does it Officer... Officer... l am not immune to poison Someone gave me an antidote But l only took half of it... So l'm still half-poisoned Go on l was given the antidote... ... by that giant called H'Gantga He... He likes his woman boss... And he wants his rival laid low He gave me the antidote... ... and told me... ... which horses to free Report! Two groups are fighting downstairs The Tartar woman and another woman started it Apparently they're fighting over a man Now they've started a fire Even if it's a trick, we shouldn't stay inside the inn Let's see what happens Tell everyone to go outside and stand by Quick, all of you! There's another box l've got it, Cai There're some here too Get it outside, then empty the next room Quick! What else needs to be moved? Go! lt's a trick, nothing's burning Zhao Tong, Ji Xueyong! Take some men to investigate... See what's going on Sir! Pingzi, take your men that way The sky color is really strange Daqiang, check the kitchen Pingzi, check the stables The rest of you, check downstairs They're our men, from West Bureau Are they real or impostors? Very suspicious What's our password? The first half is "Dragon Gate fly cycle" The second half is "Fake or genuine" "Dragon Gate fly cycle"! Quick, all of you! There's another box l've got it, Cai There're some here too Get them outside! "Dragon Gate fly cycle" What are you thinking? "Dragon Gate fly cycle" must be a password "Fake or genuine" Fake... "Fake or genuine" Officer, why are you deployed out here? Your Highness... We were told the inn was on fire We suspect a trick... Men are investigating now How do you assess the situation? No-one has reported yet You've been lured away from your position! Have they left by the back way... ... while you wait out here? Yes, Your Highness! Follow them! Deputy Chief, the customers have all gone We found twitch grass covering tinder That was what made the smoke That's bad, they did trick us outside Report to His Highness! There are ambushers outside! Be alert! Ambushers! Be alert! Have the men outside been tricked too? Let me try the password Quick! "Dragon Gate fly cycle"! What? "Dragon Gate fly cycle"! Shoot! Damn you! They're nearly here, one away... l waited until they were close before rushing back Good timing Ready! Deputy Chief, we've discovered that... ... our uniforms have been stolen Then His Highness outside is an impostor? "Dragon Gate fly cycle" Come again? Cycle? The hell with it! Arrows! lt's time, let's move! Four groups, using the inn's location... ... and the wind direction First group, Cai You take the best vantage point Follow the movements of Yu Huatian Use signals to inform us Second group, Chang Xiaowen and H'Gantga Lead your men in an attack... ... from the south of the inn Make them use up their weapons and men Third group, Gu Shaotang You lead the inn staff... ... in a pincer movement Respond to Chang Xiaowen... Arget their martial arts masters Mind the one in a black mask... His twin swords are lethal Fourth group! Draw out Yu Huatian and lead him to me To help you Why've you come back? That bowman is covering us, ready to attack We have to stop him somehow Yu Huatian is over there, l'm going No! You take care of the bowman l'll deal with Yu Huatian You'll fight him? You alone? Yes Alone, that's it That's it? H'Gantga, this is it! The flying swirl dragon! You and l are fire and ice Yu Huatian... You dare to fight me inside the swirling dragon? Listen, mount your steed if you dare! l'll be waiting! Zhao Huai'an! H'Gantga! lt's coming! Quick, into the tunnel Zhao Huai'an! There's a light ahead lt's a reflection! The gold roof of the palace! We've found the Xixia treasure at last! l won't leave you behind Zhao Huai'an What is it? Zhao Huai'an Are you alright? Yanqiu, the dagger he's holding is ultra-sharp Take great care That's the West... Head of West Bureau, Yu Huatian! l'll tackle him Wait Stay put l know his fighting style already Stay back and watch... Note his weak points One palace maid attracts so much scum! Not to mention you, you worthless face-thief You dare to impersonate me? You're the worst of all Enough talk yet? Scum we may be, but we are many now We'll suffocate you! Give way! Are numbers an advantage? The more people, the more need for strategy Who will you sacrifice first? All you officials... Aren't you all greedy? Everyone knows what you're really like There's enough gold here to set you up for life No more worries about your twilight years No more jockeying for rank and advantage Your world is a bear-pit, mull it over! Good... You echo my thoughts exactly Good thinking! What a shame that... ... none of you is a match for me l can finish off all of you And l'll end up with all the gold anyway! You know why no-one could find this capital? Because another sandstorm is on the way This city will be buried under the sand On your own, how much gold could you move? This stalemate will cost our lives and the gold Neither side has the advantage So we have mutual interests! But some are not here for the gold They want to fight me to the death Where does that leave your plan? Here's an idea: we team up together... ... to finish off those two How about it? Honeyed words! Outside here, wealth won't be his first priority Didn't he call you "scum"... ... and "face-thief"? Look at him He's the one between you and the gold... Not me lt's a shame that you're at such a disadvantage Maybe l can't get rich... But you would die anyway lf you could persuade him... We might still have time to move the gold These people all came to get rich... This damned official wants to divide us He'll easily sway them They could turn against us lf you want gold too... Stop wasting time on talk! Yu Huatian, l can cut a deal with you Let's all move the gold out lf you agree, let Gu Shaotang go What kind of deal is that? There are many of you... How would we move the gold? Stupid question We all carry what we can The strongest gets the most! That would put me at a big disadvantage Fending you off and carrying my gold l couldn't move much Why would l agree to such a plan? l know you're greedy... But you're too cautious The gold can't all be moved at once... To reassure everyone... l suggest each group monitors the other two Yu Huatian... ... Gu Shaotang and l will stay here The others move the gold lf we stay... Those who carry gold will have to return Any other concerns? Alright... that makes sense Once you're outside, don't come back You intend to perish with him? We've walked so far, where's the way out? ls this the wrong way? No, l'm following the map The ways in and out are different We're nearly there Have you thought it through? Do we really go back for them? You're ready to abandon Gu Shaotang? The world is ours once we get out lf we go back... Maybe none of us will survive Here! That's the way out l'll take a look Move the gold up here A bit higher... Got it Let's get back for another round What the...? She... She... has been... ... hiding her true face You could have got away How come you are going back for him? She's an enemy agent They tricked us You gave me this dagger Now reap what you have sown With you down, no-one here can match me You just gave Zhao Huai'an your sword So how can you fight me? Your martial skills and schemes can't match mine Now l'm going to kill Zhao Catch her! Wind Blade! Here you are! Give chase! No further! There's a trap ahead H'Gantga! l'll stab you! You hugged that enemy agent... Keep your hands off me! Buludu! Look ahead, there are tripwires H'Gantga, what is it? lt's very sharp, some kind of gold thread They're in real danger in there They won't let us in... ... in case we warn Zhao Great knight... What's going on out there? lt's bad, they're fighting over the gold Fighting fiercely Follow me! Up to the roof lt's hopeless, they're already fighting Why are we three staying here? Zhao Huai'an... We just agreed a deal lsn't it time to renegotiate? H'Gantga! lt's a danger signal You're supposed to fear Yu Huatian... But that didn't stop you coming back? Why did l come back? l came to help Ling Yanqiu... ... to kill you, you fickle man! What's that horrible sound? The sound of people in love with power and gold Sadly, it all returns to dust and ashes Even if you wait a lifetime, the end is the same Death is inevitable! Your Highness, the wind is back, let's go Yes Almost there Give way and let me do it Come on This way will be quicker! Good You really think l made you stay... ... because of the gold? Go up first l saw through your decision... ... to stay here Mind the places Su passed through! There are traps! Behind you! The thread is lethal! lt's you? Where is Ling Yanqiu? Why don't l see her? Where is she? What happened to her? She was badly hurt She didn't want you to see her die So she left before you revived l leave with you the things... ... l don't want to take Partings are natural, why should we be missed? Just tell him l will be free That's all Which way did she go? To the south l must see her, l'll look for her! Let's go Hopeless! She gave me the flute l'll wait for them here Will they come back? Definitely One cycle... 60 years is a lifetime All our planning led us back to these sands l want rank in the government A very powerful government official l'll come with you! lf they don't come back... ... come find me in the capital l'll expect you Come here, treasure of my heart Kill her Who? Understood Your Ladyship... Guards! Send the lmperial doctor! Her ladyship died! ln the 23rd year of Chenghua's reign... Concubine Wan Zhen'er... ... fell ill and died suddenly Palace records say... ... she contracted a liver disease And died of sudden liver failure Original Story and Screenplay by Tsui Hark Associate Screenwriters Ho Kei Ping Zhu Yali Production Designer Yee Chung Man Art Director Ben Lau Costume Designer Lai Hsuan Wu Director of Photography Choi Sung Fai HKSC Edited by Yau Chi Wai HKSE Music Supervisor Wu Wai Lap Original Music by Wu Wai Lap Li Han Chiang Gu Xin Supervising Stereographer Chuck Comisky Stereographers Kevin Lau Gigo Lee Post Production Producer Edward Chiyun Yi Stereoscopic Post Production Supervisor Yong Gi Lee Visual Effects Producer Hideyuki Mako Visual Effects Supervisors Wook Kim Josh Cole Frankie Chung Sound Design by Kim Suk Won
