 

                        I was lost in the dark Now this light's in my face Say good-bye to my broken heart Gonna take center stage, yeah I won't keep playing these games Tired of these tattered masks Let's let the curtains fall It's time for the next act, yeah Shot to the heart, but you missed your mark I'm still bleeding Falling apart, your arrow is sharp Oh, I'm leaving Now it's time that we end this dance Stand and leave Oh, oh, oh, oh Oh, oh, oh, oh, that's all Thank you. We'll let you know. Do you guys want me to do the scene? No, that's quite all right. We have a lot of girls to go through today. Thank you for coming in. - I was up all night practicing. - I'm sure you were. Everybody does, but I've seen enough. I'm not gonna hear from you. Probably not. Do you mind me asking what I did wrong? Okay. Um, first off, your song choice. I thought it was original. I bet you did, and so did five other girls this morning, even if you did sing it the best. Okay, so then what's the problem? To be brutally honest with you, you are a nobody. Right now Broadway is hemorrhaging money. Name recognition is all that matters, and you are a chorus girl at best. We need a star, not another dime-a-dozen socialite. Why did you agree to see me? Apparently your fiance's very well-connected, and someone called in a favor and is wasting my time. Thank you. Oop, sorry. Hey. Hey. - Will still here? - We what? Where's Will? Uh, I... I don't know. Poppy! Poppy, oh, my God, I love your dress. Where'd you get it? Bendel's. My parents took me shopping there last weekend when I visited them in the city. Your taste is so on point. I'm gonna have to make a trip down there next week. What? Sweetie, I'm just saying this because I'm your friend, but I doubt they carry your size. I hear Sears has a new line of curve couture, though. Sorry, muscle spasm. See you next Tuesday. Bitch. Hey. Uh, I need a favor. Fine. Thank you. Hey, there. You looking for somebody? Do you know Will LaSalle? You don't mean the Will LaSalle? Yeah, do you know where he is? No, but I'm right here. Rick. Heidi. So, Heidi, why don't you follow me to the Delta party, and maybe we'll find Will along the way? I need another drink. - I got something better. - What? Tonight's entertainment is brought to you by the letter K. I don't have any money. First round's on me. What about you? Sampling your own wares is bad for business. Plus, coach would kill me. Let's go, Heidi. Heidi, let's just go. I have to tell him. Just... just meet me outside. I'll be right out. Are you sure? Okay. Thank you so much. Hi, Camille. Hi, Poppy. If you're looking for Will, he disappeared upstairs with Annabel. You know, you should really put a leash on him until he learns how to behave. Will? Oh, great. Why haven't you called me back? I don't think you get it. It was a one-time thing. Yeah, you made that pretty clear, but, look, we have to talk alone. Uh, Roderick, my good man, happy belated birthday. Thanks, homie, but you know I don't wear anything from the Goodwill. - Get off of me. - Hey, take a hint. Get out of here. Fine. I'll just go talk to Camille then, see what she thinks about your extracurricular activities. Uh, you keep your mouth shut to Camille. Hey, if you mess that up, I swear to God I'll make that scholarship of yours disappear. I hear that Gateway Community College has a great liberal arts program. Get away from the ledge, Heidi. Whoa, don't tease us now. What are you doing? Hey, babe, you're back. Just having a little chat, right, Heidi? Okay, well, she's drunk, and you're not sober, so... Cam, don't be mad. We're just having a little fun. Heidi, do you want to come down? I'll walk you home. That'd be great. Thanks. Hey, where do you think you're going? Get off of me. Oh, my God. Do you think we should call the cops or something? Sure, Rick, and then you can tell them about that medication you prescribed her too. Well, what should we do? Well, it was an accident, so we could just walk away, right? She got drunk at the party. She wandered up here by herself. She broke through that door, and... And then she accidentally fell. - Fine with me. - Yeah, me too. Cam? Cam, let's go. Are you okay? She's dead, Will. I know, but you said it yourself. It was an accident. Yeah. I forgot to ask how the audition was yesterday. Cam? Um, sorry, what? What did you say? The audition? Um, it was productive, and I had constructive feedback. You don't always have to put that in. I think you're really handsome without it. It builds character. Spare the flattery. It's a birth defect. Character doesn't book jobs; perfection does. Make sure you keep the 30th free for the masquerade. I thought your parents were gonna be out of town. They are, but they still want to hold the party for appearances, which means you get to officially host your first society event. - Really? - Absolutely. Just make sure you wear something respectable. Mmm. Do you love me? Do you really have to question that? That really wasn't an answer. Oh, Cam, oh, hey, I chose you out of all of the other girls. Of course I love you. Once I take over the old man's business, we will be society's most unstoppable "it" couple. Page Six won't be able to resist running our wedding photos. You want to talk about what happened last night, why Heidi was even there to begin with? There's nothing to talk about, Cam. Hey, quieting down, quieting down, everyone. I know you're all preoccupied with the events at Price Hall last night. Losing a fellow student like that, it can be a traumatizing experience. Too often we're... we're pressured to stay strong and keep our emotions buried, and that's why I just want to take a little time and talk about how we're feeling. Anybody want to go first, share their thoughts with the rest of us? I just think it's ridiculous that the school's doing nothing. They should have at least canceled classes today. That's good, Natalie, and it's normal to feel angry and resentful. Really? Cancel classes? Because some drunk girl fell off a balcony? Fell? Suicide's the second-leading cause of death for college students. Okay, let's not start rumors. According to the police it was a tragic accident. I think it's disgusting that the media is referring to this girl like she's just some kind of statistic. Okay, go on. She was in my physics class, okay? I sat next to her every day, and now she's gone. What was her name? Excuse me? Well, she sat next to you every day, and you seem so distraught over her death, so what was her name? I didn't say I actually talked to her. You don't understand. Suicide or accident, a person's dead. What exactly defines an accident? I'm not quite sure what you mean. Theoretically, let's just say that she was meeting someone up there last night and wasn't alone, someone who cornered her against the railing. Would that be a crime? Well, depending on all the circumstances, sure. It could be involuntary manslaughter. Murder, you mean. Uh, well, yeah. Anybody who happened to be there could have legal action taken up against them too, right? If they don't immediately tell anyone. I'd assume giving drugs to the victim beforehand couldn't help the situation either, right? Lisa, do you know something about what happened there last night? No. If you do, you have the responsibility to report it. I was just curious. Watch the hall. Ow, get off. What the hell are you trying to pull? Will, calm down. No, not until she tells us what she knows. Oh, is that guilt I see starting to settle in? No, I have nothing to feel guilty about. Oh, please, you may as well have just pushed her off that ledge yourself. - If... - Heidi's dead. You need to be held accountable for that. If I had anything to do with her death, you would be absolutely right. You know what you did to her. And you, you're just gonna pretend that nothing happened? Lisa, I saw it. None of us did anything wrong. The pictures I have might suggest otherwise. Oh, all right. Well, let's get right down to it. How much do you want for them? Your money can't buy you out of everything. What the hell was that? She's gonna go to the cops. I don't care what Netflix says. I look terrible in orange. Don't you have a benzo or something you can slip her? I wouldn't worry about the wardrobe, princess. With those legs you'll be the most popular girl in lockup. Oh, in that case, you of all people would be clamoring to get caught. She's not going to the police. If she was, she would have done it already. Maybe if you hadn't attacked her, we could have found out what she wanted. Oh, that's great. Now you're taking her side, and, you know, hello to you too. Hi. I'm not taking sides. She has pictures of all of us. So she says; she could be making that up for all we know. Well, then, we have to find out for sure. If I just get her alone, maybe I could reason with her. I know exactly how to reason with people like that, okay? Everybody has their price. We just got to figure out what hers is. Even if we did pay her off, who's to say she'll just go away? Yeah, and if she ever says anything to anyone, our futures are gone. Thanks, bud. Hey, why don't you shut the hell up? I didn't do anything wrong. Okay, stop. Guys, we're not talking about who's to blame. We just have to figure out a way to get her out of our lives. Why don't we just kill her too, add that to your body count? That was a joke. Okay, what if she was to... disappear? I mean, would anybody actually miss her? By lunchtime nobody was even talking about Heidi anymore. Stop. I... I'm just weighing all of our options. Well, this isn't the dark ages, Will. You can't just kill someone and get away with it. People get caught because people want the fame. Yeah, you can learn a lot from other people's mistakes. What? I don't want to go to jail. Even if it was ruled an accident, we'd be forever connected to it. Okay, what if we just beat her to it? What if we went to the cops and just told them what happened? Are you willing to take that risk? I'm sorry, Cam, but as far as I'm concerned, our options are limited. Are you guys serious? We're talking about taking a life. Giving us ours back in return. Wow. Well, you can count me out. Hey, Cam, Cam, we all left together that night. How's that gonna look to the cops? Yeah, we wanted to tell the cops, Camille, but you wouldn't let us. That is not what happened, and you know it. Let me just talk to her and see what she even has on us, okay? I'll get the pictures. Okay, that's... go ahead, but just remember, okay, in the end we're gonna do what's best for us. That's a good picture. What are you doing here? Will you just calm down so we can talk? Why? Will you just listen to what I have to say? I'm not like the others. I don't care. Get out. I don't have the money to buy me out of this. Fine, I'll leave then. I hope the cops think they're good pictures too. Babe? We have to do something. Hey, girl, hey, and I really mean that. I'm really glad we ran into you. I thought I told you that I didn't want to talk to you. Oh, come on. Let's have a kiki, just us girls. I don't think so. Sorry about how Will treated you the other day. Sit down. You know how boys can be. Sit down. Emotionally abusive? I was going for slightly overzealous. Oh, is this the part where you guys offer me a makeover in exchange for my silence? Oh, God, no. This isn't the '90s. We think we've found a way where we can all get what we want. I thought I already told you that I can't be bought. Are you sure about that? See, I actually think this is your way of jacking up the price. I mean, why else wouldn't you have gone to the cops? Exactly, and even if you did, you don't know what happened or what was said up there. Yeah, I don't have to. The pictures say enough. Well, since you don't care about the truth, you do realize that you are just as guilty for withholding information? How are you gonna pay for your tuition next semester? I mean, your financial aid just got pulled. Your mom flaked on re-filing her paperwork. How is her rehab stint going, by the way? How did you know that? From this moment forward, we are always one step ahead of you. You're the Britney, and she's the Madonna. Will's having a cocktail party this Friday at 8:00 with all your new best friends. Be there, bring the photos, and we'll make a trade. Thanks for coming. Let's just get this over with. I see you've met everyone. Yeah, I think so. Let me see if I got this straight, the drug dealing neurotic with the double life, the self-conscious follower, the abusive, womanizing sociopath, and finally the gold-digging social climber? How cute. Yeah, well, I've been around, you know? I've seen all the skeletons in your closets, probably even the ones you hid from each other. Okay, that's enough. You've put us in a very compromising position. Yeah, something new and different for you, I'm sure. Can we not with the sarcastic quips? I get that it's your insecure defense mechanism, but it's... you know, it's really starting to piss me off. Then just say what you brought me here to say. The stunt you pulled in class the other day was unacceptable, and we're here to do something about that so it doesn't happen again. Yeah, how's that? You know that we all have very bright futures ahead of us. You, not so much, huh? Yeah, well, not everybody was born with the taste of silver in their mouths. Don't turn this into class warfare. Your hard-knock life doesn't make you better than the rest of us. You don't understand. Heidi wasn't just my roommate. She was my only friend here. You know, never once did any of you even acknowledge my existence until it threatened your perfect lives. Yeah, you're right. Why would we? But, you know, here we are, so... Look, do you have the photos? Good. You wouldn't have come here without a number in mind. 4 million. Even I don't have that just laying around the house, Lisa. I know. Um, I have an account set up. Just transfer the funds, and you'll never hear from me again. You put a lot of thought into this for someone who can't be bought. What do you guys think? Expensive price tag for such a low-end product. Annabel? What the hell? It's pocket change, right? Looks like you're the tiebreaker, Cam. What do we do? Give it to her. Why not? Two to one. There's no other copies I got to worry about popping up down the road or anything like that? - No, just these. - No? That's good. Good, well, looks like it's your lucky day, Lisa. Really? There's one problem. I... I can't... I cannot bring myself to trust that you'll just disappear, which is why I can't let you leave here tonight. Did you drug her? Yeah. I don't know about this. Well, it's a little late to go back now. Well, we could just pay her, let her go. No. We are all in this together. What? So this is how it's gonna be? You were the most reluctant, Cam. You guys dragged me into this, and you expect me to do it? Fine. Camille, w-wait. What, do you volunteer? She lives in Goff Hall. Go pack a bag and bring back her laptop. - What for? - Because we're gonna need it. Rick, go with her. What happened? Her eyes twitched. She's dead, Will. Get it together. Go, go, go. She's not summering in South Hampton, Bel. Just grab some stuff so we can get out of here. Sorry. What are you doing? Making it look like she ducked out in a hurry. You're doing it wrong. You've got to make it so the last one's out further so it looks like she worked her way down but she could still get into them. That's actually kind of brilliant. I saw it on "Forensic Files." We should get back. Anything else? Oh, her computer. Hey. She's so... still. That's kind of the point. Is that all of them? Yes. You okay? I'm fine. Hey, do you have her computer? Yeah. She only had a tablet. What are you doing? I'm sending her out of town. Okay, all set. She was never here, and no one saw or spoke to her tonight. Agreed? Mm, what are you doing? Shh, nothing. Go back to sleep. Let's go. Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Okay. Cheers, Pops. It's good to see you. I can't believe you actually live here. This is insane. Well, you can come here whenever you want. You mean when your girlfriend isn't around? What girlfriend? Come on, everyone knows you're dating Camille. Correction, I'm engaged to Camille. Is that a problem? Not if it isn't for you. Let's go! Let's go! Do you think this is acceptable? Get going, Rick! Go faster! Faster! Hit the showers! My office. I'll be all right. I need you to be better than all right, do you understand me? Yes. You... you look terrible. Well, I didn't get much sleep last night. Why's that? Were you out partying? Answer me, Rick. Yes, sir, I was out partying. You know the rules. I need you focused during the season. I'm sorry, Coach. I made a mistake. Oh, this is what's wrong with your generation. You're all raised in this bubble where you have no repercussions for your actions so you slack and take advantage of everything. Will you say something? You're right. We get away with everything. - Hey. - Hey, Bels. You look like hell. Yeah, thanks. How'd you sleep? What sleep? Yeah, me too. I feel bad. I never feel bad. Of course you do. You have a heart. Shocking, I'm sure. When I got home last night all I could think about was her lying in the ground. Can we talk about this later? Don't you feel bad at all? Look, of course I do, Roderick, but it's done now. What do you think would happen if we got caught? - Are you kidding? - Worst-case scenario? You know what would happen. Well, it's not like either of us did anything. We were just kind of there. We were a big part of it. You know that. Uh, I guess you're right. I just can't help but think someone's gonna find out eventually, that it'd be easier if we just tell someone now. No, no, look. Everything's fine, okay? We're gonna finish school, and we're gonna start our new lives, and we're gonna forget that this even happened, okay? Look, as far as I'm concerned, it's just a bad dream. I hope you're right. Walk much, Screech? Sorry. Um, actually, I'm... I'm applying to grad schools now, and I was wondering if maybe you could write me a recommendation letter? - Sure. - Excuse me. Yes, can I help you? My name is Detective Alex Dakoulas. You mind if I ask a few questions? Well, sure. I needed to talk to one of your students, Will LaSalle. Oh, Will, yeah. He's right over th... He was just there. I don't know where he went. Can I do anything for you? One of you was in my room, so just tell me who, 'cause this is not funny. If none of you did it, then somebody else knows. That's not possible. Of course it's possible. If anyone found out, it's because you let it slip. - I didn't tell anybody. - Stop. We should have just gone to the cops after what happened with Heidi. Yeah, we should have. Maybe you didn't bury it with her, you know? Maybe you forgot and accidentally took it home. Of course I didn't take it home. You saw me put it in the duffel bag with the rest of her stuff. Look, I'm just trying to think logically, okay? Yeah, well, don't strain yourself. I wouldn't want you to break a sweat. Look, you don't have to be a jerk about it, okay? I'm just saying leave the thinking to the rest of us, you know? Stick to what you're good at, throwing up your dinner. You know what? Screw all of you. Can you believe her? I can't believe you. Annabel told us how you wanted to go to the cops and rat us out? She doesn't know what she's talking about. Oh, I hope so, because I would hate to see something happen to you as well. Or worse, your reputation. Are you threatening me? Because I'd be careful about throwing those stones. That is not a threat. That is a promise. Let's just say it became public knowledge of where you really test on the Kinsey scale during a pop quiz. Please, half the team would score at least a three. Besides, this is New England, not the Bible Belt, okay? No one would care. Oh, not even your dad? It's been a while since I've chatted with the senator. Maybe I should give him a call and ask him how the campaign planning is going. You wouldn't. Oh, here we go. Knock it off, Will. Shh, I'm on the phone. Are you just gonna let him do this? Hang up now! Ow. Well, that was very rude. You made your point, okay? Good. Now get out of my sight. What? Did you put the camera in his closet? I was gonna ask you the same thing. Well, what if he's right and somebody does know? Cam, he probably made it up, or Annabel did it. You don't trust them? No, and neither should you. Hey. Wait, wait. I've been thinking about what you said, about how someone might know something. So you believe me now? Well, I think it's a possibility. What do we do? Well, we can tell someone, end it all now. That's what you want, right? What, did Will send you to check up on me? No, Will did not send me here to check up on you. I don't always agree with how Will handles things. Just call me if anything else happens, okay? You can trust me. Cam, wait. You should know he probably has an insurance policy on you too, something to hang over you if you cause trouble. Just look out, okay? Uh, what are you doing in here? Um, I couldn't sleep, so I was going over the emails from the party planner. Oh, and how's that going? Good. She just needs a final budget. No budget; just make sure it's a night to remember. Well, in that case, I will do my best. What? Nothing. - You're looking at it again. - What are you talking about? You're staring at my eye, Camille. No, I wasn't. You have the lifestyle you're living right now because of me, and all that I want from you is to not look at me like I'm a sideshow attraction. I know that, and you know I am very thankful for everything you do for me. Then act like it. I'm sorry, Camille. I know. You always are. Will LaSalle? Can I help you? Hi, I'm Detective Dakoulas. You mind if I ask you a couple questions? Sure. Looking for a girl that went missing from your school a few nights ago, Lisa Thompson. You know her? Uh, doesn't ring a bell. You sure? You've shared several classes with her over the last few years. Uh, not to sound like a dick, but if someone doesn't run in my circle, I've probably never heard of them. She, uh, definitely isn't in your circle, so I was surprised that a witness spotted her with your friend, Camille, Friday night. That's news to me. You're sure you don't know her? It's a big island. She could have been visiting anyone. It's a funny thing that you don't recognize her, considering your relationship with her roommate. Excuse me? Heidi Wilkes? Shame what happened to her. I'm sure you're broken up about her death. Yeah, no, of course I was. Why do you ask? You were seeing her, weren't you? Uh, I don't know who told you that, but you have the wrong information. Huh. It's funny. I just got that impression considering the text history between the two of you on her phone. She was supposed to delete those. And according to a conversation with her roommate, she was pregnant on the night of her death. - Pregnant? - Yeah. Anything you want to tell me? I... I'd really appreciate it if you didn't let that get around. Why's that? To be honest, I don't want my fiance finding out about it. Hey, I'm not here to cause you that type of trouble, Mr. LaSalle. I appreciate that. Uh, just so you know, when I get back, I will be talking to Camille about Lisa. I doubt she'll be much more help than I was. You never know. I don't mean to hold you up. Pick up. Camille, sweetheart, call me as soon as you get this. Hey, babe, sorry. My phone died in class. Oh, hi. Listen, we need to get our stories straight. - What do you mean? - A detective's gonna come... Hey, let me call you right back; somebody's at the door. - Cam, you listen... - Just a second. Listen... damn it. Um, Lisa, right? That's right, Lisa Thompson. Yeah, I think she's in my criminal studies class. When was the last time you saw her? Um, last week sometime? You don't recall seeing her Friday night at the docks? You know what? I think you're right. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Are you sure? Yeah, yeah, definitely. I'm sorry, I don't really know her that well, so my mind just kind of blanked. Do you have any idea where she may have been going that night? No. So you didn't speak to her at all? I mean, we just exchanged pleasantries just to be nice, but... Is she okay? I don't know. Now, the other two? Rick and Annabel? They live here on campus, correct? Mm-hmm. Will? Rick, listen, there might be someone coming to talk to you about Lisa. Yeah, thanks for the heads-up, buddy. He pulled me out of practice. Coach made me stay after and clean up the locker room because of it. - What'd you say? - Nothing. I told him I'd never spoken to Lisa, just like we agreed. Good. You did good. What the hell, man? Why is somebody asking us questions? He's not gonna find out anything. Just stick to the story and don't do anything stupid. Yeah, well, I think it's a little late for all of us on that. What? What is it? Camille? Camille, it's your turn. Oh, um, yes, I'm ready. I just have to hook it up to the projector. Hurry it along 'cause we're running low on time. 'Mm-kay. No cell phone. Sorry. Sorry, I'm having computer problems. Hey, hold it a second. God. Roderick, you've got to stop this. I've got midterms. Bels, please. Look at yourself. You got to get it together, okay? Annabel. Let's get into positions. Oh, don't stop on my account. I was just finishing getting ready. Quite the change since freshman year, huh? How much did you lose, 50, 60 pounds? 65 pounds, wow. Mary Kate, eat your heart out. You're a better dancer than ever too. Almost perfect. Well, I wouldn't go that far. You know, you're right. No one's perfect, especially someone with secrets like yours. I don't know what you're talking about. Just letting you know that nothing escapes me. Bye. Annabel, are you okay? I'm fine! Annabel Montgomery? Yes? You told him you never saw her, right? He knew I was lying. I know he did. And what'd you tell him? I told him I didn't know anything. I don't talk to Lisa. You sure about that? You know, all of us have to stick to the same story. I know. If one of us slips, he'll start to catch on... I said I know. Well, I think it's time we update Lisa's status, huh? Get him off our backs? Annabel, did you bring her tablet? I did, but now it's... It's... It's kind of missing. What? Look, I put it under my bed, okay? But it's just not there. You're kidding me. Look, I'm sorry, okay? I... I don't know what happened to it. Oh, my God, oh, my... just calm down, okay? All we have to do is sit down and talk it out. Where's Rick? I think he has a meet at the lake today. What's happening? Locker search. They got an anonymous tip about drug abuse on the team. Rick, what the hell's wrong with you? I know how you feel, but please don't hesitate to... Abs... I can't... I can't make the match. All right, well, I will let them know. Well, that was Rick's mom. It's not good. He's alive, right? But they don't even know if he's ever gonna wake up. This has gone way too far. I don't know. Maybe we do just... Come clean? What? That is not happening. Rick might die. Do you even care? Of course I do, but turning ourselves in isn't gonna wake him up. Guys, we have dug the hole too deep to turn back now. I think Rick was right. I think someone's onto us. I got a note backstage with one of Lisa's pictures. What's it say? $4 million. Let me see the note. - I... I don't have it. - Where is it? I threw it away. Why would you do that? I don't know, what was I supposed to do with it? Not leave it where anyone can find it. Will, I... Who would have access to put it there? Anybody at class. Um, Poppy was the last person I talked to. She did say something about knowing my secret. How the hell would Poppy know anything? Well, she's the biggest gossip in school. I mean, she could have eavesdropped on any one of us. She'll be at the masquerade. We can pull her aside and confront her there. How can you want to have your stupid party with everything that's happened? At the scene of the crime, no less? No, we... we can't cancel. Why not? 'Cause if we do, Dakoulas'll think something's up and ask even more questions. I don't know, you're the one who wants to come clean. I know that, but... You're right. We're in this way too deep, so I'm just gonna go on and act like everything's normal. I mean, Rick is gonna be fine. We're all gonna be fine. William, you're only 20 minutes late. Careful, you might actually be here on time one of these days. You can always find someone else. Not if I ever want to work again. - Hi, Will. - Hi. Good to see you again, sweetheart. The chair's all yours. And I will be back in a second. Is everything okay? No, everything is not okay. Will, I really need you to hurry up and get into wardrobe. Hey, I can't do the shoot today. We have to reschedule. We can't reschedule. The client's on a strict deadline. Just call them and figure it out. What's wrong? Is there some sort of emergency or something? I forgot my contacts. Will, I don't need you to be able to see. I need you to stand over there and look pretty. Oh. We can... we can totally Photoshop that out, no problem. Jesus, Dad. What are you doing here? Your mother insisted that I take three days out of our vacation and that I fly home immediately and speak to you in person. Uh, is everything okay? Well, apparently not, unless you want to explain to me why some detective is, uh, sending me letters asking me about your involvement with some missing girl. I don't know what he told you... You know what? It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. You've had everything. You've had the freedom to go and come and do whatever the hell you want. You never so much as lifted a finger. All I ever asked of you is that you stay out of trouble. I know, Dad. What, I didn't keep my mouth shut while you're going through your modeling phase? I didn't, uh... I wasn't tolerant enough for this girl with whom you seem to be so enamored? Well, you think, what? You're gonna drag the family name through the mud? I have everything under control. You better, for your sake. You know, we all do a lot of questionable things, son, only most of us are not stupid enough to get caught. You have my word. You have nothing to worry about. If I get one more phone call, that's it. You can forget about taking over the company. You're on your own. I mean it. I won't be there to bail you out. Do we understand each other? - Yeah. - All right. I've got the plane waiting for me. You just got here. I promised your mother. Why didn't she come too? You want the honest truth? She doesn't want to see you. She doesn't want to see you until all of this is blown over. You got to fix this, Son. Babe, what's wrong? Nothing. You used to talk to me about everything. When you need to know something, I'll tell you, Camille. Go back to sleep. Tomorrow's a very important day for us. [dramatic electronic Let me know when you see Poppy. Would you please excuse me for one second? Thank you. Excuse me. Quite an extravagant gathering you got going on here tonight, huh? Detective. No offense, but I don't remember putting you on the guest list. Lisa didn't happen to be on the guest list, was she? Hardly. - Then why is she here? - What? I'm going by her check-in. Why don't you gather up your friends, and we'll find a quiet place to chat? Maybe later. I wasn't asking. Looks like we lost one. There was an accident. So I heard. It's almost in bad taste to be throwing an event like this when your good friend is clinging to life in a hospital bed. Rick loved a good party. He wouldn't want us to cancel it. Fair enough. And I'll let you guys get back to it as soon as you tell me why my missing girl just tagged the three of you here with her? We've all told you that we don't know her. If she says she's with us, it's just her pathetic attempt to climb the social ladder. Sure, makes sense. The only problem is I'm not buying it. Something's not fitting. I don't know what else to tell you. Shut your mouth. I have a girl from the other side of the tracks dead. Her roommate goes missing a few days later. She's last seen on a ferry boat heading here. Add to that the fact that your stories about the night in question don't even match up, and you can understand my hesitation in believing any of you. Is everything all right, Miss Montgomery? Yes? Doesn't look like it. Looks like you have something you want to tell me. No. You look like you're under a lot of pressure. You know, it's gonna feel a hell of a lot better if you just get it off your chest. I'm just really upset about Rick. Rick? That's right. Isn't it strange how he just OD'd all of a sudden? Not really. He's had a drug problem for years, which we have tried to get him help with before. Years, huh? But he's passed every single random drug test he's had since he joined the crew team freshman year. You know, maybe you should go find Lisa. If she's here, I'm sure she can answer all your questions. That is a good idea. I'm gonna be on the island, so why don't you guys do me a favor and stick around, huh? We're not going anywhere, detective. Fantastic. Hey, you did good, baby. Don't touch me. What? You know, I knew your reputation before we started dating, but I was dumb enough to think that you'd be different. - Cam, is... - Now it's led us to this. No, go ahead. I want to hear what kind of excuse you have for this. Yeah, that's what I thought. You know, it's bad enough that you throw Annabel a pity lay once in a while, but Heidi? Wait, who told you? I'm not blind, Annabel. Nobody had to tell me. You could have left at any time, but you chose to stay. - Because I love you. - No, you don't. You love what I can do for you, and now you've gone and you've screwed up everything for us. I screwed everything up? I heard you tell Dakoulas that you spoke with Lisa on the ferry. How could you be so stupid? Wait, you were spying on me? You've proven you can't be trusted. I can't believe I actually thought you could be a good person. No, no, this is... this is over. This ends tonight. Come on, two against one if we turn him in now. You won't do it. You would be surprised at how far you have pushed me. Tell Dakoulas then. Get him back here right now. I got a picture I think he would love to see. I knew that picture was from you. You would sell me out to save yourself. If you make me. Annabel? All right, you guys had your chance. You deserve everything that's coming to you. Occupied. Excuse you. Rude much? I don't know what you want. You knock off the games, you hear me? What, are you high? Don't... Don't play stupid with me. I know you've been following us. Yeah, 'cause I'm sure. Don't flatter yourself, Charlie Sheen. Annabel said you knew her secret. You're damn right I do. She better not think she's getting the lead role because of that tummy tuck she snuck in over the summer. Everyone please choose your partner wisely for the annual masquerade dance. I was lost in the dark Now this light's in my face Say good-bye to my broken heart Gonna take center stage I won't keep playing these games Tired of these tattered masks Let's let the curtains close It's time for the next act, yeah Shot to the heart, but you missed your mark I'm still bleeding Stop! Hey! Falling apart, your arrow is sharp Oh, I'm leaving Cam. She is here. Who? Lisa. Will? Cam? Don't you have somewhere you should be? What are you doing in here? I saw you guys come downstairs. - Did you find her? - She got away! Who got away? Poppy? It's not Poppy. Well, I mean, who else would it be? It has to be Lisa. Guys, what if we accidentally buried her alive? Oh, my God. I'm gonna be sick. This doesn't make any sense. Even if she was alive, she wouldn't exactly be in any shape to just, what, dig herself out? Well, then, we have to find out for sure. All her stuff is gone too. It's from Lisa. "Transfer the funds, and you'll never hear from me again." No. Hey, hey, hey, hey, wait. Where do you think you're going? I'm gonna find Detective Dakoulas. No, you can't do that. No, Will, enough of your lies. We buried a girl alive, okay? And she's out to find us? No, I would rather go to jail than have what happened to Rick happen to me, or worse. I can't let you go to the cops. If she's alive, we can still fix this and put her right back in that hole. You'd really do this all over again? If it means cleaning up this mess, absolutely. Just give her the money, Will. Fine, give me the numbers. What if she doesn't go away, guys? It's already been done. Just calm down. I... I can't do this again. Annabel? I can't believe you actually live here. I can't believe you actually live here. This is insane. You can come here whenever you want. You mean when your girlfriend isn't around? What girlfriend? Come on, everyone knows you're dating Camille. Hey, who's controlling the projector? Turn it off? Detective, wait! You're gonna ruin everything. Let go of me! I'm gonna find Detective Dakoulas. Stop it! Stop! - Shut up! Shut up! - Stop! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Ah! Wait! Please, wait. I just want to say good-bye. Cam, tell them what happened. Tell them it was an accident. Ow. No touching. You know, this whole time I just wanted to see you care about anything other than your own ego. You're not perfect, and you can't get away with everything. Cam, what... But you're right. I do love what you can do for me. Now I can do it on my own. You dropped this. Let's go, Mr. LaSalle. Listen to me. It was all an accident. Then why don't you tell me how your friend accidentally wound up dead at your party? All right, I'm just gonna start from the very beginning. It all has to do with Lisa Thompson. Who? The missing girl from our school. I have no knowledge of missing persons. Speak with Detective Dakoulas. He knows all about it. Who's Detective Dakoulas? He's one of you guys. I can assure you I don't know a Dakoulas. He was just at the party tonight. There. He is right there. Kid, I don't know who you're talking to, but he's not a detective. This doesn't make any sense. Even if she was alive, she wouldn't exactly be in any shape to dig herself out. Let me just talk to her. You wouldn't have come here if you didn't have a number in mind. 4 million. - Her eyes twitched. - She's dead, Will. Get it together. They're not gonna give you any money, but I know another way of getting it. Is it safe? It's safer than what they're planning on doing to you tonight. What... what did you do to me? I had to sell it. Looks like it all worked out for you. Oh, for the both of us. Where'd your Detective Dakoulas go? He has an acting class in the morning. Shame about Annabel. They could have turned it around before it ever got this far. How did you know that the others were gonna back out when it came time to kill me? Um... I didn't. Don't go spending your share all in one place. They're waiting for me. Miss Taylor, right over here. Can you tell us what happened? What happened tonight? We want to know. Just... I'm trying to stay strong through it all. My thoughts are with Annabel's family. She's the one from the news. Huh. Send her in. Thank you. Miss Taylor, good to see you again. Thank you. Very grateful for another opportunity. No problem. When you're ready, let's start right off with the song, and we'll move on to reading the scene. I trust you memorized it? Every word.
