 

                        Sorry, Excuse me Who is? Hey, Suet? Yes, speaking Can you cover for me; just this one shift? What, right now? From Mong Kok to Tai Po My wife's in labor and I'm on my way to the hospital Sorry, man, I'm busy... It's my night off Busy? You're just out gambling aren't you? Gimme a break, I'm just having fun What's in it for me? Suet, buddy, please help me out! You owe me money, but I'll wait till next month! I don't really know the Tai Po route Hang on, I have a winner here! Suet, it's dead easy They pay when they get on Start from Argyle Street, into Waterloo Road Straight through the Lion Rock Tunnel... towards the racecourse Go past the University, and take Tai Po Road Finally arriving to Kwong Fuk Road Alright, whatever... I'll pay you back in six months, okay? Huh? That's a hard bargain! Is it a deal? Alright, it's a deal Hurry up, you asshole! 2am start, from the corner of Mong Kok Road Next stop, Mong Kok subway station Watch where you're going, Four-Eyes! What are you staring at? Move! You're in my way! I'll run you over! Damn idiot! This ain't working, got anything else? Better take the next one Okay, we're full Let's go I... just need one pack - One pack? - That'll do me You sorry-ass cheapskate! $3,000, pay UP! $3,000? Motherfucker! You won't get away with this! How much is it? $13... $26 for two Thanks I'm heading for Mei Foo now I won't go back to Tai Po tonight I can't... Why not? I thought we had a date? We did, but I didn't know... I'd have my period today So what if you do? It's unlucky to do it on a 'red day' I'm not superstitious You're so bad! It's not like we haven't done it before But it's gross Then I'll go back to Tai Po, will you miss me? Of course I will 'F' for Ferguson, 'F' for failure! You think? We're gonna win this year! Just wait, Mourinho will be back next season Sorry, Ferguson is retiring! Not gonna argue with you Why? Scared of losing? Try that way Stay right there! Asshole! Leave if you dare! I'll never lend you another cent! What do you want? Whatever, you're acting crazy I'm asking one last time... Are you leaving or not? That's enough, let's go Go,go,go! You prick, I'm telling you... if my dad hears about this, he'll kill you Great, I get to go to bed earlier! What are you looking at, show me Found something good? HEY, Young man! Sit up front, we'll start soon None of your business! Watch where you're going! Sorry... - Hey, sit up front - Sorry, sorry Come on, let's get moving There you go! Told you to keep your nose out of it! Okay, full load! Sit tight! We're on our way! Off we go! Shit, weren't they the ones who were arguing? Major accident; it's a big one Operator, operator Turning out of Mong Kok Road... Just seen an accident, call an ambulance! Anyone hear me? Hey, the last guy who got on hasn't paid He's asleep Driver, he's asleep Already? Alright, I understand He can pay when he gets off Working leaves you beat, I know Time to call my brothers... Hey,Keung,Keung... What's going on? Hey, Lam's wife is about to give birth! What a happy occasion I'm doing his shift tonight He's giving me six months to pay back a debt! Isn't it a happy occasion? I told you it was my lucky day! You're quite something Calling, calling... Hey, guys, this is Suet! Biggie, Keung, Tall Kit! Anyone hear me? Hello? No-one's answering? Anyone there? Sorry, I'm being a bit loud Anyone know if Lam's baby has arrived yet? Hello? Hello? Anybody hear me? Damn this thing, I knew I shouldn't have been stingy! You can't reach him? He's not picking up, how about you? I've sent a dozen texts Nothing at all He drags us to Tai Po to watch football on TV... Now we're here... And he's not picking up! What a jerk! At last you get it! You're too nice to him! Don't talk nonsense! Just keep calling him Baby, where have you gone? I've left you so many messages Why don't you get back to me? Call me back Honey, have you noticed... anything weird about the road tonight? You're right Something's wrong, this can't be right Isn't it weird the road's so quiet? There's nobody around, not even cars What's weird about that? This road has always been quiet No, this is weirdly quiet There's not a single car in sight What time is it now, buddy? Premier League matches are over by now It's his fault, we were in Tsim Sha Tsui... We'd watched the match and were heading home... Then our Tai Po friend asked us over to watch La Liga You're wearing English-team jersies to watch La Liga? Exactly Back when I was in the First Division... ...we kept going right through the night! Driver, let us off at Four Pillars You got it Thanks Man, what's wrong? Are you okay? Get him to the sidewalk first My stomach hurts... What can we do in the middle of the night? I'll call the clinic Keep calling, let's get him back to the dorm first Hang in there, man We're almost there - Let's sit him down - Easy, easy Lie down first Don't scare me Was it something you ate? That can't be it, the rest of us are fine! Don't argue, let's find some help Let's go What is this? Bone dry! Wow... It's really quiet Is this really Tai Po? Okay, who's getting off here? What? No-one? Driver? Are we in Tsuen Wan yet? Tsuen Wan? Yeah This is Tai Po Tai Po? Oh shit... Nobody's getting off... Are you kidding? It's ringing but no-one's picking up I've tried quite a few times I can't find my boyfriend He's not replying me What kind of shitty network is this? I'm switching my account tomorrow! What's going on? Network signal is okay... Hey, are you guys getting off or not? I don't get it, they're not picking up They're normally up until at least 5am Don't worry about it! If you're so cool with it, you try! Hey! If this is your stop, please get off! Hang on! Nobody is taking any of our calls Something must have happened There's no-one on the streets The only thing here is our minibus I don't know what's going on How about trying the radio? Good idea! Don't break it, buddy... This ain't my minibus Damn... It's the same on all frequencies Call the police, they're sure to answer That's right It's useless, I've tried already Impossible You're right, the police call centre... always answers calls As long as there's anyone there What you mean is... What I mean is let's stop kidding ourselves... that everything's normal out there I think we all need to pause for a bit... to see what's staring us in the face Everyone has disappeared This minibus is the only thing left Along with us on board How can that be? He's gone haywire Didn't you hear him? He says everyone has disappeared Take it a bit further, won't you? Maybe there are killer birds out there! - I'm scared - Shut up You're crazy Wait a minute! The Lion Rock Tunnel... As we were going through the tunnel... ...I blinked and the truck vanished A truck vanished? That must be it! Driver, you must have seen it! Lion Rock Tunnel? Time to call my brothers... Hey,Keung,Keung... Anyone hear me? What's going on? Hey, Lam's wife is about to give birth! Right, as we went through the tunnel... ... I blinked for a moment too, didn't I? Unless... Maybe... It isn't everybody else who's disappeared It's us! My guess is... something happened in Lion Rock Tunnel That's why all the cars vanished While we were in the tunnel... our minibus... had a serious accident All of us are already dead What? All dead? You're kidding, right? I'm... dead? This guy's out of his mind How can he say such things? What are you doing? What are you laughing at? I'm laughing at you! You really think this is an accident? I'm telling you all, since the 17 of us... got on board this minibus... our destinies have been aligned Hey, lady... You can laugh at them But don't blame my minibus At 2:28am... as this minibus was about to set off... that couple who first got on the bus... You mean the man and woman who got off? Motherfucker! The two who were in that accident? It's destiny When the 17 of us... took this red minibus together... our destinies were sealed! The constellations of Sirius and the Pleiades... foretold this! In 2012, Earth entered the Photon Belt It's moving from the 3rd Dimension into the 4th This depopulated space we're in... is our new world! Lady, you've got to be joking Wake up, stupid Earthlings! Do you understand? This lady is out of her freaking mind She's like one of those crazies from Temple Street Impressive! You're quite right! I tell fortunes in Temple Street market The fifth tent along, opposite the public toilet That's me, Mock Sau Ying I'm also an insurance broker Well now, let's see... The pendulum shows that your seven chakras... ...are still in balance We still have time Tell you what... You should all buy insurance from me Then you'll be covered if the worst happens You can't be serious! Buy insurance? Why not? She's completely lost it, listen to her! I'm not from Tai Po, I need to get to Tsuen Wan Wait... just a moment! Calm down, everybody It's now 3:30am It's still a few hours until sunrise I have a suggestion We all stay inside the minibus Don't go outside alone Are you crazy? I said, I'm not from Tai Po! I'm leaving! We gotta get this straight! It makes no difference if you're from Tai Po or not You can't leave here yet! Then why are we... staying on this minibus? Is this safer? Is it actually dangerous outside? He's right, there's nothing outside No people, no cars, what's not safe about that? Honey. In horror films, it's when the group splits up... they all die, one after another So what do we do once the sun rises? Since we don't know what's happening... it's best we all stay here until sunrise It's the safest option Okay, that's enough! I wish all you fuckers would just shut up! I've been driving minibuses for twenty-some years I've seen it all! All of you, just get out of my vehicle! Here? The terminus is Tai Po Centre Get us there at least before you kick us off! Yeah, fuck you! Keep driving, asshole! Why are you shouting? As you're fucking me and calling me an asshole... I'll take you to Tai Po Centre I'm getting out of this madhouse! Hang on! Before we go, shouldn't we... exchange phone numbers and information? What information? In case things aren't back to normal in the morning We'll be able to reach each other I agree This young man is smart, just like my younger self The future is in your hands My name is Wong, Wong Man Fat I'm from Dai Yuen Estate, call me Fat I'm Shun I'm Chi, Yau Tsi Chi I'm Yuki This is my wife, Pat... and my name is Bobby Mook Sau Ying, call me Ying How about 'Sorceress Ying'? My turn, I'm Airplane I'm Glu-Stick I'm Lavina, call me LV - Auyeung Wai... - What?! My name is Auyeung Wai (impotence) Oh, you need viagra? Sir, I can see you're a junkie... Blind Fai, call me Blind Fai Oh! You're blind? Sure I am! That's why I got on this bus with all you fuckers 5698-5698! Go on, you ask Sir, what's your number? 9045-8451 Lady, what's your number? 5312-6312 Why doesn't anyone ask me? Will there be anyone here this late? Let's take a look Okay, hurry UP Huh? The lights are on... Try banging on the door Hey, look over there Hello? Hello! Open up! Where did everybody go? Anybody there? Hello! Is anyone there? There's no transport to get me back to Tsuen Wan How can I get there? Any ideas? You could walk Just go past Tai Mo Mountain and you're there Walk? Would you walk? Idiot! What kind of friend is he? Dunno, who'd have thought this would happen He isn't usually like this He was supposed to meet us Kids... Do you know, is there something I can find... to represent the culture of Tai Po? You're talking about culture? Why shouldn't I talk about culture? I'll tell you, our Tai Po friends say... that Tai Po's culture is just like... the men's room at an international airport Meaning...? You come out saying "I've seen it all" What about the women's room? The same, I guess Just look around and you'll know Right, I see... See you See you What a wreck, just look at him... I guess he's looking for his next fix It's incredible... we can make calls, but nobody picks up So it's not just a Tai Po problem It could be the whole of Hong Kong So... what are you saying? What about the whole of Hong Kong? The way it seems, we could be... the only survivors in the Hong Kong area Then... What about my boyfriend? Hey, you don't believe this, do you? I went from here to Kowloon just this morning Wow, there's really no-one around It's usually busy all night long What the hell happened? I searched; looks like there are'nt any updates on-line So I guess we're in big trouble Have you checked the BBC website? I tried the main Hong Kong's news sites Yahoo, CR, RTHK... Apple Daily, Oriental Daily, The Sun... None of them has been updated... since around 2:40am Which is when we came out of Lion Rock Tunnel Nobody has updated since then Have you checked any foreign websites? Yahoo in Japan and Taiwan... CNN and ABC in the US, BBC in the UK... China Weibo, Tianya Club... All without any updates Are you serious? No news updates... But you called the police station and it rang, right? So the phone network seems to still be working Telecommunications are still up and running I... I'm going to head home All by yourself? I'll be fine, bye bye BYE bye I'll go home too I'll try to find a way to get to Kowloon BYE bye Hang on, Yuk. Yuk! I'm going the same way Let's walk together But I have to cross that bridge to Tai Wo Estate No way! I live in Tai Wo too! Yuki, you look so worried What is it? Still can't get through to your boyfriend? I can't reach my girlfriend either She's in Mei Foo...where's your boyfriend? He's on Hong Kong Island... Wah Fu Estate Wow, that's far Have you thought about going to look for her? Sure, but I have no way of getting there To Kowloon... I guess I could bike it HEY, are you okay? I'm... okay... You look shocked I'm okay What's going on today? Nothing is going as planned I'm baffled too I just want to hug my boyfriend and cry An hour ago, I lost my job... Sorry, I shouldn't be telling you this It's okay When guys get upset... do they miss their girlfriends? Sure they do I gotta go back I need to find my boyfriend There's got to be a way to find him I'll talk to you later, bye Bye I should find Yi too Shit, we've got to figure out how to help him I said we shouldn't have come back tonight If we hadn't... how would we get our homework done? Let's check on him first Hey, how's he doing? He's having convulsions Did you guys find anyone? There's nobody around Come on... Run! What happened to him? Was he poisoned? Where are we running? There's nobody around here Hurry, let's head for the Tolo highway to find help Where is everybody? That way, that way! Hey! Help us!! Hey! Why's your face so red? Yours is too! Have we caught SARS? Huh? SARS? Catch that guy on the bike! Save us! Help! Help! Take us to Kowloon! Hey! Sir, please help! Our campus is haunted! Don't leave us! Help! Help! Help! He went right past us... You bastard! Here goes nothing Auntie, uncle? Y.! Hello? Hello, it's really noisy here Hello? Can you hear me? I'm heading for Mei Foo now I won't go back to Tai Po tonight I can't... Why not? I thought we had a date? We did, but I didn't know... I'd have my period today So what if you do? It's unlucky to do it on a 'red day' I'm not superstitious You're so bad! It's not like we haven't done it before But it's gross Will you miss me? Of course I will... ...but it can't be helped Then I'll go back to Tai Po Don't be mad, I love you What's going on? Hello? Hello? Hello? Hello! Hello? Hello, who's this? Who's calling? Just received a mysterious call... Just received a mysterious call... from an unknown caller? They didn't speak, seems pretty suspicious That aside... did everybody get the same call? Please reply ASAP, everyone To tell us you're safe "I'm safe" Something's wrong Let's meet tomorrow morning at... the Michelin starred Chicken-Pie restaurant Michelin? Tai Po has such a classy restaurant? Mum? Mum Dad Yuki! Are you heading for that Chicken-Pie Deli? Let's walk together It's as if the whole world is playing... a huge game of hide-and-seek It could be a Guiness World Record! You think this is funny? Aren't you worried about your family? You realize my dad, my mum... and my boyfriend are all missing? And you're here cracking silly jokes! I doubt that anyone has seen their families I don't know I couldn't get to Kowloon, don't ask me It's going to be okay I'm hungry, I need some breakfast I'll make some! Perfect timing, you two want some breakfast? I just ate I'll eat! Huh? Didn't you leave? Would you believe it? My minibus ran out of gas It stalled on the highway out of Tai Po So I just walked back Fuck, Tai Po really is a ghost town I walked from Kwong Fuk Estate Took me just over half an hour This is the town center, right? Completely deserted? That reminds me... What's the population of Tai Po? 17? Really? That many? Whatever the population... breakfast comes first! Why is Kowloon so far away? Breakfast is served! Looks good! Friend, I once ran a restaurant I thought you played First Division football? Back in the day... Hey! Isn't this a meeting? Shun isn't here yet Neither is that junkie 'Blind Fai' I guess he's snorting coke somewhere Or he's on his way back to Tsuen Wan No way! From what I've seen... Without my minibus... none of you will get out of Tai Po! As I said last night... we're bound by universal laws We've entered the Photon Belt We're moving from the 3rd Dimension into the 4th The cycle takes a full millennium When it's over... humans will have merged with nature And we'll all be going to our new home on Sirius Shut up, crazy woman! Go against me and you go against your fate! Shut your mouth, bitch! My husband told you to shut up! You two are a truly malicious couple You will pay a heavy price... for your stupidity Shut your mouth, bitch! Give it a rest! Leave me alone! You don't believe me? Just wait! I'll be sitting here... while all you fools perish! You don't believe me! You're all fools We were all on the same minibus Don't make light of death and dying! - Take that back - That's right! I was the one driving the minibus! Why don't you have some breakfast? I don't want any! You people might want to poison me! I still want to go back to Sirius, my home Last night, when we were walking to Tai Wo... I saw someone at the Kwong Fuk overpass Yuki lives in Tai Wo too... so we were going the same way As we crossed the Kwong Fuk overpass... I saw someone in a gas mask Really? Someone in a gas mask? Chi, are you sure about this? Yuki, did you see it too? I didn't want to scare Yuki So I didn't mention it You mean this? Yes I think you got it wrong No, I saw him very clearly He was right by the side Maybe you couldn't see him... from where you were standing I'm not talking about this I don't even live in Tai Wo... (Reciting the Amitgbha Sxtra) (Reciting the Amitgbha Sxtra) (Reciting the Amitgbha Sxtra) (Reciting the Amitgbha Sxtra) Ah, glad you got here When Chi was walking home... he saw a man in a gas mask So we're not alone in this world There are others I just discovered something too It also shows that we're not the only ones here The proof is here, everyone can see Okay, first up... You all need to listen to that strange sound again That's the sound we all heard Damn, it's so creepy! Actually, when it came through earlier... the call from an "unknown" caller... I thought it was weird So I recorded the sound No matter who the caller is... it's someone with the knowhow... to call all of us simultaneously That wasn't a coincidence He must have had some purpose Honey, do you think... it was that junkie 'Blind Fai'? I'm sure that guy was up to no good Some of it might be musical notes What do you know? These are just sounds Shun, are they musical notes? You really didn't walk home with me? I got off alone at Kwong Fuk Road There was no-one on the streets I live in Uptown Plaza, Tai Po Market No... that's impossible How can this be? Does your boyfriend live on Hong Kong side, in Wah Fu Estate? Huh? How do you know that? Because you told me You said you were missing your boyfriend I cycled to Mei Foo... to look for my girlfriend You went into Kowloon? Yeah. Don't say, I don't want to alarm them How was it in Kowloon? Hard to say... Just like Tai Po, deserted Just as I told you Have you heard of Morse? Yeah "Morse Code" Exactly This recording... can be decoded as four letters Four English letters Help! I know what that means! It's a call for help We're not alone in the world There's someone else out there Just as I said None of you believed me Fuck! That scared me to death! Hello, Hello? No-one's speaking again It's him! The same one who called us before What? Speak of the devil... Hey, if you aren't going to say anything; don't call! Hey, wait a second Nobody talked last time either But now there's sound Short Long Short Short Long Right, it's a pattern Short Put it on speaker and record it Who are you? There's no point in shouting! Honey, it's Morse Code The sound is changing Can someone tell me what the hell is going on? "I am Trapped" He says he's trapped Look, there's more I think that... Don't mumble; what are you trying to say? Someone translate it for me! You're so annoying It's very complicated, I don't quite get it Don't speak English to me, okay? Uncle Fat, there's really no point in yelling What the hell are you doing? Sorry What the hell? It's your fault, why can't you sit and listen? Now look at us It's not my fault, he stepped on me You don't say Only you few are getting this! You have to explain it to the rest of us! Who says we understand? We don't get it either Wait! There's more stuff coming through Hey, I know this phrase What do you know? Weren't you told to keep quiet? Let the expert speak Yeah, expert, what does it mean? What is it? What does it mean? He hung UP? What does it mean then? Yeah, what does it mean, Mr. Expert? What now? How would I know? Tell us all You're playing music at a time like this? Excuse me I think I know... what the message is about Do you understand what I'm saying? No What are you saying, 'Mr. Impotence'? Please go on Okay, so... Have you heard of David Bowie? I've heard of John Travolta Any connection? No wonder people say Hong Kong has no culture If you won't let me say it, let me sing it! "This is Major Torn to ground control" "I'm stepping through the door" "And I'm floating in the most peculiar way" "And the stars look very different today" "For here am I sitting in a tin can" "Far above the world" "Planet Earth is blue" "And there's nothing I can do..." On July 16th, 1969... ... at 9:32am... NASA launched... Apollo 11... from the Kennedy Space Center It left earth at 11km per second... taking a team of three astronauts... led by Neil Armstrong... on the first manned mission to the moon "Ground control to Major Torn" "Ground control to Major Torn" "Take your protein pills" "And put your helmet on..." Five days before the launch... of Apollo 11... On July 11th of the same year... on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean... legendary rock star David Bowie... released a single reflecting upon... the space fever of that era This became one of his greatest hits This song is about... an astronaut called Major Torn He loses control of his space shuttle... during a mission He loses contact with NASA He cannot navigate his ship He can only sit in his cabin Floating in space, looking at... the blue planet from afar... ...letting out a poignant sigh Ten Nine Eight Seven Six Five Four Three Two One Lift off "This is ground control to Major Tom" "You've really made the grade" "And the papers want to know whose shirts you wear" I have no idea what you were singing about But it sounded good The name Auyeung Wai doesn't suit you You're so damn good at singing And you seem like an Otaku (loner-obsessive) We should call you 'Mr Toxic' Thanks for listening So you're saying the calls came from an astronaut? That's a possibility Get real! We're talking about astronauts now? Hong Kong doesn't do sci-fi It does now! Science fiction is staring you in the face Sci-fi just means something that's... beyond current human understanding The Sirians prophesied this Millions of years ago You just can't come to terms with it And you're trying to go against it You're digging your own graves I wasn't trying to scare you I'm just like the rest of you I just happened to get on that minibus I have a shop in Sino Plaza that closes at 10pm There was a guy who ordered 30-odd vinyl LPs I got on this minibus after a late delivery So what you're saying is wrong It's not fate At least not for me Wait, that's mine Here you go I'll get my own cup Sit down, honey Can't believe we're bringing astronauts into this There's gotta be an explanation Let's play a game A game of abbreviations Abbreviations? We Hong Kongers these days... love to abbreviate words, like they do in China So we call Spring Festival dinners "Sprinners" We call Shenzhou 7 "Sheven" So, you young ballers here... could be called... ... "Ballsies" So why don't you "Ballsies" have a go? Your turn, Shun 'Mr Toxic' took the bus because he was delayed How about you? My story is kind of weird I write apps for a living I was working late This guy came in with a hard-drive at 1am He wanted it unlocked, so I asked... "Don't you know the password?" If I knew the password would I come all the way here? He said he was North Korean I am North Korean He came from Macau The information in this hard-drive... is highly, highly confidential If the information is leaked... it could cost lives That serious? Did you really have to come all the way here for me? There is a North Korean saying... Come closer... "The more dangerous the place; the safer it is" Nonsense, that can't be a Korean proverb! It's definitely not a Korean proverb Not only this! But every culture and festival you have... Chinese New Year... Dragon Boat Festival, Lion Dance... Traditional Chinese characters... It's all from us! You stole them from us! You stole it all from us! You must be kidding! No way! You don't believe me? There are signatures from your government officers Stating that you will return our cultures back to us Open it, then you will see it He said that if I helped him unlock the hard drive... he'd pay me a service fee How much? How much? Ten Millions Ten Million?? That's a lot Awesome, ten million! ...in won How much is that in HK$? Hey, does it matter? Ten million in any currency is not bad! Hey, don't interrupt I got on this minibus to get the gear from home So it's about money Did you get your gear? Doesn't matter, I couldn't get back to Kowloon anyway Money's important, but... Help! - Fire! - Get outta here! Help me! Save me! Help!! What happened? Who was that? The guy who was singing 'Mr Impotence'... 'Mr Toxic'? 'Mr Toxic'? How did it happen? We were just having breakfast Why was there an explosion? I told you to get insurance Bitch, how can you say such a thing? What... Someone's dead! Do you cover that? Actually, the package does cover it... You're a scam artist, you bitch! You only care about yourself I'm offering you insurance packages... I'm not the one who gets the benefits All of you... You just stood there, and didn't try to save him! It happened too fast That's true Honey, you too! He was on fire! What was I supposed to do? He's dead! Can you call yourselves men? Stop it, honey! (WANTED! Debts of HK$90,000) The man in a gas-mask! We have to catch him! Help him! Honey, be careful! Okay! Hey, this way! Chi, go round to ambush him! Okay! Fat, this way! Chi! Hey! Get him! Ask him what's going on That girl IV, from the minibus, is dead She died horribly! Did he kill her? Why else would he be running? Take off his mask! Ask him why everybody has disappeared Let me go, don't take off my mask! Let me go! He's Japanese? Hey, let me go! Get him up! Take off his mask! Let me go! Put my mask back on! I don't want to die! Ask him in English Ask him who he is Where has everybody else gone? Who are you? Why do you want to kill us? Where is everyone else? Look at me, look at me! Don't you remember? You should remember me! I... came here to save you! I don't understand him We don't speak Japanese Exactly Google! Google! Right, use Google Google Translate Right, hurry up Ask him What did he say? "It's me, you should remember me" "I just came here to save you" Save me? You know this Japanese guy? How would I know this Japanese guy? Ask again "Give me my mask back" "I don't want to die now" You don't wanna die? I don't wanna die either, asshole! I only came to Tai Po to watch football on TV! I'm gonna kill you! Speak in Mandarin Google doesn't work well with Cantonese Ask him! What are you doing in Hong Kong? "Let me go! I'm only here to..." . help you 17 people" "Hurry, before things get any worse" "Please save yourselves!" Save us? Ask him if he killed IV Did you kill the girl? "You should remember me!" "It's me, Chi" "We were classmates" "We were good friends" You two were classmates? You two were good friends? What the hell does that mean? I don't know him You don't know him, but he knows you! I really don't know him! Don't go after him, just leave it! Don't go. You come over here! See what he said before he ran "I will save you all, I will save you all" "Fu...ku..." Fuku? What does that mean? So... what shall we do with her? It looks like she's been raped Huh? Which asshole did this? Really evil, out in the open like this? Chi! You scared me! I think there's something wrong with you... Pedal faster! Faster, faster! I'm going fast, you want more? Yes, pedal faster! Pedal harder! Any faster, we'd fall into the water Wow, it's beautiful here Of course! Why do you think I brought you here? Did I really have... a friend with a birthmark? Yes... you were the class clown You always made fun of him Really? You should remember me! Chi, it's me We were classmates We were good friends You guys were good friends Come to think of it... You remember now? Yeah When you were in sixth grade... Scary Yuki?! Was he really my classmate? Hello? Hello? Is this Chi? Hello? 'H'? Hello? Yi, is that really you? Yes, it's me, Yi Is this Chi? Yes, it's me, Chi Are you really Chi? Chi! I've been so worried about you I miss you too How is my family? Your family? Yau Tsi Chi, how can you even ask that? Do you know how much your mum sacrificed for you? We looked for you everywhere, but couldn't find you! I'm sorry... How could you be such a bad son? Do you even know that your mother has died? What? Mum's dead? During the first year that you were missing Your mum went into a deep depression And she eventually passed away This can't be true Mum's dead? Mum... Do you know? After it happened... the Chief Executive appealed... to international rescue teams to search for survivors It's been six years! But none of you could be found You're saying that I've been gone for six years? Yes! The rescue teams scoured Tai Mo Mountain tracking the signal from the House of Major Torn Many search parties went out But none of them found anything The rescue teams said... said the signal came from Tai Mo Mountain? Yes, the explosion... The whole of Hong Kong... Yi! What explosion? Yi! Don't hang up! Yi! Yi! Yi... Yi... Mum... Hey! Don't get too close There are weird marks on the body Look, it's on his legs I don't know when the infection started Fuckin' hell, you're back! You disappeared without warning We thought you were dead That's right Sorry about that You're sorry? Honey... I... - Honey! - Save me, honey! Honey! Honey. Honey! Honey! Don't touch him! Creepy... "'8 you! "'8 you! You went out there with my husband, didn't you? Why did this happen? Weren't you supposed to help? Aren't you in charge here? Aren't you some kind of big shot? How could you let that happen to my husband? Why? Why? Why? The way he died... was as horrible as IV's death That girl IV? When we found her... IV was already dead She died horribly Fuck, why didn't you tell us before? Maybe there's more than three, that Blind... The junkie? Yeah, he could be the fourth What about the four who got off at CUHK? How should I know? Man, what's wrong? Are you okay? My stomach hurts... Maybe... Actually... What are you muttering about? Nothing Listen, from now on... Don't split up No matter what happens, we stick together How did Lavina die? How should I know? Bobby stumbled on her body It was horrible Just like 'Mr Toxic' outside There were purple marks on her body - I told you... - Shut up It's just as I said... They'll be coming soon But... ...I didn't expect it to be this soon Or so horrible Do you understand what I'm saying? Do you understand what I'm saying? Nope! I'm leaving We're dying one by one First IV, then Auyeung Wai... And then Bobby When will it be your turn? And mine? It's undeniable... the countdown to our doom has begun Hey, are you two leaving? Yeah, we are But... what about me? What about me, Ms Ying? Are you leaving? I think I should We can't! Huh? Why not, Ballsies? I don't know how to explain... If we go, we have to go together But we have to find out how they died What if we meet our relatives again... and pass on some infection to them? That's how infections spread! I told you, I don't have any family l have Have what? I went home earlier... And I got a call from my girlfriend How the hell did you get a call? What else are you hiding from us? What aren't you telling us? Where did that call come from? My girlfriend told me... we've been missing for six years Six years? Six fuckin' years? So... what does that mean? This is 2018? 2018? What happens now? My mother is dead! She spent ages looking for me And she said something about a signal from Tai Mo Mountain From the mountain? Does it have something to do with that song? It must be 'Major Torn' was mentioned That could be in Tai Mo Mountain Major Tom? What is it? She said something about... House of Major Torn And something... about an explosion in Hong Kong What damn explosion? You guys are really fuckin'... Explosion? The line cut out before I could ask! You're fucking useless, and you're a bigmouth! If what your girlfriend said is true... What's it like in 2018? Right! What's it like? There'll be a new Chief Executive Would that make any difference? We're all supposed to get the vote in 2017 The system's supposed to change If that's the case... I'd like to know who is Chief Executive in 2018 Wonder if he's an asshole It doesn't matter which "asshole" it is... as long as he's not foul-mouthed like you You're unbearable Are you picking a fight? No,no,no United, united! That's more like it Come on, Chi Get your girlfriend to call you, and ask her... which scumbag is Chief Executive now That would work Then we wouldn't need to die, right? Don't listen to him We have to get out of Tai Po At least to Tai Mo Mountain Find a way to contact the outside world That's the only way to find out the truth Right, we have to find out the truth Explosions... contagious viruses... We're in a very dangerous situaiton This is how pandemics happen Where are you going? Idiot Ballsie, I'm gonna fetch my vehicle! How are you gonna leave Tai Po without my minibus? Will you abandon us and not come back? You're out of your mind, really Two minutes ago, I wouldn't have minded But saying it now... hurts my self-esteem Let me tell you, I may be a gambler... but I'm big on loyalty to brothers! You've hurt me You've dampened the flame burning in my heart You know? Come back soon, and watch out for guys in gas-masks Wait Take care, take care Yuki, go get a knife Which one? Is this okay? Is there a smaller one? Isn't this small enough? Okay, whatever For safety's sake All of our lives... are in your hands Fat I'll be fine with this huge cleaver Don't worry! Take care! Fuck... the cleaver is heavier than the gasoline... Since we're all blaming ourselves for getting on this minibus I'll tell you a bit about myself I set out to call in a debt The bastard owed me 10 grand... A ten-year debt! It's his son's wedding day I was invited to the wedding banquet I went without any gift, empty-handed Are you the groom's party, or the bride's? Groom's This guy is notorious for not paying his way Really? Sir, excuse me You forgot to leave your gift Gift? For the newlyweds The groom's father owes me 10 grand That's enough for ten banquets Hey, wait a second What? What are you doing? Oh, reinforcements? You want more of my money? No, of course not Back in the day, I got stabbed in the gut... and I didn't let it stop me! Out of my way, let me in! Hey, wait, wait! There you are! Get over here! What's going on, Uncle Fat? Where's your father? He hasn't offered a gift - Freeloading? - Stop this commotion If your dad doesn't pay me back today... I won't attend your banquet My dad may owe you money But what has that to do with me, Uncle Fat? Fetch him! He's inside celebrating, Uncle Fat Exactly! Don't go in, we've got it under control It was only 10 grand... Let me go, and give me back my money! Get him out! I didn't get to join in, and I didn't get my money They gave me a bag of oranges to go... They sent you these oranges Said they wouldn't press charges It's a mad, mad world Chi, what's your story? Me? I was in a karaoke bar with my colleagues last night But I had a date with my girlfriend So I left early But there was a problem... so I headed back to Tai Po instead That's why I was on the minibus Yuki, how about you? My story is more ridiculous than any of yours My boss treated us to karaoke last night So I went along Enough! Stop touching me! Don't show up to work tomorrow Get the hell out! I thought I'd be singing till dawn If you're a good girl, I won't fire you I'll even promote you Think about it You're well set up That's why I left at around 1am and then I got on the minibus You did the right thing Red light! Straight through! Talk about professional driving! I've always wanted to do that Let's do it again! Running another red light! Let's go! How about you two? Huh? We didn't... We.. Why doesn't anyone ask me? My husband and I bought a place With a 25-year mortgage... 25 years! When all this happened, I thought... it was all turning out for the best No more mortgage payments, ever But it's meaningless My husband's not here any more Hey, man, stay in your seat We're going fast, it's dangerous A zombie!! Got any drugs? Gimme what you got Blind Fai! Give back the cleaver! Gimme some coke first Hey, just relax! The cleaver... Don't do it! I need some coke! Fuck you! You asshole... Die! You fat fuck, why did you have to chop my shoulder? I'm... longsighted... Why did you have to chop my shoulder? The virus is contagious Why did you have to chop my shoulder? Shit! Go fuck yourself! Go see a doctor! - Do you two live in Tai Po? - Yeah Why were you on the minibus? Not much, just heading home from the arcade Don't touch me, you'll infect me! What are you talking about? Why do you say that? Shut up, don't say anything He touched her! Hey, what girl? I told you to shut up! What happened? He was the one who raped her! I told you to shut up, you bastard! Bullshit! I gonna kill you! Let's make it clear! Motherfucker! I'll get the boss to kill you! What boss? I'm the boss around here! Okay, get off here Thanks Awesome! To hell with all the bastards! You think we're really the only ones left? Bro, I ain't ready to die... This is even better - Hey, look - What? Why not? No harm in trying... Wow! I'm rich! Hey cutie! What's happening? Stealing money? None of your business We've had our eyes on you If we hadn't stayed out late in Kowloon... ...we wouldn't have got on the same minibus! Fuck you! Fuck off! Playing hard to get? Let's make this easy for all of us! Get lost! Asshole! Where are you going? Rape! Help! Crazier and crazier! Help! They're all dead anyway Come on, just join in... Let's have some fun together Come on, where are you going? Help! It's the end of the fucking world anyway What? Hey, don't play dumb Where do you think you're going? Help me here, man What? Out in the open? What's the problem? There's nobody else here! Don't... Help! No... Hey, Airplane... I think something's wrong What is it? She's not moving... Is she dead? Look at those marks on her legs She's just passed out, right? You've killed her! You killed IV! Don't bullshit! They catalyzed the apocalypse That's right! We were all set to move to our new home on Sirius But you two morons spoiled everything Now the gods are punishing us! You stupid jerks! You have no human feelings! The chick just fell down and all... "Chick"? Didn't she have a name? Show some respect! Her name was Lavina! What do we do now? Can't let this chance go to waste False teeth? And a wig? You like to play dress-up! She's cute, she's actually cute Don't do this... Haven't you done enough? Wake up! There are no more women in this world You filthy scumbag! Don't touch them The virus might be contagious What's going on? What's all this about? Looks like the cleaver came in useful I didn't let you guys down Listen, I have an update As of now, since I got back here... the death toll is up to four Four? Who else died out there? Uh, the ju... The junkie! Right, he was infected He was like a zombie I had to do it Looks like things aren't much better here These two scumbags killed Lavina! Not me, it was him! And they raped her corpse She was dead... Shut up! Shut up! That shit is infectious How do we deal with this? Wash our hands! We can't be sure that they're carriers... but there's a high risk that they are So we need to protect ourselves... by not coming into contact with them We should kick them out Just keep away from the rest of us It wasn't me! I'm really not to blame! Please don't... We should burn these two bastards! Uncle Fat is right, I agree We can't let them go They raped and killed a woman, and must be punished by law Letting them go will be condoning their crime They have to be punished Especially him Sorceress Ying, what do you think? Me? Ms Ying, what law are they talking about? We're at the end of the world Okay, I'll go! We'll go now Wait... Just calm down Don't be so rash Yes, listen to me Hey, keep your distance! You're the only one here who makes sense You trust a fortune-teller from Temple Street? - Saying what you want to hear? - That's not it Everything you say... makes perfect sense, right? Really? Sure it does! Well... I agree with Uncle Fat Are you fucking mad? You call this justice? Enough talking... Let's burn these two creeps No, I don't agree with burning them Me neither Why don't we stab him to death, one by one? What the fuck? Are you even human? Do all the women here agree unanimously? I do You can't do that You need to understand... There's no more "can" or "can't", "right" or "wrong" While our minibus went through the Lion Rock Tunnel our city changed irrevocably Society's laws, human ethics... They no longer apply You little shit! You're right! If we're the last people in the world... then "society" is us, right here - Yeah! - You're right! If we're all agreed, let's get on with it Wait a second He's just a dumb kid That's right! We'll be pillars of society one day! Plead for your life If you're our future, there's no hope for us They did something bad... But there must be another way! No! He killed Lavina And that caused my husband to die! We should all stab this bastard to death! But who'll go first? No, no... - Yuki! - Me again? Get a knife from the kitchen! Don't let him go! You're going nowhere! Is this one okay? Small enough? Ladies first! Didn't you all say you wanted this? It was her Lady, this stabbing verdict... came from a fair and open trial A once-in-a-blue-moon event Fat's right! You don't like this small blade? It's for slicing beef, it'll be fine They say a woman's heart is deadly Ballsies! Let one Ballsie kill another! Good idea, you go first! You were all Ballsies once Does he still count? Thanks for counting me in as a Ballsie Driver, you have most experience here Go for it - No, thanks - Come on, don't hold back - Don't be polite - You go ahead Calm down, okay? I took care of Blind Fai; the fourth to die Now it's the fifth Someone else's turn, right? You look like you've seen a lot You played football, you were in a gang You're the right man You're bringing up my past? Never mind the past, let's deal with now A real man can make breakfast At this solemn moment... we need a real leader Come on, boss When did I say I was the boss? You did! Be brave Someone has to play center-forward Just imagine... you're in Chelsea, playing Manchester United That's it! No... Uncle Fat, ignore those bitches Stab him, boss Yuki, bring me some gloves Uncle Fat, don't do this! Boss, is your hand shaking? You're all fucking cowards! Do it, boss Their future is in your hands What are you doing? He's asking me what I'm doing Killing you Don't listen to the fat guy Don't kill me, please don't kill me You're not that sort I know I screwed up! Think back to your glory days - Shut up! - Give me one more chance Okay, I will How does it feel to beg for your life? Kid, life ain't easy You bastard, you really did it! I'd already fessed up to my mistake... Why did you have to stab me? Sorry, Fat I didn't think you'd be so affected You have a kid, don't you? Double win? Win-win? He's saying he has two kids I'm a failure as a father I've nothing to be proud of in my life... except for my two little girls! Too bad I wasn't there to bring them up They must be 15 or 16 by now Go to hell! In my life, my greatest regret... is not being thereto watch them grow up Well, I'm not as emotional as you are Because I have absolutely nothing You fat fuck, you wanna get beaten up? Next! No... Please don't... Please don't... Shun, are you taking the piss? You didn't say I couldn't stab the shoulder From now on, stab where it matters! Please don't... This is really unfair to me You really are despicable I'm despicable? You fuckers are worse than me Especially you, you hypocrite! If you were a chick... I'd rape you too It's my turn, isn't it? Why are you so keen? Glu-Stick, it's your turn! Come on! Leave me out of this I can't... Quick! It's your turn! What are you doing? I told you... I told you to stop raping her I warned you! You want to... die...? It's my turn now, right? Somewhere that matters? Kid, don't make this harder... No, Ying... Please don't... Gosh, so many stab wounds already I know where... In your foul mouth! Give me back my husband! Heavens, she's the cruelest... Fu...ku... Fuku? The Japanese guy started to say 'Fuku...' Hey,Shun Give me a bit of help here Fuku... Fuku... ... Fukushima? The explosion in Fukushima! At the nuclear power plant! It must be the nuclear meltdown at Fukushima What does the Fukushima disaster... have to do with Hong Kong? There's no nuclear plant in Hong Kong! Yes there is We didn't build it It's just down the coast, across the border Viruses don't care about distance If we don't stop it, it'll spread Like SARS did a few years ago I just remembered At the time of that nuclear meltdown... I was working in a Japanese restaurant People said there was radiation, so they wouldn't eat raw fish After the meltdown, Fukushima became an exclusion zone If it's happened in Hong Kong too... what comes next? The radiation will spread Everybody will be evacuated Taken away from their homes If that's right, the impact would be huge There are so many of us living in Hong Kong This must have something to do with the Japanese What do they want? It seems we need to get to Tai Mo Mountain to find out The Japanese must be dressed like that... to protect them from viruses or radiation If not, how do we explain the marks... on the four who died? Let's get of out here, shall we? - Okay! - Not yet We have to get protective gear first Fat is right What about my husband? What about my husband?! What about my husband?? Let's cremate his body No... Let's just bring his body inside We'll deal with him when we get back Is that okay? A little higher One, two - Put his legs down - Okay Okay, thiS'll do it You fucking bastards! You're still not dead? Dead? You wish I was, don't you? Cool it I'm very cool It's you fuckers who aren't cool Don't make the same mistake again I've already made the mistake Don't do anything rash Now it's my turn to kill you! Hold on, friend Friend? Don't you remember? I was the one who wanted to let you go But you stabbed me anyway Yes, but only in your shoulder That doesn't count? You think it didn't hurt? It was just a flesh wound, not a fatal injury Look, it's not even bleeding anymore Hardly more than an insect bite Isn't that right? I'm gonna kill those bastards! Sure! The ones outside are the ones who killed you! But do it when you recover They'll still be around Really? You think I can still recover? Of course you can! It's not much worse than eczema Eczema? Honestly, Airplane You were right Are you trying to manipulate me? Of course not! I sympathize with you Tell you what... Just go out there and kill them Then we'll go together By myself? What's stopping you? It's 2018 now We've mutated, we have so much power now Really? Get out there! Okay, wait for me I'll be back, then we'll leave together, friend I'm gonna kill all those bastards! Listen, everybody! We'll load up at the supermarket before we go We'll need protective gear And as much food as we can carry We don't know how long we'll need to stay on the mountain Don't get separated Got it Chi, my leg isn't holding up You drive the damn minibus No problem There's so many of them! They've finally shown up It's a big operation, what do they want? The Japanese guy said he wanted to save us, no? Looks like they came prepared We'll know soon enough They don't look too friendly, though You think they know we're going to Tai Mo Mountain? Never mind them, let's just get out of here We'll know what they want once we start moving Board the minibus! Come on, get in We're good to go! And we're off! Yeah! They're following us What do we do? Hey, What's going on? There are three possibilities 1. They'll kill us 2. They'll stop us from going up Tai Mo Mountain 3. They want to experiment on us Experiment? You're exaggerating right? I don't want to be a lab rat! Speed up! They've split up They're flanking us! Don't worry, they're not attacking They're catching up That's not attacking? Don't worry Uncle Fat, I think you were right... They don't want us to get to the mountain Something big is happening on Tai Mo Mountain Can't you go faster? Faster! Faster! My foot's to the floor already! I'm so scared! Hey! They're in front of us! Hang on! What the fuck? What's he doing? What's going on? God dammit! What are you doing? It'll be fine, don't worry! Don't! Wow, awesome! Good job, Chi! Sorry about that, driver I'm really messing up your vehicle It's not mine anyway It's okay if you wreck it! Okay... Go for it! Faster! Look out! Hold tight, I'm gonna swerve! - What's wrong? - I'm sorry... Why are you crying? Actually, I've been bad I've been holding out on you all... This girl is with Tai Po Cantonese Opera troupe She's quite famous So she's in debt, no big deal Lavina... That's Lavina Those buck teeth were fake - Let me see - I was scared you'd find out So I tore down the "wanted" poster It was on the wall by the deli We saw her steal money from the opera house She had those unpaid debts... Shut up! You two ruined her life! What a bastard! I knew you were as bad as him! I deserve to die! That's ridiculous! Chi, stop the car Get off the bus! Why are you crying? Still feigning pity? Get off now! Get out! I'm so sorry Get the hell out! Go away! Watch out! Hold on tight! What's happening... It seems they've lost their temper... Lost their temper? They're out to finish us off! What do they want? Look out! Hold on tight! No! Drive! Minibus, impressive! Any problems back there? Yes! This wretch is still here! Chi, stop the car Again? Get out! Huh? The rain is red? Listen, everybody! We're about to leave Tai Po... and head up to Tai Mo Mountain! Great! Watch out! What now? Is that Blind Fai? What happened? It's the junkie! Blind Fai! He doesn't look too dead Driver, didn't you say you killed him? I did Can't you see the cleaver in his shoulder? But he's okay? Is that my fault? Didn't you say he was a zombie? No, that's just the drugs He was already like that... when he got on the minibus in Mong Kok He's obviously pretty tough We'd better let him get on What's with the outfits? Are you okay, Mr Blind Fai? I'm fine Should I help you take out the cleaver? No, the blade stops the bleeding If you take it out... I'm afraid blood will drench the bus You have a point You look like you're going to a funeral Who the hell died? Are we gonna move? Where are you going? I want to get back to Kowloon Why do you all recognize me? I don't have any friends in Tai Po I think you got on the wrong bus This one's going to Tai Mo Mountain... ... via Lam Kam Road Going via Lam Kam Road to the mountain? Isn't that dumb? Why not go via Tsuen Wan? Go through Kowloon Uh... Okay Okay, that'd work Good, I'm from Kowloon Driver, you are too I'd like to see what Kowloon is like right now Okay! To celebrate getting out of Tai Po... let's encourage ourselves! One phrase each, okay? I'll start with a request! Ballsie Chi... head for Kowloon! No turning back! Love you! Forever! Unto death! Huh? Don't say shit like that! Chi, your turn Then... let's go! And we're off! Hold on to that cleaver Thanks Let him back on, okay? Blind Fai, call him Let him back in Get in! Hurry! You're letting him back on? If he's on board, we need to wear the masks Chi Are these headphones yours? You found them on Tolo Highway? You know Chi? Not only him... I know all of you other bastards too You're an idiot Close your eyes... What's going on? Don't ask I have a present for you A present? Are you trying to trick me? You can open them now - I can look? - Yeah What is it? It's the only one in Tai Po Where did you find it? I've been looking for ages ls there really a virus in Tai Po? Do we really have to leave? I really don't want to go... I'm going to miss it I miss my mother Mum, I'm really sorry... I'm back You're asleep when I get home at night I knew you're there in the bedroom But I didn't even check if you're okay I didn't even taste the soup you've left for me (Message from Ying's mother) Mum! I miss you! I really miss my mum I miss my family My daughters... As the city falls asleep under the dimming of lights Have we forgotten those glorious times And know not what today has become
