 

                        1 Five, four, three, two, one. Take off. War. My father taught me what that word meant today. He says its what we will have without the State protecting us. Without the State, humanity will be lost. The crime rate is close to our zero tolerance goal. The State is your friend in a dark night like this, watching over you and your family. Our great State is stronger than ever. Our leader, the Director, wishes to thank you for your hard work and dedication. Together, we will overcome. Together, we are rebuilding the world. The Director sees all your hard work, and will reward all good deeds and punish anyone who threatens the State or its citizens. Why is this taking so long? Would you relax? We've been planning this for months. Everything's gonna be fine, so relax. I'm relaxed. I'm relaxed. Good. Once the transaction goes through, we've got to leave the country immediately. State will hunt us. I've made the arrangements. There are still some places cameras cannot reach. I hope you're right. Well, my friend? Pleasure doing business with you. Large crowds are expected for the upcoming celebration of Federation Day. Don't forget, you must ensure that all travel permits are obtained, all whereabouts accounted for. Safety of all civilians is of paramount importance. Hello my fellow people and God bless you. Many years ago we survived a horrible war. They were hard times. Many of those close to us perished. Measures were made to make sure that this kind of apocalypse did not happen again. But let me ask you this. What happened to our souls? The right to practice religion, the right not be monitored every single second of our lives. The State has done its job. The human race survived, but now it's time to trust. It's time to get us back to Democracy. It's time for freedom, it's time for living. We apologize for that short disturbance. The broadcast you've just witnessed is illegal and should not, I repeat not be confused with the State's official broadcast. What the fuck? An extraordinary woman. Beauty is power. Woman's shape, smile, eyes that can cut right through a man. And is she for sale? In this country my friend, everything is for sale. Exactly my point gentleman, and as it stands, the State can see it all and soon they will own it all. Children born today will never know what it's like having a moment to themselves. Or a private conversation. I hear there are some that do not have such restrictions. That are immune to such surveillance. You mean the rumored State operatives? Licensed to kill, moving amongst us, trained to kill any enemy of the state? Look, we have a small window. We can take action now or we can continue to allow the State take away our liberty. You are on very shaky ground. The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is if good men do nothing. Too many of us are sucking anything up without thought. In, out. In, out. I won't do that. Not anymore. Now if you will excuse me, I'd like to take advantage of some of the perks being in the public eye affords me. Hey, honey, where are you? Come on. Poppy's waiting. Poppy ain't got all day, now. Just a minute baby. Just getting ready for you. Waiting for that Chola. Put all of that makeup on. A lot of eye liner, mascara. All of that shit. I think anything he does is kind of... No, no, no, no! Hey, baby, what's taking so long? Hurry up. I'm here. Bring that fine Chica ass to Poppy. Oh, sh-- What's this? No need to kill us both. Let the young woman go. Do you mind if I, if I take a smoke? You know why I became a politician? Because I thought I could make a difference. I realize now that people in power all they want is more power. I see that now. You standing here, pointing that gun at me. I'm not afraid. I feel young again. Isn't it ironic? That when the end is here, you go back to what it was like in the beginning. Pull the trigger. This is 159. Stardust. Operational. Target? En route. Welcome home Axon. I hope you had a nice day. You have no messages. Today's headline brought to you by, State Farm. Supplying you with your safe, germ free, perfectly processed food since 2019. One of the State's biggest supporters, Balthazar White, was found dead in his home tonight. The police report indicated heart trouble. White died peacefully in his bed. His dedication to over 30 years serving the State lives on as an example for us all. You have an incoming message from the Controller. Play message. Meet me at the usual place at 3:35. You're late. You're never late. There's a problem. Your mission. What problem? You were ordered to eliminate everyone. Yes, sir. There was a woman. She was irrelevant. I didn't think it mattered. Operators don't think. They follow orders. I'm going to need your weapons and then you need to report. - Report? - Mmm. I'm reporting now. I've known you a long time Condor. But I have to take you in. Is it a loyalty thing? I don't know. All I know is the Director wants to see you because you didn't follow orders and he wants to know why. The only time anybody ever goes and sees the Director is when they have to be re-programmed. Trust me. The first thing you ever taught me was this. Trust no one. No, the first thing I ever taught you was to follow orders. Put your weapon on the ground. Right now. No, sir. Yes, sir. Go, go, go, go! If re-conditioning takes place, it won't take that long. Assuming you cooperate, of course. You will be like new. All of your old memories and feelings gone. Like they never existed. Almost like a rebirth. That's right, like a rebirth. Like a Phoenix rising from the ashes. I almost envy you. You could do the same. I mean, maybe you get rid of all those nagging betrayals that are always on your conscious. If I had a conscience. This is what I would call inexcusable. You're the Controller right? This is your responsibility here. Agreed. This Axon Rey. He's one of yours? One of mine. Code name Condor, war veteran, Medals of Courage, Valor, wounded three times, honorable discharge, no surviving family, 38 successful sanctions. Y'all been busy, I'm impressed. The State has many enemies. Yeah well, we're gonna see if we can lessen that a little bit. I will keep the water warm for you. We can't let shit get the way it was before the war. We spent too much time too much effort. Too many lives were lost to get this thing in order. The balance is almost there now. My biggest concern right now are the illegal broadcasts. We took out one of the figure heads tonight. But there will be someone else to take his place. We need somebody that can really, successfully, take out the next owl that comes up. Condor is the best. His behavior in the last 24 hours would give me the impression that that's not exactly the case. How do you want to deal with this mess? Reconditioning. Oh, reconditioning. So you're recommending the Gulag. Gulag 7, to be exact. Your costly little experiment having to do with human behavior modification, is that right? I prefer to think of it this way. An operative at the point of burnout has been compromised by something weak, something sentimental. A feeling of love, pity, compassion. I dare say, human weaknesses. Love. A man's consciousness is malleable. It can be reshaped to fit our purposes. I can do this, I will do this. He will be your perfect weapon. Raise your hand. Okay. When I hold you, go ahead raise your hand. You see, when I raise your hand, you go up, when I raise it down, you go down. When I lift you up, you go up. All of these things are things that manipulate you, but they're not things that have to hurt you. They're things that just manipulate you because I can use pure thought. Those are the things that really make for the ultimate warrior. An operative with this man's duties is really good for one thing. It's killing. Love. What's not good for the State has to be cut out. Not this man, we need him. I recognize parental pride. I really do. And I can tell you any other operative would have been dead by now. We need this man to maintain control. One of the first operatives I ever had, his name was Titan. He was like a son to me. He was a perfect weapon. I had no choice but to terminate him for the greater good. Would it be wise for us to eliminate the one man that stands between us and the uprising for fear of what he may do? Alright, prove me wrong. Make him a perfect weapon. I will. Come on! What are you waiting for? Sound the alarm! You traitor. Even if by some miracle you survive this, there are a million more like me In my life these days, a million to one sounds like great odds. Traitor! You're dead. You motherfucker! Axon? Nina? Access granted. Nina? No, it's impossible. I was there. I buried you, I put you in the ground, with the State, we buried you. It was a double, an empty coffin. The State's been using them from the very beginning. But this place, I would have preferred death. Oh my God, we've got to get you out of here, come on. You're bleeding badly. We gotta stop the bleeding or you'll die. Come on. Okay. Stay with me Axon! Damn it, I know it's in here. Shit! Keep your eyes open, keep your eyes open! Axon, talk to me, are your eyes open? Yes. Yes! Okay, okay, okay, okay. This is gonna hurt a little bit okay? Oh, it's so much better - Better? - Yeah, better. You came for me. I didn't, I did not come for you. I came, my mission... I don't understand I... We have to go. Okay, we have to go, we have to go now. Stairs! Go, go, go, go! Come on! Hurry up! Go! Get down! Terminate her. You okay? Don't worry about me. Find these assholes! Cover me! Nina! Nina! Nina! Nina! Come on! Come on. Come up. - You okay? - Ah, my fucking knee! We need to get somewhere to hide. Where do we go? My place. Be sure to bring a smile to work today and be feel proud to be part of the State. You are all important. This is an important message for the public. A warning for you all. These so far unidentified terrorists have led an attack on a State facility and are considered armed and extremely dangerous. Axon, look. Hmm? They threaten everything that we hold dear. If you've seen this man or this woman please contact the State immediately. Let's go. Won't they be waiting for us? I know it's risky, but I need to go back and get my weapons, and we need to change vehicles, okay? But yeah, they'll be waiting for us. We're clear, we're good. Welcome home, Axon. I hope you... They watch us through those things. We can't leave the city until the workers leave at dawn, alright? We'll try to blend in. Get ready. I feel almost human again. Sit down. What's wrong? Do you remember this? Of course I do. I love you, Nina. Everyone thinks I'm dead. That place, it's, um, that's where they send people like us when they're finished with us. Just leave us to die there like broken machines. I felt like a machine for the past two years. You make me feel alive. The day that you died, I died with you. You don't understand, I need you to save me just as much you need me to save you. It's okay that I can't remember. It's all muddled and confusing. I have to know more. The Director orchestrated everything. Why? He needed you to continue your training without any distraction. They spent a lot of time, effort, and money into making you the ultimate killing machine, the perfect tool to carry out the State's dirty work. They couldn't afford to let someone like me have these feelings and desire to have a family with you someday, stand in their way. A future with me meant a future without the State. All these things that could distract you, Axon, the last thing a professional killer needs is feelings. They took these memories from you, and they knew that my death would cause the last human part of you, so they could use you as they saw fit. They were wrong, because I found you. No. Axon? Ah, there you are, I found you! Freeze! Freeze! Shut up! Ugh, Axon? Nina! Here he is, the legendary Condor, now nothing but a traitor. You killed 12 of my men. I happened to have liked a few of them. You have scars on your body, but tell me, have you ever felt real pain? Well done. I see I have something to work with. This, this was just foreplay. Smile at the camera. Your being beamed live, on our small private network. By the time I finish with you, no agent will dare go against the State. Ladies and gentleman of sin, let this be a warning to all of you. This is what will happen, if you turn your backs on the State. There is no way that you would have gotten yourself out without help from someone inside. The only question now, is who is helping. Ooh, your toenails look like they need a little trimming. Machines, computers, and reconditioning; a load of shit. Torture is best done simply, - like feeling your teeth... - No. - being ripped... - No. - ...out of your mouth. - No. I need the name. No, no, no. No, no! You getting bored? I'm getting bored. I need to know a name. What was your plan, Condor? Where were you gonna go? We're everywhere. We see everything. Hmm? Personally, I really enjoyed your performance in the shower. You know, when I'm done with you, I think I'll go and visit your girlfriend and see if she gives me the same dedication. You know, I can be very persuasive. Where is she? She's close. She's safe for now. I'm glad that you enjoyed putting your dick in that sweet, sweet little pussy. 'Cause now I know what part of your body you do not want to lose. Pull his pants down. No, no, no. No. That's enough. Traitor or not, this is my project. I won't have you slicing his manhood for your own amusement. It's a necessary evil. Is it? Believe me sir, I almost had a confession from him. Confession? Someone on the inside is working with him. I don't even think he knows who, but I will find the mole in the records. Someone with access ended his reconditioning before it finished. I trust you will find this mole. Oh yes, sir, you can be sure of that. I will get straight into the records and I will find who ended his reconditioning. We will know soon enough who it is, but first, I am going to kill that traitor, as a lesson for the others. No. This is my project, my subject. He will die by my hand. Yes, sir. You've seen better days, my friend. Turn that off! I don't have time to explain. - We need to save Nina. - Where is she? Go! Nina? Let's get outta here. I'm taking you to the safe house. Trust me. Our Director wishes you all a happy celebration of Federation. Thank you for your dedication to your State. May our Director live forever. Pleasant trip? Come out when you're ready. What is this place? This is where it all happens. We're the resistance. We don't have much time. We need to do it tonight to make it work. Make what work? Your mission. What fucking mission? Freedom. What are you talking about? We need to take out the Director. - What? - Mm. That headquarters building is fortified like a bunker. You'd never get in, and even if you did, it has like alarms and codes that reset every hour. He's the most heavily protected man in the country. Not tonight. Every night. Not this one. Federation Day celebration, staff and guards are at a minimum. It's the same every year. How many people? Outside of the Director, 10. How about the crowd? He won't be with them? The Director's not really the celebrating type. He likes to celebrate in a different way. Show him. This is Koyoko Shima, the daughter of Toshio Shima. After he had him assassinated, she's been with him ever since. Okay good, so she's an ally. No, she fell in love, a classic Stockholm syndrome. Yes, she's fiercely loyal, but everyday Wednesday, at 10:30 P.M. on the dot, she leaves the compound. The Director lets her out to bring supplies to her relatives down in Little Tokyo. That's where you come in. If we can time it right, we can get you in. This is important, so pay close attention to the layout. Security will be minimal after 9:00 P.M., the Director's mistress will leave at 10:30, so he will be alone after that. This will be our only shot. When it's done, meet us at the church. Here's his access code to the chambers. Memorize it. Yes, but the access code could change at any moment. You're right, it does, except when Koyoko needs to enter and exit the perimeters. She's given a pass code that works only until 10:40, which will give you 10 minute window to get in. Do you understand? No, listen, you might think you are alone on this, but you're not. This is the beginning, Condor. The uprising is on. The Director has made a lot of enemies over the years. He knows his time is limited. It makes him dangerous. I need you to simply take him out. Simply? If, for some reason, something happens to me, who will take care of Nina? I will, my word. Not that she needs it. Condor, we are counting on you. You can do this. Car will be here in an hour to take you to the drop zone. You two can use the back room to get ready. Take your time, get a little rest. It's going to be a long night. We're counting on you. You better make it. Just promise me you won't die. Okay, I promise you. You do this and you come back to me, and we're gonna find our home, and we'll make new memories, okay? Okay. Just promise me that you'll be careful. I will, just don't leave me. I don't want to leave you. I can look after myself. Just make sure you come back. Oh, I'm coming back, unless you truly believe that we can trust the Controller to free these people. Don't trust anyone. I mean it, not anyone. Hey. The fuck you doin' in here? You two have plenty of time for all that. Come on, we need to move out. Cronus you're involved in this? This is for you, sir. Thank you. So, learning and studying acupuncture, herbology, massage; every meridian in your body is an organ. Everything is corrected. Everything is connected to your nervous system. Everything is connected to your brain, all of your vital organs, spine has all of the nerves coming into all of the organs. So we massage kidney, liver, heart, spleen, everything. This is what I need to teach you so that you can do the same to me. Do you understand? Hey, Cronus, why you doing this? Why you doing this? Sir, this has become my duty. I've seen you be tortured, and I've seen you make decisions for the good. But that's because I have no choice. You do. And I think about every innocent life that I've needlessly taken. From now on, I'm in control. Where is she? Six minutes before the lock changes. After that... Mission failed. Here she comes I'm going in. Take out the guard by the tower. Sit down brother, relax. It's okay. You took everything from me. Everything. Tell me, what's the meaning of the truth to you? Truth. Truth is truth. Fact. Everything we hear is an opinion. It's not exactly a fact. Everything we see is perspective, it's not necessarily the truth. What does that even mean? What does that mean? I wanna see if I can come down, inside your mind a little bit, and see if you understand what the real reality is. I'm gonna show you something. Take a look at this. You sure this place is safe? Here you go, here's your truth Yeah, yeah. I went to great measures. You're hurt. Scratch. He's a dangerous man Everything is going according to the plan, Everything, right in front of our eyes. I never doubted. He could have pulled the trigger. You were lucky. It wasn't lucky. The Gulag 7 worked perfectly. And he took out White. It's almost too easy manipulating these operatives. For years I implanted the vision of your face into his memory. I have been waiting for this moment for so long. The loss of you made him cold. He was too emotionally detached, to refuse any order I might give to him. It was easy. He disposed of all of my future rivals. My own personal killing machine. You planned this well. How can you be sure he's gonna go against the Director? That's what makes this part of the plan genius. Bringing you back to him will give him hope and love. And his love for you, even if he has never actually seen you in real life, it will make him hate the Director and the State for taking you away from him. - It's genius. - Would he care enough? I mean he's a killing machine. Is he even capable of loving another human being after everything you have done to him? The doctors are working on him as we speak, prepping him for the final stage of the plan. When he sees you, he will see his one true love. And he will go to war to keep you safe. That my dear is the perfect weapon. Someone who believes that he's fighting for something good, something just, something called love. Once Condor kills the Director, we will expose the rebels for the dreamers they really are, and we will be heroes of the State. And I will become the rightful, just leader that I was born to be, with you right by my side. That is your truth. Tell me. Tell me. It's finished. Mission accomplished. Something wrong here? Cronus is dead. Cronus is dead? Is the Director dead? Dead? You saw him dead? Yes. You know what this means? We can broadcast to the people. The Director's reign is over. Do you understand that? And what about the woman? Where does she fit in? She fits in! Where? By your side, I guess. You know, don't you? I can see it in your eyes. They've changed. There is no love left for me in them anymore. I had to do it. He made me. I mean, you've got to believe me that I never meant to hurt you, or betray you. I didn't know you, but I do now, and the past may have been a lie, but this, this is real. I killed him, for you to keep you safe, the way you wanted to keep me safe. Please Axon just tell me there's still a chance. I love you. That part wasn't a lie. It's too late. The world is a cold place. Come on in, sit down and warm yourself up. I'm finished. Man, you've done well Condor. I'm proud of you. The way I look at it, you're just beginning. I've got big plans for you. First off, I'm in need of a new Controller. I respectfully decline. I'm not asking, Condor. I'm giving you direct order. The State needs men like you that I can trust. A new Controller, you're gonna have respect, privilege, wealth. Your family will never want for anything again. Family, I have no family. You just need a rest man. Get back on your feet. I'm gonna send you on an extended vacation, give you a reward for your loyalty. Beautiful island off the coast should ease your mind. You've known everything the whole time, haven't you? We suspected him for some time, but he's not the first traitor. And he ain't gonna be the last. And the woman? We knew what she was when we recruited her, just like we knew what you were when we recruited you. We always know. Let's drink to the future and the new place that you're holding. You're right. I do belong here. The only problem is, my nature. You see the only thing I know how to do is kill. Nature is a hard thing to fight. It really is. This is my destiny. Freedom. I think we just found our new symbol of hope. My brother. Mission complete, sir. Almost. You've done a wonderful job for me, brother. I'm really proud of you and really grateful to you. It breaks my heart to see you like this. You gave me your life. You gave me everything. My people say, "You can judge a man's entire life by his last breath." We not only live life with honor, but we die with honor, and that's what you have done. Give me an honorable death. You have my word. Avenge me brother.
