 

                        1 That stupid punk rock. I don't, you know... I just think of it as rock 'n' roll 'cause that's what it is. You know? PENELOPE: What do you like about it? Well, I like that it's like... It's something new and it's just reviving like old rock 'n' roll. And it's like it's raw again. It's for real. And it's fun, and you know... It's like, it's not bullshit. There's no rock stars now, you know. Okay, attention! Attention! For the third time, attention! Hey, wait a minute! Attention! Shut up! Attention! Attention, please be advised... Please be advised that... Please be advised that by your entry upon these premises... ...that by your entry upon these premises... ...you are consenting to being photographed. ...you are consenting to being photographed. This means they're gonna take photos of your ugly faces right? ...and you having your likeness used in motion pictures. ...and having your ugly likeness used in a filthy motion picture. ...and for other purposes. ...and for other purposes. ...and for other purposes. ...and other purposes. ...and for other purposes, God knows what! ...and for other purposes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And at the bottom, it says, "Thank you." And you can tell them to fuck off. [GUITAR STRUMMING] LEE VING: So how come they let all you long hairs in here tonight? - What's the problem? - MAN: It's not a big... This is 1980. Can't you afford a fucking haircut? [GUITAR STRUMS] JOHN: It's a fucking movie representing fucking LA. Dance! You want people in Philadelphia to see a bunch of deadbeats? MAN: Yeah! - One, two, three, four! -[TAPPING STICKS] [NAUSEA PLAYING] [SINGING] Today you're Gonna be sick so sick You'll prop your forehead on the sink Say Oh, Christ! Oh, Jesus Christ! My head's gonna crack Like a bank Tonight you'll fall asleep In clothes so late Like a candy bar Wrapped up for lunch That's all you get To taste poverty And spit poverty Nausea Bloody red eyes Go to nausea Bloody red eyes Go to nausea Bloody red eyes Go to nausea Bloody red eyes Go to sleep Today you're gonna Be sick so sick You'll prop your forehead on the sink Say, Oh, Christ! Oh, Jesus Christ! My head's gonna crack Like a bank Tonight you'll fall asleep In clothes so late Like a candy bar Wrapped up for lunch That's all you get To taste poverty And spit poverty and spit Nausea Bloody red eyes Go to nausea Bloody red eyes Go to nausea Bloody red eyes Go to nausea Bloody red eyes Go to sleep You're talking out of harmony You can't remember what you said Cut it out You feel retarded Take the scissors Saw the head You're talking out of harmony You can't remember what you said Cut it out You feel retarded Take the scissors Saw the head Nausea Bloody red eyes Go to nausea Bloody red eyes Go to nausea Bloody red eyes Go to nausea Bloody red eyes Go to sleep - WOMAN: Yeah! -[CROWD APPLAUDING] Punk music generally, that is, hardcore punk is characterized by its speed. It has a lot of "fuzz" as musicians call it, cranked into the music, it's high volume, high speed, usually monotone volumes, vocals, uh, characterized by protest type lyrics. I think a lot of the time that it gets out of hand is because of the speed of the music, which is way above the normal rhythm of a dance. You know, if you take a four-four disco time signature, you know, just comfortably, you can kind of... ...dance easily to the disco rhythm which is, I understand, 126 to 132 heartbeats a minute. [PUNK ROCK PLAYING] Whereas the kind of music that the Germs or the Black Flag is playing is upwards of 250, 300 beats a minute. Which is not comfortable or normal to dance to. One, two, three, four! One, two, three... [PUNK ROCK PLAYING] And this is why this dance that you'll see in the film, the Pogo dance, which is, you know, jumping up and down and bouncing off walls and stuff like that. This kind of an abnormal level of adrenalin. And uh... And so sometimes, some violence breaks out. Wow! Man! Nowadays, I don't... I think the kids are, I don't know, more desperate or something like that or more bored. Some of the better of the punk bands that developed into, son of, like, folk music. I don't mean folk music as a traditional folk music. But the allegory can be drawn in the 60s when protesters used acoustic guitars. Now, instead of acoustic guitars, you know, they have high-speed, 300 beats a minute speed rock. And yelling about the same things. About how their air was poisoned out there. You know, the air in utopia is poisoned. You know, the final joke, so... It's Black Flag. It's Black Flag. [PLAYING PUNK ROCK] We're gonna be a white minority We won't listen to the majority We're gonna feel inferiority We're gonna be white minority White pride You're an American Fm gonna hide Anywhere I can Gonna be a white minority We don't believe There's a possibility We, you just wait and see We're gonna be white minority White pride You're an American White pride Anywhere I can Gonna be a white minority There's gonna be large cavity Within my new territory We're a gonna die [MIC FEEDBACK] [SCREAMING] [SINGING] Okay, the Church, uh... It used to be a Baptist church and now they just rent out all the rooms in it and stuff. And there's some other bands in here. We practice here. And Ron lives here and Robo lives here. PENELOPE: What's the most people that ever lived here? [GIGGLES] A bunch of hippies rent. PENELOPE: What about the hippies? You get along with the hippies? They're okay 'cause they just get loaded. And they're pretty mellow. [LAUGHING] Mellow dudes! They're neutralized. The smoke so much pot that they're neutralized. And you don't smoke pot? Even if they get pissed off, they have a joint and they talk about it, instead of doing something about it. Ron, can you show us where you live, please? You mean, like, specifically, where I sleep? - Yeah. - Okay. Well, this room is where I live. [SIG HS] This is a two-room apartment here. Rig ht here, this is a three-room. It's not exactly what you would call a penthouse or anything like that but this is my... [WHOOPING] This is where all the action goes on, rig ht? So, yeah, all these, uh... There's autographs from all these girls and stuff, you know. Some used panties and shit like that. [WOMAN LAUGHING] This is one of my victims, right? [BAND MEMBERS LAUGHING] Robo's place is a little less sleazier than mine. He's up here. [LAUGHING] - PENELOPE: Has that got a bed? - Mmm... PENELOPE: Okay, let's see. Is that a bed? - Yeah, it is a bed. - PENELOPE: How much does it cost? Uh, $16 a month. How much do you make per month, when you, uh... as a performer? Uh... - Pretty much nothing. - BAND MEMBER: Negative. Negative, yeah, actually. And I mean Well, like Greg was saying, we don't make very much off gigs and most of it goes back into, like, the promotion. And, you know, expenses. Usually, maybe I could get a meal out of it here and there. Otherwise, I'll just have to find rich girls and stuff like that. [LAUGHING] I can't rent a house because I owe the gas company money. I owe the electrical company money. I owe the telephone company money. Sol cannot rent a house under my name. Sol might as well live in a fucking closet for $16 a month, you know. PENELOPE: Where are you from? - Well, I'm... Puerto Rico. -Yeah. [IN MOCK ACCENT] But I like to live in America. [ALL LAUGHING] PENELOPE: How come the songs are so fast and short? They're fast because that's what gets us off, okay? - That's the energy level. - Yeah. And they're short because that's how long the inspiration lasts. If you take the amount of verses that they have and the amount of lyrics and stuff, they're... You know, they're as long as any other songs. PENELOPE: What clubs have you been banned from? Well, the ones we've been banned from are like, uh, Bla-Bla Caf, The Whiskey, Gazzarri's, Club 88, Hong Kong Caf. PENELOPE: Why were you banned? Um, I don't know. Somehow we got a... Well, you know, a lot of people that... You know, when we play, they get pretty violent. Some of the clubs, they just aren't used to that. And we got a bad reputation for some reason and then they kind of... By the press and by the club owners talking to each other, it kind of spreads around. PENELOPE: What does Black Flag mean, the word Black Flag? Um, it means anarchy. Okay. Here's what it is. When I was in fucking high school, in Junior High, everybody told me how things were. And you know, how it... It just didn't work for me, you know? It's fucking fucked up like crazy. PENELOPE: Fucked up, how? Just things, things didn't work right and I was always bummed out. - PENELOPE: So? - So when I got in school, I mean, I didn't know what was going on. I didn't have any consciousness of what to do or what and when and where, so I just stayed in school. I just kept on going because I didn't have any idea of what to do. I thought, "Well, okay. I'll study psycho-biology." I'm worried about brains and all that shit, you know? I did brain operations. I did... You know, put hooks, you know... I cut open their brains and I put... Stick little wires in their heads and... Zapped out pans of them and zapped drugs into them and I watched what they did. 4 did a lot of that. - PENELOPE: You learned from it? Yeah, I learned a lot from it. That's where I came up with all my ideas. PENELOPE: What do you think of his haircut? Oh, oh, his haircut. It's okay. PENELOPE: Why did you cut your hair like that? Why did I? 'Cause I'm searching. - PENELOPE: 'Cause you're what? -'Cause I'm searching. [ALL LAUGHING] He knows where it's... He knows where it's at now. I'm looking for something. In other words, it's the search. He's tried... So far he's tried, uh... He's tried punk rock. He's tried... - CHUCK: Jesus. Jesus. - No, I'm trying them all. - Harvey Carson. [LAUGHING] PENELOPE: What are you searching for? I really don't know. No, I'll know when I find it. [BOTTLES CLINKING] You know, I did this because I felt like... To set myself aside and make myself different, maybe, maybe it would just come to me. PENELOPE: What is it? [BAND MEMBERS HUMMING MEDITATIVELY] No, that's not it. [ALL LAUGHING] Shit! Okay, this next song... This is for the LAPD. We got arrested the other night at Blackie's for playing punk rock music. They called us "nuisance in public" or something like that. Anyway, they put us in jail, and this song is called Revenge. And it's for them. [SINGING] It's not my imagination We got a gun on my back Promises you made Never become fact We're gonna get revenge You won't know what hit you We're tired of being screwed Don't tell me about tomorrow Don't tell me what HI get I can't think of progress When just around the comer There's a bed of cold pavement Waiting for me Revenge! I'll watch them bleed Revenge! That's all I'll need I won't cry if you die! Die! We're gonna get revenge You won't know what hit you We're tired of being screwed Revenge! Revenge! PENELOPE: Why don't the club owners hire the Germs any more? Mmm, we do get shows occasionally but it is getting harder. I think there's a lot of bands now. And when we were first doing it, there weren't that many bands. And a lot of the new bands are just more co-operative as far as doing a sedate, safe stage show. There's no threat of, um... ...an imminent riot. I've had promoters grab me and shake me and say, "Stop this show. It's on the verge of becoming a riot." [DRUMS BEATING] [PEOPLE SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY] [GUITAR STRUMS] DARBY: Find me a fucking beer! PENELOPE: How did you get the reputation that you have? I guess we used to do stuff. I mean, it was good to have that kind of reputation and you know... But not any more 'cause now we can't play anywhere. [PUNK ROCK PLAYING] PENELOPE: Tell me how is it that you're always getting hurt? Well, first, I did it on purpose. - PENELOPE: Yeah? - To keep from being bored. He's come out of shows with huge scrapes and scratches and claw marks all over him and just pouring blood, but it always looks a lot worse than it is. PENELOPE: What's the worst time that you ever got hurt? Hmm, The Whiskey. I cut my foot open. PENELOPE: What happened? I came down the stairs to do an encore and then I jumped on half a broken glass like that. And, like, I had to get 30 stitches. So I was standing like right in front and... I was looking at his face and, like, you ended up sitting down on the ground. And you were holding your foot like this and you looked at it and you just started going... "Ah!" you know and then you stopped playing and stuff. And you were running around trying to find your tennis shoes. [CHUCKLES] And I had to go to the hospital with blue hair and stuff and they were bringing all the nurses in and stuff to look at me. [PUNK ROCK PLAYING] PENELOPE: Why do you get so loaded to perform? Because that way I don't feel myself getting hurt. And it's scary out there. You know, it's real scary, like, 'cause when we play we're right down there in the audience and there's lots of creeps out there. And there's lots of people that have grudges against you now, too. And so, if I don't get loaded, I wouldn't be able to do it. - Do you want some more coffee? - I just broke this egg. Well, we've tried everything, -to get him to do that. - To do what? To sing into the mic. It's just, like, almost like the enemy or something, stay away from it at all costs, it seems. PENELOPE: So tell me why you never sing into the mics, Darby? I just don't pay attention to it, once I'm loaded. We've tried everything short of gluing his mouth to it. Yeah, this mic's not working. Things get broken, monitors, mics, but you kind of have to expect that if you're hiring an energetic young band. Darby, pick up the mic! The mic! One... [GUITAR FEEDBACK] [PLAYING RIFF] [DARBY SINGING] Well, when they first got together as a band, they didn't know how to play their instruments. And they did things to, kind of, camouflage that. Darby would smear peanut butter all over him. He'd dive through broken glass. He'd break glasses on his head. And eventually, they learned how to play. [PLAYING PUNK SONG] [SCREAMING] Oh, you are manly! [SCREAMING] PENELOPE: What kind of drugs do you take when you're on stage? LORNA: What doesn't he? Anything- Usually, I do speed or something. And then that gets too nervous so I do some kind of downers. Then I start drinking. 4 see. - LORNA: Give me a beer. Somebody give me a beer. Damn it, somebody give me a beer. A beer, damn it! A beer! Damn it, one of you give me a beer. Give me a beer, you fucking... Well, it's more like... being the mother of four three-year-olds who... are always fighting with each other, but not really seriously fighting. Just, He did this to me. She did this. I can't stand it and sometimes I get to the end of my rope and just wanna batter my children. PENELOPE: What happened to your throat? We were at some party and we were taking pictures and, um, Shannon had like this switch blade like this and I went like that. Like this side, just missed my jugular and the Swiss knife just missed my wind pipe. Do you feel like you wanna quit sometimes? Oh, yes. Almost all the time. PENELOPE: Tell me about the painter. MICHELLE: Oh, the dead painter. My parents were in China. And we were just finishing having the house painted. Coffee. And Darby and Donny and Dinky and Mark Plummer and my brother were all at my house. And my brother and I went to take the trash out at, like, one in the morning or something. And we hadn't been out in the backyard... It was on a Tuesday, we hadn't been out in the backyard since, um, my parents left, since like the Friday before. And so, anyways, um, I went outside and I must have walked right over the guy 'cause I couldn't see anything anyways. [LAUGHS] And then my brother, my brother goes, "Isn't there somebody sleeping in the backyard?" And I just went, "What? What are you talking about?" And, um, I went over and looked at him and I was just joking, I went, "This guy's dead." And I gave him a kick in the stomach, you know? And he was dead. He was dead. My brother thought we killed him. He goes, "What should we do?" Like, "Should we hide the body or something?" So anyways, um, we went. And Donny had a camera and we went and we lied down. I lied down next to him and we all got around him and we took a bunch of pictures, like family pictures and we're all going, "Hi", you know and taking pictures and stuff. What really happened to the guy? Um, they think he had a heart attack and fell off the ladder and no one found him for a few days. [CLEARING THROAT] It was really funny, actually. And the paramedics came and they were joking with us. And the coroner came. Oh, you remember all those jokes? Oh, yeah! What was the jokes? Instead of John Doe, they put down Jose Doe because it was a wet back. PENELOPE: Didn't you feel bad that the guy was dead? No, not at all. Because I hate painters. [PLAYING SHUTDOWN] This is Malissa's Song. Let me Touch the tips of Inculcated desire And brush the fettered Veil away Shut down [MUTTERING] In the depths I lay Shut down In the depths I lay Shut me Touch the tips of inculcated Desire And brush the fettered Veil away Shut down In the depths I lay if you want nothing Then I've got nothing I'm your fucking Annihilation man I don't care about you Fm gonna bleed Come on, let's bleed You don't know How the others chose When 8 fee! I just know You're not my first fantasy Won't you be? I know all your fantasies We really bleed We really mean it Gonna miss joy And all that fucking too Conceive They produced it They produced it When my ego falls so far I don't know what I'm looking for in here Why Fm here When! fee! you're so far Don't tell me Please Really please All can see I can't see When 8 fee! more are there I know that you don't care Oh, can't you see? I really bleed What do 8 need? I don't care if you know it One more time This is Melissa's song! Shut down Shut down, go away In the depths I lay Go away In the depths I lay Go away Go away Hey! Hey! Go away from here. Get away from here! N Now!! DARBY: Hey, can we do more? [SCREAMING] -[WHISTLING] -DARBY: No more? ROBERT EGGS'. Slash Magazine began in May of 1977. It was an idea of Steve Samiof and Melanie Nissen. And it was basically, at that point, a fanzine about the local, uh... Los Angeles bands, garage bands. And would be better than garage bands. And the first print run was a thousand as pretty thin paper. And then it just kept growing until now we're at 20,000, uh, circulation. [TYPEWRITER CLACKING] It's a major accomplishment that we come out every month because there a lot of problems tugging at the whole thing every month. I mean, it seems like each month we seem to, uh, alienate at least one record company by a review or a band or someone, you know, that's pissed off at us. And everyone seems to get on everyone else's nerves. And there are things that happen like one of the contributors got on another one's nerves, so he broke the other guy's collar bone. And then, uh, another contributor punched out one of our photographers who refuses to contribute any photographs until he gets a written apology. I have excellent news for the world. There's no such thing as "new wave." It does not exist. It's a figment of, uh... a lame cunt's imagination. There was never any such thing as "new wave." It's just a polite thing to say when you are trying to explain you were not into the boring old rock 'n' roll, but you didn't dare to say punk because you were afraid to get kicked out of the fucking party and they wouldn't give you coke any more. There's new music, there's new underground sound. There's noise, there's punk, there's power pop, there's ska, there's rockabilly. But "new wave" doesn't mean shit. "Hey, I'm writing to you because "I'm told you're an expert in the field of punk rockers. "The question I have arises out of an experience I had "on a recent Saturday on Pico Boulevard. "As I approached a close-by phone booth, a nasty-looking lad who was standing in the middle of the crosswalk. "He stood there for a few seconds while a couple of weirdos ran around to the backside of my car and attached themselves to my bumper. They continued to hang on while! drove away "and seemed to be enjoying themselves. "Is it the music they listen to "that causes them to act this way? "Sincerely, Confused." KICKBOY FACE: We get letters, right? But we get letters from the hardcore, from the fanatics, you know? And the letters we get, it's either, "We love you. You're great. You're fantastic. You saved my life! Or you know, "Suck my dick!" You know, "You pieces of shit!" "Go back to France, go back to England. "Go back to Missouri." I mean, whatever. And you know, "Shut up!" "You're horrible." "You're a bunch of faggots." "You're a bunch of communists." "You're a bunch of fascists." "You're a bunch of sexists." "We don't like you." Personally, I've been through one too many youth movements. [LAUGHING] - PENELOPE: What are you doing? - Proofreading. Are there mistakes in the paper? Yeah, our typist makes too many mistakes. Why? She's a little stoned most of the time. You'll find little cigarette burns and stuff like that. [PHONE RINGING] Yes, Slash Magazine? There was a riot at the Hong Kong last night? God, what happened? Hold on a second. The firemen got a report saying there were too many people inside? Uh-huh. And then what did they do? You mean people thought that the firemen were part of a band? Why? Because they came out on the stage? Oh, there were five of them? [LAUGHS HEARTILY] Yes. And uh... And when did everybody find out they were not pan of a band but they were the real thing? Oh, nobody ever found out? [LAUGHING] PENELOPE: Does Kickboy have a lot of enemies? Uh, I should hope so otherwise I'm wasting my fucking time. I mean, I'm not writing, you know, to be pleasant and just have everybody say, "What a pal! What a great guy!" You know? I mean, I'm not using all these fucking hatred and contempt, you know, as a style 'cause I don't have a style, you know? I mean, you pick up one article, you pick another article next month and there's no style. Except it's always overkill so if that's a style, you know... - The intent is... - But the intent is to really piss off people that you know, I really hate and I want to see them dead. And I really despise everything they stand for, every word they say, the way they live. And I really want them to hate me. It makes me feel good. [CHUCKLES] CLAUDE: This is a trendy one here! [UNDERGROUND BABYLON PLAYING] Sitting in a room Surrounded by bottles My friends have all left But my head is on fire it's already morning But pieces of the night Are still stuck to my hair What we did is fading In the light of the day What we say is bullshit We live the modem way And I guess HI never find out Which one of you wrote With a greasy lipstick Babylon must fall Babylon must fall Babylon must fall on the bathroom mirror on a spotty mattress I will lay for hours Adding up all my sins And inventing new ones I'm proud of my life And I stand by my doom I can't tel! right from wrong And ifs never stopped me AH the prophets have died The books have been written Salvation in a jar We'll laugh so hard it hurts And I guess HI never find out Which one of you wrote With a greasy lipstick Babylon must fall Babylon must fall Babylon must fall on the bathroom mirror I like the taste of guilt 8 know the taste of death It makes me want to sing it makes me want to bite When all the dumbfucks sleep With their bland little brains Full of bland little dreams We try our new curses Experiment with fear Experiment with fear Sit in each others soul And rehearse our downfall Catholic Discipline. It's, uh, a graffiti that a couple of years ago when I was... working at the Masque uh, pan time, I was cleaning up this shit on Monday mornings. Uh, it's the graffiti that I found on the mens' room wall in big dripping red letters. [PEOPLE CLAPPING] PENELOPE: How do you feel when you're performing? I feel powerful. I feel like I'm making an ass out of myself but I'm getting away with it. That's what I feel like. There used to be a punk club in Warsaw, Poland. And they used to send us letters all the time, um, real stilted English and everything. And then we'd get letters from Madrid, and Tokyo, Sweden, all over the place... about Punk! [LAUGHING] PENELOPE: Why do they like it so much? It's... It's... They gotta do something with their time and it's the most fun so... Nothing else is going on. It's the only form of revolution left, I think. In the 1980s, you know? KICKBOY: "I felt compelled to speak out against all the sniveling, blithering idiots to you. "Sniveling, bleeding heart liberals, "who want to shut down nuclear plants in California." Right. "I lay odds that the same entire technology of freaks and hippies "whining about reducing this and waste that "will be the first on their knees begging "for nuclear power at the first sign of a blackout "when their fucking stereos won't come on. "I say lets get these plants on their feet and cranking out some real power. Yeah. As far as waste goes, there are thousands and thousands of miles of ocean just sitting there doing nothing. So what are we waiting for? Throw the plutonium or strutonium 90 or whatever the hell it is in there, along with all the blubbering idiots who can't accept the fact that the future is here and they goddamn well ought to try and be a pan of it. "And as far as the animals on the extinct list go, "they obviously don't have what it takes to make it." Yeah. "Survival of the fittest and we are winning. [LAUGHING] "I say kill them all off. "And let's start worrying about some real problems instead. Now don't get me wrong. "I love nature as much as the next guy but enough is enough. " And I, for one, have had enough. Anyway this is, uh... This is the way young people feel. This is a fucking off song so you better be fucking respectful because it's not about much love, it's about a handful of love. But a handful of love is better than no love at all. I mean, there's no more brotherhood shit, you know? PENELOPE: [LAUGHING] Why not? It's not like, uh, you know, we're not all grooving on the same vibes any more. Everybody's grooving on different vibes. Ugly vibes. [SINGING] You're so pink You're so smooth My Barbie Doll mistress You're so clean You're so small You live in my pocket We take the bus together But I just pay for one We sit by a window Away from the black kids I wait a little bit Then I stick a finger inside Of my pocket I rub for your blond hair And you try to bite me Tiny bits of plastic Tiny bits of plastic Tiny bits of fantastic Uncontrolled, pressed for more Barbie doll lust R's not normal Barbie doll lust R's not normal Barbie doll lust R's not normal When no one is looking I gently pull you out Holding you by the neck Your legs between my knees Your minute eyelashes Flicker incessantly While funny pip-squeak sounds Come from your rosy lips I pull on your prom dress Until it rips apart While someone on the bus Pukes on an old lady Pukes on an old lady "Dissolve and die, lie through your teeth, "accepting the fact that these masses, "these perpetual bourgeois never leave "their happy homes in the suburbs "and refuse to learn new ideas, they still disgust me. "Do I belong? You see them laugh. "They laugh at themselves and call it comedy. "They laugh at each other and call it satire. They laugh at cripples and call it cruelty. " Mass middle class laughter permeating every conversation. "They keep themselves in stitches and think they're happy. Do not fear the new. Must not let this bourgeois control the factors of your life. Bum the books of poetry for they encourage hope. Do not give them purpose for existence. Now listen to the fervent cry of the bourgeois self-destruction. "Watch them. Watch them drain their hope and mission. "Death and destruction. "I have respect for the middle class. "I have respect for the mundane. "I respect the middle class. I know l am one of them "and they never let you scream." -[DRUMSTICKS TAPPING] - One, two, three, four. [PUNK ROCK PLAYING] [PUNK ROCK PLAYING] [THE UNHEARD MUSIC PLAYING] Friends warehouse pain Attack their own kind A thousand kids Bury their parents There's laughing outside We're locked out of the public eyes Some smooth chords on the car radio No hard chords on the car radio We set the trash on fire And watch outside the door Men come up the pavement Under the marquee There's laughing inside We're locked out of the public eyes Some smooth chords on the car radio No hard chords on the car radio [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] Oh, okay- Yeah. Chain from each one, chain from this. And a chain from the heart to an eight ball. PENELOPE: Did you think a long time about what kind of tattoo you were gonna get? If you don't, you're a fool. Yeah, yeah. I just didn't want to write, you know, like, fuck between my knuckles or some bullshit like that. I mean, I'll be wanting to get... MAN: That's what I was going to get. [LAUGHING] No, well... Yeah! I mean, if I'm going to get a tattoo, I want it to be cool, you know? You give a lot of thought about what you're gonna have 'cause you wanna have something stupid but after you get that thing done, then it stands. PENELOPE: You can look back and say, "Well, at least l had fun in those times, huh?" Well, but its not fun. At least, I had that time. I can remember that time. And hopefully, we're together enough to rem ember when we got it. [LAUGHING] I'm going to wake up with another funny haircut and more tattoos. - Are you going to get a tattoo? - No. - Why? - I don't want a tattoo. How come? Um... I don't know. I just don't want one. Don't wanna be too trendy. Two dozen pink roses from The Whiskey. PENELOPE: For what? Um... - MAN: For being so... - For being cute. 'Cause we do a good job whenever we play there 'cause when we play there, they do better business than anybody else. They're real happy with us. They come backstage and talk to us and everything. They like us, you know? Anyway, it was real cool when we came in there, it was just this mass of roses. PENELOPE: Do they do that for everyone? No! Of course not. PENELOPE: Where do they come from? The Whiskey, but I don't know where they got them. - No, but... -[HISSES] PENELOPE: Where did the song Beyond and Back come from? Beyond and Back is about sleeping on the couch. And the word "Beyond"... The title, Beyond and Back comes from a Bible pamphlet. There was one called, Beyond and Back which is what I felt like, to, like, reach this hideous state but then return to normal, you know, normal situations. PENELOPE: And that's what you... Sleeping on the bed in the master, the master bedroom. PENELOPE: Do you get a lot of trouble about how you look when you walk down the street? Sometimes. Not so much. What do you do about it? - Kill them. - MAN: Pulls out his knife. Pass on by unless I'm in a bad mood. PENELOPE: And if you're in a bad mood, what do you do? Then I turn around and look at somebody with the expression that Jimmy taught me, which is, "You're gonna die or you're gonna walk away." [LAUGHING] And usually they walk away. I haven't had to... PENELOPE: Kill anyone yet... Do you think your songs look on the dark side of things? They look on the realistic side of things. Realism is dark and they're on the dark side of things. PENELOPE: How long have you been playing? - Guitar? - Yeah. - Ever since I was six. - Right. Before that I just played piano and violin and accordion. PENELOPE: Why do you stand like that on stage? Like what? With your legs apart. I wondered, do you know? I think because he's so sexy, I don't know. - BILLY: I don't. - I think it's real sexy. I guess that he's just one of the last... Maybe his style. The last people left that are just like have lots of style and lots of like sex appeal and can just... And don't give a shit, you know, about being that way and that's not like... -[INDISTINCT] -...punk or anything. -It's just like this... 4 know, I know. Everybody's got their style. That just be Billy's style. He just stands there and he's cool. And he doesn't need to do anything else 'cause he's already cool enough. Is my make up okay? PENELOPE: Why do you collect those little pamphlets? Because they're cool. And because they say... They're really ridiculous. They say the most insane things. And you cannot believe that society's gotten to the state where there are these things you find in the gutter that say, "The activities of homosexuals and lesbians, "a detailed expose of the activities "of these depraved humans would be so revolting that "it might 'cause a sane person to vomit. "If you wish the sordid details, consult sexual pathology, "pathology or sexual pathology "or the dictionary book for some information. "Shalom, Israel, the everlasting nation." But they said that... - Where does that come from? - This is so gross. If you want to find out more, here you can find it. [HICCUPING] I found that on Hollywood Boulevard... - Do you have the hiccups? - Mmm. And this one's real good, "What to do to go to hell?" And you open it up and it's empty. [LAUGHING] Did you know that here in this city of LA... Uh, uh, uh. No. Wait, there's one thing about public schools. I think it's on the back of this. Oh, yeah. "The product of a public school wanders aimlessly asking, "'Where did I come from? Why am I here and where am I going? "Public education makes leeches and sends people to hell." [HICCUPS] [CHUCKLES] I don't understand this. Isn't it so weird that people could say that? "Public education makes leeches." [HICCUPING] Anyway, suppose it is true after all. What then? Yeah. You don't wanna die and you're just this cripple, you're just this idiot and you can't believe that everything's gonna... BAND MEMBER: Hey, what the fuck is going on in there? Shut up, you bastard! [HICCUPING] PENELOPE: Where did you guys meet? We met in Venice. Venice, California. - EXENE: In a lovely paradise... - How long ago? - That's not even possible. - EXENE: No! - Three years ago. - PENELOPE: Yeah. And you just started doing... No, there was six months of very bad, bad times. - Yeah. What was that? - Between she and me. Just not getting along and not really... - PENELOPE: And then you did? - Yeah. [SINGING TOGETHER] Yeah. We played in our little apartment in Venice where all the winos lived and went to sleep at 8 o'clock. - Tell 'em about the wine bottle. - We couldn't wake him up. Yes, I lived in an apartment in Venice, California where a throat cancer patient had died. In his refrigerator, he left all his throat cancer medicine, six bottles of beer, and a half empty bottle of red port. We drank all the beer. And decided that we were gonna drink the rest of that red port. And we knew that we were like fucked up. I mean, we're drinking throat cancer red port, man. [WHOOPING] Come on. -[INDISTINCT CHATTER] -[IMITATES ENGINE REVVING] Yeah! Pick an ear. - Now, I see one ear. - Okay. - One up, one down. Together? - One down, three up. - Right ear moving. Left ear. - Right on. How did you learn how to do that? I don't remember. [CHUCKLES] PENELOPE: And do you get letters from people in various places other than in Los Angeles? EXENE: Yes. JOHN: Yeah, we had a fan club ad in Slash once. And we got letters from North Carolina, Pennsylvania, - Ontario. -They called from County Jail. Right, Chuck called us from the County Jail. I called there once from jail and you weren't home, you asshole. [ALL LAUGHING] Why are you on the floor, Exene? Mmm. Well, you know why. 'Cause that guy there, the filmer moved our chair and I'm gonna be sitting here. - No, no I didn't. - Look the cock knocker moved it. [INDISTINCT TALKING] PENELOPE: W m does the FUN stand for'? MAN: Fuck the World. Insane. Order from people for each sign. It's not dark enough. [WHISTLING] Notice this? They're there on the front. They're there on the sides. [MIMICKING AMBULANCE ALARM BLARI NG] [LOUD CLATTERING] All lights are bright. - One small story about-- - How Jimmy couldn't get a life. Come on, Johnny. About when Darby Crash came over and tried to stuff all these little cars in his mouth, I hear Exene scream, "Don't eat the car. You'll kill yourself!" PENELOPE: Are you a happier person now, do you think? PENELOPE: Are you a happier person now, do you think? No? Yes? I don't think of myself as a happy person but I had fun tonight. [HICCUPING] [PLAYING BEYOND AND BACK] HI go somewhere else H! move to the couch ifs darker in the dark ifs darker in the day I forgot you were a liar Now it's five to twelve Shut up and smoke And HI go somewhere else No more orange nightgowns One o'clock and then it ends One o'clock and then it ends One o'clock and then it ends This is no place This is no place To be a victim of a class Ever get to go Don't you want me to make it I took as long as you took You take a Sot from me I forgot you were a thief I want to be like her instead I stay nowhere marked Down in the basement Lousy at the bottom A life of intermission A life of intermission A life of intermission This is no place This is no place To be addicted to another piece HI go somewhere else H! move to the couch ifs darker in the dark ifs darker in the day I forgot you were a liar Right now ifs five to twelve Shut up and smoke And HI go somewhere else No more orange nightgowns One O'clock and then it ends One o'clock and then it ends One o'clock and then it ends [some ENDS] [CLAPPING] JOHN: Exene wrote the line, Johnny hit and run Pauline. I wrote the song around it. PENELOPE: Mmm-hmm. JOHN: Uh, basically a fantasy, wish. The whole idea of the line, that she was still awake, is that, you know, yeah... there's this rape but it's son of a seduction. It's every man's, like, dream to be able to be so potent that they can have sex like that. - EXENE: John. - If you could have sex once... lf l can have sex once an hour for 24 hours, I would do it. [PLAYING JOHNNY HI AND RUN PAULENE] He bought a sterilized hypo To shoot a sex machine drug He got twenty four hours To shoot old Pauline Between the legs Ninety six tears Through twenty four hours Sex once every hour Johnny hit and run Paulene Johnny hit and run Paulene Johnny hit and run Paulene Johnny hit and run Paulene LA bus doors open Kicking both doors open When it rested on 6th Street That's when he drug a girl inside He was spreading her legs And didn't understand dying She was still awake Johnny hit and run Paulene Johnny hit and run Paulene Johnny hit and run Paulene Johnny hit and run Paulene When he was waking up Beside the bed He found clumps of hair The last, Paulene wouldn't cooperate She wasn't what you call living really She was still awake Johnny hit and run Pauline Johnny hit and run Pauline Johnny hit and run Pauline Johnny hit and run Pauline Oh! [AUDIENCE CHEERING] Could you turn the monitors down some, Scott. [WHISTLING AND APPLAUDING] BOY- I guess your mama didn't know what hot was until she got up under some lights. Man. Ye-ouch! We're desperate, um... John wrote that song. PENELOPE: Yeah! When he lived in Venice, he wrote it for me to sing. And it's really weird because at one point! started thinking, there's gonna come a point when we keep performing this song. People are gonna be going, Sure they're desperate. I just paid six dollars to see this band, you know, they 're not desperate. There's worse ways of being desperate than being poor. PENELOPE: But you don't have money right new? - And so... - Well, we're not rich - We got enough to pay our rent. - JOHN: We got six dollars. You know, we bought the ink and the pins. [JOHN LAUGHING] One, two... One, two, three, four. [PLAYING WE 'RE DESPERATE] Desperate Get used to it We're desperate Get used to it We're desperate Get used to it We're desperate Get used to it We're desperate Get used to it Well, get used to it Get used to it We're desperate Get used to it We're desperate Get used to it JOHN: Hey, woah, hey... Altamont, all rig ht! Summer of '68, all right. Give them a flea bath, quick. There's a fine line between There's a fine line between pogo dancing and fighting. And the fact that if you see somebody you know... Come up, come here Dutch. If you see some, somebody over here grabbing a girl and shakin' and shit and throwin' them up against the stage, you know, grabbing her ass or whatever, they are dancing, they're having a good time. You know, she may be crying, but she may be loving it as weird as these kids can get. PENELOPE: You think there's gonna be trouble now? There better not be. Do I think there's gonna be trouble? Well, there better not be any trouble. PENELOPE: Why? What happens if there is? Well, where are you gonna put on your next show if there is trouble here? The bands have to work with the promoters of these shows or it just won't work at all. And we're only too happy to work with them. I think I understand what pogo is, I put on a couple of shows out here and they've come off with no real problems. PENELOPE: Yeah. The last show l was out here, you had a cat that had, uh, long, blond hair. And soon as uh... Well, he did not understand as you're pointing out. He did not understand the difference between pogoing and... and real violence. There is no actual difference, violence is violence. But, I mean, if they're bashing each other and enjoying it, well, that's up to them. Um, the only performance that ever makes it and is a success is the performance that causes total madness. Yeah, I don't really want to be a party to that. PENELOPE: Dutch, what's the worst problem you ever had? Uh, one time three guys came up on stage and they were hassling the lead singer for uh... Exene, I believe it was, from the band X. And they were trying to rip off her dress or something. I had to go out and kick them in the face. -[WALKIE TALKIE CRACKLES] - PENELOPE: Yeah. Go ahead, we'll talk in the back. Go ahead. MAN: Let's get them in place. I want to get the doors open. Okay, on location. - PENELOPE: Okay, thanks a lot. - Thank you. [DISTORTED MUSIC] Red tape I can see, can't you see? Red tape Doin' to you and doin' to me Red tape Bureaucracies and bourgeoisie Red tape Killing you, killing me Tax that, tax that Tax that, tax that No more red tape Can't you see? Red tape Bureaucracies and bourgeoisie Red tape Killing you, killing me Red tape Moolah, moolah Tax that, tax that Tax that, tax that No more red tape Red tape I can see, can't you see? Red tape Yo, yo, yo, yo Red tape Bureaucracies and bourgeoisie Red tape Killing you, killing me Tax that, tax that Tax that No more red tape Whoo! [PLAYING BACK AGAINST THE WALL] [CROWD CHEERING] [TUNING INSTRUMENTS] Hey, man! Beat up guys smaller than you? [SPEAKER FEEDBACK] [PLAYING I JUST WANT SOME SKANK] Empty frame on the wall Cat and mouse when she don't call And all I do is think of her The TV screen's pictures blurred So take it away, take it away Every night the scene is set We got to drink to forget 8 cannot incur this debt Where's the gun? Here's my head! Let's go to the Hong Kong Breaking glass at Madame Wong's Let's go get a bottle Getting drunk, getting loose Skank, skank Skank, skank Skank, skank Skank, skank [SCATTING] [PLAYING BEVERLY HILLS] Beverly Hills, Century city Everything's so nice And pretty Everybody looks the same Don't they know They're fucking lame? There she goes Three piece suit Spandex pants And her cowboy boots [SINGING INDISTINCTLY] Beverly Hills, Century city Everything's so nice And pretty AH the people look the same Don't they know They're fucking lame? There she goes Three piece suit Cowboy hat, cowboy boots [SINGING INDISTINCTLY] Beverly Hills, Century city [PLAYING WASTED] I was so wasted X was so wasted You know that! am I was so wasted X was wasted I was so wasted X was wasted Wasted I was so wasted X was wasted I was so wasted X was wasted [CROWD SHOUTING] MAN: Whoo! It's like... When I go to concerts, it's like my friends get beat up by my friends, you know. Then it's like fucked, you know. 'Cause it's like they're not beating up the rig ht people. They're not beating up the fucking posers. They're beating up just, like, just my friends. It's fucked, you know. It seems like little crowds, you know, they'll be dancing. And they'll start punching and then they'll just like, move over to the side, you know, and it'll just go back and forth and back and you can't... you can't dance. Like, when you see a fight, like, all these people start running over to the fight. They don't care who it is. They just start kicking. You know, going, you know... PENELOPE: Why do you think they do that? Just to get aggression out, you know. 'Cause they're fucked. I don't know. That's why I do it. Just to get aggression out. All this fucking pent up shit. And, uh... They cut their hair and you know, they dye it. Then they come up there and you know... A lot of them cause problems. You know, you see the young kids with their head shaved and they really get belligerent. Short hair, you just see Am... The clean-cut American look. Man, it's just cool. Yeah. I put a guy in the hospital you know, a little while back. PENELOPE: What happened? Uh, broke his nose and his jaw. I cut up his face. They said I hit him with a chain. I guess I did. Just a little bit drunk. Didn't remember. What's the pent up aggression? Where does that come from? Well, with me, it just comes from like, living in the city and just seeing everything, seeing all the ugly old people and just the fucking... The buses and just the din. That, you know, it just... That's what I see all the time. So, just all the time you're fucking bummed. You're just thinking about that, so when I go there, I just... sometimes I get out some aggression. Maybe by beating up some asshole, you know. There's a lot of violence in the music. There should be. PENELOPE: Why are they so angry? Um, they don't know. I don't know. You know, they think that's what punk rock is, violence. A lot of people are afraid of me. But that's just like, they go by appearance. Guess I'm a scary looking person. I've probably punched out everybody I know one time or the other, but I've always ran afterwards. 'Cause I'm... I can't fight. I like making a spectacle of myself. I'm a total rebel. I rebel against everything. I guess I'm an alcoholic. [CHUCKLES] I just hang by myself mostly, you know. Why? Well, fuck, I don't know. I don't know. I'm just like that. You know, I just like being by myself. The police are all calling me names and they made me take a shower 'cause they said I smell. They asked me why I don't wash my clothes more often. I swear to God, I hate cops to the max. Sometime, when niggers come up to me, they're like, you know... They'll wanna... They'll go, "Hey!" And then they'll start chasing me, like... You know most times I ran. Yeah, in LA I get chased a lot. You know. But it doesn't really mean I... You know, I'm sure I'm gonna go kill a Jew. You know, I'm not gonna do that. Maybe a hippie, though. I mean, you know, the punks... You know, punks against hippies, that's another thing if the hippies are starting it. But then again, punks against punks, you know, that's not... that's not what it's meant to be. In Hollywood, most of the people are like posers. They're just wimpy, you know. PENELOPE: When you fight, how do you feel? When you're actually in a fight? How do you feel? Violent. Yeah? I feel very violent. I feel like I'm doing something I'm good at. What? Beating people up. [LAUGHTER] And everyone shouldn't be afraid to be as different as they want to be. People hold back a lot. I've probably hit lots of girls in the face. I don't like girls very much. - Do you have a girlfriend? - No. - How come? - Don't have girlfriends. Why? Girls are terrible. Now, I'm very good at hiding my feelings so I, I don't feel depression anymore. It's easy for me not to do that. I... It's easy to be very detached. My mother's dead, so... My step-dad, he's a cop. You know, I haven't talked to him in a long time. Seen him at the movies one night. He didn't talk to me. He walked away. Acted like he didn't know me. I don't know where my parents are. - Where's your real father? -Don't know. Don't even know who he is. Society stinks. We were trying to change something. The music industry, the way we live. You know, to be accepted the way we want to, you know... Why do you wear those clothes like that? I'm comfortable. At one time, maybe, I was considered different, but now, I'm in a comfortable lifestyle and I can be myself. Everyone's hair should be blue because that's the best color. It looks... it looks so good. I figure, when I get tired living the life I am now, think I'll go into classical music. Is the time up now? PENELOPE: Show me your head. Why did you do that? I'm an X-head. Fuck! [PLAYING PROWLERS IN THE NIGHT] [PLAYING PROWLERS IN THE NIGHT] People are longing They keep disappearing Their secrets are turning Thinner than air Watching your basket Knowing it's stupid You lift up the box lid To see what you can Prowlers in the night Ready for the kiss-off Than the fight There is a light on of hidden reaction The words mean to say Kiss or fist No easy answers To unsolved questions A string of opportunities missed Prowlers in the night Ready for the kiss-off Than the fight Laugh if you're able They all die slow Suicide reasons are stupid excuses Everyone's saying there's nowhere to go Prowlers in the night Ready for the kiss-off Than the fight [P LAYING GLUTTONY] A nice pot roast just dropped in Dressed in clogs, your yummy friend Watch the hunger pangs set in, Watch the calories go marching in ifs more mass gluttony Add those pounds to hide the tears Nights rise, dough boys crumble But the need consumes us all Munch and feed to heart's desire Heartburn can only set us free From gluttony, gluttony, gluttony Wallow in your cow disease Pay no mind to the salivating brood Find your comfort in your food [CROWD CHEERING] PENELOPE: Wayne, can you tell me what you thought the first time you saw them dancing? Well, to me, it was just another form of dance. It didn't really surprise me because I've been a... a dance fan myself for many years and I've probably tried most types of dancing. But, the pogo dance is just exactly what the name implies, is people gyrating up and down in a vertical position as though they were in fact riding a pogo stick. [LAUGHING] But I can't say that I was really surprised by it. Well, I was. I never saw anything like that in my life. I thought they were starting something. I don't know. I just... It scared me. PENELOPE: Why do you think they act like that? It's an energy outlet. It's... They're really nice kids. They just have to be doing something different. PENELOPE: Yeah. It's a release from their daily tensions, I guess. - What ever that may mean. - In our day we ate goldfish. [LAUGHING] Right. LEE: I want all you assholes that are standing back there sucking that overpriced shit come up here, closer. They wouldn't let us play here tonight they thought on account that we didn't play here a long time and they said the last time we played here there was a riot. So, you're not going to disappoint us, are you? Let's see a little motion up here. This ain't no fucking country club. I bet that there's a lot of people out there that give good head. You were all probably going to spend the weekend in Frisco, weren't ya? I know you were. Yous all gonna go away for the weekend while they install the hot tub, aren't you? What a bunch of ugly looking faces, man. You guys are really just... How much, do you like being here at the beach? The beach, the beach. Fuck off! We really wish we could be as nice as you people, but we were born with problems. Yous are all really fucked. [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] Wow, man, you can spit really good. You're a pussy. Yeah, next time don't bite so hard when I come, okay? Fuck you! You only spit as good as you suck, shithead. Yeah, eat my fuck, asshole. What does "eat my fuck" mean? Fuck you. Fuck you. [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] How many queers are here tonight? How many homosexuals? Come on, let me see now. I can see that there's a bunch of fags out there. None of yous are raising your hand. There you go. You can eat it, fuckface. You eat it, fuckface! Yous a bunch of fuckin' jerk-offs, do you know that? Are you guys still rollin' up the recording track? MAN: Yeah, I love it. MAN: Tell these people to mellow out. Everybody mellow out, man. It's great to be gay. We really like homos. MAN: Fuck you! Seriously, it's really great to be here. It's wonderful to be alive. We're from LA. Well, fuck you. Here they are. Sicko. One, two three, four! [PLAYING I DON'T CARE ABOUT YOU] Down over South Street Philadelphia Out from Avenue C I seen empty eyes Waiting to freeze From the valley hotel I don't care about you Fuck you I don't care about you I see Hollywood Boulevard Welfare hotel I spent the night in jail In the Wilcox hotel I don't care about you Oh, no I don't care about you I've seen an old man Have a heart attack In Manhattan He died while we just Stood there lookin' at him Ain't he cute? I don't care about you Oh, no I don't care about you I see man rollin' drunks Bodies in the street A man who was sleepin' in puke And a man with no legs Crawling down 5th street I don't care about you Fuck you I don't care about you Oh, no I don't care about you Hey, hey I don't care about you [AUDIENCE CHEERING] My baby, yeah, hey, yeah [SCATTING] [PLAYING BEEF BOLOGNA] One, two, three, four One, two, three, four She don't like fashions She don'! like phonies She don't like junkies She don? like druggies She just wants my beef bologna Beef, beef, beef, beef bologna Beef, beef, beef, beef bologna Beef, beef, beef, beef bologna She don't like salami She don'! want pastrami She don't want a chicken She don't want a roast She just wants her Double dose of my Beef, beef, beef, beef bologna Beef, beef, beef, Beef bologna Beef, beef, beef, Beef bologna [AUDIENCE CHEERING] Hey, do you know why chicks have their little holes so close together. GIRL: So you can carry them like a six pack of beer. So you can carry them like a six pack of beer. We just want you to like us. Really. Here, wait a minute. I got some money. [GUITAR DISTORTION] Here, would you like us? Here, if you like us, here's real money. That's real money. We want you to like us, yeah. Really, we just think you're a bunch of queers and we don't give a fuck if you like us or not. Fuck, we're from Frisco. MAN: Just go back to Frisco. We don't have any ones... MAN: Go piss up a rope. WOMAN: Fuckface! For as dumb as you are, even you will remember this. If there is any A and R people in the audience tonight... Go die. [WHISTLING] We are friends. Once again, it's great to be gay and to be here. This is our smash-hit single from whence we got all the money. It's great to be filthy rich, like us. Buying drugs- Fuck you. I love livin' in the city [PLAYING I LOVE LIVIN'IN THE CITY] I love livin' in the city I love livin' in the city I love livin' in the city Yes,1 do I love livin' in the city I love livin' in the city Yes,1 do I love livin' in the city I love livin' in the city It's great to be gay here in Frisco. You know, how many punks it takes to screw in a light bulb? - WOMAN: Twenty. - Twenty. One to hold the ladder. One to screw it in And 18 on the guest list. Yous all suck, Who don't think so? WOMAN: You suck. This is about how much we really like you. We suck what? It's called Let's Have a War. We're from Frisco. Frisco all the way. We're coming... One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us Let's have a war So you can go and die! Let's have a war! We could all use the money! Let's have a war! We need the space! Let's have a war and Clean out this place! It already started In the city! Suburbia will be just as easy! There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us Let's have a war! Jack up the Dow Jones! Let's have a war! It can start in New Jersey! Let's have a war! Blame it on the middle-class! Let's have a war! We're like rats in a cage! It already started In the city! Suburbia will be just as easy! There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many of us Let's have a war! Sell the rights to the networks! Let's have a war! Give guns to the queers! Let's have a war! It can start in New Jersey! Let's have a war! The enemy's within! It already started In the city! Suburbia will be just as easy! There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many There's so many of us There's so many of us There's so many [AUDIENCE CHEERING] Oh, the land of the free And the homos Too
