 

                        The Mangatiti Valley is 30 miles east of Raetihi. It's isolated, rough and hostile country,... so remote that for a long time, wild pigs, cattle and goats were the only residents. Then in the early '60s, the land was bought by the Cornelius family. By the '80s there was still no running water, power or telephone. It was the perfect place for a predator to hold captive vulnerable young women. By the time he'd be held accountable, there'd be seven known victims. Whoa. Whoa. Hey, hey, hey. It's me. You're OK. He's already come back, Doug. He'll know I'm gone. Jump in the truck, mate. Come on. Joanne had escaped not long before I arrived. I was 19 years old, and I was about to spend 23 weeks of absolute horror,... held captive by William Paul Cornelius. # Folks round here call me crazy. # I walk a lonely road, # I know it's true. # And if sometimes I'm bad, # I know they'll understand, # little girl, it's just my crazy love for you. # I'd, um, worked in offices, and I really wasn't happy doing that kind of work. I just didn't like being inside all the time. So I was looking for a job when I saw the ad in the paper - tutoring correspondence in a... farm situation. So I just thought it would be a really different opportunity that I could work at for six months, save all my money, cos, you know, I wouldn't be spending the money. And it was quite a lot of money that was being offered. And then I'd be able to go overseas cos that's what I wanted to do, was to travel overseas. Oh, that sounds fantastic. Paris, Rome, Berlin... and Raetihi. So there's jobs in Raetihi? Could've fooled me. Yeah, well, I'm actually doing some live-in tutoring. The guy who's employing me seems really keen, but- Oh, we... we already met in Tauranga, so... Tauranga? Christine. Yeah. He's got a sister who lives up there, so we met at her place. It is remote. Initially I-I thought he was a bit of a... a hippy, because he had long hair and a beard, and his son had long hair, but they were obviously farmers, and I was used to farmers. But he was very nice, he was charming and polite, and his son just seemed like a really lovely boy. Listen. If you're talking about... Christine. Morning, Heather. Oh, hi. How's the drive? Yeah, good. Morning. Morning, Chrissie. The river's up. Must be raining somewhere. But here? Sunshine. Come on. We'd better get your things, get you up to the farm. You can leave your dinky toy in here if you like. Don't think it will like the road up to the farm - it's a bit rough. Are you sure your friend won't mind? Yeah. I leave things in here all the time. No one'll find it. I mean, they won't go breaking into it or anything. Benn's gonna be very excited to see you again. Looking back now, I realise that he'd probably interviewed several girls and he'd picked the one he thought would be easiest to control. I think it's 30 miles out to the farm, but that's as the crow flies. It definitely takes quite a long time, through very rough terrain, a lot of high ranges and deep gorges. It's not a drive for the faint-hearted. # My love's like a freight train in motion. # It speeds along the track that leads to you. # Through the sea and snow, # no matter where you go, # this never-ending crazy love for # you. # Initially, when we were first driving out to the farm, I... I felt fine. He was a very charismatic person who was just friendly and nice, just seemed like a really nice man. And then we got to a gate that was locked, and that was a private road, and I... I didn't know about this. I knew that the farm was remote, but I didn't realise it wasn't on a public road. I started getting... a bit nervous, cos I, sort of, thought, 'Oh, I'm going to the middle of nowhere, and I don't know this person, and, 'you know, this is a little bit scary.' Get out the car. Come on. Jump out. I wanna show you something. I've got nearly 3500 acres here. Beautiful country. Isolated, yeah,... but beautiful. Remote, the wife said. She hated it. It wasn't enough. I'm sorry. Oh, look, don't worry. I understand you're probably a bit nervous, but you've got nothing to worry about. You know, you can trust me. Everything's fine. You won't have to work the farm or anything. Just keep Benn up with his lessons and maybe cook the odd meal or two if you don't mind. No, that's cool. Well, I enjoy cooking. Well, that'll be a treat. I'm a pretty ordinary cook, myself. Come on. So I felt quite reassured and thought I was just being a bit silly. It was about another hour over the clay road. Finally we reached a condemned bridge high over a gorge. And after that we were there. I was still a bit apprehensive, but I was really excited too. Hi! Hi! Hi, Dad! Hey, son. Hello. I thought it was... I mean, it was very rustic, if I can call it that. I think the cabin was built back in the 1940s, but it was adequate. Benn, why don't you show Heather around the place while I get her pack? OK. Inside and out? All right. Come with me. This is your room. This is where you'll sleep. I had my own room, which was very nicely made up, had a nice bed with a new quilt on it. This is your bed. So that was all very tidy, and, yeah, it didn't worry me at all. Um, everything was there. And then this is where we all eat dinner. And, uh, we've got veggies... Well, I thought I was gonna be there for six months, so I did take some personal possessions with me. Not a huge amount, but just things that were sentimental to me. There's no electricity going, so it's not like there's a radio going or anything like that, so you... you just hear the outside noises. But very peaceful, very very quiet. I just thought it was exciting, so I wasn't really a big TV watcher, I was a reader, so it didn't really bother me. I just thought it was something different and would be just a really cool experience. He wants me to meet the pigs. Good-oh. Get him to tell you about the schoolhouse. Schoolhouse? Work in progress. Gotta have a schoolhouse. That's the piglet's mum. She'll be ready for butchering soon. This is where we milk our cow, Bluebell. I named her. It was in a book I read. I thought his son was lovely. He was just such a gorgeous kid. He told me his mum had left with one of the cattle musterers and taken his younger brother with her. Hey, I... I don't think we should be- Jed's my little brother. Dad was really cut up about it. You too, I imagine. I'll show you the chooks. OK. He's shown me the, um... Oh. I was just putting your things out for you. I hope you don't mind. So, you play the flute? Um, yeah, just a bit. I'm not very good. Well, we should find out. Maybe have a tune tonight, eh, Benn? Yeah, sure! No, honestly. It's just a hobby. The kids were all happy. The dogs were too. They ate their... dinner... quick... quick... quick... quickly! Quick... ly. Schoolwork before breakfast? You have got him fired up. Oh, thanks, Bill. You don't have to do this every morning, you know. Oh, I need something hot when I get back from the cattle. You sleep, me work. Sunrise and me - we're best of mates. Eh, Benn? It was just lovely. I-I didn't have to do much. You know, I mean, wash my dishes or wash my clothes, and, you know, maybe sweep the floor and teaching Benn correspondence. You know, we went for horse rides, and he did all the cooking, and, yeah, it was just... it was quite picturesque,... and, um, it was just really nice. Oh, and, uh, if you hear a bang later, don't worry. It's just the hunters trespassing. So five sixes are? Hey! Come on. You can't get through with it that easy. Six sixes? I understand now, looking back, that that first month was actually a period of grooming, um, for what he intended to do anyway. Um, but at the time I... I didn't understand that. Another hour, I reckon. Maybe we should make a cuppa while we wait, eh? Hey, um, if you'll show me how, maybe tomorrow morning I can do the porridge. And dinner. You can't do everything. Oh yeah. Thanks. If you don't mind. I mean, you do some cooking, and, uh, I'll get a chance to finish off the schoolhouse. Oh, that reminds me - take a trip into town tomorrow, get Benn's next correspondence stuff. Great. Maybe I'll go write a letter, then. Miss Petrie. And I'd like to put some money into Miss Petrie's post office account, Ange, if, uh, that's no bother. Sure. I'll get a form. You need some shampoo, too, eh? I do, yeah, but I need to post this. I'll get this off for you. You check on Benn. Wait for me. Then we'll go to the store together, eh? You don't need to be paying for shampoo. 'All found', I said, eh? OK. Thanks, Bill. That's lovely. There we are. Thanks, Ange. I'll fill that in later. I'll tell you what - me and Benn'll head off tomorrow arvo and, uh, you can have a nice, hot bath in front of the fire, use some of that shampoo we bought ya. There you go. Come on, Benn. Let's give Heather some privacy, eh? We'll take a ride for a couple of hours. Enjoy your bath. Whoa. Bugger. Benn! Forgot my smokes. You wait here a minute, OK? Be back in a minute. He's fast asleep. Oh good. It was very very cold. It never snowed while I was there, but it was bitterly cold. Bloody freezing. Hot coffee and warm toes, eh? Warm yours too, if you like. Better than your freezing bedroom. There you go. You can take it in there, if you like. Because I'd spent a month with him and I quite trusted him, I confided in him something quite awful that had happened to me, um, relatively recently that I hadn't really told anybody else. Nearly two years ago... I had a car accident,... and I ended up in,... um... Got a few battle scars myself - pigs going me,... the ex. You OK? They're different kinds of scars. I'd had to go to hospital for a couple of nights, and while I was there, I was indecently assaulted by a doctor. Maybe that's what made me feel vulnerable to Bill. I'd already been made to feel powerless. I already felt that people could do things to me that I couldn't do anything about and that no one would ever believe it could have happened. You're a beautiful woman. I can see how a man might be tempted. But forcing himself upon you like that,... it's just... crap. He's a bloody loser. You've just gotta put it all behind you now. You know, put it all behind you, and you win, he loses. Yeah? Come on. You're a beautiful girl. The first time, I did consent to sex. But it was not far into it when I came to my senses and realised, 'I don't wanna be doing this. He's old. 'What am I doing?' But I felt it was too late. I remember the next morning I actually got my period, which was quite good, cos I thought, 'Oh well, there's an excuse I can use,' because I didn't want to do that again at all. And I thought that would keep him away. You awake? I know you're awake. Breakfast in bed for my girl. Special treat for the woman I love. Oh, I fancied you from the first time I saw you, eh. What a night! We're gonna be good together, you and I, eh? You'll see. You're young. We're gonna have lots of babies, aren't we? But work before pleasure. Hmm? I gotta get into it. You enjoy your breakfast. Over those next few days, he just starting acting really weird. Like, scary weird. It was like he was a different person. Like, he was happy, really happy. It was very very scary. Then after, I don't know, maybe about four or five days, he came to my room and... and hopped on the bed. And I said I didn't want to, but he would say things like, 'Oh, but, you know, we already have' and 'I love you' and 'we can have babies' and all this kind of stuff and would just... just force himself on me. I think because I thought that I had actually consented as an adult, I felt responsible. So even though I was saying no and he wasn't listening, he made me feel like I couldn't say no. And it just got increasingly scary. I'm done! 11 and 12 times. I'm coming. Don't forget Bluebell. But I... I... I have to take Benn through his- He can go with ya. He likes Bluebell more than he likes his schoolwork. Don't you, Benn? Do as you're bloody well told! He started getting... angry at things,... getting violent. How he spoke changed. So, he started swearing a lot. He was cruel to animals. He became quite aggressive. Keep up, ya mongrel! Keep up! Beating horses, beating dogs with alkathene pipe, kicking - yeah, things like that. So I had this person who was really nice, then I had the same person who was, kind of, this elated weirdo, and then this person who was aggressive and angry and violent and scary all in one, and I never knew which one he was gonna be from any hour of the day. And all the time, my things kept going missing. He slowly took away anything that connected me with my life outside the valley. I found your wee pills, your contraception pills. Huh? Crafty. Please. Please. I'm... I'm filthy. All that cleanliness crap, it's overrated. Germs make you stronger. What do you want me to do, eh? You want me to clean myself up as well? You want me to use that deodorant shit, huh? Soften myself up with soap? Is that what you want? Eh? Is that what you want? You'll move into my room tonight. Don't stop - 200 strokes. You'll move into my room tonight. No. I... I won't. Wh... What'll Benn think? Please. Please. He's still awake. You'll move into my room. Tonight. That's my mirror. You don't look at that. You understand? Oh, and stop your crying. I'm sick of you crying. OK? No more tears. The psychological abuse was a big part of it. I was only 19, just a kid. And I didn't know how to handle the situation. And then things got worse. I felt so scared and sad when I realised I was pregnant. This wasn't how I ever expected I would become a mother. And now I felt even more trapped. I'm not taking you to the fucking doctor. What's the matter with you? I think I might be pregnant. Well. We'd better dig out a pair of shoes, eh? Give you a bloody good wash down, sort you out for the visit, eh? Don't want the doctor thinking you've let yourself go. First, though... There's something bloody sexy about a pregnant woman. And by the way - you speak to anyone out there about you and me,... I'll kill ya. And your family. I thought the pregnancy check could be an opportunity to escape. But we got to the doctors', and him and his son came in with me into the waiting room, which I hadn't planned on. And the doctor... that I saw was very severe and stern and looked very obviously disapproving of some young, unmarried woman that was pregnant. And so she was quite cold, and so I didn't feel I could trust her. You can sit over there. Well, you are pregnant; we just have to work out the dates. So, we can do scans at the end of the first trimester. For now, carry on as normal. And try and get your weight up a bit. How's your diet? It's fine. You speak to anyone out there about you and me, I'll kill ya. # Folks down here call me crazy. # I walk the lonely... Oh, he was over the moon, scary. I had to hop back in the truck with him and go back to the valley, and that was just devastating, cos it was an opportunity to escape, and I wasn't getting many, and it wasn't safe enough, so I couldn't do it. # It was all I can do. # I went out to the toilet, which is an outhouse, and I thought, 'Oh, I can cry for, like, 30 seconds, 'because if I cry any more then it's gonna show, so I'd try and get some sort of release that way.' But I couldn't. By this stage, I'd been two months in the valley. I realised very quickly that there's no way I could escape. Like, I couldn't leave the property. I mean, I couldn't leave on foot. It was too far. And I had been asked by the police, 'Well, you know, did, did he lock you up, you know, lock you in a room?' And... And I've said, 'Well, he didn't need to, because I couldn't leave. You can't leave. You wouldn't survive anyway.' You'd... You'd get hypothermia. On a very regular basis, uh, threatened that, oh well, he'd just push me off the condemned bridge into the gorge, and he said, 'It won't kill you, but you'll probably break your legs, and... and you can just stay there, like, 'you can just die a slow death down there'. I mean, there was always the threat of him feeding me to the pigs alive. Um, that... that was a constant. Then he came up with he would keep me in a cave. Um, cos there were caves on the property, and he said, um, 'No... No one will know you're there. 'You'll starve or you'll die of thirst in there, and... if you have any babies, well, I,... 'I can't explain those, so I'll... I'll have to kill those and feed them to the pigs.' And... And that was a real threat that, um, he held over me all the time, so I never knew when that was gonna happen. I never knew if I was gonna die that day or whether I was gonna to tortured, or whether I was gonna be at the bottom of a gorge or was I going to the cave today. I had no idea. Thank you. Don't think you'll be needing all that, do you? You'll be getting bigger than those pigs at this rate. She's getting fat, Benn. She isn't. I've been thinking about this family while I've been out in the bush chasing cattle. Building's gonna go on hold. The schoolhouse can stay as it is. And you, Benn, you're gonna do more work around the place and less time on those bloody books. But what-? And you're gonna keep this place a lot bloody cleaner. You're gonna learn how to milk that cow properly, weed the veggie patch. Eat up. You're both gonna be busy. I became kind of like a work slave. The workload was phenomenal. I was so physically and emotionally exhausted that I felt really confused, to the point where I couldn't even make a proper decision. And then he'd do things to keep me off balance. That looks heavy, love. Why don't you put it down? I've got something to show you. Um, where are my shoes? Look, darl - another pregnant cow. Don't you move. Take that inside,... and you cook it up. Next time you piss me off,... that will be in there,... and this... will be you. I don't know; I just sort of, cracked. I just couldn't cope with it any more. And he was home, and I went outside, and I just started running. And I ran across the condemned bridge and ran up the track and ran into a little patch of bush. I very quickly realised, 'Oh my gosh. He thinks I've tried to run away, and he's come after me'. So then I thought, 'What's gonna happen to me now?' He drove me to the top of a high bluff, and I thought, 'Oh, this it. I've gone too far. 'He's gonna throw me off'. And I really thought, 'I'm gonna die'. Why can't you be happy here? Eh? Look at this place. Look at it. It's bloody paradise, darling. Paradise. I just... It's... It's like you said - it's hard without TV and radio. I just miss all that. He seemed to believe me, but when we got back to the house, he told his son I didn't want to be there any more. It's not you. No, please don't go. I... I... I just miss my family. Who's gonna teach me? Who's gonna read to me? Please don't go. Hey, it's OK. I... I'll stay. OK? I promise I'll stay. It's OK. Raped again that night. Dear Heather. It's been some weeks since Dad and I heard from you, and we're getting very concerned. It would certainly ease our worry a bit if you could telephone and let us know how you're getting along. No letters for ya. Maybe you should make a call, let them know you're doing OK. What do ya reckon? All right. I'll listen in, eh? Just to be sociable. Now, you keep sitting here. And don't talk to anyone, you understand? Wh... Where are you going? I'm just going in to see my mates for a cuppa. Just thought I'd check the community notices, if that's all right. It's public information, I guess. You guess right, Sergeant. The mind games continued. Some of it just seemed to be for his own amusement. Here. You'll fit into those before too long, once you lose all that fat off your lazy bones. 12 minutes. Excellent. Turn right instead of left. Eh? Keep on going... all the way... into town. Hide in the bush if I have to. I know what's going on in there. No one leaves from here. You try, you die. Go on. Another lap should do you. Go on. Hey, there's one here for Heather. She'll be pleased. Right. We'll be sad, though, eh? Her Mum and Dad still want her to go home. They don't like her being with us. She'll probably wanna up and leave again. But... But she can't. I don't want her to go. I know. Me neither. But don't worry - I'll think of something, son. Oh, I've forgotten to post her letter to them. You go and jump in the car, son. Put your money in. Did you post my letter? Yep. Didn't we, Benn? Anything for me? Maybe soon, eh? Got some bills, though. What's for dinner? This? George. Bill. You been hunting? Nah. His ex-wife, Joanne, that left before I went to work in the valley, had actually run off with another brother, not a musterer, and Bill was planning to make them pay. So, you got news for me, George? It's been months since I put money on the table. I want the job done. It's gotta be made to look like an accident, like they did each other in or something. She took my boy. She took Jed. Now I have to go through the fucking courts to see my own son. Well. My ex-wife and my own fucking brother. I want them dead. You know, screw all this court bullshit - I want them dead. I believed by now that he was capable of anything. You won't be needing that. You're still crafty, eh? Still scheming. Well, I know everything about you, Punkie. Yeah. Cos I can look right inside your head. I wonder how Freddie is. Huh? Do you still miss him? You see? Cos I know. Now get these clothes off. You've got a long journey tomorrow. I just believed he could read my mind. My boyfriend used to call me a nickname, Punkie. You know, it wasn't like 'sweetheart' or something you could have guessed. It was nothing he could have guessed. Fucking court access. Some court's telling me that when I can see my own fucking son. It's a bloody joke. Cat got ya tongue? Might be a good thing if it has. Cos one word outta line on this wee trip, and I swear to God I'll slice up your whole God damn family. Including this one. Hmm? Hungry pigs? Coat hanger - they've got supper. When Joanne left she'd taken Bill's younger son with her and left Benn in the valley with his father. Bill was fighting really hard to win custody of both boys, but in the meantime, in the school holidays, they'd swap the kids. Give me your fucking shoes. You're gonna write a statement. And you're gonna say how much me and Benn miss Jed... and what a good father I am to the them both. - Why? What's-? - Because! I got plans. I'll tell you what to write. And then my lawyer'll put it into a proper affidavit, and you are gonna fucking well sign. OK. I reside with Bill and his son Benn... At a later date we actually went to family court, and I had to get up in the witness stand and swear on the Bible that what I'd said in the affidavit was true. in a farm cottage... Which was... really devastating for me, because I knew it was lies, I knew I didn't write it, I didn't agree with it, But I was in a court of law, and I'd sworn on a Bible. That was very hard. At the end of the August holidays I thought there might be an opportunity to escape, so I took a chance. Hey, um, after we drop Jed off, I need some stuff. What now? I made up an excuse that I needed to get some more underwear from home, because I thought he'd probably let me go. Remember - one word from you... I won't be long. You can stay for a bit, I'll pick you up later, pay your folks another visit. I think it was just my mum was there, and I didn't tell her what was happening. All I said was, 'Oh, I'm pregnant. I don't wanna go back'. Is it his? The baby. No. No, Mum, it isn't. It's, um... It's just... Look, I'll... I'll go out there now and I'll tell him that I'm not going back with him. I'll come with you. No. Just let me talk to him. If you just stay here for maybe two or three minutes, I'll... I'll be right back. OK? I was scared that if she went anywhere near him that he would hurt her. And I said, 'I'll just run down, I'll say I'm not going back, and then I'll come back.' I didn't realise it, but my escape attempt was futile. Mentally, I was completely under his control. When I said I wasn't going back, he just turned back into that person that he'd been that first month, and I hadn't seen that person for quite some time. And he was very upset. If you do that, I'll never get Jed back. Benn will probably have to live with his mother as well. She's not a good mother, Heather. You know, there's abuse in that environment. Benn wants to stay in the valley. You know that. Look,... I'll never touch you again,... I swear, but... just,... please... come back with me. I'm begging you. All of a sudden I felt that I was responsible for this boy's life, and by me leaving, then this is what would happen to him, and I could stop that. For many years, I mean, that was another reason I... I never came forward, because I just didn't understand why I did that, when I'd been suffering all of that, and then I had a chance to escape, and I couldn't understand it. But later on, with learning about psychology and Stockholm Syndrome, I understand now that actually... I actually didn't have a choice. I was that controlled. You forgot your underwear. He just went very quiet... and had a vibe about him... that I had not experienced before. He drove off into this rest area, and it was quite secluded. He was just, like, dead behind the eyes. No. No. No. I really believed he... he was just gonna kill me and... and dump me there. He finished, and he just hopped back in his drivers side, never said a word, and, um, drove me back down to the valley. It was a whole new degree of terrifying. So,... you wanna leave. You wanna leave? That's fine. But you're not gonna take the baby. Then he raped and sodomised me. The next morning he, um, got really aggressive and mad because I'd made such a mess in the bed, cos the sheets were all filthy and covered in blood, and, um, I was told to clean that filthy mess up and, um, still wasn't allowed to wash or... I think I had a bit of a towel, a towel that I could use. Because I was living in such a horrific situation and, um, so ugly, all I learnt to do was if... if I was doing the washing, I... I just looked at the bush, and that was just goodness. It was goodness, and it was purity, and it was clean, and it was untouched. I still think it's a beautiful place. I mean, I always thought it was a beautiful place. And the fact that it was so beautiful is part of what helped me to survive. Bloody hunters. I had to take a couple of shots over their head today just to scare 'em off. Private fucking property, this. Don't think they'll be back in a hurry, though. But just in case, I'm off to lay some bait. OK? Couple of dead pig dogs - that'll stop them coming back, eh. You're still gonna go away, aren't you? You're gonna go see your sister's baby. I had no idea my sister had had her baby. And then I realised the only way Benn could know is if he'd been told. I figured out that Bill must've been stealing my mail and learning about me from my friends and family. He hadn't been inside my head at all. Finally, things started to make sense. It was like I'd been released from a mental prison. This was the turning point that gave me the strength to believe I could plan an escape and really do it. I stole one of his cheques, and I folded it up really small, and I unpicked some stitching in my bra, um, and I tucked it in there, um, and cos I thought, well, because I knew he'd been searching through my stuff and going, I thought he wouldn't, he'll never find it, and it'll always be on me. - Nine and a half. - Good. So I made sure I was getting fitter, um, that I was getting stronger, and that instead of feeling diminished every day, it was more of a strengthening exercise that was helping me prepare for that opportunity to escape. We're going up bush to do some work. Cooked meal when we get back, bout midday, OK? Benn, come and help me saddle the horses, boy. Have that feed ready - three or four hours. I went round the back of the truck and there was a... a pig on the back, tied up, and I thought, 'I can't drive the truck into town, because the pig might be on the back, like, overnight, 'and that's really cruel, and I can't do that to the pig', which is pretty silly really. So I went and got his son, and I said, 'Oh, can you please take the pig off? 'I'm gonna go and get firewood'. We've got firewood. Why do we need more? I just... I... I thought I'd be helpful. So, can I come with you, then? No. No, no. I... I... I... need you to stay here and keep an eye on this pig until your dad comes home. OK? OK. Good. Good. You're a good boy, Benn. It was just devastating cos he was waving goodbye, and I knew I wasn't coming back and I was abandoning him in that environment, and, yeah, it was horrible. I carried that guilt for most of my life. I stopped and closed every gate I went through, um, cos every time, I just thought, 'Well, OK, I've just gotta have a backup plan in case he catches me that I can talk my way out of it, 'so if I do things that don't look like I'm escaping, you know, maybe I can save my life.' Where's the bloody car? Where is she? She's gone. She's locked the bloody keys in. Jemmy the bloody window. So I drove into town, and I left the truck there and with the keys on the table with a note saying, 'Please take this down tomorrow,' thinking, 'Oh well, I'm still covering myself in case I get caught.' I went to the post office, and I drew some money out. Thank you. Um, could you please tell me when the next bus leaves? There aren't any today. You might get a taxi from Ohakune. Oh. Thank you. I can't help you, love, I've got a pickup. Yeah, for Ohakune. It's me. I'm the one who called. I thought I'd run out and meet you. Now, I need to make it to the Ohakune bus station. No buses from there today, love. Uh, look, we might make the one from Waiouru, though. Oh, that... that's... that's good. That's fine. Let's go. She's fucking dead! Then I got too scared to go to the bus station, so I actually jumped off at, um, a place called Te Manga Junction, which is where the road would intersect that you'd either go down to the Mount or turn off to Tauranga. And I ran from there, down through the back streets in the dark, sort of, halfway down towards the Mount, and, um, went to my boyfriend's place. And I think I got there at 10.30 at night. Freddie. I stayed, um, at my boyfriend's for a few days, but I was just terrified, I couldn't sleep. Every time I heard a... a vehicle, I was... yeah, I was just a wreck. I never went into any detail. I didn't know how to tell anybody. On the one hand, I didn't think anyone would believe me, and then, there was the fear of what might happen to them. I was still in survival mode, so I didn't trust anybody, nobody. No. I'm fine, Mum. He'd always said, you know, 'No one's gonna believe you. I'll just get you. I'll kill everyone.' And I just thought, you know, 'He's just gonna turn up here, and he's gonna put me in his truck, and... 'and I'll be back there, and I'll never get out.' It's Heather, isn't it? I need your help. It's lies. It was all lies, and you knew that. How did you find me? I understand why you wrote it, why you signed it, but you can speak up in court now, tell them how he intimidated you. This is the last custody hearing. This is the future of my children! How did you find me? It wasn't that hard. There's not many Petries in Tauranga, so... Oh God. I didn't scare your parents, I promise. I spoke to your Mum, told her I was an old friend from school. She told me you were here, so I... This... This is our place! And you've brought this here? I need your help. He'll... He'll know where I am. He'll know. He'll find out. There are others too, you know. There'll be more. I can't help you. I'm sorry. I won't help you. So can you please leave? Benn sent his love. I might've escaped from the valley, but I couldn't escape my fear of Bill Cornelius. It would take 23 years, but in 2008 I found the courage to tell my story. I had been having some counselling, but again, I'd... I'd never spoken about what had happened. Even at counselling, I just... I just couldn't go there. And I really felt like I was starting to unravel. So, why now, after all this time? I spent my life living in fear,... hiding, suffering post-traumatic stress,... for over 20 years. Still, I managed to move on. I married Freddie in 1987. We had six children. You just push on, huh? You just carry on with life. And I felt safe. Until Freddie passed away suddenly... in 1998. My oldest was 10 and a half, and my youngest was 1 and a half. It just came rushing back up, and so, for a while, I couldn't understand - 'Why am I thinking about that? That happened a long time ago, like, that doesn't... it's not relevant. 'I don't understand.' Um, but it was because I didn't feel safe any more, and I still believed he could get me. Um, so that had never left. It had... It had just been put in remission. I've spent a lot of my adult life, especially after my husband died, in a kind of hiding, keeping very isolated, keeping off the grid. For a lot of my life I've felt a huge guilt for all the other victims,... because I know there were victims before me and I know there were victims after me, and because I didn't speak up, I felt responsible. I felt guilty. You've got no reason to feel guilty. You've come forward now, and that - that's a brave thing to do. Yeah. Well, I thought if... if I do this, you know,... maybe this'll stop, maybe I'll stop having the panic attacks, maybe I'll be better. When I laid my complaint in September 2008, the police investigation led to seven other known victims, three of whom made formal complaints. I was told then it would be 18 months to two years to get to court. Going through the court process for four years nearly took my life. The intensity and... and the length of time of having to live in that heightened state was emotionally crippling. Because I had been afraid of this man all my life, and I had been, in effect, hiding from him all my life, and... and now I'd laid a complaint, so I had alerted him to me. So my belief that he or a member of his family or someone he knew might come and get me was very very real. And I had to live with that every day for four years. But early in 2012 I received the news that he had been deemed unfit to stand trial because of a diagnosis of mild dementia and that he was going to walk free. And that was devastating news, and at that stage he still had name suppression, and I just couldn't live with that. So I went to the media. Cornelius was first charged at the end of 2009. The final hearing was in... was on June 15 2012. Oi, Bill! He was formally dismissed from court, and then they addressed the name-suppression issue. So my name suppression was lifted, and then he lost his name suppression. No regrets about unmasking yourself? No, not at all. I made that firm decision to not be living in fear and hiding any more, because there is no need. Um, so it's quite liberating. I felt strong because I wasn't that 19-year-old captive any more. Um, I was a grown woman, and I was speaking out about what he'd done, and I was holding him accountable. It's not an easy thing to do - it's a terrifying thing to do. Standing up to... to your offender and taking the power back and holding them accountable in whatever way is possible, um, is... is really important. Um, it certainly helps you... move forward as a survivor.
