 

                        The open plains of the asphalt jungle. Home to many creatures, great and small. And the pupping ground for one the most clever and illustrious creatures, the Plastic Bag. Today we explore the cycle of life for this curious creature, the plastic bag on it's migration to it's home, the Pacific ocean. Once released into the wild, the plastic bag is unsure of itself. It falters at first, but soon, with some help from the wind, the bag will be airborne! This flight will be the first in it's long journey towards it's final destination: The Garbage Patch in heart of the Pacific Ocean. Using the wind to guide it, the plastic bag moves across the city, through the air. A city park. This park may, at first, seem like an idyllic place for the plastic bag, but danger lurks around every corner. Here it will encounter many enemies, including one of the MOST dangerous... Park Services! Poor little fellow. Looks like HIS journey ends here. Meanwhile, our little bag has encountered one of nature's most deadly killers... the Teacup Yorkie. Once the Yorkie has locked onto his victim, there is very little hope for survival. But using it's superior size and deft maneuvering, our bag manages to escape the Yorkie's talons and flee for it's life. Over the course of it's miraculous migration, the plastic bag will cover VAST distances, through neighborhoods, across parks, and down city streets. It is now nightfall and our highly advanced Night Vision Cameras have managed to capture, for the FIRST TIME in history, a plastic bag in pitch black. PHENOMENAL! The vast cement rivers of California, home to literally dozens of animals. Many plastic bags will not make it out of here, the reeds and branches will see to that. As at home in water as it is on land or in the air, the bag's natural buoyancy makes it an excellent swimmer. It's close now... and it can feel it! At last the bag has reached the gateway to the open sea. Careful to avoid the mouths of hungry sea life that feed on the helpless plastic, the bag will travel 100s of miles, to join the thriving community of plastic known as... the GREAT PACIFIC GARBAGE PATCH. The Garbage Patch is a veritable plastic oasis, where millions of tons of plastic garbage remain trapped by the currents. It is said to be twice the size of Texas, never actually biodegrading, here the plastic bag can live indefinitely, peacefully, coexisting with billions of other petroleum species, before breaking into ever tinier plastic pieces, thus completing the plastic cycle of life.
