 

                        1 Move these boxes to the back Careful Excuse me, it's quicker if you go that way Careful, that one's heavy That way towards the back, can you do it? This too, it's faster that way towards the back Thank you Ms Lim Min Min, what are you doing? I have a surprise for you Surprise? Come with me -What surprise? Careful -Okay Where are you bringing me? Just come with me It's okay Let's go - Okay Where you want to go? Come on, quit fooling around Shut up, we're almost there Turn And then? Here And then? Lim Min Min, isn't this our small room? Yes, it is But it's one with a surprise Surprise? No wonder you've kept me away from this room I've put in a lot of effort and time in this Do you like it? Not bad You're too nice to me From now on you can work here day and night Aren't you happy? What a cunning plan What? If I were to work from home all day Then I won't have a sniff at meeting other girls So you have someone else in mind whom you want a more intimate encounter with? Please, I can't even handle you How could I? Smart boy Thank you Don't mention it I just want us to be together from now on Put the past behind us. Start over I promise you, from today onwards I will give you a happy life Alright, let's go down and unpack There's still a lot of stuff to do Le Ren, they're almost done Okay, I'm coming How? Does the breakfast look good? My sister Hello -Le Ren Where are you? I'm living a decent life now. You don't need to worry You can't go on like this What's the matter with you? I'll know how to take care of my own affairs If that is all, I'm hanging up. That's all I didn't tell my sister we're still together I don't want her to think too much That's why I wanted you to keep it from her I'm sorry For what? You're the queen There's no one more important than you Let's have breakfast Why are you playing this song? Master, this way please Why are you looking at me like that? Alright, I'm almost done here There's a small leak from the ceiling downstairs I'll go have a look Let it be, it's just a small matter. This is our home, how can we just let it be? There's nothing wrong Really? Basically, you can ignore what the doctor said But you're a doctor I'm a doctor and also a friend of yours So you have to listen to me But I really heard a lot of weird noises Probably in that accident you didn't injure your ear But your brain Let me introduce you to Dr Chan, okay? Le Ren HEY I was joking. Are you alright? I'm fine Let bygones be bygones We should go for drinks sometimes Le Ren Talk to me, will you? I know you hate me I shouldn't have shamed you being with a guy without any recognition Do you know sometimes Love blinds a woman I know I'm not a good sister But I hope You can let go of the past Start all over again Enough It's you who can't let go of the past, not me I've told you That guy isn't sincere towards you But you wouldn't listen I don't know what else I can do for you Nothing Sis, really, I'm fine Take good care of yourself. I'm hanging up Min Min Min Min Min Min Is it any good? -Not bad You scared me What's wrong? Le Ren, what's wrong? Min Min Le Ren, what's the matter with you? Maybe I'm too tired recently It messed up my mind Min Min Sorry I didn't mean to scare you What are you looking at? Le Ren, there's a house there, want to go have a look? Sure What a nice house If only we could stay here, it must be really nice Quit fooling around Don't you think it's one-of-a-kind and suits me to the tee? Absolutely I'll buy it for you when I'm rich When we get married and if we were to live here I'll have lots of babies for you What do you want? Play with me You want me to play with you? Fine, I promise you But you must promise me cannot hurt Min Min ls the Master available now? Master? He's busy Busy? He's fine now Bring him back to get some rest Thanks, Master Min Min Now that I have executed my promise to you of buying this house From now on I want you to live a happy life Min Min Min Min Min Min Le Ren -What's the matter with you? I fell while I was cleaning up the room What are you looking at? Tell me, did someone push you? Don't simply say things. How could there be anyone else? It hurts Let's go out Stop it Min Min You can see him? All the time That day in the small room, he was the one who pushed me You don't need to act that way Why won't you leave? This is not your house anymore Le Ren Don't come any closer Doctor Please find the doctor for me -What's wrong? My brother... Look for the doctor first - Alright, hold on Hello, doctor Hello Are you ok? Doctor, what's wrong with him? Please Blood pressure? -Normal Head beat? -Normal, too He seems to be well all the while What happened? Frankly I have no idea Master Master I've given him an androlic But you have to be prepared His situation is not really good Master, he's... What happened to him? He had an accident 3 months ago and got injured He couldn't regain consciousness even though he's recovered The doctors didn't know what's wrong He was with his girlfriend during the accident They were on their way to pick up my child -Hold on Where's his girlfriend? Died on the spot The soul in his body is left with only 7 spirits That is why he can't die but also can't regain consciousness Where's the rest of his soul? A human's soul and his body are interconnected If he's not meant to die yet His soul will come back to look for his body But his body can't hold up any longer It will decompose if this were to drag on His soul will be body-less when that time comes And becomes a spirit No, my brother can't die Master, you must tell me how to save him I must save him There's only one way Someone must go to the spirits' realm and find back his soul I'll go Please close the door, I'm going to start the rituals I will open up your heavenly eyes So that you can see things from the spirits' realm At the same time You will also see things that you have never seen before The remainder of his soul will lead you to find the rest Once you've found it must put it inside this umbrella Don't be afraid and don't look at him Just continue ahead Thank you These things are everywhere Just don't engage them Those... They... Why don't they leave? Because they can't let go of the past I still have things to do, I'll leave first Thank you Before this light goes out You must bring back his complete soul How long is that? Six hours This amulet will protect you against any malicious spirits His body is an empty vessel now Spirits that didn't die in peace will want to possess it Don't worry, I'll stand guard here Be careful Go now Light up the joss sticks, blur the realm Near and far the gods shall hear And grant us holy clouds everywhere Revealing themselves on our sincere prayers Name Amitabha Min Min Where's the little ghost? He left after knocking you unconscious Not sure where he went Why? Seems like there's a ruckus outside I'll go have a look, you stay here Be careful I never thought you'd be here too You can't bring yourself to leave him too Right? He just wanted a chance To redeem himself This house... Whatever that's inside You know they're not real Some mistakes can't be undone He can't keep on running away If you go in now What he's been working on all this while Will be destroyed He's the reason you lost your life, yet you're still thinking about him It's obvious that you still love him But... -Le Juan sis If he were to go back now Will he be fine? He doesn't have much time left You can't go back already But he still can If you truly love him Let him go back Le Ren Sis Why are you here? Quickly take Min Min away Le Ren Don't come near Le Ren -You guys go first Min Min -Le Ren, all these aren't real I'm here to bring you back What are you talking about? Where are you taking me? What are these? These... Are memories that you refuse to remember Le Ren Le Ren Since you've won many awards You've changed You started to drink a lot And always out socialising We started to talk less Go back first No way, I must say this now We started arguing Slowly it became frequent When I told you I have some emergency the other day at the bar Why haven't you ask me what was it? Do you want to die? I'm on drive now You've changed. You weren't like this before What is it that you want? Min Min Le Ren I shouldn't have shamed you by being with a guy without any recognition Sis After the accident I followed you here I'm really scared Because there's no reaction at all from your soul I want to hug you The moment I touch you It's like I've been transported to another world Min Min, so you're here Le Ren What happened? Nothing It's time to go back. Let's go Let's go Le Ren, let's go All these are just in your mind They don't exist Le Ren Your sister risked her life to save you Go back now Your body can't wait too long You can't go back anymore if you're too late I don't blame you And you don't have to do anything I know you truly love me That's enough Min Min -Alright? Let's go Let them go Who's that? I saw him since the first day we moved in We can't seem to get rid of him What do you want? Play with me I've got an idea Stay away you motherfucker! Or I'll hurt you Why won't you stay away? Why won't you go away? I'm really going to hurt you Min Min Hello Hello, Le Juan ls Le Ren's soul completed now? Hello Le Ren Le Ren To deal with this little ghost, all you need to do is destroy his body Sis Sis Sis What's the matter with you? What happened to you? What is wrong with you? What's the matter with you? Where's the kid? Where's the kid? What's the matter with you? What's the matter? Min Min Min Min Min Min Sis, is Min Min in there? No Le Ren Le Ren Le Ren Min Min Le Ren Min Min Just go back, alright? Come out Let me see you one more time, please? Even if I were to come out now What happens after that? Is there anything we can do? If I knew that... That day in the car Was our last moment together I wouldn't have fought with you That day If I knew I would not, too If I knew That would be the last time we meet I would never have done that... Well, that's life We'll never know When would be The last time we see each other And that is why We cherish all those sweet memories Le Ren Promise me You will live a happy life Will you? Le Ren, is time to leave ls time to leave Wake up Min Min I'm sorry I hope we can continue this way I love you I promise you I will live my life to the fullest Alright, let's go home Where's Wei Wei? Wei Wei I'll go look upstairs O Kay Wei Wei Wei Wei Wei Wei, what are you doing?
