 

                        Mr Selden, what luck. - Good luck? - Yes. I'm on my way to the Trenors' at Bellomont and I've missed the 3:15 to Rhineback. There isn't another train till half past five. How nice of you to come to my rescue. And what form should my rescue take? Oh, almost any. Shall we go over to Sherry's for a cup of tea? Mmm, I'm dying for a cup of tea but isn't there a quieter place? - I live near here. - At the Benedick still? Yes, on the top floor. - Is it cool up there? - Come up and see. I'll take the risk. Oh, how delicious to have a place like this all to oneself. Even women have enjoyed the privileges of a flat. Governesses, yes. But not poor, marriageable girls. I even knew a girl who once lived in a flat. If I could only do over my aunt's drawing room I should be a better woman. Is it so very bad? That shows how seldom you come there. Why don't you come oftener? When I do come, it's not to look at Mrs Peniston's furniture. Nonsense. You don't come at all. And yet we get on so well when we meet. - Cream or lemon? - Lemon. Oh, I can't make you out. Of course there are men who dislike me and others who are afraid of me. They think I want to marry them. But I don't think that you dislike me. And you can't possibly think that I want to marry you. No, I absolve you from that. - Well, then? - Perhaps that's the reason. - The reason for what? - You don't want to marry me. Perhaps I don't regard that as a strong inducement to go see you. Dear Mr Selden, it is stupid of you to be disingenuous. And it isn't like you to be stupid. I have been about too long. People are getting tired of me. They are beginning to say that I ought to marry. Isn't marriage what you're all brought up for? I suppose so. So why not take the plunge and have it over? You collect, do you? - First editions and things? - Mmm-hmm. And do you collect Americana? No, that's rather out of my line. And Americana are horribly dull I suppose? I should fancy so except to the historian. Yet they do fetch such fabulous prices, don't they? Only the very rich can afford to buy them. And you know that I am not rich. But life is very expensive. Do you mind not being rich enough? And having to work - do you mind that? The work itself is not so bad. I'm rather fond of the law. But do you mind enough to have to marry to escape it? - God forbid. - Ah, there is the difference. A girl must, and a man if he chooses. Perhaps you'll meet your fate tonight at the Trenors'. I thought you might be going there. - Those big parties bore me. - As they do me. Then why go? You forget it's part of the business. Good luck at Bellomont. Miss Bart? - Well, of all people. - Oh, Mr Rosedale. How are you? Been uptown doing a little shopping? Yes. I came up to see my dressmaker. I didn't know there were any dressmakers at the Benedick. - Oh, is that this building? - Yes, I own it. The name means 'confirmed bachelor'. Hmm. I'm just on my way to the Trenors'. You must let me take you to the station. No, thank you. You're very kind, but I wouldn't think of troubling you. Ah! Mr Gryce. It's you. The seat next to me is empty. Do take it. I suppose you're going to Bellomont. - Yes, for a week. - A whole week? How delicious. - And how is your Americana? - I've got a few new things. Your uncle had a fine collection I believe. Yes, he collected for a number of years, but - I must have this seat next to you, Lily. Oh! Oh, Mr Gryce. How do you do? I came across from Mount Kisco in the motor car. Had to wait at Garrisons for an hour without even a cigarette. You haven't one left, have you, Lily? What an absurd question, Bertha. You don't smoke? Since when have you given it up? And you don't smoke either, Mr Gryce? Ah. How stupid of me. It was simply inhuman of Pragg to go off now. When I was in Tuxedo I asked a lot of people down. I've mislaid the list and can't remember who's coming. And this week is going to be a failure, too. Judy, as if anybody is ever bored at Bellomont. Everything has gone wrong. And Bertha Dorset's furious with me. She's furious with you? Why? I told her Lawrence Selden was coming, but then he wouldn't. She unreasonably believes it was my fault. - I thought that was all over. - Oh, so it is. On his side. I'll call up Lawrence to tell him he simply must come. - Oh, don't. - Do you dislike him so much? Not at all! I like him. Oh, I don't say there's any real harm in Bertha but she loves making people miserable, mainly her husband. Poor George. But she is dangerous. And you are not nasty. And for getting what she wants commend me to a nasty woman. I thought you were so fond of Bertha. Oh, I am, it's much safer to be fond of dangerous people. Did you know his father made a fortune inventing a device which excludes fresh air from hotels? - Who? - Why to be sure, Percy Gryce. But he's horribly shy and easily shocked - Say it. I've the reputation for being on the hunt for a husband. Lily, I asked him here on purpose, for you. Percy Gryce and I are becoming very good friends. You're quite sure you wouldn't like me to call Lawrence Selden? Quite sure. I do enjoy the quiet. - Don't you, Lily? - Mmm. I wish the men would always stay away. It's really much nicer without them. Oh, you don't count, George. One never talks to one's husband. Wives never like their husbands talking to other women. Only if the women are slightly too eligible, or divorced. Wives may do as they wish. Husbands are expected to be like money - influential but silent. If divorcees were more acceptable, I might be tempted. Gus! Oh, dear. You see? I came after all. Thank you for keeping me from playing bridge, Mr Gryce. Not at all. I have no head for it or the rules of betting. I've been dragged into it in the past and lost an appalling amount of money. Mr Gryce, I have shocked you. Whilst I do not approve of cards, I do approve of you. I hope that means you forgive me. For I am penitent. - You'll go to church tomorrow? - Yes. - May I accompany you? - Of course, Mr Gryce. - Good night. - Good night, Miss Bart. Dear me, am I late? - Late for what? - Late for whom? Perhaps you had an earlier engagement? Yes, I had. Perhaps I am in the way, then? Mr Selden is at your disposal. I never interfere with Mr Selden's engagements. But I have no engagement with Mr Selden. My engagement was to go to church and I'm afraid that the carriages have left without me. Have they left, do you know? Yes. I heard them drive away sometime since. Then I shall have to walk. It's too late to get there. Well, I shall have the credit for trying, at any rate. You must be quite breathless. How fast you walk. I thought I'd never catch up with you. But I've been sitting here for nearly an hour! - Waiting for me, I hope. - Waiting to see if you'd come. - Weren't you sure that I would? - If I waited long enough. But I only had a limited time to give to the experience. - Why limited? - By my other engagement. Ah, now I see why you were getting up on your Americana. That is why I was waiting for you. To thank you for having given me so many points. You can hardly do justice to the subject in so short a time. Won't you devote the afternoon to it? We'll take a walk, and you can thank me at your leisure. Let us sit here. I've broken two engagements for you today and both of them with Percy Gryce. How many have you broken for me? None. My only engagement at Bellomont was with you. You really came to Bellomont to see me? - Of course I did. - Why? Because I always like to see what you're doing. You're such a wonderful spectacle. Well, now that you are here you can see the effect first-hand. Oh, I don't flatter myself that my coming here has deflected your course of action by a hair's breadth. Oh, do give me one I haven't smoked in days. Why such unnatural abstinence? Because it's not deemed becoming in a jeune fille marier. And at the present moment I AM a jeune fille marier. You must suppose me dull if you think I never yield to impulse. But I don't suppose that. Your genius lies in converting impulses into intentions. My genius? My genius would appear to be my ability to do the wrong thing at the right time. Or vice versa. Is there any final test of genius but success? I certainly haven't succeeded. But you will marry someone very rich. What a miserable future you foresee for me. Haven't you seen it for yourself? Of course. But it seems so much darker when you show it to me. Why do you do this to me? Why do you make the things that I've chosen seem hateful to me if you have nothing to give me instead? No, I have nothing to give you instead. If I had, it should be yours you know that. But you belittle me in being so sure they are all I care for. Isn't it natural I belittle all that I can't offer you? Do you want to marry me? No, I don't. But perhaps I should. If you did. It would be a great risk. I have never concealed how great. - You are a coward. - No. It's you who are the coward. Are you serious? Why not? I took no risk in being so. Why is it that when we meet we always play this elaborate game? It's getting late. Let us go down. 'I thought Mr Gryce meant to stay all week.' 'He did mean to stay that's the worst of it.' 'Lt shows that he's running away from you 'that Bertha's done her work and poisoned him.' 'What was it Bertha really told Percy? ' 'Don't ask me - horrors. 'All I can say is, Lily that I can't make you out.' 'Oh, he's not completely lost there are ways.' 'Whatever you do, do nothing. 'Oh, Lily, you'll never do anything if you're not serious.' - Out of spirits? - I'm a little dull. Is your last box of Doucet dresses a failure or did my wife rook you for everything at bridge? I have to give up Doucet dresses and bridge. I can't afford either any more. And Judy thinks me a bore. Fact is, she is angry with me. Angry with you? Nonsense. My wife's devoted to you. Oh, she is my very best friend. That is why I mind vexing her. I want to make my peace with her. She has her heart set on my marrying money. - A great deal of money. - You don't mean Percy Gryce? Good Lord, how could Judy think you would do such a thing? Sometimes I think a man understands a woman's motives better than her own sex does. Good Lord I could have told Judy that. I wish you'd try to persuade Judy to be civil to Rosedale. I did some neat business through him last week. If she'd only ask him to dine now and then I could get almost anything out of him. He's going to be richer than us all one of these days. Would you do me a favour? A very great favour? Of course. I don't mean to bore you with all of this but I am entirely dependent upon my aunt. And though she is very kind she gives me no regular allowance. I have a tiny income of my own but it has been badly invested. It seems to bring in less and less each year. And recently I have lost money at cards. I have paid off my debts but I dare not tell my aunt. I can no longer go on living my present life. And Percy Gryce? I can't make that sort of marriage. And so you gave him the sack. That's why he left this morning. If you will trust me I can make you a handsome sum without endangering your capital. I am so ignorant about money matters and I would be so grateful to have a good advisor. Leave it to me. I'll find a solution. Really, Lily, you're as frivolous as your parents were - I don't see why you got to Bellomont if you don't remember whom you saw there. But there was no one new just the usual throng. - Was Mr Selden there? - Yes, he came later. And Mr Rosedale, was he there? No, of course not. Why do you ask? Oh, passing interest merely. Mr Selden tells me that socially Mr Rosedale is ubiquitous now. Men like Rosedale, and their methods of gaining fortunes are at best questionable at worst criminal. To grow richer when people's investments are shrinking strikes me as being in very bad taste. But society still uses such men if only obliquely. If obliquity were a vice we should all be tainted. Only someone without family could make such a vulgar remark. Aunt Julia, you ARE my family. Just as I thought - I cannot teach the parlour maid to draw the blinds down evenly. - Will you see to it, Grace? - Of course. Jennings, we will take tea in the upstairs sitting room. Lily, you can read me the obituaries. Oh, Aunt Julia Grace does it so much better than me. She can make even the most insignificant death interesting. I will see to the blinds. Very well, you may join us later. It's a Mrs Haffen, miss. She won't say what she wants. Do you want to see me? I have something you might like to see. You have something belonging to me? Not exactly. I don't understand. If it is not mine, then why are you here? When I was working at the Benedick I was in charge of cleaning the gentlemen's rooms. Most gentlemen are careful about the letters they get - burn them in winter tear them into bits in summer. But Mr Selden wasn't so particular. I know nothing of these letters. I have no idea why you have brought them here. To sell them. I saw you coming out of Mr Selden's rooms. So I guessed they were worth more to you than me. "You promised we would meet when George was next away. "Although you've forbidden me to come to you, I will. "I cannot bear George near me. "When he touches me I want to scream. He is unbearable." "My darling Lawrence you are my consolation, my only joy. "In you I find more freedom and support than I have ever known. "Your devoted Bertha." What do you want me to pay you for them? One hundred and fifty. - One hundred. - I've got to live, too. I have offered you all that I am prepared to pay for the letters. One hundred. If you would forgive your enemy first inflict a hurt on them. Oh, Bertha. How could you have been so indiscreet? I now pronounce you man and wife. I've never seen you look more lovely. Oh, Gus. Lily, I've got a cheque for you. Another dividend? You have both Rosedale and me to thank for it. I've made you five thousand on his tip, and re-invested four. And there's promise of another big rise. Well, I can't thank you properly now. I don't want thanks, I want you to be nice to Rosedale and me. I'd like to see you now and then. Come to Bellomont. I'll send the motor. Really, you say the most absurd things. Besides, it's impossible. My aunt's back, I must stay with her for the rest of the season. Mmm. You must come see us the next time you are in town. Then you can tell me how to better invest my small fortune. This is luck. I was wondering if I'd be able to have a word with you. I haven't recovered my self-respect since you showed me how poor my ambitions were. On the contrary. I thought I'd been the means of proving they were more important to you than anything else. Lily. We thought you'd given us the slip. We've been hunting all over for you. I'd like to invite you to my box at the opera on opening night. Gus has promised to come to town on purpose. He's a tremendous admirer of yours. I fancy he'd go a lot farther for the pleasure of seeing you. The Trenors are my best friends. I think we should all go a long way to see one another. How's your luck been going lately on Wall Street? I hear that Gus pulled off a nice pile for you last month. I had a little money to invest Mr Trenor has been helping me. I had a lucky turn. Is that what you call it? You've had a great many yourself I believe. Is that the latest creation of that dressmaker at the Benedick? If so, it's a great success. Isn't it, Mr Selden? That's nice of you. It would be nicer still if you'd get me a glass of lemonade. Pleasure. They met at Bertha Dorset's and have been devoted ever since. The engagement is to be announced next week. They say it will be just the nicest marriage possible. One dull fortune marrying another. Evie Van Osburgh and Percy Gryce? Well, well. Ladies and gentlemen Miss Lily Bart, as "Summer" by Watteau. She's never looked so radiant. I think I like her best in that simple dress. It makes her look like the real Lily. The Lily I know. The Lily WE know. She's herself with a few people only. She has it in her to become whatever she's believed to be. - We must think the best of her. - I'll tell her that. She always says you dislike her. Well, Grace. How was life at Richfield? Quiet. Aunt Peniston sees very little company. I'm sure your being there gave her much pleasure. Yes, I am as reliable as roast mutton. But Aunt Julia is not alone in preferring Lily's brilliance. You should marry, Grace. We should all marry, Mr Selden. You never speak to me. I'm never near you long enough. You think hard things of me. I think of you... at any rate. Then why do we never see each other? I have my law practice, and... you're always surrounded by admirers. There are no admirers at my aunt's house. Well... then - perhaps I might take tea with you at Mrs Peniston's next week? Yes. Come at four on Friday. Then we can talk. I've so much to say to you. I need your help. You promised me once you'd help me. The only way I can help you... is by loving you. Love me... but don't tell me so. I'd hate to miss the train. - Selden, going too? - Aren't you staying for supper? No - when you can't get near anyone you wish to speak to I'd sooner do without. My wife was right to stay away. She says life is too short to spend it breaking new people in. Thank you. Lily and Gus Trenor, you say? - Aunt Peniston, I don't mean... - Then what do you mean, Grace? Do people say he's in love with her? People always say unpleasant things. It is a pity, though, that Lily makes herself so conspicuous. Conspicuous? Does he mean to divorce then marry her? No, it's... It's a flirtation, nothing more. A flirtation? With a married man? Such things were never heard of in my day. Look here, Lily. Judy and I have been in town for weeks. - When am I going to see you? - You can find me at my aunt's. Come see me there and we can have a quiet talk. You said that at the Van Osburgh wedding. Now that you've got what you wanted, you'd rather not see me. Don't be foolish. If you want to see me, come to my aunt's. What else is being said? That Gus Trenor pays her bills. Rubbish. Lily has her own income. And I provide for her very handsomely. There are her gambling debts. - What do you mean? - She plays bridge. Who told you that my niece plays cards for money? Mrs Gryce told me herself Lily's gambling debts frightened Percy. In fact people are inclined to excuse her on that account. To excuse her for what? For accepting the attentions of men like Gus Trenor. Thank you for telling me, Grace. But this unwelcome information has ruined the Mozart for me. Lily, let's leave before the first act starts. Judy's cross when she's away from Bellomont - - Come to the house now. - Is Judy unwell? Well, a visit from you might be just what's needed. Very well, Gus I shall come with you. Doesn't it appear we're waiting for the body to be brought down? Where's Judy? The fact is she's not up to seeing anybody. Do you mean to say she's not well enough to see me? Devil of a headache. Quite knocked out by it. In that case, will you have the goodness to call me a cab? Why must you go? It is late and we are alone. I must insist. It's always the same old story. You can't give me five minutes but are charming to others. I only went to that damned stupid opera to be with you. I must insist that you call me a cab. Suppose I won't? What then? If you force me I shall go upstairs to Judy. Sit down. I've got a word to say to you. If you have anything to say to me, it must be at another time. I'll go upstairs to Judy unless you call me a cab at once. Go upstairs. Judy isn't there. Do you mean to say that Judy is not in this house? - She isn't even in town. - I don't believe you. My wife is still at Bellomont. - She would have telephoned. - She did. - I received no message. - I didn't send any. How dare you compromise me in this way! Don't take that high tone with me. I've been patient enough. The man who pays for the dinner is allowed a seat at the table. I don't know what you mean. I didn't begin this business. Kept out of the way. But I can see when I'm being made a fool of. Now you've got what you wanted Gus isn't needed any more. Well that isn't playing fair, Lily. You're dodging the rules of the game, and now you've got to pay. Do you mean to say that I owe you money? You told me that it was all right! It was all right, is all right. You're welcome to all of it. I just want to be thanked a little. I have thanked you! Or do you wish for payment in kind? No! If I owe you money, I shall pay you! You owe me nine thousand dollars. Nine thousand? I will pay you. I suppose you'll go to Selden or Rosedale for it. Unless you've settled those scores already and I'm the only one left out in the cold. What more do you have to say to me? Go home. Come here, Lily. I wish to speak with you. Aunt Julia, it is very late and I am very tired. I must insist, Lily. You're a bad colour, Lily. This incessant rushing about is beginning to tell on you. I don't think it's that. I've had other worries. Ah. The fact is, I owe some money. I... I have been foolish. There are bills, not tradesmen that are pressing. I paid your dressmaker's bill for you last October. But if you owe Madame Celeste another thousand dollars she may send me your account. I owe a good deal more than a thousand dollars. A good deal more? To whom? Do I know these people? Some by name others by reputation. Then they are of no consequence. These debts that I speak of are different. The fact is, I've been playing cards a good deal. It's true, then. You play cards for money. Do you play on Sundays? You are hard on me, Aunt Julia. I've never really liked cards and one hates to seem priggish and one drifts into doing what others do. I have had a dreadful lesson. If you help me out this time I promise - You need make any promises. It's unnecessary. I offered you a home, I didn't undertake to pay gambling debts. You don't mean to say that you won't help me? I'll not give the impression I countenance your behaviour. Aunt Julia, I will be disgraced! I consider that you ARE disgraced, Lily. And now I must ask you to leave me. This scene has been extremely painful to me and I have my own health to consider. Tell Jennings I'll see no one until tomorrow afternoon. - And then only Grace Stepney. - Grace! Yes, Aunt Julia. I don't care. I couldn't go to my room. I hate it so. Lily, what has happened? Can't you tell me? I thought that I could manage my own life but I have been foolish, Grace. Foolish to the point of being compromised. By whom? Mr Selden? No, not Mr Selden. I have been careless and imprudent about money. I am frightened to think what I owe. Grace, you know Lawrence. If I asked him to help me told him why would he loathe me if I told him everything? No, you must not do that. He is like other men. They have minds like moral flypaper. They can forgive a woman almost anything except the loss of her good name. If you wish to keep your reputation intact, Lily tell him nothing. But he must have spoken to you about me. What does he really think of me? We have never discussed you, Lily. I have no idea what Mr Selden thinks. But I must trust in his good faith. I will write to him and ask him to come. - Good night, Grace. - Good night, Lily. Lawrence! Lawrence! Jennings, is my aunt downstairs? No, Miss Bart. Mrs Peniston left for Richfield early today, with Miss Stepney. Oh. Thank you. Would you have this sent at once to Mr Selden at the Benedick? Yes, miss. Serve tea at four in the sitting room and show Mr Selden in. - Yes, Miss Bart. - Thank you. Mr Rosedale. Pretty well done. Yes, very well done. Why do you put up this kind of bluff? Why aren't you straight with me? I know that there have been times when you've been worried. A girl like you shouldn't have worries. You are quite right, Mr Rosedale. I have had worries. I have been careless about money. I'm offering you the chance to turn your back on those forever. I know you're not in love with me. You're not even fond of me. Yet. I am very much flattered by your offer. But I should be selfish and ungrateful if the reason for accepting your generosity was financial. Miss Bart, I generally get what I want in life. I've attained a social position and I have the means to maintain it. Now all I want is the woman the right woman to share both with me. Now I know you have a fondness for luxury and amusement and to not have to settle for it. I can provide the style and the means of settling. You are mistaken on one point, Mr Rosedale. Whatever I enjoy I am prepared to pay for. I have spoken too plainly. I didn't mean to give offence. You must give me time to consider your kindness. Goodbye, Miss Bart. You will consider my proposal? Of course. Yes? 'Are you alone, Lily? ' Yes, quite alone, Bertha. Everyone has gone away. My aunt to Richfield everyone else to Europe. 'Except Lawrence Selden who's gone to London.' How unsophisticated of him. 'Will you join us on a cruise to the Mediterranean? ' Well, I'm not sure that I'm able to. 'You'll be doing me a service you're so attentive to George 'listening to his old stories. 'You alone have the fortitude to take interest.' Nonsense, George can be charming. 'Good. You'll come, then? ' Yes, it'll be delightful. Goodbye. - Mr Selden. - Mrs Fisher. Do join us. What brings you to Monte Carlo? I finished my business in London so I decided to come and renew my objective interest in life. You are not so removed from being manipulated by the strings of society as one might think. Mrs Fisher, none of us are. We're starving to death because we can't decide where to lunch. Of course one gets the best things at 'The Terrasse' but all the Americans go there now. I do believe the Dorsets are back. It's their yacht - The Sabrina. Oh yes. "Je fais souvent ce rve trange et pntrant "d'une femme inconnue et que j'aime, et qui m'aime "et qui n'est, chaque fois ni tout fait la mme. "Ni tout fait une autre et m'aime et me comprend "car elle me comprend et mon coeur, transparent. "Pour elle seule, hlas! Cesse d'tre un problme "pour elle seule, et les moiteurs de mon front blme. "Elle seule les sait rafrachir en pleurant. "Est-elle brune, blonde ou rousse? Je I'ignore..." He's reading Verlaine to her now. In French! Well what's the use of mincing matters? We all know what Bertha brought Lily abroad for. The Silverton affair is at the acute stage. It's necessary that George be distracted, surely Lily does it. A clever woman would know just when to play her cards right but Lily's never been very clever in that way. I do hope there hasn't been a row. Where the devil are they? Bertha! Bertha! How was London, Mr Selden? More agreeable than New York? In some ways, yes. Nevertheless I stopped over to see you. To see me? Or to see an older friend? I beg you to leave the yacht. To leave? What do you mean? What has happened? Nothing. But if something should why be in the way of it? How would you think that I would leave Bertha? You have yourself to think of you know. Nothing will happen. Of course not. I'm sure. - Have you seen Bertha? - No, is she not up yet? Not up yet! Has she gone to bed? Do you know what time she came aboard this morning? - At seven! - Seven? Was there an accident? There was no accident. I waited for them all night. Why didn't you call me to share your vigil? You would not have cared for the denouement. The denouement? Isn't that too big a word for a small incident? DON'T! Don't. I only want to help you. You do so by being sweet and patient with me but you can't want to see me ridiculous. If it hadn't been for you I'd have ended it long ago. - I'll go to see Selden. - No! - No. - Why not? One lawyer will do just as well as another. Very well, go and see Mr Selden then. You should have time before dinner. I suppose I ought to say good morning. I tried to see you but you weren't up. No, I got to bed late. After we separated during the fte we thought we should wait but we missed you. You missed us? But I thought you didn't return until this morning? - Who told you that? - George. Is that his version? Poor George. He's had one of his attacks again. It is very bad for him to be worried. Whenever anything upsetting happens it brings on an attack. Anything 'upsetting'? Yes. Such as having you on his hands during the small hours. You know, my dear you're rather a responsibility in such a scandalous place after midnight. Well, really, considering you left him the responsibility. A married man shouldn't be seen alone with a single woman. Yes, we were alone. Is that so dreadful? After all, we lost you as much as you mislaid us. Oh, so now it is my fault for not having the cleverness to find you in that dreadful crowd? Or the imagination to believe that you wouldn't wait for us on the quay until we met you? No, simply by us all keeping together! Keeping together? You are not a child to be led by the hand. Nor to be lectured, Bertha. Lecture you? Heaven forbid. I was merely trying to give you a friendly hint. But usually it's the other way around, isn't it? I'm expected to take hints not to give them. Hints? From me to you? Negative ones merely. What not to be, or to do, or to see. But my dear if you will let me say so I didn't understand that one of my negative duties was not to warn you when you carried your imprudence too far. - Did you see George today? - Yes. Well? What happened? What will happen? Nothing, as yet. And nothing in the future, I think. You're sure? I'm not sure, but I'm a good deal surer. No, thank you. Assume everything is as usual. Before I go I want to leave you the Brys. It is charming of you to remember me. You mean you've snubbed them and you know they know it. Carry! If you'd had them invited to The Sabrina once. Especially when royalty was coming. Stay over and I'll get the Duchess to dine with them. I shan't stay over. The Gormers have paid for my salon-lit, I leave tonight. But get the Duchess to dine with them all the same. They'd be much obliged. Do you sing? Really? Come on, Lily, if you're going back to the yacht. Miss Bart is not returning to the yacht. Bertha... Miss Bart, there has been some misunderstanding. Some mistake. Miss Bart remains here. And I think we had better not detain our guests any longer. I have some business to attend to and it is easier for me to remain ashore for the night. Mr Selden, you promised to see me to my cab. Do you know of a quiet hotel? That you can go to alone? Lmpossible. - There must be someone. - At this hour? - If you had only listened! - Not now. You must go immediately to the Stepneys'. You mustn't ask me to. You don't know Gwen. Come, you must appear to have gone there directly. - What if she refuses? - She won't. Trust me. "I, Julia Grace Peniston "being of sound mind and body "declare this to be my last will and testament "hereby revoking and declaring utterly void "all wills and clauses of wills heretofore made by me. "It is my will and desire that after my death "all my just debts to whomsoever "shall be paid by my executives herein after named. "Second, it is my will and desire..." 'Lily will get everything of course.' 'Aunt Julia was always a just woman.' 'Well, it's only about four hundred thousand.' "...Eight, and to my niece Miss Lily Bart "I bequeath the sum of ten thousand dollars. "Nine, and the residue of my estate "I bequeath to my dear niece and namesake, Grace Julia Stepney. "Given under my hand and seal 22nd of May, 1906." My dear Grace... I am so glad. - What sweet shall we have? - Lily! My dear, you wouldn't have the head waiter see I've nothing to live on but Aunt Julia's legacy? Think of Bertha Dorset's satisfaction to find us lunching on cold mutton and tea. I was horrid to you in Monte Carlo, Lily. I'm thoroughly ashamed of myself. I've wanted to tell you ever since - that's the truth. Well, what is truth? Where a woman is concerned, it's a story that's easiest to believe. If I'd gotten the money no one would dare ignore me. If they did, it wouldn't matter I'd be independent of them. Oh, Lily. It's so unjust. Grace must feel she has no right to that inheritance. Anyone who could please Aunt Julia has a right to her money. - But she was devoted to you. - Be honest, Carry. She disapproved of my going with the Dorsets and she heard of my break with them. After all, Bertha did turn me off the yacht. I must know where I stand, Carry. I must know what is being said of me. I don't listen. One hears such things without listening. - Good afternoon, Mrs Fisher. - Carry, how delightful to see you. - How delightful, Judy. - Oh... Lily. What a pleasure it is to see you. - Gus! - Miss Bart. I must see the head waiter, Judy. Where Judy leads all the world will follow. Not your real friends. Meanwhile, what do you say to putting a few things in a trunk and spending the summer with me and the Gormers? To take me out of my FRIENDS' way, you mean? To keep you away till they see how much they miss you. Besides, the Gormers have taken a tremendous fancy to you. Oh, I know they're not quite your set, a social Coney Island but anyone is welcome who makes noise and doesn't put on airs. Yes, I shall come. Well, what shall it be? Coup Jacques or pches la melba? The more I think of getting you here the better I like it. More noise, more colour more slap-dash sociability. But greater good nature, too. Less rivalry. Yes, it's true. Soon everybody will be leaving for Newport and Bar Harbor and Long Island. And me to a hotel in broiling New York. Lily, you must marry. As soon as you can. Do you mean to recommend me to a good man's love? No, I don't think either of my candidates fit that description. Either? There are actually two? Well, perhaps I ought to say one and a half. Other things being equal, I think I should prefer half a husband. - Who is he? - George Dorset. - Oh! - Wait till you hear my reasons. Since leaving Europe things have been going badly. Bertha has tested even George's credulity. They're at home now but I think the end will come soon. The end will never come. Bertha will always get him back exactly when she wants him. Oh, Lily. He wouldn't stay with her ten minutes if he knew. Knew? If he had positive proof, I mean. Please, Carry, let us drop the subject. It's too odious to me. And the second candidate? We mustn't forget him. Sim Rosedale. I think, Carry I should like to go for a walk. Miss Bart. I've been hoping to meet you. I should have written if I'd dared. - I wanted to apologise. - Don't let us speak of it. - I was very sorry for you. - You must let me explain. - I was deceived. - I am more sorry for you, then. But you must see that I am not exactly the person with whom this subject can be discussed. Why not? It's you of all people I owe an explanation to. No explanation is necessary. The situation was perfectly clear to me. Miss Bart, don't turn away from me. You must understand that after everything that happened we cannot be friends again. Wasn't I punished enough at the time? Is there to be no respite? I should have thought you had complete respite in the reconciliation which was affected at my expense. Don't put it that way. All I ask you to understand is that... after the use that Bertha made of me after all that her behaviour has since implied it is impossible that you and I should meet. Please help me. I am sorry. There is nothing I can do. You must have other friends other advisors. I never had a friend like you. Besides, you're the only person who knows. After all you were there in Monte Carlo. You are mistaken. I saw nothing. I know nothing. Just say what you know and the way will be clear for us both. I know nothing. You're sacrificing both of us. I know nothing. Absolutely nothing. Who's gonna get you? Come along. You ought to be in bed. Yes, Mother. - Good night, Miss Bart. - Good night, Edith. Where are the others? I am your only fellow guest Miss Lily. I think Carry was trying to be subtle. - You look tired. - I've been sleeping badly. In fact, I came especially to see you. On a delicate matter. I hope you can believe that. Thank you, Mr Rosedale I do believe what you say. And I am ready to marry you whenever you wish. - But, Miss Lily... - For I suppose you do wish it. And though I was unable to consent when last we spoke I am ready, now that I know you so much better to entrust my happiness to your hands. My dear Miss Lily it seemed my suit was so hopeless that I really had no intention of renewing it. I have no one to blame but myself if I gave you the impression that my decision was final. Before we bid each other goodbye I want to thank you for once having thought of me as you did. Why do you talk of saying goodbye? Can't we still be good friends all the same? What is your idea of being good friends? Seeing me without asking me to marry you? Well, that's about the size of it. I like your frankness but I'm afraid our friendship cannot continue on those terms. Miss Lily, what I mean... Is that I'm not as desirable a match as once you thought me. Yes, that's what I do mean. I don't believe the stories about you but that won't alter the situation. If they're untrue doesn't that alter it? You know as well as I do last year you wouldn't look at me. Now you appear willing to do so. What's changed in the interval? Your situation. Then, you thought you could do better. You think you can? Yes, I do. I've done very well. Wall Street is under obligations that only 5th Avenue can repay. I know the quickest way to queer oneself with the right people is to be seen with the wrong ones. - I want to avoid mistakes. - I understand. Goodbye, Mr Rosedale. Why don't you use those letters of hers? Don't ask me how I know you bought them. I know. And I don't suppose you bought those letters simply because you wanted to collect autographs. You see, I know where you stand. You have Bertha in your power. You wish to be rehabilitated socially AND you have the means of your redemption. In a deal like this, nobody comes out with perfectly clean hands. If you're going to fight Bertha don't inflict an open injury. Reduce it to a private transaction. - Give and take, you mean? - Yes. - As in business. - Or politics. You see how simple it is? There's no point frightening Bertha into line. You have to keep her there. That's my part of the business. That's what I'm offering you. To reconcile with Bertha and then you will marry me? What do you say, Miss Lily? You are mistaken in the facts and what you infer from them! Well, I'll be damned. I suppose it's because the letters are to him? I thought we understood each other? We do now. Come in. It's such a blessing to have a quiet few weeks here. Thank you for inviting me here Carry. - I do love it in Tuxedo. - Yes. It's a pleasant house. One of my few treasured possessions. How are the Brys? Louisa Bry is a stern taskmaster. Love making people jealous is nothing to social ambition. By the way, I had a visit from Mattie Gormer the other day. She was with Bertha Dorset of all people. No doubt the rabbit always thinks it is fascinating the anaconda. Now they're fast friends, Mattie will sacrifice anything for her. Including me? My dear... the world is vile. - Lily. - Mrs Hatch, I'm not dressed! It doesn't matter. This is the 20th century, not the dark ages. Eat, then come to my rooms. We must go through my schedule. I'm leaving in 20 minutes so please be quick. I cannot find my prescription. Do you have it? You usually leave them on your bureau, Mrs Hatch. Of course. Get it filled for me today, Lily. Without chloral at night I never sleep. And I have to see my beauty doctor today to face society. The manicure will have to wait until tomorrow, put her off. Don't look sour, Lily she won't mind. She never minds. After lunch, it's Sherry's for tea. This evening is bridge with my lawyer. Eight, I think. I'll go for my fitting tomorrow but the exhibition is at four. Then supper... No, the theatre first and then supper. With so many changes, how shall I keep your diary accurately? Engagements are made to be broken especially with tradespeople. - They expect it. - Yes, Mrs Hatch. Friday I'm dining with Melville Stancy and, er... the Gormers. Yes, Mrs Hatch. Don't forget my prescription, Lily. It's on the bureau. Mrs Fisher was anxious to know how you were getting on. Why didn't she look me up herself, then? She was afraid of being importunate. You see, no such scruples restrained me. Then you have come to be of some use to me? - Yes. - So what am I to do with you? You could talk things over with me. What makes you think that I have anything to talk about? My initiative doesn't go beyond putting myself at your disposal. I shouldn't have come if I had thought I could be of no use. - Do you know where you are? - Of course I know where I am! You must let me take you away from here. If you've come to speak disagreeably about Mrs Hatch... It's your relationship that concerns me. That relationship is one that I have no reason to be ashamed of! She has helped me when old friends were content to see me starve. Nonsense! Starvation is not the only alternative. I know your aunt's legacy could make you independent. What you don't know is that I owe every penny of that legacy! Good God. Every penny, and more besides. I have no money except my small income and I need to earn money in order to keep myself alive. I should be happier to see you out of this particular employment. But I should not. I simply wish to point out the false position you have placed yourself in. I suppose by that you mean my being on the outside of society. But I have long been excluded from it. You once said only the insiders took the difference seriously. Mrs Hatch's desire to be inside may put you in the position I call false. You cannot want this! You've already told me the sole object of my upbringing was to teach me to get what I want. Now, why not assume that that is precisely what I am doing now? I have never thought of you as a successful example of that kind of upbringing. Well, give me more time. I may still do credit to my training. That was undignified. Where does dignity end and rectitude begin? - Good day, Miss Bart. - Good day, Mr Selden. She got five dollars and her picture in the paper. The hat? She got that yesterday. The one with the green paradise. It'll be ready right off. Madame asked me to alter that Virot hat. You know, she's tall, slight but her hair's all frizzed out. A lot like Mary Leach. Only thinner. Miss Bart. Look at these spangles. Every one of 'em sewed on crooked. I'm sorry. I'm afraid I'm not well. If you can't do better I'll give the hat to Miss Kilroy. Go back to binding edges. Miss Bart. I must draw your attention to the fact that your work is poor and your attendance irregular. Miss Haines is right. I am clumsy and slow to learn. I have been indisposed lately. But I will try to improve. It's too late for that - I took you on as a favour to Mrs Fisher but against my better judgement. As the season is nearly over I have to dispense with your services. I trust you'll find a position more suited to your skills. Thank you. How are you, Grace? Her memory is everywhere. The whole house. And you, Lily? How are you? You look dreadfully tired. I don't sleep at night. Since when? I don't... I can't remember. There are other worries. Dreadful things. What things? Poverty. I can't think of anything worse, can you? I can't go on this way much longer. Do you have any idea when the legacies will be paid? No, Lily. No one has received them yet. Not even me. The truth is, I need money, Grace. Would you be willing to lend me the amount of my legacy? You must be patient. Remember how beautifully patient Aunt Julia always was. But you will get everything, Grace. It would be so easy for you to borrow ten times the amount I am asking for. Borrow? I am at the end of my tether. You imagine for a moment that I would raise money upon my expectations from Aunt Julia? Why, Lily if you must know the truth it was the idea of your being in debt that brought on her last illness. You won't help me, then? If I can do anything to make you realise the folly of your course... and how deeply she disapproved of it... I shall feel it's the truest way of making up to you for her loss. Thank you, Grace. It was good of you to see me. Goodbye. Can I help? Mrs Hatch? You mustn't increase the dose, Mrs Hatch. Of course not. Miss Lily? What's the matter? I'm a little tired. It's nothing. Stay with me a moment, please. We can't stay here. Let me take you to the Longworth for some tea. Take your tea strong. I haven't seen you in ages. I-I wondered what had become of you. I have joined the working classes. I was trying to learn to become a milliner. - You can't be serious. - Perfectly serious. I understood that you were with Mrs Hatch. She dismissed me two months ago. After she gotten into society it seems my reputation had become a social liability. Since then I have been obliged to work for my living. Well, that wasn't for you anyhow. - I must go. - No, no. Rest a little longer. What did you mean when you said you were becoming a milliner? Just what I said. I am an apprentice at Madame Regina's. I was an apprentice at Madame Regina's. But I understood that you had received a legacy from your aunt. Ten thousand dollars. But it isn't paid until spring and anyway, I owe it already. - The whole ten thousand? - Every penny. I think Gus Trenor spoke to you once about having made me some money in stocks. He made me about nine thousand dollars. I knew nothing about business. I thought that he had invested my own money. In fact, what he had made he had given me. It was meant in kindness but it was not the sort of obligation I could remain under. I was incredibly stupid. I spent the money before I realised my mistake. And so my aunt's legacy must go to pay it back. That is why... That is why I must now work. That will clean you out altogether. Altogether. Yes. Miss Lily, if you want my backing... Thank you. Your tea has been a tremendous backing. I feel equal to anything now. - Surely this isn't the place? - Yes, I room and board here. I have lived too long on my friends. You can't go on living here. I have gone over my expenses very carefully and I rather think that I shall be able to manage it. - That's not what I mean. - It is what I mean. I shall be out of work now. What a way for you to talk. You, in a place like this. My situation is nothing exceptional. But you are! It's an outrage. Look here - it's none of my business but you must accept help from somebody. You spoke to me of your debt to Gus Trenor. Well, I'll lend you the money to pay him. Let me finish. It'll be purely a business arrangement. How can you have anything against that? Only this - that is exactly what Gus Trenor proposed. Once the debt is paid I shall have no security. I have been compromised once I cannot be so again. I am very grateful for your kindness but it is impossible. You must see that. We must try to think of your future. If you only knew what little difference that makes now. At least let me tell Selden where you're living. - It will do no good. - Please. Very well. You may tell him if you wish. If only you would let me help you you could wipe your feet on them. 'Why don't you use the letters? 'Lt would be so simple. 'Lt IS so simple.' Here today I will tell you about the plight of the poor people of Russia under the Tsar! Please inform Mrs Dorset that Miss Lily Bart wishes to speak with her. Mrs Dorset is not at home, Miss Bart. Then I should like to speak with Mr Dorset. I'm sorry, but the Mr and Mrs Dorset left for the country two days ago. Oh. Shall I take a message? No. No message. I can recommend the armchair. I came to say that I am sorry for the way we parted. For what I said to you that day at Mrs Hatch's. I was sorry, too. You look tired. Do sit down. Why, you're drenched. Let me make you some tea. No. I must go in a moment. I must go. I may not see you again for a long time and I wanted to tell you that I have never forgotten the things that you said to me at Bellomont. That they have helped keep me from becoming the person that many people thought me to be. I'm glad. But nothing I have said has made the difference. The difference is in yourself. No, don't say that. That is all that I have lived on. Don't take that from me. We resist the great temptations but it is the little ones that eventually pull us down. I remember your saying that such a life could never satisfy me and I was ashamed to admit that it could. That is what I wanted to thank you for. I have tried. I have tried hard. But life is difficult and I am a useless person. And now I am on the rubbish heap. Lily... can I help you? You told me once that you could help me only by loving me. Well, you did love me for a moment, and it helped me. But that moment is gone. And I let it go. And one must go on living. Lily, you mustn't speak in this way. Things may change, but... you could never go out of my life. Let us be friends. Then I shall feel safe whatever happens. What do you mean? What's going to happen? Nothing. Nothing is going to happen. But I should like some tea now. Goodbye, Lawrence. Ten thousand dollars. Ten... thousand dollars. Oh, Lily! Lily. Miss Bart? It's a great mercy. May I... May I see her... alone? Will it take long? It won't take long. Lily. Oh, Lily. I love you.
