 

                        Respected Gandhi-bhai, Seth Dada Abdullah Haji... our partner in South Africa has a big case in the court here Though we have engaged the best vakils and barristers... we do not have anyone who understands our language If you send your brother Mohandas here, he would be useful to us If they already have vakils and barristers what will you do? You will be just another clerk Anything is better than the corruption of our courts here, isn't it? But it is not even a year since you came back from London Look, they are going to pay me hundred pounds plus all my expenses And it is only going to be for a few months I don't think you should go Hari, don't put so much water on the Tulsi, it will die Come here. - You should stay here That's what I feel. - What am I going to do here in Rajkot? The children will miss you And what about you? Durban Harbour, May 1893 Seth Dada Abdullah? Gandhi-bhai? I'm Dada Abdullah. Welcome. This is Rustomji Seth Hello. - Hello I thought it might be you but you are in European dress... so I was a little confused. - It's my normal dress Come, let us take your luggage. - I'll manage Is a hotel far from here? - Hotel? You will stay with us at my house. - Please, come this way Did you have a good trip? - Yes How far is it to Pretoria? I could leave straightaway There is no hurry. My advocate Mr Baker will let you know when he needs you About the case I only know that someone owes you 40,000 pounds... and refuses to pay. - That someone is his own cousin Seth Tayab Haji Khan Mohammed. He's a very big man in Transvaal But before you go to Pretoria, you will need to understand... all the facts. Otherwise Tayab will try to influence you in his favour Besides, I also need to know your abilities How shall I begin? - I will take you to the court here Gandhi-bhai, it is nothing like anything you have seen in Bombay Good morning, Mr Eskam. - Hello Abdullah This is Mr Gandhi. He is a Bar of Law from London This is Mr Eskam. He's our attorney here, soon to be Attorney General Mr Gandhi is from Bombay, he is helping me with my case in Pretoria May he sit with you in court? Why not? Come this way, Gandhi Who is that next to you, Mr Eskam? Your Honour, this is Mr Gandhi, from Bombay. Member of the Bar Gandhi, remove your hat Your Honour, this is a turban, as worn by advocates in all courts in India Not here. Take it off Your Honour, according to our custom, I would show you disrespect... if I took off my turban. I would rather leave the court Gandhi-bhai, please... You were wearing a turban as well. They didn't ask you to remove yours We Muslim traders are allowed to keep our turbans in court... other Indians are not. - Then I shall give up my turban... and wear a hat. - No Gandhi-bhai... you will retain your turban as we do ours What am I getting into here? I came here to help you with your case... not to start a fight in the courts Be careful. Don't let Tayab Seth and his men steal secrets from you But I must get in touch with him. - Whatever for? He is your cousin. Don't you think it will be better to go in... for a mutual settlement? - Not with Tayab. I do not trust him He doesn't keep his word Tell me, do you have anything to read? Here... take this. It is an English translation of the Koran I think it will inspire you. - Thank you As soon as you get to Pretoria, send me a telegram Goodbye. - God be with you Hey coolie! What are you doing here? Conductor, there's a damn coolie in my compartment You are in the wrong compartment. All natives to travel in the band C'mon Sammy, don't give us any trouble. - I was issued a ticket... for this compartment and I insist on going in it No, you won't I will not leave this compartment. Where does it say... "Reserved for Europeans only"? Please show me Get off my train! - Pack him off Out you go, Sammy! - I will not leave the van! I will protest to the authorities In the luggage van! That's for you And why should you not fight in the course of Allah? And of those who being weak are ill-treated and oppressed Men, women and children whose cries... Our Lord, rescue us from this town... whose people are oppressors And raise for us from Thee, one who will protect The train to Gauteng will now depart All aboard Johannesburg! Pretoria! All passengers bound for Johannesburg and Pretoria can get on to this coach Where are you going? - Pretoria This ticket is not valid, Sammy. This was for yesterday's train But my principal had wired you about the change And the name is not Sammy. Please check. Gandhi is the name Oh yes, Gandhi Well, you can travel on the coachman's seat Aren't there any seats inside? - Only Europeans No natives and coolies. Sammy, you can take my seat next to the coachman I will travel inside. Get on, or we leave without you C'mon! Ya, ya! Ya, ya! C'mon! Sammy, sit down there. I want to set out to Navesburg I will do no such thing. You forced me to sit out here This is now my seat. - Be quiet, you coolie bastard! Get down, you! Start the coach! Filthy black bastard! Trying to emulate gentlemen, eh? - Stop it! Stop it this instant or I report you Enough is enough! Let him be. - Well... are you going to let him, or aren't you? Yes sir? - Get down there. I want to smoke Pretoria, May 1893 Mr Gandhi! Come in I hope you had a pleasant journey Hardly pleasant, Mr Baker. - Please take a seat I can't find a single hotel that will take me in I'm afraid there's a fearful amount of colour prejudice here I may be able to find you lodgings But I'm afraid they may not be upto your standards I know a poor widow who will take you in, because she needs the money Should we go and take a look? So when do I start work, Mr Baker? - Oh yes It's a pity we won't be able to use you as a barrister But you can assist me in communicating with Mr Abdullah... that will make things easier Are you a Mohammedan like Mr Abdullah? - No. A Hindu I'm afraid I don't know much about my own religion and even less so others I'm keen though to make a study of all religions Good, good Some of us meet everyday in the church at one o'clock to pray together Perhaps you'd like to join us. - Yes Let us pray O gracious and most merciful Lord... we pray that You will show the true path to the new brother... who has come amongst us And grant him, O Lord, the peace that Thou has shown us And may the Lord Jesus Christ, who died upon the cross to redeem us... from our sins and to save us from damnation, save him also And all this, we pray in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ and Saviour Amen. - Amen What is that you are wearing around your neck, Mr Gandhi? Is it some kind of talisman? - Oh, that is from my Mother Is it of religious significance? - Yes, in a way Superstition. You shouldn't be wearing charms around your neck, Mr Gandhi Why don't you take it off? - It will wear away with time All this binds you to superstition and ignorance You should free yourself from it, Mr Gandhi... and come to Christ. - If I am called, I will God bless you Hey you! Where do you think you are going, you coolie? This is the house of president Krueger. No coolie is allowed on the pavement What do you think you are doing, pushing him off like that? I told him this was the house of President Krueger, sir No coolie is allowed on this pavement. - Are you all right, Mr Gandhi? Yes Do you know who this is? This man is a barrister A man of a very high status Such men should be taught a lesson. Why don't you take him to court? I will be glad to testify. - No, I don't wish to charge him He is only following orders. All coloured men are the same type Did you hear that? - Sorry sir, I was only doing my duty That was a very Christian act, Mr Gandhi Is forgiveness a Christian monopoly, Mr Baker? Salaam, Tayab Seth Who are you, young man? - I'm Mohandas Gandhi I'm working on Seth Abdullah's case against you Oh! And he asked you to come and see me? No. He asked me to avoid you if I could He's afraid you might influence me in your favour My cousin is a very suspicious man May I make a suggestion? Wouldn't it be better for both of you to come to a mutual agreement? With Abdullah? - There's no harm in trying You don't want to spend your time and money on a court case, do you? All Abdullah wants to do is ruin me How can I come to an agreement with Abdullah? He expects me to sell off my assets and go bankrupt to repay him Do you know what that will do for my image in my community? Will you at least consider it? - Considered Have some sherbet Thank you I've heard that you have a lot of influence over the Indians here Somewhat. Why? It would be good to discuss the problems Indians face here I've been here for two days and it's been... difficult Do you think you could arrange for a meeting? I think it would help. - I think so, too To your left, Gandhi-bhai I see the road bothers you. - Why? Doesn't it bother you? Gandhi-bhai, many things bother us but the government just doesn't care I live with an English lady. Her street is very clean It would be. The municipality cleans those areas, they don't clean ours Why? Don't you pay your taxes? - Sure, we do They will still not clean our roads. - Then we should do it ourselves You are a strange young man My cousin hires you to fight a case against me, and yet you befriend me And now you want me to pick up a broom and sweep the streets What else would you have me do? - Reconcile with your cousin Yes! Sydenham, Durban Friends, may I have your attention please? We are gathered here to say farewell to our dear friend Mohandas Gandhi He has been with us for a few months, and in this short period of time... he has endeared himself to us He has achieved a great deal He has got Abdullah Seth and Tayab Seth to talk to each other And I'm very pleased to mention that they have agreed... to settle the case out of court Gandhi-bhai, you are a real miracle-worker He has got our people in Pretoria to get together... to talk about their problems and find solutions to these problems Gandhi-bhai, we will all miss you... - One minute, please Gandhi-bhai, do you know anything about this bill? What bill? - The new Indian Franchise Bill... before the Natal parliament How does that concern us? - It does, Rustom kaka. You are about to lose your vote What use is the vote to us anyway? Harry Eskam got us to vote for him once And he won it. Since then we haven't voted for anyone How does it matter now if they take away the vote? This is the first nail in the coffin. First you will lose your right to vote Then your right to trade, your right to property... and finally, your right to remain here as British citizens You mean they will kick us all out? - We must consult with Harry Eskam Harry Eskam is the one who has introduced the bill Then you must take the case How can I? I shall be leaving soon But there are so many young educated Indians here who can take up the case There are, but they are Christians. - So what? Let us be frank. They are not like us. - What difference does it make? Has it mattered that he is a Parsi and you are a Muslim and I a Hindu? Why should it matter whether they are Christians or that... they speak Tamil or Telegu? - Stay, Gandhi-bhai Postpone your going. I think you will be able to do something Are you worried about the money? - We can pay. What are your legal fees? Don't worry, all of us can pay. - No, I shall not take any fees But I shall need money for other things The first thing to do is to get the speaker of the Assembly... to postpone any further discussion on the bill until we present our petition Then we must get signatures to the petition from all Indians... including Christians And I'm going to need help from all of you So you will stay? - Yes, but only for a month Good morning, Mr Eskam. - Good morning, gentlemen What brings you to my neighbourhood? - House renting, sir Mr Gandhi is going to be your neighbour Really? He's moving into a house just down the road there Well gentlemen, let me not detain you Mr Eskam, I wonder if I could speak to you about a matter Mr Gandhi is applying to register as a barrister Would you mind proposing his name? - Well... We will pay your usual fees of course. - Of course That won't be necessary. Mr Gandhi, I'll see you in my chamber I must apologise for this informality. - It's all right He seems reluctant Don't worry, he'll do it. He's in our debt Your Honour, I oppose the application on behalf of the Natal Law of Society I beg to submit, the legal profession is reserved for Europeans The law, as it stands, makes no distinction... between Europeans and others The court has therefore no authority... to prevent Mr Gandhi being enrolled as an attorney We admit his application Mr Gandhi, you can take the oath I... state your name I, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi... do swear... - do swear... that I will truly and honestly demean myself... that I will truly and honestly demean myself... in the practice of law... - in the practice of law... according to the best of my knowledge and ability... according to the best of my knowledge and ability... and further... - and further... that I will be faithful to Her Majesty's colony of Natal that I will be faithful to Her Majesty's colony of Natal You must now submit to the rules of the court... with regard to the dress to be worn by practicing attorneys You can't wear your turban As Your Honour pleases I don't understand. Why did you take your turban off? Earlier you refused I was a visitor then, I'm an officer of this court now I cannot disregard a custom. - Yes, but I still think it's important... not to compromise on matter of principle, Gandhi-bhai The principle may be the same but the circumstances are different Gandhi-bhai, the point... - Rustom kaka... why quibble on minor matters? There are larger issues at stake There's still lot to be done. And you think a month is going to be enough? I think maybe you'll have to stay longer I've already considered that. It has taken more than a month... to get 10,000 signatures We need to form a regular association Something like the Indian National Congress Yes Friends... the Natal Indian Congress is born on this day... August 22nd, 1894 I thank you for electing me president And with Gandhi-bhai at my side as honorary secretary... my task will be made easy Gandhi-bhai... would you like to present the aims and objectives of the Congress? Our first aim is to bring about better understanding... between people of colour and... - Speak up, please. We can't hear you Our first aim is to bring about better understanding... between people of colour and Europeans in the colony Second; To spread information about Indian conditions here Third; To hear our grievances... and resort to constitutional means in resolving them Fourth; To enquire in to the conditions of indentured Indians... and to have them overcome their hardships Natal Indian Congress. M.K. Gandhi, Attorney This office is for helping Indians, they told me so in the bazaar Oh dear! What happened? On the chair! Mr Peters is my master. But he's not a good man This morning he beat me and beat me See, two teeth are broken. - Oh dear! You must help me, or else I will die He is a Girmithiya, he is indentured to one Mr Peters First let's get a doctor to dress his wounds. Try Dr Bose And make sure you get a certificate about his injuries Don't worry, we'll take care of you We'll take you to a magistrate and lay a complaint Then we'll get you released from your contract Then find a new kind master. What's your name? Balasundaram. I have no money It's all right, we have money There are many others like me Jadhubansi, why did your employer beat you? I was gone mad, sahab My baby was burnt My master gave no medicine Everyday my baby cried in pain Where was your baby? In the stable. - In the stable? We sleep in the stable How many of you? - Eight, sahab Eight women? - No. I'm the only woman All the others... they are men They are three Girmithiyas and four natives And your baby was all alone in the stable? I was... I was only allowed to feed him at midday Jadhubansi! Hurry! The mistress wants you. - Let me feed my baby. He's hungry Hurry! She wants you just now You clumsy girl! Now look what you've done! You will go without rations and wages for a week What are you looking at? Leave! My baby died, sir I couldn't go back to work So they beat me And they kicked me. For three days they didn't give me no food What would you like to do now? - I will not go back to that master, sahab They put me in jail four times because I couldn't go back there I will stay all my life in jail but I will not go back to that master Is there nothing else you'd rather do? I will go back to my village I didn't want to come They tricked me Will your people take you back? They are my people, sahab They are my people Your Honour, I request that Jadhubansi be released in my custody And that an order be made for her repatriation So be it. Granted All our time is being taken up with cases of indentured labourers Jadhubansi can be sent back because she has people back in India There're so many people like you, Vincent, this is the only country they know Employers only see them as contracted labour for 35 pounds per annum Either they work for their employer or they get shipped back And those that remain here are forced now to pay a toll tax of 25 pounds each It's terrible to ask a family of four to pay hundred pounds It's inhuman. The entire system of indentured labour is evil! I will petition the Viceroy in India when I get back to Bombay Maybe I shall inform the members of parliament in England too Vincent, perhaps I should write a pamphlet Why not? Incidentally, when are you bringing your family over? As soon as I wind up my affairs in Bombay Off Durban Harbour, Captain Mill! Captain Mill! Can you hear me? Yes, I do. Can I land my passengers? No, not yet. You're still flying the Quarantine flag Just a formality, sir. As we left Bombay, plague broke out You only left Bombay eighteen days ago You will remain quarantined in midstream until further notice Why aren't they allowing us to land? No, it's nothing. Stop worrying It's Dada Abdullah's ship, he's bound to do something But what if they don't allow us to land? What will happen then? Have we done the right thing to come? Why did you have to write that pamphlet? Mr Gandhi came to the colony... and enjoyed all the privileges the colony could afford Instead of facts, he has written a scandalous pamphlet against us He has dragged us into the gutter... and painted us black and filthy as his own skin There are thousands of coolies on those two ships out there... ready to invade the colony and take over our jobs They must be sent back. The government is refusing to do so Why? Because they are Her Majesty's subjects Order. State attorney Mr Eskam is here Gentlemen... I can assure you that the government is with you The entire legislative assembly is with you But the laws are not with you We will pass new laws to prevent Indians immigrating to the colony What about the coolies on the ships? As far as the Indians on the Quoelend and the DRA are concerned... we will keep the quarantine up until they leave of their own accord I have with me an ultimatum from the Anti-lndian committee... which is being formed to prevent the landing of your passengers I must inform your passengers of its contents All passengers who are desirous of settling in Natal... are ignorant of the state of feeling here in Durban But we have it from the Attorney General Harry Eskam that... if you people are willing to return to India, the colony will pay the expense We desire an answer before the ship comes alongside the wharf Whether you elect to return to India or force a landing against... the thousands of men who are ready and waiting to oppose your landing. Silence! Silence! Silence! You cannot be stopped from landing, legally You are being quarantined. We are now to anchorage for 26 days And each day costs my company 150 pounds That does not matter. What is important is our dignity I will fight with you to the bitter end Quarantine, or no quarantine, you will all disembark The government is responsible for your safety We have every right to land and we will land Please inform the Anti-lndian Committee that we do not agree to return We are now ready to effect a landing I have instructed my men not to allow any demonstrators on board If they do, the Union Jack will be lowered and presented to them They dare not molest you if we surrender the flag I ask you to be calm, and don't panic Good luck to you all Let me pass, please Fellow citizens, you have won your battle The government bows to your wishes The legislative assembly will pass the necessary legislation... to restrict future Indian immigration You will soon be armed with this law But you do not have this law now. So you must allow these Indians... to disembark peacefully Go back to your homes now and leave the rest to your government Mr Gandhi! A message to Mr Gandhi! Yes Kastur... - Yes? Mr Eskam has sent me a note. He doesn't want me to land with the others He wants me to leave after dark with police escort You'd better go ahead with the boys, I'll join you later No, we go with you. - Don't worry about me I'll be all right. Dada Abdullah is waiting in his carriage He will take you to Rustom kaka's house. Here, take this Manilal... - Hari, hold Mani's hand Now, carefully I'm Lawrence Mr Abdullah sent me to ask why you are not going ashore Mr Eskam has asked me to wait until dark and only leave with police escort Nonsense! Are you a thief to steal away in the night? The town is already full of talk of how scared you are Why? I have nothing to be afraid of. It's just that... Mr Eskam has shown concern and I have deferred to his request Deferred to Eskam? Do you not know that he is behind the anti-lndian demonstrations? If you sneak away in the dark, he will have proved that you are a coward Well then, let's go Gandhi! It's Gandhi! Mr Gandhi... Mr Gandhi, are you all right? Those hooligans. You should have them all arrested I couldn't let that crowd attack you. You should lodge a complaint My husband will gladly record your statement I think I've been vindicated Their act of violence was just a result of their ignorance I must get to my family. They will be anxious Of course. I will have you escorted. I'm superintendent Alexander And this is my wife. See to it that Mr Gandhi gets home safely Thank you I'm sorry you were assaulted. I apologise on behalf of the people of Durban The Prime Minister of England has cabled us that... your assailants must be prosecuted. Are you able to identify anybody? Perhaps one or two. But I do not wish to prosecute them, sir They were only acting on the information given to them... by their leaders, which includes yourself and the government of Natal Will you or the government of Natal prosecute yourself, sir? If you had followed my advice there would've been no attack I should not have doubted your intention. That was a mistake Mr Gandhi, a word of friendly advice This is not England or even India Here, in South Africa, the interests of the European settlers come first Otherwise we stand to lose everything to the natives Her Majesty's government knows this, and so should you Writing that pamphlet was not a wise thing to do In such matters, sir, it is better not to be wise "And so we settled down in South Africa" "Bapu's law practice was doing well" "And his involvement with the Indian cause kept him very busy" Hari... come here and take this inside Don't be clumsy "But he seem to have changed" "Having other people serving you hand and foot" "now appeared wrong to him" "He wanted to live more simply" "But this was not so easy on our children or me" Why are you keeping him from his studies? If the boys are going to do all this when will they study? And when are you sending them to school? We've gone into that before. The local Indian schools are of no use to them And I will not use my influence to get them admitted into European schools I don't want any special concessions for my children I'll teach them myself. - You don't have the time Will you give up your law practice and everything else to teach them? The outcaste has forgotten to clean his chamber pot. Can you hear me? Your outcaste has forgotten to clean his chamber pot So? You clean it. - I will not I will not clean the chamber pot of anybody and everybody Look, I've tolerated it so far because of you And now you want me to clean the chamber pot of an untouchable? No one is untouchable This is so wrong! Have you forgotten your religion, your beliefs? Don't you care for these things? I will not listen to such nonsense. If you don't do it, then I will Give it to me Don't act as if I'm forcing you because this won't do in my house Your house, your wife, your children, your guests! All right, keep them all to yourself. I'm leaving You want to go? You want to go? Then leave now Get out of my house this very minute! - Leave me! What are you doing? What are you doing? Have you no shame? You are pushing me out in this condition? Where am I to go? And just because I'm your wife, I have to put up with your nonsense? Just behave yourself. What will the neighbours think? I'll do it And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor... and though I give my body to be burned and have no charity... it profits me nothing Charity suffereth long and is kind Kastur... what is it? What is it? Has the time come? - Get the midwife Hari! Go and call Rukhmaniben quickly. Go Is it bad? - Yes She'll be here soon It's all right, don't worry It's going to be all right. I'm here, it's going to be all right Okay, now just breathe hard, breathe from your mouth Slowly... yes, all right Slowly Slowly Don't push so hard. Yes... If you are going to push so hard, you'll have a tear I won't know what to do All right... yes Another boy How are you feeling? You would have made an excellent midwife Durban 1899 So the British are going to fight the Boers No matter who wins, we remain exactly where we are I still think we must support the British Why should we? The British treat us not better than the Boers My British friends assure me that one of the issues in this war is... Indian rights in the Transvaal. - Nonsense The Boers are fighting for their freedom. Why should we have to crush them? The goldmines in Transvaal is what the British want to grab That is what this war is all about. Gold Haven't we claimed to be British citizens in every single petition? This is the chance to prove it. - Prove what? The whites are fighting amongst themselves. Let them It's not that simple. We are always being accused of being parasites What you want us to do? March out on the roads with those volunteers? Are you serious? - I don't know how to be a soldier I don't even know how to fire a gun Rustom kaka, there are other ways to serve Mother, a letter for you Read this for me "My respected wife Kastur" "I hope this letter finds you and the boys well" Our stretcher corps is in the thick of battle The British army met with reverse after reverse in the beginning of the war And large numbers were wounded Carrying the wounded 7 or 8 miles on foot is part of our daily routine Sometimes we carry badly wounded soldiers over a distance of 25 miles Though our work is supposed to be outside the firing line... the action at Spioenkop found us in the midst of battle Water The war is coming to an end I should be back soon Our work is being appreciated and everyone believes that... Indian grievances are surely going to be addressed The attitudes of the whites appear to have changed I think that my work in South Africa is now over We will soon be going home Aren't these farewell gifts beautiful? - Yes This one was given by Rustom kaka, wasn't it? Yes. - It's pretty And this... this is a diamond necklace From Madrasis. - Oh Madrasis! And this one... this gold chain. Do you see that? From Gujarati Hindus. It is in your name, Ma Yeah. This will be for your bride Now if you have finished with all this admiring... please go and put that in the safe Give it to me, Mani What do you think? Shall we keep all this jewellery? Do we need such costly presents? What do you say, Mani? - Bapu, we don't need them Shall we return them? - But we would need them later Why would we need them later? Now will you plead them with your mother to return these costly jewels? Mother, we've decided. - We've decided to give them back If your father wants to be a recluse, let him. You don't have to follow him Bapu is right. Why do we need them? - You keep quiet I'm talking to your father You may not, but I need these jewels for my daughters-in-law When the time comes, you can ask me. - Ask you? You are the one who sold my jewellery, all that my Father gave me And now you're going to get jewels for my daughters-in-law? I will not allow these to be returned And that necklace with 50 guineas. That was given to me What right do you have to return it? - These jewels were given to me... for my services to the community Here I work night and day. Is that no service? I have lived like an untouchable serving all and sundry I'm going to write to Rustom kaka, returning all these jewels They should be kept in a trust for the community You're just a hard, uncaring man After five years in South Africa, we came back to India Of our four boys, Ramdas and Devdas were born there Bapu established his office in Bombay and his law practice was picking up Just when we seemed to be settling down... a cable arrived from South Africa with unsettling news Without a second thought... Bapu departed for South Africa, leaving us behind When the British took over Transvaal we thought things would become better But they only became worse All of us are keen that you represent us They put restrictions on our owning property here Lands leased by us are being confiscated Now this new Asiatic department that was set up to help us... is doing quite the opposite. That's why we sent for you, Gandhi-bhai This Mr Farlow is an old India hand, not easy to deal with Mr Farlow will see you now Good morning, Mr Farlow This is Mr Mohandas Gandhi, Mr Farlow Gandhi? How did he get into the Transvaal? Mr Alexander, the Natal chief of police... was kind enough to issue me a permit, sir Alexander must've given you a permit through oversight You are not a Transvaal domiciled Indian I have lived in Pretoria for a whole year That was in the Boer Republic, not the British colony I represent the crown here. You may not wait on Mr Chamberlain You may go now How dare he insult you? - Patience, Naidu. Patience Just a moment, Mr Tayab Tayab! Look, Mr Chamberlain does not want to see Gandhi again He's already met him in Durban Why do you insist on including him in your delegation? He does not live here. What does he know of your conditions? I suppose you do, Mr Farlow If you can't come with us, we'll cancel the writ petition Don't do that. They will think we haven't got a case What do you mean? Allow Farlow to treat you like this? I'll break his bloody legs! - Naidu, will that solve our problem? No. Violence is not the answer, neither are petitions and delegations We must mobilise Indian opinion. Yes, we need our own mouthpiece Mouthpiece? We have you My voice is not loud enough I was thinking of our own newspaper Something that reflects our own viewpoint My young friend Madanjeet has a printing press Yes "Indian Opinion" Show us your permit We'll deport anyone who does not have a residential permit Prepare yourself for relocation elsewhere "Outbreak of Plague in Coolie Locations" Gandhi-bhai, isn't the plague contagious? Highly contagious You want to leave? - No, it's fine "Plague Recedes. Indian volunteers show exemplary courage" Good morning, Mr Gandhi. - Good morning We read your letter about the plague in the newspaper We would like to offer our services. - That's very kind of you Fortunately, we've come to the end of our nursing duties Unless of course we have new patients. Heaven forbid Is there anything at all we can do? I'm Henry Pollock I write for the Transvaal Critic. - The Critic? You are the one who wrote on the Indian question I stand accused. Mr Albert West. He runs a printing press Perhaps we can print some pamphlets for you Printing press? Well, we publish The Indian Opinion Madanjeet here manages the press Well, as you can see he is in no position to do so at the moment Would you like to go to Durban to run the press for us? We can offer you a salary of 10 pounds a month and a share in the profits Well, I can leave tomorrow if you like Mr Pollock, perhaps you would like to write for The Indian Opinion Though the Indian Opinion became a powerful weapon for the Indian cause... Albert West was unable to keep the paper from going bankrupt Bapu was reluctant to shut down the paper, and I was worried... because it was using up all our savings Have you decided what you want to do with The Indian Opinion? I don't want to shut it down I think I owe it to Albert. He's been working without pay all this time How can you afford to keep it going? We'll have to make it pay for itself We should not have stopped taking advertisements The aim of journalism is service, Henry, not commerce What are you reading? - Would you like to read it? John Ruskin "Unto This Last" Reading that little book, Bapu found the direction he was seeking I can't speak for anyone else. But I'm willing to work without wages It won't work! It is better to close it down No, I don't agree Maybe we should reduce our wants and live a simpler life I think if we grow our own food and build simple huts to live in... we don't need any wages. - What kind of a pipe-dream is that? You know what Ruskin says? The life of the tiller of soil and weaver of cloth is worth living Whatever the labour, that of the barrister or that of the scavenger... is equal in value All labour is equal. All men and women are equal And the good of the individual is contained in the good of all I want to get a farm and put the printing press there The paper is a business, it cannot be run from a farm It's an idea worth considering. Don't you see what Gandhi-bhai is driving at? The Indian Opinion has not been a business, it's a labour of love Well, count me out of it. I'm going back to India I didn't come here to be a peasant Gandhi-bhai, we are with you. I will join you with my family Have you found a farm yet? Not yet. But I will Hello there Hello. I'm Mohandas Gandhi Oh, Mr Gandhi! I'm Dube. Reverend John Dube What brings you here? - We are planning a settlement here Settlement? That's interesting. - Well, we're trying to emulate you I know of your excellent school here and I've seen your paper... The Alangalaze Natal. - Yes Your Indian Opinion and my paper used the same press for a while Yes, we're going to be neighbours soon. We have a lot in common Above all, we have God in common Yes. Goodbye Bye now "Enclosed are the latest copies of The Indian Opinion" "From this you can get much of the news here" "I thought I'd return to India in a few months but now it seems unlikely" "If your mother decides to join me, you are to come with her"... "bringing Ramdas and Devdas. Manilal could stay on in Bombay"... "with cousin Chaganlal, to continue his studies. Your loving Father" But I don't want to stay here. - Then you go with Mother I'll stay and finish my school Is that the real reason you want to stay back? I know Haridas kaka's promise to marry Chanchal to you I also know that the two of you are meeting each other So? Your father doesn't want you to marry before you are twenty-one With what are you going to support your wife? Once I'm properly educated, I can. Why not? What will I tell your father then? Here... this way Johannesburg Station, December 1904 What is this? Did you have an accident? - Some nuts fell off the sails... of the ship. And I got my finger stuck in the window of the train Very careless We shall have to put you both right with mud-packs You haven't told me why Harilal is not here Bapu, Harilal is going to marry Chanchal But I had written to them that they were not to get married... until they were older. He's not even twenty Yes, but Hari was afraid that the girl's family will not wait If he wants to get married in spite of what I told him, then it's his business But I will stop thinking of him as a son You can't do that. - At least for the present That boy was conceived in a moment of lust It seems to have affected his nature He who directs himself through dedicated action... free from attachment, in full control of his senses, excels He who directs himself through dedicated action... free from attachment, in full control... Shall we prepare the room upstairs for Hari and Chanchal? He should only bring her here when he can support her Why? We will look after her A little separation will do him no harm The Geeta says we must be free from attachment You say anything that comes to your mind Why are we born then if we have to give up this and that? Kastur, to earn merit, we must learn to give up something Haven't we managed well without servants? I think we must give this house up and go and live in Phoenix... on our settlement I have also decided that from now on... we shall use up all our savings for community service You want us to give up this house? You want us to give up everything! I haven't said we must give up everything. But we must learn... to live without possessions. - But what's the point in living... if we cannot even keep the little what we have? We have each other Did I have a choice in the matter? You do love me I do, for better or worse For better, I know Having you by my side is the best thing in my life After serving others, of course What kind of pest is that? Reverend Dube! Has something happened? - Twelve of our people... have been blown up at the mouth of the cannon by the British... as revenge for the killing of two tax collectors by Bombata's men They took twelve lives for two. - That's terrible news What's going to happen now? - We running in revolt... against the poll tax. We have a war in our hands, I'm telling you I want to revive the stretcher corps. - What...? Why should we? Why should we offer our services to help the government to put down chief Bombata's rebellion? After the Boer war what did we get? Just false promises, that's all Gandhi-bhai, the Zulus are protesting against the poll tax just as we are Would you call that a rebellion? They want to force the Zulu farmers off their land and into their mines... and into their plantations. That's it. - Yes I know that justice is clearly on the side of the Zulus But as long as we are British subjects, we will have to support the government Gandhi-bhai! Come this way! Bring that body over there Put it behind Yes, leave a little space Who did this? These are not battle wounds. - They were flogged Flogged? Why? The General ordered them flogged They were taken prisoner as suspects and then left unattended... for further punishment. - Where is the nursing staff? They absolutely refused to attend to these people Isn't it their duty as human beings? Perhaps you and your men would help. I know it's not part of your duties But some of these people haven't been attended to for four days This isn't war! It's a manhunt! Aren't you coming to bed? I can't... get over the horror... the suffering I've seen on the battlefield You know, Kastur, when I was carrying the wounded and the dead... I felt so small... so inadequate How can I help those who suffer if I can't share their burden of pain? If I have to serve others, I have to empty myself of all desires... detach myself from all ties. Wealth, family... wife You wish to leave me? I want to free myself... from desire for you Will you help me, Kastur? I can do it But for you to control your desire... is like gathering an ocean in a tea cup This new Bill will require all of our Indians above the age of eight... "Empire Theatre, Johannesburg. September 1906" men, women or child, to carry an identity pass To get this pass, each one of us must give thumb and finger impressions... like criminals! - No! No! Those who do not register before the registrar of Asiatics... will lose the right of residence, can be fined, imprisoned, even deported No! - This pass has to produced on demand... even when you are away and your wife is alone at home... the police can enter and order her to produce her pass Will you accept this? - No Today those with coloured skins need this passport... but those whose skins are white need only the passport of their skins This is the equality we were promised by Queen Victoria We will not submit to this oppression I will not submit to this Bill And if any police officer comes to take my wife's fingerprints... I will die before I let him enter my house This is the war of principles and Jehad! To our mission! - May Allah bring glory! As Allah as my witness, I swear that I will not give my fingerprints... or carry a pass like a criminal. How many of you are prepared to join me? Haji Habib has asked you to take an oath in the name of God Each one must search his own heart and only take this solemn oath... because his conscience allows him to do so Not under any force. No Our demands are just Therefore our means must be truthful Satyagraha (Non-violent Protest) Is based on truth And truth means that our action cannot be violent Violence only begets greater violence It does not mean that we shall not undergo any suffering Because it is only through suffering that... we can change the hearts and minds of those that oppress us I ask each one of you to pray silently to God within yourself... to give us strength to face the struggle ahead Please do not register! This is a black Bill! We don't want any of our people to submit to it. Please go back Please do not register. Don't do it This is a black bill! Leave! Do not register Go! This is a black Bill It's a black Bill! Don't register You are a merchant, Mr Cachalia? - I was a merchant, until a few days ago What happened? - Your Honour... what happened to him a week ago is of no relevance to the case The accused has refused to register in terms of the Asiatic Act... as he is required to. - Your Honour, I intend to show... that the two are interrelated. - Proceed, Mr Gandhi Mr Cachalia, would you please tell the court what happened to you a week ago? My creditors forced me to liquidate all my assets to pay them out Since then they have refused to give me any more goods I had to shut down my business. They declared me insolvent Were you insolvent? - No, Your Honour I paid them out. 20 shillings to the pound This doesn't make sense. - Your Honour, when an Indian... refuses to register, the matter is not confined to the law enforcing agency All the prejudice of the white community descend on him Mr Cachalia's creditors declared him insolvent, because... in their own words, they resented his involvement with Satyagraha What is that? - Passive resistance, Your Honour Surely, they have a point there. All that Mr Cachalia's creditors... wanted was the security that he remains solvent by not dabbling in politics Was there any danger of your becoming insolvent... because you refused to register? - No, Your Honour What is your response to the charge against you? I cherish my freedom and my honour I will never register and I will never carry a pass Your Honour, it would mean giving up my freedom and demeaning my person And I would never do that I find you guilty as charged and sentence you to 3 months hard labour... with the option of a fine of 300 pounds Why aren't you working? - I don't like this work You don't like this work? You bloody coolie! If I say you work, you better work You piece of shit! Pigs! If I say you work, you work! Oh God! What do you think this is? Labour camp? Silence in court Proceed In the case of Rex versus Gandhi, the defendant entered the colony, and... was ordered to register or leave within 48 hours on the 28th of December He failed to do so Any questions? If the court permits, I wish to make a statement Please make it short My compatriots have been tried for the same offence They have been sentenced to three months' imprisonment and a heavy fine If they have committed an offence then I have committed a greater offence I therefore ask for the heaviest penalty You ask for the heaviest sentence under the law? Yes sir Silence in court That is strictly out of proportion. Your offence was contempt of court... for having disobeyed that order of December the 28th And this essentially a political offence And had it not been for your defiance of the law... the court would have passed a lightest possible sentence In the circumstances, two months simple imprisonment is fair Victory to Gandhi Baba! Victory to Gandhi Baba! Long live Gandhi Baba! Long live Gandhi Baba! Salutations to our Motherland! Salutations to our Motherland! Gandhi... I would like you to come to my office Are you all right, Mr Gandhi? As well as it could be under the circumstances General Smuts has sent me to you with an offer I discussed it with the president of your association and the other leaders They have left the matter entirely in your hands What is the offer? - I have it here Mr Gandhi for you, sir So... you are Mr Gandhi! I'm sorry you've had to suffer imprisonment Suffering is part of living, General Smuts You know that as well as I do. You have seen war Yes, indeed. I understand you are helping the British against us And now you have come to terms with them You know Mr Gandhi, I admire your people They didn't lose heart when their leader was in prison They went on regardless You can be proud of your followers. - Yes, I am Yet, you despise us. - No, no, I don't. I assure you I have studied law in England just like yourself Many of my fellow students were Indians. Splendid chaps But here, I represent European interest They want this law. If I defy them, they will turn against me That is democracy for you. - Of course Democracy is solely the birthright of Europeans I have consulted with General Bota Once your people undergo voluntary registration, I assure you... I will repeal the act No registration with fingerprints This is an emotional issue with my people Where necessary, finger impressions will have to given But we will waive this in exceptional cases We will not tolerate harassment of those who cooperate with us General Smuts, so far we have been dissuading people from registering Now you want us to persuade them to register That's easier said than done Well, that concludes our business I will send you a draft of the Bill for your comments As of this moment, you are free to go. - What about the others? They will be released tomorrow morning I have a small problem I have no money How much do you need? Just the fare to Johannesburg. Thank you Curious! My friends, the truth of our struggle has forced the government... to release our people from jail But as a compromise they insist that we register ourselves voluntarily After which, the Asiatic Act will be repealed First the government must take back the Black Act, only then will we register But then the Europeans may say that General Smuts has given in to us Gandhi-bhai, what if Smuts does not repeal the Act? He said that he will. We must have faith in him We should not always mistrust our enemy Do we have to give our fingerprints? - Yes and no We must give our fingerprints but those who feel that it is against... your religion or conscience, may just give their thumb impressions What will you do? - I will give all ten fingerprints You traitor! You have turned against us You said that only criminals give fingerprints And now you want us to become criminals! Mir Alam, I have nothing against fingerprints, but against being forced If you force me to salute you, I would be demeaning myself But if I salute you of my own accord, it shows my humility, my good manners I have heard that you are getting 15,000 pounds to be betray us We will never give fingerprints, nor will we allow anyone else to do so I swear, as Allah is my witness... I will kill any man who applies for registration Then you will have to kill me first Because I'm going to be the first one to register Where do you think you are going? - I'm going to register By giving ten fingerprints? - If you come with me... I will get you a certificate with only two thumb impressions Traitor! Traitor! Are you all right, Mr Gandhi? Reverend Doke! - How do you feel? All right Just some pain in my chest and my teeth hurt Where's Mir Alam? He's been arrested, his companions as well No, they should be released That can be arranged later. You are our concern now I shall take you to my home. - No, I can't I can't. - But you will be safer there I have nothing to fear How are you, Mr Gandhi? Not well enough to make it to your office, Mr Chamberlain I wanted to be the first to register I brought your papers with me No one is willing to register unless you do First the signing And then the fingerprints, I'm afraid You need this Thank you We've been betrayed! Smuts has introduced a new bill in parliament What are you saying? - He has withdrawn the Black Act... only to introduce a new one, calling for compulsory registration... of all Indians, even children. - See Gandhi-bhai... you were wrong to trust him. - He gave me his word... he would withdraw the act. - You should've got it in writing You are too trusting, Gandhi-bhai A satyagrahi (Follower of non-violence) has to trust his opponent... even if his opponent plays him false twenty times You will one day meet your death in satyagraha... and drag poor mortals like us along with you What do we do now? - Resume Satyagraha. What else? I have here a telegram from the Governor Transvaal government regrets determination of Asians... to oppose new bill and announces inability to withdraw bill Please, please Our demands have been rejected. Two new bills have been passed One to register all Asians in South Africa And the other to close the door... to all those except indentured labourers who may wish to come here This is the most drastic kind of legislation that could've been... passed in the empire. If we submit now then we shall be traitors... to our country, to God and to our oath We have come here today to get rid of our dog-collars... to burn these certificates of our humiliations May I ask all those who wish to burn their certificates to come forward? Gandhi-bhai, I want to be the first to burn my certificate I was wrong to attack you as I did. Please forgive me Victory to Gandhi Baba! Victory to Gandhi Baba! Gentlemen, what are you here for? - For our conscience' sake Conscience be damned! Strip What...? All of us together? - Yes, all of you What do you think? I'm going to examine you individually? Excuse me, sir. I'm not feeling very well, sir You are just too bloody fat Some good hard labour will soon put you right Now strip! Good to see you looking so happy, Hari. It seems jail suits you Bapu, I've been here more times than you have I hope this is the last time Bapu... after it is over, you must allow me to study further Why? You are helping our cause better this way Bapu, I want to prove my status, like you did by studying in England Why are you sending Chaganlal to England and not me? Chaganlal's family has sacrificed everything to join us in Phoenix Your cousin is single-handedly running The Indian Opinion His education will better our cause. - You think he's devoted to the cause? Once Chagan gets to England he will not come back Even now all he does is to complain about us to everyone in Phoenix Harilal does this, Harilal does that! And he says Mother makes the presser boys do her personal work All right, that's enough. - What is going on? No talking. Get on with your work Disperse, all of you, before I call the police Mr Gandhi, you are attracting too much attention here We are taking you to another prison Mr Gandhi, where are you going? My little one! Olive, come here Why don't you eat? I don't eat animal flesh Why are you here? You are suffering so much What did you do? I refused to carry the Dom pass What about the others? They don't want to carry them You are ill No, I just need some fresh air You are a good man Thank you Open the door Gandhi, your wife is critically ill I have orders for your release. But you must pay the fine first That I will never do If you will post a letter for me, I would be very grateful Very well "My dear Kastur" "I can only come if I agree to pay the fine, which I refuse to do" "If you keep up your courage and take the necessary nutrition" "you will recover while I'm still in jail" "If in keeping with my fate, you pass away" "I should only say that I love you dearly" "But even if you are dead, you are alive to me" "God willing, you will live. Your devoted husband" Stop pacing backwards and forwards and wearing out the floor! Get some sleep. You are to be released in the morning A small operation will stop the bleeding But she is very anaemic, and she has lost a lot of weight I can't risk giving her chloroform Kastur... have you heard what the doctor said? If it is necessary let him do it But first I must build up her strength. I will give her Beef tea No Then it is impossible for me to treat her I will not risk her dying under my care Now, first we'll have to change your diet It would be good if you give up salt and lentil It will make you feel much better You always want me to give up things It's only for your own good Let it be. Leave my lentil and salt Why me? Even you can't give it up All right... then from today I shall give up salt and lentil for a whole year Good Lord! Why did I provoke you? I'll give up salt and lentil But please take back your vow, or I'll never forgive myself Please Kastur, don't blame yourself A diet without salt and lentil will only improve your health And a vow once taken, cannot be revoked Stupid... just stupid Why are you so selfish? Your vow! Your satyagraha! Our wishes do not count. It is only what you want that matters It's all right, Hari Bapu, I want to talk to you Why don't you send me to England now that Chaganlal... has stopped his studies and run away to India? Hari, I need you here Bapu, I beg of you to send me to England. I can be something I know, I can I have decided to send Shahpurji Adajania in Chagan's place He is a brilliant student. - I might have been brilliant too... if you only let me. But you treat us like animals in a circus We must always dance to your tunes. - Hari... don't let anger get the better of you. - We are all victims of your fads You took a vow of abstinence even though you are married And yet you expect Mother to go on serving you You want all of us to follow your example It seems that I have failed you. - Yes, you have You are simply using us to satisfy your own ego If you feel that your father has done you wrong, then you must forgive him You are doing all this for the Indian community How does living in poverty, abstinence, manual labour... not eating this or that, get us our political rights? If you had made money or given your family a decent life... and educated your children, would I ask you all this? "Bapu, I have left for India as it has become" "unbearable for me to be with you any longer" "Our differences cannot be reconciled. Your son Hari" I knew this would happen Will I have stopped him? I would never have stopped him At least he could've said goodbye You know he hurts easily He's always been a sensitive boy Then, God will do His will I cannot sit and brood over my personal problems There is lots of work to be done Lots of work to be done Mohan-bhai, I would like to introduce you to a well known architect... Mr Herman Cullinburg. He's a great devotee of Tolstoy That makes two of us Haven't I seen you somewhere before? - I attended your lecture on the Geeta I see you're not celebrating this great occasion of the union of South Africa Not much fun for us, Mr Cullinburg There are still so many of us in prison We have nowhere to put their families. - Herman has an offer concerning that Yes, I own about a hundred acres near Lorli, not far from here It is rather neglected. But I could let you have it... free of rent, of course. - You take my breath away You see, we can now have a second Phoenix Farm Why Phoenix? We shall call it Tolstoy Farm How much longer do you intend to keep up the struggle? Until the government withdraws the Anti-Asiatic Act Mohan-bhai, there is no end in sight. And the traders... who have so far been funding you, have lost heart I have faith in our cause So Gandhi, my boy, I'm sorry for you Put up a clean fight, but now your movement is running out of steam You know, I want peace, but my hands are tied The Act cannot be amended I see no difficulty. - The whites will not accept it I have already conceded everything else You and your families will be protected We don't need your protection All we want is that you put an end to racial discrimination We refuse to be treated as outcasts because of the colour of our skin You are not stating it fairly Then would you care to state it in your own words, sir? Look, there are only a handful of Europeans in South Africa As it is, we have enough trouble with the natives We cannot have anymore Asiatics coming here and causing further problems And that is not discrimination for you? It is particularly bad in the Orange Free State The Free Staters will not have one more Indian No Indian would care to be in the Orange Free State either It's just that we will not tolerate a racial bar If you'll show me the Free State law, I'll show you how you can amend it Bring me a copy of the Free State law So Mr Gandhi, what are you doing now? Looking after the families of the passive resisters It is no pleasure to imprison these people Are you still practicing law? - No, not at present Then what are you doing for a living? Have you plenty of money? I'm living as a pauper just as the others on Tolstoy Farm Tolstoy Farm? - Yes. Mr Cullinburg's farm Oh Cullinburg! He is an admirer of yours, isn't he? No, I wouldn't say an admirer. He is a good friend I must come and see the farm. Where is it? Near Lorli. Why don't you come and join us? Yes, to oppose General Smuts Caught you! Caught you! Smuts has pulled the wool over our eyes again, Gandhi-bhai The new lmmigration Act has been gazetted Asians will now be debarred from the entire country... not just the Orange Free State Neither have they abolished the poll tax Rogues! Humbugs! That's what they are There is something new. Justice Sol's judgement He decrees marriages conducted according to our religious rites... are illegal because they are not registered Well, then I think satyagraha must be revived Our people have lost heart, Gandhi-bhai So many years of struggle with nothing to show How many satyagrahis can we get hold of? A few. About forty maybe I think a handful would be enough. We shall begin with the women Women? - Yes Your wife from Tolstoy, my wife from Phoenix Have you heard something? - What is it? You are no longer my wedded wife Who said so? You create new problems every day Not I, the government Our marriage is not registered like a Christian one So it is illegal. Therefore you are no longer my wife but my concubine Where do these useless people get such stupid ideas? Are you prepared to fight to become my wife once more? You want me to go to jail? No, I don't want you to go. You must make your own choice Why? Won't you ask me? - You must make up your own mind Maybe you shouldn't go. Your health is not so good All of a sudden my health has become so important If I can survive you, I can survive satyagraha If you are not successful, you may have to go to jail again and again... even if you find that there is no one to look after your children Are you all prepared for that? Because it is not too late to change your mind Anyone who wants to, may stay behind But remember that you are going to jail not just to defend your honour... but to fight for the rights of Indians in South Africa And I assure you, it's not going to be easy "O King of the Raghukul Dynasty, Lord Ram" "You are the One who purifies all evil, Sita Ram" "Your name is God in any form" "Bless us all, O Lord" Gandhi-bhai, we have heard that Kasturba Devi and other friends... in Phoenix are in jail. We would also like to offer satyagraha Yes, of course But they might not arrest you If they don't, you go to the miners and persuade them... to strike against the poll tax. They may not strike... but you will get arrested for inciting them The government has gone back on its word. It promised... to abolish the poll tax but you still have to pay three pounds... when your contract expires or go back to India. Are you willing to pay? No! Then strike! Stop your work now. We have left our homes for your cause Gandhi Baba's wife and son are in jail. Are you willing to join us? Yes! - Then follow us Hail Gandhi Baba! Stop! Where do you think you are going? Get back. Go back to your barracks I'm warning you! Go back, or I'll fire Hail Gandhi Baba! Hail Gandhi Baba! Mr Gandhi, you must call off the strike Do you realise how much we are losing everyday? The miners are striking to protest against the three pound tax But what has the three pound tax got to do with us? If you want your workers to come back to your mines... then you must ask the government to abolish the tax But how can we do that? That is a government matter. We are only employers If the workers have a legitimate grievance against us... we will be happy to listen to them But you cannot ask us to interfere with the government The tax was imposed by the government in your interest, gentlemen... so that you would have captive labour in your mines The workers have no other weapon but to strike So you will not tell our workers to return to the mine? I'm sorry, I cannot do that. - You have nothing to lose, Mr Gandhi But will you compensate these poor, misguided workers... for the damage that you have caused them? There is no greater damage than damage to one's self-respect, sir I have met the big bosses who own these mines and pay you your wages They are very angry. As long as you are on strike... it is not correct for you to live in the mine quarters... and accept their rations. I will take you all to Tolstoy Farm... and you can stay there until the strike is over But please think very carefully before you come with me Because you may lose your jobs and houses But if you value your dignity and your freedom, then come, march with me Salutations to our Motherland! You are all soldiers of satyagraha now and you will get a soldier's ration That's all I can give you. We will march for 25 miles a day Please, only take as much as you can carry. Yes? We will cross the border and hopefully we will get arrested You may even get assaulted... but please remain true and firm to your creed of non-violence And remember, it is important to respect other people's property What's going on here? The coolies are going to be here in two days We should shoot them before they create anymore havoc Not one coolie should be allowed in town Send them back to the mines, because they are bad influence on the coffin Fellow citizens, please What are you angry about? The Indians aren't coming to live in Folksrist They are merely passing through. - Passing through? Who are you? Never seen you before. - He's a coolie lover We don't want any coolie booties in town. Throw him out What's the matter with you, my friend? Are you afraid to fight them? I have pledge myself to non-violence. You must be kind to them Really? Why do you want to lay your hands on innocent men and women? Who ask only for the removal of an unjust tax What tax? - They will pass through in peace... and they will just keep on going. That is the kind of people they are They want to appeal to your hearts. Please, be reasonable I appeal to you in the name of God... - What do they know about God? Mohan-bhai! Trunk-call to Pretoria. It's coming through Please carry on Yes, this is M.K. Gandhi. I would like to speak to General Smuts, please Mr Gandhi, sir. He wishes to speak with you I don't wish to speak to him The minister is occupied. May I take your message? We are at Folksrist and we are about to cross the border Please tell General Smuts to reconsider. It is still not too late All we want him to do is to abolish the three pound tax Sir, they are about to march into the Transvaal If you agree to abolish the poll tax, he will call off the march Tell him to go to the devil. I do not wish to deal with him anymore The minister says you may do as you please He will have nothing more to do with you We only want to cross the border. We do not want to harm anyone We have strict orders not to let anyone through Wonder how long they will take to get to the border and I don't even know... how many of them they are. We'll just have to wait here I'll get that Come in Thank you 3000 Indian miners are camping at Charlestown 1600 striking Indian miners marched from Danhouse to Charlestown 1700 Indian miners have left Newcastle for Charlestown This is wonderful! Gandhi! Who's Gandhi? Yes? What can I do for you? - I have a warrant for your arrest You have to come with me. - Right now? Yes May I leave instructions please? - Go ahead The police have come to arrest me Please continue the march... at daybreak, as planned. And only announce my arrest... once you have halted for rations Let's go You are charged with... having brought unauthorised persons into the Transvaal Do you have anything to say? I plead guilty for having done my duty We have petitioned and pleaded with little or no result I'm now convinced that our non-violent resistance and our own sufferings... will ensure success. I wish to apply for bail Silence I object, Your Honour. I ask that the accused be remanded until the 14th... until I've had time to prepare the evidence Every prisoner not charged with a capital offence is entitled to bail The accused is hereby granted bail for an amount of 50 pounds The magistrate himself! To what do I owe this honour? Mr Gandhi, would you step aside a minute? Please carry on You are now my prisoner And here is a list of others who are to accompany you I see that I have been promoted in rank Magistrates are coming to arrest me. Am I to be tried here and now? Come along. The court is still is session A moment please I'll be back soon. Please carry on Mr Camley! It's you this time First a policeman, then a magistrate... and now the principal immigration officer himself Please stand aside, Mr Gandhi. You are under arrest Naidu! I'm going to jail, I may not come back to the march Proceed straight to Tolstoy Farm. - Come with me And please, all of you... - You are not allowed to make speeches Please maintain peace and harmony We have come to arrest you. Please do not offer any resistance... and come with us peacefully to the railway station From there you will be taken to jails in Natal Workers strike! "Sanitary Workers Join Strike" "Sugar Refineries Close Down" Come on men, hold your formations there Get back to work you bloody bastards! Brothers, wait! Don't listen to them We will continue our satyagraha until the government has come to its knees... no matter what the cost. - You get them back to work at once I cannot order them. They are willed by their conscience March! These have just come in, sir. - What are they? Telegrams. Bombay, Calcutta, Madras... Delhi, London, Cape Town, Johannesburg, Durban, Pietermaritzburg... and this batch here from businessmen and farmers One from the Prime Minister, Mr Chamberlain The president of the Indian National Congress, Sir Ferozeshah Mehta And one from the Viceroy. - What do they say? In short sir, we're called murderers by one group... and being blamed for ruining Natal's economy by the other That Gandhi. Get me the Prime Minister We have to call an emergency cabinet meeting Long live Gandhi-bhai! Welcome, Gandhi-bhai That reception committee is not for you That's because of the railway strike. I heard that they put the Johannesburg station on fire The leaders of the railway strike want you to meet with you. They want to make common cause with you. Tell them I cannot, unless they adopt non-violent means Gandhi-bhai, her husband was shot by the police Please don't cry, it's all right You must forgive me, because I'm responsible Your husband has given up his life and become a martyr Your suffering will only end when your sisters including my own wife... become widows like you Don't cry "God's true saint is he" "who holds others' woes to be his own" "No pride has he" "he speaks ill of none" "He holds all alike in honour" So we meet again like two battle-worn generals To sign a treaty, I hope Treaty? With you holding a sword of passive resistance over my head? No sword, no violence, not even by a way of retaliation I know, I know It would be easier to deal with you if like the railway strikers You just got on with plain old-fashioned violence I know that Why else do you think we have embraced satyagraha? You reduce me to sheer helplessness, Gandhi. What am I to do with you? How can we lay hands upon you? You do not appear to be like villains You have already sent municipal workers back to work You refused to support the railwaymen strike only because it was violent So Gandhi, what do you want? It's all there in our letters, General Cullinburg's, Pollock's, Cachalia's and mine All your faithful followers Not followers, colleagues, General The commission papers, sir You have asked to change two names on the commission. I cannot do that The other points will be put before the commission We were not consulted, so we refuse to appear before the commission, General I do not mind that. But you should not prevent others from giving evidence What about the three pound tax? - That will be abolished You will find it all in the final draft And the marriage question? We will recognise all monogamous marriages contracted by whatever rites Hindu and Muslim priests can also legalise marriages This leaves us with the question of the entry of domiciled Indians... into the Orange Free State in the Cape The government can be persuaded to accept that So, can I take this as a provisional agreement? Call it what you wish But I want it in writing this time, General No verbal assurances, you may deny it later Touche! You will have your written statement And of course you will be consulted... once the Indian Relief Act is promulgated Well, the specific demands in this campaign have been met But we shall continue to fight against racial discrimination What if the local natives follow your example? They will gain their country. - You are promising me more trouble Not me I plan to leave for India No doubt we shall hear a great deal about you over there If I may say so, those clothes don't really suit you I have worn these clothes and shorn my head... as a symbol of mourning for those who were killed during the satyagraha What on earth is this? Why thank you I made these sandals for you while I was in prison They are very sturdy You are leaving now But it is clear I shall be walking in your shoes for a long time He came to a strange land and made it his own When he sailed for India, it was with mixed feelings of pleasure and regret Pleasure, because he was returning home after many years Regret, because it was great wrench for him to leave South Africa... where he had lived 21 years and where he had realised his vocation in life I will remain forever a South African Indian How can I forget the lesson learnt...? That, the greatest conflict can be resolved in peace If we allow the resolution to come through the soul... that, humanity is one, intended to live in peace and in equality
