 

                        Tips contest is not shy chief, Chief people will not be faster than the hands. Sleeve smooth, rough neck, do you think, Faster hands or head faster. - Hand. - Once again. He's already lost you, Regulation Tian Jin .. No matter win or lose, Dojo still have to treat You want to drink coffee, Come all the way with you. - Why is insulted? - The practice kungfu sitting together .. - Just to talk to the martial arts. - Duel again. - You'll take care of? - Certain. 1912, comes first dojo in Tian Jin. In 1932, Tian Jin remains a town martial. - What did you learn? - Wing Chun. Never heard of it. Small Kungfu south, generation 3-5 people. Small small he could not anymore. - Want to extend it in Tian Jin? - It must wait for approval. Today you make me surprised, Ordinary people can not learn this martial arts. I take it you're going somewhere, Besides me, People who practice kungfu nobody came. Have you seen? Belarus woman surprised me. Dances, Secrets of the use of muscle .. Nearly kungfu, I studied martial arts when young. Ever sworn secrecy, How about you? A lifetime of teaching at most two people. If we do not teach the truth, Strangers quickly slow examined .. Our children and grandchildren will be beaten. - You teach? - Not dare. Teacher Tian Jin no one dared, Need an outsider who broke the rules first. You promise to teach the truth, I'll approve you open a dojo. I've been a chief art Tian jin martial arts for 30 years. Just want to do things that benefit generations to come before retiring. 30 years is not a short, Why not do it from scratch? There are a lot of things will not be remembered if not older. 3 days later meet at Kissling. Tian Jin Restaurant, Seek. Agree or not? You and I still have friendship. I've thought, not teach the truth. Kissling bread do not need to pay, this is the only thing that profitable in Tian Jin. In addition you agree, There is still a long rule. Against 8 dojo will be able to stand in Tian Jin. Until now there was no that can pass out of five. Bread Kissling; also not one has ever eaten five. Cook 8. My teacher lifelong safe. A few years before death, Once the wine is always abused themselves. I do not want uneasy when older. Do not eat any more, I never saw a man so like looking for a profit. OK. According to the rules. - 2 years, I am also not strong anymore. - You do not need to fight. If you fight, the Dojo kicked ye will not accept you. - Teach a student. - Do not accept, can accept it? Students must find that local, People Tian Jin Tian Jin accept. - I'll help you choose. - Fastest teach one person. I can not wait. You can only wait Not a good woman, a poor family. Foreigners studying in schools for free. Gave birth to a child at the age of 17 years, Children of foreigners. Drowned by her parents. Ruined reputation, Till now no one to marry. I will marry you. I lived 3 years in Tian Jin. - Then? - Come with me back to Guang Dong. - If you do not participate, I'll leave you some money. - How many? - Can be discussed. - It is not my destiny the best. My fate is best liked by brazil people who come to eat. Married to South America Kokoa. - How? - It figures. I as a guarantee, you do not give it, He would ask me. There was no time anymore, Already too much help. Do not ask things that I do in Tian Jin. Do not say though already guessed. I got married instead of selling the body. You have to give one word to me, See sincerity. Starting at age 15 years, every day swung the sword over 500 times. This amount tie me, Tak would think carelessly. Starting today, you as kendalaku. Once a month take a walk with me Eat crab once. Poor people living in the house must be like the poor. Runs should not buy goods. Crab.. There are 9 river in Tian Jin, Crabs are cheaper than rice. Crabs enough. You usually do not smoke. Everyone has a bad habit. My bad habit .. Good, too. Fast way. - Great, Why offend thugs? - Maybe a beautiful woman. It was impossible to stay here, Their clothes look good. Seeing the front face straight away. Brother. I came to fight. Wash face, my husband will be back later. Seeing the front face, Remains viable despite being hit. - Go. - What? You want to see me beaten? Boxing has no meaning, Swords. - His sword still can? - Can. Too bad you did not learn boxing. Follow me. View your pupils thanks to me there is something wrong. After the boxing training, He will not dare to see you again. After the workout begins, he will be honored such as respect for the gods. - Teacher. - Do not call me teacher. I did not teach anymore. - Brother, what do you think? - People who meet me better than him. - A local person? - Correct. There is not one thing I want to say, 19 dojo in Tian Jin .. Kicking up to eighth, leaders Dojo will look for the master beat this guy. Expelled from Tian Jin. But we acknowledge his achievements, Teacher of people are likely to open the dojo. With this small boxing became famous, advance Tian Jin also protected. People who are chosen for life can not back to Tian Jin, he accepted it. - Do not involve others. - Fortunately, a bastard. Unfortunately that was not destroyed. The selected master is probably me. I am old. Want to win once more before retiring. This is the last fight, There can be no mistakes. Controlled disciple, I must master it as well. Today the call as a teacher. There is a kind of battle in Tian Jin called hand knife. 10 years ago playing like crazy, More recently nobody exercises. and the weakness of martial arts Tian Jin, The outsiders do not know. With this ability, Two years can kick dojo. 2 years? 1 year, I take you away from here. Xiao Geng, a good business. A teacher who told me to change jobs. Should not be doing the job hard after practice kung fu. Futile exercise if fatigue. Retreat from work tricycles then do not save the rickshaw again. - The cost of pensions are too expensive. - Pedicab worthless, this is the rule. Kill me if you want to take it. Hajar. Fighting in the street does not may use iron weapons. It is a rule Tian Jin for years. You use the sword with us, We're not brothers anymore. Take the rickshaw, let's go. 1 year later. Enough Chest punctured. Blood vessel punctured arm. Rear waist punctured. - Under the ribs punctured. - Forearm punctured. Geng Liang Chen, Win. Dojo master Geng Ying Hua invite coming to the party tonight Deng Ying Lou. Not attractive. You select the place. One person each 3 bowls. You are told you can not buy goods. Next time out, he will accompany you. Wait if you dare. - How many people can you call? - Hundreds. - There are 20 people? - Exist. - I will wait. - Just wait. Return! I want to fight. I do not know you hate dogs. Dogs embraced as a child. - I know about your son. - My mother's father was sunk after birth. No, Di taken away by the merchant. Newborn child is very ugly, I do not understand sad because it is still small at the time. 3 years ago, Suddenly think of the ugly. We are looking back that missed. The first day we immediately take the cost of breaking up with you. You go back to Guang Dong, I did not participate. - Problems still exist in Tian Jin Tian Jin. - How about you? Following a man again? Fixed interest can die though maintained, Nobody maintain it can also die. Men are not important for women. Women pass through life and death itself. Really come? Talks are still unfinished. My home is in Guang Dong known as 99 floors, His house a lot. Lost all because of the insurgency, Fortunately, learning martial arts since childhood. Otherwise, even the ability to eat rice also did not exist. I became the guardian of the freighter. Sailing 13 years. After passing 40 years, Can not stay on the sea again. Home to a new house is quiet. The house is not destroyed means deprived, Sought hard finally take back an old house. Starting from this house, I will raise a family business. But last year the teacher died. I never held responsible for the family and teachers. I want to repay the teacher first and take care of the family. If postponed again, House The old will be taken again. - I have to go back to Guang Dong. - I never said to get you. There are 9 river in Tian Jin, Do not know where my family came from. Until my generation turned the Tian Jin. If I go you go, I will guilty to three generations of my family. Tian Jin women do not marry out. Not only me, Everything is so. I already know. After I left, you be a divorced woman. - Reputation destroyed again. - Your reputation destroyed. People Tian Jin proud woman. On hearing the woman divorced, You will be cursed as junk. - I already know. - Think you have to marry me. - You are governed by the gods. - God what? - Valentino. - Who? Hollywood artist. He is a god? Leave me your picture after you left, I also think of you as a god. Anybody want to say to you. - Nothing pursue. - Try that way again. Teacher. Slowly, he was asleep. Tell him to go. Today. This time you should be in the party. - You lose? - I win. I'm lazy accompany them. I bring crabs to teachers. The first day of challenge, A great day for the rest of his life. Teacher usually buy 80 head. He was 30 individuals, I 50 head. It is quite edible whom? When I learned kung fu, Mrs did not care for me for 2 years. One day suddenly scold me, I feel happy, be angry mistress .. Then get to learn a new one with the teacher. I undestand already, I like a woman. As beautiful to you. Same with me, hands working since childhood. More beautiful than me. Did not dare .. Each dojo has a tool patron. Qing dynasty, family is a general. This armor into protective gear, Think fit? Suitable. Zheng brother .. Swordsmanship technique successfully. - Pupil has been successful? - My eyes are not wrong. He has the talent. You do not wear? Wear foot. Geng Liang Chen wins. It's been a year, first time let you in the house. - You know why? - I know. Teachers will allow students entered the house after the vote. Teachers, you hurt? Errors while working. 23 years old, my teacher buy me a cup of coffee. And say you are the future of a university. Today I say this to you. Do not go to challenge again. Do you still want to live? Geng Liang Chen. You.. What do you cry if I die? Die soon. I agree. Where is your husband? - Nap. - Wake. Challenging pupil 7 dojo, Extraordinary accomplishments. Tian Jin young people can not arrange. - I'm sorry taught. - Not mean? I have to do the work and have a wife. - For what offended you? - Sources of cash will be open after opening the dojo. Beautiful wife, you do not think make life better? You're more beautiful. I did not dare. Unlike lie, let him stay alive. Marry me for today? Poor people living in the house. It's all just to cover you? Make people think you're not competing with the world. You want to betray your pupils? I am the future of a university. I must do it within the rules. Go. Do not say anything with Geng Liang Chen, Do not ruin my plans. Do not rush, if not Your hands will be slow. - I understand. - You will lose if slow. You've said it. Teacher. Go. You are stronger than I was when I was younger. I have a student become an admiral's aide. Here my expenses paid, kungfu can not, Gain endless. Mrs. He taught here? It's been a year, I do not know. - You used to learn martial arts in order to see me. - Anyone want to see a beautiful woman. Lives were lost after seeing, I do not want to be this scourge. You are not a beautiful woman again for me. Difficult to survive in Tian Jin, The rest of my family I am. Now I.. Only you and the rest of the teachers. Run if you feel there is something wrong. The fight is no eye witnesses. Winners do not receive retaliation. Should not be seen weapons iron in the Tian Jin. Rickshaw pullers will fight becaknya hide under the sticks. I was Geng Liang Chen challenging 7 dojo. Take it. Geng Liang Chen, Are you crazy? it is criminal, Her legs were so white, He is not a rickshaw puller. Do not look, I just see you oppress people. Every second on the road there is always oppression. Today I oppress, Then why? It's okay, from now on do not come anymore. - Geng Liang Chen. - I know you? You are so well-known recent This, I had come to see you. Instead of being set up, I'd better come alone. What did you say? I challenged. Sure, But .. Winning and losing, I will not drink tea with you on the road. Very embarrassing. Except for you, drinking coffee. thanks. I can not protect reputation left by the ex-husband. Han went too young brothers and make you suffer. 10 years ago, Mr. Han makes hand sword became famous. Han brother died, Interest everyone also missing. 19 dojo Tian jin, Up I was eighth. Another one is half of Tian Jin. It will be ridiculed everyone. Sister, I will go forward. During this time, Facing any problem, Still parents who survived. No one is talented in the dojo, Because we do not teach the original. Dojo accept students, politicians do acting, Traders do reputation. Wait they had enough to do it and do not contribute anymore. Prosperity dojo also disconnected. Good day not long Needless to serious. Teacher. I'm not a teacher, remember. Today is no sword training. I'm looking for a way out for students kungfu. Stale clothes that I'll turn the Qing dynasty would be Protective sword training troops. The future is in the military. You fight with my students determined what day? Some of these days, today met the admiral. Teacher. - Thanks to you, Where is the admiral? - Admiral does not come to Tian Jin. He asked to record a video for him. Unable to meet the admiral is actually good news. On this occasion left a video. You are a martial arts expert. Will definitely become history later. Participate teacher, You walk in history. Stop. Chaotic. Stop. Understood? Teacher. I entered the trap pupils. Famous young people, to hit college others can also hit teachers themselves. There it is. Teachers will treat beaten. Celebrating students surpass themselves. It was your idea. Disciple asked me to persuade you, I did not know before. He was in the military, not martial. Why do this? Zheng brother, you are old, Do not ask again. These are two houses you left your student. You do not want? He took away my life reputation. How could I not want to. Master is out, When re not say. Sir, In the world nothing is free. Free bread, before it had to order a meal. The reason is so simple, I just do not think about it. I have a friend, stamina better than the youth. But he remained a parent, Doing any also not willing willingly outrageous errors. - Mr. Zheng? - He has a fight with Geng Liang Chen. He broke his promise to me. - Geng Liang Chen could die? - He has the talent, It will not die that easily. He could be flawed. We both take him away from Tian Jin. Today.. I told you, you go back to Guang Dong, I did not participate. Deliver. Can you? Can. Home waiting for me. Teacher Chen, please rose tea. Regulation north, How to deal with your student, We represent the martial art to express. Leaving that aside is a friend, Leaving the middle is the enemy. Facing the enemy may use any means. 19 dojo only you who took the decision? - What about the attitude of the host Zheng Shan Ao? - Serve the tea in order not to speak. Take it. Legend of Shu Shan warriors the new has come out? Take if any, the police officer wants to see it. Exist. There's a soldier wants to see it, Just a minute. Give it to him first, You do not need to pay. We went from Tian Jin, Forever does not come back again. Can you release him? Miss, you can not help. I'm going to set it. Quickly go call the police. thanks. 8 challenging pupil dojo, We expel students and teachers. People will say we are arrogant. We support you open a dojo, Minimal year. 1 year later, you go will not be deterred. We are not mafia or politician. He may go, but with injuries. Nice. - Xiao Geng, Do you need help? - No. Let us fight with weapons. What are you doing? He's not our brother again. The thing to do martial arts, Soldiers do. Demi expressed to the citizens, The army will take over the martial arts. During this matter taken care of his own martial arts, From now on there is no longer a good day. It turns my students prepared for your student. Nothing I am again in Tian Jin. I hid and did not see you. Shame. Today I boarded a ship to go to Brazil. Planting cocoa in old age. Soon you open a dojo, Present for you. Tell me who designed them if it would be used, Lifetime just leave this reputation. Never been a year through the front door of your house. Some people go with me, you know. I'm not supposed to receive the sword. - Accidental. - We fight once again. No. There is a doctor in front of the church, walk too fast, Dagger will scratch the intestine. You wounding six of my men, force you to slow. Consider it my punishment to you. - It is trivial. - Do not go back to Tian Jin again after recovery. - It is a punishment to you. - I'm not going anywhere. I never killed 200 people. Bandit, maker troublemakers. I've lived for 20 years in Tian Jin. Which may leave the family for granted. If you do not want to be underestimated me, Run 50 steps to Tian Jin. Difficult to survive in Tian Jin, The eldest child of poor families. Expelled by the parents at the age of 15 years, Looking for a way of life itself. - I was the firstborn. - Nagging. 8 years ago, my father's mother brought the two sisters go to the northeast and nothing is said anymore. Now the family only the rest I'm in Tian Jin. Smoke! Remove the smell of blood. Chairman. Stop. Run like that could not live anymore. - Tell people buried him. - Good. Can not stop people Foreign solve our martial. Jump to marry a foreigner. Extraordinary. - Brother, escort up here alone. - Sister Zheng. Be careful with the women of Belarus. Your age much different. Carefully he cheats all your pension funds. He was poor since childhood, of course very selfish. But the money men are to be deceived by the woman. Liang Chen. Do not scare anymore. - Xiao Geng, You are not our brothers again. - Tonight I went from Tian Jin. Let me briefly thrust. Achievement challenging 8 dojo trained with i ni. Dojomu open on the road the east gate of the most crowded. 22 rooms, Aide Lin who bought it. There was never this big dojo in Tian Jin. I booked a room at the hotel for you. While staying there before dojo repaired. I'm used to stay at home the poor. - I do not want to move. - Fame in the north. Getting a result pretend. If it were me, interest would also be lost. But life is pretend. People have come. Sorry, I'm sick. The funeral ceremony performed beautifully. We've buried Xiao Geng. Teacher Chen, are you going to do what. We will hear you. - I want to do what? - Xiao Geng push cart before dying. Doing the leg work we is our people. - Revenge will be our reply. - Work against the foot of the martial arts. Very funny. You.. Kancingmu can release it can certainly penetrate your throat. Understand? Tomorrow, I opened the dojo. I came to Tian Jin for the sake of this waiting. Who confounds you, Do not blame me. Xiao Geng is your student. My son is 11 years old. Do not know what she looked like. Certainly like him. I could not find it again. But he can come looking for me. I can not leave Tian Jin. Can not arrest me. They will catch you. I just marry you, if they really revenge, I admit it. Not had time to go take pictures, I had to leave the picture for you. Sailing 13 years, this is all my savings. Tomorrow you wait for me at the train station. If I do not come, you go alone. No need to go to Guang Dong, Down anywhere. Hold for 10 years, 10 years later returned to Tian Jin again. Your son is 21 years old, he has the ability to find you. I'll hear you say. You do it pretty. - Adjutant Lin. - Say. Officers followed the celebration of the mass is, Should not be wearing a uniform. - There is this rule? - The old rule. There is still time There was no affair you guys again. Bubarlah all. You follow me home to change clothes. Look at me. Stop. - Do you still rent a book? - Shop friend. The person is dead, his master ordered people take a message, give it to me. - Teacher? Learn martial friends? - You've come to Tian Jin? My friend is Geng Liang Chen challenging 8 dojo. Geng Liang Chen? I've heard on the train. Legend. He was framed by criminals. Everyone shouted unfair for him. There are several books stained by blood. Is it true? Let me see. The timing is not much more. Nona, Give it to me. You are not like ordinary people. You came to Tian Jin to become official? You must be justice for her if I gave you. You are so defending it, He must be a good man. Thank you for coming all. Bless you all. Close the door. Today open the dojo, the new weather. Play the film '' The fire burned the temple Hong Lian '' I want bread. Zheng brother, sister Zheng not this is? Aide Lin is not only a military man also a martial arts expert. Everything had just been seen kungfu. Pupil surpassed the teacher. What position Zheng brother first, That position aide Lin. Nothing against? Hong Lian Temple still being played? Play. Fire burned the temple Hong Lian. Director Zhang Shi Chuan. There dojo there must be a challenger. I came to challenge. Who's first? 8 dojo to challenge my students. I want to challenge the ninth. Chairman Zhou, What do you receive? You are the one who beat Zheng Shan Ao. You receive. What has to think clearly? You never kill people, Today would have been long planned? Many thought it enough alone. You know how strong the human flesh? Kill how many people, will blunt sword. We can understand the pain of losing pupils. Think of it as a joke. Aide Lin also would not mind. Correct. I'm the same as you. Also hope Geng Liang Chen was destroyed as soon as possible. Expelled from Tian Jin. Destroying one person establish a college. I'm not a teacher. - Hong Lian Temple still playing? - Play. You really have to go, This is not the restaurant. - Look, all similar to you. - What did you say? I met someone at the age of 17 years. He did not even leave his picture. His face was almost similar to this. Not he who left it for me, This is due to miss. He owes me, so pray to him, Any pleading must be granted. Today I ask a person can live. This guy is far 200 meters from me. I'm afraid it does not work if it is too much. Newyork goods, is still valuable. 50 buns, Help me. He sat beside you, Everyone uneasy. It was not me who killed your student. He who force themselves. I think this lifetime will not be met with a strong person. Admiral is not, nor is my Master. They both are strong and intelligent. But it's true disciple, He lives, martial arts will be more attractive. - What've seen the face of the culprit? - Already. Rui Duan, I've found you. You are a child's brother Zheng housekeeper. Following the employer's own clan Lin trap. Lin clan is dead, you do not can survive in the military again. I give you a way of life for you, Join martial arts. I follow you now. I hit you for a brother Zheng. 20 years, Admiral rose. Emptying the chamber of commerce, railroad, Bank Small martial arts how to survive A good day will not be long. But today a good day is a day. Everyone saw it, you kill aide Lin. - It seems right .. - Thank you, thank you all. You have to die here. I will grant your wish. I've been coming here, Never fight with a tough guy. All right, I'll show you north sword to you. Before brother, leader Tian Jin is my husband. Men got the world, woman must protect it. There's no time anymore. I'll pay next dikehidupan. Zheng granted protective older brother to me. Let the pupil of each dojo wear. I would struggled before dying, Leaving the impression to children. You do not teach the original, Would not appear the talented person. I die, Wing Chun will be lost forever. Let me teach you the original. Consider it your student. Southern people can not be trusted. Starting today, would seem iron weapons in the Tian Jin. I have the scars. glorious lifetime. I have taught sword techniques, What is obtained is in your hands. - Kungfu great. - Weapons are nice. Parents worked, Go. You underestimate me? Correct. Go. This guy hurt people without killing. His life will not let go. Teacher Chen doing this magnitude, Should call us. Lower the goods. Move over .. He has gone. Move over .. Say hello to the teacher Chen. My men. You know what your man? You know what? I will bear it. The old rules, uncertain means dead. It is over. He bought a ticket to go to Guang Dong. Chen met with teachers, Leave it to him. She would cover her mouth and hide the identity life. What are you writing? Words hesitate, What written is not important. He could receive a letter means we can catch him. South so far. Will he keep his promise? Certainly. He had a woman. Wing Chun has been lost.
