 

                        Rosie, Start the car and put the air conditioning up to high, please, I don't want to wilt, All right, Aurora, Arthur, I kinda feel sorry for Arthur's grass, Why? It never gets a chance to grow, Good morning, James, Mrs, Greenway, you're looking mighty pretty today, Thank you, Billy, hand this to the warden, You know how he loves your letters, Don't be making those prisoners write, Teddy is almost finished with the new porch, I know it's extravagant, but it's a way to give your brother money without it seeming like a handout, You know how Jane is, You have any message for him? What do you think? I'll give your love to Melanie, She is head over heels with this Bruce creature, I'm hoping it's just a teenage thing, Rosie sends her love, She's just found your old G, I, Joe watch in the attic, She's having it repaired, So you let that be a surprise, [Sniffling] The sign said don't mess with Texas! Texas certainly has messed with me, [Pop] Oh! What is it? Why do you do this to yourself, Granny? Give up, huh? Tommy's never gonna change, Teddy, you're never gonna change, Tommy has to change, No human being can carry that much hostility his entire life, Granny, it's his third possessions charge, Face it, Tommy's a screw-up. You're never gonna be a screw-up, are you, Bump? Shut up, butthole! That's his new thing, calling people butthole, For she's a jolly good butthole For she's a jolly good butthole For she's a jolly good butthole 'Cause nobody can deny I sense Jane's child-rearing philosophy here, We've got some good news, What is it, another illegitimate child? Granny, Jane's found a job, At the Stop 'n Go, Now that she's finally embarked on a career, perhaps the 2 of you would consider marriage, Of course not, [Military Music Plays] Oh, God! Bruce alert! Oh! Oh, God! Granny! Shouldn't you be in 20th century literature? Virginia Woolf makes my skin crawl, and Bruce wanted to go for a ride, so, you know, I can see that, That's not really my car, My friend Tony just lets me drive it, I don't care who owns the pimp mobile, I did not raise my granddaughter to have sex with the likes of you, Granny, get out of my room! Oh, God! Bruce: Ha ha ha! Afternoon, General, What's going on? Life as we know it, [Classical Music Plays] I love Bruce, I hate you! Why? Because I care what happens to you? No, It's because you're suffocating me! [Car Radio Plays] Well,,, ha, Your, uh... Your buddy Tony has great taste in cars, Bruce, start the car! Hey, Mel, you didn't tell me you were riding around in Ferraris, Aah! Drive! See you, Mel! [Honks Horn] Look, Granny, I'll get you more, The troops need a morale boost, You can love 'em, but you can't live their lives, Neither can they, Not properly, The pain the children claim to be in,,, it's exhausting, I can't do it, I've had it, I can't go on, Nonsense, Of course you can, Life is just an uphill battle, You gotta keep on fighting, You must figure out why you lose the battles you lose and pray like hell you win the war, Rosie, what time is it? 3:30, I'm going to bed, This day is over, This is not good, This is not good, Hey, Jimmie Lee, Hey, girl, She here? Yes, she's cleaning out that closet, Just come on in, I'm worried about her, Patsy, She went to bed yesterday at 3:30, She hasn't gotten up yet, She's probably headed for the big snap, Long overdue, Give these to Mel, would you? She's been crying a lot, It's her guilt, Manifesting itself finally, You know she's gotta be feeling responsibility for all the problems those kids are having... problems they never woulda had if I'da raised 'em,,, like Emma wanted, Well,,, you didn't, Aurora did, Now we're stuck with the consequences, Not like you did such a great job with your own kids, You don't even know where they are half the time, I get the credit card bills, I can track 'em down if I have to, Oh, I just wanna do something about Aurora's moods, When she's pissed off, we all drown, - Cheers, - Cheers, She needs professional help, Always has, Therapy? Well, why not? 12 years of therapy made me the woman I am today, [Clicks Tongue] O, K, How are we gonna get Aurora Greenway to see a shrink? Eew, you got me, "Depressed? Bummed?" Cute, [Sighs] Ohh,,, I don't know, I feel so depressed,,, bummed, I know I'm surrounded by people who love me, but I just can't seem to snap out of it, Even here at the beach? You love it here, I know, I know, Well, what can I do to help? I think I need to see a therapist, Good! Good for you, Huh? I think that's good, You,,, confront your demons, wrestle with 'em, I'm gonna make an appointment, Excellent, Would you go with me? Sure, Of course, Rosie, this can't be it, Yep, Where? 3106, This house? Well, there's his sign, too, That's it, Rosie, this does not feel professional, Where did you find this man? He came highly recommended, I wish you would come in with me, Please? I think I'd better, Oh, dear, Man singing: There beyond the sea Somewhere waiting for me [Singing] Somewhere,,, I'll be waiting for you in the car, Rosie, You have to stay! I don't have to stay, Oh! You don't need me to spew out the grim little details of your childhood, The appointment's not for me, It's for you, I lied, EXcuse me? You're the one who's been so depressed lately, Rosie, I don't need therapy, Why, the very idea! Now I suggest that you go back in there and you keep your appointment, Aurora! [Singing] [Ding Dong] Be right there! Mrs, Greenway? Yes, Jerry Bruckner, God, I am running so late today, I'm sorry, Please come on in, - Oh, sorry, - No, I apologize, Forgive me, We have been the victims of, uh,,, a very elaborate ruse. Oh, Yes, my maid tricked me into coming here, Oh, I,,, Dr, Bruckner, I wasn't seeking analysis, and I'm not now, I'm not a doctor, I'm a licensed counselor, What does that mean, Mr, Bruckner? I listen, I try to make people feel better, Well,,, sorry for the misunderstanding, Obviously my maid is the one who is disturbed, I'm surrounded by the most taxing array of lunatics, Me, too, It's the job, Well, good-bye, And I'm clearly not the sort of woman who would,,, be free in sharing and revealing her secrets, You understand? Well, many people feel that way, It was a pleasure meeting you, Do you have a card? Certainly, Thank you, Good-bye, Mrs, Greenway, And I'm awfully sorry. [Laughs] Forget it, We'll meet, we'll meet, we'll meet Beyond the shore We'll kiss,,, You are so fucking fired, Yeah,,, right, Class, the quality of your exams surprised even me, Some of you are even beginning to grasp early 20th century literature, [Bell Rings] That's it, Class dismissed, Professor? Professor! A D-plus? That sucks! Ms, Horton, your defense of Rupert Brooke's Georgianism is flawed, What is the matter with bucking conventional criticism? Brooke protested against Victorianism and he kicked ass, and I deserve an "A," No, Ms, Horton, You don't, Yes, I do, Mmm! You are on the thinnest of ice, Rosie, Perfect timing, Duck Madagascar, Mmm, I've eaten, [Running Garbage Disposal] I got hungry, and so I ate, Jesus! Did I say anything? Oh, no, Of course not, I should just be grateful you went to class for a change, I'm gonna quit, Do you know how much Rice University costs, Melanie? I had to sell my Renoir so you could have an education, Oh, I thought you sold the Renoir for Teddy's braces, Or then again, didn't you sell the Renoir for Tommy's legal defense? The money from that Renoir's like splinters from the true cross, Everybody's got a piece! You are so ungrateful, You are the only one of your mother's children that has a real chance at a life, Why do you insist on being so self-destructive? I'm not being self-destructive! I'm just... Get off my back! Boy, if your mother had lived, she would be so horrified at the way you turned out, If my mother had lived, I wouldn't have turned out this way, so horrible and such a disappointment to you! Ooh! [Classical Music Plays] Tony, I'm telling you, Stallone only eats egg whites, It's pure protein, [Knock On Door] Hang on a second, Melanie, what's up? I did it, I moved out, I'm free, Lemme call you back, Help me with my stuff! Huh? I feel like celebrating and hitting the town! Where's that Ferrari? Uh, Tony needed it, This is so perfect! I shoulda done this a long time ago, You and me, starting our lives together, Doesn't it just feel right? Uh, yeah, So how long are you gonna stay? Forever! Oh, God, Mel is my hope, She is the smartest and the cleverest of all my grandchildren, Ever since their mother died, I have done nothing but be there to help them and to love them and to try to instill values that I thought were important, and... Don't you have a real cup? I'm sorry, I don't, And now I'm losing her, I see, What about the children's father? Oh, Flap, no, My goodness, no, Flap is not father material, Flap, He wasn't husband material, either, Flap is not human material, He didn't abandon them, really, Flap is just very weak, He lives in Santa Fe, So there's been no,,, father figure at all? Well, actually, there have been a few, I was involved several years ago with a former general, His name is Hector Scott, He was a father figure to Melanie, And... And we broke up, Years ago, But he still continues to terrorize me on a daily basis, Mmm, [Sniffs] [Sighs] And then many, many,,, many years ago, I, um... My next door neighbor was Garrett Breedlove, The astronaut, The astronaut, [Laughs] Oh, God, Well,,, Garrett Breedlove possessed every single quality that I find repellent in men, But it worked, For a while, it worked, Oh, the boys adored him, Melanie, well,,, she was too young, And then he moved away to, uh, Minneapolis, Milwaukee, or,,, whatever, This was a man who orbited the Earth, And now he's married with a family, Well, I just can't picture that, Garrett was never very comfortable around children, He only liked dating them, Who was the great love of your life? Oh,,, I haven't met him yet, Mmm, Well, Mrs, Greenway, your situation is hardly unique, You've obviously spent your whole life thinking only of others, It's so true, You've neglected yourself, I know, You are so bright, Just call 'em like I see 'em, Well, I have neglected my life, That's obvious, Well,,, it's been so fast, It's all so fast, and it's so blurred, What is my life? What have I done? Oh, And what's it all about? I think it's time that I get strong, Yes, And that I ask myself the really hard questions, Yes! It's time for you to start taking care of you, Yes, I need to be,,, selfish, Yes, Selfish in the good sense, Absolutely, Yes? Absolutely, I see, Thank you, [Sighs] You've been such a help, Oh, you don't have to pay me now, It's easier for patients to pay at the end of each month by check, Well, I think you misunderstand the... the visit, I only wanted a period of quiet time so that I could organize my thoughts, I can't imagine my requiring your services on a regular basis, I won't be returning, Whatever you say, Mrs, Greenway, Aurora, Ah,,, hi! A wave and a smile, She must be in a better mood, Lemme get out the hats and horns, Rosie, I am starving! Arthur, Hi, Aurora, You got a call from someone named, uh,,, Pasqual [French Accent] Who wants you for dessert, Pascal, And he wants to have me over for dessert, His English is less than perfect, Hector, Are you having an affair? W... Why, Hector, you're in no position to be inquisitive or jealous, Now you go home and you rethink your clothing, God, she's so full of herself, At least it's her old self, thank God, Oh, dear! Ha ha ha! What's all this? Every clipping, every diary, every letter, every photograph, every theater program, Rosie, this represents everything that's ever happened to me, so I am going to organize it and make sense out of it all, Rosie, I'm gonna chronicle every day of my life, What a mess, Oh,,, my,,, goodness! These,,, people are all dead, [Music Plays] [Laughing] Man: Cut it out, Woman: I know, Wait, Ow, ow, ow, You're on my head, [Laughter] Woman: Oh! Oh, God, Mel,,, this is not what it seems, Get your clothes on, Toni, Toni? That's Toni? Mel, we gotta talk, That's Mel? Mel! I got a better idea, Mel, Mel! Mel! Don't overreact, Great, [Grinding Gears] Nice car, Toni, [Ding Dong Ding Ding] [Ding Ding Ding Dong Dong] [Ding Ding Ding] Patsy! No, [Alarm Sounds] I can't believe you, [Telephone Rings] Hello. Please leave a message when you hear the D-sharp. [Beep] Woman: Aurora, pick up the phone, Something's happened to Melly, Patsy! Oh! Where is she? Poor girl! We've pumped her stomach, It's almost impossible to take a lethal overdose in this family of drug, It's a muscle relaxant, so she's just,,, very relaxed, Unresponsive, [Beep Beep Beep Beep] Gel, Clear! EXcuse me! Oh, Melly! EXcuse me, [Gasps] Melanie, Oh, Melanie! Poor Melly, Oh, my darling, What do they say? This is such a cry for help, I'm here to answer it, Patsy, we don't need you anymore, You can go, Thank you for your help, Mel, wake up, honey, Well, honey, it was my house she came to, Well, she probably assumed that with your 40th birthday coming up, there'd be plenty of pills on hand, Good one, Granny, Oh! [Relieved Giggles] Mel! Oh, God, Mel, I am so sorry, Where's Toni? It's all my fault, There are too many people in here, and we have rules, Melanie, Wait, Why are you sorry? Come on, Sis, Oh, God, Oh, Mel, please forgive me, Security! You didn't try to kill yourself over Bruce? [Sobs] Oh! One! Just one! Everybody else out! All right, We'll go quietly, You... You get out, Hi, Rosie, You get out... now! I'll be back, You take good care of my baby, Bye, Rosie, [Rosie Sobs] That will be all, thank you, Yeah, If you don't let them both stay, you're gonna have some more patients on your hands, Melanie, Please just let me help you, Mel, I want you to come home, and I'm gonna cook you dinner, Why does Patsy's friendship with Melanie bother you so much? Melly was 3 when my daughter Emma died, Patsy was Emma's best friend and worst influence, After Emma was gone, Patsy felt that she should raise Melly, and I would not have it, She thinks that she could have done a better job than I did, But I did the best that I could, I wanted her to appreciate life, I wanted her to be responsible, I wanted her to understand the essential things, [Sighs] You want a lot, Is that so bad? Say, how's your chronicle coming along? My chronicle, Ha ha ha, You know, it's like, um,,, it's like composing a symphony, I tried to write a symphony when I was about 18, I love music, But I... I... I, um, I never finished it, Well, you should, It's important to leave something behind, isn't it? I think it is, Who is this? Her name's Lola, Lola, She's a showgirl? Vegas, Really? Mmm, Ha, She's my mother! She is! What? She's got the best legs on the line, Oh, she's awesome, [Laughs] Oh! This... This is,,, certainly interesting, Oh,,, you have no idea, Lola's had a really rough life, but she... Boy, She always comes up kickin', She's the reason I became a therapist, I saw how much good it did her, Oh, God, She's the best mom in the whole world, Hmm, Now you make sure that you tell her that, I guarantee you she needs to hear that on occasion, Well,,, see you next week, O, K, You've been fighting again, Is it broken? Is it? All you've done all your life is fight, Like you haven't? Warden Littlefield tells me you're doing very well with your computer training, What, are you driving him crazy, too? Would you like it for me just not to come here anymore? Teddy and Melanie have given up on you, I don't care, Then why do you come here and speak to me? Why do you show up at all? 'Cause if I don't, it makes me seem uncooperative, Bad for my parole, [Radio Plays] Take your time, Go away, Mel,,, I, uh,,, I wanted to... to think about us starting over again, you know? I'm supposed to take you back now because you got your hair cut, Bruce? I've got an idea about you and me, Can... Can we talk? No, I don't think so, Come on, Mel, Let's take a drive, I'm in a pinto, It's the real me, Tch! Don't touch me! Ahh,,, You wanna hear my plan? Yeah, Show me, show me, show me How you do that trick The one that makes me scream One of those is... What are you doing? Wait, What do those guys have that I don't? Absolutely nothing, That's right, I'm gonna be a model, I'm serious, And then, after I've made enough money modeling, I'll start acting, That's how it's done, Mel, Whoo, I thought I was the one that took the drugs, Mel,,, I almost blew it with us, I don't want that to happen again, I wanna take you somewhere,,, where I can make a life for us, There's too much in the way here, I wanna go where there'll be no distractions, Los Angeles? Bruce really loves me, And he wants to go somewhere and start over fresh in a place where we can be happy, There are 6 million happy people here in Houston, I have no possibility of being happy here, Why? You spray this house with happiness repellent! Thank you, I will be happy with Bruce, and Bruce is gonna be happy in L, A, I was stationed in L, A, after the war, I never had so much sex in my life, This is for Tommy, This is for Teddy, This is for the loathsome Jane... Granny, will you listen to me?! You keep telling me you want me to have a future, Yes, Well, I can't have a future here, What are you gonna do for money? Bruce has a plan, And what is that? It's a good plan, and, um,,, if that doesn't work out, I always have things I can sell, Your mother's jewelry, At last, I have been so anxious to get rid of it, Well,,, there's always Patsy, Yeah, she can help me, Oh, another extremely good idea, Call Patsy, Absolutely, Darling, sweet, kind, generous, happy Patsy, Perfect Patsy from whom all blessings flow, Let up on Patsy! She doesn't hate you, I don't know why you hate her so much, I don't hate Patsy, No, not at all, Patsy is family, I love Patsy! This is for Patsy, What are you doing? Generosity, [French Accent] And I'll never forget, He said, "I am not an animal, I am a human being," Oh, darling, please try one of my oysters, Oh, [Slurp] Formidable. Mmm,,, mmm! Oh, Pascal, for the gods, For the gods! You should try it, Hector, Not on your life, [Doorbell Rings] Oh, EXcuse me, Patsy! Well, Jimmie Lee told me you were in Mexico and couldn't make it! I was just sick about that! Well, I was! I cut my trip short, Do you think I'd miss Melly's going-away party? Can I help? We'll just have to squeeze in another plate somehow, [Bump] I hate it here! I told you this was a formal dinner party, I want it to be perfect for Melanie, I would have paid for a baby-sitter, I know, But Jane says we shouldn't exclude Bump, or he might be, um,,, scarred, Scarred by the separation, Don't worry, Mrs, Greenway, Bump should be here, He's your great-grandchild, Besides, he's perfectly behaved, I promise, I wanna go home! So you never discipline? Huh, Attention, please, [Bump Laughing] Bump: When are we gonna be through? I require silence, Butthole! Just a few words, really, First of all,,, [Bump Laughing] Thank you all for coming, Arthur, thank you for the absolutely gorgeous roses that you have provided for our table, Pascal, the oysters were delicious, Hector, your knowledge of fine wines is unparalleled, Hector, your knowledge of fine wines is unparalleled, [Bump Laughs] Jerry, [Clears Throat] You have become my bridge over shark infested waters, J... Teddy, my darling sweet Teddy, and your,,, Jane, To my Rosie, my right hand, my right arm, my Rosie, And Patsy, who is always there no matter what, [Bump Laughs] Bruce? Yeah? You are taking our Melanie away, Words fail me, And to my darling sweet precious Melanie, May your journey be joyous, May your every dream come true, And may you hurry back to those who really love you, Aaahhh! Ah! Dessert is served in the living room, She's playing the piano, Pats, I can't remember the last time she played, Something is going on, Well, that Jerry could make me play the piano, and I have never even touched one, Know what I'm saying? Oh, here, Oh, Patsy, This is for you, With my love, Thank you, Oh, that's sweet, Oh, my,,, Patsy! This is too much, Just in case, How much is here? I can't believe,,, Just put it away now. And don't tell Aurora, or she'd freak, You know? I don't want to ruin her evening, just her life, I'm kidding, Now, I can never hate anyone who loves you kids as much as I do, Even if hers is the kamikaze kind, Patsy, thank you for everything, You're welcome, sweetie, Hey, God, Did you see what she gave me as a going away present? What? A return ticket, That's... That's too much, I know, Look at all this stuff, I feel like I'm inside Aurora's head, She's such a pack rat, Yeah, It's cleaner than your room ever was. Oh no, it isn't, Look at this, Nice, Did you or Tommy make this? I think that was me, Oh, look at Tommy, Oh, yeah, Wow, I was so blond, Once upon a time, we were a family, Can you believe it? What was it like? Was it great? It had its moments, I um,,, I remember laughs, And uh... and hugs, Lots of hugs, Mom was big on hugs, I guess she wanted to hold onto us as long as she could, I wish I could remember, Teddy, You're lucky, Stand up for a second, Why? - On your feet, - Why should I? Stand up, For what? I'm not asking again, On your feet, Mm-hmm, Now laugh, See? There you go, Just like old times, Hey, be careful, O, K,? I will! You better, Pascal, it was so delightful to have you, really, Aurora, darling, thank you for a wonderful evening, Pascal, it's been great, Bonsoir. Good night, Hector, Yeah? Why is that? Well, there's a lot of beefy people,,, So nice to have met you, Yeah, Maybe I'll see you again, See you again, Tramp! I don't like the looks of this, You sure that's gonna pass muster? Yeah, I've done it a million times, You take care of my baby, She's my baby now, Aw, honey, Come on, Hector, I'm not leaving until you say something, Shit, Good morning! Be nice, I just had to say good-bye! Come on, give me a hug! Bye, Patsy, All right, Here now, this is for you, handsome, Thank you, All right, Patsy, enough, There's traffic, and they're going to be late, Give me a kiss, Now, you be a good girl, You have a wonderful trip and call constantly, I will! Call as soon as you can. Melanie: Bye, Bye, [Car Clanking] You know, you've been good about this, Aurora, Everyone needs to experience happiness, even if it doesn't last, [Cars Bump Loudly] Oh, she reminds me so much of Emma it hurts, [Doorbell Rings] Come in, It's open, Hi, Hello, Jerry, Can I help you? Well, I couldn't help but be a little bit curious as to why you didn't come in today, I... I guess it slipped my mind, Uh-huh, Well, now that I've let Melanie live her own life and she's out of mine for good, I presume that I am cured, Oh, boy, What happened? Nothing, The party was a triumph, You know it was like a successful lab experiment, I put all the rats together in one room to see if they'd eat each other, Wha,,, O, K,, Aurora, you're talking this out, I'm taking you to dinner, You name it, Money's no object, Hi, trudy, Hi! Hi, Aurora, She's the best cook here, Hi, boys, Hey, Miss G, Here we are, Hello, darling, Hi, honey, Thank you, You come here? Yes, I eat here every Sunday on my way to visit Tommy, I get great strength from their pecan pie, You find this uncomfortable? No, it's just,,, I just wouldn't expect you to come to a place like this, Jerry, I'm very liberal, and I embrace all kinds of humanity, just like you do, Besides, I thought this was the safest place to bring you on a date, This is a date? Aurora, I'm going to take you to dinner, Now, here in America, we call that a date, Maybe it's not a date in the sense that we're on our way to sleeping together, Which would really be a preposterous idea, Dolly, could I have, please, the pig platter with french fries, cole slaw, a double order of beans, uh... iced tea and some sweet n' low? And for you, young man? The same, Why is that such a preposterous idea? Let's discuss that, Discuss what? Oh, Do you want to sleep with me? Would that be so bad? Oh, Jerry, You know, if I slept with you, I would be lost, I'd be lost on so many, many levels, Really, it would just be another empty conquest, Then I would be like all those other predatory females prowling the streets of Houston, This is about Patsy, isn't it? Tell me, Patsy is not my type, Thanks, doll, What is your type? Same as every other guy, Really big tits, Dumb as a post, Oh, the younger the better, Ha ha, [Television On] Hector? Is there something wrong with your television? My cable's out, It's our favorite movie, Sit down, [Men Whistling] What? Close your eyes, Why? Just close them, I want you to think about the moment you first laid eyes on me. At the river oaks country club, In my dress blues, Mm-hmm, No one could fill out a uniform the way you could, Yeah, You were so strong, Hector, And I needed your strength so much, So did the children, Mmm, You were so wonderful, I'm still wonderful, Oh, yes, you are still wonderful, Huh? I got cold, [Snoring] Oh, [Banging] Aaahhh! Oh! How rude! Christ, Aurora! What the hell are you doing? It's 2:00 in the morning, Well, I am upset and I want to feel better, And it's your business, You did say anytime of the day or night, I want to talk, You didn't come here just to talk, Yes, I did, Well, no, I didn't, Oh! Is it safe to leave my car on the street? Oh! Ah! [Radio Goes On] Morning, Houston. Time to rise and shine! I didn't know what time it was Then I met you Oh, what a lovely time it was How sublime it was, too I didn't know what day it was You helped... [Humming] Jerry, Oh, good morning, Good morning, Aurora, look, I'm sorry about last night, I don't know what came over me or what possessed me, I'm really, really,,, sorry. I'm going to leave now or I'll be embarrassed by your flattery, No, wait! No! No, no wait, wait! Well, I'm not hungry, I'm not surprised, Hi, baby, I found some barbecue today and it's almost as good as Good Company, Are you hungry? No, Oh, you got your pictures, Let me see 'em, Let me see 'em, They suck, No, they're gonna be great, I'm telling you they suck bad! Bruce, I want to see them, Bruce? How could any picture of yours ever be bad? It's not bad, It's... It's,,, Melanie: Good, Look, all you have to do is just get better pictures made, That's all, With what? Our disposable income has been disposed of, You can't call Aurora, I'm getting a little perturbed with Melly, actually, You think she would have picked up a phone and said I'm in L, A, I've arrived, I'm alive, It's been much too long, Yeah well, you know, things have been kind of crazy for her, Have you talked to her? Yeah, She had some kind of unexpected expense, so I made her a little loan, Boy, that kid's got spunk, I cannot find a thing, anymore, Shopping is just so frustrating these days, Oh, Patsy, you always find such wonderful things, I mean, look at you, So perfectly put together, I love that belt, It is hard to find the right yellow, You know, I bet that Melly's tried to reach you, But Rosie says you're never home anymore, She says you're always in therapy, You must be about the most well-adjusted woman in Houston by now, Well, it's doing wonders for me, [Giggles] Tell me about Jerry, He's very attractive, Mm-hmm, I like him, Is that line between doctor and patient getting a little blurred? What do you think? Hmm, Be honest, Doesn't the fact that I'm older disgust you? You don't seem older, But I am older, Jerry, And I have all the insecurities that go along with it, So if you're not gonna help me with them, don't lie, You are too much, I have always felt that I'd better just keep trying, Especially when the world around me seems to have stopped, When you stop trying, you fade away, And I am not going to fade away until I absolutely have to, Something somewhere,,, is going to say Aurora was here, Well, what do you know? Herself has come home for a change, Don't be too hard on her, She's just enjoying her life, It wouldn't hurt you to kick up your heels like that every now and then, Arthur, Oh, hello, Hector, We care about you, We feel you're making a big mistake, Well, Oh, Hector, I have come to the conclusion there's no such thing as a mistake, I think we all create what we need, [Piano Music On] [Music Stops] Rosie, what in the world? I'm sick of this, Sick of what? You and Hector are so cranky, You never spend time with us anymore, I live here, Barely, You're always off with that damn Jerry or holed up in here, Instead of spending so much time on those stupid scrap books, you should spend time on the people in 'em, Hector, What do you say we have some fun? Huh? Get dressed, I'm taking us to dinner, Hector, move in just a speck, Rosie, take your hand down from your face, please, You're so silly, Dolly, we're ready for the big finish now, O, K,, honey, what'll it be? This is the General's big night out, He'll go first, I'll have the pecan pie, Dolly: Mm-hmm, Rosie, what will you have? Um,,, banana split, Oh, that's it, Rosie, live a little, How about you, Dr, Cotton? I'll have the super sundae, [Dolly And Rosie] Whoo! Fudge, Yes! And Hector I'm sure will have the mince pie, Dolly: You want that a la mode, darling? Hector, do you want it a la mode? Hector? Hector? [Bagpipes Playing] There is something very wrong with you, Going back to old Jerry? I'm surprised you've waited this long, The General's been in the ground almost 5 hours, I'm looking for the love of my life, Rosie, And it's important that I investigate every possibility, Rosie? Is everything all right, Rosie? No, Come on, talk to me, Come on, Everything's gonna be all right, Everything's all right, Oh, that chapter on Hector Scott is closed, It's a very important chapter, too, Hmm, You know keeping this grown-up was the best thing I've ever done? What do you think? Will I rate a whole page? We'll see, Aurora? Hmm? I love you, Um,,, what? I have to think about that, All is said was I love you, Yes, and it's very flattering, Don't you believe that I love you? Oh yes, I can see where you would, I just did not receive the information the way I thought I would, This is my problem, Jerry, Aurora? You don't have to go back to Los Angeles, Stay, I've been here a week as it is, Rosie: Well, just through the weekend, I can't, I have a boyfriend and a job, As a waitress, Things are really starting to click for Bruce, And I knew they would, His acting teacher says he's like an open wound, He's up for a beer commercial, I'm really happy, Melanie, I hate this, I hate that you're going away again, I never know where you are, I worry all the time, I have to go through Patsy to get to you, I really hate that, O, K, I'll give you my phone number, If you'll promise me you'll never ever use it, I promise, Finally, You're so late! I know, Is everything O, K,? Mel? Yeah? There's something I gotta tell you, Yeah? I got the commercial, Ah! You did?! That is so good, honey, Yeah, So are you the beer drinker in the ski parka or the one in the Speedo? Speedo, They're no fools, Oh, it's so good to be home, Mel? The whole point of us coming to L, A, was to make a new start, I've been meaning to talk to you about this for a few weeks now, But... But then, Hector died and you were so bummed out, so,,, Does it have a name? Yeah, She um,,, She's helped me a lot with my career, Bruce, do you have any idea what this does to me? Yeah, I think I do, I think I do, but,,, it's not aimed at you, Mel, It may not be aimed at me, but it hits me, and it hurts, Shit! This means Granny was right, I could just kill you! Just get out! O, K, Can I ask you something? What?! I didn't get a chance to forward my Varieties, and I need them for audition notices, Can you hold onto them? Out! Thanks, Ooh! Hi, Remember me? I'm Patsy, I don't think I've met anybody quite like you, Patsy Carpenter, Why? A bored, rich Houston divorcee? Oh, well, Ha ha, We're not exactly a rare breed, I tend to stay away from upper class women, They scare me, Make me feel uncomfortable, I'm hardly upper class, You know, I'm just a poor little old Texas gal, Struck oil at the altar, Now,,, Aurora,,, she's upper class, Yeah, she is, Do you feel uncomfortable with her? Well, I,,, I don't know what's going on with Aurora right now, It's... Well, let's just say it's complicated, I'll bet, Trouble? Well, I'm not really at liberty to discuss her, She is a patient, Oh! The old doctor/ patient thing, Yeah, But you're not really a doctor, are you? That's right, I'm not, But I do try to follow the rules, Hear no evil, Speak no evil, Do no evil? You're fascinating, No, You're fascinating, It's fascinating,,, that a man like you should be sleeping with a woman who's old enough to be,,, your mother, Bottoms up, So what does the rest of the house look like? Why don't you follow me? I haven't heard from Melanie, and nothing compels me to return to my therapist, I haven't seen much of Patsy, either, thank God, Rosie is becoming extremely difficult, I think it might be because Hector's gone, That's no great loss, How can you say that? Hector loved you and you loved him, If I heard "The military'd straighten Tommy out" one more time, I'd have killed him myself, Tell me how it works, Tommy, When someone that you hate dies, like the General, does the hatred that you feel for that person dissipate, or do you transfer it to someone else,,, like me? Would you explain this to me, please? Because I do not understand hatred as a sport, How does one win? Hey, eXcuse me, Sit down, Now do me a favor, I enjoy cooking those brownies, That is my recipe, I have spent many years perfecting it to get it right, I consider these brownies to be the finest in the whole world, Please do not throw these brownies away in front of me, You can take them and throw them away after I'm gone if you want to, Just so you know, I've put a file inside, Whatcha got? Merry Christmas, If I could fly like birds on high Then straight to her arms I'd go sailing Jerry, Jerry, Aurora? Yes, Tommy took the brownies, Ha ha, Tommy did what? He took the brownies, Ha ha! That's great, Hey, I'll be right out, O, K, Aurora? Where are you? I'm so glad you came... [Wheels Screech] Oh, Patsy! Oh! I'm so sorry I'm a little late, Oh, no! Listen, I was just so glad you called, Oh, thank you, I decided it had just been too long, you know? It's so hot in here, though, Aren't you warm? Whoo! It's very warm in here, Could I have some iced-tea, please? Thank you, Would you like iced-tea? Uh,,, Bloody Mary, Lotsa Mary, So now tell me everything that you've been up to, and don't leave out a thing, I wanna catch up, Have you heard from Melly? No, Oh... Melly? Uh... Oh, it's Jerry! Ooh, I see Jerry, One second, I will get him and bring him in, My mother'll ask for Bruckner, Thank you, Jerry, Aurora, I'm so glad you called, 'cause I have a big surprise for you, Oh, really? Oh, I revel in surprises, Great, You remember my very good friend Patsy? Of course, We met at Melanie's,,, going-away party, Hi, Patsy, How you been? Hi, Jerry, Sit down, Jerry, You'll be needing this, I think you should order the pasta primavera here, It is to die for, [Giggling] Sounds good! Mm-hmm, Oh, So,,, how long have you two been fucking? Aurora, let's get a couple of things straight, You walked out on me, Talk to me, Patsy I have to talk to again, because that is the wretched hand that life has dealt me, You are not in the cards, Hi, honey! You must be Aurora, This is Lola, My mother! Surprised? Oh, my God, My, my, my! Oh, how extraordinary to meet you! Thank you, Well,,, it's obvious to me now why Jerry has said the things that he has said, Physician,,, heal thyself, Aurora? Let's eat, Come on, She's very pretty, honey, Ah, my life, my life, [Moans] Dear, sweet, Rosie, You old dear, What did I ever do to deserve you? I been askin' myself the same thing, [Moans] Rosie,,, let's take a trip, I need a change of scenery, Nothing extravagant, but wouldn't you... wouldn't you like to see some great art? Oh, a symphony, perhaps, We must think about this, Rosie, I'm quitting, Aurora, EXcuse me? I have to, Arthur's asked me to marry him, If I do, he won't let me work, Marry Arthur,,, for what purpose? Well, things haven't been so good around here, lately, I felt like you might want me to go, So you're giving me your notice? I've never considered you my boss, I've considered you my friend, I'm lucky, I've never had kids of my own, but I feel like I've raised some, Your life,,, has been my life, Arthur says he loves me, You've heard that a lot, I never have, Do you know what it's like to be my age and never have had someone turn to you and say,,, "I love you"? Arthur said that to me, I'm old, I'm tired, But he wants me as I am, I can't walk away from that, Besides, I'll be next door, [Ring] Hello? Granny? Ah! Oh, Melly! Oh, Mel! Well, darling, the bad experiences are as important as the good ones, I mean, I was in Jerry's life because, apparently, he needed to work through some dreary episode with his mother, And I haven't yet figured out why we're all blessed with Patsy, I'm just so disappointed in myself, Never allow disappointment, Mel, Disappointment ruins more lives than all the diseases known to man, Get back in the saddle again, honey, No way, I can't let this happen again, I seem to have this pattern going on here, Well, I'm finding that the only way to break bad behavior patterns is to break them, Anyway, Mel, men come and go, And if you're lucky, the good ones come and go several times, Come home, Mel, Are you kidding? I can't do that, Well, could we do something? Could we go somewhere? I've always dreamed of taking you kids to New York, New York is such a wonderful place with the theater and the ballet and the museums, no Bruce, Ha, Someday, O, K,? But not now, I'm so glad you called, Mel, I've never needed anything more, honey, Maybe I'll do it again sometime, Bye, hon, Bye, Granny, Did he dump you? Yeah, Good, Melanie Horton? Yeah, That's me, Hi, I guess we have to take them back, No! I want, I want to keep them, I've already named them, and if I take them back, somebody'll change their names and confuse them, Miss Horton? Yeah? We'd like you to try it again, Why? I was terrible, Don't worry, This is television, They love your look, You got to do something with the character, She has to be outrageous, unpredictable, Faith is a person you want to love sometimes, and the next time you want to strangle her, So, take a minute and think about it... I got it, I know, I got, I got it, O, K, All right, let's do it, [Telephone Rings] Hello? Oh, Melanie, Oh, hi, What? Television? Mel? Congratulations, honey! This is fantastic, Melanie, Oh, I'm so happy for you, honey, It is a big part, isn't it? [Groans] Thank you, You know, it's hard to believe you're Melanie's grandmother, When did you get married, 12? I love L, A, Yeah, but what time will you be home? Hell if I know, Bye, Bye, We're out, Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! Come on, Bravo! That was great, So here it is, my dressing room, [Whispering] Melanie, Oh, my God, Oh, honey, Oh, Mel, Granny, what is the matter? Oh, God, [Crying] Oh, my goodness, Do you know how rare it is to share pure moments of triumph and of joy in this family? Oh, Mel, How far you've come, How much you've accomplished, Just think, less than a year ago, you were lying in a hospital near death, And now you're on television, I just want to hang on to this precious moment as long as I possibly can, Surprise! Man: Hey, Woman: EXcuse me, We were waiting here, How are you today? I hate my life, [Coughs] Hi, Oh, Patsy, Oh, I didn't know you were on the plane, Yeah, I got to get back 'cause the opera benefit's in 2 weeks, Oh, God, I should never have said I'd be chairman, 'cause it seems they can't even breathe without my say-so, They even want me to tell 'em how to fold the napkins, [Chuckles] No, Who gives a shit? Are you mad at me, Aurora? I'm,,, tired of you, Patsy, I'm just so tired of you meddling in my life, I would just love it if I could do something... one thing, anything, I don't care what it is... where you are not there either stealing it or spoiling it, Well, you know? I don't think my generosity and support would bother you so much if you weren't such a miserable, unhappy bag of bile, Generosity? I am so sick of your talking about your generosity, There is not a generous tuck in your entire body, I'm sorry you see it as meddling, It's healthier than your emotional terrorism, Emotional terrorism? Where did you pick that up? Are you sleeping with some CNN reporter now? Oh, get off your moral high horse, You run around like a piece of activated sewage, and you have the nerve to criticize what I do? I'm honest in my relationships, At least I don't lie, and I don't back-stab, This is about Jerry, isn't it? This is about Melanie! Oh, please, Aurora, That again? You did not get to raise her, You have spent your life, therefore, trying to snatch her away from me, Emma wanted me to raise her, Oh, yes, so that she would turn out exactly like your children... absentee white slabs of flesh, Well, at least my kids didn't go to prison to escape me, Well, Melanie and Tommy and Teddy might not be perfect, but they are alive, and they feel, and I love them, and I'm going to love them until I die, That is all that I want, I don't know why you regard me as the enemy, Man: I'm in here, It's important to have enemies, They keep you strong, Maybe that's why Tommy hates you so much, [Gasps] [Banging And Screaming] [Screaming] [Thump] Man: Just a minute, Sir, I am so terribly sorry, I am sorry, I'm so sorry, Sorry, Sorry, Hello, Arthur, How are you? Uh-huh, Well, we have had the most wonderful news over here, Tommy has a new job, He's in computers, Yes, Well, anyway, we're very, very, very excited, and I am making the most fabulous gumbo, And there'll just be a few of us, you know, Just us... Jane and Tommy and Teddy and some dreary friend that Jane is insisting on bringing, Get your jacket, It's not cold out, So, I was wondering if you and Rosie would like to come over and celebrate with us, Arthur, you 2 have had other plans, other house guests, been under the weather, ever since you got back from France, What's going on over there? Would you put Rosie on the phone, please? She'll have to call you back, [People Laughing] Hey, Granny? We're all going to ice skate, You want to come? No, No, Ellen, Leave that, honey, Oh, no, no, no, You made such a beautiful meal, This should be our job, No, it's going to rain cats and dogs, I'll just leave the dishes out and let God do them, Great, Let's go, Put them down, dear, Tommy, Now you 2 run off and have a good time together. Jane, that Ellen's a very nice girl, Yeah? Yeah, And she's a friend of yours, Yeah? Great gumbo, Granny, Great gumbo, Granny, [Door Closes] [Man Coughs] Arthur? I've run out of patience with you 2, What is this all about? Shh, She's asleep, or she's trying to, Aurora? I am going to wake her, I refuse to be treated this way, Be quiet, Aurora, She's sick, She told me when I asked her to marry me that the doctors had given her from 3 to 5 years, Looks more like 6 months, I know, I know, I wanted her to tell you, but she wouldn't, She felt you'd already been through too much, and she felt that since things were starting to go well with Melanie and Tommy,,, she didn't want you to have to go through that, Aurora! No, no, Oh, Rosie, Oh, Rosie, I am so angry with you, Arthur, I could shoot you, Aurora, what are you doing? I am taking Rosie home, Sit up, dear, No, you're not, Oh, yes, I am, You can't do that, Stop it, You want to go home, don't you? O, K, Right now, You have no business doing this, Stop it, Aurora, There's some things you can't control, She's my wife, goddamn it, You may visit her whenever you wish, The rain feels nice, Yeah, I thought you'd like it, Damn her, How is she? Good enough to be glad to see you, Want me to put those in water for you? Thank you, How would you like this? Mmm, Hey, [Sobs] O, K,, Granny, All right, All right, O, K, Come over here and sit down, Oh, no, [Clears Throat] Rosie? Rosie, what's up? I just,,, I just wish I could have my old job back, It's kind of scary, you doin' everything, Rosie, you did all the work for 40 years, What's wrong with your taking a little rest? I'm dyin', and it's pissing me off, Well, they've had it, Yeah, I guess I'm falling down on the job, huh? [Snoring] You gonna be all right? Sure, Thank you, Aurora, Come in, Arthur, You hungry? No, Everybody gone? Yes, Don't you just hate that? Oh, yes, Well,,, what have you brought me? Oh, I, uh... Damn, I wanted to do something special with Rosie, But I've already got my first wife's on my mantel, It just doesn't seem right, Well, what do you think? I agree, Bookends would be tacky, Ha, Yeah, [Sighs] I thought maybe we could sprinkle 'em in your backyard, Arthur,,, we eat out there, Aw, yeah, Well, then, can you please help me? Please? Of course I will, - Thank you, - Arthur, Thank you so much, Aurora, You're such a good man, And you care, Thank you, [Gasps] Oh, no! [Laughs] Oh, Garrett! I can't believe it! Oh, it is so great to see you! I can't believe this, What are you doing in Houston? Apollo reunion, [Laughs] Really? Buncha old astronauts trying to squeeze into old space capsules, Not a pretty sight, [Whispering] Oh, my God, What's this? Well,,, it's Rosie, Oh,,, it's Rosie, She was a,,, great gal, Yeah, she was, She, uh,,, stay out here? Ha ha, Uh,,, I'm not sure, It's,,, like when she was alive, I,,, I don't know what to do with her, Chloe, Light of my life, Garrett, she's so gorgeous! She's gonna be in the fourth grade, She must've been a beautiful bride, Still a bitch, I have to send a beautiful young daughter out into the world, If that ain't God gettin' even with me, I don't know what is, What did you say your wife's name was? Mary, She's pretty swell, You'd hate her guts, How much younger is she than you? Much, At least you found the great love of your life, Come on, Don't give me that, You've had great loves, Or love great, Whatever, Well, the love that I felt and the love that they felt somehow didn't coincide, But I'm still looking, Well, where are you finding 'em? Not that many more shopping days till Christmas, Ooh, Do you mind aging? No, Because I've done it so well, Nope, I don't mind gettin' old, I think it's our greatest accomplishment, The simple feat of getting through everything that happens to us is awesome, It,,, has a kind of,,, perverse majesty, Careful, Garrett, Your soul is showing, I only want to feel that I have done something, You have, Trust me, That's so easy for you to say, You've done so many wonderful, monumental things, You've walked on the moon, Sure, And you've walked on the Earth, It's a nicer place, [Chuckling] There she is,,, the evening star, She shines first, she shines brightest, and she shines longest, Make a wish, Astronauts are trained to not wish on stars, They'd never get anything done, Mmm, Do it, O, K,,, done, O, K, Aurora, I hope you're wishing that I get to my flight on time, Mmm! Aurora, you couldn't possibly live long enough for that wish to come true, That doesn't matter, Yes! [Laughing] Yes! Let's do it! O, K, Ah, yes, Good-bye, Rosie! Adios, I love you, Rosie! Well, I'd invite you in, but,,, my parents aren't home, Aurora, I love you, That would be just like you, Garrett, Yep, That's some good art, Bump, That's nice, sweetheart, We got a boy, All right! Henry, 10 pounds, 2 ounces, Oh, my! Oh! A man, Another man, A big man, No, no, You stay away from him, Patsy, [Baby Cries] Come on, That's right, What is it, my Henry? He's screaming, Yes, Come, come, come, He's not happy, Yes, my Henry, My prince Henry, Yes, [Crying Stops] Henry loves you, Granny, I know, I can see it in his eyes, Oh, Ellen, get my camera out of my bag, would you, please? We're gonna take our picture now, Henry, Ooh, look! [Tommy] Let's get a smile, Let's get a smile, That's the cover, That's the cover of my chronicle, You're my cover man, [Gurgling] [Whispering] You're my cover man, God gave us marriage for the wellbeing of human society, for the ordering of family life,,, Henry, be quiet, Your parents are getting married, [Henry Crying] Mama! [Crying] [Henry Screaming] [Crying] Open up, open up, How's it taste? I got it, [Piano Plays] Tommy, Yeah? I think it's time that I taught Henry music, - All right, - Sure, Now, you must bring him by every day, [Music Plays] Bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom, Now you play your own version, That's it, That's it, [Groans] That's it, play it again, Good boy, [Groans] [Groans] [Groaning] Granny? [Falls] [Telephone Rings] Hello? [Whispering] Patsy, Aurora Greenway? There's Patsy, Come on, EXcuse me, what do you think... Sir? Ma'am? [Beeping] I'll take the first shift, Go on, Go, [Sighs] Tommy, [Mumbling] Oh, my God, This isn't home, [Sighs] Want some tea or something, like water here? Get you hot water and lemon? Patsy,,, always here, Don't you have someone you should be sleeping with? I want to stay, I love seeing you like this, Besides, you're so much nicer to me, now we're no longer enemies, Do you remember I told you some time ago there are rewards to having an enemy? They can save your life, Well, that may be true, But I did something that I never should have done, I made an enemy of someone I love, I was prettier, younger, and richer, But you had everything I ever wanted, and I hated that, That was wrong of me, I'm sorry, Baby doll, want one of these? Eggnog? Yeah, How big? That one right there is yours, Thank you very much, pretty lady, [Giggles] Nutmeg? Um, or cinnamon? Nutmeg or cinnamon, or one without... whatever you... That's nutmeg, ,,, for the rest of my life, [Indistinct Conversation] Was she the same way with you? You, you don't know the intensity that I had to deal with this woman, "Melanie, listen to me," Emma, Emma, Honey, bring them to me, No, not just the pink ones, Bring me all the flowers, Granny? Granny? Aurora? [Whispering] Granny? Oh, God, [Crying] Aurora? What? Well, where were you, honey? [Whispering] I was in a place, I had a daughter, Oh, and I was loved, Look, Daddy, it's Aurora, Henry, you're getting pretty good at this, You know, your granny would be very proud of you, I like music, It's my favorite thing, All right, buddy, Here we go,
