 

                        One Sunday in 1828 a ragged boy was found abandoned in the town of N. He could hardly walk and spoke but one sentence. Later, he told of being locked in a dark cellar from birth. He had never seen another human being, a tree, a house before. To this day no one knows where he came from - or who set him free. Don't you hear that horrible screaming all round you? That screaming men call silence? THE ENIGMA OF KASPAR HAUSER Writing... Wri - ting! Remember that: writing. If you write nice now, papa'll give you nice horsey. Horsey... Horsey! - Horse. - Horse. Horsey! Repeat after me: I want to be a gallant rider... ...like my father was before me. Say it! I want to be a gallant rider... ...like my father was before me! Gallant rider. Gallant rider like my father... - Father... - Father... -...was before me. -...was before me. Remember that! Remember that! Come on now. Stand here. Hold this letter. The letter... Stay right here... Wait here. Wait for me here! What do you want here? Horsey! I'm asking you what you want here? Like my father was before me! Ah, maybe it's that you don't know your way around here? Can I be of service? Is it that letter there... ...you're wanting to bring? Let's have a look at it. "To the Cavalry Captain of the Fourth Squadron... ...Sixth Schwolische Regiment." Let's see now, that'll be straight ahead... ...past Augustinergasse, round the corner, that's the Captain's house. Should I take you there? Or have you got other plans? Say, where are from now? Ansbach, Erlangen, Regensburg? Regensburg! Regensburg, good - come along now! The young man here's from Regensburg... ...here's a letter for the Captain. The Captain is not here. He'll be in this evening. Ah, but the young man is very weary. Can't we find a place for him till then? Not in the house, perhaps in the barn. Horsey! Right, with the horses on the straw. There he can give the letter to the Captain. Horsey. - Is that him? - Yes. We've tried everything we could to wake him, without success. Have you ever seen him before? No, never. Here's the letter. He didn't want to let go of it. From the Bavarian border, no place name, dated 1828... "His Excellency the Captain." "Does it say "His Excellency"? It does, yes! "I'm senden yr Grace a bouye..." Senden yr Grace, hah hah! Should I take that down? Yes, please do. "This here bouye wants to serve his King faithfully." "The bouye was laid me on..." He says the boy was "laid" him on 7th October, 1812. "I am a poor laborer with 10 children... ...and have enough to do to feed myself and my wife. His mother wanted to raise the boy, but I couldn't ask her to. I didn't tell her the boy was laid on me by the Court. I have not let him take one step out of the house since 1812... ...so nobody doesn't know a thing about him. You can ask him, but he can't tell you. I teached him reading and riting. and he says he wants to be... "...a gallant rider like his father." A gallant rider, yes... "...a gallant rider like his father was before him. If he had parents... ...he would have been a smart fellow." A smart fellow, yes. "You only have to show him something and he can do it. But please do not plie him with questions..." Ply with 'ie'... "He don't know where I am... ...I brought him away by night. I am not signing my name." No, there's no signature. - Did you get it all down? - Yes. This is very odd. Yes, indeed! Should I report no signature? Yes, and put this in the file. I'll try him again... No, don't. Leave him be. You can see it's no use. He seems to be not quite all right in the head. He's coming around... Your name! Should I report that he refuses to talk? Yes, name unknown. Where are you from? And his passport? Gallant rider... Occupation? Where were you born? He says he comes from Regensburg. From Regensburg. The intelligence of this man is in a state of absolute confusion. There's nothing to be gained by police interrogation. Should I take that down? Nothing to be gained by police interrogation, yes. Refuses to answer. He refuses to answer! Right, and what do we do now? Maybe he's hungry? It's worth a try. Lay him down again! Spits out food! Spat out food... Let's have a look at his feet. I say, those are old boots. Those boots have very old toes! Bleeding of the toes, scabs... Indicates a long period of... Feet extremely tender... Both feet show same indications... ...of extreme tenderness. Aha, vaccination marks! The foundling seems to be of the higher orders! Foundling, yes, get that down. Upper arm injured... What was this injury caused by? By a blunt instrument, I'd say. Blunt instrument, I'd say. The same marks here, and here... Put that down! A prayer book! Entitled "Spiritual Forget-me-nots". Beautiful and Devoted Morning Prayers for Faithful Souls. The other book... ...a printed treatise entitled 'Six Deep and Devotional Prayers'. Put under 'other things'... A four-cornered, folded square of paper, containing... ...yes, a small quantity of gold dust, or gold leaf. Put that with the other things. Then a rosary...rosary. A rosary with a metal cross. With the other things. Under the circumstances, this man should be taken into custody! Put that down, word for word. A pencil! And a sheet of paper. Can he write? Can you write? Kaspar Hauser. The fellow is not as wild as I thought: he came peacefully. He seems harmless enough. I've done all I can. The rest is up to the authorities. Maybe we should place him under oath. He did not impress us as being either mad or depraved. Neither mad nor depraved. It's best we keep him in this tower for criminals and vagabonds. He doesn't look like going berserk. No, but you never can tell. He'll have to sit up to eat, he can't eat on the floor. Julius, take his feet. You hold him back... now forward... Now he's on his feet! Sit him down there. Let's stretch his feet out. I guess he never sat up straight at a table before! He never sat up at all in the tower. Take the bowl away... Hold on to the table there! Come on, let go! Give me your hat, you won't be needing it now. Leave him be, it's all right. Let's start. You've got to eat, come on. You can't eat with your hat! He won't give it to me. There, take the spoon... ...and start eating. Look...look...like this. Do it like me. He'll be all right, it's just that he don't have no manners yet. So, open your mouth... See, I told you so! Oh, my goodness me! Take his bowl away, he's not used to it. Give him bread, he always takes bread when you give it to him. Bread... take the bread. Give him a drop of water, Julius. Look, it's empty, there's nothing more inside. Nothing comes out any more. - Empty! - Empty. Empty! Nothing more inside. All gone. Empty. Empty. No, this jug's not empty, there's beer in it. Look... it's full, it's not empty. That cup there is empty. There's nothing in it. Empty. It'll take time, getting him used to such things. Don't cry, don't cry. Oh my, how my gut is painin' me! Finger, thumb, arm... This is your hand, this is your arm. Arm...nose...mouth... Look, this is your ear. Look, I've even got a mirror! This here is your ear. My gut is killing me. Finger...shoulder... ...arm. No, that's your hand. This is your arm. Hand, hand! This is your arm. Arm, arm, arm... Hand. Hey, what kind of place is this here, anyway? Damn your eyes, ain't there nothin' in this place to drink? Stand up, Kaspar, stand up! You don't have to be ashamed, we're alone here. Only the dear Lord is watching, don't be afraid. Mother, my skin is coming off! Don't worry about it. He hasn't had a bath in years. Lap, lap, lap, I like this milk, Lap, lap, lap as smooth as silk. Good morning, little cat so white. May I sit down by your side? Good morning, little cat so white, May I sit down by your side? Be nice to me little girl so fair, Then you may sit down right there. Lap, lap, lap I like this milk, Lap, lap, lap as smooth as silk. Agnes, that rhyme is too long for him. All he knows are separate words. I just taught him separate words... ...and he can't understand your rhyme yet. It's no use, he doesn't even respond to a feigned thrust. Doesn't respond to feigned thrust. I don't think he's a hard boiled swindler. He's got absolutely no conception of danger! No conception of danger. It didn't even scare him. How about trial by fire? - Is that for the record? - Yes. He's not afraid of the flame. Charmed to meet you! Charmed, I'm sure! Look at him gapin'! He's never seen that before. Look, look...look here! Pick up the baby, Kaspar, go ahead. Mother, I am so far away from everything. I eat with my handses... With your hands! With my handses. With your hands! Have you heard anything? A number of people have testified that the foundling... ...ran away from a group of English circus equestrians. - They were in the Oberpfalz area. - What was that? Other citizens say he is a member of the Baden dynasty... ...who was to be eliminated as most likely heir. The Baden dynasty, however... ...is beyond all reproach. Besides, there are better ways of getting rid of unwanted heirs... I don't believe the story in any case. Just look at him... ...with his coarse, rustic features! There's nothing refined about him at all. She can't walk on two feet! After all, he's beginning to be a burden on the community coffers. He's costing us a pretty penny. Perhaps he should begin contributing to his own upkeep somehow. One could turn the public interest in him to good use. Come right on up, ladies and gentlemen! Parents keep an eye on their children! Now before we present the Four Riddles of the Spheres... ...we have for you an entertaining intermezzo. This wild bear, Kublai Khan, from farthest central Asia... ...came to us somewhere in Mongolia, where the Huns live. With one sweep of his mighty paw he can kill a bull! But here in the temperate zones, dear children... ...he is as tame and cuddly as a little cat. Here our Indian fire-eater, our fakir... ...a living flame, a veritable mountain of fire! He has succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, by will power alone... ...in rejecting every trace of a burn or scorch! Show us your skin, soft as a baby's, not a blemish. What's this, you scoundrel? And now... ...ladies and gentlemen... ...for the very first time in the history of the world. Brought together for you and only for the first time: The Four Riddles of the Spheres! Minors please keep their distance. The gravity of my presentation permits of no childish pranks. And now for the first Riddle: The Little King! Monarch of the Golden Land of Punt of song and legend. The last link of an ancient line of giants! Each king of this line was tinier than the last. Here you see that the last living member of the royal family. Another few centuries, and the Kings of Punt will be invisible. The very last king will be no bigger than a flea! Yes, there he sits, our Little King... ...cowering like an outcast in the corner of his throne. And as the kings have grown tinier, so have their kingdoms. His kingdom is no larger than the spot he is sitting on... ...for neither can he leave his kingdom without outside help... ...nor can he climb it. Our next Riddle, ladies and gentlemen... Our next Riddle of Science - the Young Mozart! One day long ago he fell into a deep trance... ...and asked for nothing more but the music of Mozart. At a tender age he already knew all the scores by heart. Now, still in the trance, he looks for dark holes in the earth... ...because they tried to teach him to read and write at school. Since that day he has lost the power of speech. He was not able to read or write he says... ...because the whiteness of the paper blinded him. Day in, day out, he peers into dark, deep holes in the earth... ...looking for entrances to caves and underground waterways. As you see, there is no way to gain the poor fellow's attention... His mind is completely engrossed in zones of twilight. Our next Riddle, a living specimen of anthropology... ...is Hombrecito. An untamed Indian from the sunny shores of New Spain. This wildman is the sole remaining member in all of Europe... ...of the renowned and legendary Kaffir and Indian Show. He plays his wooden flute night and day, because he believes... ...that if he stops, all the people in town will die. He wears three separate jackets to keep from catching cold... ...and to protect himself from the evil breath of mankind. Hombrecito is a jolly good fellow, and quite tame. He speaks hardly a word of any tongue - except Indian of course. And now to the final and greatest Riddle of all! Kaspar, the Foundling! He has agreed, with the express permission of the authorities... ...to appear in person here every afternoon, and thus.. ...to ease the community's financial burden. Thank you, Kaspar! Kaspar Hauser was found in the Town Square of this fine city... ...just as you see him standing before you today. In his right hand, a prayer-book... ...and his left, the Anonymous Letter. Abandoned to his fate in a strange town... ...the boy could neither speak nor walk. He had never seen a living being in his life before! His origin remains in darkness to this day, ladies and gentlemen. Is he a prince? Or possibly the legitimate son of Napoleon? His is and will remain the Riddle of the European Continent! Stop, Hombrecito! Kaspar, come back! Are you mad? I will get you! Stop in the name of the Law! There he is! Come down from there! Stop shaking that branch! If that branch breaks, I'll...! Come down here! Keep searching for Kasper. The beehive! Ah, it's locked. He couldn't be in there. I want to fly like a rider... ...midst the bloody tussle of war! What a fine, what a beautiful report this will make! I shall write a report the likes of which has never been seen! Kaspar, what's wrong? Are you feeling well? It feels strong in my heart. The music feels strong in my heart. I feel so unexpectedly old. You've been such a short time in the world, Kaspar. Why is everything so hard for me? Why can't I play the piano like I can breathe? In the two short years you have been here with me... ...you have learned so much! The people here want to help you make up for lost time. The people are like wolves to me! No, you mustn't say that. Look at Florian, he lives here too. He lost his family in a fire, he is blind, but does he complain? No, he plays the piano the whole day long... ...even though his music sounds a little strange. Oh, how it is! A very big man must have built it. I would like to meet him. A man doesn't have to be as tall as the tower he builds. He can use a scaffold! I'll take you to see a new building. You lived in this tower, where that little window is. That cannot be! Because the room is only a few steps big. I don't understand. Wherever I look in the room... ...to the right, to the left... ...frontwards and backwards - there's only room. But when I look on the tower... At the tower! ...and I turn around, the tower is gone! So, the room is bigger than the tower! No, Kaspar, that's not right. Think about it a little more. I still don't understand. How do you mean that? Yes, let's ask him. It's important. Another cup of coffee, Pastor. Yes, please, it's excellent! Another cup of coffee? Yes, please. You're not going to torture him much longer, are you? I wouldn't call it torture! - I'll leave the pot here. - Thanks. Kaspar, what we really want to know is.. ...whether a Higher Being didn't occupy your thoughts in prison. I don't understand the question. In my prison I didn't think of anything... ...and I cannot imagine... ...that God created everything out of nothing... ...like you say! If he doesn't understand God, then he'll simply have to have faith! You must have faith! The tenets of faith transcend mortal doubt. First I have to learn to read and write better to understand. No, Kaspar, the articles of faith are more important... And do stop pressing your thumb and finger when you speak! And now, my son, please repeat this prayer after me. Repeat after me! For the peace of God is higher than all mortal coils... Keep our hearts in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Please, repeat. Say it! Look, these are last years apples. Big and red, aren't they? And those apples on the tree will look just the same soon. How do they do that? Time does it, Kaspar. And the Lord's plan! Let the apples lie, they're tired and want to sleep. Kaspar, an apple can't be tired. Apples don't have lives of their own - they follow our will. I'm going to roll one down the path, it'll stop where I want it to. The apple didn't stop, it hid in the grass! May I have your help in demonstrating it to him Mr. Fuhrmann? Come here, Kaspar, watch! Stand here where you can see. Now, Mr. Fuhrmann is going to put out his foot... ...and when I roll the apple, it will stop right where we want it to. Smart apple! It jumped over his foot and ran away! Smart apple! What are women good for? Can you tell me that, Katy? Women are not good for anything but sitting still! But Kaspar... Why are women allowed only to knit and cook? You'll have to ask Mr. Daumer that, Kaspar. He'll know a decent answer for you. I already asked Mr. Daumer. Yes, Mr. Daumer is an educated man. I will never learn as much as him. He told me about the Sahara Desert... ...and I can't get it out of my head! Katy, have you been to the Sahara Desert? I'm just a housekeeper, I don't go journeying so much. I was in Erlangen once, but it's a long way from there to the desert! I know a story about the desert, but only the beginning. Yes, Mr. Daumer told me about it. He said you couldn't get past the beginning of your story... ...and that you should wait to tell it until you know the end... ...and not just the beginning. Yes, he takes it seriously, that you should learn to tell a story right. If I...can ask... ...Mister Daumer... ...to read... ...this letter... ...at his pleasure. A few days ago I took some cress seeds... ...and sowed my name with them. And it came up right pretty. And it made me so happy that I can hardly say. And yesterday, when I came back from boating... ..somebody had come into the garden.. ...and stepped on my name. I cried for a long time. I am going to sow the name again. It dreamed to me... You had a dream? Tell it to me! Yes, it dreamed to me. You're really coming along, Kaspar. You used to think all your dreams were real. Just a fortnight ago, you said you saw the mayor's wife... ...even though everybody knows she'd gone on a journey. Strange that you didn't dream once during your years in prison! I dreamed of the Caucasus. It just can't be true when you say... ...that your bed is the only place in the world you're really happy in. Don't you like the garden? The gooseberry bushes? Or the onions over there? All so green? Well, it seems to me... ...that my coming into this world... ...was a terribly hard fall! But Kaspar! That... No, that's not... How should I explain it to you? The Professor here has come all this way to ask you a question. He wants to see how well you can think... ...and what you have learned in these two years... ...and whether you can think logically. Will you answer him? - Yes! - Good. Kaspar... ...let's pretend that this is a village. In this village live people who tell only the truth. Here is another village. The people here only tell lies. Two paths run from these villages to where you are standing... ...and you are at the crossroads. A man comes along, and you want to know which village he comes from... ...the village of the truthtellers or the village of the liars. Now in order to solve this problem, to solve it logically... ...you have one question, and only one. What is the question? That's too difficult for him, how can he know that. I admit, the question is thorny. If you ask the man whether he comes from the village of truth... ...and he does, then he will say, truthfully, yes. But if he comes from the village of lies, he will lie... ...and also answer yes! Yet there exists one question which will solve the problem. That's much to hard, too complicated. You have one question, Kaspar... ...and only one, to solve this problem of logic. I wouldn't know either. If you can't think of the question... ...then I shall tell you. If you came from the other village... ...would you answer 'no' if I were to ask you whether... ...you came from the liars' village? By means of a double negative the liar is forced to tell the truth. This construction forces him to reveal his identity, you see. That's what I call logic via argument to the truth! Well, I know another question. You do? There is no other question, by the laws of logic. There isn't? But I do know another question. Let us hear it, then! I should ask the man whether he was a tree-frog. The man from the truth village would say: No, I'm not a tree-frog, because he tells the truth. The man from the liars' village would say: Yes, I'm a tree-frog, because he would tell a lie. So I know where he comes from. No, that's not a proper question. That won't do, I can't accept it as a question. That's no logic; logic is deduction, not description. What you've done is describe something, not deduce it. But I understood his question. Understanding is secondary; the reasoning is the thing. In Logic and Mathematics we do not understand things... ...we reason and deduce: I cannot accept that question. Died June 30th - Karl Friedrich Wolf... ...apprentice bookbinder and orphaned son of Johannes Wolf... ...haberdasher and tradesman. Age - 18 years, 9 months, and 27 days. Cause of death - consumption. Died July 6th - Josef Christian Friedrich Holzlein. Age - 22 days. Cause of death - gout. With gratitude we record the Guardianship Council's petition... ...to all men of generous heart... ...to ease the lot of the poor and destitute among us. Flowers will also be accepted. No, Katy dear, my eyes aren't what they used to be. Would you be so kind as to call on the tailor today? Kaspar will be needing his new coat tomorrow. How far along are you with your new biography, Kaspar? The word is out that you are working on it, and... ...everybody I know is dying to read it. No, I don't want to let go of any of it yet. There are so many words I don't know... ...and so many things I don't understand yet. Sorry to disturb you, but I just wanted to tell you... ...that an English nobleman, Count Stanhope, has come to town. He has taken great interest in your situation, and said... ...that he would like to adopt you if you made a good impression. It would be a wonderful new start for you, Kaspar. I am overwhelmed. Welcome! Thank you. I should like to introduce my young protege... Kaspar, this is our charming hostess. Don't be afraid, give the lady your hand. And this is our gracious host... ...who will open the doors of society to you. Allow me to introduce my young protege to you. Isn't he droll! Quite the noble savage! I should like you to meet the mayor and his wife. Hello, Kaspar. I'm so happy to meet you, Kaspar. Tell me, what was it like in that dark cellar of yours. Better than outside! But we all like you so much, Kaspar. Were you about to say something? You just tell us whatever comes into your natural young head. Your Grace, nothing lives in me except my life! Oh no, there's much more alive inside of you. You've been making such fine progress with your music... ...something that educates and ennobles our feelings! Your Grace, I would like to play a piece on the piano. I shall play Mozart's waltz in F major. I'm not feeling well, may I be excused? A little fresh air will help. I'll open the window a bit. Are you feeling better, Kaspar? I think it's better we left him alone for a moment. There's no cause for concern. Kaspar is feeling a bit faint. Perhaps in the meantime I can tell you of my visit to Greece. Not many days ago the sun of Hellas shone down on me. I loitered, Pindar in hand, neath the columns of Corinth. The sunrises were indescribable... ...the crystal clarity of the Greek light unforgettable. A balm to the soul, that unsullied atmosphere! I continued onto Crete, where I rode the little donkeys... The backs of these animals are often quite hard, you know... ...and I was forced to wear peasants' trousers! Then the festivals of the simple peasants of the countryside... ...the charming dances... Excuse me please, my protege. What's the meaning of this, Kaspar? I'm sure I don't understand... And what manner of silly business is this? Apparently I've been guilty of a misjudgment. There hasn't been enough time... ...for me to get a true picture of the circumstances. Why did you leave the church? The singing of the congregation... ...sounds to me like awful howling. And then the singing stops, the pastor starts to howl. Kaspar, we have to go back in. Poor young fellow! He must have taken too much of that laxative the doctor gave him! - Katy! - Yes. Come here a moment. It looks like a bloody handprint. Mercy me! I saw him go in here this morning... ...and the door wasn't off its hinges. Look - it's blood! There are bloodstains on the cellar door. He can't have broken in by himself... He's drunk it dry! Now he's bitten a piece out of the bowl! Ah, here's our patient. Hello, thank you. Did you apply the bandage? There wasn't time to do it better. Were there any other injuries beside the head wound? No, only his head. I have a few important questions to ask the victim. Please - not now. Well, we won't be getting anything out of him today! But at least he's not talking the kind of rot he did last week. All the same, with respect to the crime... ...and Hauser's origins, we can't expect much from him today. Then I shall ask you to take your leave, gentlemen. There was one thing... ...I wanted to mention. But it has nothing to do with the attack on me. It is all so clear before my eyes. Tell us, Kaspar. I saw the ocean, and I saw a mountain... ...and there were many people climbing up the mountain. It was like a procession. There was a lot of fog. I couldn't see it very clearly, but... ...at the very top was Death. What's happened? He's been stabbed! What happened? And where? The man told me to watch the gardener... ...then he gave me this pouch and stabbed me. I'll take you home, we'll carry you. Let me see what's in the pouch. A note! "Hauser can tell you exactly what I look like... ...and where I come from. To save him the trouble... ...I'll tell you myself where I come from... ...and even what my name is. ...M. L.O." The Lord have mercy on me for I am weak. Heal me Lord, for my limbs are stricken. Lord, why do you hide from me in my hour of need? Do not go far from me, for fear is near. I am weary of sighing. I lie in the sweat of my body... ...and my tears moisten my bed. My body, weakened by mourning, has grown old... ...and I am tormented from every side. Away from me, evil-doers, for the Lord hears my call. Kaspar, my son... ...if anything is burdening you, please tell us now. Yes... There is something, a story... It's about a caravan... ...and the desert. But I know only the beginning. That doesn't matter now. Tell us the story, even if it's only the beginning. I see a caravan... ...coming through the desert... ...across the sands. And this caravan... ...is led by an old Berber tribes man. And this old man is blind. Now the caravan stops... ...because some believe they are lost... ...and because they see mountains ahead of them. They look at their compass, but it's no use. Then their blind leader picks up a handful of sand... ...and tastes it, as though it were food. My sons, the blind man says, you are wrong. Those are not mountains you see... ...it is only your imagination. We must continue northward. And they follow the old man's advice... ...and finally reach the City in the North. And that's where the story begins. But how the story goes after they reach the city, I don't know. Thank you all for listening to me. I'm tired now. There we have it - the left lobe of the liver is greatly enlarged. That is an unusual finding indeed, and worth recording. Please take this down: Left liver lobe enlarged and extends... ...enlarged, yes. ...and extends to below the left arch of the diaphragm. Doctor, look! ...arch of the diaphragm. Look at the brain, its shape is rather unusual. Yes, a remarkable abnormality. Overdevelopment of the cerebrum. Oh, I agree, yes! There is also a deformity of the cerebrum. The left hemisphere is too small. That explains a great deal! This should be recorded. Take this down: Abnormal cerebrum... ...definitely overdeveloped. Deformity of left cerebral hemisphere... ...which does not sufficiently cover the cerebellum. Coachman! Today is a day to remember. Be so good as to take my hat home with you. I'm going to walk home. What a wonderful, what a precise report this will make! Deformities discovered in Kaspar Hauser's brain and liver! Finally we have got an explanation for this strange man... ...and no one would never find nothing like this.
