 

                        4 They're waiting for you in the drawing room, sir. Thank you, Barnsby. Oh, Barnsby? I'd rather like you to join us, if you don't mind. Have you found Lady Ridgeley's jewels? Yes, Inspector, have you found my cabochon ruby? No, Your Ladyship, but I have found something else. The identity of Lord Fenley's murderer. Inspector, you're not trying to imply that one of us could have actually performed such a loathsome deed? It's quite ridiculous. I simply don't believe it. Not only do I believe it, Mr Montrose, but I have the evidence to prove it. All of you had sufficient motive. It could have been... any one of you. You, Sir Derek, have been falsifying the accounts of Finwick Industries with the help of your son-in-law Mr Foxwell. And you were also aware that Lady Ridgeley was having an affair with Lord Fenley which ended abruptly when he resumed his dalliance with Lady Foxcroft. You see, she had stumbled upon the knowledge that Barnsby was in truth Lord Fenley's half brother and the illegitimate father of Mr Peter Montrose, who was planning to gain control of Fenley Industries with the help of Mr Da Silva, who risked bankruptcy if the plot failed. Yes, you all had motives. Any one of you could have done it. But only one of you did. A person sitting in this room? At this very moment? Yes, Miss Kate, in this very room. This ridiculous cat-and-mouse game has gone on long enough! Very well, then. Lord Fenley's murderer... Oh dear, oh dear. Lights, Mr Paycock, please. I'll have it fixed in no time, no time at all. I'd say that's highly unlikely. Oh, dear. Now we'll never know who did it. It does seem rather obvious who the murderer was. Who, Miss Marple? Do tell us. Was it Sir Derek? I hardly think so, Miss Giles. It's unlikely he would have murdered his business partner, not while he only had 49% of the business, and the controlling interest would have reverted to Lord Fenley's sister, a bitter enemy of Sir Derek's. I'll bet it was that young blaggard Lord Peter. Impossible, Major. Excuse me, dear. The only tracks leading to Lord Fenley's estate that evening were bicycle tracks. But he hated Lord Fenley. Yes, but you forget, young Peter had a birth defect which caused a malfunction to the inner ear. This loss of equilibrium in his system would have made it impossible for him to maintain his balance on a bicycle. Good night, Major. Excuse me, Mrs Morley-Smith. Good night, Dolly. Good night, Jane. I still say it was that awful butler. It was Barnsby, don't you think, Miss Marple? - I most certainly do not. - But the revolver in his drawer? Barnsby had never been to Lord Fenley's estate' The footprints on the night of the murder led directly to the smaller bedroom off the left wing where Lord Fenley frequently sought privacy. Whoever killed him knew how to go directly to that room. Well, then who did do it, Miss Marple? Who murdered Lord Fenley? Why, young Miss Kate, of course. Why do you say Miss Kate? Because when the body of Lord Fenley was discovered, the knife was firmly implanted in the chest to the left. A right-handed person would have clearly been unable to strike such a thrust in that direction. If you'd looked closely, you would have noticed Miss Kate was twirling her pearls in her left hand. Good night, Vicar. I'm sure you'll have this contraption running in no time' Good night, all. She could be wrong, you know. She's not. I've seen the picture. I never would have guessed that ending. That girl, she looked so nice. Human nature, Cherry dear The world of the cinema, the village, it's all quite the same, really. Listen to me, Marty. I don't care what those tea-guzzling limey sons of bitches are demanding, those tea-guzzling limey sons of bitches are gonna make this picture a hit. So stop playing around and give them what they want! Look, I don't want to argue with you. I'm the director and if I want three dozen poker-playing kangaroos with PhDs, then you'd better damn well go out and find them. - Do I make myself clear? - Absolutely. - How's Marina? - Marina? She's just fine, Marty. - Thank you, Bates. - Thank you, Bates. Mrs Bantry, I really must apologise. Marina's had to go for a costume fitting up to town. Miss Gregg was particularly anxious that I should tell you how sorry she is to have missed you today. Of course, I quite understand. By the way, what picture are you over here to make? - It's called Mary Queen of Scots. - Really? How very interesting. Marina was especially keen for me to double-check with you personally all the arrangements for the village fete. She's terrified no one's gonna come. We are rather intruders here. My dear Miss Zielinsky, Miss Gregg's arrival has caused considerable excitement. It's not every day we have a real-life film star and her director husband living here at St Mary Mead. Oh, Jason, we were just talking about you. - Mr Rudd, Mrs Bantry. - Mrs Bantry. How do you do? I cannot tell you how happy my wife and I are to be in your house. Mr Rudd, you must get it out of your head that this is my house. After the Colonel, my husband, died, it was much too big for me. And I'm much more comfortable down at the lodge' Well, I really must be on my way. - Would you like some more tea? - No more tea, thank you. - Very nice to have met you, Mr Rudd. - Very nice to meet you. No, no, no, please, please. I think I can find my own way out. Please give my regards to your wife. Goodbye, Miss Zielinsky. Mrs Bantry. - Where's Marina? - Upstairs, out like a light. - Is she taking those damn pills again? - Well, you shake her, she rattles. I want her to be happy. God knows, she's been through enough. She'll be happy. Till she gets bored playing the lady of the manor' Ella! Sorry. Don't spoil it. OK? OK. Now, boys. Don't drink this too quickly. Otherwise, you're going to have very sore tummies. Quite a turn-out. More like Buckingham Palace than Gossington Hall. Mind you, it plays havoc with the lawn. Ah, good afternoon, Mrs Bantry, Miss Giles. - Afternoon, Major, Jane. - Darling, Miss Giles. - Do you think she'll come down? - Who? Marina Gregg, the film star! Really, Miss Marple. Well, I don't know anything about film stars, Miss Giles, but if this gathering is any indication of her local interest, I'm sure that Miss Gregg won't disappoint her fans. I do hope not. I'm sure Mr Foxley, our dear postman, will herald her arrival with suitable fanfare. [brass band plays There's No Business Like Show Business '9 Steady, boys. Don't rush. Don't rush! Miss Marple, you were right! Can you turn this way, please? Just one more? - Excuse me! - Thank you. - Mrs Babcock? - Yes? Miss Gregg would like to thank those of you that worked so hard. Perhaps you'd like to come up to the hall. Yes, indeed! I'd be absolutely thrilled! Thank you very much! Isn't it exciting? - You know, Wendy... - Yes, I know, you met her once. Oh! Major, ladies, we'd be honoured if you'd join us for refreshments. - Yes, indeed. Most kind. - We'd be delighted, wouldn't we? She's so beautiful. But not much of a shot, is she? Oh, thank you, my friends. My new, dear, wonderful, sweet friends, thank you. Marina. Jason's screaming for you, your guests are piling up. Oh, but I'm having such fun. Try a little restraint. Perhaps I could borrow some of yours. We seem to be sharing so much these days. Now, boys and girls, on your marks. Ready, steady, 90! Roy! Come here. Come here, Roy! Come here, boy. Come along. That's a good boy. Sit. There. Freddie Hawkins! Would you kindly take control of your dog? You know perfectly well he should be held on his lead. Sorry, Miss Marple. Roy! Roy! Oh, Miss Marple! Oh, goodness. Are you alright? That'll teach me to be dogmatic. - Can I have one? - Thank you very much. - Can I have a spoon? - Here's a spoon. I assure you, Dr Haydock, I'm perfectly alright. Perhaps you'd care to join the egg-and-spoon race. It's just about to start. - You had a nasty fall. - Nonsense! I'm not even shaken. In fact, I'm amazed nothing's broken. You got away with just a sprain. I never did discover the secret of your bone structure. Long brisk walks as a young woman, I expect. Well, you're not walking anywhere for a few days. I'll run you back in my car. That's it. I'll fill you in on all the gossip you'll miss up at the hall - when I call round to see you tomorrow. - Gossip? I prefer to call it a healthy interest in human nature. - Cherry. - Yes, Mr Bates. See to that lot upstairs, will you? They're doing their best to drink us dry. I'm afraid, Miss Gregg, that it would seem that our committee have always felt that your films are a little, how shall I say, risqu for our monthly soire in the village hall. - How sweet of you. - Your lemonade, Vicar. Oh, thank you. Most kind. Marina honey, the mayor is upstairs. I think you should... - Oh, yeah, yeah. Do excuse me. - Yes. Excuse me. Is this your first visit to the United Kingdom, Mr Rudd? Why, no, I've been... Oh, what a divine necklace! Well done, Mr Rudd. First-rate show. Ah, Mrs Babcock. Mrs Babcock is our untiring secretary. The Women's Institute would be quite lost without her. I'm sure she's been wonderful. Now, Miss Giles. How about your cat? - I keep forgetting its name. - Matthew. - That's right! - Your dear wife had a cat. Yes, but it always suffered from eczema. Carrots. Mashed carrots and a little warm milk works wonders. Marina? Mrs Babcock, Miss Gregg. Miss Gregg, Mrs Babcock. - Mrs Babcock, lovely to see you. - Oh, Miss Gregg. I know this is very silly, and I'm sure you don't remember, not with all the millions of people you meet... No, no, no, of course not, How could you? It was ages ago. It was during the war. I was in Plymouth in the Wrens and you came over to entertain all those marvellous Gls. Oh, I remember it so well, just like it was yesterday. I told you I lost my borage, last year in the frost? I'm sorry about that. You know what to do, don't you? Cut it right down to the ground in the... Oh, Mr Rudd, I understand that you are a film producer. - No, sir. A director. - ls there any difference? Yes, sir. The producer supplies all the money, the director spends it. Then the producer yells at the director for spending too much money, the director doesn't pay attention and goes on spending. The director gets the credit, the producer gets an ulcer. It's all very simple. Excuse me. - It's Lola Brewster! - It is? Yes! It is! Miss Brewster! Uh-oh. Mary Queen of Sluts and Baby Bernhardt under the same roof. That's all we need. Miss Brewster, look this way. Oh, I was so thrilled. Absolutely thrilled. You were wearing that wonderful blue sparkling dress. Do you remember what you sang? I'll Be Seeing You. Oh, I was a mad fan of yours. How sweet. How absolutely, perfectly sweet. Oh, but then the most awful thing happened. Or I thought it was awful. I was terribly upset. Do you mean to say you actually met Clark Gable? Is he married at the moment or is it just a rumour that he's a lonely person? - Jason. - Is that the fellow with the big ears? - Excuse me. - Oh, Major. - Lola's here. - What? - Marty brought her. - Why in the hell did he bring her here? I wasn't ill, just poorly. You know what I mean? Then I had this idea. You see, I didn't have a ticket or anything. Save it for the Oscars. But this is the most extraordinary part. You'll never guess who my uncle was. He was the stage door keeper. Now isn't... Jason, darling! - My Svengali. - Glad you could make it. Where is sweet Marina? Jason, baby. Nice spread you got here. I ought to spread you across this room for bringing her here. Publicity, bubbie. That's what keeps Martin N Fenn Productions in business. I was in the theatre, standing in the wings. It was my first time there. It was so exciting. Oh, you were wonderful! And when the curtain came down, you gave me your autograph and you let me kiss you. Oh, yes, you did! Oh, it was worth it a hundred times. I've never forgotten it... I do believe it was the most exciting day of my life' What a nice little story, dear. Now what will you have to drink? Jason makes a wonderful daiquiri, you'll adore it. Thank you. Honey. Oh, Jason, darling. We'd like two of your special daiquiris. Sure. Are you alright? - I'm fine, Jinks. - Are you sure? Yes. That's great. Thanks, Miss Brewster. Marina, darling! I didn't see you. Why, Lola. What a delightful surprise. You're looking as lovely as always. Of course, there are fewer lights on than usual. In fact, any fewer and I'd need a seeing-eye dog. Oh, I shouldn't bother to buy one, dear. In that wig you could play Lassie. Same adorable sense of humour. And I'm so glad to see you not only kept your gorgeous figure, but you've added so much to it. What are you doing here so early, dear? I thought the plastic surgery seminar was in Switzerland. Actually, darling, I couldn't wait to begin our little movie. You know the saying, "Once an actress, always an actress." Oh, I do know the saying. But what does it have to do with you? Cute angel. So do tell, how does it feel to be back after being away so long? Love your outfit, darling. Drink, Mrs Babcock? Mr Rudd is getting me one himself, thank you. What are you supposed to be, a birthday cake? Too bad everybody's had a piece. - Can we have a big smile, ladies? - Chin up, darling. Both of them. A little bit closer, please, ladies. Lola, dear, you know there really are only two things I dislike about you. Really? What are they? - Your face. - Thank you. - One daiquiri special. - Oh, thank you very much. - I've never really tried one before. - Enjoy it. - Here you are, my dear. - Oh, thank you, darling. How are my two favourite stars getting along? What are you trying to do, give Marina another breakdown? Why would I want to do a thing like that, pumpkin? Come on. Remember they used to grind glass in each other's cold cream. One would only kiss the other if she had viral pneumonia. They're professionals. They take their job seriously. - So did Attila the Hun. - Marina, baby! Oh, Marty, darling. How thoughtful of you to bring Lola to my party. You know, I've always thought of Lola as one of my oldest, oldest friends. Jason, darling, I'm certainly looking forward to working under you again. Watch it, Lola. Jason, how about a drink with an old pal'? - I only drink with friends. - What am I, chopped chicken liver? Bad enough forcing me to use your wife in this picture, but bringing her here with Marina in the condition she's in. - Think of the picture! - I am! - And the sanity of my leading lady! - Bubbie, listen to me. She's gonna be fine. I'm looking out for our best interests. Our best interests? Hey, De Mille, why don't you face reality? When was the last time Marina made a movie? The advent of sound? When did you direct a movie that was any good? - Well... - Listen to me. If Martin N Fenn wants to get publicity for his two leading ladies, he's gonna get it, without any dissent. Because the esteemed director and his wife are only here because of his good wishes. And if he wishes, he can pull the plug any time he wants, you got it? - Whoopee. - Good. - So go and enjoy the party. - You know what? - What? - You're a bastard. Of course I'm a bastard. I'm the producer. Oh, Mr Rudd. I believe I've reached some understanding about the difference between a producer and a director. But who chooses the leading lady? Whoever's sleeping with her. Er, Vicar, may I introduce our noted producer Mr Martin N Penn'? I'm sure he'll tell you everything you want to know. What would you like to know, Vicar, baby? I'm sorry about your ulcers, Mr Fenn. What? Jason, we've got a problem upstairs. That woman. Marina. Then the police came. They took everybody's name. They kept us there for hours, they did. I just couldn't believe it. I mean, she seemed as right as rain. She was only five years older than me. There was an awful flap. Poor Mrs Babcock. I mean, she just had one drink and about five minutes later, she sits down, sort of gasps... ...and then she's dead, poor thing. What do you think of that? Don't forget under the curtains, Cherry dear. - Miss Marple, I hope you don't mind. - Mind? Well, me doing Saturdays up at the hall, I did so want to see all those film stars. - It's not going to upset you? - No, Cherry dear. It won't upset me. In fact, it might even prove useful. Really? Put that duster away and sit down and tell me everything that happened. - Well... - Exactly as it happened. Well, I was moving about... Yes, of course, but what precisely did you see? Well... The whole village was there, of course. And there was a girl taking pictures. Just about everybody. There was Marine Gregg and her husband Oh, I liked him. I think he's smashing. - Cherry, dear. - Oh, sorry. Then the secretery girl came up with Heather Babcock and Heather shook hands with Miss Gregg and then she went into a boring old story about how they'd met years ago. On and on she went. I thought Miss Gregg was gonna fall asleep- Honestly, she did go on, so. Then a few minutes later, you served Heather a drink and not long afterwards, she dies. Oh, no. No, I didn't serve her. It was Mr Rudd. - One daiquiri special. - Oh, thank you. Enjoy it. I don't think she really liked it. Thank you, Cherry dear, you've been very helpful. - Have I? - Extremely. - Oh, good. Oh, I'll get it. - Morning, Cherry. - Morning, Doctor. Morning, Miss Marple. How's the leg? Good morning, Dr Haydock. You know, I think it's very much better. Shall I do upstairs now, or finish here in the lounge? - This is the drawing room, Cherry dear. - Sorry, drawing room. - Upstairs, I think. - Right. Oh, later on, I'll bring you in a nice cup of tea. Poor Heather Babcock. Mmm. She was a patient of yours, wasn't she? She was on my list. - Heart trouble? - Nothing wrong with her heart. - Which does rather... - Stick out your tongue. - Say "aah". - Aah. - Put it back. - Which does rather suggest poison. I think we should leave that to the coroner, don't you? Glad to see you started my treatment. Treatment? Unravelling, aren't I right? You will have your little joke, Dr Haydock. You can't pull the wool over my eyes, dear lady. Look at you. Your cheeks are pink, your eyes bright. You're enjoying yourself. Isn't that so? Dr Haydock, I would be very distressed if I thought you believed that the only excitement in my life was predicated on the unfortunate fate of helpless victims who somehow seem to fall into my path. Upon examination, the deceased's body was found to contain massive traces of a barbiturate. Phenobarbital. Unquestionably the cause of death. Had she a medical history for which such a drug could have been prescribed? Virtually none, sir. Apart from chickenpox as a child and German measles during the war. According to her doctor, she was in excellent health. Thank you. Bearing in mind the evidence we have heard, I have no choice but to record a verdict of murder by poison at the hand of person or persons unknown. - Dermot! - Hello, Aunt Jane. My favourite nephew. What a pleasant surprise. What are you doing here? - Why, I've come to see you. - Or to enquire about Heather Babcock. What would a chief inspector from Scotland Yard be doing in St Mary Mead if poor Heather had died of natural causes? Well, he might have been passing by and suddenly had a craving for some of your special peach jam. Now, Dermot, you know very well I haven't made peach jam since Taphrina deformans attacked my Russell reds. Now come and sit down and let's have a little chat, shall we? It was poison, wasn't it? Aunt Jane, you wouldn't mind very much I suppose if I anyway began by asking the question, would you? The poison was apparently an American barbiturate, marketed under the name of Calmadon. It appears the principal ingredient of it is... Phenylethylmalonylurea. I know it from my days at Bridge Hampton Hospital in the war. Mixed with alcohol, it causes respiratory depression. A drop in blood pressure. Feeble heartbeat. Quite deadly, in fact. And you naturally knew the victim, Babcock? Ooh, yes. Of course. She was a simple soul. Friendly enough. A bit of a bore, but you don't kill someone for that. If you did, there'd be no one left in the village. Well! So you're not being much help, Aunt Jane. No, I realise that. So Mrs Babcock refused your offer of a drink? Yes, she said Mr Rudd was getting her one. I told you that. - And Miss Gregg? - It's funny you should say that. - Funny? - Well, not funny. Kind of strange, really. Go on, Cherry. Slowly. Try to remember everything. Well, it... it was a sort of look on Marina Gregg's face. What kind of a look? Sad? Angry? Surprised? Frightened? I don't know. Cherry, dear, take your time. Think back. Try to remember the precise look. Well, it was sort of... frozen. She was staring over Heather Babcockfis shoulder like she wasn't listening to what she was saying. Go on. She was looking towards the stairs. There's a religious picture. Then Lola Brewster arrived with her husband, the producer. Funny man. Wouldn 't be surprised if he dyes his hair. The girl took a photo. Heather Babcock was rattling on and Miss Gregg had this sort of strange frozen look. What specifically was she looking at'? The people? The picture? - Obviously one of the people. - Oh, why do you say that? Really, Dermot, she sees the picture every day. Absolutely. I'm so sorry, Aunt. Er, now, how long did Miss Gregg remain looking at that picture? The Lady of Shalott. Aunt Jane? "Out ew the web and oated wide - The mirror crack'd from side to side; 'The curse has come upon me,' cried The Lady of Shalott." Tennyson, of course. I do have a weakness for Tennyson. And it does seem a rather suitable description. Go on, Cherry dear. Continue with your story. Nothing much more to tell, really. Lola Brewster came up to Miss Gregg. I don't think they like each other much, if you ask me. They had some pictures taken and then Mr Rudd came up. He's so handsome. Cherry, we want to hear about Miss Babcock and Miss Gregg. Did anything else happen? No, I don't think I've left anything out. Heather spilled her drink and Miss Gregg walked away. Spilled? You say Heather spilled her drink? Oh, yeah. Oh, didn't I say that? Oh, I must have forgot. I am silly, aren't I? - Oh, Miss Gregg! I'm so terribly sorry. - It's perfectly alright. - Oh, will it stain? - I'm sure not, I'm sure not. Here, you take mine, I haven't touched it. Oh, no. I couldn't. Please, it's no problem. I'll get another. So... ...Heather Babcock drank from Marina Gregg's glass. Fate was rather unkind to poor Heather Babcock. Seems we've been dealing with the wrong murder. I suggest you proceed to Gossington Hall first thing in the morning. To put to use all those cunning skills I've inherited from a certain relative? You know, Dermot, you really are my favourite nephew. I'll let Mr Rudd know you are here, sir. - Inspector Craddock? - Yes. Mr Rudd will be with you as soon as he can, but I must warn you, he's awfully tied up. Tied up? Inspector, have you any idea what making a movie entails? We have wardrobe tests, we have make-up tests, we have lighting tests. - Rainbows End. - I beg your pardon? Yes, it was Marina Gregg's first Academy Award, wasn't it? - Yes. - I'll never forget that last scene. So vivid, real. Vulnerability, Miss Zielinsky. Her modus operandi Journey Home, Paradise Road. Absolute conviction. This indestructible ability to make us care. - Now, they were facing this way. - Inspector? I'm sorry. The guests when they were introduced. Yes, that's right. Those eyes. Violent. Mesmerising. It's a copy, of course. No, no. I was referring to Miss Gregg's eyes. Yes, my earliest memory of those eyes was in Tomorrowfis Dawn. She played a young socialite heiress who came from... Now, where was it she came from? - Boston. - Boston, that's right! She came from Boston and inherited land in California. Do you mind...? Do you remember that scene where they threatened to dig up her land? The way she stood up to those gold-miners, that sweet, helpless young butterfly. Tell me, might I speak to her, please? - I'm sorry, she's resting. - Oh. - Well, perhaps later? - Perhaps. But sweet, helpless young butterflies do need their rest. That snake-eyed son of a bitch, Marty Fenn! He always did have the class of a toad! And he's putting up the money for your comeback, so calm down. And putting that peroxide oozy into my film! And as the virgin queen! She's in two lousy scenes, neither of them with you' Lola Brewster, actress. If she's read the script, I'd see a blister on her finger. It's your picture all the way. Nobody will remember anyone else in it. Oh, Jinksy. - Do you really mean that? - I'll make sure of it. Oh, God. God, it has been so long. You don't think there's any chance I have lost it, do you? Oh, you'll be better than ever. I promise. My love. You're so good for me. You always have been. Oh, damn her! That bitch! If you look at her carefully, there's so many lines on her face, you could drive a train on it! Maybe I won't shoot her through a filter. Filter? Try using an Indian blanket. You're gonna have to dub her voice in too. Or write a line in the script that Elizabeth is from Hoboken, New Jersey. Bags, bags, go away- Come right back on Doris Day. - Hello? - Jason, where the hell are you? Lola's been sitting here for 20 minutes waiting for you. She likes the feathers so much, she wants them in the costume. I told her, a queen only wears feathers if he lives in Hollywood, but she won't believe me. Jason, you get your ass over here! - I've been thinking, poopsie. - Oh, that's a new experience! Maybe we should bring in Alexander for my hair. Lamb chop, if I've told you once, I've told you a thousand times: Queen Elizabeth was bald. - Not in this movie, she ain't. - It's history. So is Lola Brewster. I'll be majestic. Awesome. Inspiring. I'm going to wipe that cow right off the screen' Let's see, we're gonna need some scenes with the two of us together, so the world can see how much younger and thinner I am. Lola, baby. Elizabeth and Mary never met. Oh, maybe they meet at the market. No, of course not, she'd never do her own shopping. The beauty parlour? No, they'd come to her. Wait a minute. I've got it. I come to see her at the Tower of London. It's right before the beheading and the rats are crawling all over her. She's in rags, looking like shit. And in walks... me. - Inspector, I do have things to do. - Yes, of course. Miss Gregg and Miss Brewster, are they very close? Close? If you put the two of them together in a tank with a shark, the shark would have an identity crisis. Tell me, I'm curious, who's younger? Marina Gregg or Lola Brewster? - Neither one. - Bless you. Oh. - You alright? - Hay fever. Those are maddening things, allergies. I'm allergic to wool. I find a tranquiliser helps me. I use a drug called Calmadon. - Do you know of it? - We ship it in by the barrel. Oh. Does Miss Gregg take it? By the time this movie's over, there may be a world shortage. - Do you take it? - Do I have a choice? Ah, I think it must be very exciting working for someone like Marina Gregg. I'm sure she's a grand person. Inspector, Marina Gregg can make Medusa look like St Bernadette. - Why don't you change your job? - What, and quit show business? I used to work for Jason before they were married. I've learned to live with her tantrums and her breakdowns. Breakdowns? But the image she projects on the screen is so rational. Tell me about them. - It's all rather turgid. - Really, I'm fascinated. Well, you can't mention illness or insanity or anything to do with children. That's most interesting. Why not'? Inspector, I really can't go into it. I'm sure that Mr Rudd is a tower of strength to her. - Devoted beyond the call of duty. - And Mr Penn? Marty Fenn is a producer. He only lies when he speaks. I should think they've been pretty unsettled by the murder? Murder? Inspector, we have a picture to make. We can't be bothered by little local difficulties. Ah, Mr Rudd. Could I ask you a few questions? I'm in a rush. Talk to my secretary, she'll arrange an interview. But I'm not a reporter. Mr Rudd. Yes? Tell him I'm on my way, damn it. Ten minutes! - Mr Rudd. - I told you, not now. I'm Inspector Craddock, Scotland Yard. Everything we're doing is according to form. British crew, extras. I've waivers on my two leading ladies. - We're in total compliance. - If I might interrupt you. I'm sure you're going to make a very fine picture without the aid of Scotland Yard. I happen to be here on a minor matter of murder. Oh, yes. Er, Miss... Babcock, Heather Babcock. - I'm truly sorry. - If I might talk to your wife? I'm sorry, no one may see her. She's resting' Doctor's orders. If you'll excuse me. Mr Rudd, it's very important that I talk to her. Inspector, my wife is about to start the most important role of her career. Every ounce of energy is being devoted toward preparing this role. She is going to win her third Academy Award and I will not distract her with... Mundane matters like murder. - Whatever you say, Inspector. - Jinks. That's all very well and good. I firmly believe your wife deserves a third Oscar. I think she should have got it for Summer Rain, actually' But has it occurred to you the death of Heather Babcock wasn't entirely accidental'? That the intended victim was, in fact, your wife? Now may I see her, please? No, you may not. My wife has been through a lot and I'm not only talking about last Saturday. I'm sorry, but you're not going to give her a nervous breakdown. Now, if you will excuse me. I believe she's had several all ready. - Several what? - Breakdowns. - Who told you? - I thought it was common knowledge. Ah, it's nice of you to let them play here. What? Oh, the gardener's kids. I thought they might have upset Miss Gregg. Alright, Inspector, let's stop playing games. There was a time years ago when Marina wanted children, badly. The doctors told her she could never have any, so she adopted two. Then a few years later... She was still married to her first husband. She found out she was actually going to have one of her own. Unfortunately, the child was born mentally retarded. An imbecile. Marina had a complete breakdown. She hasn't worked since. I see. Now maybe you can understand what this film means to her. That she actually has the guts to appear in front of a camera again. Yes, indeed. This film's gonna turn everything around for her. That's why if she ever found out, even suspected, she was the intended victim... You don't believe the thought has entered her mind? Not for a minute. The idea of someone wanting to murder your wife doesn't bother you? You've been seeing too many Charlie Chan movies, Inspector. Look, I'll be here the whole time. When I'm not, my secretary won't let her out of her sight. - You trust Miss Zielinsky? - Of course I trust her. She was there. She had the opportunity. - Ella is devoted to my wife. - And to you too? Jason, Marty phoned again! He said if you're not there in ten minutes, he's getting John Houston! Will there be anything else, Inspector? Is that the Martin N Fenn who produced the Terror in Trinidad? The one and only. I've always wondered what the N stood for. No idea. How about "knockwurst"? - Oh, Mr Rudd. - What? I was really most impressed with The Last Brigade. Particularly, if I may say so, with your very subtle use of low-key lighting. Why, thank you. Shouldn't you be resting that foot, Aunt Jane? Old Edward's got his rheumatism again. I really can't let the garden become like a jungle Do you think Mr Rudd is fond of his wife? - I'd say he adores her. - What about Miss Zielinsky? Business-like. Efficient. Seemingly loyal. Suffers from hay fever. - Attractive? - Yes, in a uncalculated sort of way. - That's a very austere assessment. - Maybe, but what are you implying? I'm implying absolutely nothing. I just find your lack of emotion, shall we say, a bit studied. Oh, alright. If you prefer I were more direct, then I'd say that given the right time, the right place, that Miss Zielinsky is probably... hotter than a pistol. Hmm, perhaps we should return to austerity. Well, you brought it up. Seriously, do you believe she was telling the truth? Well, let's say, I think she allowed her loyalties to become quite transparent' - Her feelings for Mr Rudd. - Exactly. - A prime suspect, I'd say. - Oh, would you, now? Well, well. Where are you off to? I'm off to the glamorous world of movie making. I see this is not a particularly taxing case for you, Dermot. Show business is just a business, Aunt Jane. What we need is a little more business and a little less show. In fact, there's a wonderful saying I read not too long ago about Hollywood. "Underneath all that phoney tinsel lies the real tinsel." - That's very profound, Aunt Jane. - Better be careful, Dermot. They're liable to mistake you for Leslie Howard and put you in the picture. Well, I do have a certain charm, or so I've been told. Perhaps it's time it was discovered. Dermot! First discover Heather Babcock's murderer. Well, I'd better work fast before someone else does it for me. Shooting next time! Let's have a shooting bell. Very quiet, everybody! Roll the camera! - Speed. Mark it. - Forget the board. Lola Brewster, make-up test. Take one. Board on end. Alright, Lola honey, turn left. Slowly. Lovely. Now hold it there a moment. Down with the chin a little. Up with the eyes. Good. Now, keep the chin down. Lovely. Excuse me, gov. Could you check this? Yeah. Dimmer on the key light. Down a bit. Whoa. It's not dark enough. Don't you have Italian blood? It's the stuff we always use. Kensington Gore. It looks like water. Don't you people know that blood is thicker than water? I want it thick like tomato juice. Excuse me, sir, could you have a look at the guards, please? They're supposed to be the queen's soldiers, not her ballerinas. Yes, sir. Leave it to me, sir. Now turn your head right. No, dear. Not your shoulders, just your head. Right. No, dear. Your right. - Jason! - Cut. Save the red. - Yes, my dear. Lest we forget, you do have an actress in this movie, one who also happens to be married to the producer. No, I haven't forgotten. I think it's important we discuss the queen's relationship with her father. When the picture begins, the father's been dead over 30 years. Why don't you go to your dressing room and put on a nice new costume, OK? I told Marty we should have got George Cukor. Swords and blood, that's all he thinks about. That and that over-stuffed psycho of a wife. Will you get your paws out of my hair? Where did you get this wig, Woolworths? Calls himself a director. Did you see his last picture? I could eat a can of Kodak and puke a better movie. Oh, why, you must be Inspector Craddock. They told me you'd be here. How sweet of you to come. Miss Brewster, I'm a great fan of yours. Isn't that nice? And I now you'll excuse me while I change. Yes. Yes, of course. Please, you carry on. Now, tell me, Inspector dear, what's on your mind? I have a few questions regarding the murder of Heather Babcock. - Who? - The woman up at Gossington Hall. Oh, yes. Who was she, an extra? Ow! The zipper, you moron. It's caught in my rump! I'm sorry, Miss Brewster. If I might digress for a moment. I'd like... Oh, so sorry. ...to erm, ask about your relationship with Marina Gregg. Gregg? Gregg, that name rings a bell. - Come now, Miss Brewster. - I'm just teasing you, Sherlock. Of course I know Marina Gregg. Isn't she that aging, broken-down ex-star trying so desperately for a comeback? Here, try combing this out; they may find Amelia Earhart. Now, tell me, Inspector dear, why don't you ask me some more of those searching questions? I just love being examined, especially by someone as cute as you. Erm, what I'm particularly... Are you really from Scotland Yard? A real-life Inspector? I can just hardly believe it. A real-life Inspector in my dressing room. Oh, just think of me as a... what you call a cop. Only if you brought your nightstick, honey. - Miss Brewster. - Oh, I'm sorry. I've upset you. Forgive me, I promise I'll be a good girl. Now, about Marina. Well, what can I say? She was a great star. Was. I mean, when I was just a teensy-weensy little girl, my grandmother used to take me to see all of her movies. And then about ten years ago, around my 16th birthday, she had this awful collapse, poor thing. Drugs, alcohol, insanity. It's not easy when you've hit rock bottom. Marty and I felt the least we could do was to give her a part in my picture. - Yes, that's very charitable. - Ow, not so tight. - Erm, Miss Brewster? - Inspector? Wasn't there some kind of trouble between you and Miss Gregg - a few years ago? - Trouble? Why... Whatever do you mean? When Miss Gregg began seeing Mr Rudd, weren't you and Mr Rudd... Now, Inspector. That's ancient history. Besides, Jason and I were ending it anyway. I was only too happy to see Marina find a little companionship, lonely and pathetic creature that she was. Is that why you aimed and fired a short-barrel 9mm Luger at her skull missing it by two and a half inches? - Did the bitch tell you that? - No, Miss Brewster. The Beverly Hills Police Department. Alright, so I got a little miffed. I may be a great star, but I'm still human. Human enough to try it again? Only this time with poison? Are you insinuating? Merely exploring the possibility. Er, ready, Miss Brewster. Well, it seems that I must take my leave. Thank you for our little... chat, Miss Brewster. And jolly good luck with your picture. Miss Brewster, we're waiting. Screw Scotland Yard! Sorry, ma'am! I was just taking a walk down to the village. It's that way, ma'am. Ah. Cherry dear, are the post office playing with the telephone lines again? Don't think so, ma'am. Gossington Hall. Hello? Hello? What is that girl up to? I saw you. I saw you put the poison in Marina's glass. I saw you. Look, that part's been cast. Why didn't you call last week? Leave your name and address with my secretary and we'll call you when. Actors. You know about actors, don't you? They all live up there somewhere. I knew a broad once. I was making a Civil War epic. We were supposed to shoot a big scene that day. She comes to me and tells me she can't work that week. Know why? Because her astrologist... tells her it's not in the stars. So, I, er, pay this little creep a visit. I give him a grand, right? He tells her the stars have made a sudden shift and if she doesn't report to work every morning on time, she's gonna lose her sex drive. The next morning she was there before the janitor. Won't you sit down? - Yes, fields of Glory, wasn't it? - Yeah, did you see that? Yes, I found it a bit melodramatic. It's not a very positive... The only thing positive thing about it was the negative. Inspector, what's on your mind? Erm, how long have you known Miss Gregg? Marina? We've been friends a long time. Have the two of you been, er, intimate? Intimate? Yeah, we've been intimate. Everybody in Hollywood is intimate. Swifty! How are you, Swifty? What are you doing? Oh, things are great. The girl's got the best spot in the picture. What do you want me to do? I can't, Swifty. You gotta give me a break. Come on! Wonderful. I owe you one. Thanks, pal. Agents. He thinks he's got a lot of class. He once sold me an actress, said she was great. I called her in the morning, she'd been dead for six months. - Please go on. I'm sorry. - Oh, thank you. Erm, now then, about Miss Gregg. Let me tell you something about Marina. Secure, she ain't. Under all that jewellery is a sad, insecure lady' ls there anyone you could think of who might want to harm Miss Gregg? Yeah, Hedda Hopper. No, I mean anyone involved in the picture. You, for instance. Me? I'm the producer. I'm coming up with $3.5 million to make this movie. You think I'm going to bump off my leading lady two days before I start shooting the picture? I've got contracts at Radio City Music Hall for Christmas! Unless, of course, someone else bumps her off. If someone else bumps her off, I'll prop her up and dub her to get her at the Radio City Music Hall at Christmas. Harry, I want those pictures up here right now. I don't care if she's having tea with Mickey Mouse, tell her to bring the pictures up here now! Excuse me. Anything else I can help you with? I've got a picture to make. - Errn, yes. Oh, just one thing, Mr Penn. - Sure. - I've always been curious about... - What? What does the N stand for? You want to know what it stands for? I'll tell you what it stands for. Nothing. But it sure looks great on that big silver screen, doesn't it? Yes. Goodbye. - And thanks for your time, Mr Fenn. - Any time. Get me the coast. What do you mean, what coast? Chief Inspector Craddock, madam. Miss Gregg? That man is working on the lawn with such dedication. I'm Marina Gregg. - At least what's left of her. - Miss Gregg. I understand you were here earlier. I'm sorry for having to make you come back. Please, please don't apologise. I quite understand. I hope you realise the, er, chaos of film making. It really is rather a wretched business, you know. I don't get to the cinema very often. Ah, of course. - Tea? - Yes, please. - Please. - Thank you. - Milk'? - No milk, no sugar. You know, it's funny. I never drank tea in America. Now I'm slowly becoming an addict. Well, there's a little shop in the village, Hedgeworth, offers an extraordinary selection. The most exotic brews. Oh, I'll have to check it out. "Check it out." You're probably thinking how hopelessly American she sounds. You're here about that poor woman, aren't you? Who would want to kill her'? Do you have a clue? Can you tell me about her'? Me? How would I know anything about her? People said that the two of you spent some time talking together. Ah, well, she spent time talking, I spent time listening. Can you be more specific, Miss Gregg? Do you know what fans are like, Inspector? I mean, real fans. No. Why don't you tell me'? Well, it seems... Let me think, I want to get this straight. It seems we had met once, years ago during the war. She remembered every detail of it, even down to the song I was singing, the dress I was wearing. Funny thing is, I remember it too. Anyway, I was entertaining the troops and she was sick or something, but she was determined to see me. And she got out of bed, got dressed, got into the stage door. Her uncle or someone was the door keeper. And she waited in the wings until after my curtain call, and I signed her autograph or something. She said it was the most exciting night of her life. And you know, it probably was. I'm so sorry. Erm, yes. I understand there was a moment when you seemed startled about something or maybe even frightened. Frightened? It was about the time when Mr Fenn and his wife appeared. You looked at a picture on the landing. Oh, that. Yes, of course. There... There was a moment. I was talking to that woman, that fan, and she was going on and on, gushing. I was feeling run out of thank yous and I just didn't know how to get out of it and I... just went blank. Miss Gregg, I hope you won't find this upsetting but can you think of anyone who might want to kill you? - Why do you ask that? - I must explore every possibility. How do you get along with Miss Zielinsky? Why are you asking these questions? A local woman was murdered. What does it have to do with me? I came here to make a movie. I came here with friends. I came here with people that love me. Why are you doing this to me? Why? I'm trying to pull my life together. They're behind me. My husband, Ella. They won't let it happen. They'll stand up for me' Why are you doing this? Why? Oh, God! It was me, wasn't it? It was me they were trying to poison, wasn't it'? Who am I kidding? Somebody is trying to kill me, aren't they? Somebody is trying to... poison me, aren't they? Somebody is trying to kill me, aren't they? Aren't they? I know it! I can... "I can feel it. I can almost hear them coming." - Danger in the Dark. MGM, 1932. The scene when you thought your husband and your sister were trying to kill you and you broke down in front of the police. Why, you sneaky little chief inspector. I bet you've seen every one of my movies. Oh, at least twice. That one was a real dog. But you were most compelling in that scene, though The critics didn't seem to think so. If they'd been here today, I'm absolutely certain they would have succumbed. You didn't. Well, I'm a detective, Miss Gregg. It's my job to analyse behaviour off screen. Well, I'm an actress. I act. Yes, I think the performance was a little overdone, if I may say. I would have settled for simple sincerity. I didn't think you'd believe me. I still don't think you believe me. "You won't escape next time." "Prepare to die." One came here, the other was sent to the studio. - When? - This morning. - Who delivered them? - We don't know. - We? - My husband and I. At first I thought it was a joke. Some kind of joke, huh? I don't think I've been so scared since I was a kid in Oklahoma City. Shirley Bookbinder. Prettiest little girl in town. I really thought I was something. Till one day I found... I think I was around ten. I found in my desk a note saying... "Nobody likes you, Shirley." I cried for three days. I never did find out who wrote it. See, the tough thing about having it, there's always somebody who wants to take it away. And you know, they usually do. Help me, Inspector, please. - And I'm sure you will, Dermot. - Well, I'll certainly try. I suspect you're rather smitten with Miss Bookbinder. Nonsense, Aunt Jane. Trouble is, of course, I now have enough suspects with enough motives to fill every shop in this high street. Please make sure that you and little Jeremy John and the godparents are on time, because at 3:30 I have Mrs Cracknell and her little Jeremy John. No, no, that's wrong. Mrs Cracknell's little Michael Jeremy John. No, that's wrong too. Mrs Michael's John. No, that's not right either. So confusing. But I must get it right, mustn't I? Well, see you Saturday, 3:30. Ah, Miss Marple! Great news! Mr Edwards down at the garage has been able to diagnose the problem. We shall, therefore, hopefully no longer have to call upon you to resolve next Friday night's little extravaganza, Two Girls from... I've forgotten where. But I do hope to see you anyway. Somewhere in America I'm sure. Idaho. You can safely give that one a miss, Aunt Jane. If you say so, Dermot. Jamie. Oh, Jamie. How I've longed for you. To take you in my arms and to clasp you to my bosom. Jason, will you get that creep out of my eye line? - Cut. - Who? Who, me? Was I in your eye line? Oh, but I just wanted Jason to see my costume. Dear, will you put the virgin queen back into her cage? Lola, why don't you go study your lines? Anything you say. Anybody got a script breakdown? Oh, I am so sorry. I shouldn't have used that word. - Tee's up! Don't all rush. Plenty to go round. Don't walk in front of the camera, for goodness' sake! Load of animals. Are you OK? Hmm? I'm fine, Jinks. That's my girl. Excuse me. - Coffee, Marina. - Oh, thank you. Jason, shall I get you a cup? Could you come and look at this? See if you can strike it? Thanks' Thank you. Jason, when do I get to play my scene with Sir Walter Raleigh? - What? - Jason! Jason! - What is it? - The... The coffee. There's nothing wrong with it, it's just a little strong. - You're lying. - Honey, come on. You're lying! It's poisoned! I'll see you in the morning, Miss Marple. I've laid everything out. And don't forget, I left your dinner in the oven. Thank you, Cherry dear. Remember me? I saw you, murderer. Good evening, miss. Mr Rudd has been asking for you. - Where have you been? I've been out for a walk. What's the matter with you? You look terrible. The coffee Marina almost drank on the set. I had it analysed. - Arsenic. - Arsenic? - How? - I'm asking you. - What's that supposed to mean? - You made it, you poured it. - You gave it to her. - Do you think I tried to poison her? Yes! No. I don't know. I don't know what to think. You really do love her, don't you, Jason? Don't worry, I'm sure they'll find him. - Him? - Whoever did it. Oh, for God's sake, do something about that cold. - ls the doctor here? - Yes, sir. Mr Rudd called the station at 8:55, sir. You'll have my report in the morning. Alright, girls, you can go now. Bates, if you'll stay, Constable Arnold will take your statement now. Inspector, who would want to kill her? The same person that tried to poison your wife. Did you know that Miss Zielinsky was making a series of phone calls from the box in the village? She was apparently playing detectives. Phoning every suspect. Telling them that she'd seen them poison Miss Gregg. Waiting for a reaction. If whoever she was talking to had took the bait, she'd find the murderer. She obviously did. You've seen the coffee analysis? Yes. Mr Rudd, why didn't you tell me about these notes? I obviously forgot about them. Somebody threatened to kill your wife and you forgot? - I thought I could handle it. - Not very effectively, it seems. What are you doing? - I'm getting out of here. - Marina. I'm sorry, Jason, but I'm not staying here another night. - What about the picture? - To hell with the picture! Somebody out there is trying to kill me. - Think I'm gonna sit and wait for them? - No one is going to hurt you. - Oh, Jinks. I'm so scared! - I know, I know. But I'm here with you. The police are on guard. Why? Why would somebody want to hurt me? Shh. Why didn't you tell me about those notes? What's the point? Scare the hell out of you too? Please, let's get out of here. OK, we'll check into a hotel in the morning. - Do you promise? - I promise. And we'll be together always. Till death do us part. Why'd you say that? Seems we can eliminate Miss Zielinsky as a suspect. Murder is a very dangerous business. If one gets mixed up in it, one must be prepared for the consequences. She wasn't a pretty sight. Prussic acid is a most unpleasant death. So, where do we go from here, Aunt Jane? Our most likely suspecfs become our latest victim. Do you realise there were at least 40 people at that party and no one saw the poison being put into the glass? Come now, Dermot. At least three people could have quite easily. One, the unobservant soul preoccupied with other thoughts, - completely unaware of what he saw. - Hmm, second? The person who may have seen it and thought nothing of it because it seemed quite natural. In my day, it was considered bad manners, but people today are always putting things in their drinks. - Pills, medicine. All sorts of things. - I suppose. And third? We have the person who actually did it. The same person who murdered Ella Zielinsky. Exactly. You know, Dermot, I always think that murder is like a jigsaw. Until you've fitted in the final piece, you can't see the whole picture. Obviously, we still have a piece missing. Now, what was that awful women's name? Brown boots, sort of Cheltenham type. - Colethorpe. - Cynthia Colethorpe, right. And I distinctly remember it wasn't till halfway through the case when you reminded me about her smelly little Pekingese. What was its name? It smelt revoltingly. Aunt Jane? Frozen. That frozen look. What was it that Heather Babcock said to Marina Gregg just before she gave the frozen look? You mean all that interminable nonsense about how she was ill? Marina gave her an autograph and it was the most exciting moment of her life. Yes, it was before she spilled the drink. - Here it is. - It's not good enough. We've got to know Heather's exact words. I'm not sure that I follow you. - Alice Wetherby's cousin. - Alice Wetherby's cousin? She went into a back room one day and found her husband had hung himself from a hook at the top of the ceiling eight feet high' There was absolutely nothing else in the room except the hook, the body and a small puddle of water beneath his feet. Nobody could understand how he'd manoeuvred himself to perform the deed, until it was discovered he had purchased a two-foot block of ice from the local fishmonger, Mr Croswell. To this day, Alice Wetherby's cousin shudders at the mere suggestion of an ice cube in her gin. Yes, Aunt Jane. Don't you see, Dermot? Something as trivial as the suggestion of an ice cube when it becomes associated with another experience, something that caused great grief, it fixes in the mind, stays with you forever. Yes, but I'm not sure what you're getting at. If only we knew what Heather actually said. Cherry! Oh, I'm afraid that's impossible. At least for now. I've sent her away. Whatever for? Dear boy, I don't want her to be murdered too. Marina, honey. I brought you something warm to drink. Hot chocolate. Do you remember when we used to drink it on those cold nights in Sun Valley? When there was nothing else to do. I mean, afterwards. Sleep tight. I'll take these. You won't be needing them any more. Jason? Hmm? - I love you. - I love you too, baby. Of course, the vicar! Thank you, Inch. If you'll wait, please. I'm sorry, Miss Marple, Miss Gregg is not available. But it is imperative that I see her at once. My apologies, madam. I have my orders. Then I shall wait. - There is a lady here, sir. - What kind of a lady? A somewhat elderly lady, sir. A Miss Marple. She refuses to leave. Shall I...'? No. I'll get rid of her. Mr Rudd. Good morning, Mr Rudd. Look, Miss, er, Marble, or whatever your name is, I don't know what you're doing here, but you cannot stay. It's Marple, and I won't keep you long. I'm correct, am I not, that that is where your wife stood the day of the murder? She looked in that direction and then her face froze. I think you'd better leave. Bellini's Mother and Child. A very fine painting. A present of the Brera Institute in Milano, I believe. The whole thing is really quite simple, isn't it? I don't know what you're talking about. I think you do. - Ah, Dermot. - Good Lord, Aunt Jane. I might have guessed you'd be here. This is the spot where it happened, which makes it so much easier to understand. It's very simple, if only one looks at it the proper way. It all began, you see, with the kind of person that Heather Babcock was. Damn it, that's enough! The two of you come busting into my house. I want you out. Now! Perhaps you should call the police, Mr Rudd. Let us go back, shall we, to the moment when Heather greets Miss Gregg and launches into her efiusive little tale? Poor Miss Gregg listened patiently as Heather rattled on, or at least she appeared to. And then suddenly Marina turned her head away. A strange look came over her face. A look of doom. It had nothing to do with Lola Brewster's arrival. Marina wasn't even looking at her or poor Heather. She was looking at the Madonna. A picture of a serene mother holding a beautiful happy baby. I still don't see the connection. Of course not, you don't know what Heather actually said. Yes, but haven't we been through all that last night? She got out of bed, powdered her nose, slipped out of the barracks determined to see her idol then proceeded to the theatre where some relative let her in and allowed her to watch from the wings. I still don't see where that gets us. Neither did I. And then I thought of the vicar. I telephoned him in the middle of the night. I wasn't at all popular. He remembered Heather's convalescence. She had been ill and spent her sick leave in the village with her mother. You see, when Heather Babcock went to the theatre that evening, she was infectious. She was suffering from rubella. More commonly known as German measles. Your wife had a child that was born mentally retarded. She never recovered from the shock. Marina... contracted German measles during the pregnancy. And she never knew how. And then one afternoon, a perfect stranger tells her with pleasure, with pride even, what she has done. And you let me kiss you. Oh, yes, you did! What a nice little story, dear. - Now, can I get you a drink? - Oh, thank you, yes. A rather perfect murder. Not exactly as Cherry described it. I was wrong about one thing. I deduced that one of the guests at the party took the risk of putting the poison in the glass. But it was unnecessary. No one would have noticed the hostess taking a momentary leave of absence to visit her bathroom to prepare the fetal potion. As an actress used to handling props, she would have had no trouble jogging Heather's elbow, accidentally spilling her drink and offering her her own. Marina had to insist that she was the intended victim, that the murder was aimed at her to support her plot. She wrote the notes herself Even doctored her coffee at the studio. It deceived nearly everybody. Nearly. But one person saw through it. You knew, didn't you, Mr Rudd? It was the notes that made you finally realise. The notes your wife forgot to tell you about. If they had been real, she would have informed you at once. So you decided to protect her. Mr Rudd, I'd like to speak to your wife. Would you mind if I saw her first? Thank you, dear. Mr Rudd. - Miss Marple. - Yes, Mr Rudd? She's dead. I rather suspected as much. Couldn't you? I killed her. I put poison in her hot chocolate last night. It was inevitable she would have been discovered. I couldn't let her face the humiliation. She's suffered enough. You must have loved her very much. Mr Rudd, I think you better come in here. Marina? Mr Rudd. She's given the performance of her life.
