 

                        Get this on the Twix, will you, Nell? Chicken feed, Ralph I've said it once I've said it a hundred times I know, D.J. Now, about Seattle... Don't miss the meeting on the 23rd I called the airport, Mr. Mulroney The Boston plane is on time Then I'd better be going Can't keep these people waiting How about the Henderson deal? Wire them two million five Take it or leave it I wonder if you'd okay this, D.J. Not another electronics company, Paul [Snaps Fingers] We can pick it up for a song And since we've gone into plastics so heavily... Plastic, toys, electronics What next? There's one thing you young fellas seem to forget We are in the lumber business We started out in lumber and lumber is still number one Of course, D.J. But if it'll make you happy, go ahead and buy it Well, thank you, sir - Oh, not that one, Gregg The Rolls - The Rolls? Right, sir May I have your undivided attention for 30 seconds, D.J.? - Yes, Ralph - I can't emphasize enough the success of the Seattle deal depends on your being there I'll do my best to make it, but in case I miss, you've got all the facts That's not good enough They don't want me or Logan or Winkler They've been promised D.J. Mulroney They want that 50,000 acres of timber Now, that's our bait - And don't you forget it - Of course But if you're not in Seattle, the whole deal goes down the drain I'll be there, Ralph Now, will you please stop worrying? Ah, there she is As beautiful as the day I first brought her home Remember? We had just put together that Saga tuck lumber deal And all the profits went right into this car I remember perfectly Yeah Well, that was in the days when I only had one million Still had to impress people - I'll be doing my own driving, Gregg - Yes, sir Special occasion I'm meeting some very important people You've only got a half an hour to get to the airport Don't worry I'll make it I always do, don't I? Five minutes early Why don't you run your planes on time? It was the tail wind, Mr. Mulroney Well, it's very important that I should be here to meet them - We're very sorry - Where are they? Where are they? Where... Grandfather! - Hi, Grandfather - Hi, Rodney My goodness, but you've grown And, Elizabeth... Well, you look more like your mother every time I see you - How is she? - Fine She told me to give you her love - And Dad said he'll bring you champagne from Paris - Good That's the sort of a son-in-law I like Oh, how were these passengers? Well behaved, I hope The perfect travelers It was a pleasure to have them with us - Good-bye, Elizabeth - Good-bye Good-bye, Rodney Where are we going, Grandfather? Oh, I thought maybe we'd head up the Redwood Highway I used to take your mother there when she was your age Then we'll follow our noses on up to Seattle Seattle? Can we go on the yacht? I've got a new one now 4,000-horsepower diesel Does 25 knots, if she's pushed - Oh, boy! - Cost nearly a million dollars Well, how come if you're so rich you drive a funny old car like this? "Funny old car"? I tell you, young man, this is a fine car You won't find its like anymore - Well, it's certainly a pretty car - Yes, but how fast does it go? Oh, fast enough to get us there When I get a car, it's going to be a Maserati Oh, Rodney, you're always talking so big Oh, there's no harm in that, son When I was a young lad in Ireland, I always dreamt of owning myself a jaunting car A jaunting car? Never heard of that make Well, Rodney, my boy, it was the Maserati of its time Real cool Hot stuff One horsepower - One horsepower? - Yes, sir (music) In me jaunting car me jaunting car (music) (music)jogging' along in me jaunting car (music) (music) I'm the handsomest sight by far (music) (music)Jogging' along in me jaunting car [Whistles, Honks Horn] (music) Oh, the seats are leather and face to face (music) (music) The wheels go round at a merry pace (music) (music) And given a horse that loves to race (music) (music) I'll bet I could win the steeplechase (music) (music) In me jaunting car me jaunting car (music) (music)jogging' along in me jaunting car (music) (music) I'm the handsomest sight by far (music) (music)jogging' along in me jaunting car (music) [Whistles, Honks Horn] (music) I called on Jennifer Jane Magee (music) (music) To come along on a jaunt with me (music) (music) Traveling merrily near and far (music) (music)She fell in love (music) With me jaunting car (music) (music) In me jaunting car me jaunting car (music) (music)jogging' along in me jaunting car (music) (music) I'm the handsomest sight by far (music) (music)jogging' along in me jaunting car (music) (music) In me jaunting car me jaunting car (music) (music)jogging' along in me jaunting car (music) (music) I'm the handsomest sight by far (music) (music)jogging' along in me jaunting car (music) - Lunchtime - Great Where's the restaurant? Right here I thought it'd be fun to have our first meal together in the open air - Look, Rodney - "Mulroney Grove" Grandfather, are these wonderful trees all yours? Every single one of them Mine, yours, everybody's What did you do, buy 'em? All that sign means is that I had the privilege of seeing that they'll always be here - just for people to look at? - Exactly My, they're big Must've taken a long time to grow Four thousand years for some of them Tuna Ham So beautiful Like being in fairyland Don't go too far away now Rodney's hungry, and there might not be anything left when you get back - Having trouble, son? - No peanut butter and jelly Oh, dig down They're probably down near the bottom You know, she... she could be the one I wouldn't if I were you Don't do it Well, all of them I've seen, she's the one I think I could trust - You can't trust any of them - That's right That's right - But I have to talk to someone - [Owl] Talk to me - Anytime - [Blue Jay] And us Just as much as you like Well, I have talked to you, all of you And there's not one of you can help me with my problem - Don't do it, Jasper - [Owl] Only mean trouble - What trouble? - Gnome hunters, that's what Gnome hunters, all over the place Our woods will be full of 'em And none of em can keep their mouths shut Blab, blab, blab - No peace for any of us anymore - No peace at all No peace at all My mind's made up [Screams] I, uh, didn't mean to frighten you Oh, you didn't Yeah, but I'll bet you're surprised to see a gnome Oh, not really I was just thinking what a lovely place this is for gnomes Are there many of you living here? Well, that's... that's my problem If it weren't for that, I wouldn't be showing myself to a doo-deen A "doo-deen"? Well, that's what we call you big people Am I the first doo-deen you've ever spoken to? Yeah, yeah All my friends advised against it, but... Well, I had to talk to someone Well, if I'm the first doo-deen you've ever spoken to how is it you speak such good English? Uh, English? The language we've been talking Well, now, don't that beat all And here I've been wondering how come you spoke such good Gnomish And my father would no more than took his eyes off the leprechaun for less time than it takes to say "Seanny O'Shannon's shillelagh" when, whoosh, the little creature up and disappeared on him You don't really believe in that silly stuff, do you, Grandfather? - Why not? - There's still no peanut butter - Oh, they probably got the labels mixed - [Elizabeth] Grandfather! Grandfather, please, you've got to come quickly - I promised him we'd be right back - Promised who? - The gnome The gnome! - The what? And he's got a simply awful problem Oh, not just a gnome, but a gnome with a problem Now, that is something - Hey, I found one - Good But, Grandfather, he's waiting to talk to you - To me? But why me? - Because I told him if anyone could help him with his problem, it was you - You've got to come He's waiting - Well, come on, Rodney We've got to go talk to a gnome Now, Elizabeth, on the possibility this little fellow isn't there... - He'll be there - About six inches high, I imagine - Taller than that - Little yellow cap and buckles on his shoes? His hat was green, and I didn't notice any buckles I don't understand that In all the stories about leprechauns... I didn't say he was a leprechaun He said he was a gnome Oh, a gnome Well, that's different That's the place I'm here! I've brought him! Yoo-hoo! Jasper! - His name's Jasper - Oh? - Jasper! - Jasper! The girl, all right, I maybe could go along But how about him? You ever seen a fiercer-looking' critter? He, uh... He does look awful shifty about the eyes Jasper! Jasper! Maybe this is the wrong place Forests can fool you But, Grandfather, this was the place Well, it could be the little lep... gnome had second thoughts on seeing me, I mean Now, a little girl, that's one thing, but an old curmudgeon like myself... - [Crying] - And it could be in her imagination too I didn't imagine him! I did see him! Of course you saw a gnome, darling' But not with these eyes These up here That's where all the little folks live Like gnomes, elves, leprechauns, whatever you want to call them But, Grandfather, honest, I talked to him Jasper! Jasper! They're making her into a fool, and all on account of me Come on, darling We best be getting back Now, you must be really hungry by now But he was right there He was right there I can't let it end like this Hey, you! - She did too see a gnome! - Who said that? - I think it's him - Uh-oh Now you've done it Come on out and show yourself Don't do it, Jasper Don't do it What kind of a trick is that to play on a little girl? - Come on, darling - Oh, Grandfather Hold on, you! - Jasper! - Seanny O'Shannon's shillelagh There, Grandfather, you see? Why yes A gnome You see him, Rodney? I still think it's Elizabeth's imagination Jasper, this is my brother Rodney and my grandfather Glad to see you, Jasper Say hello to him, Rodney - Hi - [Jasper] Is this the wizard you spoke of? The one with all the solutions? So you're the gnome with the problem Tell him what you told me Well, instead of that, since seeing is believing with you doo-deens follow me Come on! Well, there's my problem My old grandpa just lies there a- growing' more "see-throughish" with every passing' hour What's making him so see-throughish? Well, I'm not an authority on gnomes but if they're anything like leprechauns, they live on and on - But only if they want to - You mean they just fade away? Jasper, have you any idea what made him lose his will to live? Grandpa's given up all hope of ever seeing me married and having young'uns of my own Why is that? Well, Grandpa and me, we're, uh, we're the last of the gnomes There's no gnome maidens for me to marry up with Well, now, that is a serious problem Jasper Jasper boy, is that you I hear? It is, Grandpa I'm, uh... I'm talking with some friends [Grandpa] Oh, that's nice That's nice I'm happy for you They're, uh, doo-deen friends Mm, good Now, go away... Doo-deens? Now, Grandpa, before you get your dander up, they mean to help us Help from doo-deens? You gone plumb out of your senses? It's doo-deens that's been the cause of all our troubles I know that, Grandpa Only these big'uns are, well, different There isnt no such a thing as a different doo-deen That's why, in all my 900 years I've never let one of em so much as lay an eye on my boot - Now, Grandpa, if I may... - Not one step further, doo-deen Ailing' I may be but not enough to let you get ahold of me without putting' up a fight - My grandfather just wanted to help - Help? Saying' you could help, why would you want to? Because you've got a problem, and my grandfather is good at solving problems Well, you don't say Jasper told me that there are rumors about gnomes living in other forests Ah, idle clucking' of gossipy animals And Grandfather's got a wonderful car, and he'll drive you anywhere - Won't you, Grandfather? - Now, just a minute, darling' - And what about the yacht? - Oh, please, Grandfather Well, dear, I do have to be in Seattle [Grandpa] Supposing I was to go with you? I hear tell how you big ones treat free things in the forest How you put 'em in cages and sell 'em as curiosities Exhibit 'em to other doo-deens Oh, we'd never do that, would we, Grandfather? We'll give you our most solemn word we won't even mention your existence to another soul Nobody would believe us anyway [Jasper] It's our only chance, Grandpa What do you say? Well, not that I got any hopes of finding' gnomes, mind you but you do got somewhat of an honorable look about your eyes, so... Yahoo! We're going! Yahoo! Oh, Grandfather, you're wonderful Yippee! We're going! Well, if I may coin a phrase he's jumping' out of the frying pan into the fire Yes, sir Smack into the fire (music) [Whistling] (music) The gnome-mobile The gnome-mobile (music) (music) Hunting for gnomes in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) Sooner or later we feel that we'll (music) (music)Find where they are with the gnome-mobile (music) In the gnome-mobile The gnome-mobile (music) (music) Hunting for gnomes in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) Sooner or later we feel that we'll (music) (music) Find where they are in the gnome-mobile (music) [Whistles, Honks Horn] (music) As we ride along through the countryside (music) (music) We're keeping our peepers open wide (music) (music) Looking to find where she may hide (music) (music) The beautiful gnome for Jaspers bride (music)In the gnome-mobile The gnome-mobile (music) We're hunting for gnomes in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) Sooner or later we feel that we'll (music) (music)Find where she is in the gnome-mobile (music) Oh, the gnome-mobile is a grand machine (music) (music) The like of which I have never seen (music) (music) But you're going too fast you big doo-deen (music) (music) When I look where I'm going that's where I've been (music) In the gnome-mobile The gnome-mobile (music) (music) We're hunting for gnomes in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) Sooner or later we feel that we'll (music) (music) Find where they roam in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) In the gnome-mobile The gnome-mobile (music) (music) We're hunting for gnomes in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) Sooner or later we feel that we'll (music) (music) Find where they roam in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) [Whistles] Well, I must say, Jasper was right for once - You doo-deens are different - Thanks, Grandpa You don't have to keep calling me Grandpa The name's Knobby Knobby, just call me D.J. Everyone does D.J. Don't come much shorter than that [Laughing] Grandfather, where do we start this gnome-hunting? Well, I figure the most likely place would be a virgin forest Now, I happen to know of a 50,000-acre patch of timber that's never been touched by... by doo-deens - Is it very far? - [D. J] Oh, we can't make it tonight We'll have to stop over somewhere But we'll make it easy in the morning Jasper, what happened to all the other gnomes? Well, I was, uh, too little to remember much about it But I've heard it said that they migrated, a lot of em 'Tweren't that at all Well, what about all the fern seeds failing' and the food getting' scarce? - Why, I heard that... - I don't care what you "heard" I'm telling' you I was there It was the chopping' down of the trees that made the gnomes disappear I remember it like it was yesterday Everything was so pleasant and peaceful Everybody minding' their own business Then all of a sudden, "Timber!" Trees started a- coming down, a-falling'. And a-crashing' like giants, they came down It was "timber" on the right and "timber" on the left And the gnomes a- panicking' and a-running' and a-falling' down and a- bumping' into each other And coming' right behind 'em all the time was the big axes a- slashing' and a-cutting' and, "Timber!" Grandpa, I remember the... You remember nothing' You weren't no bigger'n that I grabbed you in my arms and started to run And right behind me I hear, "Timber!" And I looked back over my shoulder and here come one of those giants falling' right at me - How did you escape? - I didn't It landed right on me Did it kill you? No I ducked down a rabbit hole But I was under that there tree for 40 days and 40 nights And when I finally dug myself out there were dead trees everywhere and nary a gnome in sight - How awful - Oh, the carnage And them infernal axe swingers They wouldn't give up They kept a-coming' and a-coming' And the worst of em all was that Mulroney outfit - Mulroney? - But, Grandfather... Shh! Don't interrupt while he's talking I never seen the blackguard himself face-to-face but I see them henchmen of his often enough a- slashing and a-cutting' and a-destroying'. "Mulroneys Marauders," we called 'em Now, just a minute It so happens that my grandfather is... In complete accord with you, Knobby Any vandal who cuts down trees indiscriminately ought to be... Well, he ought to be taken out and horsewhipped Yes, sir Thoroughly horsewhipped Well, here we are Everything secure in the gnome department? Oh, please get down, Knobby You don't want the other doo-deens to see you Packing' us in here like we was a couple of sandwiches And me, at my age I'll take this Thanks Hey, you! You can't park that thing there I won't be staying long, my good man The name is Quaxton of Quaxton's Academy of Fantastic Freaks Brilliant show Don't miss it (music) [Rock On Radio] Hello, sport Well, you look like an intelligent patron of the arts Here Accept these free tickets with my compliments A rare opportunity to enlarge the experience and broaden the mind Two bedrooms and a sitting room in one of the cottages? Oh, you are the lucky one, sir There's one left Oh! [Screams] I'm very sorry, sir, but dogs are not allowed in the hotel - But they're not dogs - They're geese - [Knobby] Geese? Shh Grandpa, Grandpa, shh - [Muffled Yells] - And very well trained too I'm very sorry, sir, but the rule is unbreakable No pets of any kind Who said anything about pets? These geese happen to be investments Business investments Royal Abyssinian geese And very rare You do not seem to understand, sir This hotel does not permit any animals of any kind whatsoever... [Gasps] Oh, Mr. Mulroney - Oh, I am so... - [Knobby] Mulroney! - The marauder himself We've been trapped - Shh Let me out of here! [Screaming] Grandpa, be quiet [Muffled Screams] (music) [Loud Music] Here Show Mr. Mulroney to his room [Yelling Continues] A little action, please Quick, quick, quick You unlock this thing Let me out of here Pardon me, sir Are those voices coming from there? Correct A peculiar trait of Abyssinian geese They make sounds just like people [Knobby] You hear me? Answer me (music) [Continues] [Knobby Shouting] That's fine Thank you Thank you Set it down - Thank you, sir - That's all right Whew! All right, Rodney You can turn off the music now We've been trapped Let me out of here Let me out Let me out Grandpa, be quiet - You conniving', double-dealing' doo-deen - Now, Grandpa, settle yourself down How can I settle myself down when I find myself traveling' in the very company of me own worst enemy? Knobby, that is not so Unscrupulous, lying' prevaricator Getting' us to leave our Redwood sanctuary under false pretenses Oh, but he's a scheming' one - He did it for you - We'd rather be in Seattle Oh, don't give me none your druthers, you... you Mulroney-in-the-making' [D. J] All right, Knobby Enough of this yelling now You want to arouse the whole neighborhood? Grandpa, even saying' what you're sayings true... Of course it's true Are you insinuating your own grandfather's a liar? No, Grandpa I'm only asking you to give Mr. Mulroney a chance to explain I am not listening to nothing more that one's got to say Mulroney Lying', cheating', scheming'... Knobby Knobby Calm down now and listen a minute I'm only trying to help Ah, no, you don't, Mulroney I fell for that line afore Now, I'm a little different from a lot of other lumbermen You can say that again You're the worst - You want to find gnomes, don't you? - Not with you, I don't Knobby, supposing, just for the sake of argument that everything you say about me is true? - Ah, then you admit it - I do not admit anything I'm only saying that even if it were true, that's all in the past Yesterday Let's talk about tomorrow [Knobby] Whose tomorrow? Yours? No Yours, you rock-headed little mule, and Jasper's Now, we're doing everything we can to help you And I told you I don't want nothing' to do with no help from you Grandpa, please, just try to hear Mr. Mulroney out Try to trust him I rather trust a predatory vulture with a hungry eye and an empty belly All right, Knobby, I've had it I've tried everything even humbled myself in the hope that you'd see the light And hope is all you've got left, you stubborn old donkey This is the end Tomorrow morning, first light of day, we're going back to the Redwoods And we're going to drop you off and be free of you And from that moment on, as far as I'm concerned, you never even existed And that goes for me too [Elizabeth] But, Grandfather... Now, I'm going to get the car serviced, and I don't want to waste a minute tomorrow - Can I come with you? - Yes, come on Without a doubt, the most exasperating, ornery gnome I ever met Then do we go right on to Seattle, Grandfather? And the yacht And the sooner the better, son - Where's the nearest service station? - Turn right two blocks, at the corner of Elm and Grange Thank you [Man On TV] Here in nature's kingdom dwell the regal giants of the forest the great sequoias, monarchs of all they survey Pictures, Grandpa, from right out in the air Well, take a look It'll make you feel better I am not going to feel better till I get out of here Older than written history itself, they tower above their surroundings Look It's the Redwoods Yet, in man's scheme of things, these great trees have practical use as well as aesthetic value Well, what do you know? My Redwoods From these forests, selected trees are taken And when the lumberjack's cry of "timber" echoes through the woods... [Grandpa Yelling] The bloody black hearted blackguard doo-deens! - [Grandpa Yelling] - Timber! And another giant comes down to serve the needs of mankind - Settle down, Grandpa - [Click] Shh Now, calm yourself [Ringing] Hello Yes I'm sorry to be the one to tell you, miss, but there's been an accident A bad accident Oh, no Not grandfather I'm afraid so It's your grandfather's Rolls-Royce Is he hurt? - Well, he can't talk to you right now - But where is he? - Where did it happen? - At the corner of Elm and Grange And he wants you to come right away I'll be right there - They don't make 'em like this anymore - You're right there, sir These new jobs are all right on the highway but you take a car like this, it's built to go places Yes, sir That'll be 620, sir Out of 10 Keep the change It's nice to talk to a man who appreciates cars - Yes, sir Thank you, sir - [Tires Screech] - Grandfather, you're all right! - Of course we're all right They said there'd been an accident, that you and Rodney were hurt - Who told you? - Someone on the telephone In the car, quickly Watch out, sir! Yeah All right Thank you Only what I expected Nobody in the hotel saw anything Why don't you call the police? No, not the police Tell the police, and the papers would be full of it That's just what we promised Knobby wouldn't happen This is a job for my own security staff I can trust my own team, and that's just what we need now Operator, would you get me person-to-person San Francisco, Mr. Ralph Yarby? - How am I doing, Doc? - Sound as a dollar - [Woman] Mulroney Medical - I only hope D.J. checks out as well - If I can ever get him up here - Oh, yes He's here Mr. Yarby, it's for you D.J.'s on the line D.J.? D.J., where are you? We've been trying to reach you for... Ralph, they're gone Missing - Gone? Not... - That's right - Kidnapped - Well, have you notified the police yet? Ralph-boy, they're the last ones in the world I want to call now Good thinking, D.J. The press get a hold of this and the kidnappers get scared and the children have had it Who said anything about children? Now, listen, Ralph this is going to be hard for someone like you to accept, but you've got to believe me - Do you understand? - Well, I always understand, D.J. Well, it's the gnomes who have been kidnapped The gnomes Uh, D.J., something seems to have gone wrong with the phone Would you mind repeating that last? Can you hear me now? You're coming through clear now I said a pair of gnomes Little people Now, there's not a minute to lose I want you to put our security people on this right away And I mean right now! Security Uh, right now Right away And remember, nobody's to know about this besides our own people or there's no telling what might happen You couldn't be more right, D.J. Look Where are you right now? Cedar Creek Lodge Right I'll fly up there and meet you there tonight All right Good-bye Get me security This isn't a case for security What D.J. needs now is a psychiatrist - You think he's lost his marbles? - I'll get in touch with Conrad Ramsey He's got a place not far from there An old estate he's turned into a private sanitarium D.J. will never sit still for a psychiatrist Suppose he thinks he's meeting a private detective? An expert with a great organization for handling cases such as this Well, yes Yes, I think that might work [Barking] I still wish you'd brought a couple of our own security men along Our men are good, D.J. but as you just said, this is a special case, and it needs a special man But this Ramsey guy, has he handled cases like this before? One after another Funny I never heard of him Good evening, gentlemen Welcome to Five Oaks Thanks Quite a place you've got here You know, this Ramsey must do all right This layout makes Brinks and Pinkerton look like a couple of pikers In all honesty, D.J., you can't even put them in the same category Now, don't say it can't be done Yarby tells me that you often work on cases like mine - Oh, yes, Mr. Mulroney All the time - Locating lost gnomes? Well, gnomes, no But we have uncovered some strange things in our time - Very well, then - Now, getting back to the little men You say you first saw them in the Redwoods? That's right We took them as far as Cedar Creek with us And that's where they were kidnapped - Where they disappeared, you mean - I said they were kidnapped - and I mean kidnapped! - Yes, yes, yes Now, during the trip, did anybody else see them besides you and your grandchildren? Someone else had to see them, of course, or how would they have gotten kidnapped? Well, that's a good question Yes, and that's one that you have to find the answer to Everything you've said thus far leads me to believe that you did see gnomes Of course I saw them! What do you think I'm doing here? But not with these eyes With those up here That is where all the little people, the gnomes, the gremlins or whatever you like to call them live [Buzzing] Ralph, this guy thinks I'm nuts - Now, D.J., just calm... - I say he thinks I'm nuts! - He thinks that I'm nuts! - Not "nuts, '"Mr. Mulroney Just, shall we say, over fatigued What is this, Ramsey? Who are these fellas? Uh, my assistants - Would you come with me, please? - Yarby, what have you done? Yarby, you double-crosser I ought to break you in a dozen pieces! Let go of me, you thugs Let go of me Yarby, you're fired! Why are you doing this to me? [Shouting, Indistinct] [TV: Gunshots, Shouting] Don't you think it's about time for bed, children? We'll wait up for grandfather Well, he's liable to be tied up for a long time [Phone Rings] Hello Grandfather? Oh It's for you Thank you, Rodney I'll take it in the bedroom Wait just a minute You can hang up now, Rodney Thank you [Whispering] Rodney, that is not nice Mr. Yarby, am I glad to hear from you - How are the children? - Fine Only... Well, I'm sure they suspect something Oh, I was afraid they might Are you free to talk? - Yes - Well, uh here's the way things shape up from here It's much worse than we thought D.J. got violent - Oh, how awful - He's going to be here for quite some time Dr. Ramsey's fixed up a room for me next to D.J.'s So, if you want me for anything, at least for the next couple of days you can call me at this number Uh, Ramsey's Five Oaks Klondike-5-3-1-1-1 Room 302 Got it? - Got it - Fine Thank you, Mr. Yarby Good-bye Gee, it must be getting late - I'm bushed - Me too Guess we might just as well get to bed That does sound like a good idea, doesn't it? - Good night - Good night, Rodney - Good night - Good night, Elizabeth They've got Grandfather locked up They think he's nuts But they can't Not grandfather What are you doing? We're going to rescue him But we don't know where this Five Oaks is It's down the road I saw it as we came in Come on - Do you really think we should? - Sure Why not? But you haven't got a license Of course not I'm too young to have a license And what if you get caught? Look, it's Grandfather's car, isn't it? And we're taking it to him, aren't we? And it is an emergency, isn't it? [Engine Starts] You'll have to help Get down by the pedals Push that one down Now, let it up Well, let's try another gear [Gear Grinding] Get ready to stop Now What are you taking those for? To make sure that I'm ready for anything You stay here Grandfather and I'll be back soon How will you be able to find Grandfather's room? - I mean, you cant just ask - I won't have to I know it's on the third floor I'll just listen No one's got a snore like Grandfather [Snoring Loudly] [Mumbling] How is he? Is he all right? Relax, Mr. Yarby He's sleeping like a baby Listen [Snoring] [Door Opens, Shuts] [Barking] [Barking] - Quiet, boy It's nothing - [Barking] [Snoring] [Snoring] [Snoring] [Whispering] Grandfather Psst Grandfather Grandfather Rodney Why, you little rascal [Door Rattling] [Snoring] [Snoring Loudly] [Snoring Continues] I don't sound that bad, do I? - Well, let's start snoring off this bar - [Both Snoring] [Snoring, Saw Grinding] [Snoring, Grinding Continue] There [Snoring] Now, then, in the old days I used to bend a bar twice this size [Snoring] I'll get it on the next exhale It's not scary as long as you don't look down Young man, I was climbing trees and topping them out before you were born - This is the difficult part - Won't worry an old high-climber like me You just be very careful Oh, sure Timber! [Crash] Grandfather, you hurt? Nope, son It's the old Mulroney luck Fall in a glasshouse and come up smelling like a petunia Let's get out of here - [Alarm Blaring] - What happened? What's wrong? - He's gone - D.J.! Oh, no! - [Alarm Continues] - Faster, Grandfather Faster I'm going as fast as I can There he is! Come on! After him, Duke Up here in the tree! Watch out, Grandfather! Hurry, Grandfather D.J., come back! Come back! Help me You shouldn't have done it, D.J. - Anybody on our tail? - Nobody in sight, Grandfather - [Elizabeth] What do we do now? - Can't say, darling' But one thing's for sure Whatever it is, we do it alone Sure can't count on that Mulroney team Next question is, who could've seen the gnomes? The desk clerk? - I doubt it - Maybe the bellboy I know The fellow with the fantastic freaks Fantastic freaks? He was in the lobby putting up posters and he gave me these Uh-huh "Quaxton's Fantastic Freaks" Highway 175 South of Homerville, huh? Rodney, my boy, you've just hit on a very possible possibility [D. J] Here it is [Rodney] It sure is a crummy-looking place [Elizabeth] Oh, I do hope they're all right You two wait here This shouldn't take long Quaxton! - Hold it, you - What's happening', Char... Breaking' and entering', it looks like to me - Breaking and entering? - Look Five Oaks Five Oaks? Ain't that some kind of a nuthouse or something? Mister, I'm perfectly sane, and I can explain all this Get on the phone, Etta Call the cops I'll keep the loony covered Wait a minute You tell me where I can find this fella Quaxton, I'll be on my way - Go on, Etta Call the cops - Grab 'em, men! Reach, mister All right, you two I don't care whether you believe me or not - I want to know where this Quaxton is - He's getting' violent You doggone right I am And there's no time to argue - Two lives are at stake - Two lives? And I'm warning you, if you hold anything back and anything happens to those two... to those two lives... I'll see to it that both of you are arrested as accomplices Look, mister, we only work for Quaxton Oh, Etta, you don't believe this loony? Well, I don't know whether I do or not But I'd believe almost anything about Horatio Quaxton - And that phone call - Be quiet - Quaxton's up to something, and you know it - Be quiet - What phone call? - Oh, five, six hours ago - He said to run things till he got back - Etta! - Got back from where? - Well, his mountain cabin, probably - I told you to keep quiet - Mountain cabin? Where is it? Oh, somewhere around Homerville A little road called, uh, Old Willow But-But we arent sure he's there, mind you But he could be Well, in case we don't find him there and you hear from him again there's double that in it for you [Car Starts] Oh, Charlie, look! "I owe you $5,000 D.J. Mulroney" Huh! Told you he was tetched [Chuckling] Fill 'er up Hold it a minute How much money you kids got? [Coins Jangling] Thirty-five, thirty-six thirty-seven... Thirty-nine cents - How about you, Elizabeth? - [Coins Jangling] Um, a quarter and two nickels Better make it two gallons A man named Quaxton has a cabin around here - Do you know where it is? - Nope - Do you know him? - Nope Well, I know he has a place here Well, that puts you one up on me, don't it? Well, how about the Old Willow Road? Do you know where that is? - Yep - Well, where? About two dirt roads back - Thanks - That's 72 cents Here's 74 Keep the change Last of the big spenders [Clattering] [Knobby] Oh, why'd I ever leave my Redwoods? This is all my fault, Jasper [Jasper] Grandpa, I'll get you out of here, I promise If I'd had sense enough to stay where I belonged, we'd never be in this mess - It's no use, Jasper - Now, Grandpa, we'll get out of here but we got to do it before he gets back Don't bother about me I'm only a burden to you - I'm too old - No, Grandpa Ending up cooped up like this... Oh! Come on, Grandpa [Groaning] Oh, my poor legs I can't even climb out of here, let alone escape You leave that to me Maybe if you go with that Quaxton fella... be in his show like he said... you'd make out Never - I would spit on a doo-deen like that Quaxton - [Yells] Well, maybe so [Coughs] Do as you like Me, I'm wanting to fade away and call it quits Oh, that's enough of that kind of talk, Grandpa Come on We're getting out of here Supposing' we do escape? What good's it going to do us? We're the last of the gnomes, you and me This is the... it's the end of the line Grandpa, look There's a beautiful forest down the road a piece Now, you'll feel more yourself - When we get you back where you belong now... - [Car Approaching] Quick! That's him! I keep telling you, boy, I'm too old [Grunts] Here we are, gents... gnome burgers Hey, you sneaky little weasel! Come back here! Keep going, Grandpa! Keep going! I'll catch up with you later! Oh, no, you won't Oh, no, you don't! Oh, now, look, little fella You and me have great things ahead of us Great things! Oh, you have no idea [Laughs] I got idea enough Oh, now, don't be like that [Chuckles] Well, well, aren't you the lively little fellow though, huh? Which is more than can be said for your old grandpa Oh, but never mind him Don't you see? We don't have to cut him in on this It's just you and me and $ 1 million One whole cool million dollars - waiting for us to come and pick it up - Uh-uh Stand back, Quaxton I'm warning you Come one step closer and I'll shoot Oh, come on now, little fella I'm not trying to hurt you Besides, the gun isn't even loaded [Hammer Clicks] See? What did I tell you? Now, you should, uh, should learn to listen to me - once in a while - [Hammer Clicks] Now, you shouldn't have done that, little friend You just might have hurt me Fact is, you might have killed me! All right, Quaxton, care to try again? [Grunts] Ow! I've got you Now, my little fish... Ah! [Snickering] Oh, back you come Ooh! [Chuckling, Giggling] [Quaxton] I'm warning you Don't make me mad When I get mad, I get dangerous, and I'll wring your neck if I have to Now remember, young fella I can make just as much money with a stuffed gnome So from now on, I think you better play it my way, huh? I mean it This is your last chance I'm through being nice, kid Now, you hold still or I'll break you in pieces Jasper! Are you all right? Yeah, but Grandpa's gone and I'm... I'm worried about him He's wanting to fade away - You skunk! - Now, now, now, take it... - You low-down, unmitigated scoundrel! - Mr. Mulroney - let's watch our language in front of the children - You unscrupulous doo-deen! Now, now, now, now, please! Watch it I wasn't trying to hurt him Honest I wasn't I was only trying to make a little deal Wait just a minute! He's my gnome You said you wanted nothing more to do with him - Where's Knobby? - There's a forest down the road I said I'd meet him there Now, look, Mr. Mulroney You're a businessman I have a proposition to make to you on a good thing Listen, you're missing a... You're missing a bet! There's a fortune in it for all of us! Mulroney! [Moaning] [Sobbing] Have you seen anything of an old gaffer and a couple of kids - in a Rolls-Royce? - Rolls-Royce? Like that one? Yes, like that one Hey, that's it! What are we waiting for? After 'em! - [Tires Screeching] - Hey! [Clanking] - [Clanking] - Oh, no! [Groans] [Mumbling] - [Clanking Continues] - [Moaning] [Moaning] Grandpa, there's somebody tailing us Anybody we know? - It's Mr. Yarby - Mr. Yarby? Well, well, well [Tires Squealing] Keep out of sight, Jasper All right, Mr. Mulroney But why, Grandfather? Why not stop and let them see him? That would prove you weren't crazy Not on your life, honey It'll be a cold day in the tropics when D.J. Mulroney does anything just to prove to Ralph Yarby that he's got all his marbles Faster, man, faster Yes, Mr. Yarby - They're gaining on us! - Oh, no! They won't for long Let's see how well they keep up when the going gets rough [Tires Squealing] [Tires Squealing] Jasper, I thought I told you to keep out of sight I'm trying to, Mr. Mulroney [Groaning] - Look where you're going, man! - I can't see the road for the trees! Don't stop, stupid Get going! Get going! Get that hood closed We can't see where we're going I know, Mr. Yarby, but how? Give her the gas! Full speed ahead! I said ahead! Put on the brakes! Maybe you'd care to try They're with us again Well, let's see how they are on cornering Hold tight, everybody! Whee! I take it all back, Grandfather This is some car! [Yelling] Just some fenders Nothing to worry about [Nervous Laugh] Turn! Turn! Turn! Mr. Yarby, would you care to drive? Aah! What did we lose now? Only the rear wheels Look out, Ralph! [Crashing] They don't make 'em like they used to, huh, Ralph? Grandpa! - Grandpa! - [D. J] Knobby! - [Children] Knobby! - Yoo-hoo! - Knobby! - Where are you? Knobby! - Where are you? - Knobby! Grandpa! Grandpa, show yourself! - Knobby! - Grandpa! You don't think he's faded away? Oh, no! Knobby! - Knobby! - Where are you? - [Knobby] Yahoo! Yahoo! - Shh! - I think I hear something - Yahoo! Yippee! Yahoo! Yahoo! Yippee! - Grandpa, what's happened? What's got into you? - Mulroney, you were right - We arent the only gnomes in the world - Yippee! - Rufus? - Yes? Come on out and meet my doo-deen friends Oh, yes, well, any friend of Knobby's is a friend of ours - Hello, doo-deens Welcome - Well, thank you - It's nice to be here - Hi And is this the young one who would like to meet some other gnomes? Yes, sir I-I sure would [Chuckling] Well, all right My boy, if you were afraid that you were the last of the gnomes, take heart [Laughs] There's lots of us... and here's the proof You needn't ever be lonesome again Something ailing' you, boy? Arent you glad to find more gnomes? Well, yeah, Grandpa only, uh, uh... Well, what about the, uh, uh... - Well, you know what I mean - All right, out with it! - What do you mean? - Knobby... I think what the boy's trying to say is, "Are there any girl gnomes?" [Laughs] Well, of course How stupid of me Rufus here has more girl gnomes than he knows what to do with Right, Rufus? Oh, you know I have My goodness Have I got girls! I've got big girls... you know, I really mean big ones And little girls You want a little one? I've got medium-sized ones Have I got girls I've got some that... I'll show you Girls? Girls! Come on out, girls! The eligible gnome is here [Shouting, Giggling] Stop this! Hold it! Now, don't lose your heads, girls Back there Back there Go Line up Line up, now [Chattering] Girls are so silly - Don't you think so? - No Which one do you like, Grandfather? - Well, now, it's kind of hard to say - I like them all Well, don't stand there like a stump, boy You come looking for a bride Get going Go on, go on This is no time to be bashful [Knobby] Go ahead, boy! Go ahead! That one's Poppy And the next, that's Petunia Named after a flower, you know That's Heather, and that one is Morning Glory That's a lovely name [Chuckles] Oh, Jasper, that's Snapdragon By the way, she's my niece, Jasper She's the one I think he'll like, you know, my niece [Laughing] Yeah, she's the one I think you'll like Oh, that next one... that's Buttercup That's Daisy Daisy That's a pretty name Isn't it? He must be getting old And-And Thistle Down And that's Primrose And there's Dewdrop [Laughs] Dewdrop How pretty, that... Azalea And that's Pearblossom "Pearblossom" That's two words made into one, you know And last but not least, poor Violet there A bit bashful, I'm afraid Uh, hi Well, come on, boy If that's the one, go ahead and take her [Rufus] Oh, no, you don't And why not? He's picked the one he wants The one he wants? Oh, my goodness It's not the male that picks his mate It's the "she-male" that picks the date It'll all end out all right It's the oldest law in nature - I never heard such nonsense - What are you talking about, Knobby? You know that whenever we have a bumper crop of females we like to give every maiden a chance You mean he's stuck with whoever picks him? Now you're getting it Prepare the eligible gnome! [Chattering, Laughing] [Laughing] What are they doing to Jasper? Oh, just a little complication You know, I thought of it myself - It makes for a little more fun - "Fun"? [Chattering] [D. J Laughs] - A greased gnome - A what? It's like a greased pig chase back in Ireland The one who catches him gets to keep him It's not very romantic, is it? Form your circle! All right, girls, you all know the rules You've got to hang on to your gnome for a count of seven Is that clear? On your mark Get set - Go! - [Horn Blares] [Clamoring] Aw, keep quiet! Run for it, Jasper! Head for the tall timber! [Chattering, Laughing] [Knobby] Watch it, boy! They're tricky! For a man to win this game, he's got to have eyes in the back of his head - Ow! - Oh! - Oh! What's happening? Where's Jasper? He's escaped Hey, look! Psst! Violet! Catch me! Good girl, Snapdragon! How'd you like that snappy catch, Knobby? [Shouting, Chattering] - Whoops! - [Both Laughing] Get in there, Violet! It's anybody's gnome! Catch me Now's your chance Well, hurry up Grab me before it's too late - Now, girl, now! - Go on! Go ahead! - [Chattering, Shouting] - [Knobby] Grab him! Oh, no! Did you ever see such a backward female? [Girls Clamoring] Atta girl! Reminds me of the time I was chasing this greased pig... Plumb disgusting! There isnt going to be much left of the boy when whoever gets him, gets him [Whistles] Dodge 'em, son! Dodge em! Look below you, boy! Below you! Come on, Violet! Get in there! Get in there! Jasper! - She's got him! - Hold on! Oh, hold on! How do you like that, you old coot? Hang on, Violet You've got your gnome - Start counting - One two - three... - Faster! Stop interrupting me You know I always get flustered when I get, uh, stuttered... when I get stuttered... I mean, I get... Look what you've... F- F-F-Four f- f-five s... What comes after five? - Six! - Oh - S-S-Six... - Seven! Oh! - Oh, no - There he is Violet! [Knobby] She got him! - Who's got him? - Well, start counting One, two three four five, six seven! It's Violet! It's Violet! - It's Violet! - It's Violet Violet is the official winner By the power and authority vested in me by the Gnomish Council of Elders I now pronounce you gnome and wife Well, go ahead, boy Kiss her Kiss her Do I have to do everything for you? [Murmuring, Laughing] Folks Folks! May I have your attention, please? To honor this memorable occasion sort of as a wedding present I am deeding to the gnomes 50,000 acres of virgin Redwoods [Murmuring] To be yours for eternity... and even longer Any and all young married couples who want to come along and start a new colony... there's a gnome-mobile leaving immediately Three cheers for D.J. Mulroney! - Hip, hip... - [Together] Hooray! - Hip, hip... - Hooray! (music) In the gnome-mobile The gnome-mobile (music) (music) We're rolling along in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) Oh what a wonderful way to feel (music) (music) Rolling along in the gnome-mobile (music) (music)In years to come I can guarantee (music) A dozen grandchildren at your knee (music) (music) And everyone of em proud to claim (music) (music) Mulroney is me middle name (music) (music) In the gnome-mobile The gnome-mobile (music) (music) We're rolling along in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) Oh, what a wonderful way to feel (music) (music) Rolling along in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) In the gnome-mobile The gnome-mobile (music) (music) We're rolling along in the gnome-mobile (music) (music) Oh, what a wonderful way to feel (music) (music)Rolling along in the gnome-mobile
