 

                        Every month there are hundreds of thousands, and each year thousands of illegal immigrants from North escaping. Every month there are hundreds of thousands, and each year millions of illegal immigrants fleeing the North. Until now, the number of defectors from the North have exceeded 20 thousand people. Until now, the number of defectors from the North has exceeded 20 thousand people. This place is hell... The defectors from the North risking their lives... i Catch him! Stop! Catch the sonofabitch! The Suspect 2013 Please! Help me! The bottom of the washing machine will get wet. If it continues, it'll short out for sure. Oh yeah, I've been meaning to tell you, As documentary filmmakers, we make a lot of money. To buy rice or other necessities of life - If you continue to insist like this, you could be arrested. What are you still doing there? Come over here, quickly! You must live in peace with integrity. Integrity! Shut up! Look for the beauty, and try to produce a good photo with the effect of the rain. I'm talking to you! Why should you care about such things? All this portable equipment. A special report is also no news of anything. And still...you tither! Why do you insist on doing it? DigitalMediaful / font / font / font ~ Here's some money for you! Now, get the fuck outta here! Yes. I'm here. Please come in. - = Chairman Haeju Group, Park Geon Ho will visit Pyongyang tomorrow. = - Your resignation letter is still not approved. You can work here if you like Thank you for your offer. But I don't want to. You are the right man but, you still have to try hard and not give up. You think independence in this country is easy? True, but there's also temperance. Everything is fine. Meaning? Working as a driver? Chairman? I've just arrived Oh, you've finished your food and are talking. You do not know just how scary the outside world is? Do not fuck up again! Finish your meal. When we talk about the problem of wheat, Bong-pyeong will be the champion. You really you don't understand me. The North region is a paradise for wheat. Rice grains that you eat well aren't definitely small. For people who hate being over there and come here, every day discussing matters that concern them on the other side. They all do it. What you eat also must be plentiful. You can eat pasta or jelly. Yeah, right. It's easy to digest wheat but it's easy to digest vegetarian food too. Lack of sunlight or dry soil is not the problem. In hard times, many do not have any wheat to eat. Conditions will improve inevitably. Everything will change for the better. Dong Cheol, the Chairman is worried. Because he is not in the village. But, he remembers his son, who lives in the North. Gift from the Chairman. - = Dongdae-mun, Jeonnong # 588-44 Sanyi. = - He already knew from the start you wanted to find someone. - = Dongdae-mun, Jeonnong # 588-44 Sanyi. = - He already knew from the start you wanted to find someone. Chairman has long hesitated. He said that you are the right person. Forgive him for that. And this is your payment. Who's is this bastard? This... must be buried. It's been reported to the police. Should we intercept? You are the only the people in the house? Yes . There are only those of us who are here this evening. The man's... name is Ji Dong Cheol, refugee from North Korea. Because the Chairman trusts him, he's allowed to remain here. Excuse me, can I see that? Give it to me! You don't know what this is, immediately you ask for it? I suspect is goods to do with... What's the situation? He's escaped, but we are pursuing. = Certainly he's hiding around here. Give me a little time. = Shut up, bitch! Want to wake everyone? He is not a person who easily captured. I am the Director of the National Intelligent Service, Kim Seok Ho. Connect me to Kim Ho Wi! Your wives are waiting for you? Yes, sir! Louder! Your wives are waiting for you? Yes! Sir! For the last time, Shout that person's name outloud, then plunge into hell! Begin! Go! A technical fault on the plane! Don't! I'm almost dead, anyway. If I don't, you'll die, asshole! Colonel! Colonel! Wake up, motherfucker! Collect your spirit! We've arrived from Pyongyang. Loyalty! Leader Min, what are your instructions? Where's that bastard? He does not know that dogs would not interfere with the final day in this hell week? Say you have to get there, there are people who should be hunted. Why is that bastard so ill-mannered? Name was Ji Dong Cheol. What is the name of that bitch? Do not talk about things that are not relevant. Why would someone do something like this? Party there was not a witness, plus there are still many doubts. Then I'll ask them directly! That's your right, but when you get back, you will be arrested on charges of violating the National Security Law. You're threatening me? Yes. Dong Cheol? The Chairman was murdered. I know. Where are you now? You do not need to know where I am, just listen to me. There are items the Chairman gave me. He told me to bury these goods, but there is still work to do. So, where are you now? No response. I've tried several times. If the head of the department knew I was here, I'd get my ass chewed out again. Don't even bother to answer your phone? Get moving! Starting at 9 this morning, we've moved to capture the killer of Chairman Park, Pursued by the police in collaboration with intel. Main base is Unit 1 Northern Intelligence Agency. And the suspect responsible is from the Northern Intelligence Agency. As we know, Chairman Park was very concerned about the development of the North. Later today, he was scheduled to attend a visit to Pyongyang. And the suspect in this incident is a defector from the North. From here we are able to draw conclusions. We see what you mean. If so, who is responsible for hunting down suspects? Let me give you... As I've said, veterans who will lead the arrest. This event is scheduled to give a hope for the refugees from the North. Although this is a pay-TV station, we have alot of regular viewers. Donated funds we receive per week is also not small. If the situation is rather special - Uh, what's that? Listen! He said Chairman Park died. Chairman Park from Haeju Group? Some time ago seonbae not been interviewed late? - = The police ruled out the possibility of murder. = - Some time ago seonbae not been interviewed late? - = The police ruled out the possibility of murder. = - = Against the suspicion of the possibility of homicide, = - = The police have ruled out murder. = - = But the facts confirm this even with the secrecy of the police. = = Police say that there is no support for murder. = = Housekeeper Mo Kang and caregivers are not willing to give any statement. = - = Visit to Pyongyang today failed = - = Housemaid and Nanny Kang Mo is not willing to give any statement. = - = Visit to Pyongyang today fail = - = On the one hand, welfare for those who are refugees from the north... = = On the other hand, care and aid are being offered for those who are refugees from the North... = Oh yeah, Dong Cheol, didn't you meet with Chairman Park before his death? Why did not you tell me before that Ji Dong Cheol defected to the South? It was better that you didn't know. It's a long story. Don't worry about it. Remember the instructions this time? Blue House (Presidential Palace) He said the guards were also killed. This is the second time. If it's true asshole, it was easy for him to make the death of Chairman Park look natural and not difficult. That we leave it to the Board of Inquiry. All you have to do is catch Ji Dong Cheol. That's fine. You need sniffer dogs? No one knows that you are a military man until you need a sniffer dog instead of technology. This is a great thing that concerns the State. Capturing spies is your forte. Loyalty! Stupid motherfucker... What is this? Wearing scarves... Why the hell? It's great! Is this cushion gum or cake? Here! I called him in for help. His new job requires him to be elegant. Learn all about Ji Dong Cheol. The database will benefit you. You son of a bitch! Why the database? Ji Dong Cheol? What's wrong? Don't you know? Everyone stand up! Let me introduce to you all. You ever heard about Yonggang military forces? Yonggang is a small town located in the west of Pyongyang. There is a training base. There are more than a dozen instructors. But every time there is only one person who receives the training. to be sent here, that person must first become an elite special forces. Most of them while receiving training, are seriously injured or die. Internally, the place was dubbed as 'hell'. The passing rate of the training does not exceed 3%. Those who pass the training will be sent abroad to carry out a specific mission. After the mid-20th century, they were known as Interpol. Most of the cases that have sprung up in China, such as murder or kidnapping carried out by the agents of the north. - = San Juan, Puerto Rico. = - Conducted by agents from the north. - = San Juan, Puerto Rico. = - Were working for client in the North. But no evidence was left behind. 30 thousand pieces of counterfeit 100 U.S. dollar. It's perfect! CIA! Let's see those hands, motherfucker! You heard him asshole, put those hands up! I spent the last two Christmas' away from my family chasing you motherfucker! In the meantime, there was an event in Hong Kong in 2009. To start the production of weapons with North Korea, our country sent troops counter-intelligence. - = Hong-Kong, China. = - Our country sent in troops as counter-intelligence. - = Hong-Kong, China. = - But it turns out we hooked the north mobilization strategy. - = Hong-Kong, China. = - But it turns out , they were gone. The weapons have been moved to another boat and transferred to the Philippines. At that time, One of the members who participated in the mission, was killed. And five people were severely injured. Not long after that, a Northern Elite who participated in this mission escaped. Thanks to the Elite, events can only tell you now how it was announced to the world. True, this guy is our target. Ji Dong Cheol. = Chairman Park today was supposed to make a visit to North Korea. = = What are you going to do about this case? = = Why did Chairman Park suddenly die? = First of all, we must prepare as long as we have time. Check all the records and call recordings of Ji Dong Cheol. Contact all the people who may have called him. If there is any hint, report it immediately! He worked as a rental driver. So, focus on the numbers that appear over and over and investigate! Contact banks and freeze all the accounts in the name of Ji Dong Cheol! -accounts payable, activity groups... Contact the Assoication of Northern Refugees... Firearms found in the home of Ji Dong Cheol. Similar to the weapon used to kill Chairman Park. = Set up the camera! = = To transmit to the display screen to headquarters. = Walther P99 made in Germany. Found. Take the existing fingerprints on the weapon. Compare the rest of the bullets in the gun with the bullet in the body of Chairman Park! = Evidence has been taken. = What is this? = In the back of the map there is a name and phone number. = Lee Gwang Jo. It seems he was the target. Try to find out, why he stayed there. Approixmately an hour ago, there were people who were seen with Ji Dong Cheol. Who? A documentary filmmaker. And correspondent. Immediately bring them here and question what the relationship is between them? Find out what he's been doing lately! Yes sir! - Hee Choi Gyeong? - Yes. Turns out she was a reporter who was suspended a year ago. Now working as a documentary PD. What was the relationship with Ji Dong Cheol? She's working on a documentary film about the lives of the North refugees. Name: Dongseong Film Company. Has been verfied. None listed companies named as such. - = There is no hope for the future. (North defectors suicide rate of 16.3%) = - No registered companies named as such. - = There is no hope for the future. (North defectors suicide rate at 16.3%) = - A company 'ghost'. - = There is no hope for the future. (North defectors suicide rate at 16.3%) = - Company Ghost She's prettier than the picture. This is serious! Looks like after you freeze, you start digging stories about Northern defectors. False planning book. What are you planning to set up a stealth company? We already know everything. Let's be honest! Why do you want to investigate Ji Dong Cheol? What the hell? You searched my office? You bastard! Want you doing? Hey, what's your name? From which department? What is this? People who are supporsed to work to serve the people are now looting offices of private citizens! Looks like you still do not understand. This is a murder case. Ji Dong Cheol has been killing people. Maybe he has found it, Seonbae. Found who? Sorry? There is a call from someone who claims to be Ji Dong Cheol in the Alarm Center. The People is Colonel Min Se Hoon, right? There in the document. Hong Kong time events with Director Kim Seok Ho, arguably that 'god' is in terms of catching spies. I know. You be quiet, not so noisy! I'm finished. How can I get involved in something like this? - = How does the performance of a business through a series of = - - = Chairman Park Geon Ho. = - - = Director of Administration: Geun Song Shang. = - We've found him. Near the Dongdaemun area. Is there anyone in the area? A sniper and a controller. Take the glass eye, then kill him. Cleanly! But, in Ji Dong Cheol's home the handler's name was revealed. Seems that Ji Dong Cheol tried to find out who he was working for. Which controller? Li Gwang Jo. He used to be in the special forces team with Ji Dong Cheol. Now, a Board member of the North. Lee Gwang Jo... Oh, the bastard. Even better. We thus have a suitable bait. Is this the person in charge of the case of Chairman Park? Long time no see, Ji Dong Cheol. Who are you? You bastard, have you forgotten me? Turn around and put your hands up Seems like you're fighting alone. Walk to the edge - = Security Command Defense Forces Colonel Se Hoon Min. = - Shoot me! If you do not shoot me now, you will die. Bastard! You should've killed me. Until now you still don't understand? You left them to fend for themselves. Thanks to you, my life has been shit. = This is a great insult. = I became an instructor of New Forces.. Nothing to do with me. Let's finish our of debt after the meeting. Need 10 seconds more. Why did you kill Chairman Park? = I'm not guilty. = The man who killed Chairman Park is not me. So do not make me a fugitive. Yeah...you're lying, bitch! There is someone else. Who held a syringe. Do you think I would believe you? After killing Chairman Park, he intended to take his glasses. Glasses? If you give me a little time, I will die in peace. No! I'll catch you with my own hands. Once caught, I'll kill you. Go to Cheongyang Samui. The body was supposed to be there. Team, you got 5 minutes to get there! Who's does he mean by saying "the other person?" What did he mean about the glasses? Oh that... I'm not sure. He must be stopped! I told you to take her him to the police station, why is she still here? The guy could be really be dead! You are looking in the wrong direction. What he wants is to kill someone else! The one who killed his wife and children! He plans to commit suicide after successfully killing whoever's responsible! Let me go! Li Gwang Jo... I have your weapon. To see that you have a weapon, seems that you have completed your main task. No matter what, it also must be done... if you want to survive. Have you changed your name? Because I change the country. Motherfucker! I've been looking for you. = How did you find me? = = Someone said to me, it is a gift. = Tell me, before they died, what did they say that moment? They asked me to help your mother. Then? And they told me that you would find me, then kill me. Anything else you want to say? This is the gift by Chairman Park. = Take a look! = Want me to come to you? Block the path, and go up the stairs! Right there! What's the situation? Shootout occurred in Samwi. Looks like he got away. = Team A is close. = = Team B has arrived at the scene. = Where is he? Search everywhere! Identify! Identify! Verify Exit 4! Connect to CCTV Exit 4! The bastard's there! Transfer camera to the 1st floor of shopping mall CCTV monitor to the center! Shopping mall! CCTV is being transferred to the monitor. Target appears in the shopping mall. On the first floor, and moving toward the west exit. Include a label 'target' of his back! Combine all shopping mall cameras! System is in process. screen display is in the process of merging. = = screen display has been incorporated. Now you are a turtle in the pot. Go to the 2nd floor escalator. Team B immediately move towards the escalator to the east! Team A move to the escalator! Team A and Team B maintain! Team C, deply and block the way out! He ascended to the third floor. What are you doing? = trying to get there! = = On the 3rd floor, 3rd floor! = What is the bastard doing? He hasn't escaped. It seems like he was chasing someone. = At the umbrella shop. Get him! = = Quick! = Target is not on the screen! Target is not visible on the display floor 2. How can this be? Where is he? He's covered by an umbrella. Search carefully! = Not visible. = = Missing. = Check all emergency exits! Confirmation from a CCTV in an umbrella shop! CCTV is being verified in real-time. The target was not visible in the system in real-time. Elevator! Central elevators. = Looks like he changed clothes. = Keep your eyes on the exits. Team C block the way out! The rest stand down! = Quickly! = = Lee Gwang Jo. = Lee Gwang Jo. Where are you, Lee Gwang Jo? Who's the bastard? Looks like he is our sniper. What? = He carries equipment similar to ours. = = I'm not guilty. = = I'm not the one who killed Chairman Park. = = So do not make me a fugitive. = = You you're lying, you bastard. = = There is still someone else, = = who holds the syringe. = = Do you think I'm going to trust you? = = After killing Chairman Park, he intended to take his glasses. = What is this? This is not something that can be discussed. What is meant by the 'glasses'? I take orders from superiors. Sorry. However... True Ji Dong Cheol has been killing people. The 'item' is in his hands now, which is a very important item for the country. It has actually been great for you now, huh? I'm not your military boy shining shoes, not a small pawn, again. True. We're both on the same level now. There are people who make waves, in order to boast their strength. Is this the reason you called me here? To polish your shoes? The organization was formed by the power of North Korea 10 years ago And, you've succeeded, right? North Council. Although I do not quite understand, but the plan sounds pretty good. Don't get caught! Please enjoy the food! You should be the team leader again... How long do you intend to be an instructor? You're a soldier. Defeated once, you have to get up again. Embarrassing... What part do you play? Sorry? Silent at his side, or go with me? I'm also a soldier. Small peon. He is a two-faced bastard. We also have to prepare. = We still don't know who is the assassin of Chairman Park. = = Everyone wants to know who the suspects are in the case = = and the motivation behind their actions. = = On the night in which the Chairman Park killed, housekeeper 50-year-old Kang, = = and head waiter aged 62 Moo = = also killed; causing great shock to the public. = = According to informed sources, Chairman Park usually like to invite = = driver Ji to his home from time to time. = = Ji has become the prime suspect. = = And the main witness... = Wounded by two gunshots. There's nothing else. You can read it yourself. The bullet has been checked? The bullet from a gun that was found, is exactly the same bullet found in the body of Chairman Park. What about fingerprints on the gun? What good is talking about it? It is certain that belonged to Ji Dong Cheol. When the autopsy report is out the matter will be considered terminated. You don't believe it? You have an alternative theory? Listen to me.. There are inconsistencies that arise continuously. Everything should be verified. Double-check the notes of the autopsy. Including the records of calls and meetings with outside parties. Of course, a re-autopsy is impossible. Since the report has been completed. But, due to the pressure from some people due to pressure from certain parties, and pressure from people associated with the incident, this will certainly make them uneasy. By doing so, you need look for a scapegoat. What's wrong with you today? It'll be hanging in your faces like a cow's nose ring. - = Leader: Se Hoon Min. = - Check this out! This is the data that was retrieved from the workspace of Hee Choi Gyeong. All the files related to Ji Dong Cheol. - = Police Report: Northern Defectors = - People fleeing from the North? True, these are verified details. Really distinctive. Also, this is Gwong Jo Lee's file from the Intelligence Agency. If you look closely, after completing the mission in Hong Kong, Ji Dong Cheol returned to North Korea. According to Choi Gyeong Hee, he had a wife, and a child. But why? Before Kim Jong Il died, he designated Kim Jong Un as his successor. When all the forces considered to be a threat to Kim Jong Un were eliminated, Ji Dong Cheol who served his country, found out after returning to it everything had changed. Fuckin' Traitor! You know who she is? - = Deserter woman found in China = - Ji Dong Cheol was punished for something that he never knew. He fled after receiving news of his wife. But why? Heard about the homicides of Pastor John and his wife, right? They were killed when he was preaching to the defectors from the North. - = Pastor John Kim and his wife were killed in China. Was found burned to death along with renegades in refugee camps in China. = - Killed while giving a sermon to the displaced North = - - = Pastor John Kim and his wife were killed in China. Was found burned to death along with renegades in refugee camps in China. = - Ji Dong Cheol went there? Yes. But it was too late. Lee Gwang Jo? True. Ji Dong Cheol was in the Yonggang Elite. But they tried to eliminated him on the last stage of the test. But, Jil Dong-Cheol's wife and daughter were there. Shoot them! Why are you standing there? Help us. I beg you. After that, Lee Gwang Jo fled to the South. Mental problems? Tormented by the feelings of guilt. It is assumed that they were close friends. - = Born in Yonggang (hiding after defecting), friends, was born in Yonggang, opposition = - Friends are supposed to be closest to Ji Dong Cheol, - = Born in Yonggang (hiding after defecting), friends, was born in Yonggang, opposition = - Ji Dong Cheol's wife. - = Born in Yonggang (hiding after defecting), friends; born in Yonggang, opposition = - Ji Dong Cheol's wife. People who are wanted by Ji Dong Cheol... What Choi Gyeong Hee said was wrong. He wants to kill the one responsible. So the person he pursued relentlessly in the shopping mall was Lee Gwang Jo. - = Daughter... = - - = still alive = - = After the murder of Chairman Park, = = Ji who at that time was at the scene = = to date 's whereabouts are unknown. = = Currently the police are chasing Ji = = How do you view.. = = Ji Dong Cheol as the prime suspect? = = Really just nonsense . = = Why do you think so? = = He was not like that. = It's Ji Dong Cheol. Do you want to die? Who is this? = I will give the glasses to you. Find for me Lee Gwang Jo! = Hey, you bastard, I'm not going to make a deal with you. I have absolutely no interest in the glasses. = The people above you wouldn't agree... = Now you're trying to deceiving me? What secrets are hidden in the glasses? = The truth will soon be revealed. = = Before that, find Lee Gwang Jo! = - = Secondhand Mobile, Mobile SIM Card. = - ..been identified. The person who lives in Samwi, is Lee Gwang Jo. He changed his name. from Lee Yeong Jo to Lee Gwang Jo. - = Korean Full name: Lee Yeong Jo. = - Lee Yeong Lee Gwang Jo Jo is. - = Korean Full name: Lee Yeong Jo. = - He was the sniper yesterday. - = Korean Full name: Lee Yeong Jo. = - He was with the organization. North Council. The organization managed by Director Kim as a private organization. - = Entities Progress Meetings North, factor in the killing of a double agent = - managed by Director Kim as a private organization. - = Entities Progress Meetings North, factor in the killing of a double agent = - There are many things in doubt. There are many things in doubt. Verify whatever is in doubt. Find Lee Gwang Jo soon! Ready! This also... - = Various images and data post-production, film Dongseong = - Why again with Reporter Choi? Look carefully! Choi Kyung Hee was fired, because of external pressure. She covered and wrote about internal breaches in the Intelligence Agency. - = Special Report, Kim Seok Ho. = - She's covering and writing about internal breaches Intelligence Agency. She covered and wrote about internal breaches Intelligence Agency. That's why she lost her job. Pastor John Kim This is a photograph that was found in the secret documents Intelligence Agency. Very suspicious, is it not? Then, person who leaked internal breaches to the Reporter Choi was Pastor John Kim? True! Finally, Director Kim deliberately leaked about John Kim's corpse was in China, to the people of the North. Things constantly investigated by Choi Kyung Hee not Ji Dong Cheol, but director Kim. But why is Choi Gyeong Hee so focused on Ji Dong Cheol? To be able to complete the report, they need evidence. He is a victim in this case. And of course he was offered to join the Council of the North. Ji Dong Cheol turns out not only is the evidence, but he's also a witness. Found the data.... Hello? = It's me. Ji Dong Cheol. = = I know you are a reporter. = = I have something to give you. = = Can you help me? = What will you give me? = Have you found Lee Gwang Jo? = Hey bastard, do you think it's easy to find people? This fuckin' bastard! Find someone who's dead, huh? How dare you hang up! Choi Kyung Hee is moving in her car. Where? From Chungmuro towards Yeouido. What is the status of tracking Ji Dong Cheol phone position? North Hankang Road and moving toward the north. Opposite direction with Choi Kyung Hee. There is a team following Choi Kyeong Hee? Yes, of course. Tell them to standby! Report Ji Dong Cheol's position to the other team! Where are you going? To search the wind. Have her position. Position: Ji Dong Cheol passing Hangang River bridge. He is talking with someone. Copy, track Kyung Hee Choi's phone and keep an eye on her! But, you think Ji Dong Cheol will emerge from the wind? You quickly catch the mouse! Next place to visit is the cosmetic surgery hospital. great leaders who did not receive the prize... But acquired by the Hospital Director Apgujeong-dong. Please buy me a box of chewing gum. Sorry? Prepaid. Do not forget a receipt! But, there's a machine... You go. Take your time. Where is she? =Almost there. = = Taxi Seoul orange, heading towards Gangnam station. = = Keep your distance! = = Location of the phones confirmed? = Not a payphone, but it looks like prepaid cellphones. In the process of tracking. Ahh - what is it? Customer says he was in a hurry, so I was speeding a little. Where are you? = The road to 3 o'clock there will be a ladder. = = I'll be Jo Mart, look for me there, and do not hang up. = Jo Mart. Locate! = Second floor, No.. 153, Jo Mart location. = I'm here. - = Jo I Mart. = - We are. - = Jo I Mart. = - = Beside the shop attached to a piece of paper. = = On a piece of paper taped to the shop next door. = = Go to the address written on paper! = - = [Notice] Stores DVD EOS Cheonguk moved to # 101. = - = Go to the address written on paper! = - = [Notice] Stores DVD EOS Cheonguk moved to # 101. = - - = EOS DVD Cheonguk = - I'm here. = There is a pedestrian bridge. The road through there! = Choi Kyung Hee's headed towards Ji Dong Cheol's car. I managed to elude them. Now we're okay. Are you all right? Back-up team where are you? Are you okay? Where's the back-up team? Approaching now. Block all ways; in and out! Back-up team, move now! Quick, block them! = Penetrate the parking lot. Field 5 parking. = = Where does this lead to? = Yongmun-the Way. = 50 meters turn right in front of the entrance to the road-Yongmun. = = Block from the front. = I'll crash your car, bitch! = Out of the exit is a residential area. = Exit from the right! Where are they? = Approaching the station. = Block from the front! Closer! Closer! Slopes! Stairs! Stairs! Do not! = One of our cars turned upside down. = Bastard! Where is my back-up? = It's taking a little time. = What are you doing? Don't shoot! = Careful! There are many bystanders! = Bastard! Report the condition of the road ahead! = Just ahead there is an intersection. After 100m there is a T-junction. = = Leader Min, there are several trucks coming into the next intersection! = I'm sorry, all of this is because of me. No. What are you talking about... What the hell? Hidden in there? Nice to meet you. I was the Minister for youth in the North. Looks like you intend to catch him yourself. Sassy. Really, we are. Since you intend to kill him before he is arrested. Who do you say, want to kill? Do you have to continue to talk like this? Enough is enough! At least listen to what he has to say. Basic! According to what I've heard, he cannot be reasoned with. Please explain to me, what excuse you have to do this. The reason? Now that we see is glasses given by Chairman Park Geon Ho before he died. Looks transparent when viewed by naked eye. but it's hidden until put under a microscrope as it is often used in research institutes and companies. Technology manufacture of chemical weapons. This photo is from a year ago, where Chairman Park personally build a research institute in Uzbekistan. and likely that he was planning to develop weapons on the basis of 4000 tons of force in order to increase toxicity and failure of defense... the latest type of chemical bombs. For North Korea, no gift more beautiful than this. So, in the glasses was there a formula that can produce chemical weapons. That is the formula. You must bury this! In the glasses left behind by Chairman Park Geon Ho there is something that looks like a filmstrip. Content that is written: like symbols of chemistry. Some time ago Chairman Park reorganized his business. Of course. Also made plans to see the situation in North Korea So, you kill Chairman Park.... Watch what you say! Let's hear Leader Min's opinion. Why so eager to pin Ji Dong Cheol? I'm not considering him an ally of the North. What would you say now? Hey, you bastard! What are you doing right now? Still not enough? A defector from the North is one of the most potential as a spy. Why do you insist on siding Ji Dong Cheol? You motherfucker... The operation in Hong Kong. Do you still remember? So busy talking. Ji Dong Cheol returned there, alive. and Leader Min came back here, alive... The incident has been described in detail at that time. No matter the outcome of the discussion at that time, but the incident is now exactly the same as the last. Don't you know that? So you mean I am now a spy? Investigation of Hong Kong Operations Leader Min, will reopen. Not only the National Security Act, Investigation that could prove espionage are also being implemented. No longer will there be a military judgment. Do it properly! I will try hard. Why is the issue of catching a spy so complicated? I do not know if the soldier will last much longer to catch a spy? It's not over, yet. Let me know if you change your mind! If so, the man who killed the butler and the housekeeper? Goods were protected by Chairman until his death. First of all we have to find out first what the item is. I have no expert contact in this field. Let me check first. After the videotape of your statement along with a copy of the formula, we expose it to the media. To prove if you were innocent, Dong Cheol. No need for that. I have things I have to do. You just do what you're supposed to do. But... What's wrong? Where are you hurt? It must have been in the car, right? How do you know that his daughter is still alive? Do you like his wife or daughter more? Bastard hasn't seen his daughter's face until now. Makes sense. I am also very upset with my wife. Anyway, well done. Keep it like this. Your family has arrived safely to the Chinese Embassy. Must be picked up as soon as possible here. Where is Choi Kyung Hee? Supposedly with Ji Dong Cheol. Crazy bitch, we should have gotten rid of her in the beginning. This gives us a total of 3 people. Use this opportunity and get rid of these three neatly! You can do it! You can do it! Did you really buy it? I didn't know when you'd come home. So, I prepared early. Later after child birth , I know the meaning of fatigue You know, while the child is still in my stomach, I often tell the story about his father. And, when they meet for the first time, they will immediately recognize each other. Later, when he grows up, you will not recognize him anymore. But when he's still small, he's still recognizable. Because of that... every day I was tell tales about her father. You see? Your father is coming. Father is coming... = Why don't you answer the phone? = You're a traitor! Why did you call me? = I'm sorry. I want to stay alive. = I should have let you die alone. = 213 213 = What do you want me to do? What's 213? Ah, position 213! = Go for a walk. Tell you something very important. = Second parking lot Incheon. Turn on the emergency lights! What are you doing right now? Are not you going to the parking lot? = So quickly you forget? = Basic double spy. As I said to you, Dong Cheol. Once I was a reporter. I want to catch the bastard who made me be like this. Then I want to be re-activated. The work that became the pride of my father... Television reporter. What are your plans now, Dong Cheol? The people involved in this case, I will kill them all. After killing these men, means you also have to die, is not it? It is not possible that your daughter is still alive? You also do not know if your daughter is waiting for you or not. Ajussi... It's okay. This is the team leader of opposition who oppose the development of this area. He's been living in this house. No money to rent a hotel room? If you want to bring a guy home, you should first know love between you. It's not like that. The arrested have been released? Yes, it is a relief. A reason to cheer. Let's drink a few glasses of soju! The day is still threatening. Why don't you answer your phone? If judging from the needle marks on the soles of the feet, discovered the existence of an excessive injection of Avastin. Then, the factor is death... Completely broken blood vessels. The cause of death was not gunshot wounds. The victim had died before being shot. There is this. Fingerprints found on the gun is owned Ji Dong Cheol. But fingerprints found on the shell casings are owned by someone else. Fingerprints on fired bullets also consistent. The person who fills the bullet into the gun, is the one who should have fired it. Immediately clean up and get out of here. Hey, what are you doing? Who dumped these cars here? Her car was found. Inform the back-up team. Contact police stations located around the area. Yes? = Her car has been found. = Sniper team has moved. = Already know. = Try to take fingerprints of Director Kim! Send it to the Institute Fingerprints? Check his call records and see if there is anything suspicious. = Then find the documents that have been deleted by the bastard! = I'm not the FBI! It's easier than opening a toilet door, bitch! What about the firewall? Do you have administrator access, right? Log in to the system using the administrator password! = Using the training grounds, ostensibly strengthen the system. = What kind of nonsense is that? = Fuck, bitch! = Better if you tell me to die, bitch! Talk = what are you, bitch? = Break your legs, bitch! Hang up the phone! Imprudent bastard! Builders credits. It's Ji Dong Cheol. Have you had breakfast? Who are you? Glasses were still there with you, is not it? = Lee Gwang Jo, have you found him? = Of course. He is now there looking for you to collect the glasses. Meet him before you die. What do you mean? In 10 seconds, you will die in his hands. Wake up! Dong Cheol, where is he? You said my daughter is still alive. I've told you, she is still alive. I saw it with my own eyes that she died. I am a person who is already on the verge of death. Why would I lie? Daughter is still alive. It's the truth. A good decision. Better for you to stand with the South. You are not alone. Thank you, I'll give you more money. The next time there is still a small child and a woman, let me know. Kim Seok Ho sold your daughter and killed Chairman Park. He did everything. Dong Cheol... forgive me. I also want to live too. He's here ! Location has been found? Good. Fan out and surround Ji Dong Cheol. Spread his photo! He is a dangerous target. Shoot on sight! Motherfucker. Where is Ji Dong Cheol? I know it's been since a year ago you were investigating Director Kim. Maybe all that story is true. Microfiche was taken by Ji Dong Cheol? Of course, wasn't it you you did it? Fuck you Kim Seok Ho! Still do not want to go, what are you waiting for? Why do I have to go with someone like you? You do not want your office reactivated? = Target in sight. = Where? = Ready to shoot. = = Target incoming targets. = Fast after him! You said that his daughter was still alive? Kim Seok Ho sells his daughter to China. It turns out that we were fooled by Kim Seok Ho. Do you still believe that Dong Cheol killed Chairman Park? You should ask him directly after we capture him. The man who killed Chairman Park is Kim Seok Ho Do you have proof? Back when I interviewed Chairman Park, he once said there will be an exchange of gifts with the North = Target visible on the roof. = = Fire! Shoot! = Yeah? I sent his fingerprints there, already. - = Kim Seok Ho = - And I have also been investigating Director Kim. And I have also been investigated talks Kim Director. Saw something really strange. What is the results of your inquiry? He and Chairman Park - = Cho Dae Wi = - He and Chairman Park - = Cho Dae Wi = - year ago interconnected periodically. = From a year ago interconnected periodically. = = The person who first contacted by telephone also the Director Kim. = = Sake of advancing his career against the North, What are the requirements? = = = In order to get it, he constantly urged Chairman Park. In his call records appears a strange number. So, I looked further. There is a person named Kim Soo Do? Sells weapons in the Middle East. Turns out to be a wanted crimminal The bastard wanted this by any means. Formula of chemical weapons. But, it seems that Chairman Park did not have knowledge of this. If there is no guarantee , But there's no guarantees. Surely he wouldn't trust him easily. Since the goods have been produced, they certainly wanted to kill him too. But it turns out the goods fall into the hands of Ji Dong Cheol. = Yes. = If Chairman Park meets a natural death, then the problem will be resolved. But it turns out there was Ji Dong Cheol is sandwiched in the middle. Motherfucker! You with someone? There is a female voice. Said he must kill him first. The woman next to you there? Close your phone when it's finished! No, do not hang up! There are a senior employee Haeju Group named Song Jeon Moo. During this time he always called Director Kim. It's understood. After Chairman's dead. He call him three times before being killed. You're a sly one. Great work! But, that is beside... = Can not you step on the gas a little? = ... Is a woman, right? It's obvious she's a woman. Incoming call You're still alive, Seonbae? = CD that I left at the office is it still there, right? = = CD it is an important document. Please get me! = Document what? Can not, can not do. I dare not to implicate myself to help you. = You must do this for me! = = It is a very important document. Quick please get it! = Just now I finished being cursed by the Head of Department. = The truth will soon be revealed. Are you still afraid? = = You still call yourself a reporter? Basic coward! = Hello? On one hand, the President scolding me! I should've never answered the phone! = A police car has been blocked the front. = Stop! Capture him! Go get him! Fast! Kill Ji Dong Cheol immediately! Kill all his friends and fellow communist members. If you fail to kill the bastard, your family will die in his place. = Target turned right. = = Monitoring fugitive car from behind. = = Pursuing car driven by the fugitive! = = Moving towards the Hankang River bridge. = = Fugitive car has been spotted here! = Block! Stop! = Step on the gas! = = Fugitive car is moving to the bottom of the bridge. = Chase is continuing! Soon you will be overtaken, bitch! What's he gonna do now? Fugitive managed to escape under the Hankang Bridge! He's moving towards the exit! He is over there! Turn the car! Quick! Stop! Quick Stop! = Today at 09:05, where I stand now, = = Ji Dong Cheol jumped from the Hankang Bridge. = = After jumping into the Hankang River, is it not known if Ji Dong Cheol is alive or dead. = Police have formed an investigation team. to cooperate and exchange information with the NIS and strengthen the search area around Seoul. make Ji Dong Cheol murder suspect... Make suspect Ji Dong Cheol.. Do not stop! I feel embarrassed. Now what am I now? No shred of masculinity! Absolutely disgraceful. Ahhh!!! Hey! This is a carbon structure? I think so. Thirty billion. Really great. This is not easy in Korea, is it not? There is still 11 billion. Leader Min. Where did this come from? Ever hear the word 'routine' (A flavonoid)? What is it? A kind of harmful substances? There is a similar substance called routine. Is a major component of wheat. Because it contains a routine, wheat can grow well on poor soils. Then? This is not a hazardous substances at all? Try to understand... This is a carbon structure that can be used to control the manufacture of biochemistry. This can increase the durability of microorganisms. The structure is almost exactly the same, thus confusing the experts. But this microorganism is capable of producing plant tissue microorganisms they are benign and solid. Is this the reason it looks so complex? This is not a chemical weapon? Although this is not a chemical weapon, it's a formula that could electrify the world. Chemical weapons could be developed using natural materials. A super substance created through improvement. The gifts received by the North Korean side. If planted in the soil, it would addressed the problems of food shortages. That's why it he should've buried it. True. With this, the problem of hunger would be overcome in the North. = How was the transaction? = Seeds that have been upgraded ! You're a bitch! You're playing me? Developed by Chairman instead of chemical weapons, but that is an improved wheat seed? Fuck you! What did you say? You are not sure of its effectivensss, Kim Soo Do? And also has been confirmed, right? You did not know what was written in the glasses? Still want to be a successor of Haeju Group? What do you mean? Listen carefully! If you still want to live, act accordingly, bitch! This is the grain of wheat that has been enhanced. From the outset it was wheat seed. This whole time, you already know about this. Did you know? Plus... Haeju Group acquisition procedure is as we agreed, from 1% to 5% increase. Until the problem is solved, prepare 50 billion in cash. Understand? Yeah, about to begin. Damn, where is my camera? Handgun found in the residence of fugitive Ji Dong Cheol, as is known to all of you, is Wahlter P99 pistol made in Germany. It is types of firearms that are often used by spies. Fingerprints extracted from the gun, consistent with fingerprints belonging to Ji Dong Cheol. Now this, in order to catch the suspect, Ji Dong Cheol, we have increased the number of our forces. Ji Dong Cheol! Sir, Ji Dong Cheol, Ji Dong Cheol! We want to know from you! There's a gun! A Pistol! Out!! Everyone! You're where? In where the hell are you now? Right here ! Right here! Call the reporter. Do you want to do? Everything will be set later by Choi, the reporter. Reporter Choi? She's standing next to you, idiot! = Quick! = What is that? As the hero oversleeps today, why are you even damaging atmoshpere? Answer me honestly! Where did you sell her? Oh yes, your daughter... Ji Choon Sin... you've never met her, right? Looks like you really miss her. Motherfucker! Watch out, or I'll kill you! You're not going to kill me. You know why? Because if I die, you will be able to see your daughter, forever. Next is the head. Tell me! Move! Sorry, I also recently read a report about this case. What is your view of the events this time? What do you think? Director General! What is your view of the events related to this time? Focus! Focus! Focus! Director-General You change your mind? I've warned you before. But you didn't understand what I said. Bastard. You bastard! You're just a lackey for other countries. From the beginning I wanted to get rid of you. Coincidence. Said you stole the information from NIS. You will die by a gun like Ji Dong Cheol. It is quite reasonable. How perfect. Without having my hands dirty. I asked you not to interfere. Do not dream! Attention! Attention! Behind back! My friends, Reporter Choi who is here has shattering news that she wants to convey. Shattering news? Why I've been so bothered? = Details reflect everthing = = murder which was orchestrated by = = Director Kim Seok Ho and its High Commissioner Haeju Group, Song Jeon Moo. = = When do you plan to eliminate Chairman Park? = = I'll do it myself. You do not have to worry. = As you all saw this, order to obtain a position as successor Haeju Group, High Commissioner Jeon Moo Song = conspiring with Director Kim Seok-ho to kill Chairman Park. = = Today he has confessed everything. = This is the final result of my work. Because of you, bitch... Fuckin' idiot! Gun without bullets, the sound is not the same. The sound that comes out of the gun. Bastard. I told you, the voice would be different without the bullets. What do you feel when you stand alone at gunpoint? Every day I have to stand in front of a barrel. What are you gonna do now? The gun has no bullets. You're wrong. Here is one. Mine? If you fire, you'll lose the evidence. So fire, if you dare! Do it! Fuck you! You think I forgot about you? Where is my daughter? Bitch! Where did you sell her? Just because of the kid, you survived until now? Before I break your neck, you'd better tell me! People who return from death Suffer more than the dead themselves. Tell me! Please. She died a long time ago. Where might she still be alive? = Target locked = Sniper standby in place. = Distance hostages from the target is 4 meters. = Count, three... two... = Hostage safe. = = Target has entered. = = Can't get a clean shot. = = Ensure the safety of hostages. = Did you know... who the actual owners of this land? Overhead the head... On top of his superiors superiors... this country... Only the rich who could be king. Motherfucker! I'll wipe your name as a spy. if you already understand, Immediately catching the spy! Fuck! Who killed Kim Director? What do you think? Please respond. Who killer Director Kim? What do you think about this incident? Handling as to what to do about Ji Dong Cheol? What do you think about this incident? What Song Senior Executive will deal with this? is possible deported to North Korea? Please respond. Could you please answer? It has been troubling you. From now on, the Bureau will continue with the investigation of our own. And, we will finish it quickly. I hand him over to the team. Once our investigation is complete, you'll get the results. What did you say? You can't do that! This is the information that has been deleted by Director Kim. The bastard had sold everything of value. Confidential information, the National Police, including northern defectors said by the Leader Min. What about what I asked you to investigate? Here... It is well known in China. Trafficking gang. It's how they contacted Chairman Kim. It is not known if the little girl is alive or dead. I already know. You first clean up here Loyalty! Clear the way! = The main event of the day is, = against NIS, Director Kim Seok Ho, conspiring with the High Commissioner Haeju Group, Song Jeon Moo, for murder. Against NIS Group nor Mr Haeju, will have a major impact on both sides. = Bureau has sent the country specific = = to investigate this issue further. = = Ji Dong Cheol, against the alleged suspects. = = After a thorough investigation... = Remember this photo? - = Shandong Province, China, Weihai City, Yangting District # 73. = - I go to buy cigarettes, you wait here! What are you looking at? Delicious. Do you plan on going on like this? - = Statement = - Leader Min! Can we continue? I'm serious. He ran away when I went to buy cigarettes. Is that the truth? You do not understand the Korean language, bitch? He escaped! Escaped! Why are you mad at me? Disgusting! - = North Korea abandon its nuclear weapons as a gift seed grain refinement. = - - = North Korea's food production per year = - - = of 1.6 million tons = - - = rose to 3.5 million tons. = - - = This evening congratulated the Blue House. = - - = At the same time expressed the hope that the North Korean suffering and famine-stricken, = - from now on there will be no difficulty in providing food. North Korea agreed, in order to develop good relations between the two countries, the on Yeonpyeong Island and the Cheonan incident... Come quickly, it's time to go home! not hear ya? Eat! Come quickly! Quick! Fuck! Quick! Quick! Come on, sit down! What the hell? I'll beat you to death! Best to all...DigitalMediaful
