 

                        I'm their worst nightmare come to life. I'm a girl who can't shut up. There's not a guy big enough can handle this mouth. I'm gonna tell everyone what you did to me. It was the middle of the night in my house it was the middle of the night in my house it was the middle of the night in my house it was the middle of the night in my house It was the middle of the night. ...in my house, only I wasn't dreaming. I wasn't dreaming. I don't really think I was dreaming. I really think something happened in that house. It was the middle of the night in my house it was the middle of the night in my house I am your worst nightmare come to life... ...and I'm not gonna shut up I'm gonna tell everyone I'm gonna tell everyone I discovered Kathy Acker, the American writer, and I went to. ...this workshop that she did, and. ...she told me, "why do you want to write?" And I said, "because nobody has ever listened to me my whole. ...life, and I have all this stuff that I want to say. " And she said, "then, why are you doing spoken word? You should be in a band, because nobody goes to. ...spoken word, but people go to see bands. " So, I went home, and I started a band. That girl thinks she's the queen of the neighborhood she got the hottest dyke in town that girl, she holds her head up so high I think I wanna be her best friend, yeah rebel girl rebel girl rebel girl, you are the queen of my world rebel girl rebel girl I think I want to take you home I want to try on your clothes Bikini kill wasn't just the best girl band. They were the best band. When she talks, I hear the revolutions Kathleen's voice was so. ...strong and so powerful and so punk. The revolution's coming in her kiss, I taste the evolution rebel girl rebel girl This was not a girl who was. ...gonna fade into the background. Rebel girl rebel girl Kathleen was like a beam of. ...light through the entire crowd. ...that just, like, infused everyone with revolution. It's all about speaking what's unspoken, screaming. what's unspoken, and that's what. Kathleen was never afraid to do. That girl thinks she's the queen... Kathleen Hanna is an amazing singer, activist who I think. ...changed a lot of girls' lives because she created a new role. ...model that was, like, sexy and tough and angry and funny and. ...all of those things at once. You are the queen of my world Kathleen can sound arrestingly young, but then it. ...just makes the words, like, have. ...more of an impact, especially. when she's singing about topics like rape. The big question is in the last few years, like, why she. ...hasn't been doing more. Rebel girl What happened? Why has she forsaken us, you know? Like, what did we do that was so bad? No. Unh-unh. I don't, actually. Well, it's so all-encompassing, the question. There's so much to ask. That's Kathleen Hanna. She used to be with a punk band. ...called bikini kill and followed. ...that with a popular band, Le Tigre. Kathleen also cofounded the. ...feminist movement called riot grrrl. She's been described as an unstoppable force. As part of our series titled. "musicians and artists who make. ...a difference," Kathleen talks. ...about her beginnings and why... ...in 2005, she stopped performing. These are my origin stories. I have a few I can flip through because things never really. ...begin at the beginning. I was born in Portland, Oregon. My mom was a nurse. My dad was a pipe fitter. My sister's four years older than me. I already knew I was gonna be some kind of artist. I just didn't know what kind. My mom and I had a really specific relationship. She's totally sadistic and funny, and I say that with... ...like, love and generosity towards her in my heart. One of my first big memories was. ...my mom heard about this thing, the trust game. It's like a trust-building exercise, and she's like, "I'm. ...gonna get on my knees, and I'm. ...gonna fall backwards, and you catch me. And then you stand up, and you. ...fall backwards, and I'll catch you. " So, she falls backwards, and, like, I catch her. And then, I fall back, and my. ...mom steps out of the way and lets me fall. And I look up from the carpet... ...and my mom's standing over me, laughing at me, and she says... "let that be a lesson to you. Don't trust anyone, not even your own mother. " Uh-oh I moved a lot as a kid. We moved every three years, and. when I was 14, we moved all the way across the country, from. Maryland to the pacific northwest. I went to college at evergreen state college in. Olympia, Washington. And I studied photography. That's when I first met Kathleen Hanna. She literally made an entrance... 'cause I remember she was late for a class. I guess my first impressions. were, she reminded me of a young Elizabeth Taylor. Tammy rae was just the punkest thing I'd ever seen and. ...had all these ideas and, like... ...taught me about sonic youth and. ...pixies, stuff I didn't know about. We were all trying to make feminist work that was kind of. ...inspired by Jenny Holzer and Barbara kruger. We were taking these photo classes, and when we would bring. ...in our work, we were treated like we were crazy. I made work about sexism. I took pictures from books I found in the library. So, I did this thing that juxtaposed the images of the. women and then this picture of. ...the little girl in this, like... ...portrait, and it said, "pretend. ...you like it" on her, and then it. ...said, "believe you like it" on the housewives. Because my work was censored from the college, we started an. ...art gallery in, like, an old garage, and it was called. ...reko muse, and it was, like, a. ...feminist art space that me and my friends started. I think we were coming into a really heightened level of. ...awareness, in terms of feminism. ...and sexist representation of women. A really very clear memory I have of Kathleen showing me a. ...copy of a copy of an article. ...from time magazine... "is feminism dead?" We both got really emotional... ...like it couldn't be dead because we were living it. We were doing it and thinking it and feeling it. You know, how could it be dead? I was working on a project... ...fashion show, where I made all. ...the clothes for a fashion show... ...and I silk-screened all these. ...fabrics and stuff, using photography. And I was working late at night. ...in the lab, and while I was at work, my best friend, she was. ...assaulted at our house. She went in her room and fell. ...asleep, and she woke up, and he was standing in her doorway. He grabbed her by the neck, and. ...he started dragging her up the stairs. And he was saying shit like... "I'm gonna rape you, then I'm gonna kill you. " And she was actually a music major. It was the first time she was writing her own symphony. And she told me that when she. was on the stairs, she thought, "I'm gonna finish my fucking. ...symphony," and she just flipped. ...out and just, like, punched him and got loose and got away. And I came home, and she was, like, all beat up. I was like, "I have to make sure this never happens again. " I made a dress that said, "as he. ...drug her upstairs by her neck. " I didn't even want to finish... ...but she was like, "you have to finish it. " So, I ended up making... That. ...project was just about me being able to finish something. And then I realized in the. ...middle of it, it wasn't just about that. It was, I had to take this thing that had happened to my. ...friend... it had affected me ... And put it into my work. I couldn't keep it out. Like, it was just totally impossible for me to keep it out. I mean, I remember the first time I saw her, it was like... "who is this person that she. ...just has, like, this commanding presence?" She's just like, "yes, I'm doing. ...a fashion show in the library building. " You know what I mean? It was like, "we're only 18," ...like, you know what I mean? What are you doing? Kathleen and I, we were both going to. ...evergreen state college. Our friends had this idea that was, like, called "the. ...revolution girl style now. " That was sort of like our idea. Like, "let's get all these girls. ...somehow to play instruments. " I'd read Jigsaw, Tobi's fanzine. And she was one of the only girls I knew around who was. ...talking about feminism and. ...punk rock kind of in the same sentence. Tobi was like, "Kathi, do you. ...know how to play guitar or something?" I was like, "no. " "Do you know how to play bass?" "No. " She's like, "do you want to start a band?" I was like, "okay. " Tobi was like, "I think we. ...should ask this girl Kathleen to be the singer. " I was like, "yeah, we should," 'cause she's perfect to be a singer. You couldn't get a better singer. You couldn't ask for a better front person. And we all got together and. ...started playing at Tobi's parents' house. It was just the three of us for, like, months and months. We wanted a girl guitar player, but we just couldn't do it. We would have people come and play with us. But it just didn't work. And then Tobi was kind of like... "I think we should ask my friend bill. " And I'm like, "oh, I guess we can try it. " And then that was it. We're bikini kill. We're bikini kill, and we want revolution. Girl style now! Hey, girlfriend, I got a proposition. Goes something like this. Dare ya to do what you want dare ya to be who you will dare ya to cry right out loud you get so emotional, baby double dare ya double dare ya double dare ya What everybody said about us. was that we couldn't play our. ...instruments, and we said, "and?" We were a young band getting a ton of attention in a scene. where there were a ton of bands... ...and everybody wanted attention. And we didn't realize it at the. ...time because we weren't really that careerist. We didn't give a shit. We weren't making money. We knew we were never gonna make money, and it was really. ...important that we made our music. We were on a mission, and we were gonna do what we did... whether we got attention or not. We were spreading the message on. ...the road at our shows, handing. ...out fliers, telling people what we were doing. Our fanzines were all about feminism and political issues. We just tried to take feminist. ...stuff that we read in books and. ...then filter it through a punk rock lens. Just wait. Zoom in on that. In a hundred years, this. ...footage will be worth quite a bit of money... Not. Fanzine by me, by me. 3- D cover. Gonna be red. It's gonna be red. Ooh! Giving me a flier at a show... ...handing it to me and smiling at. ...me, that's as much of the way Kathleen communicates as when. ...she's on stage, singing really powerful lyrics. It was so great, you know? She just presented all of that, like, "kapow! Here I am, and I'm gonna talk like this, and I'm gonna sound. ...like a valley girl, and what I'm. ...gonna say is actually totally. ...brilliant, and you have to take me seriously. " I got a valley girl accent. ...from "the valley girl handbook," ...and me and my best friend, Angela cheever, we lived in. Maryland, and we desperately wanted to be the kind of girls. who had credit cards. I think we thought it made us. ...sound like we were, like, rich. We thought it was like a posh accent. It goes to show that you can. ...be just, like, you know, I don't. ...know, some valley girl, and you still can be smart and have. ...feminist ideas, and you still should be listened to. It was an exciting moment for. ...a lot of young women, especially. It was speaking to women and wanting to connect with women. And that I think is why the. ...intervention of bikini kill was really necessary. It was, like, basically me and Tobi and Kathi. We're like, "we're gonna take. ...over the punk rock scene for feminists. " You hold me down you hold me down like a magnet She was, like, by, for, and. ...about women... Her thing, their thing. But they had Billy. He was a boy. But he was like... All boys around her were kind of just... "we kind of need you to do some shit. So, will you just do the shit, 'cause we are doing the top. " I've got the love that's strong and not weak I've got the love that's strong and not weak I've got the love that's strong and not weak I've got the love that's strong and not weak Kathleen was very clear and didn't hold back. This is for all the fuckers. She was just screaming at the top of her lungs. There were veins sticking out of her neck. Don't you need you to say we're good don't need you to say we suck don't need your protection don't need your dick to fuck whaa It was the first time I'd sen a woman on stage completely. ...angry, aggressive, doing stuff. ...that you kind of see guys do, and it was amazing. Somebody had to be bikini kill. Like, it had to happen, or else. we'd have all starved to death culturally. It had to happen, and there they were. Girls to the front... That is. ...the thing that never happened before. Men could be in the room, but. ...men could never dominate the room. It was a flip of the script that blew people's minds. All of that incredibly rich stuff that made punk what it was. ...had just been tamped down by the boy mosh pit, you know? Right when bikini kill started, right when grunge was... ...like, going off the hook, right. when nirvana was exploding, it was a wild scene. And it was very physical... ...violent, like, all the moshing, all that stuff. These young women, who wanted to. ...be a part of the scene, like physically wanted to go to the. ...shows, wanted to get into this. ...punk rock scene, we physically were getting shoved. The problem with our shows a lot of times, a lot of guys. would get really out of control. ...and start, like, beating everybody up. The more girls up front, the better, and if anybody is. ...fucking with you at this show because of certain reasons and. ...you need to come up front, come. ...up front and sit on the stage and get away from them and let. ...us know, because it shouldn't just be one person in the. ...crowd's responsibility to deal with fuckers. Every show we played was like a war. Guys would try to beat us up and stuff, you know? It was really violent, and we. ...just played these crazy places... ...like bowling alleys, and they'd. ...cram, like, 600 people in there and stuff. You know, no security. We wanted girls to stand at. ...the front of our shows a lot of. ...times just because we needed to. ...be protected, and I felt like if there was a row of girls in. ...front of them, I would be safe. There physically was not the. ...space for young women to be safe at these shows. And that was a huge part of what. Kathleen did, was to say that's unacceptable. "Fuck you. You're gonna change now. And if you don't fucking pick up. ...the gentle hint, we're gonna. ...fucking very clearly direct you as to what to do. " It was shocking. They just weren't expecting those kind of orders to come. ...from that size of a person, that. ...gender of a person, in a fucking dress. When I started writing the book, the more that I ...researched, the more respect I got for kind of what a good. ...thinker Kathleen is and how good. ...she was at, like, crystallizing a widely held feeling into a. ...really irresistible artistic format. She would instruct people. "Here's a little snippet from our fanzine. Maybe if you could move to the back. " Like, it was this very... it was kind of an empowering and. ...surreal experience, 'cause you weren't really used to being. ...talked to from the stage. Hi. It was like, "oh, music is. ...supposed to be escapist," and it wasn't. It was grounding it. It was making music a voice for. ...a lot of people that hadn't been heard before. I remember the song "feels blind. " "All the doves that pass through. ...my eyes have a stickiness to their wings. How does it feel? Feels blind. What have you taught me? This world has taught me nothing. " I mean, like, I'm still, like... ...getting shivers when I think about those words. All the doves that fly past my eyes. ...have a stickiness to their wings in the doorway of my demise I stand... ...encased in the whisper you taught me how does it feel? It feels blind how does it feel? Well, it feels fucking blind The way that Kathleen delivered that line was so angry. It was so outside the realm of. ...how a young woman is supposed to act. It was really raw. I eat your fucking hate up like love Stories of abuse, emotional. ...violence, sexism that were just bubbling around. They brought that out in the open. She wanted to talk about this stuff. You know, you're objectifying women. What does that mean? What does that do to my body? You're celebrating a certain kind of woman. What does that do if I don't fit into that mold? You know, breaking down the. ...rules of what a girl has to be. Or not, you know? I mean, even she has it in the. ...songs, you know, the dirty nails. ...and not being the perfect, big-titted girl. I mean, I remember thinking. ...that each person in the band was. ...incredibly powerful and interesting to watch. And we were doing some dates with nirvana. I think Tobi was still involved with Kurt. Kurt has a history with bikini kill. He's very connected to Kathleen and what she was doing. Any good biography of Kurt cobain now acknowledges. ...that he didn't come out of. ...hesher rock in the pacific northwest. He came out of feminist art-punk, you know? And he said it himself at that time. Kurt was a very charismatic person. I kind of started hanging out. with him because I had a boyfriend who became a. ...crackhead, and then he started, like, stalking me. And I was known as a feminist... ...and I felt like I couldn't ask. ...for help from people because I thought that they'd think... "she's making too big of a deal. ...out of it because she's a feminist. " And the only person who believed me was my friend Kurt. I was his friend for life at that moment. He stuck up for me. He was, like, the only person that stuck up for me. I wrote, "Kurt smells like teen spirit" on the wall of his. ...apartment after we spray-painted. ...it on the side of a fake abortion clinic. Kurt spray-painted, "God is gay. " We were so wasted, so wasted, super fucking wasted. And the next day, I swore off. ...alcohol, and I didn't drink for six years. Olympia's a really great scene in terms of community. But in terms of politics, it was kind of difficult for us. We thought it'd be cool if we moved to D.C., where there. ...already was a precedent for bands like us... Not really. ...feminist bands, but at least bands that were interested in. what was going on in the world. So, we moved with our friends. ...from the band Bratmobile, and that's where the whole. ...riot grrrl thing really started. There were all these things. ...in the late '80s and early '90s... ...like Anita hill/clarence Thomas... ...the William Kennedy Smith rape trial. There were things that happened. ...all in a really quick succession. ...that our generations of people... who were, like, 18 and 19 in the. ...late '80s, experienced it, and we knew that they were wrong. There was utter pandemonium. ...outside the university building... ...as ambulances carted away the injured. Police have now confirmed 14 students dead, all women. Another dozen people were hurt, caught in a rampage that. witnesses called a human hunt... with the gunman yelling, "I want women. " Our friend Jen Smith said, "you know what we need? We need a girl riot. " Tobi had talked about "angry girl" with many Rs. The combination of what. Jen Smith and Tobi said became "riot grrrl. " So, we made a 'zine called riot grrrl. The original riot grrrl. ...zine, it was mostly Kathleen Hanna, Allison wolfe... ...and Molly Newman from Bratmobile, Jen Smith and. Tobi Vail, the drummer of bikini kill. Allison and I went to a punk. ...show with a clipboard, and we. ...just walked up to girls, and we. were like, "we want to have an. ...all-girl meeting where we just talk maybe about starting a. ...magazine or doing projects, playing punk music and starting. ...a scene and kind of taking over. " We got to do the first. ...riot grrrl meeting at positive force house. Our first meeting was, like, it. was pretty intense, and, as it. ...turned out, they just wanted to. ...hang out and talk without men being there. They wanted to talk about sexual abuse. They wanted to talk about coming out and get information and. ...share information with each other. I actually wrote a riot grrrl manifesto in the bikini kill. ...fanzine called "grrrl power. " And I wrote what I dreamed riot grrrl could be and. ...encouraged other girls and women. ...to write their manifestos of. what they wanted riot grrrl to be. The idea was that any woman anywhere could take that name. ...and use it and create anything she wanted. We didn't brand it or copyright it or anything like that. It belonged to everybody. All of us felt like, "look. Here are some ideas. Take it and run with it. " Other girls started riot grrrls all around the country. All-American rejects Feminism had been kind of scared of pop-culture music. It was really good at protesting. ...it and not good at making it. And so riot grrrl was making it. It was making 'zines, and it was. ...making rock bands, and it was speaking to people. And Kathleen was a major motivator of that. First wave of feminism began in. 1848, the seneca falls conference. It was the first time that women. ...organized on behalf of themselves. They all happened to be abolitionists. They were opposing slavery. It was a movement for human rights, but they weren't equal. ...members of this movement. So, they turned their raised consciousness on themselves and. ...their organizing skills on themselves and said, "we need. ...our own independent movement for our own rights. " So, that first wave of the women's movement focused itself. ...on citizenship, and that's most symbolized by the vote. There was a swell of activism again, coming out of the. ...civil rights' movement and the. ...peace movement and the free-speech movement. So, the women who were part of. ...these movements eventually turned their raised. ...consciousness on themselves and. ...said, "we need to have our own independent movement for our. ...rights, for equality, to be treated as full human beings. " The biggest goal of the second wave was equality. That was the surge of activism that was the second wave. Rebecca Walker's article "becoming a third wave"... So... ...she used that term, and that's because she, her mother was. Alice Walker, and she was a daughter of the second wave, and. ...she was trying to find a way to. ...say, "we're different, but we're part of this history. " Third wave was founded in. ...response to a feeling on college. ...campuses in 1992 that feminism was in some ways dead... ...irrelevant, that women of my generation were apathetic, not. ...desirous of working on behalf of women's empowerment. You can't overstate her. ...importance to third-wave feminism. She was incredibly inspiring. She was kind of the first person. ...to come forth and say, "this is what feminism is gonna look. ...like, and we don't take your. ...bullshit, patriarchs and rapists. " And it was incredibly exciting. Oh, baby, I want you you're so fucking big you're so big and hard you've got such a big cock push it in deeper now oh, deeper, harder I'm almost coming I mean, more than any other. ...person I've ever met, Kathleen was a leader. Sugar I can almost reach mine now now, now sugar I mean, a lot of what we saw riot grrrls doing was, like... ...girls going back to, like, their girlhood and reclaiming. ...girlhood that has been taken away from them, that has been. ...directed down some bullshit path, where they're like, "I'm. ...actually gonna be a little girl that has power now. I'm gonna relive that part so. ...that I can then direct my whole. ...growing-up experience from there, from point 'a. '" ...the third wave is like a hot. ...but angry bisexual girl who is. wearing a minidress with combat boots. There's like a lot of attempting. ...to reconcile a lot of extremes that are in all of us. Yes, she totally used her sexuality. I love that. Use it... whatever we got. You gonna give me some shit? You gonna define me? You gonna tell me what I am? Okay, great, I'm that. Being a stripper is what let me be in bikini kill. Do I wish that there was a job that paid me that amount of. ...money and that gave me that flexibility, where I didn't have. ...to take my clothes off? Sure, of course I do. But it didn't exist, and I wanted to make music. I worked at McDonald's, and I was a vegetarian. And I just felt like it was the same thing. I was a feminist, and I worked at the strip bar. Sugar And we're bikini kill. Everybody knows what to do. I don't need to tell you. We played at the capitol with fugazi. It was around the time of the abortion march, and so, it was. ...like abortion without apology. A lot of the D.C. Music has that. ...monumental sound that maybe does. ...come from living in the capital. It's like this big feeling that. ...it's really important that what. we're doing is super-important. We're so close to the seat of power. And then these bands are making this huge-sounding music but. ...about stuff that's totally different than what the. ...politicians are doing. You think that I don't know I'm here to tell you I do you think us sluts don't know we know the truth about you now Jigsaw, Jigsaw youth I know there's not one way, one light, one lame truth won't fit your definitions won't meet your lame demands not into win-lose reality won't fit into your plans A usa today reporter came and. ...then wrote this really condescending thing about what. we were doing and focused on. what our clothes looked like and. what our bodies looked like. We must all be sexual-abuse survivors because we're singing. ...about rape, and, therefore, nobody has any imagination or. ...knows anybody who's had things. who's had things happen to them. So, we must all have had these tragic histories. It was really frustrating to a lot of us, especially that. ...another woman would write. ...something that we thought was so stupid. So, we just decided to stop thinking about it and talking. ...about it and just not answering. ...the phone when journalists called. And that was what everybody called a press blackout. They're like, "no, actually... ...you're not gonna fucking co-op this fucking revolution. Fuck you. It's actually not gonna be televised. That was genius. It was very savvy, and it was. ...something that was thinking much. ...bigger than a lot of us did. People involved with riot grrrl were reluctant to do. ...interviews with mainstream. ...press or rolling stone or people. who got interested in and got wind of the movement. It's hard to see yourself. written about or talked about in. ...a third-person or some removed context. It's always just gonna seem wrong somehow. The facts are wrong. Something's wrong. It's always wrong. It was also for her own self-preservation and. ...protection, 'cause people were. ...just tearing her apart publicly. ...and revealing a lot of personal. ...things about her that she hadn't chosen to reveal. How things become just so. ...distorted and taken out of their hands. There was an article in. ...the Washington Post, and it. ...said that my father raped me. And I never spoke to a reporter. I've never asserted that. And I will say right now on. ...camera my father did not rape me. My father was sexually inappropriate. He wasn't a great father. He was physically and verbally abusive at times. But he did not physically rape me. I make a distinction between sexual inappropriateness and. ...abuse in my mind because I know ...other people's stories that are. ...super-horrific, and, like, way more horrific than mine. And that just isn't my story. And I was really upset when it said that. And it taught me a big lesson about how a lot of reporters. ...don't fact-check anything. Instead of being, like, sitting. ...around, being upset about it, I ...thought it was really important that I kept making music and. ...that I went on tour and that. ...other girls got to hear what we were making. I'm a little girl at the picnic. who won't stop pulling her dress up it doesn't matter who's in control now it doesn't matter 'cause this is new radio what the fuck is written all over your pretty face? The gaps in teeth, the dirty nails baby boy, you can't kill what's fucking real turn that song down turn the static up come here, baby let me kiss you like a boy does oh-whoa oh-whoa oh-whoa whoa-oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah yeah, yeah let's wipe our cum on my parents' bed I had never seen bikini kill. ...play until "summersault" tour. Mike from my band, he had a bikini kill 7-inch, and it was. ...one of those things like, "oh... ...shoot, you got to hear this record. " And then, his wife, tamra... who's a filmmaker, interviewed Kathleen. We were watching this thing that. ...she made, and it was fucking Kathleen being interviewed. wearing a ski mask in, like, a. ...stairwell somewhere, and I was. ...like, "what the fuck is going on? This is some serious shit. " And so I was very interested. I did a video called "no alternative girls," and. Kathleen Hanna was in it, and. ...she was doing a media blackout at the time. So, she said she would appear in. ...the video, but she wouldn't let her face be in it. So, she wore this ski mask. And then, I worked with her again with sonic youth, when we. ...did the video for "bull in the Heather. " And so, when bikini kill was on. ...tour, Kathleen was there, and. Adam was going through this terrible breakup. I was totally trying to get them. ...together, 'cause I thought they. would be friends, at least, but. ...also, they had so much in common, it seemed to me. And I thought Kathleen would be. ...somebody really good for Adam to talk to. So... Yeah, that was interesting. I wanted to be encouraging, but I was also afraid. Bikini kill was super punk rock, and then it reminded. ...me of, like, you know, when I was in a hardcore band when I was a kid, that feeling of just... ...like, "we'll just do whatever we. ...feel like doing," and that was awesome to see. To see this punk group, and it. was all girls in front, and all. ...just girls just all on the stage. And, you know, for guys' shows... ...it's like, "get the fuck off my stage. " You know what I mean? And then, Kathleen was just a force, like a full-on force. Like a car accident... you can't look away. But you know what I mean. I mean a good car accident. I didn't mean it. You know, you're just like, "what the fuck?" We went skateboarding one night at adelaide. I didn't realize... She was very sneaky, I guess. And she was like, "hey, who wants to go skateboarding?" And I was like, "uh, I'll go skateboarding. " Hey, Kathleen. Hmm? Come on. I can dry myself. What's going on? I'm not telling you. Dry yourself. Get... would you get out of here? Dry yourself. Initially, it was really difficult weaving their worlds. ...together, but not because they. ...didn't have stuff in common, but. ...just because of the... what will. ...my friends think or my community or something? I was dating somebody who... ...like, wrote "girls, girls, girls. ...do my laundry" and shit like that in the '80s. So, I was, like, "what does this. ...mean that I'm a feminist artist... ...and I'm dating this person, and I'm so in love with him?" And it was like I realized that. ...you can't legislate kind of who you fall in love with. Like, I was totally in love with. ...him, and there was no way I was not gonna hang out with him. I'm sure it made it a little exciting and, like... ...risky-feeling, but also it just. ...really opened my eyes that you kind of fall in love with who. ...you fall in love with. And I couldn't do anything about it. But I freaked out. 'Cause I like you baby, it's all wrong baby, baby, it's so wrong oh, baby, it's so wrong it feels so good it's all wrong After the whole tour happened, they had this. ...long-distance relationship, where they were only. ...communicating through the phone or writing each other. There was a time period where we weren't, like... we. ...didn't do stuff in public, and we were really private. But that was kind of both of our choices. So, it wasn't really like we. were hiding, but I could see how it appeared that way. The thing is about bikini kill... They were looked. ...at and scrutinized so closely. ...and had this certain level of celebrity. But they were still barely making rent. They were still in a crappy van. ...that could easily break down. They were still sleeping on strangers' floors. Bikini kill was just, like, in this weird disarray, and. ...there was a lot of tension between us. You know, we'd all gotten into... ...like, weird roles of who we were. ...in that band, and it was kind of. ...just impossible to get out of them. What is bikini kill? Bikini kill is forever in flux... ...and it's completely impossible for us to discuss it, because. ...it's always changing. And that's why it's really hard for us to do interviews, and. ...also because all four of us don't agree on anything ever. And it's really difficult to. ...sort out what you can actually say about it. Our relationships as four people disintegrated because we. weren't ever looking at each other and dealing with the. ...problems that each of us had. I was in bikini kill for, like, eight years. It's a long time for a girl band. And to be under the magnifying. ...glass and kind of pinned to wax ...how we were, it's a really, really long time. Her work seemed to make her. ...feel isolated more, and, like... ...reaction to her band seemed to. ...make her feel like she was set. ...apart from her bandmates and set apart from the girls in. ...riot grrrl and set apart from. ...other people in the punk scene, while at the same time, her. ...music and her art was bringing people together so much. I think Kathleen struggled. with the leadership role at times. She had a lot of responsibility that came with that. She definitely struggled with this, the kind of implications. ...that that much fame has for a person. Can you... Louder. I'm having trouble. I didn't want to be the leader or singled out. And, I mean, I'm sure that Gloria can commiserate with the. ...position of being, getting a. ...really negative attention from the media. It feels like you're kind of. ...getting kicked in the face by both sides. On the one hand, I was working in the media. On the other hand, I was trying to avoid being singled out. It wasn't always successful. It's not always under your control, but I think the. ...challenge is to figure out how ...to use it to convey come message. I'm not wiling to deal with the mainstream anymore, when. ...they're constantly asking me questions about sexual abuse... ...about if I've been a stripper, if I haven't been a stripper... ...constantly just completely sexist shit, where they're. ...trying to turn on the band that I'm in or the projects I'm. ...involved with against other women who I respect in the. ...community, coming up, you know, saying, "so-and-so said. ...so-and-so about you" to get you. ...to slag off another woman so that they can print... "Kathleen Hanna doesn't like PJ Harvey. " You know, like, whatever, and creating all these schisms. ...because it sells papers. This is the thing that's. ...happened ever since the beginning of time. You ask a woman about another. woman and try to get her to say. ...something bad, and then you make. ...the article all about a catfight. Lollapalooza news, meanwhile... Courtney love, one of the tour's. ...headliners this year, with her band hole, was officially. ...charged with fourth-degree assault this week for, as she. ...acknowledged in a recent online. ...rant, punching out bikini kill. ...singer Kathleen Hanna backstage at a lollapalooza show on. July 4th, an incident first. ...reported also online by Thurston Moore of the. ...bill-topping sonic youth. We did lollapalooza. Kathleen was there, and she was. ...standing on the stage, watching. ...us, and Courtney love basically. ...just punched her in the face. And that was the beginning of our tour. I mean, there's the whole. ...lollapalooza punching Courtney love thing. No, Courtney love punched her. See, I don't... I... I can't trust the Internet. That's the whole thing that pissed me off is that later... ...people were like, "they fought! There was this rivalry, and they fought. " It's like, "dude, I was standing there watching a band, and. Courtney walked up and attacked me. " I think people don't realize. ...that Kathleen and Courtney didn't know each other. It's a real bummer to be assaulted. It sucks. It's not cool. It's a real bummer if you're a. ...feminist, and you're assaulted. ...by another woman, because it's just kind of heartbreaking... ...especially a woman who you're. ...kind of hoping you guys could be some kind of allies. I think a lot of people who ar close to Kathleen have. worried about her safety for a variety of reasons. You know, she's experienced violence towards her in really. ...aggressive ways that nobody should have to experience. Hatred for bikini kill and specifically Kathleen. She would get letters from. ...guys that were like, "you need to die. " They just wanted to, like, stamp her out. And I don't know why. I remember things like that. would happen, and it would feel totally shitty. And I was just like, I had kids. writing me, saying, like, you. ...know, "I was gonna kill myself... ...and I got your record, and you saved my life. " And all I could say back is, like, "you saved my life, too... ...because I couldn't get through. ...all of the... Not criticism, but. ...all the hate that got thrown my way. " I made a record called "Julie ruin" that was a solo. ...record, and I made it kind of to. ...escape what had happened to me. And so I made it under an assumed name. In bikini kill, I was singing to. ...an elusive asshole male that was. ...fucking the world over, and I was allowing other women to watch me do that. And I really wanted to start. ...directly singing to other women. For Kathleen's music to grow ...in directions toward electronic. ...music completely makes sense to me. When you've disconnected from your community or lost your. ...community, it's amazing if you. ...can seize the means of technology yourself. I went to visit Kathleen, and we went to some music shop. They had a drumatics drum machine. Kathleen bought this drum machine for 40 bucks. Then, she recorded, like, the whole fucking "Julie ruin" record. That record is a fucking masterpiece. It was this whole, new side of Kathleen Hanna. It's like you know someone. They're your friend but had never opened up their scrapbook. ...and showed you what really made them who they are. That's what "Julie ruin" started. ...to do for those of us who are interested in Kathleen Hanna. I felt like a lot of my graphic sensibility came out in. ...it because using samples, it's very cut-and-paste. Making it fancy for me was always being in my room by. ...myself and cutting stuff and having this really specific. ...relationship to my materials. ...that was not mediated by anybody else. She was figuring everything out for herself. It sounded lo-fi and on. ...purpose lo-fi and just really smart. Sounds like you could hear a. ...human being's fingers all over it. It sounds like bedroom culture. It sounds like something a girl made in her bedroom. A girl's bedroom sometimes can. ...be this space of real creativity. The problem is that these. ...bedrooms are all cut off from each other. So, how do you take that bedroom. ...that you're cut off from all the. ...other girls who are secretly in their bedroom writing secret. ...things or making secret songs? I wanted the "Julie ruin" record. ...to sound like a girl from her bedroom made this record but. ...then didn't just throw it away... ...or it wasn't just in her diary. But she took it out and shared it with people. ... How many times I made you cry you can tell anyone anything you want but if you're gonna talk about how I deserve what you did... ...you can look now 'cause I'm gone To me, the "Julie ruin" ...record is what really changed. Kathleen, in terms of her, like, she was in a band. She was in this band bikini kill, and they did all. ...this fucking stuff. And she made this record. "Julie ruin," and she's, like, now a musician. Fuck it. "Julie ruin" was kind of the. ...template, the foundation stone. And then Le Tigre was the beginning of a whole new world. I decided I wanted to move to. Portland 'cause I had to get out. ...of Olympia 'cause it was driving me crazy. I gave Kathleen my 'zine. I mean, I don't know if you'd call that, like, meeting her. I just, like, said hi and gave. ...it to her at a show at the X- Ray caf in Portland. I read Jo's fanzine, and I was like, "this is the best. ...fanzine I've read ever. She has to be my new best friend. " Basically, I spent a whole day... ...like, just driving around, looking for her. She was like, "you're gonna be my friend. We're gonna be in a band. And that's that. " And I was like, "okay. " My original idea was to try. ...and make the "Julie ruin" record into a stage show. I never would have been in a. ...band again in my whole life, I'm. ...convinced of it, if it wasn't. ...for my friendship with johanna... 'cause I was really burnt out and sad. I was really depressed. I remember sitting in my car, and it was raining, with Jo. And I just, like, looked at her and started crying. And I just told her everything. I want you to stay I started realizing that I should move to New York. We didn't really have a place to stay, exactly. We were both really broke. I mean, really broke. I just moved to New York with $400. There's no way I could have afforded rent, so I was really. ...fortunate that I had a boyfriend. who had an apartment and would let me stay with him. You know, I was psyched about everything... Psyched about. ...riding the subway, going to. ...museums, being near johanna, being with Adam. Everything was good again for me. And then the Woodstock thing happened. Woodstock '99. This is a very dangerous situation. It was disgusting. I was molested. I was stomping around the apartment, pissed off. And he was stomping around the apartment, pissed off. Eight rapes and sexual. ...assaults during the festival reported. I was, like, "why don't you. ...say something at your acceptance speech?" And then we sat down, and we. worked on writing something, and then he did it. Also known for the flintstone flop Tammy "d" gets biz on the crops Beastie Boys know to let the beat mmm... Drop now when I wrote graffiti, my name was slop if I rap soup, my beats is stock I read in the news and heard. ...from my friends all about the sexual assaults and the rapes. ...that went down at Woodstock '99. It made me feel really sad and angry, okay? When he started talking about. ...something real amongst all of this completely superficial. ...bullshit, the room just... it was like... Like, everything changed. The whole room, it felt so "who farted?" Like, beyond "who farted?" Are you all there? Okay. Y'all remember that, Woodstock? It definitely sucked the party. ...out of the room, that's for sure, for a minute. But I'm sure somebody got up. I'm sure Uncle cracker got up and played some awesome song... ...and the audience was back. Who took the bomp? Kathleen had a bass, and she really wanted to play drums. I had bought a sampler. I was interested in making sample-based electronic music. Jo believed in me, so much. ...that she went down in this dingy. ...basement and wrote with me every single day. Things shifted with J.D. Joining Le Tigre. I remember getting a call from Kathleen. She was like, "we're practicing... ...and we want to know if you want to do our slides. " We went on, like, a two-week tour of the east coast, and she. was, like, "you're a performer. You really need to be on stage. " During that tour, Kathleen was. ...like, "will you be in our band?" And I was like, "yeah. " The second she was on stage... ...she just had such a great stage presence. We were, like, the feminist party band. Our whole ethic was about making. ...something that had politically. ...radical content that you could dance to. Kathleen's voice was beautiful. She's, like, at that perfect age. ...at that point to have, like... ...this full, resonant, amazing, powerful voice. Le Tigre seemed like it was much. ...more sophisticated and mature. It understood what people needed at that time, in terms of. ...danceability, still maintaining. ...a really interesting message, a. ...message of noncompetition, of a culture of praise, but. ...sophisticated and understanding what a good pop song is. Bikini kill understood song structure, too, but le Tigre. ...just, like, fucking nailed it. Come on oh, oh, oh, oh We did, like, a really long tour after "this island" was. ...released, and it was like a world tour, a year and a half. We went to Australia. We went to Japan. We did the U.S. And Europe and everything. Take a good look take a photo write about it in your tiny notebook don't you know? You're out co-o-Id don't you know? It's our dance floor T.K.O. Hear it on the radio T.K.O. Play it on the stereo T.K.O. Watch a live video T.K.O. Hear it on the radio T.K.O. Play it on the stereo T.K.O. Watch a live video T.K.O. T.K.O.O. Le Tigre moved out into, like, bigger and bigger circles... ...embraced more and more of humanity and all the issues. And what does it really mean to be a feminist? It means that you pay attention to all different kinds of. ...oppression, and you stand up for. ...all those people that don't have. ...a voice, whether they're trans or people of color or class... ...race, gender, sexuality, everything. She did that. And then, the next challenge is... ...like, how do you do that on a personal level? The ocean calls us away from... All the sudden, in north Carolina, I lost my voice... ...and at sound check, I lost pitch. I always think of it as a. ...bullet, kind of, like, my voice is a bullet. And there's, like, a note that I want to hit that's here or. ...that's here or here or whatever... ...and then the breath is like the. ...bullet coming out of my mouth. And it's going to hit the target? Well, I was like... I could get. ...the breath, but then the bullet would just go "waahhh. " Like, I couldn't hit the target. I was terrified. I couldn't believe it. So, we canceled the show in north Carolina, and I went back. ...to New York and found a throat specialist. It's actually really traumatic. when I think about it, because. ...it was like singing is my life, like, it's everything to me. ... if I would say that, too I don't know about that When you have a sore throat, you. ...have a sore throat, but once the. ...adrenaline would kick in for a. ...show, I didn't ever feel any pain. I never felt pain onstage, ever. No matter how bad I felt, once I was onstage and the lights hit me, I was fine. When I'm playing music, I don't feel anything bad. I don't know about that I don't know about that you are... We were so enmeshed in our band that that's all we did. It was all band, band, band... ...band, band, and I'd been in that. ...mode of every band I'd done was. ...just a complete immersion, where. ...my identity was so wrapped up in. ...my bands that it wasn't really healthy. You got to keep on keep on livin' you got to keep on keep on livin' you got to keep on Kathleen started getting sick. ...on tour a lot, which happens. You know what I mean? I get sick every tour, first day of the tour. It just happens. Disproportionate reactions just won't fade I noticed her feeling depressed more than anything... ...and I think I noticed her having. ...more and more sickness, in terms of, like, losing her voice... ...getting strep throat, whatever. And she was taking antibiotics a lot. So, I think that I did have some. ...sort of sense of, like, the fact that she wasn't well. Keep on livin' you got to keep on keep on livin' I knew there was something wrong, for sure. I was really worried. Keep on livin' keep on livin' keep on livin' you got to keep on livin' keep on livin' I struggled through the le Tigre tour dates that we had. ...and everything we had planned and finished it. Whoo! Thank you, guys! Thank you so much. I sat down with Jo and J.D. And. ...said, "I can't do this anymore. " We all had lunch one day, and. ...it was kind of just, like, we all knew that something was. ...gonna happen, but we weren't sure what. And Kathleen was like, "I don't want to do this anymore. " I kind of felt, like, spent in terms of writing songs. I felt like I had said. ...everything I had to say up to that point. Our last real headlining show was at Webster hall in New York. I lied when I said I was done. I knew I wasn't done. I just didn't want to face the fact that I was really sick. I wanted to have control over it. I wanted to tell everybody I chose to stop. But I didn't... I didn't ... I didn't choose. I was told by my body I had to stop. But that was really painful for me to be told by anybody or. ...anything what I could and couldn't do. So, I told myself and told my bandmates and told my husband. ...and told the world that I chose. ...to stop playing music because I had nothing else to say... Because that felt better to me than being in touch with the. ...fact that I might not ever be. ...able to do the thing I love more than anything in the world. We were seeing just, like, all these different doctors... ...trying to figure it out. And they were telling her all this different stuff, and they. were doing all kinds of fucked-up, crazy tests. They were like... She had some weird eye thing, and the. ...doctor's like, "oh, yeah, it's. ...probably lupus, or it could be M.S." Just like all this fucking crazy. ...shit, and you're like, "what?" 2008, the illnesses took a really weird turn. Sex education through... I went to the planned parenthood march. I was not comfortable. I was having language problems. Our next speaker was the lead singer for bikini kill. I feel like I don't have to say anything else. And le Tigre and the co-founder of the riot grrrl movement. I couldn't hear out of the. ...one ear, and I was, like, really struggling. All the sudden, the sound changes in your head. I thought I was having a stroke. I couldn't talk. I couldn't communicate. And I was slurring, like I was drunk. One side of my body felt numb. The paramedics thought that I had a minor heart attack. When I got to the hospital, the doctor asked me for all my. ...symptoms, and at that point, I was like, "I'm not gonna lie. " I just was like, "fuck it. I'm in the hospital. I'm just gonna tell this woman everything. " She was just like, "yeah, you're just having a panic attack... ...because there's no way that you could be having neurological. ...stuff and breathing difficulties and the stomach stuff. " She was like, "there's too many. ...body systems to be involved, and. ...there's no illness that has all. ...those body systems involved. " To be living with something and. ...not knowing what it is, is really terrifying. I have late-stage lyme disease... which means I've had lyme disease for... Now for. ...about six years. When she came to see me, she. ...had been ill for about five years. She actually recalled that she. ...had been bitten by a tick back in 2005. And, in fact, going through her. ...history, she had been treated for lyme disease. I took antibiotics for three weeks afterwards. So, when I got sick later, I ...never associated it with lyme disease. And when it was brought up to me by different specialists, I ...said, "I already took the test. " You know, I would pull out my. ...shitty Elisa test that's, like... ...the $20 test that the insurance. ...company wants you to take, show ...it to doctors, and nobody said... "oh, that's actually a crappy, totally unreliable test. " But eventually I got a test called the Western blot test... ...and it lit up like a Christmas tree. It's like if you were superman, and you met kryptonite. That's what lyme disease is like. I got to take my pills. When you start treating someone with lyme disease, that. ...person might get worse before they get better. It's kind of like you wake the. ...sleeping giant when you use the. ...antibiotic, and the infection kicks back even harder. I just took my medication an hour ago. And... I guess I'm having a reaction. ...now to the... Infection and the medication. ...meeting up or something. I'm filming this kind of because. ...in my movie, in the movie about me, I talk about having this. ...disease and, um, how it makes it so I can't do things. And, obviously, I can't be on stage when I'm like this, and. ...this is me when it's bad as it gets. Do I look normal? No. 'Cause it doesn't feel normal right now. But... I want to show what it's like... ...because a lot of people get misdiagnosed. Like, I was misdiagnosed for five years. It invades, like, every part of. ...your body, and then, when you try to get rid of it, you have. ...these really fucked-up reactions, and you can't control. ...your body or your speech, and it's real uncomfortable. So, it's something that... Think that's good for now. We'll get a seizure later. I'm sure I'll get a seizure later. I think we should do a few more takes. I don't think people really saw her at her sickest. You know, it's just her and Adam. More stressed out than I've been in a long time. Shit is crazy. When you have an illness like. ...this, it's hard to explain it to other people. The expectation out there is... "okay, so, you had lyme disease. You took antibiotics. You should be better. " When you've had it for five years, and it hasn't been. ...treated, that's not gonna be the way that it works. She never talked about her. ...health or the pain she was in or anything. I didn't know for a long time. People who run around being. ...heroes act like they don't need help. That's the nature of being a hero is you don't need help. You're the helper. There are moments where she. ...knows that she can ask for help. But I don't think that that's. ...necessarily an organic thing for her. I realized I wanted to write. ...a record when I started getting. ...sicker and sicker and sicker... 'cause once, like, I really was. ...pretty sure I couldn't do it, I really wanted it. The thing that made me change or. ...face it was that my illness was not only affecting me. It was affecting the people that I love. I worked at a domestic-violent shelter, and I remember women. ...all the time saying, "I could take it, but when he started. ...abusing the kids, I picked them up and left. " They were, like, totally protective of their children... ...but they weren't protective of themselves. When I saw it affecting Jo, how ...bad it affected Jo and J.D. And. Adam, and I was like, "it's not. ...helping them that I'm minimizing this. " It was just so much easier on everybody if I just faced what. was happening, stopped blaming. ...myself, and fucking dealt with it. I call my new band the Julie ruin because it's kind. ...of an outgrowth of the solo project I did in '99. It's really just different in. ...that I'm not trying to write anthems or anything. I'm just writing songs and. ...letting them be what they want to be. Don't go away don't go away I feel embarrassed when people come up and tell me that. I matter to them or something. ...like that and sort of like have all these people put on this. ...show and, like, do covers of songs that I've sung. It feels, like, overwhelming and. ...haven't really been able to grasp it. Just all I've been through over. ...the past few years in getting my. ...diagnosis so close to the show. It's just when I was really sick, I would sit around and be... ...like, imagine people being supportive and loving, 'cause I ...never let that in before. And I had to learn how to do. ...that because I was so sick for five years. And now it's, like, gonna be physical, like, I'm actually. ...gonna go to this place, and all. ...these people are just gonna be. ...totally loving and supporting me. And it's... It's overwhelming. With the illness stuff, it means. ...this extra thing that only my friends know about. So, it's weird to be going to. ...this public event, where, like... ...people don't really know what I've been through. Yeah. Is everything turned off that nothing's gonna blow up? Is it something inessential when I cannot hear you talk? Is it something sentimental? Over here, over here. Double dare ya double dare ya double, triple fucking dare ya, girlfriend double dare ya double dare ya double dare ya, girl I just want to read this very special text by Kathleen. This is called "riot grrrl manifesto. " "Because us girls crave records and books and fanzines that. ...speak to us, that we feel included in and can understand. ...in our own ways, because I believe with my whole heart... ...mind, body that grrrls constitute a revolutionary soul. ...force that can and will change the world for real. " Thank you, Kathleen Hanna! All right, kids, are you ready? Ladies and gentlemen, the Julie ruin! Hey, everybody. Thank you so much for coming. This is a really special night for me. So, we're the Julie ruin, and we're writing a new album. Are you guys ready? Yeah. What is the story of my life? I have no fucking idea. I just think there's this certain assumption that when a. ...man tells the truth, it's the truth. And when as a woman I go to tell. ...the truth, I feel like I have to. ...negotiate the way I'll be perceived. Like, I feel like there's always. ...the suspicion around a women's. ...truth, the idea that you're exaggerating. I don't just sit there and be. ...like, "this, this, this, this, this. " There's this whole fear that I'm gonna have finally fucking. ...stepped to the plate and told the truth, and someone's gonna. ...say, "eh, I don't think so. " Ar-ar-ar-ar-armageddon If I wouldn't have admitted to myself that, like, the. ...sexual-abuse stuff that happened in my life, it wasn't just... ...like, one thing that happened when I was little and also how ...my dad treated me and blah, blah, blah. It was like all of these different things. Like, I would never want to tell everybody the whole, entire. ...story, because it sounded crazy. It sounded just like too big of. ...a can of worms, like, who would believe me? And then I was like, "other women would believe me. " I don't give a shit what people think. I know what's real. I don't care if people don't. ...think feminism is important, because I know it is. And I don't care if people don't. ...think late-stage lyme disease exists because I have it, and. ...other people have it, and we. ...help each other, and we know it exists. And other people can think whatever they want. My problem is when people get. ...in the way of feminism or people. ...get in the way of people who are. ...sick getting better, because they don't understand it. And if they don't want to believe in it, or they don't. want to care about it, that's totally fine, but they should. ...have to stay out of my way. I hear you talk, talk but I can tell you're more histrionic than historical you're just a fake well-read, super-mean girl I don't want anywhere near my world and if anti-you means anti-us. I guess we just bit the dust 'cause in reverse. ...it's still a fucking pageant oh, so cursed, not real magic ar-ar-ar-ar-armageddon ar-ar-ar-ar-armageddon ar-ar-ar-ar-armageddon ar-ar-ar-ar-armageddon ar-ar-armageddon ar-ar-armageddon ar-ar-armageddon ar-ar-armageddon do-do-do-do do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do this is all in Russian, boy, no need to steal do-do-do-do do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do-do do-do-do
