 

                        The highly popular revues at the Pleasure Garden Theater are staged by Mr. Hamilton ...George Snell smoking prohibited That's an exquisite chorus line, Mr. Hamilton Meet patsy Brand ...Virginia Valli I had to meet you because I was charmed by that lovely curl of hair. Then I give it to you and hope you have a nice time Now, yhat wasn't a very clever line, was it? I'm Jill Cheyne, and I have a letter of introduction to Mr. Hamilton ...Carmelita Geraghty ... that was all the money I had, and now I don't know what to do! Well, you can stay with me, and tomorrow I'll take you in to see Mr. Hamilton This is my fiance back home. I was getting nowhere, keeping company to an old lady out in the country. I went to the theater straight from the station Did you expect him to hire you just like that, with the cab waiting? The man who gave me the letter said he was a good friend of Hamilton's, so I thought... Well, don't worry about it, luckily you have me to take care of you. Passion Flowers The Entire Company to be on stage for full rehearsal tomorrow, wednesday, June 5th. at 11 a.m. Sharp Stage Manager Take a chance, Mr. Hamilton, and I'll show you some real hot steps! No, I haven't danced anywhere professionally Folks, I have a great artist here, who has never been on stage in her life but is sure she can show us how to dance. Just anything in the charleston line will do. I hate to admit it but you're pretty good. How's five pounds a week? You know I'm better than that. I'll take twenty to start. Patsy, Miss Jill's fiance is here. You must be the roommate, Patsy! Jill was written me how nice you've been to her. I'm Hugh Fieldding. Sorry Jill isn't in right now, she's trying on a costume for the new revue. At Hamilton's apartment Let's not have any suggestions like that... ...until I have my own place I could invite you to! My company is sending me to the plantation overseas for two years - but after that I'll have enough to marry, and Jill has promissed to wait. Patsy, I asked Mr.Levet to pick me up here. We work for the same outfit. Miles Mander In fact, Levet is already stationed out here, and is here for a two-month furlough. We'll be working on the same plantation. You have no idea, Miss Brand, how empty and lonely life out there... Do you believe in love? Her number's coming up next! I'm so lucky to have a terrific girl for a fiancee! May you have not only fame, Jill, but also happiness! This is Prince Ivan, Jill. He wants to congratulate you in person. It is a rare pleasure to watch you perform, and I intend to indulge myself often. I know how you feel, Hugh, but I'll steer her away from these stage-door tomcats if I can. I'm afraid poor Hugh has a rather dewy-eyed conception of his childhood sweetheart. Soon after Hugh's departure overseas, Jill took a step up in the theatrical world. Dear Paley I am so sorry to leave you so soon but I have had the opportunity to take a tiny furuislud flat for myself, because you will value that I couldn't stay in cheap lodgings I am nearly a slave Jill Midfull of her promise to Hugh, Patsy makes a last attempt to straighten out Jill. Aren't you afraid of your reputation as a kept woman? I cannot stand by and watch you throw yourself away like this... ...especially with a fine man like Hugh waiting for you! Would you believe it, Prince, one of my casual friends form the chorus is trying to run my life! I'm worried about Jill, Mr. Levet. I promised to keep her out of danger, and now she's fooling around with that phony Prince. I wouldn't woory, Patsy, that girl knows exactly what she's doing - and she likes it. Odd, isn't it - he never barked at Hugh. Maybe because he had no reason to be jealous of Hugh I've got to nahd it to Jill - she'll make that fool marry her yet, I bet! Patsy - I have only a short time here - can't we share our loneliness together? There's a month left before I have to go back out there for two years. What do you say? If you are proposing, then my answer is Yes. I have come to love you in the last few weeks. I'd like to, Patsy, but it really wouldn't be fair to you. My position with the firm is no such that they'd let me take a wife out there. I'll be glad to keep working and wait - as Mrs.Levet! And I know you'll work your way up so you can send for me very soon. ...and he fixed it up so we can get married the day after tomorrow! For a honeymoon, he's taking me to Italy! I'm so happy! The day of the wedding. Sorry, Cuddles - I can't take you with me, but I'll be back in a month. Honeymooning at Lake Como. I asked God to grant us a happy life life together. Don't let these thieving little brats make a fool of you! You threw away the rose I gave you. Had to - it had wilted. Glad to see you again, old chap. Tell me about Jill. Sorry but, to tell you the truth, I didn't see her since she moved to her own place. Still working at the Pleasure Garden, Patsy now lives for but one thing ... the first letter from her husband. Stop worrying so much - you can find a girl just as good or better anywhere. Dear patsy, ... ... I must go to him - he's sick and my place is with him. Jill, all I ask is enough money to pay my fare out there. Can't do, patsy - I'm spending everthing on my trousseau. The Prince and I will be married soon. How about Hugh's engagement ring, then - surely you won't need that now! She's marrying the Prince and wouldn't lend me a penny! You must be crazy if you think I could ever stay with you after this! You filthy animal! You're my wife - so you've got to stay with me! Please take me away from here - this man's crazy! Listen, maybe you can help nurse his friend, who's down with the fever, until you have to catch your next boat. Poor Hugh, I'll stay with you until you get well! Jill, my darling ... so good of you to come! How about a kiss, sweetheart? Patsy! It's you! What happened? That's my wife you're fooling around with, Hugh - and you'll pay for it! You'd better come back, unless you want to see him with his head bashed in! I can't let him go on like this while he's out of his mind. I'll go with him for now but will return as soon as I can. Get away from me - my wife's here now. I don't need you any more! She wants me to use the sword - she won't let me rest until I've killed you, too! Hugh told me what happened. I'm having him brought in. Don't thank me, Patsy - just seeing you saved my life, and I'm simply paying you back. I'm sorry that Jill's turned out no good - I hope you'll get over her, as I must try to get over this... You're the only woman for me now, Patsy - I was blind not to see it before! Coming home, Patsy How do you like that - Cuddles knew all the time! The End
