 

                        THE MAGIC FLUTE Help me, help me, Lord! Christ, protect me! Help me, help me, Lord! Can not protect anyone? They sent the Angel of Death to kill me Did not anyone hear me? I feel his warm breath, the smell of death, Redeem me, help me, someone help me Nobody can help me? Death haunts me, Angel of Death back to hell Believe us, trust us, everything goes well, The snake is dead The beast has failed the boy was saved, Our female power have prevailed, Our female power have succeeded, How sweet youth so tender and strong, Such innocence can do no wrong Such beauty does not last long My heart rejoices to see this guy so handsome looking at this guy so sweet Fast, small, let's tell our lady we have seen extraordinary, Perhaps this good-looking man will make her laugh and smile again will make her laugh and smile again Tell her this finding as splendid, I think I stay, Id you, I'm me No, no, run ye I already took care of him, I think I stay, I'll stay longer, Let him in my hands, I remain, I watch him, We care, I I I They think I'm going to go, They think I'm going to go, They think I'm going to go, They think I'm going to go, They think I'm going to go, They think I'm going to go, We'll see, We'll see, We'll see, I want to be alone with this guy, Alone with him, No, no, No, no, No, no, No, no, it can be I want to be alone with this guy, Alone with him, No, no, No, no, No, no, No, no, it can be I would give my fortune, I would give my fortune, I would give my fortune, To be alone with him To be alone with him To be alone with him To have this beauty to me To have this beauty to me To have this beauty to me Yes, for me, But here we are, here we are and can not be I say goodbye, king of men, I say goodbye, king of men, I say goodbye, king of men, I say goodbye, king of men, King of men, My dream of happiness, I say goodbye, Dear boy, stay there until we meet again, Goodbye, until then love, Until we meet again, until we meet again, My eyes fill with tears, what grace so tender, makes me mourn, Adieu, AufWiedersehen, Goodbye, Until then Until we meet again, we meet again, Until we meet again, We meet again, Until we meet again, Adieu, AufWiedersehen, Adieu, AufWiedersehen, Adieu, AufWiedersehen, Where am I? The birds are fine. The trench is clear. The work of the fowler not completed edge of dawn until the sun sets, In slavery ungrateful works to protect the young, Food and dome these copier, amount put traps and nets, I speak perfect pigeon and I come down birds in the trees, The birder must love their birds and soothe with sweet words, Escape from the cage wander, but they always return home I see a couple of birds and fills my heart thoughts of love, If the girls were more like birds would all be friends of mine, If a girl to be my love would leave the ground and fly through the heights 'd Fly over tired of this world and graze the sky with wings 'd Fly and trinary everywhere and then would land gently Ylenta and sweetly my dove sing well suited under the wing of the fowler, My God! Where did you saIido? Where are we? Here, I guess. Work here. Do you work? Bucket Queen birds to Ia. "The queen? What queen? What queen? As the Queen of the Night. Is this a dream? Do not get weird. Do not approach. I have my tactics. Do I have redeemed you? Is it still peIigroso? How I can make it up? It was nothing. When I see someone in trouble helped him. Nothing happens. "PeIigro? Io I do not know what it means. Papageno! No. .. I did not want ... Really ... So learn to lie to strangers. Well, learn not to lie to strangers. Have you Saiva you? No. Who was it? Exact us. You have saved us, young man. And we bring you a message queen. In person. You gotta see this. Mirai well. Goodbye, Tamino. Return. This picture breaks my heart Who is this girl? Who is it? Who? Never I had thought that love could cry the wounded on the battlefield the wounded on the battlefield This feeling is as dying, I notice that my senses fly and this feeling my heart, but this feeling it elevates my heart Those eyes I tear, It tears me apart and looks at me It tears me apart heart, While this vision is me love I broke out inside ever never find exit never cease, But when we meet, this happy sadness encegadora this darkness, this lucid insanity become in perfect peace, become in perfect peace, become in perfect peace, a perfect peace a perfect peace Pamina. Pamina. Pamina. Pamina. Pamina. "The queen has heard you. "I have become your words. It was fantastic. A beautiful song. ''If this young man,''said the queen, ''Is brave and passionate, saive perhaps a poor Ia Pamina.'' - Saving? -Save. Where? Sarastro has kidnapped. It is powerful and evil. It idler. "Get ready. "He comes the queen. Do not be afraid dear, Are pure, loyal and strong, You have to believe in your purity and tufuerza to save the pain the heart of this poor mother The Queen of Pain kneel before you without her daughter next, Free her now I begged my heart free her now I begged my heart An evil, an evil stolen from her daughter, The beast has caught infamous my innocent daughter, What tears great pain and shock, What a shame, what shouts and what tremors, Before my eyes she has been taken, Help! Help! Terrified screaming: Mother'', save me,'' cry again, Wanted help, but to no avail, Wanted help, I wanted to help, but has been in vain You, you, you, you go, this crazy Liberal, pull it out from between his claws, and if saved from their clutches see it as command him to be yours it will command, Forever be yours forever Wherever you are, I will find you. Be still and fix, Seem to carry a lock, Is very strong, I can not let go, seems to have stuck, The lock is jammed, I can not open, It appears that you have to live silent Would help, but the lock is jammed You seem to have bad luck The Queen has sent three to take off the mask and freeing, Hear, Papageno speech Remember, do not forget what it means, Liars, fools and those who boast spend their days with the mouth closed Spend their days with the mouth closed Spend their days with the mouth closed If the wicked who boast and lie they could be close mouth forever hatred and war would disappear and men would live in harmony, Hatred and war will disappear and men would live in harmony, Dear, for you with all our love we bring a gift of our queen, This flute will give you strength and weapons if you attack evil or misfortune, His music has the power magic to flourish a barren desert becomes king, and the world he sings, This magical treasure is better than fame or gold mundane its magic cure healing human wounds and gives love to the world, Gives love to the world Gives love to the world Gosh, how time flies, I think I have to dismiss, Do not even think, The two, without further delay Go to the home of Sarastro, are actual orders, Thanks, but no, I think I stay, I will live to fight another day Sarastro is a barbarian, will my brains for dinner will cook my kidneys, fry my guts my blood boil, roast my crop, Grilled Papageno! Tamino will protect, obey him and serve him in return, May this hero I had not known Love my life I will not die until you are ready, let me live another year Here, take this, you'll like, For me? What will be in hiding? Inside you'll hear tinkling silver, I do not sound, And you get the hang of, Learn to make it sound, The silver bells, mystical music, Safely armed struggle, See you soon, We'll meet again, We're leaving, Until then, See you soon, AufWiedersehen, Now we know who, but do not know where, How do I find the monster's lair? How do I find Sarastro's lair? Come three children beautiful and smart, that will guide you in this dark mission We will show the way where to go, where you lead, Come three children beautiful and smart, that will guide you in this dark mission We will show the way where to go, Keep children where you lead, For until then, Meet again, Goodbye, until then, aufWiedersehen, Until then, boys, meet again, Bye, bye, aufWiedersehen. AufWiedersehen. Meet again, Meet again, AufWiedersehen. Dear child, come with me Can not save anyone? Nobody sees me? Fly your last hours Do not fear death, But the sweet heart of my mother be broken If I die, You, idiot, tie and go, My passion will overcome them Death set me free, not live save me, lmbciles, come out, leave me alone with her, Where am I? Where I can be?, It seems that there are people Be brave, come to see, As a princess, so sleepy, with skin as white as paper, Is the devil, no doubt, It is no angel I want to leave, Have mercy, Have mercy, Let me out, Let me out, Sorry. Who are you? CImate and pushes that. Is to open messages, no messengers. - Are you a messenger? "From the queen herself. My mother? - Who are you? "Papageno. What more beautiful place. Well? I'm fine. - Your message! "Oh, yes. He was with the pigeons, as always, and suddenly a man. These three ladies who your mother sent to spy on the poor people Tamino see and show him a picture of you. He looks y. .. Shock. Thunder and lightning. You know what I mean? Tamino "I want? Why not come? Well ... I am the vanguard. Paved the way, if you want. You say that an unknown is in love with me for a portrait? As sure as I'm here. "It's nonsense. "I've seen worse. Once I saw a girl back and I fell in love. Will be five years. Love at first sight. Really. - Yes? "Yes, Ciara. Yes If I did I saw was beautiful. I heard his voice and saw how he was. I have not think of another. Five years ago. Poor thing. Well. In life there are other things apart from love. No. No, you're wrong. If you, my friend feel such a longing thou shalt not fear Living alone But feeling how to return the love find love that is mine, We hope you love We heal the soul because only love we can complete, Only love we can complete, True love can heal our misfortunes, and calm a fevered forehead, Or yesterday or tomorrow in love there is only today, Poets teach that hope, in life, is on the other, husband and wife, is on the other, husband and wife, husband and wife, husband and wife, Husband and wife husband and wife, Going Right hand of God, Husband and wife husband and wife, Going Right hand of God, Going Right hand of God, Going Right hand of God, This road leads where to go, but listen and obey our advice, You have to show three virtues: decision courage and patience But children, say, give me a sign Pamina "will soon be mine? We can not reveal the future Decision courage and patience Heed these words, wrestling, Know if the penalty expected to joy, to tears or celebration Wisdom of these young angels guide me by the dangers ahead, Where am I now? What is this place?, Is this where the evil hide his face? I imagined a dungeon dominated by death, I could not imagine these signs of wisdom, Neither monsters and ghosts could scare therefore A very clever man and powerful live here My reasons are noble, honest and true, Corre, wild dog, You can not hide, Pamina needs me Pamina needs me at his side, Back! "Back? "Back? We tried the other door Back! Back''''say again Return to where it was before You may find another way What brings you here young bleeding? What brings you to this sacred place? I've come to rescue the love and grace What words so splendid how well they sound, I do not know How dare you say them, Neither love nor grace shine on you, Revenge and murder burn within you, I am angry with a beast! You will not find animals in this house Do you live Sarastro in this fortress? Yes Sarastro lives here Between these walls mystics? This is the realm of Sarastro. Then, all is a big lie "Once you go? Yes, I have to go, Separate, Air! Give me the fresh air of God What do you mean?, Explain to me Sarastro is the king of this place There is nothing more to say Do not go so fast A moment Answer me, "Sarastro you care? I will hate you forever Andof "why? It is a poison, a disgrace, What sockets such accusations? In this war and the devastation a mother cries by her daughter, Poor thing, you have deceived your senses, The Queen has poisoned you mind, I have become deaf, you have been blinded Sarastro, if you were here could explain their reasons The reasons are lighter than water, Will the wily snake Pamina not caught and locked? Yes, soldier, what you say is true, Where? Do not accept evasive By God, Do not tell me it's too late, Is prohibited, Estimated Young I can not tell yet, Das many turns, tell me now, I can not help, wait and see, When will I get Answers? At the time, friend I understand, at the time you join our sacred side, Endless night devastation, When will the light of revelation? Soon soon soldier at the time, Will it soon? Will it soon? "At the time, you say? But otherwise, answer me, "The sweet Pamina is alive? Pamina Pamina is alive It's alive! It's alive! I thank you from the heart, I wish I could show you wealth they paid the debt I have with you, But more than dollars pounds or francs it's music, listen Take, very grateful How strong and how pure your music sounds, All of nature, all nature mesmerized by the flute, all living beings dance of joy, How strong and how pure your music sounds, All nature mesmerized by the flute, all nature mesmerized by the flute, all living things,,, But but Pamina my Pamina, still far My Pamina still far Pamina! Pamina! Listen! Where are you? It is useless, it's useless Where? Where? Where do you find then? Is the sound of Papageno God willing you've found Pamina God wants you to know where you are, God willing, God willing, come directly to me, come directly to me, God willing come directly to me, to me, Softly, softly, advanced fast as fire fled from the enemy, Let us quickly Tamino's feet or we will kill kill us in a moment Let us quickly Tamino's feet or we will kill kill us in battle Tamino! Listen, listen, listen, Listen, I call it Thank heaven I think we have heard, Yes, Tamino has heard us play, I swear, thence Stop the Pain and concerns, We must hurry, We must hurry, Stop the Pain and concerns, We must hurry, We must hurry, We must hurry, We must hurry, Come on, move, Come, quick, Why the rush? Why the rush? Why do not you stay a while? Bring fire knives and tools and will teach good manners You have been caught Monostatos and soportaris a week of torture Supplicate a simple death, Is it my last breath? Supplicate a simple death, My God, I forgot, I forgot about the bells, Spread your magic spell, Your music to sound, it may sound, it rolls jingling, tinkling, What beautiful music, so pure and so sweet I filled the senses peace magic I filled the senses peace magic If we all had These bells enemies disperse living in a time like this seems that the power is important, But there might be a better world Made of peace and harmony Made peace and harmony, Made for all boys and girls love is its base, Joy creates this magical world and the music starts, Our guide, Sarastro! Sarastro comes! God, we are lost! Sarastro comes! My God, we are about death, Sarastro arrives terrible, I wish it were a mouse, and run under the floor, Wish I was a turtle and I hide in the shell, Help! I see no where to hide, Tell the truth, Tell the truth, What sense does it lie?, Our guide, Sarastro! The wise Sarastro! The Flame of Purity and the shield of reason His wisdom and foresight save humanity, His wisdom and foresight save humanity, Stay with us and be open Stay with us and be open Be open Be open Lord I kneel in shame, I wanted to escape from your house But believe me, had an excuse, This twisted wanted to rape me Hui, sir, their abuse, The reason he has done escapes you I already know, you need not mourn, I the light inside of you Eyes you shine with love You shine with love Although you can the heart of love yet not set you free, Although you can the heart of love Moreover, yet not set you free, But no let me see my sad mother? Never in life! Not let you go with it are not safe in their claws, I miss his touch loving and tender, The need, I need Never in life! I beg you to forget your mother see your site is adjacent to this brave young man, I assure you, Proud soldier, you're dead, Sarastro has arrived, lowers his head, It is well! It is well! Can not be true! You are here! You are here! Is that you? Come, my love, my arms, Run, my love, my arms, Now you're here I have no fear, How dare they? Do you dare to profane this place?, Show a little respect, What a shame, what a lewd The server greets his master, I saved this girl disaster, This soldier cheated with that weirdo, She has a pure heart, but weak in spirit, used black magic to enslave, But I followed them and saved, You know me, I love to serve Yte deserve a special payment, You pay everything you owe, My reward is to serve, Degrade you out that's enough, But sir, sir, if I followed all laws, No, my friend just follow yours, Praise Sarastro, All-knowing, all-knowing, overflows justice, mercy and love, Pass out there destiny awaits you, started when test, Raise your head and walk with pride your search is beyond sun, When virtue force meets the golden path to love and truth the golden path to love and truth love and truth brings man to greater heights, brings man to greater heights, and turns the Earth into a paradise, and turns the Earth into a paradise, brings man to greater heights and turns the Earth into a paradise, brings man to greater heights, and turns the Earth into a paradise, and turns the Earth into a paradise, and turns the Earth into a paradise, Eden, Eden, Eden, Are you willing to spend all the tests? I do it for love. The reward is peace. I do it for love. He does it for her. "We're using. "I ask you to risk your life. We have no other option. Do you know tell you what you doing? I hope so. Tamino has achieved. This slaughter must end. We can not wait. Spirits of our fathers, command ye faith and strength required by this company wisdom, grace and love help them, find what they want and that peace off these fires restless Yque peace off these fires restless Let everyone get the benefits they deserve, Both get his deserved reward Eternal Love or the last breath joie de vivre or the pain of death, or the pain of death, joie de vivre or the pain of death, joie de vivre or the pain of death, And you? Are you IIST to IUCH? Io fight is not mine. What about love? As I watch, Io is not mine. What if I say that Sarastro meets a girl? A girl who dresses five years ago. Are you kidding? Papagena. "Papagena? Is it called Papagena? You'll see Papagena. And you'll see Pamina. But you have to decirIes anything. Under penalty of death. It is the first test. The test of silence. The female voice can be deceiving, id carefully with the cooing of the Dove Have faith that seeing is believing in silence, silence is proof of love Network weaving women's words can trap unsuspecting humans, If you dare to talk to women I await death and destruction I await death and destruction Why, why, why arriesgis your life here? Fly, fly, fly! Approaching death and danger Tamino, death surrounds you, Papageno, death surrounds you, No, no, no! I'm too young! Papageno, shut up! If you say one word will break our promise sacred And thou hast heard, we are dead, Shut up, you! Shut your mouth! I hold my peace, I hold my peace, I swear to God, Our loyal Queen will soon arrive, wants to destroy this place How? Does it come now? Shut up, will you? Shut your mouth Think of your vow of silence, if we break We are punished with death, Tamino, please have us believe, Have mercy Queen of the Night Sarastro's men are liars, and should not occur, the queen itself Do not listen, whatever happens, Say anything and go away with your music, Sarastro's men are liars, And No are right, queen yes, Sarastro's men are depraved, Lost soul and rot in hell We rot in fury or save us from hell, What will happen? How do I know? Remember what was said the elderly, Women lead men astray, Ordered us the queen herself, We can not rely in any odd We have promised our duty is clear, Shut up and cover your ears, How can you be so inconsiderate? Dear Papageno, please say something, I'd love to tell you,,, What? Shut up! Better not,,, Shut up! Why I can not stop talking?, The language is going to kill me, Your tongue will kill me, It breaks our heart, but we must go, You can not say anything, I see, Their hearts break, but go, It breaks our heart, but we will, "Do not say anything, you see, "You can not say anything, I see, The best men never are weak, Always think before speaking The best men never are weak, Always think before speaking Always think before speaking Always think before speaking Always think before speaking Always think before speaking In this place there can be women, your presence is prohibited, Help! Help! Help! My God, it's over, You have done well, but there's more. The tests will begin. Soon IIegar Sarastro. Thanks. Enjoy all the treasures Love, desire and friendship Why deny me these pleasures? Why the color of my skin? Why all exclude me? Why I live as a martyr?, Do not you can love me too? Do not you love me too? Life without a loving companion is not life, is hell is not life, is hell is not life, is hell Why do I suffer?, 'm No different from others, I can prove I love Pamina if you test me, Try me, Tuy I have to be together, Come and bless me with your light like stars caress at night, Let us join together like this forever, leaving bathe the dark light Like the stars caress at night let my soul embrace your light, Pamina. Mother! Where is IE Young I sent a porti? Joined Sarastro. Sarastro is a good man. A good man? "Sarastro is a good man? He uses people. I used and then gets rid of them. They love their tests and games. Here is a test, beloved daughter. CgeIo. "Kill him. -No. "Kill Sarastro. -No. Infernal fury burning me inside, Death and destruction Death and destruction I hammered the ears, Find and kill I disgraced Sarastro I disgraced Sarastro or return to be my daughter or return to be my daughter My beloved daughter never again My beloved daughter never again Condemned and cursed forever with the hatred of a mother forever The bonds of love disappear and nature will be invested Rejected ignored unprotected will invest nature will invest nature But if but Sarastro escapes you, listening listening daughter, The curse of a mother Are you still afraid of me? Or are you afraid to kill Sarastro? If you were mine, Io would porti. "I would do porti. - God! It's your only saIida. DjaIa alone! Lord going to kill you. She and her mother. Out. Who am I to believe? For those who live us there will be no more vengeance, If someone hurts us, law is forgiveness, We offer our hand of friendship to exit of this land destroyed We offer our hand of friendship to exit of this land destroyed We offer our hand of friendship to exit of this land destroyed This land wild and destroyed, In this sacred house revenge not succeed, No enemy frustrate us, redemption is our credo, Welcome to tired minds and injuries and give them hope and faith again Welcome to tired minds and injuries and give them hope and faith again Welcome to tired minds and injuries and give them hope and faith again True faith true faith again, Remember your promise. Silence! Tamino. We are not women. We can talk. I would not go mai a beer. Is it for me? Yes, ngeI mine. Water? Yes "Beer does not? No. How old are you, sweetheart? Eighteen to two minutes. - And have a boyfriend? "Yes. IIAM How? Papageno. Hey, that's me. No, no. Wait. How do you IIAM? What else would you want Saberi. If that price had EI with women, Ia keep promise. Again I visited the three welcome back your courage, Sarastro commands us to welcome you with silver bells and a magic flute, But Use it well, we beg, to help you in your next experience When you see a third time you know your destiny, Tamino soon end your struggle, Papageno silence Do not speak, silent, silence Do not speak, silent, silence "Tamino? What? Remember your promise, Silence Under penalty of death, I no longer want. I want to die my life has ended I want to my last breath I want to my last breath Broken hearts do not recover, Mine is split kill me, Mine is split mine is split kill me, See, Tamino, I'm crying, See how it breaks my heart Tamino, how his hand, Death is like sleep, as sleeping, Let go, let leave and not wake, Death is as sleeping, Death is as sleep let go, let leave and not wake, Let marche and not awake, and not wake, and sleep, We had saIida. No, no. I have not spoken. Well, before, but ... Because the whole world rejoice, the day dawns, The terrible night gives way the splendid morning Soon our noble soldier ready, That will hold your and you calm down nerves Here comes time, Bring the boy Here comes time, Bring the boy Pray, pray, pray for your trip bring us joy Pray, pray, pray for your trip bring us joy To bring us joy Where am I? You have to say goodbye. No! Do it. When will my love me?, When courage seal his victory, I expected a great danger Pamina's love will be my armor I expected a great danger Pamina's love will be your armor I have a hunch heartbreaking, fear death come today, So, if God wills it, I have to obey the laws of destiny, Do not march with so much composure if you love as I love, if you loved as I love, For all the love of God, I am a soldier you can not deny to what fate sends, Asks the world, I can not choose Time, you must leave, How painful it is based, Time, you must leave, How painful it is based, "Tamino, do not wait, "Pamina, I can not wait Tamino, for the love of God, waiting Time, you must leave, "How painful it is based, "Tamino, "Pamina, I can not wait "Tamino, It can not wait "I can not wait "You can not expect It can not wait "I can not wait "You can not expect Pamina Tamino, It must be so, Time, It must be so, That you face the target, Hurry, hurry, Time that you face the target, "It is time, "Oh, my God, "It is time, "Oh, my God, "All you face the target, "Guide to these lovers, To each other, Lead by, guide "These lovers, "The one to the other See you soon, One for the other, See you soon, Now I know whichever is be one of my birds. "For Iey, we would have to kill you. -Hard, but fair. I can not drink beer, right? SometHing Want more? SometHing If I want more? SometHing If I want more? I want a tender chicken or a tiny turtle, How it fills my heart of unrequited love of unrequited love of unrequited love What a pleasure to make cooing, a greater treasure than rubies, A girl for this poor man alone fill me with joy, A treasure far greater than rubies, What attacks joy A girl for this poor man alone fill me with joy, For this poor man alone A wife or a maiden that I was crossing the road It dissipates the hope of love with each passing day, with each passing day, with each passing day, I have not heard a word who inspires me, It is absurd any girl I want, If no one wants to marry me I can already take life No girl I wish Now I can take my life, No one wants to marry me I take your life, I take your life, A beauty or a monster it gives me the same thing The lead in my cart How lucky we were, How happy we were, How happy would be, This desert is not pleasant, I'm thirsty I shake my passion, I'm going to explode I ask what I should without it I swear that exploits, I shake my passion, I'm going to explode I ask what I should Please give me joy that I should I swear that exploits, I swear that exploits, Here I am, honey. Holy God. Marry me. It is tempting, of course, but ... If not, I will here forever. If I marry you, "I will saIir? I will. Are you sure? Lot. You swear Io portodo you most want? Okay, okay. I swear to be faithful to you and to anyone else. For Ia lives of my birds. Papagena! Look to the east, The dark night disappears Glorious joyful day arrives, Injustice, doubt and have disappeared, Fleeing the rising sun, The gold disc burning bright, with virtue, value, with love and learning Light shine on all fatal A man is weak, all men divine Humanity is weak, a man is divine, Look, Pamina awake What happens? He breaks your heart, Leo despair in his gestures, the fire of love consumes Pamina Beware madness the eyes, Tamino not die, Come, come, come, Let's hide and listen I have to say Listen I have to say Sweet love hug your wife, You'll finish with this useless life, What did he say? What did he say? I'm not sure What do you mean?, What do you mean?, Listen again and soon, my love, get married, Now jump, jump now to your marriage bed, Now jump to your marriage bed, The madness has taken this poor creature, Death takes written on the face, Hear us, drop the dagger Let me die here What is life when I leave my only love, pain when breathing hurt me? This is the knife My own mother God himself He gave you life, It's much better nail me this dagger die fading away, Mother, mother, Let me find rest, Has to disturb my peace your curse? Come, come with us, Come on, baby, go, Crosses the mystery your girlfriend Dulce Tamino we parted, Lives forever in my heart Stop! Give the dagger traitor If you see this horror Tamino he too would die of grief, Loves you more than life, What? You say you still love me? I cried, but I was ignored I have not said a word and now you say s mine Time flies, we must hasten, Come, Pamina, do not worry Join us and find the sweet Tamino strong and friendly Yte wants body and soul Come, we shall return, Guiadme, I long to see him "Come, we shall return, -Guiadme, I long to see him I long to see you, I long to see him I long to see him Two hearts that beat with love and awe can not be separated or away, The same stars look amazed, for love follows a higher law, For love, for love, follows a higher law, follows a higher law, Because love is a higher law, Because love is a higher law, a higher law, a higher law, Facing the this world of war hate and death the four faces: air and fire and land and water So purified and stronger to re-up, pure and strong the world men, Enlightened, clean afraid and human conflict and free to penetrate in mystery of life Death has no power on sufferers of war The fear of death can not defeat us, When fate presses one can expect Let me go and face my destiny, Tamino, wait! Your love is here What was that? "I called Pamina? Yes, yes, I called Pamina Thank God there is nothing to fear Now next to each other, arm in arm, death itself can harm us, death itself can harm us, If you allow me, "I can see it? Allows, you can see, What joy together hand in hand When all mankind is united the barren war can not separate two lovers who share a heart two lovers who share a heart Tamino mine! Men wanted! Pamina mine! My only joy! lremos the road together while hiding death and danger Yunidos by love forever walk beside each other, Our love shine like the sun and guide us along the way If you find roses have to be careful, because all pink can hide a thorn, Toca, my beloved, Magic tuflauta so that we become firm and resolute, Your notes subjugate all living beings Was made by my father, he carved, was designed for peace while about the heat of battle the earth shook, Liberate your music sound beam, His voice booms far away Wrapped in the sacred breath music we face the flames fiery death, Wrapped in the sacred breath music we face the flames fiery death, fiery death, fiery death, The trial by fire. Hellfire we do not burn, no matter the fire, no matter the mud, Let's face now Wind and water See, flute quiet stream that roars, Let's face now Wind and water See, flute quiet stream that roars, Water proof! We're finished we concluded all tests Has completed the company we won, Rejoice! Rejoice! Rejoice! Happy couple on land, water, fire and air have proven to be worthy brave and wise, Come, come! Come, come! Come, come! Come, come! Fortune calls you, rise, Come, come! Come, come! Fortune calls you, rise, Come, come! Come, come! Fortune calls you, rise, Papagena! Papagena! Papagena! Honey! Dear! My love! No answer, Alone, abandoned, My life has been accursed I talked to her, I talked to her, I broke my promise So Papageno has lost his bird, Papageno has lost your bird, When I saw my sweet turtle dove, when I kissed her lips so exquisite my heart flooded with love You are here jumping, is there jumping, Papagena! Nightingale! Papagena! My love! What do I do? It is useless to try, Life sucks, I'm going to die, The death set me free and my heart can rest in peace I can finish I feel pain hanging from the ceiling Everything is torment everything is control, so I say goodbye, cruel life, You can end your wild laughter hanging from roof Think of me, pretty girls Goodbye, cruel world Goodbye, cruel world If a girl heard me sing, I have mercy, stop me,,, One last chance before I left, Sing loud and clear, say yes or no Sing loud and clear, say yes or no No one hears me, All is silent, However, all is quiet, Nobody cares, I can not deny, Papageno, a last breath Goodbye life, hello death Papageno, be brave, Leaps to your grave No, Wait and see, Wait a little, see, I will count slowly one, two and three, One Two Three No one, can not be Nobody give a damn, No one has come, she heard me, Goodbye, cruel world Goodbye, cruel world No, wait! Papageno, think a little Although life is fleeting we're dead a long time Although life is fleeting we're dead a long time It is good that some children tomis me like you hair, My life is hard and yours is easy, One day you will feel like me and then I will come to torture you, Beam sonar your silver bells and look at what kind of bird you about, I had forgotten my magic bells, I'll let ring my magic bells, Sonad, magic bells, and bring her, Papagena bring me here, Papagena bring me here, Bring music, bring it, You see my wife, Sonad, bells, and bring her, Bring my beloved, Sonad, bells, and bring her, You see my wife, Sonad, bells, and bring her, Bring my beloved, Sonad, bells, and bring her, Bring my beloved, Bring her here My beloved here My love here Papageno, look who comes Am I tired my eyes deceive? No, I'm here, have faith, believe me, I know my wife forever I know my handsome lover, "My wife always "My beautiful love, What joy to marry me, Honey, I'll marry you, Let me hold you, let me kiss you Let me hold you, let me kiss you God will give us large offspring God will give us large offspring a lot of eggs with chicks inside Chicks inside chicks inside chicks inside A lot of eggs with chicks inside A lot of eggs with chicks inside First, a little Papageno, Then a little Papagena, Then another Papageno Then another Papagena, - Papageno! - Papagena! - Papageno! - Papagena! - Papageno! - Papagena! There is a feeling Best on Earth there is no sense Best on Earth that small, small Papageno Begins and the family There is a feeling Best on Earth there is no sense Best on Earth that small, small, Papageno Begins and the family Begins and the family Begins and the family Begins and mating Begins and breeding Slowly, slowly, slowly, slowly, Follow me and do not go out of line, Slowly, slowly, slowly, slowly, Follow him and do not go out of line, Lady, Keep your word not scoff at me, Swore to your daughter would be mine, I gave my word and not break, My daughter is your wife, My daughter will be your wife Alto, I hear a loud bang like thunder burst, Yes, a great flood that falls as if water that stirs in the depths, Look, we have the holy site, The surprise and cunning I have overcome surprise and cunning I have overcome With shots and shells prove our worth, Erase these fanatics the face of the Earth Powerful Queen of the Night powerful Queen of the Night send your darkness above the light Defeated and destroyed, our powers flee, And convicted under to the endless night, Sunlight glorious drives away the darkness and conviction their shadows at night infinite Light always guide us, Light always guide us, save us the battle save us the battle Arise! Arise! Rise cheerful among us! Arise! Arise! In the wisdom is life The light of true learning is stronger than war and humanity wishes there is peace forever more, The light of true learning, the light of true learning is stronger than war is stronger than war and humanity is burning with desire for peace forever more, and humanity is to there is peace forever more, Yla humanity wants there is peace forever more, Yla humanity wants there is peace forever more, there is peace forever more, Let there be peace forever more,
