 

                        1 Dismount! Your name? Jos Lizarabengoa, e! Navarrs, reporting for duty, sir. - The Colonel will see you. Follow me. - Thank you, sir. Jos Lizarabengoa, e! Navarrs, reporting for duty, sir. My duty and pleasure, Don Jose, to welcome you to our regiment. Thank you, sir. No doubt you've heard that life is pleasant in this regiment, that it's a fashionable catch-all for young men of good family with no talents to speak of, that we're called "The Gay Policemen," because we do little more than stand guard here and there a few hours a day and keep the peace, such as it is, in Seville. - The rest of the time you may have heard... - No, sir. The rest of the time is spent in the consumption of great quantities of wine and gambling and making love to the girls from the cigarette factory. There are approximately 200 of these girls, and the factory is next door to the barracks. A great convenience and a blessing for the Dragoons. Yes, sir. You may have heard these things, and they are true. Let me inform you, however, that a young man willing to work and to maintain a degree of integrity, sobriety and honour has a bright future in this regiment. We need a few like you here. Your record is good. You Navarrasians are hard-working, moral, proud. We need a few like you here. - I hope you're ambitious. - Yes, sir. I've heard that in Seville, a promotion in the Dragoons is a step toward a government position. A good thing to keep in mind. Have you ever been in Seville before? Do you know the city? - No, sir. - You are relieved of duties for 48 hours. Look about the town, familiarise yourself with it. The people here in Andalusia are a different breed from your Northerners. - Look them over. - Thank you, sir. Dismissed. There is nothing so good to the taste as a thing that's been warmed by the Spanish sun. Well, not only is he beautiful, but music comes out of him. -It is just a watch. It chimes. - Too bad. I thought for a minute you had wonderful possibilities. It's just a watch. See? Too bad. But maybe we can be friends, anyway. Would you like a bite of my orange, little soldier? Thank you. On the second thought, perhaps it would not be proper. After all, we haven't been introduced. I am Jos Lizarabengoa, I just arrived in Seville, sefiorita. Sefiorita? Me'? You have just arrived in Seville! - Where did you come from? - From Navarre. I've heard that the men from Navarre wear little blue berets, tell big black lies and don't know how to love a woman. I've always wanted to find out for myself whether this was just gossip, or... Look at them. The bride. They paid out their last peseta to get rid of her, but it was worth it. The bride. She'll hate him, but she'll cling to him like a leech. There's a payo wife for you. And the fine groom. In a week, he will be beating her. - There's a payo marriage for you. - Shut up, you! You talk that way because nobody would marry a gypsy like you. No? I could marry any man in Seville I wanted to. But I would rather be dead, do you hear? I would rather be dead than be the stale wife of a spiritless payo! Manuelito, remember me, little pig of a payo? I told you she'd catch you. Little estzipido. My oranges. Thief! My oranges. You stole my oranges. Those are my oranges. The thief, he stole my oranges. Stop him! Thief! My oranges! The thief stole my oranges. Catch him! I hope you find who you are looking for, Jos. I'm not looking for anyone. I don't know what you mean. I've noticed you for two days now. You search among these girls as though you're looking for a long lost relative. Did the gypsies carry off your baby sister many, many years ago? - Why did you use that word? - What word? -"Gypsy." I thought you said "gypsy." - I did. I suppose there's quite a few of them in the town. Gypsies? I suppose so. There are quite a few everywhere. - Why? - No reason. Do any gypsy girls work in that factory? One. Just one. But she comes and goes. One never knows... What time is it? - I lost my watch a couple of days ago. - That's too bad. I was just... Carmencita! Carmencita. Carmen. Carmen, I've been looking for two days for you. For two days, Carmencita. I inquired at the factory, and you were absent. You weren't at Lillas Pastia's. What have you been doing? - Sunning myself. - I'm going on duty right now, but if you meet me later, maybe we can have a bottle of wine at Lillas Pastia's. No. Forgive me. This is my new friend, Don Jose. This is Carmen. It is no use bothering with him, Carmen. Don Jos has better things to think about than a pretty woman. Better things? What are better things? Must you roll your eyes at every man? Even the Colonel? Such an important man might be very useful, if he... My eyes are my own to send where I please. Must I tell you again? No one tells Carmen's eyes where to go or how to behave but Carmen! -8:00 at Lillas Pastia's. - I'll be there, Carmencita. I was thinking, otherwise you wouldn't know when 8:00 arrived. - Is that the watch you told me you lost? - She must have found it somewhere. How did she know it was yours? Had you seen her before? Well, a couple of days ago, she brushed against me while I was... Then she stole it from you. Gypsies will always steal anything they can get their hands on. I don't know why I bother with that girl. She's bad all the way through. She lies as easily as other people drink water. She is a liar, a thief and a cheat, has no more manners than my great aunt's cat. She's really awful. But I'd sell my soul to hear her say just once she loves me. - Dirty gypsy trash! - She is a disgrace to the town. She laughed at my wedding and made dirty remarks at my Manuelito. - Did you see what she did? - See what she's done to the milk! I spit in your milk and the milk of your old turtle of a mother, and at the poor excuse of a woman who married Manuelito. Who did he marry? Me! Not you. Gypsy garbage. Nobody would. Out of the way. Out of the way. What's going on here? I'm dying. She killed me. Bring a priest, I beg you, bring a priest. I am dying! What happened? Quiet! -It was the gypsy. - She done it! I see her do it! - Call the guard! - Yes, sir. Look, look at my face. She cut me. I didn't say a word, and she cut me. - I am dead! I am dying! - Get her to the doctor. May all your children be squint-eyed females and may they all grow up to swing from the gallows! Now then. What started all this? Quiet! They called each other names until I thought my ears would drop off, and then that one took a knife from her stocking and zip zap. Don't believe a word they say. All these filthy people are against me. Guard! Haul her. Take the gypsy to the magistrate. She almost cut that woman's head off. I hold you responsible. Yes, sir. I'm ready to go now, soldier. Please take me away from here. Where are you taking me, sefior e! Navarrs? - To the magistrate. - To the magistrate? He will send me to prison. I can't go to prison. A gypsy dies in prison, and I have no money for a bribe. In this city, you rot in prison without money for a bribe. I know. Believe me, I know. I have a friend who's in prison right this very minute. That's why I'm here in Seville, working my fingers to the bone to get enough money for a bribe to get him out. I'm not afraid of hard work. I'm a good, honest, working girl. But who would take care of me if I ever fell into prison? Nobody cares about me. I'm all alone in the world. All alone. He pinched me. I was walking along so obediently, and he pinched me in a most vulgar way. - She lies! I didn't touch her. - Fall back. You, walk with the other. Now this one. Is there no protection against the advances of these filthy conscripts? I did not... Look, little soldier, what a good street this is. I could give you a little shove, and you could fall down, and I could get away, and nobody would catch me. I'd be gone before those stupid Andalusians ever knew what happened. Nobody would know. You could tell them I escaped. Then I'd be very grateful to you. I'm very charming when I'm grateful. Remember, 8:00 tonight at Lillas Pastia's? How can we be there together if I'm in a dirty prison cell? It would be so easy. I run very fast. You should see me run. I have very good legs. See what good legs I have, little soldier, for running. Wait a minute. Come back here. Help me up. I think I've injured my ankle. He made no attempt to pursue the prisoner and pretended injuries to prevent his men from following her. I warn you that you have sacrificed months of good behaviour. You had a bright future in the Dragoons, Don Jos. I advise you to avoid this gypsy. I grant you the girl is interesting. But for a young man who takes his future seriously, a girl like that spells ruin. For an older man who has nothing to lose and has time for a little foolish indulgence, it's another matter, perhaps. Remember what I told you. You'll take extra guard duty and be confined to your barracks for 30 days. - Dismissed. - Yes, sir. - What is the password, sentry? - Carmen! Carmen is the password! Just mention her name and the way is cleared, like a miracle! Take pity. Take pity. Bless you. - What are those gypsies doing here? - They've come to entertain. The Colonel sent his own carriage after them. When he gives a party, he does things handsomely, I'll say that for him. That girl, the one who's dancing, how can she be so bold as to come to the Colonel's party? - She's in hiding from the police. - That's Carmen. And the Colonel is a man, just like any other man, I suppose. But it won't last. She never likes anybody very long. What are you doing here? Have you been free to come and go and make eyes at every man you see while I've had to walk sentry duty like a common soldier, because of you? Have you? Tell me how that could be, or as heaven is my witness... Tell me how that could be! Well, now. This is the first time I've heard you really talk. Anger is very becoming to you. - You make me think of a fighting bull. - Answer me! It is very simple in this case. The good, kind Colonel has pardoned me, -because I am innocent. -Innocent. Well, isn't that why you let me run away, because I was innocent? But what could I do? I've waited for you every night. If you preferred to walk alone in the rain, is that my fault? But why was I walking? Because I was punished for letting you escape, that's why. All that for me, just imagine! I owe you a great deal, it seems. - How much longer must you stand here? - What importance is that to you? Another hour. Just one more hour, and I can leave here. I'm confined to the barracks, but I'll get away. I swear it. Come to think of it, I'm beginning to be bored with this party. I think I shall run away from it and go to Lillas Pastia's. In about an hour. That same hour you were speaking of, little cousin. Notice how the fat is spitting tonight? Something is going to happen. You really believe in those things, don't you, old witch? I know them. What does spitting fat signify? That emotions will grow overheated until they explode. You wait. You'll see. Well, then, it's nothing to worry me, since I have no emotions. It is nothing to worry Pablo, because Pablo is worried about nothing but money. It is nothing to worry Remendado, because Remendado is a fatalist, anyway. So you see, old crone, the three of us are safe from danger. Who would you say the fat is spitting at tonight? Well, the buzzards have gathered already. - Didn't you expect us? - Yes, but not tonight. - We couldn't wait any longer. -It was a case of fish catches men. We could smell it frying clear up in the mountains. That reminds me. If that old trout, the Colonel, comes here, tell him I've gone. I've gone to Portugal or somewhere. I told him not to come here tonight. And to keep him away, I promised him faithfully I would go back to his house. But I don't trust him. Men are such liars! - What about Andrs? - Who? - Andres. You knew his name yesterday. - Tell him I've gone to Gibraltar. Carmen, was the Colonel's party successful, Carmen? - No, it was very stupid. - Was it successful? We need another 200 duros to get Garcia out of jail. Let him stay where he is. Is that a way for a loving wife to feel about her husband? - Let him rot! - No money for Garcia? We will tell him. - There, thief, and be welcome to it. - Is this all? I left the party early. There is much love in your cards, Carmen. Much, much love. And money. A fine new dress of silk. - I can feel the silk. It's the best quality. - Good. Perhaps Garcia will be rescued from jail, after all. And prosper. Perhaps. Perhaps they'll hang him. Do you happen to see a nice hanging there? No. No hanging. Too bad. - Now, that's odd. - What is? One love. One love emerges from all the rest and makes the others nothing. You're talking nonsense, old witch. There is no such thing as one love to Carmen. One at a time. One at a time. Nothing can stop this. It's destined. It's written here. You're doing it yourself. You're pulling it to you with dark, invisible threads that are strong, Carmen. As strong as life itself. As strong as death. What is it? What do you see there that makes you look like that? - That isn't my fortune. - The fat's in the fire, all right. Just as I said. That isn't my fortune, I tell you. I didn't cut the cards. Anyway, I don't believe in cards. I never have. As if you could see in those stupid cards that death was walking my way. We all have to die, and I can't think of a nicer way than to be killed by love. Where are you going, little soldier? Because wherever it is, I'm going with you. Get busy, you two. We want some yemas, nougats and a bottle of wine. Bottle of wine. Some bread and some cheese and some fruits, candy and sausages. We are on our way to a feast. Do you want us to starve to death? Pay the old pirate, little soldier. - There's so much here. - She's always hungry, that girl. Someday she'll eat the wrong thing, and then she'll howl about the pain as if she had never been warned at all. Because they've lost their own appetites, they hate to see anybody else enjoy eating. Come along. This is where I live. Watch out. There are five steps here. One, two, three, four, five. Does it please you? This is where I live when I'm in Seville. Where do you live when you're not in Seville? - I've heard... - Then you've heard lies. Because what you have heard about me, you have heard from payos. And payos always lie about gypsies. Always. Is it really true what I've heard about the men of Navarre? What? Is it really true that they wear little blue berets and tell big black lies? - Never. Never. - And don't know how to love a woman? Well, that's true. Teach me. lam from Navarre and I don't know a thing. There's a big black lie. The gypsies say that a lover should have gentle hands, a gentle mouth and a gentle heart. - And a woman the same? - No. She should have cruel hands, a cruel mouth and no heart at all. Oh, no. No. My beads. Oh, no. The cards. You don't know about the cards. And this morning, I saw a black cat. And now the beads. Breaking beads are the worst, the very worst. Those things don't mean anything. That's just superstition. Go away. Go home. Say goodbye and think no more of Carmen. - What is the matter with you? - You're a nice boy, but I don't love you. I don't love anybody. I never in my life loved anybody. And you are just the sort of big stupid who falls in love in return for a kiss and then makes a nuisance of himself. You can go out this back way. Get out. Have you lost your hearing? I said, "Go home!" But why? Because I am afraid that... - That someday you will be very cruel. - Carmen... Go away. You can't make me go away. Not now, Carmen. - I can make you do as I please. - No. Yes, anytime. Anytime I like. I won't have you here. You're the one. I can sense it. A gypsy knows things. I never want to look on your ugly, murdering face again! Do you hear me? Stay away from me. Josito! Wait! Josito. I think I must be crazy. I don't know how to say it. I don't know how to tell you, but... Love has been told a thousand ways, so let it be. You'll come with me to the mountains, where we'll... Get out. I order you to leave. Report to me in the morning. I order you to leave. Carmen is not here. Now get out. You'll be court-martialled in the morning, of course. In the meantime, I think you need to be taught a little lesson. A little lesson, for a little Corporal. A little lesson for a white-livered conscript. The others should be riding in any time. I wish they wouldn't come. I wish they'd never come. We couldn't get along without them. We haven't got a peseta between us. A man as hunted as you are needs friends, good money-making friends. I don't know what's happened to me. Here I am, a deserter from the army, the murderer of my own Colonel. I can't imagine how it happened. One minute, I thought he was going to kill me, and the next minute, there... My sword. Don't think about it. You're here and I'm here. That's enough. Think about it that way. Just Carmen and Jos. - All to myself. - All to yourself. Where have you been? We've been waiting for you. This is Don Jos, a strong, healthy addition to our company. You'll find him very valuable. This is Remendado. He's stupid, but a good enough fellow. This is Pablo. He's very good at fighting, but don't ever turn your back on him. I can well imagine you're starving. I have everything ready. The soldier here has just escaped with his ears. All of Seville is after him. He killed his Colonel in a sword fight, ran him through as neatly as a pig on a spit. So I decided he could join us. I like him. What will Garcia say? We need new men. Garcia is practical in his thinking. - Who's Garcia? - Garcia? He's our leader. He's been in jail. He killed a border policeman. That's eight notches on his belt now. Eight? Eight or one, what's the difference in principle? Dancaire's in Seville now arranging for Garcia's release with a nice, fat bribe. It isn't a bad life. We travel. There's a certain excitement about it. And when we're lucky, there's money. A little smuggling now and then, an occasional stagecoach full of rich passengers, a mule train carrying merchandise. Sit down, Jos. Here. Beside me, where you belong. I'm still wondering what Garcia will say. You might like to know that we cleared out the old merchant's storehouse -without a cracked skull between us. - Good. It was chock full of tobacco and cotton goods, like you said it was. The thieves' market in Cordova will be glad to see us. We couldn't have done it without Carmen. She charmed the watchman away from his post and trussed him up like a turkey ready for the oven. You cheated and tied up an old man so that they could commit a robbery? Tobacco's very valuable. We sell it to smart cigar makers who wish to evade the government tax. Jos, listen to me. Whatever happens, say nothing. Do you understand? For my sake, Josito, say nothing. - Dancaire! - Remendado! It's good to see your ugly face. We got the tobacco for you. And plenty of it. - Fine. - What a ride. Pablo, see what's in the pot. Get me something to eat. - Right away. - Dancaire, Remendado, see to the mules. Carmen! Show these ruffians how glad you are to have me back. How I thought of you! Every night, I said to my jailer, "My Carmen is the most beautiful woman in Andalusia," and he said to me. "Go to sleep, you filthy goat, and dream about her." And I did. I did! I did. I did. I did. I did. Come, sit beside me. Who is that? He's a hero. He killed a colonel of the Dragoons. Good. What's his name? Don Jos. Don Jos. A gentleman. Welcome, sefior. What's the matter with him? Oh, no! Now that makes me sick. Greetings! Well, there was a lot of excitement about you in the city today, and I... - Who is he? Who is that fellow? - Garcia. He's our leader. Take my advice and keep away from him. He is a good leader, but another man's life doesn't mean much to him. He's her husband, Navarrs. - Her husband? - That's right. - Josito, I want to tell you something. - There's nothing you can tell me now. Why didn't you tell me before? Why didn't you tell me about Garcia? - I didn't know he'd be back so soon. - You knew. You knew. All right, but I didn't think he'd be back until tomorrow. Is it my fault he rides that fast? What kind of a creature are you? Your kind, Josito. Can you forget so soon? Can you? Go back to him. Go on, go back where you belong. Look at me, Josito. Look at me. So much the better. I'll live longer. How do you like this life? Pleasant, isn't it? You eat better than you do in the army, and the pay is much better. You can see that already. Garcia got 2,000 duros to divide among us just for politely delivering some tobacco to a crooked cigar maker. - What could be simpler than that? - He can keep my share. - Your share of what? - The money. I did not quite know what you meant. Jose, did you see the posters in Cordova offering a reward for your capture? You're very fortunate that your companions have such nobility of character. But don't trust Pablo. He has no manners about things like that at all. Get off. I'll see what's ahead. Take cover, they've seen us! - Do you know how to use a gun, cabal/era? - I was a soldier. I know, but can you shoot? - I can do anything you can do. - Does Carmen say so? If she does, she lies, the black witch. - Josito. - Keep down, you little fool. I'm not afraid. When I'm killed, it won't be by a stranger, Jos. That much I know. Joseito, listen! We could get out of here without anyone even knowing it. Then if Garcia stayed and got himself killed, we couldn't help that, could we? The soldiers have good pistols and they shoot straight, Josito. I hate him, but he's my comrade. You're a true payo, all right, always afraid of being dishonourable. You are like the dwarf who thought himself tall because he could spit a long distance. You don't love me. The sergeant's been killed! The sergeant's been killed! Come on. Let's get out of here, fast now. Those soldiers have only gone for reinforcements. I don't believe I'll try to go with you right now, Jose. Something seems to be wrong. I'll get your mule and put you on it. Let's go, Jose, and bring the chickens. No use leaving them for the soldiers. Wait a minute. You don't understand. He isn't dead. He's only hurt. He's still alive? I didn't know that. We'd be foolish to leave him here. He might be recognised as one of our men. Garcia! It would take a clever person to recognise him now. Carmen. That girl is crazy, bathing in these icy waters. Listen to her. I didn't say, "Look at her," payo. I said, "Listen to her." I can't see her from here. But you can see her in your imagination. That's what you're doing, seeing her in your mind. I can tell it from your face. I'm afraid you'll have to be content with just sharing my money with me, caballero. I don't want to share anything with you. You keep your filthy money. He doesn't want my money. Just what did you have in mind, cabal/era, that you do want in payment for the work you do here? Is there anything else that belongs to me that you were thinking about? Anything that belongs to you would be just as filthy and evil as you, and I wouldn't want it. I'll tell her, payo. I'll tell her. But watch yourself, she will probably slit out your white liver and serve it to me for breakfast. Are you such a coward you have to have a woman do your carving for you? - Coward? - Yes, coward. Has it slipped your mind that we lost a man today, Garcia? So we did. So we did. Now, then, it looks as though I'll have to let this puppy live until I can find a man to replace him. I am unarmed, payo, as you can see. An honourable gentleman like yourself doesn't attack an unarmed man, does he? Does he, Don Jos? It would be too bad to kill him and waste the nice, fat reward offered for his capture. Courage, little mule. Only two more turns in the road, and we'll be in Cordova. I'll have to find a lovesick fool who'll follow me into a nice little trap. Then we'll have some money to spend, and you'll have a fresh carrot. Not here yet. Another hour until sunset. We'll have time for a game of cards before they come. Too bad the Navarrs won't be here to see the fun. I wonder why he refused to obey your orders and come with us. He said he was sick, and I believe him. - He is sick. - He's sick, all right. Sick because Carmen is doing a little work, for a change. Don't payo women contribute anything? Payo women do not, ordinarily, pick up men and lure them into ambush to be robbed by their husbands, Garcia. He is what he is. He's not a gypsy. - He can't think the way a gypsy does. - You're not a gypsy. You think the way I do. I don't think at all. That's my protection. And I feel nothing. I simply observe, and I'm amused. El Navarrs is not an observer. He feels strongly, and it's killing him. Don't worry. I won't let him die slowly of love, Dancaire. Are they here yet? With the bullfights in Cordova this week, Carmen should have very good luck. When the bullfights are in town, the place is always crowded with nice, fat pockets to pick. - You're in good form today, Lucas. - I'm in good form every day, Carlocito. No ordinary bull can stand on his feet against cunning like yours, Lucas. Nor any ordinary woman. But then I'm not an ordinary woman. You know, you look to me like a man who would enjoy having his fortune told. And you look to me like a girl who would be very skilful at it. I have a little place on the edge of town that's a very nice little place for fortune-telling. And I know a little place in the middle of town that's a better place for fortune-telling. - And I say we'll go to my little place. - And I say we'll go to mine. - She should've been here a long time ago. - Maybe she never went into town at all. Maybe that's why the Navarrs lied and said he was sick. Maybe they had it planned that way all the time. That's not true, Garcia. You two remain here for another hour. If she still comes, we'll have lost nothing. If she's playing games with me, it only takes one of us to deal with her. Why do you hate e! Navarrs so? Can it be because Carmen... Shut up! Well, you, too, Pablo? Poor little Carmen, such magic as she possesses can only destroy her. Josito. - You didn't go with the others? - No. You didn't take anyone to them for them to rob? - No. - Why not? Maybe because... Maybe because I had a feeling you didn't want me to do those things any more. I can see you don't believe me. Too bad. - Don't you want something to eat? - No. - Aren't you hungry? - No. I am. I'm always hungry. You never are. How can I be, when I'm sick every minute of the day? I know what's the matter with me. Why don't I go away from here? It's driving me crazy being around you, knowing that you're married to another man. Why don't I go away where I can't see it? I wouldn't be married to another man if you'd used your head yesterday, would I? So, my little companion, you would play games with Garcia? I believe we had a rendezvous at the edge of town at sunset. Was I mistaken? Could I possibly have missed you, or is it possible you didn't feel like working today? No, you didn't miss me, Garcia. I had better things to do today. Didn't we, little soldier? You filthy wench. You can choose your pastimes where you like, but while I'm master here, you'll work, too. Nobody is my master, you dirty old goat! I'm Carmen, and I work when I want to work! So, puppy, you would play games with Garcia, too? Don Jos. I'll kill you. Two murders on your soul now, for nothing. Why didn't you just ask him for Carmen? He'd have sold her to you. - Sold her? - Yes. Gypsies sell their women. He bought her, married her when she was 12 years old, a typical gypsy marriage. - I'm going to marry her. - How? Where? You can't show your face in a town in Spain. Then we'll have a gypsy wedding, a gypsy wedding in the hills. You'll be a fine pair, you two. Payo and gypsy, the tamed and the untamed, the dog and wolf. Dog and wolf weren't created to live together. It won't work, Navarrs. You'll see. One camp is the same as the other. Why are we moving? We move when the birds move. They have an instinct about those things. We go now to our winter home, Josito. We should send out invitations, I think. The sefior and sefiora... What did you say our name is? Lizarabengoa. ...will be at home for the winter in the caves of Granada. Won't it be cold living there in the caves? No, Josito. It won't be cold. Everybody out, line up and no talking. Your valuables. We have company. What are you doing here? I told you I wanted you to stay away from this. I was bored. I won't sit on my haunches and wait for you like a wife of a payo, stirring a pot of stew. I've been my own woman and a gypsy too long, my friend. I told you to leave these matters to me. I want no more of this. You told me. You wanted no more. I'm not your slave. I'm Carmen, and nobody tells me what to do! I do as I please. If you are ashamed of what I am, find another woman. Get yourself a payo wife. You and your payo honour. I spit on your honour. Get back to camp. - I always used to ride with Garcia. - I'm not Garcia. No, you're not. In many ways, you're not. Get back in the coach. All of you! Your leader is a brave man everywhere but at home, it seems. Carmen. Carmen, let's go away. I want to clear out of this. - Come away with me, Carmen. - Where to? Where do you think you can go with every Dragoon, every soldier under orders to shoot you at sight like a mad dog? I don't know where we could go, but I know that I'm sick to death of this. I've had enough of it. We could go away, you and I, perhaps to the New World, to Mexico. I want to live like other people, without hiding. I'm hungry for the sight of simple, gentle people. I want to sit around with plain men and talk about farming, about... I find myself so many times, lately, thinking about my home in the north. They'll hang you there, too, if you show your face. But we could go to Mexico, couldn't we? It wouldn't be like home, but we could live like other people. I wasn't born to grow cabbages, Josito. You knew that right from the beginning, when you chose to lead this kind of life with me. I didn't choose it. So it's my fault! I led you into it, by the nose, I suppose! You killed the Colonel. I didn't. Dog and wolf. It's beginning, just like I said. Dog and wolf. I knew you would be a nuisance. I said it! You and your tiresome regrets and your weeping about something that's already over and done with! Take your payo conscience and make some other woman a present of it. I tell you I'm sick of it! It'd be well if you borrowed some of my conscience, because you have none of your own. You wouldn't love me nearly so much if I had a conscience, Josito. That's a wonderful excuse, to say, I'm a gypsy, and I don't know right from wrong. I don't know, Josito, tell me. What is right, what is wrong? Is that wrong, little soldier? Out of the way, gypsy. Out of the way, I tell you. We're in a hurry. Well, now, so the payos are in a hurry, are they? That's too bad, isn't it now? Because I'm in no hurry at all. - Carmen. - Lucas. Carmen, where have you been? Cordova hasn't seen you in months. Well, I've been a little busy, Lucas. A few killings, a wedding here and there. And what about you? Also a few killings, but no weddings. And many happy hours of thinking of you, my Carmen. I was on my way into Cordova to pick up a few provisions. But you know I am the best provider in all Cordova, Carmen, to a very small and exclusive clientele. I provide music and dancing and laughter and little memories. Other times, when she went into Cordova for supplies, she came back the same day. Probably the rain that's keeping her away. You won't be seeing her for quite a while. You might as well make up your mind to that. Carmen likes to laugh, and there hasn't been much of that around here lately, it seems to me. She's found herself a good time somewhere. I know her better than you do, Navarrs. I tell you, I do know her better. You shouldn't have kicked him. His nose is broken. You don't like us, do you? We fill you with disgust. We're the symbol of your degradation. Where've you been? Answer me. Where've you been? I'll beat you black and blue if you don't answer me. I was in Cordova, worrying about you. Another regiment of lancers arrived in town today, and I saw a poster offering a reward of 5,000 duros for your capture. If you're clever, you'll get out of here. There're some people who might think 5,000 duros worthwhile. I know a place outside of Gibraltar where you could stay. There're some cotton goods coming in from England. You could pick up some and sell them to Rodrigo. He's still in Gibraltar. Help me. Where've you been? I went to the bullfight yesterday, and I saw a very clever bullfighter called Lucas. They say he has an embroidered vest that cost 3,000 duros. Imagine, a vest that cost 3,000 duros. - Where did you get that dress? - That's my affair. Where did you get that dress? I'll kill you. As heaven is my witness, I'll kill you if you don't tell me! - Josito, little soldier... - Who is he? Who is he? - Who gave it to you? - Look, Josito. Look! - Look how Carmen loves you. Look! - I know you. I know what you are! Who is it now? Who is it now? Who is it now? The cards never lie to a gypsy, my friend. They always tell the truth, Lucas. And what are they telling you at this minute that makes you look like such a beautiful thundercloud? They tell me that the thing I've been expecting is coming nearer, Lucas. They tell me that it might be soon now. You're really afraid of something you see there, aren't you, Carmen? You're not the only one who has death as a business partner, little bullfighter. Death travels with me, too. In the form of a man who loves me. The cards always say that, Lucas, that such a man will kill me. And I know such a man. Yes, you've changed. We become what we do. Don Jos. For all these months, I've been telling myself, "I am not Jos, e! Navarrs. "I'm not truly a deserter. I'm not a robber. I'm not a thief. "I am Don Jos Lizarabengoa, a well-bred young man with a bright future, "who is, for the moment, playing at being a highwayman, because he loves Carmen." But that's not true. I am no longer Don Jos, because we become what we do. I am Jos, e! Navarrs, and I am just as cruel and ugly and hard as Garcia was. No. You're worse, because you have a conscience. The only really wicked men I've ever known were those who started as idealists. That's what depravity feeds on. Illusions and idealism and love gone wrong. I have news for you, Navarrs. There's nothing for you to worry about. She is having a good time, like I thought. And I know where she is. - And who it is she's taken up with. - Who? You heard her mention Lucas, the bullfighter? He has a fine house in the street of the Bajari. And they're together every afternoon in the Corral de la Plaza. I would certainly go there and bring her back if she belonged to me. No wife of mine would go around flaunting herself in front of... No, Jos. No, look, I'm only telling you for your own good. Jos, please... Poor Pablo. No matter what he does, he always ends the same way, on the ground. Don't be an idiot. You can't go into the city. They'll shoot you down without even thinking about it. Be patient, amigo. She'll be back one of these days. - You must get used to this sort of thing. - Never. There, little bullfighter. And there'll be another one for every bull you kill. Be careful, you'll have me killing every bull in Spain. Bring me the ears, Lucas. Don't forget the reward, now. 5,000 duros, and I get half of it. He'll come along, you'll see. He'll be coming here to get her. Just keep your eye on her, and you'll get him. What kind of a fool are you to show your face in Cordova? - Carmen. - Did you see that black cat? A black cat is all kinds of bad luck. It means serious trouble every time, Jose. - If you had any brains at all, you'd... - Carmen, let's go home. - No. - Please, Carmen. I can't stand it any longer, this waiting. Please. Maybe tomorrow, Jose. Maybe I'll be back tomorrow. It's because I hit you, isn't it? You wouldn't have left me if I hadn't. I know you wouldn't. I don't know what made me do it. I'll never do it again. I promise. I'll be a good husband. But please, Carmencita. Please come home with me. - No. - You'll do what I tell you to do. I'll do what it pleases me to do. I always have, and I always will. And right now it pleases me to watch the bullfight. It's Lucas the matador now, is that it? - What difference does it make? - Answer me! Yes! Yes! Now, are you satisfied? And why not? I like to laugh once in a while, and what have I had with you? Nothing but tears and preaching and long faces. I can't live penned up in a cage. I won't! I'm sick of it, can't you understand? I'm sick of you. Now get away and leave me alone! Carmen, don't leave me, don't leave me. I love you so much. See how much I love you. You are all I have left in the world, little Carmen. I gave up everything. I've lost everything. I gave it all up for you, but I don't mind. I'm not sorry. Only, please, please don't leave me. Like a worm, cut him in half and still he crawls. Listen. They've let the bull in. You're keeping me from seeing the bullfight. You're not gonna get away with it, Carmen. Not this time you're not. I'll kill him, do you hear me? I'll kill him! And what would that settle? You've killed two men who loved me. And for what? Then I'll kill you, you black-hearted witch! I'll kill you. I used to think you would, but I don't any more. You're not man enough. Now get out of my way! For the last time, are you coming back with me? Do not hang on to me. I can't stand to have anyone hang on to me! - Answer me! - No, no, no, no, no!
