 

                        THE FARMER'S WIFE FARM APPLEGARTH ...and don't forget to spread those your master's pants, Minta He will be the next one in marrying now that he/she makes it their daughter .Y why not? in the marriage there is something magic... he/she has their beautiful side, Chudles Ash To drink beer doesn't weaken the lover's arms If I was the Government he/she would leave alone to the drunkards and it would watch over the lovers I have seen the master put their eyes in an or two women lately .Ver to an old one in love it is worse than to do it with tosferina! The sacred marriage is a prepared road roller... to squash the hope of a man and the happiness of a woman ...and many of those that are here, often, compa.a wants... ...and necesitn to a man strong in who to lean on Now don't forget, dear Sr. Sweetland, to come to my peque.a meeting next Thursday... ....y would rot Sr. Ash to be in the door and to announce to the companies? ...I have a livery that could put on I need time to make me to the idea, Minta, but soon I will be a loner My dear deceased's last desire Tibby, was that arrived the moment... he/she took another... but her he/she didn't mention any name There are an or two women floating in my mind as the aroma of a Sunday meal .Coja paper and pencil, Minta, and we will see the pros and contras! .Usted knows it, see from behind don't look more than thirty! But, you will live with her of front Does he find .Qu Thirza Tapper? I don't worry about padded women... whenever they are he in the appropriate parts .Una woman that seems a pillow at the thirty, frequently it will be a mattress of feathers at the forty! Aim Mercy Bassett of Royal Oak, just in case There is something indecent, seeing them to all in a paper piece Not it is necessary to wish me luck Louisa Windeatt will come as a lamb to the slaughter .La widow in person! .Qu makes him/her ascend to my hill, Sweetland? I come as the foxes, you are so tender... .a to choose a thick hen! Wait to hear me... and then we will have reason to drink I will marry again, Louisa Then .la thick hen that wants... is it for the nuptial breakfast? It is first o'clock in knowing their good luck, my lover... ...and I am a man to the one that a ni.ito could take but to the one that neither a regiment it could force "Yes" it is a word very brief "But there is another shorter one... "Not I am their woman type, I am too independent It would only feel a silk glove never my authority .No thinks that it returns to to go up their damned hill! And in this matter, its behavior has not been the characteristic of a lady... neither fairly pleasant And don't change opinion... he/she has decided their own destination Not leave that that old junk, the leather jacket of foxes, Louisa Windeatt, enter to this house again ...and of course I will like to see it. Not forget that the party it begins at 4 o'clock on the dot. Sincerely his. Thirza Tapper It is very kind on the other hand to come to help us, Minta... and also you, Sr. Ash "The party doesn't have still begun, Se.or." .Entonces prefers him to serve the plums before the ice creams? Now the men look for women something padded... Understand it, Thirza Tapper, .te is proposing marriage! ...I am a man to which a ni.ito would rot to take, but to the one that neither a regiment... Get up, lover Samuel Sweetland .Es the first man that there is picked up the glove of my sexual challenge! But I will never look for refuge in the arms of a man... not even in his .Cmo went that is that the ice creams they would melt next to the fire! .No participates in the party, George! Here the doctor is and their wife It is all so perfect one as in a cafeteria of the railroad Their excellence the parish priest, and their mother... Honoroble Missus .Deben to be the singers of the choir! Please, those that have finished, they want to leave to the garden Fruit... fruit in the garden, please Mary Hearn, I go to to marry again Amusing .Es, a fortune-teller told me that I would marry before an a.o! .Apuesto to that I will be able to to tell him/her who he is! .Usted... you, to their age! Good, .no will want to marry with a boy, truth? .Porqu not? It is usually how they marry the girls, with boys, is .no this way? .Se dares to be considered "a girl?" .Entonces of what bitchy way I should call? Very inflated and not very prepared... .Asi is as me I call it! Their problem is that it delights him/her to get dressed like a young boy Is .Esto a nightmare? Their hat is it Green .Viejo! ... To go to one woman in their fullness and beauty !Not believe that it has been first o'clock, because it has not been it! .ngeles and demons!, Does .qu make Sammy to the Boss of Mail? .Pero, what it was making, Sammy? Not I will pursue more women. Not I will finish the list I believe that Mercy Bassett of the one Royal Oak, will be as the other ones I am embarrassed of Samuel Sweetland, offering in sale for the whole region It is sad for us, the men, that he/she crawls, hat in hand... .slo so that their griefs be object of laughs! .Ensilla my horse! .Mi another coat! Posed Royal Oak We understand each other, I believe that you are in love We draw crisscross hearts. True works teachers, as round and white as the chests of a woman! After their scandalous behavior not I want to speak with you... more than the "official thing" No man should put it so gray hysterical, insignificant rat! Know that, I could have been a wife... the wife of the one worthier and more intelligent man, Sr. Samuel Sweetland Demonstrate it Tabby Tapper ...and it would bet that if it doesn't get it, he/she will return very gotten worked up, .recurdalo! Everything finished, Minta Finished .Estoy! I always had to escape with the tail among legs All the power of the feminine sex is in my against. They have taken off the self-esteem Not say that, Sweetland. Not I want to listen to a strong and sensitive man to speak this way .De what those are made women nowadays? I have made many errors, Minta, but it is still something good in me That is enough to weaken their faith in all us .Cre that to be se.ora of the farm it would tempt them, since the farmer not! There is a woman that is pleasant, Jane Cherry, the hawker's sister There is a woman... a woman... Not believe that it will anger me, if he/she "not" says. I am ense.ado to "not listen" I offer humble as a worm. I don't have left hope, but I would like to say a single thing in my favor... a ni.ito could take me Sure .Est of what says? It is an unexpected risk Same Se.or acts as the lightning and it doesn't warn when he/she goes he/she is necessary to wake up the trial in the heart of a man I will be proud of undertaking it, Samuel, to undertake it with trust and it thrills If you regret this additional work, then I can lose my salvation And now so that the change is noticed, you should become this instant .Dnde that dressed daring person is of party that my Tibby gave you? .Ha caught a woman after everything? God helps you and me... .pensar in another woman in this house! They say that the best thing after being single he/she is a good wife. He has triumphed at the end I will be of their part, Minta. I will help her to manage it Not forget to tell him/her that I have a pay cruelly low I have changed to seem, Samuel I joust now he/she will say him/her to Mary something important Not forget to leave to Tabby Tapper to hear it I have heard speak of your sad history, Samuel, and I have something for you... I deign so much dish for one party like for a funeral one I have made my election, .y will stay to drink for her! And if somebody knows a woman with a more gentile heart a more spotless past and a nobler character. I would like to see it
