 

                        these fields were the bloody arena for the most terrible conflict in human history In 1913, an alien invasion shook the world and hurled it into an unimaginable future. The next four years of ferocious combat has forever marked this ground as the land of the vanished. We were fighting monsters. There was life beyond our planet. It went completely against everything I'd been raised to believe. I'm standing feet away from this huge dome, the cockpit sticking out of the earth like a half-closed eye. No one had fought a war remotely like this one before. An entire generation of young men, all of them vanished. I'll never stop hating them for what they did. 2013 is the hundredth anniversary of the outbreak of the Great Martian War - a conflict unequalled in devastation and often mired in controversy. But the lost legacy of a forgotten hero, unearthed only last year might just ignite the biggest controversy of all. My great grandfather, he died about nine years before I was even born. He was Anishinaabe man, traditional man, and he kept to himself, so I never really knew much about him at all. Lafonde's great grandfather Gus was a First Nations Canadian soldier. His youth was spent fighting on the Martian front line. His final years were spent in this remote cabin. The things that are inside of that cabin have been there for years It changes everything - everything we know about the war, and everything that we know about the enemy. What Kim found in her great grandfather's cabin may shed light on a dark warning from our alien invaders. And for this man, it's both a blessing and a curse. Historian Lawrence Hart has spent his entire career attempting to decipher the alien texts recovered after the war the so called 'Martian code'. He believes Gus Lafonde' obsessive study has cracked the code and finally given a voice to the alien invaders. I have been intrigued by the mysteries of this impenetrable alien text. And though a lot of people have tried, no one has been able to break what they call the Martian code. For Hart, the revelations hidden within the Martian texts cast the invasion in a shocking new light. They confirm a threat he has long suspected. On its 100th anniversary we expose the truth behind the Great Martian War. We finished it. We killed the bastards.. But I don't know. When I close my eyes... I don't feel it's all over. Here is where it all began - London's Herne Hill observatory. Through this telescope, on the night of the 24th of June 1913, astronomers observe a mysterious speck of light close to the planet Mars and moving fast... towards earth. Two days later, the world would change forever. An enormous shockwave, emanating from a single blast point, is felt all across Europe War historian and broadcaster Duncan Mitchell Myers takes up the story. It soon became apparent where the shock had been most strongly felt... in the Bohemian Forest. This forest at the centre of the blast is deep within the German Empire. Relations between Germany and its European neighbours have been tense for many years, and with the observations from Herne Hill going unreported, everyone jumps to a very dangerous conclusion. This looks like the beginning of the rush to war that everybody's been expecting. The Kaiser angrily denies German responsibility. He orders his troops into the Bohemian Forest to uncover the truth. The men enter the area on July the 3rd. They never return. No one in Europe knew what happened to the expeditionary party, and no one knew that in the heart of Europe, this was created - an eight mile wide impact crater. No one knew until the morning of July the 9th, when a telegram was received in all the capital cities of the world, and it was from Berlin. His Majesty the Emperor, in the name of God, the Fatherland, and the German people, begs the assistance of his brother nations. Germany is under attack by assailants not of this earth. A ten year old, to find out that monsters are for real, that they come from somewhere up there, or somewhere in the dark... You don't feel safe ever again. Most of all was the fear that more would come for us, and do here what they did in Germany. We woke up with that thought everyday. Within days, there is carnage across Germany. It was totally unstoppable. With frightening ease, one by one the great cities fell. The name that most endures is Munich, which was the first to be hit. Munich was home to 14 year old Arnold Tckelt. He and his brother Bernie were among the first civilians to endure the full horror of an alien attack. Daylight came, I got out of the rubble, and there was no dead bodies, nothing to see. And my brother was nowhere. Vanished. Within four days, civil society in Germany has essentially collapsed The alien invasion shows no sign at all of slowing down, and people in other European countries realized that they have to act, and fast. With Germany ravaged, and her entire army missing - presumed dead - Britain helps forge a grand alliance between the surviving nations of Europe. On July the 20th, speaking for all the Allies, King George the Fifth declares the world is at war, and calls for all able-bodied men of planet Earth to enlist. The call is answered - Britain and its colonies lead the way. Among the recruits from afar is bombardier Hughie Logan, of Calgary, Canada. For Hughie, going to war will mean parting from his new bride, Clara. We started going together when we were 15. We got married at 18 - the same year they came. And I shipped out for Europe. The troops shipped from Halifax. I made her two promises before I left. First promise - two girls, one boy. That's what we were gonna have. And the second promise wa I'd write to her as often as I could. So that's what I did. For Hughie and the thousands of volunteers like him, there is hope and determination. But for those left behind it's a different story. He was my dad, and I didn't want him to go. I was hanging onto his leg 'cause I knew, I absolutely knew, that the monster would come for him, too. They had to pull me off him in the end, one finger at a time. And now I can't even remember his face. It's a month since impact and humanity is mobilizing. Little is known of the origins of the alien invaders, but as the speck of light that signalled their approach was first seen beside the red planet, the enemy gets a name... The Great War against th "Martians" has begun. It is four weeks since impact in the Bohemian Forest. An alien invasion force has annihilated much of Germany and is pushing across Europe. Halting the Martian advance is the Allies' immediate goal. In London, 50 feet below the Palace of Westminster, a command centre is established and plans swiftly laid. The chief curator of the Martian War Museum and these preserved war rooms is Alexandra Banham. As the alien force crossed the German border into France, it was right here in front of this map that the joint chiefs of staff ordered the tiny British Expeditionary Force and the French standing army forwards to hold the line here along the western banks of the Moselle River. Among those awaiting the terror of the alien attack is a young English stretcher bearer - William Payne. His diary contains some of the earliest description from the Martian battlefront. It is a complete, personal account of the entire war, and it is undoubtedly one of the most important artifacts in this museum's possession. You can see that the dat is August the 2nd, 1913. Dawn. Through the mist, towering shapes emerged not creatures, but machines. I whispered to God for mercy, and in response, our artillery exploded to life. Within moments of this opening Allied barrage, the alien army responds. We cannot hold them. Our lines are torn to pieces. Our guns are useless. Hell was not beneath us it has fallen from the sky. We must fall back. The soldiers give these giant fighting machines a name Herons. There were two component to these machines that became immediately apparent to the Allies - Firstly, they were entirely protected by an energy shield. This was the first introduction that we had had to the many uses of dark energy particles. The second was a slow firing, immensely destructive energy cannon. It was used to destroy defences, to cause chaos, but mainly to flush men out into open view. Each Heron is shrouded in a toxic cloud Combat troops are soon issued with gas masks, but civilians must make d with crude, home-made versions. For frontline soldiers like Jock Donnelly, protection came at a price. Well, you can't see a thing. And you can't talk to anybody - it's just you. You're sitting alongside 50 other guys, but you're alone. There's nobody. At the feet of the lumbering Herons are battalions of smaller machines - their attack dogs. They rampage the battlefield by the thousands. Fast and merciless killing machines, these bring death at close quarters. This was their infantry division, and they were quickly named the Iron Spiders. And they were wielding a weapon from here - you can see it reconstructed - that was like nothing that had ever been seen. These were the "ribbons of death". They snare us, entwine us stab us, skewer us, strangle us, tear us in half still alive. The worst were the night raids. The Spiders would sneak across the no man's land and hover over us, and the ribbons would descend. I knew we couldn't move, because any movement would be certain death when the Spiders are around. They were ripping the Allies to pieces, whole cavalry battalions were tossed aside. The very front itself was in a chaotic fighting retreat right across France. On the 19th of August, General Sir John French wires Downing Street, and he tells them that the alien force cannot be stopped, that Paris will fall, the continent is lost, and the only thing Britain can do is prepare for imminent invasion. That same day, Europe is given one last hope. An unexpected messenger arrives at Allied Field Headquarters His news may be the saving of Paris and perhaps the entire war. He is a corporal in the army believed destroyed in the first week of the war. His communique states, "Though the Fatherland has fallen, the German Army has not, and we are on our way". It is signed by Count Paul von Hindenburg So he issues an absolutely unprecedented Mobilization Order directed at every living German, telling them that they must make their way as fast as possible - "blitzartig" - lightning fast is the word he uses - through Belgium, south towards Paris, to sweep in and reinforce the increasingly desperate Allied line. Germans head for France in huge numbers. Among them is young Arnold Tockelt, who had survived Munich and now craved revenge. And we marched and marched until we finally reached the Belgium border and we received an embrace from there I will never forget. They gave us flowers... They looked after the wounded, and fed the hungry, and the Belgian men joined us and became our brothers. Over the next few days, wave after wave of German troops join the Allied line, and by August 29th, the alien army had come to a standstill and a communique arrives upstairs stating that the attack had been halted. The Germans had saved the day with the now famous "Hindenburg manoeuvre". A plan originally conceived years before by Count von Schlieffen to conquer France, rather than save it! It's one of the most audacious manoeuvres in the whole of military history. Now that the alien advance is stopped the Allies regroup and prepare to go on the offensive. The offensive actions of the autumn of 1913 were aggressive, large-scale artillery barrages, followed by mass infantry assaults - what the Allies were trying to do was outflank the alien army, and of course press home the advantage in numbers There was a real belief here that, at this point, victory could be achieved by Christmas. Waves of new recruits are arriving daily. Among them is a minister' daughter from South Wales Nerys Vaughn. Her post-war account of life at the Martian Front "Anthem for the Vanished, would come to embody the fate of a generation. How did it feel, heading for war? Well, it wasn't a single emotion - it was the most tantalizing cocktail - excitement, fear, hope, dread, longing, calm, but together they created the most powerful feeling of all. For the first time, I felt my life had meaning. Another young volunteer was also disembarking in France. He was corporal Gus Lafonde, of the Canadian Expeditionary Force, a First Nations soldier proud of his Anishinaabe heritage and eager to serve. Gus's war would turn boy to man. He drew on legends from his warrior ancestors to try and comprehend the unimaginable horrors he saw. This takes him deep into enemy territory - uncovering dark secrets of the Martians. A lone voice lost in the horror. Yeah, exactly, that's exactly who he was Over two months, hundreds of thousands of enlisted troops arrive hoping for victory by Christmas. But hope soon turns to hell. Not one of the offensive of the autumn of 1913 was successful. Every attack was repulsed And the Allied casualty list just got bigger and bigger, along with something else - the battlefront itself is now of an unprecedented size. And it was growing, and growing, and growing. It's about to get worse. Out in the dark, the Allies encounter a third type of alien machine, and confront the grisly mystery of their 'vanished' comrades. By early December, the vast Martian Front slices Europe in two. Herons and Spiders are holding their line, repulsing every Allied attack. A mass of human dead wrapped in the wreckage of war litters the battlefield. But as the sun sets, the horror rises. A third alien war machine crawls out into the gloom of no man's land, and begins its work. It was the threat of what these machines were doing during the hours of darkness that occupied the thought of so many of the men. Not one of us can sleep not when those fiends ar moving beyond the wire. The mere thought of them of what they're doing to our dead and wounded, fills every living man with dread. The men called them lice and there were thousands and thousands, and thousands of them. We could hear the noise from the lice coming behind us and cleaning the ditches for their harvest. The men at the front believed the vile purpose of the night-prowling herds of lice is to harvest the dead. Dawn breaks - The lice retreat like a black tide. And everything is gone! Every shell, every last shard of battle, and every one of our dead My fallen brothers are taken. Their bodies stolen. For food? For fuel? We hardly dare imagine why but this is why those devils are here. They came for us. Back at the home front, entire streets begin receiving telegrams from the war office informing them their men are missing in action. These missing men become known as "the vanished".. It was the first telegram I'd ever seen. It said there'd been a battle, and that he was missing. That was it. Oh, my poor mum, they might just as well have taken her, too. 'Vanished' is what he was By now, Gus Lafonde has been on the front line for three months. His duty is to scout the enemy lines. But his passion for his Anishinaabe heritage pushes him much further than mere duty. Unlike his comrades, Gus ventures behind the enemy lines, and into the monstrous alien camp itself. Here, he begins to count coup. In Anishinaabe culture, a warrior could prove his courage by the form of counting coup, and it was a way to defeat the enemy without actually killing them. The highest form of counting coup was to sneak into the enemy's camp and to steal something without being harmed, without being noticed. And that's what Gus began to do. Gus's ghostlike scouting behind the alien lines puts him into frighteningly close contact with the Martian army. For him, each coup is a window on the aliens' secrets. This ledger book is how Gus counted his coup. There's a sketch of the exact coup that he had taken - it's all documented - it's absolutely amazing. From this collection of curious alien markings and artifacts, Gus is constructing a key - a key that Lawrence Hart is now using to crack the Martian code. As Christmas 1913 approaches, the war's influence is being felt around the world. In the United States, although President Wilson is resisting committing forces to the front, American business is eagerly supplying munitions and machinery. Never were the transatlantic shipping lanes so busy - a marked contrast to affairs on the Martian Front. By December 1913, all activity on the line has come to a complete stop - both Allied and alien. Their earthwork systems had gone completely silent, and everything remained that way until Christmas night. It was a rumble. I felt the mood change all around me. We saw a light, a flashing light, and it's just like it says in the song - "Like a diamond in the sky." This was the Christmas star of 1913. All along the lines, scores of these objects begin to be seen, and then later that nigh there are tidal disturbances. There's flooding in coastal areas. And then three days later something much, much worse happened. The war has moved beneath the sea. The Christmas lights were colossal machines launched from deep within Martian-occupied Europe. Now moving freely through the shipping lanes, these submarine monsters begin to starve the Allies of their most vital supplies - a crippling, potentially fatal blow. Throughout 1914, the savage conflict rages Desperate refugees flee the shattered cities. Victories are bought at huge cost, then stolen back within days. Other than terrible losses, we'd achieved next to nothing. And slowly but surely, the notion of a swift victory had died. The sea war intensifies. The July 1914 sinking of an American passenger liner openly divides public opinion in the United States. President Wilson remains adamant that while the Americas are free of Martians, US troops stay home. But former president Teddy Roosevelt demands "action this day. Roosevelt gets th permission of Congress to raise a volunteer force to fight on the Martian Front. But Wilson use his presidential powers to stop the troops shipping out. Now Roosevelt is enraged He travels the country to drum up support... It works... Two weeks later, the presidential veto is withdrawn and a small volunteer force, "the Frontiersmen, sails for Europe. And Roosevelt waves them off from New York harbour. I didn't see him. He didn't see him. I saw him. And yeah, he waved us off, and it was really gung-ho. I mean this was, you know, images of San Juan Hill all over again. Yeah, bully for him. Yeah. So we imagined, as we left on the boat, we thought, "Boy, this is going to be a great adventure. We're going to go over there, and beat the hell out of these guys, and come home heroes." Heroes - and it didn't quite work out that way. But we were eager - eager to go. In autumn 1914, corporal Gus Lafonde finally pushes his luck too far and is severely injured. Lawrence Hart believes an entry Gus made in his notebook while recovering shows he had spotted a Martian strategy Allied command had missed Here it is - here's what he wrote - "Ki gii baadenmigoome mi shaa miigaadying." That's Anishinaabamowen. The phrase that Corporal LaFonde wrote in his diary describes a type of battle strategy. Now, in fencing, we call it a faint - it's a false attack, or it could be a false retreat - and it's to make the enemy act the way you want the enemy to act - to deliberately look weak or to even seem to lose, in order to gain a later more important victory. Gus Lafonde has worked out what no Allied general had - that the Martians were deliberately losing battles in 1914 to entice the Allies into ever larger offensive campaigns. These so-called experts that held the lives of millions in their hands didn't have a clue. Why is it vital to acknowledge this? Because of what they decided to do next. By 1915, the Chiefs of Staff were under huge pressure to deliver a definitive victory. At this point, their only strategic advantage was manpower, and so they planned to make fuller use of that than ever before The Allies plan - a simultaneous attack along the entire Martian line. The aim was to stretch the alien army's resource past breaking point, and then to decisively penetrate and then overrun the enemy defences. With this great push, looming aerial reconnaissance units and French spotters deliver disturbing news to their masters - legions of Martian reinforcements are moving towards France The success of an all out offensive is now in grave doubt. The Allied command is in a difficult situation, but to do nothing, and just let the alien reinforcements arrive, well, that would have been madness. They had to make a decision - they had to act quickly. A controversia decision is made to bring forward the push by one month. The war at sea had already compromised their ability to move troops, and equipment they deemed necessary. And now they wanted to move the attack from June to May - Total, utter folly. And so the push is launched early - I believe you were on the front line itself that first day? Yes, with the 4th Newfoundland Regiment. We were expecting casualties, of course, but that day, endless waves of men went out over the top. I've never been so frightened in my life. My heart just jumped right out of my body. These were horrible, horrible, horrible things And you were scared to death to think that they were going to get you and tear you to ribbons. They had no rules at all We saw almost nothing, but we could hear it all while we waited - the guns, the shells, the deafening machines. But through all that noise, we could still hear the screams, and we just stood there, waiting. But nobody came back. Not a single wounded man for me to help. Did you know that on that first day, over 850,000 men went out into those fields, and at the end of the day they were all gone? After three weeks, the High Command calls the push to a halt. In that time 3 million men had vanished. They had no idea how their actions were actually aiding and abetting the aliens. They had no perception of what Corporal Lafonde had realized. They had no clue. The terrible news of the push reached Gus in hospital. As the scale of the disaster became clear, the normally analytical pages of his notebooks are scrawled with sketches of an all-consuming monster. The creature he drew is from Anishinaabe mythology - a wendigo. This is a wendigo, and its sole purpose is to take as much as it can - and it will stop at nothing. For the wendigo, the bigger it gets, the more it wants to eat Lawrence Hart believes that Gus's wendigo sketches are further proof he had deduced the central Martian tactic - that they were relying on Allied command to make mass attacks, with the lice deployed to harvest and directly fee the alien war machine. What if the formation of this enormous Front was part of their grand scheme? What if it was the surest way to get exactly what they wanted? The abject failure of the push, and the relentless consumption of men and resources, had cast doubts upon the Allies' leadership. The government back in Britain is finished. They were in an impossible situation. No one had ever fought a war remotely like this one before. Something had to change. The catastroph of spring 1915 forces a change of government back in Britain. Younger, more progressive minds demand a fresh approach. To address the technological imbalance between the two sides, a new goal emerged - to lay hands on alien technology, and then to harness it and to turn it back against the enemy. But that was easier said than done. Capture a Heron. That was the plan. At St. Jans Cappell, on the French-Belgian border, tunnels are dug in secret all the way under the Martian line. Crammed with tons of explosives, the blast is designed to take down one of the Martians' ultimate killing machines. This mission impossible would hinge on an elite force of 3,000 men racing in to salvage the downed Heron before Spiders arrive. Hughie Logan was one of those men. Oh, it was an honour to be selected. No doubt about that, a great honour - And it was absolutely terrifying. We were scared to death. They hope to destroy a 5-mile section of the alien line in a single blast. On the 1st of July 1916, at exactly 7:00 AM, the dawn silence is shattered. The blast just knocked the wind right out of you They said they could fee it all the way in London At least one Heron is down. But could it be successfully retrieved? 3,000 men will have to go tearing across 400 yards of blasted, shattered fields of mud. I pulled myself up, grabbed the sides of the ladder, climbed up and over the parapet. Where the ridge had been there was this enormous cloud of dust expanding across no man's land, and a single mass of men was running straight into it. And when the two came together, the men were gone, engulfed. We're moving forward, and then a shape appeared and then another one. And up ahead, there's guys' voices shouting, "We got two of them! We got two in the blast. I can't believe it. I can't believe what we've done. I'm standing feet away from this huge dome, the cockpit sticking out of the earth like a half-closed eye, but then I see something moving, something moving fast towards us, coming straight at us. Spiders. There are two of them, and then there was four, and then three more came and seven of them, right And then I'm thinking, "Jeeze. It's all over." With the Herons down, the Spiders have lost their masters. And the war takes an unexpected turn. There was no attack - then one of them starts moving slowly, and the ribbon starts moving and spiraling up. All of them are doing the exact same thing. And they just stayed that way the whole time. Then we realize it's a gesture of surrender. They've surrendered. I looked and I saw coming out of the dust cloud the two Heron cockpits carried by those seven machines. The surrendered Spiders are helping the Allies. They are carrying the Heron cockpits back to the Allied line. Dear Clara, remember that race I wrote you about? Well, I got the gold Bluebell - in fact we all did. We won more than we ever hoped to. News of the triumph quickly spreads. And when the captured Heron cockpit is opened, at last the people of Earth know the face of their enemy. Those stupid newspapers... they said that we should be less scared now we know they're no bigger than us. Well I think they're wrong! Almost disregarded alongside the creature in the Heron cockpit are the first of many alien texts. They are sent to the code breakers, as all attention turns to the unopened Spiders. Transported to Roundway Down Experimental Station in Britain, scientists and soldiers prepare for their first encounter with a live alien. Of course there was no encounter - For the soldiers positioned here directly underneath, they were the first to see clearly that, unlike the Heron cockpits there was no pilot inside In fact, there was nothin discernibly living at all This unexpected mystery is followed by the gravest of discoveries - one that would finally reveal the fate of the vanished, and damn the High Command's entire war plan. It begins when Roundway Down deduces the composition of the alien machines. This piece is a piece of Heron cockpit, and these pieces - from two of the seven surrendered Spiders - They're all made from metals and alloys which are abundant on earth - iron, steel, lead, copper, tin. In other words, Roundway Down realized that the majority of the alien war machines had been built after they had arrived. And that was when the activities of the Martian lice on no man's land began to make a dreadful new sense. The long-held belief that the lice are harvesting the bodies of the dead is silenced by a shocking truth. In fact, all along, there had been something of far greater worth to the aliens - the thousands of tonnes of shells and bullets and materials of warfare that we had been depositing on the fields of the Front every single day. The aliens build their killing machines with metals carried into battle by the Allies. Well, every shell I ever fired only ever made them stronger. With this realization, the true fate of the millions of missing soldiers - "the vanished" - was finally understood. Here's the truth - and the truth is much worse than the rumours about th human rendering factories and the alien food stores and that's this - They were still there out in those fields - crushed, eviscerated, ground into the mud. All the while the lice were swarming around and they were foraging for what they truly valued - and that was the lead, the metal, the steel to make even bigger and greater machines of war. And then we learnt what really happened. They weren't taken away by the Martians at all! They were still there, in that mud. They were crushed and churned up! And all they wanted was the metal! I'll never stop hating them for what they did. These corridors under the Combined Allied Commission for the Vanished bear mute witness to the sheer numbers who died. Look in each of these boxes - 34 files - each file is a human life lost in the war, and there are 27 miles of corridors. This is the lowest moment of the war Humanity is staring into the abyss, but Roundway Down are about to discover an alien secret that could turn the tide of the war... Across Europe, the mood is dark. But at Roundway Down, there is a breakthrough. In analyzing the surrendered Spiders, the element that enables and powers them is examined in detail. To the perplexed scientists, it's nothing short of a wonder. This liquid element which powers all movement and weaponry in the Martian machines is like nothing previously observed. An organic metal capable of self-replication and what we can only term as awareness. As we investigate it responds and appears to work with us. Though impossible to classify, we have given it a name victicite. The discovery is a lifeline. The order immediately goes out to turn the wonder material victicite back against the aliens. There were profound philosophical questions to be asked about victicite - its nature, its properties - but all that was left by the wayside. Why? Progress was being made! A first wave of victicite-based war machines are soon rolling off the assembly line - including an all terrain fighting vehicle called a landship. They are swiftly tested, made front line ready, and in October 1916, deployed. Prematurely, as it turned out. At Douchey, les Mines, we were hasty, and it ended in failure. But it was an encouraging failure. We had successfully engaged the alien for a while and it was his overwhelming superiority in numbers and really bad battlefield conditions that proved too much. So there was ground here for real optimism. Faced with weapons made using their own technology, the Martian strategy shifts. All along the Front, attacks intensify. The aliens are no longer nurturing war. They're going for outright victory. Then, on November the 5th Allied command's worst fears are realized. Near the northern tip of the line in the Netherlands, a single Heron breaks through to the Channel ports. This is the stuff of nightmares - After three years, the moment everyone in Great Britain has been dreading has arrived. Well, there is chaos here in Command Centre. It's low tide in the Thames, so the navy can't give chase, and the small force that was originally assigned to protect the British mainland, the Home Air Defence Squadron, it was critically depleted. There are just two pilots within striking distance of London, testing new victicite-based weaponry British aces Edwin Sinclair and Gregory West. They are immediately scrambled. As the invader advances up the Thames estuary, warnings spread throughout London, and anti-alien batteries in Regent's park take up position. Now most people flee westward, away from the danger, but thousands of people, with no conception of the danger they're in, choose to line the embankment. The police are issued with rifles. But as they attempt to drive the crowd back, a silence suddenly falls as a shape heaves into view. And there it is. Do I run? Do I hell! I run straight at it! The new weaponry stalls the Heron but it's not enough. And it's here that it fires a single shot at Sinclair's plane, and as we all know, the shot misses and strikes Big Ben. But help is on the way.. A third aircraft is coming in. It has followed the path of the Heron all the way from the Dutch coast. In the cockpit is a young Hungarian aristocrat, Count Laslo Andrazovski, and he is about to become the most famous man in Europe. I saw him give the signal to the other two, and they came in behind him, and he leads 'em straight down to the bastard. Gotcha! The expertly coordinated fir had broken through the Heron's shield. Count Lazslo's first visit to London would become the stuff of legend. And as for the brief footage of the falling Heron, that would be replayed again and again throughout the entire world. It was of immense value for public morale. Of greatest importance, of course, was what happened in the aftermath. The London crowd, baying for blood, descends on the fallen Heron. Then we are runnin' onto the bridge, and there's fire and all sorts falling on top of us, but we don't care, 'cos we're so busy tearing at the cockpit. And I want to do it, too because I want the same as they want, I want to be the one that finds him and rips him out of the wreckage! Then there's a surprise. I see him and he's alive! Wriggling like an eel on a hook and then he sees me and he's scared. I know he's scared of me And then the police come racing through on their horses and we're all forced back on the bridge. The mounted police clear the crowds and escort the living alien as it is rushed to Roundway Down. But within minutes of its arrival, the Martian pilot is dead Any initial disappointment vanishes during the post-mortem, because here Roundway Dow make their key discovery of the entire war, and it's immediately classified "Most Secret" The autopsy reveals the alien died from infection by an animal virus called glanders. It was caught through contact with the police horses. Now at Roundway Down, the race is on to replicate the virus and create a super weapon The code name of the weapon is Trojan Horse. It couldn't come soon enough. After three years of crippling war, the Allies have found a virus lethal to the aliens. But the Martian attacks are intensifying on land and sea. The troops at the front cannot hold them off much longer. They seemed indestructible. I remember one of them - There was this guy next to you, and then this foot comes down and crushes this guy like leaves on the sole of your boots. I mean, how do you fight something like that? We needed something, and we needed it fast. As the line continues to fray, the Aerial Reconnaissance Division sights large numbers of alien machines moving west. There is no time to lose In January 1917, a solemn report is delivered to the Allied leadership. It is wit the heaviest of hearts we must conclude within the next six months the total breakdown of our defensive line on the Martian Front is a certainty. Just nine days after this statement predicts the fall of Europe, three American naval destroyers returning to New York are sunk off the gulf of Mexico. You do know there weren't any actual sightings of alien machines - just distress signals and garbled messages about coming under attack Allied U-boats did have a range of 5,000 miles - more than enough to be in those waters. Look, I'm not saying the were in those waters. All I'm saying is that they could have been in those waters. Aliens or Allies, the debate still simmers as to who was behind the attacks. What is certain is hysteria took hold on American streets. Roosevelt's pro-war supporters besieged the White House. Wilson has become the lamest of presidential ducks. This can come to only one conclusion, and it's an unprecedented one. Woodrow Wilson resigns, Roosevelt is sworn in as US president, and on the 17th of February 1917, America finally enters th war against the Martians Within months, the volunteer "Frontiersmen", now hardened veterans, see their conscripted American countrymen arriving in France, at the rate of 12,000 men a day... That was a good thing. They were finally coming Yeah, nice to see them. Mazel tov! What took you so long? You know, I'm serious - I mean, what took them so long? We'd been in this thing for three years already. With this massive injection of troops from the States Allied command prepares for the end game. The Allies are playing all their cards here. This is it now. This is all or nothing. Immediately after the Westminster alien's death from infection, Roundway Down begins mass-producing the glanders virus. They must now deliver the weapon to the enemy. The risks to humans are uncertain, but for High Command, there is no alternative to biological warfare on the Martian Front. In the summer of 1917, rumours of an Allied secret weapon are spreading fast, infecting the men with hope. It hardly seems possible but I feel it like a fire inside me. After four years of losses - four years of blood, of agony, of endless murder - we can win. They had developed a secret weapon. So you know, alright - bring it on. We're ready to go. No one knew what it was, but we believed that it could help us win. The days tick by, and the alien army continues to reinforce. Roundway Down are struggling to mass-produce the virus. With no sign of a new weapon at the Front, hope fades. Each day there were a million Spiders creeping closer, and then every day we're saying, "Okay, where's the weapon?" They were only 50, 40, 30 miles away, and still nothing. And then we were told that we were going into battle in three days, and now there was no feeling at all, 'cause we knew nothing's coming to save us. Nothing. It was a terrible realization. There was no answer - just disillusionment. That's all - utter disillusionment. Desertions were occurring up and down the Allied Front, as well as several mutinies which had to be forcibly put down. I had it. I left. I knew this was my last time, I would not survive. I had this feeling that my time was up. I was a soldier for four years, and yet from now and forever, I'll be a deserter. Only the elite few know Operation Trojan Horse is finally ready, but its success is dependent on a mass assault. It's vital the troops are rallied. Field marshal Sir Douglas Haig issues a special order of the day Many amongst us are tired. To those, I say hold firm. Ultimate victory is within our grasp. With our backs to the wall, and believing in the justice of our cause, each one of us must fight on to the end. The safety of our homes and the freedom of mankind alike depend upon the conduct of each one of us at this critical moment. Haig's words hit the mark The line rallied. Order seemed to restore itself - even though very few remained in any doubt as to their probable fate The night before the last offensive William Payne leaves his diary in a field hospital The final entry is addressed to the young nurse he had long admired. You bestow a million kindnesses upon men you know not and never see again. Perform one more for another - keep this safe as if it were my heart. At 7:00 AM the following day, the largest military offensive in human history begins. The secret weapon is ready, and the means to carry the infection to the aliens is in place Great herds of glanders-infected horses are waiting, massed in vast pens along a 50-mile line. These unwitting weapons of mass destruction are tended by volunteer wardens... like Hughie Logan. I'd never seen so many horses all together - nobody had. And that was just our station. Success requires an attack to draw the Martians in, followed by a surprise retreat, which will lure the alien towards the horse pens. The entire attack is focused on one 50-mile section. This is the greatest concentration of troops ever seen. The entire army is throw against the alien legion The results are predictable. The Allies take horrendous casualties, barely holding the line. Then the order goes up to pull the trigger on the secret weapon. They suddenly turn and begin a full retreat The Martians give chase, annihilating everything and everyone in their path. This has become a rout. And it is exactly what High Command had hoped for. The triumphant aliens, charging after the retreating troops, are heading right where the Allies want them. The whistles sound and th wardens open the gates, sending thousands of infected horses stampeding through the ranks of retreating soldiers towards the Martians. We had to drive the horse back towards the line. We lined up at the back of the pen and we shouted at them, screamed at them, hit them. And I was glad I was wearing my gas mask, because I didn't want them to see me. And once they panic, they'll all go in a herd even the old cart horses They'll get the scent in their nostrils, and they'll follow, too, and that's what happened Bang! Away they went at full gallop, right into that fury, that hell. The infected horses are engulfed by the alien advance. To the soldiers on the ground, this action seems both horrific and futile. The alien force resumes its pounding action towards the coast, without any clue that the fatal blow has already been struck. And that the day and indeed the entire war are finally ours. Operation Trojan Horse has delivered. The invading army never reached the coast. Within days and within hours, the Herons come to a complete standstill. In each of the cockpits, the lone pilot is rapidly dying. The symptoms are always the same - frothing at the mouth, grossly swollen respiratory tract, and in their single lung, a fatal accumulation of fluid. Simply put, they drowned Two day later, the Allies proclaim victory around the world Victory, but a victory won on the hardest terms. Two million were lost. Now, let me be quite clear about that - that's two million that Allied command were willing to lose. It was an immense price, but it was the price that was necessary in order to induce the deep systemic infection of the alien that was needed for us to win. In the immediate aftermath of the war, the infected horses and millions of refugees struggled to survive in the ruins that was once Europe. In the squalor, the glanders virus spreads. As it does, it mutates, and soon becomes an airborne contagion that easily infects the mass of susceptible humans. Over the next five years the death toll from "Martian flu" would reach 100 million. One casualty is young Clara Logan. She died in 1920. It was nearly the end of it. She was one of the last it took. She was 23. Was it me? Was I one of the guys that brought it back? Maybe. I didn't know. I still don't know. All I knew was... she was gone. As Europe begins to put itself back together, the Martian nest sites reveal their immense stockpiles of victicite. The contents of the alien nest sites were the biggest, and most valuable prize of all waiting for us. Vast quantities of victicite presented humankind with enormous possibilities. The products of victicite become a vital part of the modern world. This organic metal, with its ability to perceive and respond, opens up a technological gold rush. I'm constantly surprised at the number of our visitors who just don't seem to realize how many aspects of modern life can be traced right back to the Martian war - So many advancements that we've made in telecommunications, in science and engineering, and in medicine - even in travel. They can be traced right back to this time, to them. Kim Lafonde has grown up in a world that has prospered through the widespread use of victicite. But the key to the Martian code she uncovered in her great grandfather's cabin is set to question the benefits of this progress Kim may have lifted the lid on a warning - the invasion is not over. My family, at some point, we forgot my great grandfather. I was born nine years after he died, and 21 years later, I came here and opened up that trunk. The things that he learned about the war, those things survived. They remain in this book and they were here for me to find. In his study of these notebooks, the historian Lawrence Hart believes that Gus's Anishinaabe heritage granted him a unique perspective on the alien symbols, and led directly to the cracking of the Martian code. Hart has completed the work, and applied it to the collected alien texts. To his surprise, many appear to be very personal writings, even laments. These are not unlike our letters and diaries written by our own. Now, this symbol here is the most common symbol translated in the texts. We find it over and over and over again. And the nearest word I can translate is this But most extraordinary is the text recovered fro the Westminster Heron. Hart is convinced it wasn't trying to obliterate London, but offer a warning. These are some of the key symbols that make up the text. Now this first row here the alien describes himself as a warrior that represents all warriors. Now here, he says that he has been deceived, like we will be deceived Hart believes that the deception described by the Westminster alien is that their race was itself once invaded, and infected by a parasite - the same parasite that drove them to invade Earth in 1913 - to infect us. The text goes on to recount how, a long time ago in their history, their planet was invaded by an alien species whose technology was powered by this symbol here - a thriving metal that feeds on life. The strange metal material described in this translation Hart believes is victicite. Victicite has long been recognized as a form of life in its own right. So ask yourself this - What is a form of life that takes possession of another species, that modifies its host behaviour to dispense itself in even greater numbers? What else if not a parasite? But that is precisely what victicite is. If Lawrence Hart is right and the aliens were infected carriers forced to spread the parasitic victicite across the galaxy, then what next for us? Now it's our turn to stand at the gateway to the stars. It's our turn to reach out to the void of space and our turn to carry and spread the parasite yet further. How can you win a war, when with every blow you land, you're only making the enemy stronger? This one was for the last offensive. It's says "bravery", but I say it was crazy - because I'd have to be crazy to go back. We just volunteered! And do you know the first thing we learned when we were in the army? Never volunteer for anything. Two girls, one boy. That's what we're gonna have. My whole life since then... I've been waiting for them to come back... But I don't know... I don't believe they ever left.
