 

                        Buster Keaton in The Navigator Directed by Donald Crisp and Buster Keaton Copyrighted MCMXXIV in United States of America and distributed by Metro-Goldwyn Distributing Corporation. All rights reserved under International Convention of Buenos Aires. Our story deals with one of those queer tricks that Fate sometimes plays. Nobody would believe, for instance, that the entire lives of a peaceful American boy and girl - - could be changed by a funny little war between two small countries far across the sea. And yet it came to pass. The spies of the two little nations were at a Pacific seaport, - - each trying to prevent the other getting ships and supplies. "Gentlemen, the enemy have just purchased the steamship Navigator." "There she lies now, and it is our patriotic duty to destroy that ship." "We will send her adrift in the fog tonight before the new crew goes aboard. - - The wind - the tide - and the rocks will do the rest." The wealthy ship owner who has just sold the Navigator. (Actor : Fredrick Vroom) And his daughter. (Actress : Kathryn Maguire) Rollo Treadway - Heir to the Treadway fortune - a living proof that - - every family tree must have its sap. (Actor : Buster Keaton) "I think I'll get married." "Today." "We'll sail for Honolulu tomorrow on our honey-moon - get two tickets." "He had completed all arrangements - - except to notify the girl." "Will you marry me?" "Certainly not!" "I think a long walk would do me good." "Your tickets, sir - - and congratulations." "The boat sails at ten in the morning, sir." "I don't get up that early - so I'll go aboard tonight." Going on a honeymoon without a bride is like singing the words of - - "Kiss Me Again" to the music of "Alice, Where Art Thou." "What pier, sir?" "Pier two." "I must get some papers off the Navigator, so stop at Pier 12." Pier 12 Pier 2 "Is there any one on board?" "Nobody." Under the cover of darkness the foreign agents prepared to carry out their plans. "Help!" The next morning found the Navigator drifting helplessly at sea. "Will you marry me?" "This is a fine time to ask me that. I'm cold and hungry and - -" "Put up that bright one." "She's quarantined." "Try and catch them!" "Hey! Wait a minute!" By the time they were ready to say "good-night" - - they had found a couple of sea-going tuxedos. Giant Fire Crackers Candles... Roman Candles Asleep in the Deep - Wilfred Glenn Danger is near thee - Many brave hearts are asleep in the Deep - BEWARE Weeks later - still drifting. We now find the crew - - with a safe and quiet place to sleep. "Land!" "Cannibals!" "We're safer on the boat." "We're drifting toward them." "We're safe! I've anchored the ship." "We are sinking! It's just a matter of time until we're captured." "Can't you fix it?" "That would have to be fixed from the outside." Instructions for Deep Sea Divers Where ignorance is bliss - - Danger Men At Work! THE END Subtitle By Reza Fa
