 

                        For decades The Lost World could be seen only in an abridged version... ...about an hour in length. This edition combines portions of eight prints... ...to present the most complete reconstruction believed possible. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Stupendous Story of Adventure And Romance THE LOST WORLD By arrangement with Watterson R. Rothacker Introducting Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, author of the story. I have wrought my simple plan If I give one hour of joy To the boy who's half a man Or the man who's half a boy. LONDON I have a presentiment that you are going to propose, Ed. I do wish you wouldn't, for this are so much nicer as they are. But why can't you love me, Gladys? Now tell me what's amiss with me. I will only marry a man of great deeds and strange experiences... - a man who can look death in the face without flinching! In the office of the London-Record Journal. I want your legal advice. Profesor Challenger threatens to sue my paper... for doubting his yarn about live dinosaurs. FAMOUS ZOOLOGISTS RETURNS FROM SOUTH AMERICA WITHOUTH PROOFS OF STRANGE TALE Profesor Challenger, well-known author and scientist, has returned to London... ...with a strange tale of Mammoths, Pterodoctyls and other prehistoric monsters... ...roaming at large somewhere on the upper reaches of the Amazon. Unfortunately... ...for the professor's reputation for veracity, he refuses to give the exact location of his alleged... ...discoveries, and still more unfortunately, the photographs in his possession are so badly damaged... (when the Professor's canoe is said to have been overturned) ...that they certainly cannot be acepted... ...as evidence in this case. I believe Challenger is insane! He nearly killed three reporters I sent to interview him today! Mr. McArdle, couldn't you send me on a dangerous assignment? All I need is an opportunity - You seem very anxious to lose your life! Have you been interviewing Challenger, Malone? Don't apologize - hurry over to Zoological Hall and cover Challenger's lecture. Reporters are barred - but get in! There's Sir John Roxton - famous hunter and explorer. He's here to check up on Challenger's cock-and-bull story. Well, Malone, we're in for a lively session tonight. - the students are out in force to heckle old Challenger. Challenger has made himself a public laughing - stock by his tale about live dinosaurs! What can he hope to gain by such lies? The back country of the Amazon contains over... ...fifty thousand miles of unexplored water-ways. Who can say what may be living in that jungle - as vast as all Europe? But how can Challenger's story be true? These creatures have all been dead ten million years! You might at least do him the justice to hear him state his own case. Reporters are barred- ...if I show my press pass I'll get kicked out. I wonder if you - Gladly - I'll take you in on my pass. That's profesor Summerlee, the eminent coleopterist. - owing to lack of proofs, this Society cannot sponsor Profesor... ...Challenger's statement, but is glad to afford him this opportunity to state his case, and, we trust, clear his name. Bring on your mastodons! Bring on your mammoths! I will - if any of you spineless worms are brave enough to go back with me... ...into the trackless jungles where these monsters live! I told you old Challenger is sincere! And I'm not here tonight to defend my statements - but to demand that... ...a committee be formed to go back to the Lost World with me - Looks like a riot. It's a beastly shame! When dealing with undeveloped minds, ...it is useless to appeal to reason - for they have none! I am calling for volunteers! Volunteers to face death - or worse - for the sake of science. I am sixty-seven years of age - but, because I think you are a liar and a fraud - I accept your challenge, sir! Accepted! Better an old fool - than a young coward! I'm neither a student nor a scientist - but I'd like to be counted in on this! My friend, Sir John Roxton! Accepted! Your record as a hunter of big game will add weight to your testimony - if we return! Professor Challenger, I'd like to go on this expedition! Probably the brain of a child - but the body of an athlete. Accepted. What is your name? Edward E. Malone - And your occupation? I- I'm a-a-er-a reporter, sir. London-Record Journal. Take me home - I've had enough of this! Eleven Enmore Park, Kensington, West! Professor Challenger, I've got to go on this expedition! The girl... ...I'm engaged to won't marry me until I've faced death or - This man attacked me! Do you give him in charge, sir? No. I was to blame. I intruded upon him. Now, sir, can't we talk this expedition over sanely? Sir John Roxton is a friend of mine- Why didn't you mention that before? You've hurt another nice young man! I saw you from the dining room window! If my husband gets abusive again - just call me! You betrayed a glimmer of intelligence just now while talking to the policeman- Sit down! Do you want to join this expedition because you believe my statements are true? Austin! Tell Miss White I wish to see her at once! Have you shown Malone - the diary? Property of Maple White? BRONTOSAURUS Miss Paula White - daughter of poor Maple White - the unfortunate explorer whose notebook you hold in your hands. Miss White was her father's trained assistant. She will tell you why she came to me. I was in camp with jungle fever when my father... ...went up to explore that terrible plateau. Carnivorous beast Allosaurus. Evidently already almost externet even lea for I saw few of they. A Living Brontosaurus You mean that you actually saw living descendants of these monsters... ...that are supposed to have been dead for millions of years? Yes, they were tremendous in size and ferocity. Our bearers were so terrified they deserted- ...carrying me back to the coast - leaving my father... ...marooned up there - with those beasts - He would go - in spite of what we had - seen. My husband promised to raise funds for a rescue party - but instead of... ...getting people to help him, he throws them out of windows and things! Why, this is a great human interest story - And even if my paper was not convinced of the scientific value of your statements - ...it might finance a rescue party provided that the exclusive publication rights- I'll swear not to send an article back to my paper without your full approval, sir! If Sir John Roxton will go with me - I believe we can make my managing editor see this thing! I'm sure you know why I am going on this rescue party, Paula - don't you? LIVERPOOL AMAZON RIVER I will not bore those whom this narrative may reach by an account of our voyage. Eventually we found ourselves in that no-man's-land... ...which is formed by the half-defined frontiers... ...between Peru, Brazil and Colombia. The sealed map we promised Challenger to not open untill we arrived here is only... ...a blank page. Excepting a miracle, our expedition seems to have come to a premature end. May I come in? From henceforth I take command of this expedition. Let it be clear that you are all perfectly helpless without me! If that mischievious beast is to go with us, I remain behind! Jocko knows which berries and roots in the forest are edible, and which are poisonous... - he will be far more use to us than you, my dear sir! RECORD EXPLORERS REACH LAS OUTPOST OF CIVILIZATION Record-Journal Party Searching for Lost Scientist to Make Way into Mystery World via Secret Rivers. MAY NOT BE HEARD FROM AGAIN FOR MONTHS It's a Brazilian sloth - they always walk head downward. See the baby clinging to her? Dear Mr. McArdle: It is three weeks since we sent back the canoes... ...and tonight we are camping at the base of the great plateau upon which... ...Maple White was marooned. Challenger has guided us to this spot, and proven that... ...the Plateau is a fact - ...but we have no reason to believe that any monsters are roaming... ...about up there. In fact, I don't think... They're not cubs - but full grown "spectacle bears" - great camp followers. Paula says her father felled one of the trees on that pinnacle so that it dropped across... ...the chasm and made a bridge. You can still see the stump of the old tree. In the morning we'll climb the pinnacle - and drop the other tree over. A Pterodactyl - ...proving definitely that the statements in poor Maple White's diary are true! A Brontosaurus - feeding merely on leaves. Perfectly harmless - unless it happens to step on us. Who would believe this! My elephant gun might as well be a bean-shooter! Great guns! We can't get back! We're prisoners - exactly like Maple White! That means our folk are still alive! What are you thinking of, Paula - in this lost world of ours? I was thinking if my father were still alive - he would have seen our fire... - and come to us. An Allosaurus - a meat-eater - the most vicious pest of the ancient world. The barrier might as well thistle-down - and fire may not work with the next one... - we've got to find a safe camp! Jocko will be mighty lonesome down here without Miss. Paula - he climbed that big rock... ...this morning to get to her - he can't bear that girl out of his sight! I have an idea! After supper bring all those hammocks into the tent! We must establish camp here - our only refuge from these monsters - ...if we'll live long enough to search for your father. Now that we've found these caves we could live here the rest of our lives - ...if we had some weapon capable of making a dent in a dinosaur! I am now inventing such a weapon. We can't rest until every inch of this plateau is explored! It's miles in length - your father may have found other caves - When I release the tree it will snap back with terrific force - ...and by calculating the curve the rock will describe as it rushes through the air- A curve? Nonsense! Any school boy could tell you the rock will describe a parabola. A curve! A parabola! I was right - you described a curve! We'll work all night and make enough ladder to get you in the morning. Fine! But how in thunder do you expect to get it up to us? Bring Miss Paula to call Jocko - he'll climb anything to get to her! There's only a small cave above this - ...but your father must be somewhere on the plateau... - it's impossible to get away! Do you mean we are to be here - always? What difference does it make where we are Paula - so long as we are - together? But your engagement to - Gadys? Paula, dear, we're as cut off from the world and its obligations and promises... ...as if we were on the moon. I'm going to ask Professor Summerlee to marry us. You know he used to be a minister. Go hunt up the professors - I have something to - tell Paula- A lovely specimen! We'll stalk it and observe its habits! That dormant volcano is waking! The whole plateau will be covered in lava! But this has been going on for hours - I'm afraid they're lost - If they get back we must be here to show them the way to the tunnel opening. It's their only hope of escape! The professors and Mr. Malone are safe - they'll be here in a minute or two! I certainly hope that mud holds! We're back in the world - and its obligations. Why should we let Gladys rob us of happiness, Paula? I can't steal my happiness from another woman. I'm Major Hibbard, of the Brazilian geodetic Survey. Yesterday I saw a cloud of smoke over the plateau - And we smoked out quite a rat, Major! I'd give my entrie personal fortune to get that beast to London - alive! I'll send for men to dredge out this stream - built a steel cage and a raft - ...and when the big rains come next month, we might float your "rat" out! If we once could get our raft as far as the Amazon, you could charter a steamer from there! Later - In London. Tonight you will not jeer - ...for I have brought back a living proof of my statements! May I ask what you mean when you say "proof", Professor Challenger? A living Brontosaurus - nearly sixty feet long... ...from the nose to the tip of the tail! Mr. Edward Malone, through whose efforts this expedition, was financed, is now superintending the unloading of the monster... ...from the ship we chartered- The message I have been expecting has come! I'll inform you in a moment when and where the Brontosaurus will be on view! As we swung the cage out over the dock the cables broke- The fall smashed the cage - and it got out! It's running wild - the streets are in an uproar! My Brontosaurus has escaped! Keep off the streets, untill I recapture it! This is outrage - we've been hoaxed again - Challenger should be run out of town! How d'ydo, Gladys. You see I'm - back. And, as you really owe it all to me, I hope you'll forgive me - for not waiting. My husband, Percy Potts. May I ask what great stunt, what heroic deed Mr. Potts performed - ...to win you, Gladys? That was just my girlish whim! Percy is a clerk at a store, and has never been out of London in his life! Excuse me! She didn't wait for me - she's married! That's Sir John Roxton - sportsman.
