 

                        1 One day you'll be back When you're done dreaming At last Now this road has passed And you're done wandering... Evelyn! Will you come back? Oh, how people change But you... were never like The others Babe Now that's the same But, oh how people change You were never like The others, babe Now that's the same One day you'll be back You keep dreaming But you will come home You're late. Did I say you could sit? You can start by cleaning the study. And don't take all day this time. While you're there, you can take the bin out. Hello, Lorna. Where are you going? I thought I'd finished for the day. You finish when I say. - But there is nothing left to do. - Oh, there's plenty left to do. You can start by rubbing my feet. May I go to the toilet? No. But I... I think it's better that you stay by my feet and continue doing what I asked you to do. Come in. I finished sweeping the porch. - Can I go now? - Did you wash my things? - What things? - You keep forgetting. I left a whole pile for you. OK, but can you show me how to use the machine? You won't be using the machine. - It's all done. - You rinsed the soap off? Let's see if you've done your job properly. What's this doing here? This was on the pile. This was on the pile for you to wash. Sorry, I... - I didn't see it. - How could you not see it? I... I can wash it now, it's not a problem. No, you can't wash it now and it is a problem, because I have other plans for you now. It's just a few minutes, that's all it takes. I've waited enough already. You haven't washed anything properly and you forgot this. - Sorry. - You will be. - What are you going to do? - A little punishment. - But I... I can do it now. - It's too late. Lie down. Open your mouth. Thank you, so much. Not too cold? The colder the better. By highlighting the geographical proximity of Gryllotalpa gryllotalpa and Gryllotalpa vineae, these recordings should demonstrate how fundamental sound is as a classifying factor. Species identification will partly rely upon the duration of one syllable usually in milliseconds. The carrier wave expressed in kilohertz is another factor in identification. Since these species are so visually indistinguishable from each other, the sound they produce should differentiate the two. Dr Schuller, if we could hear the Gryllotalpa gryllotalpa please. And now if we hear Gryllotalpa vineae, please? Did I say you could stop? 'Cynthia. 'Cynthia. 'This is all I ever dreamed about, 'to be owned by you. 'To be used by you. 'I can't tell you how happy I am. 'I never thought I could find someone like you. 'I never thought it would be possible. 'I won't let you down, Cynthia. 'Never. 'I won't let you down. 'As long as I'm yours, 'I remain alive. 'I love you, Cynthia. 'I love you.' You're late. Did I say you could sit? You can start by cleaning the study. And don't take all day this time. So you've finished already? Good for you. I have something else for you to do now. Come here. What are you doing? I told you to clean my boots. Do that again and you'll be punished. You don't listen, do you? You just don't listen! Now you'll see what happens when you don't listen. When you're being bad and lazy. ...what distinguishes Thaumetopoea pityocampa from other Tussock moths is the communal nature of their larvae. The sun gives them enough energy for their nocturnal foraging. You like it? - That's really nice. - Yes? Yes. Tell me something. There's so many things to tell you. Far too many things. But I can start with how much I love you... and how happy I am that you're here with me. - How happy I am... - Talk about the other things. I'm not happy. I'm not happy with you at all. - Really? - Really. What have I done? It's what you haven't done. You haven't been a good maid. And I have to do everything I want with you. You're mine now. Keep talking. Say something else. You haven't washed my panties recently. Nor have you polished my boots. If you want to be a good maid, you have to do these things a lot more. Otherwise, you'll be punished. Keep talking. Um... I don't know what to say. Just go back to the beginning, then. I'm not happy. I'm not happy with you at all. Improvise! When you work for me, it's for life. You have to do... whatever I want, whenever I want. Because if you don't, I just... might tie you up and use you as my chair for the afternoon. I can read about cave crickets... whilst you're helpless underneath me and I put my weight upon your face and... you just have to lie there and wait until I'm finished reading my book and... Try to have more conviction in your voice next time. More conviction. OK. ...although what distinguishes the skippers from hair streaks, coppers and blues is the way the clubs and antennae gradually thicken, often ending in hooked points. Also, their larvae... - This is elementary level. - Shh. ...pupating in silk shelters at the base of legumes or herbs. However, in order to survive, the larvae need plentiful light, which often occurs inadvertently when livestock are grazing. The most explicit example for this is the larvae of the Silver-spotted Skipper, which feed on sheep's fescue grass, which in turn is never allowed to grow too plentifully by grazing cows. Thank you. Thank you, Dr Viridana. Would anyone like to ask a question? I often have trouble differentiating between the Small and Large Skipper. Is there any way to tell them apart? Easy. One is large, one is small. A lot of people have that trouble, since they are both the same size and colour. But the Small Skipper often holds its wings at a 45-degree angle when resting. Its orange colouring is more uniform, too, while the Large Skipper has mottled orange patterns on its underside. Any other questions? Could you talk about the venation of the Grizzled Skipper? How do you mean? In terms of longitudinal and cross veins and how... how they vary in relation to other species within the family. Well, the Grizzled Skipper is so visually distinctive amongst the family that there's no need to go into such detail on the wings. It's the only skipper in the region to have black markings - and is by far the easiest to identify. - I know. I was just wondering how one goes about classifying other Pyrgus species in other regions. I'm afraid it's something I can't answer. This talk only concerns this region. Any other questions? No? OK, well, once again, thank you very much, Dr Viridana. For the next talk, we'll have... - What's that look? - Nothing. ...parasitic Hymenoptera. I feel so stupid, Cynthia. - Stupid about what? - That Grizzled Skipper nonsense. - It's OK. Don't worry about it. - You don't think I'm stupid, do you? Of course not. It's OK. What? Can you let me go now? No. So, you would like your lover to sleep on top of you? Ah, yes. I make two types of bed for what you want. One where the compartment underneath slides out and then back in, or one where the bed mattress lifts up and then can be pulled down and locked once you're inside. Once you're inside, it's the same. It's just the sensation of being put in and set free that is different. Which one would you recommend? The bed lifting up is often more favoured than the drawer-style compartment. Sometimes the drawers can get stuck. Thankfully, that usually happens when they're out, rather than in, but it's a critical moment when they're about to be locked up for the night and then realise that they can't be. Well, the bed lifting up seems fine by me. It's just a simple spring that lifts the bed up. Customers find the slamming effect of the bed closing down on them very dramatic. That bed is very popular. I think I made one for someone in the neighbourhood a few months ago. - Oh, really? - Yeah. - Who was that? - Ah, I can't remember her name. Let me think... It's the house with the wisteria porch and yellow colonnade, a few minutes down the lane. - Yellow colonnade? - That's got to be Ambrosia. Is that her house? She might have painted the colonnade another colour, but that's got to be Ambrosia. I'm surprised you could make a bed big enough for her to be locked in. OK, then it's the same customer I'm thinking of. But yes, that design is a lot more popular and because of the spring, it's easy to lift up. With both designs, there's a lock at each end of the bed, but even without those, the weight of one's lover sleeping on top means that it's almost impossible to escape. - And... - I can also add metal hooks to the inside if you like having your hands and feet tied to something. That sounds perfect. And how long does it take once we've placed an order? Oh, usually around eight weeks. Eight weeks! I'm afraid there's a lot of demand and it takes time to make each bed. Eight weeks? Is there any way you can offer a faster service? It's just that Evelyn's birthday is coming up and I was planning this as a present. - Oh, it depends when your birthday is. - Two weeks. It will be my birthday in two weeks. Two weeks? It's impossible. I'm sorry. We can offer you extra, if it helps. We have a mount of extremely rare Satyrids. You wouldn't find those even in the museums. They're worth far more than Nymphalids or Burnets. Evelyn's right. It's a highly collectable mount. I'm sorry, but I have too much pressure from other customers. And I cannot do it any sooner than eight weeks. I'm so sorry. Well, we'd have to discuss it, anyway, before we order. It's OK. There will be another birthday. If you like, we could look for something that is not so much in demand. The bed would have been perfect. Would a human toilet be a suitable compromise? Really? - Well... - I really have to go now. But wait. Don't you want to hear about this? Oh, I have to go. I told you I had to leave. I'm sorry for being so abrupt. It was a pleasure meeting you. It was a pleasure for me. I'll be back in an hour, will I meet you here? I'll be here. Don't make any orders without consulting with me. I won't, don't worry. I'll let you know. - Bye-bye. - Bye. So... there are two types available. The basic model allows you to experience... What is that look? There. Just a little longer, please. I'm in such agony. Rubbing it's not going to help. You need an ice pack and some painkillers. Do you want me to call a doctor? No, it's OK. My back does this every few years. It'll get better. Here. Thank you. Thanks. - Tell me? - OK. You don't sound enthusiastic. It says to be cold. Yes, but not now. And one thing I forgot to write - don't talk about it. - Just surprise me. - I know, I know. Well, you were a bit slow to surprise me last time. Well, it's not a surprise if you're expecting it, is it? I know, but... what I mean by surprise is within 24 hours. But not in the first hour, because that wouldn't be a surprise. OK, OK. And not in the last hour, either. I'm just all frustrated by then. So within 22 hours, then? Yes. Anything else? No. Come in. It's all done. You rinsed the soap off? Let's see if you've done your job properly. What's this doing here? How long do I have to stay in here for? For as long as I want. Are you sure you're going to be OK? Can you breathe in there? Yes! Pinastri. Pinastri. Pinastri! - What happened? - Nothing. - Just a mosquito bite. - Aw. I told you, it's more fun to sleep with me. Maybe you can put me back in there, but just don't tie me. Come to bed. 'This is all I ever dreamed about. 'This is all I ever dreamed about.' Pinastri. Lie down. Open your mouth. - Try turning the tap on. - Shh! - Why did you write about mole crickets? - Why not? Such ugly things. No wonder they hide under the ground. Ugly maybe, but beautifully eloquent. Aargh! - Are you OK? - OK. Just about. It would just be nice if you volunteered to rub my back. Sorry. I didn't know you needed anything. Well, you can see that I'm in pain. Well, it's not exactly inspiring to see you dressed like that. Good thing you're not a doctor, then. That's really some look you have there Even the tramps are less shabby. I'm starting to wonder why I bothered buying you a whole wardrobe. I need an instruction manual to get into half of the things you buy me. I would just like to feel comfortable, thank you very much. This is giving me a headache. You're not going to turn it off? Did you ask me to? How long do I have to stay in here for? For as long as I want. Morning, Lorna. Do you want to go with me to the library? Hmm...? What time is it? It's around two. I thought we could also have an ice cream after. Hmm... Another time. The Institute will close for winter any day soon. I know. So you're not coming, then? I need to sleep if you're going to put me in the trunk tonight. That's news to me. It would be nice if you did it without having to be asked. There used to be a time when my body would just repair itself overnight. It's all downhill from now. Don't be such a pessimist! You have many, many years left in you. Oh, that reminds me. On the subject of getting old. - I spoke to Lorna the other day. - I don't know why you bother. What's that miserable sow have to say, anyway? She wanted to alert us to some root problems with the birch. She claims they might be unsettling her foundations. Let her claim away. What a nonsense. That tree rests too far from the house to have any effect. Ignore her. She's nothing but a bloated bag of trapped wind. She also claims she spotted you polishing Dr Schuller's boots in her backyard. Tell me that's just another sly rumour. Don't be ridiculous. You know what Lorna's like. Are you really going to get taken in by such idle gossip? No, but this was rather precise. It would hurt me more if you denied such an accusation. So, I'm condemned for denying a false accusation? - That's a good move - Just tell me the truth. I'm telling you the truth. That Lorna makes it her business to spread dirty lies. You polished her boots, didn't you? Tell me. Don't lie to me, Evelyn. Tell me what you did. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. So what else did you two get up to? - Nothing. - Really? Nothing. I swear! Nothing! I just polished her boots. I find that hard to believe. Did she punish you? - Did she punish you? - No! So you just polished her boots out of pure good will? OK, she... She told me off a bit. That's all. Nothing more. How did she tell you off? - Let's not... - How did she tell you off? I don't know. Just some harsh words. Some threats. That's all. Then I went home. - I bet you did. - I didn't do anything. We didn't kiss, we didn't touch. Nothing, I swear. Believe me, I didn't do anything. That's your idea of not doing anything? For what it's worth, you might as well have gone all the way. The damage has been done. - What damage? - You betrayed me! Do you call that betrayal? Why would you lie about something if you didn't regard it as betrayal? Because you'd automatically think something else happened when it didn't. - Where are you going? - Somewhere. Anywhere. - Anywhere away from you. - Please, Cynthia. Please. I'm sorry. That was just a bad day. I was feeling weak. I was frustrated. I'm sorry. I wasn't getting what I needed here. So, had I ordered a human toilet, none of this would've happened then? I'm sorry. I'm weak and I'm sorry. Cynthia! Please! Please, Cynthia! I love you. Please. The tunnelling larvae of Xestobium rufovillosum are a severe pest in both buildings and in the timber trade. Their trail of devastation isn't as patterned as species from the Scolytidae family. Their galleries and tunnels deep within the wood are distinctive to each species. Xestobium rufovillosum favours oak, whether living or felled. 'Although seldom seen, its presence is often felt 'by the sinister tapping sound it makes 'to attract a mate during the spring.' Wait! Wait! Now, my love. A small birthday treat for you. All I can say is I hope you like it as much as I do. Is this a joke? No, no. The ingredients for your birthday cake. Which you are going to make. Here's the recipe. And while you're doing that, I'll go change into something nicer. - I don't know if I can... - Oh, you have to. Read the recipe and make the cake. I want you ready by nine. Now, put it here. Where's my fork? - What about...? - Don't come so close. Your breath is like a hyena. Now, lie down. Here. Mm. Mmm! - This is not funny. - Did I say you could speak? Pinastri. Pinastri. Pinastri, Pinastri. Oh, if we could all just say Pinastri to end our torments. Mmm. Mmm... Mmm! Mmm. Two by two Watching them over Follow as they're told Moving through Watch them grow older Follow when they go Ah... Ah... Two by two Love with no answer Hiding the untold Moving through Loving the other Hide the overgrown Ah Ah 'What's this doing here? 'This was on the pile. 'This was on the pile for you to wash.' 'I'm sorry. I didn't see it.' 'How could you not see it? I left it there on the pile. 'Answer me. How could you not see it? ' 'But I can wash it now. It's not a problem.' 'No, you can't wash it now and it is a problem, 'because I have other plans for you now.' - 'Sorry.' - 'You will be.' Pinastri. Pinastri. Pinastri. 'Pinastri.' Pinastri. Cynthia. Can you sit on me? Please? 'The anatomy of Gryllotalpidae 'is highly modified for a subterranean existence. 'The squat and broad velvety haired body 'with flattened claws and short antennae 'is designed to burrow into the soil, 'occasionally to depths of one metre.' The spade-like forelimbs are enlarged and very powerful, ideally suited for digging. 'With the advent of winter, 'all Gryllotalpidae retreat into their burrows.' There they will remain in hibernation, still and dormant, until the spring sun warms the soil enough to stir them from their slumber. It's all done. You rinsed the soap off? Let's see if you've done your job properly. What's th...? What's this doing here? I left it on the pile. I left it on the pile for you to wash. Sorry... I... I didn't see it. How could you not see it? I left it there on the pile. But I can wash it now. It's not a problem. No, you can't wash it now. And it is a problem. I can do this. OK, um... I'm sorry. Please don't be mad at me. It's OK. I can change, if this is what it does to you. I can change. All this is just a luxury. The important thing is you. No, but maybe you'll end up resenting me. We can't win. How can I resent you? I love you. I love you. I know have a different way of showing it. But I love you. You don't believe me, do you? What do you want me to do to prove it? Just tell me. Just tell me what to do and I'll do it. Oh, please, believe that I love you. - 'Are you OK? ' - 'Of course.' - 'Are you sure? ' - 'I'm sure. 'I'm sure, don't worry. 'Everything's fine. 'Everything's more than fine.' - 'Really? ' - 'Really. 'Everything is fine.' The growing sun, the end of spring The first part beginning The coat of arms is fading Your golden chain is breaking Soldier at dawn Holy one Come away Holy one Go at dawn Come away The growing sun Shadows bring The last to part is waiting Your coat of arms is fading Your golden chain is breaking Soldier at dawn Holy one Come away
