 

                        I suppose when you spend most of your life in one profession you develop what could be called an occupational point of view So maybe I can be forgiven for the first thing I thought of that morning Because I found myself thinking that the staging and the setting even the lighting of Maria's funeral were just what she would have wanted My name is Harry Dawes I've been a writer and director of movies for longer than I like to remember I go way back: back to when the movies had two dimensions, and one dimension and sometimes no dimension at all I wrote and directed all three of the movies Maria D'Amata was in Her short, full career, from start to finish I wrote it and directed it On the screen, that is What was I doing there? The Fates or the Furies or whoever wrote and directed her short, full life they took care of that Anyway, there I stood halfway around the world from Hollywood and Vine in a little graveyard near Rapallo, Italy watching them bury the Contessa Torlato-Favrini in ground she'd never heard of six months ago with a stone statue to mark the spot Life, every now and then, behaves as if it had seen too many bad movies When everything fits too well: The beginning, the middle and the end from fade-in to fade-out And where I faded in, the contessa was not a contessa She was not even a movie star named Maria D'Amata Where I faded in, her name was Maria Vargas and she danced in a nightclub in Madrid, Spain Ol! Ol! And so, once upon a time, three years ago, we came to Madrid to a not very fashionable nightclub, to see Maria Vargas dance Let me tell you who "we" were The man with the sweaty face and frightened eyes was and is Oscar Muldoon He's a public relations man, which can be many things unrelated and not public at all The blonde was made in Hollywood, USA Her name was Myrna, and she travelled I was a writer and/or director, who hadn't been doing too well We were all in the employ of Kirk Edwards Meet Kirk Edwards You're saying to yourself "So, that's what he looks like" "A Wall Street wizard who came up from the streets of New York" "Who came up from the bottom, but never really left it" Don't feel sorry for Kirk Edwards Not unless you're a hungry psychiatrist Kirk was producing a motion picture, his first He had as much in common with anything creative as I have with nuclear physics Well, we'd been scouting for what is called, delicately, a new face By most standards, flying all the way to Madrid to look for a new face would seem like going to a lot of trouble But I've known producers who'd travel further for a good smoked whitefish Hey, um... Hey, Mac! "S, seor" How come the band is takin' a break? - Uh, please. Don't... - Signorina Seorita. You're in Spain now, buster Seorita whatsis... Maria Vargas. She does not dance no more? No more, seor You mean she dance only one time, then "finito"? "S, no ms. " One time, then "finito" Well, maybe she could dance one more time, just for tonight, eh? She never dance more. One time and no more. Well, why you not make her dance more? You the boss, eh? Is Maria Vargas. Nobody boss. Maria Vargas Funny, I always thought a woman was a two-time thing. Sing it, Oscar Oscar, have her come to the table I'm very sorry, seor, but Seorita Vargas does not sit at the tables with the guests Now, I'm sure you don't consider Mr Kirk Edwards just an ordinary guest Well, I have said, it is not possible with Seorita Vargas Well, maybe just this once, for Mr Kirk Edwards you can make an exception to your rule But it's not my rule. It's rule of Seorita Vargas I'm sorry. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Excuse me. Oscar, go get her We'll be right back You haven't had much to say this trip, Harry I'd counted on you for laughs some of your well-known bright remarks Maybe going on the wagon makes a man dull Could be Oscar hasn't touched his whisky - No, thanks - How long has it been? - Five months, next Tuesday - Let that be a lesson to you, Myrna It's never too late to develop character I've got time The fact that you don't drink at all, Kirk is the greatest argument for drunkenness I know Wanna know why I went on the wagon when I went to work for you? Because I didn't want you around when my brain was befuddled First thing I know, you might buy my soul You can't buy people's souls. They belong to God. - What's champagne in Spanish? - Wait till Oscar gets back Not always, Kirk. Sometimes it's quite a tussle - Remember Faust? - I don't believe I do Faust was something like you, Kirk Except, instead of all the money in the world he had all the knowledge But the one thing he never knew like you, was a moment of real happiness So he made a deal with the Devil. He'd trade his soul to the Devil in return for that one moment of real happiness. How'd it turn out? Well, God fought the Devil for Faust's soul It was a close fight Most people think God won I personally always thought it wound up a draw I think it's a silly story No man with all that money and knowledge could never have been happy Sure it's a silly story Can you ever imagine Kirk being in a spot like that? Worst come to worst, he'd just "buy" God A woman who drinks is bad enough But I will not stand for a woman cursing and blaspheming God Now get out of here. Right now. Get out This is Madrid, in Spain, not Sunset Boulevard We flew from Rome in your private plane, remember? Then let her find her own way back There must be other planes, trains, buses. Give her some money Is she changing? Then why didn't you bring her with you? - She don't sit with the customers - You talked to her? Through the door. She opened it that wide That fella in Rome was right. Her English ain't bad - Did you tell her what it was about? - She knew. And she knew who you were She don't sit at the tables with the customers One of the waiters tells me she's got a reputation for not mingling Do you suppose that, just this once, you might have to go yourself? This time, I want "you" to go Sorry, my contract and the bylaws of my various guilds call for me to render my services to you as a writer and a director I'm not required to do your... public relations Look who's a candidate for the Christopher Award An ex-drunk who's fallen on his face in front of half of central casting Shut up, Oscar Now, this is as good a time as any to get our relationship straight, once and for all You work for me. I pay you. That means only one thing to me whether you're a director or a janitor in one of my plants: I'm your boss I'm also perfectly willing and able to cancel this entire production right now Pay you off and write you off The government will be paying for most of it anyway With Oscar's help, I can let it be known your script wasn't worth shooting and that you were in no condition to shoot it Maybe you went off the wagon. Who knows? The majors aren't wanting you anyway And if I can't afford you as an independent, who can? All that, just to meet a new face All that, because I want you to do what I say even if it's picking up my hat when I tell you to Give me some money, Oscar, to get back to Rome I'll ad-lib the rest of the way Why don't you come too, Harry? You might as well put whisky in that. And don't worry about your soul You must have lost it at some preview, a long time ago Um... Seorita Vargas? Gracias Seorita, your bare feet are showing Now, I don't speak Spanish, you don't speak english so the only way we can make any progress is to... - I did not say to come in - You did not say to stay out - You did not actually say nothing - Anything Your English is very good Where'd you learn it? - This man, he is my cousin - This man, he is your cousin Did you come for the same reason as the man with sweat on his face? Yes. But, as you see, I have no sweat on my face Mr Edwards thought I might persuade you... I do not mingle with the customers Only your cousin? The man with the sweat was more pleasant Not really. Do you know who Mr Kirk Edwards is? I have heard of him. He is the owner of Wall Street That is correct. Recently, however, he decided to produce motion pictures and for that purpose he's just bought California, too. - And now he wants to buy me? - Not exactly Mr Kirk Edwards is looking for somebody... like you to play in his first production and he wants to talk to you about it - Who are you? - Oh, I'm not important I'm writing the film and I'll direct it. My name is Harry Dawes Harry Dawes Harry Dawes Did you not once direct Jean Harlow and Carole Lombard? You must have seen movies when you were very little How did you know my name? Only one out of 10,000 moviegoers... Oh, I can name to you Lubitsch and Fleming and Van Dyke and La Cava - You didn't think I was dead too, did you? - Maria! My cousin, he plays in the orchestra - He had to go back to work - Through the window? That's a funny way for a cousin to leave In Hollywood, it is not easy to become a star Ah, where is it easy? In Madrid, here at least I'm a little star Why should I take the chance that I lose it? - Do you know what a screen test is? - Yes We could make it in Rome. Nobody would know If it doesn't work out, you'll have lost nothing It can't hurt you to meet Kirk Edwards Nobody could accuse you of mingling A business conference with one of the richest men in the world Could you teach me to act, Mr Dawes? If you can act, I can help you If you can't, nobody can teach you Why did not Mr Kirk Edwards come to ask me himself? I'm sure he would have been delighted But since I'm the director... Do all directors come to ask young women to sit with their producers? Um... Not... not all I think a man who can write something and can help someone to act is worth much more than a man who only has money If and when you become an actress, don't ever say that in public You never know who's listening. Hm? Seorita, this is Oscar Muldoon, whom I'm sure you recognise Meet Kirk Edwards. Don't get up, Mr Edwards Sorry we got here too late to see you dance We certainly are, seorita, because we understand you got a lot of talent And that's the one thing that could make Mr Edwards fly all the way from Rome All the way from California. Talent. And where other men go for a pretty face or a pair of legs talent is what Mr Kirk Edwards worships It's his religion, you might almost say Something to eat, seorita? Waiter! "Mangiare? Poco di vino," seorita? - Do you speak Spanish, seor? - Just a couple of words Not even that. One of them was Italian Speak only English, please A whisky for me, like before Now, did Mr Dawes have a chance to tell you what Mr Edwards has in mind? Oh, you wouldn't know, of course who Mr Harry Dawes is, in his own name He is only one of the top two or three writers and directors in the whole world I only want to indicate to you by this how Mr Edwards does things Only the top, the class, the finest money can buy all the way up and down the line Mr Edwards doesn't have to watch the pennies. You know that? I don't want to throw Oscar off pitch but I told Seorita Vargas what this was about I said we could shoot the test in Rome Seorita... Miss Vargas... We'll have to change that name. Maria Naturally, Mr Edwards will pay your expenses while you're tested and if it works out, you'll be put under contract to him personally And you'll be paid in dollars. Not pesetas, but dollars - Maybe $100 a week to start with - How much is that in pesetas? Maybe $200 a week. We can work that out later. The point is, Mr Edwards is going to leave no stone unturned to develop your talent and make you happy Afraid you'll be lonely, far away in Hollywood? There's no reason why, after a time, we can't send for your mother After all, a girl likes to have her mother with her. Right? I would not like to have my mother with me Why not? - Because I do not like my mother - I'm sure you don't mean that - Every mother should be loved - If they deserve it We can work all that out later too The point is, the miracle has happened and a great career is yours No strings attached, no jokers All Mr Edwards wants is for the world to enjoy your talent and for you to be happy And what does he get out of it? Just your gratitude What does he ever get out of the things he does? Money? Power? Fame? Nah. He's got all those All that he can look forward to is the honest gratitude of the little people that he helps, like you and me and Mr Dawes Sounds pretty good, doesn't it? I... have to telephone somebody Please excuse me, Mr Dawes Ah, Muldoon, you're a charmer The little birds right out of the trees Signor Edwards, we're checked and are ready whenever you are, sir Oscar, go hurry her up. She can buy what she needs in Rome Right Right now, Kirk, I wish my bankroll was about one million dollars - What would you do with them? - I'd bet you the whole million that this time, Oscar charmed the little bird right back into the tree He'll come up empty, Kirk The trouble with you is you never know where scripts leave off and life begins Ah, Muldoon, you're a charmer You'd be so much more charming if only you didn't sweat so much She's gone. She never even went back to the room. Nobody knows where - I can't understand it - We're leaving right now Without you, Harry We'll take off in one hour. You find her and bring her with you Don't show up without her Just cable your agent collect... if you've still got an agent This is for the check Kirk was wrong when he said I didn't know where scripts left off and life began A script has to make sense, and life doesn't Any self-respecting script would have had me swallow Oscar's whisky and go off on a bat But it wasn't a script. Right now, I wish it had been The script would have made so much more sense about all of us than life did Maria Vargas? Seora Vargas? I'm sorry. "No hablo espaol. " I look for Maria Vargas Wait a minute. This is important Mucho importante Why to find my sister is so important? Ah, Doctor Livingstone - You got cigarettes? - Help yourself Keep the pack. I've got more I'm a film director and I talked to your sister tonight about going to America to play in the movies. I want to talk to her again It's good you no understand my mother. Is liar Why not fight this out later? I haven't much time I don't know what your troubles are but I must find Maria. Every minute counts My mother forbids Maria to go to America - What does Maria say? - I think we can talk better outside - My brother took all your cigarettes? - I have another pack - What did you tell your mother? - Just now? Uh-huh I told her if she said one more word, I would go to America, even if I did not want to go - Are you in trouble with Mr Edwards? - In a way - Because I ran away? - Mm-hm I do not like Mr Kirk Edwards You're standing at the end of a long, long line Somehow, to me, he is not a healthy man Somehow, he's sick And I cannot bear to watch sick people be sick That is why so suddenly I had to go away Mr Dawes, do you think really that I could be a star? There's one phrase I've avoided like the plague because it never worked out With you, I think it would. You couldn't miss I think that I am pretty enough but I would not want to be that kind of star Pretty enough? Any woman that can use the moon for a key light... Key light? What is that? Your own special light when the stage is all lit up. It shines only on you - Like the moon - Like the moon You must learn how to find it out of all the other lights How never to lose it. How to make it do things for your eyes, lips and hair - But this is not acting - No, this is not acting And it's not all you have to learn either But... if I could act a little would you help me to become a really good actress? Would you help me? What makes a man want to write about people, or direct people is because usually he has a sort of sixth sense about them, or thinks he has Like a witch Now, my five ordinary senses what with alcohol and the rest, are nothing special But I have a sixth sense that any witch in the world would give her left broomstick to have And... with sense number six, you feel something about me Therefore, owing to circumstances which believe me, are beyond my control I hereby advise you not to come to Rome to make the test Not to come to America. At least, not for a while - At least, not... - At least, not to Mr Kirk Edwards - Is that what you fear? - Part of it That's the only part I can put into words Or perhaps you want me for yourself and you are afraid Mr Edwards' money will make him more attractive than you What makes women think that money makes a man feel more attractive? I never met a rich man who didn't think he was being loved in spite of his money - And you? - Me? Well, I'm afraid I've had three wives I've been around with actresses, female writers, singers, painters even a female agent But I don't think I've met more than three women in my life Six months or so ago, I fell in love with one of 'em - Is she an actress? - No, I told you. She's a woman - Does she have to work? - Script girl. Her name is Jerry - She has the name of a man - There is no further resemblance - What is a script girl? - You find out Apparently, your sense number six has changed its mind No,I've just come to the realisation that it's none of my business - You now want me to go? - It's up to you I have no fear of Mr Kirk Edwards America is a rich and powerful country but you have no monopoly on evil men I have known them since I was a very little girl - Not like Kirk - They did not have millions of dollars But, to a girl with nothing, a man with hundreds is as rich as one with millions I do not say this with pride, Mr Dawes Nor do I want it to sound like one of the foolish things we laugh at in the movies But no man has ever paid for me and I do not think any man ever will Then... why not with pride? Because it has not been out of goodness Not even because I've tried to be good I have nothing to say about it, Mr Dawes, about whom I love It is a kind of sickness And, as I have said, I cannot bear to be with sick people But when the sick one is yourself, you cannot run away When I was a little girl, like so many others there was no money to buy shoes for me. And when the bombs came, in the civil war I used to bury myself in the dirt of the ruins to be safe I would lie there, safe in the dirt and wiggle my toes and listen to the noise and dream of someday being a fine lady, in fine shoes. I hate shoes, Mr Dawes I wear them to dance and to show myself but I feel afraid in shoes And I feel safe with my feet in the dirt My words in English are so simple And yet what I want to say is not simple at all Even in my own language my brain and my words could not say it, I'm afraid There's more to talking than just words And you have one more sense than other people For instance, you understood about my cousin right away And when I was older and the bombs still came just to bury myself in the dirt was not enough to be safe I needed someone to be with me Someone to love, to love me, to make me safe I needed it. I still need it when I'm afraid Like a baby who needs a light on in the dark I need to be loved when I'm hiding in the dirt, and afraid But the bombs are gone You surprise me, Mr Dawes Is fear gone? - What are you afraid of? - The same as everybody else The same as you Of being exposed and unprotected Like Mr Kirk Edwards without his money Like you, as you used to be without your drink or now without your script girl, who loves you Like me, in my shoes and on display for men and women to examine for different reasons Many men must be in love with you In the dirt, it's hard to tell Haven't "you" been in love? From the dirt, it's easy to look into the clouds Has Mr Kirk Edwards already flown away in his private plane all covered with diamonds and stars? Or, by now, has it changed into a "calabaza?" Oh, that must be Spanish for "pumpkin" We still have time, if you're coming - Yes - Then you'd better get your things I have them Then you'll want to say goodbye I've no desire to look at my mother once more and I would only confuse "pap Pedro will take care of him Con Dios, pap I am ready, Mr Dawes You forgot your shoes No. I did not forget them. What happened next, if you go to movies or if you've ever sat under a dryer or in a waiting room is history Movie history. The facts and figures and fantasy of Maria's success There are some, though, you wouldn't have found in the textbooks You've seen it and read it a thousand times It's one of the most tiresome clichs of storytelling It really happens once or twice in a generation But that first test of Maria Vargas lit up all the lights in show business I had taken it upon myself to invite the highest movie brass I could find in Rome Mr Black of America, Monsieur Blue of France, and Mr Brown of England The difference between European and American movie magnates is astonishing There is absolutely none Kirk, my dear fellow, I know just what you have in mind I couldn't agree more. A British production... I've got the perfect story... You're not the type to fool around with... Now just a minute, gentleman. In the first place this young lady is under exclusive contract to Mr Kirk Edwards, of course He cannot discuss her future availability at this time Secondly, this was a private showing of a private test which belongs to Mr Edwards And I consider your presence here highly irregular and unethical Are you out of your mind, Muldoon? You invited me - Who, me? - You must remember asking me You suggested I come in after the lights were out in case I disturbed Mr Edwards - Boss, I swear to you on my life... - What about it, Harry? I'm afraid I'm the guilty one. I invited you, gentlemen I used Oscar's name because, franquely I was afraid you wouldn't be into my name - What is your name, monsieur? - He's Harry Dawes I imagined you'd be a much older man, Mr Dawes I was, up to the minute I saw this test I'm flying to Paris tonight, Harry. Drop in this afternoon - I'm at the Excelsior - Sorry, Max - Not business. Just old friends - How old? Since the test? Why'd you have us come here, Harry? Well, I should have checked with Oscar Muldoon It's not really a director's function But in Mr Edwards' organisation, we all do all sorts of things I wanted to make sure that the leaders of our industry knew about the contribution Mr Edwards was going to make to it "Alors," it was a "grand plaisir" May I offer a ride to any one of you? I'll take you up on that, if I may, Ren - See you in London - Au revoir, messieurs Any time this afternoon, Harry, if you get the chance - Sorry, Max - I'm at the Excelsior Well, it's a great art we're doing business in, gentlemen Everybody be happy Her make-up's too dark and too much Hair and wardrobe have got to be much more simple No tricks. The less between her and the camera, the better The voice is good. Well placed I don't want a voice coach within a mile of her How much closer will "you" be? - What's that? - How much closer have you been? To Maria? Coming from anybody else that would be a compliment What were those men doing here? I've not answered your first question yet - I know the answer - No, you don't You won't admit it It'd mean something is possible between men and women besides the few, simple, physiological relationships you know about OK, that answer will satisfy the Screenwriters Guild Now tell us why you planted those men in here Maybe your master knows the answer to that too, or doesn't wanna know - I wanna know - It's pretty long We got the room booked for the whole morning It won't take that long Kirk, Maria's made a chump out of you. She's laughed at you And you won't do better. You'll do worse Now, this pleases me and frightens me. Because I know you You're capable of destroying a woman who's laughed at you You've destroyed women who loved you, so why not Maria? And you're capable of burning that test, as great as it is and making it known she had nothing worth testing But right now, the name and fame of Maria Vargas is on its way to New York, Hollywood, London and Paris. - Does that answer your question? - You can't get away with this You're being disloyal, Oscar. You're stealing dialogue from television And you lied to those gentlemen You can be forgiven beaucause It's your job to lie But you lied when you said Maria was under contract to Kirk - Isn't she? - Well, I... Those were your exact instructions, Kirk, so don't punish Oscar for it No contract till after the test, remember? You were going to use it for one more pitch Well, right now, it's after the test And Maria Vargas will not sign a contract with you She's under contract to "you. " Is that it? Kirk, if ever a characterisation followed a straight line, yours does No, she's not under contract to me because I'm not in that business But what I tell Maria to do, she will do With her shoes on, that is What's her shoes got to do with it? Nothing. Of course, you can call off the production right now Write it off, write me off and Maria The government will pay for most of it anyway And I'll go see Max Black at the Excelsior this afternoon All right, let's go back to Hollywood and make this movie After that, Maria's on her own And you can keep on looking for new faces. The world's full of 'em But you'll never find another Maria You will find what you're looking for, I'm sure - Harry... - Hm? Nothin' If ever a funeral laid an egg, that one did Standing round the grave, maybe two dozen nobodies. A great finish You just don't bury a famous movie star like she was an unidentified body Well, it figured. It was like that from the minute I laid eyes on her Nothing worked according to the book. Not my book, anyway From the minute she waved at the Statue of Liberty everybody wanted to know everything about Maria And they wound up knowing nothing, because there was nothing to know Believe me, what they said in Madrid was true This bundle of passion, this hot flame that burned from the screen was a real untouchable The columns and the wolves were after me night and day But how could I tell them who she was with or when when I didn't even know who she knew? I can tell you this: It is entirely possible that Maria D'Amata went to her grave without ever being inside of the Stork El Morocco, Ciro's or the Mocambo You got to admit this is not normal But what was normal about this whole business from start to finish? Here is a doll who, on the opening night of her first picture with no known interest in men, much less romance whose private life is strictly private but who, the people have decided, is already a star This is the night I first begin to think maybe the public has a mind of its own Who else but Maria D'Amata would show up at her world premiere alone together with a couple that everybody knew were in love with each other? It was real love with Harry and Jerry You could tell it was because they didn't give out interviews about getting married Maria D'Amata. Whatever it is - you name it Whether you're born with it or catch it from a public drinking cup, Maria had it The people with the money in their hot little hands put her up there and she could do no wrong But I can remember very well the day it did look like the roof fell in on all of us It was in London. Back in the States the picture was a smash from coast to coast I and Kirk Edwards had flown over to see S Montague Brown who wanted it for his theatres in England I could tell right away something was wrong Kirk didn't even look at me And S Montague Brown was eating and drinking as if the Labour Party had just been elected unanimously May I know what the depression is about? - Maria - What about Maria? Maria's mother is dead Everybody's mother's gotta die sometime Don't let it get you down like this As a matter of fact, we can milk this for some good exploitation in Spain Maybe even worldwide. A big church funeral, using pesetas, remember Oscar, shut up Mr Muldoon, it seems that Maria's mother was murdered by Maria's father Murdered? Her father murdered her mother? When? - Last night - How'd you hear about this? The Madrid office just telephoned The papers? Has it got to the papers? Not yet As you know, over here crime is not exploited to sell newspapers Without it you could print the three main papers in England on postage stamps I am not interested in selling newspapers or in debating good and bad taste The newspapers have not yet picked it up and won't, as long as Maria stays out of it Boss, you're 100% right We gotta keep her out of it. Does she know about it yet? I've put in a call to Harry Dawes. He can find out - You want Harry to tell her? - Of course not Certainly not until the trial is over and it's too late to be news And we're finished playing the key cities Boss, you think of everything Ah, what a business, show business For years you sweat and dream and dig and finally you come up with the jackpot You've made it. You got a right to open your collar, take off your shoes and relax in Las Vegas for the rest of your life So what happens? Her father chokes her mother to death It could make ya cry Montague, if there's one thing I know about, it's Mr John Q Public He wants clean people on the screen for his children to look at Don't let the eggheads tell you he wants high-class acting and fancy dialogue Oscar, the phone He wants to forget his troubles, look at clean people, escape He don't wanna see drunks, sex maniacs divorcees, communists, murderers And no children of murderers. He's got enough of that at home. Hello? Hello? Yeah, Mr Edwards is right here. Put him on - It's Harry, for you - You talk to him Hello? Hello? I hear nothing Hello, Harry? No, this is Oscar Yeah, how are you, Harry? Fine, fine. Say, how is it out there? You don't say? Whaddaya know? Nice day in California Are you paying for this call yourself, Oscar? Harry, the reason we called... What's new and all that, but also... have you happened to see Maria lately? Oh, you just left her? Oh, good, good. Say, how is she? Fine, fine. Say, Harry, something kind of important has come up I say, something kind of important has come up Yeah. That maybe you should know about but that maybe you should keep Maria from knowing about right now Yeah. Yeah, it's got to do with Maria in a way Her old man knocked off her old lady Her father murdered her mother What? I can't hear you, suddenly What? What do you mean, you know? Does Maria know? How? The papers? Her brother sent a cable? Now, I hope Maria understands that if the papers find out it can not only ruin the picture, but her also She does? Harry says Maria understands perfectly And you too. This is no time for you to be artistic Remember, this is money out of your pocket too, so take no chances You do? Harry says he understands also I must say, Harry, you're being very cooperative about this And please extend our heartfelt sympathy to Maria at this time of her grief What? What? We can what?! We can extend our sympathy to Maria in person? Harry, what are you talking about? Didn't you tell me you just left her? You left her at the airport? She's flying to Madrid to be with her father? Who do we know in New York for a snatch job between planes? Dawes, are you outta your mind? How could you let her do this? What? What kind of an answer is that against a $10 million world gross? You don't say? Well, I'm just as normal as you are, buster Remember that in the years ahead when you're directing cigarette butts on TV She loves her father Neither the picture nor her career mean as much to her as being with her father in his time of need Starring Francis X Bushman and Clara Kimball Young Friday, Saturday and Sunday at the Bijou There will be a cornet solo on Saturday night Well, you remember what happened The trial drew more people than "Madame X", and played better Maria hired the best lawyers in Spain. She never slept You'd think it was her own life she was fighting for Harry and Jerry flew over They couldn't help much, but they were there Nobody asked me and I wasn't anybody's friend especially but I stuck around You couldn't help feeling sorry for the old man You could tell just by looking at him that half the time he didn't know where he was And you wouldn't give a bent kopeck for his chances the way he kept admitting, over and over, that he killed the old lady Things picked up for the home team when Maria's brother a ganef if ever I saw one, took the stand He testified that his mother had beaten up the old man many times and how, on the night of the murder she not only smashed his radio, but hit him But if I had to write down what no actress should ever make public I would copy Maria's testimony in her father's defence She left out nothing She told about the squalor and filth into which she and her brother were born and how they grew up like animals She told about a mother who was full of hate and how she got back the hate she gave Maria handed Mom a rough time on that witness stand I couldn't help wondering how this would go in box-office heaven where Mom is the commanding saint But that courtroom was with her all the way Some of them cried, even the judges They must be appointed in Spain, because I don't know of anybody ever getting elected whose mother was not an angel And, as it turned out the audiences of the whole world could have been sitting in that courtroom From Scarsdale to Singapore, they loved her Her father beat the rap, of course. Self-defence And Maria walked out of that courthouse a bigger star than when she broke all the rules by walking into it So how are you going to figure it? Suppose you're me and what the public wants and thinks is your business You're standing in the middle of them asking yourself "Where did I lose these people?" You realise maybe the public knows more about public relations than you do Maybe the public heart is something you can't put on a chart or penetrate with just money You begin to think that maybe, after all Kirk Edwards couldn't really walk across the English Channel any time he wanted to In many ways, Maria affected Oscar more than any of us Her father's trial the fact that being honest about something unpleasant could make her more popular than ever, it shook Oscar His gods began to crumble He became aware even of some clay around the feet of Kirk Edwards But two years went by before the great god Edwards toppled over Two good and happy years, for me at any rate The night he fell to earth (I suppose it was the most losing night of Kirk's life) was just about a year ago, in Beverly Hills, California It was quite a night. Turned out to be quite a party Kirk Edwards was the host and over my objections, Maria let him use her house He'd asked personally and Maria said yes Kirk didn't give many parties, but when he did they were always for men like Seor Alberto Bravano Bravano did no less for Kirk when Kirk visited South America Noblesse oblige, sort of But it soon became obvious that the seor was only mildly interested in the available talent He'd found what he wanted: Maria Jerry and I were playing backgammon That dated us, all right, but it gave us something to do We weren't paying much attention to the game We were worried about Maria She seemed too restless, too tense, too withdrawn And Kirk, when he wasn't looking at Maria he was watching Bravano look at Maria He didn't like it Alberto Bravano was, and is one of the three richest men in South America which makes him one of the richest in the world But unlike Kirk his only interest in money lay in spending it for his own gratification To Oscar, Alberto Bravano was heaven-sent A man with more money than Kirk, even and even more in need of a counsel for public relations It's a form of insurance, you might say Only, instead of your life it protects your good name and your reputation Too late. My name and reputation already are hopelessly bad Mr Muldoon, in my whole life I have made one major decision When I was 15 years old, I had two choices Everybody wanted me to be a good little boy and do good for others I chose to be a bad little boy and do good for myself So far, so good, seor. But the world is getting smaller all the time And if somebody drops a lot of money in a gambling casino in Deauville, France the noise can be heard quite a way. Interesting. And how far, would you say can this falling money be heard? With nobody around to quiet it down the sound could travel all the way to certain mining camps deep in the jungles of South America Camps where the men aren't paid enough or protected against disease enough Interesting And how would such fantastic lies come to the ears of a man such as you, Mr Muldoon? Well, like I say, it's a tiny world If, for instance, somebody rents a whole hotel at Cap d'Antibes, France for the entire season, just to make sure he can have it the last two weeks in August and if somebody else doesn't keep it quiet people might read about it in cafs in certain South American cities Is it not fortunate, for instance that I own the newspapers in my country? Anyone with a printing press in the cellar and something to say owns a newspaper There are laws against propaganda that certain governments enforce very rigidly Is any man rich enough to own a government? I will not answer vaguely, Mr Muldoon. Yes It's a funny thing about the governments one owns If the owner isn't around but is cruising around the Mediterranean on a yacht that costs more to keep up than the combined salaries of his government and nobody is around to protect his interests... What do you think? Will Maria d'Amata come with me to the Riviera? She ought to jump at the chance, but she's a strange girl To have Maria D'Amata as my personal guest would be the best of possible public relations for me, Mr Muldoon Besides, is not Maria D'Amata the chief asset of Kirk Edwards? In what way do you mean? One considers her his prize possession Only if one does not know what the score is You throw double sixes again and I'll have you burned for a witch Sore loser. He owes me $187,000 and he won't pay up - You won't take my cheque - I'll say - Double six - Ouch The last time this witch went to a party she made the princess prick her finger and fall asleep for 100 years Is that some kind of Chinese chequers? - Huh? - Chinese chequers? No, this is... pinochle - I'm drunk - It's just stuffy in here, that's all Oh, no, I'm drunk - Can I ask you something? - Of course - Nice house you got - Thank you - Nice party. - And nice questions you ask Yeah What is with you? What goes with you? I don't understand those questions Maria D'Amata. Great big star. Great big sex number Who is it? If it's not Kirk, who is it? Harry? - Shut up - Is it gonna be Bravano or who? On the screen, you get 'em all. What about off? What about in a room? This room. Name a man Or maybe you're afraid of men All right, blow. And don't forget to call a cab Who's she kiddin'? She hasn't even got what "I've" got What she's got you couldn't spell And what you've got, you used to have Now beat it I don't even believe you're playing pinochle Come on, Maria, let's us go sit upstairs for a while I'd like to talk to Harry for a moment. Would you mind? Of course I wouldn't Where will you be? Right here, practising double sixes Remember all the money I owe you No sweet talk with these juveniles or you won't collect a nickel You know just the right thing to say to a girl at the right time, don't you? I keep forgetting you don't smoke A glamour girl, who does not even smoke I should really be in the circus with the strange people - Freaks - Freaks Harry, I think that I should go home This "is" your home This is an ugly house in bad taste, which I rent Containing a bed to sleep on, which I rent Chairs to sit on and a stove to keep me warm, which I rent Then buy a place of your own, or build one I cannot buy, and working men cannot build a home You've worked hard. Three pictures, one right after another Maybe a rest and a change of scene will do you good Finding me, bringing me here our three films together, has it been good for you, Harry? I've never had it so good Because I think I should go back to Madrid, and stay there I should stay where I belong - Where is that? - In the dirt of the streets - Do you think you could stay there? - Probably not Probably now I would not belong there any more than where I am Where are you, Maria? Half in the dirt and half out Ah. Then it hasn't been good for you Oh, in many ways it's been beyond my dreams Like a fairy tale of this century And I have been "la Cenicienta" Spanish for Cinderella? I have gowns and jewels of silver and gold I have a coach not pulled by four horses but with the power of 200 Thousands of men write each month that they dream of me Mothers give my name to their babies And young girls rub their faces with the soap which I am paid to say I use, but which I do not And I have so many other things Everything in the world which can be rented As I remember the story you've left out one very important character I have left out the prince Did it ever occur to you, Harry that the prince looked everywhere for Cinderella just so that he could put the shoe back on her foot? Now that you mention it... I thought you'd sent him away. You asked him to come back Yes, I asked him back Your life is your own. I've never told you how to live it But this one is no good No worse, no better than the others. You cannot rent a prince I've seen him. He's mean and he's dirty And which of the men inside this house is not? Who? Name him for me, Harry You cast your films so well Which of them would you have play the prince? All the men are not in this house and what you need is not in that house All your talk about a frightened child finding love and security in the dirt All children love dirt, but they grow up The fairy tale again Cinderella came out of the ashes and was spotless when the prince came along Maria most women in this world pray and cry in their sleep for just one small part of what you've got so that they can find what all women need, what "you" need, Maria A man you can look at in the daytime A man you can love like a woman have children by, grow old with share joys and sorrows, success and failure You've got to make up your mind Half in the dirt and half out... Go one way or the other But if you go back, what a pitiful waste it'll be And if I go the other way, I go to what? To a big white yacht with Alberto Bravano? Just because it is big and white and a yacht, is it not still dirt? Do not think that I do not agree with everything you say, Harry But I... I cannot help myself One thing you can't knock about Southern California, the air at night I sure pity the people who have to breathe in the daytime You got somethin' on your mind? Not a thing, Oscar. How about you? I was just wonderin' You look like you had a sneak preview playin' inside I've been wondering too. You can't see Kirk Suppose he has a cigarette in his mouth and needs a light Maybe he should carry his own matches - Oh? Am I the first to know? - Know what? Oh, you're going to love international caf society No more plain Morocco/Stork Club caf society for you No bums in black ties. It's bums in white ties from now on I thought you were on the wagon Oscar, this is Harry - How about Bravano? Got him hooked? - All but the clincher I got him sold, Harry. I know it I got that gaucho seeing himself up there with the Rockefellers It's the deal of my lifetime, if I can just find that clincher Hurry, hurry, hurry! See the battle of the giants - What? - Kirk and Bravano are having it out - A fight? - Goliath versus Goliath - Throwin' punches? - Don't be silly Neither one of them has had his hands closed since the day he was born My tongue is loosened by champagne I speak as I do everything, for all the world to know Everything I do - and I admit to all your accusations - I do in the open But you, Mr Kirk Edwards, do them secretly - Do you deny that? - You're a liar. You're a liar! You repeat yourself Take a drink, my friend, and say what you have in your heart But you never drink. You never say Is it because you fear what's in your heart? - You're a liar - Granted. But so are you, Mr Edwards You are everything that I am, plus one more sin: Hypocrisy, my friend You pretend not to be what you are, not to do what you do This is most evil of all You've never done an honest day's work in your life I have never done a day's work in my life honest or dishonest, but neither have you To make $100 into $110, this is work To make 100 million into 110 million, this is inevitable At least I keep my money in my own country and spend it here and pay my taxes I keep my money in your country too and for the same reason as you. It is safest here And as for taxes, how many millions have you in tax-exempt bonds and oil wells whose power of production your government protects while it denies such benefits to the brain? What about "your" flea-bitten country? What taxes do you pay? It is a well-known fact that everywhere except for the British Empire and the USA the income tax can be easily avoided by anyone with income. I pay none Then what right do you have to attack the American way of life? Oh, please, Mr Kirk Edwards I attack nothing and nobody but you, personally I've never met an American to whom the American way of life was not his own But it is only yours I attack My life is none of your business. I live it my way and I like it Then why does it not make you happy? Do you not agree to have an enormous amount of money is a wonderful thing? Why don't you shut up and go back where you came from Oh, this is unworthy, even from you Next you will tell me the best friend of a boy is his mother - Mine was - Obviously. And that of a man, his horse It is not clear to me when the transition from mother to horse takes place - Get out of here, Bravano - I will go when I please - I'll have you thrown out! - I will offer no resistance I am a physical coward. So are you. But I admit it openly I'm a selfish man, not a good man. But I admit it openly I enjoy to live. You do not I waste my money with pleasure. But yours is just a waste I will not go back where I came from because I do not like it there You are incapable of liking it anywhere, so you stay where you are Goodbye, Mr Kirk Edwards Are you coming with me? - I beg your pardon? - I leave tomorrow morning for Cannes I invited you to join my yachting party and you said you'd let me know I ask you now, openly It would delight me if you would come with me this minute, out of this house You must be confused, seor. This is my house. I live here - Then tomorrow morning - Maria! Tell him you're not going, tomorrow morning or ever Always, Kirk, you choose exactly the wrong moment to play dictator with me I forbid you to go with him! And I want to hear you tell him so Too bad. I had decided not to go Now I think I must I will come for you tomorrow morning Oscar Clear everybody out. The party's over This is your clincher, Muldoon. Don't blow it Just this once, Kirk, why don't you empty your own ashtrays? - You heard what I said? - You said the party's over Tell everybody to go home The party's over and I want to thank you for a lovely evening How drunk are you, Muldoon? I've warned you about getting too drunk For four years - and now it's over - for four years I've invited the guests and provided the entertainment and cleaned up the dirt and paid off the waiters and paid off the cops and paid off the papers and paid off the guests And now it's good night. The party's over I've had a lovely evening, but I must be going You're fired, as of right now Don't call me, I'll call you Bravo, Mr Muldoon Mr Muldoon, it would delight me almost as much if you were to come with me this minute, out of this house Seor, I think you've got yourself a deal - She'll never make another picture - How are you going to stop her? Withdraw your financing and release? It's late, but I'm sure MGM, Fox, Paramount and the rest will be happy to have me wake them up with the news I'll fight it for years... to the Supreme Court I'll keep her off the screen, I'll destroy her Nah, she's too big now Oscar. I'll destroy Oscar He knows too much and where to tell it Why not destroy Seor Bravano? All those hundreds of millions of dollars, crashing against each other like a couple of big elks with your horns locked battling till you both starve to death in the snow You Not even me. Not any more Myrna I'll drive you home Don't I remember you from somewhere? Maybe we'll fly to Las Vegas I'll get my coat. I'll meet you in the car Harry, remember how you used to say life wrote lousy scripts? Even in one of yours I would have thrown this glass at him I'm going home with him instead You want to know the (what do you call it) motivation? Easy I'm a frightened tramp - Where's your coat? - In the car - Where'd you park it? - Driveway. We'll go around the back Harry, look They're Maria's She was wearing them tonight Cinderella's slippers Who lives in the little house? The prince? - Cinderella's cousin - I don't understand that I'll tell you about it in the car I didn't tell her, of course. Not even Jerry Some things you just don't tell anybody If it would have helped, I'd have yelled it in the streets But nothing could have helped The moving finger had already writ and moved on And nothing I could do would have cancelled half a line Nor would my tears wash out a word of it If this paisan asks me again am I sure the cameraman got his picture coming to this funeral... It's the only reason he's here Ah, well. It's my own fault I talked him into coming. It's basic public relations If people see the biggest rat in the world walk with his hat off behind a casket he becomes a lovable codger Bravano practically climbed into the coffin to be sure they took his picture At that, I assure you he got as close to Maria dead as he did to her alive He and Kirk, they both got nowhere Only difference was Kirk wouldn't quit till he tried everything in the book On the other hand, Bravano quit like a dog practically the first time Maria said no It seems to me he was secretly relieved The important thing to Bravano was for people to think Maria was his girl as long as he got credit for it If Bravano had to choose between really having Maria, in secret and not having her, but with the whole world thinking he did he'd want it just he way it was This I cannot figure This doesn't mean it can't be figured You could fill a big, fat book with what I haven't been able to figure since I was 12 Maria, for instance, I could never figure. But then, who could? There she was, the world's number one symbol of desirability on display all over the world's number one showroom with the world's number one customers wanting to buy and nobody wrapped her up and took her home Nobody I'll swear that into my own grave Nobody And while I'm on the broad subject of what I can't figure I give you that phenomenon of this day and age called "the international set" Once a year, on the French Riviera one of the most beautiful seashores on God's earth the international set gathers the way an annual fungus gathers on a beautiful tree It's quite a set It's as if ordinary human beings, living ordinary lives had suddenly vanished from the earth and the world was suddenly full of butterflies shaped like people They are all happy, all the time Some of them are happy because they are beautiful And some of them have to be happy because they are nothing but rich Some of the international set are happy because they are dogs Don't laugh. There's a beauty parlour in Cannes... just for dogs But the happiest of the international butterflies are those who live as if they never left the cocoon They form in little groups usually around some piece of ex-royalty Bravano, of course, had the best cocoon that money could buy To begin with, he had as his guest for the entire season the pretender to the throne The name of the throne doesn't matter But, in the world of pretence a pretender is the best thing you can be So, to the international set, he was a king His wife was English. She was a commoner And they don't come any commoner But together they ruled the Riviera by permission of the copyright holder, Lulu McGee Lulu McGee runs the international set She never asks for money but, somehow she always happens to help grateful rich people Hector Eubanks was the fireball of our little cocoon Oil hit Hector one fine day, and he just never came out from under it There was also Mrs Hector Eubanks She was a joint income-tax return And in the middle of all this fantastic unreality was Maria... more unreal, in a way, than any of it She moved among all these crazy people through the casinos and beaches and brawls, from Marseille to Monaco as if she were loaded with Novocaine She showed no pain, no pleasure, no interest, no nothing You figure it. I can't Any more than I could on that night I saw Maria for the last time It was at one of the casinos, kind of late We'd finished dinner hours ago Bravano and Hector Eubanks were inside, gambling I assumed Maria was with Bravano The rest of us had run out of conversation The rest of us had run out of conversation After all, we hadn't sen each other since cocktails and we hadn't eaten together since lunch Lulu was trying to work up interest in a word game It's not easy with people who know just enough words to tell room service what they want It's really very simple, Your Highness You write the long word on top of the page and under it, you write all of the short words you can make out of the long one Oh For the long word, let's use "vicissitudes" Is that actually a word? V- i-c-i-s-s-i-t-u-d-e-s It's changes, fluctuations, like the vicissitudes of life How clever of you, my dear J'ai besoin de champagne Did you say something, Your Majesty? - I shall require more champagne - "Mais certainement. " Oscar - More of the same for the king - Yes, sir What news from the gaming table? Very good. Alberto is having a fantastic bank It's about time Last night that Greek took him for a whole South American jungle You know something? Off the screen I don't think I've seen you laugh before I feel very good tonight Every night's like every other night - No, not tonight - What's different? I don't know. Something in the way my heart beats As if something very good were going to come out of tonight Something's coming tonight, all right, but it's not good. He's mad I've seen him like this before He's half-crazy when he gets like this How do I find the words to tell you what you are? To begin with, a thief. You took money from me when I was playing When I was winning. It changed my luck You have cost me millions and millions of francs You put a curse on me, not only for tonight but from the unhappy moment I knew of your existence As you will put a curse always on everyone and everything near to you - Maybe you can talk this over in private - Let him, Oscar Next, you are not a woman I do not know what you are, but you are not a woman You will not let yourself be loved. You cannot love Once, you had the look for me of an exquisite lady Now I do not see that look I only see that you have the body of an animal A dead animal I have paid for your company and you will come and go as I tell you Monsieur. Permit me - Is the gigolo known to anyone? - He is known to me His name is Vincenzo, Conte Torlato-Favrini He is not a gigolo He is less a gigolo than anyone in our immediate company Surely less than anyone you will ever have the good fortune to meet He certainly acts high and mighty for just a count My dear Lulu, there are counts and counts just as there are kings and kings Among the counts, Torlato-Favrini is a king Just as among the kings, I am a clown I am puzzled only by his presence in a place like this among people like us My champagne is not properly cooled Alberto, do you happen to know the Marquise de Baudenire? A really distinguished family... And that was the last I ever saw of Maria Vargas whom the world knew as Maria D'Amata but who died as the Contessa Torlato-Favrini Che sar, sar. What will be, will be An ancient and unimaginative Italian proverb It has been the motto of my house for more than 450 years And it is only fitting perhaps that as the House of Torlato-Favrini comes to its end our motto will never be more to the point What will be, will be An easy generality. A universal cure I am what I am, do what I do, and cannot help myself Therefore, I am free of my guilt Nonsense, of course Yet, I can suggest no other answer, if there must be an answer to how and why it began between Maria and me I was driving, as I had for countless times before that time I was driving somewhere, anywhere just to be away from the restlessness of nights after nights without sleep and the empty dawns that followed them But why, of all the somewheres and anywheres in the world should I, that time, have crossed the border from Italy to France? Of all directions, why should I have chosen one leading to that parade ground of vulgarity which lies between Nice and Cannes? Che sar, sar She looked at me for no longer than the beat of a heart and I knew I would remember her as long as I lived That was my meeting with Maria It occurs to me just now that, oddly, we have never talked about it But no more odd, surely, than my driving away that day away from her, knowing that inevitably, we would meet again And it was late that night in, of all places, a gambling casino when I saw Maria again To begin with, a thief. You took money from me when I was playing When I was winning. It changed my luck You have cost me millions and millions of francs You put a curse on me, not only for tonight but from the unhappy moment I knew you existed As you will put a curse always on everyone near to you - Maybe you can talk this over in private - Let him, Oscar Next, you are not a woman I do not know what you are, but you are not a woman You will not let yourself be loved. You cannot love Once, you had the look for me of an exquisite lady Now I do not see that look I see only that you have the body of an animal A dead animal I have paid for your company and you will come and go as I tell you Monsieur. Permit me I cannot remember much of that shabby little scene except for some cheap heroics on my part But I do remember that Maria seemed unsurprised at my being there That she left with me without question As if she had been waiting for me Thank you. I do not smoke What is your name? Maria Vargas Are you Spanish? But I live in America. I work there What is your work? Are you a professional entertainer? In a way. Perhaps not in the way that you think You have no way of knowing the way that I think Where are we going? First, to your hotel, so that you can pack - And then? - To Rapallo. Do you know where it is? In Italy - Why to Rapallo? - I live there And did you drive here today from Rapallo? - Mm-hm - Why? To bring you back with me Oh, I think not My name is Vincenzo Torlato-Favrini And what are you doing here... besides having come for me? There is no other reason Tell me, do you see many movies? Oh, very few. A good foreign film now and then... American or English Then perhaps you read many cheap novels? I understand You would be justified in asking also whether I am addicted to narcotics I have told you the complete truth - You have never seen me before today? - Never - But you have known about me? - No Then you left Rapallo to find and to bring back someone you had never seen or heard about? No. I left my home simply because I had to leave It has happened many times before There is, perhaps, an explanation for it But I will not attempt one here and now When did you know that you had come for me? When you knew, too For the first time, when we looked at each other in the Gypsy camp and again at the window of the casino and again, just now, when I held out my hand to you You knew, as well as I. It won't take me long to pack Torlatos, Favrinis, and Torlato-Favrinis When my sister and I are extinct perhaps they will name automobiles after us The Torlatos and the Favrinis will be speedy little cars and the Torlato-Favrini a limousine, of course This was Beatrice Favrini How strange, to be painted with a little boy and a sword The little boy was her son. The sword was her husband's It was brought to her when he was killed in a stupid war between Italian cities My own husband was killed in this last war I have neither his child nor his sword He was blown up at sea. I do not have even his cadaver Eleonora... But perhaps you should tell the story, Vincenzo of a "happy" ancestor - Francesco the Fat, for instance - Francesco can wait I have the honour to present Benvenuto Torlato You have a resemblance to him Thank you. I'm proud of the coincidence I admire this gentleman He was one of Cesare Borgia's most trusted assassins He was stabbed to death and thrown into the Arno - Then what do you admire about him? - His foresight He adopted the motto of our house. "Che sar, sar" He knew what it would be like with us It has occurred to you, of course, that I intend to marry Maria? - It has occurred to me - Do you approve? - Have you told her? - Not yet She has been waiting to be told I believe the proper word in connection with marriage is "ask" You keep saying "told" I know Maria very little but I've known for weeks that she is in love with you Do you approve? It is almost frightening, how much in love with you she is - Then you don't approve - Why do you ask me at all? Because you want me to tell you what you already know? That to marry Maria would be the most... cruel and destructive thing you'll ever have done? As for destruction, we have already been destroyed, you and I We have come to the end of our line Literally, to the end of the line It is time for the Torlato-Favrinis to get off the world The fact remains that we are neither unique nor important to the world and it will go on without us How will we be remembered, I wonder? Why should we be remembered at all? Nobility - the kind that continues just because it continues to exist - is becoming extinct But why? Because the world has become a changed place And, like the dinosaurs, we can no longer function in it Perhaps that's why I'm incapable of having a child Perhaps that's why you... We cannot have come this far to leave nothing behind but some undistinguished, unidentifiable portraits to be hung on the back walls of curiosity shops to gather the dust of the future Come here, Eleonora The last contessa The world will some day see paintings of her, and of her and me and then it will think: "What a pity they have gone and left nothing behind" We will be remembered Because the last contessa was a movie star? Vincenzo, you cannot marry a woman as if you were putting on a play because she's the type you've in mind, because she's perfectly cast as a portrait of the last Contessa Torlato-Favrini Maria is a living woman, too much in love with you Have you thought for a moment about her? Have you thought about anybody else but yourself and your obsession with 14 letters of the alphabet arranged in a hyphenated name? Thought about anybody else? Yes. Yes, Eleonora, I have About everybody else, it seems to me I have thought about every individual living man woman and child in the world, it seems to me I've had the time for it, you know? Since the 25th October 1942, to be exact It's a lot of time Especially when it stands still with loneliness Especially when it has no days and nights but just days that turn black when the sun goes down It's a lot of time Especially when there is nothing to think of but all the living men, women and children in the world And nothing to do but to think about them And no way to forget that I am none of them Perhaps I have become, as you put it obsessed by our name and our past and the absence of our future, and by our paintings As if, in some magical way our long line of paintings will accomplish what we cannot I hadn't wanted this It has happened to me without my wanting almost without my knowing You are quite right, and I do not have the right But I do love Maria The bride on whom the rain doth fall I read the official announcement in the ship's newspaper I'm a way over about six months ago That Maria D'Amata was going to marry Count Torlato-Favrini The gossip columns had been full of rumours Mostly the kind of angry insinuations they write when nobody's really got the story They even got on me, figuring I knew more than I was telling They were right. I'd had many letters from Maria What I knew was that the prince had finally caught up with Cinderella and that nothing remained but the slipper business and a happy life ever after Maria was trousseau-shopping in Rome when I got here So I went to work Maria! - Eddie? - Yeah, boss? You and Jack keep lookin' for that alley. I'll see you back at the hotel - Well - Well - How's Jerry? - Jerry's fine. Sends her love - You look fine - I feel fine Well? Well I'm behaving like... like 13 years old Don't kid yourself. You look 14 if you look a day Where do you want to begin? There was no beginning As if all my life I had lived in a dark place... and all at once the lights went on That's the way it happens in fairy tales Are you still bewitched? And bewildered? No. Never in my life have I been more sure of myself and of everything else - Tell me about him - How can I? What would I tell you? That he is handsome and tall, and good and kind, and proud and so on? This is how the hero is described in the chip magazines one reads at the hairdresser Then what is "he" that the hero is not? This is what I do not know how to tell you For instance? I say I cannot tell you and you say "Tell it" Harry the director: I say I cannot play a scene and you say "Play it" And you do. So, for instance? It would sound silly even to try but perhaps not to you Harry, you won't laugh but it is really like in the story of "la Cenicienta" and the prince - What is? - Everything Even when we're alone together - How do you mean that? - And now you will laugh - He kisses my hand - That figures. Standard opening - And now you are being deliberately stupid - No, I'm... Oh! So he kisses your hand, and period - Is that all right with you? - No, of course... Yes - As it should be with a contessa - In a fairy tale How long's it been since you've known him? Almost six weeks Six weeks of being near you day and night Sometimes he holds me with his two hands, like this and just looks at me Are you sure he can see you? He sees more than any man I have ever known. Except perhaps you I'm not seeing much of anything at the moment I told you. He is what other men are not That seems obvious. It also seems obvious that maybe we're carrying this fairy-tale nonsense a little too far... right smack into reality I don't want this to be a shock to you but a count is a man and a contessa is a woman - You had better see for yourself - No, I want to hear more about this No. I have a sitting and I'm late Looking back, I probably wasn't as worried then as I now think I was But I do know that I was filled with a sudden uneasiness Good afternoon Cominciamo Well, Harry? Say something Wait till they hear about this in Southern California In six months Beverly Hills will have more statues than orange trees - Where does it go? - Right where it is Although, due to a whim of Maria it will be more at home in our garden As you can see, she has insisted upon posing with bare feet Have I failed to understand something amusing? It's a private joke. A stupid one that can't be explained and make sense Signor Trilli would appreciate having Maria to himself without distractions, I think I know exactly how he feels The hardest thing in the world is getting an actor to stand still Won't you change your mind and stay for dinner, Mr Dawes? No, unhappily I can't We're off location-hunting in the morning and have work tonight I'm overdue right now, as matter of fact Maria seems so happy to have you here I do hope you won't return to America too soon It'll be quite a while We will see you before then, I am sure But I know that Maria will want you to be at our wedding Oh, haven't you heard? I'm giving the bride away And I did give her away In an ancient chapel witnessed by a handful of strangers I gave the hand of Maria Vargas into that of Vincenzo, Count Torlato-Favrini The servants had their own party, after the wedding Nobody can tell me it was like that when the Borgias got married... more going on outside the palazzo than inside Anyway, there were two receptions And, knowing the bride as I did I could tell she felt she'd come to the wrong reception The accordion player is the gardener's son The guitar is the gardener - I do not know who plays the violin - Paganini. He's the pastry cook They must have more guests than we have That's as it should be. Aristocracy only started to collapse when there were more aristocrats than servants - And they're having more fun - That they are On my wedding night, Harry I thought you would be happier for me than you seem to be Are you happy? Well, then I'm happy It's just different from what I'd pictured. I... I had something corny in mind Like dancing at your wedding. Real bashful-boy stuff Then come dance with me, out there. We belong out there anyway Maybe I do. But not you. Not any more, contessa Vincenzo, would you object to dancing with me out there? I would not object to anything you wanted to do but I don't think you'd want to spoil their fun But they are celebrating our wedding. Don't they expect us? I imagine they are afraid we might turn up It's hard to believe, in this day and age What makes you think we live in this day and age? Well, the time has come Bedtime for children under 12 and movie directors I'll see you out In case I wasn't heard above the hubbub - once more, I congratulate you - Thank you - And me - And you Oh, uh... I've got to say something. I hope you won't mind I won't know until after you've said it My relationship with Maria... It's been a strange one. I've never known what it was, really Friend, director, confessor, part-time amateur psychiatrist... And, as of now, father of the bride? As of now, more like a godfather A fairy godfather, with a sense of reality No one could wish for anything more She's lived her whole life as a fairy tale, you know? No, I did not know She's never been in love before. Take my word for it. She's vulnerable. Wide open to be hurt badly Emotionally, she's a child And she's wrapped all her dreams up in one dream prince, and you're it That's quite a responsibility I don't want her hurt badly. I don't want her hurt at all Do you think I do? I don't mind what you have said, Mr Dawes But I wonder why did you find it necessary to say Oh, I don't know. My sense number six again, maybe - Number six? - Another private joke. Good night Good night I have seen you like this once or twice before When your characters do not work out as you have planned or have taken a step themselves and you're not sure what the next will be Let's not talk about my script now I'm not. You know I'm talking about me - It's not going to be easy - Has it been, up till now? - Good luck, contessa - Don't you call me that - I forget the Spanish for Cinderella - Nor that Some relationship we have! Three pictures together and not even a nickname What is not going to be easy? I wish I knew. I wish I knew I saw her just once more after that wedding night Twice, really But the second time, she was dead The first time was exactly a week ago It rained all that day and all that night It hasn't stopped since, come to think of it I was holed up at my hotel doing some last-minute rewriting Avanti - Just because you're a contessa... - Are you happy to see me? doesn't give you the right to walk out of my life and then walk right back in any rainy night you feel like it - I was just looking - There isn't much to see I'd like to decide for myself For a contessa who doesn't drink... That's Cognac I know - How was your trip? - You mean my... honeymoon? Whatever you were going on the morning after your wedding I don't want my honeymoon to be called a trip. It was fine You've been away all this time? How much time has it been? I've never known a bride who couldn't tell you almost to the minute, for the first year or so Thirteen weeks, three days... seven hours and twelve minutes No, I've not been away all that time We've been home for ten weeks Nice of you to drop in. Just passing by, I imagine You don't have to hide. It's just me I have to. I can't look at you Now, you didn't drive here in a rainstorm "not" to look at me I'm on your side, remember? Harry... At any rate, this is what I have known I have known what it is like to be in love To be married in a church to a man that I love And on my wedding night to wait for him, with my heart full of love I have loved you all of my life This is why I have never been able to love anyone else before you You have been unreal to me for so long it is hard to believe that all of this is not something I dreamed a long time ago - Is it true that you love me? - I do love you Maria... there are things that must be said sometimes... for which there are no words Or at least no way to say them so that they are not ugly and full of pain You find it hard to believe that this is not just a dream you dreamed long time ago It might very well be just that Almost everything that has to do with us has been dreamlike up to now How we met and why we met Our understanding, without question and without surprise that we were never to be apart again How much more like a dream can a dream be? But inevitably there comes a time for waking up even for us A time for facing the pain and ugliness that can be kept out of dreams but not out of reality It is important that you believe everything I say to you now I love you with all of my heart Do you believe me? You are everything I would want as my wife I would want no one else. I am proud of you I want to make you as happy as I can, as long as I live As for the rest of what I have to say you will find it neatly typed, at some length, on this piece of paper Would it not be better if you told me? No It looks like an army document of some kind It is in Italian, and I do not understand Che sar, sar That is also Italian Apparently, I am not to be let off anything Yes, it is an army document A medical report, dated October 25th 1942 from a base hospital in Benghazi It describes in detail the degree to which my body was blown apart by an explosion And, with understandable pride the skill with which they put some of it together again Do you understand now why it is so important to me for you to believe that I love you with all of my heart? The report will tell you that almost the only undestroyed part of me... is my heart I love you with all of it So that was it What? Nothing Tell me, how long could you stand it? What do you mean? How long could you stand it?! - As long as I could - And who's the lucky peasant? The gardener, the chauffeur, the stable boy? Who's the contessa's cousin this week? - Harry, I couldn't help myself - Neither could he! That's the unholy pity of it The one man in all of your fantasy and the one woman in all of his who could have made each other happy And, once more, life louses up the script But I will make him happy Look, will he let you go back to work? I can wind this one up in six weeks. You can take him to California You weren't listening to me. I'm going to make him happy How? How are you going to make him happy? By more of the same, until you get caught? - I don't want to get angry with you - Then why tell me about it? Because I needed to tell you Harry, what do you think would make Vincenzo happy? You, as the perfect, beyond reproach, last contessa That would only make him less unhappy What he would wish for more than anything else in the world is that neither he, nor his sister, nor I be the last - As a wish - It will come true What are you talking about? - I have made it come true - You what? What has happened to your sense number six, Harry? - Who knows? - Only you and I - What about the father? - It is not his concern The baby will be mine and my husband's - Do you really believe that? - It will make Vincenzo happy Maria, don't you know the man you are married to? You're talking mawkish nonsense you remember from cheap films Your husband is not out of James M Barrie or Hans Christian Andersen He's a tortured, neurotic man, who's finishing life on his own terms No, Harry. This time it is you who does not understand I know Vincenzo better than you do Amen to that How much simpler it would be, for so many of us if Kirk Edwards had not found it necessary to look for a new face May I help you in any way? - Who's going to tell him about it? - I am, of course - When? - Tomorrow - It will be difficult for me - Suppose he doesn't see it your way - What will you do? - What every other woman would do - I will have my baby - What about... whoever he is? That is all over. I'm going to tell him now. Tonight That will not be difficult at all She's dead, Mr Dawes... and so is he I have known for some time that there was someone It may be a questionable compliment but I did not suspect you, even though Maria visited you tonight What did she tell you? What did she say to you? She just wanted to talk... about old times For a skilful writer, Mr Dawes, you are an incredibly clumsy liar Did Maria have a chance to say anything before... No. What could she have had to say to me? Not a thing There is no need for you to stay, Mr Dawes. I've sent for the police It may be embarrassing for you I'll hang around - Do you know any Spanish? - Very little The Spanish word for... Cinderella? I've been told a dozen times Just a word I keep forgetting Blue skies, boss. We'll have some sun tomorrow Yeah, we'll get a good day's work done tomorrow
