 

                        1 Everything in this society is about packaging We can lose anything but "face" The less perfect it is on the inside the more extensive the packaging needs to be So, whenever there is an opportunity to flaunt everyone is bound to put on their best show You must have attended one of these affairs where everyone is dressed to the nines, like they are superstars This is the event we call - The Wedding The rules of this include, first, sending a "Red Bomb" It doesn't matter how close you are, the trick is to "bomb" all Once you've been "bombed", you'll have to play by ear This place is even older than we are Okay, a smaller red packet then If the wedding reception is held at a shabbier venue you pay a cheaper "entry fee" and vice versa, a higher "entry fee" for a swankier venue How much are you giving? A hundred and twenty. Oh dear, mine's only a hundred. Is that enough? Welcome, welcome with your name written on the red packet It can be embararasing if the gift is too little Yet there are some who are thick-skinned enough to bring the entire clan, for the "price" of two Daddy's red packet is only for two, so keep a distance later Don't let the others see you here Hey, most of them couldn't make it This is from Yun Xiang and this is from Siew Yan Those who are present pay for the full price and those who are unable to attend, pay only half the price Why is the groom so ugly? Are we at the right place? Yes we are, the names are correct. Let's go That's right This "ugly" person they are referring to, and of course, most will disagree is me I am the leading man tonight and she, is my leading lady Today is my big day, and I've invested a lot to look good Introducing...the supporting cast for tonight My father-in-law, my mother-in-law They seem most worthy of stealing our limelight Don't you even doubt, every piece here is genuine Isn't this the best occasion to flaunt This is my dad Sigh. He is way out of their league The only thing he can flaunt is that old watch A ladies' watch I don't even know half the people here tonight Actually, what has my wedding got to do with them? I'm sure they share my sentiments What are we doing at this fella's wedding? Actually, this is what my dream wedding looks like The two of us strolling by the beach, exchanging our vows Sealing it with a kiss Isn't it more romantic? And so economical? Who would have known it'd spiral into such an affair? This is like a movie, a big-budget production Well, I'm only an extra who has to take instructions from the directors Here, this is Director No. 1 - the wife's youngest aunt Come come, you handsome one! Send all these over to that table But she... Just ignore here. Send these to that table at the far end This is director no.2 - my youngest aunt A scene like this is only complete with the groom's side and the bride's side of the family sparring It's the survival of the fittest Finally, enter the bride and groom I consider myself lucky, having spent only months on wedding preparations Some have spent years in preparation for this one night Oh my! An elaborate affair indeed Looking at my very beautiful wife You must think I'd feel really blissful? The truth is I am happy, yet somewhat worried and a little troubled.. because I have totally bust my budget on this wedding. How did I bust the budget? This takes u back to three years ago.. You bitch This toad got lucky and met a beautiful swan She is so beautiful Even the water she splashed on me is sweet And what luck I got to meet her again The formula always goes like this When a hero meets a damsel in distress, he ... hands her a tissue Oh yes! Who would have thought I got bitten Hey, what are you doing? Oh! you brat! I had such a hard time lugging these over and you moved them back? Sorry, sorry auntie..I didnt' know Sorry? you're such a busybody I'm not. These looked too heavy for you Thanks for taking time to meet me I thought you'd have forgotten me How can I forget? In my entire life I've only been bitten by a woman once Eh, thanks..and my apologies Half a year late. Yet better late than never Does the wound still hurt? It's healed a long time ago That picture you took of me, made me realise how foolish I was To have shed tears for a man like that Congratulations Thanks Can you hand me a tissue? It comes half a year late But better late than never I am Chua Wei Keat Yeah I know. I am Chong Sze Xin Hello Chong Sze Xin Hellow Chua Wei Keat Sze Xin Huh? In this age, who still uses film? That's where the thrill is You make it a point to think with every release of the shutter.. that makes every single piece more precious I'll alight here please Bye Miss, why did you walk home? I'm not telling you Hurry up. It's gonna start For better of for worse For richer or for poorer Do you take her as your lawfully wedded wife? Yes, I very much do Baby, what happened to you? Your friend isn't getting any better? No, he's fine Baby If you are living your last days what would you do? I will bid everyone I know farewell Catch up with friends and apologise for past misdeeds Then spend the rest of my time with you Will you marry me? This soon? If I am living my last days, I would regret not having been your wife So? You'll have to be on one knee if this is a proposal Haha, hey no Will you marry me? Baby This, is the story of how the ugly toad got his beautiful swan Please tell me you're only the gardener's daughter I really don't know if I should count myself lucky This, is no ordinary swan You've been dating for more than a year? You are indeed secretive Sze Xin, I really don't mean to nag but why did you choose a B-grade? You plan to get married this soon? Sometimes, you may not even know someone whom you've spent decades with Much less a person you've dated for just a year? Keat is a very simple person. It's not hard for one to understand him Simple? Xin, you know I really don't want to nag but don't you think it's your money he's after? He only got to know my father five minutes ago Xin, actually I still dont' know who your father is You don't know me, Colin Chong? Hello uncle, it's my pleasure to meet you I will take good care of Xin The daughter of Colin Chong will not wed shabbily Uncle, I wouldn't let Xin wed shabbily I will give her a grand wedding Well, so much for "face" That one promise that would be back to haunt me and break my bank On what grounds? I'll marry no one else but Keat I'm carrying his child Hey that is not true. And i'm still a virgin Eh, I'm sorry, it wasn't intentional Dad Why are you back, Keat? You shouldn't told me you're bringin a friend This is my friend, Sze Xin Hello uncle Hello, hello Hey, don't shake hands if your hands are dirty Oh, I'm so sorry It's okay Come over and wash your hands Here, here Thanks, thanks, thanks We'll have dinner after I'm done with the salted fish Hey hey, Keat is back Auntie, you're getting prettier by the day And you're still as handsome And this is a real beauty. She is? She's my girlfriend. Eh, my fiancee Wow, you're good! Hi Auntie, I am Sze Xin Sze Xin can cook really well. Her skills are better than yours Really? The only son in this family is getting married We will invite all our Penang relatives for this celebration Hubby, where were you? There's gonna be a wedding in this family soon Oh, how many months is it now? So, the rice is cooked and it's a done deal now Shhh! I meant to say, the rice is cooked and ready to be served Come come, let's have dinner Would you like some sour plums? I have some in the house Hurry up. Watch your step. Slowly now These days, the youngster from Penang strive to move to KL and those in KL want to go to Singapore Do you think they will return from Singapore? That's how it is. It's easier to strike it rich in big cities Would you rather they be like us? Sunning salted fish all day? Strike it rich? I would hope for this daughter-in-law to be married back to Penang and not my son to Singapore After the meeting of parents from both sides, war commences On one side, the Singaporeans, and on the other, the Malaysians On one side, the Cantonese, and on the other, the Hokkiens why does the pre-wedding discussion look like mob negotiations? On one side, the uber-rich, and on the other, the peasants No matter how the fight goes, I'd end up bearing the brunt of it all This is my dad, Ah Sai Ah Sai? ("faeces" in Hokkien") It's Ah Sai! My daddy, Colin Chong As in "Pathetic" Chong? It's Colin Chong! I don't know English You don't know English? Let's speak Mandarin then Alright, back to the wedding No thanks to your son Hmmph, the son of Ah Sai is quite something First, the banquet. Two hundred tables At the most luxurious hotel in Singapore Are you kidding me? Your daughter is marrying into our family now We are from Penang so the banquet will be held there. 30 tables the maximum There's no reason for Colin Chong's precious daughter to wed in Penang Shall we leave the wedding dicussions to the ladies? You men go get yourselves some drinks Okay, let's get some drinks Why is he so obedient? Weddings are of great significance to us Cantonese Although we are from an average family Weddings are, to us Hokkiens, no less significant I would like to know what the betrothal gifts are? Well, that would depend on how much dowry you are offering Ah..Ah Sai What do you do for a past time? Well, I'd usually sun the fish once I'm back from fishing And spent the rest of the time chatting with my neighbours and family You don't earn much, do you? Any plans for business expansion? Do you have to expand everything? It's pretty simple. First, you buy a bigger fishing boat Then, you hire workers to do the fishing Once your company is on the right track, I can even help you to list it When that happens, you can start enjoying a leisurely life How long will it take for that to happen? At least 10 years Why do I have to wait another 10 years to enjoy the life I am enjoying now? Fifty Ten Forty Eighteen sounds more auspicious The maids we have in the family would already take up 20 tables What, two hundred maids? Are you running a maid agency? Ming Ming Okay. Deal. Oh my. How did they conjure up a hundred tables? Do we have a thousands guests? How much would it cost to let the bride's family have 20 tables? Sigh. Getting married is not much different from getting robbed, is it? Dad, can we not invite those whom we're not close to? We don't call them relatives for nothing A table costs S$1,000. That's almost RM3,000 Another $500 for 2 nights' accomodation, and that's not including transportation Whoa! Almost $900 just to attend a wedding dinner Dad, we're helping them save by not inviting them I won't let them pay a cent. I'll take care of everything Do you think you're loaded? If you're really considerate, you would have held the dinner in Penang I just want to keep things simple 100 tables and you call it simple? Uncle, my dad was the one who asked for that 100 tables You're not holding the dinner in Penang, and now you won't even invite them? How would I answer to them? It's my wedding so why would you need to answer to anyone? They are not just "anyone". They are my relatives You ought to be more thoughtful and not so indifferent Hey, will you stop arguing? Get into the car Ignore him. What a bad temper Here, take this, for your wedding expenses Is this from Dad? No. Auntie has some savings too, you know? Don't worry about me, I can still cope. Aren't you coming yet? Hurry up! Yes, yes... Auntie's leaving. Bye Bye You stink like an old cow Like father, like son. You two have the same temper Hey baby, I can talk to my dad about the hundred tables. Baby, I said I'll find my own way out I won't let our dads look down on us Mmm Pride, oh pride. The root of all my problems At times like these, "good friends" of the bride are bound to appear Who excel in the art of squandering your money Women, they are really strange They are happy to splurge thousands on a little carbon rock called the wedding diamond This is bigger My baby, she's just trying to help me save, but the size of this rock is supposed to show the world how much I love her So how can it be small? The bigger the diamond, the greater the love? Of course And in future, one additional rock for each time she has a baby Congratulations, in-laws Today is the day the groom's family sends over the betrothal gifts Followed by lots of rituals according to our custom Congratulations to the groom Today is the day the bride's family sends over the dowry I'd like to do the nail art. And the gel nails Give them the best please Thanks You darned Pat. Having a great time squandering my money eh? Of course, today's our dear friend's hen party I really don't get you. What is so good about him? He's simple, genuine and honest He's still a... Oh, just look at your lecherous face Don't you tell me he's still a virgin Hush hush Hey, is he impotent? He's very manly How does one tell if it's a man's first time? You'll just have to take his word for it You're so low Hey, my Baby is really different. He will never ever lie to me Don't say I haven't warned you Just look out for yourself I'm dressed like that, all for a prayer ceremony Hey "Junk". Hurry up Coming, coming. And uncle, my name's Jeremy! Whatever Here you go. Your glutinous rice balls Swallow two at once, without chewing. It's inauspicious for the marriage if it breaks What? Two at once? How to, when they're so big? Come, let me Remember not to bite into it Don't chew, don't chew. Come, again Don't chew, don't chew, ok? Don't chew, don't chew I'm choking Good thing it's not broken No, no, again Come. I'll help the bride so wealth keeps rolling in for your husband The first comb, signifies endless love The second comb, signifies a lasting marriage The third comb, signifies many offsprings for the family The fourth comb, signifies the fullfillment of all wishes Okay the ceremony is over Open up Wait. Be silent We will if you give us a red packet Okay here, five hundred Ten thousand. No bargaining What?? Ten thousand? Let's not step on their toes. I'll handle this Hey beautiful, any room for negotiation? Three thousand and these handsome men here will be your escorts for 3 weeks It's an offer just for you Close the door Hey, no See? Open up Let's me ask you. Do you love Sze Xin? Of course. I wouldn't be here if I don't We can't just take your word for it. Sign this No, please Sorry, it's too late My cheque. Where did you get this from Open the door, sisters How many digits are there on the cheque? Welcome. We're going in That's robbery Oh god! And I have to act like a clown even before I get to the bride Spinsters like them get the kick out of torturing others' grooms But strangely, the moment I set my eyes on my beautiful baby It feels like everything was worth it There is nothing I will not do for her Have some tea, Dad If my daughter ever sheds a tear for you, I'll not let you off Have some tea, Mum You'd better be as honest as you appear to be Have some tea, Dad You'll have no more worries now that Keat is married Ying, Shi, hurry up Coming, coming So sweet From now on, we are a family Thanks, auntie Time to enter ther bridal chambers After the child jumps on the bed, you'll have a grandchild soon Look mummy, there's a red packet inside And that is how Xin becomes the wife of Keat Marriage is really not just about the bride and groom It's also the union of two families From being strangers to becoming relatives Keat There are unfilled seats on many tables Why is that so? There are guests who refuse to be seated together So I had to ask for three more tables Isn't that going to cost another $4,000? What's worse, your father-in-law's friends are drinking like there's no tomorrow They've finished almost everything. We'll have to open up more cartons A carton costs a lot! Can you check how many cartons they'd need? Okay There are a lot of hidden costs in a wedding How much has been spent to date? Eight? Nine? Or eight-nine cartons? How is that possible? $1,100 for a carton? Eight nine nine eight one eight eight nine nine eight eight eight eight eight eight Almost ten thousand Oh no! I'm dead! Money, oh money What are you doing, brother? You brat Baby I know you are in a spot. Don't worry My son-in-law will pay for the damages There's no reason for us to pay How is it possible that a chandelier this big be shot down by a cork this small? The chandelier must have been faulty to start with Try hitting my head with this cork and see if it drops I'll call you "Dad" if it does How would you do that if your head's gone? Auntie Your auntie is right. We are a reputable family The way things are now, we have lost all "face" it's only right to compensate for their losses Compensate? You have no guts I take after you A hundred tables? You should never take on what is beyond your means And having to rely on a woman? What a shame Since when did I rely on Xin? I paid for the wedding Yes. Very capable engineer, you are Can you achieve all that without me? Have i ever relied on you? How dare you speak to me like this? Hey, stop arguing Stop staring. Get into the car Mum, the car is locked Ignore him. Too much salted fish He has a stinky bad temper Do you have enough money? Yes I won't mistreat my wife even if I'm poor unlike someone Just look at yourself What a loser Okay forget it Look after him, auntie Drink driving is a serious offence in Singapore I will, you take care too I will. Goodbye Bye Hey hey hey I've tried my best to negotiate on your behalf Mr Hong is agreeable to you replacing just a few small chandeliers Really? Fifteen chandeliers at six hundred each. Write me a cheque tomorrow nine thousand! Come on, these are cyrstals. Not crystal dumplings What a wedding! What else has not gone wrong? Chill. Those red packets can definitely tide you over For many, the point of a wedding dinner reception is to profit Choose the most luxurious hotel, and book the cheapest menu And tell everyone an inflated menu price Everyone would know what to do. Then you'll profit for sure That is not right Don't worry. You can count on the wealthy father-in-law's guests to be generous Go. Your bride is waiting Here's what your great buddy has for you This is strawberry-flavoured. And this glows in the dark This is even more powerful. It vibrates! And this even plays music The bride is looking over Why do you think I need contraceptives? Can you be more serious? I don't want this you don't like the musical one? It's out of tune Baby Have you settled the compensation? What if Baby I've said I will marry you with my own means I want to be a man you can rely on You are stubborn Indeed I'm a hard one Ahh Baby I'll take a shower Alright, you go first Wow Two hundred. Not bad Twenty bucks? What a miser What, a lottery ticket? Baby, where are the rest of the red packets? Aren't they all there? You'll have to ask Auntie. She kept them The tables are from the groom to the bride So, it's only right that the red packets go to the bride Didn't we agree on 20 tables? Keat, I really don't want to nag but is there anything in Singapore that's not affected by inflation? Property, cost of living, COE, ERP, GS Except the fertility rate And that's precisely because everything else keeps rising How is this related to the red packets? An increase from 20 to 70 tables is inflation, right? Shouldn't you have discussed this with me first? Does the government discuss with you before raising the ERP and GST? Nuts Hello Hello I got robbed again, Jeremy Well, so did I They robbed me of 50 tables That's a total of $70,000 in red packet money, all gone How am I going to pay the hotel tomorrow? Write them a post-dated cheque On account of your father-in-law, they should give you a few days' grace Alright. I'm in the middle of something now I'm doomed. Where do I find $70,000? What about the over-budget today? Nervous? I've waited so long just for today Crystal dumplings, no, crystal chandeliers, more than $9,000 Four nine four nine. How much was that? No no, I need to focus and stop my mind from running wild Four nine makes it more than ten thousand. On top of that, $9,000 for chandeliers And the $10,000 I was robbed of this morning That's like...a hundred thousand? What are you doing? What? Oh no He can't really be impotent? Pat can't be right?! Over S$100 for a room like this? Everything is expensive in Singapore That's right. How does Keat survive? Just one wedding is enough to wipe out his entire savings What do you mean, just one wedding? You want him to have more than one? This girl comes from a rich family She's used to having the best of everything, very high-maintenance This girl called Chong Sze Xin, is now your daughter-in-law Oh dear Am I pretty, Daddy? My little Sze Xin is the most beautiful bride in the world Ah, you lied to me You said I'm the most beautiful Ok, you are the most beautiful, and little Sze Xin is the most adorable The two of us are the most beautiful That's right. Both of you are equally beautiful I can settle the bill myself, at the cashier Mr Chua you are our VIP. My boss Mr. Ang already instructed that this should be handed to you personally $108,288? That's right. $108,288. So auspicious right? Of course it's auspicious for you. You're ripping me off Thanks. Mr. Chua. You didn't fill in the date Can we negotiate, Mr. Wong? Can this be backdated 3 days, until I get the red packets deposited into my account? I understand, that shouldn't be a problem Shall I cook some cup noodles for you, hubby? Sure, thanks, baby It's ready, hubby It smells so good. You're great, baby It's just cup noodles You need skills for cooking cup noodles too The water temperature has to be right, and you have to time it just right too Sigh, would I have to end up selling my "girlfriend" after marrying my wife? So, how much did you sell your "girlfriend" for? Sigh, not too bad a price Here you go That's all I have Only this much? Hey, that's how Singaporeans are Donning brands like LV, Armani, BMW but it's all just WMB inside What's that? (Malay) I'm totally broke You see everyone with an iPhone or an iPod It's actually all just a vicious circle I need a hundred thousand I appreciate your effort Hey Sigh, just put aside your pride and ask Xin for it No way The more her family looks down on me, the more I have to prove myself to them Well, the truth is that there's not much to prove You have a point there. How much did you collect from the red packets last night? I have a way to make us some money Hello baby Oh, you've picked them up? I'll come over right away Xin has picked up my dad and the rest, and they're waiting at the Singapore Flyer Great, that's one of the places I had in mind for money-making Casino? You and your great ideas Where else can we find so much money in such a short time? Oh, I know. You can sell "silver"(sounds like "prostitution") Why don't we sell gold instead? Its worth much more Gold prices are soaring I'm not talking about "silver" - I meant "prostitution" Prostitution? Go ahead yourself You'll fetch a higher price as you're virgin Stop it! Okay, okay. You sell "gold" then (sounds like "sperm") And where would I get the gold to sell? I'm not referring to "gold" This is measured in millilitres Are you insane? How much sperm do I have to sell to make tens of thousands? I'm not sure if this is enough Hey cousin, help us take a picture If you can make her look slim, and make her look fat I'll salute you Hey Hey, why aren't you here yet? I can't get away Don't you know how to lie? No I don't You go to Xin, and just repeat whatever I say Are you there yet? Yes Repeat after me. Repeat after me What? You want me to go to the office today? What? You want me to go to the office today? I just got married last night The machines are not working? The CEO is fuming, and wants me to repair them now? Tan's hand was caught in a machine? The broken finger flew into the CEO's mouth? Hey, that's getting ridiculous Ridiculous. The machine, it's ridiculous I...I'll be back right away Something happened in the office? Yes, it seems rather serious It sounded really serious. You'd better go back and have a look Dad, aunt, something cropped up in the office, and I need to go back right away Aren't you on leave now? Can't they be more understanding? This is just one day after your wedding Xin will show you around, I'll be back as soon as I can Will we really win? I've never been to a casino before. I don't know how to gamble Let me help you What are you doing? Memorising the cards The next card is J And the one after is a 5 You'll have to draw another card, in order to win Are you sure? It's already 18 points Trust me. I'm good at memorising the cards Ok, I'll take your word for it this time. I'll draw another card Dealer 19 points Thanks. Oh thanks, thanks It's time for us to strike Good at memorising cards? My foot! Don't take it to heart. You know how it is with gambling, you can never win all Yes, we should have stopped while we were on a winning streak I've even lost my $20,000 red packet money. Now I really need $100,000. What should I do? Actually I have another idea Stop giving me your lousy ideas, I don't need them I'll be a fool to listen to you So what are you going to do now? It's $100,000 I... You you you... Forget it. Go get it from your parents-in-law How will I face them in the future if I do so? Well, just wait then Wait for what? For the money to drop from the heavens? Wow, durians are dropping from above Wow, it's a whole bagful of money This does not belong to us. Return it to the rightful owner Hello, hello, sorry but the money belongs to me Wow, you throw a whole bagful of money around? It's a good thing you ran into us Someone else would have made off with the money Just one look and I know that you two are good people Come, come. Over here. We'll help you to keep an eye on it Hey Darn! Don't you run away, give me back my money You wolves in sheepskin! Return my money now Stop running, Jeremy You two darned kids, stop running Faster Give me back the money Ahh Stop running, you bad kids You get back here Stop running How can you still run with a limp? Hello Director Neo, someone robbed us of our counterfeit notes Oh, the knife is still here Counterfeit notes are not easy to find you know, unless you want real notes What? Damn you! From sourcing for props, to being Assistant Director, and even acting as a gangster - I have to do everything! And they even dare to mock at my tattoo. How's the fake one better than mine? I'll never take on a low-budget movie production next time! Damn you! He's gone? Hey, what happened to your leg? It's all your fault, why did you snatch his money? It's just a small bump to the side, not in the middle Will you shut up already? I'm still a virgin, you know That's no big deal, this is what's most important We can't take this money Why not? This is god-sent We got chased after like crazy just now Well, he didn't catch us, didn't he? That is proof enough that this is indeed a gift from the heavens These could very well be ill-gotten loot. Whatever it is, we can't keep the money Let's go to the police. No, we can't. How would we explain ourselves? We can't be telling the police that we snatched the money off a robber, right? You're the one who did it Come on brother, I'm just trying to help. You're the one who needs this money most Okay, okay, we'll hold on to the money first. You go think about it We'll decide in two days' time if we should go to the police Where do we keep this? What's good here, Xin? I'm not sure too Huh, you're not sure? You haven't been here? You won't get to dine in restaurants often in future Auntie In Singapore, you can't just dispose of your rubbish anywhere. There's a $500 fine I need to go to the washroom, Mummy Hey, what are you doing? Sorry, sorry. I'm so sorry Sigh. Forget it Let's leave the money here. We'll come back in two days and split it between us Hehehehe I'll hold on to the key for safekeeping Yes, I'll hold on to the key for safekeeping Hey, how can I be sure you won't take the money for yourself? I wouldn't do that! Hey baby, you're back. Have you eaten? I'm starving I just cooked some instant noodles Where did you bring dad and aunt today? Shopping. And eating. Here Have you settled the problems in the office? Yes, settled. Wow, instant noodles You've improved. You've even added ingredients Hmm. So what happened to Mr Tan's finger? It's broken Really? Can it be re-attached? Yes Luckily the CEO didn't swallow his finger Hey, how can you still joke about his plight? I'm the pathetic one. What's with you? You wouldn't feel so anymore tonight I just noticed that your right eye seems bigger than the left Does it hurt? A little It's sensitive. You feeling okay? Mmm Ohh What's wrong, baby? I twisted my leg this afternoon, it hurts Why didn't you say so earlier? We won't be doing this if I told you How did you hurt your leg? Don't worry, it's a small thing Sorry, baby. I'm kind of down today Same for me Why are you feeling down? Did Dad say something to you? Dad...does he dislike me? He only loves himself, and doesn't care about how others feel He didn't even show up at my mum's deathbed It's different with my family. My mum's always at loggerheads with my dad She has an opinion about everyone And especially me Baby, we must show them how blissful we are Mmm We definitely will That's right, buying a watch for your father-in-law is most apt He looks really strange donning that ladies' watch all the time Hey, don't be so mean I'll take this. Thanks You're discharged from the hospital, Mr Tan? Huh? Are you kidding me, Keat? Your father-in-law is the real estate magnate of Singapore You're asking to advance your salary? Oh I have to rush off for a meeting. Talk to you later okay? Are you trying to scare me to death? Were you here all this time? Villain Give me the key and we'll split the loot I know you desperately need the money. How about this? You take 60% and I'll take 40% I'll never take money of a questionable source Why don't I take your share as well then? I don't mind at all Baby, mess it up a little or they'll be able to tell you didn't cook this Next time, let's just get simpler dishes like fried bean sprouts It's too easy to see through You are good at lying, huh? Where did you go today? I visited Mr Tan in the hospital Is his hand any better? He had about 10 stitches, but otherwise he is fine It's not that serious Dad, they are here Hi, Keat Hello, Dad, Grand-aunt, Aunt, Uncle I'll send you down Thanks for the meal, Sze Xin The meal was delicious. You're such a good cook Thanks. I'll see you tomorrow Aren't you going to your parents' tomorrow? You don't have to see us off In that case, you have a safe trip Okay, we will. Bye Bye, bye Dad, wait This is for you Oh, you really shouldn't have It's not that expensive What's taking you so long? Come, let's go Hey, now that Xin is pregnant Do take good care of her, and spend less time at work Okay, I know what to do. Someone's on her side now that he's got a gift So what if I am? Arghh, how did this happen? What's up? The tyre is punctured Where's the spare tyre, Dad? I'll help you change it I don't have a spare tyre You don't? You drove all the way from Penang to Singapore without a spare tyre? Spare tyres cost money too, you know One two three four five six seven You have 7 passengers with you Even if you don't care about yourself, spare a thought for the others You're always like that, just thinking about yourself No consideration for others at all Why are you raising your voice at me? You are such a spendthrift. You think you're so capable now, don't you Hey hey, stop arguing, will you? We have to return to Penang tomorrow, let's think of a solution now Do you sell this type of tyres? I'm sorry. We're closed Just mend it and pump some air, that should do the trick How do you mend a tyre that is so damaged? It can still be used. Let's not be wasteful Do you know how costly a new tyre is? The hole isn't that big. It can be mended Not everything can be mended If you put your heart to it, can't you? No. You can't Some holes can never be mended Just give it your best shot Yes sir Dad is ridiculous. He drove from Penang to Singapore without a spare tyre Baby. Is everything alright? All my three ex-boyfriends have lied to me, and I thought You would be different from the rest. But you're worse And you are lying to me on the very first day of our marriage What are you talking about? I saw Mr Tan today and he's absolutely fine Baby, oh baby I'm sorry. I'll never lie to you again So tell me, why did you lie? A desperate situation calls for desperate measures Where did you go today? I...Do I tell her I lost all my money at the casino? Will she get madder if I tell the truth? What else are you hiding from me? Hm..And she'll think I'm dishonest if she knows I kept the money I found Stop stammering now What's done cannot be undone Just like toothpaste. It can't return to the tube once you squeeze it out Mr. Ang? The cheque bounced Did the bank say it cannot go through? Do you know it is a crime to issue invalid cheques? You're putting me in a spot If your father-in-law isn't Colin Chong. Hello? What? I would have reported this to the police. Yes? I can't hear you. Hello? Hi Xin, Auntie Dad. Mum. Dad. Mum. Auntie Oh poor thing. You have lost weight Keat, I dont' mean to nag at you, but have you not been feeding Xin well? I don't even have money for proper meals now Come on auntie, just do it, chop me into pieces And leave me high and dry like you always do It's alright. hey, what's with the outburst? How can you be so discrespectful to your auntie? Let it go, we're family now Keat, the baby that Xin is carrying What are your plans for it? Plans? What plans can he have, except to cheat and lie his way through? He cheated on you? You're not serious? You've just been married for a few days I've already warned you I will not spare you if my daughter ever sheds a tear for you Say something. I gave my daughter's hand to you You have to be faithful and true to her. That is the least I'd expect of you How can you lie to her just a few days into the marriage? How would you expect her to trust you in future? No man can be trusted Keat, I don't want to nag, but... You have to prove your integrity if you want us to trust you We know you're poor but we don't look down on you because of that So why did you lie to Xin? Okay, I get it. With wealth comes integrity. I know what I must do now Go, go. You're best at disappearing acts anyway What happened? I'm so sorry about the bounced cheque, Mr Wong I've never see a customer pay in this manner before Is the right amount? I'm sorry. I haven't counted the money, so sorry What happened? What happened? Nothing, nothing much Let me help you count It's okay, I can manage. Let me help you I really can do it myself. Let go, will you? This is currency for the dead Who are you trying to fool? How can this be? Alright. I got it Xin claims she has no idea where Keat is It sounds like they had a tiff You think so? It's just three days into the marriage Let's not wait anymore. Let's go You're always like that. You don't want to get the tyre? It's expensive in Singapore. I'll get it in JB Has he disappeared? There is no honest man They appear all honest and down-to-earth But once you're married, the true colours are revealed Is he having an extra-marital affair? Mum, Keat is not like that Stop being so suspicious, will you? Never be too easy with your man You've got to show them who's the boss Or they'll take advantage of you over and over again Respect and trust must exist between husband and wife I don't want to be like you What did you say Can't you be nicer to Dad? You appear so loving in front of others, but in private, you are so cold and distant Is there happiness in a marriage like this? You have no right to judge me Aren't you in a similar situation now, just days into your marriage? Am I not right? Madam Thank you We're brothers, no need for formalities Don't you pride yourself on being principled? I'll never use money from a questionable source But when one is pushed to a corner And anyway, I am already seen as one without integrity If they were to know that my cheque bounced I would lose all dignity You got my father-in-law involved Hey look, you got arrested and he was the only one who could solve your problem You've really done me in this time Dad You've driven me so mad Using counterfeit notes to pay off your debts? You've ruined my reputation completely I'm really sorry Hey, hey Hey Colin Chong, aren't you curious? How someone so seemingly honest turned out like this? All because he was pushed to a corner Men are all prideful Haha. I'm so mad Why didn't he just tell me he needed money? He's not treating me like his wife This is the pride of a man Yes, I wanted to push him to a corner Only in poverty can one's real character be revealed So it was your idea to take the money from the red packets? I really have nothing to do with that Okay, don't be mad at him anymore. He's just a man with a lot of pride and principles At first, I was afraid he was marrying you for your wealth I feel assured now that he is not Dad Actually, I'm not pregnant I guessed it all along So why did you lie to us? If I didn't, would you have let me marry him? It's only for your own good if I don't You see, it's been proven that he's not honest He lied all because you pushed him to a corner Taking the money from the red packets is as good as robbery Did you ever think what Keat would do without the money? Yes, so I was waiting for him to seek my help Why does everyone have to cater to your whims? You're so overbearing, you're going to drive everyone away from you I think this time you've really gone too.. Yes? I feel so unjust for you, sis Amy Can you do me a favor? How do you know I'm here? Where else can you be? I'm still angry After so long? Counterfeit notes? Yes of course You won this from gambling? Hey, I had to beg my dad for it Parents will always reach out to their children in times of need You don't have to thank me. As brothers, I'll definitely help when you're in trouble Go home. I'm sure Xin has cooled off by now She won't even bail me from the police station I can't face her. Can I put up at your place tonight? Hello, Aunty You don't like to be lied to, but didn't you do the same to your parents? Buying all that food from restaurants and passing them off as your cooking All because you wanted to leave a good impression? Why is the world full of lies? You lie and put on a pretence because you care Think about it, I feel quite sorry for Keat this time He almost bankrupted himself over the wedding, and even landed himself in the police station And at the end of it all, everyone's still mad at him Even I was wrong about him this time I'm sorry, baby. I shouldn't have lied to you. Please dont' be mad anymore I'm heading to Penang now because Dad got into and accident. I'll explain when I'm back Sir Hello? How could that happen? Alright Do you want to talk to your mum? Oh, okay Xin is going to Penang. Keat's dad got into an accident Is it serious? I'm not sure She still doesn't want to talk to me? Let's go to Penang and talk to our daughter properly Brother! The watch dropped onto the floor And he crawled over to retrieve it, all bloody Why does he treasure this watch so much? How would I know? Sorry I'm sorry, baby Dad. Mum Since this watch means so much to Dad Let's have it repaired. It may help to rouse him Keat Get into the car Your dad rented this car, it should be faster this way Let us help okay, Keat? Do you repair watches like this? Oh yes, we do Dad Doesn't this watch belong to Ah Si? You know him? He bought this watch from me and he's sent it in for repair quite a few times This watch... Ah Si bought it the day his son graduated from high school It was a gift for his wife For having painstakingly raised their son so well He told me he has never bought his wife a gift before I just got the report The doctor said I'm diagnosed with cancer This is beautiful Give it to me next year In order to wear this beautiful watch I will make sure I recover well Next year Give it to me again next year Hey boss Ah Si Can it be repaired? Watches are meant to be worn It is sure to break down if you don't wear it If you see him, please ask him to rush back His wife can't hang on for much longer Mmm I can't find him, sis-in-law Where is dad? Where is he? Dad's almost home. Hang on, mum Hang on awhile more. He's almost home You're finally here. You might as well not come back Mum refused to shut her eyes just now Just so that she could have one last look at you Where were you? What else can be holding you up at this time? It's all your scoldings. You're the one who caused Mum's cancer You're not fit to be her husband When we got married I could not even afford to throw a wedding banquet She has never enjoyed the good life This watch is the only gift I have for her after all these years But The watch is ready Can you two be closer? You're acting like enemies Come one, give me a smile. Quick Keat is now married. You'll have no more worries Done Hey, after chatting for so long I don't even know who you are I realise I can only see my dad clearly from a distance I'm truly touched by Dad's feelings for Mum We seem so shallow compared to them Giving you a grand wedding is all just an excuse to show off We've been married for several days And you haven't had a good day at all I am really the shallow one I am the one who takes everything for granted Never once thinking that you would have any difficulties I didn't even realise you sold off your cameras We will live happily, ever after We will live happily, ever after Is your dad awake? The love your dad has for your mum, is truly admirable Many things are not how they appear to be I may be good at running my business But I can't even handle my marriage well There are many little things within a marriage that can easily defeat love I now give you my daughter's hand And I hope you will never be defeated This is just the beginning. I wish you the best Actually there are many things that can be started afresh I like this photo very much It makes me feel like I have achieved something great Because I could make you laugh so easily But ever since that incident I have never seen you laugh like that It hurts here. It is really painful I really don't want to be like Ah Si To be left with just a watch And me, just this photo of us Would you give me another chance To renew your faith in me? Can you? Yes, I can Dad! Dad! Dad, you must not die, Dad! Didn't you say you want to tell me off? Dad, you must not die, Dad! Shut up!(Tamil) I need to sleep! You're too noisy!(Tamil) Sorry Keat, your dad has woken. He has been transferred to another room Come, let's go. I'll show you the way You're awake Dad. Dad Brother, your son thought you were dead Dad You're right. Not everything can be mended The tyre should have been thrown away No, what you said was right If you put your heart to it, anything can be mended This is very famous too I think I will have the vermicelli The vermicelli? Mmm it's delicious. Keat's recommendation was right It's such a kick to be sweating it out while eating. Dad should come to Penang more often Sze Xin, don't you blame your mum anymore There is a reason behind her treatment of me Some years back I had an extra-marital affair Your mum was very upset She almost divorced me But chose to forgive me on your account She doesn't want you to know about this So as to uphold the fatherly image you have of me Your mum was never like this before It hasnt' been easy on her all these years Xin, the $100,000 that I gave to Keat, was actually from your mum Come, let's go home Mmm Why did you bring me here? In-law, welcome back You gave me a fright. I'd have died of fright because of you Hush, hush, hush I don't mean to nag at you It's a happy thing to be discharged, so stop all this talk about death, will you? Come, let me help you. One on each side Thanks, thanks Dad, this cake is for you In-law, I made a cake for you It's been a while since I made one, hope you'll like it Thanks, thanks Out with the old, in with the new But is there no place for this old watch? If you don't mind that it's old and inexpensive, I'd like you to have it Dad, I'll have it and treasure it Let me help you. Thanks, Mum Look at this watch. It's beautiful Mmm Wow, the cake made by my in-law is really good Humans are such deplorable beings Taking things for granted and not treasuring what they already have Life is short. It can be better if one just takes it easy But we are always striving for a better life. If only we can learn to be content Hey, what are you talking about? We're talking about the cake Congratulations Ah Si. Your daughter-in-law is gorgeous I've brought some liquor Just some simple fare. Please help yourselves Thank, thanks Actually, a wedding is a one-day affair But marriage is for life It does not matter how grand or elaborate a wedding is What matters most, is a happy and blissful marriage And the key to a blissful marriage is love At the end of the day, a simple wedding can be as beautiful and moving As long as it is showered with blessings from loved ones. This is what I want to share "The Wedding Diary" Cheers! Thank God, you are a real man indeed.
