 

                        3 [MUSIC ORCHESTRAL] [CROWD CHEERING] Citizens of Portugal! [CHEERING QUIETS] Soldiers and sailors of the revolution, all that is left of the king's garrison has either surrendered or been killed. [ALL CHEERING] Manuel has abdicated and is on his way to England. [ALL CHEERING] We proclaim the birth of the People's Socialist Republic! NARRATOR: In the Portugal of 1910, there was a swift and sudden uprising. Planned and executed by a Socialist minority, its purpose was to overthrow the government and establish a police state. Here was an early pattern of what was to happen time and again in many countries of Europe. As we have destroyed the power of the monarchy in Portugal, so we will destroy the power of the Church! [ALL CHEERING] And march on to the liberation of the masses and rule of the proletariat! NARRATOR: How often have we heard those same words since then? And so began a savage persecution of all religious orders. Priests who opposed the government were thrown into prison. Others caught in a dragnet by the military police were photographed and numbered like common criminals. But the Portuguese clung to their faith. And after seven years of political upheaval, churches in remote districts were permitted to reopen. So it was in the mountain village of Ftima, where a simple people paid tribute to the God of their fathers. Here is Ftima on Sunday, May 15, 1917. [ORGAN PLAYING SOFT, SOLEMN MELODY] Some wine, Frederico. Antnio. Hmm. Drink. I'm in bad trouble, Hugo. You're a tired man, Antnio. You work very hard on your land and... nothing grows. [SLURRING] It's enough to drive a man to drink. My wife doesn't know what I suffer. Aw. But I do, Antnio. I can't sleep for thinking about it. I say to myself, "Hugo, you must help your friend. "He's trapped like an animal." Like an animal. So I tell you this: Sell that evil land. Yes. Yes, yes. Sell the land? Sure. And with the money, you and I will become partners in a wonderful enterprise. We'll buy a boat. A boat? Yes. In the mountains? Ah, we'll leave these barren hills behind. We go away to the sea, become fishermen. Fish need no watering, no planting, nothing. That's the life, I tell you. Well? I'm thinking. You'll do it, huh? [ORGAN RESUMES PLAYING IN DISTANCE] No. You refuse? Mass is over. My wife is there. But the land. The money, the fish, huh? [ORGAN CONTINUES PLAYING SOLEMN MELODY] Now we've got to find your father. Not only does he stay out all night, but he also misses Mass. Perhaps he had an accident, Mama. Every Saturday night he has an accident. A collision with the wine bottle. He's probably in jail. Don't upset yourself, Mama. Papa will come home. He always does. Maybe I'll find him at the tavern. Don't wait for me. Lcia, you take the sheep to the cova. Yes, Mama. [WHISTLING] Good morning, Senhora dos Santos. Where's Antnio? Antnio? Bless you, senhora, I have not seen him in a week. Lcia! Papa and Mama have gone to the market at Batalha. To buy a pig, and Papa told us to take the sheep and go with you to the cova. Mama fixed bread and cheese for us. And Hugo provides the dessert. ALL: Oh! Hugo! Here. Gently, Francisco, gently. Ladies first. Here, my beautiful little one. Here. I brought them all the way from Ourm. Good, huh? They should be. They nearly cost me my life. ALL: Your life? I saw them in an orchard by the roadside. You stole them. Stealing? Me? Aw, Jacinta, how can you think that about Hugo? Tsk, tsk. Oh, no, no. The orchard belongs to a friend of mine. And he had told me to help myself. But his men didn't know that. So they set the dogs on me. Seven big mastiffs leaping at my throat with blood in their eyes. And there I was, all alone. And with my bare hands... I fought them. Poor dogs. They'll never leap again. You killed them? Mm-hm. All except the biggest one. He laid on his back and cried like a baby-- [ALL GIGGLE] --so I spared him. You tell such lovely stories, Hugo, but I know they're not true. You'd better ask Father Ferreira to forgive you. Oh, no. No priest for Hugo. Why not? Oh, it's all right to go to church and meditate on your sins and beg forgiveness and swear that you'll never commit them again. That's fine for little girls, but not for a big fellow like me. Don't you believe in God? Let's say, uh, that God doesn't believe in me. Now, go on home. Goodbye. Bye. Bye, Hugo. Bye. Bye. [WHISTLING] Good morning, Father. Oh, hello, Hugo. Oh, Father? I, um... I have a little business that takes me to Ourm today. And I thought perhaps if you would want me to get some good wine for the altar, I know where I can get it very cheap. No, thank you. Sorry, Father. Oh, uh... Just a moment. You're an educated man, Hugo. You come of a good family in Lisbon, a pious family. Why don't you come back to the Church? I've thought about it, Father, and I, uh... I may. If you'll let me take up the collections. [SMACKS LIPS] [SCOFFS] [PLAYING LIGHT MELODY] [BRAYING] Francisco! Give me back my apron! Don't take that and get it dirty. FRANCISCO: Yeah, come on. Stop him. Charge me, touro. Try it. I'll have you-- My apron! Like Hugo when he fought the seven bulls. Come back with it, do you hear me? Come back! [BRAYS] [LAUGHTER] [SOBBING] There, you see what you've done? Now, what will Mama say when I come home without it? Don't cry, Jacinta. I'll take all the blame. Let's eat our lunch. [SOBBING] We must say the rosary first. All right. You start, Lcia. In the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen. I believe in God, the Father Almighty-- No, no. Let's do it the short way. And wait for the echoes. All right. All together now. ALL: Hail Mary! [ECHOES] Hail Mary! Hail Mary! [THUNDER CRASHES] What was that? There must be a storm coming. How could it be with the sky so bright? I don't know. But we'd better head for home. Hey! Hey! Ya! Hey! Ya! Ya! [BRAYING] [THUNDER CRASHES] The sun is still out. Was that lightning? It must be. Come on. Hey! Hey! Hey! Come on there, hurry up! FRANCISCO: Hey, come on. Hurry up. What are you looking at? [BOTH GASP] What's the matter? What was it? What did you see? Look. Over there. FRANCISCO: I don't see anything. WOMAN: Don't be afraid. I won't hurt you. Come here to me, won't you? Come closer. There, that's better. You are not frightened now, are you? No. Where does Your Excellency come from? I am from heaven. Who are you talking to, Lcia? A lady. I don't see her. Where is she? Here, on the little tree. Don't you hear her? No. Tell him to say the rosary. Then he will see me. She says to say the rosary, Francisco. What is it you want of me? I come to ask you to come here for six months in succession. On the 13th day, at the same hour, then I will tell you who I am and what I want. Shall I go to heaven? Yes, you will. And Jacinta? Also. And Francisco? Yes. But he will have to say many rosaries. Lcia, I can see her now. I see her plain. Do you wish to offer yourself to God? To endure all the suffering he may please to send you? To help atone for the sins by which he is offended? And to ask for the conversion of sinners? Shall we? Yes, we do. Yes, my lady. Then you will have much to suffer. But the grace of God will be your comfort. My God, my God. I love you in the most blessed sacrament. Say the rosary every day to obtain peace for the world and to end the war. The beautiful lady is gone. But she'll come back. She said so. Didn't she, Lcia? Don't talk. It's too wonderful. [WHISTLING CHEERFULLY] [BRAYING] Hello there, little ones. Hello, Hugo. Hi, Hugo. Hey. Hey, wait a minute, it's Hugo. Don't you know me? Have I changed so much since this morning, or have you suddenly become rich, lost interest in your poor friend? No, Hugo, we saw you. Hey, what's the matter? Anything wrong? What happened? We saw a beautiful lady in the cova. Will you please tell me what a beautiful lady would be doing in the cova? It's getting late, we'd better-- She came from heaven. [CHUCKLES] From heaven, huh? Well, a stranger in these parts. Maybe, uh... Maybe she needs somebody to show her around, huh? She came in a cloud of light, standing on a little tree. Oh, Hugo, she was so pretty... and so sad... because the world is so bad. And we must pray awful hard and make God feel better. What's all this? Beautiful ladies in trees making speeches? [LAUGHS] You children must have stayed out in the sun too long. We did see her, Hugo. And she was from heaven. Don't say she wasn't, Hugo, please. [SOBBING] Because we love her, and if she doesn't come back... Oh, baby. I didn't say anything. But you don't believe it. All right. If you say it, I believe it. You saw a lady? Good. She came from heaven? Fine, that's fine. You convinced me of that. Only, uh... Let's keep it among ourselves, huh? A secret. You'll tell nobody but Hugo. Why not? Because other people might not understand. And they might make fun of you, say ugly things. Make you very unhappy. What do you say we keep it quiet, huh? Just don't tell anybody but Hugo. Hugo's right. We won't tell anybody. Good. Now, go on home. Go on, go on. Goodbye. Hello. [INDISTINCT SHOUTING] Oh, Mama, Papa you're late. Did you find a good pig? You're a nice pig, come here. Nice pig. Come on, that's it. [SQUEALING] [LAUGHING AND SCREAMING] Did you go to Mass in Batalha? Yes, at the cathedral. Such a crowd, such music. I hope you girls have supper started. The soup's nearly ready. Mama, Mama, I have something to tell you. Jacinta, you promised. We saw a lady at the cova. A pretty lady who came down from heaven. [LAUGHS] Not now, little one. I have no time for your fairy stories. But you've got to listen because it's true. We saw her, and she talked to us. And then suddenly she wasn't there anymore. Mercy's sake, what's got into the child? It's no story. I saw it too. But we promised Lcia we wouldn't tell. That Lcia, she put her up to this. No, she didn't. The lady was there, all shining in light. It blinded our eyes. Francisco, a boy your age telling such things. No, now, give them a chance. Something must have happened. Don't cry, mimosa. I'll listen to you. Where's Lcia? In the bedroom. I told her she had to eat. Leave her alone. It's her stomach, not yours. Lcia? What's the matter with the child? [KNOCKING ON DOOR] Open the door, Carolina. Aunt Olmpia. Lcia told you about the vision? MARIA ROSA: Lcia? The vision? What a wonderful thing. Our children chosen by the Holy Mother herself. The Holy Mother? What vision? What are you talking about? Lcia, Jacinta told everything. They're out there now talking about it, everybody. Oh, Francisco, why didn't you stop her? I tried to. I couldn't. Lcia, come out here. Did you say you saw the Blessed Virgin in the cova today? I didn't say anything, Mama. But we did see a lovely lady in a cloud. Who else could it be? She didn't say who she was. A lady in a cloud? Who's making up these silly stories? Jacinta and Francisco say it's true. They've never lied to us, Maria Rosa, but-- They saw the Mother of God? In the cova of all places. Why should she come there? Stories like this can bring the police to our door. Mama, Papa, the whole village is talking about us. Tell your aunt and uncle you put this nonsense in Jacinta's head. But she didn't. It happened. Maria Rosa, give her a chance. Tell them you saw no lady. Tell them you lied. I didn't lie, Mama. It's the truth. Truth, huh? I'll teach you the truth. [SOBBING] MARIA ROSA: God help me. All I need is that my youngest should commit a deadly sin. As if the Blessed Virgin had nothing better to do than ride around in lighted clouds and talk to silly children. But, Maria Rosa, it was the others who said it was the Blessed Virgin, not Lcia. She was always a pious child, Father, but she loves stories of saints and visions and now she's making them up herself. Oh, when I think of the blasphemy. Where is this cova you're talking about? It's a 10-minute walk from here. It's my land, Father, a place where we graze the sheep. I've pleaded with her. Maria Rosa pleads with a heavy hand. Yes, and I've punished her too. But still, she won't admit she lied. Perhaps she isn't aware of it. These so-called visions are, for the most part, manifestations of hysteria. A little girl's imagination. But, Father, the boy saw it too. A child influenced by a mind stronger than his own. [CHUCKLES] It's nothing to worry about. You say, uh... this lady of theirs is supposed to appear again? A month from today. Why, that's Saint Anthony's Feast Day. A day the children love. [CHUCKLES] I don't think Lcia and the others will want to miss the fun here in Ftima. Ignore this thing. Don't let it be mentioned in your house. In a month, they'll forget all about it. You'll see I'm right. Thank you, Father. Good night, Father. FRANCISCO: Papa! JACINTA: Mama, Mama, where are you going? To the market at Pedreiras. This is the day the lady said she'd come back to the cova. Please stay and go with us. No lady appeared to you, you foolish child. Don't tell me you tadpoles are going to miss the Feast of Saint Anthony today. Have you forgotten? There'll be a band and fireworks. And dancing, and the blessed bread for the poor and the children. We told our lady we'd meet her. We can't break our word. Look out then, here we go. Goodbye. Adeus. Bye, Mama. Bye, Papa. Goodbye. Bye. Bye, Maria Rosa. Goodbye. If you children go to the cova today, you'll go without Lcia. She's going with us to Saint Anthony's Feast. Psst. Psst. I can't help it. What will we say to the lady? Tell her my mother wouldn't let me come. MARIA ROSA: Lcia? Blow your nose and stop crying. You're not going to the cova. [SOBBING] But, Mama, I promised. Stop it, I tell you. Senhor. We're from Carrascos, senhor. Can you tell us where we'll find the field in which the children saw the Blessed Virgin? They heard about it as far as Carrascos? And farther, senhor. Also that the Holy Mother will appear again today. If you will direct us to the field. Oh, the cova is-- There's no such field. No vision either. Don't your children dream in Carrascos? Go home. Or stay for Saint Anthony's Feast, and you'll have something for your crazy journey. Come on, Antnio, we'll be late. You see what your lies have started. [FESTIVE DANCE MUSIC PLAYING] [CROWD CHEERING AND CLAPPING] Here, here, you can't eat that. But I am eating it. That's Saint Anthony's bread, and Father Ferreira hasn't blessed it yet. Is that bad? Could be. Then let him bless me, because it's right in here. [ORGAN PLAYING SOLEMN MELODY] Well, Senhora Carreira, glad to see you are well again, able to attend to your duties. We've missed you. Thank you, Father. I'm not completely well yet. Should you be here then? I couldn't miss Saint Anthony's Feast Day. Besides, I'm taking my crippled son to the cova. I'm sure Our Lady will be there again today. You believe that story? Don't you, Father? I cannot accept the unsupported testimony of three imaginative children. And if word of this should reach the authorities, our church will be in danger. Don't forget that, senhora. [CHILDREN SINGING GRACEFULLY] [SPEAKING IN LATIN] [SPEAKING IN LATIN] Amen. There, I told you we'd be late. Father Ferreira has blessed the bread. Go join your Communion class and try to behave as they do. Remember, I'm keeping an eye on you. Here comes the little saint who saw the Virgin. [LAUGHTER] What's the matter? Was the vision called off for today? MAN: Her drunken father put it in her head. MAN 2: I don't believe she ever saw it. Lcia, look. There's Our Lady on the church roof. She's waving to you. Fly up, little bird, and give her a kiss. [ALL LAUGH] MAN 3: Here comes the little thing who saw the Virgin. My mother says you're in danger of hellfire. Please don't say that, Manuelita. I guess my mother knows a mortal sin when she sees one. Leave her alone. You be quiet, Manuelita. You, priest. Come here. Yes, Senhor Administrator. What can I do for you? This is Manuel Marques Ferreira. Parish priest of Ftima, number 17793, as you'll see by my police card. Senhor Machado Pais has been appointed magistrate of Ourm. It's a pleasure, senhor. We're not here for pleasure. Where are the children? What children? You know. You know the children. The ones you've been using to stir up people with reports of a vision. There, now you'll get it. I, senhor? Under the laws of the republic, reports of miracles are a crime. But I'm not an accessory to this particular crime. We'll see about that. Those little puppets of yours will tell us who's pulling the strings. Where are they? Point them out. I know of no children who have seen the Blessed Virgin. You're lying. What are their names? Unreported, senhor. Except that one was a Lcia somebody-or-other. These people must know. They know every child in the village. You know the children, senhora? You, senhor? You? You there, you know the children? You? Well, speak up, somebody! I want to know the children who say they saw the Virgin. Don't lie to protect this priest. The government's your friend, not the Church. Those who help the priest in this fraud will... Will go to jail with him. Well, come on, speak up. Who are these brats? My, you all look very, very pretty in your nice Communion dresses. Yes. I'm sure that one of you smart young ladies can tell me all about the children who saw the miraculous vision of the Holy Mother? Mm? Well, come on, come on. What's the matter, have you lost your tongues? You, little one, who is Lcia? I don't know, senhor. You, where is Lcia? She-- Which Lcia, Your Excellency? We have dozens of Lcias here. Dreamers, stargazers, fanatics whose flights of fancy can conjure up anything from a flock of angels to a devil on horseback. [CROWD LAUGHING] Now, as for me, I think this latest one about a lovely lady in a tree is fascinating. Personally, I love climbing trees. [MEN CHUCKLE] Quiet, you fool. My apologies, Senhor Administrator. I was only trying to point that you gentlemen of the government seem to believe more in this miracle than we do. You, senhora, why are you taking that child away? Is it because she can tell me what I want to know? She won't tell you, senhor, but I will. You're right, my dear. I was only trying to shield you. But he would have found out sooner or later. This, senhor, is the Lcia you are looking for. I am not. Now, now. Your first impulse was a better one. Go with the nice administrator and tell him everything. Get it off your conscience. Be a nice girl, Lcia. [SOBBING] My name is Manuelita. Lcia Manuelita de Costa. No, my name is Manuelita. Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. I only want you to face the priest and tell the truth about it, that's all. [MANUELITA WAILS] You nearly did it that time. Make yourself scarce. Take her home, Hugo. Come on, little one. [MANUELITA WAILING] It's home for you, my little one. Or to some neighbor's house until this thing blows over. Don't take me home, Hugo. Take me to the cova. To the cova? Ha! Yes, Hugo. The lady expects me there, and it's nearly time. Don't you see? She must have sent you. Me? Of all people... Please, Hugo. All right, my little one. To the cova it is. Stretch your legs, my gallant Lucifer. For today, we ride for love and liberty. Francisco. I'm afraid. Let's run. It's all right. I'm here. But you can't hear her. She can hear me. LCIA: Jacinta. There's Lcia. There's the cloud. It's coming toward the tree. I knew it was true. I knew it. Are you there, dear lady? I know I'm late. I almost couldn't get here. Dear lady, dear lady, I knew you'd come back to us. I knew it, I knew it. You are unhappy, my daughter. Only because of my mother, but not anymore. You're here. Tell us what you'd have us do. Jesus wishes to use you to make me known and loved. He wishes to establish throughout the world devotion to me. So you must learn to read and write in order that you may convey his message. Do you hear a lady's voice? I hear a buzzing sound, like a bee in a bottle. A bee in a bonnet. Thou Mother of Divine Grace. Thou purest Mother. Pray for us. Senhora Carreira is here with a crippled boy. She asked us to speak to the lady. Will you cure him, dear lady? Her prayers shall be answered within a year. When will you take us to heaven? I will take Jacinta and Francisco soon. But you must remain here sometime longer. You're going to take them? You mean they're going to--? Have no fear for them. But why must they go? Why? What will I do without them? Please, dear lady. Don't you see? We've been together since we were babies. They're like my sister and my brother. I took care of Jacinta when she was just a little thing. Beside my mother, I love them more than anyone in the world. [SOBBING] Don't cry. If God takes us soon, we'll spend all our time telling him about you. Forgive me, my lady. I'll do anything. Let me suffer for them, and I'll be glad. But don't take them. Don't leave me here alone. Dear child, I'll be with you always. All right, my lady. I promised I'd do what you told me. And I will... all my life. I will never abandon you. My immaculate heart will be your refuge and the path that leads you to God. [WEEPING] [SOBBING] [CROWD MURMURING] Please don't cry, Lcia. JACINTA: We'll pray to the lady. Baby, baby, what's the matter, huh? What's the matter? Did you hear something that hurt you? The lady said she's gonna take Jacinta and Francisco. We're going to heaven. And I don't want them to go. [CHUCKLES] Maybe you misunderstood the lady. No, I didn't. Well, she might change her mind. Ladies do, you know. Did I ever tell you the time I was walking through a beautiful forest when all of a sudden, a great big dragon came roaring out of a cave breathing fire and smoke with his tongue sticking out? And there I was, all alone, with nothing but my bare hands. Don't you want to know what happened? [CHUCKLES] Oh... All right, we'll save it for some other time, huh? [SOBS] [SMACKS LIPS] Maria Rosa, I'll-- I'll wait here. What's happening, Antnio? Trouble, nothing but trouble. The priest has sent for the children. He wants to question them. Father Ferreira too? What's the matter? Has everybody gone crazy? You people have hounded those children ever since their story of the vision leaked out. You saw what came of their story. [SCOFFS] And who was responsible for it? It was your own babbling tongues that blew that fairy tale into the big ears of our precious administrator. Hugo... it may be true what they saw. Antnio, you're a grown man. There are many grown men and women who believe it. Even in the market at Lisbon, in spite of the police spies being around, it's all they talk about. The 13th of next month, you will see thousands here in Ftima. Ha. Thousands of ignorant, superstitious fools following a will-o'-the-wisp. Sure of a free ride in a fiery chariot straight through the pearly gates. Do you really think there will be thousands? A multitude of people, senhor. They will descend on Ftima like a plague of locusts. Hmm. You may be right. And who am I to argue against the belief of thousands? There may be something in this after all. Antnio. Here is a heaven-sent opportunity. You own the cova, and I'm your best friend, your partner. You heard what that peddler said? Thousands. Now, why couldn't we charge each and every one a small fee to see the Virgin, hm? We'll be doing a good deed, and we'll be rewarded with manna from heaven. No. Antnio, be sensible. You-- You would try and cheat God himself. Ah, but he has such a big world, and we have so little of it. Now, look, the first thing we do, we'll build a fence on one side-- Hugo da Silva? I have a warrant here for your arrest signed by the Administrator of Ourm. That's not possible. The administrator is a good friend of mine. Go away. Your friend charges you with obstructing a police investigation on St. Anthony's Day with conspiracy to defeat the ends of justice. Come along. Ah, this is nothing, Antnio, nothing. You start building the fence, and I'll make some posters while I'm in jail. Antnio, we got a bigger attraction here than all the bullfights in Seville during Easter. We'll be rich, man, rich. Come on. Take care of my little donkey, eh? Yes, yes. Let's go. The lady told us the way would be hard. I didn't know what she meant then, but I do now. I thought you'd believe us, Father. In such matters, the Church moves slowly, neither believing nor disbelieving, until all the facts are examined. Have you told me all the facts, Lcia? I can't tell you any more. Why do you hold back, child? What else did the Blessed Mother say? I didn't say she was the Blessed Mother. But she was. Jacinta. Perhaps you can tell us what else the lady said, Jacinta? Oh, yes, Father. She said we're going to die soon. Not Lcia, just Francisco and me. Going to die? Lcia, you told them that? Father, you see what terrible things she's doing? There's no end to this. Lcia didn't tell us. It was the lady. What are you crying for, Mama? We're going to heaven. [TEARFULLY] Stop saying such things. Lcia... did you make up this story? If you're lying, I implore you to tell me. It would be so easy to tell you that I am. Then all I'd get would be a whipping. But I'm not, Father. Look, child, do you want the soldiers to take your priest away, close the doors of your church? Oh, no, Father. Then tell me the truth, child. The truth. I've told you the truth. I swear it. I believe you, Lcia. That-- That they saw the Virgin? I believe they saw something unnatural in the cova. Good or evil... ...I cannot say. Evil? It could be something out of hell instead of heaven. The devil comes to us in many forms. Oh, no, Father. Not the lady. I don't know. I don't say it for certain. But only evil has come from these visions so far. If they continue, they may bring disaster on us all. Well, I will forward this information to my bishop. And until we hear from him... I don't want you to go to the cova anymore. Now, take them home. Let us all pray for God to enlighten us. Good night, Father. Thank you, Father. What's the matter, Lcia? Are you sick? [SNIFFLES] No, Mama. You're crying, huh? I couldn't sleep, Mama. Come. [SNIFFLES] [SOBS] Shh. There now. Tell Mama all about it. Father Ferreira said that the lady might be the devil. I can't stop thinking about it. She couldn't be that, could she, Mama? Father Ferreira knows more about such things than we do. Surely the devil would want the church closed. And he'd want to see Father Ferreira in jail too, wouldn't he? Yes, Mama. But if you could only have seen her as I did, if you could only have heard her dear voice... I can't stop thinking about her. Are you going to begin all that again? No, Mama, don't be mad at me. Oh, I love you. Even though I promised her to come... ...I'm never going to see her anymore. Never. I don't want you to hate me. There now. [CROWD CLAMORING] MAN: Open the church! GUARD: Get out of here! MAN 2: Shame on you! MAN 3: Give us back our church! No. In the name of all we hold sacred, I forbid you to interfere. This thing is in God's hands. He is our refuge and our strength. Now, go back to your homes. [CROWD MURMURING] Arturo dos Santos, I assisted at your baptism, gave you your First Communion here in Ourm. Don't blame me for that. [LAUGHS] I knew no better then. But you've known me all your life, and you haven't found me stupid. Why should I plot a thing that would bring trouble to my parish? Perhaps your bishop ordered a miracle in Ftima. Senhor, in the revolution of 1910, the Socialists kept my bishop in a prison cell partly filled with water, an ordeal from which he has never fully recovered. He would endure it again, but not for an imaginative story told by three children. Then your bishop does not sanction these reports of a miracle? It is you who sanction it. Can't you see that by closing our church, you've made the people believe that these stories of the visions must be true? Why don't you tell them they're not true? But I've advised them not to go to the cova, not to talk about miracles. More than that, I cannot do. Hasn't it been reported that the Virgin will appear again next month? I give you my word that the priest of every parish in the diocese will tell his people not to come to Ftima on that day. Then we'll see how well you can control them. If there is no crowd there on the 13th of July, you will be permitted to reopen your church. It is now in your hands. Good day. This is the house where the youngest one lives. Let us see the children! Jacinta, Francisco, show yourselves. Bring out the children! Yeah. CROWD: Yeah! [ALL CLAMORING] Why can't we see the children? They've been taken to Valinhos. WOMAN: Will they be at the cova tomorrow? Oh, yes, they'll be there. MAN: Why do you hide them? Are they monsters? No. Indeed, they're very handsome. Very like their father. [CLAMORING CONTINUES] Antnio, let us in. It's Marto and Olmpia. [DOORKNOB RATTLING] MAN 2: Send Lcia to the door. WOMAN 2: Let us see Lcia. No, no, no. I never thought we'd get here. Listen to the fools. We have all our doors locked, and Francisco and Jacinta are hiding under their beds. You should see the crowds pouring into Ftima. I know. There'll be thousands at the cova tomorrow. Father Ferreira told us that every parish priest warned the people to stay home so our church could be opened again, and still they come. Has the whole country gone mad? Perhaps the Blessed Virgin wants them here, Maria Rosa. That, I will never believe. Neither does Lcia believe it now. She won't stir out of the house tomorrow. No, Uncle Manuel. I think you're making a great mistake. I also believe as you do, but-- Father Ferreira has said the children shouldn't go. MANUEL: They saw the lady, the priest did not. I believe what they tell me. [SOBBING] [DOOR CLOSES] Can't you see what you're doing to the child? She will keep her promise to me. I know. And what about the closed church? Keeping the church closed won't turn us away from God. The government has tried that, and our faith is stronger than it ever was. Do what you want. My children and I go to the cova tomorrow. Oh, my lady, help me. You know I love you. And I think I'll die if I don't see you again. But I love my mother too. Won't you please tell me how I can keep my promise to you without hurting her? Oh, please. Give me one little sign so I'll know what to do. Won't you let me hear your voice? Show me your face. Or only the light that shines around you. [SOBBING] Oh, good morning, Papa. Good morning. Is Lcia up yet? Oh, let her sleep. The more she sleeps, the less she'll think of the cova. But, Mama, she is up. She's not in her bed, and her clothes are gone. I thought you sent her out for something. Then maybe she went to water the sheep. Go see. [CROWD CHATTERING INDISTINCTLY] WOMAN: There's the mother of Lcia. WOMAN 2: The little girl who saw the Virgin. MAN: Where is Lcia? Is she coming out? WOMAN 3: Have her bless my child. MAN 2: Please let Lcia come out. MAN 3: Come out, Lcia. WOMAN 4: Come on, Lcia. Come outside. [CROWD CHATTERING] MAN 4: Lcia... She's nowhere in sight. She's not out there. She's not with her cousins, either. I called on Marto, and he said he hasn't seen her this morning. If she's out somewhere in that crowd and they find out who she is... Gloria, Carolina, you go to the neighbors. Ask at every house. Maria dos Santos, you wait here. If she comes back, don't let her leave. Lock the doors and keep everybody out. I'd better go look for her down at the square, Maria Rosa. The crowd is thick as-- Yes, I know. And you'll end up in the tavern. You keep away from the square. Go to Marto. He'll help you look for her. [CROWD CHATTERING] This is the right way to the cova, isn't it? Yes. At what time are the visions seen? Mostly at noon. You can put the arch here, on this side of the little tree. Two uprights and a crosspiece, senhora? Yes, like we had in the church on last Assumption Day. Look here, senhora. MAN: Who is she? Who is she? Has she been hurt? Poor little soul. It's Lcia dos Santos. MEN: Lcia dos Santos? Lcia, wake up, my dear. Are you all right? Senhora Carreira. What happened? It's Lcia, the child who sees the Blessed Virgin. MAN: Let me touch her. [CROWD CLAMORING] WOMAN: Oh, I want to cure my pain. Why did you crush my child? Keep back, you fools. Keep back. Please, stay back a minute. MAN: Leave her alone. Oh, my darling. Oh, my darling, why did you run away from us? I didn't, Mama. I meant to come home, but I must have cried myself to sleep. I'm so sorry. Forgive me. It's all right. It's all right. Leave her-- Let her go through, please. Don't touch her anymore. Let her pass. Have you seen the apparitions, Father? MAN: Is it true the Holy Mother appears here? You believe the children, don't you, Father? I'm Alvarez from Lisbon daily, O Seculo. How do you explain these so-called miracles? I know no more about them than you do. Your pastors warned you not to come here today. You saw what happened to the church in Ftima. I beg of you, go back to your homes. But, Father, my family and I came all the way from Santarm. We were told we'd see the Blessed Virgin. You've been deceived. You will not find the Holy Mother here. You offend her by believing she would show herself to a crowd in a field. Go home and beg her forgiveness. I warned you, priest. Now you'll pay for your stubbornness. Senhor, we did all we could to prevent this. Yeah, your lies won't help you now. We'll see to it that this disgraceful swindle doesn't happen again. Arrest him. MAN: They're arresting the priest. WOMAN: Father Ferreira. MAN 2: What have they done? [CROWD CHATTERING] WOMAN 2: He has done nothing. MAN 2: This is preposterous. WOMAN 3: How dare they. Look, say, the children are coming. [CROWD CLAMORING] MAN 4: The children are coming. MAN: Please cure my little girl. WOMAN: Little girl, bless this man. WOMAN 2: Please let me touch you. Drive those fools off the field. But we didn't expect that many. Ride them down if you have to. Round up those children and bring them here to me. Spread out and start the crowd moving. MAN: Hyah! MAN 2: Hyah! [CROWD YELLING] MAN: Pull the fool from his horse! Senhor Administrator, my men are being mobbed. All right. Call them off. Are you there, dear lady? We're in terrible trouble. You are enduring these hardships for the conversion of sinners as atonement for sins committed against God. If the people do not cease to offend him, another and worse war will break out. When you see a night with a strange light in the sky, you will know it is a sign that the world is about to be punished for its crimes. In Russia there is an evil scheme to destroy the peace of the earth. To prevent this, I ask that she'll be consecrated to the Virgin Mary. If this is done, she will be converted. If not, she will cause wars and persecutions. Good people will be martyred. Many nations will be destroyed. If what I say is heeded, many souls will be saved. And there will be peace. It is necessary that people amend their lives. Let them offend our Lord God no more. He is already much offended. Marto, do you hear anything? Only a sound like wind in the trees. There is no wind. The whole earth is still. My lady, these people can't see you or hear you as we do. Many of them don't believe you appear to us. In October, I will give them a sign that will make them believe. [SINGING "REGINA COELI"] [ALL SINGING "REGINA COELI"] "Stupid, obviously. "Impossible, of course. "Yet despite the feeble opposition "of the administrator of the province, "hordes of superstitious peasants and sundry morons "will again clog the roads to Ftima on August 13th "to witness the outrageous theatricals of three half-witted children." I did my best, Excellency. Your best wasn't good enough. What's all that babble in O Seculo about Russia? Oh, apparently, O Seculo's reporter got to the eldest of the children who told them that the lady predicted that danger to the world would come out of Russia. [CHUCKLES] The lady's not much of a prophet. How do you propose to put a stop to this? Give me a regiment of soldiers. I'll stop it. With 40,000 of our troops fighting on the western front? We haven't even a company to spare. Otherwise, I'd close every church in your province. It's brains you must use, not guns. Next month... when they're ready to begin another performance of their little comedy, you'll... [INDISTINCT CHATTER] Not very happy to see me, are you? Well, I don't blame you. [CHUCKLES] I think that'll change when you learn what I'm here for. I doubt it, senhor. Aren't you the same man who jailed our priest? Oh, didn't you hear? Your priest has been released, he's returned to his home. Father Ferreira is back? Oh, yes. When did this happen? This morning. Why, your neighbors will tell you. I've just come from his house. You know who's there? The bishop. The bishop? The bishop, yes. His Excellency would like to speak to the children before they go to the cova. It's his express desire that the children be brought to him immediately. So I-- Well, I offered to come and get them. But we can take them. Oh, fine, fine. Come on, children, let's go. Oh, uh... senhora, if, uh, the bishop is to speak to them before they go to the cova, there isn't much time. I have my car here. You do want your church reopened, don't you? Of course we do. Well, if the bishop will sanction these miracles, and if he agrees to accept all responsibility for whatever happens, why the government has ordered me to lift the ban and to give your church back to you. Oh, well, that's what we want, isn't it? Everything will be just as it was. We'll have to let them go, Maria Rosa. Of course, of course. Go with the administrator. Oh, you'll really enjoy driving in my automobile. MAN: Where is he taking them? Will they be at the cova today? Why do you let him take them? It's all right. It's all right. The bishop sent for them. Oh. You'll bring them to the cova as soon as you can, senhor? Just as soon as I can. MAN 2: We wanna know. We'll meet you there. FRANCISCO: Bye. JACINTA: Bye. Bye. Bye. Senhor, this is not the way to Father Ferreira's house. Please turn back. You're going the wrong way. Please, senhor. Where are the children? Yes, where are the children? What happened to them? Were they afraid to come here today? It's near the time they said Our Lady would appear. No sign of them. Where are the children? MAN: Where are the children? Where are the children? MAN 2: Where are the kids? WOMAN: Where are the children? Yes, come in, come in, come in. I'll tell the good Father. Oh, Father, Father, come quickly. Father, the administrator came and got the children-- That the bishop sent-- Just a moment, please. One at a time. Where's the bishop, Father? The bishop? Has he been here? No. But the administrator said-- He took the children to see the bishop. The administrator lied to you. Lied? Oh, what can we do? There are thousands at the cova calling for the children. A crowd of them followed us here. [PEOPLE CLAMORING] Where are the children? It's the near the time they said Our Lady will appear. What happened to them? Were they afraid to come to the cova today? Why have you come to Ftima today when you were told to stay at home? This is a punishment for your disobedience. Perhaps you can tell us what happened to the children. CROWD: Yeah! I'm the mother of Lcia, and I'll tell you where the children are. The administrator of the province tricked us and took them away to Ourm. You helped them. Father Ferreira would die before he'd let them be hurt. If you have faith in your hearts, you'll beg the Blessed Mother to keep them safe. We'll do more than that. We'll go with you to Ourm. CROWD: Yeah! You have perjured yourselves and incited people to violence and riot. And for those crimes against the state, you may be taken away from your homes and be kept for a long term in prison. What have you to say about it? Huh? Well, answer the magistrate. We're awfully sorry, senhors. It would be a terrible thing to send children to prison. Perhaps never to see your mothers again. We don't want to do that, and you can help us not to do it. Simply confess that your priest told you to spread these silly stories about a lady from heaven, and we'll let you go. But he didn't. He said it was the devil. And we did see a lady. And she did talk to us. And she said we would suffer for it. Suppose that... instead of locking you in prisons cells, we were to take you to the shops here in Ourm and buy you fine new clothes, pretty ribbons and wonderful toys, all the sweets you can eat, and plenty to take home with you. Now, wouldn't that be nice? You don't have to pay us to tell you the truth. We do it for nothing. Now, you listen to me. Sometimes when people don't answer the way they should, the police have ways of making them. How would you like to be put in a big kettle filled with boiling oil, lowered in an inch at a time, and have the flesh cooked off of your bones? Hm? I don't think we'd like that, senhor. You don't think you'd like it, eh? Well, that's exactly what's gonna happen to you unless you confess that you lied! Think it over. It'll save you a lot of pain. [GASPS] Your time is up. Got anything more to tell us? No, senhor. Very well then. Captain. Speak up, this is your last chance. Very well, take the little one first. Have you anything to tell us before you go? [QUIETLY] No. BOTH: Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now, and at the hour of our death. What kind of a boy are you to let your sister go to such a death? Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women-- [JACINTA SCREAMS] It's all over, Senhor Administrator. Take the boy next. I'm not afraid, Lcia. I'm not afraid. I'll pray to the lady, and that will make me strong! [DOOR SLAMS] It was the priest who plotted this little comedy, wasn't it? No, senhor. Well, possibly it wasn't the priest. Might have been someone trying to put a value on his land. It was your father, wasn't it? No, senhor. Wouldn't it be a lot easier to say it was your father than suffer like your friend? It wasn't my father. You know, if you say it was your father, we'll let you go. He'd be glad to confess it himself rather than to see you die such an awful death. All right, you stubborn little donkey, if you insist on sacrificing yourself, I'll teach you a lesson. Come on. I'm gonna give you the full treatment. Do you know what that means? Will you confess that you lied?! [CRYING] No. I wanna be with Francisco and Jacinta. Ow. Jacinta, Francisco. Lcia. Lcia. Lock them up. Ow. [MEN YELLING & LAUGHING] [LAUGHING] What are you in for, tadpoles? What did you do, rob a bank? MAN: I'll bet they slit the watchman's throat. I know, I know. They're in for treason. Enemies of the republic. Wait a minute now. Shut up. What do you wanna do, scare them to death? Now, what crime did you commit? A lady from heaven came and talked to us. What? A lady from heaven? Some stray angel, I suppose. How did she get here? She came in a cloud. [MEN LAUGH] They're touched in the head. MAN 2: Crazy as loons. Oh, I get it, I get it. These are the children everybody is talking about. The children from Ftima. Ftima? Oh, Ftima. Welcome, comrades. You are in good company. I am Sidonio, the bandit. You've heard of me. Here is Leote, my pal. [CHUCKLES] This is Anselmo. Watch him, or he'll steal the teeth right out of your head. [MEN LAUGHING] Here, come with me. This hairy brute is Pedro, who eases his boredom by beating his wife. Paulo is of no account, just a common drunk. Yes, Paulo. Feliciano, well, we don't mention his profession in polite society. Meet Jos, accused of manslaughter. Innocent he says he is. And this clever fellow bribes our jailer with promises and keeps himself pickled in wine. [SNORING] Wake up, man, meet our new comrades in crime. Wake up. [SNORES] Who did that? It was you Sidonio? [GRUNTS] Stop. CHILDREN: Hugo. Oh, Hugo. How did you get here, huh? The administrator brought us. He's going to keep us in prison for life. First, he was going to boil us in oil. Boil you in oil? Did he say that? Yes, Hugo, but he didn't do it. And this is the day the lady from heaven is to come. And now the lady will think we didn't keep our promise. Oh. [SOBBING] And we'll never get to see her again. Now, now. Oh, baby. Baby, don't cry, baby. What do you want, huh? Tell me what you want, and I'll do it for you. I wanna go home to my mother. [MEN LAUGHING] Well, that's one thing I cannot do now. But anything else you want, tell me. I want to say the rosary so the lady will know why we weren't at the cova. Will you hang this up on the wall? Why, sure, baby. Sure, I'll hang it over here. Right here. Where everybody can see it. There. If you men will help us say the rosary, maybe the lady will better understand. [MEN LAUGHING] They'll help you. Gentlemen... we are going to pray. What? Pray, or I'll beat your brains out. Pray what? The rosary. I never prayed in my life. You'll pray now, brother. All right, so I'll pray. Take off your hats! And it's much better, if you'd get on your knees. That's going a little too far. On your knees, I say. CHILDREN: In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Ghost. Amen. I believe in God... ALL: The Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth, and in Jesus Christ, his only son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died and was buried. He descended into hell. On the third day, He arose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven, and is seated at the right hand of God, the Father Almighty. From thence He shall come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Ghost... ALL: Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Gives us this day our daily bread and forgive us our trespasses... That praying mob. I know, praying is no more than wishful thinking. But if enough people think the same thing, they can cause a lot of trouble. Ah, a volley over their heads will shut up their prayers. Then we'll have a riot on our hands. Yes. CROWD: Blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Well, what do you propose? Let the children go. No. Not until they've confessed. You'll never get them to do that. The credibility of their story depends upon a miracle. That's guaranteed to convince everybody. There will be no miracle, and the whole thing will blow up in their faces. Hm. CROWD: Blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. Holy Mary... You propose that I should go out and say to this angry mob, "Now, look, look, people, the-- "The jailing of these-- These brats was-- Was just a joke"? Release them, and release their friend Hugo da Silva. Give them enough rope, and they'll hang themselves. All right, take them off my hands. Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou amongst women and blessed is the fruit of thy womb, Jesus. JACINTA: Mama! Mama! [ALL SINGING SWEETLY] Why don't you sing, Hugo? [CHUCKLES] I don't remember the words. But I used to sing that when I was a little boy. You did? Mm-hm. I was an altar boy in a big cathedral in Lisbon. Were you, Hugo? Mm-hm. I was the fellow who rang the little bell. Hugo? What? When the lady does the miracle to make the people believe, would you believe too? But, baby, I believe you. No, you don't. Ah, what kind of a miracle is the lady going to make? She didn't say what kind. Oh. Did she say when? Yeah, on October the 13th. You just wait. Everybody will be surprised. Will you believe then? Well, uh... Now, that part I remember. La da da...  This way to the cova. This way. Tomorrow, October the 13th, is the day of the promised miracle. So buy yourselves a new rosary. My rosaries are guaranteed to work, or your money back. There are no rosaries sold at the cova. No rosaries sold at the cova, so buy now, while you have a chance. My rosaries are guaranteed to work, or your money back. Do you know that there are many thousands here tonight because of your claim? I didn't ask them to come. Didn't you say Our Lady wanted them to come? No, Senhor Bishop. But, my child, you don't seem to realize how difficult it is for those thousands to get here. A desolate place on top of a mountain. Bad roads, and no place to sleep except out-of-doors in the rain. Many bring their sick, hoping to have them healed by the Merciful One. Mothers come with their prayers for their sons fighting in the war. For many, there is no way to get here but to walk. The poor will be hungry, and there are no loaves or fishes here to feed them. Some may even die on their way. And for all this, you're responsible. Did Our Lady ask for that? No, Senhor Bishop. You have said the Mother of God predicts another great war. And still more wars. I only know what she told me. You see what nonsense this is? But you have said that the lady promised to show the people a sign. Yes, senhor. There will be a multitude at the cova tomorrow. There are thousands there now without shelter from the rain. If there is a miracle, they'll know there's hope for the world, and they'll give thanks on their knees. The lady will keep her word. But if it should fail, if that great crowd has cause to feel that you've lied, it will become an angry mob. And then, God help you all. Even now, it may not be too late. They might forgive a child if she confessed her sin. [CRYING] I haven't sinned. I haven't. It's no use. Now, now, little one. It's all right. They don't believe me, Mama. They don't believe me. Well, we believe you, don't we, Antnio? Well, of course, of course. We'll go with you to the cova tomorrow. And if there is no miracle, the mob will have to walk on me before they get to you. Shh. There now, don't cry. Look, look. Beautiful, brand-new rosaries at cost prices. Blessed by the Holy Father himself. Relic of the most miraculous visions. Branches from the holy tree that held Our Lady. Take one home with you. Plant it in your own backyard, enjoy your own visions A hundred centavos, senhora. Lcia. Lcia. Jacinta, Francisco. Lcia. The sun is out again. I knew it would be. A weather prophet. Isn't it wonderful, Papa? Yes, my child, yes. And the lady will think you're beautiful. You too, Maria Rosa. Manuel, look, look. She's wearing the dress we were married in. It's lasted longer than your promises. Maria Rosa, you know where my heart is. Yes, I know. You're a good man, even if you are a weak one. We'd better get started. We'll run on ahead. Oh, no, you don't. Stick close to us. Those pilgrims will grab you for souvenirs. You have been using the same rosary for 30 years? Yes. You have worn off all the blessings. Now, look, these new beads were recently blessed by a bishop who is a secretary to the secretary of the Holy Father himself. A hundred centavos, senhor. Hello! Hugo. Uncle Hugo. There go the children on their way to the cova. Oh, the children. The children are my friends. I was the first one they told about the vision. In fact, I had visions of my own. Last opportunity. Last opportunity, I'm closing shop. Vision starts any minute. The sun is gone. It will come back. But, Lcia, if it rains-- It doesn't matter, Jacinta. Do you think it rains in heaven? No, but if it does-- Well, heaven is where Our Lady is, and she'll come to meet us no matter what happens. [CROWD CLAMORING] WOMAN: Oh, let them pass. Don't push, just let them pass. MAN: Make way. Make way for the children. What time is this lady of yours supposed to appear? She comes to us at noon, Father. Why should the Blessed Virgin choose a day like this to appear on earth? [CROWD MURMURING] It's past noon already. Nothing is going to happen. I want you to leave this place now. I can't go, Father, because the lady said she'd be here. You've done harm enough. Do as I tell you. This is my property, Father. You have no right to order my daughter away from here. [CROWD CHATTERING] MAN 2: Where is the miracle that was promised? They said there'd be a sign from heaven. This is the sign, a flood of rain. No, wait, Our Lady was there. I didn't see her, but I know it. Ah, three crazy children. WOMAN 2: We were cheated. MAN 3: The sign. Show us the sign. Listen to them. [CROWD CLAMORING] HUGO: Why don't you leave them alone? They're only children. Go on, go away. Go on. Show us a sign! We knew you'd come to us, dear lady. What do you want? I want to tell you that the war is going to end soon, and the soldiers will return to their homes. Do not fear. In the end, God will triumph. You said you'd tell us who you are. I am the Lady of the Rosary. Queen of the Most Holy Rosary. Where's Our Lady? We haven't seen her. A child talked to the empty air. MAN 4: We saw nothing, heard nothing. [CROWD CLAMORING] They better pull some sort of miracle out of their hat, or this farce will become a tragedy. Well, they can't say we didn't try to stop it. We've been cheated. We've been lied to. Nobody touches the children. Holy Mother, you promised to give us a miracle so the people will believe us. Look at the sun. MAN 5: The sun! Look at the sun! MAN 6: The sun! MAN 7: The sun. Look at the sun, it's-- It's falling. [SCREAMING] [CROWD SCREAMING] MAN 8: It's the end of the world. Vincente, what's happening? It's the end of the world. No, it can't be. But I can see again. I can see. I can see. Mother! It's a miracle. A miracle. GIRL: A miracle. A miracle! He walks! He walks! Mother of God, pray for us. Look, the sun is turning back! The sign. The sign. [ALL SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] The lady kept her promise. MAN: Our clothes are dry. The earth is dry. MAN 2: It's dry. Yes. MAN 3: My coat is dry. My clothes are dry. Mama, look. So are ours. Only the fool sayeth... there is no God. NARRATOR: Where the people of Ftima in 1917 erected this simple arch, there now stands a magnificent basilica. And on October 13th, 1951, a million people from all over the world gathered here to do homage to Our Lady of Ftima. [CHOIR SINGING "GLORIA PATRI"] The white square of Ftima is alive with a million white handkerchiefs waving an affectionate greeting to the White Lady of Peace. As night falls, a million candles send a million prayers to heaven. Inside the basilica, Francisco and Jacinta lie in their eternal sleep. Through the years, Lcia has devoted her life to holy service. Are you happy, Lcia? More than I can tell you. To think that the faith of you three children has brought these millions to Ftima. It is their own faith that brought them, Hugo, their yearning for peace on earth. If the people of the world will pray as Our Lady asked them to, God will send us peace.
