 

                        1 Look at this. Isn't it incredible? This will be on the top of a body. So you can imagine the size of this. And there'll be two of them. But is this gorgeous? Oh, my God. I just love this thing. Ah! Oh, I just love him! He's so cute. Vincent has always been an innovator. And the stars that he has worked with - Madonna, Michael Jackson, he's worked with so many - when they have listened to him and when they have taken those steps with him, it has sent their careers on a new path. You've been hit by a smooth criminal Ow! One of the things about Vincent is, in a way, he's a really well-kept secret. There are some people that are going after the celebrity. Vincent, he's never cared about that. He's really always been about the work. That's it. Bang. That's great. Oh, he's reached the public - you know, millions and millions and millions of people - in many ways, and ways that people don't even realise. Boom, boom, lift, four. Boom, boom, lift, four. "Dear friends and family, "Here we go again - journal entry number 1. "I finally arrived to stay for a while in Montreal. "Every moment of my day is filled, "so I might not write as often as I used to. "After two years of preparation, "the show is finally moving from paper to reality. "A Las Vegas Cirque du Soleil show about Elvis Presley. "This one might be the one I retire on. "Amen." Sketches, sketches... This is like my script, basically. The movie medley section - Rock-A-Hula will be the last of that. And then we go to Jailhouse Rock with that bizarre thing. The great thing about working here at Cirque du Soleil is that it's like being a kid in Santa's workshop, you know? Whatever you put in your head, if you can find a way to make it work, you know, they go, "Yeah." And if the world has never seen it before, "Yeah! That's what we want." Blue Suede Shoes... And that was what I was weaned on with Michael and Madonna. "All we want you to do is create something phenomenal "that nobody in the world has ever seen before. "We want to be the first. So let your imagination go nuts." And that's what I did. That's what I've always had the luxury of doing. And now to kind of be in the same situation again, where there's almost no limits... I'm blown away. I mean, it's a director's dream to have a theatre built around your idea, and that's what this is - they built the theatre based on the concept that I wrote. Wow! Great! Wow! Yeah, guys! Sick. Just sick. Yeah, nice! Oh, my God. Oh, my God. - I hope you enjoyed it. - Are you kidding? - Special hug. - Oh, shit. Oh, man. - Can I introduce you to my mom? - Oh, I'd love to meet your mom. - Hi. I'm Vincent. - I'm pleased to meet you. What's your first name? - Claudia. - Claudia. Nice to meet you. - Well, it is nice to meet you. - Thank you. It's a wonderful show. It's just the beginning. Yes, my friend. - You know when I did the shake over there? - Mm-hm. - Is that something I can keep in? - No, I love it! - Cool, because it's... - I love it! It's inspired by Elvis - why not have something shaking? Exactly! I love it. In late news from Los Angeles, the LA Times is reporting that pop star Michael Jackson has died. Katie, startling news here this evening. The LA paramedics got a 911 call at about 12:21 this afternoon from Michael Jackson's posh house in Bel Air. They rushed to the house and found him in cardiac arrest, not breathing. Michael, really, is responsible for my career, believing in me at the beginning, when I had very few credits. Saying, "I liked it when you danced on Beat It, "and you were really cool "when you were the assistant choreographer "and danced with me on Thriller. "And why don't you take this song Smooth Criminal "and create something for me?" I had done so little. I had done a few little... cheesy commercials and, you know, one small piece in a dance concert - I mean, nothing, nothing that put me on the map. And here was Michael Jackson, the biggest and most successful artist in the world after Thriller, turning to me and saying, "Come on over to the recording studio where I am tonight. "I want to play a song for you." And before I left, him saying, "Well, take it with you "so that you can listen to the music "and let the music tell you what it should be." And I said, "Well, what do you mean?" "Well, I want you to come up with the concept "and create the video for me." This is the way Michael and I would work, the two of us playing together and... And I had already given him the sketch of this. He was learning it and modifying a couple of little moments that he felt worked better for his body. Playing with rhythms. Don't forget the rhythm over the part is... Pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pa, pa-pum, pow! When he rehearsed, he put on all the clothes - the shirt, the tie, the shoes, the spats, the hat, the jacket, the pants - to see if the movement that he was creating for himself, or that I was creating for him felt really comfortable and organic in the clothes that he wore. Michael would stand in front of that mirror just doing the same exact movement - SAME exact movement - hours and hours and hours on end, coming back to the same little section and repeating it and repeating it and repeating it. I'm excited to do some more, but I'm so beat. "Montreal, July 2. "The New York Times called me last night "for their front-page article about Michael. "I realised that the show I'm doing about Elvis "could easily be translated into a show about Michael Jackson. "I feel a fascinating connection with Michael and Elvis, "and blessed to have both of their spirits watching over me "and... guiding me on this path." One, two... ...I want to involve every genre in which I've worked in my life. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. I've been with Vincent, like, over 20 years, probably. Worked with Michael Jackson with him, Smooth Criminal. There was a ton of commercials with him, movies. I've assisted him, I've helped him choreograph, but this is the first time that he went, "Here. This one's yours. "I'm gonna direct this. I need you to choreograph this." One, two, a-three, four, five, six, seven... It's very different for him because he's, you know, so used to directing and choreographing. And I think it's the first time he's ever handed anything to anybody and it was a big gift on his part, to give that part up, 'cause it's very hard for him to do. When I was first approached to do this project by Cirque du Soleil, they would like me to create a show that DIDN'T have acrobatics in it, that was basically music and dance. And I said, "No, you know, I want to put acrobatics in it, "but I want to find a way where the acrobatics have an emotional impact, "where they fit into the biography of Elvis Presley." - To sink in the position and stay in it. - Mm-hm. And breathe in it and then move. - Yes, so we can enjoy it. - Yeah. For him, a dance is a scene. He makes people want to find out who their characters are - what is your name? Where did you come from? What is your story? He lets people know that no matter where you are on stage, you are a vital part of his picture. I had no thoughts about dance being any part of my life. It was really about theatre. It really wasn't until I was 25 when I really got hooked into the dance. And once I took my first dance class, it was like those endorphins started flowing and it was like a drug hitting me, and it was like, "Wow!" The education I had had in the theatre gave me all of that internal workings. I would put the role on, I would put the character on. And that's how I got the role in Beat It. All the other guys who would come into the room came in looking like dancers. And I came in looking like the character that they were looking for - the leader of a gang. - Beat it - Beat it - Beat it - Beat it No-one wants to be defeated... I assisted the choreographer, Michael Peters, for Beat It and Thriller. As the assistant, you cleaned everything. And I was considered, like, THE best assistant around, because I was crazy. I made every finger precise, every head precise, everywhere you looked precise, every movement precise. So when it became my turn to actually create and be the choreographer, that was one of the things that I felt I really wanted to do. So, Annie, are you OK? Are you OK, Annie? Annie, are you OK? Will you tell us that you're OK? There's a sign in the window That he struck you a crescendo, Annie He came into your apartment And left the bloodstains on the carpet And then you ran into the bedroom You were struck down It was your doom... I remember we worked hard on that precision part. The moves were extremely tight. I do remember one time Vince came in and said, "You know, now, we need to work a little harder here "because it's not really as sharp as it needs to be." And Michael asked me, "Are these really the best dancers in LA?" It's like the gauntlet being thrown down, you know? You'd better show that you are the best. - Annie, are you OK? - Are you OK, Annie? Ow! - Annie, are you OK? - I don't know - Will you tell us that you're OK? - I don't know - There's a sign in the window - I don't know - That he struck you a crescendo, Annie - I don't know - He came into your apartment - I don't know - And left the bloodstains on the carpet - I don't know why, baby And then you ran into the bedroom You were struck down It was your doom... Vince really approached this... giving us the assignment. All the dancers were asked to come up with characters, like names of characters, and have a backstory so that there was a reason why we were in the setting that was given to us. He brought, to a dance job, a theatrical storytelling point of view, not just dance technique. Dag gone it, baby - There's a sign in the window - Dag gone it, baby - That he struck you a crescendo, Annie - Hoo! Hoo! He came into your apartment. This is the area that I grew up in. And this was a very conservative, fairly, you know, repressed, depressed area. We lived sort of on the wrong side of the tracks, but close enough that you could smell what was going on on the other side, you know? I guess a little bit like Elvis Presley, actually. Where he could... He was on the white side and the blacks were on the other. With us, it wasn't a racial thing. But I kept wandering into those other little worlds. Wow. Bizarre. It's so small. Can you imagine seven of us living in that house? If you want. That was my bedroom, up there in that top window. After going to Catholic school, we would sit and be so scared because the nuns would tell us - we're gonna turn right - the nuns would tell us that the end of the world was coming, and we would sit and cry. - Hello. - It's good to see you. - How are you? - Nice to see you. Fine, thank you. Our sisters would be thrilled that you're here. - Oh, they would be. - Oh, my gosh. A long time ago. - 'Cause we've been here a long time. - I was here a VERY long time ago. - We used to call it BrookHEAVEN. - Oh. Instead of Brookhaven, they called it Brookheaven. Good afternoon, boys and girls. Good afternoon, Mrs Damson. God bless you. Good. God bless you too, boys and girls. We have a group of boys that has a hip-hop club. Oh, my gosh. Some of them might be in here. May I see the hip-hop boys that are in the third grade? Come and identify... identify yourselves. - This is Mr Paterson. - Hi. How are you guys? One of his jobs is as a choreographer. Do you know what choreographers do? A choreographer is somebody who makes up the dances. Like, I made up many dances for Michael Jackson... My favourite singer? Really? Yeah. I'm the guy in Beat It who has the little knife fight and all of that. - That was me. - Oh, yeah! Yeah, that was me, so... And what do you do, like, little routines and stuff? Yes. We didn't have music class and we didn't have... All the dance that we had was square dance. Did you have gym outside? - We didn't have gym at all. - Oh. My father taught social dance in different places - the jitterbug and the cha-cha - and taught me when I was a little kid. My parents loved music and that's kind of the way it was. And they were both very young, so, you know... we kind of all grew up together. He kind of had to take over, you know, when his father left. And it was a shame, because he was only a 13-year-old boy, but he tried to help me as much as he could with the raising of children, you know? Of course, we put a lot of responsibility on him. Tried not to, but it just happens, you know? - Yeah. - But, uh... No, he was... he was a good boy. I thought he'd be an actor. I thought he'd be more into acting, because that's what they did, you know? And he'd dress up the kids and my nieces in their different little outfits and they'd all perform. I was an artist. I didn't know what kind of artist, but I knew I was an artist. And I knew that there was nothing in this area that would ever give me an opportunity to... to understand what that meant, that driving force inside of me. You got the right one, baby You know when it's right... Oh, we've done many, many, many, many commercials. I can't even remember, so many. - Diet Pepsi - Alright - Uh-huh, uh-huh - Uh-huh, uh-huh... And on the set, I would introduce him to the person and then walk away and let him do whatever he wanted to do. I don't think I ever made any comment about his work. It was always brilliant and special. He has an unbelievable way with people. He had an unbelievable way with Michael. Michael Jackson actually didn't introduce me to Vincent. I was doing a video with Michael called The Way You Make Me Feel. And Michael had told me that he did not want to dance in the video. And I went down there several days before we were filming to check on the pre-lighting, and I heard music coming from way in the back. I go back, and there's Michael and Vince... ...and some dancers choreographing something. And Michael introduced me, reluctantly, to Vince. And I just thought, you know, "You said you weren't gonna dance." But here they were choreographing this very elaborate piece back there. Michael was like that. He was kind of cool. So I met Vince, and Vince choreographed the piece, and then he eventually staged the whole video. That you're the one for me - The way you make me feel - The way you make me feel - You really turn me on - You really turn me on He cast gang members for some of the cast, from two dangerous gangs in Los Angeles. So we had a lot of police on the set. Vince saw the gang members... They did this kind of street-corner posturing and he put that in, and it worked beautiful. And, actually, Michael kept a lot of the moves, even till he passed away. - The way you make me feel. - GROUP: Ohh! I did a Pepsi commercial with Madonna. This is a very good story. When I met Madonna to do this commercial, she actually didn't want to work with me. When I had my first meeting with her, not having known her or met her, I wondered who she wanted as a choreographer for the piece. And she said she didn't want to sing and she didn't want to dance - that her contract didn't call for that. But I wanted Vince to work on the other performers in the piece, just to give it some energy. And she walked into the set while he was rehearsing the other dancers. And she came over to me and asked me to introduce her to Vincent. When you call my name It's like a little prayer I'm down on my knees I wanna take... And next thing you know, she's in there, dancing. In the midnight hour... And he gave her every suggestion, changed her completely. Just like a prayer You know I'll take you there... There's a pre-Vincent Madonna and a post-Vincent Madonna. And the post-Vincent Madonna is a better performer than the pre-Vincent Madonna. She knows how to use her body much better after Vince got a hold of her. "Stick your butt out, honey." OK, a little dance history. This is an Ann-Margret step. This was created for Ann-Margret. If you watch Ann-Margret movies, this is what she did. So... A signature move. Now, you can think that you're waving away the fart smells if you want. But I would prefer that you think that, "My ass is so fucking hot, kids..." "...it can't even be touched. "The flames are just shootin' out, baby!" Alright? That's the move. So, don't do it out here, because it doesn't make any sense. You're gonna do what they're doing, which... "Montreal, July 10. "My cold is doing much better. "Thanks for the love from those who sent it. "What a fantastic week. "I love sharing my stories, "giving dance history lessons about great choreographers "of whom these kids have zero knowledge. "Bonnie and I got through staging a huge chunk of the show, "at the end of the day, playing with the final beats of Viva Las Vegas." "I love this part of the process SO much. "The joyful way we play and work in the studio, I just love it. "I can't imagine ever giving it up." Oh! Yes! Oh, this is so sick. We were working on Black Or White and he wanted to have this crazy, strange section in it. That section wasn't specifically choreographed, it was just that the two of us worked together on a lot of different pieces. We were working around and I did something that went... ...like this. And Michael said, "Oh, my God! "I love that. What is that?" "I don't know." "Kind of cool. Let's take that and make it into a move." So at the end of Black Or White, you see Michael grabbing his crotch about 50 times. And then he went even further and did some unzipping of his pants. Express yourself You've got to make it... And then when I choreographed the video Express Yourself for Madonna, there was a movement where she's at the top of these steps. She said, "Vince," and she's yelling at me from up there, "Vincent, what I do with my other hand?" And I said, "Well, honey, grab your crotch, "because you've got bigger balls than mostly everybody in this room. "So go ahead and grab 'em." The 'crotch grab', yeah. When I had choreographed the video Express Yourself for her, she wanted me to work on the tour. Madonna hadn't really... She wasn't the queen yet. But Madonna thrived on creating controversy. She loved stirring up the sauce. She actually named the tour Blonde Ambition, so I took that and ran with it and thought, "OK, well, then, this is great." - 'Cause you... - Heads. ...made me feel... - Reach. - Yeah, you made... I was going to do this one piece, Like A Virgin, and I said, "OK, then this is really cool. Now I know what I'll do with it. "I'll put you on a big bed." And at first, I had the two guys, the dancers, and they were going to be just these beauties on the sides of the bed. And then Gautier designed these big, pointy bras, so instead, I made them eunuchs. Hold her. There you go, that's the idea. Like a virgin Touched for the very first time... This tour, this was the first time, really, that anything like this had happened, with these kinds of major sets, with the star dancing and singing as much as she did. Like a virgin... The whole crucifix and dancing with all the guys that were dressed up like priests... Feels so good inside... Every number was a dance. When you hold me... She was so fit. She danced hard, hard. It was insane. This tour really pushed her over the top. It was Madonna. There was nobody else. My most favourite review that I ever got was from the Pope, actually. "With the Blonde Ambition tour, "Satan has been re-released into the world." I thought, "Oh, my God! I did that?" "Montreal, August 9. "Oh, my God. "Two and a half weeks, and I'm out of here. "We're moving into the Montreal home stretch now. "Unbelievable. "My first presentation went beyond our wildest expectations. "All of the powers that be were like little kids. "Guy Laliberte, the owner of Cirque, snapped photos all through "and smiled like it was his 16th birthday. "One of the producers tipped his baseball cap to me "and said, 'I'd give anything I own "'to get inside your head for one day.' "I hung around for the party afterwards. "It was a good thing. "But arriving at my apartment, I emotionally crashed. "Sometimes all of this giving and giving and giving "leaves me lost and forlorn. "I never feel like a creative genius. "I always feel like an honest mule who wears his heart on his hoof." Wow, it's beautiful. Oh, my gosh. Mmm. Whoa. What did she give it to us for? Uh, no reason. Just 'cause we're neighbours. How sweet. - How's that? - Oh, my gosh. Yeah, I had to go talk to her this morning about that... I've lived his whole career with him. I mean, sometimes I think I've been more optimistic about what he had yet to do, you know? Yeah. So... You know, in this business, you're self-employed. You finish your job, you don't know where the next one's coming from. And artists, you know how they are, it's just... They're never gonna work again, they're never gonna eat again. You know, it's gonna be a really tough struggle. And I've always just really felt that at the height of his first stage of his career, he thought it was kind of like, you know, "OK, I've done this." And I always knew that there was something bigger coming. So, I'm gonna pour some stuff... this in here. Could you just hold this? It would have been easier, just the water, though. No, it wouldn't. My sister's the butch one of the family. Her boys don't even know how to do this stuff. This is why I want to retire. - Why what? - This is why I want to retire. I can't see him retiring and just doing this. Shut up. So I think this is just the first and the last of the mortar... the mortar and the rocks. I'm gonna squirt her. I think he needs a couple more years to get it all out of his system, before complete retirement. This was Manon, the opera that I did for Anya Netrebko - the only opera that I've ever directed. It was the production of this opera that kind of cinched the deal for me working with Cirque du Soleil. Oh, here I made the dean's list in college. I'm going back to college, you know? They're making me a fellow. You know, when I think of where I came from, you know, just this guy who lived by the oil refineries, and then I think that, "Oh, my gosh!" You know? "They're making me a fellow at this university." And... That's kind of cool. One of the things I've learned by being around so many celebrities is it's easy for them to get the adoration of fans, but when it comes back to the personal level, they really never know who to trust and who really loves them for being Madonna or Michael Jackson or Elvis Presley. The consequence of that, for me, was to shy away from publicity and NOT get my name pushed out in The Times and the television Entertainment Tonights, and let it be about the work, let it be about the work process, the things that I really love. I've always appreciated and made the choice of being the man behind the throne. I like being behind it and whispering in the ear, you know? It's kind of how I've always seen myself in this career. "I think it's better if you do this." You know? "Las Vegas, September 15. "Day one in the theatre. "It is breathtakingly gorgeous. "The stage is massive - the largest in North America. "I'm beyond ecstatic with everybody's work. "And I'm allowing the dreams of a fantastic show "to overpower any apprehension that creeps into my soul." This is the Jailhouse Rock set. It's amazing. It's so, so huge and beautiful. But you know, the funny thing is in most shows, this one set alone would be the entire show. You know? This would be the show. In our show, this comes out for five minutes, and that's the end of that. That's all you see it in one evening. "October 18. "Yesterday we had a run-through "of the first more than half of the show. "When we finished, I sat down with the producers "and their discussion went something like this. "'You can never forget the type of audience we get in Vegas, Vincent. "'Where are all the dancers? "'The stage looks so big and black. "'This is supposed to be a spectacle and I don't see any spectacle. "'This is not the show we want for Cirque du Soleil.' "Imagine my surprise. "What they saw was nothing different "than what they saw in Montreal and salivated over." "October 25. "The guillotine falls daily. "Sometimes there isn't time to clean the blood from the blade. "Chop! There go my two young Elvises. "Swoosh! There goes some of Bonnie's choreography. "Ram! There goes Leo the Elvis character. "Rip! There goes a piece of my script. "This is what I don't like about this insane business - "this frantic creative mind-changing at the last minute. "I thought this would be different. "I'm baffled. "Mamma, don't let your babies grow up to do showbiz." This is my first day of work. Can you see that that's snow out there? Yes. Snow. Lars von Trier, he was looking for choreographers to work with him on Dancer In The Dark. And he had seen three things... ...Black Or White, Smooth Criminal and pieces of the Blonde Ambition tour. He said, "Well, Vincent... Wincent, I think you should come and talk to me "because I was looking for three different choreographers "because of three different pieces of work, "and they're all yours. "So it seems to me "that you're the one who's supposed to do this movie with me." When I walked into the Zentropa offices, I was kind of freaked. The production was... well, beyond disorganised. It reminded me of the chaotic music video productions I did in the '80s. The casting wasn't complete, the sets weren't built, the music wasn't finished. So, how's it going, Charlotte? Ugh! I had to keep reminding myself that one of the reasons I decided to do this film was that it was NO a Hollywood studio movie. Ah. - Childhood moment. - The life. It was written in the script that there was an older Jewish man who ran the little theatre where Bjork's character, Selma, was going to perform Sound Of Music. And I kept saying to Lars, "Lars, we're going to shoot this in a week. "I need to have this actor here." And Lars would say, to me, "Oh, that's OK. "He's coming, Wincent, he's coming, he's coming soon." Well, it got down to the deadline and I basically said, "Lars, really, if we don't have the actor to do this, "I think we need to change the schedule around." And Lars said, "Wincent, I have the actor. I found him." And I said, "You did? Where is he? When am I gonna meet him?" "You're gonna meet him now, Wincent." And I said, "Really?" And he puts his arm around me and he walks me over to the mirror and he goes, "Here he is." Now side to side. - Raindrops on roses... - Other people can sing. "Wincent, I've been watching you in your rehearsals and everything, "and you're exactly the kind of character I want in this film." Selma will put Kathy, like, here, like this, right? Mm-hm. And then Selma, with somebody lying down here. And then someone will turn her around like this. - Mm-hm. - They'll go up like this. And then you should imagine... Something they're holding... Somebody upside down with their head down there. And she gets pulled into the rhythm, right? Mm-hm. By this human machine. - Mm-hm. - And then she can dance. Lars seemed to rewrite the movie based on his observations of how we all interacted. I really love Lars. His desire to allow imperfection to surface in the film really inspired me. Lars wanted to shoot the dance sequences with a hundred small DV cameras. So I would walk him through the locations and he would say, "OK, well, let's put a camera up there." And I would say, "Let's put a camera over there, by where the sheep are standing." "OK, but we can't have any moving cameras anywhere." And I said, "Well, what if something was moving "and the camera was on part of that?" And he was, like, "OK, well, that doesn't really break the rules." I think we put, like, one on the back of a sheep. You've seen it all and all, you have seen The light and the dark, the big and the small After we shot I've Seen It All for two days, using, actually, more than 150 cameras, I rode home with Lars in his camper. Lars is at the wheel! I remember he said to me, "Wincent, I hate to say this, but I think we've created a classic." I remember being on the plane back to LA and I kept thinking about Lars and Bjork and how they both seemed to live on the edge of madness. I think genius lives on the rim of reality and it teeters between the human world and the nether regions of madness. I wish I could be like that with my work, but me, I'm usually just too damn conscientious. I guess I'm jealous of their artistic insanity. 9/11 had just happened and Vincent had been asked to choreograph for the choreography awards that year. And he was like, "Nah, I don't wanna do it." And I'm, like, "Oh, Vincent, I just have to dance. "Please, let's just dance. "Let's just learn the choreography "and, you know, even if we don't do anything, "at least we'll have danced today." 'Cause it was... we were pretty upset after... ...you know, 9/11. It was, like, the week after. So we did this piece and... it was magic. We were at the very end of the first act. Lights go up, and Tony - a friend of ours, close friends with Vincent - sees Pytka in the audience, crying. So Tony goes, "Joe, hi." And he goes, "Hey! Who choreographed that?" And Tony goes, "Well, you know him. Vincent did." He goes... "That fucking fuck! "Bring me to him!" No joke, he says to me, "What the fuck do you... "Look at... look at my fucking face! Look at my fucking face. "Look at this! I've got fucking tears rolling down my fucking face. "What the fuck did you do something like that to me for, man? "What are you doing with this thing? "What are you doing with this fucking thing?" "Joe, I'm not doing anything with it." "What do you mean, you're not doing anything with it? What do you mean? "What are you talking about? You've gotta do something with this thing." I said, "Well, I don't know. "I just did it for this one event - that was it." He goes, "No, no, no, no, no. No! Uh-uh, no. "We're shooting this. We're putting this down on film. "You're directing it and I'm shooting it." It was amazing. We had the best dancers from all of the tours - Madonna, Michael Jackson - all those dancers were free. You would never have these dancers together - ever! But everybody had to dance, because all the planes were landed and all the tours were stopped. I never was an idle man. I always worked. But 9/11 had happened, and the economy, especially in terms of the entertainment industry, had sort of gone downhill. After things had gone so well for so long, I... wasn't... no-one was hiring me. Nothing happened for me. Nothing happened. And... I... I guess it was like withdrawal with a junkie, you know? Like, you stop shooting up heroin and you start to, you know, go a little mad. And in a way, I suppose that's what happened. I kept thinking, "That's it. That's the end. "Nobody wants me, and that's all it's about." So it didn't matter. Carl didn't matter, my family didn't matter - nothing mattered. I got a gun and I drove up to Santa Barbara and I went into a hotel and I loaded the gun and I put the gun in my mouth. I was going to shoot it, and the telephone rang. A woman said, "Do you want ice in your room?" All of a sudden, I was like... Whoo! Like, sucked me back, you know? And from that point, I sort of took a different perspective of things. "Las Vegas, February 21. "To my lovelies in my journal-reading world, "We're almost done here in Vegas, and I'll be home soon." One says 'lamp' and one says 'reading'. The 'reading' is overhead. I put that on. The 'lamp' is what I've been hitting. - Oh, and 'goodnight'. - No, that's when everything closes. Some little man had to come up with us and show us what everything does. "Carl, as usual, has been my guardian angel through this. "He's faithfully been coming up every weekend to be sure I'm loved, "to cook delicious food, to provide some laughs." Of course. Who else would I talk about? "I've been working toward incorporating the producers' notes "as best I can. "I changed song order, I created new set concepts, "cut entire sections out of the show, "restructured whole sections of the show." "Time magazine review by Richard Corliss - "'Viva Viva Elvis! "'In 2006, Cirque pulled off a Beatles homage, Love, "'but that was sedate stuff "'next to this audiovisual, balletic, acrobatic explosion "'from director Vincent Paterson. "'He's concocted an experience that's both symphonic "'and in every way fantastic.'" We're very excited. I mean, Elvis is back. He's here. He's back in Vegas, where he belongs. To see him here now, in a way that's bigger than we've ever presented him, is very special to all of us. "This is it for now. "Sending you all love. "Did I actually once mention retiring? "What the hell was I thinking?" I can't believe it. We used to do, like, performance art. We did a piece where I was Jesus, with a crown of thorns, and I carried a huge cross all the way down this street and I hung up here on a cross for three hours. I spent my life in here. So cool. Once you get out of here and you get out into the real world, a HUGE percentage of what you do is politics. You want to be an artist and you live your life to be an artist, and then you get into whatever it is - whether it's a play or a film or a commercial or whatever - and you realise that it's all about the politics. And you have to realise what your place is and pay attention to learn how to weasel your way in to get your voice heard, your art seen. And it never stops, you know? It never stops. Madonna. Next topic. She's very tough. And I had the guys lift her up in a big lift, and she said, "I don't want to be lifted like some GIRL." Well, when you work with Madonna, you learn that you have to be father, brother, mother, boyfriend, a psychoanalyst - everything. So I said, "'Girl'? Madonna, what are you talking about? "You're a queen!" Madonna said, "Lift me, boys." It worked. - Hey, you! - Hi. Hi, baby. Hi! Welcome. Good. I'm fine, I'm fine. Come on in. - Oh, my God. - So how are you? - Are you good? - I'm good. You know, I'm getting over a cold I had a couple of weeks ago. It hung on for a while, but, you know... They've been after me to do this in Valencia. - Where's it supposed to go? - Valencia, Spain. - Do you know Julie? - No. This is Turko, my friend since college days. They live up in Atascadero. OK, everybody! Hello! I'm probably gonna cry. But that's me. You know me. I just want to say... Oh, God, here it goes. Sorry. Thank you so much for being here. Thank you so much for everything that you've given me... ...and for being here today. I love you all. Thank you so much. "October 10. "If I even THOUGH things would lighten up, I was nuts. "Starting work on a Duke Ellington piece "and, would you believe it, another project involving Elvis. "Crazy world. "I know you all told me, and you were right. "I'll retire when I'm dead. "Amen."
