 

                        Cheetah Love. Scene 1 A. Take one. Mark it! Cheetah love, Cheetah love Cheetah love, Cheetah love Cheetah, Cheetah Cheetah, Cheetah Cheetah, Cheetah Cheetah, Cheetah This girl is a friend for life I'm gonna be there when you need me, that's right Yeah, this girl's never gonna change No matter where I go, I'll still be the same And this girl wants to have some fun So put your hands up 'cause we've only begun And there's no stopping us because We got that Cheetah love We are Cheetah, Cheetah Girls We stick together for life Sometimes we don't see eye to eye, but we roll side by side Yeah, there's nothing in the world that we can't overcome Strength in numbers, got each other, got that Cheetah love Cheetah, Cheetah Cheetah, Cheetah Cheetah, Cheetah Cheetah love I know there's a place to turn When I really need you to, you put me first And my girls have always got my back No matter what happens, I can count on that And when I wanna escape it all My sisters are always gonna be my first call 'Cause there's no stopping us because we got that Cheetah love We are Cheetah, Cheetah Girls We stick together for life Sometimes we don't see eye to eye, but we roll side by side There is nothing in the world that we can't overcome Strength in numbers, got each other, got that Cheetah love I'll never be someone who hurts you I'll never be someone who deserts you We have a bond no one is breaking And if they try, we will still survive - Cheetah love - Cheetah love - Cheetah love - Cheetah love - Cheetah love - Cheetah love - Cheetah love - Cheetah love We are Cheetah, Cheetah Girls We stick together for life Together for life Sometimes we don't see eye to eye, but we roll side by side There is nothing in the world that we can't overcome Strength in numbers, got each other, got that Cheetah love We are Cheetah, Cheetah Girls We stick together for life Sometimes we don't see eye to eye, but we roll side by side There is nothing in the world that we can't overcome Strength in numbers, got each other, got that Cheetah love Cheetah, Cheetah Cheetah, Cheetah Side by side Cheetah, Cheetah Cheetah love Cheetah, Cheetah - Love - Cheetah love - Love - Cheetah love - Love - Cheetah love Love, love Love, Cheetah, love - Chanel, snap out of it. - The song is over. - But they loved us. - Who? The fans? That's it? It's kind of rough. Well, we're still working out the kinks. - Yeah, we used to be a foursome. - Yes. Then Galleria got into Cambridge... Which, you know, is great and amazing... Especially considering her study habits. But that's why she's in summer school. - But trust us, we totally got this down. - Yeah, whatever. Look, you get your act together, you give me a call. Then we can talk about representation. Thanks. Now what? It just seems so hopeless. - What happened to your laptop? - Nothing. You are not messing with your computer so you can flirt with that tech support guy? No. Maybe. He has a name. Kevin, extension 347. Wow. What is your dad going to say when he finds out you've been wasting precious study time flirting with the nerd patrol? Okay. We cannot all have a gorgeous, devoted Spanish boyfriend. Well, actually, no one has a gorgeous, devoted Spanish boyfriend. - What? - Joaquin broke up with you? - I'm so sorry, Do. - I'm okay. What happened? Time differences, phone bills. I'm here, he's there. Things changed. It just got to be too hard. Yo, I'm so sorry. I know you really liked him. I'm cool. And I'm hungry. Anybody else? - Starving as usual. - Yeah. Let's get out of here. You pick whatever spot you want, Do, all right? Anything but Spanish. I see you've met Ganesh. The statue? He's known as the remover of obstacles. Well, that's perfect. We've got nothing but obstacles. - Such as? - No work. - No agent. - No singing career. Sometimes all you need is a little faith. Okay, this is depressing. We've been on, like, a million auditions and what have we booked? That would be nothing. I can't deal with the stress of failure. I'm already behind in my reading for Columbia. We still have two months until college. Yeah, but when it does start, we're not going to have time to rehearse. Maybe it is time for things to change. I really should be taking that college prep class. Yeah, and I've got that dance camp lined up for the summer. Are you guys seriously ready to give up the Cheetah dream? - No. I don't want it to end. - Me, either. Well, it's now or never, so let's make it now. Look, I promise from now on, I will stay so focused, nothing will get in our way. Exactly. Hello? Okay. Are you kidding? Of course we're interested. What? Who is it? You want us to audition for a movie? Where? Somebody wants the Cheetah Girls to audition for, like, a huge Hollywood musical. Hello? Definitely, we will be there. Okay, what's the movie about? Yeah, I don't remember, because I kind of lost my focus after the whole "Hollywood" part. - We have to get this. - We will. I haven't been this nervous in so long. Our luck is changing. I can feel it. Well, what are we waiting for? Cheetahs, it's on! No one can hold us back when we're set to go Go! No one can tell us that we're not ready when we're ready to flow Flow! Lead by example Here's a sample on the floor Yeah, try a little harder Move a little faster If you can't find the strength you're after Dig a little deeper, dig a little deeper Just like we had to do it Just like we had to do it You got to dig a little deeper Dig a little deeper We're celebrating like we never did before Before! Went through the fire, took it higher, check the score Score! If you wanna be a leader, check your ego at the door Right there Yeah, be a trendsetter, be a go-getter if you want to do everything better Dig a little deeper, dig a little deeper Just like we had to do it Just like we had to do it You got to dig a little deeper Dig a little deeper Don't ask the question what it is you should do Don't ask Just take some action, it'll come to you It will It's all connected All you have to do Is move, baby, move, baby Yeah, yeah, yeah You're on a roll, let it go, lose control Don't you know it's the best thing you can do? Yeah! Go! - Dig a little deeper - Here we go Dig a little deeper, dig a little deeper Just like we had to do it Just like we had to do it Like we had to You got to dig a little deeper Dig a little deeper Just like we had to do it Just like we had to do it You got to dig a little deeper Dig a little deeper Just like we had to do You've got to dig a little deeper Dig a little deeper Yeah Just give us a moment, please. Just give us a moment, please. Okay. All right. How do you think we did? - We nailed it. - I so want to go to California. - We are going to California. - Here he comes. Hi, and thank you for coming. I'm the director. Well, I'm Vik. But actually my parents say, "Hello, Vikram. " But I prefer Vik. So anyway, I'm Vik, the director. You were very, very good. - Amazing, really. - Thank you. We have a plane to catch. Right. So, here's the deal. I would like you, all of you, to star in my movie. My first Bollywood movie. If that's okay with you. We're going to be in a movie Yes! Yes! Yes! Thank you, thank you. You have no idea what this means to us. No, thank you. If it wasn't for you, I'd be packing my bags for dental school. Nothing, it's... Well, just my parents, they... Never mind. So you're cool with the schedule, right? Your flight leaves the day after tomorrow. Things move fast in Bollywood. The Cheetahs are going... - What did he just say? - Bollywood. That's what I thought you said. India? Bollywood? The movie-making capital of the world? India? Like the other side of the world, India? - Chanel. - Bollywood. Hollywood. My cell phone connection was bad, okay? Stupid telfono. I'm positive I said that we'd be shooting in Mumbai. Okay. Well, like, in my defence, I didn't exactly know where Mumbai was. It's the biggest city in India. You'll love it. I mean, I hope that you'll love it. No, I'm sorry. Why are we sorry? We're not sorry. Is there a problem? There can't be a problem. Yeah, I don't have time for a problem. Yeah. There is. I'm sorry. There's not a problem. Could you just give us a minute? Sure. Come on. This is a chance of a lifetime. Hello? Once again, India, other side of the world! Yeah, I thought we were going to try to make it big on this side of the world first. And I have a college prep this summer. And I'm teaching dance camp. Dance camp and college prep? This is an opportunity for the Cheetah Girls to become international movie stars. How can you pass this up? You're serious? You really think we should do this? I am more sure about this than I've been about anything. This is our Cheetah destiny. It is the movie-making capital of the world. I guess I can get some studying done on the plane. And I could probably teach the second session of dance camp. Yo, and come on. That director's mad cute. I know. Wait. No. No talk about boys. - Cute or not cute. - All right, cool. No talk about boys. Anything else? Yeah, just one thing. We're going to India! One girl, Vik. You're supposed to bring back one girl. What's your uncle going to say when you show up with three? Once my uncle meets them, he'll see that they should all be in the movie. Don't you maybe just want to talk to your uncle before you make this decision? Look, okay, the Cheetah Girls are my stars. I'll just rewrite the script for three beautiful leading ladies. Why do I have to tell my uncle? Because he's the producer. He's paying for the movie. Right. There's always that. It's going to be so good to get out of New York for the summer. I know, the heat. And all that crazy traffic. Watch out! Watch out! - Okay, slow down! - Oh, my God! Okay, so it's crowded and hot. Yeah, but we're in India. And it's Cheetah-licious! Loving Mumbai. This hotel is beautiful. Room service. And jewellery for sale right by the front door. Wow. Yes. Cheetah... Are you sure you got it? Okay. Right this way. Please don't drop the bag on the bottom. It's muy importante. Well, at least she packed light. - Here you go. Have a good day. - Thank you. You're welcome. Miss? - Come here. Come. - Thank you, sir. - My mom will love this. - You're welcome. - Take this string and tie it in the tree. - Don't get me wrong. I mean, it's colourful, but I think there's enough strings in this tree. It's for a wish. You make a wish, tie the string, and when it comes true, you return, untie the string, and say thank you. - To the tree? - Who else? Come on, Cheetahs, we could use the luck. Everybody grab a string. Come on, let's make a wish. Thank you. Who would ever think that a girl from New York would be in this beautiful hotel room next to the Indian Ocean? Arabian Sea. Pardon me for ever cracking open a guidebook. Hey, should I call Kevin 347 now? 'Cause it's night back home. Or should I wait until tonight, which is yesterday? Honestly, why are you even wasting your time? Phone relationships are doomed. You used to think it was romantic. Yeah, well, learn from my mistakes. Ready for your close-ups, amigas Cheetahs? Vik just sent over the rehearsal schedule, and if we don't hurry up, we're going to be late. - Ch-chop. - All right. Hey, Chanel? - Thanks. - For what? You know, for believing in the Cheetahs. Yeah, if it wasn't for you, we'd never be here. You were fierce. You guys know there's nothing I wouldn't do to keep the Cheetahs together. Including kick their butts and tell them, "We have got to go. " We've got to get ready. - Bollywood, here we come. - Yeah. - Look at that. - Check that out. Let them know the Cheetah Girls have arrived. I can't believe this is really happening. - Really. - This is amazing. Better than amazing. The Taj Mahal. Built in 1643, it's one of the Seven Wonders of the World. And one of the most romantic places in all of India. They say if you kiss someone there at sunset, you'll know in your heart if your love is true. Well, you can count me out. - What? - Glad you made it. Me, too. Shall we? So I really wanted to do a more traditional remake of the classic hit Namaste Bombay. But, Uncle, the producer, well, it was his idea to make it more marketable. Cast Americans, make it more modern, more contemporary. Well, what's the script about anyway? Well, there's still a couple of adjustments that we have to make. But basically... It's a love story. I love romance. I can't wait to tell Kevin about our movie. Hello? Does anyone remember the deal? No boys. My bad. Anyway, it's classic Bollywood cinema. It's all about singing, dancing, romance and intrigue. - That's Rahim. He's your co-star. - He's our co-star? He's a big star, like Bollywood royalty. And Uncle gave him his first movie. Here he comes now. Please, can I have your autograph? - Please, please, please? - Sign mine, please. - Gorgeous. - Thank you, thank you. - Who should I make this out to? - My mom. No, wait, wait, me! No, no, no, no, my mom, my mom! Sorry. My mom loved your parents in Namaste Bombay. And they actually fell in love with each other while filming. Wow, that is so romantic. - Yes, it is very romantic. Thank you. - Thank you! Next, please. Who should I make this out to? - That is so embarrassing. - Girl, he's just a guy. Rahim. Meet your co-leads. Chanel. Dorinda. Aqua. Nice to meet you. I hear you're great. I'm looking forward to working with you. Well, if you'll excuse me, I have to get busy writing. Well, rewriting. Come on, ladies. They're ready for you. Bye. I don't understand. These Americans are supposed to be on time. Hey, ladies. I can't spend half my day chasing after... Hi, Rahim. That's Gita. She's our choreographer. - She's our choreographer? - Yeah. Whoa. - Hi, Rahim. - Gita, let me help you. - I didn't know you were... - You're fine, yeah? You okay? - Okay. - I'm okay. He was supposed to be... Careful! Rahim. Rahim. We have to go. He's got his costume fitting. - It's okay. - It's okay. Okay, bye. - Bye. - Excuse us, ladies. - Bye. - Later. - I think he just snorted. - Yeah, twice. Yeah, kind of over him. Okay, ladies. Come on in. Okay, listen up. I've managed to track down our stars. This is... - Aqua. - Dorinda. - What's up? Chanel. - Hi. And these are your dancers. Vik says you're amazing dancers, so you shouldn't have a problem picking it up. - You ready? - Yeah. So it's one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four, one, two, three. One, two. Pop. One, two, three, four. Bollywood 101. Well, what if you haven't had, like, Bollywood one? - Is it all going to be like this? - All right! Five, six, seven, eight. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three... Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Sorry. It's just, you know, we've really never done this before. Yeah. I can see that. Are you saying we can't dance? It's okay. It's my job to make sure you look like you can, even if you can't. All right, people. I think we have to break it down even more. A lot more. That's it. You got to stop! Chica, look, she's the choreographer. It's her vision. - Whatever. Just chill. - We'll get it. It's new. Come on. All right. Whatever. But nobody tells me I can't dance. Let's see your moves. Come on, bring it, bring it. - Yeah, let's see what you've got. - Come on, girl. Are you sure that you're up for this? Do you think you can handle it? It's complicated You might get frustrated We got the moves that you never seen Let me show you just what I mean There's really no chance that you can do our dance Can't keep up, can't keep up, no Try to keep up, try to keep up, yeah Can't keep up, can't keep up, no Oh, no Oh, no, show me what you got Try to follow, watch me now If you think that you know how, then dance me Dance me if you can Get it together or fall apart If you think it's not that hard, then dance me Dance me if you can Dance me if you can Dance me Dance me if you can I know you think that you're in control But watch and learn 'cause this is how we roll Work it just like this Let's see you try and do that What's the matter? Can't you figure it out? 'Cause you look confused, mixed up, no doubt There's really no chance that you can do our dance Can't keep up, can't keep up, no Try to keep up, try to keep up, yeah Can't keep up, can't keep up, no - Come on, come on - Yeah, yeah Show me what you got Try to follow, watch me now If you think that you know how, then dance me Dance me Dance me if you can Oh, yeah Get it together or fall apart If you think it's not that hard, then dance me Dance me Dance me if you can Yeah! Is that the best that you can do? You're gonna have to try much harder Now's the time to make your move, you know Hey, hey, get ready! Hey, hey, let's go! Yeah! That's right Here we go What? Yeah, yeah! Try to follow, watch me now If you think that you know how, then dance me Dance me - Dance me if you can - Dance me if you can Get it together or fall apart If you think it's not that hard, then dance me Dance me - Dance me if you can - Dance me if you can - Everybody wants to win - Wants to win If you think you can handle it, then dance me Dance me if you can - Make it look easy, that's the way - That's the way If you think you got what it takes, then dance me - Dance me if you can - Dance me if you can Yeah! - That was great! - Awesome. Hello, ji. Myself, Kamal Bhatia. Who might you be? We're the stars of the movie. We're the Cheetah Girls. Stars? Vikram Kumar Bhatia! Why you hiding? I see you. Yes, Uncle- ji. One star. Your script is saying one star. Your budget is saying one star. So I am saying, one star. - What? - But there are three of us. Well, I just made a couple of changes. But budget has not made couple of changes. Listen, Uncle, these girls are fantastic. If you would just take a moment to watch them perform, I'm sure that you'll see that they have... - Good idea. - But I really think that they have... What? Excuse me? Each Cheetah performs. I will choose best one. What? Like, audition? - Against each other? - Correct. I will choose one star, others go home. Goodbye. Otherwise, two ladies are having Indian holiday and Kamal Bhatia is paying. - No, no, no, no. No, no. - Okay. Uncle, please. But I'm the director. I spent days rewriting the script. - Do you want to make movie? - Yes. Or shall I telephone your parents and tell them you would prefer to be dentist? Good point. I'll start rewriting. - Again. - Good idea. Goodbye. What is going on? You can't book one of us and not the other. Okay, we're a group. You cast the Cheetahs. Plural. I know this must be a little bit shocking right now. That's an understatement. Whatever. No deal. Cheetahs, we're out. What were we thinking? - I gave up a college prep class. - I gave up teaching dance camp. Maybe the Cheetahs are over. All right Hey Oh, yeah We're standing on the edge of something Do we stay or do we run? It's obvious everything's changed My head can't seem to figure out why my heart is full of doubt Maybe we're just tired of the game Guess you never know what's going to happen So you do the best you can Following your soul might bring you back Or it may have another plan Please don't let it fly away, high away Gotta keep it together Feel for the flow Don't fly away, high away Please don't Don't let it fly away We've never felt this place before Wondering if any more We can find in us what it takes It's not about who's to blame I pray that they're just growing pains Laughing while they're testing our faith 'Cause you never know what's going to happen So you do the best you can Following our souls might bring us back Unless it has another plan, yeah, yeah Please don't let it fly away, high away Gotta keep it together Feel for the flow Don't fly away, high away Please don't Don't let it fly away It's yes, it's no We stay, we go We go Feels like we're questioning everything, yeah - We run, we fall, but through it all - Through it all We never thought we would break We never thought we would break Please Please don't let it fly away, high away Gotta keep it together Feel for the flow - Fly away - High away - Please don't - Please don't Don't let it fly away Thank you. So, what do you think? Cute earrings. No, about the whole auditioning thing. I don't know. What do you think? I think it stinks. What? This colour is perfect on you. Aqua, the audition. Yeah, it does. I mean, they can't really expect us to audition against each other, can they? Look, I'm really sorry for getting us into this mess. And, Do, you should take the part. Come on, you actually turned down a job for this, and you really need the money. No, Aqua should do it. This is an awesome opportunity, and you're an amazing actress. No. Vik clearly wants Chanel. What? "What?" He barely even looks at us when you're around. That is so not true. And even if that were true, I would never use that to get an unfair advantage over my girls. Look, seriously, we could all do this. This is an opportunity of a lifetime. How could we pass this up? Okay. I think we should audition. - Fair and square, Cheetah-style. - Yes. That's weird, there's no caller ID. Hello? Aqua? This is Kevin from Totally Tech Support. Kevin 347. You guys, it's Kevin 347. He's never called me before. What? What are you doing, girl? Talk to him. Hi. Hello? I hope it's okay that I'm calling. I was just following up on your computer problem. You were right. I just needed to defrag the disc, and replace the corrupted registry file and reload the 802.11 B driver, and it was fine. Now I'm officially impressed. I knew you really didn't need my help. Is that the only reason why you called? Not entirely. Are you busy? - No. I'm not doing anything. - Me, neither. I mean, other than looking at the most beautiful sunset I've ever seen. It is beautiful. Wait a minute. You're watching the sunset, too? That means... We're in the same time zone! There's this beautiful temple. With white carved elephants? - Yes. - Wait a minute. Describe exactly where you are. Okay. I'm on a gorgeous path... Along the Arabian Sea... And there are people out, and they're holding hands. And there's an ice cream stand, and it's called... Naturals? That's right! You didn't tell me you were coming to India. You didn't tell me you lived in India. Wait, you don't sound like you live in India. See, I watch a lot of American television. Aqua? Kevin 347? Amar. Actually, I'm only Kevin at work. No, really. This is him! Yo, I think we should give our girl some privacy. No, I know how these long-distance things end. I'm going to talk to her. What? Are you crazy? This is so romantic. We are in India, anything can happen. Fine. Have you noticed that every elephant looks at me? Are you serious? It's an elephant! No, I'm not kidding. It's like they're wanting to tell me something. Okay, now. The elephant is wanting to tell you that it's okay for your friends to flirt and have some fun. It doesn't mean they're going to abandon you. Good. Because this is our last summer together. I'm really nervous things are going to change when we go to college. Nothing is going to change. We'll always be there for each other. - Okay. - Hold up, this is Vik. I'm going to tell him about the audition. - But your... - Hello? Hey, how are you? Having doubts? What, me? No. Maybe. Sometimes what we wish for is not what we really need. Don't miss where you are now because you're anxious for the future. Understand? But what if I'm afraid of where I'm going? Look at this tree. The branches grow out to the sky, but the trunk remains the same. Life brings changes, but the things that really matter always stay with us. Yeah, well, I'm not really a big fan of change. Change will take place whether you like it or not. Yeah. I can see you have been through a lot in life. So you know, when things are bad, they don't stay that way. Here. Ganesh? He was supposed to remove obstacles. Now we have more. Do you have anything else that will help me? Oh, yes. I have just the thing. Close your eyes. What was that for? Clarity. Clarity? - Too spicy? - Are you kidding? This is like breakfast in Texas. What's it called again? Chaat. Papri Chaat, actually. I like it. It's like Indian nachos. It's crunchy, with a little bit of kick. I love a girl that can handle her chillies. See, I bet you cannot find this in New York. Well, maybe you could bring me some? You know, Columbia has one of the best Physics departments in the whole world. My father would never agree to that. It's all planned. I start at the Indian School of Business in the fall. Can't you just tell him you want to keep your options open? The only time I talk to my father is when I'm listening to him telling me what to do. Sometimes I get frustrated that I don't have as many options, but I think I'd be terrified if I had as many as you do. The one thing my dad always told me was to go after my dreams. So what's one of your dreams? To star in Vik's movie. So go for it. What's stopping you? It's a little bit more complicated than that. I mean, there's only one role and three Cheetahs want it. One, two, three, four... One and two. Three, four. All right, guys. We'll just take a break. - Yeah? - Yeah. Bye! I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine. Cool. You got to be kidding me. What? You can't even rehearse. Any time you're around her, you act like a big dork. I do not act like a dork. Okay. Really? A dork? Well, a little. No, that's a lie. A lot. You act like a huge dork around her. I know! It's just that I get so... So nervous around her. Why? You're the big movie star. Because I've never felt this way before. Yeah, well, that's the oldest line in the book. - I've heard it before. - I mean it. I've never even kissed a girl. Ever. Seriously? No, but I've seen you kiss. In your movies. Yes. On camera, but never for real. Not off camera. That's actually kind of romantic. It is? Dorinda, would you help me? What? Help me not act like such a dork around Gita. You really like her, huh? No, sorry. Crushes lead to boyfriends, and boyfriends lead to heartache. - You're on your own, buddy. - Hey. If you help me with Gita, I promise to help you with the audition. I don't know. I've seen you dance. I can help you show the world what you can do. - You're rewriting it again? - It was either rewrite the script or "Vik Bhatia, dental school," as Uncle likes to say. Well, I guess if that's what it takes to get your movie made. I know what you're thinking, but this is my one shot. And, yes, if I have to make some compromises, at least I get a shot at my dream. What if this was your only shot to be a star? Don't you think you'd give it everything you've got? I mean, how could you spend the rest of your life wondering if you really could've made it? Well, I have to get back to writing. - All right. - See you later. Yeah. Maybe this was meant to be Maybe now it should be me Been dreaming of this forever But I'm feeling so confused, yeah It's hard to see what's right between you and I And I don't know what to do Oh, we'd stay together always is the promise we made But suddenly it's not so clear And I'm being pulled both ways And it's breaking my heart Tearing me apart It's impossible to choose What if I don't try? What if I do? Everything that I've dreamed is right in front of me If I win, what would I lose? How could I learn to live Wondering what if? Things would never be the same Oh, no Maybe that's the price of fame Been waiting for this forever It's close enough for me to touch But if I don't go for it I might always regret But is it worth us breaking up? Oh, we'd stay together always is the promise we made But suddenly it's not so clear And I don't know what to say And it's breaking my heart Tearing me apart It's impossible to choose What if I don't try? What if I do? Everything that I've dreamed is right in front of me If I win, what would I lose? How could I learn to live, wondering What if I would've tried? I can shine, even fly I don't wanna realise after it's too late, no And see it all pass me by If I do, if I don't Will I ever really know What the future could hold before it slips away? Could be the chance of a lifetime And it's breaking my heart Tearing me apart It's impossible to choose What if I don't try? What if I do? Everything that I dreamed is right in front of me If I win, what would I lose? How could I learn to live, wondering What if? Chanel! I never wanna say "What if?" So, are you guys okay auditioning against each other? Yeah. I mean, we're best friends, and we completely trust each other. And no one's going to betray that just to get a part in a movie. Wow, that's refreshing. Obviously, you've never worked in Bollywood. - Do you want to be a star? - Maybe, once. But I don't think I could ever be a star. I just love performing. Acting, singing, dancing. I've always loved to dance. - You have to try this on. - I could never pull that off. Just something plain for me. He's here. Gita, is that what you were worried about? - It's okay. I know you like him. - Yeah, so what? He would never want to go out with me. Like I said, I'm not a movie star. That doesn't matter. And besides, when you're on that dance floor, it's pretty clear that you are a star. You don't need a guy to tell you that. Are you sure he invited me? Of course. It's not like it's a date or something. Do I look okay? 'Cause, like, I could totally go home and change. Yeah. - So glad you could make it. - Hey. Wouldn't miss it. Hey, listen, I'm really sorry about the whole mess with my uncle. - Look, I totally understand. - You do? Yeah. Well, I know you'll figure it out, and you'll make the movie you want to make. Come on. Don't worry about me. I'll be fine. In this one. By myself. Feels like love Feels like love Hey, yeah, yeah, yeah You got me spinning now I feel your happiness all around I'm not sure what I'm getting into Feels like love We're not the same, everybody knows That's the best thing about us, though So hard to believe it, but it's true Feels like love We see the world in different ways But I'm loving every minute of every day Against the odds, we'll make it through Maybe this could be more than just fun This could be everything that I want What's happening to me? Could you be the one? This could be everything that I want I didn't know how good it could be And it feels like love to me Feels like love Feels like love Hey, yeah, yeah, yeah I didn't know I could feel this way It's a new world, maybe that's okay You're like a part of me I never knew Feels like love You're the one I need next to me But I know that it's hard to be Living for everybody else but you Feels like love Real love's not supposed to be Afraid of what everybody thinks So let's show them all what we can do Maybe this could be more than just fun More than just fun This could be everything that I want Everything that I want What's happening to me? - Could you be the one? - Could you be the one? This could be everything that I want I didn't know how good it could be It feels like love to me I've got to say it now Seems too hard to do this We're gonna work it out Nothing about us makes sense I'd build a bridge from where I am to where you are It shouldn't have to be this hard Maybe this could be more than just fun This could be everything that I want Everything that I want What's happening to me? - Could you be the one? - The one I love This could be everything that I want Oh, yeah - I didn't know how good it could be - No, no And it feels like love to me Like love to me Feels like love Feels like love It feels like love to me - Feels like love - Like love Feels like love Feels like love It feels like love to me So, what do you think? Isn't it fantastic? This isn't my wedding set. Where are the flowers? Where's the set dressing? Vik, talk to your uncle. He said this is what we could afford. See this chair? We got it for free. Your uncle sure hates to pass up a bargain. Tell me about it. I just need one minute. Okay, look, Uncle- ji, it's just not what I had in mind. - None of it is. - Viku, beta. You need to learn some things about how real world works. I went to film school, Uncle. NYU. I won awards. - I know how to do this. - Oh, really? You are already over the budget and under the schedule. You won awards for that also in NYU? Look, I just need some more time. Time is one thing you don't have. Another thing is money. So if you don't start shooting next week, I'm pulling plug on American Girl in India. Actually, you re-titled it Kamal Bhatia's Namaste Bombay. Correct. And if you don't fix it, I'm going to re-title it Vik Bhatia's Bye-bye, Bombay, Hello, Dental School. Actually, your name has a nice ring to it. Kamal Uncle, the palace set is a wreck. I can't have it ready in a week. - What about a location? - What about? If it's free, okay. Otherwise, movie is over. And... You think about how many cavities you're going to have to drill to pay back what you have spent already! Okay. No set? I guess this weekend's auditions are off. Guess you heard. I can't possibly find a location in a week, let alone for free. Uncle is going to shut down the movie for sure. Time to book our flights home. You can't go home yet. You haven't seen anything of India. Come home with me for Holi. It's my favourite holiday. In fact, you're all invited. - What's Holi? - It's the festival of colours. I can't go. I only have a week to audition, rehearse, and find a location. Vik, trust me, Rajasthan is the best place to find a location. The village that my parents live in is a hundred times more beautiful than any movie set. And I just might have a palace for you. Yeah, you can audition, rehearse. I'll take care of everything. Wow. Thank you? How exciting! Cheetah road trip. Viku, what you are doing sitting talking to ladies? You have no set and only one week. We're just making a plan to do some location scouting. Location scouting? What do you know about location scouting? I'm coming with you. - See you later, Swami. - Girls, don't forget to untie your strings! Looks like our strings are going to be up there for a long time. Look, I don't think our wishes are going to come true. The tree is still working. You must give it some time. Well, can you tell that tree to get a move on it? For real. Like, we're running late. The point of time is to help you understand where you are, not to make you rush to the next place, understand? Not really. No. I have just the thing that will help you see more clearly. Oh, no, no, no. No, we're good. But thank you so much. - Okay, well, bye, Swami. - Bye. Hello? No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. Sorry. No, no, no, 15%. So why did you want to be a director, anyway? When I was a kid, my parents used to take me to see movies, like, all the time. And sometimes you'd go see Uncle films, and it was the most amazing thing to think that he made all that happen. He created those great stories. And now when I write a script, it's like I can see the movie in my head. It's like I've met the characters and I've been to the places. I want the whole world to see my films. I get it. It's like when I sing. I, like, go somewhere else, - become somebody else. - Yeah. It's the greatest feeling in the world. And I just want to share it. Do you see that? That elephant is staring right at me. Don't worry. My grandmother says it's good luck. - They're trying to help you. - Like Ganesh? It's a sign. - You're lucky. They always ignore me. - Really? Well, maybe my luck is changing. Or not. Glad you made it. Did they just get married? No. If this was a wedding, he'd be riding a horse. - Is that your palace? - Don't be ridiculous. It's my parents'. Oh, my. Oh, my. Why didn't you mention any of this? Were you just playing a joke on the smart girl who's too dumb to realise you're a maharajah? I am no such thing, technically, until my grandfather dies. You should have told me. Okay, I'm sorry, but it doesn't change anything. If anything, it makes my life more difficult. It limits my options. - Really? - Yeah. 'Cause it seems to me that you've got lots of options. Not like you. If the Cheetahs don't work out, there are a million things you can do. You can make your own decisions. - I can never do that. - Well, have you ever even tried? That's just not how things work with my father. Amar, beta? It's time to eat. Please tell your friends, beta. Ready? Come on. Seriously... So good. I'm sorry my husband is away on business. But we are both so happy that you are here celebrating the holiday with our family. - Thank you. - Thank you. Personally, I had never imagined the day that Rahim Khan and Kamal Bhatia would be seated at our table. Most honoured. Most honoured. Thank you. Thank you so much. And another small thing. I have prepared all of Amar's favourite dishes tonight. So, Aqua, pay close attention. - Yeah, Aqua. Take notes. - She's just being friendly. Yeah, right. I think it's a little more than that. - Aqua? - Yes. Did you try the chicken tikka masala? - Yeah. It's actually my favourite. - Really? I make it every time Amar comes home. I'll give you the recipe later, okay? Okay. Don't worry. She did this to his last girlfriend, too. - What? - Thank you. She did. - I'm not his girlfriend. - Not yet, anyway. This is seriously incredible. It's just like the palace in Namaste Bombay. I mean, I wouldn't ask if this wasn't crucial or anything, but is there any way that we could shoot here? I don't think my mom would let Rahim leave, even if he tried. I'm sure she'd be thrilled. - I hope so. - One thing. For the guy that saved my movie? Anything. You name it. Guess who the newest member of the movie crew is? What? You're in the movie now? Well, not really. But I am the new location owner. Well, congratulations. - There is just one condition. - What's that? - That he casts you in the lead. - What? Don't worry about Kamal Uncle. I think I have a bit more pull now that I am the new location owner. Please tell me you're not doing what I think you're doing. - I was just rehearsing. - The love duet? By yourself? How long are you going to keep running away? How long do I have? Do you really want to spend the rest of your life doing half the dance? What am I supposed to do? I act like a total fool in front of her. It doesn't matter. None of this matters. Look, if you really care about her, you have to be willing to take the chance. No more dancing in archways or hiding behind fake doors. None of that. You give pretty good advice. Ever take it yourself? Wait. What is that? - See, I told you. - Wow, you were right. This is amazing. I thought they said they were going to play fair. Who, Chanel and Vik? They're a couple, aren't they? - They are? - Well, everyone kind of thinks they are. Why wouldn't she tell me? Maybe she didn't want you to know so that if she gets the part, you would think it was fair. So, think this would be a good place for the wedding scene? Totally. This is incredibly romantic. Don't even get any ideas. The girls and I already talked about it. No unfair advantages. Okay. So, is Amar going to let you shoot here? - Yeah. He said I could. - Hot. But only if I cast Aqua as the lead. Don't worry. I told him it wasn't up to me. But we promised each other. Seems like you're the only one keeping that promise. The other Cheetahs, they're not letting anything stand in their way. Look, I gotta turn in. I have to meet Rahim and Dorinda for dance rehearsal tomorrow morning. Dorinda? Why is she rehearsing with Rahim? He's helping her get ready for the audition. What? I keep telling you, you're the only one who's playing fair. Catch you later. Okay? So what can I do to be more comfortable around Gita? You gotta tell her how you feel. But rehearsing with her would be a start. I can't. They look good together. We should choose the dancer. But, Uncle, you've really got to listen to Chanel sing. I truly believe that she's the one. Okay. - What is that? - My string. From the wishing tree? But our wish hasn't even come true yet. - Mine did. - No, the... Wait. I wished for the Cheetah Girls to become the biggest movie stars. What did you wish for? I wished for the Cheetahs to stay the same, the way we've always been. Thanks for cancelling out my wish. Sorry, I didn't want our group to break up. Well, that still leaves Aqua. I wished that I would meet Kevin 347 in person. Nice. Did you also wish for your boyfriend to buy your way into the movie? - What? I would never! - Yeah. Spare us. Like you're any better? I couldn't pry you off of Rahim with a crowbar. Really? Coming from the girl who wouldn't bat an eyelash at our director? - I didn't have to. - Yeah, all right. Whatever. Whatever. Excuse me, ladies. Who is first? I'm the one Oh, yeah Come on Nobody can sing like me I can hit any note you give for me From A to Z Yes, I can Nobody can dance like me I can move to the beat you're playing Baby, with my feet Yeah, yeah Nobody can act like me I can fall to pieces and make you believe In almost anything I'm the one I'm stepping out and breaking all the rules All alone I'm gonna show everybody what I can do I'm the one Put your bet on me Can't you see that I'm the one? Don't need anybody now I'm making it on my own Got a voice like an angel She can turn every word into a lovely melody Yes, she can The girl's got her own groove Put the music on and watch her as she does her thing She can do everything My girl is a drama queen Any role you give her, she does perfectly Oh, can't you see that She's the one? She's stepping out and breaking all the rules All alone She's gonna show everybody what she can do She's the one Put your bet on her Can't you see that she's the one? She don't need anybody now She's making it on her own I wanna be the one who everybody notices I'm stepping out, stepping out, all right I wanna be the one who's always front and centre For the first time in my life I'm the one I'm stepping out and breaking all the rules All alone I'm gonna show everybody what I can do I'm the one Put your bet on me Can't you see that I'm the one? Don't need anybody now I'm making it on my own I'm the one I'm stepping out and breaking all the rules All alone I'm gonna show everybody what I can do I'm the one Put your bet on me Can't you see that I'm the one? Don't need anybody now I'm making it on my own I'm the one Wonderful, wonderful. Wonderful. Now, I can see why you wanted to choose all three. Wonderful. But we still cannot afford it. So role goes to... - Chanel. - Yes, girls. Yes. Big surprise. Yeah, congratulations. Fair and square, right? Thank you, Uncle- ji. Congratulations, Chanel. Thanks. I could be recognised from a distance Yeah, I could be the biggest name on the screen Singing and dancing forever Signing my name for whoever Yeah, it's all in my reach, yeah If I give it all that I've got I get there to the top But I don't even wanna go If I have to go there alone, so Set me on top of that mountain Let me fly to the end of the world Yeah, I can go anywhere But if you're not with me there It'll never be enough There's no place like us There's no place like us If I find the other side of the rainbow Will I find that the gold ain't worth any price? 'Cause if we ain't there for each other Then all I got doesn't matter No, it won't be right to Give it all that I got And get there to the top If you're not up there with me There's nothing I wanna see, so Set me on top of that mountain Let me fly to the end of the world, yeah I can go anywhere But if you're not with me there It'll never be enough There's no place like us There's no place like us It doesn't matter where we are Or matter how far 'Cause even when we go our separate ways We'll be the place I believe that I can do it But alone, I won't get through it We know we gotta stick together 'Cause no matter what There's no place like us You were great. I'm sorry about what I said. I didn't mean any of it. Me, too. You sang your heart out. Thanks. We were all great. Look, it doesn't matter what happens, where we go or what we do. Change is inevitable, but we'll always be Cheetahs. Cheetahs, say it like you mean it. - Together. - Now. - And forever. - And forever. We're going to miss you so much. You're not going to miss me that much. - What? - Why not? I'm not going to take the part. Look, it just isn't worth losing you guys as friends. So you're all bowing out? Look, starring in a movie just isn't worth destroying our friendship. Well, I better start writing. I have no idea how I'm going to write a love story without a love interest. I think it's time you stand up to your uncle, and make the movie you want to make. And if you can't, then maybe this isn't the movie you should be making. Yeah, Chanel, but what if this is my only chance? It's not your chance if it's not the movie you want to make. Don't give up on your dream. If you can't be my leading lady on screen, maybe you'd consider playing the role in real life? Too bad we're not at the Taj Mahal. - That can be arranged. - Yeah? I think so. Sorry for the mess. I was just trying to take your advice and make things happen. I meant for you to follow your dreams, not try to buy me mine. But I think you're cute for trying. One question. Would applying to Columbia count as following my dream? Because I talked to my parents, and they don't think it's such a bad idea. Yes. - Ready? - No. I'm scared. What if she doesn't like me back? Sometimes you just got to put yourself out there and not worry about what happens. Come on, you can do it. Gita? Just ignore that. You were saying? Do you want to have dinner with these flowers? I mean, do your flowers want to have dinner with me? Yeah, I would love to have dinner with your flowers. - You would? - Yeah. And by the way, I love the way you laugh. Thank you. I love them. - You like the flowers? - Yeah, I do. They're red. They match your dress. It's beautiful. Thanks so much. I love them. They smell so good. - You look so beautiful. - Thanks, Rahim. I picked these flowers out especially for you. - I knew you would like them. - Joaquin? I'm sorry I've been avoiding your calls. We're in India, which is kind of a crazy story, but... Anyway, I've been doing a lot of thinking, and I realise that just because we're not going out, doesn't mean we can't be friends. And I miss you. Call me when you can, I promise I'll pick up. Thanks for helping me realise I was the obstacle all along. Hey, look what I got for Vik. It's the original poster to Namaste Bombay. Guys, I feel so bad for him. Who's going to be the star of his movie now? Cheetahs? Look. Where is this Raju? Why he is not here? Send him. Goodbye. Why you are not filling out application form for dental school? We found the perfect lead for the movie. Me, too. Rahim in a wig is wonderful. No, Uncle. It's Gita. What you talking? No one wants to see choreographer on the screen. That's why they are always behind the scenes. She's a star. And I'm going to prove it. This is my movie. And this is my one chance. - So I have to do what I believe in. - And? And make a great movie. Now you're talking like real director. Thank you. Thank you so much. I promise I won't let you down. Let's see what you got. Come on! - Let's make a movie! - Let's get you Cheetah-fied! Silence, please. We are going for a take. Namaste Bombay, BBS, One World. - Mark it! - Playback! Hey Yeah Love always finds a way Every single time Once we learn to trust our hearts And look inside, it feels right Now we see who we are In a different light We're not so far apart Anything is possible With all the differences, we're stronger here Now the truth has been discovered Oh, yeah After all we've been through, now it's clear That all of us, we share - One world - One world - One love - One love - One and all - One and all We're a circle together - One world - One world - One heart - One heart - One song - One song Now and forever Everybody celebrate Bring on the party, bring on the dance Time to let the music play The party never ends Every guy and every girl Stand up and shout, say it loud Everyone around the world - Come on and join in - Yeah We're gathered here today - Everything just right - Yeah 'Cause when you give from the heart The things you do come back to you Dare to be strong and brave Not afraid to try That's when we see who we are The best of friends and that's when With all the differences, we're stronger here Now the truth has been discovered Oh, yeah After all we've been through, now it's clear We're all right here to share - One world - World - One love - One love - One and all - One and all We're a circle together - One world - One world - One heart - One heart - One song - One song, yeah Now and forever Oh, I never knew that love would find a way To bring together both of us Now, inside, I know it's true 'Cause what we have is meant to be You let me be the real me Together here is where we belong Hey! Come on, now Here we go! Here we go! Let's celebrate! One world One love One and all - We're a circle together - We're a circle together - One world - One world - One heart - One heart - One song - Song, yeah Now and forever - One world - One world - One love - One love - One and all - One and all We're a circle together - One world - One world - One heart - One heart - One song - One song Now and forever We're a circle together Now and forever One world
