 

                        I don't wanna be weak It's not have the strength to stand up and move my feet across the ground I don't wanna be sickly or ill I'm afraid of that the most the life seeping out of me like steam from a train engine the wheels struggle on.. so slow until finally.. just stops spinning all together it's hard to think of something lasting forever going on and on with no end. But love.. I know love is infinite I'll love you even after I'm dead like I know my mother still loves me. Get up, Alice!. You have school this morning. I don't wanna go to school today. We've only just moved here. If you want to make any new friends, you have to go to school. You must to go to school every day. You know that. You have to go this day, and the next, and the next. There is no getting around that. Catholics! My father says you're the whores of Babylon! Quiet! I will not ask again. Queen of the Thorns Who did this? Who.. did this? If we go to heaven when we die, can we ever come back to earth to see what it's like in the future? - No. well, I dunno if I want to be stuck up in heaven and never see the ocean or forest again. You don't need to see the ocean or the forest if you're in heaven. Why not?, I don't know, I just know you don't need to. Well, what about angels?, angels come back from heaven. Yes, there are angels here on earth, but you are not one of them. You're very far from it. You know, you might be able to very ask that question if you actually pay attention in school. I'm as good as a student as any other, I just tend to daydream, that's all. Someday all your daydreaming will get you into trouble. You know, father spends very good money to keep you in that private school. The least you can do is learn a thing or two while your there. It's summer now. I would like very much to forget about school and remember what it's like to sit beneath the sun all day. Very well, do as you wish, you always do anyway. Do you think we've been here long enough? Long enough for what? Well.. we moved here a few months ago and.. I feel like I haven't met anyone yet. Aside for my classmates. You know..the only people I can socialize with are the folks from church. The protestants simply don't like us, at all there's a lot more of them than there are of us. Is that why that boy yelled at me in my way to school yesterday? Father McAvoy was talking about radical ideas and.. new ways of doing old traditions. And how we shouldn't let the backwards become forwards, or the insane become sane or the lie become word of truth. But, I wanna meet strange and new people. I wanna hear new ideas and meet the strange and eccentric. I wanna meet the kind of people who would change the world the kind of people of picture shows. I knew we shouldn't have taken you to see that movie. But, then I think maybe we haven't been here long enough. Well, let's see, we've been here for... three months. So, yes, I think is right about time to meet one of those.. new and exciting people. Are you patronizing me? What? Patronizing, I learned it in school, It means to... I know what it means. Well.. are you are patronizing me? No, of course not. Or maybe a little. Very well then. When do you want some tee I'm bored and tired of being patronized. In a moment.. however you can brew yourself if you wish The sausages are in the basket. Where is my teacup? How should I know, Alice? Well, It's not here and It must've been left somewhere. Well, maybe is at home. I'll go back and get it. I said I'll go back home and get it. Do what you must. All in the golden afternoon Full leisurely we glide; For both our oars, with little skill, By little arms are plied, While little hands make vain pretence Our wanderings to guide. Ah, cruel Three! In such an hour, Beneath such dreamy weather, To beg a tale of breath too weak To stir the tiniest feather! Yet what can one poor voice avail Against three tongues together? Imperious Prima flashes forth Her edict to begin it IIn gentler tone Secunda hopes There will be nonsense in it! While Tertia interrupts the tale Not more than once a minute. Oh no, I'm late! I've gotta be going now. Goodbye, Miss. I'm too late. Anon, to sudden silence won, In fancy they pursue The dream-child moving through a land of wonders wild and new, Hey mister.. what is your name? And ever, as the story drained The wells of fancy dry, And faintly strove that weary one To put the subject by, Can you please stop and tell me who you are? The rest next time It is next time! The happy voices cry. Mister, I asked you to stop!, will you please stop? Oh dear, I'll never fit in there. What are you talking about? Of course, you won't fit in there. It's a rabbit hole. Thus grew the tale of Wonderland: Thus slowly, one by one, Its quaint events were hammered out And now the tale is done, And home we steer, a merry crew, Beneath the setting sun. Alice! a childish story take, And with a gentle hand Lay it where Childhoods dreams are twined In Memorys mystic band, Like pilgrims withered wreath of flowers Plucked in a far-off land. Drink Me Oh dear, how weird everything is today. And yesterday everything seemed to go just as usual. I wonder if Ive been changed person in the night? Let me think. Did I feel the same when I woke up this morning? I think I can remember feeling a little bit different. But if I'm not the same, then the next question is, Who in the world am I? Im sure Im not Ada, for her hair goes in such long ringlets, mine doesnt go in ringlets at all; I cant be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, And she knows so very little. And besides, shes she, and Im I, Ohh, very confusing, it all is. I must have been changed for Mabel. now I shall live in that poky little house, and next to no friends and have so mean lessons learned! No. Ive made up my mind. If I'm Mabel, then Ill stay down here! Itll be of no use poking their heads down here and saying, Come up again, dear! I'll just look up and say, "Who am I then?" "Tell me that and if I like being that person, I'll come up." "And If I don't, I'll stay down here till I'm somebody else." I do wish they would put their heads down here though!. I'm so very tired of being all alone. Loneliness is a curious thing. On the one hand, loneliness can be a dreadful cross to bear. Anything more than the last stand of isolation and self dependence. On the other hand, loneliness gives us a chance to examine our thoughts. What have you been thinking of, Alice? I think I'll be going now. Do you? Nothing to fear Alice?. You've met my brother, haven't you? The man with the white shoes. He's led you down awfully far. There are those of us, who are suppose to be here. And those who are not! I do believe is time you go back, Alice. Take my hand. I don't want to. We don't always get what we want! Sit down, all of you. I'll have you dry soon enough. You all are ready now?. This is the driest thing I know. Silent all all around now, please. William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria I beg your pardon? Did you speak? Not me. I thought you did, I proceed. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him; and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable "Found it?" Found it. Of course. You know what that means? I know what it means, well enough. When I find a thing, it's generally a pretty girl or a fine bottle of liquor. The question is, what did the archbishop found? William's conduct was at first. Moderate. But the insolence of his Normans. How are you getting on now, my dear? I am as wet as ever. I don't think this is drying me at all. In that case, I vote that we adjourn the meeting for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies. Ohh, speak English! I don't understand half of those long words, whats more, I don't think you do either. What I was going to say, is that the best way to dry us off would be a Caucus-race. What is a Caucus-race? It is a sort of exercise, but the best way to explain it, is to do it. Lost? Ohh, you startled me, sitting up in the tree that way. That's not an answer to my question. Lost? Are you lost? Well, I don't quite know sir. You have to be going somewhere to be lost, and seeing I have no place to go. You're a silly one, aren't you? My brothers seem to think you are lost. Brothers?, you mean the one with white shoes and that dreadful man with the wool duster? One and the same, they and I. You come to realize that down here, we are all one and the same. What do you mean? Wait!, please come back, tell me where I have to go from here. I'd try the opium den. Light. Who.. are you? Well, I don't quite know, sir. I know who I was when I woke up this morning. But, I think I have changed several times since then. What do you mean by that? Explain yourself. I can't explain myself, because I'm not myself. I don't see. I'm afraid I can't put it anymore clearly. I don't understand it myself. And being so many different sizes in a day.. is very confusing. It isn't. Well, perhaps you haven't thought it so.. Well, perhaps you haven't thought it so yet But, when you have to die, and you will someday you know. You will be dressed up and crammed to a tiny little box and buried into the ground and disappeared into the earth. That will feel a little bit weird, won't it?. Not a bit. Perhaps you feel a little different but it will feel very weird to me. You. Who... are... you? Don't you think you ought to tell who you are first? Why? Wait. Come back. I have something important to say. Keep.. your.. temper.. Is that all? No. So... You think you've changed, do you?. I'm afraid I have, sir. I can't remember what I used to. Can't remember what things? Well, when I try to look back, I can't remember where I came from, or how exactly how I got here. It's not quite right. What size do you want to be?. Well, a little older would nice. I don't care to be quite so young. One side will make you grow taller. The other side will make you.. smaller. The mushrooms... Mommy loves you. We invite all the people. What kind of tea are we having? French tea. French tea. Let's grab the teacups. Tea time. Tea time. What's her name? Alice. Just like you? She's in wonderland. Your hair is so long. To my shoulders. Please sit still. Then we wrap it around through here. It's cute there. Now we're gonna do, is put it right through here. About right there, ok? Hello again! You! Lost yet? I'm afraid so. Oh, so you found yourself someplace to go? Yes. I'd like to go to the garden. You know the one behind the little door? No garden. Never heard of it. You're lying! No! I just haven't the slightest idea what are you talking about. Do you know someone who can put me in the right direction? Well, any garden would be downtown, so you could ask the doctor or the painter Ask either one you like, they're both mad. Well, I don't wanna go among mad people. No, you don't have a choice, do you? We're all mad here. Wait! Stop! Would you please tell me where this doctor and painter are? That way. I rather like the look of that away. Why you don't know anything at all! Neither do you, silly little girl. That away... So looked at the prostitute, and she said to me: "I am man!" No room. No room! No, man! Absolutely not, no room! What are you talking about? Of course there's room. And I do miss a good tea. This isn't it a tea party. Then what are you drinking? Cough medicine. Do you have a cough? Yes. It is medicine. Indeed. Have some wine. I don't see any wine. That is because there isn't any. Well, it wasn't very nice for you to offer it. Well, it wasn't very nice for you to sit down without being.. invited. Are those your paintings? No, they're mine, you see.. I am a painter and he is my doctor. You know, your hair wants cutting. You should learn not to make such personal remarks. Its very rude. Tea, Doctor. I guess, I.. haven't learned what is rude and what isn't. There's a fly in my cup. Change places! Change places. Change places. What was your name again? Alice! "Alice!" "Alesh" "Alez!" I like that, tell me, Alice. Why is a raven like a writing desk? Oh, I like riddles, let's see... You can't see it. It's a riddle. Well, I mean.. I'll see if I can guess it. Do you mean that you think you can find the answer? Exactly so. Then you should say what you mean. I do. At least. At least I mean what I say it's the same thing we know. And not the same thing one bit. You might as well say that "I eat what I see" is the same thing as "I see what I eat". Or, "I get what I want" is just the same as "I want what I get". Well, it is the same with you, doctor. Can I have some? No. This is not for the likes of you. I will not have it! But it is medicine. Indeed. Is that why they call you mad? Because of the medicine? They're calling me mad? Change places. Chaaaaaaange places! I've heard it said before. So... She's just as mad as we are. Indeed. Yes, terribly sorry, but it is true. Tell me.. about your mother. She's dead. Mouse?. And a.. what day of the month is it? The fourth. Wa, wa, wa, wa, wa, wa. They're two days wrong! again! Oh yes, I told you that the butter will not suit the watch. It was the best of the butter.. Yes!, but some of the crumbs must've gotten in. Then how can I.. could have put it in with the bread knife, did I have, Doctor? What an interesting watch. It tells the date of the month, but not what a clock it is. Why should it? Does your watch tells you what year it is? No, of course not. But, that's because it stays the same year for such a long time. Which is just the case of mine. Have you guessed my riddle yet? No. I give up. What's the answer? I haven't the slightest idea. Nor I. You shouldn't waste your time going around asking riddles that you don't have answers to. If you knew time half as well as I did You wouldn't have talked about wasting "it". "it" my dear lady, is a him. I don't understand. I dare say you've never even met time? Have you? Well, perhaps not, but I know I have to beat time when I learn music. Ah! that accounts for it. No, he wont stand beating. If you only kept on good terms with him. Are.. you going to be in downtown later? I as thinking of going. Not me, you see, I'm not allowed in downhound anymore. The last time I went I sang a little song. What did I sing? A little bit something like this. "Twinkle, twinkle little bat how I wonder what you're at?" You know the song perhaps? I've heard something like it. It goes on, you see. "Up above the world you fly" "Like a teatray in the sky" Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle. Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle. Well, Id hardly gone past the first verse, when a policeman, he comes up to me and shouts "Hey, stop him!" "He's madder than a hatter!" How dreadful and savage. Yes he was. Were you arrested? Me? Of course not! No, I'm here now, aren't I? Doctor? Well, civil obedience, my lady, is for the squares anyway. I have always thought of myself more of a... Cube. You've always been a bit crazy, haven't you? Crazy? Listen. When they come back, I'm not going with them. I just wanted you to know that. You don't know what is like in here, is not sanitary. You're not from around here, are you? I can always tell. You... you are very pretty, you know that? I know. Yes, you do. I mean, thank you. Could you... I mean, would you loosen my straps? The've been all so awfully tight. I can't even feel my hands. I don't think I could do that. It's very easy, see? Pull the strap on the back, right here. I'll be free and feeling better in no time. No, no, no, no, no. Time for your medicine. Please, no! I don't wanna go back there! It is not sanitary! No, no, no, there's no reason to be violent. This is for your own good. Am I a doctor alright? Let me take care of you. I don't want to go! I don't want to go! Yeah. Is it that better, uh? Feeling much better. Thank you. But please, don't tell me I'm the only one that can see that girl standing over there. One of the patients has escaped from her room! Get her back there! Hello. Are those your drawings? Yes they are. You see, I'm the painter, and he is my doctor. Who is this? That's Alice. She's very pretty, isn't she? Can you tell me where she went? I'm not allowed to go anymore Their doctors has not allowed me to go anymore. Tell me, where are we right now, where is this? Tea? Yes, thank you. Nothing quite like a tea to warm the spirits. You know what I think? I think you're mad. Pardon? Crazy. No, no, I'm not mad. Crazy... crazy... crazy. Alice went downtown, and I'm not allow to go downtown anymore. Good boy. Change places. Oh, doctor? I am free. Don't be so jumpy, why the nerves? What's the matter, the cat got your tongue? Hey, you better get out of the rain, girl. You don't want to catch pneumonia or tuberculosis. That's better. And what's your name? Alice. That's a pretty name. Where are you from, Alice? I am lost actually. And I'm trying to find my way out. Or up. Up?, yes I see. Unfortunately I'm afraid I can't help you. I'm lost myself, you see, because I don't go anywhere. That also means I can't be found. Could you just at least point me in the right direction? No, I can't help you. I am the pestilent, the plague, the scourge, the infected. I suffer from the disease that is injected. No, I can't help you. Lying on the drain, eating the scraps, drinking the rain, no, I can't help you. Does it hurt? That's the problem, sweetie. It doesn't hurt a bit. Can't you go to the hospital? A hospital? I got this disease in a hospital. From doctors and scientists working in their labs and petri dishes. And they are not interested in caring for us now, anyway. Not when there's a real sick going around. Well, what about a cure? There's gonna be a cure for every disease one day, you know Some day people will live forever. No matter what their illnesses. And how do you know that? I just do. People can still create good things. Great things. If you want to see some good, you might wanna start right here. Looks like they're ready to do some regular evil over by that tree. Ain't no sense in with me, miss. I'm already dead. But, that fellow on the yonder, he's about to get strung up for something he can't do nothing about. No word from him is gonna stop that noose tightened around his neck. Alice. You might find the help you need by helping others. The righteous are impenetrable to the spears of sin. The righteous are impenetrable. The righteous. Wait! Stop! Stop! Don't Cry. Your tears will make this much harder. Don't be afraid, Alice. I'm taking you home. You want that, don't you? You can't stay here. Your presence... disturbs things. You understand, don't you? Who is this? Alice, miss. But, I was just about to be leaving. Nonsense. Where are you walking at this hour, home? I think not. I happen to know for a fact that you are very far from your home. Come. You should stay here and make time useful. We're cleaning some machinery on the back. I'll teach you how to strip a gear housing. Is customary to lock the doors when we are working. Makes things more productive. Will you do the honors? Very good Alice. Now bring it back to me. No more pain! No more pain! No more pain! No more pain! Scatter. Get out and go home. Factories like this should not exist. You're sleep in a future of fists. Have it your way!. Off with her head! Alice, wake up! Wake up, Alice. Are you alright? Thank God. I had such a curious dream. A dream? there was a rabbit and a man. And then I fell. I fell very far down and at the bottom I cried. Because I couldn't remember who I was and couldn't get out. And then I almost drowned on my tears. Alice, this is madness! Come now, it's time to go, gather your things and we'll head back home. Suppose you wanna tell father all about your afternoon adventures? No. I think I'll keep this to myself. For a while, anyways. Good. We should let father get suspicious. Or maybe he liked to know. Wait, what? Nothing. I said I don't believe he would be interested in your stories anyhow. Now, it is time to go, It's getting really late. You've had enough adventures for one day and I was good enough scared. Not again, Alice! Goldrake
