 

                        Can't we just send a driver? They're friends, not guests. Did you remind Tim that the people are coming with the new furniture? Oh. Sweetie, can you pretend that we're running a business? If I wanted to work, I would have stayed in New York. I'm going I'm going Hey buddy, the new furniture should be here in about an hour. You're gonna have to sign for it, okay? Okay. You know, I don't know why someone who spent become a doctor of divinity instead of a real doctor. You could really help some people, you know? I wanna help people with this. I tell ya what, why don't you just forget everything, stay with us here in paradise? I wanna help other people find paradise. Yeah, stepped in it that time, huh? Oh, there's my master's voice. See ya later. Christopher! Yup, yup, yup, yup, YUP Sorry, honey. I told him. See ya, son. Chu. I got him. He's outside of Deville's. You have a positive ID? Yup. It's him. Is he carrying any suitcases? No. Well, you hold your position. I'll have a team there in a half-hour. Half an hour? He could be gone in 5 minutes. Let me take him now. That's a negative. I only want this guy carrying drugs or money. That's not necessary. We've got a fugitive warrant. He's been indicted on two RICO cases. And he's gonna walk on both. I want this guy. We need hard evidence. I want him in jail. You stay in your car and you just watch him. What's up? See that guy over there? What guy? The white guy with the beard I think you and I are the only two whites around here. What's wrong? Someone you recognize? No. But he seemed to know me. This is all you'll need. Cameron will meet you at the Anantara Resort. It's a lovely place, although it's taken on the stench of death as of late. Cameron will provide you with police protection as long as you're in the providence. But once you're out of here, you're on your own. I hear that this is your last shipment. May I ask why? I had enough. You've had enough? Well, that makes you a very dangerous man, Bruno. Our entire society's built on having more, bigger house, faster car, more beautiful woman. What if everyone decided they'd had enough? Our entire world order would come tumbling down. The day you have enough, Bruno, is the day you die. If I didn't know you better... I'd call that a threat. Sound like a threat to you, Charlie? Sounds like a threat to me, Bruno. I bet you want more, Charlie, don't you? A little more never hurt anybody. White man. It's Caperna. See you around, Deville. Bye, Bruno. Vaya con Dios. Here, take the phone. Wait for me at the hotel. - Here, you take this. - No, you keep it. Go ahead. What took you so long? Release him. What, what? Wait, wait. What do you- what do you think you're doing? I'm releasing this man. We have no evidence he's committed any crime in this country. He's wanted in the United States of the America. Do you have an international arrest warrant? I'm sure we do, back at the office. But you don't have it here. Sir, you're free to go. Thank you. See ya around, Ricky boy. Wait, you can't release him! I've been chasing him for 5 years! You bring me the right paperwork, I'll pick him up for you. How much is he paying you? You're under arrest. Arrest me? Arrest you! How much are they paying you?! Take him away. Ugh! Well, that didn't take long. We need to be packed up and out of here in 5 minutes. Let's go. Where is it? There isn't any more. You've got to get me some. Next week you'll have enough to dive into head first, but rig ht now I need you to pull yourself together. We have to get out of here. Don't you care that I'm hurting? Come on, Mimi, I don't have time to explain! It's been longer than a half-hour. You should consider yourself lucky that they're letting you go at all. You punched a police inspector. Yeah, well, he was corrupt. You try pulling it. Where's my gun? It's conscated. But here's your flight to Los Angeles. It's a condition of your release. And if you ever want this back, you will get on that plane. I'm not letting him slip away again. He's long gone. I'll see about that. Get back here. Get back- Consider yourself suspended. Ah, Special Agent Caperna, or should! say former Special Agent Caperna? Can I get you a drink? No, thanks. That's rig ht. You don't drink. You don't smoke. You don't gamble. Your only vice is your hatred of drug dealers. I'm just wondering what you plan to offer me for Bruno. You're under suspension, so you can't offer me legal immunity. You don't have a gun, so you can't threaten me. Ha, ha, ha. Cheer up, today's your lucky day. Mr. McGrilly has outlived his usefulness for me so I can offer you a sizable discount in the hopes that we can have a more permanent relationship in the future. This is on the house. Sometimes I just love my job. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Have you seen Chris? It's coming. Yeah. It'll be here in a couple hours. I'll be with you soon. Dad- One way or another. Christopher! Christopher! Christopher! Christopher- You're impossible. Aroon took the rest of the staff to the evacuation center. He'll be back for us in 20 minutes. I'm not going. The storm is gonna tear this place apart. Well, I'm going, but not to the evacuation center. I'm going to Bangkok. I'm gonna take the first flight out to New York and I'm gonna file for divorce. Helen, reopen our house in Los Angeles, huh? Community property laws are better there. It's okay. We're not gonna get divorced. I have something else in mind. Don't give up hope. Don't worry, son. She'll get over it, same way she got over you. Put the gun down. You okay, baby? Mimi? Ric's gonna be there. Just let him take out Bruno and then you kill him, and then it's all yours, Charlie. Who is it? It's no one, just a girl. Which one? You mean they have individual names? Are you an American? Yeah, what are you doing here? My name is Ric Caperna. I'm special agent with the Drug Enforcement Administration. You have any guests here now? No, we evacuated our guests yesterday and our staff today. Can you show me around? Sure, this way. Charlie, check out the place. Get down! Helen, we've gotta get out of here. Ric, don't make me hurt these nice people Put the gun down, Ric. Come on. Put your gun down! Come on. That's right. Not so tight, Charlie. I'd hate for Ric to be uncomfortable. May I ask what's going on? What's going on is irrelevant. What you really want to know is if you and your wife are gonna be safe, and the answer is yes, provided you do exactly as you're told. What about him? Let me worry about him. You ought to be worrying about yourself, Bruno. Shut up, Caperna. Charlie! Ricky boy, behave yourself. You might just survive this afternoon. Look, let's all be friends. I'm Bruno. My wife, Mimi. The over-eager, Ric Caperna. My good friend Charlie. And who are you? Chris. This is my wife, Helen. This your place? - Yeah. - Oh, nice. You did very nice. Don't worry, we're not staying long. A few hours at most. III Chris, come here. Come here. Yeah, okay. Any of your staff still around? No. You see that guy, right? Who is he? The angel of death. He was here before the tsunami. Now he's back again. Angel of death, huh? All right, go sit down. Go ahead. Thanks. I'm gonna take care of this. Yeah, be careful, will ya? What's wrong? We're gonna die. It's not them I'm worried about. Sit down. Just sit down. Have a seat, please. Hi, Mimi. How'd you know her name? He knew mine too. Hey. Who are you? I am that I am. You work for Kamal? Let's ask an expert. Do I look like a drug dealer, Ric? Deville. So that's where you got your information, huh? Deville. You sold me out. Your so-called friend has only one love: bloodshed. And if he has his way, none of you will survive today. - Let me kill this creep now. - No, no, Charlie, no, no. We don't even know him. No, we don't. You have to nothing to fear from me, Chris. I'm not the angel of death. Ask your wife, Helen. She knows me. I've never seen you before. Well, that's true you've never seen me, but on the 137th day of your 12th year, you gave your life to me, small Presbyterian church on Hartford Road and Evergreen Avenue. Oh, since then you allowed yourself to become a little strangled by the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of human wealth, but I never lost sight of you, Helen. And I know the day is coming when you will ourish. Come on, Bruno, let me pop this guy now He's a loony. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Charlie, please. Don't pretend you've never heard my voice, Charlie, though it was always filtered through your mother and grandmother. When you came forward in your 9th year; you loved the smiles on their faces, but your heart proved to be such rocky soil, Charlie. Your friends called you sissy, and you just caved in. You were always very prideful, Charlie, even as a kid. All right, come on. What's your game, pal, huh? You work for Deville or not? No, I don't work for Deville, nor does Deville work for me. He was outside the prison yesterday when I was released You used the wrong verb tense, Ric. I wasn't outside the jail yesterday. I am outside the jail now, even as we speak. The same way that I am on the street outside Deville's ofce. Tell Charlie how you saw me, "the bearded white guy. " I don't know what I saw, and I'm tired of playing 20-Questions. Who are you? III I'm Jesus. Chris t. Yeah, and I'm the Virgin Mary. That's it. That's it. I've had enough. Calm down. Calm down. What do you mean calm down?! It's obvious he's escaped from the local loony bin. You know, you're lucky my mother's not here. She wouldn't let anyone blaspheme, not even me. You're right, your mother's a very Godly woman and she prays for you to come to me every day, Charlie. Don't break your mother's heart, Charlie. Shut up! Just shut up! Give me your gun, Charlie. Give me your gun. Who is it? Wrong number. Chris, you've done a great job of restoring this hotel. It was Helen. If I had my way, I would have left it a ruin, a monument to God's cruelty. Do you think that's the way Timothy sees it? Anywhere he looked, he saw my love. I don't wanna talk about him. It's not true, Chris. You've been wanting to talk to me about him for years. You know, if you were who you say you are, I'd punch you square in the face. What happened? Our son was killed in the tsunami in 2004. That's terrible. How old was he? He was 22. $0 young. I don't think I could bear that. The only thing you can do is just remind yourself that the pain isn't real. Mimi spent time in a monastery where she was taught that all pain and suffering are illusions. Isn't that right, Mimi? Yes. Mimi, do you believe this pain you're feeling now is real? No. Isn't real. But you feel it. Only because I haven't achieved enlightenment yet. Mimi, I am Jesus, and I'll never tell you that you're not hurting when you really are. I don't deny your pain, and I'll never ignore it. I think it's better if pain is just an illusion because if I thought what I was feeling was real, I would kill myself. Hey, baby, you don't have to live like this, you know? You can always go back to rehab. Maybe she needs a reason to face reality. What do you know? I know pain. It breaks my heart. My hope for humankind was never pain, suffering, and death. It's Kamal, your supplier. He's running late because of the storm. Oh, and don't worry about the storm. It's going to hit further north along the coast. This is him. Will you still be here today? Couple hours? I can't wait a couple hours. I'm dying. Look, I know youre hurting, baby. Look-listen to me, you're halfway through detox now. If we stay the course we can start again. We can start again clean. I'm gonna die! You're not going to die! What's wrong, Mimi? He doesn't understand how badly I hurt. That's too bad because if he doesn't understand the depth of your pain, he'll never appreciate the height of your victory. What is victory? Your triumph over drugs. And more importantly, finally finding the peace and the security that you've sought after your whole life. Can I tell them about your life? Mimi was born in a tiny village. You could say that even from birth she was a victim of the drug trade. Her father worked in the poppy fields while her mother worked in the processing plants. They had no choice. We were so poor. You either worked the fields or you starved. But- they were good people. They loved me. They send me to school at the monastery so I would have a better life. You loved it there. Yes. It's wonderful. What happened? Mimi's father was wrongly accused by the drug lord of stealing. The only payment he would accept was Mimi. They dragged her out of the monastery and sold her to a Bangkok brothel. Don't tell them about it, please. I won't. We skip to Bruno? For Bruno, it was love at first sight. He couldn't bear to see you working there, so he bought you from the gangster. At first I wasn't sure what he was going to do. Whether he would be like the others. I belong to him. He can use me, beat me, put me on the street, but instead he freed me. And the drugs? Dealers usually hook their women so they can control em. Isn't that right, Bruno? Another word out of you, I put a bullet in your head. It's about time. Bruno wasn't to blame, not directly anyway. Call it insecurity. Bruno, Mimi never quite felt comfortable around your friends. They all look at me like I was some dumb Bai girl. When Bruno wasn't around, then they talk about my accent, the way I dress, the way I walk, everything. You thought you'd be happy if you were as sophisticated and worldly as they were. So when your friend Louise invited you to do heroin with her, you couldn't say no. You told yourself you couldn't get hooked the first time, especially if you snorted it. Louise was so smart and so happy, maybe you'd be too. But it didn't last. That hole in your heart, it remains. Stop romanticizing it. You think that helps? She's not an addict because of some deep phycological or spiritual need. She's an addict because she used heroin. It's that simple. It's an addictive drug, and once you start using it, you can't stop. That's why it's a multibillion-dollar business. Why did she take it in the rst place? Did you ever ask her? Are you blaming me? Do you blame yourself? No. That's good. Because even if Mimi had never met you, despair would have eventually driven her to drugs. Her environment was so corrupt. Did you know Ric was a twin? You mean there's two of them? Was. She died when they were just 18. She? He's got a chick twin? I guess his parents forgot which one to put the dress on. And Bruno, if he has his way, he's going to kill you. Is that true, Ricky boy? Are you gonna kill me? If there's any justice. Fortunately, Ric and I define justice differently. It's not my will that any of you die today. I came to give you life, life more abundantly. Tell that to my son. Chris, does your son still exist? Helen, does he? That pan of you that hears my voice knows deep inside that Timothy is in a much better and more glorious place, and one day you'll be reunited with him. That's why Chris despises you. Your small but lingering hope that one day you'll see Timothy again. It's an affront to him. He resents you for it. In his eyes you traded true pain and mourning for some self-comforting religious fantasy. In his eyes Timothy just blinked away, never to be again, no heaven, no hell, no nothing. But Chris, that's not a very emotionally satisfying kind of atheism, is it? You can't rage against a void because a void can't hear you. A void can't be hurt or punished. You needed someone. You needed something to direct all that anger at. You needed God. I'll direct it against you if you don't shut up! Chris, I wish that you believed half of what you once said you believed. Chris once was very publicly proud of being a man of faith. He could name it and claim it with the best of them, so revered as one of the company's moral compasses. One that- Oh, Chris had no problem marketing sub-prime mortgage packages. You knew they were bad from the beginning. That's nonsense! Nonsense! I had plenty of them in my own personal portfolio. You sold them all for a substantial prot before they collapsed. You used the prot to help buy this hotel. I thought! was a crook. It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Why don't you just leave the guy alone? Why don't you leave Bruno alone? Yeah! Why are you treating me like the bad guy? You know how many people his heroin kills every year? Yes, and I know every one of their names. So you should hate him as much as I do. Burl don't. Sadly, if he doesn't repent, I will be forced by that decision of his to judge him. But don't think that I take pleasure in that, I don't. So what are you saying? He can go to heaven? Yes, if he repents. I'd be thrilled. Well, count me out then because I ain't going anywhere where he's going except maybe to prison to visit him. Ric, can I ask you a question? Can I stop you? Is all this anger and hatred, is it going to bring your sister Michelle back? What happened to her? Overdose. Heroin. I'm sorry. That's rich coming from you. People like you killed her. So now you're going to kill him? If that's what it takes. - To do what? - To bring him to justice! Ric, you love that word justice. You don't know what it means. Justice has no place for illegal wire-taps, planted evidence, perjured testimony. Hey! I'm just trying to level the playing field here. Guys like Bruno have all the money they need to hire the best lawyers, buy half the judges and juries. If we didn't cut some corners, we wouldn't make case one. The ends don't justify the means. Says who?! You? Your way doesn't work. The meek didn't inherit the earth. They got chewed up and spit out. Is your way working, Ric? Has all your anger gotten you any peace? You haven't had one moment of peace since the day you walked in the door and found your sister Michelle like that. But it's not too late, Ric. Behold me. I stand at the door of your heart, and I knock. It's your supplier, again. This is him. Hello? Will you still be here today? But you still will be here today, right? Late r? All right. Not til later. I don't like this, Bruno. This whole thing's going south fast. I mean, the storm. Come on. Who is this guy? He knows too much. He's dangerous. I know. I know. He's the guy with the beard I saw outside of Deville's. He's not Jesus Christ. If you know what's good for you, you'll go over there and put a bullet in his head right now, right now. You Okay? Mimi? Mimi? I'm dying, Bruno. Got to help me. No, trust me. She can go into cardiac arrest. Trust me. Mimi, I know what you really want. This can maybe heal you for a couple of hours, but I can heal you for eternity. Which will it be? Eternity. How do you feel? Healed. Am I healed forever? Your body is healed, but not your soul. Can you heal that too? Yeah. And unlike what you learned at that monastery, I won't force you to suffer through a thousand lifetimes of war and sorrow and death. The work has already been done. Do you know howl died, Mimi, on the cross? Have you ever heard of that? Do you know what I did there? I sacrificed myself for your sins, for the sins of the world. I took it all upon myself. I paid the penalty so that you don't have to. Mimi, today, if you desire, you are free. What do I have to do? Believe in me. Trust me. I do. I know you do. I can see inside your heart. Mimi... Today you are my precious, precious daughter. You see, never give up hope. Bruno, I've been healed. I feel it. Oh, that's terrific. I know it's true. Oh, that's great, baby. That's great. Bruno. Listen- would you get me some coffee? - Sure. - Yeah? - Yeah. - Okay. You got a kitchen here, right? Yeah. Would you mind just, you know getting some coffee, some sandwiches? You know, we're gonna be here a couple hours more. Don't worry. I'll pay you. You know just treat us like any other guests who held you hostage. We need to talk. Yeah, everything's under control. Go with them, huh? Make sure she stays healed. III You still smiling, huh? Have a seat. You know, under normal circumstances, any man who messes with my wife's mind dies. But since you managed to calm her down, I'm gonna give you a pass this time. Bruno, what do you think just happened? Was it just words? Or did she really change? You never experienced firsthand the destruction that your product causes until Mimi. You are sorry, Bruno, but sorry isn't enough. What do you expect me to do? He's not gonna stop. I am ready to forgive you. The price is true repentance. This is my last deal. I'm getting out of this. That's good. You should walk away. But Bruno, is walking away going to make you clean? Did it work for you, Chris? You're comparing me to him now? I was a respectable businessman. He's a criminal. Yet, you walked away from your work. Why? Because I had enough. I was sick of the greed and materialism. Whose Chris? Society's or yours? Does it matter? I knew it was wrong and I left. Who told you it was wrong? No one, I just knew. No, you didn't, not until you walked in front of the wrong mirror, Chris. Timothy. What are you talking about? You loved being the moral compass of your company, but then Timothy gave his life to me and everything changed. His faith was so alive, so vibrant, so selfless that you knew deep inside you didn't really believe what he believed- that your God wasn't God at all, and that what you really worshiped was success. If I really worshiped success, why'd I throw it all away and come here, huh? It's the ultimate show of success, thumbing your nose at cut-throat corporate greed and coming here to sit on a beach in paradise, proving once and for all your moral superiority. Am I right? I'm not answering any more of your questions. Neither can I answer your question. Which is? "Why did my son die?" How much longer? I'm almost done. Tell me something. Are we in danger? You and your husband and Jesus are okay, but I'm worried about the policeman. I have to trust Jesus about him. He's not really Jesus. Yes, he is. Look at me. I'm healed! He says you know him too when you were 12. When I was 12... ... everything seemed possible, even a God who took an active interest in everything you did. You don't believe that any more? No, I don't. And even if I did, what difference does it make? Where do you go when the worst thing happens? I lost a son. I get it. Do you want something? Thank you. Can I untie him so I can give him something to eat? What do you say, Jesus? Can I trust him to behave himself? You know the answer to that question. You bet I do. If he wants something, give it to him there. Is that what it's gonna take to stop you? Tell him, Jesus. It was never my intention to kill him. I'd be more than happy if you had just walked away. Live and let live, Ric. But you're going to kill him now. No! Don't listen to him. I'm gonna let Ricky boy sit right there, tied to that chair as we go on our merry way. Knowing full well that Kamal will do it. It's not my responsibility what happens after we leave. Yes, Bruno, it is. What do you expect me to do? He's not gonna stop. Give yourself up. It's not fair. Is it fair that I had to leave heavenly glory to bear the punishment for your sins? No, it wasn't fair. But Bruno, sometimes love trumps fairness. Bruno, I've been waiting all your life for the moment when you would finally lay down the burden of all the sins that you've committed. It weighs so heavy on you, Bruno. Give that burden to me. I'll take it for you. I can't. I can't. I don't know why you went through all that trouble. I could have told you what he was gonna say. Don't say it. Say what? That I should do it. If I go with him, I could end up injail. Maybe you have to go to jail to be free. I love you. Then do it for me, please. I told you he wasn't gonna fall for your line. It's very hard to except the truth when you've been living a lie all your life. Sometimes it's easier just to die. Isn't that rig ht, Chris? I never lived a lie. But you are ready to die. One of the saddest things that I see is the way couples tear each other apart in anger and guilt instead of pulling together when they lose a child. I tried. But he built this little shrine to Tim, and he didn't let anybody else in, not even me. Helen, your marriage wasn't going to end in divorce. If you don't like the way we react to children's deaths, stop killing them! Are you going to tell her, or am I? III Chris was going to take his life today. He was going to wait for the storm to hit and then walk out into the waves and shoot himself. Is that true? You were gonna do that to me? I wasn't doing it to you. After everything that we've been through with Tim, you were gonna do that to me? I wasn't. That's so selfish. Just get off me! No, come on, Helen! Please! I talk to her. You want me to stop her? No. I didn't want to hurt her. I know. Why did Tim have to die? He died for you. Helen, are you okay? No. Everything I had is gone. But you have hope. Your son was a fine young man and loved me very much. His goal was to share me with the whole world. Then why'd you take him? Chris, you keep crediting me with his death, but that's not the case. I created a perfect world, paradise without death or disease, any of those things. Then I created man. I gave him a wondrous but very dangerous gift: free will. And soon paradise was lost and fell to murder, war, greed, pride, terrible things, all of which sprung from the heart of man. I didn't create one of them. But you let em happen? Yes. But you're not responsible? I gave you freewill. What a cop-out! If I sawa guy raping a girl in an alley, I could never live with myself if I didn't do something about it. But you're just fine with it? No. I cry a billion rears across the world every day. Then why don't you do anything about it? I did, 2,000 years ago on a wooden cross, and I continue today crying out into the hearts and the consciences of every man and every woman, the same way I'm crying out to you. Light has come into the world, but the oh-so-tragic reality is that men love the darkness. Ultimately, I take every bit of it and I turn it around for the benet of my Father's kingdom. How did my son's death benet your kingdom? By bringing you into it. Chris, Timothy knew that you didn't really believe in me. He became very concerned for your soul. The tsunami. When man fell in the Garden of Eden, the whole world fell with him. Disasters like the tsunami are all echoes of that initial cataclysm. But remember, I never let evil win. And so I'm here, answering the prayers of a wonderful young son. For his beloved father, that one day he would come into a relationship with me. New life in me. Bring him back, please. Chris, I can bring him back. But if you could see what he's seeing now, if you could feel what he's feeling, you wouldn't even dream of calling him back to this fallen world, not even for a second And I guarantee you, if you put your faith in me, you'll be reunited with Timothy forever... there. I will. I will. III So sorry I haven't been there for you. Can you forgive me? Only if you can forgive me. Thank you, Lord. It's nice to hear you call me Lord again. Don't lose it. I have so much in store for you both. Oh, now ain't that sweet? Yes, it is. I worry about you. Haven't you ever felt there was something missing in your life? Nothing he can offer me. Amen. Don't you find it odd to find yourself in agreement with Charlie? Not on that. Charlie Doles. Shut up! I don't need you reading back a list of my so-called sins. Let's just stick to the first man I killed: Dwayne Weiss. You were 15 years old. Yeah, and if you know that much, then you know the last words he spoke. "Please, God, don't. " He called me God. He wasn't referring to you. Oh, yeah? You sure about that? I was the only man in that room with the power to let him live or let him die. Isn't that what being God is all about? Having the power over life and death? Bruno used to be a great god until he got weak and started being merciful, letting people live who should have died. And that's why we're in this situation we're in now You're in this situation you are now because I wanted to give you another chance at salvation. Don't you worry about me. You worry about yourself. Don't Charlie. Put the gun down. No. I've had enough of you. You give me your gun. Give me your gun now. Now give me the bag. Didn't have to happen this way, Bruno. Yes, it did. I couldn't go through with the deal, Charlie. Those days are over. I'm going with him. You're crazy. You're gonna spend the rest of your life in jail. Maybe. But I don't think our Lord would lead us astray. Maybe I have to go to jail to be free. It would be a small price to pay. Your will be done. What happened to you, man? Ric- The moment has come. For what? For you to decide if you're going to follow my will to eternal life or your own to destruction. I think you know the answer. Would it affect your answer to know that Michelle is with me? Her tragic cause of death didn't mean that she wasn't saved Michelle accepted that for herself when she was Now she stands in the very presence of Father God himself. Her face glows with joy and contentment beyond comprehension. I want you to see her there. If you surrender to me and my will, you will spend eternity with her. Helen accepted me as a child. Today she was joined by Chris, Mimi, even Bruno. Michelle was killed by a heroin overdose, but I promise you hatred kills more people every year than heroin. And it's the hardest drug of all to kick. But I'll help you do it if you embrace my love. Never Sorry, Bruno. Are you gonna be okay? No, Mimi. I'm not gonna make it. Baby... I love you. I love you too. It's gonna be okay, Mimi. I'd rather die today and live with you forever than go on the way we were going. I'm happy- Bruno... III Don't worry, Bruno. I'll take care of her. Stay down, Caperna. I'm gonna send you to meet your sister. Ric. Hey. Great work, man. Thanks. You'll never believe this, but Bruno actually kept a notebook. Has everything in it. His suppliers, his customers, old corrupt ofcials in like a dozen different countries. It's gonna keep a lot of people busy for a very long time. Are you up to leading the team? It sounds like fun. I'm gonna have a lot of fun with this one. Ha, ha. You had a lot of fun with Bruno, too, but he came to me. So did Helen and Chris and Mimi. Everywhere they go, they'll spread my love and shine a cleansing light in your darkness. It's not over yet.
