 

                        [rooster crows] [indistinct radio chatter] [sirens wailing] [woman sobbing] [indistinct chatter, woman screaming] [indistinct radio charter] [Siren wailing] - You all right'! Ron. Arc you okay'! - [Sighs] How could somebody do something like this'? - Some gruesome stuff. - Yeah. And just one mwn away. Makes you wonder... What's next'? - Yeah. [indistinct chatter] - What is this'! At least tell how it's gonna work. - [Sighs] All you need to know- is the air will burn. - The air will burn'! [electric humming] - Trial number four, absolute perfection. Yes! Perfection! [laughing] Absolute perfection. [dog barking in the distance] - [screaming] - Pm gonna get you! [laughter and screaming] 'Nd! - Ron, do you have to get the kids all riled up right at bedtime? - No, I don't have to. I just wmlt w! [all gagglv] - Let's go, Family prayer. Cindy, Jason, come on. - [Sighs] - Ron. All right, Run, your turn. - I think we should have Cindy say it tonight. - You never say it anymore. - I will another time. - Dear God, thank You for everything in the world. Phase 'amp us safe. Please bless our blessings. We ask that You can watch over us, that we can bc a good Family. - Did you got what you nccdcd'? - What did I tell you about you and your questions? [engine turning over] All: With liberty and justice for all. - Very good, Rachel. All right, who can tell me what number President Thomas J effersun was'? - Oh, me. - I know! - Jason'? -18'? - No, Thomas Jefferson was number thwe' - Oh, yeah, that was my next guess. [laughter] [fire alarm ringing] - All right, children, show me you know what I0 do. Put the crayon down. Come on' If it was an emergency, you'd stay low and crawl. - Hey, Max, this one for real'? - Oh, it just went off again. Stupid thing. ' W Darin'.! Where's Penny'! - Out being a teenager! - Como look at this. - What'! I'll get it in the morning- - I ask you w do one thing. You kccp this place running while I take care of the important stuffl One thing! [clamor] [engine turning over] [sighs] [dial tone, number pad beeping] Cunningham, ifs David. Yeah, I gm your chock. Your investments about to pay off. Get Parker, be in Cokeville on the 15th. I-Icrc comes the biggie. - I-Icy, what's up'? - I got t0 figure this Out. I can't sit in there having everybody tell me they got all the answers, when every piece of scum just keeps giving me more questions. That body in the motel last week... Where are the answers for that guy'? - Lovc you, Dad. - That's just too much of a coincidence to just be a coincidence, Muse 1 love you too. Love yo u, Cinderella. [engine turning over, car beeping] - Penny, we're not leaving Forever. - Yeah, well, however long it is, it's gonna seem like forever. - It's gonna be an adventure. - Does it bother you that I'm going to help him'? - No, he's your brother. Yeah, I know. You should g0 help him, Maybe it could give you some time r0 think things through' - Look, Claudia, I- I'm sorry. I want us to be a close family. - Well, maybe you could start by saying family prayers with us again' It's all the cop stuff you see, isn't it'? - I just have a haul time saying those praying things when the world I live in is filled with' - Mum! - In a minute, honey! - Ifs already been about a million minutes. - We'll talk when I get back. - I hope so. - Lovc you, Dad. - That's just too much of a coincidence' [car door opens, closes] [engine turning over] - I forgot how prctty I: is hero. - This'll be where we make our mark. - It smells like somebody already made their mark. [cow moos] [birds chirping] The dump'! Rcally'! We pull into town, and the first place we hit is the dump'? - Cut him some slack, Penny. You know he's brilliant. Hc just nccds us to support him. - Oh, look, he found us an empty bottle, Yeah, he is brilliant. - Don't you think it's kind of Weird that he hasn't told us the deal? [indistinct chatter] - They're here. - David. - Hey, David! - Good to see you. - How you doing'? - You got here okay? - Oh, yeah. We're, uh, just excited to get going, - Yeah. Not long till you see what you bought into. - They gave you money'! [buttons clacking] - Come on, David, We're like kids at Christmas here. - I'll tell you what I am ready to let you in on. [sighs] I did it. I've proven mathematically how I can die and some back to life. - Than is just fanmstic. Ho's been working on that for hows. - Yeah, thafis really great, David. But, anyways, what's your big idea'? - Now, you're going w have 10 wait till tomorrow for the full business plan, but for today, herds just a taste. - We've good with mac. - You ready, Dorsie? - Yep. - [exhales sharply] You ready to see this, boys'? - Uh-huh. - Let's see it. - Ready'! Now! - Whoa! Whoa. - [screams] - The air will burn. - Whoa! - Now, just imagine that tines a billion, huh'! - So what, are we going in the firework business? - That's a good way of looking at it, boys. Fireworks is gonna take us into the brave new world, - I told you. He's one of the smartest guys I've ever known, - Did you see that'! We've going into the fireworks business. - All the way w the cop. - That cart thing part of the biggie'? - David, I got to tell you, I am excited' [chuckles] - Big day. - So what's with the painted window's? - I bet he's got to keep it cool for the fireworks. - Hey, thanks for everything. - Anytime. - Whcn's Dad get home'? - This aflcmoon. Arc you all ready for your test'? - Yep, for sure. - Oh, good, So you know all about Wyoming'! Okay, what is tho capital of Wyoming'! - E35)'- If Is W. - Jason. [car horn honks] - Got to go, Mom. - Love you. 7 Love you. Bo safe at schcwl! - Pull over right hero. This." This is the day we lead people imo the brave new world. Oux enforcer has been outfitted with five blast caps placed in cans filled whh gunpowder, aluminum dust, flour, and it will explode in the air like confetti. The gas will explode on a delayed fuse, which will ignite the particles in the air, and the air will burn. Walls will collapse, and everybody inside will immediately move as rcincarnatc to a world I preside ovcr. - Hold on. That walls collapse'? Who's inside'? - The chosen ones. The children of Cokeville Elementary School. - [chuckles] No, wally. What's the plan'! - This is a religious community. They'll do whatever it takes to get their children back. - No, really. What's the plan'! - This is the plan. - Blowing up little kids is the plan'! - It's a good plan. - 12-4 to base. - Go for bass. - Yeah, Nadcnc, anything going on'! - Well, with you two cops vutoftoxvn, I can finally get some work done around here. - [chuckles] 10-4, [school boll rings] - Como in! Como in! [indistinct shouting] - They're going back in. The biggids about to happen. - Daddy, what am you gonna do'! - You just do as y0u'rc told. You ready'! [Elm cocks] - David, docs this have anything to do whh when you were the town marshal here? - The air will burn. - I'll hc back in about an hour. [guns clam] - One mole mess-up, and F11 shoot you. - Hello. - Miss Cook, we're holding the school hostage. Don't push any alarms. Don't call for help. We have guns, and this is a bomb. I nccd just pull this trigger, and this building, xvith everybody inside of it, will be blown sky high. Try and hit me over the head or anything like that, and I will pull this trigger when I go down' Do I make myself clear, Miss Cook'? Slug'.! Got over hcrc. Gm over km'.! - Are you crazy? I can't believe you would do this to little kids! I am not going to do this. F Keys. Get out of here! [keys clatter] You're no daughter of mine, no daughter of mine! [clatter] - It was so tempting ma! Goldilocks set about helping herself. First she tried a spoonful from Papa Bear's great, big bowl. "Ow! " she yelled. "Too hot! [all exhaling sharply] Next, she tried a spoonful from Mama Beafs medium-sized bowl. "Bu, we cold." Finally, Goldilocks tried a spoonful from Baby Bear's tiny, linle~ What exactly are you doing hcrc'! - Quiet, lady. - You've got to be joking. This is my room. - No, this is my room. Now sit down and shut up. - Follow me. I have a surprise for you. - What kind of a surprise'? - Como and sec. - Is it a birthday? - Yeah. Come I0 room 4 for a special surprise in mum 4. Come on. - Carson, wait for Mommy! Sweetie, Mommy will be light back, okay'? - Good. Come right on in. Thank you. - Hi, Ashton. - Sit down. Hello, hello, hello. Thank you. Come right in. Come in. - What is this'! - Sit down, please. Hello, thank you. Wclcom c. Go to the back. Sit down. Be quiet. - Hi, Ben. - Hi, Gracie. - Do you know where Carson's class is? - Um, they might be in room 4. - Okay, let's go to mom 4. - How you doing, pal'! - [chuckles] [indistinct chatter] There's your friends. - Come in. - Oh, no, I've got w go. - No. Come in. - You may want t0 stay. We have a problem here. - What's going on'! [tires squealing, horn hunks] - Help me! Help! Help, please, somebody! Somebody, I nccd some help! Phase, phase, some' Please, I need to talk to a police officer! This is very important. - There's no officers here right now, but I can help you, - Please, you nccd to listen to mo! Something very bad is gonna happen if we don't talk to the police! No, listen w me. I need to talk to the police. What is wrong with you? Why won't you get me a police officer'? - Miss, what's the trouble? - Liston m mo. My dad has a bomb, and he's gonna blow up the school. If you don't believe me, come om to my van! - Hey, we didn't know Whfll he was gonna do! - He's guns crazy! He used to be real smart, - Tina'! [indistinct chatter] - Thcsc arc all mine. Missiles ahoy. - Herc I come. - Beep, beep, beep. [boy imitates explosion] [chatter continues] - What's going on here? - Arc you the principal'! - Yes, I'm the principal. What's going on here'? - This is what's going on here. - David Young'! - Just your old town marshal here for a friendly visit. Iamfioaxxufoaxxmvbamjaam, 'oamfoamfoamhamhamlaara. - Yes, sir. What is it you want'? - Bam, ham, 'cam, 'mm, 'om, ham, bamjsam. [chatter continues] . 5mm up! I am sick and tired of all this noise! This is the most important day of my life, of our lives! So shut up and let me focus. Md gm mo same spam'.! [indistinct whispering] 1 xvant you to go back to your office. Call the authorities. Tell them I want S2 million for each child. Tell them I'm prepared to stay here for L611 days, if necessary. It might take Congress mat long to raise all than money. And ifyowrc not back in I5 minutes... [Elm cocks] Fm gonna start shooting. - [whispering] Shooting, - Ono by one. Anybody runs ma,' sham avid. - [sobbing] - Listen, kids, do as yowrc told. Keep quiet. Everything will bc all right. - Max. ifs gonna be a brave new world. - [whispering] Max, the brave new world is basically the idea of reincarnation' - Hey! - Let the authorities know... - Kids, this is an experience you'll all tell your children and your grandchildren all about. So let's get out some paper and crayons, and it'll all be nicc in hcrc. - Nadene, there's a mad man here at the elementary school. He's gut a- - We know. - We've been notified. - How could you know"? - Teachers, we need each of you to count up how many children you each have from each of your classrooms, Yrs? - You're not supposed to say the same word so many times in a sentence. "Each" You said "each" three times in the same sentence. [birds chirping] - I have 1S. - H). - 14. -ls. - That's 98. - That's right. - Base to 12-4. Base to 12-4'? Ron, we have a situation down at the elementary school. Base to 12-4. - Hey, mister, I was looking at your guns. Pretty cool guns, but why didn't you got an AK-477 - AK-477 That would be illegal. - How long do you plan on being hm for'? - I don't know. Two days, three, ten'? - Excuse me, mahm. Um, I lcfi my baby in the car, am m m go om am gm 'nu. - You left your baby in the car'? - I know; I know. I thought I was gonna bejust a second. - Lc: mo roll you something. You ncvcr lcavc a child like that. - Please,just let me g0 get her, and I'1l bring her fightback in here. I prOmiSC. - You're not going anywhere. - Arc you a mother'? Because if you were, you would unders- - Sit down, - Please, jus1 can we jus1 talk and- - Sit down! - Like a brave new world- - Okay, all right - He told us we were gonna start a fireworks business. - Nadene, you better start calling some parents- [overlapping shaming] [phone rings] - QM! [gaSp s] [phone rings] - QM! - Glenna, the kids are in trouble. - What kind oftroublc'! [groans] - She has no one 10 take care of her, - I don't even think she has a kid in the car. - Excuse me again. I, uh... Twas just thinking, maybe you could send somebody else to go get her'? - No. - Okay, well, then could you just go get her? Please'? She's my baby. [sighs] Thank you. It's a gold sedan, and ifs parked in the drop-off, and she's in a car scat. - Hey! - Shh. - I want you to stack some tables and chairs and make a barricade so nobody can g0 through there. - Why sank wcjust shut the door'! - 'Cause the bathrooms right thcrc. Kids. Bathroom. - Nadene, I've got to get a truck over there right now. You bane: let the clergy know too. [phones ringing, panicked charter] [phone rings] - QM! At our school'? . [whimpvfi] - Oh, it's all right. It's okay, it's okay. Come here. Go: that off. You cum with m'?! Bigjump. Come on. [groans] Your mommy was bad. - Vcrlcnc. Pvc read about this kind of' thing. If he sums to sweat, that's when we're in real trouble. - Wc sank just sit hcrc. We've got to do something. - Oh. Give hcr m mo. Oh, sweetie. Am you all right? - Mm-hmm. - You're okay. Fm sorry I left you. - [Sighs] . [rcnchcs] ' MP Young? The children are getting sick from the smell of gas. Can we take it out of here? Can we at least open the windows'? Look, this could cause you real trouble as more and more of these kids get sick. At least for now, they're doing what they're rold, but ifthcy all get sick. - Do it. But listen, don't you try nothing. Thcsc children arc precious. P11 Only shoot them with 21.22. This is 21,45. This is for tho teachers. Your lives don't mean a thing to mo. And your principaFs got one minute to get back, or I start shooting. - The way he's got this bomb triggered, I don't know what to do. - What do you think he wants'! - I don't know what he wants. I don't know- if he knows what he w-ants. One minute he's talking about wanting money. The next he's ranting about this bomb creating his brave new world. - Whafls that'! - Ben said ifs something to do with reincarnafion. Gm to go. Tm hm! Tm hm'.! I told them. [breathing heavily] Now wh at'! [gun uncocks] Now the White House. [running footsteps departing] - Base to 12-4. - Go for 12-4. - Ron, we have a situation down at the elementary school. How far out are you'! - About two hours. What kind of situation'? - Some lunatic has taken over the school. [engine revs] - The elementary? - He's demanding a ransom. That's all we know. - Arc my kids in thcrc'! - Nadene, the FBI's on the line. - Nadene! - Gm to go. - Oh. C 'menu um much my Gs. [sivcn Wailing] - [imitating engine rowing] [imitating crash] [imitating engine revving] [imitating crash] - I hope we're not gonna have any tmllblB. - Your breath smells like Peaches. - Well, I haven't been eating any. - Peaches is my dog. - Hey, kids, kids, We're going 10 play a game. Kids, hey. - [sniffs] - Come on, sweetie. - I'm gonna make a square, a magic square. - Whafls a magic square? - W hell's lhat? And no one is allowed inside this magic square except Mr' Young. - [clears throat] - And Doris. Back up, guys, Give me some room' Back up. Give me some room. Can you give me some help? Okay. - M1. Robbins, what happens if somebody goes inside the magic square'! - Then, uh... They're out of the gamc. [tape scraping] Okay, let's get a desk for fvir. Young to sit on. [sivcn Wailing] - Oh, yeah, everyone will know... Have you guys been on TV before'! You will now. . My, lady'! Is this your first time kidnapping helpless, little children? - Yeah, it's my first. But David... Oh." he has lots of' great ideas. - Even better ones than this'? - Yeah'! - But why are you doing this? - Well, my brother is really sick in a hospital, so we're gonna send them money so they'll keep taking care of him so he can get better, so he cm ' F our v. SQHS - Du um kw m emu five sebum. Stay back. The police will be hcrc shortly. Stay back. It will only hum your children to push past barricades and g0 into the school. - Teacher, arc we going m dic'! - We can! die. We've just ma: kids. - I'll be right back, loves. MY- Young? Mr. Young, I have a proposition for you. You can kccp mo. You can shoot me to make your point. Fm fine with that. But would you please let the children g0'? I'll do whatever it takes t0 keep them safe, N11". Young. MY- Young? - The best thing you can do for these kids, lady, is six down and shut up. How can a genius think around hcrc'! What do you wam? Back off, little man! - Come on, Jason. - Oh, you're all sweaty. - Help mc gm this off. [boy sneezes, woman gasps] - The commissioner's hcrc. - Nadene. - Hey. - Now, I understand this guy Wants money. Fm ready to write him out a chock. How much does he rant?! - $200 million. ' 53)' again'! - $200 million. - For those kids, P11 sell my entire ranch if 1 have to, but... I don't have- - I know. I know. The wholc town couldn't. - Hey, Billy, watch this. [both chuckle] Magic foot in the magic square. ' [giggles] - Do you think this is funny'! Do you think this is a game'! Go ahead and try it again. We'll see who wins the game. T'? 'Wig man'.! Tr)' in! - Hey, hey, he d0esn't understand. He's just a little kid. - Shh, kccp it down. - Hey. - Shh. - It's all right, sweetheart. - I.'. I got to got out of hcrc for a minute. - Oh. - I'm gonna put this on you. You can only move your hand about this far. . Okay- - Don't oven scratch your nosc. When I come back, this is all gonna end. - Mrs. Young, do you have children'? A child kind of opens up your ability LO care for others, don't you think'! - Oh, it sure did for me. - Would you want your child subjected w this kind of tenor? - [Sighs] - I can toll you're a good person. This wasn't your idea, was it'? - Sometimes you just got to do what it takes to keep the peace. - [Sighs] This is keeping the peace'? - David is a visionary. Ho's brilliant. He figured out 'with a calculator how to die and then come alive again. - Amazing. - [chuckles] - What a mind. - Okay, then. So don't get critical. - Forgive mo. 1 think it's the gasoline. I... Fvc got just such a headache. - Oh, me too. [chuckles] I? [hi gh-pimhcd ringing] [all coughing] - Children, go! Children, stay 10w. Gel UP! [all Shouting] [children coughing] - Stay away from tho flames! Kids, kids, come to me! - Children, go! [woman screaming] [children scream] - Gm down! Oct down! Go! (30! - [coughing] - I can get you out. Kids, some over here! Stay away from the flames! [explosions popping, glass brcaking] - Go, go! - Kids, get away from the building! Run! - Hey, look, when I genhare- - it went off. The bomb went of'?! - 12-4 w base! 12-4 w base! Nadcnc, you got to talk to mo! How could You lcr this happen'? 'Cause You're not even there. [all shouting frantically] ' WW, hurry, get out. [cxplosionS popping] [sirens wailing] [helicopter blades whirring overhead] [cxplosionS popping] Are there any children left in the room'? If there axe any kids in the room, come 10 me, Kids, follow my voice. Oh, come on. - Gather on the far lawn! On the south lawn! [cxplosionS popping] IgunshoL thud] [sivcn Wailing] [birds chirping] [siren xvailing on TV] - Jase, you doing okay'! Honey, do you want anything to cat at all'? Cindy's doing okay, but he isn't coming out of' it. He just keeps watching that cop show over and oxfer. - Give him some time. - Ron, he needs help. [sivcns wailing on TV] - I'll sec what I can setup. It's my fault. No child should be subjected to that kind of terror. [Wplosion] I shoulcPvc hccn them to protcct them. [Wplosion] Where was I'! - Try it, big man! [Wplosion] - [Sighs] - Mr' Hanley'! Arc you all right'! - He's been in there a long time. - Almost tvwo hours. - Should I be worricd'! [door opens] - Mr' Hanley'! - How's he doing'! - Well, that's a good question. I think you and Jason need to sit down and have a nice, long talk. - Yeah, youke right. He's a good doctor. Why don't you g0 play for a minute'! P11 gmb your mom, and then we'll talk, okay'? . Okay- - Hey. we did K go? - Oh, it wont great. I guess there's a few things he hasn't been telling us, so I think it's time we have a talk. - Ron, don't interrogate him like he's a suspect. Jase, the doctor said that we should talk. Do you know why he said that'! Don't you want to talk to us'! - Ws mi Fm scared. - Don't be scared, honey. You can tell us anyxhing. - It's about that day with the mean guy. . Okay- Well, the thing is, Whfll I didnfi tell you was that there were other people in the mom with us' - You moan the teachers'? What other people'? - The ones all in white. One was a lady. She stood by mo. She said that what dqose people were doing was very bad and that the bomb was gonna g0 off. She said if I stood by the xvindow, everything would be okay, - So she helped you'! - Did shc tell you hcr name'? - But I mink it was Grandma Meisler. - Jase, Grandma Meister lives in Pinedale. She wasn't at your school that day. Okay. - [whispering indistinclly] That's Grandma Mcistcr. - That's hcr. - That's the lady you saw? - That's my angel. - I Llfink Lhafsjusttoo much of a coincidence to be a coincidmcc. - J ass, why didn't you tell us about this before? - 'Cause I knew you wouldn't believe me. - [Sighs] [dog barking in the distance] - What do you think'! - You don't want to know what I think. - Say it. - [Sighs] Fm just not buying his angel story. I think it's his COping mechanism. - You don't believe your own son'? - You know how I think. I need proof. - So you treat your son like a criminal? - That's how it works. I'm trained that way. - Well, then go find your proof. Maybe Jason wasn't the only one. You're thc sheriffs investigator. Look into it. . Okay- I'll pay some visits around xown, see what 1 can come up with. Anything at all'! Anything out of the ordinary'? - Well, the first thing I'd tell you is the fact that the fire alarms went off for no mason a couple of Limes in the days j ust before the bombing. [five alarm ringing] Those alarms prepared the kids in a big way. They learned t0 get out of a room quickly, to stay 10w, to crawl iflhey needed to find air, but nobody knows why the alarms were going off or why now they've just stopped. And then I'd look at that business about the magic square, If Ben hadn't been prompted to put that down, there would've been kids right up next to the bumb when it went off. They'd have ended up just like Doris. - But don't you think that's just coincidences? - Maybe. But I don't think so. - Then I saw Rich Haskell, He's the bomb expert. - Hanlcy, when mm bomb wcm off, there shouldn't have been any survivors, but then there xvasflt near as big an explosion as there shoulcfve been. One big factor was that the meathead just happened to choose a milk jug as the conmincno put rho gas in. A container that leaked. Now, the fumes that it gave off got them tu open the windows. - Can we at least open the windows'! - Do it. - Ho 1c! them keep the dams open. - 'Cause the bathrooms right thcrc. - Those openings created a vent for the blast. Also, the leaking gas ran down into a can that he had filled with aluminum particles and flour. They were designed to shoot into the air on fire, creating an even bigger explosion. It would've been like the air was on fire. - Now, - But with it wet, it cou1dn't happen. Soc, those things I understand, but there were just too many things that I cannot explain, like only two of the five blasting caps went off. The wires than were set 10 nigger the other blasnhg caps were cut. They weren't pulled out, they weren': ripped, but cleanly cup like snipped with wire cutters. If those wires had been connected, it wouldWc kill it xvoulcfve killed everyone in the room. And then... [explosion] The cartridges that he had rigged inside the bomb svancd exploding. Now, youtcll mo. How did the walls get all packed up and damaged without shrapnel going through people? [cxplosionS popping] It doesn't make scnsc. It doesn't make scnsc. - He wasn't ma: Stupid. Hc wasn't ma: Stupid. I don't think he would have picked a miLk jug that leaked. I think whoever or whatever cut those wires made the milk j ug leak. - 'Nell, we can think a lot of things, but hero's a fact. In hisjoumal, the guy bragged about how many times he assembled the bomb, tested it, and every time it worked examly the way he planned, except this time. - What do you make of that? - [Sighs] Unexplainable things happen all the time, I don't know. Maybe the guy just messed up this time. - And cut his own wires'! - Well, that's just the bomb side of' it. Then there's the other side of it... The Walkers. - Katie, can you tell Mr. Hartley xvhat you told me'? Katie, hc wants to hear from you. - Well, I was coloring, and then when I looked up, there was this lady standing there. She was all in whim. Shc told mc that she loved me and that my brother would come and get me and cvcryming would he okay. And then I looked down for a second. And when I looked back up, she was gone' Then my brother came and took me over by the window. - When the bomb went eff, she was righx there to get out. [all shouting frantically] - And her sister claims that she saw something LOO. - I was coloring, and when I looked up, I saw angels all around where the tape on xhe floor was, The angel people, they stayed between us and the bad guy. Onc was a lady, and shc stood by mo. - Rachel, what did the lady look like? - It was like a white dress. - What kind of hair'! - Like yours but more Curly. - But my same color'! Excuse mc a minute. Look at this. - That's hcr. That's my angel. - Except without the glasses. - That's my mother, Mr, Hanlcy. She died when I was 15. Oh, she musfve come back to watch over them. - And them wcrc othcvs. [all summing] The Soxensen girl said a woman helped her out oflhe room - We got to get out ofhew! - Come an! - Go, kids, go! - Then when I got out the door, the lady xvas gone. [all summing] - Jennie later identified the woman as her aunt who died ncn years ago. - So again it was an ancestor'? - [Sighs] Yeah. What's that about'! - Who else'? 'Who else would care more about us than our own family'? Can't you see'? You can't see xvhafs going on here'? - I don't know what I sec. - You arc such a cop. Every adult and every child made it out of that explosion alive, and you haven't the humility r0 thank God for blessing us. [ball bouncing] - Hey, bud. Come hem a minutc. You okay'! Did wc wake you'! Good. There's something else I wam r0 talk to you about. Jasc, was mm anyxhing clsc that maybe you didn't ml] us'! Anything at all'! It would really help your dad if you could think of something. - Yeah, I know something clsc. Li ghtbulbs. Right before the bomb went off', lots of angels came down through the ceiling. They looked like lightbulbs. - Lightbulbs. You mean like this'! - Uh-uh. Likc that, There was an angel for everybody' They were holding hands in a circle around the bomb. Then when the bomb happened, they went fast up into the ceiling. - This guy had police training. He knew what he was doing with that bomb, but it didn't work like it was designed. It shouldwe gone out, but instead it went straight up through the ceiling. - Why don't you go on upsnairs, okay, honey? I'l1 be there in a minute. There is no way Jason coulnfve known that. - There's something else that I learned that happened that day. - [chuckles] - Do you think this is funny'! Do you think this is a game'! Go ahead and try it again. We'll see who wins this game. - You want m talk miracles'! Fl] tell you a miracle. - Try it, big man! Tr)' in! - Thar mc and every other officcr just happened to be out of town that day, because I know that if 1 would've been there, I would've stormed into that room with so much hatred for that man. I probably xvollldHze gotten myself and everyone else killed. But without me and the other cops, there was a chance for it to g0 another way. - Hey, he doesn't understand. He's jusx a little kid. Hey. - Let's say a prayer. Pass it on. - Let's say a prayer. Pass it on. - Let's say a prayer. - Lot's say a prayer. - Allyson, you say it. - Why mo'? - Because you're the smartest in the class. - Dear God, we need Your help today, especially if the bomb goes 01f - Most every child prayed sometime during the crisis... Not because somebody told them 10.'. But because they wanted to. And they weren't the only ones. [Phone blaring] - Plcasc, God, please. - They won't allow us to be on the elementary school grounds, but we can do SOmCthing right hero. I may get fired for doing this, but if anyone wants to, please join mc in praycr. - The cntirc high school got together and knelt in prayer. Praying for their little brothers and sisters, their moms and their dads. Prayers for their safety were going on, not just throughout the town. 12-4 w base! Nadcnc, you got to talk to mo! But as the news spread, throughout the whole country. - The man and his wife have herded the entire student burly into one classroom. They arc demanding a ransom, and we understand that that ransom is $2 million for each child held' The nearest hospital is in Montpelier, Idaho, which is about 30 miles away. That hospital and others arc gearing up for what could be a disaster of epic proportions. - Maybe cvcn the world. [man speaking Spanish on TV] Dear God. - Even then you couldn't bring yourself to pray? . [sniffiei] It'd ncvcr worked before. Why should it then'? - Hey. It's all right, sweetheart. - We pray that we will all be safe and that cvcryonc will live. We pray in J esus's name. Amen, all: Amen. - I gm to get um of here for a minute. - But if you ask mo, the most amazing thing. Is that even though these kids and these teachers xere terrorized for two hours by a raving lunatic... So many of them turned and went back into that room to... make sure that everybody was out. They went into a room that was on fir: that they could barely breathe in, with a madman and his guns and cartridges exploding everywhere, trying w help othcvs. - [sobbing] - You're gonna be okay. Come on. - [coughing] Is there anyone still in here'? - Me. - [gasps] Cindy. Oh, Out the window. Go, g0. Ben'!? - And one of them that was saved a1 the end was our Cindy. - I got her. I got her. - Take her! - I gather. ' Cmdy, run! Go! Go! Go! - [sobbing] Oh, my babies. Oh, my goodness. - Where's Daddy'! - Ron, it's all right in from of you. - I sec it. But I don't [sighs] Hop out, bud. - I'm staying with Dad. - Well, I'm not staying. I'm going in, [car door opens] [indistinct chatter] - We'll meet you right here after class, okay? - Be good. - Bye, bud. Hi. Hey. Hi. What'! - I shouldn't bc hero. I thought I could do this for Jase, but I can't. Fve got so much hatred for those people, and I know they're dead, and I'm glad they're dead. - Ron, I love you. You're thc greatest man I know", but I will not raise our children seeing you like this. You had bettex figure out what's real in [his world and what's not, or you could lose us. - Hey, come on, you guys. Lefls g0 to class' - It's only natural that our faith is tested when bad things happen, to ask ourselves, if God is in control, thcn why didn't Hc slop this'! Why did He let those people enter the school'? Why did He let any of our innocent ones get hurt? And not just the children and xhose in room 4' We've all been wounded because those we love the most have been hurt. And because we're human, it's only natural that we have feelings of hatred towards those that did this, but hatred toward them is a dcad-endjourney. Hatred inwards them is like drinking a poison and hoping it will kill your enemies. It doesn't work, What will work, what will save us from a lifetime of hatred and loathing is the same thing that saved our children in that room... Prayer. We've all wimessed the miracle ofhow prayer can save lives' Now let's let it heal our hearts. [children Singing indistinctly in xhe distance] All: u Pray He Ls there u u Speak u n He ix listening u n You are Hi: child u n His love n n NOW surrounds M n n He hears your prayers n u He loves the children : H Ofsucrh is the kingdom H n The ldngdvm of Heaven n u Heavenly Father : n m m really thaw? n n And do You hear and ansmv-er every chifdkpngver? I u Some say (hm Heaven is far away 1 u But 1 feel it cluxe around me ax I pray n Heavenilm' F either, I remember now n - Dear God, please forgive me. A: u Something that Jesus mid his disciples long ago a n Sufler the children m came w me n : Father, in prayer I'm coming now to Thee I I - I'm so sorry. Can you forgive mo'? Let's g0 find your mom, okay'! Come on. All." u Father, in prayer I'm coming now ta Thee u [music swells] Nu - We knew that a miracle had happened, and there was a spirit about the town. We loved each other. It was a gift, and we knew it. - We know that there are people on the other side who care. We know we're not alone. We know. - I know I'm here for a reason, and it's my children and my husband. And I was saved that day to be a mother to them and to teach them that not everyone in this world is good, but that we can forgive and that we can move on. - Doris Young told us that... - Kids, this is an experience you'll all tell your children and your grandchildren all about. - And she was right. I will tell my children and my grandchildren over and over of the miracles of that day and that prayers are answered. - I know that He protected us that day. He sent His angels to protect us, and I'm not ashamed to be a voice of that - Before I go to bed at night, I check on my four children. They are miracles to me. They wouldn't be here if I wasn't here.
