 

                        1 - Hello, my baby. Hello, my honey Hello, my Ragtime girl Send me a kiss by wire Baby, my heart's on fire If you refuse me, honey, you'll lose me Then you'll be left alone Baby, telephone, tell my I'm your own. La-la, la-la la la-lah, la-la, la-la la la-lah This is usually where the frog goes back in the box. La-la, la-la la la-lah, la-la, la-la la la-lah - Uh, use your words. (smack and groan of pain) Let me guess, public school? - You're a funny guy. - Really? I haven't heard you laugh yet, but hey, I get, I mean, if Pearl doesn't get his case, Pearl doesn't make his deal, and, well, Pearl cuts off your thumbs. (smacking and groan of pain) - I keep telling you, bring your boss down here and I'll talk. - For the last time, Pearl's not talking to you. You're dealing with me. Where's the case? - Rrrribit. - Pauly, let's try the JC. - What's the JC? Ah, I get it, an attempt at humor. Get you. - I'm going to count to three. - Don't strain yourself. - One. - Is that Indian food? Two. Three. (cellphone buzzing) - I'd just let that go to voicemail. (pounding and clattering) Dude! Brand new phone, two-year contract! (screaming) Nailed it. - We've got all night, Grady. - No, you've had all night, big guy. Your boss is probably outside that door right now listening to you guys fail all over the upholstery. Now I hear that he doesn't deal with disappointment very well. Makes him a little knife happy. - Last chance, Grady! Where's the money?! - La-la, la-la la, I'll only tell Pearl. I'll only tell Pearl. So do what you've got to do. Come on, your thumbs. (scream of anger) La-la, la-la la, la-la, la-la la, la-la (smacking) - Yeah, it's me. We need Pearl down here. Yeah, I know. Just do it. (door opens) This is Grady. - Losing our touch? - Shut up! - So you're the joker who thinks he can take all my stuff and just make it disappear. - Ta-da! - Let me tell you something about me a lot of people down know. I can be quite a nice man. I do have a few layers. Like, I'm a very keen cobbler. You know what that is? - A baked, fruity thing. - It's a shoemaker. I like making shoes. I'm also a keen scrapbooker. - Be sure to add that to your online dating profile. - But I am anal about one thing and that is balance. - You must make a good cobber. - The way I see it, me and you have got a balance problem, Mr. Grady. You took my stuff, which gives you two options, number one, you give it back with a bit extra, a finger, an ear, or you don't, and I'll extract the rest of your digits. Now, you've been through a lot today, a lot of pain. Why don't you do yourself a favor, give it back. What you smiling at? - Two things. First it's just Grady. - The second? - You'd be amazed at how much pain a man can take when he can't feel it. (screaming) (gunshots) - What are you? - Don't be a drama queen. - We tortured you. - And I'm sure that you and Paulie are usually very, very good at your jobs but listen, trust me, it's not you, it's me. - You? - Yeah, you with bow tie, I'm talking to you. I mean, really mad skills. - Hey! Who the hell are you? What the hell was that? Stop! Talking! - You're him. You're the Midnight- - Shh, don't say it. Trust me, it's better this way. What else do you know about me? (screaming) - You work for Ezekiel! - What? Do you know , Ezekiel always says that there's bad and then there's me. You see, your boss over, there Pearl, he was very, very bad. I'm worse. - You gonna kill us? - Not this time. You and the rest of your people have one week to close up shop and go far, far away. If you don't... I'm sorry, I'm not very good at mime. - You've made your point. - Wait! How were you able to do that? - Good genes. (door slamming) - Too long. It's taking too long. It didn't work. Pearl knows you wouldn't move on him unless you had all of us behind you. If he figured your boy out, we're talking war on the streets. - Well, I say bring it. The man's out of control. He's gotta go. - He's crazy, frigging nuts. Heard he whacked his own wife. - I heard he fed her to dogs. - It was wolves. - I heard he ate her himself. Did no one else hear that? (phone ringing) - Let's not start battening down the hatches just yet. - Grady? - It's over. Pearl's dead. - You sure it's Pearl? We can't afford any mistakes. - He fit our description to the T. - It was him. - How did he die? - Badly. - Gentlemen, there will be no war tonight. Good work, Grady. Now go have some fun. (water running) (water running) (knocking) - Addie. - I guess you know already. Hot water heater's busted. We're all taking cold showers this morning. - Right, yes, freezing. - Don't worry, I'll have it fixed by this afternoon. - You know it's rude to stare. - Sorry, I never see you with no shirt on. - Car accident when I was a kid. They had to use the Jaws of Life to get me out. It's a bit difficult to talk about, actually, Eddie. My mother, she was an artist. We had just bought her an easel when we were hit by a car. Both legs when straight through her chest, punctured her heart. She bled out in front of me. The last thing she ever said to me was, "Son, tell them I died for my art." Seriously? (laughter) - You had me going there. - Oh, please, I never even knew my mom. No, the bitch left me in an alleyway to die as a baby. Yeah, just around the corner from the police station. She couldn't even be bothered to take the last few steps. Anything else? - No, sir, you have a good day. (door slamming) (clock chiming) - Grady, welcome. - Thank you, Dom. - Breakfast? - No. - So I've been told you're ready to go back to work. All healed. - Nothing clicks when I move it. - You should be pleased to know, Pearl's associates have vanished. His businesses have shuttered all their windows. You made quite an impression on them, it seems. - They made a few on me. I call us even. - You know what this means? - It means my hair looks good on a telephoto lens. And the FBI's intel on me is alarmingly accurate. - Right down to that nickname of yours. - How'd they get all this? - You've been betrayed. Four of my own have turned informant. Our people talking to the other side, and as you can see, they've been quite chatty. This assignment is about our survival, plain and simple. No messages, no theatrics, just make this right for me. - Anything else? - Do it tonight. The U.S. Marshals Service is taking them into protective custody tomorrow. The first name will arrive by text. When it's done, confirm the hit. I'll give you the next name. And use this phone only, in case anything happens- Given the gravity of the situation, you might want to consider tempering that arrogance of yours. - These targets are your friends, Grady. - Nope, these targets are my targets. - I'm guesses that sounded better in your head. - Yes, it did. I can handle anything. - Then handle this. (cellphone chiming) (airplane engine roaring) - Long night? - Hot date. - Protection? - I'm covered. - I hear this one doesn't dull the sensation. - You don't say? - Okay, that was nice. (door chiming) - Dang it. - Tuck that in better. (door chiming) (water running) - Well, woo! - Did you fall in? - I was just giving the plumbing a stress test. Come on partner, relax, we've go time, come on. You seem tense. - Do I? - Are you tense? - Am I? - What do you got, first night in the field jitters? - I prefer the office. - There's an easy trick to handle the nerves. I think it's called associative or some shit. See, like, with me, I'm a foodie. So, like, whenever things get tough, I like to think about getting this nice, flank steak and mashed potatoes they serve at this joint near my place. - That's so not what a foodie is. - Then what's a foodie? - Not someone who goes to the same joint over and over. You're more of a chow hound. - Look, all I'm saying is that food is my thing. And it helps calm my nerves. So just think about something that's important to you. Think about Hayley. Or kittens, cats, you like cats? - I do like cats. (video game playing) (knocking) - Not now, come back later! (knocking) Oh, my God, is that you Mr. Kapadia? Is the TV too loud again? How about I fix it for you? (volume of games increases) (crashing) Oh, my God, Grady, you just scared me half to death. Close my fucking door, dude. My neighbor's dog's gonna come in here and shit all over the floor again. I swear to God, next time that fucker comes in here, I'm going to set it on fire. What the hell are you going here, man? I didn't hear anything from Z. What do you need a hack or something? Oh, fuck yeah. - You win? - No, idiot. I just spiked this motherfucker that was taking shit to me online the other day. (laughing) He's gonna be, like, where'd all the money in my checking account go? Oh, shit, what are you doing here, man? Do you need a beverage or something? - No. You alone? - You know me, doing my thing, livin' large. (gunshots) - [robotic voice] You're dead, asshole. (laughter) (dog barking) (cellphone chiming) - (muffled) Fuck you. - [Robotic Female Voice] - The locks have been administered. - Wow, he is really hot. - Okay, okay, you don't need that. Who are you people? (inaudible) Just let her go, we're paramedics, see? Look, see, look. - See, see. - Can you hear me? What year is it? - I know what fucking year it is! What did you do to me? - Just put the gun down and we'll talk. - I asked you a question! (punching) (heavy breathing) This is impossible. You called the cops? - No, no, we didn't. No, we didn't. You don't have to take me with you. You can't just leave! (sirens approaching) - In the car. (sirens approaching) (tires squealing) Hand over the belt. Alexandra? - Yeah, how you doing? - I'm having a lovely evening. Thank you very much. How about you? - I'm good. I'm a bit nervous, this is my first night -- - Not a real question. Let me explain to you how this works. You put your hands on the dashboard. You take your hands off the dashboard, and I will shoot you in the face. Do you understand? (liquid dripping) Please join me outside the vehicle. Now. Look, I don't expect you to understand, but I think I might be having a bit of freak out, and I need to ask your medical opinion on a few matters. - Okay, but in exchange, may I please not be shot in the face? - I will take that into consideration, yes. Now what the fuck is happening to me! Sorry, I didn't mean to scare you. Let me rephrase that. What the fuck is happening to me! - Sir, heroin can be a very disorienting drug. - Lady, listen, I didn't do any heroin. Miss, why are you in apartment anyway? - Well, my partner and I, we responded to an anonymous call about a drug overdose. Upon arrival, we found the man on the couch dead and you OD'd. - Hey, I said I didn't do any heroin. A ass load of caffeine pills. - Well, unless you tripped and fell into someone else's heroin stash and then passed out. I'm sorry, just tell me what hurts, and I will help you. - I have a extremely rare genetic condition where my body doesn't process sensations. I can't feel anything. - Well, you're talking about congenital insensitivity to pain, CIPA right? - No, no, listen to me. I'm talking about - yes, yes, CIPA. - I saw it on House once. - Oh, great, yeah, it's a great show. I'm sure it was a wonderful episode. Listen to me, I need to know what you've done to me. I need to know why I can suddenly now feel everything. - Wait? What? You can feel everything right now? I have no idea. Oh, my God, the Naloxone. - The what? - It's this drug that we use in emergency medicine. It's an opiate inhibitor and it jump starts your nervous system. I think it may have reset yours. - How the fuck to you reset a genetic disorder? - Naloxone must have a side effect for people with your condition. This is not my fault. You should be wearing a medical bracelet. - Okay, so now you're worried about being sued for malpractice. You fucking Americans. - Not if you'll willing to sign a waiver. - Listen, that drug the -- - Naloxone. - Yes, yes, yes, that one, is it permanent? - No. - How long does it last? - I don't know. - Tell me! - Until it wears off. - Ballpark! - A few hours, maybe. - Was there anyone else in the apartment when you got there? - No. - Well, someone set me up. Somebody knocked me out, staged the overdose, and then called you because they knew that you'd pump me full of your drug. - Well, that sounds really paranoid. You must know some really shitty people. - You have no idea. The dead man in the apartment, when you found me, do you know what killed him? Who's this? - It's my sister's kid. - Don't lie to me. - What's her name? - Fuck you. - Oh, is that a family name? Look Alexandra, I'm going to make you a deal. I have some errands I need to run, and I am running out of time. Now, the very nature of these errands, there's a certain risk to my physical health. I could use a doctor. You're a doctor. - EMT. - Same thing. - Huge difference. - You come with me, keep me in good health, and at the end of the night, I'll forget about you and her if you forget about me. What's it gonna be, Alexandra? - People call me Zan. - Zan? - Zan. - That's much better. Alexandra was a bit of a mouthful. (keypad beeping) (water splashing) (cackling) - Whoa, please don't do that, okay? - Yeah, I'll keep my fear for my life under control for you. - Thank you. - No problem. - Take your shirt off. - Excuse me? - You're going in. - Going in where? - You're going into the house. You're going to scope it out for me. - Why? - There is a man inside who's going to die. So, I either go in and start shooting, or you go in first and help me help the death toll to one. - Way to tie my hands. - Mm-hm. - What am I looking for? I need to know the number of security guards, the number of witnesses, and I need to know the location of my target inside the house. - Care to describe your target? - Trust me, you'll know him when you see him. Now, my Bluetooth synced with your phone. Okay, so you can talk me through everything that you see. - Bluetooth will go out of range if I don't have my phone on me. There's plenty of range. Your phone stays in the car. Nice try though. You have six missed calls from His Satanic Majesty. - Oh, God, that's my boss. Yeah, he sucks. He was the one who put me in the field tonight. God, I hate him so much right now. - Because everything that's happening this evening is his fault. Put your hair down. - Oh, come on. I put it up wet, and it's going to look stupid. - I need you to hide this. - I hope you're happy. - Now you're going to have to charm your way past the guard at the front door. - I don't know how to do that. - Sure you do. Come on. Look, it's either your tits or mine. - Why don't you show him yours? Maybe he's into that. - Think slutty thoughts. - Yeah, this is not happening. - Yes it is, now go back there and tell him you're with Amber or Tiffany or one of the Kardashians. They sent you here, and remember, you're a dirty, little tart here to get fucked up. - Yeah, I want it on the record I take offense to that. - Consider it on the record. - Private party. - Oh, well, my friend Amber told me about this awesome, bad-ass party and said I had to come check it out, because, you know, hashtag YOLO. - What does that mean? - She totally put my name on the list. - Not my list. - Oh, she said she did. - I'm sure she did. - His name's Nomack. Tell him Nomack wanted you to be there. - Nomack wanted me to be here. - Come on, sell it! Just make something up. Tell, him you do the balloon trick. - I do the balloon trick. - What's a balloon trick? - You know how some people make balloon animals? I can do that. With a condom. While it's still on. - Interesting. - Come on. - Oh, my God. I can't believe that worked. I had no idea what I was doing. - Zan, focus, tell me what you see. - House is empty. I'm pretty sure if you blow up a condom, it turns round. You can't really make a balloon animal out of that. Well, maybe a blowfish, but that's about it. What else is around? - Zan, this is your kidnapper speaking. Please get a hold of yourself. - Okay, sorry. - Hello? - Come on, honey, on your stomach. There you go. - Zan. Since you've now been silent for about 30 seconds, I'm going to go ahead and assume you're looking for a cellphone. Don't bother. Nomack confiscates them. Something about not wanting to end up in an internet video committing multiple felonies. - How thorough. - Keep moving. - Yep. - How many people do you see? - About a dozen, just one guy. The rest are girls. You're not going to kill him in front of them, are you? - Only if I have to. Now what's he doing? Zan, focus. What's he doing? - Cocaine off someone's ass. - Is he armed? Do you see a gun? - No, I don't see one. - All right, I need you to go out there and blend in. Make sure there are no other guards or anything else that can cause me a problem. - I can't go out there! - Why? - Because everyone's wearing a bikini. I will stand out. - So take your clothes off! What's the matter? You're not wearing any panties? - Okay, first of all, please don't every say panties ever again, and secondly, Of course I am, but they're cotton. - Well, avoid the pool! - I haven't shaved my legs in two days. - He won't even notice you. - Well, what is that supposed to mean? - It means he's drunk and stoned and doing coke off someone's ass. Will you just shut up and do it already? (laughter and chattering) - Hey. - What do you see? - Just him and the girls. Oh, my God. (laughter and chattering) Where are you? - I'm here. - Well, good job blending in. (chattering) - Holy fucking hell. Grady, you're, like, the last person I expected. - Nomack. Can I have a moment? - Come here, I want to introduce you to the girls. This is Vanessa, Jennifer, Abby. I don't even remember your fucking name. This is Grady, a good friend of mine. - It's important. - Sit. Sit. (startled scream) - Hey, Midalo! - Fuck that's cold! - They are like the dolls, but they do not float, and they are slightly more expensive. (chuckling) So we are not working now, so what is the point of this, hm? (laughing) You have to learn how to laugh a little, huh? You have to live a little. How to drink and smoke and fuck. (squealing) (giggling) - Clearly. - Maybe I could help relax him? - Oh, you would be wasting your time. There is not much you can do for him. - Oh, we'll see about that. - She is studying to be a lawyer, that one. (background chatter) - Tranquilo. - The mean man didn't want me. - Don't worry, V baby. This is the one time I can promise you it is not your fault. You see, this man, he has a gift, huh? - Do tell. (chuckling) - You filthy whore. I don't even know what to say to you. You, I will deal with you later. Filthy. Tell her about your gift, Grady. No, I know that you're enjoying all sorts of stimuli and your usual cocktail tonight. - See, Grady, here, he cannot feel any pain. It is a true story. I could cut your fucking ear off right now, and you would not even blink. - Really? - Hand to Christ I swear it is true. It is the freakiest thing I have ever seen. - Why don't we go inside, huh? (background chatter) - Don't be nervous. He is not nervous, I am not nervous, hm? I believe these girls deserve a demonstration. - I'm sorry, Nomack, I didn't realize we had that kind of relationship where I just allow you to shoot me. - No-no-no, you do it for them. I mean, these girls, they work hard. They deserve some entertainment. I mean, look at them. Look at them. Hello, T-shirt, come here. - Nomack, let's go inside, aye? - Menco, pappa, are those panties you're wearing, huh? - (Spanish spoken) - (Spanish spoken). - Si. - Do I know you? - No. - No. But you see, you have one of those faces. What is your name? - Amber. - Amber, I love that name. I once knew a cocktail waitress named Amber. I wanted to fuck her so bad, but I never did. - Oh. (gunshot) - Amber, this is 0.38 revolver. When shot, it can reach temperatures capable of scorching human flesh. Would you like to see something really cool? - I think we've had enough fun tonight. Come on, Amber let's go. - You are not being cool, Grady. Be cool. Count it down, V. (Spanish spoken)! - One. - Nomack, you don't need to do this. - Let's have some fun, huh? Vamos. Vamos, continue! - Two. - (Spanish spoken) Do it ! (Spanish spoken) - Three. (laughing) - I was not going to burn you, Grady. I was not going to shoot you either. At least not in the arm. Now this is a private party, and no offense, but you were not invited, so what the fuck are you doing here? - I wouldn't be here if it wasn't important, Nomack. - You have AIDS? - What the fuck did she just say? (punching) Grady! Grady! Grady! Grady! Grady! (gunshot) (splashing) - What's the matter? - I can't move. - Where do you think you're going? Who are you two working for? Who are you working for? (screaming) - No, no please. You don't have to -- (gunshots) - Zan, you really suck. (water running) (gasping) You told those girls Nomack had AIDS. - I said Chlamydia. I have no idea how that turned into AIDS. So, where are you from? Kings Langley, Hertfordshire. - Yeah, I don't know what those words mean. I'm an American, and we know London and Hogwarts. Try sticking your face in it. - What did you find? - Well. I think they're kind of fetching. (cellphone keypad beeping) That got stepped on. (cellphone keypad beeping) So what now? - This is the phone I get my targets from. I'm going to need to get it fixed before I get the next one. - Copy. (cellphone buzzing) That's probably my boss again. - Who's Hayley? Oh, your kid. Right. Put it on speaker. Tell her you're fine. Keep it short. If anyone else gets on the phone, you hang up. Understand? - [Hayley] Hello. - Hi, baby, why are you still up? - [Hayley] They said you're in trouble. - No, sweetheart, I'm just fine. Nothing for you to worry about. - [Hayley] What are you doing? - Just thinking about you. Did you brush your teeth? - [Hayley] Yes. My nightlight burned out. It's too dark in my room. - Well, remember what we said we'd do when we get scared? We would say, "Go away, scary thoughts. "I'm not afraid of you." - [Hayley] Yeah. - Ready? - [Hayley and Zan] Go away scary thoughts. I'm not afraid of you. - And just like that, they're gone. - [Hayley] Didn't work. - Well, then just tell Magda to turn the hallway light on. Hayley? - [Hayley] I miss mommy. - I know, I'll be right there. I promise. Bye. (cellphone beeps) Just give me a minute. Okay, I'm okay now. - Fine, yeah, we should -- - Kill more people? - Yeah. - Yep. - Hi, welcome to Electroids and More. I'm Kurt. - Hi, Kurt. - How can I help you today? Whoa, someone's having a rough day. Hey little buddy. I'm talking to your phone. - I need my contacts off that phone, onto a new one, same number. - Okay, and could I, perhaps, interest you in one of our new data plans -- - No, I assure you, you couldn't. - Okay, new phone, same number, same contacts. That could take a little while. - Imagine I'm carrying a gun. - Ten minutes? We'll do this in 10, gonna - Jim, can we -- Jim's not here. I'll take care of it, yeah. Let's get this thing open and, yeah, this is a 10-minute job. It's a little wet. - Thank you, we'll just be over there. You planning your next escape? - Suppose I have to go to the bathroom? Are you going to hold my hand there too? - Yep. - Well, what if you have to go? - I think I already went in Nomack's pool. - Wow. You know, I don't think it's normal to go into shock from falling in a pool. As a matter of fact, I would consider it an indication of a major medical problem. Maybe you should take the rest of the night off. - No. - See, I don't think you fully grasp the severity of your situation. - I grasp it just fine, which is why, just for tonight, you're my best friend. - Grady? Do I really need to spell it out for you? You're compromised. And that condition that gave you the edge is gone. - What made you think it was my condition that gave me the edge in the first place? Maybe it was my, you know, charm, good looks, and wickedly smart brain. Ow! - It's not your brain. - Why don't you just go back to being a hostage? - Fine. - Where are you going? - I'll be in the car! - Women, one minute they're totally cool. The next thing you know, you're, like, fishing an XBox out of a dumpster. You know what I mean? - Kurt? - Hm? - Don't talk. - Okay. (cellphone chiming) Why don't you strip naked this time? - So talk me through this. What else do I need to know? - What do you mean? - Well, I know I don't like cold. Itches are annoying. Punching people in the face sucks now that I can feel it. Getting punched in the face sucks even worse. There's a funny tingling in my elbow when I move these fingers, too. - Look, what do you want? The world's a big, sharp, shitty place, sorry. - I'm so glad we get to share these specials moments together. - Really? Nobody in there knows you're all whiny now, right? So use that. It's your best chance. This target, what's his deal? - They call him The Gatekeeper. He keeps my boss informed of the other gangs in the city and what they're up to. He's ex-military intelligence. He reads people. He's tough and nasty. And he boxes. (thudding) - So The Gatekeeper, huh? What about Rapey McGee back there? What'd you call him? - Nomack? The Playboy. - Oh, that's fitting. What about you? What's your underworld moniker? - The mind your own business. - See, that's kind of a mouthful too. - He's in there. - You're just gonna -- - Yep, that's exactly what I'm going to do, so be ready to run. - That's your plan? - Yeah, you have a better one? - On second thoughts, please don't answer that. Sit. Stay. - Appreciate the trust. - Fellas. - How you feeling Grady ? - What's you up to? - Here to see the man. - [Television] Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to World Series Chess. One the white side of the board, there we have relative newcomers. - Grady. Always a pleasure. To what do I owe the visit? You here to kill me? - Yeah. - I always figured it would be you. Takes a particular cold kind of son-of-a-bitch to kill people that he knows. The question you want to be asking yourself is who are they going to send for you when it's your turn? - Not you. - Believe me, kid, everybody gets retired. It's just that other people, they're a lot smarter about how they do it. You won't find many guys like us, retiring in Miami with a pension and a nurse. The crowd we associate with, they're not that bright. Now that's something I'm going to have to live with. What is it with you? You don't seem like your usual efficient self? - Do you expect me just to walk in here, put a gun to your head, and pull the trigger? - Why sugar coat it? - Ah, I figure that the man who found me on the streets and pulled me to Ezekiel deserves a bit more dignity. - I'm touched. So how do you want to do this thing? Me, I was always figuring on shooting you first. Or at least taking you with me when you came for me, but that's not likely to happen since I left my gun over there on the desk. - Gotta love that honesty. - What was your plan? - Originally, I thought that you and I could go for a walk. - You think I want to bit on that? - There's always plan B. Shoot you and run. - So that mentor dignity thing only goes so far, huh? Well, I would love to say it's been a pleasure, but that would be disingenuous. The truth is, I never liked you and always wished that somebody had done you a long time ago. Do your deed. I've had a good life. (punching) (grunting) (background chatter) - I think this guy's really hurt. Should we call an ambulance? - Oh, bloody hell. Don't do that! You know, what? Don't do that, I'm a doctor or EMT or whatever. I can help. I can help. Hey, hi. Sir, can you hear me? Are you okay? - Zan? - Oh, shit, hey Riggs. - Hey. I think somebody hit me. - Pain. That's something I never expected to see. First rule of our job, look for the thing that's out of place. Ever since you were old enough to take a shit on your own, I never saw you once scratch an itch. Shoulder bothering you there? (crying out in pain) Yeah, dislocated shoulders are real, real painful. So what the hell's going on here? - Pissed off a gypsy. (crying out in pain) It's a drug. It's a drug. Somebody drugged me. - Somebody drugged you? Who? Well, if I were you, I'd look into that. - Trust me, it'll have my full attention once you sons of bitches are dead. - What was that? Sons of bitches? Who besides me were you supposed to kill tonight? - Fuck you. (crying out in pain) - Marky, Nomack and you. I don't know the last name. I don't know. Marky, Nomack, me, and somebody else, huh? - That's a bad touch, get off! - Has it even entered into that little brain of yours that on the night you're sent to kill a bunch of your own guys, somebody drugs you and you end up feeling pain for the first time in your life? - Thanks for pointing that out. I never would've figured it out by myself. - And here we go. Your first message was Marky is done. You never were much for sentiment, were you, kid? And Ezekiel replied back, Nomack. The clock is ticking. Boy, that sounds ominous. Then you said, "Nomack is done." Then he said, "Fairbanks." Let me see if my little theory is correct then. So how you making out with that shoulder? (cellphone chimes) (chuckling) Just like I thought. - Pray, do tell. - You really got no idea what the fuck is going on tonight, do you? - [Man] Hello? - Yeah, it's Fairbanks. Yeah, I'm here with Grady. He came here to kill me on Ezekiel's orders. He's coming to you next. Only he's going to be late. Hang on a second. Here, say hello. (crying out in pain) Nah, I just wanted to say thank you, and to tell you that we'll be there in a little while. - Who was that? - Who the fuck do you think it was? - You were sent to kill your friends tonight. And who among your friends inflicts pain for a living? And who has had hard on for you ever since the day he found out about your condition? To him, you are the ultimate tease. - Yeah, I think you're good. Just keep an eye on it. - Okay. Thanks. It's weird seeing you here. - I know, this is your night off, huh? - Yep, turned the radio off. Put the cellphone away. No dead bodies for me tonight. You either, huh? - Here's hoping. - What are you doing in a dump like this? - What are you doing in a dump like this? - Trying to avoid a concussion. No, there it is. - Yeah, but you look good up there. - Okay, follow, yeah, 'cause you're a liar. - But a good one? - Better get going. No time like the present. You seen my keys? (punching) - Well, I think I'm feeling better. I mean, I only see one of you. So that's positive. - Oh, that is good. Because you had me worried. - Thanks, you're good people, Zan. Come on, I'll drive you home. Zan. Zan? - You know what? I need to go use the little girl's room. I'll be right back. You should drink more water. Lots more water, you really want to hydrate a concussion. - Is that a thing? - Yes, that's a thing, drink. - We need to leave now. - (cries out in pain) Shoulder. Shoulder. - Sorry. - Call somebody! It's Fairbanks! (panting) - Shit, shit. - We're being followed. Must go faster. - The car's too far. Here. (background chatter) (cries out in pain) - Easy buddy. (background chatter) - Okay, time to go. - Just, just... Just give me a minute. - Grady, we don't have a minute. Yeah, that's a great idea. Come on! Grady, Grady, Grady. That guy back there, I know him from work, and if he catches up, it's going to be really, really bad. So I need you to suck it up and keep going. - I can't. Okay? I can't. - Wait here. I'm coming back. Hey, hey, hey, that guy over there, he grabbed my chest and he tore my shirt. Yeah. Come on, we're going. - Hey, what are you - hey! - Go! Go! (car ignition starting) (emergency sirens in the distance) - Grady, how you doing with your shoulder? Just breathe, breathe. It's dislocated. What's funny? That's the third time I've popped my shoulder out. - Well, it should pop right in then. - So that man from work, he's a cop. Right? - He was at the gym, and he saw me there. There's nothing I could've done. - Yeah, he could've helped you. Why didn't you run? - I already did that once, remember? And since that was such a positive experience, I thought why ruin the memory. I need to fix this. Grady, this is what I do. I've got you. So do you have any family? - Orphan. - Count to three then. - One, two, three. - (cries out in pain) Aw! Shit! Fuck, wank, tit, cock-sucking assholes. - Well, it's a good thing you don't have a mother to kiss with that mouth. - How long until I feel nothing again? - I'm sorry, I don't know. - Zan, I know who did this to me. - You do? - Even when I couldn't feel pain, I knew better than to cross him. He's a sick man. His whole house is booby trapped. And his cellar, where he does his work is - He must've known I was coming for him. Knocked me out at Marky's. Pumped me full of narcotics. Then made an anonymous call to you, knowing what you'd do. He set me up. And now he's waiting for me. His name's Vick. We call him The Interrogator. - The Interrogator? Now what is it they call you again? Because if it's not worse than The Interrogator, now would be a really good time to go back to Hartford, whatever, Hogwarts. - Not an option. - Why not? - Because I don't run. - Zan, your services are no longer required. Thank you for flying with us this evening. We understand when choosing a kidnapper, you have many options. Thank you for your business. - Wait, are you breaking up with me? - Sorry, do you need cab fare? - If I wanted to leave, I just had the chance. - Zan. There is nothing more that you can do for me. - What does that mean? - Mind your fingers. - What does that mean? Grady, please don't do this. Grady! Grady, for the first time in your life you can feel something. - Yeah, and what a barrel of laughs that's been. - Well, not everything you feel will be bad. - Anything else? (moaning softly) I'm sorry I got you into this. You should go back to your life. - What will you do? I hope I never see you again. (car rumbling) - [Voicemail] Please leave your message after the tone. - Ezekiel, it's me. I had to abort. Get out. Get out right now. Well, it's a good job I'm not in a hurry. (cellphone chimes) (cellphone chimes) - Well, hello, Grady. It's a pleasure to have you in my home. - Where is she, Vick? - Would you like a sit? - This is more of a quick visit. - Oh, Grady, if we can't be civil even in death, then what are we? - Animals. - Very well, then, if you're in a hurry do as you must. - Oh, the mighty have fallen. How the Grady of old would've stormed right in here and snatched up whatever he wanted. Two unfeeling hands clenched around my throat, but now, the unbearable doubt. It eats at him. Why do I surrender, he wonders. Is it because I'm caught? Is it because, as he fears, I'm booby trapped? Or is it that if I were to surprise you and you end up in my chair, you now know what awaits you. Oh, let's not hurry this along. Let's enjoy a few moments of civility before we get to business. - It doesn't have to be this way, Vick. Just tell me what I want to know. - Cheese? - It's a bochetto, a blend of cow and sheep milk with shavings of a rare, white truffle, a particular favorite from Tuscany. Have you ever been? - Vick? - Spent several summers there as a boy. I try to get back as often as I can. - I will kill you and look for her myself. - Yes, well, I suppose boschetto isn't for everyone. - Tell me. - Actually, I was hoping you would tell me. After all, I can't imagine what tonight's been like for you. Your mind, your body, struggling constantly. Attempting to process the sheer vastness of all the sensation this world has to offer. And I imagine, above all, it's been frightening. Has the touch of agony forced you to rethink your ways? Your motives? When the god becomes man? Does he crave the same diet? - Jesus Christ, you talk a lot. - And, as I'm sure you've begun to understand, pain is not what motivates. No. No, when I interrogate a man for information, for punishment, for whatever, it's not the suffering that produces results. Fear is what we share. Fear is what makes humans so easy to break. That's why I make food and drink, comfort available to them first, because when they feel safe, and they know it's not meant to last, the work's been done. So, has it broken you? - Let me tell you what you are, Vick. You're a circus freak. A sideshow. A distraction that's all. And all this bullshit you use to scare your victims doesn't work on me. - Oh, I like this. - You're not going to touch me. - Oh? - No, you're going to tell me where she is. - And then what? - That depends on my mood. Time's up, Vick. Now tell me where is -- (taser buzzing) - All your questions will be answered in time, Grady. Don't worry, the tension and headache will pass momentarily. And your diaphragm may still be spasming from the taser, so don't try too hard to speak. You'll only make yourself vomit. - What have done with Zan? - Now, I know you've been tortured before. - Tales of your brilliant ploy to reach the unreachable Pearl are already legendary. How I would have loved to have him in my chair. However, for you, I expect this experience will be quite different this time. Oh, don't look so down. This is a gift. The greatest gift you've ever received. Now, you get to find out what the rest of us already know. Now, I find it always helps to give my subject the details of what I'm doing. In your case, I'll start by opening up the palm of your hand and carving through the thenar muscles. Then I'll tie off the ulnar artery so you don't bleed excessively. Once the the flexor tendons are exposed, I'll make several incisions that will have multiple effects. Most relevant, it will make moving your fingers impossible. That way, you won't be able to resist when I remove your fingernails and, eventually, sever your fingers. Now, I'll be stopping occasionally to inject you with amphetamines so you don't pass out from the pain and the entire process should take no more than an hour. And then we'll move on. - You really are a sick fuck, Vick. Now where's Zan? What have you done with Zan? - Before we begin, I really must know, who on God's green earth is this Zan you keep shouting about? - She's the woman you kidnapped, you assclown, you know exactly who she is. - Grady, dear, there's no one here except us. Surely, you've noticed. - I received a text. - Grady, do I look like I text? - So you didn't do this? You didn't drug me, did you? - No, I'm afraid not. - Did you even talk to the FBI? - No, the only FBI man I've ever spoken with (chuckles) sat right where you're sitting now. Oh, the conversation was compelling but brief. Oh, Grady, perhaps you came here under false pretenses? - Why would Ezekiel think that you, Marky, Nomack, and Fairbanks we're all talking to the Feds? - Ezekiel is a thorough man. Whatever led him down that line of thinking must've been convincing. Well, shall we begin? - Don't you want to know who's behind this, Vick? Somebody is playing with us. We've been set up. - No, correction, you've been set up. - Vick, Vick, look, Vick, Vick. You can't torture me, Vick. - Oh, but I want to. Oh, Grady, to have you, it's like, it's like making love to a virgin. And for that reason, I shall do no permanent damage. Just a sampling if you will. Now, yep, up-up-up-up. Now this might be a little startling. Oh, dear. (punching) The drug wore off, didn't it? I suppose I do talk too much. Grady, please, try to see this my way. - Don't worry, Vick, I won't do any permanent damage. (car engine racing) (clock chimes) (gunshots) - Miss us? - I wouldn't. That wire has a tensile strength of 380,000 pounds. Struggle too hard, and you'll sever your own beautiful head. (sigh) - You, you did all this to avenge your boss. - I guess introductions are in order. - Hello, Grady, you know me, but you probably don't know that you do (laughing). I'm so sorry. I can't keep that going. I think I sprained my tongue. - It's impossible. - Is it? - We knew what Pearl looked like. - Did you? See, I think that's what pisses me off most about this. Here's a man who was sent to kill me, a man who managed to get closer than anybody ever has, and yet, this man is too stupid to see decoy when one is standing right in front of him. - Oh, you're good. You got my boss to go after his own people. - Oh, but I didn't stop there, did I? Hm? No. Say it, say it... - You drugged me. - Yes, yes, well, not me myself. The more appropriate thing would've been to say I had you drugged. I thought I made that totally clear. Because I want your heart, Grady. I want to eat the fucking thing right out of your chest. No one has ever got that close to me. No one. You know, when we had you before. When my case was missing, and the clock was ticking, and my boys were giving you everything that they had, I thought, "Oh, he's a special one, this one. "I need to go down and take a closer look." But I had no idea. Really, you don't feel that? Wow, you don't know what your missing. Why don't you just shoot me? A unique creature like you deserves an exquisite death. Something slow and luxurious. I do hope you're doing enjoying it so far, although I must confess, I can't take all the credit for today. I did have a little bit of help figuring out exactly what you are. Alexandra. Aw, come on Grady! Don't tell me you didn't see this coming! Alexandra and I go way back. Now, I know you're probably feeling a little bit sad right now that she lied to you, but in all fairness, you weren't supposed to grab her, and you certainly weren't supposed to drag her around all over town and then send her back to me looking like a piece of... - What's an elegant word for shit, lads? - I didn't realize I was playing with your things. - You have to admit, she did well, didn't she? I mean, what would you have done if she told you the truth? That she's not a real paramedic? - Six or seven hollow points to the face, I should imagine. - Oh, you're such a romantic. You did really well, sweetheart, and as a reward for a job well done, I've got Riggs bringing Hayley here. - Really? - Yeah, trust me, you've earned it. - I'll put this with the others. - Congratulations, Pearl, you've torn down Ezekiel and his gang, you control the city now. - Ezekiel? Ezekiel means nothing. This is all for you. Take away your gifts, watch you writhe like a dying, gasping fish. For you see, Grady, I am worse. Thank you. This has been fun. Unfortunately for you, your journey doesn't end here. There's a couple of my associates who have been dying for a second go around. Cheers. Lads. - How are you feeling, Grady? - I've had days I liked better. - You know, you really hurt our feelings, Paulie and me. We put all that effort into you, and it didn't really mean much. - No one's every faked it with you before? I find that very hard to believe. - But the doc, we're lucky we have her, aren't we? - Very. - It's been a while since she last juiced you. The effects have worn off by now, and I want you to feel everything. So just sit tight. This'll take a sec. - You want me to sign that waiver for you now? - I think we've got it from here. (punching) Got anything funny to say now, tough guy? Huh? Nothing about what I had for lunch? Come on! Sing another annoying show tune. Come on, Grady! Make me laugh! - Yes, Your Majesty. - So happy we got to share these moments. - Nothing like a good torture and brunch. - You read my mind. - We're in the splash zone. - It's worth it. - You ready for a visit with an old friend? - Tell me, why do you look at him like that? - Same reason you look at him like that. Because he's really, really hot. (punching) (gunshots) - Jesus Zan. - I may have overdosed him. - You think? - Well, now, that's a twist. - No, it's not. You just missed all the signs because you are completely up your own ass. Drop the knife. And move away from him. - Mind if I sit, bum knee. You didn't give him Naloxone just now, did you? I'm thinking you let us all believe that you did, so that Grady would overpower us and take us all out. - Something like that. - And then you two would what? Run off into the sunset together? - Sunrise. - Out of curiosity, what did you inject him with? - Epinephrine. - Look at you, that's my girl! - Nothing like a little adrenalin to rile that inner beast. Might've overshot your load though. - Yes, I can see that. - What's it going to be then, Zan? Since you obviously have something on your mind. - When Hayley gets here, I'm going to take her, and then we're going to leave. - I beg your pardon? - Hayley, this is about Hayley? - Don't say that name. - I gave her that name! - And I am giving her a chance at a better life. - A better life? Better than me? This life is her birthright. What would you say to her? No more story time. No more homemade ice cream. No more piggyback rides because I shot your daddy in the face? I'll tell you what. You drop your firearm right now, and I'll give you a five-second head start before I chase you. - Oh, you're going to chase me, really? - You've changed, Alexandra, but not that much. You never were a killer. (cries out in pain) Me on the other hand, killing, is like an old shoe. It just fits. Ask your sister. (cries out in pain) Those who can't shoot shouldn't monologue. Well, that's properly fucked. Are you going to kill me? Too many other people deserve that honor. Come on, gorgeous, finish me off. Don't make this weird. (grunts in pain) (car horn beeping) (footsteps approaching) - Hi, baby! - [Hayley] I missed you, Aunt Zan! - Hey! Hey, listen, about last night. - I missed you. - Here let me look at you. You got taller. Come here, come here. Guess what? You and are going to leave, just like I said. So just wait right here for one second. Don't go in there, and then, I promise, we're gonna leave. I promise, okay? Okay. - This is my dramatic pose. - You asshole. - When the cops get here, it'll make a hell of a picture. Don't ruin it. She really is your sister's kid isn't she? - Yeah, I told you she was. - So that was the only thing you didn't lie about. I have got to learn to read people better. You should go. - No, Grady, I'm trying to help you. - If they find you here, you'll be an accessory. They'll take away the kid. She needs you, she needs someone decent in her life. And even though you're a total liar, you're still her best bet. Zan, this is where you forget about me. Fine, I'll tell you they call me The Midnight Monster. - (laughing) That doesn't sound like you. - Aunt Zan? (engine rumbling) - [Radio Announcer] The scene of a brutal shootout between Ezekiel Maiser, head of one of the largest crime syndicates in the city and the gang of another man known only to authorities as Pearl. The two had apparently been engaged in a turf war for some time, which concluded in bloody fashion at Maiser's Bel Air home. The bodies of Maiser and an associate were discovered, while four arrests were made. - Can we please listen to some music? Something? Anything, just not this. - Don't you want to listen to what they're saying? - I don't need to, I was there. So were you. Music, now. - He's rude. I don't like him. - Remember that puppy we talked about getting? Now we have him instead. - I want it on the record, I take offense to that. - My, my, look what Santa Claus brought Uncle Vick this year.
