 

                        I through this place in Manhattan have a writer is the name called hero Ci? Si he isn't a writer of mess the day knows that he isn't a good writer but when I meet him he is become a good writer have no what than a gift whatter a mess affair for attend early Joe Ni think, he very carefully binds balloon on his car, there is this each balloon, his decision is firmer if he so and early didn't get that car in his birthday the first 1 day if he has never carried Mary to walk that shortcut hi beautiful car if she rode if she fell down leave me to far order have no what even being a brand-new car will become the obstacle that he love then heard the voice of car his father went home he has to act quickly some where did John go? Bao Bo, John is in the outside he isn't very happy to say that you left a house will not come back any further he doesn't want that new car because that is new car from in push out he holds breath in a soft voice pray begged you God to hope that this balloon is enough many then Joe Ni released a hand John John heard, but had no answer he is too... not I think that that doesn't go John and can't so say the father's voice that is suddenly make him return to absolute being to come did he do what? He how to throw away the parents thus and hard work to send to his gift this is make person's perplexity of world he think be him to run into granary John then John stretch out a hand try to hold tight that thing that he loves and hates he held tight John dropped next go to what is the row? Then John spoke everything is his heart to how get hurt because Mary says her to don't wish to see him any further perhaps that car if he can throw that car to open perhaps the affair will return to return till past they canned be again happy record a son happiness has no shortcut forever raise their heads in the granary sky that car flew to walk leave sweet and then the place of pain and sufferings everythings are missing leave of only have little boy is become the man's road top feed hi this be the greatly busy person we know to solve of end hi the good heavens what time is it of Zhu Di2 Si? Think than you of want a night open the fourth channel me always to write in the favour that is really unimaginable to so fill a door to meet you write most extensively lovely writer nowadays continue bright one noodles people will buy a book at least the affair took place variety they take care of this affair now I don't know quite good you don't know how can you know? That hasn't publish that is you whole of problem you don't know what circumstance inner part is the my heel Wei elder brother of one's father Si said who is a Wei elder brother of one's father ? Wei elder brother of one's father are you to say an actual person? Don't be to publish room? Quite good why not? Zhu Di2 Si, if she doesn't believe probably in 3:00 A.M. Everythings all will smoothly go me and walk is he very happy to see you? He is very good write of is better than do of his work how long do you spend to write it? Four months exactly four months I record sound in person everyday where writing do you like? A lot of place sometimeses are on the car block up a car really have a lot of energies sound very difficult liked Ford I thought of my own where did you go? The inside of the shell is waiting for subway to stop over there not that is true the United States good heavens what is she? 12 years old? I see you can look after a grandpa can help you young lady I certainly hope thus can help you Sir I need a tie to go to a very special situation your would believe is my 50 years senior high school celebration ceremony? That is really good they ruined a school so left ourselves this tie how much? What does that up say? Do you want to buy? How much ain't I that affirmative? 80 a tie? Can I rent to you? thank that person is a customer customer? Not Si Sir that be the customer sexy beautiful have a heap of credit card have a headache very much to the shopping good? That be the customer this tie sell at a discount to me price USD 60 you aren't earnest I am certainly earnest do you know? I excuse me a Si a Sir very much because of that discount sell at a discount just for the employee are you what mean? Go out keep the change excuse me me to want you to take this tie don't don't please I insist thanks good of yes I was late forgot you the attendant takes a clean cup so sand Di Si I like sand Di Si hi the mother tell me that you fixed bride chamber quickly yes in a small villa of country can go to open country to play also very intelligent continue to play to fight? There is also that anniversary party how? Does the almightiness deal with? I think that we do together so quite good come one cup Su's beating a plan be such we don't have a meal in the city but be present at 78:00 around sit top-grade person in the whole world very good that my partner? I think that you can write one good make a speech make a speech? I ask an affair does this want to spend you how much? You don't want to know I can control to tell me not and really believe me, your doing not want to know that is similar perhaps this wants USD 80,000 this not to consider as what for the sake of this affair? I want to work well so for them but USD 80,000? That too... if you don't mind me to write a check to you go have no matter true of I know that you can please and I don't want to talk this but that look be a very big publisher they to my the new novel be interested in so let me do this to please good thank 500 how? Can help you? Sir I want to see my to edit you of who be the editor? Wei elder brother of one's father Si Sir there is a writer and see a Wei elder brother of one's father Si a Sir what do you call? Si good of is the elder brother of one's father especially? Si? Ask the 40th floor Si a Sir Wei elder brother of one's father Si Sir H'm? Is the elder brother of one's father especially? The Si came Wei elder brother of one's father Si is the Sir honored to see you me very much? Damn very happy see your Wei elder brother of one's father Si the Sir writing a book hi waiter you is not is the elder brother of one's father especially? Si Wei elder brother of one's father Si is the Sir honored to see you me very much? You want how? Want ~only your dichotomy clock for time I to handle a Wei elder brother of one's father Si a Sir liked you to please with me for the sake of your fine day you not wanted to forget this my book at in I want you to read once I have important words and say walk here the Sir wait a little while a Fu orchid a gram two minutes Si Sir so what can I do for you? I wrote first draft to you you know that I have everyday how much mission Si Sir have no how much can complete particularly I don't read the work of writer that I don't acquaint with I don't serve as what price sometimes have too many manuscripts usually is a wave to take a lot of time I have some things that you would like to read what? Novel I know all novelists all like to be writer but novelist be writers have ever had to be published? Have no that you had better at you by yourself the home call oneself as writer like to be a writer a little bit distinguish with writer like to be... need to get a prize the work of others I once did 40 pages I say of to? So have you ever written? I know what that is particularly is a coda my new book come out of smoother display an all affairs is that a tail? Look like is true? You want hang a false tail? Si Sir you where made from of? I want if I have the second-time opportunity that also wants for several years that what animal does the body come? Two minutes Si Sir we haven't talked my novel you know all books of Zhao periodical I once published 5 as well from cradle to the grave some have 50 is good I don't remember we have more works that the affairs want to do but is much more than me go home to write thing Si Sir write better thing so the public security came what is that? Take a gun? We get into 201, have never published of writer take a lately- write manuscript actually Wei elder brother of one's father Si the Sir invite me to his office we... small talked in a short while my day waiter who is that guy? I don't know I think that he could not see me so let that look seem really similar Daniel of legend? Wei elder brother of one's father Si quite good did he trade with you? Have no again met? Have no does that consider as what? What do you get there from he? He gives me some suggestions he tells that I go home a writing write some better works you are true of will say waiter hi lo lo you I know that can you believe? Quick come quick come see dear of hi I will see you is that when? You when know Kang Si especially? Admire Rui? If I would like to toast for the sake of the Kang especially Si editor to purchase a work uninterested but connect down three novels are you that real Zhu Di2 Si? Jian3 Sen for the sake of Kang especially Si? Don't not admire Rui for the sake of Zhu Di2 Si? Jian3 Sen have what differentiation 20,000? 00? Fix? The first novel after succeed that is really the very big change Zhu Di2 Si my new way how? Again good however want champagne? Don't thank we want and exceed a gram to sit together actually they wish to see me be you to arrive at here hour I pass by right away that be a good affair Kang especially the Si want to compose novel I went the felling has a little to enchant come to baby come to baby welcome usage city to trust! The card inserted you Be just account rightness? Jian pen didn't how much waited a little while my younger brother to take away money my younger brother took away money I even had no money to buy a dog to eat thank young man you come dry here what? Wrap to me not not you can take any thing but don't take that that is my book shut up the waiter is cool! We walk this mixs Zhang see yourself you and Zhu Di2 Si like this big difference no one know these words he is full of the exclamation of affection let him restart for own time damn! Any further don't this! My day who to help me don't please not my wife the bearer help me etc. Who can you shut up? The quick bearer help me quickly open the door sorry I... can I help you? Is the problem it I that can help you? The quick bearer help me seem outside someone scream waited a little while me to remind of you good disorderly does she still move? Tell me did you throw a typewriter you to say on her head? Good heavens perhaps you should sit down sit down? I just killed people I will spend remaining years of life in the jail I am understand different to me so I miss your affair to the occurrence felling very what a mess you can so say yes I should report to the police to have a little bad still really bad? I seek my lawyer not me to report to the police good heavens they arrived I think that you will do any affair any affair get away from all these there! He pointed at me good heavens please a Si the language of the Sir you are a person who has the misfortune to very much a Si a Sir the affair is so just stay away bad luck the police open the door good heavens how should I do I think that you open the door believe me not not are you hero Ci? Si? Do I look like hero Ci? Si? I have to come in to take a look what matter police officer? Tell me how the window break? Are you what mean? Perhaps you walk wrong room Sir good of sorry bother your young lady good evening go you can come out what is the row? Who are you? Do you want something to drink? This I didn't expect someone to accompany that typewriter is really a mess need to write thing this be a big room the scenery is quite good a bed is perhaps quite a few I don't know that what you are say I am say the reason that you let me come over I didn't let you come over I seem to record what the book making you sell to Zhu Di2 Si? Jian3 Sen changes a place still I walk wrong room? Who are you? I think that you know I order a suggestion to you you want for you of will do a bargain in the future for the sake of all turns so we don't leave the ticket of season to next cautiously consider before you answer this has what another thing in the world what do you want? I want to write a book I can't write a book to need a lot of talents for you I have talent very good very good that we come concentrated in the in the book other persons will notice oneself you need audience am I understand to still have what? Appreciate to still have what? Does the respect respect? Does the respect whose respect? You of family's friend? Stranger? Everybody have no special person to still have what? What? Your speak will feel quite a few succeed I want to succeed to you like to be a successful man yes you like to be a successful man your can write a book of greatness but people will appreciate you rightness? Yes that you sought to the person perhaps suitable person to sought you 10 years 10 years consider that? To me see so can have much what a mess? Is all right? I am very sorry I am just just missing that pitiful woman die on the street that pitiful woman meeting how? Si Sir? How is this... Did you see? Si Sir the problem which speaks words to come you disappeared that what should I do? Frankly say that you are to say contract? For example say red-blooded I have never done before you certainly have no you know this is what Si Sir come baby so how? Is all right? Good of that is that to kiss kiss of whole life that pleases and don't touch! I wanted to walk I have never wanted to hurt you can ask your question? Say what problem? Are we to finish so? I back and forth answer you of problem at your end of the road end of road of time I will come again like from is it Si Sir? Yes please sign here I... mere trifle The Si respect Sir I discovered at the time of tidying up a desk 2 you write to prize work in the get of news agency me to mean before month I send payment a top now for-rent car you are a person not right you are a person I ain't a person true of you have a face the person's face Si Sir see you very happy hero Ci? Si please call my"shell Si" you good"shell Si" nice to meet you thank actually I last night heel Zhu Di2 Si? Sen makes a phone call have you ever listenned to him? Certainly he since is a bookstore tycoon is also a well-known bestseller writer I promise to make you shocked this time oh here is all colleagues boss not at he at the end of the month settle an account of time come to very free so Sir tell me exciting love story can? I am glad don't have to have modifier composition I want to listen to true words her meaning is to let you make sex history give also with dish actually I am have this idea single? Always such oh I like have in our news agency many similar to you and the writer of single freedom oh do I know for example Tai Ji? Gold Si are many Sis strange? Graceful Si gold sometimes I take them as glory stick pole we also worship them very much have what some demand explain is that we have to break through an oneself I am to say write broad literature I ain't this number person Wei elder brother of one's father Si the Sir have the first-class talent and the affair of so all right book? Also use to ask I already you of the work copied up to thousand the good heavens is too good wonderful! And your viewpoints? What? To the viewpoint of book? You didn't discover one silk... disgusted feeling have no because we like so just publish you of the work be certainly such assistant can I speak a few lines alone with him? Continue to say from last year till this year in addition to you don't have other persons write a story of such charming but I think that the story is very cruel true of? In fine haven't I see don't play hide-and-seek now I know but I very would like to copyright fee concerning work we will not take penny ten cents more everything is control by you I hear here of the building price rise of fierce say of right Si Sir because here is a busy streets I like turn over change of world Fu me to want to celebrate for you you can't mind of to? Rightness you will also have a work to publish a rightness I think to be yes I believe you you are the in a dream lover whom God gives me hear? Are you to say a breather voice? Is the meeting him? Who? The The Ring of the Lord host protect I delivered the person of mail last night are you to say devil? Right connect to listen to quickly hello yes you good oh thank very much oh I am very good oh she is in your etc. Protect BE oh oh too good I am too excited call me soon afterward very much what did he say? The story promised to publish you and I you joke hear? They intend to publish you and I of story too strange you wait for to see will there is reporter covering you right away ask you and my story hello yes oh... very good of the recent work said you love a night distance  the motive of creations good? Nightmare work frankly speaking to make the person touch eyes very much shocking I still want to much publish certainly very happy at your house oh return to my house next time what don't take ages weekly magazine thank you succeeded spend to have another with long hours for just a few weeks let you how much feel surprised you are really very good but I would also new book you don't doubt to go to a coffee shop yes detailed talk how give me good heavens Zhu Di2 Si's wife also at eat! Hey the elder brothers spend a holiday how? Say the affair of book now all right he intends to borrow money for you borrow how much? This problem will Zhu Di2 Si came to question and answer I also can not remember clearly particularly is for borrow money toward a person who don't acquaint with probably you I before once met you say what beard words? At high school of time you still remember Mary. The girl of Qiong Si? He forgot to the past affair because of the book! I conduct of the bookstore bankrupted have no penny money to flow a funds now oh good heavens I decide to pay to help you right away the friend needs to give a help to the Si Sir disturb I is to send greetings to you once I am you of book fan thank so remember the bookstore that must go to open at to purchase my work I not knew to take place what you of appearance and I the leading lady of new book resemble you is really an outstanding writer the thanks pays attention to the book that I still have me I will purchase you for each weeks of work don't I know this to be what is the row? Do I have been aming the idol to you don't just pay attention to my book a fan Zhu Di2 Si also wants to much and much pay attention to I still have a few friends they don't understand English good-bye hope the atmosphere be still harmonious don't see like all right you giveed the book title to change whether a little bit modern behind? Zhu Di2 Si is recent disappointed you call for book enchant affection  not is add fuel to the fire however is a book title just besides they still don't know to I feel this very not satisfactory you will let an affair complication worked for 24 hours have ever wanted to seek a cave to relax the friend congratulates you thank don't you think that we are perfect 1 rightnesses because the love makes us such the party is quite good thankJohn saw a work? Certainly saw naked appreciate then? What baby can I also say? You of bed top technique can let an impotence one pillar Qing day the thanks Ji talk what you say lets me extremely someone says that I am "the father of the empress modern novel" happiness? My purse drum bulge not a few and friend? My situation to Zhu Di2 Si feels keenly compunction I can say what like market such as battlefield you can't have the slightest of sympathy your business to me wants to predict some kind of? In fine I the elephant tottering iron ball the Gao, who climb, fall off of also painful don't be not so self-confident you are a gentle and soft plasticity very strong writer you get everything that oneself want now happy just to I am to feel worry to Zhu Di2 Si's bookstore took leave a friend will dance Si Sir late best congratulate you thank I am proud of for you you like great Daniel? Wei elder brother of one's father Si you admire Di a Sir so call my"fatty" you still so humor I introduce the leading role Si of tonight a Sir toward you Si Sir you should from Can hero Ci? The Si is a garbage! My bookstore brush-off sells his book! Zhu Di2 Si your Piao takes my to make a product name I always didn't see you of work you are that plagiarizes ghost I ain't really clear you of meaning the affection enchant  enchant affection  have what dissimilarity Zhu Di2 Si get drunk oh! Your meeting in the success... feel difficult to expressly distress are you dry to he so? Did your brain enter water? I know that your brain entered water are you good friends? To Michael the friend needs a mutual help say of to mutual help! For-rent car! Zhu Di2 Si that night? Jian3 Sen gets drunk behind is knocked down in the street by the car he is Mr. Jian3 Sen he really enchanted now if you the words of understand my meaning the publication field best news hero Ci? The Si Sir is still a bestseller work to lead the way a person it is said that he started a stock this be a potential and the Si Sir pack also let many youths in street in New York start imitate he hero Ci? The Si has already become best news person in New York you of felling? Feel there is no felling? That be the tallest state tonight entertainment news tonight's leading role still keep being sturdy hero Ci? Si Sir his stock just such as his name similar become this year the most popular phrase language the Si stock sells to USD 1001 now see to still have the buoyant space yes I am affirmative Kang especially the Si telephone hello still thought to forget me how can baby you became famous a person now is all disaster which writes book heat oh please I want to know you of the name of next book wants to know book title oh got hero Ci three year agos you at my company do a part-time job of time I but three chapter to your provisional constitution you will not forget the affair for several years you of the story will soon move up the silver screen enjoy I call you soon afterward happy birthday wish the dear Si of your happy birthday living - the - quick - joy for day thank aunt I wanted to walk boss like her is your daughter? Is not she is me the fifth daughter you is which? 5! Hello the Hey deep red and big and purple writer happy birthday all right... Thank you if you would like to come at this time I would be very happy I think very much but... know I want to see you very much if have no time tonight so give me the arrangement as soon as possible so tomorrow morning don't go also don't go tomorrow morning so on Thursday how settled so so good know I now 40 understand my meaning understand yes I am similar to you is also also remember rainbow coffee parlor remember that is the last time I saw you you are a greatly busy person now I not much chatted the imagination absolutely outrun you here the lo has three living rooms five bedrooms can satisfy a family all members and again is lean against ocean price also very justice Si Sir? Say that finish say that finishing you has intention to purchase a rightness slow go on further so... hero Ci? The Si Sir feels with the trade of devil how? Everything is too quick so do you contact me I want let the day slow down the other people think of this kind of enjoys business I don't think importance I want to be a common run of people don't want to be what somebody the somebody of fast food type and... I really don't like previous how are you to request mine? I once told you and can satisfy your everything what do you still want to get? E... Say fame and prestige I not is helped you you now food and clothing without sorrow even can stir up trouble can other persons make? So don't suggest a request with me again boss Michael wants to see you Michael openned warm air here you want and don't take a bath first excuse me me to still think... oh incompletely don't mostly my wrong come over quickly you know of Kang especially Si here just repair soon Please sit down... so... you lead of good Michael? Your lo? Talk good of general sort should walk boss also need to visit... Etc. You see my favour going crazy you don't want to mind don't tomorrow morning want how very good hold firmly... hold firmly time I can'ted wait for quickly good heavens sorry really sorry have no matter the guest is our God bearer vomit the thing to the table to tidy up once I still walk had better what matter? Isn't a good time probably and really is a good time what is the row? Shut up the hero Ci dispassion order I will give you make a phone call not... you of the matter be the most important what matter? You want to tell me what important matter? I miss him what all don't know isn't what? Money? You want money BE? I should walk everyone listens to me saying that what you want to get the meaning don'ted understand you hero Ci enchanted he the future be living would ever stand down so, what do you see now? , I come to a stop and see the United States of variety but, they now what all not concerned you good Mary my father had an accident I early make a phone call to you but you not at home wait our arrangement like, I am to you make a phone call like? Okay, thank please take a look a lens thank you, the Sir congratulates you Sir, are you lately small to speak now? Yes, I am compose a novel, is my 1 kind to lately try thank you, pleased in the evening Bao Bo by I want let you see a Si a Sir ...Is really was honored too much I haven't read a so fascinating book for a long time I once told you, I didn't want thus of reward I with he at enmity with, can't meet with him blah, he is just jealous of envy what? Get a prize international literature association a prize will distribute to... hero Ci? Si, second to none writer thank thanks, very thankful language can't... have no language can express... very sorry I the last heart put here tonight I to lose a friend, feel very sad Michael you know and Michael is a writer at me... be I am very young of time he is the first people guide the person of my road he is a very nice person very what a mess detective... But, he has a passion for a life very much that be a very unforgettable day certainly, within the last few years I no longer asked for suggest of my friend because of, he tell I, my book... is a complete mess, this I have already known I just don't want to hurt him you see and this is the all what a mess writing to bring me brought pain and sufferings I am true happy you arrived here I am very sorry and my felling seem... was tired of to the party you of the price be too high very small hotel room here in, I concentrate everyone I have words to want to spit it out , my good heavens, this be the wishes but this is not contrary, he looked back the life of 79 in the last yearses and start read aloud this is me the first public lecture right I am you here of powder silk , old friend I swear toward the God so of the felling is really too like absolutely let him grow crazy I like to see these very much yes we think of you so, how is your current situation? Exceed a gram of Er also what all don't mean to say I think and he doesn't want to speak the affair of in the mind I think believe me but, you know and my life isn't always such so, you speak to listen to to me complications that is very isn't a few words spoken at all can among them the important point speak to know everyday morning you concern most of person... need to do a decision seem Michael by several weeks, he tells me, he got sick BE? I don't know he sees me but, I connect time that several minutes talk all crowded don't come out I am to say and I am always interested to make money but, wasting time you can see I have no time that is absolutely too precious what meaning does this have to you? I think to be yes you know what? I even like to be original of I yes I is also I think that you discuss I am too sad have no the calmness in 1 to lead sorry, Sir the soul of care customer came step aside to me I saw I saw I shouldn't let them bring calamity up the body so, are you to want to seek me? I want to withdraw to come where come out from? Trade, everything I allly render unto to you, also have that island you want to get a writer nomination and do you also want to give up this? Yes there is also money? So, and woman? You to how should they give an account? I am what a suck so , I must be to forget and I have thing to you a friend, give you also remember? No one wants to see you want time to converse and you found out him remember, son have no happy shortcut forever , Wei elder brother of one's father Si Sir what matter? I can with you secretly talk once? I hope earnestly very much I need some suggestions your felling very empty? Don't is that so begged you okay, come with me is a novel, actually is a very nice novel I want let you read once you want to let me to prove, BE? I am this meaning I want let your personally tell me, whether this is good book or not you don't think very good? I think BE this is all right already to you and the many people like you of book this be the difficult way still not enough? I am ex- for a long time and the nobody knows my time to write before I meet she I want to ask you once among them of detail at your thing in the office is hers? Is her is not? Right is her do you want to announce? Yes I think and you will must be happy we go out to walk you why want my to agree with, you already famous people's all respecting your what they respect is my result see today, isn't this all similar? Is not is not I lost love and lost comity also have the person whom I concern most I lost oneself , any further have no what lose so of, is not? But, the affair is such ignored to do what end will rear at the court on are you to say a judgment? I warn you once, Si Sir this be that is greatly troublesome did you once do so before? Yes a lot of time this matter that is few the before last year ago certainly is not I either but, though is a felling to is that so do you think that we can return to the inside of the house? Don't wait a little while She wants to even off with me do you want to take a risk? This be the real artist BE? He is one common guy your thinking this is in the waste you of time? You worthy of my wave take a lot of time Wei elder brother of one's father Si the Sir hold tight me and you missed opportune moment so, do you want to beg me what? Say a little more accurate successful is this what you like? Yes you have already got happiness I am just not enough happiness I think and succeed will make me a little happier this be the very common standpoint so, you obtained very great success you signed on the maxim of soul I don't know and that is really worthy but, you should know this be another one ratio wealth already very late, I suggest that you go home I am very frightened I is also ask your one more question, Si Sir after you agree have what important affair occurrence on your body? I ain't understand have a time, your felling is a terrific value have no have no felling is deserve very much thank you, Si Sir you good do you get ready, Si Sir? Yes, very good do we have an appointment when? An hour after we want where go to? Patiently order, Si Sir can I ask your some questionses? Certainly I know that what happened to my body the matter also known you easy she got some things... she is ex- and then dream of to get for a long time of thing tell me she got you, you of soul forever very of worthy of, Si Sir I am very frightened to see this Garden city? Right all of these affairs be in the garden to solve is not? Wish you to have good luck! Is this what is the row? Welcome you very much took place what here? Is them? Jury the time in daytime is very attractive the circumstance compares what I imagine to want bad I recognize these people, that BE... that be the city of Bo Pu and Susan my God, that be Hemingway see there Pu Zuo this brigade jury is the most precious in the world Zhu Li3 Ya4 Si? The friend wants to help mutually this meeting started judgment Si the meeting of started, judge's adult also has already judged another world another a lawyer of world get ready, judge's adult prepare Chen2 Ci2, from the Wei elder brother of one's father Si beginning judge the member of the adult jury this kindness that is you I want give the Si take a look this contract then can start judge only after this process within a day he lost a work, his lowly of work caused in the meantime, another person's death then, she appear promise to give relief to him from these sad bitternesses who have thus of courage to refuse thus of condition? But my party concerned be very kind be free from an alluring person, also do decision of such made a mistake in other words, the ladies, the Sirs hero Ci? The Si is innocent thank your judge judge's adult we are here legal case apply of just easy contract method a contract which very easily comprehends the Si provides soul and also accepts have no misunderstanding also do not cheat the Si Sir accepted item now needs to carry out item so very good Wei elder brother of one's father Si call you the first witness a little bit quick, I want what to call first BE exceed a gram of Wales Wales Sir the relation between you and Si Sir how of? How long have we already been the best friends? I also don't know for about 12,13 years before he become a person? Right in those years, before he become famous isn't a beautiful woman is can pursue? Sorry, I ain't understand does the Si have? The writing skill which has no us to the Si is very clear certainly he usually writes a point what announce? Have some certainly is very like please answer a question have a person to want to publish a Si the Sir's work? Having no you can describe this now period... Si how is the Sir's circumstance? I think and can say... he very of destitution period here, before he become famous the Si is very poor publicationed, also be free from chemisette to welcome, I say of to? Yes is he happy? Can I see out time of successful ratio happiness? Certainly is write his own work wrote level to raise after he become famous? Absolutely can't mention in the same breath so, if Si the soul which exchanged him be much more than betrayed soul, also plus happiness you would say and did he get the thing of hope? Not, I will not say so that I have to say, he is cheated this is beyond all doubt thank you had no problem any further you say you several years are before he become famous, afterwards successful of right at the same of period, are you also Jian3 Sen's friend? Yes, but, have no how long three writers which work hard hard, all like to be big writer not, he has already become novelist have moreover 1 to trade actually, the bargain is three books Jian3 Sen, judge's adult completely is to the Wu Mie of my the party concerned I understood and let's say is this possible? You think and the Si envied to Mr. Jian3 Sen of successful produced to envy not not is envy you don't think... Jian3 Sen will join agreement objection perhaps BE, this judgment demolished the occupation career of this person judge's adult, oppose his terrible death, may be one of the prices become a Si successful price you this broad I swear, you participate among them judge's adult, objection so of problem oppose invalid continue yourself are recent now and had some troublesome got cancer me to say of to? Yes be you to discover this matter, what did you do? I what all unable to do did you tell an another person? Not, I kept secret for a long time end... I told hero Ci so, what does the Si Sir say? Be you make you tell he of disease of time? What? E... I think BE... very sorry, say what... A little bit big voice say that exceed a gram let everyone hear he gives me some money I understood this be Si the Sir can make of, at you need to be help most of time his day isn't satisfactorily either this be to the person's salvation? There is no problem any further, judge's adult the witness canned be next to go to so, Wei elder brother of one's father Si Sir, you still have what say? Judge's adult, lawyer... sorry, judge's adult, can I say 1 for you? Certainly I have to admit I long time ago hope this time great Wei elder brother of one's father Si, also have helpless time I am a lot of year agos, the ability distinguishes success or failure from the person's face but, be unlike so isn't hero Ci? What Si see so of I don't understand the words that you say this is very simple judge's adult, if the Wei elder brother of one's father Si promises to withdraw don't be a big lawyer I can use my family background to still have my whole strength win this lawsuit very typical proud and arrogant disease, judge's adult I accepted a condition to sit down, Si Sir please listen to I say, I am an unworthy salvation listen to he say, Wei elder brother of one's father Si Sir I am false and a feet step to go into to this affair to come up I agree a Si the Sir's words beg you to accept with some, is not for the sake of yourself is also for the sake of I we are wait your speech, Wei elder brother of one's father Si Sir to hero Ci? The Si sue tell me, Si Sir whether you loves what person or not? Certainly include yourself yes sorry, what? Easy problem there is a women in you of the work a person whom you love deeply not yes so you of family? I certainly loved them do you when lose to fag your face parents? I don't know, is in 6 before month you of elder brother? Also similar he live of the place be apart from you how far? Only 10 street areas, but, I very of favour... this Sir, all don't see close relatives, only have 12 minutes for-rent car road also don't know to have any correct the mistakes so, and friend? The many people is my work, but have no real of... friend, I... yes, I see your affection to him so, we can say so... you are in the life have no real like of person? Yes, you think so on the hoof is very successful? Not I am a person who fall to the ground there is no problem any further, thanks I did to trade with you, will get now deserved of can I say so, Si Sir? Yes, I am an unworthy salvation I say of to? Yes you really admit in addition to yourself, you what persons all don't love for a long time is all such is so? Right thank had no problem the witness canned be next to go to vindicate judge's adult each colleague of jury people to beg me a help, because of, think that God gave their enough of what they want is more they want give than God of want to have another they request of want to have another than me God can't satisfy one by one see your surroundings God can't create 1, can satisfy the world of owner he can create a world... have no point of dispute there is no pain and sufferings, have no death did he create what? All reality of existence he gave we what? This this... greedy, selfish... thing desire the world of the crosscurrent now, judge's adult I don't need to post notice my material these obviously enough knew the Si wants to succeed I gave he he... Need all right Wei elder brother of one's father Si BE judge's adult, jury associate this Sir is succeed blunt fainted brains ever, a lot of door closed in his in front his in front appeared a window he time and time again of diligent irony of BE, he pursues from cradle to the grave became a famous writer to finally succeed then a living creature appeared this living creature became the thing of his judgment he had money, fame, also have... woman the woman is a very beautiful thing is who give this living creature thus of strength? Our of course not's ising God is her she isn't born and then have divine power is not matter in really all of his strength all from we since then you think, she why want to spare no effort so of work? Make an effort of acquire more mankind's souls he does so, because of, she have no freedom... my opponent Tan speech say, the Si finds out her, because of... what he own isn't enough he wants to be more more of what? More money, more sex? More powers, more controls? You don't think this is cheat? Was a Si a Sir to find out him her to give the Si of my customer he is true just going to of the thing be a reading he wants the work that the people meet him he is a writer these be what writer wants audience, the audience is the meaning of his existence for the sake of his true value do my words say that finishing someone wants these? 1 relates our feeling and we believe in... an opportunity that is so our facts are what kind this is what he do this is that you want of this is to exceed a gram to want did he get what? Did they get what? Give he what to exchange... soul? Yes, she gave he... the fame, the strength, gives him money yes, she gave to have another so an audience but, an audience why? Did he have no soul, would also say what? There is no soul, how will the audience also see a work there is no soul, the whole world is all of no account because of, there is no soul, hero Ci? The Si can't write suddenly, what all of no account suddenly, the fact is of no account yes, God can create a lot of things but, he also created this the birth, pain and sufferings, die pain and sufferings reminds our existence the conflict is to our challenge, we than imagination of stronger die... ...Die the death gives us the opportunity, let the new hope conceive leave of more stay in our lifes right this be a world of pain and sufferings be like hero Ci so? Si such person can face thus of pain and sufferings describe toward the civilian ordinary re- mold thus a person's value preach a reason, have faith leader manner... words and actions, bearing... so a thus virtuous person, use common sense judgment, will not do ill public are 1 like hero Ci? Si such person we need for the sake of him but struggle not because of what he say but, for the sake of ourselves "now ofJohnny was full of tears a flower in the eyes" "turn round to face his face of father's kindly" "his father's handle knob put on Johnny's shoulder "say, remember a son" "have no happy shortcut forever!" Tonight, you have an opportunity to send out an information to her see what effect! How do you dare to say so? Tell her, everythings all should end, if this continues can't judge's adult, this is mislead judgment what he say BE, have no happy shortcut certainly, the judge know and the all people know sit down this is worthy of think of let some people nearby be very happy remind us thank, the ladies, the Sirs judge adult before the jury do a decision I need speak a few lines, do to correct I think, you a day after the fair jury has already stood up there is judgment result? Have a result? All together stood up the jury consistently thinks this soul's selling contract is invalid I believe, the that time waited, Si Sir on their Gao Gao's head, the clouds pass the happy place flown to there everythings all don't reply existence and left that little boy the road grown up at him comes forward a line you good was the Hey, the good heavens, what time?
