 

                        Hey hey. Hey, look. I need you to be strong and stay with me because you're the one who's gonna have to kill me. Wo Hey, honey. I hate how we left things this morning. Maybe I'm just nervous about my new show. I don't know. I know. My work is so much darker than what I usually do and I don't know what people are gonna think of it. It's just ever since I've been pregnant I have this feeling like I'm being watched or followed. Yeah, I know what the books say. I don't know what it means. Maybe I'm just not ready to be a mom. No, Jack, it's not the hormones either. It feels different. Real. Like something's happening. Look, I'm going to the gallery to work on something I've been thinking about. It's something I need to get out of me. No, not the baby. I'll see you later. Bye. Jack? Is that you? Hello? Who's there? Hello, Kathryn. No. It's you. - Yes. - But... I've come for you and what's inside of you. Oh my God The real evolution is coming. No, not my baby. Not my baby. Baby. And now, 18 years after the day I was born, I'm here to convince you that the monsters are real, that they live among us, within us. And hopefully one day you'll know who I was and what I tried to do. But for now... Who am I? I guess I don't really have a good answer to that question. Don't forget to take your pills. I guess you already know my mom died when I was born, but it never seemed like the end of the world or anything. Is that weird? Maybe. But how can you miss something you never had, right? # The messages I left weren't answered # # But I stayed off till bed # # These were the only things I dreamt... # I know how to take an exam, I know the periodic elements, I know how to do school. Do I have any idea how to survive the real world? # So wake me when the world's worth waking up for # # When my dreams don't stop at my door # # When the world's worth... # My whole life I never really felt like I fit in. I just watched people who looked like they were actually enjoying their lives. Your final grades will be posted tomorrow night outside the administration office after graduation. Good luck. Your parents' fading hopes and dreams are hanging on the outcome. And now graduation is almost here and I'm a little scared that everything is gonna change. Or even worse, that nothing's gonna change. I just thought you should know that before you waste any more of your time on me. When I asked who you were, I was looking for a name. Oh. Sorry. Will Kidman. How is it possible that in four years we haven't met until your exit interview? Well, that's a good thing, right? That's one way to look at it. Oh, you were a part of the debate team that brought home the silver this year. A little disappointing, isn't it? You're obviously pretty bright and you appear perfectly adequate on paper. It's just that there's nothing special here. Four years, each day more impossibly monotonous than the last. But after today, we'll never have to walk down this awful hallway ever again. That's true, but soon we'll have a whole lifetime of even longer and even more depressing hallways after that. So how many video yearbooks have you sold so far? Two. I'm getting the impression that nobody wants to relive high school in this sort of actual detail. But on a lighter note, I was finally able to hack into the city's broadcast master control. What? I've got a computer loaded and ready to go in the chapel under construction upstairs. - Come here. - Well... - What do you mean? - It means that tomorrow, after my diploma is safely is hand, a backup generator will kick in and the regularly scheduled programming of the greater metropolitan area will be preempted by the world premiere of "Untitled Sachin Horror Project. " How do you even walk with a pair that big? Like this. High school girls are like history class... completely fascinating and utterly boring at the same time. Oh. I mean, who even enrolls their kids into a new school a month before graduation? Their parole officers. It's been four years, man. It means your last chance. He who hesitates... Too much trouble. Yeah, Roland is kind of intimidating. But purely in a physical way. Not him. Her. Besides, I've got to worry about getting into a good college. No time for distractions, right? Uh, I... I've... I should go. Talk to you tomorrow! How many times do I have to tell you? Elliana only dates within her species. Understood? Understood. Please. If you get suspended before the last day of school, who's gonna be my date to the grad party? Go wait with the rest of the pack. I'll be right there. You live for now. No, I... I had him right where I wanted him, but thanks. I'm Elliana. - You're Will. - Yeah yeah, I am. So what do we have here? May I? Why are they all of me? I guess there's nothing much else interesting to draw around here. And I am? Sign it? Uh... There are two types of people in the world: Those who take what they want, and those who get taken. Which are you, Will? Will's voice: Fun science fact... what really separates humans from other animals? 2% of our DNA. That's it. You okay? You're bleeding. Oh yeah. I'm fine, thanks. Hi, I'm Kay. Let me guess, your first fight. Yeah, but you should see the other guy. He's perfectly fine. Don't worry. You'll have your revenge in the real world. Guys like you eat guys like him for lunch. I've got to go. That one's mine. - Okay. - Hang in there. Life gets better after high school. I promise. Thanks. Looking back, it's funny how days just kind of blend together. One little unexpected moment can pretty much change everything. What a shame. We didn't have to lock everything down like that back in my day. Happy birthday, Will. This used to be my favorite room in the world. When your mom was pregnant with you she'd come through that door, walk straight over here and join me on this couch. She'd lay down, put her head on my lap and just talk, you know, about what you might turn out like. Would you laugh like your mom or sigh like your old man? Or be some strange new combination of the both of us? Used to be my favorite room in the world. Now it's just a room. Your mom spent all the money she had at the time to buy me this. A silver wedding band. I can't believe you finally took it off. Wills voice: I think it all comes down to this: The things we suppress very deep down in places nobody can find them, they come back and get us in the end... with a vengeance. It's funny, we take for granted that we have free will, but we have so many rules and expectations to live by. And if we didn't, we would all probably just blindly follow our strongest desires, good or bad, right? So where exactly is the free will? Okay. You can do this. Welcome to the party, Will. Thanks. I didn't even know anything was down here. Where is everybody? Don't worry. It's a very exclusive guest list. Whoa. Who are these people? They aren't students. There are all kinds of graduations, Will. Consider yourself special for being the youngest guest invited. Stick out your tongue. Now say hello like I taught you, pet. What... what was that? Freedom. We got something else for you. She's yours, brother. Happy birthday. My plus one is here. Yeah. Me, here. I had a hunch there was something behind that civilized exterior. - Let's dance. - Oh no, I really don't do that. I have a feeling you're gonna be doing all sorts of new things tonight. Can I ask you something? Why Roland? Why not? Maybe because he has everything you look for in a high school boyfriend... yummy face, nice ass, cool car, chateau in the south of France. Oh, so it's a spiritual thing. He's a distraction. Something for now. Besides, he's the one who asked me out. I think most boys are scared of me. So you've never been serious about anyone? You mean in love. It's not like I'm incapable of love, Will. I love the way this dress hugs my ass. But commitment? Well, let's just say it's more fun being free and a danger to myself and others. Okay, my turn. You've drawn enough pictures of me to fill a gallery. So why is it we've never had a real conversation until this moment? The accepted social order of high school, I guess. Where do you fit into the accepted social order? I don't know. I just kind of blend into my environment, avoid the predators. What are you so scared of? - You, mostly. - Well, don't worry. I don't bite... much. What's wrong? I don't know. I feel weird. Someone gave me a pill earlier. Just roll with it. Where's my glasses? What's going on? Come on, Will. Let go. Let it happen. We've got to go. We've got to go. - No, it's just getting good. - Come on. I think I'm seeing things. Well, like... Let's just get some fresh air. Do you remember where the exit was? Elliana? Elliana, is that you? What is that? What is that? Elliana, can you hear me? Where's the door? Whoa whoa whoa. What the hell are you doing? There's something down there, okay? There's something down there. Something, huh? It's attacking people and it's not human. Not human, huh? Fill that out and under "Perpetrator ethnicity" put "Other. " Will? Elliana? Are you okay? But... How did you... how did... Jesus, kid. You're high as a kite, aren't you? You with him? No. No. Wills voice: Today was not at all what I expected when I woke up this morning. But the days that change your life forever rarely are. This is gonna be really awkward, but I need to talk to you about something. Okay, please don't tell me that you've secretly been in love with me all these years. - No. - Oh. Well, then please carry on. And here, make yourself useful. What can you tell me about... what can you tell me about werewolves? Well, considering that three of my 12 unproduced screenplays involve lycanthropes of some variety, I can tell you a lot. Okay, they don't like silver bullets, right? No, they don't like any silver in their bloodstream to the point of dying from it. And the only other way a human can kill a run-of-the-mill werewolf is by fire. Have you never seen a werewolf flick? Eh, can't blame you. That's what studios get for casting geezers in their lead roles. I mean, if I want to see people in their 40s I would just go home and look at my parents. Okay, this is just gonna sound crazy, but I maybe saw one at the party last night. Okay, the party where I assume it was wild and dark and you were high on drugs? Yeah. So silver and fire, that's it? Will, these aren't your makeup-wearing, skin-glistening pansy-ass vampires, okay? There's not some grocery list of items that you can just get to cripple them or scare them off like, "Oh, garlic. Oh, some holy water. " You know, two fingers perpendicular to each other. Okay, look. Real lycanthropes are hard-frickin'- core. Okay? They're doomed to struggle between their humanity and their animal natures. And once they kill a human, which they like always do, there's no going back. They become vicious killers for life. So hypothetically, there wouldn't be anything to worry about 'cause there's already a full moon this month, right? There's a full moon tonight. A blue moon, actually. So if they were really out there, that should certainly kick things up a notch, wouldn't it? Why would they be after me? Either you pose a threat to their existence or you're food. In your case, I'm guessing they've already picked out the best wine to bring out your flavor. What are they doing in here? Well, nobody goes to church anymore, so this is gonna be the new computer lab. You know, when somebody had a question they couldn't answer, they used to ask God. Now they ask Wikipedia. The god with answers. # When he moves I watch him from behind # # He turns and laughter flickers in his eyes # # Intent and direct when he speaks # # I watch his lips # # And when he drives I love to watch his hands # # White and smooth, almost feminine # # Almost American # # I have to watch him... # # In his face age descends on youth # # Exaggeration on the truth # # He caught me looking in then, but soon his eyes forgot me # # And everything he seems to do reflects just another shade of blue # # I saw him searching into you and ached a while # # I watch his lips caress the glass # # His fingers stroke its stem and pass # # To lift a cigarette at last # # He dries his eyes from a shadow by the stair # # I watch as he weeps unaware # # That I'm in awe of his despair # # In his face age descends on youth # # Exaggeration on the truth # # He caught me looking in then, but soon his eyes forgot me # # And everything he seems to do # # Reflects just another shade of blue # # I saw him searching into you and ached a while # # In his face age descends on youth # # Exaggeration on the truth # # He caught me looking in then, but soon his eyes forgot me # # And everything he seems to do # # Reflects just another shade of blue # # I saw him searching into you and ached a while... # Woman on P. A: Last ever school lunch now being served, seniors. Was I not clear with you, man? Were you seriously with Elliana last night? School's almost over. Just leave me alone. - I'm never gonna see her again. - That's not good enough, man. Hey, what do you think you're doing? Right now, looking at an asshole. Well, there must be something wrong with your glasses. Oh, that's it. They're broken. This is where you die, man. And nobody's around to save your sorry ass this time. I'm gonna tear you up, Kidman. Where are you, Kidman? Hey, I just want to talk. You're dead. Oh crap. Fuck! Hey, what the hell are you? Hey, I'm not an asshole, man. I'm just misunderstood. Okay okay, I am an asshole. Please don't hurt me. Wills voice: You know what we do? We let moments pass, opportunities pass, our lives pass, day after day until before we know it, without even realizing it, the best versions of ourselves have become a distant memory. Look, I've been going through life on autopilot with nothing really required of me... stop, go, do this, don't do that, moving along being polite, just surviving. I don't want to be one of the herd anymore. What do you want, Will? # Nothing you do can stop me from living today # # Nothing you say can keep me down # # I'm on my way # # What will you scream... # I want you. I've wanted to say that for a really long time. Nice ass. What smells so good? Graduation dogs. You want me to hook you up? Yeah, I really do, but no thanks. I don't eat meat. You have any idea what they put in these things? I wouldn't exactly call it meat. Come on, live a little. Why not? Yeah, give me one with everything. So, did you have fun at the party last night? How does Roland taste? Oh my... oh my God. Have you been experiencing any other unusual symptoms lately? You wouldn't believe me. Some really crazy shit's been going on. Hmm. Well, you're at the tail end of puberty and you're under the stress of final exams, worried about going to college. It's perfectly normal. District requires us to draw blood just to verify that it's not a virus or drugs. But I'm sure you and your blood are just fine. Damn it! I saw the whole thing. That Javamatic had it coming. Do I know you from somewhere? I don't think so. My name is Kay. Jack. I'd shake, but I think I might have broke my hand. So what brings you here? My boy. Me too. Must be the full moon or something. I just... it's getting so hard, you know? You just want to protect them. I had him strapped in a car seat till he was eight. Hmm. Today you got child-proof cabinets, flame-retardant pajamas, - bicycle helmets. - Hmm. The closest thing I had to a bicycle helmet was when I grew my hair out in the eighth grade. There's some things you can't protect them from no matter how hard you try. Yeah, like from girls. End up breaking their heart. Well, you know my philosophy on that is kill the first one who does and hope that the word gets around. Hey, what's the emergency? How do you become a werewolf? All right, what is going on with you? Now I'm glad that you've become a fan. I really am. But you're verging on major geekdom here. Humor me, please. Okay. If a werewolf drew blood from you and you survive, then you would become one. - Did that happen? - I don't know. How would I find out? You know, like hypothetically? - Dude, have you been working out? - Dude! Sorry. Yeah, no, hypothetically, um, you could use one of these and try and kill yourself. Your wounds would heal. Remember, only fire and silver can kill a garden variety lycanthrope. Garden variety lycanthrope? Yeah, as opposed to the alpha, the leader, the uberwolf. No one really knows how you become one, but if you are one, only another wolf can kill you. But no other wolf would have the balls. What do you say we test your theory? Well, I guess I should go check on mine. Um, would you like to get lunch or maybe drinks this afternoon? I could really use one. Thanks. But I think I've had enough excitement for one day. Okay. Well, I'll be at Bradner's Pub in case you change your mind. Maybe I will. What are you, insane? Look, you're not a werewolf, okay? Your wounds will not heal. Okay, wait wait. What are you... Okay, what if something goes wrong? What am I supposed to tell the authorities? Okay, wait wait. You know, just in case. Sachin: Oh oh shit. Oh shit. Um, okay. Uh, oh man. When you play a practical joke you really commit. Okay, I'm gonna go get the nurse. What the hell is happening to me?! Lycanthrope. Four years of high school finally over and you celebrate by coming to the library. You look yummy. I'm pretty sure all of the E from last night is out of my system by now, so why? This is gonna sound so stupid. But... I think that I might be... a werewolf. Wills voice: Vampires, they've got it easy. They're all about wish fulfillment. Me? I can't read minds. I'm not really older and wiser and more mature than I look. Well, we do have half an hour before they lock down campus. You want to find out? Wills voice: I'm just a guy who wants to do really bad things to a girl. I knew you'd join me for a drink, or five. You did, huh? Aw. A cutie. Look, I know that there's this whole courtship ritual thing I'm supposed to follow, but... Well, how about we skip the clumsy first date where you don't even know if it's okay to kiss me because really you're not even sure we're actually on a date? And while we're at it, why don't we skip the more promising second date where I've proven to you what a good listener I am, but really all I'm thinking about is what sex with you would be like? Okay. While we're at it maybe we should just skip the third date too where we have really bad sex. Well, in that case, let's pretend this is the fourth date. And if we don't have sex again soon, and if it's not really good this time, things are gonna get awkward between us. Do you trust me? I'll take that as a yes. You see, in the movies the concerned friend always handcuffs the possible werewolf to keep him from harming anyone in case he turns. This will have to do. Where did you come from? The better question is, where have I been? What are you talking about? Now, let's see if you made the right choice. Because if you're a werewolf, then I may have just saved some innocent lives. But if I'm a werewolf, then you just made a very very bad mistake. You're completely at my mercy. Ah. Now I think you should just stay there and cool down a bit 'cause it looks like you're going through a little transformation right now. - So you're not... - A monster? No. Not literally anyway. I'm gonna go out on a limb and say that neither are you. Aren't you even a little curious why this is happening? Why I'm here with you? Oh, come on, Jack. I know I'm bigger, stronger, cut off that wispy red hair. I stayed young and beautiful while you just grew old. But you wore my ring for 20 years till last night, baby. What's the matter? You look like you've seen a ghost. What's happening? You were so worried about keeping our boy safe, you didn't even give him the tools to take care of himself. Now I have to do it. Don't you remember? Till death do us part. Man on P. A: Enjoy your summer. Good luck, graduates. Who did that to you? I don't know. When they killed my mom they got me too. # You don't need to change # # A thing about you, babe # # I'm telling you, from where I sit # # You're one of a kind... # When I was 12 my mom and I came home from this day of shopping to find half of our stuff gone... furniture, TVs... whatever. I thought we'd been robbed. You weren't? My dad left us. No warning. He left a note saying he hadn't signed up for this and we were holding him back. So you decided to date guys who disappointed you at the start. Something like that. I so could have been that guy. Oh man, you must think I'm crazy. Why are you still here? What is it about me? You're kind of like a good book I can't put down yet. "It was one of those rare smiles. It understood you just as you wanted to be understood, and believed in you just as you would like to believe in yourself and assured you just the impression of yourself that you'd hope to convey. " Or something like that. So do you quote "Gatsby" to all the girls? # Well, I've been lost and I need direction # # And I could use a little love protection # # What do you say, honey? Come to my... # I have to go. After graduation my mom and I are going to Europe for the summer. # I can take a punch, I don't mind it bleeding # # As long as afterwards you feel bad for me... # So do you think you'll be able to live without me? I hope so. # I've got a deep desire and it needs quenching # # And I think that's pretty plain for you to see # # Well, enough about me and more about you # # Would that be the gentlemanly thing to do? # # I hope you like your men sweet and polite... # So what is it about me? I don't know. It's kind of hard to explain. It's like the rest of the world is in black and white, you're in color. # Relationships, I don't know why # # They never work out, they make you cry # # But the guy that says goodbye to you is out of his mind. # Christ. Just overrode the system. There's no way in hell anyone or anything is getting in or out of here before tonight. Just leave my money on the desk. Selling out your own species. How weak. Will? Elliana? Elliana, is that you? Oh, it's you. What are you doing here? I came here for you, Will. Holy shit. I've waited 18 years for this. It's time for us to go. What? Us? Us go where? Everywhere. You're one of them, aren't you? One of us. Hi, it's Sara Winter. Leave me a message and I'll call you right back. Hey, Mom. I know you're probably on your way, but I was hoping we could just meet after the ceremony. It's just there's this boy. And no, it's not Roland. I'd just really like to stay. I'm graduating today. I can't believe it. All right, I love you, Mom. Bye. You survived an attack while you were still in the womb. My womb. No. No, you died. How are you even here? It's okay, honey. At first I was scared too. But just imagine having the power over all the things you feel you can't control. It's amazing. Why did you wait so long? I was watching you, waiting until you were ready. And the blue moon. Tonight is gonna be so special. Wait wait. If I'm one of you, then why are the other ones trying to kill me? We weren't trying to kill you. We were trying to welcome you. So this curse... Gift. - Has been inside me my whole life. You call this a life? Forget your books... and your technology. That's not life. It's a series of distractions from life. Your father tried to suppress you with drugs. He tried to domesticate you like a yellow Lab. He taught you useless facts and called it knowledge. He made you soft... and called it civilized. You have so much to learn. Life as you know it is over. Elliana: You know, I thought about it, and I don't think you can live without me. Will? Who's that? Uh... It's time for us to go, son. Son? Wait, I don't understand. I thought your mom was dead. Listen, I thought about it and I can definitely live without you. Goodbye. So what? I'm never gonna see you again? Wait. What is going on here? Our use for you is over, pet. But you and me can have a little fun before I put you out of your misery. Jesus. He's not coming. Lesson number one, Survival of the pack over all. Besides, we can't have anyone knowing about us yet. It'd spoil the surprise. Hey! Let me do it. Will? Please. Let him come to us. Will. No, Will. Will. Wills voice: You know what they say about the white light? It's bullshit. Or maybe they just didn't turn it on for me. What I did see was why the lure of immortality is so strong. So you're... A monster. Literally. Let's go. Let's go before campus locks down. No! No! Elliana: Now what? Okay. After tonight I will only return to this campus to promote my films and to autograph women's breasts. Oh hi. I didn't see you there. My name is Sachin. And you, ladies and gentlemen, are about to witness the rebirth of American cinema. "Untitled Sachin Horror Project. " Who's there? Sorry, Sachin. But this is where you fade to black. Oh, you've got to be kidding me. Please be there, security. Security. Elliana: Eddie? Keys. Where's his keys? Where's his keys? Phones are dead. Uh... Okay, the school won't unlock until after graduation. There has to be some sort of override switch. Is there a chance anyone is still on campus? It's Sachin. Sachin. Werewolfs on steroids! And they're so much more jacked up than in the movies. They're not hiding in the woods, okay? They're here. God! Will, I'm so sorry for not believing you, man. Look, whatever you do, don't kill a human, okay? Once you do there's no turning back. I'm about to die, oh my God. Whoever finds this tape, please post it on YouTube so I don't die in vain. - What are you doing? - Protecting ourselves, assuming everything they taught us in chemistry wasn't complete bullshit. Last night at the party there was a hatch to the street. Maybe we can find it again from the basement and get out of here. Thank you, Will, for before. You would have done the same for me. I'd like to think you'd have done the same for me. Look, in case something happens, you think I never saw you, but I did. I saw you drawing those pictures. You made me feel beautiful on days that weren't. I could have said something but I didn't because I thought whatever image you had of me was better than who I was. What are we supposed to do with that? Elliana: This can't be real. What are they doing with all these people? How long have they been collecting them? Elliana. Where's my light? Where's my light? Where's my light? Hello, son. Dad? What is this? What's going on? He's outgrown his usefulness to you, my boy. It's my turn. You're one of us now. Kill him. Do it! No. I'd rather die than become one of you. Oh? No! Nothing and no one can hold you back anymore. I'll never kill a human. But you already have. You killed Roland. I was there. It was impressive. The only question is was it because he was trying to kill you or because he had something you wanted? Will? What have I done? You are your impulses now. No need to distinguish, no need for control or guilt. Yeah. Just let go. Get out of here now. What about you? Just go! Wait for the campus to unlock without me. - You can't stay here with them. - It's none of your concern! Go. Go. Run away, little girl. Welcome to the family. What do you want to do first? Kill you. Kill all of you. Wills voice: Remember that mere 2% that separates us from the animals? It's everything. Will? Elliana? Elliana! Elliana? Elliana! No. No! I guess it's a good thing you didn't win the gold. Will. Get away from me. They killed my dad. They turned me into this. - You're not like them. - Yes I am! - You have a choice. - No I don't. You don't understand. Every second I'm with you is about restraint, reining myself in because the more I want you. Come on. Wills voice: I've always been scared of letting anyone in. Or maybe I've really been scared of letting me out. Do what you want to do. What? Whatever it is, come on. Do it. Come on. You don't know what you're saying. Come on, Will. Let's go. Let it happen. # Come on, baby # # Don't fear the reaper # # Take my hand # # Don't fear the reaper... # Are you sure? # We'll be able to fly # # Don't fear the reaper # # Baby, I'm your man # # Don't fear the reaper # # Baby, I'm your man # # La la la # # La la... # Get away from me. Did you ever think maybe if I was like you that I could help you? - Maybe we could be a team. - You think you could save me? Huh? Is that what you want to do? If you don't want to be with me, just say it. That's not what I'm saying. I just can't. You don't want this. Don't tell me what I want. What are you so afraid of? Or maybe the better question is what aren't you afraid of? You've been living in your safe little world where everybody tells you what to do and you're too scared to do anything about it. Yeah well, you're afraid that you're gonna die so I'm just another guy who's safe to be with for the moment because it has zero chances of working out. I'm asking you to make me like you. How much more of a commitment do you need? I think you're afraid that if you love me, I won't love you back. Yeah well, maybe you're afraid that I will. Try me. # We can be like they are # # So come on, baby # # Don't fear the reaper... # # La la la # # La la... # # La la la # # La la... # Ah! # Take my hand # # Don't fear the reaper # # We'll be able to fly... # Leave me alone! # Baby, I'm your man # # Baby, I'm your man... # I'm so sorry. I won't be the one who hurts you. I told you, you have a choice. You don't have to kill again. You know that, right? Wills voice: My generation, we're not about commitments and relationships. We're about hooking up. It's like somewhere along the way we were led to believe that knowing too much about a partner somehow makes love less exciting. We were led to believe wrong. Kathryn on P. A: Attention please. Would Will Kidman and the campus whore please report to the principal's office? Thank you. Come on, we have to get to the chapel. You came from inside of me, my son. That's a fact and you'd better start learning how to deal with it. We have to throw off their scent. There's no use fighting it. Push me away, I'll tighten my grip. It's what mothers do. The world as you know it is about to change. 500 years ago people knew the Earth was flat. This morning everybody knew that humans were at the top of the food chain. My boy, that isn't food below. It's an army. It's coming to life as we speak. And tonight when the blue moon rises, we will lead this world into a new era. Roland's gun. Hollow points. Perfect. Argentum nitricum? AKA silver nitrate. We have to warn people what's happening before it's too late. We can use the broadcast hack Sachin set up. They won't believe us. They'll think it's just a couple of kids playing a joke. That's why we have to make them believe. How? I'm gonna turn into one. You might need this in case I'm not strong enough to come back. Let's do this. I don't want to lose you, even though I feel like I've been seriously damaged by this relationship. It's graduation time. Hey hey. Hey, look. I need you to be strong and stay with me because you're the one who's gonna have to kill me. # I will keep the bad things from you # # I will love you like no other # # I will be your dad and mother # # I will give you older brothers # # I will keep your smile from falling # # I will keep the price below cost # # I will lead the way when all is lost # # Catch it while you can # # It's the feel-good hit of the summer # # Catch it while you can # # 'Cause there won't be another # # Won't be another # # I will keep the bad things from you. # Sorry, Will. The evolution will not be televised. Who the hell are you to warn people about us? Fellow graduates, let's not let it rain on our parade. I want to love you. Really, I do. But you're making it so incredibly difficult. We admit it, we're scared. We always hear how there's still so many things that we don't know, but I'd like to think that we know more than you think. We just haven't summoned it yet. Why would you even try to save those people? Those people that have made your life nothing but miserable all these years? Because I'm not like you. Imagine how disappointed I am after 18 years to find out you're... so ordinary. Imagine how disappointed I am to find out that you're not. Certainly there are lessons yet to be learned as we leave high school behind. But let me share with you a few I've learned already. Clearly the girl has clouded your judgment. You might not thank me now for getting rid of her, but trust me, one day you will. Never look back. Behind you! That which doesn't kill us makes us stronger. At the end of every dark tunnel is a light. When one door closes, another opens. Come on. Elliana, come on. Come on, Elliana. We've come this far. Come on, Elliana, come on! Come on, don't go. Don't go. Don't go! Wake up! Come on! Come on, fight. Come on, Elliana. Breathe. Breathe! Come on. Come on. You'd never let go. Don't you dare let go. I can't live without you, Elliana. Come on. Come on, Elliana. - Hi. - You're alive. No! Will Kidman. Will Kidman? Elliana! Elliana Winter. Elliana Winter? Elliana! Elliana! Ladies and gentlemen, I give you this year's graduating class. Bravo, Will. You've got more potential than I thought. You're alive. How? Oh, honey, it's gonna take a lot more than a little fire to get rid of me. It's a cruel world and the only morality in a cruel world is every being for themselves. Even if you win this battle, you lose the war. There are thousands of other armies out there just like ours. So why resist? There's nothing you can do. I know it's hard to swallow. Swallow this! You're the alpha. You're damn right I am. And now I'm gonna do to you what I should have done 18 years ago... abort you. Why? 'Cause your boy likes his girlfriend better than Mommy? What, you jealous? You pissed off? Hell, that makes you the most human one here. Go ahead. Put me out of your misery. What have I done? Elliana? You're in there somewhere. It's hard. I know what you're feeling. So if you can't come back, then kill me. Because the only way I'm walking out of here is together. But you have a choice. You know that, right? Come on. Here. Will. # The book of love # # Is long and boring # # No one can lift # # The damn thing # # It's full of charts # # And facts and figures # # And instructions for dancing # # But I # # I love it # # When you read to me # # And you # # You can read me anything # # The book of love has music in it # # In fact, that's where music comes from... # Will's voice: Most of us don't have the option of waking to eternal life or experiencing undying romance. Our lives and loves are painfully finite. But maybe that's how it should be. Because the parts of the human condition that we suffer from most are the very things that make us what we are. # And you... # Wills voice: We appreciate time because of our lack of it. # You can sing me anything # # The book of love... # Wills voice: We're sensitive because of our vulnerability. We're compassionate because of our dependence. # It's full of flowers... # Wills voice: And while we can all be monsters... # And things we're all too young to know... # Wills voice: ... we're always at our most monstrous when we ignore our humanity. Wills voice: Our teachers and parents like to say we're witnessing the decline of Western civilization. Sure, these are trying times. But when we begin to lose ourselves in routine or fear or tragedy, I think we can always find our way back. We just need to remember that our obligations to one another, our relationships to one another, these things don't exist only to fill up our days. They exist to save our lives. And these things are worth fighting for. "It's a whole new world. " "The future begins here. " You people have no fucking idea. # You are to give me # # A wedding ring. # Two three four. I need you to be strong and stay with me... Hey, man, do you think this is real? ...because you're the one who's going to have to kill me. Nah, it looks like viral marketing for some movie. # It never really costs that much # # If you consider the return... # Will on TV: And now, 18 years after the day I was born, I'm here to convince you that the monsters are real, that they live among us, within us. And hopefully one day you'll know who I was and what I tried to do. # And it's my favorite revolution # # It's my favorite revolution # # It's my favorite # # Favorite # # Favorite revolution... # Will on TV: Please listen to me. I need you to gather all the silver and fire... ...and kill them before it's too late. # Revolution # # Now it's all updated # # Plastic and laser beams... # Reporter: Police stations and authorities are being flooded with werewolf... yes, werewolf... sightings on four continents. Officials are currently assessing the situation and asking people to stay indoors until further notice. # I'll make you famous, sweet revenge # # Will come in time # # Where would we be without them? # # Thank God we'll never know # # We're safe and sound as angels # # When it's loud we dance slow # # And it's my favorite revolution... # Reporter: People are panicking, gathering silver and firearms as military troops around the globe are mobilizing. ...attacks leaving thousands of victims. # Favorite revolution... # # It's my favorite revolution # # It's my favorite # # Favorite # # Favorite... # Do you believe us now? # Drop the needle, there's a song to be sung # # When the tables turn, baby # # It's my favorite revolution. #
