 

                        My Kristina of Sweden! I implore you to call upon your cleverness! I beseech you, in the name of our Lord! Save your Empire! [MUSIC BOX PLAYING] Kristina! Kristina! Good night, Your Majesty. See you tomorrow. The queen Mother refuses to see you! Chancellor, how dare you force your way into my quarters. I've come to save your daughter from your madness and to remove he king's body. - Not so soon! - Soon? He's been on your bed for two years! [GRUNT OF DISGUST] His heart! Look at that mad, mad woman... She shows no respect to our king. Go. Nein! Nein... Ah Kristina, Kristina! Come... [BREATHING HEAVILY] Kristina, Kristina... Come, come! [BEGGING, BREATHING LOUDLY] Come! Kristina. [BEGGING, CRYING] Kristina... [BEGGING, SHOUTING, CRYING] Get the body. [CRYING] Kristina! Kristina! [CRYING] Kristina... Kristina? Kristina. Happy Birthday your majesty. Control your anger. Ssss... Suppress your tears. Were you aware of her shoulder? A distracted servant. She fell down a flight of stairs. The child is in good health. [APPLAUSE] I remember when you were born... Your first cry was so deep, we thought it was the long awaited prince. So we took you to your father and he unwrapped the blanket. A girl... But she must be very clever, because she fooled us all. She will be raised like a prince. Rules for the training of the mind, by Descartes! A Catholic! That is blasphemy. To be uneducated in this world of ours, that would be blasphemy. Heresy! How dare you! - Stop! - From now on... We will decide what you read. Luther is right. The Pope is an aberration and... and his infallibility... a fraud. I'm glad to see you've come to your senses... But I still think Luther's austerity is sadistic. He sees the devil everywhere. Even in a fly. I'll bring back your favorite books. Descartes? If you wish. Even Descartes... [BOOK SLAMS] Her Majesty is in good health. Happy eighteenth birthday. With your father's sword, Sweden is yours. [LOUD BREATHING, GRUNT] [LOUD BREATHING, GRUNT] [LAUGHING] Careful! You should concentrate, my cousin! I'll lay a treasure at your feet. The greatest treasure in the world? Yes! The greatest treasure in the world. I'll grant your deepest desire. Just ask me! [GRUNT] Like Luther, I want to spend a night with the devil. Do you really think he's the one who will lay the devil at your feet? [CHURCH BELLS CHIMING] On this sacred day, may I call you my daughter? Did I see you speak to her on my behalf? She needs to feel loved, convince her. They haven't brought me your Royal Proclamation speech. And they won't be bringing it. Why? Because that's what I decided. Do you realize the importance of this speech? Yes! And I've been preparing for it since childhood. This is a fine occasion for you to trust her. Stop it. Father... [SIGH] Let Kristina show you that you have every reason to be proud of her. Very well. I'll hold you both responsible for the consequences. [CHUCKLES] Her majesty, Queen Kristina! How radiant and proud she is! What a marvelous day for our kingdom! You, Kristina, on the throne. [APPLAUSE] Yes! Your majesty... Your humble servant. Magnus, I take umbrage at your splendid attire. If Your Majesty wishes, I shall take everything off. And I should take umbrage all the more. May I introduce you to Monsieur Pierre Chanut, France's distinguished ambassador to our country. Your Majesty. Monsieur. Despite our religious differences, Sweden accepts France, the eldest daughter of the Church of Rome, as our greatest ally. We are stealing souls from the Holy German Empire, while you are stealing their provinces. [LAUGHS] [APPLAUSE] Jakob! You remember my younger brother, Jakob? Some say he's even handsomer than me. Your Majesty. My fiance, Countess Ebba Sparre. Your Majesty. We must all take umbrage. [MUSIC PLAYING] I don't see my mother. She left. Still at your papa's side I see? Everytime I see you, the same image comes to mind. What image is that my friend? You can open a dog's mouth to teach him to talk... But... It just goes on, barking. [LIGHT BARKING] Lovely to see you again. Did you bring my first revolution? I was olny waiting for you to give the order, my queen. Now! For our gracious majesty's pleasure! [CLAPS HANDS TWICE] [MUSIC PLAYING] [RINGING SOUND] [APPLAUSE] It's time now. Everything will be fine. Show them what you're made of! The Queen! Today I came of age and I solemnly received my father's crown. The crown of the great Gustav, Lion of the North, who gave his life fighting to defend the glory of Sweden. [CHEERS/APPLAUSE] And I, like him, intend to work day and night for the glory of our kingdom, in keeping with the teachings of Luther, our spiritual guide. [CHEERS/APPLAUSE] I inherited from my father a country of miners and lumberjacks, of peasants and soldiers. Ignorance and illiteracy are rampant in the lower classes, people scorn scholars and are suspicious of knowledge. The French philosopher, Ren Descartes, says... that curiosity is a great asset. Says it predisposes us to acquire scientific knowledge. He says... the best remedy, for excessive admiration, is to acquire knowledge of many things, and to practice appreciation of those that seem most rare and strange. We must build schools! Theaters! Libraries! We must welcome the finest thinkers and those banned for their ideas. I want to make my country the most sophisticated country in Europe. Let us become curious and make Stockholm the new Athens! [APPLAUSE] To achieve this dream... We must tackle the greatest challenge in the history of this country... Peace! Peace? We must bring an end to these years of war with the Holy Roman Empire. With the Catholics?! Nothing is more difficult than peace. Thirty years of war... Thousands and thousands of deaths to ensure that Luther's faith, prevails over the North of this continent. And you would like us to abandon these goals?! We got drunk on the blood of Catholics. And now we are supposed to dilute everything with poetry and song! Sit down... When pretty phrases and sweet melodies have lulled us to sleep, Catholic Germany will rise and, brandishing Rome, they will return to stab us in the back! - The way they did your father! - Sit down! This is her majesty, Queen Kristina of Sweden! And when the queen speaks, she commands! Wait! Wait, wait, wait, wait... I shall protect you. I shall love you, day and night. Marry me! What? Make me your king! I have just introduced myself and presented my plans to the world and you are talking to me about marriage. The moon has barely risen on the first day of my reign, and I've already received countless proposals. The Great Elector of Brandenburg, the King of Hungary. Even Philip of Spain! An incurable syphilitic! Am I just a pawn for the taking? You don't need those kings, you have me! - Marry me! - No! I'll support all your revolutions, we've talked about this Kristina! I brought you the china and the crystal... NO!!! No... You need not to unpack your trunks. I'm sending you back to Paris. But Kristina... You heard her... You're going back to Paris. And I'm sending you to the German front. [GASPS] Do you dare object? No... We need to demonstrate our strength on all fronts during these peace negotiations. Of course. But... I'll keep all of my promises. I swear I will! Let her go. [DOOR CLOSES] Custodiat animam tuam in vitam aeternam. Amen. You gave a courageous speech, your Majesty. Some called it suicidal. You were guided by your free will. My what? Ren Descartes is currently living in Holland. He's studying the passions of the soul. The passions of the soul? How to recognize them in order to master them. There is no need to study our passions, they're all bad for the soul. Our lives are determined in advance. Life is God's gift to us, and He alone is in charge of our fate. Beware of Catholics, your Majesty... They practice loose theology. Shall we talk about these peace negotiations? I expect they will be difficult. Johan, you would make a fine negotiator for us. What? In Osnabruck. You're sending me to Germany? Who could better represent me than you? Johan is grateful, your majesty, for this honour. Yes, of course, thank you. [HORSES WHINNYING] It's about time! [SIGH] What is she doing here? From now on, I'll be choosing my ladies-in-waiting myself. The "lady's seat" restricts us to trotting, and it makes us look ridiculous. Get down. Give her your saddle. How do you expect me to feel, she's sending me away... She has to learn to appreciate your worth... Oh, really? From a distance? No, make sure you're the best negotiator possible, impress her. She wants to keep all the power for herself. I'll make sure she doesn't forget you. Follow me! [GUNSHOT] [SURPRISED SHOUT] Mmmm... [SIGH] Mmm... [CHUCKLES] By the rusty nails of Christ's cross, this is delicious! I've been eating and hunting bear since I was a child, but this... This is something else. Shallots, garlic, and, important... One or two measures of french white wine. - Sant, your Majesty! - Sant... Look! This is a tomato... It comes from Spain's New World. They're also called "love apples". Mmmm... Come... Come sit here... At your table? Come! Taste this... [LAUGHTER] Mmmm... They're love apples... Delicious! [LAUGHS] Descartes believes in the proper use of our passions. Because he thinks, it is the source of all felicity in our lives. Hum... Does that mean he rejects the philosophy of the Stoics? Human passions are bad for your soul? Absolutely... Then why should we learn to recognize our feelings? Then we can decide what is right and what is wrong for ourselves. But our lives are determined in advance. Life is meant to be gray until we earn the final darkness. [SIGHS] Don't you think we can add a bit of colour? I find all this very exciting... and disturbing. By whose authority are you dining with our sovereign? I thank you, madame, for this delicious dinner. And ladies-in-waiting should not be dining, at the queen's table. Chancellor... I invited the ambassador myself. A Jesuit scoundrel! A Catholic recruiter. How can you be so careless! Can you image if people were aware of your private meetings with that man? And there was no need to be so rough with my lady-in-waiting. I want to make Kristina, the greatest Lutheran sovereign in the world. And I work night and day to have your reforms approved but there's opposition from all sides. Your ideas are expensive, and peace doesn't fill our coffers. I believe in your ideas, but you must help me. Don't allow your curiosity to distract you. When one does as one wishes, one rarely does as one should. [SPITTING] [SIGH] Hum... [PASSIONATE SIGH] [FLY BUZZING] Monsieur Descartes, I've heard about your research on human emotions... I would like you to explain two things to me... Bonjour, oui? This is for Descartes. First... [LAUGHING] I would like you to tell me... What is love? I cannot grasp the secret impulse, that draws us to one person rather than another, Before we truly know that person's worth. [LITTLE SIGH] Does this hidden alliance have its roots in the body... or the mind? And secondly, how does one get rid of this feeling? There are two kinds of love. Compassionate love... which makes us desire the best for those we love. And lustful love. The love that makes us desire those we love. [HEAVY BREATHING] Every passion changes us physically, and each one has its own symptoms. We can identify them by the changes in our pulse, our breathing... or by the flush of our skin. But beware of facial expressions. They do not always reveal the truth since, we can willfully control our facial expressions. To hide one passion, we can imagine another, quite the opposite. But, for the time being, you should love. You can reason afterwards. These are for me? Are you serious? It's a present from Johan. - Is he serious? - Hum... Perhaps you... neglected these things for too long... The fff... feminine things that please... Please who? Mmm... Ah... This one is luminous. Yes, it's luminous. Yes. [GASPS] How luminous! Try it on. Me? I'm sure it will suit you. [GIGGLES] No! Here in front of me. In front of you? Yes. You're suddenly so quiet. I'm trying to change my facial expression by thinking of something totally different. [CHUCKLES] Your fianc? Jakob? How does he look at you? Sometimes he touches his chest like you... right now. Then he places his hands on his chin, like you. The gown. Is he proud to have you on his arm? I think so. Does he know how many men envy him in the jungle of suitors? Jakob looks at me the way we look at white swans. We praise the beauty of their wings, but... We forbid them to fly. [BREATHING HEAVILY] How does he touch you? I love to make you blush. Did you have this gown made for me? I knew you would like it. [LITTLE LAUGH, SIGH] Tell me that you like them. They're lovely... I know more about... artillery and cavalry strategies... [LAUGHS] [LAUGHTER] [LAUGHTER] [LAUGHS/BREATHING HEAVILY] Time for prayers, Your Majesty. Nature is devious, when it comes to desire. We must not let her have her way. Dear God, let discernment and doubt be my guides. - Amen. - Amen. By the way, that gown was for you. I meant to tell you, from now on, I will have a private audience with whomever I please... - I don't think... - And, whenever I please. Good night, Chancellor. I delivered your instructions for the expansion of the Fallon mines. Thank you. Anything else? Johan is afraid that an army that doesn't share our peaceful aspirations is about to invade Prague. Prague? Yes. Isn't that where Emperor Rudolph keeps his treasures? Yes. They say the treasures include priceless rare books. The most beautiful paintings of all time and... A collection of animals, never seen in this part of the world before. - Yes. - They also say... He has an unholy Bible. A Bible written by the devil himself. [SIGHS] Prague... [LAUGHS] Concentrate... [KNOCKING] Count Oxenstierna. Johan! Hey... [LAUGHS/SIGHS] I'm so happy to see you again. I'm glad to hear that. An official portrait, Countess. You're spoiled. Et voil! The humanists are here by the door. The stoics... by the windows. And... The library of the humanist Grotius will arrive soon. Can you imagine! Forty-eight cartloads of books! 150,000 manuscripts... This new library could hold 500,000 books and treatises. Nourishment for our beloved Sweden. The most beautiful garden of all. Did you really miss me... while I was away? I told Countess Sparre you are the man who is dearest to me. Let me read to you... Not this one, this one is in Greek. Hum... - And this one in... - Arabic. Of course... And this one in Spanish. Ah! At last, here's one in our language. I'm listening. The Elliptical Trajectory of the , by Kepler. [SIGHS] Good Lord... An official portrait for Countess Sparre in a whore's gown? It's the gown you sent to Kristina as a present while you were away. I sent a gown? To Kristina? Several gowns. [LAUGHS] For Kristina? 18, to be honest. Hmm.. Why is the countess wearing it? I don't know ask her! [MUMBLES] Women... [CHUCKLES] We have to maintain total domination, over the Baltic Sea at all costs. But I promised the Germans we would leave them three provinces with access to the shore! Emperor Marcus Aurelius said: "The world is in perpetual transformation and life is a mere opinion." Translation, please? Nothing is unalterable. You intend to break the promise I made to the Germans... The negotiations are taking too long. We worked day and night to grant them this access to the sea. I have ordered Karl Gustav to enter Prague. We will conquer Prague? Before the peace negotiations are over? The terror inspired by the conquest of Prague will hasten the negotiations to our advantage. ", dieu qu'il est doux de plaindre le sort d'un ennemi quand il n'est plus craindre!" Huh? And that means: An enemy on his knees has no choice but to negotiate. You intend to send me back to Osnabruck, to break our promises? No, Johan, I intend to keep you here with me. We will march on Prague! (ALL) We will march on Prague! Axel? We will march on Prague! [APPLAUSE] Why can't she talk like the rest of us? Hmmph... Descartes is afraid he'll be forced to flee Holland soon. He will always be welcome here. - Has he written to you recently? - Well actually... He wrote... A treatise. And it is for you. Descartes hopes for your Majesty's opinion. For me? Les passions de l'me. His latest work. He must come to Sweden and teach me all this. I'll invite him, on your behalf, your Majesty. You must. I will. Look... Oh! What a nice surprise. They're looking for you. Kristina? Oh... Au revoir your majesty... Where are you? Come... He wrote to me... All this... "To attain the truth in life, we must discard all the ideas we've been taught..." "And reconstruct the entire system of our knowledge." The queen is here!!! The Queen! The Queen!! What were you and her majesty talking about? Chancellor, you cannot deny my access to the Queen. You know France is your greatest ally. We need your mines. You need our money. Hmmpf. [CHEERING/APPLAUSE] My valiant subjects! You work to ensure the glory of Sweden and your queen. Offer them some beer. Thanks to your fathers' rebellion, My ancestor rose to the throne and overthrew tyranny... Offer them beer! As the great Marcus Aurelius said... Beer for everyone! [CHEERS/APPLAUSE] "Long live Kristina!" "Long live Kristina!" "Long live Kristina!" "Long live Kristina!..." [CONTINUE CHANTING] "Desire is an agitation caused by the spirits" which disposes the soul to will for the future "things it represents to itself as desirable." Are you feeling ill? No... Just a bit tired. Go get some rest. - No... I. - Immediately. [SIGHS] In the winter... during the military campaigns, my father asked a nobleman to warm his bed for him. He lay in the bed before my father, and the sheets were warm when the king came to join him. They called him the king's bed companion. From now on, you will have this title. At the court? And you will assume these duties. Belle? You may call me that if you wish. I don't need your permission. [SIGHS] I know how to set a bear trap, how.. how to cl.. Clean a musket, but... I don't know how to place my lips on yours. What to do with my hands. That was better [SIGHS] What does your philosopher say? To attain the truth in life we must discard all the ideas we've been taught. [CRYING] [GASPS/CRYING] The queen says that... pregnant women are nothing but sows. Our monarch is fluent in many languages. I want to remain in her service. There is no better position than that of a lady-in-waiting. None sire, none. There is only one way for you to remain in her service. That is against God's will! Is fornicating outside of wedlock, a Christian act? [GASPING] But I love him... Of course... Of course you do... [SOBS] I will see that they deal with this thing in your belly. Heh... And you can be helpful to me, Countess Erksein. So? What is it? Countess Sparre has broken off her engagement with Jakob de la Gardie. [SIGHS] Nobody told me. When Her Majesty is one's rival, one doesn't shout it from the rooftops. What are you insinuating? The countess, has just been promoted to the title of the queen's bed companion. Hah! Johan, Johan, Johan! Friendship between women is much closer than the friendship of men, and it can be easily misinterpreted. When will you stop kidding yourself, - my pathetic papa? - Wait, stop! You raised her as a man and now you're surprised that she whistles at women! Her determination to change the natural order of things is from her deviance, father. Deviants they need to question the natural order of things. They need to make the world fit their peculiar vision of the order of things. We must not exaggerate. How long will we stand by while ladies adopt breeches and gentlemen become [CLICKS TONGUE] eunuchs? We must not exaggerate and stop drinking! Stop. The more scandalous her behavior, the more people will blame you. I... I know someone who will remind her of her duty. What is the purpose of this rare visit, Mother? I want to travel to Germany to see my family. Majesty... The purpose of your visit! You... You have to get married... as soon as possible. For the stability of the throne. Think of the chaos if you were to die tomorrow. I am aware of my duty in this matter. [SIGHS] But I have yet to accept... that a man could exploit me like a peasant plows his fields. [LIGHTLY LAUGHS] For the time being, I have other concerns. I am working for peace. Peace? Haha! Peace yes... I've heard about this madness. Your father fought for the conquests that you are pawning for your silly whims! [CLEARS THROAT] You were speaking about marriage. There is no glory in hypocritical treaties that do nothing but grant the enemy time to rearm. - Peace is a gift to a nation. - Words, words, words! Listen to the Minerva of the North. She invades Prague in the middle of the peace negotiations, and then she extends the olive branch. Give your nation an heir to the throne. That's the gift you should be working for. We need strong arms! Not brains! Fill your subjects' bellies, not their minds! You are the Queen of a nation of filthy, primitive bears, and they must recognize themselves in you. Who would want you? If your father saw what has become of you. I forbid you to speak of my father. You forbid me? You made my father an object of your grotesque grieving. An embalmed cadaver that you forced me to kiss at sunrise and sunset, every day, day after day, when I was six years old! You will never know the power of such love! May God spare me! From my own belly... Instead of another stillborn son, they handed me a dark daughter. Alive. After so many years apart... I had hoped to see something like purity, something different! My father, left you behind in his camp, and he went out to visit his whores. I will always, love your father. You were a bottomless pit of longing. He was only faithful to you during his two years of putrefaction. This audience is over! All these years, I had my regrets. I should have left you there... at the foot of the staircase! [SCREAMS] It was you! [SIGHS] [SPEAKING GERMAN AS SHE EXITS] [BREATHING HEAVILY] [CRYING] I forbid you to cry! This is my sorrow, not yours! [GASPING, SOBBING] How dare you! Don't think, Countess, that the moments of distraction we shared give you the right to behave like this. - I thought... - What did you think? The company of women is distracting me from my duty. Monsieur Descartes... I would like you to tell me, between love, and hatred, which of those two creates the worst disorders? (DESCARTES) Like love, there are two kinds of hatred. The feeling we simply call... hatred... which is related to things that are bad for the soul. The other is the feeling called, horreur! Which is related to things that are ugly for the soul. [MUFFLED CRIES, SOBS] Then I hate my mother... who has a horror of me. [DOOR OPENING] I've waited too long for you. And by Christ's balls! I don't like to be kept waiting! By who's...? Welcome Monsieur Descartes. It's about time! Down with Rome! Down with Rome! - Death to the Catholics. - Down with Rome! Burn the Pope at the stake! Monsieur Descartes, show us the discovery that is the talk of Europe. Your majesty... I was not expecting this. At the dawn of an era of peace, cadavers will become a rare commodity. You must put this to good use monsieur. The saw, please. In the course of my, anatomical investigations... I recently discovered... a tiny gland, no bigger than a pine nut, that is the meeting place, of body and mind. I am convinced, this, is where our emotions are born. Hammer please. [METAL CLANKING] This gland is situated just below the Sylvian fissure. Which channels the animal spirits. [GASPS] The blood that flows from this fissure... touches this gland, triggering the passions we feel. Tweezers, please. Your Majesty, allow me to introduce, the pineal gland, "the seat of the soul!" To understand, the workings, we may one day, be able, to control our passions... - physically! - Then what? Remove a piece of hatred? A slice of desire? Who knows? Who's to say? Remove the longing? The endless waiting? Remove the voice that haunt us. The soul is in God's hands! Not in a pine nut! Heresy! I hope, Monsieur Descartes, that you will forgive the lack of manners in my court. Kristina... Kristina! You have gone too far. Didn't you teach me, that curiosity is a great virtue? In Luther's teachings! By God's ass! Luther has no curiosity whatsoever! That's blasphemy against Luther. We cannot accept this heresy... Your Majesty! I curse you, I curse you. May you burn in Hell! [GUNSHOT] My little girl... Johan... He has saved your life. I better leave you alone. [GROANS/MUMBLES] The man is a fanatic from the theology school. I pushed you out of the way. You hit your head. [GASPS] Belle? Come to me... Come close to me... Come to me.. I thought I lost you... I'm so sorry... Will you forgive me? She must marry. She must fornicate. If she dies in childbirth, at least she will have tried to embrace her destiny. How dare you speak about our sovereign like that? The Council can remove her from office, on the grounds of extraordinary circumstances. Can you imagine the turmoil that would ensue? Turmoil? And what about the songs that are becoming more and more popular? - Are there songs... - I've heard reports, of the ribald songs they're singing in taverns around the countryside and even in Stockholm. So sing it! While the lads are studying the art of seduction, The ladies need no introduction! Lads hoping to win a lady's heart, Turn to Kristina, grand master of this art! Turn to Kristina! Grand Master of this art! [BREATHING HEAVILY/SHAKILY] You are not meant to live within the confines of Luther's faith. Look around you! Eveybody at the court wants you to be pregnant, under the thumb of male authority. Ah! Rome has become today a center where everything is possible. St. Peter's Basilica has created a effervescence. It's a gathering place for the finest minds and, - the most, daring artists. - Get to the point. Rome... needs a queen. Rome has a pope. Rome needs a virgin queen. Your faith is based on indulgences and relics. Buy a piece of Christ's cross and one is assured of a hundred years in heaven. There are so many pieces of the Christ child's foreskin in circulation, I can't imagine the size of the Holy member. Faith can be purchased in your church. That church is preparing to offer you freedom. The Pope wants to tend all your needs, the most reasonable and the most unreasonable. [SIGHS] Please leave, monsieur. You will be free to do whatever you want. In public and... in private. Please leave. Your Majesty. Descartes, you stay. I had to flee France because I questioned, the real presence of Christ in the communion host. I had to flee Holland, because I glimpsed; It is the earth, that gravitates around the sun. I'm convinced we can determine our destiny. But I am free, Your Majesty. I do not have a kingdom to govern. Twenty-five states and principalities... have signed, the Westphalia treaty! Glory to you, your Majesty! From now on, every monarch can choose the religion in his state. May you use this disposition wisely. Long live Kristina! (ALL) Long live Kristina! Long live Kristina! (ALL) Long live Kristina! Long live Kristina! (ALL) Long live Kristina! [CHEERS] Hurray! [MUSIC PLAYING] Soldiers! (ALL) Hey! - Friends! - (ALL) Hey! My brothers-in-arms! (ALL) Hey! As promised... we've brought our beloved queen... some presents! The symbol, of her almighty power... A lioness! [CROWD GASPS] For our Queen... But... What is this majestic female missing? (ALL) Lion! Lion! Lion! Yes! A king! (ALL) Karl Gustav! Karl Gustav! Karl Gustav! Where is our Queen? Only God knows where she is. [MUSIC PLAYING] The Happy Life. Seneca. Treatise on Pleasure. The Emperor of Prague was fascinated by the occult sciences. This book was written in a single night, by a monk who was walled in for a grievous crime. And although he was in chains, he managed to write this book... How? He recruited the help of the devil. Once the book was finished, out of gratitude... The monk surreptitiously slipped his assistant's portrait into the volume. It's the Codex Gigas! They call it the Devil's Bible. Strange... He doesn't have the wings of a fly. Close that book! [SIGHS] [HEAVY BREATHING/MOANING] Kristina? - Kristina! - It's the Devil! [CRIES OUT] Every blow... every blade that wounded... every charge on horseback... Every move I made bore your name! I brought you the treasure. I brought you the devil! Let go of her! You're going to marry me! - You're going to marry me! - Let go of her! Let go of her! [GRUNTS] STOP!!! Forget her! Every blow! Every blade! [SIGHS] [GASPS/MUFFLED SCREAMS] Belle? Belle! Is that you? No. It's me, your majesty. The countess was called away suddenly. Someone in her family is dying. - Who? - I don't know. They just told me someone in her family. She left without my permission. In vitam eternam. [DOG BARKING] She has been gone for days. You need to eat something... Kristina... I want her... I know it was you. Oh my God... My clothes were burning. Everything was on fire. She was looking at me with the eyes of someone who knows everything. Aye... Son... [GASPING/HEAVY BREATHING] Your majesty! Your Majesty... Your Majesty, wake up! Your Majesty! Belle? [WHISPERS] Are you alright? I've never felt better. [SIGHS] Ever since my father died, I've never missed anyone so badly. Someone is coming. Someone is coming! [SIGHS] Madam... Your must remember Jakob, Count de la Gardie. Of course. Your Majesty, I know how dear Countess Sparre is to you, and that is why I am asking you to bless our union. I want to marry Count de la Gardie. That is your deepest wish? [WHISPERS] Yes. You love each other? [WHISPERS] Yes. It would be inappropriate for the goddess of peace not to bless their union. I wish you all the happiness in the world. Will your generosity extend to attend our wedding? This excursion has exhausted me! The queen blessed our union! [COUGHING] [KNOCKING] Open the door! Please open the door! Let me explain! They made me understand. You are the shepherd of our nation! It wasn't right. It was all wrong, very wrong. You are my sovereign, I had to love you... She doesn't want to see you. [GASPS] His blood is yellow... This is not a case of pneumonia, it's arsenic. Any other diagnosis would be harmful to both my church and yours. Petite, petite... Oh my friend... [WHISPERING] [SCREAMS] [SCREAMS/SOBS] [SPEAKS IN GERMAN] Madam... [SOBBING/CRYING] Madam... [SHEEP BAAING] Count Jakob Kazimir de la Gardie, do you take, Countess Ebba Sparre, to be your lawfully wedded wife? Of course he does! [LAUGHTER] I do. Countess Ebba Sparre, do you take... do you take Count Jakob Kazimir de la Gardie to be your lawfully wedded husband? [STAFF RAPPING ON FLOOR] Our Queen has found a new tailor I see... Shut your mouth. Am I not the shepherd of the nation? Ah? Carry on! Pretend I'm not here. If anyone for any reason, objects to this marriage, let him or her step forward now, or forever hold their peace. Look at them... Look at their beauty! Look! Who would dare object to the obvious? [STAFF CLATTERS] No!! [MUFFLED] Madam... Madam... Come with me... Please, let me take you at your bed... Ejusdem farinae. Made of the same flour. Cut from the same cloth. [GASP/SHOUT] Kristina! Stop! Must I renounce my... country? Renounce my faith? My father? My people? [SIGHS] Renounce everything I am to be what I want to be? If the rumor of your intentions, to convert to another religion is true, I cannot support this. Luther never fulfilled my aspirations. Luther doesn't exist to fulfill anyone's, aspirations. If you choose, to convert... Some subjects will follow you, but you must realize, that the majority will remain, loyal to your father's faith. And inevitably some will take advantage of these... troubled times to promote their own interests. And that is what we call a civil war. But history will call it the downfall, of the Swedish empire. And your enemies... will wipe their feet on your peace treaty. And when that day comes, I'll curse the day I called you my daughter! Kristina... My Kristina of Sweden... I implore you to call upon your cleverness, I beseech you, in the name of our Lord, save your empire! [GASPS] What? In God's name! You should take off a few layers. Given your accoutrement... I prefer to wear my armor. If you've... If you've come to ask me if I still love you, I do. I know. And I know that you are the finest of men, Karl. You brought me the greatest of treasures. You brought me the devil. You kept all your promises. I have come to make you my king. [GASPS] Your king? Karl Gustav... The time has come for you to give me the ultimate proof of your love. Gentlemen... Ever since I inherited my father's crown, before I was old enough to understand matters of state, You have constantly demanded that I choose a king to share the throne of our kingdom. I cannot blame your patriotic sentiment to prevent the turmoil which would inevitably arise if, by an act of his divine will, God were to take my life before I had a designated heir. I have therefore decided, for the security of our empire, to name my first cousin, Karl Gustav... my son. Her what? Her son. And in so doing I become his mother, and so I designate him the prince heir, to the throne, of Sweden. [CHUCKLES] She made him... her son... She made him her son. I have come to bid you farewell. My faithful Erika. Your servant, Madam. Simply your servant. Do you think my father would forgive me? I don't know if forgiveness exists. I don't know, Madam. A great success, father! She's leaving with a quarter of Sweden's wealth. Ten years on the throne, Ten years of... whims. She said she never wanted to submit herself to a man now she's off to kiss the ring of the most powerful man of all. The Pope! A great success, father! I hope the Pope enjoys her company. She's only 28 years old. She has her whole life ahead of her, enough time to put the rest of Christianity through hell. I saved Sweden. I saved Sweden? [GLASS SHATTERS] Madam! [BABY COOS] (DESCARTES) To attain the truth in life... We must discard all the ideas we were taught and reconstruct the entire system of our knowledge.
