 

                        1 Last Voices echoed in my mind when I took my son to my old school. Did revive him one magical time of my life. Back to the time where my life was full of innocence of youth. My childhood dream was to be a great basketball player, as well as my father. He was my hero, my companion , the best friend that a child could have. But he was more here. His death was a hard reminder That life is a fleeting shadow , every moment is a precious gift to be shared with anyone. Wanted to express my son feelings and fondest memories a wonderful childhood. For, somehow inspire you to see through my eyes, and help you understand that via the pull patience and persistence, dreams are possible. This was the legacy left by my father for over thirty years. CLENSOM, CAROLINA SOUTH , 1959 PISTOL A LEGEND IS BORN I remember like it was yesterday . Was the beginning of an incredible journey . The year that would change my life forever... and define the course my destination. 1958 was a period innocent, of hope and change in America. A time when thought that everything would be possible. At least, that's how in their Maravich. I like that! A young with confidence. We made an election at school. Who won? Nixon. I voted for JFK. Like his father, Always voting on the weaker. Weaker? With Jack Kennedy we build houses on the moon in 1970 and you know why? Because he has confidence. -Confidence. Let Pete coffee, Press. Many things will change in the next decade. Dad was an optimist and a genius to create ways of stimulating my confidence. I was watching Gene Autry other day and suddenly realized a good basketball player can get along just fine if so fast as a gunman. I'll show you. Give me the ball. Get up Peter. I will teach an exercise. Turn around. Lower your arms. This. Now, do not pay attention to me . I want to focus. Now estufe the chest! Not want to think which is a weakling. This shoulders in place. Now when I drop this ball. Want beat palms in front and take the ball behind you. But need to focus. Hear my voice. Do not listen to me. Do not listen to me. This is impossible. Impossible? We will see their hands gunman, ok? Okay, Helen. Well, do not pay attention to me , Press. You "found" that could do. I "knew" that I would . Trust! But Dad's inspiration not change the fact that in school I was a misfit, a lonely boy with big dreams. But this country was not founded by ordinary people who dared to believe That big dreams come true? That's what I was taught. With liberty and justice for all. Okay. Today we talk about dreams. More specifically, the American dream. The American Dream is a concept and a belief that anything is possible. What dreams do you have today? Who would you like to be? I want to write in 200 words By the end of class, what are your dreams for the future. Any questions? Okay, can begin. How could put a dream into words? Something went in my heart? When I was in eighth grade, all we wanted was to be a great basketball player, as my father. But with 1.60 tall and 40 pounds, who would believe? I think only my father and I believed at first. When I was not on the court, everything you thought was that there was another boy practicing more than me. And he could scholarship should be mine, If I do not try harder. Yes, Peter? I need... Boy, you do not should be in class? Yes, sir. I hope you today at 15:30, to deal with the problem. I figured when Dad knew I killed lesson he would give me his famous spanking, or let me grounded for life. No, no, no! Wait! You need to take the guy until the barrier. Exit barrier. Stuck! Skin with skin. Understand? Yes, sir. Okay, let again. ! Everyone here! Dad was an official retired navy, a hero of World War II is a very serious man, when he came to inspire and train students Clemson College. According to Dad, the way to play basketball reflected how that person would live his life. His teams knew well your opinion. When he spoke, everyone listened . I'm not spending precious moments of my life to teach them To throw a ball in a basket . This here is a lifestyle. I want the players to think, work, to sweat, have challenges and discipline because the other things has no value. The problem with you guys, is that they are a bunch of goons , who think they know everything. Give me the ball. You see this ball? Size of this sphere represents everything know about basketball, but the size of this ball is everything that has not been discovered about the game. This point is all you know. Together! If forget the girls and the cars, and hear me, will get things never thought possible. Do not care if you is low, slow, thin or high. Can play with the best. engaging maximum you to perfect Now we train these played again, folks. Let's do it right. ! That's it! That's what I! That afternoon I had to face the wrath of Vern Pendleton, The high school coach. You is small for a Maravich. His mother feeds you well? Yes, sir. Has pedigree. I think you will not be a star football, but might play basketball. Do not use moccasin. What? Well, you know my assistant, Carl Cannfield the cafeteria? I know. It delivers the equipment in the locker room. Your closet is 41. Let's start in 2 minutes. How? Want to train With the team principal, do not you? I want. Go get dressed, then. If you are waiting for me it late. Come on, come on! It was my big chance! Training with the first team! But my big chance was also the beginning of major problems. Different people do not always are received from open arms. On the first day of training I do not I integrated. Not got the right equipment. Carl! Carl! Whatever here? I will train with the team. So hurry up, let's start already. The protector is very large. It is very big! I need a minor. How? Lions! Oh, you need less chill! Come on! 30 free throws. The training begins within 5 minutes. He is the son of Maravich coach? Is. I do not know what the my father has in mind to let him train. It is hard. Have you seen this guy in the hallways? Always walking with a basketball. It is a strange boy , Sandy. He deserves credit for trying, Courageous boy. Come on! The record of wins and losses was all that mattered to the technician. While the Lions continue winning, he would never put me in the game. I realized that the chances of occupying the place of a holder practically non-existent. And if it were up to Buddy, the son of Technical Pendleton, I never put the Peach the court. Buddy Pendleton comes down with the ball, sewing, Rises to the pan, and scores! It was not convinced. It was the confidence that told me I could play better than others. Trust that had to do my father exercises for more than 10,000 hours, since I was 5 years old. Dad helped me develop the discipline , dedication and the desire that led me to believe that could take the place of any a team, even Buddy Pendleton . If not for Carl Cannfield , I'd be totally bored. While others celebrated the victories got tired of sitting, wondering when would chance to participate in a game. Hey, champ, passes the pliers. It's there in the box. Thank you. Looking from up the basket seems that can hit any pitch. I wanted to have this time! No kidding! You know, one time a guy told me I had a screw loose when I said I wanted to be professional . Really? Yeah, he did not even want watch me play. Play the ball here. When you are down there everything seems difficult. It's like fighting windmills. Give me another ball. The guy who believes it, only see limits, but a dreamer's the kind of people believes that these two balls can fit in the basket. When you dream, everything is possible . It's late. How about playing face to face? I start. Right. When I was in eighth grade, was on the bench, as you were today. I know what's going on. The hands sweat, the heart races like a freight train. Finally, you comes into play. Fans who are there, not know what they are feeling. They just expect there on the court, somehow that boy help the team they love to win the game. When we think so, a dream no more than is a challenge we put ourselves. Your turn. Do you understand what I'm saying, Pete? Yes, sir. It's after 10, Press Maravich, neighbors just called. Really? Well, they are agreed so late? Cute. How long this will take? Until I win. Really? Go dreaming. Best of seven. Stay here, honey! I need fans. Need a beating , yes. When will grow, Press? Once you grow as well. Point! End of game. Call this pitch? The ball came in, did not enter? Game over, boys, come on, Pete, has passed bedtime. Pete, what is the best player of all time? George Mikan. No In the semifinals 1950 he made an average of 31 points per game. So what? Okay. And Natt Holmon? Original Celtics, good feint, great passes. Not Very limited. Limited... get this... Well, the Dutch Dennert? He invented the pivot position, and it was my coach professional team. Improved, but it is far. It is far! Okay, wise guy! Who was the best player that ever existed ? Can you tell me, Dad! This is my boy! What are you doing? Running. But we have a game in an hour. I know. I think I have that save energy to sit on that bench. My first passion was officially begun with Sandy, cheerleader. I knew I was risking my life talking with his girlfriend Buddy Pendleton but it was beautiful. My knees were shaking when I spoke to her. I saw you in the play. Will actress? Oh, sure. Marilyn Monroe. It will be a movie star? I think not. So why is the play? She must have found me an arrogant fool but I needed to say. Why waste time being an actress, if not he tried to be the best? Come on, Buddy! Was missing three - two! Technical foul. White. Number one - zero is out of the game. Play out? You lost your mind? You have to help my boys too. Get out of here. Time, time! Come to here! Needs treatment, zebra! We will have to make a change. Maravich, you enter! Father, you must be kidding . You play, I'm the coach. Go warming, Maravich. Well, we have to do is the following ... Press! It's about time. Keep track, enter the game. Well, son, keep control, play right. Ready? Come on. Is ours is ours. It is easy, come on. One, two, three, Lions! We Will! Okay, Buddy! That's right! I'm free! Wow, I thought had a good team. But we do not worth a penny! In thirty years as coach, deliver never seen a game like this. And you, Maravich, that play is great to the circus, but for the team of Daniel High, is poor basketball. Think of it during the weekend, and play basketball how to, will be able to put the uniform of the team... if you can not, forget it. Hi, Pete... you played very well. We lost. You can not always win. When we lose, people remember only this. I still think you played well. If you're smart, will give up. Just today! He did not mean it! Get out of here. Are you defending him? It was an accident, Buddy. Okay. If you are so you want, 'm going out with the Walker and the boys today. As Sandy or anyone else 'd know what I was feeling ? Buddy. Hey, Maravich! Very thanks, sausage! Losing the game was as have a knife in the heart. Me condicionei to believe that only victory was acceptable, nothing more. I had disappointed the team... fans, Daniel High School and my hero, my father. Knew that you find here. Right acted in that bid. Know Pete, you have something that man more rich world can not buy... A gift. Maybe now look like you does not fit... as... if I did everything wrong. But believe me, you're on the right track. Your mother and I... can not afford a university. But if you indulge in, and use this gift that God gave him , will one day play in the team. I know, son And if really good, for will get a scholarship / maybe play with the pros, and join the championship... I think I heard these words thousand times. And tonight I realized I wanted to be "Pistol". Now is me I will change the situation appears the desire seed Reviving the ashes in the little heart Awake, awake the flame Now is me No one will stop me Now is me again Now is me My path will follow I discovered what it takes E tracks will not let I will break the chains That put me And find this hope, shining far The price to continue on my way Now is me No one will stop me Now it's me again Now is me My path will follow Now is me No one will stop me Now it's me again Now is me My path will follow I will follow So you told Pete that would be better to leave the team? We talked. As always, my opinion does not count. But, Helen, is... This is the real problem , Press. You are always fighting against windmills. Hold on. What do you mean? It's okay if you want to fight the tide , but his son to do the same? Hold on. A few weeks ago you happy because Pete joined the team. I was happy because I know how he wants to be like you / join the team owner to 13 years. But it will not happen, because everything Vern see Pendleton is a boy of 1.60 tall and 40 pounds. Helen, you do not understand which he is living. I know Pete is suffering. Of course he is suffering . When I was his age, wanted out of steel in Aliquippa. My lungs were full of dark smoke, and my hands were rough to work 15 hours a day. Think I do not was suffering? But it builds character, Helen, That pain there in the soul of background encouraged me to be something better! I can train you up out of breath , but while he did not feel something that burns your soul, My words are worthless. But he's just a boy. I know. Children usually prefer a teddy bear. It's hard to be a child seeking adult dream. In all the pain and confusion , I knew I had to continue seeking my dream, for my father and me, even more nobody understood what was going on in me. When the excitement and pressure dominated me, I plunged the years Dad had taught me. Control at your fingertips, Followed by wrist flexion. Control at your fingertips, followed by wrist flexion. Control at your fingertips, followed by wrist flexion. In those lonely nights, my father exercises the helped me to continue. Control at your fingertips, followed by wrist flexion. Some people seek reasons to dislike you. Four weeks have passed since I attained Buddy's face. I still felt alone like a fish upstream. Hey, Elf, would is allowed to carry basketball in the hallway? Eighth grade... Okay. As you know, every day this quarter ask students to tell your dreams for the future. Peter, now it's your turn. My dream is to get a scholarship university to play basketball. Class! That's enough. Continue, Peter. And I'll be the first man to win a million dollars playing basketball professionally. Hey, hey! Also want to play in the first team and earn a range of best player of basketball ever. You can sit, Peter. Thank you. I... wanted to talk to you about Pete. Look... or he is good for the team or not. But if you're using Pete only to train your players, then it is more ignorant than I thought . Hold on, mate, you are passing the limit now. I'm really? Just want to know Because you are not putting Pete to play. He needs to mature, Press. Mature. He has more discipline and maturity that his first team. And that includes Buddy, his son. Press, we will not take it personally . Of course, your child has some talent, it just needs to be controlled and cut . But when you have a good horse, arises him to compete , Vern. Technical, not wanted to say this, but this appears to me pressing. Well, go ahead and tell because I would give any thing to know what's going on on his head. Well, your child involved in problems. I'm listening. He learned to play like that with blacks. I saw him playing the other side of the rail. I hate to tell you this, but I think you needed to know. Of course, this kind of thing works with Globe Trotters, but in a real game... you saw what happened when I put to play. He almost broke the nose of Buddy! You are joking, technical. I think your son should take that pass. The only game that Pete know is instinctively it will not stop for 10 minutes thinking in the pass, he will not give no warning. Not understand what I'm saying? He knew Buddy was free, he knew! Pete has bids ever seen, and you're chaining a born winner. Why do not you the loose, huh? Why do not gives you a chance? What are you doing, Dad? "Man to man", or "zone"? Shut Walk! Man to man. Ok 'Man on man.'. Come on. One, two, three, Lions! Oh, please! Lock there and rebounds! Pete! How are you feeling? Well Damn, look at that pass! I thought you would get. Look blocking and rebounds. A rebound is too much to ask? Pete! Knew is not it? How? The pass for Buddy. I think so. How did you know he was free? Only knew. Okay, can sit. Pete enters the place of Walker. Hey, will you mark me? Cannfield, that does not is the son of Maravich? Is. 's Killing them, Pete. Calm, Maravich! Hey, kid! Where did you learn to shoot like that? In the backyard. Know flinging the waist like a gunslinger? Thank you. Father! Hi! What are you doing here? I was thinking about the victory of yesterday. Have you read the papers? No Should have read. Listen to this. The basketball team of Daniel High School guaranteed entertainment last night, thanks to the talent of a eighth-grader, Pete Maravich. Daniel High School gym did not see much movement from the prom closure of football. The team traditionally formed by high school students led by Buddy Pendleton gained new air with the small Maravich leading the pack. He did not lead anything, Dad! What matters is that we are winning . It gets worse. Sometimes, the fellow Pistol Pete... "Pistol Pete". What business is that of "Pistol Pete"? It is a stage name as Houdini. Can you believe this shit? If you want to say something, say it! I want Maravich off the team. We need to drive the team and no one likes him. Why not? Now father, it's a boy silly eighth grade and we are high school. And the tradition? What about her? Always scale senior students. As I said, what matters is the column wins and losses. Was even thinking in scale it. Instead of whom? In Walk or yours. I know people are saying that we have a chance in the state semifinals, and this will not happen to the Maravich dividing the team. I'll think about it, son. Freezes him today, Dad. It would be the best decision. We give you all the support. Mainly Walker. Had started playing a few weeks ago and the school was winning, But wanted to improve my game. How to do this? My father taught me. Want to try? All day I went to College Clemson and Dad handed me some new training who called Task Basketball, the only task I like to do. One day the Moose came to me. It seems he wanted a scholarship much as I, and was willing put at risk its reputation with the team. I decided to give you an introduction to see if it was even a dreamer. Try this. My father calls "blowback." There is no one to show us the way Together we are We are the dreamers really believe encourage each other to continue We wink E in our dreams are heroes We dream the same thing We pray all night protection Side by side, we will see life Creating the future This day will come Not so far Venceremos together We are the dreamers really believe We encourage each other to continue We are the dreamers really believe encourage each other to continue. Okay Other than that my father taught is the "Booty fast. " You can try, Moose. Place your hands as if it were draw their pistols. Clap in front and catch the ball behind you. Focus, and whatever, not pay attention to me. I do this. See the speed of the Walk. Are you ready? Barnes. You try, CD. Okay. Do not pay attention to me . Hey, Buddy. Come try. You can. I do not do circus acts. I gamble Pete can do. Look. Had not yet conquered all, but Sandy seemed to support me, even from a distance. Now see what happens this attack. The side is the light trap about this man, while the owners go out at the same time. One here, another there. Do not let him tire your ears. You can go home whenever they want. Honey, have some thing burning? The pivot crosses the lane, makes a light trap the defender while the other side crosses the bottom line. I'm not cooking anything. Then find something. Watch now. It's very simple. Santa could talk all night about his two favorite subjects: Basketball and me. But the same style of play that would make people scream and stay in Peach twenty years later, gave to sleep major technical of the country. Pete See, for example. Right here in my house, have the guardian of the future. It can act in a blink of an eye , and let the defense scratching his head. Of course, a game so worthless if you have five players on the court that do work. Otherwise... is like talking to the wind. Understand? Hey! Good story, right? Pistol Pete and Moose! Dr. Pepper, two! Let me see, Myron. Very Good, Pete, that's right. I am teaching the Moose. It will achieve a scholarship! The Moose? It is the Moose. He is starting well. The attention of the media is the key. He is playing for the best state of the team. And that team is this, Mr. Carl? Myron, does not come with this. You know very well. Believe me I know it. You and your silly ideas. What? He thinks the Lions should play with Cleveland. He says it's the best State team. A black team? Is not hilarious? Let's play. It's just a dream, Pete. That's it. They are the best or not? Of course they are! Too young to know the defeat Ajuventude also has weaknesses We can not measure heart and soul Just keep them under control When we know our road We will forward for that plan A fine line divides Facing the fear or flee From dream to the destination Double or nothing. This is the fifth 'double or nothing'. Wait until tomorrow, Pete. In life only is there no inside or outside There is a burning desire in us That shines all night Do not be discouraged Keep in mind your dream During the nightmares of his life Do not be discouraged There is no place for souvenirs There are today or tomorrow In difficult times Choose continue Some live only to see the day Others live for their dreams never feel the heat , as you There is a distance in his hand From dream to the destination Now, there is nothing more Do not be discouraged There is no victory without a fight He's eating you alive , Walker! Walk, finish him! Ok Combined.. Half an hour. Are you kidding? He can in an hour. What's going on? I saw your car out front. We are making a bet with Maravich. He has to turn the ball finger for an hour. Start when the pointer the second hand is at 12. Stay here, girls if they want see something funny. One for the money, two for the show . Come on. Prepare, point, and fire! Come on! Look at this, folks. Come on, Pete. Come on, Pete, focus. Come on, Pete! Enough! I can not! Can not? I can not stop. Come on, Pete! Come on! You can! He's getting tired , Buddy, is getting tired. You can! Come on, Pete! Hey, where you going? Can you, Mr. Peter. Where did you learn to drive? Come on, Pete! You can! 15 seconds! You did it! Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one! Your tricks will end soon, Petey. Okay! Hey, judge! In your face! They find that it's cool? He told me you are a banana. Said yes. I heard. Said you was a banana. ! Nice move! Thank you! You're crazy, judge! Pete! We are watching the same game? # 5... Expected, Press. It is cold. Call a physician. How do you feel? I'll be fine. Let me see. It was a difficult game, right? The doctor said you had a mild concussion. This makes me remember when played for Pittsburgh Ironmen. They sewed me after every game. They called us Iron Team. Because you were tough? No, they could only pay 5 players. Looking into the eyes of my father I understood. He did not need to say anything. Could not face the guy who hurt me but no way he would knock me and keep out of the game. Sitting there, I remembered the ten games I stayed on the bench. I tried to pretend it did not bother me, bothered but yes. This was the moment of truth for me . A chance to make a choice and prove him wrong. My body said "No" but my heart cried out: "Give a show." They are destroying us in the marking. We will mark by zone. But they are attacking out, Dad! But they are getting underneath. You can let I mark the center. Walk, lock and cuts the bottom line. Father, give me the ball. Moves to me. Pete, what is doing here? You can not enter. Mom, I could play this game blindfolded. Let him play, Helen. We can become more violent in marking, technical. Walk, when I die you stay in my place. But as this, be quiet. Gave to understand? Yes, sir. Look! Pistol, Pistol, Pistol, Pistol All right, son? Yes, sir. Walk, go to the bank. Who will score the center for you? Walk, how old are you? Eighteen. Either until the nineteen live? Yes, sir. So do what you're told ! Let's finish them. One, two, three... Lions! Pistol! That's it! Pistol, Pistol, Pistol, Pistol Exchange, exchange! Pass, watch out! One, two, three... Lions! There's more chicken and pod if they want! Thank you, Carl. Need muscles for the final, and green beans is good to give muscles. Said the same thing about cauliflower. Want to get high, do not you? Yes, sir. You never heard of a tall guy called Pod? Father! Myron! Iced tea to the table I'm coming, Carl. Thank U. Hello, you guys. I felt the smell of chicken Myron a mile away. And the taste is even better! Good that appeared. Pull up a chair. Good that invited me. Nobody does fried chicken as Myron. Thank you, Mr. Vern. I know Myron some 12 years / when he cut my grass. Yes, sir. It's true. Since 1949, when I worked for you in Division Street. Doctor Pepper, on my own. Thank you, Carl. Myron, prepares another meat portion. They are very kind to me. Will not ask for a loan , are they? You're busy after dinner? Josephine has a date missionary in the church. I'm free. What's on your mind? State championship. Not official. What? Tonight, we'll take you to the future. I hope that explains it here. Go figure in a minute or two. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen , are welcome to Cleveland High School. What is this? Press, care with the wallet. Prepare for the Cleveland Kings and its captain, Joe Pro! You are feeling, Vern? It's show time. My parents are turning in the tomb, for sure. Okay, okay. Very well, very well. So? You did not say much. Whatever I say: this is the future of basketball? You are who you say. Now Press, please. Okay, can at least admit that Cleveland is good? I can agree. I think they can beat you. What is the point, coach? The point is that you have the opportunity to stand out on this side of the country. Basketball have to walk in this direction. You also felt it there. Are you crazy? Are you afraid of? Are you saying that black are better than us? I'm saying it's time to change. If you use the points strong style, and add their style - and you have everything. Even the league you want so long. Press, I thank what you're saying, but I feel tell you, mate, some things will never change. Need to open the mind to new ideas . Why does not the idea playing with them? Otherwise it will be a false victory in the championship , because you have not faced the state's best. Goodnight Press. Good night, Pete. Good evening, technical. Vern! Do something unexpected once in a lifetime. Were the regional finals. The newspaper said that the champion Conquer the state title. Come on! Attention there! With the play set, I started thinking If the technical Pendleton had understood vision of my father on the future of basketball. Maybe win the state championship also was not enough for him. But everyone knew that he hated the idea losing to anyone... and this included team Cleveland. Okay, listen. Sit relax. Listen. It was great, was not it? I have been thinking a lot about what it means Be the best state of the team, and... until a few days ago I thought we were the better State team. We are the best, technical. True. You are right. We are the best "team white" state. Well, that's what matters. What other team there? Cleveland High. Blacks? What are trying to say, Dad? Unless we beat the Cleveland , the state championship is a hollow victory in my opinion. Monday at 7:30. I can not force them to participate of an unofficial game but if you have courage, will be here prepared. Get that idea out of his head. Do not worry. I'll talk to him. See you Treats! There is the Pistol Pete. Go Treats in Soda Shop today? I do not know. Oh, come on... What is the problem? Never celebrates with team after the game. We want you to come. Come on, Pete. All right, then. Cool! The first dance is mine. Then I realized. It was socially maladjusted. Put me on a basketball court with hundreds of people and am very sociable, but the track dance Treats with Sandy, the Buddy girlfriend? He was already mad at me to attract the attention of everyone. It got worse because my father convinced the technical Pendleton playing against the black team. But dance with his girlfriend... was when I started to sweat. Drew attention from me And gave it to a boy eighth grade. Now it's my turn to draw attention away from you. Will be no game against blacks. Do not raise your hand to his father, boy, still want to know who runs this family? Of course, only played against senior , but never had a Pete Maravich on the team. A boy so only appears once in a lifetime. You can not imagine how I wanted it you were that boy. I'm sorry to disappoint you. But be aware that there will be no game, Because I will not let it happen ! What are you doing here? I thought I was in Treats. I will not. Honey, I heard the girls. They want you to go. No big deal. How so? There are a lot of crazy girls to dance with Pistol Pete. What's the matter, dear? Do not tell me... you fled classes dance I paid? It was a waste of time. Had to practice with Dad. True, Press? What is truth? Talk to you later. Pete, let's take a quick course . Relax. Feel the rhythm . See? We can dance music this century, at least? If you can dance it, will dance anything. When a slow song, pull the girl close, as well. Wonderful things can happen when you are dancing. My turn. The first time I left with this beautiful woman, the band of Glenn Miller was playing And during the first song, I asked her to marry. So, you want me to take you to Treats? Will not disappoint all those girls , are you? No Sandy was right. I've never been to parties after the game. It would be shocked if he found I started going when she called me. I wondered if these boys really wanted me to be. They received me well when I arrived. It was great. Moose and the guys greeted me. But where was Sandy? I was afraid of being cheated on it. Would you care to dance with someone from another class? But what Buddy? Do not worry about it. I like this music, come on. She really liked me. I could not believe. Tonight would be perfect More? Known that the Pistol had 21 points and 10 passes. From star to drunk in just one night. Can fill, "Can Head". Walk, the boy will be famous one day. Moose, the runt needs a lesson. What are you looking, four eyes? Stay away from my girl , Petey. Buddy, we're just dancing . Grow up, Sandy. Come near my girl , have to pay. You drank. Come here, you worm. Thought you had done all the bullshit , but you and your father want to make people play with a bunch of savages a league that does not exist! Will not have any game, Maravich. I will not let happen. Why not? It is best to close the nozzle, Petey Boy Okay, let's vote. Who wants to play against blacks? What is the matter with you? They want Cleveland come to our school? No way. This is your answer, dizzy. Your father will take the same thing. You are a joke in this city. His father and you belong to a circus freaks show. You think you're a great player . But it's a comedy. Scream "Pistol" to give laugh of his tricks. That's it. I should break your face. I'm leaving. Let's personal, let's go. Prejudice and Buddy selfishness had gone too far. Moose. Knew that if I said anything , Buddy would make me understand the meaning of "Iron Time". But I decided I needed to defend myself, at any cost. Hard head! What was that? You heard me. It is what it is. Always thinking in yourself, and instead of thinking about team or Sandy. Is that what you think? That's what I know. If you are a big deal, why we does not take the test? If I win, we play against Cleveland. What if I win? I leave the team. You think you're good? I know I am. Can be prepared, because this time will be no tricks up his sleeve. You and I, alone in the gym in 20 minutes. It was the moment of truth. Buddy made me look like a fool in front of Sandy while broke his heart. Buddy was wrong. Dad and I were not a joke , and I prove this... him, Sandy and myself. Hey, Sprite, you can lead a basketball in the hall? For school Daniel High, is poor basketball. Think of it during the weekend, and play basketball how to, will be able to put the uniform of the team... if you can not, forget it. If you're smart, will give up. Today it. Your tricks will end soon, Pete. You are a joke. Scream "Pistol" to give laugh of his tricks. That's all. Should break your face. Who starts? You But if you indulge in, and use this gift that God gave him , will one day play in the first team . That pain there in the soul of background encouraged me to be something better! I can train you up out of breath, but while it does not feel something burning your soul, my words are worthless. Think... a dream is nothing more than a challenge we put ourselves. That's it. See you Monday night. No, do not. We made a deal! That's when you screwed up, Pete. You believed in me. So why did you come? What do you think? Not want to destroy the diner, and I hate to ruin my image in public. Especially when I break your face. No, Buddy. Hey, what are you doing here? This has nothing to do with you . Is between Maravich and me. I. "Metal Head" do not tell me you will try to stop me! It is I who will. Made a deal, Buddy. The Pistol won. Are you serious? We talked. And we play with the black team. Let's find out if we are really good... with or without you. Now Walk, this means nothing. We can not play with those guys. Monday. At 19:30. If we discover what we really are. Let. I thought of some things sitting there a few minutes ago. Thought? See you make me wanna dream . Dream to be an actress? Dream at all. Take care, Marilyn Monroe. Pete, and the Cleveland beat us? There are going to win. But what if they win? So we can say we tried. Let's put on a show that they will not forget. Pete, you are special even. I felt a shiver the crown to the tips of Ps. Knew it was a friendly kiss , but I could not help but want be a little older. Well, at least Sandy and I could share our dreams. You know, Pete, when I was in college , was called 'Man Point Per Minute'. Many felt that I could not scoring 36 points per game, but they... they were stuck in the past. To my knowledge, no white team 've played with a team of blacks in this region so perhaps just me and her mother 're in the stands. Mom makes enough noise. I will not disagree with you about it. Your dreams with some basketball times let you discouraged? They leave. Do you know why? I think so. So why do it? If you can create a magical moment / if you can show fans something they have never seen, they will return often, either win or lose. 's Up to you to take them to a place they've never been before. Give them a little hope. I think you discouraged when realize that half the people who see never understand. They call me sausage. But they are always there, waiting I give a show. So give a show. Sometimes, just want to stop, and be like everyone else. This is a choice only you can make , Pete. But if it were me... Them give a show to remember forever. But in any is, love you, Pete. I will always love you. We have to understand the Cleveland plays different at all times we face. They run at full speed until the final whistle. It has three guys with an average 22 points per game. All dart. They all run. Everyone plays. Equally proud of their 48 consecutive victories. Remember that without Buddy, can not have many faults. Carl. Lord, You said all is possible for you... Help us. Thank you. Okay, people, without mercy! One, two, three... LIONS! Pete, I gave you some freedom , and we won some games. We will not win them playing as them. Let's make them the only way we know... muscle and fundamentals of basketball, right? Right. At dawn... Basic! Basic basketball! Defense, people! Do not worry about the outcome, are going well. Technical, they are killing us. Keep Basic. Caprichem defense. Come on, ending up with them! It's show time, Pete! Make your move. Do it now! Decrease. And works the ball. Helen, I'll be right back. In the middle of the game? You can scream for me. Bring popcorn! You're looking at the future Buddy. Amazing pitches, great base. Pete and some of these boys are twenty years ahead. You have talent, son. Or you enter the boat or will be. Walk... Forgot how make a light trap? Pete marker is on him like a Siamese twin , he will not get your help? What's wrong with you? They act as if they could not earn them. We can beat them. I think I was wrong with this team. I thought you had passion. Can I say something? I have to ask apologize to you. I was a fool this year and say, I'm sorry. This team means everything to me, although I like selfish / well, I was selfish. Father, just want to play. Okay. Get dressed, Come on, we will win! No hard feelings? No hard feelings. Why would we win, we will have to work together . Hey, Buddy. What? I still think you is a hard head. I also. Okay, where is the first team? CD, Moose, Vick, Pete... I know coach Walker out. That's it. We earn them. Come on. One, two, three, Lions! Two, two! Keep track! Now I see! Pistol, Pistol! Pete! Calm! This boy! That's it! Defense, folks! Not so bad. Well, if it works out. Defense, defense, defense. Defense, defense Defense. Time, time, time. Okay, everyone here! We have time to a pitch. Pete, you made me believe. We will see a bit of its magic. One, Two, Three Lions! Come on, boys! We won! Daniel Lions! We won! No point, was not the point! As well, was not the point? The weather still was running. The last time I was stolen, they wore a mask! We won them and you know it. Still have the best team. For the locker room! Pistol, Pistol, Pistol... Words can not express how I felt . It was now heir of a Dream / a dream that came true . Dad was right. The fans wanted to live a magical moment... One moment could fly high, they could believe that anything was possible. Win or winning, they would come game after game to see a boy of loose socks known as Pistol. Press Maravich gave his son a great gift of love: A life dedicated to see the dreams your child come true. These dreams have given life to made of Pistol Pete Maravich, the more professional basketball young to join the HAII of Fame. For over 20 years, your brand stood the test of time. Pistol Pete remains the of all time scorer in college basketball, With an average of 44.2 points per game. "The Pistol" is dedicated to the memory of "Pistol" Pete Maravich As a legacy to their children and children around the world... That love never fails, the character does not give up , and with patience and persistence, dreams become reality. Close my eyes I see when you were there I can hear his words Now I who calls Through the windows of my heart Do you hear me? Do you hear me? Memories survive, The dream will not die Love will never go away Under the rain I'll be Chasing the shadows until dawn I'm still calling your name when I sleep In the rain I'll be Chasing the shadows in the dark Tell me why cry myself to sleep Or stand there, awake Under the rain In all our moments together I never knew what I felt Looking back still remember Although you party All I have to do is call your name Keep me, umbrella is me night Memories survive The dream will not die Love will never go away Under the rain I'll be Chasing the shadows until dawn I'm still calling your name when I sleep Under the rain I'll be Chasing the shadows in the dark Tell me why cry myself to sleep or stand there, awake Under the rain Under the rain I'll be Chasing the shadows until dawn I'm still calling your name when I sleep When sleep Under the rain I'll be Chasing shadows until dawn Tell me why cry myself to sleep or stand there, awake Under the rain
