 

                        THE ZOHAR SECRE Ancient Rome was one of the leading civilizations of antiquity. The Roman Empire reached the apex of its power in the 2nd century BC, when it stretched from modern-day Britain to Ethiopia. And it was precisely during this period that the most mysterious piece of writing in the history of mankind was produced. It was authored by ten scientists of the time, each of whom had attained a unique, profound insight into the highest dimensions of reality. Having integrated their knowledge, they recorded and expressed it in a book - The Zohar. Had these manuscripts become public domain, it would have led to the demise of the Roman Empire and an utterly different course of development for the world. The 10th Legion was ordered to intercept the scrolls and deliver them to Rome, but the plot took a different turn. Great, you're coming round. Let me look at your wound. How do I know you? From a past life, perhaps? II A.D., JUDEA Return the scroll to Jerusalem. The doctor said that you'll gradually regain your memory. You are Legate Maximus. Commander of the 10th Legion of the Roman Empire. I told you right away: something isn't right with this scroll. Caesar wouldn't have sent a whole legion to deal with it. You shouldn't have taken the scroll with you. We could have destroyed it right there and then. There are riots in Jerusalem. The rebels are advancing from the south. It's not safe here any more. We must set out for Rome right away. You must issue an order. You are the only one they will listen to. Did you have that dream again? Go back to sleep. It's just a dream. Sleep. 1290, PALESTINE You think it was a dream? You would have been done with everything long ago. Done with what? Who are you? And who are you? Who is that woman in your bed? Do you know these walls? You have to return this back to where it came from... to Jerusalem. Then you will regain your memory. Just do it, be so kind. Return the scroll. Want it or not, you'll have to do it sooner or later. So why put it off? Better go there on your own than be driven there with a rod like a mule, your ass red from the whipping! Dumb beast, wretched swine! Pissing blood! Cunt, warm! What am I... What the... Oh, God... I'm sorry. That just slipped out... For God's sake, forgive me. Time is of the essence. Take the tunnel. Here, take this. The door to the tunnel is right of the entrance. Good luck! What's going on? What's this noise? Where are you going? What's with him? We found him in a tunnel, unconscious. And he didn't have the scroll on him. Where's the scroll? Where's the scroll? The scroll? Do you have it? Where's the scroll? I don't know. What do you mean you don't know? He's dying because of you! Saracens! Take a look at this. What are you doing? That's Venetian glass. Very expensive. It happens to be a very fashionable trinket nowadays. Who are you? Who am I? I am you. You are asleep now. And I am you on the other side of the dream, trying to help you wake up. Return the scroll to Jerusalem. Then everything will fall into place, and you will remember and understand everything. What is this scroll? You know, every person has an inner mechanism of sorts, an inner essence, but for the time being, it's dormant. People think that this is life. Life. They don't even suspect that they are asleep. Well, this scroll contains a code. If you read it correctly, you activate that inner mechanism, and by doing so, you lead yourself out of the dream into an entirely new level of existence. It's like you're in a cocoon from which a butterfly is about to emerge. Explain that to me. I don't understand anything. What are you talking about? A Spaniard will escort you. He will show you the way. Be careful. Where are we... 1520, SPAIN The Spaniard has escaped! The Spaniard has escaped! What happened? The Spaniard has escaped. - Where are they? They escaped from the docks, it's too dark to see. Be quiet! Listen! Look, there they are! Aim the cannons that way and prepare to fire! Turn the cannons! Fire. Fire! Fire! Thank you, friend. Thank you! You've made me the happiest man in the world. You can't even imagine what this is... What do you all want from me? I'm a friend. Don't do this, I'm a friend. What is this scroll? Let me go! Through these letters, these symbols, you come into contact with the next dimension, a different realm... Please, don't. I'm telling you the truth. Try to penetrate through the letters to get inside. Most importantly, you need to want it really bad... Look... Suddenly, I was seized by a terrible fear. Something unbearably heavy was crushing me from all sides. I thought I was... dying. Suddenly, I was hurled into a dimension, a dimension... of infinite love, an ocean of warmth... And in response to it, a hitherto unknown desire poured out of me, an overwhelming yearning to give back this feeling. This sensation wholly embraced me. And I was no longer aware of myself. But no one should know about this. Did you drop something? 1730, HOLLAND 1812, BELARUS What do you want? I'm not a soldier. I shouldn't be here, this is all a mistake... Help me! Help... Why are you alone? I'm not alone. My husband will be back soon. Why'd you stop chewing? He won't be back. I haven't seen him since he was drafted. Why did you help me? Why not help another human? If you head out now, you'll be in the city by dinner. So you've found me, after all. I don't know you, good sir. You don't know me? Please, please! I've got a wife and kids. I'm begging you, don't do it! Are you comfortable, my friend? I see you've settled in quite well here. Why not spoil yourself a little, eh? So, how is she? What's with your face? It's as if you're not happy to see me. Well? Are you ready? Ready for what? To move on, of course. I'm staying here. If you stay here, there'll be trouble... Everybody will suffer, you and her included. I want a normal, peaceful life. This isn't life, Max. It's a lie. You only think this life is real because you don't remember the other one. You love this woman. But what do you love about her? Her young, supple body? But the body is only a temporary vestment, a costume. So what do you love? Who do you love, Max? These poor people, they live with nothing but the perceptions of their bodies, wasting their entire lives on indulging them. It's as if you, Max, got a puppy that became the center of your Universe. You take care of it, feed it and wash it, forgetting all about yourself. Eventually you start identifying yourself with the puppy entirely... Do you see, Max? This body isn't you, it's the puppy. Get out of my life, do you hear me? Get lost! What happened? Where are you going? Bolt the door and don't go anywhere until I get back. I warned you not to show up here again. What didn't you understand? Daddy's home! 1870, AMERICA 1899, AFRICA 1914, FRANCE I'll do it. I agree. I'll do it. I'll do it! 1917, RUSSIA Freeze! Your papers! Move along. Honey, Return the scroll... I'm so happy we're together again. And that you have agreed. Finally! Could you please come over here? Hold this, please, with your finger. Grasp right here. Cinema. Humanity's latest invention. Watch, I'm going to show you something. Max, it's just a movie, a film. There's nothing there. It's a screen, a stretch of fabric. A reflection. A film! It was real then, but now you're looking at it from aside. To be frank, everything happening to you now is also a film. All of this. I would call it... the perfect... cinema. I've tried explaining it to you before, picking the words, looking for an example. And now I've found an example! Do you still not get it? What am I supposed to get? You have a role to play, and you need to play it right. Then the film will turn out a success. Life will be good, and the director will be happy. To play? Of course! What's with you? You incarnate in thousands of lives, living out all of them. You're a king, a slave, a knight, a traitor, a nice lad, and a murderer. You include the whole world inside of you, discover all the universes! You laugh and you cry, you gain and you lose. It's monstrous, simply monstrous! Monstrous... Of course, it's monstrous. But also monstrously interesting! Horrifying. Monstrous! And monstrously prodigious! Imagine: to live this way till your last breath, to be invigorated until the final moment, to plunge at that final moment so your heart simply bursts! To never grow old. To live like that! Get it? Like that! Then it fills up with life, with inner creativity. And you advance to a new round, a game... with Him. And then it doesn't matter if you're a hero or a villain. For you are with Him! With whom? And, for the most part, this applies to the rich, who make up only ten percent of society. Not only religion, but the entire global justice system serves the rich and only the rich. To say nothing of moral dogmas and ideals. What's happening? They're waging a revolution. I hope you'll succeed. The scroll is in the desk drawer. That's some hat you've got there. What scumbag put all these pots here? And I asked you to fix the lighting, damn it! Well? Answer me! Did I or didn't I? How many times must I repeat myself? How dense can those dimwits be? Fix the lighting first thing tomorrow! Or the day after... In the name of the revolution, open up! 1943, POLAND Me? Okay, okay, I'm coming. Oh, umm... Don't push me, please, I can't walk any faster. You see, I ate a lot of grapes, plus I've got hyperactive peristalsis. He's coming. Just don't show him the puppy... Don't show the puppy... not right away. Max, you need to hurry. A liaison will be waiting for you at the central square in 10 minutes. His license plate number is... Who is he? Who is who? You told me about him last time. Who is he? He is the one who created all this, this whole film, this theater. It is the higher force, the highest thought... It is a field that encompasses everything, Max... Remember the cinema? Light shone on the film, resulting in a huge projection on the screen. But all the information, the picture is on the film, and not on the screen. Do you see? And you're the same. This force influences you, and you see your reflection, your projection from the outside. It's as if you're looking at yourself from aside, watching a movie about yourself. So it's an illusion that anything exists outside or in front of you, that there's something alien, not yours. It is all you, Max. You see? All these walls, plants, animals, people, galaxies - they are all you! I don't want to hear any more of your ravings! It's not easy, Max, I understand. No, you don't understand anything. You senile old fart. Don't you remember what always happened to you whenever you tried to digress from the path? Why do you need all this? Tell me. Max... What are you trying to accomplish? Please... I'm here to help you. To help drive me mad? You're taunting me, is that it? But you won't succeed. Not this time. I'm revoking your mission. Max, you are me. I am me! You don't even exist! You're just a figment of my demented imagination! A cancerous tumor in my brain! You're the cause of all my suffering! I'm very sorry. All right, I have something for you. So... how are we feeling? Where am I? You're home. Untie me! Sure, so you can knock me out with a heavy object? This is some kind of a mistake. Everybody says so. But don't worry, the doctor will help. You know the doctor? Of course. Everyone here knows him. Where is he? Fyodor Arkadievich Pirogov, your attending physician. Oh, right. Untie me, please. How about this: you tell me everything and I'll untie you. So, you're saying you were forwarded to us after you killed the doctor and burned the scroll? Yes, to the next round. So, what are we to do? I don't know. I know. I know! I know what to do. Don't bother hiding. I can see you. Escort the dear professor please. No need for shots, I'll cooperate. Well, Max, how long will you keep amusing us? Still trying to get to Jerusalem? Who are you? Very well. Go get some rest. Escort our friend to the ward. Need help? - Nope. Are you sure? - Yup. And now you'll tell me where you got that nail file. Do you remember me? Russia, the revolution... Hold on a moment! Do you have papers? Move along. Move along! They say 20 people are holding the whole of France under their thumb. This is the upper crust of society... The scroll! Who put this music on for the patients? It's driving them mad! You? If you ever put this on again, I'll shove this tape up your ass! Do you get me?! Now get lost, blockhead! There, that's better. The autopsy? I passed it with a B. But not an A, which I becried, "Why me?!" I was so pissed, I jabbed a screwdriver into your wrist. But then a nurse consoled me - what a twist! We boozed, I rummaged through your entrails, But in my drunkedness I couldn't find the pancreas. Your organs' beauty touched me to the core, And I rejoiced - you're with us nevermore! You'd otherwise be roaming to and from, Lamenting that my love has reached a low. It's my 43rd birthday. That we should pay a visit to your mama, And other wacky bullshit, full of drama. But now you're lying on the table, dead and nude. A pleasure to behold your freshly shaved pubes. And I am stitching up your body like a seamstress, A lovely criss-cross pattern - sleep, my princess! You have a slight memory lapse. It's a side effect of the treatment. Don't worry, your memory will recover soon. What treatment? I'll be frank with you, Max. You were delivered here six months ago with acute psychosis. You kept saying that you need to find some Zohar scroll and return it to Jerusalem. Max, you willingly, I repeat - willingly agreed to the treatment. So you are saying that everything that happened to me never took place? You kept a diary, and your imagination projected all these images. You lived in that reality, Max. The treatment exacerbated the hallucinations and we needed to identify the source. The hallucinations will subside soon and you'll resume your normal life. I'll catch you, bitch! Hold him! Who am I? Your name is Maxim Leonidovich Chekhov. You were born in 1968 and you're an engineer. You have a daughter and a wife. Perhaps you'd like to see them? I'll hang these undies on your ears, bozo! - Hello, Lyuda? - Oh, my! Oleg Moiseevich! - Should I come up? - Yes, please. - Coming! - Thank you. And who is this doctor? People tend to trust themselves. That's why you and I have invented him, making him similar to you. This is called the association method, where an image is introduced into the patient's mind, enabling him to come out of his crisis. Every time you... delved too deep inside yourself, the doctor appeared and helped you out of your predicament. But you don't need him anymore, Max. Welcome to real life. He is running upstairs! Catch that idiot! You little bitch. Hey, how are you feeling? I'm well. I saw Lena and Sergei, they said hi and promised to visit soon. Come over here. When I look at photos of you, he starts moving. He recognizes his daddy. And he's such a hefty eater! I feel like I'm eating for three. The professor said you're doing well. Hold on just a little longer and we'll get you out of here. I can't take it anymore. She's always hounding me. You see? Well, do you? Arabica. Instant. Can I please bum a cigarette? Do you remember the cinema? The light shone on the film, creating this huge projection on the screen. But all the information was on the film, not on the screen. Where did you hear that? Shh, quiet! Where did you hear it?! You told me about it. Don't you remember? Can I please bum a cigarette? Who am I? I don't know who I am or where I came from. Or how I ended up in this cave. When I opened my eyes, I saw a Roman legionnaire holding a burning torch whose bright light was reflected off the metallic armor. I was dragged up a ladder and my feet got caught on one of the rungs. The Spaniard gave the order and I was thrown overboard. The warm, salty water instantly engulfed me, covered my face, I began to suffocate... darkness... I threw the axe aside and grabbed the rifle from her hands. Dropping the wounded duck, she fell into my arms, weeping like a child. "I only wanted to cook you a hot dinner," she said, flustered, her face buried in my chest. For the first time ever, I felt that somebody needs me. I love this picture! You are so sweet here! You're so beautiful... my love... Let's elope from here! Just leave it all behind. What do you say? You'll be home soon. Oh! A still life with a pheasant. Did you draw that mouse? Come on, daddy, where do you see a mouse? He's got the key! What happened? The Spaniard has escaped. Again? Again. I hope it works out for him this time. Good evening and welcome to another episode of our youth show, Another Angle. I am your host, Savely Marin, and today we have two very unusual guests in the studio: Semion Semionovich Vetlitsky, a physicist, and his spouse Margarita. Welcome and thank you for being here today! Hello. As you may know, our show's editor has recently stumbled on your article in the Science and Life magazine, where you share your impressions of a near-death experience. It's as if your consciousness remains, but all the corporeal sensations disappear. They're simply not there. So what is there? There's only... the sensation of... unbounded love washing over you and a desire to return the same love. A desire to reciprocate the love you receive. And all you want is to stay in this ocean of love forever. It's as if you and everything around you merge, becoming one. Even though there aren't any bodies, no personalities, names, deities or angels. None of that. There's only an information field, as scientists call it today, whose substance is love, harmony and perfection. And you blend into this field, becoming its integral part, literally one with it. What an incredible story. And now it's time for questions from our viewers. I'm sure there are plenty. What do you want? Excuse me, I need to make an urgent call. Bugger off! Hello! Hello. Please introduce yourself. You're on the air. Hello? - Can you hear me? - You're on the air. Hello? - Hello, hello! - Hello! I can't hear you. Hello! Bloody hell! I've got a funny feeling lately that... Silence! Silence! What kind of people are you?! Who knows, maybe you'll become normal citizens one day, but all I see here now is a bunch of idiots! Jimi Shmendrix! As long as you're here, which I hope will be a long, long time, you will behave in accordance with the rules of this institution! Enemas for everyone! One year later Well, Max. I suppose congratulations are in order? You're going home tomorrow. Thank you - you've given me another chance at life. Oh, don't say that! Second century CE. For 180 years now Judea has languished under the fist of Rome. Seeking to put down the rebellions, Caesar sends his finest legionnaires to Jerusalem. But the Romans were ambushed by the valiant archer Abraham, capable of slaying five foes with a single arrow. The insurgents hid on a hill and unleashed the attack when the order came. Some fell, some lost their footing, some even giggled as they ran... Many ran apprehensively, trying not to get cut by their own sharp swords. I hear you're being released. Have a seat. Have an orange. You don't exist. I'm hallucinating you... Is that what the professor told you? And where is he now? Where did everybody go? They never existed in the first place. I want to go home. Where is my family? You have no family. It's your own fault. You dreamed up a beautiful wife and a precious daughter for yourself. How unoriginal. Couldn't you think of something more interesting? Why are you whimpering like a little girl? Who am I? Tell me, who am I? Please! Who a-a-a-am I? Try hitting me again and I'll break your arm. You got me? I can't hear you! I can't hear you! I got you. In the very beginning, back when Rome reigned over Judea, there was a clash between Rome and Jerusalem. It was a collision of two worlds, two worldviews, two philosophies. You commanded a legion tasked with finding and destroying the Zohar scrolls because they contradicted the Roman doctrine, which is founded on the material evolution of mankind. The scrolls spoke of a different path, posing a risk to Rome's expansion. Fortunately, the Zohar was hidden away in a safe place just in time. You managed to intercept only a portion of it... this single scroll. You knew that there's a special power concealed within it, and you tried exploiting it selfishly. That is why you lost your memory. How will I get to Jerusalem? Liontail, come in this is foxhead. Radio check. Over Copy fox head. Over Entering tunnel sector. Confirm, over. Foxhead you are clear for tunnel sector. Over Roger that. Foxhead, predator in imaging pattern over your position. Roger that. Foxhead, imagery picking up traffic approaching your location. Approaching tunnel structure. Contact right! Cover fire! Take cover! Foxhead at target building. Spread out, find the tunnel. Clear! I got the entrance. Lets go. Foxhead entering tunnel. Honey. Don't shoot, Max! It's me! It's safe here. You can remove your mask. What is this place? This is the place. Exactly the place you were supposed to get to. It's here. The only thing left now is to return the scroll. What happened here? Remember I told you that back in antiquity Rome took the path opposite from Jerusalem and what was written in the scrolls. The entire modern civilization grew out of the Roman path. Rome gave rise to modern Europe. America has entirely copied the Roman system. But this path leads to a dead end. History is coming to a close, Max. The dreadful, agonizing history of humankind is coming to an end. Yet we could have lived differently. Happily. Return the scroll. You're the last one. Everybody is waiting only for you. Honey! This temptation is no accident. It's meant to lead you astray. Let's go home. Max, she doesn't exist. Max, who are you looking at? You're still seeing that doctor? Max, the treatment is over, you don't need him anymore. Forget about him. Max, return the scroll to where it belongs. Why me? What have I done to deserve all this suffering, blood and deaths? What is the meaning of it all? There is no meaning and no logic to it! And there is no justification for all of this! I didn't understand or learn anything! There's nothing left but pain! You've changed so much! Shut up! You just don't feel it. I don't want to feel anything! Everything inside me hurts! I don't want to feel! Max, it's a hallucination. He doesn't exist. Don't listen to her! You need to break free from him. Don't make the same mistake, Max! You've already been here, at this very point, having nearly reached the end! Max, we need you! Listen to me. It's a trap! You can be stronger! Max, come home. Didn't you tell me this is all a dream? That means you're a part of this dream too, right? And this scroll is also a dream! I'm dreaming it. Well, in this dream, I don't choose you. Get it through your head already! Well, what have you done? No! That is not a solution! You can't run away from yourself! You'll need to start all over again. You'll keep coming back here again and again until you fulfill the mission. Great, you're coming round. Let me look at your wound. How do I know you? From a past life, perhaps? Right, right, yep. What, it's gonna be in the news? Yes, our telly is on, of course. Alright, ok. The most significant find of the new millennium. At an archaeological dig in Jerusalem, an ancient scroll has been discovered that is thought to be the missing link of one of the most mysterious pieces of writing in the history of humankind. According to scientific findings, the scroll contains a code that will enable us to decipher the secret meaning of the Book of Zohar. In this very cave, German and Israeli archaeologists have discovered what they believe to be one of the most extraordinary pieces of writing of the ancient world. Dating back to the 2nd century AD, this scroll sheds light on one of the most frequently asked questions of our time: what is the purpose of our existence? This scroll speaks of our primordial state as being similar to that of an embryo in a mother's womb. Because it was incapable of sensing the perfection in which it existed, it had to be split up into a myriad pieces. According to the Book of Zohar, we have already reached the maximum splitting point: the spring is stretched out to the max, and we are now undergoing the reverse process of reassembly. By returning to their source, these parts continuously acquire new sensory organs as compared to the primordial embryo. Inside this unity, each part perceives this perfection from more than just its individual viewpoint it also perceives it through the other parts, with which it has established this bond... The end result is billions of times greater than the initial sensation, and herein lies the aim of the initial design: to bring us to the same level as the perfection which we were originally unable to perceive.
