 

                        Greetings ,translated by : ((M.Namju))) "all wars begin long before from firing the first shot " "and continues long after the latest has completed its mission" when fascism and communism spread across Europe, In Spain, established a new republic with a leftist government. after years of political and social instability in the summer of 1936 a group of generals of the army led an uprising which became a bitter and lengthy civil war. Families were broken, the brothers killed each other they had to swear on the Bible or spit on it all faced the same question: "and you are on which side ?" THERE BE DRAGONS This film is inspired by real events I was a war baby. but luckily for me ,I hadn't have to fight in any of the 165 wars that have occurred in my lifetime my father ,wasn't so lucky when he was a young man every one in Spain had to take sides and take up arms the decision may have taken a second but the consequences lasted the rest of his life he never talked about the war until I was asked to write a book about a dead priest (Josemaria Escriva) and then he began to talk and talk and talk and that's how I went looking for a saint and found my father instead I think it was Oscar Wilde who wrote : (Irish-born poet author and playwright who spent most of his career in England, author of "The Picture of Dorian Gray) "Every saint has a past" "and every sinner has a future" Josemaria ! father ! ,quick quick get a doctor in june 1976 , the nun was at the point of death diagnosed with a multiple granulomatous tumor causing pain and turning a mass the size of an orange on her left shoulder cured in a sudden and lasting way after the... "...servant of Gad (Josemaria Escriva) "have been invoked" you have reached judge (Manolo Torres) leave a message dad ? it's me ,Robert your son I'm in Rome I'm doing a book on Josemaria Escriva I'm coming to Madrid you know ,I...I wanna talk to you about him are you there ? please dad ,pick up the phone ok ,well I'll call you when I arrived and why this interest in Escriva ? the upoarer in the press his posible canonization turned my publisher on you know interestingly... he came from same town as my father yes of course ! how is the judge Roberto ? to be honest I... we haven't spoken 8 years so I moved to London and since then... - well ,he's not very forgiving ,my father - eight years ! - children ? - no I don't quite see my self as a father your fater is a product of a difficult time you should try to understand it well I do ,monsignori ,I do God bless you in your quest and give my regards to your... Leila. goodbye - are you sure ? - yes this is Josemaria Escriva in the middle and... that's me on the right and on the left... your father here's another one at ther Seminari dad ? I'm in Madrid been a long time listen I'm close to the apartment and I want to come and see you - why would you write a book about him ? - that's what I want to talk to you about leave it alone Roberto well I found out that you were in Saminari whit him and... you never told me that you wanted to be a priest don't you think that's weird ? yes I thought it too that's why I left after a year ,Roberto why ? ,it was because of Civil War ? - hello ,London Univercity -Dr. Leila Azoulay please which department ? mathematical physics good timing I was just about to call you - how's Spain ? - I love Spain how's your father ? I love Spain tell me he doesn't want me to do this Josemaria Escriva thing at least you two spoke , that's a progress ,no ? he know's somthing about Josemaria ,damn it I know he does why can't he just tell me I could rangle the weekend away want me to come out ? gun leave me alone damn it to my son ,Roberto Torres (delivered after my death) I was 9 when Josemaria's path crossed mine a long time ago Roberto ,you were often told me that I was a terrible father what I never told you, is that I agree with you there's so much I haven't told you that you need to know so if you want to hear about the past I'll tell you but I warn you : THERE BE DRAGONS Manolo ,are you ok ? you got me I was a little terror like most boys Josemaria was no saint either there was one day ,he almost kill me good ride my boy come on Paro? - stop ,stop - no ,come one drive it like a Torres ,Manolo ! faster Manolo,are you alright? are you mad?! Josemaria,I speak to your father he should give you a beating I hate this city I'm tempted to sell everything and go back to Madrid - can I drive again papa? - no Manolo ,enough Fairy Tales Dragons II here is the first one see ? there are many kinds of dragons you will have to face she scares me don't be scared ,Manolo - how many dragons are there ,Abileyza ? - many Josemaria but what matter is how you will face them as you shal see Josemaria's nany talked about dragons as if they really existed a quarter of a century passed before I realized she was right but things happend is Josemaria's life that ment he underestood this before I did my baby ,why ? Josemaria lost three sisters I lost a baby brother in those days death was part of life mama ? do you hate God now ? no dearest I love him very much will you hate him when he takes me away come here I'm sorry about your sister Josemaria's father owned that chocolate factory the manager was a strange old guy O Honrio. we know we like what's here we know that we want what's here but what is here exactly ? just set this on your tongue for five seconds now chew ,three times Manolo ,you taste what ? armond armond ?! - cinnamon - cinnamon ?! don't scoff yes ,cinnamon alright you can go Josemaria, you stay here I scolded Manolo for mugging wasn't count experience not because he couln't experience it huh ,look at this ugly ,isn't it ? just a poor ordinary little bean yet patient..., skill ,hard work and love end unleash the divine flavors hidden with in it here do you understand the lesson ? but not everyone has taste the divine in it why is that I wonder... Manolo! wait for me ! stop Manolo my favorite trick in those days was stealing Josemaria's dad's chocolates but then his dad went bankrupt and lost the chocolate factory ...and I wasn't allowed to play with Josemaria anymore my dad thought poverty was contagious he said that Josemaria wasn't one of us and my dad could be quite persuasive my dad had more money more cars more houses but Josemaria had more "dads" I see the envy began to grow in me in a child's heart many seeds are planted you never quite know what will grow I'm sure he didn't see us around that time ,Josemaria changed I'll tell you the story as he told it to me one cold winter night Josemaria saw footprints in the snow outside his house he fallowed him and then he saw someone and he felt that God was calling him it was unusual in those days for a young man to want to become a priest like it or not most young men were celibate at least as a priest ,you got pay for it the priesthood was an career option but for Josemaria , it was an secret calling do you know what are you taking on son ? yes papa no one to love ,human love I mean no family on your own - no sons - I know papi and is this the wisest time to become a priest ?! probably not is your father's still selling underpants Josemaria ? backstabbing careerist you vegetal pig ! what lesson did you drow form this ? to control my temper Torres ,what did you call the seminarist Escriva ? a vegital pig ! and you ,what did you call Torres ? a backstabbing careerist sorry monsenior I can't stand this type a backstabbing careerist so that defines it ? what his father is rich so he thinks he can act like a pain in the ass that's not the somthing I had in the mind Escriva yet ,isn't someone else his father ? and yours ? remember... the withholding of forgiveness it the one thing that our Lord made clear that will not be forgiven so... do you thing that the two hotheads a "hipcrita" and a "loser" can be good priests ? well I think it's possible I really do well.. he was wrong about me your job is to make them to go away - so that my factory can get back to work - What we can do? go - I think that they're just trying to feed there familys ,papa - what ? your workers rabble! rabble! Manolo, when things went too shuffle a man has only on duty and that is choosing the winning side come on - grat to see you - you too nice car where did you get all this ? they're my dad's files from 50's - there's more in the hotel - he actcually sent this stuff to you ?! - yeah - you are making progress what's the reason for the change ? I don't know I almost afraid to find out "Foundation for the sick" God ,such a different world Josemaria wrote to me once a year until he died I never wrote back ,but he kept writing anyway in his letters ,he told me the terms that his life was taking Honrio! Josemaria! oh ,look at you give me your hand how's my old employer ? papa died four years ago Honrio. I said my first mass for him do you remember... ...about the chocolate bean ? of course it was a great lesson I'm sorry ,that won't work why not ? because... ...I'm jewish you know ,the love of my life is jewish once thought I'd covert but ,I couldn't disorder my father Honoring O Parinsis is the sweetest priest of the Novario and very dear to God but Jesus Christ... but he won't turn his back on me when I stand before him ,will he ? what I know for sure is that he loves you very much thank you I was afraid of dying here alone please ,pray with me father and the love our God with all your heart and with all your mind and with all your soal our father who art in heaven hallowed be thy name we come to Thy kingdom and Thy will be done ... goodmorning ,Mr Padre lord open my eyes I'm such a blind donkey for so long I have felt you guide me... but to what ? you have a purpose to your donkey lord but I'm to blind to see it you were there tonight Lord I felt you there please be with me now please show me lokk at this just a poor ordinary little bean patient ,skill ,hard work... and love end unleash the divine flavors hidden within it do you understand the lesson ? yes yes I see everyone and everything everyone and everything everyone and everything for your glory your arms are open to all one by one thank you Lord so this group of young men are prepared to offer themselves completely to God... in a "apostolic work"? - including celibacy? - yes Mr. Viger it was the trust that I gave them and then they accepted it - really ? - yes how many ? yhree three? my worry is that this calling maybe delution all and this work is to include wemon ? yes your exellency they will live separately but all work will include them and will also be open to married people living in the same institutin ? it's not a institution or a movement it's just a fmily of individuals and no , married couples will live at home it's all seems father... ...protestant. that God is to be found in a daily life outside holy orders no walls no hobbys well Jesuse've been most of his life working in a shop in Nazareth. God's world is so full of... God's world is so full of goodness if we do them for love each daily task can gave him glory small but regular acts of love between husbands and wives between friends , between strangers... each revealing the beauty of his creation and you want to open a new residence in Valencia ? yes and one day in New York ,Paris ,London... - and .and Tokyo - it's a long way to Tokyo and...no money at to speak of? - well I can provided it - no I didn't come to ask for that I ask only for your permission for me and for the work and you shall have them father Escriva I offer you a job as my secretary in time this will lead you to a career that might provide you ifluence that you would need to realize...this dream of yours so ,what do you say ? - I said now thank you - Santi... now it won't be easy I know but I always see there's a roof over your heads and food on the table ,no ? actually...I have an idea "in Latin". Agustin? "Pecunia"... - I can't do it sir - yes you can you will learn and I will learn to teach you damn it I'm sorry father , sorry but... I can't ,the smell I can't how's your Latin ? go keep going Bandits! Bandits! How can you do this? - you know my father's sick - because he's... damn unions I've always said that they going to kill him he had a troke ,the doctor has just left papa? - he can't speak - what ? what did the doctor said ? that is the God's will - get out of here - Manolo ! please get out of here get out ! get out papa ? good afternoon ,brother brother ? Josemaria I know who you are Josemaria I heared your sad news Manolo you have been in my prays thank you ,but I dont need your Por mais sincera que seja. - whatever struggles you are experiences you.. - stuggles ? well ,whatever doubts you may having doubts ,struggles I blindly went into (Saminari) because of my mother I left because I wasn't priest material as you know well mabe not... but doesn't mean your not saint material you know ? my recurring nightmare is that I was partly to blame for your leaving no Josemaria unlike you I choose to live in the real world - but I appreciate your concern - it's not concern TManolo it's love our Lord said love and love was what he ment and we love each other no ? Josemaria ,the truth is... that we were born alone and we die alone all we have in between is a battle that I want to win it The rest the nonsense well ,I will leave you call me I'll come I promise you don't give up ,do you ? it may help you to find some meaning for your suffering ,Manolo suffering has a meaning it's meaningless if you can show me otherwise I'll kiss your ass that's my promise I know what it is to be angry at life please be careful where that leads you to ,Manolo sheep around that time that Josemaria got a call from god I also got a call from on of old friend of my fathers huh Toress good morning well ? - a spy ? - yes ,you ? but I expected somthing more with the king gone ,Spain has lost center of gravity which we will now recreate by force if it needs to be and other means - but our government is elected it's popular - it's time is over The Government is a rotten apple, just shake it and maggots appear. maggots ? socialists who want a socialist state, stalinists who want a Stalinist state, anarchists who want no state at all - Manolo we want to create a new Spain - a united Spain - plans with blood ,if it's necessary... - resurrected...great - and it want's war as before - and admire Exactly, that's right! Are we clear! they called us fascists we called them communists really ,the war was much complicated than that but many prefer to see it in those simpelified terms(manner) three years later ,half a milion people were dead most of them civilians but even in times like these, some people are more interested in hads and shoes I thought you were going to buy a new shoes yes..I was but somthing else came up what was that ? - no I met a lady who... - who needed a hat - and some breakfast - yes ,and some lunch thank you sit down please Peter ,Isidore so ? This group that moves you from your homes ,what's it called? we don't have a name mama we just refer it as "Gods work" in Latin would sound better Opus Dei. I know your donkey may like funds but the work has found it's name what's next ? the communist's strike killed my father now it was my turn to strike get him out of the cat Unionist rabble ... take him Let us show you how God loke like where is your gun ? this is not a game he killed your father damn it ,this bastard is shitthing his pants do it do it damn it Pedro - you're crazy - no I'm not you are crazy - he will hate the whole idea - well let's ask him - ask me ? -this we gonna put it up all over Madrid not me father ,not me - a crusade - yes father using the cross to incite hate and anger that's christian ? well mabe not but father the government is opening the attack of the church - no it isn't it's trying to modernize the Spain - come on ,Pedro if we dont do somthin we are just cowards or worse ,traitors - traitors ? - yes that's what people are saying standing by while the church get's attack how is that being a good catholic ? Pedro, is it understandable to want to protect the church ? yes father - juan, is it uderstandable to want social justice ? - yes of course good ,so ,the question is how do we achieve both by feeding the hungry and lunch is ready so we just let it go no ,look I'm not gonna tell you what to think God gave each of you a brain and reasons and conscience why ? so that you can come to conclusions on your own and take personal responsible for them but...before rushing to act before trying to change the world first think about changing yourselves we're building somthing vital here to get... now ,specially now we have to be sowers of peac and joy and lunch mama father... they started killing priests - what ? - it's on the newspaper oh my God - where ? - here in Mdrid let me see - so what do we do now father - exactly what I just said ,Juan please bless us ,O Lord and this thy gifts that we are about to recive for Thy bounty, through Christ our Lord. amen - look what we have here? - hello, father! well ,well ,well... What we have here? - Hello, Father! - Sorry! what do you got there ? - come on show us - no,please give me the package or I stick you with this - just kill the parasite! - I'm not a parasite. - I have work for living just like all you - what for living ?? that's enough ,that's enough please - get on the next on - Take it easy ...! - I'm on your side. - Fascist! They have prejudices against the enemies of their class. - that's why I blame them - no ,I know all part of creating of this new more civilized Spain exactly And how the uncivilized bihavior comes out To make omelets, have to break eggs. Life is not an omelet, and people are not eggs. if I was you I stopped to walk out there with those clothes. it won't protect you anymore I don't wear these for protection you got bolls for a bourgeois thank you father from the palaces the bishops said : "The meek shall inherit the earth" But the meek were tired of waiting they took the bishops and their palaces he was lucky it was only a rock Juan? Paco? happy birthday it's not my birthday come on Josemaria ,as your brother I've been chosen to ask you to celebrate our second year together by revoming your shoes behold a simple shoe - but is it what it seems ? - yes no it is in fact... ...a hole A hole masquerading as a shoe. A hole surrounded by leather ... But also a testiment to 20 kms a day seven days a week rain and shine and in pity for this innocent shoe we have also pulled together for... down Santiago! this is a statement of your government. There has been a military up rising The army recruits from the Moroccan colonial forces. All able spainian who love their country ... it's remarkably easy to join a war. I could sneak to a communist brigade. so far I was enjoying being a spy There is something inspiring a common purpose, even when it is not yours. I can not describe the ecstasy of belonging to a crowd, even when it's the enemy There is no feeling like it. well... apart from one cat got your tongue ,brother ? So many young people! What do you know about the suffering and death? how they would told you "is it worth it ?" they will ask again and again "is it wort it ?" and what will fill your heart with the answer "yes" ,yes hater of oppression ? of tyranny ? hate of those who treat us like animals denying our hops and stifling our lives YES ! but more it will be faith faith faith ,that our new world will be born from the blood of the old and comradeship my brothers and sisters And courage. courage can break our cases and set ourselves free to live noble as the eagle hovering of it's mountain beak... ...or die in the attempt! - name and country ? - Jean. Frace - name and country ? - Petofi, Ildiko. Hungary, sir. there is no sir here ,Ildiko they're just farmers ,factory workers some like me escaped from prison we are what we are , but we all are eagle but still fighting to be free as we all used to be - Ildiko Petofi? - Yes, sir. Oriol. yes, Oriol! yes, Oriol! jeajous ? no what is your name ? Manolo. Battle of Madrid - November 1936 Ildiko! Ildiko! Ildiko! stop! go back! face them! let the bastards know you're still breathing go !go ! -Toress - yeah look after her oh God! I'm such a coward. me too I don't feel right about this you read the newspapers, they don't exactly like priests out there ,father then call me father when I'm dressed like this call me Mariano. that's vargas! come on, father. I mean, Mariano. come on ,the car's here - come on ,they will be safe - I'll look after them I promise father ,come one - Pigs! - Pigs, no Juan. - men ,like us - men ?! Pedro what did father Lazaro ever offered them but love ? how could they do what they did ? cause they see us as part of the system which causes them pain and despair we have to pray first for father Lazaro... and then for his murderers but they're murderers and they took pleasure in it what do you want to do with these "pigs" ? truthfully ,right now what do you want do to them if you clould truthfully ,and wouldn't took pleasure in it And yet we are no pigs but its not the same father no human being ,not one of us... is free for human weakness no one our faith is a gift and God has called us to manifest it in love ,here on earth an unconditional love ,for every children of God ,no matter who it is no matter what side , no matter what circumstances - even if they're wrong - yes ,Juan even if they are wrong do you understand ? forgive us our trespasses. forgive me ,Lord for my anger for the anger of others. for hate and for those who are killing Help me to be strong! long live the Republic! take picture of this thank you captain he's going to put me in a book perhaps... better to put it in a song I read hundreds of books in jail I only liked "Crime and Punishment." (famous Russian novel by this name written by Dostoyevsky in the 19th century) I haven't read many books well then how do you know what life has to offer I dream so do I Down with tyrants! down with tyrants! long live the Republic! tonight when we camped I want to come to you - no Manolo ,I have told you - why not ? - why whould you put your self throught this ? - you give youself to Oriol - so I choose - and you have been with others ,I know because he might die at any moment it is my chose to give him comfort then why you refuse me ? because your ugly Ildiko, listen... I saw in your face when we first me during Oriol speach I rathered to be with hims than you God bless you. thanks, Isidoro, this was very brave of you we celebrate mass at one and I hear confession at three do not worry. I know a perfect place. thank you, Father. forgive me father for I have sinned. my last confession was 5 months ago and I promise that...father documents! enjoying the zoo ? yes ,very educational and where is the vife when you're being..."educated" ? back home ,doing the laundery ? my mothers idea ,it's not the first time it's getting me safe father ,do you need any shelter ? yes ,you know somewhere ? well I only have a single room there's always gonna room for me but if... you are beautiful I am a priest .but... ...but also a man so thank you for your courage but no Oriol... what is it ? if something happens to me I'll wait for you on the other side - don't say that - we're at was Ildiko I don't know we've held fascists back for two years but the Germans gave them place and our leaders in Madrid fight amongst themselves... - ...and give us nothing - so let's dream now while we can the bastards know exactly where to find us. squeeze here! squeeze! - let me take care of that - no leave it come on ,let's go that's terrible! we're sitting ducks ! and damn communists in Madrid are hanging us out here ,great we've being sacrificed I can do somthing about that what's that there ? a safe-conduct it's a pass and allows any one a safe passage to the enemy side the Milica come with me! come on! - Gorge ,get up - what hell is going on - we need to hide the priest - the priest ? - the milica is here ,they'll kill him - good news come on ! go ,please priest... what if I turn you in ? than I meet my maker far sooner than plan if they find you here so will I yes you're right ,Isidore don't stay here I..I'm..I'm gonna give my self... - they're coming - go ! go ! your papers in my jacket then get them where is the key ? where is the key..."sir" captain...sir forgive me sir don't worry just doing your duty they've gone you better stay here until it gets dark then get hell out of the madrid - unless you want to die - thank you thak you ? they should put me in a madhouse I have three jackets if you think it woul be dangerouse don't worry it'll be fine oh no there's Milica there there is a roadblock please sir ,turn left get rid of the primitive concept of God during the enlightenment! who dares to fight me who ? you bastards! you enjoy this some one is betraying us ,and I swear... when I find out that who it is... ... no mercy we have to do it tonight he doesn't hear you... does he ? all this pain ,and your God is still silent he is a monster ,you know ? I love him although he is a monster ? women can love monsters this is the address ,let's go Isidoro we neet to change plans we're here to search the building after that I was raped I stoped going to mass I couldn't understand how God allows such a thing I acccepted as you see God can be terrible so now I do go to mass my prays are deeper than before I'm fighting with love ,yo see ? I like you you look me in the eye you don't pity me no , no you are extemely brave not really I still sleep with a light on and a chair under the door's handle I think you have mountains to climb and I think it will be painful but that the only thing that makes it sweet, when it's finished father we have to leave where to this time ? over the Pyrenees (Pyrenees : mountain range on the border between France and Spain) - we'll be safe there - no I'm going back to the city I promised God that his folk will never be deserted no ,it's suicide to stay and you know it and if you die they will be deserted and Carmen and your mother and Santiago father...we have to leave yes ,please over the mountains father My commander. it's Phil three ,sir he says this is his last transmission sir ,we've lost our spy slaying your demons is never easy somtimes it's better to get some one else to slay them for you get her !,get her up look at this ,look at this what is this ? it's radio you filthy traitor! they found the traitor are you sure who saw her ? who ? stop! let's vote who wants to...kill her ? - I will do it - what ? I'll do it how could you have done this ? I didn't Oriol - five men say they saw you - then they're lying but you were found with the radio it was planted for God sake , isn't it obvious ? no you're a Hungarian and there are Hungarian fighting with the fascists too they will going to kill you themselves but I said I will do it when I was 18 ... I killed a politcal boss and I was proud of it but now what I have to do makes me feel sick I loved you ,Ildiko but your kisses came from the lips of Judas - no ,they were real - how many have died because of you how many ? because I trusted you Ildiko! hello ? yes thanks it's dad he's been taken to hospitol what we do now ? - get the men away from here - how ? tell them he was a traitor he was guilty he shot at himselfe - they won't believe it - they will you saw it yourself they trust you ,go go what I've thoght... some one like you... some one like you could have destroyed someone like him some one like you... this is yours where are you going ? you should go back to Madrid I can arrange it for the baby sake hey where are you going ?! let her go I found this oh his boddy it's a safe-conduct ,a pass from the enemy he's right - let her go - let her go Manolo ,what about us ? what about us ? you have your passes ,use them he's dieing robbie you have to get over this thing between you for both our sakes for our sakes ? he's the one who broke off contact with me he's the one...he said he never wanna - why do you think I came ? - because your... ...stubborn. because I needed you yes and because I sensed this was going to happen that your dad was going to... that this was a crises no ,I don't love my father I hate him he's a cold distent a moralista prick I see you hate your father that's why you dont want to be one isn't it ? isn't it ? Pyrenees, November 1937 all this pain ,and God's still silent do you hate God now ? I couldn't understand how God allows such a thing please be with me now please show me he doesn't hear you... does he ? Look, Pallerols. here father - you must eat father ,you need to build your strenght... - I should never have left I deserted people who rely on me we all agreed to get you to safety fatehr even if we have to carry you every step of the way I am not worthy, am I? that's why you stay silent unlike you I have chose to live in the real world mama ? do you hate God now ? no dearest I love him so much I'm fighting with love you see - good morning father - good morning good morning ,father what ? we don't have to climb anymore ? let's go boys let's go how is your book ? it's coming along thank you for the tapes they won't tell you every thing I didn't think they would I once... had a chance to kill him Josemaria I didn't know... ...whose side I was anymore they sent me to the Pyrenees Border Patrol he was trying to cross refugees were fair game they're celebrating yhe mass a perfect shot no not now - what side are you on ? - I said not now We pray that we can nonetheless find good, amongst all this suffering , confusion and violence jesus ! We also pray for the freedom that gave us to not to choose hate but to choose forgiveness and love can fill our hearts so we can all enjoy the peace. dad ? dad ? read it see what I was done I have food ,take it why are you wasting your life ? he's dead he's waiting for me on the other side whene a bullet ends this for me he'll be there that is what he told me I believe him Roberto ,have you read Cervantes ? (Miguel de Cervantes (1547-1616), Spanish writer, author of "Don Quixote") he said that... our greatest enemies... are within us Here he is. A wonderful child. he's beautiful wonderful little boy child se wouldn't touch you because of him she just wanted to die she know that wouldn't happen if she had you so she left you there and never came back serrender ! you must surrender give up ! give up laydown your weapons and come out your fighting for a lost cause ! this is the last chance to save you lifes I gave you 30 seconds laydown your weapons with your hands hanged up on your heads otherwise you will die I repeat this is you last opportunity! gun ! little dog ,give me a pistol come on it was the only time... I could give her... what she wanted so now you know it all so I went back for you after the war... to that farm why ? what life a little child could have there ? in that time I don't think you were writing your books I thought with her death... I would be free of her all that pain but it didn't work because... when I looked into your eyes I saw hers what do you expect me to do... I mean... what do you... expect me to do ? pray for me and one day... ...forgive me my son I'm not you son Robbie! your mother he asked me to pray for him can you believe that will you ? no way not for him he's dying rob all that time I believed she was died in some plane crash in my whole childhood I was praying for one sing of affection but he's freed you from that now ,hasn't he ? all of this came up because of somedamn book not some damn book a chance what? a chance to repair somthing that's broken you're not here by coincidence rob don't you see ? that's not very scientifice ,Lil ,is it ? there are different ways to measure the same universe. And according to that, destiny is not blind ,is it ? no ,isn't Josemaria?! my friend ! you came as you promised... pray for me ...Josemaria. is someone with him ? you gave me a... ...rosary still have it I would never used it but I had it can I be forgiven ? dad ? dad ? ((M.Namju)) Robert... I've done so many wrong things in my life it's over now...dad except for... ...kissing his ass what ? his when you forgive , you set some one free yourself I think my father wanted to me to forgive him for my sake and I'm trying a life ,Dona Dolores can't be fathom on it's own it's like... it's like the thread on your embroidery, twisted around other threads woven together in a given space and at any given time. difficult to see the pattern untill it's all finished. if it there is finished you ok ? look father ,Andorra we get there ,we're safe thank God waiting for your order sir ? that I do it without your order get down ,sniper ! get down run! father Josemaria dedicate the rest of his life to the development of Opus Dei ("Work of God") On October 6, 2002, 500,000 people filled St. Peter's Square to see John Paul II proclaimed a saint, and "one of the great witnesses of Christianity" about Manolo Torres, some say they still struggle within us all in that unknown place where ... ...THERE BE DRAGONS ((M.Namju)))
