 

                        Where you from? I'm from Holland, and this is like... Ten hours for me. It's, like, across the world. I came here for this audition. I told all my boys at home I'm coming to funk in front of Michael onstage. I'm just gonna dance for him. I don't care if I make it, I don't care about nothing. Thank you, Michael. I'm excited. You've inspired everything in my life. My energy. You're why I dance. I can remember being a little girl and watching "Thriller" on TV with my mom and thinking that that was the coolest thing in the world. I go to sleep and just wake up, and the first thing I do is not even eat. I just start playing your music and start just dancing and moon-walking on a rug. I was like, "What I would give to be onstage with you." And the fact that I get to do that is... It's amazing, so... I'm from Australia... And, um, I got word of your audition two days before it was about to happen and I was on the next flight over. It begins. This is... This is the beginning. I'm not even onstage yet. Like, I can't even imagine what's gonna happen backstage that first show in London. I'm looking even farther ahead. I don't even know what I wanna do after this because this is Michael. I wanted to dance, you know what I mean? And that inspiration came from, you know, you. And you've inspired me and given me a reason to want to inspire others. Uh... Life is hard, right? And I've kind of been searching for something to shake me up a little bit and give me a kind of a meaning, to believe in something. And this is it. ORTEGA: So we open the show, as you know, with all the lights down. We're gonna create a spectacular opening with pyrotechnics. And we want some sizzles and some cracks and some pops. We have our video that is called "Glimpses and Flashes." And that's where Light Man comes out on the gantry, floating above the stage, and he'll just be dazzling in video information. And piece by piece by piece by piece, MJ is revealed, until he jumps out and on Michael's command, we begin. ["WANNA BE STARTIN' SOMETHIN"' PLAYING] You wanna be startin' somethin' You got to be startin' somethin' You wanna be startin' somethin' CHORUS: Startin' somethin' Hard to get over CHORUS: Yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah Stuck in the middle Yeah, yeah And the pain is thunder Yeah, yeah Hard to get over Yeah, yeah Too low to get under Yeah, yeah Stuck in the middle Yeah, yeah And the pain is thunder Yeah, yeah You love to pretend That you're good When you're always Up to no good So your tongue became a razor Someone's always Tryin' To start my baby Cryin' Lyin' Now baby's Slowly dyin' Startin' somethin' You got to be Startin' somethin' I said you wanna be Startin' somethin' Startin' somethin' Hard to get over Yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah Stuck in the middle Yeah, yeah And the pain is thunder Yeah, yeah Hard to get over Yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah Stuck in the middle Yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah You're a vegetable You're a vegetable You're a vegetable You're a vegetable Still they hate you Still they hate you You're a vegetable You're a vegetable A buffet A buffet You're a vegetable You're a vegetable They eat off of you They eat off of you You're a vegetable Ow! He-he-he-ha You know I'm gonna want that more, right? [IMITATES BASS GUITAR] It's funkier. I'm not feeling that part enough. [IMITATING BASS GUITAR] BEARDEN: As in running next to him. It's not there. BEARDEN: Okay, it should be. It should be. I know, it's all for love. BEARDEN: It's coming there. We'll get it there. Your love is magical That's how I feel But I have not the words To explain To tell you I love you [CROWD SCREAMING AND CHEERING] WOMAN [OVER RADIO]: Jackson's ETA is 15 minutes. Michael Jackson last performed live right here in London at the 2006 World Music Awards. WOMAN [OVER RADIO]: Michael Jackson's here. Go straight onstage. CROWD [CHANTING]: This is it! Yeah! This is it. This is it. [CHANTING] This is it! This is it! I love you. [LAUGHS] MAN: We love you! I'll be... I'll be performing the songs my fans wanna hear. This is really it. This is the final curtain call. Okay? And see you in July. If you can't feed your baby Yeah, yeah Then don't have a baby Yeah, yeah And don't think maybe Yeah, yeah If you can't feed your baby Yeah, yeah Tryin' Cryin' Lyin' Now baby's slowly dyin' Hoo Startin' somethin' You got to be Startin' somethin' You wanna be Startin' somethin' You got to be Startin' somethin' Hard to get over Yeah, yeah Too low to get under Yeah, yeah You're stuck in the middle Yeah, yeah And the pain is thunder Yeah, yeah Hard to get over Yeah, yeah Too low to get under Yeah, yeah You're stuck in the middle Yeah, yeah Lift your head up high And scream out to the world I know I am someone And let the truth unfurl No one can hurt you now Because you know what's true I believe in me So you believe in you Help me sing it CHORUS: Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Sing it to the world Sing it out loud Oo-hoo Whoa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Help me sing it Ooh! Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Help me sing it Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Help me sing it Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa Ma ma se, ma ma sa Ma ma coo sa You wanna be startin' somethin' You got to be Startin' somethin' I said you wanna be Startin' somethin' Ooh! Startin' somethin' [PEOPLE APPLAUDING] ["BAD" PLAYING] Good. Great. Good to see all of you. Thank you for being here. The idea was get the big fish from all over the world and put them in the same pond. ["SMOOTH CRIMINAL" PLAYING] ORTEGA: The dancers in a Michael Jackson show are an extension of Michael Jackson. They are an extension of the man. Everything is bigger and more intense in his world. First cut, thank you. Next group. Ladies, brava. ["DON'T STOP 'TIL YOU GET ENOUGH" PLAYING] WALKER: Lean, gorgeous, hot. Dancers that can rock it. But if you don't have that goo, that ooze coming out of you, not gonna get the job. MICHAEL [ON RECORDING]: Don't stop till you get enough Ow! ["SMOOTH CRIMINAL" PLAYING] She's the one. [PEOPLE APPLAUDING] And the Michael Jackson principal dancers for This Is It are: ["BAD" PLAYING] MAN 1: Guys, those go over here. Hey, guys? Those go over here, actually. MAN 2: Aww. Truss moving. ["JAM" PLAYING] Quite the eventful day because we got to be toasted. There's elevator speed and toaster speed. Part of this, guys, is anticipating the stop. Keep your shoulders square, keep your center, and just get, like, right down into a nice, good squat position like that, and you're gonna come up and... You feel that initial...? Yeah, I do. Yeah, that's the adrenaline, baby. CHORUS: Jam Jam Jam Nation to nation, all the world Must come together Face the problems that we see Then maybe somehow We can work it out I asked my neighbor for a favor She said, later What has come of all the people? Have we lost love Of what it's about? I have to find my peace Cos no one seems to let me be False prophets cry of doom What are the possibilities? I told my brother There'll be problem times And tears for fears We must live each day Like it's the last Go with it, go with it! Jam It ain't It ain't too much stuff Jam It ain't too much for me to Jam It ain't It ain't too much stuff Jam It ain't too much for me to Jam Uh-huh It ain't too much stuff Jam It ain't too much for me to Jam Uh-huh It ain't too much stuff Jam Don't you... It ain't too much for me [WHIP CRACKING] [GLASS SHATTERS] [WHIP CRACKS] It ain't too hot for me to jam It ain't too hot for me to jam It ain't too hot for me to jam It ain't too hot for me to jam It ain't too hot for me to jam It ain't too hot for me to jam It ain't too hot for me to jam It ain't too hot for me to jam It ain't too hot for me to jam Ooh! Jam It ain't It ain't too much stuff Jam It ain't... Don't you... It ain't too much for me Jam It ain't too much stuff Jam It ain't too much for me Get on it Get on it, give it, baby Give it to me Got to get it You just want to give it [PEOPLE APPLAUDING] We're at Culver Studios, shooting green screen. We're gonna do "The Drill" into "Cadence" into "They Don't Really Care About Us." And it's gonna be really cool because they're gonna multiply the guys. So our existing 11 guys are gonna become 1100 guys, and it'll be really, really cool. So we're kind of excited. And Michael's coming today. MAN 1: There's the man. MAN 2: There's Michael. MAN 1: The man is here. MAN 3: Whoo! Ow! Ow! So that we can give you this: A million people. Michael, do you like this, first of all? Yeah, that's a cool move, a cool move, but it spreads out too much to the end. JONES: So we can just stop it whenever you hit the space bar. You can go to infinity. Yeah. As though there's no more than Or maybe just your nine dancers? Ten. Great. Bah ooh bah ooh bah What is that? Jah ooh aah uh aah One more time. Six, seven, eight... ALL: Who? Who's bad? Who? Who? Skin head, dead head Everybody gone bad Situation, aggravation Everybody allegation In the suit, on the news Everybody dog food Bang bang, shot dead Everybody's gone mad All I wanna say is that They don't really care about us All I wanna say is that They don't really care about us Tell me what has become Of my rights Am I invisible cos you ignore me? The proclamation promised me Free liberty, now I'm tired of bein' The victim of shame They're throwing me In a class with a bad name I can't believe this is the land From which I came Skin head, dead head Everybody gone bad Situation, speculation Everybody allegation Beat me, bash me You can never trash me Hit me, kick me You can never get me All I wanna say is that They don't really care about us All I wanna say is that They don't really care about us Oh! KING [ON RECORDING]: In what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. Every day, create your history Some things in life They just don't wanna see But if Martin Luther was livin' He wouldn't let this be All I wanna say is that They don't really care about us All I wanna say is that They don't really care about us All I wanna say is that They don't really care about us All I wanna say is that They don't really care about All I wanna say is that They don't really care about All I wanna say is that They don't really care about us [HORN HONKING] [HORN HONKING] ORTEGA: Hold for applause, hold for applause. Slow umbrella fade out. Why? Why? Yeah. Yeah. Let's just go for it. Why? Why? Why? Tell 'em that is Human nature Why? Why? Does he do me that way? If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? MAN: Ooh! Does he do me that way? I like livin' this way I like lovin' this way [ORTEGA LAUGHS] [SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] Reaching out [MEN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY] [SINGS INDISTINCTLY] [WOMAN SPEAKS INDISTINCTLY] At a stranger The city winks a sleepless eye Hear her voice Shake my window You sound great, MJ. You sound great. Sweet seducing sighs Get me out Bam, something right there. Into the night-time Four walls Won't hold me tonight If this town Is just an apple Let me take a bite If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? Does he do me that way? If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? Does he do me that way? Reaching out Into the night-time Electric eyes are everywhere See that girl She knows I'm watching She likes the way I stare If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? Does he do me that way? If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? Does he do me that way? I like livin' this way I like lovin' this way Hey, why, oh, why? Hey, why, oh, why? Looking out [MUSIC PAUSES] Across the morning The city's heart begins to beat See that girl She knows I'm watching She likes the way I stare If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? Does he do me that way? If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? Does he do me that way? If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? Does she do me that way? Why? Why? Why? Hey Does he do me that way? If they say Why? Why? Why? Why? Ooh Tell 'em Hey I like livin' this way I like lovin' this way Ooh Why? Why? Oh, why? Oh, why? Oh, why? Oh, why? [BIG-BAND MUSIC PLAYING] Put the blame on Mame, boys Put the blame on Mame Mame did a dance Called the Hitchy-koo That's the thing That slew McGrew Put the blame on Mame, boys ORTEGA: We're seconds away, Mike. MAN 1: Rolling. MAN 2: Rolling. And Gilda singing. Put the blame On Mame MAN: Bravo! What's he doing here? And cut. Ha-ha-ha. That was a good one. Let's cut. ORTEGA: Okay, Bruce? JONES: Yes, sir? ORTEGA: Rehearsed, and Michael was great. We can do this. JONES: Ready to shoot? ORTEGA: Yup. JONES: Okay, guys, let's shoot this. MAN: Here we go, ready. We are rolling. ORTEGA: Action. What do you want me to do? Count three like they do in the movies? ORTEGA: Guys, that's the cue. I'm sorry, are we misunderstanding something here? BEARDEN: No, we're not misunderstanding. We're sizzling. BEARDEN: He's sizzling. I'm sizzling. He's waiting for my point, it's coming. ORTEGA: Oh, I thought... Michael, I was telling them to start when you turn toward the audience. Do you wanna...? Oh, no, I wanna turn first, face the audience with nothing. ORTEGA: Okay. And then when he gets my cue, then we go. ORTEGA: The only thing is how will you see the video change from the marquee to the city? I gotta feel that. I'll feel it, the screen behind me. ORTEGA: All right. Now this is all sizzle, sizzle, sizzle. It says "Smooth Criminal." The audience is going wild. The camera now slowly starts to move over the marquee. [BAND PLAYING "SMOOTH CRIMINAL"] Ow! As he came into the window It was the sound Of a crescendo He came into her apartment He left the bloodstains On the carpet She ran underneath the table He could see she was unable So she ran into the bedroom She was struck down It was her doom Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? Will you tell us that you're okay? There's a sign in the window That he struck you A crescendo, Annie He came into your apartment Left the bloodstains on the carpet Then you ran into the bedroom You were struck down It was your doom Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? You've been hit by You've been struck by A smooth criminal Ow! So they came into the outway It was Sunday What a black day Mouth-to-mouth resuscitation Sounding heartbeats Intimidations Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? Annie, are you okay? Will you tell us that you're okay? There's a sign in the window That he struck you A crescendo, Annie He came into your apartment Left the bloodstains on the carpet Then you ran into the bedroom You were struck down It was your doom Annie, are you okay? So, Annie, are you okay? Are you okay, Annie? You've been hit by You've been struck by A smooth criminal Ow! Ow! Annie, are you okay? Will you tell us that you're okay? There's a sign in the window That he struck you A crescendo, Annie He came into your apartment Left the bloodstains on the carpet Then you ran into the bedroom You were struck down It was your doom Annie, are you okay? Will you tell us that you're okay? There's a sign in the window That he struck you A crescendo, Annie He came into your apartment Left the bloodstains on the carpet Then you ran into the bedroom You were struck down It was your doom, Annie You've been hit by You've been struck by A smooth criminal [PLAYING "THE WAY YOU MAKE ME FEEL"] Pretty good. Pretty good. [LAUGHS] Ah [HUMMING] BEARDEN: You're gonna put that in? Uh-huh. MAN: Uh-huh. BEARDEN: It's really cool for me as a musical director because I need the artist to be hands-on and MJ is always hands-on with everything that he does. He knows all of his records. He knows all of his tempos. He knows all of his keys of songs. Doo dah No. Just a little drag, a little bit more behind the beat. Yeah. It's not the right sound. Like you're dragging yourself out of bed. Imagine this is the right sound. Check this. Don't change so soon, though. Don't wanna change over so soon yet. See, you're going: [IMITATING KE YBOARD] Don't do that one. Don't do that one. Don't do that one yet? No, no. It should be simpler. [IMITATING KE YBOARD] Uh-huh. Yeah. We'll get the sound, we'll get the sound. BEARDEN: We'll get the sound but that's not till tomorrow. MICHAEL: We gotta do a sound check tomorrow night. That's what we need to do. MICHAEL: And don't start unless you do a sound check. I know, that's why we doing it. We need you to do the sound check because can't nobody hear what you need to hear. Some people might not wanna have that bass... I want it the way I wrote it. I mean... Like the audience hears it. So whatever the record's doing, that's how I want it to sound. That's what it's gonna sound like, but you gotta get closer to what you want. Then if you wanna hear a little more booty on something else, know what I mean? Only you can say that. You know what I'm saying? [LAUGHING] A little more booty. That's funny. But you knew what I meant though too. MICHAEL: I know exactly what you meant. Yeah, all right, then. One more time from the top. CHORUS: Ooh-ooh Ooh-ooh Ooh-ooh Ooh-ooh Ooh-ooh Ooh-ooh MICHAEL: Ssh-ssh. Try to get the same sound. Ooh-ooh MICHAEL: Good sound on that. Good sound. BEARDEN: No, no, not yet, Prince. MICHAEL: No. You gotta... You gotta let it simmer. It's got a moment where it has to simmer. BEARDEN: That's right. You're not letting it simmer. Just bathe in the moonlight. You have to let it simmer a bit, you know? BEARDEN: All right, Prince? We're gonna add two bars after the "ch-ooh." Or at least a bar. Yeah. MJ, check it from the top again. See what we got, simmer-wise. One, two, three, four. [PLAYING "THE WAY YOU MAKE ME FEEL"] CHORUS: Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Pretty baby With the high heels on You give me fever Like I've never, never known I feel your fever From miles around I'll pick you up in my car And we'll paint the town Just kiss me, baby And tell me twice That you're the one for You make me feel real Doo-doo You really turn me on Doo-doo Knocking me off of my feet now Whoo! Lonely days are gone Doo-doo Ooh I gotta cue that. I gotta cue that. That shouldn't trigger on its own. That can't trigger on its own. I gotta cue that. So you gotta watch me for that growl, okay? [DRUMBEATS] [SONG RESUMES] I never felt so in love before Promise, baby You'll love me for evermore I swear I'm keeping you satisfied Cos you're the one for me The way you make me feel CHORUS: The way you make me feel You really turn me on You really turn me on You knock me off Of my feet now You knock me off of my feet C'mon, girl, come on My lonely days are gone The way you make me feel You really turn me on Whee-hee-hee You knock me off of my feet My lonely days are gone Cha Cha Cha Shoo, shoo Shoo, shoo, shoo Shoo, shoo, shoo Ohh The way you make me feel You really turn me on You knock me off of my feet My lonely days are gone Come on, give it to me He-he One more time. You really turn me on That's why we rehearse. It's okay, it's okay. Right here on this one. My lonely days are gone Ooh BEARDEN: They wanted us to take those eight out so... It's okay, it's okay, no. It was a little too soon. ORTEGA: Yeah, I agree, Michael. Yeah. ORTEGA: I think let's add them back. BEARDEN: Just leave it. You don't feel totally nourished by it, you know? ORTEGA: MJ, we'll also have a fan there, right there in the center. I'm trying to hear you. Say it again? ORTEGA: There'll be a fan, right there off the stage for you. Boom, right there. Okay, watching Michael. [SNAPPING FINGERS] CHORUS: Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo Doo-doo [DRUMROLL] [AUDIENCE APPLAUDING] DIANA ROSS [ON RECORDING]: Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the world's most fabulous group: The Jackson 5. [PLAYING "I WANT YOU BACK"] Everybody clap your hands. Come on! When I had you to myself I didn't want you around In a crowd But someone picked you From the bunch Take a second look Show you that I love you Let me now Back in your heart Blind to let you go Let you go, baby Now since I see you I want you back Yes, I do, now I want you back Ooh, ooh, baby I want you back Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah I want you back Na, na, na, na I want you back You guys, I gotta tell you this. When I'm trying to hear and it feels like somebody's fist is pushed into my ear, it's really very difficult. I know you mean well, so, but it's... I'm trying to adjust to the ear, the inner ears, okay? With the love, with the love. L-O-V-E. ORTEGA: Michael. This is not easy though. ORTEGA: Michael, one more time. I couldn't hear you, sir. The inner ears are very difficult for me when you're raised to use just your real own, you know, aural... Auditory ears. Now it feels like somebody's fist, just their fist, is shoved into your ear. ORTEGA: Okay. I'm trying to hear and I can't. So I'm adjusting to the situation. ORTEGA: Right. Michael, is there anything they can give you now in your ears to make it better in terms of volume or mix? Um... If we could just bring it down a little bit. ORTEGA: Bring it down a little bit, please. Anything else, Michael? You wanna hear more of anything? You wanna hear more voice, you wanna hear more...? No. ORTEGA: Okay, Michael, after the next song, if it hasn't adjusted to your liking, will you please let us know? For sure. ORTEGA: Thank you. Would you like to pick it up from? "Stop! The Love You Save." ORTEGA: "Stop! The Love You Save." [BAND PLAYING "THE LOVE YOU SAVE"] Played tag in grade school You wanted to be "it" Now chasing boys was justified Crossed your heart, you quit When we grew up you traded Your promise for my ring Now just like Back in grade school You're doing the same old thing Stop! The love you save may be your own Darling, take it slow Or someday you'll be all alone Stop! The love you save may be your own Darling, look both ways Before you cross me You're headed for a danger zone [PEOPLE CHEERING AND APPLAUDING] God bless you. [BAND PLAYING "I'LL BE THERE"] You and I must make a pact We must bring salvation back Where there is love I'll be there I'll be there I'll reach out my hand to you I'll have faith in all you do Just call my name And I'll be there I'll be there Ohh, yeah I'll be there to comfort you Build my world of dreams Around you I'm so glad I found you I'll be there With a love that's strong I'll be your strength I'll keep holding on I love you If you should ever find Someone new I know he'd better be good to you Cos if he doesn't I'll be there Look over your shoulders, honey Whoo I'll be there Everybody! I'll be there Just call my name I'll be there Just look over Your shoulders, honey Ooh I'll be there I'll be there There I'll say, "Jackie, Jermaine, Marlon, Tito, Randy, I love you. Joseph and Katherine, God bless you. I love you." And Just trying to conserve my throat, please, so understand. I will be I will be I will be I will be MAN: Darling, be I will be CHORUS: There Hoo [PEOPLE APPLAUDING] ORTEGA: And blackout. We'll make it cleaner at the back. So you wanna get rid of the bad specials, those profiles coming in. There's a lot going on. The dancers, you know, we do maintenance with them, you know, two to three times a week. We do Pilates and stretching and ballet, and they have physical therapy. You know, just keeping everybody together. I saw you, you were going like this, what is this? That's Russian. This is Russian. So Baryshnikov does it like this and you guys are doing like this. Same thing. MAN: Good. One more time. MAN: Sure. I mean, but we're straight up and down now, right? I don't think it's anything except hand moving. I think that's smoother, you know what I mean? I mean, I have nothing to move. [PEOPLE APPLAUDING] ORTEGA: Dancers, music. [BAND PLAYING "SHAKE YOUR BOD Y (DOWN TO THE GROUND)"] CHORUS: Let's dance, let's shout Shake your body Down to the ground Let's dance, let's shout Shake your body Down to the ground Let's dance, let's shout Shake your body Down to the ground Let's dance, let's shout Shake your body Down to the ground Down, down, down, down Down, down, down, down [PEOPLE APPLAUDING] [MAN SPEAKS INDISTINCTLY] All right, "I Just Can't Stop Loving You." Judith. Let me know when you're ready. A mi amor eres t A mi amor eres t Cuando no estas No hay quien me d lo que das t A mi amor eres t [LAUGHING] BEARDEN [IN SPANISH ACCENT]: Do it for Ortega. Ortega. Here we go. BEARDEN: For his people. MOFFETT: One, two, three. [PLAYING "I JUST CAN' STOP LOVING YOU"] More echo in here? Ahhh-ah Each time the wind blows I hear your voice so I call your name Whispers at morning Our love is dawning Heaven's glad you came You know how I feel This thing can't go wrong I'm so proud to say I love you Your love's got me high I long to get by My life ain't worth living If I can't be with you HILL: I hear your voice now You are my choice now The love you bring Heaven's in my heart At your call, I hear harps And angels sing BOTH: You know how I feel This thing can't go wrong I can't live my life without you Your love's got me high I feel we belong My life ain't worth living If I can't be with you I just can't stop loving you I just can't stop loving you And if I stop Then tell me, just what will I do? I just can't stop loving you At night when the stars shine I think in you I'll find A love so true Hey When morning awakes me Will you come and take me? I'll wait for you You know how I feel This thing can't go wrong I'm so proud to say I love you I do This thing can't go wrong This feeling's so strong Well My life ain't worth living If I can't be with you I just can't stop loving you Oh, oh, no I just can't stop loving you Said I can't stop And if I stop Then tell me, just what will I do? I just can't stop loving you We can change All the world Tomorrow We can sing songs Of yesterday I can say Hey, farewell to sorrow This is my life and I I want to see you for always I just can't stop loving you No, baby I just can't stop loving you Said I can't stop And if I stop Then tell me, just what will I do? What will I do? No, no I just can't stop loving you He-he-he He-he-he I just can't stop loving you He-he-he Know I do, girl And if I stop Then tell me, just what will I do? Tell me I just can't stop loving you I just can't stop loving you Hey And if I stop Then tell me, just what will I do? Break down Because Because I just can't stop I just can't stop I just can't stop, baby I just can't stop, yeah I can't stop, no, baby I just can't stop, no I just can't stop, no I just can't stop I can't stop, baby I can't stop, no I can't stop, no, baby I can't stop, no HILL: Yeah Oh, I just can't stop Oh, I just can't stop loving You Now, don't make me sing out when I shouldn't be singing out. I'm warming... I'm trying to warm up my voice for this moment. Why do you do this to me? I shouldn't be singing right now. No. No, no. BEARDEN: You better sing! I'm warming up to the moment. BEARDEN: But you just can't help it, MJ. No, but, I shouldn't. I really shouldn't. BEARDEN: Yeah, but you felt it. No, no. BEARDEN: But you can allow yourself that one time. I can't do that. But you're fine to do it. I gotta save my voice. That ending was just like the smelliest ending of all the versions. Band, it's just this. This is what it is. Whoo. What day is it? What time is it? We're like, you know... We're down to the wire. We're like halfway through our film shoot ...for all of our incredible... ...new film content for This Is It. Today we are filming new segments for "Thriller," 3-D. ["THRILLER" PLAYING] Argh! Do I still have on my 3-D glasses? Yes, you do. Oh, good. I think I look great in these glasses. Do I look as old as I feel? ORTEGA: Guys, please step away if you're not in the shot. Photographers, everybody. Clear the set now for the crew. WOMAN: Rolling! ORTEGA: Here we go. Action. This guy should be getting out soon. PAYNE: You guys, be aware of the camera. Look up to it. There's gonna be light on him, Michael. There's no light on him now. Give the information to him. ORTEGA: Gravedigger, right into the camera. Put your... There it is. Right into it, right in there. That's it, keep going. Right there. ORTEGA: That's it. Right into the camera. Reach your hands out in front of you, guys. Yeah, yeah, yeah! That's it, beautiful! Whoo! ORTEGA: Keep coming. Yeah, right into the lens, in the center. I'm in the center of the camera. There you go. Now, go out. Go out. Good. And cut. It's brilliant. Thank you, everybody. ORTEGA: We call these the dead brides and the dead grooms. And there'll be a parade of them moving through the aisles in "Thriller." [THUNDER CRASHING] [BATS SCREECHING] [VINCENT PRICE CACKLING] [SCREAMS] VINCENT PRICE [IN VOICE-OVER]: Darkness falls across the land The midnight hour is close at hand Creatures crawl in search of blood To terrorize y'all's neighborhood And whosoever shall be found [HOWLING] Without the soul for getting down Must stand and face The hounds of hell And rot inside a corpse's shell MICHAEL: It's close to midnight And something evil's Lurking in the dark Under the moonlight, you see a sight That almost stops your heart You try to scream But terror Takes the sound before you make it You start to freeze As horror Looks you right between the eyes You're paralyzed Cos this is thriller Thriller night And no one's gonna save you From the beast about to strike You know it's thriller Thriller night You're fighting for your life Inside a killer, thriller tonight You hear the door slam And realize there's nowhere Left to run You feel the cold hand And wonder if you'll ever see the sun You close your eyes And hope that this is Just imagination Girl But all the while You hear a creature Creeping up behind You're out of time Cos this is thriller Thriller night Girl, I can thrill you more Than any ghost would ever dare try Thriller Whoo-hoo! Thriller night So let me hold you tight And share a killer, thriller Ow! [SCREECHES] VINCENT PRICE: The demons squeal in sheer delight It's you they spy, so plump, so right For though the groove Is hard to beat Yet still you stand with frozen feet You try to run, you try to scream But no more sun you'll ever see For evil reaches from the crypt To crush you in its icy grip Cos this is thriller Thriller night Cos I can thrill you more Than any ghost would ever dare try Thriller Whoo-hoo! Thriller night So let me hold you tight And share a killer, thriller Ow! Ow! [BAND PLAYING SOFT MUSIC] [BAND PLAYING ROCK MUSIC] [VINCENT PRICE CACKLING OVER SPEAKERS] ORTEGA: Make sure that there's somebody waiting for Michael there with a flashlight and everything. Great. MAN 1: Whoo! MAN 2: Yeah! Now, you know, could we do that times 10? Absolutely! [PEOPLE LAUGHING] Okay, so next is the fire screen. We're gonna show you some chase sequences. [PEOPLE CHEERING] Rock 'n' roll! ["WHO IS IT" PLAYING] Today was all about testing the chandelier and bed props for the show with our aerialists and pole-dancing experts. It's all about checking dimension and widths and pipe and how things work together. COTTEN: Building props with people on it is a big responsibility and a lot of fun because we have to design things around the human body. This is the first time in the history that we've worked with Michael, for the past 25 years, that we are including lighted elements in his "Billie Jean" costume. The cut of the stones, the refraction of the light as we're applying them, you almost need sunglasses, just the reflection if you're trying to get them on. We're bringing things into his performance where they haven't been developed at all. And it's just being developed for Michael. I'm working with scientists in the Netherlands, I'm working with people in California, I'm working with Swarovski. Always trying to push the boundaries, you know, because that's what Michael's about. ORTEGA: Now, is this working this evening? Without running the number, I would just like it, if Michael would like to, just to give him a little ride so that he feels his new cherry picker out. From the top of "Beat It." ORTEGA: Uh, you wanna do it with music already? Yeah. ORTEGA: Can I just give you a ride first? Sure. If you want. ORTEGA: Okay. ORTEGA: Yeah. Just for safety. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Michael. Sure. Sure. BEARDEN: Daredevil MJ. I trust in you. ORTEGA: Thank you. [BEARDEN CHUCKLES] ORTEGA: Just for safety. Thank you. BEARDEN: Stand by, guys. ORTEGA: You've been there before. Whee. ORTEGA: MJ, this is just at mid-height. It goes much higher than this. This is the low height. MICHAEL: Why would you say that to me? You know better. [ORTEGA LAUGHING] BEARDEN: See, why did you say that to him? MICHAEL: He's teasing me. That's why. He know I wants to go higher. [MICHAEL & ORTEGA LAUGHING] God bless you, Kenny. Hi. ORTEGA: Yeah, yeah. Are the fans working on this? MICHAEL: It's great. ORTEGA: Michael, please hold on. Thank you. It's very nice. ORTEGA: Yeah? Is it smooth? Yeah. ORTEGA: Great. This is monumental, Michael's back on the cherry picker. Yeah. Thank you. ORTEGA: We love you, Michael. Love you too. [BAND PLAYING "BEAT IT"] Ho! Ho! Ho! Ho! Oh! Oh! Ho! Ho! Ow! They told him Don't you ever come around here Don't wanna see your face You better disappear The fire's in their eyes And their words are really clear So beat it Just beat it Huh! You better run You better do what you can Don't wanna see no blood Don't be a macho man You wanna be tough Better do what you can So beat it But you wanna be bad Just beat it Beat it Beat it Beat it No one wants to be defeated Showin' how funky And strong is your fight It doesn't matter Who's wrong or right Just beat it Beat it Beat it Beat it Just beat it Beat it Beat it Beat it Whoo! Beat it, beat it Beat it, beat it, beat it Beat it Beat it Beat it Beat it Beat it No one wants to be defeated Showin' how funky And strong is your fight It doesn't matter Who's wrong or right Just beat it Beat it Beat it Beat it No one wants to be defeated Showin' how funky And strong is your fight It doesn't matter Who's wrong or right Ho! Ho! MICHAEL: Ho! Ho! Beat it Beat it Beat it Beat it No one wants to be defeated Showin' how funky And strong is your fight It doesn't matter Who's wrong or right Just beat it Beat it Beat it Beat it No one wants to be defeated Showin' how funky And strong is your fight It doesn't matter Who's wrong or right Just Beat it Beat it No one wants to be defeated Showin' how funky And strong is your fight It doesn't matter Who's wrong or right Just Beat it Beat it No one wants to be defeated Showin' how funky And strong is your fight It doesn't matter Who's wrong or right [MUSIC STOPS] [MUSIC PLAYING] [MICHAEL SINGS] BEARDEN: Okay, that's where you want it? When we come up... What we're doing is... We're doing it for the height. I'm gonna take off the jacket and kick it, and beat it, and beat it and we're gonna burn it. The jacket's gonna be too hot. It's gonna be on fire. BEARDEN: I just wanted to know when that last one was. That's the one, I was pointing to it. I was pointing that to you. BEARDEN: I got you. You don't have to do it again. We can. Do it again. MAN: Whoo! [MUSIC PLAYING] And let it burn, and the lights out! ORTEGA: Lights out. MICHAEL: Lights out! Let it burn! ORTEGA: We're on a 10-minute break. PANAGARIS: I'm just so happy. This is a dream come true. When MJ comes in the room to rehearse with us, he, um... It's just... His presence is just amazing. It's pretty, pretty cool. Really, really cool. [IMITATES GUITAR PLAYING "BLACK OR WHITE"] [LAUGHING] Thank you. Michael is the epitome of one of the great entertainers of our time. Performing with Michael has just been a thrill. You know, I've been, like, a Michael Jackson fan since he was 8 years old. It's like a lifelong dream for me to actually work with Michael. I've worked with a lot of great, great artists, but, you know, I consider this, like, really a pinnacle. Michael's a perfectionist. And you don't really find that in pop musicians. You can't fool Michael. You have to come in knowing the record. And then, hopefully, finding a middle ground to embellish it to make it even better. He's just an icon of performance. His talent runs so deep in creativity. And he draws from a deeper emotion than anybody else I've ever seen or worked with. Right here, right here, right here. Okay, no second verse. Sorry. Okay, sorry, sorry. That was a mistake, there is no second verse. Sorry about that, you guys. First verse, oooh, then right to the bridge, okay? Let's do it one more time. BEARDEN: Sure. Wanna go down then come back up? One more time. Yeah. This is why we have rehearsal. BEARDEN: There you go. [BAND PLAYING "BLACK OR WHITE"] I took my baby On a Saturday bang Boy, is that girl with you? Yes, we're one and the same Now I believe in miracles And a miracle Has happened tonight Ooh But if you're thinkin' About my baby It don't matter If you're black or white So we'll run this way. I am tired of this devil I am tired of this stuff I am tired of this business So when the going gets rough I ain't scared of your brother I ain't scared of no sheets I ain't scared of nobody Girl, when the goin' gets mean Protection For gangs, clubs, and nations Causing grief in human relations It's a turf war on a global scale I'd rather hear Both sides of the tale See, it's not about races Just places Faces Where your blood comes from Is where your space is I've seen the sharp get duller I'm not gonna spend my life Being a color Did you agree with me When I saw you Kicking dirt in my eye? But if you're thinkin' About my baby It don't matter If you're black or white I said if you're thinkin' About my baby It don't matter If you're black or white If you're thinkin' of being my brother It don't matter if you're black or white Hoo! All right Ooh-hoo All right Yeah, yeah, yeah All right It's black, it's white It's tough for them to get by It's black, it's white, whoo It's black, it's white It's tough for them to get by It's black, it's white, whoo When they stop, you have to just keep... Just hit your highest note. [SINGS] It's time for you to shine. And hit a high, long one. [SINGS] It's your time to shine. We'll be right there with you. [SINGS] It's remarkable, it's some genius stuff going on over here, man. He is the king. And he's a good guy too. He's real humble. You know. And he knows his music. What more can you ask for? Because I'm searching for that flavor too. [PEOPLE CHEERING AND APPLAUDING] Look at that. I think it's beautiful. Show him the second one. It'll come rolling out at us, right? Yes. And all golden. Look at this one. It'll be floating so much. I love her. I love the light. God, and the lighting's great. ORTEGA: Yeah. You got it. ["EARTH SONG" PLAYING] MICHAEL [ON RECORDING]: I respect the secrets and magic of nature. That's why it makes me so angry when I see these things that are happening, that every second, I hear, the size of a football field is torn down in the Amazon. I mean, that kind of stuff really bothers me. That's why I write these kinds of songs, you know. It gives some sense of awareness and awakening and hope to people. I love the planet. I love trees. I have this thing for trees and the colors and changing of leaves. I love it. And I respect those kind of things. What about sunrise? What about rain? What about all the things That you said we were to gain? What about flowering fields? Is there a time? What about all the things That you said was yours and mine? Did you ever stop to notice All the blood we've shed before? Did you ever stop to notice This crying Earth This weeping shore? A-aha-ah-ah-ah-ah-ahh aah aah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh ooh A-aha-ah-ah-ah-ah-ahh aah aah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh What have we done To the world? Look what we've done What about all the peace That you pledge your only son? What about flowering fields? Is there a time? What about all the dreams That you said was yours and mine? Did you ever Stop to notice All the children Dead from war? Did you ever stop to notice This crying Earth This weeping shore? A-aha-ah-ah-ah-ah-ahh aah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh ooh A-aha-ah-ah-ah-ah-ahh aah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh ooh I used to dream I used to glance beyond the stars Now I don't know where we are Although I know A-aha-ah-ah-ah-ah-ahh aah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh ooh A-aha-ah-ah-ah-ah-ahh aah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh ooh A-aha-ah-ah-ah-ah-ahh aah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh ooh A-aha-ah-ah-ah-ah-ahh aah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh ooh Hey What about yesterday? CHORUS: What about us? What about those lions? What about us? What about yesterday? What about us? What about those lions? What about us? What about everything? What about us? I can't even breathe What about us? What about everything? What about death? What about us? What about everything? What about us? Deep within our skin What about us? What about you and me? What about us? What about my fear? What about us? What about everything? What about us? I can hear them sigh What about us? What about everything? What about the man? What about us? What about everything? What about us? What about the man? What about us? What about everything? What about us? Deep within our skin What about us? What about all the trees? What about us? What about the dream? What about us? What about everything? What about death? Aaah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh ooh A-aha-ah-ah-ah-ah-ahh aah aah Ooh-hoo-oo-oo-oo-ooh ooh ooh The value would be greater, you let it rumble, let it stay open, let it close in silence. And when that door opens, you start that piano. Da-da da-da-da [PIANO PLAYING "EARTH SONG"] God bless you. MICHAEL [ON RECORDING]: I really feel that nature is trying so hard to compensate for man's mismanagement of the planet. Because the planet is sick. Like a fever. If we don't fix it now, it's at the point of no return. This is our last chance to fix this problem that we have, where it's like a runaway train and the time has come. This is it. I love you. That'll be the ending of this under the words. Oooh MICHAEL [ON RECORDING]: People are always saying, "They'll take care of it. The government'll... Don't worry. They'll..." "They" who? It starts with us. It's us. Or else it'll never be done. Guys, can I have the lighting crew? Travis? MAN: Yeah! First of all, Michael will be coming on from offstage, and he's got, like, an attach case. And right here, Michael, you call it here. So now it comes here. So it's a light that is moving on his command. Absolutely. Right? Then when he moves forward, he's in that light. Yeah. He's in that light. But I wanna be able to step into the pool once I'm fully dressed. So that... So after he does this... Why don't you do this, Michael? After you go like this and you send that down, a gesture and a pool of light comes on. Now a pool of light comes on down here, wherever his light is, MAN: Mm-hm. Yeah. And the pool of light comes on and now he'll walk into it, center stage. And now he'll start. ["BILLIE JEAN" PLAYING] She was more Like a beauty queen From a movie scene I said don't mind But what do you mean I am the one Who will dance on the floor In the round? She said I am the one Who will dance on the floor In the round She told me her name Was Billie Jean As she caused a scene Then every head turned with eyes That dreamed of being the one Who will dance on the floor In the round People always told me Be careful of what you do And don't go around Breaking young girls' hearts Hee And Mother always told me Be careful who you love And be careful of what you do Hey, hey, yeah Billie Jean is not my lover She's just a girl Who says that I am the one But the kid is not my son Whoo She says I am the one But the kid is not my son She was... Moving on and on all the time Cos we danced on the floor In the round So take my strong advice Just remember To always think twice Do think twice Whoo! She told my baby We'd danced till 3 Then she looked at me Then showed a photo My baby cried His eyes were like mine Gonna dance on the floor In the round People always told me Be careful what you do And don't go around Breaking young girls' hearts She came And stood right by me Then the smell Of sweet perfume This happened Much too soon Hey, hey, yeah Billie Jean is not my lover She's just a girl Who claims that I am the one But the kid is not my son He ain't that, no No, no, he ain't that, no Billie Jean is not my lover She's just a girl Who claims that I am the one But the kid is not my son She says I am the one Oh, baby But the kid is not my son Hee-hee-hee Hey! Whoo! She says I am the one She says I am the one But the kid is not my son He ain't that, no Whoo! Billie Jean is not my lover She's just a girl Who says that I am the one Oh, baby, baby But the kid is not my son No, no, no She says I am the one But the kid is not my son She says I am the one She says he is my son Breaking my heart now! She says I am the one Billie Jean is not my lover Billie Jean is not my lover Billie Jean is not my lover Billie Jean is not my lover Billie Jean is not my lover Billie Jean is not my lover Billie Jean is not my lover Whoo! Billie Jean is not my lover [DRUMS PLAYING] Ah-cha! Ah-cha! Ah-cha! [PEOPLE CHEERING] Whoo! MAN 1: Ho, ho, ho! [CHEERING AND WHISTLING] MAN 2: Oh! Oh! Billie Jean is not my lover [EXPLOSION] I know. At least we get a feel of it. God bless you. [CHEERING AND WHISTLING] Church. The church of rock and roll. BEARDEN: I'm a fan. God bless you. Get some water. Water, water ORTEGA: I just wanna say as Michael's creative partner in this venture, this has been one of the most extraordinary experiences of my creative life. I am so proud and so thrilled and so excited, and I just wanna thank everybody for their extraordinary work. And I'm gonna just give this to Michael now. Everybody's doing a great job. Let's continue and believe and have faith. Give me your all, your endurance, your patience, and your understanding. But it's an adventure, it's a great adventure. It's nothing to be nervous about. They just want wonderful experiences, they want escapism. We wanna take them places that they've never been before. We wanna show them talent like they've never seen before. So give your all. And I love you all. And we're a family. Just know that. We're a family. That's right. Amen. We're putting love back into the world to remind the world that love is important. Love is important. To love each other. We're all one. That's the message. And take care of the planet. We have four years to get it right or else it's irreversible, the damage we've done. So we have an important message to give. Okay? It's important. But I thank you for your cooperation so far. Thank you. Big thank you. Blessings! Blessings to all. ORTEGA: Michael Jackson! [CHEERING] Have a beautiful Sunday. Be safe. Stay healthy. Energy! ORTEGA: On three! On three, "Michael." One, two, three! ALL: Michael! ["MAN IN THE MIRROR" PLAYING] What I'd like to do right now is just run, for a sound check, "Man in the Mirror." Okay. And then we'll talk about the ending. MJ Air. Your favorite part. Right? They'd love that. You have to do it like MJ. No, no, no. PAYNE: You know you love that part. I love when you... No, no. That's how the stewardesses do it, I love when they do that. I love it. When I was in third grade, the first song I sang in school was "Man in the Mirror." So it's kind of cool, like, going from that to this, singing it onstage with Michael. So it's just an amazing experience to be onstage with him. He's such an amazing artist. And no message Could have been any clearer If you wanna make the world A better place Take a look at yourself And then make a change I'm starting with The man in the mirror Whoo I'm asking him To change his ways Whoo And no message Could have been any clearer If you wanna make the world A better place Take a look at yourself And then make that change I'm starting with The man in the mirror Oh, yeah I'm asking him To change his ways To change No message Could have been any clearer If you wanna make the world A better place Take a look at yourself And then make a change You gotta get it right While you got the time Cos when you close your heart You can't close your, your mind That man That man in the mirror, oh, yeah That man, that man That man, that man Make a change You know, you know, you know If you wanna make the world A better place Take a look at yourself And then make that change Whoo! Whoo! Whoo! Na-na-na, na-na-na Whoo! Whoo! Na-na-na, na-na-na Whoo! Whoo! Gonna feel real good Yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah Na-na-na, na-na-na Ooh Oh, no, no, no I'm gonna make a change It's gonna feel real good Change Just lift yourself, you know You gotta stop it Yourself Yeah! Make that change You gotta make that change Today Man in the mirror You gotta move it, you know You know You gotta stand up Stand up, stand up! Make that change Stand up and lift yourself now Man in the mirror You know it, you know it You know it Whoo! Stand up and make that change Change You know Man in the mirror Yea-a-a-ah Na-na, na-na Yeah! Na-na, na-na Make that change Man in the mirror Na-na, na-na Yeah Na-na, na-na Make that change Man in the mirror Na-na, na-na Make that change Make that change Make that change Make that change WOMAN: Ready? One, two, three, uh... ["THIS IS IT" PLAYING] MICHAEL: This is it Here I stand I'm the light of the world I feel grand Got this love I can feel And I know, yes, for sure, it is real And it feels as though I've seen Your face a thousand times And you said You really know me yourself And I know that you Have got addicted with your eyes But you say You're gonna live it for yourself Oh, I never heard A single word about you Falling in love wasn't my plan My plan I never thought That I would be your lover Come on, baby, just understand This is it I can say I'm the light of the world Run away We can feel This is real Every time I'm in love, yeah, I feel And I feel as though I've known you Since a thousand years And you tell me That you've seen my face before And you said to me You don't want me hanging round Many times Wanna do it, even before Oh, yeah I never heard A single word about you Falling in love wasn't my plan My plan I never thought That I would be your lover Come on, baby Just understand This is it This is it I can feel I'm the light of the world This is real Feel my song We can sing And I tell you I feel that way And I feel as though I've known you For a thousand years And you said You want some of this yourself And you said you wanted to go With me on a ride And I know That it's really cool myself Oh, yeah I never heard A single word about you Falling in love wasn't my plan My plan I never thought That I would be your lover Come on, please, dear, understand Understand I never heard A single word about you Falling in love wasn't my plan My plan I never thought That I would be your lover Come on, dear, please understand Understand Oh, yeah I'd never heard A single word about you Falling in love wasn't my plan My plan I never thought That I would be your lover Come on, please, dear ["HEAL THE WORLD" PLAYING] There's a place in your heart And I know that it is love And this place could be Much brighter than tomorrow And if you really try You'll find there's no need to cry In this place you'll feel There's no hurt or sorrow There are ways to get there If you care enough for the living Make a little space Make a better place Heal the world Make it a better place For you and for me And the entire human race There are people dying If you care enough for the living Make a better place For you and for me Heal the world Heal the world Make it a better place All of it For you and for me And the entire human race There are people dying If you care enough for the living Make a better place For you and for me You and for me Heal the world we live in You and for me Save it for our children You and for me Heal the world we live in You and for me Save it for our children You and for me Heal the world we live in You and for me CHILD: Save it for our children ["HUMAN NATURE" PLAYING] MICHAEL: If this town Is just an apple Let me take a bite If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? Does he do me that way? If they say Why? Why? Tell 'em that is human nature Why? Why? Does she do me that way? Why? Why? Why? Why does he do me that way? If they say Why? Why? Why? Why? Ooh Tell 'em Why? Why? I like livin' this way I like lovin' this way Oh, why, oh, why? Oh, why, oh, why? Looking out There should be a break there. BEARDEN: Yeah, we gotta work that out. Have it right there, okay? BEARDEN: Yeah, we gotta work that one out. Let me bathe in my own time when I come back in. BEARDEN: Yeah, you got it. I'm gonna button my shirt or my jacket or whatever it is. I'm gonna look around a little bit, play with them. [SNAPPING FINGERS] Snap my fingers maybe, then bam! ["HEAL THE WORLD" PLAYING] [CROWD CHEERING] [MICHAEL LAUGHS] Whoo!
