 

                        Give way Move aside Give way Move aside Focus! Focus on your work Pack fast Double up! Double up! Faster Quick I say Brother, you are being so gentle Are you writing some poetry? - Like to hear? - Before I say something You idiot. Pack fast Look according to you This might be a pantry car - But to me it's a paramilitary force - Yes sir! What was that? Who was it? Why this emotion? You just mentioned it's a paramilitary force Look! Playing around with words Pretending to work when you see the manager I don't want any more of these gimmicks Keep quite Alright Listen labours for the first time I am launching this In the field of catering service Is it lunch time already - What's this? - It's a radio - Will we get all the FM stations in this? - Don't provoke me Don't you know about walkie talkie? - No sir! With this device you can talk to each other easily - Can I talk to my grandma in the village? - I will slap you Hey why are you annoying him Rajapandi No 1 Vairam No 9 Is it's one free samples? You are taking 2, give back one Johnson No4 Poochiappan No 10 Look according to the list in this sheet distribute one each, Don't interchange - On how to use this walkie talkie - I know sir You just said you didn't know about walkie talkie Now I know - Still you don't know When the person on this side completes speaking and say OVER The person on that side should start talking Then what about this side Sir? - Should shut up! Hey just shut up Brother! You're going overboard No sir! Some of you have just joined I need to give you the pantry rules Rule no 1 - Under no circumstances should the complaint register reach the passengers Then rule no 2? Hey you tell them Be it tea or coffee, when the customers drinks it and says its like water It's tastes horrible and throws it out Wipe it off! No you should wipe it and smile Say thank you sir, thank you madam, bye bye If the passengers join together and ask us to bring that unscrupulous manager? Hand him over Hey you should just fled That's the main rule Under no circumstances should I be caught by the customers, You should protect me For that you can say any amount of lies and do whatever you feel like, Only for that Then we will spread the news that manager has swine flu Why not Chicken guinea or Dengue? No sir According to your face the alignment of your nose its appropriate we refer the swine flu You dint do anything intentionally right? No if I have some doubts will check with the captain Good God bless you - Get lost, Get lost get going Focus on the work Unable to judge He's an innocent boy Idli vadai ( South Indian snack) Pongal vadai ( South Indian snack) 1 pongal vadai and 2 idli vadai - Can you please confirm a berth for this? - Wait It doesn't matter how expensive it is, please have it confirmed It will cost Rupees 5 lakhs is it fine? Sir don't joke It's S2 right? Wait let Jhansi come will have it checked When will she come? Who do you think I am? Jhansi is the name of the next station Hey! Move Let's just have a look Behave your age Tea Masala tea Look you both are fighting You both stand aside You want to go past me as I go aside Why are you all gathered here? is the door locked What's the problem? It's a small problem, you'll blow it up, You leave! I thought I can hear one of your poetry Actress Srisha In the D coupe Srisha has come So we are contemplating who should go in? Is this the problem? Because an actress is here you all have assembled and discussing In the general compartment there's no one to take care of the service Aren't you ashamed? Go get to work It's Srisha right? I'll take care That's what we are fighting for, and you will just walk through Listen you are all juniors I am senior by age What senior? What will you do going there? If I go I will recite a poem, will quickly take a selfie and then will take you all And get a groupie If she hears your poetry she will commit suicide from the running train Can't I take a selfie Hello can't we take a selfie? It's a girls thing? Why do you get involved? Just leave it Are you kidding me? If I don't get a selfie with Srisha Captain calling Mic 9 where are you? Over In S5 There's a person in S5 Go check again There's no one in B2 as well What? Don't get angry Where are you? Where are you? I am in B2 There's a person in B2 He's lying Go check for yourself - What kind of pantry are you running? - Where the hell are you guys? Why are you guys so frivolous and standing idle in front of this door? Supervisor, you too? At least let this Poochiappan work Suddenly he's talking like a earnest man Not earnest I am innocent All of you stand like this in front of this place, The pantry will go bankrupt I though I got a sincere assistant I didn't realise that I got an assistant who is an informer as well Hey Old man! Why are you killing us? Whose old? ( arguments) Where are you? Over I can't hear sir. Over Rules needs to be followed. I need to go today Can you hear me? Can't hear. Over Can you hear me? Can't hear. Over I won't let anyone Can you hear? Now you will hear I won't let anyone Are you a supervisor or Spider-Man? You are stuck to it? What's all this? Welcome drink In A1 you haven't even given the welcome drink? Actress Srisha is here It's correct time to connect her Is Srisha some legend? If an actress is here will you all drop your jaws and just stare - Which Coupe? - D!! Hey Poochiappan who is in A2 come over to A1 immediately. Over! - One tea - Not Good! Sir I am busy serving a customer. If I come the work will be disrupted. Over If you don't come my life will be disrupted - Okay sir! on your feet sir! - In D coupe Srisha is there - Who is Srisha sir? Your relative? - Don't you know artist Srisha? - The one who draws? The actress Why are you all standing here. Get to work You take care of A1 coupe Sir I decide whom to allot the work for I get to decide who will be fired You moron! Only last week your grand daughter got married Then who is he? You are still here? Give the tray to him Give him the tea - You go see her all alone - Dear poet we will take care you can move You take care of yourself sir My aim in life is to romance and marry an actress It's drizzling Good omen Srisha's last movie "Why shield your head when you are fully drenched" Each and every details where... The dialogues! Awesome In that movie she's mute sir - You said you didn't know? Then, the service should be good No complaint should arise Also, you go to the kitchen and tell them Not to re use the oil they have used once And anything that you give press it and say that manager asked me to give it to you - But she should agree for it, isn't it? - Brother! I told only to press on the word Manager - Okay sir! You are so innocent - I grew up that way Sir Don't worry now you are with me Then Also from the way you talk about me to her She should call me and What? No sir I will sing your praises and take care of it I know you will do it You must understand my mood from my look I will do it Sir Madam. I am in the sleeper, if you need something call me You take care of madam Who is it? What do you want? - From pantry - No need Madam! I am your big fan Your previous movie "Why shield your head when you are fully drenched" is amazing You acted so well and you were so good I would have seen over 20 times in dvd and theaters 20 times? You didn't understand? You look very beautiful in person than on screen Can I take a selfie with you? I am Srisha's touch up( in Malayalam) I will take one without touching you I am Srisha's touch up girl, assistant - Who are you talking too? - The pantry person Pantry person. Let him in What's the breakfast menu Idli vada, pongal poori bread omelet Kellogg's with milk madam Take the order 1 pongal vada 1 poori vada Bread omelette Bread omelette For me this should do, You take the order from others on what they want - Is this enough? - I am on a diet Body fitness! It's important - So you don't want the soup at 11 o clock? - There's a soup? Yes there's a soup, some big fried dumplings, samosa Can I get a cutlet now? - For Maam - Not now, only by 4 pm you will get Cutlets too!! Do one thing Tell the pantry manager that Srisha loves cutlets and ask him to get it done specially Madam he's an old short tempered man Crazy man Who is he? Leave him! Old fellow You want cutlet right? Don't worry I will have it ready for you Special in fresh oil He's such a nice boy What's your name? - Poochi (Insects in Tamil) - Insects? Where? Madam, My name is Poochiappan It's a nice name You should get it fast Whatever you want Will bring it for you I'll keep calling frequently Saroja take his number Will you take it? Tell( in Malayalam) Tell ( in Tamil) you and and I are one - What? (Malayalam) - 66341 - Your number? - I will call But I need to answer right? I don't answer random calls - Note it! - Tell! 86891 - Name - Saroja - Roja R-A-J-A Why are you trying it as Raja? Is O missing? If a girl's number is saved on my phone the boys will fiddle with phone and try talking So cute - What? - The dog - Dog I meant this Feel like cuddling this one so cute You din't understand?? Oh dear, What is this, I am unable to understand anything, I am unable to understand what's happening to me I was just an illusion now transformed to a life Looking at you I have risen to the be the endless sky Oh dear, What is this, I am unable to understand anything, I am unable to understand Desires are the endless waves that draws one It's strikes one from within My head should rest on your shoulders My fingers should gently touch yours We should be engulfed by the flame of love This raw earth is set on fire Don't make it a rage This raw earth is set on fire Don't make it a rage Oh dear, What is this, I am unable to understand anything, I am unable to understand There's is beautiful drizzle The nature is changing its colour There's this new fragrance that's surrounding us The mood of love is shooting to the head The pain of it is rooted strong It's overpowering and showing a new meaning I don't feel like saying anything My life from now is just about you Feels like life is teaching me its lessons I surrender to you completely Even as the whole world comes to an end Just give me a glance Oh dear, What is this, I am unable to understand anything, I am unable to understand I was just an illusion now transformed to a life Looking at you I have risen to the be the endless sky Oh dear, What is this, I am unable to understand anything, I am unable to understand Sorry sir! I'm even willing to take you slipper lashes - Did you see her? - Yes! Did you tell her? I told old her exactly all that you told me Go ahead! Tell her more! The more you boost about me It will have an huge impact when the hero enters - Have you fueled the expectation - I have already fueled - Add more This is how you should be like an obedient boy - Anything special - She asked Sir - What? - Cutlet - What did you say That we make it fresh only by 11 and I told her promptly that we can't bring it as and when you want Who told you to say that? Sir according to the pantry rules we only make it by 11 o clock Rules are not for the rulers. Idiot - Master - Captain! - What are you doing? - I am making fritters - Change it to cutlets We can't simply change Captain - If I change you, it can be done right - In 5 minutes you will have the cutlet If it comes in 5 minutes it won't be cutlet it will be like garbage You better that time, sculpt it and make a fine piece of work How many? 3 Sir Is he having his coup in between One for my Srisha One more for her mother Sir And the other for my person sir What? Another person sir 3 cutlets Master, 2 round shaped 1 in the shape of a heart - Do you want a bow pierced in it? - That I will take care, Just do your work Dude. Did you see Srisha? How is she? Took a selfie? - Srisha. There's a girl with her - That plain Jane, petting that dog - Get lost - Of late you get very angry when I talk the truth - Yes go Ask Vairam to come Tell him I wanted to hear his poetry Dude. Will you hear it? Later There's a girl with Srisha Yes, that pale girl She is gorgeous and very beautiful From the time I saw her I have crossed several girls But she's got inside and she's - Playing drums? What's her name? Banu her name - Glori In S5 In S 5 I saw a girl Her name is Rejina - 27 - What did you was her name? - Saroja Age? 18 - 19 Poor girl Why? She's get married very young to someone else Hey! Why are you staring That's your luck! - Tell me aunty - You sister wants to commit suicide What? Pass the phone to her - Speak to your brother Selvi. Don't cry. What happened? This groom rejected me He himself looks like a monkey If he doesn't like me who else will like me? - I don't want to get married. I am going - You shouldn't speak like that No. It's my fate. In this birth I will not get married. Please leave me! Don't cry, I will give the phone to a person He will say that he likes you, After that just wait and see how soon your marriage will be fixed Is he an astrologer? No he's beyond that Wait a minute My Aunt's daughter, She's unmarried for years I can't get married Not that Just say that you like her She will get married immediately She's adamant that she will hang her self to death Put it on the speaker I'll put it on speaker Talk to him Hello! I like you Sister the groom's family have come back It's true They are here see! Brother I did not believe you when you told me Even I didn't expect this - You are a God to us You should definitely visit us Why? There are several girls here who are unmarried If he just comes once and says he likes them Their marriages will be fixed immediately I will definitely bring him Don't worry You shouldn't cry Your luck spell is unbelievable Even I didn't expect it to be so quick Just as you said After this trip just come once to my hometown Are you mocking me? Wait and see before we reach the destination I will make her fall for me Just as you speak about your fate look at the gloom That girl will get down in Thada Serious about her Even as I talk about other girls I know from within I am lying But as I think about this girl Something happens within but you are unable to find words to express Then it's definitely love I will help you How will you help? I will give you a poetry loaded with emotions Give it to her It will work Here Damsel Damsel -Again Damsel! Don't interrupt! Have I ever scolded your mother? Don't make me do it, Leave! Damsel damsel damsel If you repeat the same words is it a poem Take this and leave I think you are upset It's coming very well I will call and tell you Even I am having a uninterrupted flow get lost But even I didn't expect that my sister will get married so soon Thanks Definitely visit my hometown There's something very average that I have, you will like it Girl girl girl, - Get lost - You are insulting a great lyricist - What's this? - Heart - Will someone fall for this? This is a heart - Someone will fall for this? When I teaching you learn don't preach Tell her as you serve - What should I tell? - Say it's my heart I will say it's my heart If he says its his heart? Innocent boy Madam you sang a song for Anirudh in how many takes did you complete it? Each will go for 5-6 takes 5-6? I can sing each in a single take In that song there's a place in the second stanza where it goes in a lower note In the auto tune mode it will be tuned Even if you sing in a terrible voice it can be corrected I don't need auto tune I can sign myself - Are you Shreya Goshal Mother as madam is going for recording can she mention to Composer Anirudh that I can sign well Is it cutlet? Bring it Saroja hold this pet Cutlet Specially made for you Hello Pantry - What's this? - Cutlet - That I know Why for others it's round and for me in a heart shape There's just one heart can I give it to everyone, so gave it to you - Then this arrow? - How can you have a heart without an arrow I don't want this stunt of heart with an arrow This is the last warning Hereafter give everything in the same shape Are you all in the same shape? Do you know who am I? Side kick! I am a vessel you are an umbrella Next year in the same first class No I will be on the flight How can I see when you are flying, will you travel on the foot board? I will fly on the wings Saroja can't you hear me! come here! Poochi You? Instead of hanging like this you can.. You look like the legend actor Shivaji from the movie Manohara Why are you after Insects? He's now my student He has taken my heart in the form of a cutlet Seeing that Srisha - Srisha She will want to see the man You won't take to offense if I say something She's an actress and would have come across several handsome enterprising people Why will she fall for you - Jealousy - Every dog and ghost will like an actress Why, even the actress will like a dog Get lost! Hey poet come here Is there any poetry that will flatter her instantly Of course it will charm her immediately A lover's garden No need, It's sailing smooth you will make it a dump yard You won't get down without being slippered Poochiappan I was waiting for you Come inside Why is half the heart here? It's hers, told me to give it to you Srisha? Her mother - Told her my age If I send him this is bound to happen - Minimize it - Age? - Your conversations.. Get up and get to work Thanks If I ask him to tame the calf he's feeding the cow Efforts will yield results You are the messenger What I am saying is true Just shut up and do your work He's a military man and you have made him Cupid Just do your work Do it properly without spilling Sir, you draw the heart without dancing I have done it Nice What dear you are helping me I should be thanking you - Okay sir This time give it to the right person What should I say this time? Nothing is springing up instantly I have something springing up instantly - Tell - You won't take it to offense We don't need to consult with this crazy fellow What can we tell? You are in love - Yes I am - You feel something - Yes - Say that and give - That's what I am going to do - Excellent They are laughing without even knowing what we are talking about They are like that Crazy fellow! Crazy fellows! Before the heart melts take it This time strike the right target You will do it right this time Move it! He's in a hurry and saying such things Soup You have stirred it Stir it well and drink Then you will have the energy to scold Vairamuth Sir ( famous lyricist) please tell me I am In-between work There's a beautiful poem will you hear it for a minute Poet am on work Is it lyricist Vairamuthu? Is it lyricist Vairamuthu? Hello Poochi Yes he's my close friend What sir? Doubt? - Doubt! Sir, it's a lot of disturbance here, let me come out Dude, I will listen to whatever poetry you have In this shock I am unable to have my flow of thought Even if we book a room and listen, you are not going to have a flow of thought One minute friend In your lovely tress I will pick the flowers - What are you saying? - It's very cliched You can try something better What sir? This seems very stale One minute sir In your cascading tress I will catch fish In your cascading tress I will catch fish It has already come You are asking me to copy - Why are you being formal and thanking me - Will you listen to my poem How can I come up with another poem so soon You didn't even listen to it - I will call after I finish writing - What do you want? - You know Vairamuthu Sir? You think my conversation so long was all fake - No - Saved How do you know Vairamuthu Sir? Just like this, like how you are traveling 6 months before, he was traveling in the same coupe after receiving the national award I used to go frequently for his service Once when I went for service I saw he was stagnant with ideas What! I asked him what his problem was He said there was an interruption in his flow of thoughts - For Him! For me Then I told him 4 lines He instantly said that this is poetry and incorporated it Pantry sir! Wow That's our friendship Whenever he's stuck he will call Are you so close? Of late it's getting stuck frequently Unable to work properly For sir Even now, He said something like I will take flowers from your tress, Told him it's very stale Then told him will catch fish from your cascading tress Told me it's fresh Can I talk to Vairamuthu sir? You won't believe Not that He knows several music directors He can recommend me for a chance to sing You want to be a singer? Being a singer you want to..... You want to talk to Vairamuthu sir? - Sir - Damsel damsel damsel - No no I haven't thought of anything yet Why should you think? I have bottled up my thoughts He's already asking for the next set I think he is stuck and unable to move forward Vairamuthu sir. There's this girl I know Her name is Saroja Very close She wants to become a singer When will I become a poet? Vairamuthu sir, you know several legends who are music directors If you can help - It's a matter of life - You are pleading too much - You understand isn't it? - I can totally understand - That's it - Give the phone to her - Talk - Vairamuthu sir? Vairamuthu sir I am Saroja I have big dreams of becoming a singer Dreams, anyone can have dreams If I can get a chance Not because I am Poochi's friend For my talent if you can Captain calling. Over There's a call from Rehman, most probably I am need to go for a musical interaction Till tomorrow evening I will be with him Saroja do one thing, stay with Poochi Record a song and send it through what's app I will reach it to him Sir, you should definitely tell about me to Rehman Sir My dear Saroja I will do anything for Poochi, Because friendship is the salt of life Give the phone to Poochi Vairamuthu sir has a bit of Shivaji voice Vairamuthu sir, did you hear her, you are speaking in Shivaji actor's voice Will trash you with slippers don't mess it up I will hang up now Will send it out soon I just can't believe it Even I can't believe it I need to give soup to madam. Let me give her soup and be back in 10 minutes Should I sing a classical song or westerner But Rehman sir prefers Hindustani music, let me sing that This place is fine with you? It's okay Sing Stop! You can hear what you are singing - I can hear it well You can't? Some hearing problem? - Not yet Hey! You are going to fool me saying that I got deceived that you are a singer Why are you teasing me? I promise you that I am one of the best singers You promise that you are a singer No your voice was slightly not in tune and a bit rusty That's because of change if water in several shooting locations So the voice is slightly damaged Slightly In school everyone appreciated that my voice was like singer Chitra I have even won prizes My mother also compliments that my voice is like another eminent singer Shreya Ghosal Only today it's like this So it's because of your sore throat that your voice is like this - Promise - I believe you We need to send it to Vairamuthu sir by tomorrow You'll get down by 2 How can we tune the voice by then? Can you give me a bit of palm sugar and pepper with milk to heal my throat? Why a bit? You can have plenty If I drink that my voice will be clear, then I can sing Which Rehman sir will like, hearing that he will give me a chance Then I will become a famous singer Coming year every nook & corner will echo your song Everyone will die hearing your voice It will definitely happen I've been here for long, Maam will search Don't forget the milk You don't worry, I'll come with the milk during the lunch - with palm sugar and pepper - Sure I'll surely become a singer, right? You will surely become a singer You are a mix of Chitra and shreya goshal Your name is Chitra Goshal! Chitra Goshal! Every nook and corner echoes my song Every nightingale nods it's head to my song Will flutter with joy to the melody of this song The drums of celebration will fill the air They will create a stamp with my beautiful face My income tax will wipe out the debts of this nation Everybody all around Listens to my song Birds in the trees whistle it along Passing winds blow around To my beat flowers are bound Train no 11015 DC express is arriving at platform no The national award for best playback female singer for this year 2016 goes to Chitra Goshal Maam your autograph - I'll sign - What are you saying? What nonsense are you talking? Are you mad! Give way I simply hold the post of a central minister, It's of no value Thinking of resigning I'm okay if you are okay with it Hey, vendor boy leave - Who are you? - Vendor What are you doing? - What? Your Tamil? That's why you can't understand, ID! What's your name? - Poochiyappan - Louder Why are you shouting? You asked me to be loud This is a high security area, don't come here okay sir! Tamil pride? - Hmm Nandakumar - Sir! - Sir! Coffee, Cool drinks? - Give me a hot coffee Sir, Coffee during lunch time, I'm okay if you are okay - Yes mom, - Did you take your medicines - No, I forgot to - Forgot it? You are not supposed to skip it I'll take it! - Have it and take some rest - Then will you see my duty When can I take the medicine If you don't take it in time it's a problem for you Don't keep repeating it like a fool - You will go insane if not - Hang up now Cut it! I'm okay right? - Excuse me, may I come in? - you have already come in Sir, good morning sir I'm Pantry manager Chandrakanth - I'm not only manager - Ex Military The best pantry in Indian railways is ours And the reason is me is what everyone says Few of them I'll attend all the VVIP'S sir Because we can't believe these vendors Nice sir! I didn't order cold coffee Sir, coffee - When is this? - For safety Sir, my assistant - You can call me at any time - I will But not you, send that boy - Shall I? - shut and leave I meant the flask Thanks sir Go! Saw - I did! I didn't me that He's a true gentleman, he didn't want to bother another senior like me, so he sent me out You should broad, open and wide The growing generation should learn all this Don't rejoice that he called you instead of me- How else can I handle such situations? Srisha! It's correct time to connect Saroja, apply this on my legs Is that Srisha's legs - Who are you? - I'm the DTR, sorry Pantry manager Aunty, I didn't come for you Who did you come searching for? Stupid fellow. Are you senseless? Is this the way to behave with an artist Just shut up and get lost What are you waiting for? Go bring the DTR Instead you can hit me with the slipper I will complain about you Madam, he's not so prominent that you should give a complaint against him He's old Is this how an old man behaves? He's a crazy man Do you want to get out of this place or not? Call the DTR You please excuse him for my sake For your sake I will pardon him Please ask sorry Madam sorry When I spit at you, You come up, with a thank you Why did you open it? Sir you told me what ever I do, I should be wide and open about it I meant the heart and words In your eyes I saw the burning sexual desire Sexual desire? My serene look appeared like sexual desire None should know what happened here You are here Are you a Malayali? - Yes Yes where are you from? Sheranur I am Trivandrum - Who are you with? This actress Srisha, I am her assistant Would you like to take a picture with her? No What's your name? - Chitra Ghosal Even I want you to be Chitra Ghosal If you keep mindlessly chattering like this your voice will turn sore Just spoke to Vairamuthu sir, he has told Rehman sir Milk is ready, get ready I will give food to Mom and come What are you? - You want vegetarian or non-vegetarian meals - Understand( in Malayalam) - Samosa will be available after 4 o clock You can't get it now! Good afternoon Sir If no one respects him Has he cut it! Don't call again They have decided not to listen to anything that we say If we ask further they will it's being handled in the Capital Why the hell.. Please stay outside for sometime Politics should be like this boy When there was a small stain he immediately cleaned it Look at you all You think you can easily lure a girl from Kerala Why are you splitting people as those from Kerala, Tamil Nadu We are all brothers and sisters So she's your sister - Her mother is my sister Is she your fianc If she comes I can make her happy I said Tamil Nadu is a state that has always welcomed people and made them prosperous She in D coupe it's actress Srisha She's from Kerala, but we have given her stardom and made her successful Why from yesteryear actress Revathy to most recent Lakshmi Menon we have given them a chance and made them stars Like this there are several opportunities several lives We just introduce them and keep moving Our people have talent Your people don't have it That's why you plead with us and take them Don't say that sir Our girls are born artist Ask our boys they will tell you how well they can act It's just that they are not interested in cinema Otherwise we are also stars Your minister is an eminent person isn't it? For his protection the chief commander is Mr Nanadakumar, a Malayali We are also big Have you seen the movie Thalapathi? For megastar Mamooty it's superstar Rajnikanth who protects him Hey! Rajnikanth is from our Maharashtra - If you talk like this in Tamil Nadu you will be trashed It's fine, put this aside, all Indians are eminent Let's be friends Evening I will send out extra cutlets I will take a selfie with this gun What's this? I just touched it - Touched it? For you to touch and see is this your garbage can? This is my job Disrespectful idiot For this I became a SI, became a commando and attending training and camps - Sir! - Bloody dog! You and your face Your face and appearance annoys me - I just don't like you - Why? - Is there a reason why the snake dislikes the porcupine? Similarly, I just don't like you You are like a garbage Waste Human waste Sir. No need It hurts I am just a deprived person making a living here What have I done to you? If I have erred excuse me It angers me Looking at your face angers me Don't come this side for service Ask your manager to come Can you serve this soup? No sir they told me not to do it? From the Capital, they have told you not to serve me even some soup Who told you? Sir told me not serve you and that the pantry manager should only serve you Who is that Sir? - He's standing outside Call that sir Sir is calling you You come and sit here, I will hold this in my hand and stand outside Can't I even say who should serve me soup? I have told that the pantry manager should not come here and only this boy should come You are instructing the other way You have some plans to poison my food and kill me Isn't it suspicious? - Yes sir You don't have to worry sir I have tasted it before sending it to you You want me to eat the remain of what you have eaten? Is it the arrogance of a Malayali? I didn't mean it Sir, - The minister gets to eat meat and different delicacies You have decided to have a scrumptious meal I didn't say it from that angle - Then say it from this angle Say something Your face disgust me It annoys me Where do they pick them from? He looks like an accused Get out Don't stare at that boy Leave Of late even the watchman does not respect us Please give us 10 minutes Are you trying to frame me? No sir Words are like seeds, If we sow good ones we reap good, If we sow evil we will But I didn't expect you to reap it so soon I am ready Sir, if we like everyone Everyone will like us Come lets go See, they like it Why waste time here Hey during training time in our batch 2 people went missing Actually they didn't go missing What did he say? - I didn't understand - Let's close the door -You want another cup of milk -No need - My throat has cleared up now Now hear me What's that noise? Hiccups - For you? - No for that old man It stopped... - It's coming up well - Of course Hey! There are several old people here Let's not send everyone together, let's do it one at a time Sir, No 10 calling You want me to come there immediately. Urgent? I am coming Oh no! We need to record it and send it via what's app, My voice is at its best now Until 4 pm till I come back for snack, you shouldn't sing, Promise me! Just once Promise me Will leave now That rotten guy will talk like that Why are you getting upset I was working sincerely I don't even how to use this device Because I didn't answer this , he verbally abused me I don't even know how to use this device He made derogatory comments even against my parents He asked to quit the job and leave Don't cry - Of late he's going overboard Let's make him go mad Give the correct change - That's it No 10 calling Sir Tell me - In H A1 Minister wants a Veg Salad In A2 and A3 passengers are complaining that the service is not good Not just A2 and A3,from every compartment I have received complaints None of the sales boys are going around If I spot any of you, I will definitely hack you to death Then there's a link between you and that murder case What murder case? Who is this? Who was involved in that case this is DSP Dheenadhalayan DSP Dheendhalayan This is pantry manager Chandrakanth You can be a pantry moron but why did you get involved in the murder case Murder? Staff, track this call and immediately arrest him okay Sir Sir this is staff 10 calling Sir what's this I heard something like arrest, DSP, Dheenadhalayan Even you heard that? Even I heard that What's that? I think it's a cross connection Sir we have tracked the call The vehicle is moving from Jhansi to Nagpur The accused name is Chandrakanth Chandrakanth? Sir I am a person who sells tamarind rice and vadai and innocent Then arrest him immediately and start the highest form of punishment Yes sir! You are not even listening to me Please leave me This is Wasim Akram speaking You are a former cricketer, how come you are talking to us? Not Wasim Akram, it's Wasim Khan, the guy who comes in all patriotic movies! Yes! This is Wasim Khan speaking Khan? Which Khan? - In this train place the RDX and time bomb If that Chandrakanth does not agree to it Then point the pistol onto his head and shoot him Why are you using me? Sir Mic 9 calling Sir what's all this RDX bomb? Yes! They are talking like that Some Wasim Khan is planning to keep a bomb in this train Why are you so scared? Scared Why should I be? I am Captain Chandrakanth These guys will keep a bomb? They think I have lost my sensibilities I will handle the bomb myself - So you have planning to keep a bomb as well? Murder case additionally a bomb case - 407 - Yes Sir - Give orders to shoot him at sight Also inform the media about this Dheenadhalayan Sir, I swear on my mother, I won't plant a bomb If you don't listen to what I am saying, I will puncture you with my bullets He says if he does not listen to him He will shoot bullets all over his body and make it like a perforated ladle . I am employing 10 boys and I keen bullying them and get the task done Blade Shankar sir, the song that we need Blade Shankar? - This is radio station Suryan FM? I want that classic song from the 1950's which is a masterpiece I am not Blade Shankar - Then are you the other RJ? Love guru? There's a problem between me and my girl friend You should resolve it You what me to come in between and be a pimp? You are a pimp too? So it's murder, bomb blast and brothel trade that you are involved in? Inspector, I doubt him to be in touch with Dawood Not Dawood, Wasim khan - You are part of my team - Done - Be ready to Sacrifice yourself - Ready! He has gone insane Are you torturing me for scolding you? What did I ask for? - Veg rice, sir - Vegetable salad No, you asked for veg rice Am I lying then? You saw me having my lunch, right? Why serve me food, Do I look like a food junkie? - What did I order? - Veg Salad, sir If you've mistaken apologise, don't justify If you can't follow orders, why work - Sir! - What? Don't stare! - You are here to serve me, right? - The government sir - Government? - Tell him to leave - Leave! Get out! I was fooling him as Wasim khan in the beginning Then when I talked as DSP Deenadhayalan he went crazy Next time add me in, Now shall I sing? What are you laughing? Tell me! - Sir, give respect - Hell with the respect Are you mad! Kicking that out Why are you pointing your hand and talking You Why are you talking so harsh? - What does he mean? - What? - Damn! - No, Poochi Sir, leave Leave him Poochi - Please sir - He's calling, come I'm coming sir I'll kill you Nandakumar, come here Coming sir I'm scared Poochi Why worry, what will he do? Does it hurt? He'll have to answer for this Okay, you go He hit her I let him go as it happened in a train Don't get in trouble for a girl After Thada you both are strangers Who said so? Train No.11015 DC Express Loco pilot Mr. Devaraj Is getting retired his 20 years of service is invaluable, She is the one for me - You truly love her? - Does it look like I'm playing around? Friends, Devaraj sir is retiring today Indian Railways wishes LP Devaraj a happy retired life Her voice was intolerable before now I miss it much I too can't take this anymore I'm gonna bash you One thing, your girl is in a way my sister - How? - No one understands our talent Firstly, Do you know it? Not knowing your status Why the hell do you fall in love? He is talking about status - For this sad mood I can recite a poem - Shut up! - Why is your voice down, are you emotional? Emotions? Been running around with this train for the past 35 years That's why, but hereafter I can be along with you all - Daddy, have you started? - Dear, are you not asleep yet? - how did the function go? - What? You want me to work, my money, But not my mother - Can we live peacefully with your mother? - Then go back to your mother Why should I go? You won't go there, or tolerate it here You are like a serpent around my neck If you don't decide I'll die Do what you say? - I'll die with your son - Die! Killing me! Daddy, did you take your medication? I forgot it - It's already late, you have... - Don't scold me, I'm switching off my phone as I'm starting my duty Bye dear Train No. 11015 guard Signal cleared on - Proceed - Okay Fall in love only then will you know this feel Failed? Now you feel the pain of love? If you disrespect others love, your love will be devastated - Were you in love? - Then? Don't make me curse you - Sorry sir - It's Okay I was listening to you You were sincere, Don't worry I'll pray for your love Are you happy now? - Thank you sir - One second I can see where I stand Srisha is not the girl for me At least, Her mother.... - her mother - please help me get her - You can do it! - I can Can you? Why can't I? Help me out, then.. What happened? Not right away I can't now What are you searching for? Please save me! Please save me! - Bloody scoundrel! - What happened? - He needs Srisha's mom - he is a fool Then bring a rope We'll wrap him to a asylum He was calm when I tried for Srisha Why is he furious when I am trying for her mother Would he? No, that wont be... Bloody pig Is he behaving his age? Catch him! Catch him Leave me! Leave me! Idiots! who is that playing around, Manager will get tensed if he gets to know Manager is reason for all this - Shut up and sleep - Palli, help me! - Shut up and sleep Are you still here, if I see you by this Pantry I'll leave! I'll Leave! - I took it - I can tell you haven't taken it yet I'll take it, Cut the call now Making me go mad - Attention - Caution It's a double yellow and I'm signaling attention What's with you? Better tell your mother, She is talking too much What have you decided? You are acting weird today? Sorry sir, Family problem Family? There are many families traveling trusting us Don't you know to switch off your phone when in duty? - Sorry, I'll switch it off - I will Does it hurt? Oh no! Please! What? Madam wanted to know what can we served hot? Hot? I'm the only one hot Ask if she would take me? - Where are you going? - To ask His training... - Where is Poochi(In Malayalam) - Insect fritters? Come by 10 AM, I'll gather the fritters with dead insects on it Is she Chinese - No! - Poochiyappan - Poochi He's there Don't tell I'm here Is her mom... No, you leave! Don't go tell this to him I can't keep my mouth shut - Sir! - What? What did the girl ask? She asked when I'm going to kill you all What did you say? I said I was planning eliminate you all with this train? Poochi, he is here You are so scared! Fear I'll finish you What are you doing here at this time? Not sleeping I can't sleep - Are you scared of what he said? - Not that Then? - to sing? - No I wanted to see you, that why I'm very happy Now, I'll leave You said you are happy Why sing already? I can sing only when I get to the mood - Mood!! - To sing - What? - There are few elderly people here So? They might be asleep, we might disturb them We would have to go to the train roof then Super idea! It is better for us to go up before others do Let's go up - are you joking? How can we get to the roof of a running train? - Won't you believe me Is it without trust that I'm sitting next to you at this hour Then get up I'll kill you Nandakumar, What happened? Did you take your medication? I'll kill you! Poochi, let's leave No! let's leave! No need poochi - How much is you Tea can? - Tea can? It would be 800 to 900 rupees Give it! Then why did you give Don't play, my... Give back my gun Gun! That's your Job, right? It's gone Don't act, It might get me in trouble It's fully loaded Loaded means it is filled with bullets If anyone uses it to kill some one You are in trouble, right? Poochi, please give back the gun If you cannot what's your job, then why the hell are you in this job If they ask such questions to me for loosing the tea can, then what will be your state - Give it! - What did you say then? You would shoot both of us What did he say? I'll kill you You hit my girl - I was wrong then, give it back - Apologize - Sorry sir - To the madam Ask! Turly, from deep within, with a gentle smile say it - What? - Ask Sorry What are you doing? asking sorry as you said Did you see how he asked? I can't tolerate seeing this guys face You too don't like him No one seems to like you Shall we not give back the gun - Let's see - Chitra Goshal please - Where have you kept the gun? Who knows? We both are Malayalees Please help me out with him being a malayalee There is only Good and bad in humans There is no Malayalee, Tamils You are a bad guy Poochi lets leave - I understood the part where you said good man, what's the other It means someone who lies, cheats, in brief a fraud Please give back the gun I beg you Your begging too much I'll give it Come get it after an hour I'll give it once my girl gets down at Thada, what if you act up after getting the gun Poochi! Please! Hey we are telling you, don't you understand? Please give me the gun Don't trouble us We are going up for recording If someone comes come up and tell us Poochi if Mother comes? What if she comes? Just say madam has gone to the pantry It will look like you are a pimp But don't interpret it that way - What about the dog? - He's free. You can give it to him Watch it with great caution. Not like your gun What? Not tamed yet? Wait and watch Before I become a singer I think you will kill me If you become a singer you will kill everyone Nothing come - Ponchi hold my hand - Don't be scared. Give me your hand You are starting with such a high pitch My friend sang in such a pitch We all pitched in arranged his funeral - Don't tease - You sing Who said love is blind? The truth is Love is deaf What's this? Where did you go? Why are you coming down from there? No with Poochi Romancing him? Hey Poochi Is this why you were hanging around this place? You will poison the morning tea, What were you doing up? I wanted to sing and show him Did you show him everything? I just wanted to sing and record it Recording? I wanted to be a singer You think you will be a legendary singer like S Janaki Call the security Won't you caution that cows are there on the left side You will, only watch the right side. Won't you look towards the left? We both travel on the same engine You are blaming me for your accident Are you intoxicated? During work you are drunk Not working properly, not exercising caution and no proper signal - Irresponsible idiot - Talk with respect He's here Sir you called? Thank you Sir You are sleeping unaware of what's happening around. How will you safeguard my life? - Hey! Why are you hitting a girl? - You keep quite Saying he will take you to Vairamuthu, what did he do to you? What did you do to her? She's an innocent girl He lied that he knows Vairamuthu - It's not a lie It's true I spoke to him over the phone Spoke to him? Alright then I will also talk to him Then you call now Why are you hesitant Poochi. Call now I spoke to him in the night. After the recording he must be resting It's alright We will apologise to him Only if they talk to him, will these insensitive people understand Dial his number Call him What happened? Leave! What's the problem? Hello Vairamuthu sir This is Poochi - This is Vairamuthu I understand that you are with that girl Did that girl sing Should I talk to her? Rehman is here. He is very eager to listen to Saroja's voice Record it soon and send it via what's app Poochi Is everything going well as we discussed? Why are you hesitant? Give the phone to Saroja. I will talk Vairamuthu sir, Saroja is here See the Vairamuthu You're Vairamuthu! - I'm Vairam Look here poet Vairamuthu. His close friend If you are with, you will land on the streets with a kid Do you know what a great poet Vairamuthu is? You don't even have the privilege of saying his name If you are roaming around with these idiots Your family is still moaning the demise of your father Fall at her feet and plead with her to take you back What do you think about your voice? You are fascinating on some worthless prize you won in 8th grade, The truth is you bray like a donkey You better fall at mother's feet and plead to get back to work Else you get lost with him If not for these two options go kill yourself Let your family land on the street I trusted you Why did you cheat me? Why? - Yes I cheated Why? Because I love you For that not just you, I will cheat the whole world I want to be with you That's it When I say I want to be with you It's not like what your uncle says, Till the end, till death I want to be with you You want to be with me till death You have The one who comes to kill me can come with a free hand Anyway you have a gun In a way that's good Only then it will be reported as Minister shot dead by Naxalites Is there some previous unresolved tension between Minister & Naxalites? Is his useless Personal assistant responsible? Is this the reason? Is that the reason? All the television channels will be screaming about the minister At Least this way our respect will grow What do you say? - Yes sir So you really think I should be shot dead? If it's fine for you I am also fine with it Sir I am extremely sorry Some tension - Tension? Go to some scenic place and take rest I will recommend them to suspend you Please sir Pardon me If I excuse you further you will arrange for my funeral I should take appropriate action and remove you from the job according to Government rules Go work for the government Don't play with politicians Get lost I just hate your face So you suggest we don't give him the gun Poochi I beg you It will look like you are a pimp Don't you know how to signal? - Without knowing how will I be on the job? Be careful! He's on the search for you Your gun isn't it? Let my girl get down in Tada then I will give it You got it isn't it? My love is going to die Let's resolve our problem later Her death is in my hands It will make you feel like a pimp Am I a pimp for you both You rot here Let me kill her and then come and call you Hearing that you die If something happens to her I will kill you He's a good man and I am a scoundrel You want me to show how a scoundrel will behave What are you trying to do? Sir it's fine spare him - How can I? He is so disrespectful He should be removed from the job They are sending him home as he is useless ALP, please stop it! He's blaming me for his mistake Bloody Is this how you speak to a senior Mind your words This is my last drive I wanted to complete my journey honestly If he gets in the train I won't start You know the rules right? To move and stop the train the guard has the powers you know those rules don't you? You know that rules I'll take him into my gurad van, will change the ALP at Gudur Please movie the train - Check the brake connectivity - Sure sir I know where I should be, you don't have to You go do your work - I know what I should do Come on I'm your son, not your slave Go check the break activity You are trying to dominate me I'm going I am talking in a composed manner You are using unparliamentary language You think I am an old man like him who will be a mute spectator If you are young, you will assault me? Hello Sir I am the guard from 11015 The train is going without the guard and assistant Ask them to stop the train immediately They are sending him home as he is useless LP 11015 come online Can you hear me? SM Gudur calling, pick the line LP 11015 ALP Guard missing ALP and guard are missing Pick the line Open the door What happened? It's about time, The station is approaching They seem to be running very fast Any problem! Hey! Don't you feel the train is going over the normal speed I am asking you - Don't feel, it really is going very fast Take out everything Don't try pulling the chain Remove the jewellery Remove the jewellery Remove it all Laptops... Move away Shut up! If you shout out I'll kill the kid Shut up! Give the bag I pulled the chain The train didn't stop Train number 11015 DC express out of control They are not stopping? You haven't put the signal for that train Not yet sir DC 11015 out of control they didn't stop at Odur - Didn't stop? - Start indicting it's danger Turn the signal to danger Vehicle did not stop here too - It didn't stop there too! Hello, can you hear me Can you hear me? Hello Sir DC express has not stopped at Gudur or Odur What happened? How can you not panic? Why should we panic? Only those inside the train should panic In times like this we should work with clarity All stations please note train no 11015 DC express running out of control Regulate all the standing trains to loop line Check the points on the main line and give passage to DC express Did the guard or LP communicate? The guard spoke to the Gudur station master What did he say? That morning the train hit a heard of cows near Gudur station That time there was a tiff between the LP and ALP From then the ALP & Guard were missing The LP is not taking calls Inform the department and disrupt the power supply and stop the train - It's a diesel loco Then it should have a vigilance control device For every 60 seconds if there is no horn or no operations the train will stop automatically It's not a modified loco Listen from Gudur to Central shut down all the manned level cross For the un manned level crossing send an alter Also inform all the centres police station, fire station We need to essentially keep this away from the media Such a big train issue? Without media glare? - Of course A person like you is a DRO The TT is on the phone What's happening? Before Gudur there was an accident We received that information Did you contact LP Devaraj? We are trying to call him He's not answering Did you try to pull the emergency chain? We tried pulling the chain Then what is the problem? I think after the accident where they hit the cows They probably didn't check the break connectivity After the accident if the LP and ALP had checked the pressure gauge Then when you pull the chain the train should stop I agree with all that you are saying What should we do now? The speed here is abnormal The passengers are in a shock You ensure that the passengers don't panic and comfort them Sir we feel scared Don't be scared we will take care If you have any information let us know Confirmed sir Sure Sir the berth is confirmed What? - Berth confirmed? I am talking Your higher authorities are dragging you too much It is dragging It will be confirmed before we reach Chennai It will be confirmed before we go Departing is confirmed What? - I said before reaching Chennai it will be confirmed Please speed up Speed up! It will do it involuntarily When a cow hits, it's horns would have damaged the valves They would have departed without checking That's were the error is! So you say the story is nailed up Of course, They didn't check the break connectivity Without it the break is not functioning and hence unable to stop What you say is acceptable for a driverless train In this there is a LP and a safety valve close to it If the pressure is released the train will stop automatically He is not doing it Something is happening there We'll inform GM They are just talking, would the stop the train Government works they would discuss a lot and finalise it Be serious There is an RPF team inside the train, It's better we get to the roof Nowadays there is no security for the common man, If such thing happens to the police then whats the state of the ordinary citizen Maya can you hear us? We are now in TADA railway station Awhile ago the DC express that was scheduled to stop here did not do so Further they have shot a RPF and he was thrown out of the moving train This place is in a state of tension It's very important to note that the Minister for Renewable energy MR Rangarajan is traveling in this train It's speculated that the terrorist have planned this attack to kidnap him We have no answers on the number of people traveling on this train and what's their present state If we have further news we will The minister kidnapped on DC express MR Rangarajan is from a small town called Chinnamangalam near Bhuvangiri Inspire of hailing from a remote village which had no proper educational institutions, He walked 12 Kms everyday to complete his education In his youth he participated against the Hindi movement in the rail protest Apart from that - I thought they would bring up the Padma scandal Hey there's a girl near the engine, zoom on her Headlines for today The DC express from Delhi to Chennai is under the captivity of a woman terrorist There are 6 terrorists seated on top of the moving train, we have no idea how many more are there inside If you look at the terrorist activities, it's an ongoing process What's the root cause for this? Can this be averted or not? To debate on this we have with us today some eminent people in our studio First it's MR Sadasivam, party propaganda executive of SDK political party Mr Pugalmannan, regional leader, DJK political, party MR Tamilselvan, opposition party Doctor Edward physiatrist and social reformist My first question, I would like to start with you Doctor This train is under the siege of a woman terrorist If a woman can handle such a task, what will be her state of mind As a physiatrist what's your view, please tell us Looking at the television footage, she appears to mentally very disturbed The position in which she is seated, The panic with which she is holding the railings The tension on her face, personifies that she needs some security According to me she does not look like a terrorist She appears to be mentally disturbed Will terrorist come formally dressed in suits? Such woman terrorist will come from Mr Pugalmannan, please wait for your allotted time Please voice your views then The entire nation is watching us You please tell us Doctor - From the series of incidents the girl does not look like a terrorist It appears that she is a mentally disturbed person When the everyone believe that the girl is a terrorist The doctor has brought out a new dimension saying she isn't and is mentally unstable Hey they are saying that the touch up girl is a terrorist We are inside and we know it How will those outside know Does Poochi know this? - Call him quickly? It's ringing It's ringing? Show it! Is he already in search for her I am just entering the headquarters I will update you after talking to the DRM I'm Sultan, DIG railway protection force I think you are well aware of the situation I want the entire details of the DC Express I want the passenger name list Most importantly the details of the LP and ALP Make it fast We can get it sir Jack, we need to stop the train today - We can stop it Sir Sir! How come they are here? This is a control room for namesake, they will have the control from now Save our Central minister The train is coming at a speed of 120 Kms Are you playing around? We are not auto drivers We are politicians Get our minister out First let's stop the train and then handle the rest Listen to us, Else go to a different track and raise your slogans You are telling us about changing tracks! You know how many tracks we change before a Government ends We will run in one track and skip across another track in the same speed we will Jump another track If we get caught in that we will also run Shut up Sir the train is approaching at reckless speed What reckless speed? We are restless and inconsolable that we have lost our leader I challenge the train to try and go past me Don't take it Only after our leader steps out of that train The train is now handled by a terrorist and not the driver who will understand your sentiments That's just a terrorist our leader is a curse to the society I meant a crusader for the society Give us our leader! Give us our leader! If we hit they will be squashed How come no one around? It's your growing popularity We can't eradicate such diseases from the country When we get a chance we should just clean it We should at least call for the Ambulance No need sir. After it's over the corporation authorities will wipe out this garbage Sir the train is approaching Clear everyone The trains approaching? Any driver usually horns when there is a crowd He is silently approaching He's intimated by your presence that's why he isn't using the horn Boss it appears to be very fast It's coming You are exiting without telling who your political hier is Your party Central minister Rangarajan is travelling on this train It's because of him that they are holding this train as hostage What's your view and what's your party's stand on this? I should thank the terrorist 40 years of political career gained visibility through this day For your kind heart you should have kidnapped you 40 years ago See Rangarajan is not such an eminent person I was just gaining popularity They are sending him through a train and not a flight so you can understand Do you know who he is? Do you know about his simplicity? That's why he still takes the train They don't give me flight tickets When the news of his kidnap came out, the entire nation is burning Even the Prime Minister expressed his condolences I meant expressed his strong dissent If you let jokers speak As the central minister is traveling there should be 2 commandos traveling with him Contact them Is there any other source to stop this train? There is no way If this is a train carrying just consignments we can stack sand bags and try and stop the train Else we set a skid and derail it from the track Failing which we set it such that it clashes buffer to buffer and derail it But we have several passengers inside It can result in a huge accident and we cannot take such a big risk Sir Central Minister's security Sir I am DIG Sultan, here The mister is safe? The Minster is safe, no problem Sir I just got a call from NSG Head quarters Call from head quarters? What did they say? Contact him. connect me with him What? NSG Commandos have assembled near Gumudipondi Sir I think to save the minister, they have some incorrect plan Sir there are 742 passengers on this train One wrong move Everyone's life is in jeopardy Got it Sir I will wait for the next move I trusted you Why did you cheat me I thought you would have escaped long ago She's in the engine Is she really a terrorist? I am not saying it, everyone outside says so You know what's the burning headlines? That she has hijacked this train and its in her control Just one unfulfilled wish Wanted to kill her with my hands It's fine My department will handle that That gives me immense joy Our snipers out there Have the latest riffle M110 Just one trigger and 50 bullets will strike out She will be scattered as blood and flesh Just like minced meat I'll let you free then Then go and gather her There you can continue your romance and laugh to your heart's content Get lost I am extremely annoyed I will hack you to death What? You didn't hear it Son of a You didn't understand I called you the son of a In a rush don't try and come in If you are here you will die Oh no! Why are you guys shooting me? Catch him! He is falling down Why have you come here now? All this is because of you Lie low! I am never gonna sing for you again, Lie down How can you talk like this in this situation? Damn! They are gonna shoot Shoot... Shoot me You can hear me in this catch it! Pick it up! You are hitting me Talk back, Can you hear me? They are gonna shoot you Sir, Please don't shoot You fine, right? Pick up the walkie talkie Pick it up! Be careful! You fine? You? I'm fine Why are they shooting me? They think you are a terrorist Me a terrorist! Are they fools! They too are fools The snipers didn't shoot at the terrorists They aimed at the Safety brake switch at the right hand corner of the diesel loco If they had hit it The safety valve would have opened And the diesel would have drained and we could have stopped the train It would have been easier for us to start the negotiation, that was our plan Our snipers are one of the best, they can take down the terrorist in a single shot They why dint they shoot at the brake switch Try to understand It was a fast moving train The target was very small And with that girl running around It was a big disturbance They would shoot at the diesel tank, drain it out and stop the train If all are gone! This is the conspiracy of the opposition party Let something happen to the minister It is not the opposition party, It is the NSG That's your party right National Security Guard Educate him! Leave it! He doesn't know much Ask them if they would come for an alliance Is there any treatment for these guys Are they dead? What happened? Are they not dead? The boy and girl on the roof top They are not dead? - Those 2 terrorist are not dead? - Which terrorist? Sir, Poochiyappan He is no vendor he is a trained terrorist He is anti-national, He will kill us all Before that we must kill him! Please take care of him Come on, let's go to the pantry Shall we go on the roof and attack the terrorist Let's first enquire in the pantry and then decide on it If you don't, I'll kill him Give 2 biscuit packets Take it dear - how much? - Don't need any money That's not needed leave! Are you gifting it to them? We don't know if we would reach home alive and you want to make money now One thing, You kept your word What? - You hijacked the train - who - you Don't say such a thing even as a joke Poochiyappan is your assistant and every channel is saying him to be the main terrorist His lover that girl has taken control of the train You are the captain You are running an organisation What do you mean terrorist camp? Would they jail our sir and the heroine Even the heroine? They arrested all the heroine in Dawoods link, right? Similarly, the heroines in your link too You sent you heart in that cutlet right? Is that your code word? Code word sir? - Is it a mistake to give a cutlet? - Yes it is They murdered a leader a long back Those who aided the killer by buying him tea, let him park his cycle, buying him a battery They are in prison for 20 years If they are in such a mess You are going to dump a whole train What all would they do to you? He would die in there They won't keep him for that long They would hang him on a birthday this year Whose birthday? Your birthday Don't scare me This is to get you prepared for all that They would arrest us all in a while They will shred you to pieces with investigation, enquiry, etc.. We are bachelors can sit with our inner's anywhere It's horrible to think of you You never have a habit of wearing any inner's When they make you lie on the ice and bash you They would tear you apart Stop it! The terrorist in him is peeking out He was just acting around all these days Who is a comedian? I am a genuine terrorist I am the south Indian chief to all these World terrorist groups You are scared right? Are you trying to scare me Do you think it was mere groceries that got loaded in Nagpur It is all bombs I've fixed it in the train In half an hour it will blow up to a radius of 2 kms If you escape from that I'll shoot you down with a AK-57 This was why you all stood up.. You could have informed me Guards search him!! One minute, I'll pass it sir They are live from Unmai TV - Hello - Greetings minister sir The Minister from DC Express in live with us You called me and who are you speaking to? How was the experience when the terrorists kidnapped you? They are asking about the kidnapping like a love experience It is nice! Did any of the terrorists come meet you? Was there any secret requests? If there were any please do tell it The audience will enjoy it No one met me and there was no messages too - No one? - Yes Then you tell something for the terrorists Gopal, would the terrorists listen to me? - Surely not! - You know I want to clarify one thing to the terrorist In my 40 years of political life, my people are everything There are 700-800 people traveling in this train Keep me as a bait But not a single person in this train should get hurt Instead take my life Do you mean it? You heard it! Do you need anything more for our ministers courage Courage? Our Rangaranjan, Please! He was invited to speak at a meeting in Gobichettipalayam Someone shouted he would be stoned if he speaks Just a stone, not a bomb Hearing that he ran away without a trace Is this courage, isn't this cowardice He is a coward Is this how you talk about a Central minister Why are seating people with no political decorum? What are you talking? - What did I? - You called the minister to be a coward I? He is not accepting what he said Mr. Pugalmannan you called the central minister a coward Mr. Pugalmannan you were the one who said the central minister to be a coward You are the one saying so, he said it a while back, when did I say it? Did I say so? You said so You too have joined with them Such derogatory terms will never come from me, And I didn't speak such a thing It's true! Replay it, lets see the truth You are the one to be ashamed Mr.Pugalmannan, if I replay it you will be exposed to the entire nation How many days is that girl working for you? He is the one who got us that girl Only he introduced - How is she related to you? - She is my sister's daughter My sister's son No, daughter She is innocent sir That we'll take care of Sir, I too am innocent Catch hold of him sir! Did you see that girl talking to suspicions people in these 6 months Sir, Poochiyappan this guys assistant used to serve us She would follow him around I warned her not to talk to him - poochiyappan - This guys assistant Sir, around 4.30 today He was talking something secretly with that girl What were you talking? I asked him He said he was planning to blow up the whole train He is taking revenge for not listening to his poems Did you? I did, but I didn't mean it - You said it? - Yes, Finish me Your wife will elope on your nuptial listening to your poem I saw both of them coming down from the train top around 6-6.30 AM From the train roof? Sir, Something wrong sir - Start it! - You've given some message around 4.30 - you saw me then, next They were in the rooftop around 5-6 AM and she has seen them coming down around 6.30AM 7 AM the train didn't stop at the Gudur station You killed a RPF when crossing Thada - Who? Me! So you've planned it You a script writer Where is the bomb? That's it! Thanks for the information You can go Did you call me sir? You won't answer me? - I can't answer you - Terrorist Adamancy - What next? - You only know Your men? - yes - Are they armed We shall know only if we open it Go open it Go! Go! Go open it! No one seems to be opening it Go open it! Why are you hiding sir? Vendors, sit down! - Open it! - You can do it! Open it! Why are you opening it so late? Don't know who they were - They robbed all our jewellery - they were all speaking in Hindi They opened the pantry They are enquiring - What happened? - They had robbed everyone, that's why Sir, I've recorded it sir So the sniper team didn't shoot at the terrorists - So they are robbers - At least now he found out So you, Poochi and that make-up girl are? Come to me again Sir a new story has opened up Concentrate on that They both are innocent like me Don't believe him Be serious Sir, that girl came to the pantry searching for him They both love each other Not knowing that made a terrorist out of me He is no terrorist He is a wasted buffalo running the pantry Why did you lie? I'm sure that Poochi and that girl are not terrorists But he is one Shut up! Sir knows all the truth now He is not a fool to believe you anymore If you both don't stop your drama I'll shoot you Kill them? You are a DTR right? Be serious What are going to do Poochi? I'm scared Don't worry I'm there - How are you? - Who is that? We can hear Poochi and that girl Hey can you hear me Can you hear me? Who are you? I'm Captain Aravind Sir that girl is stuck in the engine Why did you go there? - she is my life What? What do you mean? hello She is my girl Please save her sir! Poochi, are you there? Sir, Can you hear me please speak loudly, can't hear you Captain Aravind from DC express There were 6 terrorist on the roof of the train Can you give the count of terrorist inside the train None of them are terrorist They are all robbers Then the girl and that boy he is just a vendor That girl is a make-up assistant of a heroine They 2 look innocent for now No terrorist would pose themselves to be so They would act innocent I hope you know that And the media is telecasting them to be terrorists I can't declare them not to be terrorist with what you say Do one thing. Make me talk to them Only then can I come to a conclusion Can you do that? Is that possible? no way sir, It's impossible They both only have walkie talkies We can talk within a radius of 7 kms with it There is no option for you to speak to them from Chennai Logically it is impossible It's possible sir - Practically it won't work - Surely I can make it What did he say? - The terrorist didn't hijack the train - Then what's happening I told you sir Something is happening You are translating him for me Leave! What is he doing with a filter? Can we get electricity from Wheat dough? Poochiyappan, you hear me? - Sir, I can hear you - it's connected Now this walkie is connected to a mobile Whoever wants to talk can call this mobile and talk to them - Sir, Captain Aravind - Put him on speaker yes captain Sir, there walkie talkie has been connected to our phones - Now you can talk to them - You are already talking only I need to talk to that girl What do you need to talk to that girl? - tell Nothing should happen to any of the passengers, What are your demands? What's your ransom, the government is ready to give anything I want to become a super singer sir You acting? I'm not interested in acting, only singing sir Should I believe you to be a singer If you don't believe ask Singer Mano sir or Chitra maam I sang to them when in Mumbai They judged me They know whether I'm a good singer or not Ask them to save us I told you he is innocent I think she is not innocent She is a fool If it took so long to find this When will you guys come save us Do as you wish? Why did you call me a fool? Not you I was telling them Even in this calamity you are so prudent, would I doubt your intelligence They think of me to be a terrorist Foolish government Saroja, what happened to the Loco Pilot Pilot? Engine Driver? There was blood from his nose and mouth He is dead I think so he has.. So this is no terrorist act This is surely a human error Some technical malfunction is the reason China and Pakistan could be responsible for this hijack They make this look like a 3rd world war Call up the media Tell it's not a Hijack and some technical malfunction is the reason Tell them shut their broadcast The DC express hasn't been hijacked It has been confirmed the 6 on the roof top to be robbers Poochiyappan is a tea vendor and that girl is a make-up assistant So this train wasn't hijacked for the minister I doubted it sir Terrorist would Kidnap important people only I told you he isn't significan't to be kidnapped - This question was not for you - Close this Box Jack, please move away from the panel board What's your problem? Please tell it quickly The bridge in between is very weak sir That bridge can hold only if the train travels at the speed of 30 kms/hour But now the train is approaching 100kms/hour At this speed the bridge will surely collapse You know it's old Why send us through it? Go get yourself seated What does this mean? Answer me! Shut yourself and go sit down! Shout out! Make your final cries While crossing the bridge Let us all die Go away! I'm traveling too Come soon! This bridge can stand only if it come at a speed of 30kms/hour But the train is approaching at a speed of 120kms/hour Will this bridge collapse or not? We will get to know soon Let's go near the bridge What kind of people you are Don't you have traces of sympathy in you There are so many lives at stake in that train, and you are concern is whether the bridge will break or not You are saying all this to increase the TRP What if your family was in the train? Our jobs is like that - You believe in God? - Yes Pray for them Miracle will happen Will the bridge collapse This was constructed by the British It won't If it was done by us It is doubtful Can you influence the railway department from stopping the bridge from collapsing I'm the reneweable energy resources minister I don't know anything about my department You want me to talk to the railways Can't we save Poochi and Saroja We escaping is doubtful More than the suspense of the train crossing the bridge The Love of Poochi and Saroja is the talk of the town Would this true love win, lets wait This is Rekha with camera man Aadhi for IBC news Poochi, I'm scared - I too am coming with you only - We are going to die Saroja, if you do as I say we can stop the train Can you do it? Surely, I will Why are you getting your self in trouble accepting things you don't know You shut up! Go near the engine cabin If you open the door Saroja, what happened? It's hot sir I'm burnt The cabin is where the driver is There is a green button near the driver seat Right of that, there is a black lever, that is the emergency brake Pull it to stop the train I tried but the door didn't open We have 3 minutes, Break open the engine door some how Somehow pull the emergency brake You are responsible for 742 peoples life I will do it sir I will finish it Fool! Stop! Sir she is a fool She won't do it Poochi she can handle this You go, Take care Saroja, be careful Be careful! Fool! The walkie has fallen Hold tight and sit there Sit down! - The bridge is approaching - Come quick - The bridge is approaching I understand come Come quick! Can't I see the bridge You could have sat there Why did you come here? I couldn't see you from there That's why I came here Sit down and hold tight Sit down Hold tight! You too hold tight! The life that stood still has come back It searched you all over and brought it back to me The life that stood still has come back It searched you all over and brought it back to me A day like this, Should not come ever again Even for a second don't be away Don't dream of even going ahead of me The life that stood still has come back It has told me to embrace you in joy There can't be a greater day Than this I will hold you tight forever Will protect you in my eye with abundant laughter The souls that are united Is the companion in this turmoil The true love cannot be curtailed Even the fire cannot repress it All that happens is a joy I will be your soulmate forever Its a promise, That when you are next to me The raging flame feels like a chill breeze All together I will shoulder, All your burden This will full fill the purpose of my life What happened? In this world filled with bustle I don't need to wilt Life comes just once Let's dare to take it Let's fill it with laughter like in paradise That will helps us sail through life When we know that till we depart, This love will guide it, The pain will vanish Even when we depart, We will stay together, This will be greatest achievement The life that stood still has come back It has told me to embrace you in joy There can't be a greater day Than this I will hold you tight forever Will protect you in my eye with abundant laughter Breaking news 3 youngsters tried to get a selfie with the lovers on this train and had tragic death Two of them are dancing like Romeo and Juliet on it A Channel has named it Love express seeing this They are discussing whether this love would succeed 3 of them died trying to take a selfie with those crazy people Just imagine the agony of their parents The life of youngsters these days is filled with liquor, fun floric It's deplorable How would they come up in life Rightly said A caller is online, Lets see what he has to say - This is Unmai Tv - This is Alex from Madurai Alex, how are you Who would you like to talk to Give it to Tamilselvan sir Yes Alex Are you the authority to all the youngsters From your assumptions you say the youngsters are naughty You can't hear me! Then how are you answering me We are the ones who helped What did you do? During floods you didn't step out of your house and posted pictures from your doorstep Are you using this to increase the TRP We are suffering for electing you From now on we'll be on the field DO you think politics is Child's Play Do you know how much we've gone through Everytime I turn on the TV you are talking Don't you ever go home (Verbal abuses) I'm scolding you You shameless fellow you will laugh Don't cut the call Keep it on! Don't just scold him Enough for him Alex There are 2 others waiting to talk The youth power Are you gonna use the youth power to draw current Why are you having such a grumpy face? Everytime the red shirt man talks you interupt It's rare that he talks sensibly, Even that you interupt You all simply talk mindless nonsense You never initiate anything constructive And that man is mediating all of this Why are you scolding me? Have some moral ethics If you continue doing this, One of these days a fight will erupt and you will land in jail Stop this program where you create problems I'll take care of this Viewers, the truth is obvious If it was some other channel, they would have opted for a commercial break But our Unmai TV is not like them We want to bring out your true feelings In recent times, during our debate session the public are exploding with anger and agression Avoiding the several burning issues outside, Just to run a channel We create problems and debate on them, This seems to be the reason Moving forward, do we need such debating forums or not? We'll continue to debate on this after a short break - Maya - Yes Rekha We are entering a forest region We will loose coverage for a while Maya can you hear me Sir, Aravind sir What's your problem? I'm gonna kill you both Have you gone mad? Don't know where this train is going to topple Is this time to take revenge If we fight in this stage we will become a laughing stock You are a old school villain A tunnel is approaching Sit down! I'll never forget the vengance It's time for you to leave If the train crashes will lead to huge casuality Sir, an idea! How about chasing the train with a helicopter and lets suspend a ladder and land a mechanic in the engine I think you watch too many Hollywood movies If we call an ambulance for an emergency, they would come only for his funeral Be Indian Think Indian! Sir there is no time sir This will be the right move - Sir! - I will update myself We don't need to get ideas from the hollywood movies, We just need to use our grey matter Poochi! Poochi! A helicopter is coming to fetch all in this train Alright Here! This way The last effort to rescue this train ended in a disaster The railway mechanic Shankar involved in this mission faced a tragic death You don't cry, wait Saroja Saroja, can you hear me? Sir, that girl doesn't have a walkie Only I have one, Please tell me See that engine window glass is broken Now ask Saroja to break open and go in Ask her to go in and apply the brake Poochi! Ask her to apply the emergency brake We only have 15 minutes before we can reach the destination Somehow do it Okay sir Hey! See that glass is broken As they said, go inside Apply the emergency brake Brake Which one? Green He said something after the green Black lever Which one? I see two here Sir of the two which one should I pull? Sorry sir (Children rhyme to pick and choose) What happens? It didn't stop When I touch it, It fumes What? It fumes What happened Poochi? Sir, she says something is fuming Sir, what's happening? Is that all? This train won't stop Is it all over? Sir I think all the electronic devices are short circuited All the control boards is damaged It's now impossible to technically stop the train We can't do anything further Every thing is finished Beyond this How can you be so irresponsible? They are all depending on us If the train crashes into the central station all the passengers will be blown to bits Do something What do you mean do something? What can I do? Can I pull apart the compartment and the engine and save the passengers? Pull apart! So if you can pull apart the engine and compartments you can save all the passengers? - Yes sir - Let's do it Even an experienced technician will find it difficult to remove the coupling on the running train At this juncture how do we do it, with whom? That boy Poochi, let's use him Good idea - It's a bad idea, He's a small lad, he can't even lift the coupling Then you go do it - Sir, I am man with a family, how can I do coupling? I can't open the coupling Then you shut up Always creating hindrances Poochi Are you there? I am hearing everything Should I not have a family? Poochi I understand your emotions You are our last resort It's a life or death situation for all of us You have to get down and remove this coupling If you have to save all the passengers you have to take this risk You can do it I will go Good Alright how do it get down - Don't Poochi - Don't worry, we will take care of that Sir, we only have 8 minutes - Sir, exactly six minutes more Jack please! Even the mechanic was unable to do it How can a tea vendor do it! Bhaskar, it's going to crash here You clear this area No need Poochi Listen to me Don't, Poochi don't Poochi! Poochi don't Hey! You have to drop me in between Where are you taking me? Hey! It's the fan Are you new on the job like me? Is this the time to practice? This is how you killed the other guy Careful Your leg Hey stop Stop! Did we cross the bridge? Bring glory to my name! Can you just shut up - Sorry bro! Hold tight Watch out Mr Poochiappan Mr Poochiappan If you come back alive to Chennai What? You should give the first interview to our channel Confirmed! You will never change You won't progress at all! - I can't hear I know you are saying something good Come over there and tell us the entire thing For sure will come and tell you Here the life is oscillating and these guys want an interview Poochi can I ask you one thing? - What? When you are giving the interview can I stand by your side? Without you my dear? Sir ask that girl to come to this compartment and then remove the coupling We barely have few minutes and if he is saving that girl this train will topple and crash Then that girl's fate? It's alright to sacrifice 1 life for the sake of 744 lives Poochi online - Poochi Tell me sir - You are on the buffer There's a coupling informs of you and you need to remove that But my lover is in the engine That's not a problem, as you remove the coupling the pressure will release automatically The engine will go a short distance and stop What should I do? First remove the U Clamp - What's the U clamp? Like the alphabet U You mean the one like the jar handle? - Exactly Public please cooperate Okay I have done it There's a screw to release it near the coupling The one that looks a machine to make the noodles? Yes, make noodles with it! I mean loosen it Okay sir Try it Poochi Rotate it clockwise What do you mean by clockwise? - The same way a clock rotates In the direction of our eating hand? - Eating hand? - He means the right side, he's correct Yes! Faster, yes Poochi! Continue rotating! Loosen it! Continue doing it Did it get loose? It did Then just lift the towing hook Sir tell him it's like the handles on the wok Just lift the one that looks like the handles of the wok! Poochi Fast fast We don't have time Lift it well Hold it tight and lift it Quick fast Try it That's great try it Pull it hard Come on Come on You can do it Poochi Keep quite - You can do it Poochi They will always give a job to the person who does not know it Should we tell you separately? Why are you simply pointing out the microphone? Get out You accept you can't save them? Poochi what are you doing? Try faster Hey! It's very tight Try harder The problem is in this route it's on the upper grade so it will be tight The next junction will be on the lower grade, it will be looser there For the lower grade, he should be on the other side Poochi, shift to the other side What? Remove from the other side Poochi bring that girl to your side - Are you crazy? Poochi The last station will come soon, remove it quickly Quick Fast - The engine won't stop She will die! She is my life I told you they will unite Hold my hand - Why did he jump there? His life is in the engine, why will he be here? Only those who were in love will understand about it This is why we don't include you in anything - Sorry Only love has the power to save the world and sacrifice oneself Only we have the power to damage the world and destroy lives Why did you come here? Do you want to die with me? Should we fall in love only to live? Only now I have the desire to live We can't stop this train? Why can't we? You change me to a Spider-Man or a super man I can drag the train and stop it I had several dreams To become a singer To get married to you Look at me Those who fall in love, will be lovers only till they get married After marriage they will become husband and wife Will have children and then will become grand parents and finally Depart one after the other They would have lost their love long before that Look at us We are lovers now and till death we are lovers How many of them will get such a chance? You should be privileged to have this moment , he said the engine will halt in sometime! - It won't stop sir What? We lost them Why some technical error? - Human error - You have no desires for yourself? - Who said so? I want these track to continue longer I wish that you hold me tight like this longer I wish this train continues running without stopping Not for long Just for 500 to 1000 years. That's it Why are you crying? - We are going to die, what else can I do If you cry, we won't die? Look, others should mourn our death, we should not mourn our death! Understand Now I will die happily Shall I sing? I wanted to die happily No when you sing it's pure happiness Sing Hey come fast! Saroja! Saroja! Look at me It's bleeding, near your ears See if you are hurt It's bleeding, near your ears No, it's because you sang close to my ear See the government did not know that your singing has the power to stop anything! Get up! Poochiappan Sir You said you will give us the first interview after this rescue How could have saved so many people? You didn't think about the risk you were taking? How could you do it? It's for my love Saroja you are very lucky Poochiappan, You will definitely receive the highest honour for bravery in the country Are you expecting something more? No I have no such expectations My love, she wants to sing I am sure several music directors and movie directors will be seeing it If they can give her a chance it will be great Madam, you sing well? Then you should sing a song for us No please. Only now we have come to a good end You will be drained - It's okay, you should sing later Poochiappan please one selfie - With me? You also come madam You wanted to take a selfie with me Now everyone wants a selfie with you! He proved that he's my student Just cut the crap! - He's telling you - I am telling you You somehow found that I was in the military hotel! You worked at the military hotel? This guy worked in a military hotel Did I blabber?
