 

                        PREFACE If you let your mind wander back through History you will find that the only thing, That has not changed since the world began is - LOVE. Love is the unchanging axis on which the World revolves. There is no better way to prove this than by comparing the love stories of three widely separated periods of Time. As appropriate examples we have selected the Stone Age, the Roman Age, and the Modern Age. The Stone Age. Beauty is a part of Yesterday, Today, and Forever. (... Miss Margaret Leahy) In every age Beauty is sought by the Adventurer. (... Mr. Wallace Beery) Through every age there is the faithful worshiper at Beauty's shrine. (... Buster Keaton) Youth is eternally protected by the sheltering wing of devoted parents. (... Miss Lillian Lawrence & Mr. Joseph Roberts) From the beginning of time parents have found different methods of choosing their daughter's mate. A troubled heart ever yearns to know the future. "My card!" "I want to ask the Wee-gee if she loves only me." ROME in all Her Glory. No Parking. "Thou rankest high in the Roman army ..." "... and thou art the rankest!." "Wise Soothsayer... Canst thou tell me if yon fair wench loveth me alone?" THE PRESENT AGE Of Speed, Need, and Greed. "I want you boys to know that I am master of my own home, and the choice of my daughter's husband rests entirely with ..." "... my wife!" "Of course, you gentlemen understand that my daughter's happiness hangs in the balance." FIRST NATIONAL BANK. LAST NATIONAL BANK. Again turning back to the prehistoric days. A man's attempt to arouse jealousy is as old as time. Get rid of that big fool and meet me outside. I am sitting behind you pretending to be asleep. "We will fight this out at sunrise!" "I think, I had better dictate my will before sunrise." Sunrise. WEATHER FORECAS ------------------------- FAIR AND WARMER. Snow. "Thou art challenged to a chariot race in yon arena at high noon tomorrow... when I shall drag thy name down to disgrace!" High Noon. "He doesn't play --- he's just the coach for the other team." The Game. BIG WEDDING TOMORROW Mr. Wallace Beery of this city and Miss Margaret Leahy will be married at Grace Church at 12 o'clock tomorrow. The ceremony will take place at exactly high ... In the Meantime, the prehistoric young man returns to the city from a sightseeing tour. "Take yon maid to my domicile." Somehow he vaguely remembered that somewhere ... sometime ... somebody made friends with some lion by doing something to some of its paws. After a delightful ride in the patrol wagon ... BIGAMIST FORGERY. Let's go back to the church. ... and if anything more were needed to show that love has not changed ......
