 

                        "STAR WARS" "THE THREADS OF FATE" 94 Years after the battle of mentors and the death of Emperor Palpatin, the Republic regained her powers. The Order of the Jedi restored again Freedom and justice and continues educate young Jedi knights in Giavin 4. But galaxy far from being secure. The ancient empire of SKenvi is now, free from imperial control and has expanded drammatika. Officers and soldiers of genteel Empire joined the Skenvi and their systems proliferate. Officers and soldiers of genteel Empire joined the Skenvi and their systems proliferate. Only the new Galactic Republic prevents them from Skenvi get full control of the galaxy, and as' THE of battling for power constantly. Only the new Galactic Republic prevents them from Skenvi get full control of the galaxy, and as' THE of battling for power constantly. The Emperor Giles withdrew the most strong ambassador, Lord Sitges, that is already on the way, to of Skenvi mother planet, the Zarras... Lord Sitges, - Emperor awaits your arrival at the palace. - I know, Major. What are the desires? "Approaches to warship of the Republic" "Lord Sitges has entered the Imperial command center" "Lost Imperial Destroyer..." Who is the new target our Majesty? I realize that this meeting consistent in your mind with martial enterprise, Sitges, but not called you here, having something in my mind. I hope to see things through from many perspectives, a critical situation like this. - The war can be won mepollous ways. - As diplomacy? know. I do not doubt that you see obvious in a diversion like this, even though I have not shared with you no information so far. - I guess you know the planet Korina? - Of course, my lord. Is a planet run by a popular monarch. The Korina always been in favor of peace And democracy, but the word "force" there... in the dictionary. I heard rumors that the Republic will negotiate with them a treaty consolidation. And you thought to win on this? The ore is caused to interest for this planet? This ore is regenerative, unique kind. The Republic believes that the acquisition of, is that tipped the scales in their favor . And innocent as it is, will undoubtedly send a representatives Jedi, to the charmed King and Queen to sign the treaty. - Jedi? - Natural. I have the luxury to send both charming people in their lap, but I certainly have the ability to send a warrior white flag. I would like to go and the pressure situation to our advantage. - I'm sick of stagnation King Tzaster. - When do I start? Immediately . We do not want to stop us nothing , achieving this goal. Very good sire, will depart. Sorry. I know that quite contended, Raven. But despite your mistakes, actually went pretty well . - Proved that you do it in a dogfight. - I Thank you, master Sorana. If you keep so well, then it will not take much until they're ready for the try. If you keep so well, then it will not take much until they're ready for the try. "Raven..." "Raven..." Your future is with me. Your future is with me. Raven, are you okay? Looks somewhat dazed. - I'm fine, Seth. - Well, why Sorana wants to see you. Okay, thank you. The Council has called here to present you a mission. Recently, the Republic approached planet Corrine, with an offer for consolidation. Unfortunately, however, approached the and the Empire Skenvi, with an offer for consolidation. Unfortunately, however, approached the and the Empire Skenvi, with an own offer. Is most likely to be interested for the planet's resources, The unique ore, than for their people. The only reason we approach the Corrine now we, - is for the ore. - Remember what's at stake here. Skenvi acquire exclusive rights to ore Corrine, then the Republic is closer in losing this war. Do not remind me. I have gone from vanguard. Barely keep this moment, such things. Let the Force be with you. Even a mission, Master? This is excessive. I must admit that I felt something in Force just returned, so I suggest rest. - But I intend to continue my lessons. - Even you can do. I must admit that I felt something in Force just returned, so I suggest rest. - But I intend to continue my lessons. - Even you can do. A steady diplomacy can often is the greater good of a Jedi. To have the strength and ability to win a battle, is less important than able to avoid it on ' authority. Now go collect your stuff, and just go get ready. You two should be the Jedi will convey. I am the carrots Reg I'll be your pilot in this mission. 'm Sorana Dar. This is my apprentice, the Raven Ntarkam. I am the carrots Reg I'll be your pilot in this mission. 'm Sorana Dar. This is my apprentice, the Raven Ntarkam. Nice to meet you. If you follow me we can launch. You look beautiful today, Arianna. - You call every day, mother. - Why look gorgeous every day. Something wrong, dear? Going to become Queen of Corrine. Will marry a beautiful young, from a noble House. It's not that I do not like this life. I like. I want to say that everything about the My future is already pre-determined. Do you want to become something, beyond what I was given. I know that feeling. Never I married your father. I had in my mind that you will fall in love someone and then marry him, Regardless of , what my parents wanted. I had in my mind that you will fall in love someone and then marry him, Regardless of , what my parents wanted. - Your parents forced me to marry? - No. They gave me all the time to think about it, and dad flirted with for almost a year. And in the end, I realized that I did not even give a chance Tzaster. Sometimes Arianna, age to cherish the roles given to us. - To employ something else? - Yeah... You know the feeling you got - when someone is watching you? - Yes, why? Ambassador of the Empire of Skenvi, is here to see you, Your Highness. Perhaps should you handle this issue, dear. As Queen, should treat such people, whether you like it or not. And maybe bothered to His Excellency, discovered that when I did not have time to see him. And maybe bothered to His Excellency, discovered that when I did not have time to see him. 'll Be fine. - You will see him in the main hall. - Natural. Welcome, Ambassador. I am the Princess Arianna. - You asked for a hearing... - With the King and the Queen, my child. 're Both busy or the my rank does not bring anything more, - computable from insults? - My parents will meet with Jedi New Galactic Republic, to discuss the integration of Corrine - computable from insults? - My parents will meet with Jedi New Galactic Republic, to discuss the integration of Corrine - if this happens... - The notorious freedoms of the Republic! I see however, that the sovereignty, is not one of ' them. The Empire on the other, encourage all profitable trade relations, if our systems put - First all interests Skenvi. - The Republic has the best, intentions for us... While, from far as I can tell, the Skenvi, - Only interested in our minerals. - Backbite us. We worry about health your economy. The Republic is small, and simply can not provide you - Only interested in our minerals. - Backbite us. We worry about health your economy. The Republic is small, and simply can not provide you Buying you need. The Empire can, but if you join the Republic, and you are compelled to do our embargo, the consequences will be devastating. But of course, I have faith that the family you will make the wisest choice. compelled to do our embargo, the consequences will be devastating. But of course, I have faith that the family you will make the wisest choice. Besides, the king and queen have above all the interests of their people. The your skills with the lightsaber progressing quite well. "Arrives in Corrine. Will leave" "Hyperspace in a few seconds." Master, now that I finished my courses , I want to discuss something with you. Master, now that I finished my courses , I want to discuss something with you. Earlier I had a dream. Was clear, vivid, - not like my other dreams... - A Vision? Maybe, I do not know. A Jedi must always be , knowledgeable Maybe, I do not know. A Jedi must always be , knowledgeable dream, Raven. Especially when they are not ordinary. Think about what you saw, concentrate on it. 'll Talk about it, just Settle in Corrine. For air traffic center of Corrine here lightweight transport "Starstrim", ask permission for landing. Convey ambassadors of the Republic. "Control center here, thank you. Permission to land." Convey ambassadors of the Republic. "Control center here, thank you. Permission to land." Sir... I am the captain of terbium Royal Guard. Me and my men will escort palace. Hear that the king and queen, is much loved by the world. It is indeed. Fovame But that will not meet with them right now. - No? - No, will be available for listening later. But have called first meet with their daughter, Princess Arianna. Of course. A future queen needs undoubtedly Exert its diplomatic skills . Of course. A future queen needs undoubtedly Exert its diplomatic skills . Follow me, young Jedi. The princess is in the throne room. You need to be a Jedi is to meet it. - I'm Princess Arianna. - The... You need to be a Jedi is to meet it. - I'm Princess Arianna. - The... My name is Raven Ntarkam. - You're so edgy. - I must admit, that I have never met before my princess. I confess something to you. I have never met before a Jedi. Basic Majesty, still have not. I'm not a Jedi yet, - Just a student. - If you are a student, then that is your teacher? Is somewhere around here. I entrusted to handle the matter myself. You can come sit next to me , Raven Ntarkam. Do not worry, my parents will not be bothered , we use the positions. Well, what exactly does a Jedi? "We are guardians of peace and ambassadors..." - They seem to be doing well. - Yes, I must admit. I am very pleased to see that our Democracy considers Significant enough to send two Jedi as ambassadors. I am very pleased to see that our Democracy considers Significant enough to send two Jedi as ambassadors. - Each system is important for the Republic. - But some more than others, right? What would be the Republic instead this fits in Skenvi , lamb and access your ore in us? If you want to join the Empire Skenvi, Is your right to do so. If I want to do a ride, outside that window, is also my right. A fine estimate of the situation. Are you and the fleet also? What can I say? We are Jedi... versatile. Are you and the fleet also? What can I say? We are Jedi... versatile. Not to mention, unbearably egocentric. And somewhere here, trying to discuss important issues with you. Very well then. Why Corrine wants to join the Republic? There are rumors of some invasion, if we do not work. The Republic could defend us, as we do not have forces or resources to defend ourselves. Plus he is good to have a Jedi with us. I think this completes our work. I will pass on your answers, - In the Senate. - Thank you. And now without work on our feet, a like to see the Royal Gardens? 'll Retire there now and I would like escort a Jedi. After you, Your Majesty. And here is where I practice my fencing. What is so funny? I'm sorry but I can not imagine a princess Swordsman! Would you like to see? Would you like a... - friendly duel? - I accept. Juvenile sex. Touching, is not it? Know Grace, what does the philosophy of the Jedi - For relationships? - Perhaps you could enlighten us, - Lord Sitges. - Says that a Jedi must abandon any relationship to can serve better strength. That ' that candidates for the Academy taken at such a young age, and for it is forbidden to love . And yet, the teacher throws apprentice of recklessly romance in your trap, knowing very well what will be the outcome. Perhaps Excellency, will made good to remember this as a lesson. - A lesson on what? - The hasty judgment on a man, can Often prove the most and more distant from the truth. I think my judgments about you and the Empire Skenvi, Often prove the most and more distant from the truth. I think my judgments about you and the Empire Skenvi, sound quite right. Catch! Is little different from that a lightsaber , but I will. - Are you ready? - So ready as ever, my Princess. Remember, express freely. I see and learn. If you think spouting platitudes... But if I were you, I would consider carefully - my new allies. - Just for that, The pins will never, to join the Skenvi. Nothing less than expected. When the end comes, Excellency, maybe reviews Your words, although it is too late. - Threaten us? - When the War of Skenvi, trajectories understand your when your cities plymmyrisoun in flames, When find yourself, a king of anything, except ashes and memories, perhaps ... look back and wish you had picked , A position of strength, instead of a weakness. The Korina is simply an object in this war, a resource A position of strength, instead of a weakness. The Korina is simply an object in this war, a resource why you do battle. Banish away the tissue of lies, And declare that feels about the same as us. And what happens when it becomes a burden , for your new allies, For your new friends? The Korina is weak. And in this galaxy, Grace, failure causes betrayal. 're Really good. This though was the show! 're Very talented, Princess. I'm sure Sorana and his apprentice , is exhausted from their trip here and could rest a bit. Arianna, you're kind enough to drive , - in guest rooms? - Natural father. Arianna, you're kind enough to drive , - in guest rooms? - Natural father. Follow me please, gentlemen. Princess, your parents say that you are very insightful, to the feelings of others. I feel strongly the feelings of others, Only with their presence, or perhaps you know when close, - but before they hear or see? - All the time. My mother says, Is a gift, which I have been blessed . Here is your room, gentlemen. You can rest for as long as you wish. My parents will then meet , To finalize the negotiations. Greatly appreciate your hospitality. - Rest well. - I will. - The Force is strong within her. - I know, I felt, When xifomachousame. But it is too late for this, begin training. The Council has in exceptions in the past. 'll Talk to Master York Corn , back soon. You like young, is not it? I'm glad for you, but you should know one thing. The Jedi... the members of the Order, may not be involved, emotionally. Maybe it is better for you, not to attend the finalization negotiations. Your father and I, we can handle ourselves. My dear, forgot him. Falais! Can you remind me spouse for the meeting? Directed, - To the rooms of the princess. - Yes, Your Grace. Raven, what do you think the escort? You will lose nothing here. True Master. Raven, what do you think the escort? You will lose nothing here. True Master. Stay here. Go and fetch the My Teacher! The Queen is dead and Princess ignored! - Raven, stop! - Why? We do not have time for this! There! Immediately! Jedi scum! Do not touch the Princess. I know your tricks, Sith. You and outdated Jedi Order , not know anything! Your time expired! Master! The Arianna always been possible. If one could, Survive than This, then is this . Will do everything we can to return safe. But Grace, please do not let this affect negotiations. You take requirements, of Empire Skenvi. But please... do not listen to them. We will refund you, - your daughter back. - I swear that Will return. And kill humans, who did this. He wanted called, Lord Sitges. It is a Ambassador Empire Skenvi. I wish to you both, good luck and please... bring my daughter back, safe. It is the only I have now. Come. The worst is that the faced in Corrine, and discovered that it is trained, in the ways of the Force. You are a lone Dark Jedi - At best. - But do not you think, though? No. Disguised himself so well and Fight with very skillfully. - It's a Sith. - This really is a terrible news. 'll Discuss this with the Council, but you should do whatever you can, to learn more about him. Pursue him and save the Princess, If not already sold or is dead. to learn more about him. Pursue him and save the Princess, If not already sold or is dead. Above all, be careful. Maybe you , at greater risk than imagine that. Above all, be careful. Maybe you , at greater risk than imagine that. - What else is in trouble? - Is Raven. ... emotionally. Then to watch him, in person. The engagement with this, can be addressed later. For now, you should make sure that this the search, you will not become an instrument of revenge, - about him. - I agree. - Contact me when find out more. - Okay. Chancellor Ntoren, what can I do for you? The Queen Corrine murdered , and her daughter has been kidnapped by Ambassador Skenvil, The Queen Corrine murdered , and her daughter has been kidnapped by Ambassador Skenvil, Lord Sitges. I like the Guild Responsible for this destruction . - Chancellor Ntoren... - And I order a, unit impact, to search for Princess and return to her father. Your people to remain in Korina , and let that the Republic. Can gagged again? The howling is Enough to even baffled mole. Not yet. I would like first to have few words with the Princess. I see that in order to "break", will need much more than just physical pain. The force can do terrible things so , In mind and in the flesh. Can pervert like you can not imagine. But for now we'll leave you, with the threat of suspense. Tell me, princess... to If released from your shackles, - what would you do? - I'll kill you. Such violence... such hatred. And if you say that you can do this, without even lift A finger? To kill me while still being bound, in this chair? Princess 're strong in strength, very strong. With adequate training, even for me it was difficult, - to put it together yourself. - This is what you want? - To turn me into a Sith? - In time, yes. But I think you will find the options you rather , limited than this view. Not even your precious friends - can not save you now. - Liar! The Raven, limited than this view. Not even your precious friends - can not save you now. - Liar! The Raven, - Will come to me! - Of course it will come! And when it does, we will try really limits , - Will come to me! - Of course it will come! And when it does, we will try really limits , - of your endurance. - What are you talking about? How do you think I feel, Where to watch to the "break it"? When you witness as will abstract of one to one, all layers of logic, and leave him a no-nonsense shell - Than that once was? - No, I will not touch it! What if you convert it, instead of you? You already suffered betrayal me, and the subsequent death of your mother . But may suffer its own? Can you endure the betrayal, from the one you love the most? Now you to squelch Sa'Tilk. When the time comes, I will all my enemies, in the palm of my hand. Why are you still with haunting Wheel? I am no longer the man who knew . This is the ship you are looking for. The computer is 90% sure, there is directed, Judging from their orbit. A space station? In which system? Seems that our boy goes to Princess , 's experience. Is a space station that operates , the black market. And more specifically, in sweatshops. You must go there immediately! In Thank carrots. Keep it up. Sure. No need to worry. Blurs and distracts the mind. I tried to bury these feelings, but... With overcome. - Then you must stay outside the mission. - I will not sit down to stare! Sorry, Master. I did not want to cry. Raven, I fear for you. The feeling you know about this girl Has blurred your judgment. Your only concern should be is in what could help, to bring the Korina in the Republic. But you you make it a personal quest for revenge. You scared the girl and angry , for your weakness to save her directly. You hate Lord Sitges, so what we do on it with you! Hate him with such passion, - in that threatens to consume. - I've heard all this before. Because ask for justice ' are doing and drive, - the dark side? - It is not righteousness that you want! 's Revenge! And there is a difference! 're A great student, Raven. Has progressed, much since I I like protected. But still seems like not having wiser than all of them! "Gentlemen, out soon from hyperspace." 'll Continue this conversation later . Welcome to this experience, Master Jedi. Nowhere will find such Shabby nest scum and scoundrels. Not least, this side space. For station EXPERIENCE, here lightweight transport "Starstrim", I permission for docking. "Welcome to this experience. We hope you enjoy your stay." The I meant what I said before, Raven. If to recognize , positions would endanger the lives of Arianna . The thing is, that I will fucked. Persons are quite recognizable, you see. While you on the other, 're a total stranger, 's experience. You get involved with scum like a normal resident. 're a total stranger, 's experience. You get involved with scum like a normal resident. I say "IF" try to throw Princess marketed as a slave, Here funds will satisfy every ordinary smuggler. Will return with the Princess. - I swear. - Try not to get noticed, On you. And plaid... be careful. - What you pleased, sir? - I'll take a strong drink. And a counselor selling slaves, whoever is available. Selling Tips slave? I think you came to the wrong place, sir. This f truth is very ugly. I just love the smell of a, distraught young, chained girl. Not you? This f truth is very ugly. I just love the smell of a, distraught young, chained girl. Not you? Hello, dear sir. There is a sale and you're invited. - I do not want anything. - Do not disappoint the ol ' Jimbo Ka'l. Has good thing, very good thing. Take this! Another good FK-9... FK-89. Works without a body! - Now, what do you think? - I do not want one, - Android Protocol. - Everyone needs one. - You will get off my hump? - Yes. Give me 9 points. The consultant will accept now. - What is it looking for? - Something specific. I have business interests pay many units, if Satisfy certain... needs. Female, definitely. - Attractive. - You and everyone else together, my friend. I found a simple smuggler like you Currencies such as, if you do not mind me asking? Let's say that I have done to some people , some favors. And yes, mind. I have many girls that deserve , So many units. How can I be sure that will not get into trouble in trouble? ... I guess that should be trust. Follow me. Is none of these your taste? Not bad, but not the right age I'm looking for. Meet me later at the restaurant. We were looking for you, carrots Reg do not owe the boss anything. Not you man, but you know who . Yes, and you can find yourself . So little interest to your sister? This is... sad. Had a contract, debts to pay. Debts that are not mine. Can not appreciate family... man, - but that yes. - Okay, we'll just... There is no need to be violent, will come quietly. 'll Join us! We would not want to hurt you, but our master did not specify, in what situation he wanted. As I said, is not my debt. Is now. - Yes, carrots? - Sorana, Things do not go as smoothly out here. I am sure it is on this platform auctions. Things do not go as smoothly out here. I am sure it is on this platform auctions. "It's horrible, I know. We can only hope." With the greatest respect... but it does not start, no meaning My Lord. Did you Princess of pins, a slave auction. What would happen if xeglystrisei from our hands? Kneeling ! What would happen if xeglystrisei from our hands? Kneeling ! The auction is staged. I used , to make the Jedi to come to me. Get out of here. The next time, I will not be so forgiving . This is the Sa'Tilk. Has what you are looking... - And what exactly is it? - An indomitable slave. Search Go elsewhere then. The girl I have is... special. - Go to annoy anyone else. - And the 'special', you mean precisely? - Do not touch her again! - Why is 'special'? - Go to annoy anyone else. - And the 'special', you mean precisely? - Do not touch her again! - Why is 'special'? This girl senses strength. Then the price is not an issue. I have clients that will... sell even their children, for something like this. Is attractive? New, but... - not a child? - All this and more. interested? You must be kidding me. Meet me at port 12, in half an hour. I'll have to wait for the girl. "I find the Princess. I will meet with Skenvi" "Half an hour for the receipt and payment ". "I find the Princess. I will meet with Skenvi" "Half an hour for the receipt and payment ". Be careful, Lord Sitges will be located nearby. And if you discover the true, thoughts and your intentions, - Then it was all over. - I'll do my best. And if you discover the true, thoughts and your intentions, - Then it was all over. - I'll do my best. - This is the girl? - Yes. These are electrical handcuffs. Not exactly the smartest. Insisted on trying to escape. - How many do? - Fifty thousand. Not paid even half from these, for my first boat. - How many do? - Fifty thousand. Not paid even half from these, for my first boat. - Fifteen. - The girl is User Force. You can find a pile of "junk" such as, Most of the ships docked virtual , anywhere. - Forty. - An untrained user of the Force. - Twenty-five. - If you were... trained, and the two of us will be dead until now. Give me thirty thousand units, and this is my final offer. I can agree with this. I'll call her. I was glad I did work with you. Buy Princess. I watch position, by tracking device planted on it. Buy Princess. I watch position, by tracking device planted on it. "Okay, just let me know reach the point where have tie". Princess Arianna, to say carrots Reg accompanied by the Jedi, and I am here to save you. - My Lord, in port 61. - Perfect, lock all - Ships in this port immediately. - Yes, my Lord. Now keep them. Sir, I see them! Stop right there! - Unit 5 follow me, 4 to port 61. - Yes, sir. Stop, you're under... Come! Hurry up, princess! "What are the orders, sir?" "Stop them before take off! Open fire!" "Sir, fleeing from sector 14." "Defensive systems were activated. Loading 80%." "90% The cannon is ready. Fire!" "Objective escaped Threat Level 0." "Failed with the young, is not it?" "Good, I forgot it." Save me... Are you okay? - With a little sting. - Just need to know, Be distracting yourself from this. When you can ignore the pain, all seem to pass. I can not imagine a Jedi like you , behave Like a child as I, for such a trivial thing. The Jedi do years of training, to ignore the pain. But between us, even a small cut can lead And powerful Jedi mad sometimes. Your parents, should be very proud of you. In fact, do not know much about me. I got from my hometown when I was , three years, to become a Jedi knight. I have not seen my parents since then . three years, to become a Jedi knight. I have not seen my parents since then . I intend to go back to my planet, when I become a full Jedi Knight. I can not imagine myself away from my parents, for such period. I can not imagine myself away from my parents, for such period. This beast ... He murdered my mother. Torture me... She said she would... is ok... miss. Never going to see him again . Never again... No... comes. What was that? Our friends returned, and not so happy, we brought them. Faster, should to reach them! Why we did not even at lightning speed? I have to work on the coordinates, a little more. - Can you escape? - Maybe. There is a field of asteroids hitting the front. May be covered there. Faster! "You can not escape, Jedi. Sacrificing the lives of the Princess," "and your friend, just to have a chance to save yourselves?" Never would have Princess, Sith. If you want one, you should first pass from me! Fasten... This may shake us. Leave it to me! What are you doing? - Okay, let's go over the speed of light. - Not yet. The boy again. Always the boy... I have the feeling that you fly a plane, Raven. This was... what happens? The Sitges... is dead. All finished and even I saw him. Revenge is never, so good as we think that is Raven. Think ending a conflict that counterbalancing the scores, But in reality, only internalizes. Listen to my advice and forget it. If you do not, you will continue To hate him, within dark corners of your mind, simply because - I refused to meet. - Yes, Master. I'll try not to dwell on this . - Where's Korina? - I do not know. The ship just came out the U perdiastima by itself. Seems hasty to rejoice. We still have a day off from planet. At the conflict in asteroids hitting, be destroyed the hyperdrive. - You can do something about it? - Not before we reach Corrine. I have spare to fix it. Simply would have to wait. To control center pins, here lightweight truck "Starr Stream". We have urgent matters with the King , and need space docking directly. Corrine Control Center? This is strange, not found. 'll Stay on board and wait. I doubt that you will feel so comfortable in a palace surrounded by "greatness". But if you could ask King for a new hyperdrive but will really appreciate it. 'll Ask. hyperdrive but will really appreciate it. 'll Ask. Wait! Not seem to want us dead . Will not win this time, - Sitges. - But I already have. With a single blow got this planet, through hands the Republic. When King signed the Treaty us , the Republic will be anympori act, and Empire would have the advantage It takes to win this war , which brings me to point I wanted to find myself, for some time. It takes to win this war , which brings me to point I wanted to find myself, for some time. Now that I have the King, I do not need anymore the Princess. - Ochii! - Raven, no! Get her out of here! Now! I knew simply used anesthetic laser. You'll be fine. Landing boat, must help them! - Landing this junk! - If you're going to come back, I suggest you to sneak from the back of the palace? Assuming that the Royal Guards, is still alive. - Landing behind Palace! - Yes, Your Majesty. - Have you seen the new Spinter, 0513? - Yes, I see. I heard that... Stupid armor... Take this. Come on, is after the corner! - This can be a problem. - Is the Princess, hold it! Get down! Where did he go, stop this Jedi. My hand! "Attacking the captain!" "Thermal detonator active!" Gotcha now. You might need this. Arianna! Seal prisoners in their cells. "Hey, watch it!" And so ends a little boy. Or maybe... so starts. My Lord! I just want to be the best for her . This is exactly why you did request. The Council discussed the issue. I would be honored if our Princess Arianna came back to us Giavin, to start training as a Jedi. Feel your emotions. Can not push you to do, but we believe that it will be in the interest and their and the Republic. My wife always had the feeling that Arianna, intended for larger, things from the crown. But I always pass it as nonsense. No need to get the decision yet. If the Council believes that is her destiny, become a great Jedi, who am I to refuse? Their is the future, and if Arianna wants to accept the challenge, then will have my full acceptance. But when the time comes for me to leave , Arianna should return, to take my place. Agreed. With the power that I have given, and on behalf of the Senate, Welcome planet Corrine in New Galactic Republic. I hope everything will be like you imagined. Is already very important, from I could have wished. Thanks to Republic, my daughter is safe, Is already very important, from I could have wished. Thanks to Republic, my daughter is safe, and people's pins, need not fear another era of tyranny. This concludes the ceremony. We wish Corrine people, a bright future , but remind them that the present time , is dark. Must all stand fast, against the oncoming wave of evil. What would happen if My father agreed, - with the Council's request? - Will be trained as a Jedi, The Temple of Giavin. With you? With me. I promise, that will never let anything happen to you. Forever. What happens? I thought you wanted this. I am a Jedi, and soon will become too. Arianna, I want more than ' anything else in the galaxy, but you're the only thing that I I have ever had. Arianna, I want more than ' anything else in the galaxy, but you're the only thing that I I have ever had. What would happen if a xanachaso? You know what I would do, to call you back? But I do not know what is the destiny , guarded for us. Only time will tell.
