 

                        All facts in this movie have been independently confirmed. Sources are documented at thrivemovement.com Any living system on our beloved planet, is an eloquent expression of the Universe's astonishing ability to come to a perfect balance and then to do what life is ment to do: to thrive. Thriving is the natural flow of life Consider what is surely on of the greatest wonders of all how a tiny egg and a single irrepressably plucky sperm can unleash a process that brings forth in end another one of us a being of vast ability and unlimited potential, with a brain capable of complex and soaring self reflection, legs made to dance and run, fingers nimble enough to weave a basket play a violin, caress a face. If nature teaches us anything, is that life is meant to work and like every living thing, our purpose is to thrive. And yet, for the majority of people on the planet life is not about thriving, it's about surviving, just trying to hang on. Is this really the best that we can do? Did the Universe labor for nearly 14 billion years only to bring forth a species that will end up as an enemy to life itself and to its own home? I don't think so! My name is Foster Gamble and I have spent nearly a lifetime trying to figure out, what happened what is happening, that could account for this staggering agony and deprivation on this planet. As a young man, driven by the misery I saw and by my fear for our survival, I set out on a journey, seeking to answer questions like: Is it even possible for humans to thrive? If so, why aren't we? My research led me to places, I never expected to go revealing surprising discoveries, that seemed unrelated at first but which turned out to be crucially connected, as you'll see. I found a code a pattern in nature that's been embedded in arts and icons, throughout the centuries. I believe this code holds the key to a new source of clean, sustainable energy that could completely revolutionize the way all people live. I came to understand how our economic system is rigged and I found out, what we can do about it. My journey will reveal ways we can reclaim our power, to create liberating healthy systems, everywhere on Earth. I realized that we are not a mistake, we are simply mistaken! We've been blinded to our brilliance, insure of our strength, ignorant of our genius, unaware of our true power and magnificense. But all that is about to change! I invite you to share with me the highlights of my unlikely journey! I created this navigator, to take us through time and space. Let me show you around! On this screen we can access what I call "our vitals": it's the critical data, we don't get from the corporate media, which in the U.S. has consolidated from 50 companies, down to 5 in just over 25 years. We'll use this to check on, how we're really doing. The right screen tracks how to chart a healthy sustainable course for living on planet Earth. I call these the "navigating insights". And this will be our compass. Instead of a needle seeking north in our earth's magnetic field, our compass is the shape of the field itself and that shape, as you will soon see, has amazing technological and social ramifications. After a lifetime quest I've come to believe that this pattern actually holds the key to a world that works for everyone. So let's go! bTHRIVE/b bWhat on Earth will it take?/b I grew up in a world of privilege and power, attending elite private schools and then Princeton University. As a direct descendant of one of the founders of Procter & Gamble, I was growed to be a leader in the establishment, but I chose a different path. bUncovering The Code/b I began to wake up when I was in elementary school. Adults were teaching me that the way to protect myself from a nuclear explosion was to dock under my desk and cover my head. That's when my serious questioning began. A couple of years later, I had a direct experience of universal energy. It happened one day when I was riding on a school bus, gazing out the window. I had a vision of the world pool pattern and I just knew that the flow of energy I was seeing was the same in atom, as in our entire solar system. I felt deeply, that I too was somehow made of that same pattern. This vision was that originally got me into science, into trying to figure out how the universe works and how we humans fit in the overall pattern of life-energy. Years later I learned that the pattern I saw, is known by some in the scientific world. It turn's out that in 1921 Albert Einstein got a Nobel prize for discovering, that when energy is released in the Universe There are little packets of wholeness, that emerge This pattern actually tells us a lot about how life evolves. Considering the enduring wonders of creation throughout the universe and how unsustainable so many of our human systems are, I figured learning how the universe creates and sustains life, would actually be quite useful. Each of these little packets of wholeness, that Einstein discovered, called a quantum, is made out of its surroundings, but is distinct within it, like a whirlpool in water. These packets are always the same pattern, nomather what size and they are surprisingly relevant to issues as seemingly disconnected, the wars in the Middle East, the global financial collapse and how we achieve justice for everyone. We are about to explore how. Mathematicians call this pattern the Torus. The energy in a torus flows into one end, circulates around the center and exits out the other side. It's balanced, self regulating and always whole. I was first officially introduced to the torus by scientist and inventor Arthur Young. Futurist Duane Elgin explains how the torus is the primary pattern that nature uses for life at every scale. The Evolution means to unfold, to roll out. So the question is, what is the Universe rolling out? And what the Universe is rolling out is self organising systems and you can see this at every scale. Self organising system is a technical term for a system taking a hold of itself, knowing itself, essentially. And if we go to nature, we can look and see these self organising forms, throughout. We can see it in the cross section of an orange the cross section of an apple. We can see it in the dynamic nature of a tornado. We can see it in the magnetic field around the Earth, a similar magnetic field, around an individual. We can see it in the structure of an entire whirlpool galaxy. We can see it in the structure of a small atom. And, every scale, throughout this entire history, the Universe has one single project it's growing toruses! the Universe is a torus growing factory These toroidal dynamics are visible at various scale. One of them is at the galactic level, which are huge spinning structures, with billions of stars in them. Looks like, typically, big arms of galaxies, spinning around and we have vortex, that goes to the center out to the edge of the galactic halo, that surrounds them. Stars move from this galactic disk out to the halo, down the vortex and back out again. Stars as Arcturus, for instance, we know, have done that path already. That's the appropriate description even for the atmosphere of our planet. The weather goes from the north pole down to the equator and then back up and the south pole, up to the equator and then back down. Even the dynamics on the surface of the Sun are very similar. Of course here we are looking at it from an external perspective, on a small scale model. When we look at the solar system embedded in the galaxy embedded in the cluster, embedded in a super cluster, we're travelling in the sea of infinite torus flow. The torus is like the breath of the universe, it's the form that the flow of energy takes at every scale of existence. But there's also underlaying structure, in how the flow fits together, sort of like a skeleton. It is called the vector equilibrium a term coined by one of the XX century's greatest thinkers Buckminster Fuller. Inspired by Fuller's visionary work, I spent decades for searching the dynamics of the vector equilibrium and the torus. I became so excited by the potential of the toroidal energy form, that in 1997, I co-founded a multidisciplinary think tank, called The Sequoia Symposium, to study the pattern and explore its applications. Our collective research convinced me, that the torus and the vector equilibrium are primary patterns, fundamental to the creation of the universe at all scales. The Sequoia Symposium gatherings, I learned of inventors, who claimed they were using the torus dynamic as the basis for devices that generated energy without combustion. This revolutionary development accessing what's sometimes called zero point or radiant or free energy, is now being called most simply, new energy technology. Given that so much of the suffering in our world is the result of lack of access to energy I realized that free, unlimited, clean energy would be one of the greatest breakthroughs in history. It could not just improve, but actually transform the quality of life on this planet. So I began to wonder, who else knew about this pattern or about the powerful potential energy source? Some of the scientists of the symposium showed me how the torus has been encoded, by different cultures for millennia. Apparently ancient cultures have embedded this code in the most enduring forms then possible, in stories, in icons, in alphabets, in buildings. Here we are at one of the world's oldest sacred sites: the Osirian temple, at Abydos, Egypt. Very few writing is found in the Osirian temple. However, there is one very significant piece of information in that temple. It is a very faint, but clear and precise drawing. It's not edged into the rock, it's not carved, it's burned in to the atomic structure of the rock, in some extraordinary way. Nassim has decoded the Osirian symbol in three dimensions. Since our world is not two-dimensional, it makes sense, the code relaying information about our world, also wouldn't be limited to flat designs. His three-dimensional version of the Osirian symbol starts with a vector equilibrium a perfectly balanced force field with 12 equal energy lines radiating out. They stabilize the center, like the 12 spokes of a wheel. The primary pattern of balanced energy flow around this structure, is the torus. Here we extend to the next larger scale with a total of 64 pyramids, called tetrahedra. If we then put spheres in representing the toroidal energy fields surrounding each of the pyramid and then we drop away the pyramids, we end up with a matrix, that is amazingly an exact overlay for the Osirian icon, a three-dimensional model of the same pattern, that was burned in the rock wall of the Egyptian temple thousands of years ago. Now we travel across continents, from Egypt to China, where the same geometry appears in another sacred site, built in 1420. Then you go to the Forbidden City, the sun gods reside and where you find that the ancients, the "foo dogs" the guardians of the knowledge. They guard the knowledge under their paw. The same geometry, with 64 energy units, is encoded again. I started wondering, is it just a coincidence, that the exact same design appears in significant places on two different continents? But then, Nassim showed me, that this geometry of 64, is encoded time and again in cultures across the centuries and from all over the world. The Hebrew kabbalistic tree of life creates the same structure, we just saw, with the vector equilibrium again embedded at every level. The ancient Chinese system of wisdom, called the I-Ching, is based on 64 hexagrams, symbols with six lines in a set, some coninuous, some broken. These can be put together as the six edges of a tetrahedron and together would form the 64 tetrahedran crystal. Ephesus, Turkey Golden Temple of Sikhs', Amritsar, Punjab, India, sec. XVI The same pattern shows up in modern scientific research. The double helix has an alphabet of 64 codons, that are used to encode our human DNA. I had seen that there was advanced knowledge of the living geometry of the universe thousands of years ago. But how on Earth did they know about it? Most of the stories of ancient Egypt and Mayans and Incas talk about sun gods coming to the Earth and teaching them engineering and writing and all of their science. I started to wonder, if all these sun gods were not advanced civilizations, coming from another part of our galaxy. These texts and of many ancient cultures describe them as coming in flying boats or, in the Vedic tradition, flying machines, etc. There are many mentions of these sun gods coming through time. Could these early pilots from beyond our world be the ones responsible for sharing the knowledge of this code? Could they actually be tapping its power to propel themselves through the cosmos? This isn't were I thought my research would lead me and these notions were rocking my world. But Nassim is impressive evidence to back up his theories and I could see no other rational way, advanced math and physics concepts, would have been recorded over 3000 years ago. I sort out one of the most knowledgeable investigators: Dr. Steven Greer, the founder of the Center for the Study of Extraterrestrial Intelligence. He's conducted hundreds of interviews with top ranking government and military witnesses. And so, if we talk about extraterrestrial intelligence, we're talking about civilizations, that have reached the point of being sentient, like we are, but whose technologies and perhaps social capabilities are such, that they've been able to become interstellar or interplanetary civilisations. And we look at the fact that, in most concerned estimates in Milky Way galaxy, that there are at least 10 000 earth-like planets, that have intelligent life on them and at least half of them are likely to be as advanced or more advanced than ours. It's almost a certainty, that there's intelligent life out there, that has mastered the laws of the universe, beyond what's currently taught at MIT and Caltech, to be able to transfer through space time, in real time through vast distances of interstellar space. We have over 4 000 cases were these objects have landed on terraforma and left physical evidence. We have over 3 500 pilot cases. We have hundreds of cases, including ones from the highest ranking investigator of the FAA, John Callahan and numerous other operators, where these objects have been tracked on radar, going tens of thousands of miles per hour or dematerializing and then reappearing in another point in the sky. Yes, there have been ET visitations, there have been crashed craft, there have been material and bodies recovered. We have contact with aliens, not originating from some foreign country, but from some other solar system. And I've been a party to that. There were documents that I have seen, referred to the USS Roosevelt having several instances of UFO flyovers and particularly, after they took on board nuclear weapons. And my CEO told me, what you got in your log did never happen. The crew coming on duty and the crew coming off duty all saw the UFO just hovering in mid air. It was a metallic, circular object and, from what I understand, the missiles were all shut down. That meant it went dead. And something turned those missiles off. Now remember, all the set was flying in several thousand miles per hour. So this thing fires a beam of light at the warhead, hits it and then this thing flies up, like this, meanwhile, we're all going like this, fires another beam of light, goes around like this, fires another beam of light goes around like this, fires another beam of light and then flies out the way it came in and the warhead tumbles to outer space. The feeling at the time was that it must have been extraterrestial They took the film and they spooled off the part, that had the UFO on it and they took a pair of scissors and cut it off, they put that on a separate roll, they put it in the briefcase, they handed Major Mansmann back the rest of the film and said: "I don't need to remind you, major Mansmann, of the severity of the security breach. We'll consider this incident closed! " But who do you tell, that you were involved in a UFO incident, without them looking at you as if you're not wrapped too tight? Mexico military releases photos of alleged UFOs French get a look at the nation's UFO files Vatican says alien life may exist Out of all the evidence for the existence of UFOs one extraordinary phenomenon continues to astonish and inspire me. The appearance throughout the world of so-called "crop circles". These elaborate designs appear mysteriously swirled into crops of grain, in such a way, that the stocks are bend over, yet remain alive. More than 5 000 of these patterns have appeared in over 30 countries most of them in England. The media has led many people, including me at first, to write these crop patterns off as hoaxes, the nighttime work of a few pranksters. Of course there have been fake versions, but those made by human hands are crude, compared with the vast majority of these elegant creations. Could hoaxers have created all 5 000 of these patterns? Could a few people with ropes and boards have created something as complex and beautiful as this one, made in the dead of night, in a driving rain and leaving no footprints on the soil? The electromagnetic field over the area, where the crop's been laid down to create the image, is often electrostatically charged. Some of these areas are littered with strange magnetic particles. One of the most amazing crop designs is not a circle, but a rectangle that seems to be a direct response to a message sent out into space in 1974. The message was a radio signal depicting our planet's location in the solar system and Earth's people, in hopes that it might be received and interpreted by an extraterrestial intelligence. This crop design appeared in England, along with, what could be a self-portrait of the sender. This message maches the format of the NASA signal and describes a different solar system from ours, a picture of the sender, non-human DNA and a microwave antenna they apparently use to communicate, rather than radio antenna, that we used. The antenna symbol had appeared a year earlier, in exactly the same field, right next to a working radio wave antenna like the one NASA used to send out the original signal. NASA continues to officially deny extraterrestial contact of any kind. And yet, year after year, these spectacular creations appear. So what might these remarkable designs mean? Here are some two-dimensional versions, that seem to be revealing the torus, in 3D. And here is the vector equilibrium, and the related pattern of 64, that we saw encoded in the art of so many ancient cultures. When I saw the coherence between the crop circles and ancient encodings, I thought regardless of whoever created them and wherever they're from, there must be an important purpose to these designs. They're so coherent I've come to believe that the pattern of the torus and the vector equilibrium especially in the form of the 64 tetrahedran crystal, is showing us how energy works in the universe, so that we can learn to align with it. I believe that they are giving us a model for accessing energy in a clean, safe and limitless way and the new means of propulsion. What more important message could there be to get to us and especially now, from their perspective, as we're beginning to extend our careless reach beyond our planet? I got further confirmation of this notion, when I met Dr. Jack Kasher, a former professor of physics at the University of Nebraska, who has also researched UFO fenomena. Presentating at The Sequoia Symposium, Dr. Kosher showed a remarkable series of drawings, by a woman named Lane Andrews, who claimed to have been invited on to extraterrestial spacecraft. I was startled to see her detailed scetches of the toroidal energy field, that she said, propelled the vehicle and protected the passengers. I subsequently interviewed James Gilliland. James has many hours of UFO footage from his ranch near Mount Adams in Washington State. He also claimed to going on board of alien spacecraft. What blew my mind was that he had never never met Lane Andrews and had no knowledge of her experience, yet he described a phenomenon, that was amazingly similar: numerous ships with spinning rings of light. Could it simply be coincidental, that James and Lane describe the same torus dynamic and that both of these people have been harassed extensively by government and military agencies ? To some the idea of UFOs may seem crazy and yet from another perspective it is completely plausible. The Earth is about 4.5 billion years old, that's 4,500 million years old. What if there is another planet, that is almost exactly like ours, almost exactly They're million years ahead of us, and on a galactic scale they're almost our twin brothers. So where are we gonna be in a million years? We have solved all these problems and there's another way, weather it's wormholes or warping space. There's got to be a way to generate energy so that you could pull it out of the vacuum. And the fact that they are here, shows us, that they found a way. This is a major shock to the human system, that is in progress. I understand why people of our generation, people who aspired to positions of political leadership, etc.., never dear go near that question, because it's a worldview change, it is a fundamental worldview change. So here we are, a relatively immature species, struggling with possible self-destruction! If aligning with the torus does hold the key to a new form of clean, safe energy access, imagine the implications! This could be the most important technology breakthrough of our times! So who wouldn't want to have an energy source, that's unlimited and freely available? That turned out to be a key question, that's what led me down the next rabbit hole. It turns out that scientists as far back as the early 1900 have been developing alternative ways to access electricity without combustion. Nikola Tesla believed he had tapped into what he called "radiant energy". Many scientists believe he was accessing what's now called free energy. But before Tesla could finish the project, its financier, banker JP Morgan, who had a monopoly on the copper used for electrical lines, recognized how Tesla's invention could transmit electricity without wires. he then shut down Tesla's funding. Tesla's lab was burned down and he was ostracized, all for trying to implement his vision of unlimited energy for everyone. A modern day inventor Adam Trombly was inspired by Tesla's work and by the possibilities of the torus. Trombly built a dynamo, a direct current generator, that accessed electrical power right out of the air. We were trying to demonstrate that by mimicing the magnetic field of a planet and rotating this device, we can actually create a dynamo, that would work. And, in fact, it did work, and it does work. So when we contemplate nature, when we contemplate Jupiter or we contemplate a dynamo like the earth rotating in space, we basically have a magnet, that is rotating in space the lines of flux of the magnet are pulling down and through in this toroidal pattern of the magnetic field. It's also expanding and contracting - it's breathing. It's taking in the energy of space literally and transforming it. Right here in this toroid, we have enough energy to transform the entire earth. And that's not just a theoretical statement, it's literally true! If we contemplate the implications of this means that every single place on Earth suddenly has power, every single person on Earth suddenly has power. We have universal abundance! Trombly had been invited to demonstrate one of his generators at the UN and the U.S. Senate but these events were undermined by the first Bush administration, then the device itself was taken in a government raid. Trombly's experience isn't unique. Almost every time I found an inventor, with a promising new technology in the field of free energy, he told us similar story of suppression. Inventor John Bedini began working with Tesla's theories of radiant energy, decades ago and has produced a sortment of battery charging devices that generate more energy, than it takes to run them. He announced, that he was going to start offering them at low cost. Soon after that he was attacked in his lab and swore not to produce the devices. For his own safety, he had to let go of marketing free energy. These are all devices from labs I personally visited. The quality of this footage is obviously poor and I'm not expecting this to convince you. My point is, that being there with these inventors, accompanied by experts and seeing these new energy devices in operation convinced me that the technology is real and the implications of that to me are absolutely thrilling. Canadian John Hutchison not only created some free energy batteries but also used Tesla's theories to counter gravity, to make objects float. This could revolutionize the field of propulsion. His lab was raded and equipment was taken by police and government officials in 1978, and again in 2000. One of the scientists we were going to interview for this film, was Dr. Eugene Mallove, an engineer from MIT and Harvard and editor of "Infinite Energy" magazine, which covers both theoretical and technological developments in the new energy field. Dr. Mallove was mysteriously beaten to death in 2004. If these inventors were all hoaxers and charlatans, I wonder why are they being suppressed so consistently and so brutally? I asked free energy inventor Adam Trombly, why he thought this technology was being suppressed and if the UFO phenomenon was related. We've had major military people, taking great risk to themself, say, yes, these things are real. Why do you think the military-industrial complex doesn't want that statement to be made? Because you start thinking about, what kind of technology is behind that. That's the bottom line. The suppression of UFO phenomena is hand in hand with the suppression of so-called free energy. The energy is extracted from the fabric of space around us, which means it can not be metered. This is a direct threat to the single largest industry in the world: energy It's goodbye Exxon Mobil, goodbye oil, goodbye coal goodbye linear transmission of electricity through power lines. All that gone! Unfortunately, it's someone's 200 trillion dollar piggy bank. The proven oil, gas and coal reserves are worth over 200 trillion dollars. This information coming out ... would completely change geopolitical power ... more than anything else in recorded human history. And would happen in a generation! I started to examine the breakthrough solutions and, to much to my surprise, These concepts have been proven in hundreds of laboratories throughout the world. And yet, they have not rally seen the light of day. Rather than smashing things together and trying to control the explosion, these new technologies rely on blending, of dancing with what naturally is. The common denominator of all the free energy devices, I have seen, is that it mimic, in one way or another, the torus energy shape. You don't have to believe in free energy technology, to be concerned about the repression of ideas and inventions. I found myself thinking, what better way to justify our dependence on oil, coal, nuclear and other dangerous and dirty technologies, and to claim there's no better, cheaper alternatives? It was my beloved wife and creative partner Kimberly, who kept bringing me back to the human implications of my scientific research. For me, as intrigueing as the torus and ETs and free energy are, the most compelling question was: Would understanding these things really help alleviate human suffering in any way? And it turnes out, it can! So much of the pain on the planet has to do with the lack of access to energy. Can you stay warm? Can you get food and water? Can you get hospital care? All that has to do with energy access. If there is a fundamental pattern - which makes sense to me, that evolution would be efficient in that way and we can align with that pattern to create new technologies, that would solve these problems, that it's worthy to me to open my mind to these socially taboo subjects. If the new energy technologies were to be set free worldwide, the change would be profound. It would affect everybody, it would be applicable everywhere. These technologies are absolutely the most important thing that's happened in the history of the world. So given the stakes, I decided to ask: Who's benefiting from suppressing scientific research? Whose wealth and power are threatened by access to clean free energy? Who has a motive to set up a world, where so few have so much and so many have so little? As an independent researcher, I followed one of the cardinal rules of investigative journalism: If a story doesn't make sense, follow the money! bFollowing the Money/b Our being dependent on oil insures, that energy corporations continue to reap phenomenal profits. I see them commiting huge resources to undermine energy alternatives to control global reserves and maintain high oil prices. They have enough money and influence, to suppress anything that might threaten the monopoly. So who's behind the huge energy corporations? The Rockefeller's oil empire got started in 1870, when John D. Rockefeller founded Standard Oil and became America's first billionaire. Standard Oil has since morfed into Exxon Mobil and others. And Rockefellers control our food as well! They were primarly responsible for the global shift to large-scale petroleum-based agriculture I remember the so-called "green revolution" in the 60s and 70s. Like most people, I thought it was a great thing. It was however based on the planting of huge plots with a single crop, using vast amounts of oil-based fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides. The Green Revolution was the brainchild of the Rockefeller Foundation's natural science division, in partnership with large agricultural corporations. Petroleum-based agriculture provided vast new profits for the oil industry, but never lived up to its promises of ending hunger and promoting health. The Green Revolution did at first increase productivity, because every bit of soil was being used for immediate production, but its true cost can now be seen. Taxpayers pay billions in subsidies, to giant agricultural corporations. Small family farms have all but disappeared. Biodiversity is destroyed, toxic chemicals poison farmworkers and pollute the land, water and our food supply, endangering the health of us all, as of 2010, aproximally one in every seven people worldwide did not have enough to eat. The giant corporations were brought us chemicals for chemical industrial agriculture. And we were talking about three instruments to consolidate the food chain. The first was genetic engineering as a way of control. The second was patenting seed and patenting life as a way of control, declaring seeds to be private property treating the saving of seeds by farmers as a crime, as a theft of intellectual property. And the third was so-called free trade treaties, that would drop ordinary people, farmers, growers off their freedom, to save seed. The design of "terminator" technology to create sterile seed in order to impose even more dependence of humanity on a handful of corporations, it would be ultimate step in this. We are of what we are doing with seeds, literally, for the first time creating a new colonization, which I call the colonization of the future. Who controls the food supply, controls the people; who controls the energy, can control whole continents; who controls the money, can control the world. Henry Kissinger, 1973 So in two srucial areas, energy and food, same elite banking families and their corporations have taken control and the consequences have been devastating. For me it was overwhelming at first, to discover such a monopoly of influence, but I knew it was important, like learning you have a tough, but treatable disease, it helps to understand, what's causing it and how it operates, if the goal is to cure. So I continued my investigation. If oil and food are controlled by the big banking families where else does their influence show up? As I followed the money, I began to see the same pattern of control in just about every area of our lives and always found the same families in charge, either directly through their banks and corporations, or indirectly through their major foundations. Again it was the Rockefellers, who created the National Education Association, with help from the Carnegie Foundation and later from the Ford Foundation. What the captains of industry wanted from our schools, was an obedient and docile work force, who would be manageable employees and eager consumers. Schools are to establish fixed habits of response to Authority. That's why it takes 12 years for you to respond reflexibly, when anyone in the position of authority, tells you what to do. Like education, health is another area dominated by big money and corporations. The American Medical Association, for example, is largely funded by the Rockefellers, who use their funding to influence AMA research and decision making. The average MD has four years of medical school, takes one course in nutrition, two and half hours in many cases and these materials used - curriculum materials - are supplied by the National Dairy Council and the National Livestock and Meat Board and other industries, including the Sugar Association, with products to sell, that actually undermine our health in the first place Unfortunately, the way the system of medicine is set up, medical education is primarly funded by pharmaceutical companies, so there's a motive to make and sell as many drugs as possible. It is also a time effective way of making money for the phycician, for the pharmaceutical company, for the whole medical establishment. But it's really perpetuating the problems, it was ment to alleviate. Side effects may include nausea, dry mouth and constipation. Increases in white blood cells, which can be serious ... Sexual side effects, diarrhea, nausea and sleepiness. Can lead to coma or death. How far will these forces go, to make a profit? Would they actually suppress cures for diseases, the way they suppressed free energy technology? Sadly my research has shown me, the answer is yes. One well documented example is the case of Dr. Royal Rife. In the 1920s Dr. Rife invented one of the most advanced microscopes of his time. He also developed a new technique he called coordinated resonance. which was apparently able to destroy cancerous tumors, as well as viruses. In 1934, in clinical trials affiliated with the University of Southern California, Rife's treatment was tested on 16 terminally ill cancer patients. Within three months, they were all sucessfully cured. Soon after, a lab testing Rife's technology was burned down and a fatuous lawsuit was filed. Through the efforts of Morris Fishbein, head of the jurnal of American Medical Association, Rife was essentially shut down and ruined, his brilliant and promising work all but forgotten. It was really hard for me to consider, that someone might actually be supressing cures. and cancer has run through my family like a raging river. I found out that it's all about patents. If a pharmaceutical company can patent and make money from treatment, especially one, that we have to keep on using, then that's what we get. Otherwise we don't even hear about it. It's not just Rife, who got shut down. Rene Caisse had an old indian ojibwa formula, that was effective. Harry Hoxsey and Max Gerson had natural remedies, that worked. But you know and you look them out, the AMA makes them sound like complete crooks. And that's for following the money has been so helpful, because the same powers, who control the AMA and their research and funding, control the pharmaceuticals. So there's a multi-trillion dollar financial incentive, to supress cures, that can't be patented. Knowing that cures exist, has not taken away the anguish I feel from losing so many people, I love, to cancer. It's giving me something really satisfying to do with the pain and I believe when we take the love and devotion that we have, for anyone who's died and who will die unnecessarily and are direct it to developing and getting these cures out to people, who need them, we can break this cancer legacy and heal. As difficult as it was for me, I've come to an inescapable and profoundly disturbing conclusion: I belive that an elite group of people and the corporations they run, have gained control over not just our energy, food supply, education and health care, but over virtually every aspect of our lives. And they do it by controlling the world of finance, not by creating more value, but by actually controlling the source of money. When I followed the money, I found that it took me up the levels of a pyramid. Here we are at the bottom level, going about our daily lives! Above us is government, people who are given a monopoly on force and use it to tax and control us, whether or not we agree. But who controlls them? At the next level are the corporations. Many would say that it is now corporations and not nation states, that rule the world. They call it a"corporatocracy". To acquire the world's resources and control the markets, this corporatocracy must to have access to cheap money. The big corporations get their loans with special rates from big banks, which means that those who control the major banks, the money elite, ultimately control the corporations. As I followed the money, I learned that almost everything I once believed about money, is simply not true. It's interesting how few questions we actually ask about very everyday things, like when we go into a bank and we ask for a loan, say $ 50,000 dollars, 50,000 pounds. What actually happens? See, most people live their lives, based on a kind of vague image of what happens. What actually happens, is you ask for 50,000 pounds, they type into your account 50,000 pounds. That's all they do! They don't mint any coins, print any money they don't move any precious metal anywhere they just put 50,000 pounds into your account in a computer screen. From that moment, you start paying interest on money, that has never, does not and will never exist. It turns out, that banks actually have about 9 times as much money loaned out, as they have on reserve in their vaults. This is possible because of what's referred to as fractional reserve lending. The way it works is that the Federal Reserve or the central bank in any country is legally allowed to determine the amount of bank must have on reserve. In the U.S. it's currently around 10%. So if you deposit $ 10,000 dollars into the bank, the bank sets aside 10% or $ 1,000 dollars and then loans out the rest of your money. The way it works is, say another person comes into the bank and asks for a car loan of $ 9,000 dollars. At this moment, the bank loans out the $ 9,000 dollars, from your original deposit. It isn't there anymore! The borrower then pays the person selling the car and they go to deposit the money into another bank, which is part of the same central banking system. This $ 9,000 dollars is treated as a new deposit and the process continues. The money gets redeposited and reloaned, until the initial deposit of $ 10,000 dollars becomes $ 100,000 dollars. The banking system just created $ 90,000 dollars by loaning out your money. Apparently it began with the goldsmiths in the seventeenth century, when people were trading in gold. Gold was heavy to carry around, so people stored the actual metal in vaults and traded receipts instead. Those receipts were the first paper money. Since only a few people would withdraw their gold at any given time, the vault owners, basically the new bankers, began creating receipts for more metals, than they actually held. They loaned out those receipts and charged interest on money, on gold that they didn't really had. That's how our so-called fractional reserve system was born. In this system the bankers get to make money out of nothing, while the rest of us have to work hard to earn it. It has created a modern form of serfdom, where the mass of society is now working, to pay off their debt to the banks "It is well enough that people of the nation do not understand our banking and monetary system, for if they did, I believe there would be a revolution before tomorrow morning. Henry Ford, 1922" Under this fractional reserve scheme we inevitably become debt slaves to a ruling class of financial elite. Not because they are better or smarter than anyone else, but because they have rigged the system to benefit themselves at the expense of most people on the planet. Catherine Austin Fitts is an expert on this issue. He was assistant secretary of housing and urban development under president George Bush senior and then an adviser to the Clinton administration. Lets set up a game of Monopoly and you want to buy a part place, What I can continually do is just print money, give myself more money, lower the value of your money by printing more. No mather how hard working you are or how successful you are I can always end up buying you for free. So how come if you or I make money, it's called counterfeiting but if the banks do it, it's increasing the money supply? How did the banks get this power? This is Jekyll Island, where in 1910, representatives from the Rockefeller family, Rothschilds, Morgans and other private bankers gathered secretly, to draft the legislation, that would create the Federal Reserve. Ed Griffin literally wrote the book on what happened on Jekyll Island. Central banks are banking cartels, which have gone into partnership with the respected governments, on the countries where they operate and they've been given monopolistic power over the creation of the nations money supply. That what the politicians handed to them as a gift, you might say, for the partnership Now, in return, what do the bankers do for the politicians? I promise to create money out of nothing, now that they got this legal power to do it, anytime the government needs it. And since 2008, we witnessed the greatest fake money printing run in recorded history. This financial sleight of hand disguises the cost, hides who's to blame and leaves us as debt slaves working to pay off the bill. I find it revealing, that in the same year the Federal Reserve was founded, 1913 the internal revenue service was also established. An income tax was then instigated, so you and I would have to pay the politicians debt, plus interest, to the bankers. The problem is we have a privately owned central bank system, in U.S. disguised as a government-owned system. If you look in the phone book here in the Washington DC area, you look up for Federal Reserve and the blue government pages, it's not there. It's in the white pages, right next to Federal Express. It's a privately owned central bank. What is the proper relationship ... What should be the proper relationship between the Chairman of the Fed and a president of U.S.? - Well, first of all, the Federal Reserve is an independent agency. And that means basically, that ... there is no other agency of government, which can overrule actions that we take. ... There is no other agency of government, which can overrule actions that we take. We have a private bank, that prints money on behalf of the Treasury. The Federal Reserve prints money on a debt based system, which creates scarcity, but it puts a group of insiders in a position, of having access to all the data about economy, when we don't. So you have a small group of bankers, who understand the idea of how money works in economy and gives them the ability to print money in a way that the insiders are protected and everybody else is drained. Catherine went on to compare a healthy economy to a vibrant torus, balanced, freely flowing and energized throughout, in contrast to what's happening in our current economy. What we have is a system that's very dynamic and it's trying to optimize. But intertwined in the core of it, we have a tapeworm. The way a tapeworm works in your body is to inject the chemical into your body, that makes you crave what's good for the tapeworm and bad for you. We have a parasite, that's very much manipulating and engorging itself at the expense of the whole. We live in a tapeworm economy, where the financial elite are the tapeworm, and they're feeding on us and don't like it, when people blow their cover. After Catherine began exposing government corruption at the highest levels, the FBI raided her company and ceased its assets. She was dragged through the courts for ten years, before being found innocent. So we got the Federal Reserve, a privately owned corporation with a monopoly on creating money, but with no countability, backed up by a government with a monopoly on force. The country got sold on the Fed as an institution that would help stabilize the economy and remain independent of politics. But in fact, in close to a century of existence, The Federal Reserve has done just the opposite. Since they took charge, we've been robbed through inflation and the purchasing power of the dollar has declined more than 96%. And the wealth gap makes it clear, most of the money is going to a very few. Only 16 years after the Federal Reserve was in power, America experienced the Great Depression. My research revealed that before the great crash in 1929, elite bankers pulled their money out of the stock market. After the crash they used that money, to buy up cheap stocks and smaller failing banks for pennys on the dollar. Among the bankers who consolidated their wealth this way, were the Rothschilds, Rockefellers and Morgans. A similar scenario played out in the 2008 financial collapse, with the same bankers benefiting. In the years leading up to the collapse, the biggest banks, including Bank of America, City Group and Chase, controlled by the Rothschilds, Rockefellers and Morgans, were bundling and trading bad loans, that they knew would eventually fail It's like putting rotten oranges in a box and selling them as grade AAA. The bundlers of the dept knew it was only a matter of time, before someone would open that box and see that the content was worthless, They were the ones, who packed the boxes in the first place When the rotten oranges, what we hear about is unsound loans, derivatives and credit default swaps were finally discovered, everyone was impacted. People lost their homes, their jobs, their businesses and their retirements. Meanwhile, the biggest banks, who created the problem in the firstplace, were the ones who got bailed out. Why is that? Why would the Federal Reserve give trillions to the banks, even though the majority of Americans were against bailing them out? And why not help those most in need, rather than the perpetrators of financial collapse? My research led me to believe that the same people who created the Federal Reserve the Rothschilds, the Rockefellers and the Morgans, still control it and use this scheme, to bail themself out at our expence "[The banks] are still the most powerful lobby on Capital Hill and they, frankly, own the place. " I'm convinced that the near collapse of the economy in 2008, resulted from an orchestrated "pump and dump" scheme, designed and executed by the big bankers, to consolidate wealth and power. David Icke explains how he sees the Federal Reserve rigging the so-called "business cycles". Stage One is like throwing a fishing line out Stage One ... you put lots of money - units of exchange - into circulation. You do this by pushing interest rates down by making lots of loans. This is the part of a cycle, we call a boom. Because there's lots of units of exchange in circulation there's lots of money changing hands. That generates lots of economic activity, that generates jobs and as more and more money is spent, there's more demand. So companies take out more loans, and fresh air money to increase their production. People get confident in their everyday lives: "Hey, you know, I work for this company, they got lots of orders, it's really going great, my job is safe I tell you what, we can have a bigger house." Then they start to change it! What they do is they pull the fishing line in. They push interest rates up! Now fewer people are taking out loans and they make the criteria for having a loan from the bank stronger anyway And also, now, as interest rates have gone up, a larger part of people's income is going to bay back the extra interest and not being circulated in buying things. Suddenly ... there's nothing like as much money in circulation and therefore, fewer things are being bought. Companies start to go down in terms of their profits, they start to shed jobs and they start to go out of business. People lose their jobs, they can't pay the mortgage anymore, of the big house they took out in the good times. Now, what the banks are doing, is starting to roll the fishing line in, because, as they go bankrupt, companies and individuals banks get the real wealth, the property, the land, the resources, they signed the loan, for lending nearly figures on a screen. Now this economic cycle of fishing line out, fishing line back, lots of units in circulation - pull them in, has been going on for centuries. And what it's done ... it's stolen and accumulated the real wealth of the world in the hands of the few. "Give me control over a nation's currency and I care not who makes it's laws" At the international level, central bankers use the World Bank and International Monetary Fund, to make more money, while exploiting the resources of countries they lend to, bankrupting them in the process. The central bank of central banks is the Rothschild created Bank for International Settlements. The elite are positioning themselves to control access to virtually everything we need to survive. Nomather were you go in the world, the money is controlled by the banking system. They decide if people eat or if they don't eat, who's a billionaire and who lives on less than a dollar a day. He who controls the money, controls the world and very few control the money. At this point, my view of the world had been turned upside down. I was struggling with the realisation that the failure and suffering of so many is actually a success and fulfillment for a few, the elite central bankers, who fooled the world into letting them create money. They already have vast fortunes. So what is their endgame? What is their ultimate agenda? bUncovering The Global Domination Agenda/b "When an honest man discovers he is mistaken, he will either cease being mistaken, or cease being honest. " I kept running across compelling evidence and credible experts, saying that the secret agenda of the banking elite is nothing less than total global domination. At first I resisted the idea, but I was committed to finding out, what was keeping us from thriving, nomather where it might lead One night I woke up at 3 am, with a burning question: If this small group wanted to dominate the entire world, What would they need to control, to accomplish it? I jumped out of bed and started making a list. First and foremost they had to control money. And they do! Controlling money allows them to run anything else. They need to control energy. And they do! They already control big agriculture and world trade they're buying up water supplies worldwide. They've got health in their pocket and they are trying to suppress natural alternatives. Mainly, they have to control what information we get and how we react to. In America, the Internet, our greatest tool for communication and grassroots organizing is currently not controlled or censored, but its open status is being attacked from all sides. Governments, corporations and the UN are all attempting to take control, for complete domination dissent has to be controlled. They need to take away our rights, spy on ordinary citizens and track every aspect of our lives. As the day dawned, I knew that a powerful elite had almoust everything set up to rule the world and I had a frighting realization, that Big Brother is not just coming, he's here now! We're already in the matrix, So how do we get out? To envision that, I realized I needed to discover what their ruling structure looks like and how it works. A relatively small group of families, especially the Rothschilds, Rockefellers, Morgans and Carnegies, along with the Harrimans, Schiffs and the Warburgs, have been leading the controlling elite in the west for generations. I'm not implying that every individual in these families is aware or active in the global domination agenda. However, I am convinced that the heads of these dynasties control the corporate and banking interests to carry out the sinister scheme that's destroying so many lives. Those secretly driving the agenda have been known by many names. Late reports confirm that they meet throughout the world behind closed doors to discuss their agenda. Then like clockwork, their plans begin to show up in the media finance, corporate, government and military arenas. Of course not everyone involved in these groups is in on the decision making. There is a hierarchy of knowledge and participation. One of the primary symbols of the controlling elite is the all-seeing eye. It's on the dollar bill, it's on the American mass surveillance system, initially called "Total Information Awareness" it's on the British intelligence agency MI-5 and it even oversees the Supreme Court complex in Israel, designed and funded entirely by the Rothschilds. I believe they've taken the majestic image of the Cheops pyramid and it's legendary metallic capstone and perverted the meaning, to represent those at the top, being able to track and control all those under them. One of the painful ways this information has been used is by people who want to promote anti-semitism. They wrongly call this a "Jewish agenda" and continue the ongoing racism, that undermines and destroys so many lives. Let me be clear: this is definitely not a Jewish agenda It's been documented the central bankers even funded both sides of WW II as well as some of the corporations associated with Hitler's atrocities against the Jews. Since these people have more money than their families would need for generations and since they have the power to create money I don't believe wealth is their endgoal. After you have all the material things that you could possibly want in life, what is left to excite you? And for many people the answer is power! Global power! They became intellectually elite, they began to think that they had a plan, that was better than anybody else's plan, they got the idea, that freedom is dangerous. If you give people freedom, you know what? They propably not going to use it wisely like we think they should. We are smarter than they are and for their own good, we should rule them. As I came to accept the idea of a ruling elite planning for total global domination, I began to hear the same people, actually talking more boldly and publicly about it, only they call it the "new world order". When we are successfull and we will be we have a real chance of this new world order. It is a new world order with significantly different and radically new challenges. The new world order can be created - it's a great opportunity! "There is urgent need for a true world political authority." Given the condition of our world, a new world order can sound like a great idea, but I had to distinguish between what I was discovering about global domination, a one world government run by an elite few and the reality of our global interconnectedness, which is the realization that at a fundamental and even spiritual level, are not separate, we are all connected. But the agenda for global domination is really the exact opposite. It's a "divide and conquer" strategy to keep us all betted against eachother thinking that it's the democrats or republicans, the liberals or conservatives, who are the problem, when both parties are ultimately serving the same plan. I belive we're heading toward a totalitarian world authority, actually a military dictatorship run by a tiny elite, who have all the power and make all the rules. If they succeed, there will be nowhere to run, nowhere to hide. Think about it! The whole notion of conspiracy has been so ridiculed, that it's socially challenging just to consider it and there's always a reasonable sounding story to explain any one incident at a time. I personally used to try to justify how the same people consistently ended up with more money and more control, by thinking: "They must just be taking advantage of the situation, but not actually causing it." But after nearly a decade of putting the issues and the evidence together, I am convinced, it is not random and if few very powerful banking elite families and their political and corporate partners do have an agenda to dominate and control the rest of us. Once I got the reality and the scope of the agenda, I really had to think, how much do I want to know about this. Do I want to focus on the worst of what human beings are capable of? We decided it is worth knowing who these people are and how their organizations operate, because on the other side of the rage and the sadness are clarity and strength, the power we have to focus our efforts effectively, now that we understand what's really going on. The greatest prison, where people live in, is the fear of what other people think. What happened to me, as a result of the ridicule I went through, is that I stepped out of the fear of what other people thought and it's only when you do it, that you realize, what a prison you lived in before. And what it gave me was a personal understanding, of how easy it is for a few to control the many. All you have to do is dictate the norms in society, what is considered right and wrong, moral and immoral, good and bad, sane and insane, possible and impossible and you build what I call a "a hustle-free zone" and if you live your life within that zone of perception belief and what you say and think, then people will leave you alone because you are normal. Once you step out of that place and you start to express your uniqueness, what the Illuminati have created, is a whole human population of the prison wardens, who are jumping on those, that are stepping out of the norm. And it's interesting, when you get to the edge of that hustle-free zone by what you say and think, you're not thinking: "If I do, that about the head of the World Bank?". No! We say "What will mother think?" or the guys down the bar or people at work, what would they say?. And what the Illuminati have done, by creating the norms, they have created an absolute army of people, to impose those norms on eachother. Their grand strategy for global dominance is already being implemented. They're carving up the world into superstates, that transcend national boundaries, so that we are easier for them to manage. They have already established the European Union and the African Union. Politicians from the U.S., Canada and Mexico, under the title of the Security and Prosperity Partnership, have been working on the northern part, of what could arguably be called plans for an American Union. This has been going on for years, without citizen or congressional consent. A Pacific Union is already in process. This is the organizational chart for global tyranny, the structure for complete control. Here are two of the most powerful men in Europe, talking about moving to a single world government. It is extremely important ... that we, in this new ownership of global governments, had particulary on both sides of the Atlantic, the implementation of the same rules, in the same fashion. 2009 is also the first year of global governance, with the establishment of G20 in the middle of the financial crisis. On the international level, the central banking elite have put up huge organizations in place, to implement their policies, including the World Trade Organization, the World Health Organization, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. John Perkins is a man who knows from decades of his own experience, as a so-called "economic hitman", how the collusion of banks, corporations and governments has taken over countries around the world. We used many techniques, but propably the most common is that we go to a country that has resources that are corporations covered, like oil and will arrange a huge loan to that country, from a organization like the World Bank or one of his sisters. But almost all of the money goes to U.S. corporations, not to the country itself, corporations like Bechtel and Halliburton, General Motors, General Electric - These type of organizations. And they build huge infrastructure projects in that country: power plants, highways, ports, industrial parks, things that serve the very rich and seldom even reach the poor. In fact the poor suffer, because the loans have to be repaid and they're huge loans and the repayment on the names of the poor will not get education, health and other social services and the country is left holding a huge debt by intention. We go back to the economic hitmen of this country and say: "Look, you owe us a lot of money, you can't repay your debts, so give us a pound of flesh. " As soon as one of those anti-american presidents is elected, one of us goes in and says: "Hey, congratulations Mr. president! Now that you're president, I just want to tell you that I can make you very very rich - You and your family - it's several hundred million dollars in this pocket, if you play the game our way. If you decide not to, in this pocket I have a gun with a bullet with your name on it, in case you decide to keep your campaign promises and throw us out. Sell our oil companies, your oil, real cheap or vote with us at the next UN vote or send troops and support of ours to some place in the world, such as Iraq. " And in that way we managed to build a world empire, with very few people actually knowing, that we've done this. Like many people, I thought a conspiracy for global domination could not really work, because basicly people are just not that competent. I thought there'se no way, they could pull out such a scheme at the necessary level of control and secrecy. One false hopes is, this is all happening because government is incompetent and it's a giant mistake and people really don't know. And of course that's great air cover for the fact that this really does know, where it's going and it's going where it wants to go and it's being successful at it. - Still I wondered how could something that is so big and corrupt be kept secret? - It's a simple structure and if it wasn't simple, it wouldn't work And it can be likened to a compartmentalized pyramid. If you look at any organization today, Whether it is a transnational corporation, university, government, secret society, they're all structures of pyramid. And as the CIA and other intelligence agencies talk about. They have this "need to know" system Only let people know as much they need to make their contribution and no more. So, you take a bank, an individual bank, not that there is such a thing. At the bottom you got the people you see when you pass a check over the counter in the bank. They don't know what the bank manager behind them knows and is discussing. They only know, what they need to know, to do their job. The bank manager in the office behind them, he or she doesn't know, what's happening at the next level and they don't know what's happening at the next level and, eventually, you got a tiny few people at the peak of the pyramid of that banking structure, are the only ones, that know, what the real agenda of the bank is and what the direction is that they are going and why. This kind of compartmentalisation explains how the Manhattan Project, which developed the atom bomb in WW II was kept secret, despite having 130,000 people working on it. When I first found out the scale and intentions of the agenda, I felt like a had a flu for about two weeks. But then it dawned on me! Here is this well planned, well orchestrated attempt, to squelch human potential and still, our brilliance shines through. Even though we've been systematically distracted and repressed people have come up with innovative, ingenious solutions to a huge number of problems, that we face. It's not our fault, that we didn't recognized, how organized and intentional this scheme is. It's our challenge! I looked at the kind of world, the controling elite have already given us and I had to ask: "What kind of world would we be living in if they had absolute and complete domination over everyone, everywhere? ". In this new world order of theirs a tiny number of people would exercise total control, over the lives of everyone, through a system on intrusive surveillance, violent suppression of dissent and dept slavery. Imagine tiny islands of opulence surrounded by a sea of misery, where the mission of the military is to protect the have's, from the have not's. I've come to believe that their endgame is truly ominous and that they will stop at nothing, to continue implementing their plan. As difficult as it may be for Americans to accept, I'm now convinced, the agenda of the global elite includes destroying the financial strength and sovereignty of the U.S. With its history of free speech and armed revolt, America represents the major hurdle to global consolidation of power. If they can suceed in bringing down this country, I believe the international elite intend to transfer the power and productivity of Americans to their one world dictatorship, gradually taking over our lives, by what David Icke calls "the totalitarian tiptoe". Think about it! They got us so deep in debt, we can never repay it, they're collapsing the dollar and they're intending to replace it with a global IMF currency. This press for a global cashless electronic currency would enable a central authority to financially disable any individual or group in an instant. Now, for the first time in history, international taxes are being proposed under the pretence of adressing climate change. Like a Trojan horse the suggested treaty unvealed, that the 2008 Copenhagen Climate Conference, appeal to our concern for the environment, while distracting us from the fact, that this unprecedented carbon tax would be paid to the World Bank and enforced by global police. There are ways to adress our obvious need to curtail pollution without creating a tax base for tyranny. You want to change society in a way that, you know, that if you do it openly, you know, you're gona get adverse reaction So you don't do it openly, you play problem-reaction-solution. Stage 1: you create a problem. It could be a terrorist bomb, it could be a 9/11, it could be a run on a currency it could be a stock market collapse, a government collapse. You tell the people your version of: a) Who did it! and b) Why? And at this point, problem-reaction-solution would fall down, if we had a media, that was in any way related to journalism. Instead, the mainstream media is a public relations office, for the official version of events. Turnes out president George W. Bush was right, about Saddam Hussein hiding weapons of mass destruction. The virtually only way or source of information the public have about the event, is from the mainstream media. And they're looking at stage 2 of problem-reaction solution is the reaction of outrage of key, key, key fear and they want the public to say to the government: "Something must be done ... this can't go on ... what are you going do about it?". And this allows stage three, which is those who created the problem, clean that public reaction with a false story to then openly offer the solution to the problems they have themselves created. The idea of using tragedy - manufactured or simply utilised - was deeply significant in my finally understanding, how far these people will go to achieve their goals. It's a documented fact, that we entered the Vietnam war under false pretenses. Former Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara has acknowledged, that the attack on a ships in the Gulf Tonkin didn't actually take place. Our judgement, that we have been attacked on that day, was wrong. It did matter! More recently, former President Bush used nonexistent weapons of mass destruction, as a pretext for invading Iraq. Tactics like this are sometimes referred to as "false flag" operations. An increasingly more people believe that 9/11 was a "false flag" operation by the global elite, in order to set the stage for taking over Middle East oil and dismantling U.S. constitutional protection. Most of what's needed for a police state is actually already in place. Right now in America any of us can be imprisoned without a warning or due cause and we can be kidnapped, tortured and assassinated legally if the government decides, what we're doing is a threat to their plan. All they have to do, is name us as a suspect in their so-called war on terror. We're being watched more and more. In 2010 there were 30 million surveillance cameras recording us in the U.S. alone. When we demonstrate, we're now relegated to what's euphemistically called "free speech zones". Zones for free speech? Every phone call and e-mail we send is collected and archived and can be inspected at any time. our Drivers licenses and passports have computer chips implanted in them, to track our every move. And now, hospital patients are getting these same chips implanted under their skin. In fact, it was Procter & Gamble who developed these chips, initially for tracking their products. It's always offerd as a way to help, But even an Assistant Director of CIA has admitted it's an entry point to getting all of us chipped, for better tracking and control. These would be controllers through the U.S. Space Command have outlined a plan called "full spectrum dominance." Sophisticated satellite surveillance as well as directed energy and laser weapons, which are already developed, have the ability to target dissenters anywhere on Earth. I believe they are also trying to insure they can deal effectively with any resistance. FEMA containment camps and railroad cars with shackles have been recently constructed or refurbished all over the U.S., for use in what officials call: "Times of pandemic or civil unrest." "Social experiment in China under Chairman Mao's leadership, is one of the most important and successful in human history. " David Rockefeller, 1973 That "social experiment" killed more than 70 million Chinese people during "peacetime". There's one more brutal realisation about the global domination agenda, that I need to share. This was a horrible one for me to grasp, but, without it, this investigation would be dangerously incomplete and our solutions strategies would be inadequately enformed. In my research I came across convincing evidence, that their plan actually includes the elimination of the majority of the worlds population. As sick as it sounds, it makes sense, that they would be better positioned to succeed, in their quest for absolute control, if there are fewer of us to manage. Every time I thought, "They wouldn't do that" I discovered I was wrong. I found startling documentation, that eugenics is one of the core pillars of their plan. Eugenics is the practice were some people get to decide, who's worthy to breed and who's not Sterilization is one of the many insidious ways, this covert plan is being implemented. In 1904, the Carnegies funded the first eugenics laboratory in Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island. The Rockefellers funded involuntary sterilization of people of color, through their eugenics programs and funded the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in Germany, to further the racial supremacy agenda, later adopted by Hitler. In 2007, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Homeland Security funded a proposed project - the aerial spray over 7 million people, in urban areas of northern California. After citizens organized against the plan, officials were forced to reveal, that the spray included multiple toxins, that can cause disease and disrupt the reproductive cycle. Fortunately, civil resistance stopped the project. The U.S. government has been caught over 30 times, covertly experimenting with toxic chemicals on its own citizens. From soldiers, prisoners and the Native American reservations, to entire towns and counties. Mass covert sterilization of women and girls, usually using secret additives to vaccines, has been exposed in Brazil Puerto Rico, Nicaragua, Mexico and the Philippines. Thise have been under the auspices of such programs as: John D. Rockefeller's Population Council, The U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare when Nelson Rockefeller was under secretary, and the Rockefeller founded World Health Organization. Novartis and Syngenta, in cooperation with the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Department of Defense, have field tested a spermicidal strain of GMO corn, that would render male consumers infertile. This was quietly announced as a "... contribution to the world overpopulation problem." The list goes on and on. Right now, global human fertility is plunging. I'm convinced that this is no accident. For me, being willing to consider and research a direct depopulation agenda, was critical to my getting a whole picture and to generating responses, that could be sufficient to the task we face. I know this might sound crazy, but imagine that it's 1932 and we're in Germany. If I told you, that in the next decade, millions of people would be exterminated, you would say "impossible, no one would do such a thing". This is what depopulation looks like today. I'm convinced that I'm not overstating the case. Could I be wrong? Perhaps. But what if I'm not? We are at a critical fork in the road of human evolution. One road is leading toward tyranny and possible self destruction. The other would lead us to a peaceful, healthy civilization, based on honouring the rights and freedom of every single person on the planet. To set off in this new direction, it's up to you and me to clear that road. The time has come to say: "Enough." "There is another way!" I belive, that together we have the knowledge, the resources and the solutions, to meet that challenge. bCreating Solutions/b I see this process as nothing less, than a struggle for the soul of humanity. It begins with a shift in worldview, answering the question: "Who are we really?". What is human nature? Are we humans what the elite would have us believe, stupid greedy creatures, who, if left of our own devices, would evolve into violence and chaos? And so, for our own good, must be ruled over by a self appointed elite? Or are we naturally caring and creative? I belive, when people are healthy and have what we need to survive, we can create a world based on integrity, ... freedom, and compassion, a world where everyone can thrive. Which of these two views will shape our future? That's our choice, now! The agenda of the ruling elite is the product of a destructive worldview, based on their beliefs, that there's not enough to go around, that some people are more deserving than others and that their safety depends on maintaining absolute control over the rest of us. In short, their worldview is based on scarcity and fear. But as powerful as they are, the architects of the new world order can not create their threatful vision, without our collusion. To stop them, to render their agenda obsolete, We have to wake up, we have to take action. It is like the last effort, of a particular fase of civilization, it's its last gasp really. And now we often use the metaphor of the caterpillar becoming the butterfly. Because the caterpillar crunches its way through the ecosystem, it's very destructive, it eats 300 times of its weight in a day until it's so bloated that it hangs itself up and goes asleep and its skin turns into a hardened chrysalis. Then in its body you get these imaginal cells - Biologists actually call them that - forming within the caterpillars body. The caterpillar's body then actually becomes a nutritive soup for those cells. But what's important about that metaphor is that the old and the new coexist for a while. And it's the job of the caterpillar to preserve its life It's a desperate government, that we have now trying to control oil in the Middle-East and one in now to promote nuclear energy and all these things, they know better, but they have to play out the role of predicting themselves - it's their job. And if you love butterflies, you don't go around steping on caterpillars. So we can't hate them, it doesn't do any good. But if you want alternative energy, you don't ask an oil economy administration to produce it for you. We have to produce it, we imagine our cells have to show, that it's cheaper, more efficient and more effective. Our job is to build the new world. If we had the vision and a worldview that says "our crisis is a birth" and everybody is needed, and everybody will have more of what they really want, You could turn this desperate world into a renaissance of human creativity and love. It may seem that the controlling elite has all the cards, but we have many advantages of our own. First lets talk numbers Very few people consciously perpetrating the domination agenda. Most of those helping to implement the plan don't understand the whole picture, of what they're part of. By my calculations, we outnumber the actual architects of the plan, by more than a million to 1, in the U.S. alone. Entrepreneur and environmentalist Paul Hawken, estimates that there are now well over one million organizations in the world, that work toward social and environmental justice comprising the largest social movement in the history of humankind. This movement, when connected electronically could become the network of networks, that will be the most powerful activist force for change, ever. If you look at the people, who are involved with restoring this Earth and stopping the damage and resisting the depredation and nurturing change, in reimagining, what it means to be a human being and if you're not optimistic, then you might want to get your heart checked, you know because there is an extraordinary, beautiful, gorgeus, fierce group of people in this world, who are taking this on. The second important advantage for us is that all the power centers, that the elite controls require our participation. If enough of us have withdraw our support, their plan can't work. This is true of the central banks, the military, the corporate media, the government and more. And following the models of Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr. we have the power of nonviolent nonparticipation. It takes tremendous energy, resources and deception, to try to dominate the lives of others. In moving toward freedom, on the other hand, we have on our side the evolutionary life force and what Gandhi called "Satyagraha" the simple power of truth. In India we have thousands of villages, which are now freedom zones. So we will not accept patenty, we will not cooperate with it, just like Gandhi did not cooperate with authorities. We will not allow chemicals and genetically engineered crops to enter our ecosystems, because they threaten biodiversity. And this freedom movement, which is a freedom movement for all species, not just for individual humans, is something that's going so fast and is reflected in the movement for GMO-free zones in Europe. I turn my back and there's another thousand GMO-free zones: The freedom zones, around the seed, around the food, are creating massive shifts. In Bolivia, a grassroots movement took to the streets, relentlessly banging pots and pans and eventually stopped the foreign corporate takeover of their water resources. Although very little is shown in the corporate media, there are countless success stories going on every day, all over the world. The population of Hawaii approved the resolution against forced vaccination A man invented a machine that converts plastic into oil Harvard medical students rebel against relationship with Big Pharma A small farmer wins a moral battle over Monsanto EU foiled in bid to force France and Greece to allow GM crops Bayer ordered to pay $ 136.8 million in U.S. rice case Going organic: more farmers switching from conventional dairy methods I wasn't willing to make this film, until I knew, there were responses, that are a mach for the crisis. And now the power of the Internet enables us to share the breadth and the depth of this research. We've spent years creating a vast website, that brings it all together and makes the information and what we can do about it, acessible to everyone Here you have your very own navigator module to go deeper in to the main subjects covered in this film: code, problem and solution. You can study strategies and tactics and connect with others, to take high level actions. Every fact stated in this film has been independently verified and the reference is on our website. This sector navigator facilitates whole-system-thinking, that recognizes, that actions in one area impact all the others. The center of the sector navigator is worldview, because it determines how we experience everything that happens within and around us. In every sector you'll find critical issues, resources, group strategies and individual actions, to peacefully an productively affect real change Our resource tree will link you to the people, organizations and media that we most recommend to help you get more fully educated and engaged. I was encouraged to find, that there are a minimum number of actions, which working together, can tip the scales, if not endless. Once we see the big picture, we look at what each of us can do, to help accomplish it. Let's take a look at the strategic antidotes to their economic domination. We need to: stop any more bailouts of banks or corporations, dismantle the Federal Reserve, withdraw taxpayer support from central banking agencies, such as the IMF and World Bank allow development of alternative currencies and independent banks and refuse international taxes. My main emphasis is on solutions in the U.S., because that's what I know best, But just as the predicament is global, so are the principles on which the solution strategies are based. Here is some tactical actions, that we can take as individuals, that don't take much time or money, to make a real difference right now. What can I do? Get informed, speak up and connect with others! Bank locally! When we move our money out of the big centralised banks, and it's in locally owned banks and credit unions, we defund the problem and fund the solutions, all in one move. Buy and invest responsibly! Every dollar you spend sends a message. Join the movement to audit and end the Federal Reserve! It's robbing us! Join the coalition to keep the Internet fair and open! Don't let anybody take control over! Support independent media! Get your information from diverse sources and think about, who's funding the news you get! Support organic non-GMO farming! Join movement to bring about honest elections, including traceable paper ballot and campaign finance reform. Congress can only be accountable to us, when corporations stop funding them. Advocate for renewable and new energy technology! Bring the conversation about free energy out into the open! It will transform the power dynamic on this planet faster than anything in recorded history. Sign up for critical mass action! It's a strategy to leverage our power by waiting until a huge number of us agrees to participate, before taking an action. Imagine a million of us acting in unison! Then again, imagine even more! I've been inspired by how many grounded solutions and real life problem solvers there actually are. Aqeela Sherills is one person whose work has specially touched me. He helped broker a gang truce between the Crips and Bloods. One of the things that we discovered in the process of waging peace in the neighborhood, was that conflict is healthy. It's unresolved conflict, that actually leads to violence. When we first launched a peace treaty, we had a lot of success in the first year. Gang homicides dropped 44% in the neighborhood based upon our actions. Aqeela describes what happened, when two rival gang leaders finally met after the truce. The brother came and told me, "I know you got some hard feelings for me maybe I got some hard feelings for you, but because of this truce, I'm willing to put all of that to aside. " And he stuck out his hand he hugged him and he said he closed his eyes, because he was prearing for a sharp knife to enter his back. He was waiting for a bullet, to be shot in his stomach. But after a few moments he realized that ... it was genuine. I belive that having a clear picture of our potential, is as important as uncovering, what stands in its way. So I want to take you to a possible world of the future. It's a world the elite would have you believe is an impossible pipedream, but I'm convinced it's a world that is utterly within our grasp. We can create a world where people can thrive where we can feel safe and secure. The air, water and food are clean. A world were communities are capable producing their own energy and food and trade is open and fair. Rather than focusing on punishment, instead justice restores lives and losses. Insurance pays doctors to keep people healthy. Education is voluntary, serving the needs of individuals instead of corporations. We get honest feedback from independent media. There are no subsidies and no bailouts. Imagine that with an honest money system, little or no taxes and low electric or fuel bills, you would have the money to pay off your home and car and be free to save and invest. You would enjoy more wealth, freedom and security. All while working the same or propably less. Let's say I started a mutual fund for my neighborhood and all the neighbors had stock. And, so they heal the environment and their stock went up in value. So instead of getting drained financially, they're making money. They're making money from things that make their kids safer and prevent the planet from dying. So you kind of have one's cake and eat it too. Instead of working all week to make money and then coming home and trying to save the planet on the weekends, you can spend Monday to Friday making money saving the planet and then go to the beach. This vision of a thriving world, is based on what could be called the liberty perspective. There's a simple principle that underlies this approach: of non-violation. Nobody gets to violate you or your property and you don't get to violate anyone else, exept in genuine self defense. This is the one rule I found, that every single person agrees with, at least for themselves. I believe that non-violation is the true north of humanity's moral compass and our core navigating insight. This insight can guide us and protect each and every individual as we set up voluntary self-sustaining systems. It is a way of living that I can stand for wholeheartedly and without reservation. I've been profoundly influenced by the work of Austrian economist Ludwig von Mises, who developed a whole philosophy and an economic system, based on the core ethic of non-aggression. Motivated by having witnessed the ravages of communism and fascism in Europe, he commited his life to finding a just way. He recognised, that those systems as well as socialism and even democracy, wrongly assume, the rights of the collective, or the group to be more important, than those of the individual. I had always gone along with the view, that more people will thrive, if we consider the group's needs above the individuals, but when I took a closer look, I found that doesn't really work that way. In the name of what's best for the group, governments have been responsible for most of the war, death and destruction on the planet. More than 200 million individuals were killed in the twentieth century alone. So how would applying the principle of non-violation change this dynamic? It would take us from incremental change of a fundamentally flawed system, to a complete transformation, where not just some, or even the majority, but everyone could truly have the opportunity to thrive. In order to impliment the principle of non-violation, it makes sense to me to honestly re-examine our past, because it doesn't work to try to build a healthy living system on top of an unhealthy one. We have to go back to the most fundamental acts of injustice, upon which the country was founded. In the seizure of the lands of the people and the slaughter of their women and children, and the rendering destitute most of the remnants of these people, is such an ingrievous wrong, that we believe, that we have to deal with that, to come to grips with that, in a fundamental way, understanding that they are not wrongs, that were done and completed, a 150 years ago. They're wrongs, that are continued every single day. So you have through the history of North America and the U.S. over 500 treaties signed with indigenous nations, were every single one of them now has been violated. In fact, tremendous amount of wealth have been generated from indigenous people's lands and resources and billions of dollars every year is still being generated by corporations in European nations, based on the continous exploitation of indigenous people's lands and resources. If we didn't have large corporations and Western governments defining how you and I were to relate to each other, living here in North America now together, how would we relate to one another, how would we make it different. It's going to take time and courageous effort, to shift the consciousness and accomplish the tasks, that will move us toward the world, I'm talking about. And yet I know of no greater gift, that we could give to future generations. We can't do everything at once. I envisioned three overlapping stages of the solutions process. In stage one we bring as much integrity as possible to our current systems. If we cut the U.S. military budget in half, it would still roughly equal to defense spending of the entire rest of the world. Between that and getting rid of the Federal Reserve over a trillion dollars a year would be freed enough to feed everyone on our planet, deal with social issues and heal our environment. Many people believe that widespread starvation and poverty are inevitable but compared to war, eliminating poverty and restoring the environment are cheap. According to Lester Brown's "Earth Policy Institute" it would take under $ 200 billion dollars a year to restore the earth's environment and meet global social goals. But this stage isn't the endgoal of the liberty perspective. While stage one has lot of the compassion, typically associated with liberal-democratic agenda, stage two reflects much of the wisdom of the traditional conservative worldview. In stage two we shrink government's role, to protect the individual liberty and storing things we share in common, like ecosystems and the airwaves we use to communicate. As the system gains integrity and will move to sound currency, people will have enough money to have more control over everything that affects them. Stage three grows out of the increasing freedom, that people gain in stages one and two, as they have more money and more time. There is no involuntary tax and therefore no involuntary governments. There is no monopoly on force. There are rules, but no rulers. Rigorously protecting individual rights turnes out to be key for honouring our interdependence. We can be distinct, and unified, at the same time. As utopian as this can sound at first I'we been thrilled to see how much practical thinking has been done to deal with tough issues like health care, crime and education. These three stages validate the best of both the liberal and conservative perspectives that have divided us for so long and then reconcile them at a new level, around non-violation a core ethic we all share. Stage three honours human incentive and finally includes the rights of not just many, not just most, but everyone. The torus provides a template for a society based on integrity and wholeness. It conserves, what's working. It has built in feedback, so it can self-correct and innovate to maintain balance. We can apply these and other features of the torus dynamic to our human social systems. I truely believe that aligning conciously with a fundamental life energy pattern, at every level: physical, emotional, mental, interpersonal and environmental it's ultimately the art, science and the celebration of love. That's what we're here to learn! The fundamental insight of our interconnectedness changed the way I approach everything. In my own life I found a practical expression of this philosophy, in the modern non-violent martial art of Aikido. It offers powerful guidance on how to respond effectively and non-aggressively to the global domination agenda. Morihei Ueshiba, its founder, talked that to practice Aikido, one must mimic the movement of atoms and galaxies. As free energy technology blends with the toroidal pattern, to access unlimited power, Aikido, the way of harmony blends with the energy of an attacker ... redirecting it ... to peaceful resolution. Aikido is not a technique to fight and defeat an enemy. It is a way to reconcile the world and make human beings one family. Gandhi and King applied these principles of non-aggressive power, at the economic and social levels. If we respond with violence to the domination agenda, other than in self-defense, it would only continue the old "us versus them" paradigm and provide an excuse for even more police state measures. I believe, that it's essential, both morally and strategically, that we take the path of non-aggression. There is another aspect of the torus, that has profound implications for how we can respond to the challenges before us. It is the absolute stillness, the zero point, that lies at the center of each toroidal system. I believe that you and I, as well as every other being, are torus energy fields, centered by stillness and each connected to one another into the boundless consciousness of a living universe. As much as I benefit from the experience of others, as highlighted here with the navigating insights and as valuable as daily feedback is about what's really going on in the world, as we see with the vitals I'we come to recognize that our primary compass is our own inner guidance. As we learn to quiet the noise and amplify the inner signal we can better hear the voice, that naturally knows and offers wise direction. We have an entire inner life, a vibrant and lively inner life, that is truely the navigator of the path, that we take on the outside. If your inner life is the driver of how you show up in the world, it makes sense, that if you want to have anything to do with where you're going, that you have to be in relationship with that inner life, with that driver. As we develop increased relationship to who's in the driver seat, what happens is that here is a synergy, it's a symbiotic relationship, that our inner lives are actually able to be more in tandem of we're choosing to go and we're able to get there. We are not nearly as insignificant in our impact, as we think we are. In order to heal the world, we have to start telling a different story to ourselves, we have to start engaging a different story with others. It's a collective story, that manifests as the world. Humanity is now in a very interesting evolutionary phase, in which we move from hostile, aggressive competition, which is in the nature of young species, into a more mature mode of cooperation, collaboration. There is no question in this country, that money, that capital, is being increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few and those, who are so powerful, are concentrating it farther, but there is a force, that's more powerful and that's the power of the people. When we look at the crisis now, it is so easy to fall out of love with life, is so easy to become pessimistic and desperate. But, from my perspective, the crisis has matured to the point, of being on the threshold of mass awakening. And that feeling inside me gives me the vitality, to know, that no matter how small, what I'm doing, looks to me, in the face of these huge problems, that the impulse of evolution is not small. And when it's in everybody, who's waking up, it's huge. And as more and more of us are waking up, linking up and daring to speak up, the scheme for global domination is being exposed and we're discovering solutions, that can create the world, we earn for and deserve. Again and again, throughout history, when people have recognized tyranny, rearing its cruel head, they've come together and stood up for liberty. I am confident humankind will look back at this period and be proud, that when we saw, we acted. Thank you for coming on this journey with us! I'm convinced, we have what it takes to thrive. Lets make it happen! In honor of life's irrepressible urge to thrive and in memory of those who have been persecuted or killed, for their commitment to truth and justice, we gratefully invoke their courage as we come together to stand up for our lives.
