 

                        You sure you got it right? Directly at his bed Is a hundred catties enough? Quite enough You go first, I'll do it Rebel Si Jian-Ru, is sentenced to death for conspiring to bomb the President's Mansion, execution without delay Si Jian-Ru, to Hell with you Disciple Pan Da-Wei Longevity forever To follow Buddha Longevity forever, to follow Buddhism Longevity forever, to follow Buddhism Longevity forever, to follow the Monk Longevity forever, to follow the Monk All man will die The difference is how you choose to die We'll be arriving in Guangzhou soon Please take care of your own belongings We'll change to a connecting boat to shore Please take care of your own belongings Attention please Quickly, search the luggage over there You guys, over here Come over here Put the crates up there Go, open it Excuse me sir, do you have an invitation? Sorry, I don't have one Then, you are... Sir, If you don't have an invitation... I'm from Nanyang A friend of Gao Jian-Fu My mistake, Please this way Gao, quite the Tiger Great! Thank you. Come on, Brother Liao We'll take a photo together All set Big Brother Lord Li Honour us and take a photograph with us Come, come on, Big Brother Closer, get closer Great! Excuse me Sir. I'm terribly sorry It's alright I'm from Nanyang, but I'm not a revolutionary Cut the chatter, get over here Tang Tsai Congee Tang Tsai Congee What did you say? The City of Ice You're from Harbin No Malaya, Pulau Pinang. Also known as Penang The gentleman in the room is Lord Li Zhun; the Minister of Marine That is my father I mean the one who is talking to Lord Li My name is Fang Wei-Ru Congee, Tang Tsai Congee That's not right! Don t touch my clothes The search for revolutionaries has come upon me I will not allow you to search my stuff today Quiet, who refuses to be searched? Everything has to be searched Hey girlie Is the Tang Tsai congee hot? It's hot, it's hot Don't worry about that woman, someone's getting off the boat over there Hey you, come back I'm just having a bowl of congee Give me a bowl Sure thing. Please go in and have a seat, just a quick wait These barricades were set up just two days ago The Chairman is very anxious He told us to come fetch you I bet it was that Li Zhun's order That way has been blocked We need to think of another way They're going to kill that 'Old Fart' tonight You well know how to enjoy life I've been up before the sunrise and still haven't had a decent meal I'm just having some congee, nothing else Nonsense Get back in line What about my bowl of congee Nonsense Go, quickly Little girlie. Yes? Still got any congee? Yes, yes Give me some Sure thing Cheers Come on, come, come Here's the food Wait Who brought you here? I... I... You want to be killed? Alright, that's enough My shoulder is numb, I can't move anymore Who said you can assassinate at your father's birthday party The punishment for assassinating an IO is death sentence for your whole family Just because your father belongs to the Gang, you think you can get away with it? It's still numb Who ordered you to do it? Gao Jian-Fu or Pan Da-Wei? You know them? No one ordered me and they wouldn't let me join in I saw you milling ink for Gao He's my Master, who teaches me to paint I was just at the studio looking for him they said he came here Then I'll go back and wait for him I'll go too Wei-Ru Brother Wei, you're back This is Mr Luo from Malaya Luo Zhung-Huo Nice to meet you Come in first Please so, you're Mr Pan Da-Wei Exactly That's great I stored some luggage here earlier Here is a letter from Mr Sun for you This Mr Sun Wen is... You don't know him? Aren't you Pan Da-Wei of the People's News? Then you should recognize this painting This painting 'Wilted Chrysanthumum' was your gift to Mr Sun He asked me to bring it along to Guangzhou, to find you Come The Mr Sun you mentioned is Sun Yat-Sin? I knew you would return tonight Where are the guns? I brought them back How's your situation? Bullseye at a hundred paces it wasn't even 10 meters such a big target and he couldn't even hit him Master, is Ah-Fai okay? Just a mere flesh wound We took him to Zhang Zhu-Jun's place Well, I'll go back then Yes, go back It is quite late Just around the corner is her Dad's turf Somebody will take care of her Goodbye Brother Luo, goodbye Master and Brother Wei Weren't you the one dancing with Wei-Ru? Exactly, I am Luo Zhong-Huo It's getting late already Right, and I still haven't found a place to stay If you don't mind, stay here Please Why are you doing this? The painting is authentic and it's also Mr Sun's hand-writing But, he may not be authentic We'll wait and see All barricades into Guangzhou are under heavy scrutiny lt'd be very difficult for any weapon to pass through It was ordered by Ke-Jiang to stop all assassinations before the rebellion We don't want to give them any early warning Li Zhun has spoiled our previous actions If I had a gun with me tonight Li Zhun would be dead by now Then you become tomorrow's headline Master Painter, Revolutionary Assassin So what? It's your birthday today, and I get a gift from you? That's not right You're still being cordial with me? That bullet was meant for... My Lord My men recognizes the assassin he is from Long-Gui Tong Even if it was a gangland argument it would still involve the Police Don't worry we will investigate this till it's all clear Thank you for your concern, Lord Li Liao will escort you home No need Let him take care of the situation here I've got men of my own Alright Lord, take care Raise the sedan You mentioned; Long-Gui Tong earlier... I didn't want Lord Li to be startled I've thought about it they knew, the Master of Guang-Xing Tong was hosting his birthday banquet If any other Tongs dare to cause trouble then they wouldn't survive in this city anymore I agree. So you mean... the Revolutionaries That bullet was definitely not meant for you Wei-Ru where did you come back from? Dad A proper young lady shouldn't be on the streets so late Didn't you host your birthday banquet tonight? I was with some classmates having whelks by the river Big brother the account books are here Yes Brother Liao I'm dead tired, don't bother me anymore I heard there was an assassin I saw you dancing with someone Where did you go after the gunshot? Why are you questioning me like my Dad? I took off when the Lion Dance began Who likes to watch those old, stuffy things? Brother Liao, this is your chance to be promoted and get rich Just think about it, you're the Third In-Charge of Guang-Xing Tong, and a Police Inspector If you were to apprehend the assassin you would be well rewarded by my Dad and that Lord Li How did you know we haven't caught the assassin yet? If the assassin was caught, you wouldn't be so gloomy I'm going to sleep, goodnight Mr Luo, come and take a look What do you think, I painted it with this Where is my ink pad? I returned to join the rebellion I can help with transporting weapons and communication Good morning, Brother Luo Morning Should you go help Wei-Ru first? The students will be here soon Yes Brother Luo you know how to Dim Mak? Is it that a person can't move after being touched? That is just an old wives' tale The body has 8 meridians, 12 vessels, over a thousand accu-points if any accu-points is stagnant, health would be affected that's not fiction, that's traditional Chinese medicine You know Chinese medicine as well? The weapons shipped in from Japan was all thrown overboard by a guy named Chao-something Come I heard there was a search on the boat That Chao-somebody opened the window and threw out lots and lots of bullets into the sea Who told you that? And also, the funds from Nanyang haven't arrived yet Master and Brother Wei were talking this morning, and they seemed troubled I have returned to join the rebellion If there is no money, how do we start a rebellion Brother Luo if you were able to get some money then you would be trusted by Master and Brother Wei? I get some money? Yes, get it from my Dad After all, his money comes to him easily Opium, gambling, he'll do whatever that's harmful Why don't we get it from him? And do some charity for him Mr Sun mentioned it before, getting money from the wealthy is a short-cut Master has tried to ask my dad for money He didn't get it That's why you may need to ask someone else to help Someone else? My Dad's mistress Jiang Mei-Xi When my Dad bought her back, she was only 15 years old It was said, that he was her first customer That night, Dad bought her freedom, then sponsored her to study and paint My Dad is mostly mean to everyone but he never had a temper with her If any of the guys in the gang caused any problem She just had to plea for them, and he would let them go I thought Dad would marry her after my Mom passed away but he didn't, and even bought her a small house to live in Stand still What are you doing? Selling fruits... What's inside the basket? Something for a small business... Sir! There are just mangos in the basket, I'm not hiding anything Fast, get out of here... Returning on the third day of marriage? Yes Officers, please, a little something for you get some tea That's mean, what is this world coming to... It gets harder and harder to find a way Thank you You're welcome Hey mister, who are looking for? Is Mr Fang here? Please wait Miss, there's a man here looking for you Mr Luo is seeking for Brother Fang Somebody told me he was here He's not here today. Would you like to leave a message? I came to help 'Tzu-Chi Foundation' to build an orphanage hoping that Mr Fang would be generous I'm afraid it's not that easy Doesn't matter I'll come back next time. Sorry to bother you Is this 'Wilted Chrysanthumum' painted by Pan Da-Wei? That is my duplication I'd rather die embracing the flowers There should be another following line Than to dance with the autumn leaves in the wind There aren't that many people who knows this poem So you know Pan Da-Wei... Yes Excuse my rudeness I don't understand why this coffee pot is Coffee pot? Right, it's used to brew coffee You are from Nanyang? I think you must know English Yes I've been looking for an English teacher and wonder if you can help to introduce someone Of course, I can Do you want to learn conversation or reading? Whatever is fine as long as it's English Okay Please give way What is that? Open it so I can take a look What do you want to do? I'll let them take the merchandise away Drop a long line, and catch a big fish Good, very good Brother Wei Detained for 2 days, now they say it's ready to be picked up Don't bring it here Take it to Zhang Zhu-Jun's place Don't they want to refurbish the hospital? May the yearning love knot be untied The deeper the love; the deeper the hatred Dancing slowly as I greet my love The depth of love is felt and never be forgotten Have I returned to familiar grounds again Excuse me Washing silk by the brook Adorned in simplicity, a beauty as pure as ice Like a goddess descended from the skies Why don't you believe me? Ke-Jiang seen me before, if not... Hope you comprehend The police are on high alert these days There are lmperial Secret Police everywhere We have to be very careful Take a photo of me and show it to Ke-Jiang If you don't mind, go ahead Hope I didn't bother you too much We've finished our conversation Mr Luo The incident you talked about last time Brother Fang is a sentimental person If you get to know him and if he likes you then your orphanage will have a chance You mean The day after tomorrow, he'll have a business meeting with a British gentleman You can go and be his interpreter of course, he has an interpreter already but maybe he won't make it on that day Do you understand? Absolutely Thank you for your concern, Ms Jiang About that matter I asked of you... English teacher If you don't mind, I'd like to recommend myself That would be great If I may ask... Why would you do it for Mr. Pan? As a nude model Don't you think this is interesting? Go quickly Let go of me, I'm not a Revolutionist Just because I don't have a queue, it doesn't make me a revolutionist Go, Stop your chattering, move there are revolutionists everywhere... Those officers are useless dealing with the foreigners but are really good at bullying the common people Done What did you do to the interpreter? Just that his car can't be started It's just my big brother's car, no worries He's here Please wait a moment Mr Luo He is my English teacher, Mr Luo This is Brother Fang Pleasure to meet you Mr Fang Mr Luo Mr Fang needs you urgently his interpreter couldn't make it at the last minute No problem You guys may go Yes yes Please take a seat, Mr Luo Please don't be so formal, call me Zhong-Huo Well, take your time and talk, I'll go home to wait for you The car's downstairs, let them take you home very well Come what did you just tell the Brit? I told him his merchandise must be very important But our Chinese Spring Festival was established thousands of years ago we can not change that just for one man See, civility makes a difference I just spoke two words to him, 'Can not' yet, he babbled on and translated a long speech for me Did I make the right connection? Yes, the right connection Sit down, Mr Luo Please take a seat What treats have you got here? Mr Luo said, they have high tea in Malaya too That's the British way That's not bad Got to have some Western snacks with that too See, I've got no respect when I'm here My big brother is friendly and approachable, isn't he? Better than I imagined That was my teaching material when I was teaching English Take a look The letters I know, and the phonics You've learnt before? I learned a little bit, many years ago, but mostly forgotten now This is pronounced as FREEDOM, correct? Correct I can read it, but I don't know what it means It means, to do whatever you want to do to be freed from being hungry Correct you can only do whatever you want to, when your belly's full from eating That's just one aspect, keep reading This, I don't really understand That is a story from the Buddhist Scriptures One day, Buddha was standing by a window suddenly, a pigeon flew in followed by an old eagle Buddha said to the old eagle: Don't eat the pigeon The old eagle said: Fine. Then you cut off some meat for me to eat and it should be the same weight as the pigeon Buddha then proceeded to cut some meat from his body As hard as he tried, he could never match the weight of the pigeon Buddha awakens Every life is equally important You should tell this story to my big brother Weapons are always used to solve any arguments in the gang It happens every day And every time someone dies it's like their lives aren't valued as a life I heard the Beggars Gang at Guan Di Temple want to expand their turf There would be brawls, even if you stepped on his turf Really? Come Wei is rescued when you're here Not to mention the vegetable cooked along with the meat, he would take half a day to scrub the pot I cooked with We vegetarians, would be happy with just a bowl of rice Brother Wei, Ke-Jiang hasn't replied yet? Not yet I heard the Beggars Gang want to expand their turf How do you know? I've been associating with Guang-Xing Tong lately I feel we can get Guang-Xing Tong to help us in transporting weapons The Officials never search their boats Actually, I have an association with Fang I got a feeling, we can take advantage of the matter with the Beggars Gang Fang Hong-Zhi, Wei-Ru's father? Anything a matter? Nothing that matters You were saying the Beggars Gang's expansion, is arousing Guang-Xing Tong Not at the moment, but it is possible Good, we'll lend them a helping hand Hey, beat it, beat it Those of you who's begging for rice who allowed you to disturb us here? All you want is some stinking rice Boss Boss Please give us something to eat What are you guys doing? What are you doing? This is Guang-Xing Tong's turf and you dare to make trouble here? Beat it Beat it Then we will go we will go That's it, we'll shift Brother Six back here and take it easy at San Yuan Alley It may be their strategy to deviate our attention San Yuan Alley won't be ours when Brother Six leaves Then who would you suggest? I can't spare a man. Brother Two's men are watching the smoking dens Your guys are watching the brothels Should Big Brother be watching the main street? Brother Liao Big Brother, there's a Luo Zhong-Huo outside; asking to see you Tell him he is busy and has no time Yes. Wait Let him come in. Yes Zhong-Huo, you want something from me? Please Mr Fang, I'd like to have a word with you In all these years, no one has dared to cause trouble on my turf The Beggars Gang has got a death wish There really is going to be a war You came to talk to me about this matter Yes I've got a solution without any battles You've got a solution? Liu Si, the leader of the Beggars Gang, has a routine for morning tea every day After morning tea, he would take a stroll probably to check out his territory No regular route Yellow rickshaw How do you know about this? I've followed him for three days You I'm not of Guang-Xing Tong, so no one is aware of me He took different routes all three days but, it's always the same destination That casino belongs to Long-Gui Tong He knows you won't do anything at Long-Gui Tong's turf Because at this time, you won't risk to have another enemy but maybe Liu Si will go head to head with you That's because Liu Si has Long-Gui Tong backing him up Go on What I mean is to purposely kill him on Long-Gui Tong's turf No knife, no gun, no blood Therefore, Guaang-Xing Tong is not involved in any way How can it be done? Get someone to bribe one of the Fan Tan dealers or sneak one of your guys in, any way we can Let Liu Si win two days in a row would be the best Odd number And then? Then it's on to me I won't kill anyone for you but he'll be seriously sick, and be bedridden for at least two months What would you want in return for helping me? I'm here to help the Tzu Chi Foundation to establish an orphanage An orphanage needs money Yes, and quite a bit of money Understood Three. Three. Three Yes! Money, money, money What should we bet on? Buy two, buy one, buy four Three means alive. Put it all on Three Three. Three. Three Three. Three Happy New Year. Wishes of Prosperity, Wealth and Health Wei and I will host today's New Year's Eve feast, to make it up to Zhong-Huo Very well That's very generous of you. Thank you very much To realise wrong is to change. Master must set an example I've got the chicken, duck and fish. Who will kill the chicken? Him. Him Me, to kill the chicken? Yes Gao Jian-Fu Okay You are just a vegetarian, I'll do the killing Alright. Good good, good Go and be busy. Good Is Mr Luo here? Zhong-Huo, there is someone looking for you Mr Luo, my master wants me to deliver this letter to you Tell Mr Fang, I'll come over after the feast Very well, I'll run along first Ke-Jiang has agreed with our plans He instructed us to be careful when in contact with Fang's Tong Fang Hong-Zhi has taken over the Beggars Gang That may be more beneficial for us He wants to see me tonight, to discuss the orphanage Before, when we left you on your own sorry about that When I return, you can do a Chrysanthumum painting for me I'm going to kill the chicken. Pan Da-Wei, you going to say a prayer? So many red packets Zhong-Huo is here. I've been doing this all day, and my back is sore No wonder Guang-Xing Tong is so vibrant even the red packets are handled by the Tong's leader By your good fortunes This year, we've taken in two thousand members more just red packets alone, This one is for you No, no, that's not necessary This is a Cantonese custom, all Singles gets one Are you married? No well, thank you Mr Fang Kung Hei Fat Choi No matter how it's said, it's still harsh to my ears Could you change the 'Mister' title? By age, I'd only be your older brother Then, thanks very much Brother Fang That's much easier on the ears Big Brother Mr Luo is also here Big Brother, aren't you done with the stamping yet? You just hurry me rather than help me alright, let us talk about the matter of the orphanage Bring us some tea Guang-Xing Tong's membership have strengthened this year We should really do something for charity Zhong-Huo mentioned an orphanage, that's a great opportunity That'd be great, if Big Brother really thought that way I thought Big Brother would take the lead and I'd go door to door to gather donations How about this? Let us hold a Charity Auction How do we do that? We'll get every wealthy family from the provincial capital to donate a piece of valuable for the auction with all proceeds going towards the Tzu Chi Foundation's orphanage I think it will work Liao, you go and prepare for the auction to be held on January 15th Good Big Brother, we'll get Mr Luo to be our consultant Nonsense. Why would Zhong-Huo roll with us? Big Brother, by these words; you mean... Big Brother, you continue the discussion I'll go and help pass out the red packets Mr Luo, Happy New Year. May your heart's desires come true May all hearts' desires come true Lord... Better than the last batch In the new year, the British will have another shipment arriving Liao I picked you for the Police not just for the opium I understand Fang Hong-Zhi favours you because you're connected to me and I favour you because you're connected to Guang-Xing Tong The work at the Police Office has to be done but your position at the Tong should not be taken away by someone Thanks for your reminder, Lord Li Don t worry, that Luo is no competition to me Happy Chinese New Year Same wish to you Come in Why are you getting the door? Where's the servant? I let her go home for the New Year Who doesn't want to be with their family for the Spring Festival I am used to being on my own anyway Have a seat May I have a cup of coffee? Coffee beans You've really got them I thought you were just bluffing about getting it Didn't Mr Fang come by? He came by for a short while on New Year's Eve Said he'd be busy for the next two days visiting every Tong Still has to go around to greet the other Tongs, he'll be busy He'll come by to see you after all his visits Big brother and I we're not what you think we are Check and see if it's okay? Actually, he has never stayed here overnight He never has He told me that I resemble his younger sister His sister died of hunger when they were on the run she died in his arms He said I looked very much like his younger sister That's why he bought my freedom without ever touching me For these past 15 years he has always treated me as his sister But you don't want him to be like just a brother So you have noticed I told him I wanted to get married He asked me who I was going to marry I told him that I haven't found anyone yet Actually I wanted to know how important I am to him And then? And then... I'd be his sister for the rest of my life Please excuse me for asking you to do this My pleasure Are you sure they can see us? Big Brother always has someone guarding here Does that prove that I am important to him? I have always wanted to ask you Is an orphanage worthwhile for you to do all these crazy things? Crazy? If anything goes wrong the Beggars Gang will attack and you may be killed Then, with me standing here making Mr Fang angry won't I be killed? You never thought of that, did you? It's like when you're flying a kite you would only look up to the kite and rarely be aware of the danger awaiting below your feet No, he won't. Brother Fang is a reasonable man I know, that's why I dare to stand here You haven't told me yet Is an orphanage really that important? From your perspective, it may just be a shelter for orphans But for me, that's a place where fate can be changed Children there will not only be well fed, but well kept they will also learn about looking for things in life, that are more important than eating and sleeping Ideals and goals Then in their pursuit of their ideals and goals they will change the world Compared to you, my goal is just mere and minute Not really, your actual goal for change, too To change Mr Fang's attitude of life is to bring change to half of the provincial capital I forgot to mention Mr Fang has agreed to help raise funds for the orphanage There will be a charity auction held on January 15th (Lunar Calendar) I wonder what I said Two, Three Seven pieces more to go Today's only the third day of the Lunar New Year Relax Brother Liao, it'll all be done by the Fifteenth You all recognize him Yes, we do Later, we'll arrest the culprit with the goods Yes Obviously, they don't know about their donations Brother Liao's men told me all the valuables to be auctioned were stolen The culprit he has trapped, is you Your father may not realize With his concept, robbery can be taken as a charitable cause Are you doubting your father's fundamental ability to differentiate? Don't you want to know the truth? I really want to know Dear Benefactors. Dear Guests Thanks for your attendance at this charity auction The charity auction will commence Coming up, our first valued item; up for bidding today Wait since this is a charity auction, we should introduce our philanthropists first Mr Luo, I don't think it's necessary to waste our guests' time It's more important to promote than just to do charity How would that waste time? On behalf of Tzu Chi Foundation, I'd like to thank Mr Fang Hong-Zhi Mr. Fang has invited all our benefactors here today A round of applause to welcome Mr Fang onto the stage Thank you, thank you everyone for your support Originally I thought I would spearhead a donation drive for every family to make a contribution Then I heard there were robbers in our provincial capital during the festive season As you all know, Brother Liao is a Police Inspector He hasn't rested during the Spring Festival and has recovered most of the stolen valuables So I took the initiative and used the recovered goods as donation to this auction If anyone disagrees, allow me to make amends first Our goal is to raise It will be great if we accomplish this figure If not, I will personally make up the difference Okay Let's begin This small time thieving is not our style You should formally use my invitation and knock on their doors Do you still need me to teach you? If Wei-Ru didn't remind me today the reputation of Guang-Xing Tong would be all diminished by you Big Brother Whatever the consequences, you decide Get up Get up and don't be a laughing stock to the others I've donated three thousand dollars today, half will be your share it's not about the money, it's to give you a reminder Big Brother, Big Brother Brother Liao, Brother Liao Go, these are for Big Brother to see I... l'll go? If you don't go, should I go for you? Yes Go You don't know this is used to brew coffee? Good thing Mr. Luo knows I thought it was some sort of ornament I am talking to you I'd like you to set up a meeting for tea with Long-Gui Tong's leader Long-Gui Tong That baldy who was blatantly staring at me the last time we had dinner? Yeah... I'm afraid of him You have a few cups of tea with him, then leave when I arrive He would risk any danger to meet with you Big Brother tells me to go, then I will go If he was to get physical, I... I wouldn't give him that chance Are you all dressed up to see me today? I've asked you out a few times and you didn't come Are you in a better mood now? That's impossible! Is it because Jiang Mei-Xi can't possibly die or that my Dad can't possibly kill her? Wei-Ru, this is no child's play Master, I'm not making up stories to entertain you My Dad, he won't let you go so easily his next target will be you Wei-Ru is here Ke-Jiang's fast all the weapons and ammunition will be in Hong Kong in a few days It's a big shipment, we have to think of a way to bring in that stuff Also, Tzu Chi Foundation has received the donations and has written a thank you letter to your father What happened? Someone delivered an invitation, and said it was for Zhong-Huo Wei-Ru is correct Fang Hong-Zhi has invited him to a lavish banquet I'll go Hey, do you have a death wish? What really happened? Insane, they're all crazy You go then What if there was poison in the tea Then it will fulfill me and Ms Jiang's destiny as we'll be a pair of dead love birds I gave her the name of Mei-Xi Beautiful, Bright, Pure You've ruined everything, and still have the gall to face me That just says two things Firstly, I'm hungry Second, I've nothing to hide Serve dinner Please, Mr Luo These chopsticks... should strength be applied to both or just one side? I can't really use them well Of course, apply strength to both at the same time No wonder But Ms Jiang was always just performing a solo act She asked for my assistance Every time I go to her place... to stop at the doorway and linger for a little while And while in her bedroom, to stand right by the window then occasionally, to make an appearance at the balcony just to let those guards see us and then to inform you She is this chopstick, you are the other She desperately tried to do one thing with you as a pair but you showed no response What are you talking about? Speak in a way so that I can understand Love Do you understand? Ms Jiang didn't want to be your sister She wanted to live like the rumours that she's your lover, mistress, anything She didn't want to be just your sister Was she in need of anything else better? All these years I have given her whatever she wanted Pearl, amber, diamonds, what else did she want? You, she wanted you She allowed me to help her to put on this act for you to provoke you, to stress her importance to you She succeeded she just didn't expect an ending like this Why did she choose you Because you favoured me Big Brother I know this may not be the right time But I have an urgent shipment from HK which needs to be transported here Which day The sooner the better There'll be a ship returning from Hong Kong the day after tomorrow That shipment got everything Guang-Xing Tong doesn't know what it is, they're just responsible for transporting Early morning on the day after, pick up at Tian Zi Pier Thank you, Big Brother Haven't really had dinner, Big Brother will make it up another day You go first I want some solitude The government won't search Guang-Xing Tong's merchandise But Liao will definitely know what is inside And he'll definitely take this as his merit to Lord Li Wei and I have been thinking we'll use a wedding as a cover There will be a big shipment so the wedding party has to be really big Also the bride needs to be heavy a fat woman? Yes, to be able to subdue Liao How fat does she need to be? Me? I'm not fat But you can subdue Liao at least he wouldn't dare to do anything when he sees you He doesn't dare to upset your dad and then? You have to choose a husband Choose me, choose m Master I'm also available Today is the Seventh day since her death Now you know, my dad is cold-blooded His way of living has been destined Sometimes he can't help doing things against his heart He can choose another way of living The right to choose is not always within our grasp Oh yes Thank you for choosing me to act as your groom This is just work, it's not for real But we are more fortunate than Ms Jiang At least we can experience the feeling of marriage before death Death? I've signed up to join the Suicide Squad Therefore I hope Ms Jiang will bless us from above, for us to succeed tomorrow This is the only way we can join the rebellion Inspector, there are 4 to 5 men who boarded the boat, and haven't returned No one got into the water, nothing happened Stay alert. Yes What is that sound? Want to fool me with a 'wedding act'? Ready for action Yes Luo Zhong-Huo, this is your death date Wait till they alight from the boat, bring some men to intercept them Yes, Inspector The bride is coming! Come, be careful Come, the bride is coming, be careful careful Wait What? Inspector I said wait, don't you hear me? How come she's here? Crazy Come in and have a seat Alright, raise the sedan Inspector, once they are on the street, it will be hard for us to take any action No, don't touch the bride, she's the daughter of Guang-Xing Tong's master But Inspector, we have an lmperial order Kill all rebels, no exceptions even if it means killing the innocent Even killing the innocent. Do you know who gave you your biddings at the casino? Even Lord Li wants to take her as his God-daughter You dare to touch her Listen, Ah-Jiang Take some men and bring back that bride's sedan And take it away as far as you can Arrest those people, kill whoever resists Understood I'm getting married, what is it Sir? I suspect you to be transporting weapons for the revolutionists Search them Sir, revolutionists will be executed You can't speak lightly of this I'm sure the proof is right beneath the dowries What if you cannot find them? Cannot find them I will let you go if I cannot find them You have to honour your words Reveal the dowries for them to see Sir Now will you return my bride back? Where are the stuff? What stuff? Why are you mixed up with these people? We're just having fun putting on a play-wedding, why can't we? I'll tell your father, when I get back Tell him if you like I know why you're angry Next time when I put on a play-wedding again, I'll pick you as the groom! I'm hungry, take me home Raise the sedan Watch the Miss closely. If she goes out, tail her tightly Yes I was not allowed to kill Lord Li, but here comes this Wan San-Choy who killed Fu Qi I think he actually wanted to kill Li, but killed the wrong person Delaying the rebellion, for how many days? Everything has to wait for further instructions from Hong Kong Wait! We still have to wait again Their target was not Fu Qi It was me Why are the revolutionists so maniacal? This tells; they plan for something big soon I am blocking their moves That's why you have to pay extra attention and increase manpower at all barricades I, Li Zhun will be the thorn in the palm of the revolutionists My Lord I have discovered the secret hiding place for the leaders of the revolution It's possibly the painting studio at No. 1 Pao Kan Road Close down the place Arrest all the people and bring them back Shift the Patrol teams at Liao Hua Shan and Yin Tong back to the PC Confiscate all the guns from the New Army Yes Open the door, search! Quickly You guys come here I'm sure I saw Miss coming here I told you to watch her closely Idiot! Come. Come. Come. Put everything in here over there as well. Ok Come, we will go this way Thank you Is one enough? That's enough Brother Ke-Jiang Zhong-Huo. You are here I heard you're married This is the bride No, no With tea to drink, this will be just like a Command Centre Ke-Jiang, you're here I heard a painter of tigers moved in here too also, there's a painter of chrysanthumums Ke-Jiang My good brother You are here There's a bomb maker here too Zhong-Huo, this is the famous bomb maker, Yu Pei-Lun How are you? These two are from Fujiang: Lin Wen. How are you? Lin Jue-Min. How are you? This gentleman does not need an introduction He is the gang's famous son-in-law, Luo Zhong-Huo Just kidding nice to meet you Glad you're here. Nice to meet you Good, everyone is here, let's go in and talk Come Why aren't women allowed? That doesn't make sense, didn't you say that all people are equal? Why don't we go and raise a little hell because I can't join the Suicide Squad anyway No way They want me to guard the territory of the Newspaper I cannot reveal my identity There'll be a lot of follow-up work after the rebellion and continue to release the news Join me for the follow-up work Follow-up? What is that? I don't want to Wei, come over The Chinese in Nanyang are very supportive to us They receive news from different sources What does this mean? Because Fu Qi was assassinated by Wan the rebellion has to be postponed for 14 days This telegram is to warn the Yui Xin crew not to come We still have to delay some more Li Zhun ordered the confiscation of all guns from the New Army Without the guns, bullets are useless Three ships of Qing army will be relocated back to fortify their defence today They just started to strengthen their defence these few days When did we start to prepare? It took us so a lot of effort to get the weapons here The Suicide teams from various places will be arriving these two days But without any co-ordination from the New Army We'd be like throwing eggs against rocks Jiong-Ming and Yi-Shen's message is To slow down and suspend To suspend, would mean to disperse If Jiong-Ming and Yi-Sheng don't want to do it, they can retreat Whoever doesn't want to do it can withdraw As a last resort, I can just go to the Chancellor's Mansion and bomb Zhang Ming-Qi Is the point of our rebellion to just kill a president or two? If it was that simple, we can just kill the Emperor and have it done with How many times do I have to say it to make you guys understand Ke-Jiang If we say the Qing Government had no defence Do you think we'll succeed? To succeed is definitely our wish But we have already failed nine times previously That's why this time we shouldn't even think we'll succeed This is the tenth time and then, there'll be the eleventh time and the twelfth China has been asleep for too long and cannot be awakened by just a couple of explosions The reason why we're here, is to achieve what is unattainable To sacrifice our lives, is to inspire our descendants Pei-Lun said We have to plan the most glorious funeral for ourselves The explosions will be our Trophies of Flower It will be a glorious funeral It seems like you will all be in this funeral now On the 27th the day after tomorrow Thanks to Heaven and Earth my efforts for 3 months in making these bombs would have been wasted When will you be returning this time I can't say Our country is in a mess, don't come back if you can't do it To hell with their mess, we keep drinking and earning our money Zhong-Huo I'd like to advise you The world is like this wine, it wasn't fermented overnight and its taste can't be changed Who said that wine has to be just one flavour Westerners drink wine, brandy and whisky I think we should drink whatever we want to drink Everyone have their own ideals But you have to remember Whenever you return, this seat is always reserved for you Come Your words will be in my heart Big Brother Can you keep Wei-Ru at home tomorrow? Why? She said she wants to run away from home, and come to Nanyang with me That girl has been spoilt and getting worse I'll have her locked up tomorrow Pei-Lun Can you handle that many by yourself? These explosives are nothing As I toss them out one by one, it will get lighter and lighter Keep bluffing, just don't bomb yourself So what? I can handle it even with just one shoulder Let's go Be careful! Careful! Don't think you've written your last will this is my fourth I've done three previously Do you need pen and paper? No I have written mine in Malaya I'm drawing this for you Mr. Sun said you like to draw wilted chrysanthumums I've changed Blossoming chrysanthumums can illustrate their fragrance and grandeur even better Standing proudly against the southern chills I have always wanted to ask you why Why what To journey thousands of miles to Guangzhou To raise funds, to buy weapons, and then to die You don't look like a hot-tempered person We both clearly know that Mr Sun's 'Three Principles of the People' has a long way to go At the moment we were born, we start to lose we lose our childhood, lose our youth, lose our lover and keep losing until we lose our lives What is there to prove our existence? To prove that we have lived? A funeral where explosives become Trophies of Flower It's not an opportunity for everyone At least during this farce-filled era We can prove that our lives are not a farce If this painting is lucky enough, tomorrow no, the day after return it to me Good Have you finished the painting? Almost Let me brush on a few pieces of stones Brother Wei Brother Huang said to bring these letters to you Your mission is more important than us bombing the Chancellor's Mansion Wei We use our bombs you use your pen This will definitely be more effective than shouting on the street Is that right? Master said you were a teacher in Penang I have also been a principal of a high school Principal Luo, I've got a question Tell me, if there are so many places that you haven t visited so many good food that you haven't tasted and die just like this, won't you regret it? Even if we visited, we tasted, we still die, is there a difference? But, you're not afraid of dying? Mr Sun once said, to live and to die has been destined nothing can be done even if one's afraid of it Understood. I'll go now Is that how you're going to bid me farewell? I won't say goodbye to you Who says I'm still a woman Wei-Ru Where are you going dressed like that Nowhere Then come and spend some time with me Then I'll go and change Why do you lock me up, open the door! Somebody, open the door! Auntie Huang, it's an emergency, let me out! Somebody help! Why do you lock me up? You're back Dad, open the door, open the door, let me out! Dad, open the door! Yi Ying my beloved I write this letter to bid farewell forever At the time of this writing, I'm still amongst the living But by the time you read this, I'll be a ghost amongst the living. Dad I haven't bid farewell to them yet I still haven't said goodbye to Brother Luo Open the door, Dad! Dad, open the door. Brother Wei Come in How is the situation? Master will provide cover for Brother Huang to leave the Capital But we haven't heard any news from Brother Luo yet The gates of the Capital only allow departure and no entry Have some food first My reporter's credentials and camera I'll find out more as a reporter no one will do anything to me you should return and wait for my news Brother Wei, I want to wait here Have you eaten? I'm not hungry, Auntie Wei Is there anything I can help with? Just waiting without doing anything makes me mad Let's say some prayers Can they really hear it? At least we can hear it ourselves Praying can at least calm ourselves down After waiting for three days without your return I asked Wei-Ru to go home first How is it? The corpses lie exposed outside of the Information Bureau It is still raining outside I used my father's reputation to ask Guang-YanSin Tong to use Hunghua Gang The government reluctantly agreed to have them buried there. I'm going now You're going now? Wait a minute Here's some money Here's some mothballs Bring an umbrella Yi Ying my beloved I write this letter to bid farewell forever At the time of this writing, I'm still amongst the living But by the time you read this, I'll be a ghost amongst the living My tears are mixed with the ink I write Not knowing what to write, I lay down my pen Yet you may misunderstand my dilemma and think I desert you Knowing well you don't want me to leave So I endure my pains for you to let you know
