 

                        Three calling One, do you hear? One, do you hear? I hear you. Elie, it's Menashe. Leaving airport. Long trip ahead. Disappearing until further notice. Don't try to find me. Got it. What's that? Oh, no! I really don't need a storm. Enough, enough... That's all we needed! Oh, stop it! What's going on here? I think we took a wrong turn. I haven't taken this road in ages. They built roads, interchanges... They've driven me crazy! What's this? Never seen this before. Do you know where we are? I don't any more. You're not allowed to smoke, but you can if you want. Where are the kibbutzes, the collective farms? They were everywhere. Did the earth swallow them up? Not even a gas station. We're running on empty. That's one plague the Torah doesn't mention! I can't see a thing. Elie! Elie, do you hear me? Menashe here. Do you hear me? What's going on here? What is this place? Elie, talk to me. We lost our way. What am I going to do now? Where do I go now? How do I get home? Elie, Elie, where are you? Elie, where are you? Where? Where am I? Where am I? THE TIME THAT REMAINS Chronicle of a Present Absentee Mister! Where are you heading? Arab Liberation Army. Going to liberate Tiberias. Tiberias is that way. Hey, Mister! - Where are you going? - Tiberias! Don't bother. It's been liberated. What's in that direction? Haifa. Hey, brother! Where to? - Where you from, brother? - I'm from Iraq. Welcome. Have a seat. People of Galilee, the hour of liberation has come. The Israeli Defence Army is here to halt the advance of criminal gangs falsely calling themselves a "liberation army". Residents of Galilee, lay down your arms and raise the white flag. The hour of your liberation has come. Rid yourselves of the armed gangs who are oppressing you, and help the Israeli Army to bring peace to this part of Palestine. Your Honour, Mr Mayor, you are required to sign the official surrender, which states: "Nazareth unconditionally surrenders to the Israeli Army. "All combatants from all Arab states will surrender to the Army. "All arms and ammunition will be surrendered to the Israeli Army. "The military commander is authorised "to sentence any transgressor to death, at his sole discretion. "The Mayor will stay in charge of civil affairs. "However, "the army is the only jurisdiction to determine what is civil or military. "Israel recognises the civil and equal rights of Nazarenes, "regardless of race, language or religion." Mr Mayor, sign here, please. What's the date? July 16th... Thank you very much, Your Honour. And now you are kindly requested to join us for a photo of this historic moment. Photo! Grand Mufti Husseini, crush them! With thy sword transfix them! Victory is ours! They've been brought to their knees! An honourable man has two aims: To die fighting or achieve victory I want no life if we're not respected in our land If our words are not heard echoing in the world I shall carry my soul in my palm tossing it into the cavern of death! Either a life to gladden the hearts of friends Or a death to torture the hearts of foes. An announcement for the residents of Nazareth. A curfew has been imposed, as of now and until further notice. All transgressions will be punished. Attention, attention! Nazareth has surrendered to the Israeli Army. A curfew has been decreed. A car will take us to the border. I couldn't find a truck. Just take essentials. What about Olga? Your sister's stuck in Jerusalem. She'll manage by herself. Fuad, hear me. We're leaving for a couple of days, until things become clearer. My mother's too old to stay here the way things are. Don't worry. Everything will turn out OK. "A couple of days"? Fuad... I'm not a young man any more. My chances of marrying are getting slimmer. My family needs me. The country's lost. There's nothing left to fight for. Meaning? Meaning... One has to accept one's destiny, Fuad. Your gun. Read it to me. "Fuad, my love. "Anis has decided we'll leave for Amman until things calm down. "You know how hard this is for me. "You are distraught at what is happening to our homeland. "Forgive me for taking this step at this difficult time. "I have never wanted to add to your burden, "but my only consolation, as I disappear from your life, "would be if you considered laying down your arms. "By doing so, you would calm your mother's worries and mine. "Take care of yourself and of your health, "watch over your dear sister Nadia, "and lastly, stay faithful to our love and our homeland. "Eternally yours, Thuraya." There's a wounded man out there. Where you going? Someone's been shot. Do we leave him out there? We'll help him. But your gun stays here. Watch out. They're around. Where are you going? Home. Which neighbourhood are you from? Not from here. I'm from Bisan. What brought you all the way here? They dumped everyone from Bisan by truck at the border. So I ran away and hid in a neighbouring village. Each time I got to a town, they were already there. But I never imagined I'd find them already here. Now I don't know where to go. I'll come back for you when things calm down. Go. I'll manage on my own. Halt! Face the wall! Count to three, then run. One, two, three! Where does your pal live? Where does he live? Open up! Don't move! Hands up! Are you Fuad Suleiman? Come with me. Nobody move! He's the gun maker. Get out of here, go home! Get lost! I'll wait for my cousin. We'll go together. Together? Together! Why don't you go, bring a casket, then you can go "together"! Go home! Get lost or I'll shoot! Count to ten. While you decide to tell us where the guns are hidden. If you get to ten I'll blow your head off. Count! One... Two... Three, four, five... Ten. My Dear Nadia, Everyone sends you their regards. Fuad is a lot better. His chest is hurting less. The doctor told him to stop smoking and not to go fishing on cold nights. Elia is fine. His grades at school are excellent, although the teachers say he's always in the clouds. Olga sends her regards too. She claims she saw you on TV, shaking King Hussein's hand. So I've asked Fuad to take her to the eye doctor. There are rumours the government is issuing permits to go to Jordan, for people with immediate family there. But they only consider those who serve them. The economy here is getting worse and worse. Electricity and kerosene prices keep going up. The dollar is at an all-time high. Talking of kerosene, now that the neighbour works in gas stations, he drinks, flips out and douses himself with kerosene. Neighbour, quick! He's doused himself again. Since he's been working in petrol stations, he drinks, flips out and douses himself with kerosene. Come on, move! Put your cigarette out first. I can't take any more! Let me end it all. Don't come close. Anyone comes close, I'll fuck his mother! Leave me alone! Let me end it all. I've got nothing left. You'd better not come close. You've got your whole life before you. I've got nothing. What kind of life is this? Live or die, it's all the same. Fuck this life! Shit on this life! Tomorrow we may sail From the beaches of Eilat to the Ivory Coast The old warships will be used to transport oranges This is not a metaphor nor a dream It is as true as the sunshine at noon If it's not for today, then it's for tomorrow And if not for tomorrow, then it's for the day after Tomorrow we will build with our hands what we dream of today This is not a metaphor nor a dream It is as true as the sunshine at noon If it's not for today, then it's for tomorrow And if not for tomorrow... if not for tomorrow Then it's for the day after! Thank you very much. I am proud and happy to award this marvellous choir first prize in the Hebrew singing competition. Awarding this prize to a school of the Arab minority is another proof of our willingness to pass on the values of democracy and equality to all our pupils. Mrs Principal, please. On the day of independence the bird sang Joy spread from the towns unto the plains and valleys On my national holiday, on my national holiday... All the people sing in happiness and joy How more joyful the song on the national day of Israel How more joyful the song on the national day of Israel Long live my country! Long live my country! Who told you America is colonialist? Who? You don't say such things in class. Lentils? From Aunt Olga? Didn't we say less smoking and less fishing at night? Guys! Everything OK? Excellent. Where are you guys from? Nazareth. All the way from Nazareth? Aren't you cold, fishing at night? No. Any fish, at least? Yes. ID cards? Yes, yes. OK, have fun! How are you, neighbour? Hello, neighbour. I have a theory, neighbour. If the Arabs were drinkers like me, we'd have won the war long ago. Ask me why. When you sip a glass or two of arak, you get tipsy, you see the plane two metres away, you can grab it and bring it down! What do you think? I hadn't thought of that. Neighbour, it's a question of logic. All you need is a clear head and some thinking. Isn't it so, neighbour? You won't believe who I saw on TV. I saw Nadia. She was at a charity event in aid of Palestinian refugees. She made such a lovely speech that King Hussein stood up, walked over and greeted her in person. Girls! Girls, he is like her brother. OK, girls? He is like her brother. He's like her brother. President Nasser of Egypt has declared that the Arabs support the international peace initiatives, but that there is no genuine will from the Israelis... Neighbour! Their leaders' recent declarations show their refusal to withdraw from all occupied Arab lands. Radio Cairo... No crossing, there's been an accident. I have to buy parts in Tel Aviv for my lathe shop. Sir, I cannot help you. You're risking your life. Turn round and get out of here. Help is on its way. Be patient. Come on, evacuate the area! Come in, Bronfman. I'm telling you to drive off. What are you doing? Where are you going? That truck is loaded with explosives! Bronfman, the vehicle could explode. Sir, don't go closer! It could blow up any second! Bronfman, confirm that you're reading me. Watch out or you'll both die together! Did you hear me, Bronfman? Over. Was it you who saved me? Are you OK? OK. Hello. Is everything OK? Guys! Everything OK? Everything OK. Where are you guys from? Nazareth. Are you the guys from Nazareth who fish here all the time? Do you have your ID cards and all? Yes. Any fish? Yes, yes. OK. Have fun! Say, guys... Don't you have a sea in Nazareth? Why come here? There's no fish there? How are you, neighbour? Hello, neighbour. I have a theory about how to get rid of these sons of bitches. France and Lebanon are up each other's ass, right? We make Lebanon attack Israel. Israel retaliates and fucks the sister of Lebanon. France comes to Lebanon's aid, retaliates and fucks the cunt of the mother of the sister of Israel! What do you think? I hadn't thought of that. Neighbour, it's a question of logic. All you need is a clear head and some thinking. Isn't it so, neighbour? Who told you America is imperialist? Who? You don't say such things in class. Dear citizens, Mr Anwar El Sadat, Vice-President of the Republic, is addressing you. The Arab Republic of Egypt, the Arab nation, and humanity as a whole have just lost a man of very rare qualities, one of the most courageous and most sincere of men. President Gamal Abdel Nasser left us this evening, at 6:15pm, Rajab 27th 1390, which corresponds to September 28th 1970. Go back to bed. Fuad Suleiman? Go back to bed. Fuad Suleiman, we have information that you smuggle arms from Lebanon by sea. - Here's our warrant. - Try to find something. You aren't even ashamed of yourself! Not at all, huh? What can I do, neighbour? It's my job, Mr Fuad. Gunpowder. Hidden under the kid's bed. - That's bulgur. - "Bulgur"? Bulgur! Bulgur for kebbe, bulgur for tabouleh, lentils... Bulgur! You're coming to the station. One way or another you'll confess. My Dear Nadia, Everyone here sends their regards. Fuad's open-heart surgery was 100% successful. He's now stopped smoking for good. But he never stays put. Especially since he got his hunting licence. When he's not off hunting, he plays backgammon with his friend Abu Elias. Olga sends her regards too. Her eyesight is deteriorating daily, because of all those hours she spends watching TV. I'm fine, apart from this damn diabetes. How are you? Send me your latest news. I hear that Amman is a beautiful city, with clean, well-kept streets. Here, the bin men are always going on strike. There's so much trash piled up, people hold their noses. It will soon be the Day of the Land. Last time, Elia was accused of tearing the Israeli flag. He had to leave the country. Who knows what might happen this time? Olga, we're here. I wondered where you were. That young man looks just like Elia. He could be his double. It is him! I didn't recognise you. How are you? I saw on TV today a young man who looks just like you. He could be your double. Do you know Abu Adel? All his life he's fantasised about fucking an Israeli soldier girl. You know, those who hitchhike in front of the military base. He was always ogling them. He ended up dressing his wife as a soldier, and she pretends to hitchhike, so he can drive by and pick her up. Now she's into it more than him. Watch what happens now. Move it! The Nation for one shekel! All The Arabs for free! Papers! Papers! The Nation for one shekel! All The Arabs for free! Young man. The Nation. The Nation... No more Nation. What's left is All The Arabs. All The Arabs for free! All The Arabs for free! This fourth anniversary of March 30th has been commemorated by the Palestinians of 1948. Thousands of Palestinians took to the streets to protest against Israel's continued land annexation policy. In Nazareth and Galilee, banners proclaimed: "We are staying!" A number of demonstrators were injured in clashes with the police. Dozens of them were arrested and imprisoned. How are you, neighbour? Hello, neighbour. Neighbour, you see my son here? My son's fucked all the mothers in town. And me, I fucked his mother. You understand me, neighbour? Of course, neighbour. They threaten us with prison. Neighbour... You don't threaten a whore with a dick! Isn't it so, neighbour? Hello, neighbour. Come in, neighbour. Do you have an atlas? Close your eyes, pick somewhere and go! Why? He's been denounced. He has 24 hours to leave the country. Our soul! Our blood! For you, Palestine! Our soul! Our blood! For you, Palestine! One, this is 6-9. Over. have been spotted around the northbound gas station. The commander wants to know what's going on. Over. dispersing a burning-tyre incident. One, this is 6-9. for questioning. Over. One, this is 6-9. Five is heading to the petrol station... Elia Suleiman? Tabouleh. I made it light on the bulgur, the way you like it. Let me know what you think. I'll see you later. Have a good night. And welcome home. Did you hear the shooting last night? A drug war between two families. The town has become unrecognisable. You catch someone's eye and he draws a gun! Recently, a circus made the mistake of coming to town. Abu Borkan, the dog thief, usually steals dogs, went and stole their elephant! He painted it lilac so no one'd know it was an elephant. To attract tourists the municipality built a tourist village. Like Nazareth 2000 years ago. With Joseph, Mary, a few sheep and a donkey. The next day, the sheep had all gone. On the Feast of the Virgin Mary, during the fireworks they cut the padlocks. The barbecues were going non-stop! The lamb kebabs were flying that night! Do you want green beans? No, we don't. - 10 shekels. - I don't want any. Please take them. I don't want any. Go away. I don't have the bus fare home. Didn't you hear? Get lost! - Where are you from? - Jenin. Do you have an entry permit for Israel? Where's your ID? If you don't have a permit, I'll take you to the police. Just go. Then give me a cigarette. So... I see you're not whistling today. Ramallah. Please... Ramallah, please. Go home! Me go home? You go home! Hi. It's been a while. Where you been? We miss you. Why don't you call? Come round for a drink. I got a bunch of totally awesome new songs! You've got to hear them. Look, there's a party at The Stones tonight. There's this mind-blowing DJ! Everyone'll be there. You should come. Great, great... See you, man. To the residents of Ramallah. Curfew, curfew! To the residents of Ramallah. Curfew, curfew! To the residents of Ramallah. Curfew, curfew! To the residents of Ramallah. Curfew, curfew! Welcome back. Hope she's better soon. They've given him sedatives and a vitamin drip. You'd better come. His condition isn't good. What happened? A feud between two families. We mediated. They hugged and kissed, then they set on us! Get better soon. Doctor, I got this recurring problem. You've got to help me. I'm listening. I'm at a red light, I take out a cigarette and push the cigarette lighter. It pops out, I drive! - I've had four accidents so far. - You got a serious problem. ER, quick! Hello? I'll be dead for ten minutes. I'll call you back later, OK? No, it's nothing. I came to see my cousin in hospital. Some mates called from a bar so I went to meet them. On the way out, a glass in my hand, I step on this guy's foot. "Open your eyes," he says, so I offer him my beer. The motherfucker refuses it, I chuck it in his face and punch him. His mates pitch in so I slice them up with my knife. When I get back to the hospital, the guys I slashed are all here. They see me and run. Then I felt my hand hurting so they took me to x-ray. In fact, when I was punching him, I'd hit him once, he'd dodge and I'd hit the asphalt. One to the face, one to the asphalt: I broke my hand! Thanks. See you later. Goodbye. To the memory of my mother and father Laser subtitling: LVT - Paris
