 

                        Cream Production Parking The second Sunday in May Hello Last night I worked until dawn I originally wanted to drive straight home I was too tired and slept a while by the side of the road What time is it? Today? Yes, didn't we make an appointment for dinner today? If I head back now, I should be in time The store in that alley? You bought the chocolate one? Ok, should I buy the 6-inch cake Or should I buy 2 small ones? I'll decide for you And buy some chocolate for you too Okay? See you soon Bye bye Is this for Mother's Day or for a birthday? No, this is for my own dessert This Italian Boston and Italian chocolate, What's the difference between the two? The filling is different Inside this one is sponge cake, with fresh whipped cream In this one is mousse the texture is lighter How many people is this for? Two Two then would you consider this small one? The lady who came with you last time, she bought the chocolate mousse Yes, that's my wife She doesn't like chocolate mousse I'll have a six-inch tiramisu There's no six-inch, this is the only one left Then an Italian chocolate Ok How do you make your chocolate like that? It looks like it's got no energy My chocolate is sold for its taste, not for its energy If you think my chocolate got no energy I suggest you go to the convenience store, or the supermarket The chocolate there is very energetic Lady, I just want to buy a cake Sorry, we're closed today Mister, I want to ask Whose is that double-parked car outside? Wait a moment, let me fix this first Sorry to keep you waiting, let's go out and take a look This car? This car belongs to the third floor They often park this way at night You see where the window was broken? Looks like it was a bullet No doubt, it's the third floor's Well then, you could try honking The third floor on this side? They should come down soon Wait for a moment Thank you Little girl Little girl, are your parents home? Grandpa, someone's here Sir, I would like to ask about... Little Ma! Ah-Yun, Little Ma came back Little Ma? Little Ma came back? Little Ma Little Ma Little Ma Little Ma You came back? You've gotten thinner You came back, why didn't you tell us first? No matter, come, let's have dinner It's dinner time Ok Sir, I made a mistake Sorry Little girl, bye bye Bye bye Hey, did you find them? I saw the car leave just now Yeah, I just went to the third floor That car doesn't belong to the third floor It's not? Sorry, I misremembered Then it should be the fourth floor's Only the third and fourth floors are occupied here I can't tell who's who You saw Nini, didn't you? The little girl? I did Just now the old man and woman thought I was Little Ma Little Ma is their son? Little Ma is the old man and old woman's only son Nini is Little Ma's daughter And Little Ma? Was convicted and shot to death That was all six, seven years ago It was big news A bodyguard kidnapped his client's child Do you remember the news? Little Ma's wife was about to give birth at the time And after she gave birth, she became sick and had to stay at the hospital Little Ma didn't have enough money That's why he kidnapped his client's child He put the child in a car trunk and suffocated him by accident Before Little Ma was arrested His wife died Thank you, sir, I'll be going Hello Can you wait one more hour for me? There are some things tying me up here I can't explain it clearly over the phone right now I'll tell you when I get back Alright? Are you hungry? I bought the cake already I bought a six-inch cake Ok Bye bye Little girl, what's your name? My name is Nini How old are you? I just turned six years old So you're six years old You are doing it wrong It's not right? No, it's not It's not? Then how do you do it? Turn it around What? Like this? It's my turn Little Ma, come help for a moment You try it I've forgotten, how old are you this year? I'm 31 years old Not long from now, we're going to be moving out Most of the neighborhood has moved out There are only a few households left They're in a similar situation Don't know where to move to A few years ago You wrote a letter back to us After your father read it He only told me you were busy overseas I asked him and said Did you say anything else? He only said you wanted us to take care of ourselves I wouldn't believe that We've been apart all these years You must have a lot of things to say to me This letter I've always kept it beside me I keep on telling your father Before I leave this world I want to hear your voice again Here Read it for me To Mr. Ma Dear Dad and Mom: I will be gone. I am sorry to you, Nini, and the victim's family. Hsiao-Yu was ill... Everything happened so suddenly. I am in jail, unable to take care of you. Dad, Mom Is everything going well? Xiao Yu and I are in Boston right now Last week The company suddenly transferred me to America Xiao Yu came along with me Things happened very suddenly I didn't have time to contact you I am really sorry It's already spring here right now It's cold here I am very unused to the lifestyle here But don't worry Even though Xiao Yu and I are overseas We are always thinking of you And Nini When my life here is settled down I will return and bring Nini over here Best wishes Keep it safe Thank you I still have some things to take care of Take your time eating I have to go now Nini, be good and listen to your grandpa and grandma Ok I'm going then When are you coming back? I'll be back in a while Let's make it a pinky promise Ok Good girl Take your time See you soon Do it harder Like this? Stop Can I see you piss? Widen your legs A little more Wider Don't touch me Should I give you eight thousand or ten thousand? Ten thousand You know why I never fuck women in the pussy? Because it stinks there Miss, you dropped your money Fushun China November 2006 Are you Lee Wei? Yes You've worked in our factory for 10 years Do you have family? My mother Does she have work? No Do you have a boyfriend? It's nothing really Take your time Lee Wei You know the situation in our factory now, don't you? Production isn't good There are going to be big layoffs This is the severance pay the factory is giving you "The robbery who kidnapped the boy was arrested" You can leave now Lee Wei If this ever happens again You gotta tell me at once I'll take care of it on the spot That customer may be a regular But even regulars can't mess with you Am I right? Oh, alright We're in the service business What the customer wants to do We let him do Just endure it What about my money? What money? Your mother already took the money, didn't I tell you? When am I going to pay off the debt? Two, three months Three months ago, you said I'd pay it off in two or three months Why does it take another two or three months? On top of that, you're making my schedule tighter and tighter Sister, get this straight Right now what you spend, use, eat, wear every day Who the fuck you think is paying for it? Who paid for that tattoo on your back? You want to talk about money? Take a look in the mirror What you're like now Compared to you a few months ago in your boondock home in the Northeast They're two completely different people Whose money was it? You still want to talk money with me? Motherfucker Don't said that to me Alright, I won't You hungry? We'll eat something and then I'll send you over What are you doing? Lee Wei Lee Wei Lee Wei... Fuck, you try to run again Are you fucking with me? Why are you hitting her? Don't get in the way! Fuck, what are you trying to do? Lee Wei What do you think you're doing? She is a woman This is my wife Fuck you This is family business What do you want to do? You want to hit a woman? Are you a man? How does this look? Fuck you Call the police This is none of your business Fuck off Let go Let's go I'm calling the police Go ahead Fuck You like to shop at the night market, don't you? Go shop Fuck You try to run again Fuck Hey, Chairman Chen This is Little Dai Sorry We had a slight situation on the road Sorry, sorry We'll be late about 15 minutes Yes I'm very sorry We'll be there soon Ok Then drink some tea, relax We'll be there soon Thank you Hello I'm going to head back now I just met an old couple and a child It's not convenient for me to talk about it here I'll tell you when I get back Ok, I'm heading back now Shit! I sat on the cake I'll call you later Let me fix it first Bye bye Sir, sir Can you give this to me to eat? That's no longer edible It's alright Ok. Thank you Thank you Mister, can I use your restroom? Why haven't you left yet? I sat on my cake My pants are covered in cream and chocolate Don't you eat cake with your mouth? How did it get to your butt? Walk to the end, on your left Thanks Thank you, goodbye Take care, Mr. Zhu Goodbye, goodbye A true gentleman Mister, thank you You're welcome Weren't you closed today? I can't help it, he's an old customer How long have you had this shop? This building's already very old Do you still have time now? What is it? Would you like to play a game ofWorld Cup? World Cup? Alright Not bad Excuse me I won Brilliant Last ball Whoever gets it in first, it's game over Your luck is not bad It's at the goal Excuse me You are so dedicated Goalie, nice work! Ok, thanks Ok I'm leaving We'll play again next time if we have the chance Ok Goodbye Take care May I ask if the Benz outside belongs to you? What Benz? The one that's double-parked The one parked there? There Has it been parked there for long? I don't know It's blocking my car Is it yours? The Benz? Yes Could I have the number of the Da Tong Towing Lot? My car is parked on a legal parking space There's an illegally double-parked car blocking my car Could you send someone over to take care of it? Ok. Where is your car? This is Chengde Road, Section 2, No. 190 Chengde Road, Section 2 Sir, I'm sorry Our drivers have all gone out right now There are no trucks available We can tow it for you later I'm sorry, you'll have to wait longer It's almost 9 o'clock right now How could your drivers have all gone out? Today is Mother's Day and Sunday The trucks are all outside, it's been busier today We will tow it for you later But I have an urgent matter right now What should I do? If you have an urgent matter, then you can take a taxi Because there are really no trucks right now Why should I ride a taxi? Just send a truck over and take care of this Boss, I'm only an employee here All the trucks are out right now If there's a truck I'll send it over to you If there's no truck, I can't do anything Leave your phone number A truck comes I'll call you right away How's that? Ok, ok If a truck is available, I'll call you right away Hello I'm going to take a taxi back now Are you still waiting for me to eat? Sorry My car keeps getting blocked by other people, I can't get out How can I explain to you? Wait, I'm getting in a taxi To Taishan, near Mingzhi Institute of Technology Excuse me, sir. That's not on my route I'm in a hurry to get to dinner How about I pay you a little more? If it was on my route I'd take you, I'd even do it for free It's really not on my route, I'm sorry, Excuse me The taxi won't take me I'm really unlucky Just listen to me My car keeps getting blocked by other people, over and over So I can't get out Fuck! I didn't know anyone was in the car Wait a moment. What do you want? Fuck! Don't run! Stop running! Stop running, stop running Drag him here, drag him here Take it off Get away Shit! Motherfucker! You owe money and still try to run Mad Dog Motherfucker, how dare you say his name? Did I let you speak? Isn't this going too over? Let them go first Let him go in and wash first Let them go Have the others leave first Wait a moment for me over there Ok Long time no see Mister, that car... Young man, come over here and help Take his clothes inside Ok It's been over ten years How've you been? Alright I opened a shop And you? That broken down car Still hasn't been replaced How do you think? That's because you're nostalgic Real fucking nostalgic fuck What's wrong? You're not in the business anymore? Hand me a cigarette Back when I had two hands Life was already so hard Now with only one hand left How could I survive? It's very inconvenient? It is very inconvenient I even have to ask your help to smoke a cigarette Does it hurt? It hurts I'm used to it by now It hurt for half a year After that it hurt even more After it was severed The place where my palm used to be still hurt I don't know why Even when the hand's gone, it still hurts? Blackie's gang did it That time I didn't know you were joking So I really went and did it Later one time One of Blackie's sidekicks, Little Four Do you remember him? That crazy Four I was ambushed by him You know what he did to me? Every joint in my fingers He crushed with a hammer Then he hammered my wrist That fucker Little Four bit the dust recently He did? Got sick Tell that fatty He can't stay here Today it was because of you But we'll come for him again Next time it won't be like this You oughta know Is the master in? That's me I mean the one who's older than you You're probably talking about my old man He passed away a year ago How can that be? I visited him two years ago before I went to the mainland That time, I even told him the 'Boston' over the doorway was spelled wrong It's not P, it's B He said it was P, not B Are you from around here? I'm from Hong Kong Actually my old man was too He just came here first When did you come here? I've never seen you before I've seen you before I still remember you Ok, then... I have a piece of cloth I originally wanted to ask your father to make a shirt for me But he's not here So I can only ask you instead No problem Ok. Then let's take a look at the cloth I had never before seen such fine cloth After the customer left I pondered a long time in the shop About what, I don't know Not long after I began cutting the cloth That day Was the happiest day I ever spent as a tailor That night I had a dream I dreamt of my father Wearing the clothes I had made Afterwards, I realized It was as if I had made this suit of clothing for my father He tailored clothing for people all his life But he himself was never able to wear a good pair After he left Holding on to this store Was like holding on to a coffin Except the one buried in the coffin Was myself What happened? I told my customer I don't want to make clothes for other people anymore Because I know in 20 years I'd still be wearing this same suit of clothing, tailoring clothes for other people I asked him, could I go into business with him? How did you know I opened a clothing factory in Guang Zhou? I still remember you talked to my old man about it You really intend to give up this shop and come help me in the clothing factory? Then let me ask What are you going to do with the shop? I'll close it down first Once I settle down over there Then I'll take care of matters over here You're completely different from your father He was cautious and conventional When I first arrived in Guang Zhou Everything was quite smooth Who would have thought in less than a year? A problem arose in company turnover After the company was finished I returned to Hong Kong And couldn't find a job, Only some temporary work One day I remembered this suit of clothing And wanted to come back and take it with me Thought I might as well come back to take a look at the shop As a result, they caught me as soon as I returned Back when the company had problems I put the house up as collateral And borrowed five million Then the underground loan sharks couldn't find him So they came for me How did things turn out this way? When I saw you before, you were even quite happy to leave here How the hell could I know? Back when I was living with my mother in Hong Kong, I always wanted to leave After she passed away, I came to Taipei The following years I saw my father's business getting harder and harder After I came to Guang Zhou, Everything was new I wanted to stay and become prosperous In the end, it's still the same Just now Mad Dog told me You can't stay here anymore They'll come for you again. You know there's no one the mafia can't find You were lucky this time They only splashed you with paint Next time it'll be different Young man You aren't hurt, are you? I'm alright My arm was hit I think you should head back Or else the later it is the more problems will come up Yeah Where do you want to go? I can take you there Is your car white? Yeah Then never mind It's blocked again Did you see who it was? Yeah Looks like it was someone from over by the clinic Should be the fourth floor's Only their car comes and goes like that Who are you here for? I want to ask if the double-parked car downstairs is yours? Ah Bao Is your car blocking someone? Which car? Which car? A grayish blue car The grayish blue one No Sorry, not our car Are you here to fuck around, dipshit? I want to speak to Ah Bao I told you it's not our car I want to speak to him about something else Ah Bao, someone here for you Alright, be right there Did a friend introduce you here? He's the shit who just said someone was blocking his car Are you that bored, letting anyone come here to fuck around? I just said it's not my car You blocked my car during the evening Evening? Damn, that was three, four hours ago What the fuck do you want coming to me now? Your car's blocked again? It's not my fucking car Go find the owner What do you want me for? If you hadn't blocked my car in the first place I wouldn't be here right now Brother, Let me tell you frankly I also hate assholes who double-park But what can you do? Everyone's out there making a living Am I right? Cars come and go And sometimes they double park for a while So what? Am I right? Your car's been parked there longer than 10 minutes You Motherfucker! What day is it today? Sunday What time is it? Past 9 o'clock Who am I hurting if I park there? I'm hurting you? Then what the fuck you wanna do? Then how's this? Your car's stuck there now anyway, am I right? How's this? You can call a girl and have a good time Here, I'll give it to you cheap Alright? No need It's my apology to you Come on, I'm serious This one's not bad No thanks See, she used to be in fashion magazines Come on Just give it a try No need You don't like this type, huh? No problem How's this one? No, I just wanted to tell you... It's because your car was blocking my car that I'm here now Lee Wei Lee Wei This is a mainland girl We just brought her here Beautiful Alright, isn't she? No need She's really good It's all real Take a try No need Come on, have a good time Fresh Shit Fuck It's assholes like you What the hell? Fuck you, jackass Fuck your mom in the ass You can't see I'm sleeping? Motherfucker "A man wants a transsexual operation, a woman is donating the penis" What's Taiwan like? Taiwan's a small island Ocean on four sides There's a mountain in the middle Dividing Taiwan into east and west Summers are very hot Winter's not too cold Then where are we staying in Taiwan? Taipei Is it big? Taipei's not small, But compared to Shanghai or Beijing Of course it's a bit smaller But it's very modern I've heard there are lots of delicious things in Taipei Yeah Night markets, eateries When we go there I'll take you to eat there You'll take me to these places? Yeah Does Taipei have places for body piercing? Body piercing? Does Taipei have places for body piercing? You're talking about tattoos Yeah There are The same one? The same one again I got it Ok. Bye bye I'm going out to deliver the goods Look after things here Motherfucker, look after your own tooth Fuck My dad once struck his nose in a motorcycle accident His whole nose swelled up Said it was no big deal Didn't have to see the doctor Later he got it examined It was nasopharyngeal carcinoma I don't want you to be too late Peanut, how old are you? How long have we known each other? About 15 years or so Every day for the last 15 years I've listened to you bullshitting What's with you? Are you asking for someone to fuck you up? You obviously see I'm in pain You don't say a thing to comfort me You even keep talking about your dad's cancer A swollen nose and nasopharyngeal carcinoma are two different things You mix them together, what's with you? You think I'll cheer up hearing that? Fuck I took you and that vegetarian under my care One bullshits all day One sleeps in a chair all day I tell him to look after the place And he gets all pissed with me Even makes fun of me Fuck Vegetarian and still wanna be gangster Sometimes argues with me he can't take lives Why doesn't he get out and fuck with someone else? Speaking of you two Laurel and Hardy Ah Bao, don't talk like that We've known you so long We haven't been fucking with you You say that vegetarian Looks like a lazy shit But when something happens, he's always first to fight for you Today, if it wasn't for him Giving a kick like that That nutjob might still be here fucking around If the police came We'd have no business at all Seriously Do you know how bad nasopharyngeal carcinoma gets? Back when my dad's nose was so fucking huge The doctor said they'd have to cut the whole nose off with a knife Motherfucker, fucking terrifying Just two nose-holes left on your face Look like Michael Jackson Do I have to insult your dad to make you shut up? If you've got time to fuck around, then think Where can we toss this guy? We could throw him in a park somewhere But the shit'll hit the fan if he dies Fuck, so unlucky Ah Bao, then how's this Once you take care of the guy in the back Send Lee Wei back Then I'll take you to the hospital, alright? It breaks my heart to see you like this Fuck Fuck Fuck Fuck I haven't been this tired since the relay race I ran as a kid Motherfucker. Brat You dare hit me? Fuck (Yesterday...) Come, straighten both sides of your clothing, right Hello Hello How was the shooting? Alright I still have another outfit to shoot It'll take about another half hour Then how do you want to meet up? Come pick me up Where is it? That photo studio on Renai Road Remember? It's that photographer who loves to chat with you? Yeah Did we make the doctor's appointment at 4? Yeah This time you can't be late, ok? Please Ok. I won't Then call me when you get here I've gotta go OK? OK. Bye bye Your situation is very unusual That is to say, it is probably impossible for you to have a child with each other How should I put it? Because your wife's eggs and your sperm are incompatible She cannot become pregnant by natural means Why did this happen? There is no why This is a problem your bodies were born with If you want to have your own child You will have to try in-vitro fertilization This is the only way Using your husband's sperm with another person's eggs Or using your eggs with another person's sperm You can become pregnant this way Doctor, you must be kidding us When I came eight months ago, you said there was hope You had me do all these examinations I did everything You told me to do ovulation and do antisperm What did I not do? You told me there was still hope Now what are you telling me? Now you're telling me egg and sperm are incompatible, how can I accept that? I've been with my husband so long His sperm are just yawning around beside my egg? Is this a joke? Now what? How many more tests will you tell me to take? Are you going to tell me to give up? It's been eight months! Doctor Mei It's been eight months Mei Say something, doctor Enough Fuck you You understand shit Do you know what it's like to have your legs spread apart? To have pliers digging around inside you? Do you understand? You just have to jack off with a porn magazine in the fucking bathroom You understand shit Enough already Fuck Hello Are you at work? Yeah Can I come over to see you? I'm still working right now I'm already outside the office Can you let me inside? Wait a moment You eat a little first I'm not hungry yet I shouldn't have been like that to you at the hospital yesterday. I'm sorry Can you look at me while I'm speaking to you? Can you respect me while I'm working? We've been together for four years? What are you trying to say? I know things are bad with us right now But when we first wanted to have a baby, it definitely wasn't to save our marriage I would never have such a despicable idea Don't you remember at all? When we were first married How much we loved each other? Together, there was no end to the things we did and talked about We wanted to have a baby to share in our happiness You've probably forgotten, haven't you? I haven't forgotten In order to have a baby I tried so hard and so much, and for what? It was because I never forgot the promises we made at the start I never forgot how I first loved you Yesterday I went to the hospital After I got back I had a dream I dreamt I had a baby Then when I walked into the nursery No one was there "Delivery Room" I was very afraid then and I became exhausted I couldn't move Then I kept yelling, Is anyone there? Is anyone there? After I woke up, you weren't beside me I guess you were at work, so I went to look for you Because I couldn't bear to be home alone I'm sorry I'm sorry I shouldn't have been like that to you at the hospital Why don't we try one more time? The noodle is getting cold You eat first Shall we eat together tomorrow? Alright Hello I don't know I don't know where I am Who is this? Alright There's no need Have you eaten yet? It's ok, it's ok I'll be home soon Don't worry I haven't You don't have to wait for me You eat first I'm fine Ok Excuse me I forgot to ask where you're going Take me to Mingzhi Institute of Technology You still have school this late? My house is near there Oh yeah, what were you doing back there? I don't know either I was there when I woke up You don't know? Normally nobody goes there at night You were lucky I was just heading back Otherwise, catching a cab around here You wouldn't catch one if you stood there till you died It looks like you're hurt pretty bad Do you want to go to the hospital? It's alright Just head to Mingzhi Institute of Technology Oh, ok You drive pretty fast Pretty fast? This isn't fast at all I used to piloting airplanes I am Chinese Air Force Academy Star Fighter Fighter aircraft pilot I've had a dream since I was little A dream to become just like a bird Soaring above the blue skies and white clouds It's an awesome feeling Look at me coming out, look at me disbanding I rise up, I descend Loosen the handle, glide Slow down, make contact, see the runway Lock my four wheels completely Glide down Turn twice, land Did you see that? The ultimate speed You're lucky today Catching a car driven by a fighter pilot How did you get to driving taxis? My flight instructor told me that All it takes to fly is to have the brains of a pig That's enough to let you take off Then why wasn't I able to take off? That's because our flight instructor said I have the brains of a pig with a concussion Today's Mother's Day You're hurt so badly If your Mother sees this, won't she be upset? Driver, could we change route to Chengde Road? Chengde Road? Mingzhi Institute of Technology and Chengde Road are pretty far apart Where on earth do you want to go? To Chengde Road Chengde Road Please hurry Ok, no problem What's wrong? Lady, I want to buy another cake No, what happened to you? I'd like to buy a cake, lady My cakes are sold out Here, sit down first How about a drink of water? Didn't you buy a cake this afternoon? That one got ruined You haven't been home yet? Not yet It's ok, lady I'll buy one somewhere else Wait a moment I have three cakes here They were flawed I was planning to save them for myself They don't look as good Not as much energy But they taste just as good The cake is fine It's ok, I'll buy it from you No need, no need These cakes aren't for sale Just take them home to eat Do you want to rest a little longer? It's ok, I'm heading back now Thank you, lady I thought you went back already I don't know, It seems like I was beaten up Was it the fourth floors' doing? Should've been After I woke up I was already at the riverbank Go to the bathroom first, wash your bruises Ok I'll come help you in a while Ok How could they have done this? Hello Hello, Boss Was it you who reported a blocked car? That's right Do you still need a tow truck? Yeah, of course I do Ok, you can take a break Drink a cup of hot water We're heading there at top speed now It'll be there in 10 minutes Ok Ok then Goodbye You're a real good guy You're hurt so badly And still bring us snacks You ate all the cakes? There's one left For you It tasted quite good Have you eaten anything yet? Not yet Sit down I'll make a bowl of soup for you Are you alright? Much better What kind of soup is this? Fish head soup with shredded ginger I see you hurt the corner of your eye So eat the part with the fish eyes first I'll give you a bowl with more fish meat in it later Are these from the fish head in the bathroom before? That's right The kitchen's too cramped No place to put it But don't worry about hygiene In the sink I already had this fish cleaned out thoroughly It's sweet I drank three bowls It's ok I should be going soon I'm not eating Your car is still blocked anyway You should drink the fish soup first I just got a call from the towing lot They're sending a tow truck soon I'll wait outside You're hurt so badly Let me send you home I'll send him back first Ok It's so late Will the tow truck still come? They called and said they'd be here soon They wouldn't be lying to me, would they? Then we'll be waiting for nothing I don't think we have to be waiting right now You're hurt so badly Can you drive alright? I'm fine Leg still hurts a little You're ok, right? Not as bad as you Don't drive too fast Where are you going later? First I'll make sure you get home safely Then I'll go find a place to live somewhere What do you intend to do afterwards? Go to the mainland Do you know anyone on the mainland? Yeah The people I knew back when I was doing business there Go back and see what chances there are Are you in a hurry? I must have more free time than anyone in the world right now Hey! Fuck! You know him? No Then why'd you hit him? I don't know What about you? He beat me up like this Fuck Wait for me Hurry, hurry I didn't know you came back to hit people Get out, get out Lift him across What the hell are you doing? Lift him across Wait, wait Look at my car. Wait for me Where are you going? Who is it? Sir, it's me Sir When I left tonight I told Nini I would come back to see her They're all asleep by now Can you let me in for a moment? What happened to your face? I bumped into something by accident I just want to see Nini for a moment Who is it? It's me How come it's so late? Last time I promised Nini I'd come back to see her Nini Were you a good girl? Why did you come back so late? Me? I had something to do just now Are you going to stay here tonight? Nini, I'm going to leave in a while You have to be good and listen to grandpa and grandma from now on No, you can't go If you're going, I'm going with you Nini, you can't talk like that Little Ma What's your name? Chen Mo Chen Mo? C- H-E-N, M-O As soon as I touched your face I knew you weren't Little Ma Before you left You came back to eat with us You are a good man About the same age as Little Ma too Even though you lied to make me happy Even if my eyes cannot see My hands are not blind At dinner, I kept feeling that You were sent by Heaven to watch over us Come, Mr. Chen Help me keep this envelope In it is the letter Little Ma left for Nini Take Nini and go I believe you can provide the right path for Nini Nini Ever since Mommy gave birth to you She's never left the hospital again At first I thought she just needed time to recover But only when it got worse and worse every day Did I realize that things were going to be different During those few days when you were just born I suddenly remembered I'd known your mother for twelve years I felt like those twelve years should've been only a part of our entire lives But, in fact they were all of it We have to go it's not because we don't love you That we are abandoning you There are many turning points in peoples' lives We cannot anticipate them In an instant Everything disappears I remember the time when Mommy passed away She told Daddy to catch a bug that was on the ceiling I could never find that bug But your Mommy kept insisting it was there Afterwards I asked a policeman What that bug looked like? He drew it for me It was a long, long Insect with many, many legs I don't know why an insect would need that many legs to walk Just like I don't know why we left you like we did In the future you will encounter many setbacks Perhaps you will cry But remember in the end You must still go forward without stopping
