 

                        Coast Guard, 2nd Commander How I can take your call? - Mr. - Do not have a new baby to be home? I'll stay as you have a 456 line 4 - Captain Maine. - What? How big? I'm coming - Problems sir? - Bring me to Snives - Mr immediately - "He called me sir? - No, Snives - But since no one else. - Sorry sir, good morning I think this morning there is nothing good Watch where you walk I'd rather see someone die rather than give mouth to mouth resuscitation - Still not sure - I am sure is coming You're a hopeless case Your boyfriend is here - It's so great. - The planes are great girl This is monumental Are we? I changed my mind, your dad has to come now Really, why? Well, I think you have to know someone What? I thought you had it in your hands Besides does not like your dad? No, I would hate if I met him, believe me Good is the boat owner Well to address How are you? How are you, having a good time? Enjoy, How are you? Hello, hello - Look at this, hi. - Can I have your autograph please - Sure, what's your name honey? - Tamy. - I like that name - Tamy Here. - I also could have your autograph please? - Sure, what's your name? - Bruneo - I like that name. - Now make safer than old Only bad children for safety are not permitted - Hi, Dad. - Amy - Let me guess, work There is a glacier that want to investigate Dad the boat is amazing there is nothing to worry about Not that I worry about the outside We talked about this, how much is in that boat? We agreed that it was good for me Yes, but that was before I realized ... the rush to put him on the anniversary was - Dad, the boat passed inspection? - With the just - We M. - Baby I have to hang up, then talk - Bye. - Te Quie ... - What's wrong sir? - No, that's fine - Hi Glen. - Amy Maine, Good to see you. - Ditto - Welcome aboard the Titanic II. - Thank you, you have good day You also Amy, that good that could come Yes, everything looks nice you did a great job - How is your dad? - OK - See ya. - Bye Ladies and gentlemen I thank you all for coming On this day come with me to the history of this country And that he sees a good future and establish a new path A day in which the loss of the lives of the predecessor of this boat Will be replaced with the memory of the larger boat, fast, and sophisticated ever built, the Titanic II I want to introduce the man who will guide this ship Will ship's Captain Howard I hope you all enjoy as we all And we enter the history book - Will not you come to lunch? - I had lunch 5 minutes ago - How dull. - Do not let them bite you - All passengers are on board sir. - Well - Let's make history. - Yes sir Control tower this is the How will 6565 Copy Captain? We will land in a couple of minutes, during - The Coast Guard will be on hold. - Do you have another bad presentimiendo Captain? You could say - There is the camp. - Yes sir I see - The Coast Guard is here. - Really? They should give a smaller - It is very far - I'll leave it on just in case - Dr Kim Patterson. - Nice Insurance will wonder why you asked to come but his reputation precedes him And I need someone serious when I say that we are on a time bomb I'm listening The wave of collapse yesterday went to northern Canada The piece of ice that fell from collapse, is the size of Manhattan I figured it would make a piece of ice that size I guess we push to mid-Atlantic Across the Atlantic These measures are mass balance That when the temperature increases the balance shifts The ice show These tests tell us that the ice in which we are now Thickness has decreased - It's awesome. - Exactly I think there is anything you would like to see follow me Of course there is global warming true - Can you tell me what the hell am I watching? - The collapse of yesterday God Have you ever thought of Captain Armageddon? If yesterday's collapse was only a trifle the following will be colossal Now imagine the Atlantic Ocean Do you admire your masterpiece? Yes, I did Do not be late for your party? It's my boat, I think I will wait also would like to enter with a girl - You know, I called you. - Yes If only be delayed six months Your dad gave me a punch in the nose you expect I found driving his boat at - I think he was right. - You're still the Daddy's girl Look Who's Talking I did not speak, I feel what happened to your dad, I know how much he wanted Do not mention it Looks like you left in charge COA industries I always thought you'd end as coastguard Yeah, well ... when you give the keys of an empire is hard to refuse You still have the earrings that I gave you Yes, I have so many earrings Well, those like me You could have answered the call And then what ... pretend that all was as before? Accept that you care more about your boat and your money than you care about me Yeah well, your father did not need controlling all my life paranoid Not talking about my father, talked to us You chose a different life is fine, I understand And it seems that you are happy with the decision you made You better back in does not want to miss your party Good lord the Titanic time goes well Wait, hold it steady We are stable, naval readings to 31 degrees - Is it true?. - How so? The same reading as 100 years ago Well, only this time we have enough lifeboats I also believe that this time also avoid the icebergs Yes sir Lord, I have to remind We have not yet deployed the propellers - Yes ... we need to accelerate - Relax May resemble its predecessor but inside is much better Yes sir - How long before we collapse? - Hard to say But when you do the North Atlantic will be devastated by the wave What was that? Go back Upload Now Mr is tracking the satellite But we do not have much time to report - A tsunami alert. - James I already did The warning is being given at this time We will need the navy, coast guard, national guard and all we can when this thing hit - How long do we have - I can see No time Hand me the alert center readers are going to need SNA We have to find out how fast this thing moves And send me all the information we need to move fast Sir and vessels are at sea? The boats are well, the Tsunami is dangerous only when it reaches the coast Ships at sea should not be affected That's not entirely true captain of the surface ships maybe yes But everything below will be affected particularly throughout the north Atlantic - Ice? - Exactly There may be a layer of ice beneath the surface in several feet produndidad So if the wave strikes, can push Okay Abo, listen We need to send a warning All the ships of the Atlantic tell them not to come to any signs of ice Again tell them to stay away from the ice blocks - Consider it done James - And one more thing - Do you also have a view on the Titanic?. - We are monitoring all James - What you need - check what is the marina in the area - Check your position - Copying - Sir, we have redirected. - Where? North Latitude 40 45 West Longitude 50 14 We'll confirm it's okay Let's move Speak the Coast Guard is a Tsunami alert in the North Atlantic Again there is a warning ... Captain Did you know that the Titanic was warned six times on icebergs and did nothing? Ignoring his position was true On hate - Nursing. - Ladies I need one of you in the port - We are in the midst of an important conversation. - No matter I need one of you to get passengers We are on track Why are escorting passengers to the lower chambers? Yes sir Good evening ladies and gentlemen can provide me your attention please All passengers of the Titanic please Come by my front door and go to the elevators And go to the ground floor this is a precaution No need to worry thanks - How long?. - Just M. - The Coast Guard gave the alert. - Coast Guard - What the hell caused it? - An iceberg collapsed - On the coast of Greenland - We are ready for icebergs Not the lord but the Tsunami iceberg coming fast sir How long? - We are waiting for the Coast Guard. - Captain, that we will pass under - Do not even feel. - Coast Guard Captain communication - Here the Captain Howard. - Captain James Howard here on Maine Coast Guard Captain We listened - Do you see any iceberg in your area? - Mr Negative Lord I need to reverse the direction of your boat Mr. This wave is moving with incredible strength Any ice on the way the wave moves I need you to contact the West as soon as possible It is the only chance to avoid ice For God's sake James I know this looks dangerous But I remind you that this is the Titanic II Equipped with radar ice that are activated within a radius of 5 yards Hayden this wave travels at 842 miles per hour Now 5 yards will not make a difference If any ice will reach you flip the boat Do what it says. How long do we have? - How long for the impact? - 15 minutes maximum They have 15 minutes maximum God - What is our distance? - 40 degrees and heading northeast at 30 miles - How long?. - Mr Anytime - Shoot. - Lord if you do ... - Do Mr. 2000 ... 5000 meters Lord strike us Prepare for impact - Captain at 50 knots. - We're in 40 - It's not fast enough. - Mr Walsh, I can remember ... The engines are not well tested yet - If the press ... - They have been built to withstand speed - Put them in 50. - Yes sir - Put in 50 knots - Yes sir All to please the ground floor there is no need to panic - Madeleine. - People are going crazy - What? - You think climate caution - Is all this fuss about the weather?. - That's all they told me If something is wrong We answer Amy Hello, just call Amy Maine leave a message after the tone Amy talks to you about your dad, listen Something is happening, there is a tsunami that will go through the North Atlantic Your boat will reach in a few minutes I want you to pay attention Away from the ground floor There are chunks of ice in your direction Take as many people as possible to higher levels Stay in the center of the boat And if something happens, permance calm and get on a lifeboat - Be careful honey. - Is your daughter? - Yes, a nurse. - Lord We have very little fuel M. - Where you can stock up? - In the Canadian coast - In the San Juan hub. - Take us there faster Yes sir - We are at 50 knots Captain. - Very well - Lord lost the first mover. - Turn it off - We can not. - We can not lose the other We can not stop this ship - This boat has three engines. - Do you want to fly the other 3? We both know that the engines have not been properly installed, have to be cooled - Turbines. - The turbine will consume more fuel We can not let go slow We are adrift We turn on the alarm being dragged Keep calm happens all the time Happens all the time make it right and climb the pattern is well Attention, Captain speaking All passengers please lifejackets All passengers please lifejackets This is not a drill I repeat, not a drill Attention, attention Your captain speaking All passengers please lifejackets All passengers please lifejackets This is not a drill, I repeat not a drill This is not a drill, I repeat not a drill I know the same thing I'm sorry you'll find information Talk to them and let you know No, no panic stop Captain Everybody Moving - A starboard now - We hit Maidem, maidem this is the Titanic II calling the U.S. Coast Guard Maidem, maidem this is the Titanic II calling the U.S. Coast Guard Titanic II, Captain James Maine speaks of the U.S. Coast Guard - What is your situation? - Mr collided with an iceberg - We need immediate assistance. - Captain I think we have another problem We filled it with water All the bow water is filling up fast That will cut the power to lower the lifeboats - How many? - Of all - We have a dinghy. - And the boats tied? They are small or even float - The little pot. - They were not designed to withstand a collision - Not anticipate being beaten by his side. - What is he saying? We must continue - If we keep filling our water we will sink. - How long? - 2 hours, maybe three. - What else? We sink - Prepare all is well and evacuate all the boats that we have Women and children first It seems that history repeats itself Mr Walsh have to remove it. Come on, we need him to safety Let - Between sir. - And the passengers? We have to upload the fix Listen to me, goes to most people as possible in the helicopter - Mr Walsh is the procedure - the procedure I do not care - It's my boat, do it - Yes sir Okay, you catch me out of here Arise I have received under the glacier activity Near the area of collapse If successful will mean that unstable ice What are you saying? If collapses A greater mass of ice fall into the Atlantic Creating a mega tsunami toward the Atlantic Coast How big? Everything in its path will be devastated We have to get people out of the Titanic II James we have a rescue squad The marina is 40 miles west of them They will find the Titanic in an hour That boat does not have an hour We need planes and helicopters in the area immediately Captain of the Titanic have enough boats We may not have seen the end of this collapse if there is another wave, these boats will not change anything And my daughter is in that boat I understand Everyone calm No, please sir Let me let go - Lord have to go back. - Please Lord ago Come women we Sorry we have to go Madeline helps - Amy. - Come Let me help you Ladies first No, I'm staying here I'll stay One more go Only women - How far? - 30 minutes Mr We will supply us There's a boat on the way if we do not reach It is good that we refuel and go back to the boat Yes sir Patterson Gone I want to put them all aircraft that we fly now - Mr. - What? I think this has to do - This is a pre-existing right. - No, sir Is twice I need another group of women going around here We girls have to take them out Put on lifejackets - I have to go ... - Sign in - Come on ladies. - Madeline - Where is Kelli? - I have not seen, is in nursing I'll see - Get off me. - Amy - Are you okay? - Yes I'm okay - You have to go on a boat No I have to go to the nurse I think Kelly is there It's in the basement will not get last time I will not go without it - Okay I'll go with you. - It's all your fault What is it, Get off me There are more important things like wear a life jacket and board a boat - Are you okay? - Yes, we I know another way - Kelly. - God Kelly - It hurts. - Okay we will remove you Hence we will remove you'll be fine - Only resists - Put pressure - Press the wound. - Whatever it quick Okay. - You'll be fine Hurry I need a card - Cover the wound. - Yes - Do Let's hurry Where is the tape? "Where's the tape? You have to relax Kelly, resists I have it Okay, I have - You'll be fine. - You have to hurry Breathe - Kelly are you okay?. - Stay here We need you out of here Put your arm around me You'll be fine We shall produce from here - Are there any boats? - We have to let go Help, please Carefully Chief Engineer Speaks Daniels if anyone here I can hear the turbine hall Let's hurry up, we all come, come Sign in - If someone else has to go with you - Yes sir - Are you okay? - Yes Let's all please follow me - Please. - Are all inside? Hold on strong What was that? Carefully - Is there another way? - Yes, we can use the elevators - Elevators? - We have no choice U.S. Coast Guard to Titanic II U.S. Coast Guard to the Titanic II, change Again the U.S. Coast Guard to Titanic II Change - Captain Maine. - Captain, talk We are sinking Captain has to get his people from the lifeboats Half of the boats have been evacuated The lifeboats are traps Enter I understand Captain comes another wave God does not Are you there? Captain Lord's time to resupply We must do this fast friends - 6565's copy. - Roger Mr. My God - We must go up. - Climb, climb repeat - Baby you okay? - If - Kelly are you okay?. - If Take my shirt What happened? I do not know, I think they flew turbines Everything will collapse - You're bleeding. - I'm fine. - I have to get points I'll tell you if we leave it alive I'll let me put all the points you want, we have to go Put your foot in my hands, let - On the count of three list. - One. two ... three - Push it going, keep pushing. - You are stuck It should have collapsed this is wrong My cell phone My dad, answer Dad - Amy - Are you in a lifeboat? - No, we are caught The ship is sinking How do you catch? Kelly Hayden and I are stuck in an elevator Hear, hear help is on the way I also I want them to stay away from the lifeboats - Do not get any. - What do you mean? Cario another wave is on its way bigger than the last - This really is the worst. - What? When it wipe out everything including lifeboats Not survive Your best bet is to stay in the boat You can flip but it is strong and the wave drag is not James "how long do we have? As 30 minutes "Hayden is another diving equipment? Sure - Can you get there - I think so Okay, we will resist until we get there Once I did think you were an honorable man Let me think again my daughter is there - Dad I'm so scared - I know darling, it's okay Do as I say and you will be well - If we do not? - Not even mention it Okay we'll get there baby on the way Goodbye Dad James, if you do what you say has a chance Yes Care - Get out of here. - We will remove you Give me your hands - Kelly. - Kelly let Take my hand Ready? Let Come and Now you Take my hand I have you Let Follow up You have to hurry up Follow up Let Let Come up Follow me - The door is locked. - I thought he left open the - Supposedly. - Is to protect the boats Fast Pass Hurry Spend I can not spend too narrow Amy, we Let We will be closed Let I believe I can go, push - Pasa. - Amy ax - I know Return - Kelly. - No Kelly, no, no I'm sorry Kelly Amy, you did everything you could We must go, please If we have died for nothing Come on, get out of here Waiting Let The ship is falling apart We fry them, we must think in a way we can not return - We will have to go up - What would you change that? Until we touch the wires or the ground We do not electrocute a - Do not know. - You are a nurse I am not technical I do not know electricity There is only one way to find out Let's your turn I do not know if I can not know if I can jump as high Amy can do it we have to hurry I can not and if I fall Let your dad come soon Amy - Salta. - Vale You can do jumps Well-done We'll come to me Come on, well done Still, almost We already have it You're almost there remains Continue I slip, I fall - I fall. - I'll come for you Hold on, I'll go for you hurry I slip I will not let you fall expected Hurry please Give me your hand Are you okay? Follow me Let Let I have you, you did - Are you okay? - Yes - We're almost there Wait listen do you hear? - People trapped. - We need to help I'll leave you where did your father and come to aydudarles - No, we do not have time for that. - Vale Come with me - Where next? - Over there We are close - Let's open the door. - Help Is stuck Help me, I'm here - Help. - Hell's door is jammed Curse - Damn, I can not. - It is stifling Hear the door is stuck Can you find another way out? Are you there? We will respond, are you there Bastard - I killed him - Hayden's not your fault - It's my fault - Listen Hayden I made a promise to my father Now come on, move Let Let Well I think I will have to go without me - What now? - We came here for you - Quick put this on. - And you? - Do not worry about me - The water is frozen - Put it Amy Hurry Let's hurry "Hurry? Arms We have to go - How much is missing? - We are close to Mr Within 30 miles of the east side - Think I'll make it - We are near Amy you ok? Yes What happened? We headed the ship is upside down - Can you move? - Yes We have to go, stop - Give me your hand. - Is frozen We have to go give me your hand Are you okay? - Yes - Something is blocking the door. - What can we do? - The water will rise faster - Everything will be under water in 5 minutes You have to get it Amy Turn around You have to leave - Those are the planes? - Yes if you came to the room dive They will be there No good Each unit has a diving emergency tracker - How it works - have a tracking signal A low frequency we have Hayden is frozen water I'll keep you warm Do you? I think the temperature is the least of my concerns Lord I have a low frequency signal - Seems to come from the Titanic II - Mira How to get there? Listen, I take off the suit Why? I use it not Forget Freeze to death First I'll drown We will share the oxygen tank to keep breathing - No. - Why? - Freeze to death anyway So what's your plan? Listen, this boat has air bags Caught Stop the sinking air that will give me Breathe deep and try to get - Wait ... - Insurance and picked up your signal - Wait. - You can find - What about you? - I'll drown If they can survive rapid - No. - It is the only way - No, Hayden Listen, be wise If we share the tank will die anyway And half of the air will I swear can relive You have more chance of survival But I do not like you - This is my fault. - No Come on, give me your arm - What is your plan? - I have to find - How will you know where? - No need to know - James if the ship sinks, the pressure will increase. - I know - Everything that is below ... - Yes, you have to take care - Here, take the end of it, and let me go - What's this? To find the way back there you have 1000 feet Just let it go I'll be fine - What if the string ends? - I'll be dead - Then cut the rope. - M. Ready Now - Hayden - Sorry - No holding out. - No, no, no Amy, I did what did you do what you gotta do - Yes - Then I wake up Put it Put the controller You'll have to jump There is a lifesaving equipment you have to hurry back - What about you? - I will do my Go You have to hurry, jump Post it Hayden Resist We breathe We Hayden Hayden breathes Damn Breathe We Hayden We Hayden Breathe Hayden Breathe, breathe, we breathe Hayden, no We Hayden Thanks
