 

                        Good morning, Sue Ellen. Good morning, Mary. Good morning, Robert. Good morning, Allen. Good morning, Mr. Dobbins. Good morning, Steven. Good morning, Mr. Dobbins. Oh, a river's gonna flow 'Cross the land 'Cross the land Oh, a river's gonna flow To the sea And a boy's gonna grow To a man To a man Only once in his life Is he free Only one golden time in his life Is he free River runs warm in the summer sun River runs cold when the summer's done But a boy's just a dreamer By the riverside 'Cause the water's too fast And the water's too wide Then the world turns around And the boy grows tall He hears the song of the river call The river song sings "Travel on, travel on" You blink away your tear And the boy is gone Oh, a river's gonna flow 'Cross the land 'Cross the land Oh, a river's gonna flow To the sea And the boy's gonna grow To a man To a man Only once in his life Is he free Only one golden time in his life Is he free Hey, Huckleberry! Hello, Huckleberry. - How come you're playin' hooky? - Same as you. Never spent a day in school in my life. - So what you got in the sack? - Somethin'. - Somethin' like what? - Something like Widder Douglas' dead cat. She gave me ten cents to get rid of it. Looks pretty stiff. Say, Hucky, what is dead cats good for anyway? Well, you know old Hoss Williams is lyin' on his deathbed. So what's that got to do with a dead cat? Well, I'm figurin' you take that dead cat along about midnight of a day a sinner's been buried... - Why midnight? - 'Cause that's when the devil comes. But you can't see him. You can only hear somethin' like the wind. And that's when he's fetchin' the soul away. - Who's fetchin'? - The devil! You heave a dead cat on a fresh-dug grave, the cat comes back to life with the spirit of the dead man. It's called cheatin' the devil. - Did you ever try it before, Huck? - No, but I'm fixin' to. - Can I come with you? - I don't know. Ever been in a graveyard at midnight? Plenty scary. I wouldn't be scared. I mean, why should I be scared? I know you're down there. You're down there, you little devil. You're hidin' from me. Hello, Muff! - Hello, Huck. Hello, Tom. - Hi, Muff. Huck, would you lend me your fishin' pole a minute? Sure, Muff. There! There you are, you little devil. There! - Here you are, Muff. - Why, thank you. You know, you're a-favorin' your pap more and more every day, Huckleberry. Seems to me like it was only yesterday you was no bigger than a grasshopper. Happy days they was when your pap was livin'... plunkin' on his banjo, passin' his bottle around... all free-hearted man he was. Sing? He could sing like a meadowlark. Now... I got you now, you little dickens. There you are. Of course, you never knew your ma, her dyin' like she did as you was born. - I ain't got no folks neither. - Well, you got your aunt, ain't you? That's all a feller needs... a friend. "A little old friend in need is a little old friend indeed," as the poet once said. I've got to go. I'll talk to you laddies later. I've got an appointment. Doc Robinson wants to see us. Somethin' about that Injun Joe freezes your blood. Crazy mean from the pain in his leg, I reckon. - Hey, let's go fishin'. - Yeah! I am Tom Sawyer, Black Avenger of the Spanish Main! Name your name! Huck Finn, the Red-Handed, terror of the seas! - 'Tis well. Give the countersign. - Blood. Come on. - Hoist the colors. - What sails we carry! Courses, topsails, and flying jib, sir. Colors flying, sir. Weighing anchor on the port side. Luff and bring her to the wind. Swing her to the starboard. Aye-aye, sir. Shake out the sheets and braces. Lively now, me hearty. Aye-aye, sir. Mississippi River dead ahead! Well, there's nothing like a broken arm to keep a boy off an apple tree. - At least till it heals. - Thank you, Dr. Robinson. I told you to come in the back way. Just wanted to tell you it looks like I'll probably be needin' you... tomorrow night. That Hoss Williams? That soon, huh? Can't last any longer than that. Poor Hoss. How is that leg, Joe? It should be on you. Tom Sawyer! You, Tom! Drat that boy! Never here when you want him, always underfoot when you don't. A body could spend a lifetime chasin' that boy. Whippin' does no good. Keepin' him in his room does no good. There's no punishment devised that could straighten out that boy. From the time I get up in the morning till the time I go to bed at night, it's just one blessed thing after another. Mary! - You seen Tom? - No, Mother. Sidney? No, Mother, I haven't seen Tom... all day. Playin' hooky. Again! That's twice this week. Uncouth, irreverent, wild... That irresponsible child I try to teach him, but who can reach him? He never can be found, leaves his trash around Just won't learn and he just keeps turnin' away Tom Sawyer, the devil's got him in tow Tom Sawyer, he's grief and worry and woe He's late for supper and late for school and he's takin' me for a fool I'll bet Tom Sawyer will be the death of me yet Tom goes out with Huck, swimmin' in the nude Tom tears all his clothes and he talks so crude Hides dead snakes and things underneath the stairs And in Sunday school never knows his prayers Tom's a good boy, Tom is kind Tom holds wonders in his mind Tom's an orphan, can't you see? He needs our love and sympathy - Tom sneaks out at night... - Tom has gumption... - Always tellin' lies... - Tom is strong... - If he breaks his neck... - Havin' fun... - Won't be no surprise... - Ain't doin' wrong... - Dunce cap on his head... - He loves to play... - Every other day... - And fish and swim... - When there's chores at home... - And you just wish... - He's a mile away - You were like him Tom Sawyer, that Tom is turnin' me gray Tarnation, he'll never learn to obey I know that boy could be such a joy to me if he'd only be good But he's always wastin' his time away, exasperatin' me every day No ambition and no respect, he'll be the death of me yet Worms! Tom Sawyer! Tom Sawyer, that irresponsible child, that Tom Tom Sawyer, uncouth, irreverent, wild, that Tom He's late for supper and late for school and he's takin' me for a fool He just won't learn and he just keeps turnin' And I'll bet Tom Sawyer will be the death of me Bet Tom Sawyer will be the death of me yet! - Tom? - No, it's me. - It's the Widder Douglas. - Good evening, Martha. My, you're just having supper. I'd best call another time. Well, now that you're here, why don't you join us? Oh, I couldn't. - Yes, you could. - Well, maybe just a bite. Why don't you take Tom's place? It appears he's late, as usual. Thank you. May I take your hat, Mrs. Douglas? It's such a pretty one. Oh, thank you, Miss Mary. Mr. Douglas bought it for me the last time we were in St. Louis. Polly, it's so hard for me to believe... only yesterday Mr. Douglas and your Josh were... - What smells so good? - We're having lamb stew. My favorite! Dear Lord... We thank Thee for the bounty which we are about to receive. Amen. How are you doing in school this year, Sidney? Best in the class, just the same as last year. I've never been to St. Louis. I hear it's very modern. Oh, my, yes. They have gas lamps on every street corner. Why, you can go out at night, and it's as bright as daytime. And the stores! My, this does smell good. Tom's home. You little beast! Excuse me, Martha. You two, stay here. Apple butter, please, Miss Mary. Well? Oh, Aunt Polly. Supper ready yet? Has been for some time. Well, I'm late because of the Widder Douglas. - The Widder Douglas? - Yeah! See, I was on my way home, walkin' past the Widder's house, when all of a sudden I heard a scream and a yell for help from the top floor. What could I do? So I had to run up there and see what was wrong. - What was wrong? - Well, there she was, layin' stretched out on the floor... must have fell or somethin'... screamin' and a-hollerin' like she's gonna die. And a bone stickin' right out of her leg. Stickin' right out of her leg? Well, I had to run clear across town to fetch Doc Robinson. He's up there right now sewin' up the poor widder's leg. - Must've needed 50 stitches. - 50? Yeah! And that's how come I'm late for supper. I sure worked up a big appetite doin' all that runnin' and chasin'... Good evening, Thomas. What a string of fibs you tell, Tom Sawyer. I oughta wash your mouth out with soap. That's all right, Aunt Polly, if'n you let me put some supper in first. Why don't you tell the truth for once? You were playin' hooky again, weren't you? And why's your shirt damp? 'Cause you were swimming with Huckleberry Finn, weren't you? - Aunt Polly. - Don't you lie to me. I have warned you time and again to stay away from that trash. No dinner for you tonight. Upstairs, to bed with you this minute! You're gonna need your sleep 'cause you're gonna pay for this tomorrow. His idols are the wastrels of this town, like that no-good, shiftless, foul-mouthed Huckleberry Finn. Huckleberry Finn. You know, Polly, he's not really bad. He just has no one. Well, I mean, he needs a strong influence like Thomas. Well, with those two it's hard to figure who's influencin' who. I think the time has come for some good old-fashioned uninfluencin'. - All of it? - Two coats. - Two coats?! - All of it. Quarter speed! Ding, ding! Hard a port. Steady as she goes. The River Queen's comin' around the bend. Guess what I seen. New family movin' in the empty house. Name's Thatcher. He's a judge. They got a real pretty daughter. Heck, girls ain't no fun. Always gigglin' or weepin'. What do you know about girls? I was engaged to Amy Lawrence. Always gigglin' or weepin'. Poor Tom. You're workin' your head off, ain't you? - No, I ain't. - Then what you doin'? - I feel sorry for you, Joe. - You're sorry for me? Yeah, 'cause you can't get what I get. - What you get? - Satisfaction. From whitewashin'? You get more than that. You get gratifaction. Gratifaction? Yeah. That's what you get. Gratifaction. Yep, I feel sorry for you, Joe. Let me have a turn. Please, Tom? You don't know what you're askin', Joe. I'll give you my glass stopper. Genuine crystal. It's pretty good, but I don't know. Just for a couple of licks. All right, just for a couple. That's all. Watch you don't slop none. What'd you give him to do your chores? What chores? He's doin' your whitewashin', ain't he? I'm afraid you've got this all turned around. Joe gimme this. - He paid you? - Sure. Look at him havin' all that fun. - I got six marbles. - I done ate some, but it's half good. Watch you don't slop any. You call this work? Well, ain't that funny We ain't doin' this for money Heck, it's a regular privilege to be occupied It's a source of pride Anyone can swim and fish on Saturday Anyone can just lay down Layin' in a hammock, layin' in the grass Like a lazy, no-good hound They just know that I'm soft-hearted I was barely gettin' started Now I'm givin' all of my fun away, they keep beggin' me, And I'm generous I mean, when's the last time you could slosh a buck full of wash On a mile of fence? Look at 'em smilin', havin' a time And all at my expense And you get that deep-down inside Gratifaction Gratifyin' Satisfact... Well, I mean that deep-down inside Gratifaction Oh, how good you feel when your shoulder's to the wheel You don't need nothin' except ambition Elbow grease for ammunition And bang, what a righteous glow you get from honest sweat It's a natural bet Anyone who puts his nose to the grindstone's Gonna get a great reward Your eyes will see the glory of the comin' of the Lord And you get that deep-down inside Gratifaction Pure enjoyment from employ... Well, I mean that deep-down inside Gratifaction Oh, how good you feel when your shoulder's to the wheel You don't need nothin' except ambition Elbow grease for ammunition And bang, what a righteous glow you get from honest sweat It's a natural bet Anyone who puts his nose to the grindstone's Gonna get a great reward Your eyes will see the glory of the comin' of the Lord And you get that deep-down inside Gratifaction Gratifyin' Satisfact... Well, I mean that deep-down inside Gratifaction Oh, how good you feel when your shoulder's to the wheel Get him! - Just moved in? - We're from St. Petersburg. How do you like Hannibal? We just moved. What's your name? Maximillian Q. Sullivan at your service, ma'am. But all my friends just call me Mr. Bones. I've spent the best part of my life in a minstrel show. I'm a minstrel man. Aren't you awfully young to be a minstrel man? No, not really. My folks was minstrels. I just growed up in family tradition. Rebecca? Rebecca, we've got a lot of unpacking to do. Father, I'd like you to meet Mr. Maximillian Q. Sullivan. He's a real minstrel man. Everybody just calls him Mr. Bones. Well, it's nice to meet you, Mr. Sullivan. Always pleasant to meet a gentleman of the theater. Any relation to the moving company? Oh, well... Sullivan's just my theater name. My real name's Sawyer. Maximillian Q. Sawyer. Well, you must come and visit as soon as we get settled. Now come along, Rebecca. We've got a lot of work to do. Well, I guess I'd best be goin', Mr. Bones. You can just call me Tom. What's your name? Rebecca Thatcher. But everybody just calls me Becky. Well, I guess I'd better be goin'. Me, too. Bye, Tom. Bye, Becky. Who's that for, Muff? That must be old Hoss Williams. Let's go take a look. Doc, you did a real good job. He looks better than he did alive. How'd you get rid of the yellow? - How much, Clayton? - That'll be 2.50, Doc. 2.50?! This is an outrage! I never paid you more than $2 for a casket before. Labor and materials gone sky-high, Doc. I hardly make a cent. In there lays the only man in Hannibal, Missouri, that could ever out-drink me. What's the matter, boy? Is somethin' ailin' you? Just that I never saw no one dead before. Well, dyin's a part of livin'. Come on. You take old Hoss back there. Some folks are gonna say he drank himself to death. Well, maybe he did. I'll tell you one thing for sure, only old Hoss knows that. Just a minute, boy. There you are. Take a look at the folks you've knowed Young or growed Some keep thrivin' and some keep strivin' in vain It's a matter of destiny Who you'll be Judge or the preacher or a pitiful creature They's hangin' from a tree Whoa, a man's got to be what he's born to be So just sit back and wait Be it soon or late He'll be small or great Yeah, a man's got to be what he's born to be So just sit back and wait Soon or late, small or great There ain't no fightin' fate Doesn't matter what you may try By and by Some get lucky and some get stuck in the mud That's the way the old world behaves Why make waves? Sooner or later, just like a potater We're planted in our graves Whoa, a man's got to be what he's born to be So just sit back and wait Be it soon or late He'll be small or great Yeah, a man's got to be what he's born to be So just sit back and wait Soon or late, small or great There' ain't no fightin' fate Now, where's the future in plans and schemes When it seems That old grim reaper will soon be a-leapin' on you? When it's over, you'll know your bound To be found Wearin' your Sunday clothes, sleepin' in sweet repose Six feet underground Whoa, a man's got to be what he's born to be So just sit back and wait Be it soon or late He'll be small or great Yeah, a man's got to be what he's born to be So just sit back and wait Soon or late, small or great There ain't no fightin' fate No, sir, there ain't no fightin' fate There it is. Cirrhosis is what took him. Seems only fittin'. - Cirrhosis? - Of the liver. - Turns you yellow and you die. - How'd he get it? Why, from drinkin', my boy. From drinkin'. Whoa, a man's gotta be what he's born to be So just sit back and wait Be it soon or late He'll be small or great Yeah, a man's gotta be what he's born to be So just sit back and wait Soon or late, small or great There ain't no fightin' fate, no, sir There ain't no fightin' fate Whiskey! The stinkin' smell of whiskey in my house! Now give me that shirt. But it saved Muff's leg. You see, this snake, it was... it was... just jumped out from under a rock, bit Muff on the leg, and slithered away. Left him lyin' in the dirt, writhin' and screamin', close to death. Lies, lies, and more lies! What kind of snake? Sidney, you stay out of this. Mary! But this stranger came along with a snake-bite remedy. And as he was pouring it on Muff's leg, he was kickin' so, that some of it just happened to splash on my shirt. And it just healed up like magic! Can't even see the fang marks. Fang marks?! - Upstairs. No supper. Upstairs! - Aunt Polly! Snake-bite remedy... that's a good one. Yes, it was. I heard you. Got the dead cat? Better get goin'. Beginnin' to smell. Hucky, do you think the dead people like for us to be here? Wish I knowed. Awful solemn, ain't it? Hucky, do you reckon Hoss Williams minds us takin' his spirit and givin' it to the cat? Heck, no. He's dead. He ain't got no use for it. When anybody's this dead, how come they bury 'em so deep? I don't know what you wanna dig up old Hoss for anyhow, Doc. I mean, just to look at his liver... I can tell you what it looks like. It looks like an old yellow sponge drippin' and oozin' corn whiskey. Quiet, you idiot. Now get to work, both of you. You ain't got no fun in you nowhere. Here. Quickly now, quickly. Ten dollar ain't enough for this rotten work. Diggin' up graves... they catch you, they lock you up forever. I paid you good money in advance. Now get to it. You pay good money, but you fix my leg bad. How much your damn good money's gonna pay for that? - I want another $10 now! - We've been paid enough. Let's get it done and get outta here. I think $20 be more like it. You scum! You've been paid everything you're gonna get. Who you calling scum, Dr. Robinson? Now wait a minute, Joe. We don't wanna... Damn it! Wake up. You killed the doc, you drunken fool. - You think he seen us? - I don't know. He could've. We better hide in there. In there? Sure. What was that? It was me. Ran into somethin'. Hucky, what do you reckon will come of this? If Doc Robinson dies, I reckon hangin' will come of it. Look what I found! Say, Huck, just suppose somethin' happens and Injun Joe didn't get hung. He'd come after us to kill us, knowin' what we know. Well, I'll keep mum if you will. All right, it's a blood pact. Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer swears they will keep mum about this. They wish they may drop down dead in their tracks if they ever tell. And rot. And rot. Huck's blood. Tom's blood. I can't believe it. You not only come to school, you come to school on time. - You are Tom Sawyer, aren't you? - Yes, sir. Wonders never cease. - Good morning. - Good morning, Mr. Dobbins. Good morning, Casper. What was that you was sayin' about Muff Potter? My pa was there when they brought him to the jailhouse. They say Injun Joe saw the whole thing. He tried to stop him, but he was crazy drunk. You know how Muff gets. Hey, Tom, did you hear Muff Potter killed Doc Robinson? - Mornin', Tom. - Mornin'. Good morning, children. Good morning, Mr. Dobbins. It's a nice day, isn't it? It's a nice day, Mr. Dobbins. And we're all happy to be here, aren't we? We're happy to be here, Mr. Dobbins. Today we will continue with the Crusades. The Turks, who lived in Central Asia, north of the Altai Mountains and the Gobi desert, became divided between an Eastern and a Western faction. By the tenth century, the Western Turks had been much weakened by wars with China and the Arab nations. But, led by Seljuk, the Turkish chieftain... S-e-l-j-u-k... the Arab nation was destroyed. Then the Turks embraced Mohammadenism with fervor. Now, an active crusade against the Moors in Spain was progressing in 1084. And the Christians, under the Turkish rulers, were made to suffer cruel atrocities. It was to be expected that the Christian nations would come to the assistance of their subjects in the Byzantine Empire. Whose slate is this? Speak up. - Rebecca Thatcher? - It's my slate! Here! What you doin', Tom? Restin' or hidin'? Neither. What's the matter, boy? You haven't been yourself for days. - You need some of the remedy? - It ain't that, Aunt Polly. Well, then what is it? Somethin's botherin' you. Well, if'n you knew somethin' that someone else knew, but you had to keep mum about it because there was a blood pact, and then someone else was in a heap of trouble 'cause you couldn't tell. Oh, Tom, I haven't got time for riddles. What's your problem? That is my problem. I can't tell you. - Well, then how can I help you? - You can't. I'll get you some of the remedy. I was hopin' you'd come. They got Muff stuck in jail. Huck, we gotta say somethin' now. We gotta tell 'em what we know. We ain't sayin' nothin'. What do you wanna do, get us killed? He's dangerous, he's crazy. - But, Huck... - We don't say nothin'. I don't know what you expect me to do when I get there. What can I say? No matter how you plead, Muff, you ain't got a chance. They're gonna hang you. Some defense lawyer you're gonna make, Clayton. - How can I defend you if you're guilty? - Well, that's just it... I ain't. I mean, in my heart. Drunk or sober... ...I'd never stick no knife in no man. But you was drunk. I'm an easygoing man by nature, Clayton. Whiskey just makes me more easygoing, you know that. You'll never prove it, Muff. You might as well face it, they gonna hang you. It occurs to me that since you ain't gonna make no money defendin' me, you'd just as soon see me hung so you can fill the coffin and make some money, you old skinflint. Never crossed my mind, Muff. It never crossed my mind. Muff. Tom. I just wanted to wish you luck tomorrow. Thanks, lad. I brought your little old friend from the woodpile. Well, bless you, boy. Bless you. I gotta go. Good luck. Bye, Muff. Bye, Tom. I'll have a swig of that. Partial payment. For defendin' me or buildin' my coffin? Whichever. And now would you repeat to the court what you told me, in your own words, what you saw that morning? Well, I was down at the brook borderin' the graveyard, and I seen him a-washin' and a-scrubbin' in the water. - Is that person now in this courtroom? - Yep. Would you kindly point to the person you saw? It was Muff Potter. Yeah, we sell this kind of sheep knife. Did you ever sell that kind of knife to Muff Potter? As a matter of fact, I did. Could it have been that very knife? Yeah. Now tell me, on the night after the murder, was there anything unusual about his behavior? Well... no. He was drunk, as usual. Order! Order! My question was, was there anything unusual? Well, I suppose... He was buyin' drinks all around, and he had a lot of money on him, and for Muff Potter, that's unusual. I wonder where he got all that money. From Doc Robinson's pocket. And I never before seen a man so filled with hatred. Before I could stop him, he was on the Doc, plungin' that knife in him. He's a liar, he's a liar! I seen it! Didn't happen that way at all! Order! Order! I'll have order in my courtroom! Order! Now, Tom, you come up here and tell us exactly what you saw. All right, Tom, now tell me, were you alone? Well... Not exactly. Well, who was with you then? I was with the Widder Douglas' dead cat. Order! I was tryin' to work the spirit of Hoss Williams into the dead cat. Where is that dead cat now? He's probably still in the gunnysack about 20 feet away from the grave. That's where I left it when I ran away. And then what happened? Then they started fightin'. And as Doc Robinson fetched up the shovel to shield himself, he accidentally hit Muff on the head and knocked him out cold. And that's when... ...when Injun Joe picked up a big rock and knocked Doc Robinson down into the grave. That's when he... picked up Muff's knife, jumped in after him. I heard the Doc scream. After him! I'm going straight to the county seat and I'll demand a substantial reward be posted for that killer. - I'll go! - So will I! Me, too! Daddy told me how brave you acted in his courtroom the other day. I had to. They was gonna hang Muff. Do you think they'll ever catch Injun Joe? He's probably way out West by now. - Daddy's not so sure of that. - I'm positive. If I was wanted for murder, I'd be out of the country. Well, I hope you're right and Daddy's wrong. - Anyway, I'm proud of you, Tom. - You are? Sure. I like you. How come I hear the sun Laughin' Up in the skies? How come I see the grass Growin' Before my eyes? Crazy What's happenin' Feel like I'm ten feet high Nothin's Impossible If I try I could fly Wonderin' What's just begun Tinglin' Yet sort of numb How come? How come? How come? Have you ever been engaged, Becky? No, never. It's real easy. All you gotta do is say "I love you," and then you kiss. - And then what? - Then you're engaged. You never go to parties with nobody else, you never walk to school with nobody else, and, of course, you don't get married to nobody else. Do you wanna get engaged, Tom? Sure, if you do. All right. I'll say it first. I love you. Now it's your turn. I love you. Now all that's left for us to do is to kiss. It's so nice being engaged. Why, sure. When me and Amy Lawrence was engaged, we used to go... Oh, Tom! Then I'm not the first one you've been engaged to! - Philanderer! - What? - Well, that's what you are! - Yeah, but what does it mean? I'm not sure. But even if I did know, I wouldn't tell you! Girls. It was a blood pact. You swore to keep mum! I didn't say your name, I swear it! Injun Joe's gonna sneak up on you one night and cut your throat. I had to tell! I couldn't let 'em hang Muff. And before he kills you, he's gonna make you tell who was with you. Then he's gonna cut my throat! - I ain't gonna tell, Hucky. - I ain't gonna give you the chance. I'm gonna hide out on the island till they catch him. I'm gonna take my raft over there tonight, so if'n you wanna come... Heavenly Father, bless this bounty so graciously provided for our physical needs and make us grateful for every blessing. Amen. I just don't understand that boy. If he'd just come home for dinner on time once. Oh, we'll know when Tom gets home. You didn't! Mary! You come back and sit down here this minute. Tom's home. Beast! Aunt Polly, honest, I didn't have nothin' to do with it. What happened to you, boy? Look at you! Well, there was this runaway horse, you see, and this poor old woman was in the buggy screamin' for help. So I grabbed the reins and was drug nearly half a mile down the street before I could stop it. Then he kicked me! You were with Huckleberry Finn. Why don't you tell the truth for once? He does tell the truth. He did it in court and saved an innocent man's life. A drunkard. Hanging around with murderers and grave robbers... what's to become of you, boy? You two, downstairs. Tom, you did a brave thing. Mary, don't you disobey me, too. Now, you listen to me. Your mother was my favorite sister. We were very close. When she was dying, I promised her that I would raise you as if you were my own. Now God knows I have tried. But you continue to disobey me, to lie to me, to cavort with the trash in this town. I'm afraid you're gonna grow up to be a wastrel like your father was, God forbid. Don't you talk about my father like that. Well, that's what he was... a no-good, irresponsible bum, leaving your mother and you, a tiny baby. No use lying to yourself about him, too. I am not gonna let you turn into what he was, as God is my witness. Well, if'n I was God... Don't you dare to take the name of the Lord in vain! May God forgive you. Lf'n I was God Well, just for spite I wouldn't set the sun at night Till everyone was treated right By everyone else they see lf'n I was God I'd fix it so Without explainin', folks would know They'd know what's goin' on inside Of everyone else like me Nobody'd hurt nobody else I wouldn't let it be Nobody'd have a need to pray Except for thankin' me lf'n I was God I'd make us wise So's everyone could realize That everywhere beneath the sun Everyone needs everyone And God That ain't half what I would do lf'n I Was You Jump! Thank you, Sidney. - Good morning, Mother. - Good morning, dear. Go set the table, please. Oh, Mary, go see what's keeping Tom. He must be starving by now. Tom, breakfast is ready. Ma! Ma, Tom's gone and his bed hasn't been slept in! Oh, a river's gonna flow 'Cross the land 'Cross the land Oh, a river's gonna flow To the sea And the boy is gonna grow To a man To a man Only once In his life Is he... Freebootin', freebootin', kickin' up our feet in the sand Freebootin', freebootin', livin' off the fat of the land Got no doors to shut us in, we got no ties that bind Rollin' down the road to sin, we got no nevermind Like a big fat cow a-chewin' on her cud Like a catfish grubbin' in the bottom of the mud We're happy as a coot and we don't give a hoot Ain't we fine? Freebootin', freebootin', kickin' up our feet in the sand Freebootin', freebootin', livin' off the fat of the land Nobody's tellin' us when to rise or when to sleep or eat Nobody's here to criticize or whack us on the seat Like a hog in slime, we're wallerin' our time Doin' what we're doin' and it ain't no crime We don't give a dang, let the world go hang Ain't life sweet? Freebootin', freebootin', kickin' up our feet in the sand Freebootin', freebootin', livin' off the fat of the land We're thick as thieves and tough as mules We don't know wrong from right We got no bounds, got no rules We don't know day from night We got no worries, we just don't care Mean as a buzzard and hungry as a bear Better steer clear and you better beware We may bite lf'n I had knowed how much fun smoking was, I would have started long ago. You know, we could live the rest of our lives out here on this island and they'd never find us. But they'd miss us. They'd be sorry. Probably give us up for dead. Probably. I wish I could die. Just temporary, for a day or so. You know, my spirit would walk right down Main Street, right past Becky Thatcher. I wouldn't even speak to her. That'd show her. I wonder where Injun Joe is right now. He's probably hidin' out somewheres in South America. I mean, that's where I'd go if they was after me. Wouldn't you? I don't know. I wish they'd caught him by now. I just don't believe it. I really don't. Now, we've just got to face the facts. We must look at this logically. The Finn boy's raft is missing. We've established beyond a question of a doubt that the hat we found at the riverbank was Tom's. I still won't believe they're drowned. He's been missing for 24 hours. But they're good swimmers. They know the river. We can't rule out any possibilities. They may very well have drowned. No. I'm sure they'll turn up... safe and sassy. Well, if they don't show up by mornin', I'm for draggin' the river. I'm sorry. I'm afraid he's right. Good night, Mary. Come on, Becky. - Good night. - Good night. - Good night. - Good night. - I know they'll be fine. - I don't know, ma'am, I hope so. - You two should be in bed. - I'll stay up with you, Mother. No. No one's staying up. I'll leave a light in the window. Off to bed with you now. Tom Sawyer That irresponsible child Tom goes off with Huck Swimmin' in the nude Tom holds wonders in his mind But he just won't learn And he just keeps turnin' away Tom Sawyer The devil's got him in tow Raises Cain in school If he'll ever go Though he tries my poor heart so Oh, Lord, please spare him And, Lord, take care of My Tom - What was that? - I don't know. Fire! - What are they doin'? - They're draggin' the river. The sound of the cannon brings up the dead bodies. Somebody must've drowned. Maybe they're lookin' for us. Heck, nobody's lookin' for me. Aunt Polly'd be worried somethin' awful. Hucky, I gotta go home. Well, how we gonna do that, swim? We got no raft. - Then let's make one. - Can't, no tools. Fire! Well, maybe we could make a signal flag, stop the barge on its way back to Hannibal. Tom, they're on their way back to Hannibal. But maybe we can look along the water's edge and find some logs. Maybe we can fasten 'em together. Maybe. You take this side. I'll take the other. Come here! Look! The raft! Let me hide myself in Thee Let the water and the blood From Thy wounded side which flowed Rock of Ages, cleft for me Let me hide myself in Thee Amen Now, my friends, the eulogy for our two young men will be spoken by the Honorable Judge Cyrus Thatcher. Thomas Sawyer and the lad we've all come to know and love as Huckleberry Finn, a boy who made his own way in the world, without the benefit of a mother or father to guide him, gone... gone from our midst, taken in the spring of their bloom. And how much poorer are we for their loss. I was fortunate enough to get to know Tom Sawyer. And I want to say here how proud I was to be his friend. No commonplace boy would have stood up in my courtroom so courageously and accused a murderer face to face. It took great courage to tell the truth, but he did. And I want to go on record in stating that when he took a thrashing in school to protect my little girl... she told me all about it... that was a magnanimous lie he told. Of course he was given to exaggerations, but they were never malicious. How many times have we seen only the faults and the flaws and never noticed the sweetness? Within our hearts will always live the sunshine of their happy laughter, the memory of their winning ways, and the everlasting glow of the rare promise of these dear lost lads. Thomas, Huckleberry... Wherever you are now, we will remember you. It's a miracle! Praise the Lord! Thank God you're safe! When I get you home, I'm gonna thrash you within an inch of your life. - Our prayers has been answered. - They certainly have. But you're so thoughtless. You never think of anyone but yourself, leaving us all to believe that you'd been drowned. - Thank God they're safe! - Thank God! Oh, I'm so glad you showed up alive, I haven't got the heart to punish you. But I should. It's wonderful, Polly! Wonderful! Wonderful! Terrible! Huckleberry. - I'm glad you're safe, Huckleberry. - Thank you, ma'am. Now, you'd best come to my place and let me fix you a good meal. I'd just as soon go to my place, ma'am. Nonsense! You're coming with me. They found them, but they's alive. You ain't gonna make nothin'. Now get on out of there, you old scalawag. You're in my way. Giddyup here! I just hope we got enough here. I don't know why it is people always eat so much more when they eat outdoors. Thank you, Sidney. You wanna get my parasol and shawl? Yes, Mother. You know, I had a dream last night. I dreamt that awful Injun Joe came prowling around right in this house. Oh, hush, child. Why, if that murderin' Indian were still anywhere around here... you heard what the men said two weeks ago. He's probably far out of the country by now. Thank you, Sidney. Take your cake, young lady. Time we got a move on. Tom! You, Tom! Now don't you stray away from me today, you hear? But why, Aunt Polly? Never you mind. Just do as I say. All right. Hi, Tom! - Hi, Tim! - Hi, Tim! - Hey, Sidney! - Happy Fourth! - Hi, Joe! Hi, Jason! - Happy Fourth! Happy Fourth! Load up the vittles, pickles and hams Melons and cherry pie Fritters and dumplin's, turkeys and yams Packin' a big supply Apples and peaches, soda to sip Cider is gonna flow With a hey and a ho, and away we go On a holiday in Hannibal, Mo... ...ssouri! Latch up the winders, lock up the doors Gotta get on the go Line up the buggies, wagons, and rigs Meet all the folks you know You bring a fiddle, you bring a drum You bring an old banjo And a hey and a ho, and away we'll go On a holiday in Hannibal, Mo... ...ssouri! - Who brung the watermelons? - I done Put 'em in the buggy by the box of red plums - Who brung the lemonade? - Ask Ern It's here in the wagon with the buttermilk churn - Where's Mary? - With Nelly Standin' guard over jams and jelly - Where's all the fireworks? - Don't know But you're gonna see 'em all the way from here to St. Joe Better get ready, the time is right We'll be gone all day and half of the night The road is rugged so hold on tight No time for lollygaggin', everybody on the wagon Giddyup! Giddyup the horses, give 'em the reins They know the way to go Down by the river, over the ridge Into the old meadow Oh, what a feelin', oh, what a day Bright as a daisy glow With a hey and a ho, and away we go On a holiday in Hannibal, Mo... ...ssouri! Oh, what a feelin', oh, what a day Bright as a daisy glow With a hey and a ho, and away we go On a holiday in Hannibal, Mo... ...ssouri! Oh, what a feelin', oh, what a day Bright as a daisy glow With a hey and a ho, and away we go On a holiday in Hannibal Mo-ssouri There it is. - That's McDougal's Cave? - That's it. How'd you like to taste the best drinkin' water in Missouri? You mean in there, Tom? Sure. There's an underground spring in there. Well, actually it's a river. Me and Huck's been in there many a time. My folks told me a lot of people went in there and never came out. And I heard they found a human skull in there! Are you afraid, Becky? Well, no, no, I'm not afraid. It's just that... Well, I don't wanna miss the fireworks. We'll be back in plenty of time for that. Here. Stay right there. I'll be right back. Oh, Aunt Polly! Where are you goin' so fast, boy? Nowhere. Nowhere is somewhere. I'm gonna go get Becky Thatcher a drink of water. Who's comin'? - Not me. - Or me. Becky? - Are you sure we should, Tom? - Of course I'm sure. My, this is big! That's nothin'. Wait till you see what's up ahead. Look. Here it is, Becky. Here. My, this is good, Tom. See? What did I tell you? Tom! Becky, come on! I'm gonna kill you, Tom Sawyer. I'm gonna kill you! You'll never get out of here alive! Do you hear me? You'll never get out of here alive! Rebecca? Polly, have you seen Rebecca? Well, last time I saw her she was with Tom. But I haven't seen either of 'em since before the fireworks. Where's Tom Sawyer? Tom and Becky are in McDougal's Cave. - McDougal's Cave? - I told them not to go in there. Tom said somethin' about an underground spring. A drink of water. All right, all right, everybody, calm down. I know where they are. Tom and me's been to that river many a time. - Can you show 'em how to get there? - Sure. I found a lantern! They can't be far away. Becky! Tom! - Hear that? - We're here! Injun Joe! It's Injun Joe's! - I can't hear them anymore. - We'd better keep on goin'. Come on. Up here. Don't look down, Becky. I'm tired. Don't cry, Becky. Hear that, Becky? They'll be here in no time. I just know it. I told you, Becky. They're here! Now I've got you, Tom Sawyer. Now you're dead! Bull's-eye. - Good morning, Constable. - Morning, Judge. - Morning, Miss Becky. - Mornin'. Thomas. Rebecca has told me everything. How you pleaded with her not to follow you into that cave. Young man, if you suspected that that murderer was hiding in there, you should have gotten some grown men to find him. That was a foolhardy... but uncommonly heroic thing you did. - Thomas, have you seen Huckleberry? - No, ma'am. He didn't sleep in his bed last night. I'm beside myself with worrying. Well, don't you worry, Mrs. Douglas. I'll go find him right away. Not till after the services, young man. Don't you agree, Martha? Oh, yes. But yes, of course, Polly. Huck. Huckleberry, what you doin' back down here? The poor Widder's beside herself worryin' over you. Ain't you got no feelings, no consideration? What? All you're thinkin' about is your own self. I don't understand you, Huck. Well, I give it two weeks, and it just don't work. She makes me get up the same time every mornin'. She makes me wash. I gotta wear them fancy clothes that just smothers me. I can't smoke, I can't chaw. I gotta wear shoes all Sunday. I gotta ask to go swimmin'. I gotta ask to go fishin'. Well, I'll be damned if I don't have to ask to do everything. - Is it that bad, Huck? - I tell you, I had to sneak up to the attic and cuss for ten minutes just to get the taste back in my mouth. Well, just the same, Huck, you could've faced up to it, told her you was leavin' instead of worryin' her half to death. Is that all you can say? Oh, Huck! I gotta tell you, swimmin' and fishin' ain't all. One of these days you're gonna find that out. One of these days you gotta have some responsibility! Old John. Hey, Muff! Hello, Tom. What you doin', Muff? I'm glad to have a chance to say good-bye to you. - Where you off to, Muff? - Oh, just movin' on, just movin' on. A man's gotta change his habits every once in a while. Have you changed, Muff? Well, the way things turned out, I reckon I'll have to. That means that I'll never see you anymore. We'll meet up somewheres on the road somewheres. You can't never tell. - Thanks. - Thanks? For bein' my friend. There you are. There! - It's for snakebites. - Oh, Muff, you haven't changed a bit. Bye, lad. Come on, John. - Thank you, Judge. You have a nice time. - Thank you, Mary. I know we will. I think I gave him enough clothes, I really do. Tom, just think! All the way to St. Louis, and for two whole weeks! - It's mighty nice of you, Cyrus. - It's my pleasure, Polly. And don't worry, I'll take good care him. I know you will. Strange, I miss him already. I know what you mean. Well, good-bye, Polly. Good-bye. Come along, Rebecca. Bye-bye, Mary. Bye, Martha. Good-bye, Sidney. Good-bye. Sidney. Speak up, Sidney. Have a good time, Tom. Thank you, Sidney. I'll buy a present, Cousin Mary. Maybe an expensive St. Louis hat. Thank you, Tom. I love you, Tom. I love you, Aunt Polly. - Bye. - Bye. - Good-bye. - Good-bye, Mary. - Bye. - Bye. Bye, Tom! Bye! And the world turns around and the boy grows tall He hears the song of the river call The river song sings "Travel on, travel on" You blink away a tear And the boy is gone Oh, a river's gonna flow 'Cross the land 'Cross the land Oh, a river's gonna flow To the sea And the boy is gonna grow To a man To a man Only once in his life Is he free Only one golden time in his life Is he Free
