 

                        The Time to Live and the Time to Die This film is some memories from my youth particularly impressions of my father "My father came from Mei County, Canton Province" In 1947 on the 40th day after my birth He led a ball team to Guangzhou for the Provincial Games He was the Educational Secretary of Mei County In Guangzhou he met an old classmate "from Chung-shan University, Li Kuai" "At the time, Li Kuai was" the mayor of Taichung City He asked if my father would move to Taiwan to be his Head Secretary One year later my father wrote home saying "This is a good place. There's tap water. " He asked my mother to bring the family over In 1949 My father was transferred to Taipei Educational Bureau as the Supervisor We lived in Hsin-chu at the time Because of the humidity up north My father suffered from asthma When I was in the first grade We moved to Fengshan in the south for the sake of my father's health My grandmother was always wrapping silver papers She said the paper money was to be used in heaven She was already over 80 at the time My father was very pious "Every time we had dinners he wouldn't start to eat until grandmother came "But everyday at meal time," grandma would be out to looking for me Grandmother was especially good to me Because when I was little a fortune teller said I was to become a great official "My nickname in Fengshan, "Ah-ha" came from grandmother's calling of me Ah-ha-gu! Ah-ha-gu! Ah-ha-gu! Ah-ha-gu! Ah-ha! Did you take the $5 in the purse? I don't know "You don't know. If not you, who else?" Did you take it? No You're lying Tell me Where is it? I didn't take it Liar! How dare you! Come down here Your feet are so dirty Get down! Where is it? It's gone It's gone I buried it here. Someone took it Nonsense Where is it? I buried it here and put a brick over it Still lying? It's true! I'm not lying What kind of man will you turn out to be after growing up Here. Over here! Grandma "Grandma, where are you going?" Go back To find Ah-ha-gu I can't recognize the road Ah-Hsiao Nothing She hasn't paid me yet Hasn't paid you yet? Go get it at the house! Don't read that while you eat Go over it once before and another time after dinner ABC. ABC Frog with curry "Lai"is come" "Chu"is go" "Wo bu chi" I don't know "Yi ke yang chien,"one dollar" ABC. ABC Frog with curry Frog with curry "Lai" is come" "Chu" is go" "Wo bu chi" I don't know "Yi ke yang chien," one dollar" If you were not a good man in your past life, your son will be your daughter-in-law What do you know? Ah-hsiao! Ah-hsiao Bath time You go. I'll wash them Ah-hsiao! It's okay You'll find a way when you're older Kids This is mine I have more than you do "Ah-ha, Ah-ha-gu" Come here Grandma's going to take you back to the mainland I don't want to go Ah-ha! Ah-ha! Big cock! Alright. Alright. It's my turn You're dead "Ah-ha, save it" Nice First class OK Don't bother us if you can't play Don't let him in What do you cry for? Ignore him "Come on, come. It's my turn" In an air battle today over the Matsu Strait Our courageous Air Force pilots downed 5 Communist MIG 17's and damaged two others This glorious combat will serve as the greatest gift to all of our country men on this Double Tenth National Day "Despite being outnumbered, our courageous Air Force pilots were determined in combat" Glorifying the spirit of revolutionary battle They have won the hearts of all our countrymen "In particular, Colonel Chang Nei-chun" "In the heat of the combat, to save a nearby aircraft from enemy fire" "thinking not of himself, he rammed his plane into a communist craft" His patriotic and glorious sacrifice has once again glorified the revolutionary spirit of our forefathers the spirit of sacrifice and struggle writing down the most glorious page in our Air Force history President Chiang hosted the 47th National Day Celebration Ceremony at 10 o'clock this morning "in the Presidential Building," and announced the news of victory... Chien-yuan is in Qinman How come we haven't heard from him for so long? I wrote him last month It's probably the restrictions in the war zone Every time I wrote him before It took at most a week for his return letter What are you talking about? "Chien-yuan, Chiu-ming's son" "Oh, Chien-yuan!" It's sad what happened to his dad I was in Canton attending Chungshan University. I lived in his place. "At the time, he was the brigade captain" "One day," he suddenly contracted malaria I took a rickshaw to buy him medicine The rickshaw boy suddenly stumbled smashing the rickshaw light I had an ominous feeling because he stumbled right in front of a coffin store The day Chiu-ming died his wife had just given birth to Chien-yuan She smelled something fishy in her room and asked her to mother if the fish peddler had come They went to look. There was no body there "That night," the chickens that the Changs brought over as a present began crowing at night "Grandma said," take it to the three-road intersection to cut off its head so the bad luck would go" We are going to recover the mainland! Liar! How come I haven't heard the news? That's what the teacher said! "I'll shoot you, I'm telling you" Move away! Stop looking! There's hot water over there. Take your bath "One family, one foot of mouth" That's a lot of food every day Your father's salary is 620 dollars per month "He keeps 20 for the barber and his own spending, Food... the doctor... Your father is in poor health "Even if you teach, you still have to get married" We have so many children in the family "As the eldest, you have to sacrifice" The Teachers' Academy is free "And after graduating, you can be a teacher" What do girls need all that education for? You just have to be able to cook, sew, and help the farm work That will be enough She's not talking about me She's talking about Ah-chung One person attending Teachers' Academy is enough But it would be a pity if An-chung can't go to university "Ah-chung, if you want to study more," do it yourself Your father started teaching after he finished high school And he wound up going to university "Before that," he went to South Asia to learn business with uncle Chin "He studied whenever he had time," while others play instead Uncle Chin knew your dad wasn't the business type and told him to go back to Guangzhou for college He got accepted by Chung-shan University Where's it from? Auntie An From South Africa? What does she say? Ah-ching-gu stopped going to school after third grade The Communists threw him out of his house said he had bad background They're doing some movement called "Three Red Flags" They took all of the iron in our hometown "Knives, pots, door handles, nails" even the fire tongs and everything There's no iron-smelting Now they have a pile of junk iron If only we had brought him out with us... Did Ah-ha get into the middle school? Don't know yet. He went to school to find if he's passed I'm sorry! I'm sorry! Alright. Stop crying! What happened? Didn't pass Crying just because they didn't pass? How do you know if you passed or not? The teacher just came Chen Yen Didn't pass so she's crying "Mom, I passed!" Really? I got into Provincial Fengshan Middle School There was a chalk mark on my desk The teacher said that means you passed That's great! Go tell your father "Dad, I passed!" I got into Provincial Fengshan Middle School There was a chalk mark on my desk The teacher said that means you passed What? A check? His teacher said he used a chalk to mark the desks of those who has passed the entrance exams Good! Then you must study hard Yes "Ah-chu, what happened to Ah-ha?" He made it into the Provincial Fengshan Middle School Ah-ha! You made it! Right! This is for you You are so good "Ah-chung, when will you know about your exam?" End of the month Ah-hsiao made it on his brains and luck He's always had the best luck "When we lived in Hsin-chu," remember I went to Taipei to take the exam for the First Girls' High School? I was going to take the train myself But Ah-hsiao insisted on tagging along Remember when they used to sell red bean popsicles on the train? The ones wrapped in red? Really good Ah-hsiao kept saying he wanted one So I had to spend 50 cents to buy one And he didn't even give me a bite I didn't feel like asking him for any I remember Mom told me to look for Ah-chen at the train station Remember? The M.P.? "When I found him," he said that I was really capable Imagining a girl traveling so far to take the exam Then he took me on his bike to father's office on Chung-ching South Road "The next day," Dad took me to the exam I bumped into my teacher in front of the school The one you said was nice "After that, I went back to Hsin-chu to wait for the result" Dad came back from Taipei I went outside to welcome him that day "He kept laughing when he saw me, but didn't say anything" So I asked him: "Did I pass?" Dad said: "Yes. You passed!" Then he started getting proud. He was talking about... whose daughter didn't make it... whose daughter failed... Later he told me that I was No. 41 on the whole list I scored 100 in math! What a pity! I couldn't go to Taipei for First Girls' High How good it would be if I could've gone Ah-ha "Grandma's going to take you back to mainland, OK?" Come on! Take the big road "Before long, you pass a dike," then you get to the Mekong Bridge "A little further down the road," "and you get to our village, Wanshia" What do we go back to the mainland for? Stupid! Grandma's taking you to the ancestral shrine so you can pay homage to our ancestors! Old lady... Can you tell me where the Mekong Bridge is? The Mekong Bridge! What's she saying? What does she want? I can't understand what she's talking about What? You don't know? Mekong Bridge! In Mei County! Mekong Bridge? Did she say "bridge"? What bridge? You don't know? Can you understand? I don't know "If you can't understand, how can I?" "Grandma, there're guavas!" Let's pick some You try Not so high Try again "Huilan, is the power out?" Yes! Get some candles Mom Mom Mom Dad Dad Dad "Mom, hurry!" What's wrong? Fen-ming! Fen-ming! Fen-ming! Fen-ming! Fen-ming! Fen-ming! Fen-ming! Fen-ming! "Mom, the doctor is here" I'm sorry There's nothing I can do Fen-ming! Fen-ming! "Ah-chung, bring the boys over to hold father's hand" ice upon a time, a man passed away When his family looked after his body, A cat walked in And jumped across the dead body The dead body sat up then So when you're looking after a dead body, You can never let a cat in The captain in my army once said When they were fighting the Japanese When they were fighting the Japanese What? When they were fighting the Japanese A lot of people were killed One day, a man died in the army is dead body also sat up after a cat jumped acros The body even chased people Chased people? He hugged whomever he saw Someone who knew this kind of thing and gave him something to hug He lied down when he got the thing to hug Don't know why Some people say there might be a kind of electricity in the cats Yin Might be Yin Weird There are a lot of these weird stuffs "Ah-chu, go take your bath" I already did "Then Ah-hsiao, you go" Fen-ming! What? He's playing dumb He said he's a street peddler and doesn't earn much "Come on, his business is good" What'll we do? Let's corner him! Right! Corner him! Right! "When he leaves, we corner him" Let's do it this way Ah-shui, you go over there with Ah-hou There! OK! Le-gu, go to the end of the road Let me see the one with pictures I'm going home No more business today "Ah-shui, what the hell!" Can't even stop a motorcycle? So what's the use of being fat? What the hell are you standing there for? Let's go! Let's go! Thank you! Thank you! That time he fell from the roof His legs had different length I didn't know what to do I almost sent him to the Chinese martial place Fortunately I ran into you "Otherwise, the child would have suffered" His brother's home Ah-hsiao, come This is Mr. Liu How are you? "Huilan, Mr. Liu is leaving" Goodbye Watch your steps Goodbye You have to wash it first don't have to behave like that even if you don't like "Anyway, I wrote to Fangmei and we both agreed" not to pay attention to him It was written in the Bible, all the men who aren't married have the right to court girls "Mom, someone's here" Mr. Liu Grandma I met her under the tall tree. She's lost So I brought her home I've paid for the rickshaw Thank you Guavas Yes. He's of class 5. "Look, he pasted his little cheating notes here" Look how orderly the whole thing is Imagine how much time and energy was spent on such an endeavor "If only that time could be put into your study," "study more history, geography, wouldn't that be nice?" You're not stupid Why did you do such a stupid thing "He thinks he's smart, that's why" Let go! Give it to me! There's nothing! "Think you're big, huh?" Why did you beat him? I heard you're from Red Mountain What about Red Mountain? Talking back? Fight back? Was it him last time? Yes You think you're big Do you think he's the one you can bully? Where does the other one live? What are you doing? Who? Huang Chin-shui What are you doing? "Good day, sir" Grandma What are you doing? I'm counting my silver money Counting silver money? What are you counting silver money for? So I can use them in heaven. I can use them in heaven. "Grandma, come on! We're taking pictures" "I'm so old, why do I need to be taken pictures?" It's OK! Come on! For souvenir Come on! Put it down "Let's take some pictures, okay?"... OK. Ah-hsiao! Come on and take the pictures Thank you "Ah-hsiao, come on and take some pictures" "Grandma, you have to look that way" Go get a chair One more Put it away! Put it back! Little crook! Do you know what day this is today? Put it back! What are you doing? Hurry up Put it back Come here How dare you... Get out Stand here! Stand put! Stand here! Listen! Do you know today is the day of Vice President Chen's funeral? Do you know? Little crook! Get him! Get him! Come back! Little crook! Damn it! Come back! Come back if you dare! Mr. Lee... Your brother should have been expelled But in consideration of the fact that he's already in his senior year so we decided to give him 2 serious demerits and a detention "He's still young, right?" We give him a chance to start anew "The problem is that the head teacher of his class," "Mr. Tao," doesn't want him to stay in his class "After discussing," we'll transfer him to another class "We'll do as you say, Mr. Chen" Please look after him for us "Can't go on, can't go on... " can't go on living Life without you is darkness Please come back Where are you now? The one I love "Can't go on, can't go on... " can't go on living Life without you is darkness" My mother brought this piece of jade back from the South Seas This ring... My father bought it in Shanghai for my 17th birthday Chunying is so thin Don't let him stay up too late Health is the most important thing Everything else is unreal When I got married to your father I didn't know his health was poor "In our 20-year marriage," I served him for 20 years "Ah-hsiao, stop singing!" Sounds terrible! "When I was a teacher," there was a colleague We got along very well But I didn't dare to tell my parents I was really stupid Did Dad know this? Your father was a very serious man He would come home and started reading books So quietly "When I just got married to him," he even told me to study English and to ask him if I had problems "The time we were newlywed," your grandfather was out of work Your father's family didn't have much money So we had a traveling wedding We didn't even have a bed. We were pinch "When we got back to Mei County, we slept in Grandma's bed" I got bitten by bugs at night "The next day, I used the hot water to kill the bugs" I told your father He was quite upset "He said, we're not as rich as your family" "The first pregnancy, I gave birth to you" We didn't let Grandma know "The second pregnancy, I went home to give birth" And had Ahchin Your Grandma was very unpleased She said I kept having girls She wouldn't help me wash the diapers The third day of my recovery month I went by the pond to wash the diapers My tears fell into the pond I heard people say that there was a baby boy I could adopt That was Ah-ching-gu Ah-ching-gu and Ahchin were breast fed together I didn't have enough milk for both of them So I didn't let Ahchin have it and let Ah-Ching have enough I remember then "Ahchin would called," "Mama, milk" I hid behind the mosquito net and didn't dare to make a sound One day Grandma took Ahchin to the ancestors' shrine to play She ate some unsanitary offerings At night she vomited and kept having diarrhea "I wanted to take her to Mei County, but it's so far away" So I bought some medicine at a local store It stopped the diarrhea "But by midnight, her stomach grew hard" The next day She died Ah-hsiao Ah-hsiao Ah-hsiao Go buy some soy sauce "Ah-hsiao," can you see this thing on my tongue? It's like a little piece of flesh "Mom, what's wrong?" How come you're not sleeping? I got up to go to the bathroom Go back to sleep I'm writing a letter to your sister I went to the hospital today The doctor said he needed a specimen Could be... throat cancer Nobody cooks at home "And if nobody looks after Grandma, she disappears" "Ah-chung teaches in Shiaokang, he can't come back" I don't feel safe Ah-hsiao knows what to do "Cooking, washing clothes" He even knows how to use the sewing machine All he has to do is to prepare the food for the next day's lunch boxes That's all We'll ask Auntie Wang across the street to take care of Grandma Wednesdays and Saturdays "and Sundays, I don't have classes" I can come home "Besides, the hospital facilities are better in Taipei" And there are many more doctors "Ah-hsiao, the fire's ready" How come the bathroom smells like milk? Ask Ah-chu "He drinks milk all day, so his shit becomes milk" You're drinking milk again This is the notice for your physical exam The neighborhood leader brought to you What do you drink milk all day for? What's wrong with drinking milk? It's very nutritious "Protein, hemosiderin, minerals... everything's in it" And I don't draw maps anymore "What do you mean,"draw maps"?" "Draw maps, that means wet dreams" Does this old lady live here? Yes Grandma's back How much is it? Why so much? She's been sitting in my rickshaw since morning It's less to go from Kaohsiung to Fengshan "She kept telling me to turn, she even asked me to take her back to the mainland" My price is reasonable I wouldn't charge you a cent extra Give me 100 Give it to me Give it to me How about 10? You want 10? - "No, I want 100" - You want 10? - No, I don't What are you doing? Let's go Go in I don't feel like this Let's go see a movie instead What are you talking about? "You wanted to come, and you want to go to a movie now" What the hell are you doing? Let's go! Let's go inside "Since you've come, go inside" Well? Nothing What do you mean nothing? I didn't Where's Ah-hou? They haven't come out yet Well? I didn't What actually happened? Why don't you tell me? I tell you I didn't You went in there so long. What happened? A red envelope! Let me see it! What are you laughing at? He's got a red envelope Let me see it Red envelope! You lost your virginity! Wu Su-mei! Ah-ha is no longer a virgin Ah-ha What? I tell you I just took my girlfriend to the movies Some guys cut in line You know who? Cat and his guys I told them not to cut in Theu pushed me. Pushed me! I told them I'm Ah-ha's friend "Not only did they not apologize, they hit me!" "Cat, come" Why did you hit him? "When he hit you," didn't you tell him whose brother you are? I'll pull him away "Hit him as soon as we meet, understand?" "Ah-ha, come here for a second" "Ah-ha, come here for a second" What did you beat Cat for? My friend said he knew you as well as me But he beat him anyway How can I face my friend? "But if you want to beat him up, you've got to at least tell me" I couldn't. He deserved it So what do you want me to do? It's up to you Forget it... Not big deal... We'll settle this next time we meet Be careful Don't let me run into you in the street. Watch out Not happy? Ah-mi "Grandma, it's time to eat" Come Open the door What happened? Hurry up! What's going on? The West Gate guys are coming this way Take the samurai sword in your house Freeze! "Ah-mi, did anyone come looking for me?" No Ah-mi Ah-mi Get up! Ah-hsiao Ah-hsiao "You forgot to make our lunch boxes, right?" Mom Mom "Mom, sit down and rest awhile" Put the bags there Put the suitcase over by the cabinet "Ah-hsiao, start up the fire" And start boiling some water Mom needs to take a bath Ah-shui Ah-shui What? Did anything happen yesterday? No. But Hsienbao got nabbed So what happened? His father went to the precinct to see him Hasn't come back yet Where are you going? My mother is back. I'm going to buy groceries Did the Pig's come by? Haven't seen them I heard that they really cracked down at the West Gate last night Ah-hsiao Take this in for me Okay I put the groceries here Ah-chung wrote a letter saying that you spent a lot of money Did you go gambling? No Don't become a gambler How's Mom's condition? The doctor intended to cut out her whole tongue But Mom wouldn't She can't speak without a tongue Then? Then they gave her Cobalt 60 treatment It's not useful "You don't have to go to school now, right?" We're on pre-exam holidays So you've almost graduated Any plans? I want to enter Military Academy The military teacher said I could enroll without taking exams Ah-chung You said in your letter that you were going to take a physical exam When do you have to go to the army? The results of the physical exam already came I weigh 39 kilos That's "C" classification So you don't have to go to the army this year? There may be a follow-up check next year I heard one has to be checked 3 times What about your application to transfer to Tseng-gong Elementary school? There's no one to transfer with Ever since he was a baby Ah-chung's health has been poor He was born premature I was teaching then and had to cook after I got home and had water filled in It was different when I had Ah-hsiao We had more money then and milk to drink That time your father went to Guangzhou He carried him to the doorway and said his face was so round So like your Grandfather Ah-hsiao Go get some tissue Ah-ha Ah-ha Ah-ha "Ah-ha, hurry up!" Ah-chung got hacked Just now in front of the theater Hurry! In front of the theater I can't today My Mom's sick. How could I go? Otherwise give me your samurai sword. Hurry! Sleep with the Lord What bliss What comfort No more tears. No more burdens "Enter into freedom, luminous joy" Rest in the bosom of Lord Jesus Return to the Lord forever Sleep with the Lord What bliss What comfort No more tears. No more burdens "Enter into freedom, luminous joy" Rest in the bosom of Lord Jesus Return to the Lord forever Wang Cha-he gave 35 Wu Yi-han gave 40 Uncle A-Huo "Haven't seen him for so long, and still he gave 60" Ah-chung The jewelry is for you to use when you get married What's this? Mother's trust money Mother was supposed to collect the final pool of money "But the woman who organized the trust, Mrs. Yeh," borrowed Mom's share. This is the I.O.U. You mean the Mrs. Yeh who lives in North Gate Second village? Yes She borrowed it without even asking This is father's autobiography Dad originally planned To stay in Taiwan for only three or four years before going back So he bought bamboo furniture because it was cheap and he could throw it away when he left Later Mom wanted to buy a sewing machine It took so long to persuade Dad Dad had tuberculosis So he kept his bowel and chopsticks away from ours He kept a distance from us Avoiding us when he coughed because he was afraid that we might be infected Looks like this one Mrs. Yeh Mrs. Yeh Mrs. Yeh Mrs. Yeh Who is it? Aren't you Hsiao-yen? Have a seat Have some tea Have some tea Is there anything I can do for you? "Grandma, time to eat" Ah-chung I went to Mrs. Yeh's house today Their house is even worse than ours I think we should forget about that trust money Let's wait until you pass the University Entrance exams "That summer," I really took the University Entrance exams I didn't go to Military Academy All because of the words Wu said "Later, Ah-chung wrote me a letter from Shiao-kang" He said he wrote a letter to Mrs. Yeh saying that she needn't return the trust money Mrs. Yeh wrote back She was very grateful And said she will pay us back when she gets the pension One year later "Grandma passed away, too" I failed the University Entrance Exams Wu Su-mei moved to Kaohsiung with her family The month before Grandma passed away she kept lying on the tatami mat She couldn't control her excrements At the time my two brothers and I were the only ones home We called a doctor But he said she was too old "It wasn't until one day," when we noticed that ants crawling on Grandma's hands did we find out she had died for who knows how long Ah-mi Ah-mi Get the water and a towel Hurry up! Hurry up! We called the undertaker to clean up When they turned Grandmother's body around they found that the other side had rotted The undertaker gave us a dirty look Unpious descendents! He must have cursing that in his heart "Even to this day," I still often think about Grandma's road back to the mainland Maybe I was the only one who ever walked with her down that road I remember that afternoon we picked a lot of guavas home
