 

                        June 15th 1944 The U.S. military forces invade Saipan in the Northern Marianna's group of island The Marines moves ashore establishing themselves on the south-west coast on their way of taking control of the island under The Japanese control, Saipan is called home by defended by over 30 thousand highly trained members of the imperial fighting forces. Though one of the most strategically most important of the Japanese strong holds in the Pacific Saipan defenses folds under the onslaught of the American war machine numbering over 70,000 strong In issuing battle, the majority of Japanese defenders are annihilated And the survivors flee to Mount Tapochau located at the center of the island Unbeknownst to the Japanese on the island, the Imperial Navy suffers a humiliating defeat in the sea of the Mariannes Leaving the Imperial command no choice but to abandon the defense in Saipan The uniformed defenders however continue to fight believing in inevitable victory of their imperial forces and their nation Get out the way Get a move on Move this thing over, come on. Move out of the way Sorry about that Captain. Carry on Come on. come on. Get out of the road. Hey clear the way God damn, mini Japs. This time tomorrow their pants going to be overflow in no time, just a few days those yellow monkeys in the mountain are going to be history You know their orders are to stop us no mater what Those Japanese soldier are tough, they don't give up You have no idea what you're talking about corporal, I advise you to keep opinion to yourself Right, sir. Watch it You take it easy corporal, or I'm taking the jeep and you walk, you read me? Yes, sir. Shit! We should've stopped Look they just Japs sir. They'll be fine What thats mean sir? The Japanese treasure every meeting for it they never recur If you pay attention, you might actually learn something while you're here We did you learn to Lingo sir? You date a Jap girlfriend or something? I studied it in Japan two years, unfortunately never got around a Japanese girlfriend. I bet you wanted to Keep your eyes on the road Mr. Yes sir - You're Lewis? - Yes, sir. Have a seat Captain, we're not that formal here not in this damn heat Thank you, sir. I hear you speak Japanese. The Japanese would say otherwise. I know the basic sir - Where you're from? - Boston, sir. So you're any Ivy league huh? You could say that. I'll try not to hold against you. I need your help, Lewis I do not understand these Japs Bushido suicide thing. Its a... Well its crazy. Well it's a matter of pride. Its a way of thinking you been nurturing their head for centuries What? Killing themselves? Are you? Are you familiar with this, sir. Can't say that I am, what are they? Kinda Jap lucky charms? No sir. There are shogi pieces Japanese chess pieces if you like. They are all look the same except for the writing and the sign So? The only thing differentiate your pieces from mine, is the direction that their facing on the board Get to the point Captain Yes sir. Unlike our chess, if I were to take one of your pieces I don't hold on to it waiting for you to reclaim it I just simply turn it around and use it against you. As part of my army What the hell does it have to do with them killing themselves The Japanese put a high price on loyalty to one master If one were to be taken a prisoner, it would expect a behaviour for them to serve the new lord with equal loyalty Well now, if that were true why wont they come surrender and come fight on our side Well sir, if they were to be taken prisoner, there's a chance they could end up betraying their emperor So they choose to die instead of taking the chance that might happen You see sir, The Japanese Captain, I didn't come here to play a fucking chess. Now, if these Japs want to die, I'll more than happy to oblige that Honorably or otherwise I just want to get this damn war over with Are we clear? Crystal clear, sir. Check out at the entrance You're up, fire that cave Now you throw that in Marry Christmas Nicks Look out Cover the entrance Cave's clear Are they dead? Go in and find out - I'm not going in there. - Get in there Go on, check them out Check the pockets We don't have all day Get all the souvenir and watch your 6 What do you got? Got one - Move up - Yeah yeah - I want a belly band - What a belly band? On the day following the suicide General Saito and his four commanders the tattered remnant of Japanese forces gathered near the western coast of the island for a final assault against the invaders The Americans however remain completely unaware of their movements Alright Keep us posted on a regular basis You find out there you boys will be interested in, I let you know Come home and stay sharp Roger - Mikey, lets go - Got it sir We got company. Japs Oh shit! Get on the horn Hello Victor Charlie, this is Able Victor Crow, do you read me? Hello, Able Victor Crow go ahead over Able Victor Crow, fuck! Fuck! This is Victor Crow, anybody knew god-damn Jap Banzai death? We been trying to hold them but we can't. Get the Captain Captain! Request immediate fire mission on my mark West at 4.00 am I say again West at 4 am Damn it. Fuck! Fire perfect Come on get up Victor crow repeat last transmission over Mike, keep you ass up, we going to the B Captain, thats Grabbias. He's being overrun Shit Find out what's going on Move On the 7th of July in what came to be known by the banzai attack Over 4,000 Japanese and close to in a space of only a few hours Two days later, the American commander would declare a total military victory on the island of Saipan Alright pick it up Keep your eyes open - Hangs up - See if you don't pay attention Keep your eyes open, check out them out because it could be some lives one Here, near Mount Toucha Its the place where the Japanese are calling the valley of hell It was here that General Saito along with his other commanders committed suicide in front of men And they did this the night before they launch the attack The night before? Thats right sir The night before the attack If they want to die for their god emperor Though they just assume to take us with them They kill themselves the night before even the battlefield. What sense does that make? Well by dying this way in front of their men, They're showing their men the way. They setting an example Continue sergeant Now up here, mark your point Calling this cliff, The Banzai Cliff Because apparently civilians are threw themselves into the rock the sea below Women, children, entire families spar-killing themselves sir Women and children? Why? Seem that the Japanese military had told them That we Americans are cannibals and torturers They're terrified sir The Japs has lost their commanders and we've crushed their army Now I tell you boys, the innocent thing Thank god for that Because this must stop right now You're right colonel But I feel we can't be too optimistic about this, this is still a volatile situation I like try and convince them to surrender sir You want to talk to them? They have no food left, with no freshwater around this island They're also have go nothing to lose I refuse to lose even one more man on that mountain You got one month captain After that, I blow them all to hell Thank you sir Alright lets do this. You over the fence check the back What kind of name is that, Calini? You don't look Italian - Not a whole sir - At the Cal-Li [Soldier] Meet you by the shack means trouble maker My Grandfather, well they're both rough rider from Cuba He met my grandmother in Cuba Now that's the trouble Exactly You don't mind if I call you trouble Everybody else does You guys hear that? Its probably a trap I don't think you should go in there sir Thank you sergeant He's weak. Make sure we give this little guy a help huh Yes, sir. - You got him? - Yeah He got your eyes sergeant Here Make not to lose him on the way back to camp Give him some water How do you suggest I do that? You take your thumb, you're going to dip it in your canteen and you going to let him suck on it just like you do Shut up! You want the Japs to hear you? Now spread out and finish clearing the area Move and take that damn thing off your head Alright take 5 Anyone got any water? Here I got a little Private how many times do I have tell you about the marvelous of water conservation? Sargent it was full this morning You're fucking useless You go without You get me killed, and Im coming back and I'm gonna kill you, you got it? Yes sergeant We take another walk. Give me room Grenade Grenade There's another over here Lt Sergeant there's a hidden path over here Fucking yellow monkeys, how stupid do they think we are? Well what are you waiting on? Aright, let see where this take us. Come on Lets go Watch your spacing I do not like this Let get out of here Everyone fall back Incoming Damn it - Its a trap - Cover me Aim for the left side Watch out Cease fire I suppose you going try and tell me the Japs did this on purpose Well sir, they just disappeared Check your wounded - He's gone sergeant - Get his tags How much further? It was here, the base of the mountain where we spotted the camp Anything form the grasshopper? The last report there were no sign of life Japs must've gone up and over that ridge What about the other side of the mountain? Can they even make over the poor ridge? One thing for certain they going to leave a big trail Let hope so Alright, we all move out They must have we were coming Hey, water Wait, there's no fresh water on this island Cor man Captain, over here Sergeant Don't move Oh my god Captain Oh Jesus Christ How you doing pal? Rusty, disappear in a mess and he bases for water and now we don't even knows what he look like - Sergeant - He's a fucking fox Sergeant, take it easy Save your energy You take care buddy Men, I have a problem And you can bet you fucking me when I have a problem, you now have a problem Ive just received word from washington The brass are wondering why they are receiving reports of enemy activity in Saipan. On the island I assured them we had secured over 4 months ago Now I would like report back in not to distance fucking future that all enemy hostility has ceased on this island Gentlemen, we will hunt, and we will destroy any and all opposition on that mountain, within the next 7 days Further Im hearing some kind of nonsense about a Japanese officer who thinks he too smart to get caught A fox, sir. Say again Some of the say he's smart like a fox, sir. Someone been saying he's smart like a fox Bullshit That is complete and utter bullshit If there is a guy out there running the show, I will tell you this He will be gone Gone. Gone straight to hell in under a week I promise you that The enemies area of operation is limited to 4 miles long and 3 miles wide around the base of the mountain These 300 or so Japanese soldiers are hold up in this area and I know I have your insurances every last one of them will be flush out You will make a full division sweep of that whole god damn area I want a line 3 miles wide and a width an arm length Forget about the Japs, anything thats moving or alive I want found I want those Japs in custody or in the ground Good luck gentlemen Fucking log You guys got anything down there? - Nothing here - Alright move out What about at the area at the base now? Over - Enemy? - No Did you see anything up there? Over No buddy not a damn thing, over - Keep your eyes out - Okay They know the land a lot better than we do Looks clear Keep your eyes open Incoming! Shit! How many? Come on Go Go He's up there Holy shit Over there Grenade - That guy behind the rock - Move it from the right Move Grenade Lets take a look at what we did captain What have we gain? All those marines are at our disposal We captured six scared civilians Kill three Japs soldiers and lost 11 US marines We failed We underestimate them, sir. Underestimate them? We could even find them for christ sake Who is this fuck character Lewis? What is his fucking name? ls he some kind of a magician? ls he Harry Houdini? He's responsible for the bobby traps and he's probably the who mark the baby for us to find colonel He's a clever man Clever my ass What do you think The Brass are going to say? We did shit, thats what they're going to say and they maybe right Get out of my fucking office Excuse me, I heard you got a woman here who knows about the fox The fox, what fox? All the civilians we brought down from the mountains They're all civilians here captain Captain wait you can't go in there - Colonel - Big man Thank you sir I still don't get the Japs captain Captain Sekae Oba, The fox That's his name colonel Is that fact? Take care Lewis Good luck sir When you get this Oba character you tell him something for me Yes sir. What's that sir? You tell him Tell he's a son-of-a-bitch I'm sure to let him know sir Attention - Breezy, take me to the air field - Yes sir Dismissed Pass me the ball. Pass me the ball You know the first thing I did when I found out there was a sign of Saipan, I must have grab that fishing rod? I never use it or at least I can think about it Well I hope one day we can go fishing come sooner than later sir So do I captain. So do I Atten-hut There's no secret you know more about this place than I do I like to hear your thoughts, tell me what you know Well sir we been carry the directus from the site warfare boys in an effort to get them to surrender We had some success with individual stragglers Not with the larger group whom we think they still hiding out in the mountains Sit down What would you do differently? Well sir I want to continue this leaflets But I would like to make some of our own. Tailored specifically to the hold out on this island and we have to stop using the word Toco The Japanese are a very proud people and they will not surrender I'm aware of that captain Go on We need to give them a away out without shaming themselves sir Perhaps tell them to cease resistance rather than surrender Alright captain Right now you pursue that course of action Just that know our time is limited so keep me in the loop That's all, dismissed Yes sir, thank you sir Captain You seem to have an understanding of this culture What is at the heart of this absolute commitment to Japanese have in no surrender? Are you familiar with this sir? Captain I do not want Japan or America to further engage in this unnecessary war I would try to help Really? Who was that? What was he doing? Take a look - I got nothing - Check the windows - No one's here - You got anything? What was Oba doing in the camp? Gathering information and supplies He was trying to verify some photos and? I told him, it was true, he was shocked Colonel I think we need to try something more aggressive to get them to surrender Such as? We should promise them food and medicine When they come, we lay a trap and capture them No, absolutely not, that will not honorable nor very effective If we do that, the other left on the mountain will never surrender Colonel, treachery here is not the answer Mr Baba says he will go up the Mountain and convince them to come down Well Mr Baba, The Japanese person like yourself can convince them to come down, Im happy have you try Perhaps a little Japanese to Japanese talk will us all some good At this point we have nothing to lose Captain, you have my permission to do what ever you need to do to bring back a peaceful resolution Please make sure that Motoki-son here gets what ever he needs to Please wait outside I will call you if he agrees to meet with you Okay, if only if he agrees I do not want him to think we trying to trap him of course captain Don't worry about us, we stay out of your way Thank you Wait Its time Fall back Get him clear Go Come on. Lets go Don't shoot. Stop He has no idea Stop Fire Cover 3 Get down Shoot back Japs Fire Ceased fire Help me get him out of here What the hell just happened? - Are you understood this men? - I don't know Reuben is not going to make it Somebody's over here Let get these guys to the hospital Go on Emperor Hirahito announcement of Japan unconditional surrenders were recorded and later broadcast to his loyal subject Even with the knowledge of Japan total capitulation, neither Oba nor his men are willing to come down off the mountain - You wanted to see me colonel - Yeah come in captain According to a message from the Japanese camp, Oba is saying that he wanted to meet Oda does? Has he agree to surrender? No He want to meet the representative of the American Armed Forces Captain Oba is nothing if not consistent He wanted his way right to the bitter end I like to be the one to meet him if you permit me sir Permission granted Thank you sir You admire him don't you captain? I do sir Where do you learn English? ln singapore Because war You speak good English Thank you You got an American girlfriend? No Watch the road Please stop What's that? You guys wait here Wait On December 1st 1945. At the foot of the Mountain Tapochau on the island of Saipan. Following 512 days of fighting, The war finally ended for The Captain Sakae Oba and his army of 47. Sir
