 

                        1 - it takes five pounds of pressure to crush a human windpipe. My name is Harry Fox and four months ago i didn't know things like that. Back then I worked in international asset management. Don't worry, I'm not gonna bore you with the details. I'm gonna tell you what happened when the company lost fourteen billion overnight and we all lost our jobs. That's a more interesting story. N' that's Vernon stynes on the day we were all told to clear out our desks. He's got out-of-date software manuals and a personalized hole punch in that box. He looks happy, doesn't he? Kevin wasn't. - Did you Nick that from the office? - Yeah. I'm gonna use it to start up my own business. I mean, they've, they've gone completely. - What are we going to get thirty, forty thousand? - Oh no, no, no, no, thirteen and a half... Max. - That won't go far. - I've worked out, right, that I need 2.6 million to live for the rest of my life, and that's giving me just above average male life expectancy. Educated people do tend to have an above average life expectancy. - You should do what Chuck difford did in Vegas. ' Who? - Ah, it's not a true story. - It's a true story. - It's not. - Chuck difford, he sells everything he's got and he walks to Vegas, goes in the first casino he sees, and he puts everything on red. - Roulette? - Yeah. - Fifty-fifty shot. - Well, slightly less than fifty-fifty, you see it's- - he doubles his money, he walks out, and he never goes back to Vegas. - And eh, how much did he win? - 2.6 million. - Oh, really! - No- - no, Vernon. The point is it's better to be a bum with nothing, than a bum with not enough. - Vernon loved that story. So in a way, everything that happened after that, it's actually Chuck difford's fault. N' Vernon was always saying that the Chinese word for crisis combines the characters for danger and opportunity. Maybe it's true, but for us opportunities were gonna be limited. - You have one new message- - hi, Harry, it's Kevin. Did you hear anything back from London? Apparently, we're all fucking toxic because of the 14 billion. Someone said they're looking for people in Singapore? Did you hear that? Anyway, i-l, I'll, I'll talk to you. - We were toxic, and they knew that in London and Singapore, and I wasn't like Vernon. I was never going to start my own business. Anyway, don't they say that the most successful entrepreneurs have the same personality traits as psychopaths? - Hi, orla. - Hey-ya, Vernon. - Still smoking? - Never quit. - Women who quit smoking by thirty are believed to avoid the earlier death risks associated with smoking, so you're probably not in any real danger yet. - That's not very responsible advice. - I'm not advising you to smoke, I'm just pointing out that the risks aren't so serious yet. It's good. - Heard you moved home? - Yeah. It's, eh, it's temporary, you know, I'm consolidating while i start my own business- web consultancy, search engine optimization. - Sounds like a winner. - You back home now, too? - No, I'm just down doing my shift, looking after dad. - Oh, is that a regular thing? - Yeah. - He's got cancer. Listen, Vernon, I'll see you around. - No, no; No! Maybe we could go for lunch? My treat. - I'm looking after dad. - Yeah, yeah, but maybe when one of your brothers are down, we could, we could do lunch? - Then I'm not down. - Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, course, yeah. - Listen, Vernon, good luck with the new business. - Yeah, thank you. - Um... well, 'bye orla. - Do you know what new businesses do? They go fucking bust in less than a year, nearly all of them. Vernon was back at home. He could afford to fail. Me? I was handing back the company car. Well, it made sense. There was no company anymore. They were sending some guy called clive to repossess it. I wasn't going to hang around for that. - Well? Yeah. No, I'm on the bus. - Code for the canteen is 1212b. Code for the supplies room is 1213b. - So there's a code for the codes? - They change every few months, so no, there's no code for the codes. Here's your desk. Standard data entry- speed and accuracy, that's what we need. It's not difficult. The machines are split into three categories. Soft drinks. Snacks. Sanitary items. Fill in category, location, and amount. Any problems, call my extension. Don't start bothering anybody else. - Apparently, if you dream about drowning that means you've got money worries. I figured any job that gave me some cash would slow down my sink to the bottom. - Well, you need both the male and the female plants together; otherwise you won't get the nice red berries. - Alright, Anthony. - Remember now, keep them nice and moist, especially the female. Alright, English. So, I heard you moved back in with your mammy and daddy? - Yeah. It's only temporary. I'm consolidating while i start up my new business. Did you look at my proposal? - Ah, I already have a website, Vernon. - You're not even search optimized. Now, I can guarantee you a significant increase in business. - For a fee of five thousand? - Yeah, but that could be less. - That could be nothing. - Come on now, Anthony. - Housewives have always liked me, and housewives buy plants. - Yes, but, everything's online now. - Yeah. - We should talk again, Anthony. I've got lots of ideas. - Really? Well, come back to me when you have a good one. - Hello Mr. Fox, this is Kim Ryan I'm your new relationship manager. - That was the first call from my bank in three years. Friendly and civilized, but I knew that would change. They were calling me for a reason. - Hello? - Mr. Fox, I've noticed that you're now earning less than your monthly mortgage repayments. - That's just temporary. - I hope so. You do understand that this level of income is not sustainable. If things don't change soon your apartment will be repossessed. - Kevin was forty-eight. Two kids in college from his first marriage, three in private school from his second, a big house, a villa in Spain, three holidays a year. He always said he was never more than one paycheck from going broke, and it was a month since we lost our jobs. - Did you hear anything about how it happened? Head on into a tree. Doa. - It's just some people are saying that it might not have been an accident. - Well, actually, that makes sense. A man of his age recently made redundant. Did you know for every 1% rise in unemployment, there' s a .8% rise in suicide? Yeah. It's called "econocide." - Kevin wasn't poor. - He had money. - But did he have enough? I mean, I've worked out that I need 2.6 million to last my lifetime, and he was married with kids. - Hi, Sally. I'm so sorry. - Hi, Harry. - Hi, Vernon. - What did you say to the widow? Should I say something to her? - Her name's Sally, Vernon. Just say, "sorry for your loss." - Good. - Okay, yeah. Good. L'll-l'll say that. Sorry for you- sorry for your loss. Sorry- - men cause trouble. That's a fact. Maybe women are complicated and emotional, but proper "fuck the world up" trouble, that's all down to us. But Vernon's brand of trouble... Wow. No one could have seen that coming. - ...per cent, or the 99%? What are you worth? If you emptied your back accounts... - How was the funeral? - Yeah, yeah, really good, actually. Alright, thank you. - Are you going to tell me anything about this business idea of yours? - Huh-um, well, it's all a bit hush-hush at the moment, mum. - Vernon? What are you doing here? - Looking for you. I've got a really exciting business opportunity to tell you about. And I brought some beer. - Two months earlier if Vernon had called around to my apartment, i wouldn't have asked him in. - C'mon in. - But that day, well, he had a business plan and some beer. I like beer, and I needed a plan. - Oh, what a cool place, Harry. It must have cost a fortune. - You don't know the half of it. Here. - I've been thinking about what you said, Harry, about Chuck difford, the guy who doubled his money in Vegas. - I'm pretty sure that's not a true story, Vernon. - Thanks. - Cheers. - Cheers. - What are you downloading? - It's just some router software that you're gonna need. Now, don't worry, it's free. I'm cashing in on econocide. One person empties their bank account and sells any expensive stuff they may have, turns it all into cash, okay? - Okay- - another person does the same. Everything you own translated into cash and put into a green sports bag. - Why a green sports bag? - It's just one of the rules. I've been writing the rules for days. Anyway, they go to somewhere remote, dig a grave, and fight to the death. The winner buries the loser, walks home with two bags of cash, double your money. I've called it trading. - Fight to the death? - So this is your new business? - Yep. - Murder? - It's not murder. - It sounds a lot like murder. - It's two consenting adults entering into a business deal. - Where one kills the other. - Yeah, but like a duel. - Jesus Christ! - Do you remember that German guy who found someone online to come to his house and eat him? - Yeah. - This isn't as mad as that. - What would your life be worth in hard cash? - Don't tell me, Vernon, you didn't put this all on the website? - Course not! This is crypt layering, deep web like what pedophiles use. - Alright. Pitch is over. - Double your money, Harry. Think of Kevin. Much better odds than driving your car into a tree. - Jesus, are those your winnings? - No- no, this is my stake. - Did you expect to come here and, what, we'd kill each other? - No- only one of us would have to die. - Get out. - I'll find someone, Harry. Trading is gonna be massive. You can keep the rest of those beers. - Vernon was a guy i used to call for tech support at work. Now he was suggesting we kill each other for cash. It was fucking nuts. But then again, if he was serious, someone was gonna get that bag of money easily. - If you emptied your bank accounts and sold everything you own, how much would your life be worth in hard cash? Not enough to last you a couple of months. If you become a trader, you're seven trades away from a million. Give me those. Get a move on, pal. You'll never get home at this rate. Where are you? I don't have the new safe code. So what do I do with the money? Just leave it here in the office? I don't know why you have to keep changing it all the time. 1142? N' outta here for the weekend. See you Monday, dickheads. - It was like a sign. Like a greater power saying, "here's four thousand eight hundred and twenty-three quid in condom and tampon sales. Now what are you gonna do with it?" - Find someone on the website with a similar sum to trade. Arrange a meeting, and you're all set. You're seven trades away from a million. - Hello? - It's Harry. - Oh, hi, Harry. - I might be interested. - Oh, great. - It has to be Saturday. - But that's tomorrow. - I know. - Oh, okay. No-no, yeah-yeah, look um, I'll pm you a location. - Fine. - Put the cash into the green sports bag. 9.8% of all sports bags are green, so the bag will act as an identifier but one which will go unnoticed by members of the public. Arrange to meet in a quiet pub during the day. - What can I get you? - Eh, a sparking mineral water, please. - And make sure you're happy with the bona fides of your fellow trader. - Vernon had described trading as a noble duel, even though every trade started in a stinking toilet. - Where's your green bag? - Oh, forget the bag. I've got the money, that's why we're here, isn't it? - Did you write a suicide note? - Is that really necessary? - Yes. There's less chance of people coming looking for you if they think you've committed suicide. Write one now. Go on. Good. But, say that you drown yourself. We don't want people looking for the loser, do we? - Hey, what are you doing? - Checking for guns. There's no guns allowed. They make too much noise. - I don't have a gun, Vernon. - Give me your phone. - Why? - Why? GPS tracking, Harry, that's why. And switch it off. - Travel together to an isolated location, making sure to avoid any unnecessary attention. - Pick a number. - Eight. - Okay. We cross the road and double back to that bus stop, the first bus that comes we go for eight stops, then change. - Vernon was really proud of his rules. Even though he was planning to kill me, he wanted to show me how to trade properly. So we took the 14 for eight stops, then the 78 for five stops, then the 65 for three stops, until we were sure no one was following us. - Dig a hole 3 feet deep by 6 feet long, and commence trading. - This is good, isn't it? Here you go. The ground is very hard here. - This isn't really gonna work. - Well, we could go somewhere else, somewhere easier to dig? - Look, I do need the money, but... This is murder, Vernon. - Harry, we can't go this far- - I can do anything I want, and I've decided i don't want to do this. - You're a coward. - Maybe. Ah! Fucking hell, Vernon! I told you I don't want to do this. - It's too late... - You've agreed to trade. Knives are allowed. It's in the rules. Ah! - You little fucker. I told you I've changed my mind. - Ah... It wasn't supposed to go like this! - Yeah, well, it did. - Ah, my shoulder! My shoulder! No, no. No, no, no, no, no, please don't kill me! Don't kill me! Take the money. You win. - There are decisions in life you know you'll live to regret. "Ah! Ah! - Not killing Vernon would be one of those. - Hi, I'm big John, lead EMT on six tours, tox haz qualified, para rescue and med evac trained. You never know when you're gonna be the victim of a knife attack, or indeed any kind of attack with a sharp-edged weapon, and a knife wound, if not treated rapidly, can be one of the worst ways to die... - Am I gonna die? - I really couldn't tell you. - ...as with any field injury, quick action is the key. You're gonna need a cool head, and a pair of nitrile or non-latex gloves. If you don't have gloves, improvise by using a plastic bag. Remember, the dirtier the wound the greater the chance of infection. If the victim is suffering from shock... - Are you in shock? - I think so. - If possible, elevate their feet to improve blood flow. Shock can impair blood flow and lead to brain or organ damage. Talk quietly and gently to the patient. Turn their head to the side in case of any bleeding or vomiting. Do not remove the knife from the wound. This will increase blood loss. - Too late. - Now, the first thing to do is stop the bleeding. So apply pressure with a sterile bandage, that's your best option. But if it's bleeding bad, and the emergency services aren't on their way, you do have other options. - Ls that glue, Harry? Is this gonna hurt? - I imagine it will, yeah. - I had ten thousand. Half of it was borrowed and had to go back where it came from, the other half was mine. I just wasn't sure Vernon would see it that way. - Fuck. - Fuck it! - Good morning. - What are you doing in my office? - I was just looking for you. - I was hoping that maybe we could- - why is that out? - Yeah, it was just sitting there when I came in. - I don't believe this. Get your ass in here immediately. N' - hello? - Hi, I'm looking for Vernon stynes. - I think you've got the wrong place. - Uh. - Yeah? - He rang my father and gave him this address. - It's the fourth floor, c'mon up. There's a woman at the door, she says you gave her father my name? - It's orla. - Who the fuck is orla? - I love her, Harry. - Oh sweet Jesus. Please tell me you're here to take Vernon home with you. - You said you didn't know who he was. - I don't know who you are. - I'm his neighbor. Where is he? Vernon? - I'm in the bedroom. Thanks for coming, orla. - Why did you call my father at home, Vernon? You know he's sick. - I wanted to talk to you, and I thought you'd be there, looking after him. I did try you on your mobile a few times. - Do you realize your mother's talking about going to the police? - What? Why? - Because she's worried about you, she's been trying to call you for two days. - Okay. - So, if he calls his mother, and he promises never to call your father again, is everyone happy? - Tell your mother you're alive. - Oh no. - Yes. - No-no, I ca- hi. Hi, mum. Stop shouting. Why are you shouting? I'm just staying with a friend for a few days while I sort out my business plan. Seriously, I'm fine. Yeah, l-l'm sorry. I'm fine. L-l'lll be home soon. Okay, bye. Bye. - Are you... - Are you bleeding? ~ eh? No, not really. - What the hell happened to you? What happened? - Don't look at me. - It's not Harry's fault. - He actually did do that to himself. - Yeah! And now, Harry's looking after me. - You did this to yourself? How exactly did you do that to yourself? - I fell... on a knife. - We were drinking. - You fell on a knife? Yeah, this is typical blokey bullshit. Has a doctor seen this? - No- he actually refuses to go to hospital. - No, no, no, no hospital because... Doctors are obliged to report any knife wounds, orla, unless they suspect that it's self-harm. - This is exactly what I'm dealing with here. - Actually... I wouldn't mind you having a look at this, orla, just to see how bad it is. Harry put glue into it. It worked, didn't it? - Come here. Lie back. Yeah, well, it's not bleeding too badly. Vernon, if this gets any worse, you are gonna end up in hospital, you know? - No- maybe, if I think it's getting worse, then maybe I should give you a call? - Vernon, stop. So what are you gonna do about him? - Send him back to his mother, I suppose. I'm sorry you got dragged into this. - It's gonna get infected, you know. - Harry? Harry? - Harry? You got a minute? - Yeah. - Simon's gone. - Okay- - he disappointed me. That's all I'm saying. It's good for you, though. Creates an opportunity. Have you ever considered a management position? It's hard work at first, and you'll need the extra training, but you'll be on 24k straightaway, and there's no reason why you couldn't be on 30+, in a couple of years time. - I had made five grand in four hours the previous Saturday. I couldn't tell her that obviously, but I couldn't stop thinking it. - Sounds great. - Just give him four a day; it should be strong enough for any infection. - Why don't you come in and give them to him yourself? - No, I'm done with that. They should work. If they don't then... They'll work. Just make sure he finishes them. - Who's Ian Johnson? - That's my dad. - Does he not need them? - Yeah, desperately, but Vernon is just more important to me. - Okay. - No, look, I do actually like Vernon, you've just got to be firm with him, you know. You've got to tell him to get lost from time to time. - Why don't you come in and tell him to get lost for me? - Bye, Harry. - I'm gonna ask Vernon for your number. I'm gonna call you up, and I'm gonna ask you out on a date. - Yeah, you do that. - Why didn't she come in, Harry? - Who knows. - Did you ask her in? - Yes. - She didn't want to come in. - You see, i don't understand that. If she's brought the pills over that means something, doesn't it? - Just take the pill, Vernon. - But these are prescribed for her father, and her father has lung cancer, Harry. What use are those to me? Oh, I should check on the Internet before I take them. - Take the pill. - I am not taking a pill that hasn't been prescribed to me. - Five thousand would buy me a month or two, not much more. Vernon had been impatient. He should have waited. His little murder game was taking off. What if they were all like Vernon? Pickaxe. That was a showoff name, and he had 5k to trade. No harm in taking a look. - I wouldn't be here if i wasn't confident, you know? Have you done this before? - We should take turns digging. - Okay, makes sense. - And you can back out any time you like, yeah? - Are you sure you're up to this? ' Are you? - Yeah. - I want the money. And if you back out, I'm taking the two bags. - I'll dig first. Do you mind? - We didn't say a word for the two hours we were digging that hole. One of us was supposed to end up in it. What was there to talk about? - Whoa! Fuck! - Fucking hell! - Fuck! You got to be fucking kidding me. What are you? Just a fucking thief? - I wasn't expecting to kill someone, even though I knew that was the basic fucking concept. Pickaxe had made it easier for me: He tried to rob the money. - Hey, you... Your bags. - Hello? - Hi, it's Harry. - Hi, Harry. Vernon gave you my number? - No, I managed to get it from his phone. Your pills worked. He's much better. - Is he still at your apartment? - Yeah, well, you know, you wouldn't kick him out for me. - You've got to man up, Harry, do these things yourself. - I'm too soft. - Please. - No, seriously, it's why it's taken me this long to ask you out on a date. - Yeah, well, you haven't asked me yet. - Y'see, there's my problem. Listen, why don't you ask me? I've gotta go, Harry. N' - what's going on, Harry? Where were you yesterday? I want my money back. - You know what happened to your money so don't be annoying me. - We didn't trade. - You called it off. - You asked me to spare your life for the money. - No, no, no that's not right. I just agreed with you that we should call it off. I, I wanted to trade, and you didn't. - You begged me. You were crying. - You can't do this, Harry. It's not right. You're just a thief. Ah! Ah, my shoulder... - I had a couple of busted ribs and ten grand in my freezer. Why didn't I stop? Because I only had 10 grand. I traded two more times in less than ten days. Easy, quick trades. And Vernon's rules worked: The suicide notes, the phones, the endless bus journeys and the green bags. It all made trading safer. Before I knew it, i had 40 grand in my freezer. You didn't see many repeat traders. Half were dead, obviously, but the winners, a lot of them didn't come back for more. Kicker was like me. - You know the drill? - Yeah, I know the drill. - No weapons? - No- - confident? - Phone? Let's go. - If you ever find yourself in a fight to the death, take my advice: Go for the throat. The throat is full of blood and air and humans don't last long without blood or air. - Nice to be playing for high stakes for a change. I wouldn't like to go to the game for a few grand, would you? Let's get going- - you've reached the phone of Harry Fox. Please leave a message. - Harry, I really do need to talk to you about our earlier business transaction. I do not believe we fairly concluded our business. I want my money back, Harry. This is Vernon stynes. - If someone's trying to kill you, and you kill them, you're on a high. It's not dark or upsetting. It's a victory. I could have been dead, but instead I was twice as rich. The hardest thing was not being able to tell anyone about it. - I can see you there, you know. Do you not think there's something deeply wrong with a man who creeps around a woman's house in the dark? - I had thought vicious was a stupid name, but now I saw it was smart. I walk in expecting some dumb guy, and instead I see... Her. - Hey! Hey! Don't you dare. - Listen, I'm not going to trade with you. Just find another woman. - You know the thing i find difficult about trading, as a woman? Dragging fat, dead men into graves. I mean, you're skinny but I'd still say you're a lump to drag across the ground. If you win, you win. That's how it goes. - Yeah, we're hardly going to do that out here, are we? - What, a guy and a girl can't have a hug? Do you want to fuck me? - What is that? - Like, a tactic? Give me your phone. - Harry? Harry Fox, I thought it was you. God, I haven't seen you since- - I think you're mistaking me for someone else, pal. - What? Nah, don't tell me you don't recognize me? We used to work together, remember? Hello. - Give me my phone. - You fucking clown. You just cost me 80 grand. - How much? - You're becoming a real pest, Vernon. - You have to give me the money back, Harry. - No, I don't. - You stole it from me, and now I've got nothing. - So trade. - I can't trade, Harry. - Remember? - Yeah, I do remember, you traded and you lost. There are no other losing traders alive. You're a lucky man, Vernon. - I don't feel very lucky. - Open the bag. - What? - Open the fucking bag, Vernon. Take what you think you're owed. - Is that five? - No, that's seven. - We don't have to be enemies, you know? - We don't have to be anything. - Poor Vernon. Trading was getting bigger everyday and no one except me knew that it was all his idea. He should have just taken that money and moved on, but he couldn't. He couldn't leave trading behind. ' Busy? - No, but I still don't want your website. - Yeah, well, I actually wanted to talk to you, to get your advice on an entirely different business proposition. I'm looking for a partner with... How can I put this? You've done a bit of time, right? ' And? Get to the point, Vernon. - Do you have any, i dunno... contacts? Guys who are willing to do things for money? - What kind of things? - There's a lot of money in this. But it's illegal and it's dangerous. - I'll do that. - Why don't you two talk business? - No, no. I'd much rather talk to you, actually. - You don't know Ken. Give him a chance. - Have you ever heard of white-collar crime? - What, like, pedo priests? - No, no, no, like, upmarket crime. Very low risk of getting caught and plenty of money. Would it be something that'd interest you? - Why not? - Are you a good fighter? - If you asked any of us what we were looking for, I can tell you the answer: Someone easy to kill. - What's with the watch, man? - It's for telling me what time it is. - Looks expensive. - If you win, you can have the watch as a bonus. Let's move. I've a meeting this afternoon. - Actually, I need a piss. - Sq piss. Wash your hands. - Are you sure we're here for the same reason? - We're hereto make love, right? 'Cause you're really my type. - What's with the golf gear? - Trading gear. - Bri234 looked like an estate agent: Overcoat and leather shoes. He shouldn't have been there. - Have you done this before? - Yes. - I haven't. - It's a lot of money for a first time trader. - Yeah, but it's not enough. I'm in a lot of trouble, a lot of trouble with money. How many people have you killed doing this? - If you can't do this, don't. - Fuck! I didn't think I'd be this nervous. - Do you wanna call it off? - I can't. - What the hell are you doing, man? Jesus, you know you're not supposed to have another phone! Fucking hell. - I know. I'm sorry. - Jesus Christ. You shouldn't be doing this if you have kids. - I know. - I'm sorry! Jesus! What's the matter with you? I gave you the chance to call it off. - It wasn't one of Vernon's rules but it was understood. You don't trade if you have children. It's just not fair to the other traders. - Hi, I'm big John, lead EMT on six tours, tox haz qualified, para rescue and med evac trained. Basic wound suturing skills can make a big difference in the field. You're looking for good penetration, and well-tied knots to deal with lacerations. I'm using p17 sterilized nylon thread. It doesn't knot as tightly, but it goes straight through skin like a dream. What you wanna do is go straight in, like this. This is Ken, say something and I might call you back. - Hello, Ken. - Just checking in with you vis--vis today's business meeting. If you can please just give me a call when you get a minute to let me know how it all went, you have my number. Thank you. This is Ken, say something and I might call you back. - So how's your dad? - Yesterday they said he had hours, today they think he's a bit better. Hey, listen, do you want something to drink? - Eh, no, no. Water would be good, actually. - Here you are. I quit myjob. Can't really face it anymore. - I can give you money, if you want. - I'm not asking for money, Harry. I just... I just need to have something else to do when dad's gone. - Orla's father had days to live. Everything would change when he was gone. That's when I would stop. Whatever money I had then would be enough for us to make a fresh start, somewhere else. This is Ken, say something and I might call you back. - Ken, this is Vernon stynes. This is not satisfactory, Ken. We had a verbal agreement and I want my money. - Oops. - You wait here. You're a sick fucker really, aren't you, Vernon? I thought you just designed nice little websites. - Anthony, I've been looking for Ken. - Don't worry about Ken. - I have him under control. - Oh thank god. I need to see him now, Anthony. - Calm down. Lower your stupid voice before you get a smack. We have all the money. - It's my money. - You were always such a nice boy. What have you gone and invented? - There's potential in this, Anthony. Easy money for less risk. - Yeah? - How does that work? - Scaling up. Delegate. Getting other people to do the trading like Ken here: Young, aggressive. - And you want me to be part of this? - Yeah, yeah. - Partners. Let's go after a big trade. - How big? - Two hundred, two hundred and fifty thousand. Can you get hold of that kind of money? - If I get it, we can't lose it. - No we shouldn't, i mean, Ken's good. - I don't give a fuck how good he is. If I get it, we can't lose it. - Yeah, okay. - Well, look, leave it to me. I'll set it up. - Alright. Get back to me when you have something sorted out. - What about my money? - I thought we were all in this together? - Hi, Harry. I've got something big to tell you about. It's a trade I've set up. It's what I do now. - Like an agent? - Yeah. I've already done one, but I've got a huge one, and I'm bringing it to you. - Why are you bringing it to me? - Two hundred grand, Harry, that's why. - Fuck you. - I'm not interested. - Really? I thought you and orla would enjoy spending that much money, Harry. - Orla's not the type of woman who's impressed by money, Vernon. - Does she know? What's the point of doing it if you're not going to make real money? You started with five grand. Two more trades and you're nearly a millionaire. That's what trading is about. Now maybe you don't have two hundred grand... - You know I do. - One more, Harry. One more, and you can walk away. - With a cut for you, I suppose? Mr. agent. - Yeah, but just a small one. - Alright. - The forum listing is Ken, just Ken. - Vernon was wrong. It wasn't seven steps to a million. You had to find trades that led you to double up, and big stakes were hard to find. Whoever Ken was, wherever Vernon had found him, well, that sort of money would make it all worthwhile. - What's going on? Who's this? - This is Ger. Ger's a good pal of mine. Aren't you, Ger? - No- I hate you, you bastard. - He loves me really. - Ah, I do. - That's him. That's Harry Fox. - That bloke has two hundred grand in that bag? - Yeah. He's the most successful trader there is. He was there when I started it all. - What the fuck are we sitting here for? Why don't we take it from him? - Good thinking, Ger. Why don't we just walk into a pub full of witnesses, shoot him, and take all his money. This fella has covered his tracks. He's happy to dig his own grave, even write his own suicide note. Now, do you think that we should just let all that hard work at avoiding detection go to waste? - You're telling me there's two hundred grand in that bag? And where did you get it? - Trading. - Really? - Really. - Show me. - You're all business, aren't you? Just like the last fella! You know, you're not as impressive as I expected. - I didn't know you had any expectations. - Ah, don't act all modest, Mr. trader. - I knew I had to be careful with Ken. He wasn't a real trader. Someone else's money was in that bag. The journey was going to take longer than usual. - The first bus-one of them picks a random number, and then that will be the number of stops before they get off, then another bus, and the other person picks a random number. - Jesus, it'll take all day. - You don't have anywhere else to be, do you? N' - are you gonna do this all day long, man? So what way do you wanna do this? - Well, if you're not going to dig, we can start whenever you like. - Nah, no, no, no, no, I'll let you dig a bit more. Or I could just stab you. - You could. - You've got a knife. - You're a cocky fucker, aren't you? - Ah, c'mon. You could be walking away with my two hundred grand. - No, I will be walking away with your two hundred grand. - What are you waiting for? - Fuck face. Aah! Help me! Don't let him kill me! Help! Help! - Who do you keep thinking is going to help you? - The fat English lad, and the others. You'd better fucking run. - It's not looking too good for Ken. - Harry is good. He's won quite a few trades. - It doesn't matter who wins. - I figured if it came to it and orla found the cash she'd realize it was for her. But I didn't think it would come to that. - Sorry about the door, Harry. - Vernon. Aren't you going to introduce us? - Anthony grogan. I'm a business associate of Vernon's. Let's talk trading. - Is this a shakedown? - So what if it is? We're shaking you down. Big deal. The trade you made today was for a lot of money. You can't keep all of it. - That's not how it works. Didn't Vernon tell you the rules? - Yeah, I did. - He doesn't talk about much else. Do you, Vernon? Look, I know that you're a great trader, Harry, but you can't go on like this. It's too risky. We can set up trades that are foolproof, no way you can lose, a team to back you up. - This is what I was telling you about, Harry. Upscaling. - We'll all be rich. Isn't that a good thing? - I'm already rich. - You're not keeping all that money. - This is a good idea, Harry. - It's working fine as it is, thanks. - Fuck all this, Anthony. Where's the fucking money? - That's the problem with working with people like Ger. They're not businessmen. You alright, Vernon? - Yeah. Fine. - You think there's any real future for us? I can't see it. - Yeah, you could be right there. Negotiations aren't going too well. But I need that money back. So how do we proceed? - We don't proceed. - That's no good. God, Harry, this is messy. The only real option is to shoot you, and hope that we can figure out where the money is. - Well, that's an option. - No, here's one: We go together, we get the money, you keep a hundred, and I take the rest. - What about my forty? - Just a question: You ever kill anyone? - Not in a while. - Really? - I can't believe you won't see reason. Ah! - You didn't believe i could do that, did you? Oh, no, you didn't! C'mon, Harry, be honest. What a team! Eh'? - Hold that. - Harry, um, what about the money? I mean, I saved you, Harry. You have to admit that. We've still got our deal, haven't we? 40k? - You came here in a car, right? So who were they, Vernon? - He runs a-well, ran- a garden center near where I live. - The one who was doing all the talking? - Yeah. The guy that I killed. I think I'm ready, Harry. - Ready for what? - Trading. It's all about the first one, isn't it? I mean, you had the same problem, you couldn't kill me, remember? Look at you now! Have you traded here before? - We've got a lot of digging to do, Vernon. - We should do something. You know, dinner or drinking, clubbing. Something fun, you know? Me, you and orla. Shouldn't we? Just the three of us. Harry? - You were right, Vernon. The first time we traded, you were ready and I wasn't. - This isn't fair. This isn't a trade. - You're a dangerous man, Vernon. - Harry? - That's it. That's how I spent the last four months of my life. Just one more trade, then I'm done. N'
