 

                        There was once in venice a moor othello who for his merits in the affairs of war was held in great esteem. It happened that he fell in love with a young and noble lady called desdemona, who drawn by his virtue, became equally enamoured of him. So it was that since her father was much opposed to the union of desdemona with a moor, she fled her house at night. In secret haste they were married. Now there was in othello's company, an ensign named lago, a very amiable outward appearance but his character was extremely treacherous. I have told often and i retell it again and again. I hate the moore. I'll poison his delight. How? How, lago? Proclaim him in the streets, incense her kinsmen, and though he in fertile climate dwell, plague him with flies. No, they come. What will i do? Why, go to bed and sleep. - I'll incontinently drown myself. Oh, bitterness. What should i do? Put money in thy purse. Ere i would say i would drown myself for love of a guinea hen, i would change my humanity with a baboon! Come, be a man. Drown thyself? Drown cats and blind puppies. It cannot be that desdemona should long continue her love to the moor or he his to her. It was a violent commencement. And thou shalt see an answerable sequestration, put buy money in thy purse. When she is sated with his body she'll fine the error of her choice. She must change, she must, for youth. Your daughter! - Look, your house! - Your house! - Your daughter! - Your daughter! Senior, is all your family within? Why, wherefore ask you this? Lf't be your pleasure for your dull watch o' th' night, transported, with no worse nor better guard but with a knave of common hire, a gondolier, to the gross clasps of a lascivious moor. This thou shalt answer! Straight satisfy yourself, if she be in your chamber or your house, lago, can i depend on the issue? Thou are sure of me. Go, make money. It is too true an evil. Gone she is. Is there not charms by which the property of youth and maidhood may be abused? Call up all my people! Raise my kindred! Where is the moor? Keep up your bright swords for the dew'll rust them. Oh, thou foul thief! Where hast thou stowed my daughter? Hold your hands! Good signor, where will you that i go to answer this your charge? To prison till fit time of law and course of direct session call thee to answer. Now at the same hour, there came messengers in haste to the senate for there was news that the turkish armies were moving against the venetian garrison in cyprus. The senators, already raised the net, elected the moor to the commander of their troops. And officers were searching the town to apprise othello of this honor when lo, desdemona's old father himself brings the moor at sword's point to the council chamber upon a charge of working from desdemona with unlawful enchant. She was abused, stolen from me and, ay, corrupted by magic spells. I'm very sorry for't. If she in chains of magic were not bound, whether a maid so tender, fair and happy would ever have to incur her general mock, run from her father to the sooty bosom of such a fierce bat! Damned as thou art, thou hast enchanted her! Othello, what in your own part can you say to this? Nothing but this is so! Did you by indirect and forced courses subdue and poison this young maid of affection? Most potent grave and reverend signors, my very noble and approved good masters, that i've taken away this old man's daughter it's most true. True i have married her. The very head and front of my offending has this extent, no more. Rude in my speech, and little blessed with the soft phrase of peace, since these arms of mine had seven years' pith till now some nine moon wasted they have used their dearest action in the tented field and little little of this great world can i speak more than pertains to feats of broil and battle. And therefore little shall i grace my cause in speaking of myself. Yet by your gracious patience i will round unvarnished tale deliver of my whole course of love, what drugs, what charms, what conjuration and what mighty magic, for such proceedings am i charged withal that i won his daughter. Her father loved me, oft invited me, still questioned me the story of my life. I ran it through even from my boyish days wherein i speak of the most disastrous chances of moving accidents by flood and fields of hair-breadth scapes for the imminent deadly breach. Of being taken by insolent foe, and sold to slavery, of my redemption thence and potency my travels history wherein a venturous vast and desert idle, rough quarries, rocks and tills whose heads touch heaven. It was my head to speak. Rest to hear, but desdemona seriously inclined. But still the house affairs would draw her thence, which ever as she could with haste dispatch, come again and with a greedy ear devour up my discourse. I found good means to draw from her a prayer of earnest heart that i would all my pilgrimage dilate, and often did beguile her of her tears when i did speak of some distressed stroke of my use of it. She gave me for my pains, a world of sighs. She swore, in faith: 'twas strange, 'twas passing strange. Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful. She wished she had not heard it, yet she wished that heaven made her such a man. She thanked me, and bade me if i had a friend that loved her i should but teach him how to tell my story and that would woo her. Upon this hint i spake, she loved my for the dangers i had passed, and i loved her that she did pity them. This only is the witchcraft i have used. I think this tale would win my daughter, too. Come hither, desdemona. Do you perceive in all this noble company where most owe you obedience? My noble father, i do perceive here a divided duty. To you i am bound for life and education. My life and education both do learn me how to respect you. You are the lord of duty. I am hitherto your daughter. But here's my husband. And so much duty as my mother showed to you preferring you before her father so much i challenge that i may profess, due to the moor, my lord. God be with you. I have done. When remedies are past the griefs are ended. Please it your grace on to the state affairs. The turk with a most mighty preparation makes for cyprus. Othello, the fortitude of the place is vast known to you. You must away this morning. With all my heart. When we consider the importance of cyprus to the turk, we must not think the turk is so unskillful to leave that latest which concerns them first, neglecting an attempt of ease and gain to wake and wage a danger. Look to her, moor if thou hast eyes to see. She has deceived her father and may thee. My life upon her faith! Mark me with what violence she first loved the moor but for bragging and dealing a fantastical lie. Will she love him still for prating? Ah, let not thy discreet heart think it. - Lieutenant cassio. - Largo what a cannon. I know my price. I'm worth no worse a place. But he, sir, had the election. And what's he? This michael cassio, this florentine, that never set a squadron in the field nor the division of a battle knows more than a spinster. Yet cassio must his lieutenant be, by god bless the mark of the fellow's ancient! Well, i would not follow him that. Oh, sir, content you. I follow him to serve my turn upon him. Lago? Lago! Honest lago! I wake up on your lordship. My desdemona must i leave with thee. I pray bring her after good time to cyprus. Well, me good lord, i'll do it. The moor's of a free and open nature, that thinks men honest that seem to be so, and will as tenderly be led by th' nose as asses are. We cannot all be masters. Nor all masters cannot by truly followed. You shall mark many a duteous and knee-crooking knave who doting on his own obsequious bondage wears out his time, much like his master's ass, for naught but provender; and when, he's old, cashiered. Whip me such honest knaves! Others there are who, trimmed in forms and visages of duty, keep yet their hearts attending on themselves, and throwing but shows of services on their lords, do well thrive by them, and when they have lined their coats do themselves homage. These fellows have some soul, and such a one do i profess myself for, sir, it is as sure as you're roderigo, were i the moor, i would not be lago. In following him i follow but myself. When my outward action doth demonstrate the native act and figure of my heart in compliment extern, 'tis not long after but i will wear my heart upon my sleeve, for daws to peck at. I am not what i am. I have but an hour of love to spend with thee. We must obey the time. Oh, lago, what tidings can you tell of my lord? He's not yet arrived, but the turkish fleets be not enshelterd they are drowned. It is there! I know othello's trumpet! News, lads! News! The desperate tempest hath so banged the turks that their designment halts. Our wars are done! He takes her by the palm. Well said. An excellent courtship. With as little a web as this will i ensnare as great a fly as cassio. It gives me wonder great as my content to see you here before me. Oh, my soul's joy! If after every tempest come such calms, may the winds blow till they have wakened death. - My dear othello! - Oh, my fair warrior! I prattle out of fashion, and i dote in my own comforts. - Worthy montano, your pardon - sir good michael, look you to the guard tonight. Come, my dear love. Once more well met at cyprus. It is othello's pleasure that upon certain tidings now arrived importing the destruction of the turkish fleet, every man put himself into triumph. Each man what sport and revels his addiction lead him. For, besides these beneficial news, it is the celebration of our general's nuptial. Heaven bless the isle of cyprus and our noble general othello! First, i must tell thee this. Desdemona is directly in love with him. With cassio? Why, 'tis not possible. Her eyes must be fed. And what delight shall she have to look on the devil? Very nature will compel her to the second choice. Now sir, this granted, who stands so eminent in the degree of this fortune as cassio does? Why, none! Why, none! A slipper and subtle knave, a devilish knave! - He is handsome. - Cassio? He has all the requisites in him that folly and green minds look after. Oh, a pestilent complete knave and the woman hath found him already. I cannot believe that in desdemona. Did you not see her paddle with the palm of his hand? Did not mark that? Yes, that i did, but that was but a courtesy. Courtesy? Lechery. An index and obscure prologue to the history of lust and foul thoughts. They met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together. Villainous thoughts, roderigo. But, sir, be you ruled by me. Listen, listen to cassio tonight. Watch him on the court of god. Cassio knows you not. I'll not be far from you. Do you find some occasion to anger him from what other course you please. Well sir, he's rash and very sudden in choler, and haply may strike at you. Provoke him that he may, for even out of that will i cause these of cyprus to mutiny and the displanting of cassio. Lieutenant cassio! Lago, i'll say, you like me well, lago? In the sincerity of love and friendship. Come, lieutenant, a stoup of wine! Here a brace of gallants that fain have a measure to the health of black othello. Not tonight, good lago. I have very poor and unhappy brains for drinking. Oh, just one cup. I must to the watch. Not this hour, lieutenant, 'tis not yet ten o' th' clock. Our general cast us thus early for the love of his desdemona. He hath not yet made wanton the night with her and she is sport for jove. She's a most exquisite lady. And full of game, i'll warrant. What an eye she has to provocation. I object, i think right modest. Well, happiness to their sheets. Another cup, i'll drink for you. I have drunk two cups and i don't dare not to task my weakness with any more. My man, 'tis a night of revels. I'll do't, but it dislikes me. If it were now to die, 'twere now to be most happy, for i fear my soul hath her content so absolute that not another comfort like to this succeeds in unknown fate. Ah, brothers on call tonight! God, an excellent song! I learned it in england, where indeed they are most potent in potting. Your dane, your german, and your swag-bellied hollander - drink, ho! - are nothing to your english. Is your englishman so exquisite in his drinking? He drinks you with facility you dane dead drunk, he sweats not to overthrow your almain, he gives your hollander a vomit ere the next pottle can be filled. To the health of our general! I am for it, lieutenant, and i'll do you justice. Good faith, a little one, not past a pint, as i'm a soldier. Well, god above all and there be souls must be saved, and there be souls must not be saved. It's true, good lieutenant. For mine own part, no offense to the general, nor any man of quality, i hope to be saved. Ay, but, by your leave, not before me. Do not think, gentlemen, i am drunk. This is my ancient, my right hand, this is my left. I am not drunk now. I can stand well enough, and i speak well enough. Excellent well! Very well. You must not think then that i am drunk. Zounds, you rogue, you rascal! What noise is this? A knave teach me my duty? What's the matter, lieutenant? I'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle. Away, i say. Go out and cry a mutiny! Mutiny! Mutiny! Mutiny! Mutiny! Mutiny! Mutiny! Stop, lieutenant! Hold this shame forever! Have you forgot all place of sense and duty? Hold the rage! Hold, gentlemen! You're ordered above. Yeah, move, come on! Why, sir, the generals! Silence that dreadful bell! Who began this? Lago. I do not know. Friends all, but now, even now, in quarter and terms like bride and groom devesting them for bed, but now swords out and tilting one at other's breasts. Worthy montano, what's the matter that you unlace your reputation thus and spend your rich opinion for the name of a night-brawler? Your officer, lago, can inform you. Fortunate. Town of war to manage private and domestic quarrel? In night, and on the court and guard of safety? Lago, who began't? Thou dost deliver more or less than truth, thou art no soldier. I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth than it should do offense to michael cassio. Sir, men in rage strike those that wish them best, yet surely cassio i believe received from him that fled some strange dignity, which patience could not pass. I know, lago, the honesty and love doth mince this matter, making it light to cassio. Cassio, i love thee, but never more be officer of mine. Look if my gentle love be not raised up. I'll make thee an example. What, are you hurt, lieutenant? Ay, past all surgery. Marry, heaven forbid! Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, i have lost my reputation! I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what remains is bestial. My reputation, lago, my reputation. Reputation oft got without merit and lost without deserving. I tell you what you shall do. Our general's wife is now the general. Confess yourself freely to her. Desdemona is of so free, so kind, so blessed a disposition she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested. Farewell, lieutenant. Roderigo. My money is almost spent, i have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled. And i think the issue will be, i shall have so much experience for my pains, and so, with no money at all, and a little more wit, return again to venice. How poor are they that have not patience! Does not go well? Cassio has beaten thee, and thou by that small hurt hath cashiered cassio. Content thyself awhile. For whiles this honest fool plies desdemona to repair his fortune, and she for him pleads strongly to the moor. Io, by how much she strives to do him good, she shall undo her credit with the moor. So will i turn her virtue into pitch, and out of her own goodness make the net that shall enmesh them all. Do not doubt, cassio. I'll have my lord and you again as friendly as you were. Madam, whatever shall become of michael cassio, he's never anything but your true servant. Ha! I like not that. What dost thou say? Nothing, my lord, or if, i know not what. How now, my lord? I have been talking with a suitor here. A man that languishes in your displeasure. Who is't you mean? Why, your lieutenant cassio. Went he hence now? I' sooth so humbled that he hath left part of his grief with me to suffer with him. Good love, call him back. Some other time. - Shall't be shortly? - The sooner, sweet, for you. - Shall't be tonight at supper? - No, not tonight. Tomorrow dinner then? I shall not dine at home. I meet the captains at the citadel. Why then, tomorrow night. I prithee name the time. No more. Let him come when he will. I will deny thee nothing. Whereon i do beseech thee grant me this to leave me but a little to myself. Shall i deny you? No. Farewell, my lord. - My noble lord. - What dost thou say, lago? Did michael cassio, when you wooed my lady, know of your love? He did, from first to last. Why dost thou ask? But for a satisfaction of my thought, no further harm. Why of thy thought, lago? I did not think he had been acquainted with her. O, yes, and went between us very oft. - Indeed? - Indeed? Ay, indeed. Discern'st thou aught in that? Is he not honest? - Honest, my lord? - Honest? Ay, honest! My lord, for aught i know. What dost thou think? Think, my lord? Think. Thou dost mean something. I heard thee say even now, thou lik'st not that, when cassio left my wife. If thou dost love me show me thou thought. My lord, you know i love you. I think thou dost. For michael cassio, i dare be sworn, i think he is honest. I think so, too. Men should be what they seem. Certain, men should be what they seem. Why then, i think cassio's an honest man. Nay, yet there's more in this? I prithee speak to me as to thy thinkings. Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, is the immediate jewel of their souls. Who steals my purse steals trash; 'this something, nothing. Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands. But he that flinches from me my good name robs me of that which not enriches him and makes me poor indeed. By heaven, i'll know thy thoughts. Beware, my lord, of jealousy! It is the green-eyed monster, which doth mock the meat it feeds on. That cuckold lives in bliss who, certain of his fate, loves not his wronger. But o, what damned minutes tells he over who dotes, yet doubts, suspects, yet fondly loves! Why? Why is this? Think'st thou i'd make a life of jealousy to follow still the changes of the moon with fresh suspicions? No, lago, i'll see before i doubt. When i doubt, prove. I speak not yet of proof. Look to your wife. Observe her well with cassio. I know our country disposition well. In venice they do let heaven see the pranks they dare not show their husbands. Their best conscience is not to leave't undone but kept unknown. Dost thou say so? She did deceive her father, marrying you. And when she seemed to shake and fear your looks, she loved them most. And so she did. Why, go to then! She that so young could give out such a seeming to seel her father's eyes up close as oak. He thought 'twas witchcraft. But i am much to blame. I humbly do beseech you of my pardon for too much loving you. I'm bound to thee forever. I see this hath a little dashed your spirit. Not a jot, not a jot. Trust me, i fear it has. I hope you will consider what is spoke comes from my love. Cassio's my worthy friend. My lord, i see you're moved! No, not much moved. I do not think but desdemona's honest. Long live she so. And long live you to think so. And yet, how nature erring from itself ay, there's the point, as to be bold with you, not to affect many proposed matches of her own clime, complexion, and degree. One may smell in such a will most rank, foul disproportions, thought unnatural. My lord, i would i might entreat your honor to scan this thing no further. Leave it to time. Farewell. Leave me, lago. How now, my dear othello? My lord, i take my leave. Are you not well? I have a pain upon my forehead here. Why, that's with watching. It will away again. Let me but bind it hard, within hours it will be well. Your napkin is too little. Let it alone! I have a thing for you. You have a thing for me? It is a common thing to have a foolish wife. O, is that all? What will you give me now for that same handkerchief? What handkerchief? That which so often you did bid me to steal. Give it me. If it be not for some purpose of import, give't me again. Poor lady, she'll run mad. I have use for it. Leave me. How now, general? I swear 'tis better to be much abused than but to know't a little. - My lord! - Is my lord angry? He went hence but now, and certainly in strange unquietness. - I will go seek him. - I prithee do so. There's matter in't indeed if he be angry. Villain, be sure thou prove my love a whore, be sure of it! Give me the ocular proof, or, by the worth of mine eternal soul, thou hadst been better have been born a dog than answer my waked wrath! Is't come to this? Make me to see't, or at the least so prove it that the probation bear no hinge nor loop to hang a doubt on or woe upon thy life! Never pray more, abandon all remorse. For nothing canst thou to damnation add greater than that. O monstrous world! Take note, take note, o world! To be direct and honest is not safe. By the world i think my wife be honest, and think she is not. I think that thou art just, and think thou art not. I'll have some proof. Her name, that was as fresh as dian's visage, is now begrimed and black as mine own face. Would i were satisfied! How satisfied, my lord? Would you, the supervisor, grossly gape on? Behold her topped? It is impossible you should see this. Were they as prime as goats, as hot as monkey? Give me a living reason she's disloyal! I lay with cassio lately, and being trouble with a raging tooth, i could not sleep. There are a kind of men so loose or should that in their sleeps will mutter their affairs. One of this kind is cassio. In sleep i heard him say, sweet desdemona, let us be wary, let us hid our loves. And then, sir, would he gripe and wring my hand, cry o sweet creature! Then kiss me hard as if he plucked up kisses by the roots that grew upon my lips, laid his leg o'er my thigh, and sigh, and kiss and then cry, cursed fate that gave thee to the moor! I'll tear her all to pieces! Tell me but this. Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand? I gave her such a one. Such a handkerchief, i'm sure it was your wife's, did i today see cassio wipe his face. If it be that if it be that, or any that was hers, it speaks against her with the other proofs. Now do i see 'tis true. O, that the slave had forty thousand lives! One is too poor, too week for my revenge! - Yet be content! - Blood, blood, blood! Patience, i say. Your mind may change. Never, lago. Like to the pontiac sea, whose icy current and compulsive course nev'r keeps retiring ebb, but keeps due on to the propontic and the hellespont. Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace, shall nev'r look back, nev'r ebb to humble love, till that a capable and wide revenge swallow them up. Witness that here lago doth give up the execution of his wit, hands, heart to wronged othello's service. Within these three days let me here thee say that cassio's not alive. My friend is dead. 'tis done at your request. But let her live. Damn her, lewd minx! O, damn her! Now art thou my lieutenant. I am your own forever. Cassio! Cassio! Give me your hand. This hand is moist, my lady. It hath felt no age nor known no sorrow. This argues fruitfulness and liberal heart. Hot, hot and most. 'Tis a good hand, a frank one. You may, indeed, say so for 'twas that hand that gave away my heart. A liberal hand. Come now, your promise. - What promise, chuck? - Let cassio be received again. Lend me thy handkerchief. I have it not about me. - Not? - No, indeed, my lord. That's a fault. That handkerchief did an egyptian to my mother give. The worms were hallowed that did breed the silk. Then would to god that i had never seen't. Is't lost? Is't gone? Speak, is it out of the way? It is not lost. But what an if it were? How? I say it is not lost. Fetch't, let me see it! Why, so i can, but i will not now. This is a trick to put me from my suit. Pray you let cassio be received again. - The handkerchief! - I pray talking of cassio the handkerchief! A man that all his time hath founded his good fortunes on your love, - shares dangers with you - the handkerchief! Come, come, you'll never meet a more sufficient man. Away. Away! Away! Cassio, this handkerchief. Whose is it? I found it here. I like the work well. 'Tis very good! Shall i see you soon at night? I will see you soon, bianca. - Come, lieutenant. - Cassio, handkerchief. Take it. Have it copied thee made for it. Tell you yet once more, importune desdemona to put you in your place again. Sure there's some wonder in this handkerchief. 'Tis a year or two shows us a man. They're all but stomachs, and we all but food. Cassio! They eat us hungerly, and when they're full, they belch us. How now, good cassio? What's the news with you? What trumpet is that same? Something from venice. My noble lord, whilest you were here, overwhelmed with your grief, cassio came hither. I shifted him aways, bade him anon return, and here speak with me. Mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns that dwell in every region of his face. For i will make him tell the tale anew, where, how, how oft, how long ago, and when he hath and is again to cope your wife. I say, but mark his gesture. Marry patience, or i shall say you're all in all in spleen, and nothing of a man. Dost thou hear, lago? I will be found most cunning in my patience. But - dost thou hear? - most bloody. - How do you know, lieutenant? - Lago. Now, if this suit lay in bianca's power, how quickly should you speed! Alas, poor caitiff! I never knew woman love man so. She gives it out that you shall marry her. Ay! I was talking on the sea bank, and the bauble falls me thus about my neck so hangs, and lolls, and weeps upon me, so shakes and pulls me! - Cassio! - I must leave her company. What did you mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now? A likely piece of work that you should find it in your chamber and know not who left i t there! This is some minx's token. I'll take out no work on't. Now now, my sweet bianca? How now? After her! After her! Did you see how he laughed at his vice? O lago. Did you see the handkerchief? Was that mine? Desdemona gave it him, and he hath giv'n it his whore. I had been happy if the general camp, pioners and all, had tasted her sweet body. So i had nothing known. What sense had i of her stolen hours of lust? I saw it not, it harmed me not. I slept the next night well, was free and merry! I found not cassio's kisses on her lips. A fine woman, a fair woman, a sweet woman. Nay, you must forget that. Ay, let her rot and perish, and be damned. No, my heart is turned to stone. I strike it and it hurts my hand. O, the world hath not a sweeter creature! She might lie by an emperor's side and command him tasks. Nay, that's not your way. Hang her! I do but say what she is. So delicate with her needle. An admirable musician. O, she will sing the savageness out of a bear. Of so high and plenteous wit and invention she's the worse for all this. O, a thousand, a thousand times. Of so gentle a condition? Ay, too gentle. Nay, that's certain. Yet the pity of it, lago. O lago, the pity of it, lago. I will chop her into messes! Cuckold me! - Will you think so? - Think so, lago? - What, to kiss in private? - An unauthorized kiss? Or to be naked with her friend in bed an hour or more not meaning any harm. Naked in bed? But if i give my wife a handkerchief what then? Why, then 'tis hers, my lord, and being hers shy may, i think, bestow't on any man. By heaven, i would most gladly have forgot it! He had my handkerchief! - Ay, what of that? - That's not so good now. What if i had said i had seen him do you wrong? - Or heard him say - hath he said anything? He hath, my lord, but no more than what hath he said? That he did i know not what he did what? What? Lie. Lie with her? With her, on her, what you will. Damnation! My lord, i say, othello! Dost thou mock me? I mock you not, by heaven. O now for ever farewell the tranquil mind. Farewell content. Farewell the plumed troops, and the big wars that make ambition virtue. O farewell! Farewell the neighing steed and the shrill trump, the spirit-stirring drum, th'ear-piercing fife, the royal banner, and all quality, pride, pomp, and circumstance, of glorious war. And o you mortal engines whose rude throats the immortal jove's dread clamors counterfeit. Farewell! Othello's occupation's gone! - God save you, worthy general. - Pray you. The duke and the senators of venice greet you. I kiss the instrument of their pleasures. Is there division 'twixt my lord and cassio? A most unhappy one, i would do much t' atome them, for the love i bear to cassio. My lord? May be th' letter moved him, for, i think, they do command him home, deputing cassio in his government. - Trust me, i am glad on it. - Indeed? - Why, sweet othello - devil! Out of my way! I will not stay to offend you. Truly an obedient lady. I do beseech your lordship call her back. - Mistress! - My lord! What would you do with her, sir? Who? I, my lord? You did wish that i would make her turn. Sir, she can turn, and turn, and yet go on and turn again, and she can weep, sir, weep. And she's obedient, as you say, obedient. Very obedient. Proceed you in your tears. Concerning this, sir o well-painted passion! I am commanded home. Get you away, i'll send for you anon. Sir, i obey the mandate and will return to venice. Cassio shall have my place. You are welcome, sir, to cyprus. Goats and monkeys! Is he not light of brain? He's that he is. Let me see your eyes. Look in my face. Why, what art thou? Your wife, my lord. Your true and loyal wife. Had it pleased heaven to try me with affliction, had they rained all kinds of sores and shames on my bare head, steeped me in poverty to the very lips, given to captivity me and my utmost hopes. I should have found in some place of my soul a drop of patinece but, alas, to make me the fixed figure for the time of scorn to point his slow and moving finger at. Yet could i bear that too, well, very well. But there where i have garnered up my heart, where either i must live or bear no life, the fountain from the which my current runs or else dries up, to be discarded thence, or keep it as a cistern for foul toads to knot and gender in. I hope my noble lord esteems me honest. O, ay, as summer flies are in the shambles, that quicken even with blowing. O, thou weed, who art so lovely fair, and smell'st so sweet, that the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst never been born! Alas, what ignorant sin have i committed? Committed? A thou public commoner, i should make very forges of my cheeks that would to cinders burn up modestly. Did i but speak thy deeds. What committed? Heaven stops the nose at it, and the moon winks, the bawdy wind that kisses all it meets is hushed within the hollow mine of earth and will not hear't. What committed? - Are not you a strumpet? - By heaven you do me wrong! - Are not you a strumpet? - No, as i am a christian! - Is't possible? - O heaven forgive us! I cry you mercy then. I took you for that cunning whore of venice that married with othello how do you, madam? How do you, my good lady? Faith, half asleep. Good madam, what's the matter with my lord? With who? Why, with my lord, madam. Who is thy lord? He that is yours, sweet lady. I have none. Do not talk to me, emilia. I cannot weep, nor answers have i none, but what should go by water prithee tonight lay on my wedding sheets, remember. Get me some poison, lago, this night. I'll not expostulate with her, lest her body and beauty unprovide my mind again. Do it not with poison. Strangle her in her bed, even the bed she hath contaminated. Good, good! The justice of it pleases. And for cassio, let me be his undertaker. Excellent good! You shall hear more by midnight. A halter pardon him! And hell gnaw his ones! Who should he call her whore? Who keeps her company? What time? What place? What form? What likelihood? The moor's abused by some most villainous knave, some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow! Speak within doors. Some such squire he was that turned your wit the steamy side without and made you to suspect me with the moor. Desdemona. Get you to bed. Dismiss your attendant there. Look't be done. I do not find that thou deal'st justly with me. What in the contrary? Every day thou daff'st me with some device, lago. I have wasted myself out of my means. The jewels you have had from me to deliver desdemona would half have corrupted a votarist. You have tole me she hath received them, and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden respect and acquaintance, but i find none. Very well. Go to. I cannot go to, man, nor 'tis not very well. I will make myself known to desdemona. She will return me my jewels. If not, i will seek satisfaction of you. Now i see there's a mettle in thee, and even from this instant do build on thee a better opinion than ever before. Give me thy hand, roderigo. I protest i have dealt mostly directly in thy affair. It hath not appeared. I grant thee it hath not appeared, and your suspicion is not without wit and judgment. If thou hast that in thee indeed which i have greater reason to believe now than ever, i mean purpose, courage, and valor, this night prove it. If thou the next night following enjoy not desdemona, take me from this world with treachery. There is especial commission come from venice to depute cassio in othello's place. Why, then othello and desdemona return again to venice. Unless his abode be lingered here by some accident, wherein none can be so determinate as the removing of cassio. How do you mean, removing him? Why, by making him uncapable of othello's place. Knocking him out his brains. And that you would have me to do? I will be near to second your attempt, and he shall fall between us. I have no great devotion to the deed. It makes us, or it mars us. Think on that. Lago. Lago. Hark! Who is it that knocks? It is the wind. I called my love false love. But what said he then? O, these men, these men dost thou in conscience think, tell me emilia, that there be women do abuse their husbands in such gross kind? There be some such, no question. Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world? Why, would not you? No, by this heavenly light! Nor i neither by this heavenly light. I might do it as well as in the dark. Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world? The world's a huge place. It is a great price for a small vice. In troth, i think thou wouldst not. In troth, i think i should. Marry, i would not do such a thing for a joint-ring, nor for measures of lawn, nor for gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any petty exhibition, but for all the whole world? I do not think there is any such woman. Yes, a dozen, but i do think it is their husbands' faults if wives do fall. Say that they slack their duties and pour our treasures into foreign laps, or else break out in peevish jealousies, throwing restraint upon us, or say they strike us. We have galls, and though we have some grace. Yet have we some revenge. Let husbands know their wives have sense like them. They see, and smell. And have their palates both for sweet and sour, as husbands have. What is it that they do when they change us for others? Is it sport? I think it is. And doth affection breed it? I think it doth. Is't frailty that thus errs? It is so too. And have we not affections? Desires for sport? And frailty? As men have? Then let them use us well, else let them know, the ills we do, their ills instructs us so. Good night. Good night. It is the cause, it is the cause, my soul. Let me not name it for you, you chaste stars. It is the cause. Yet i'll not shed her blood. Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow, and smooth as monumental alabaster. Yet she must die, else she'll betray more men. Put out the light, and then put out the light. If i quench thee, thou flaming minister, i can again they former light restore, should i repent me. But once put out thy light, those cunning'st pattern of excelling nature, i know not where is that promethean heat than can thy light relume. - Othello. - Ay, desdemona. Will you come to bed, my lord? Have you prayed tonight, desdemona? Ay, my lord. If you bethink yourself of any crime unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace, solicit for it straight. Alas, my lord, what may you mean by that? Well, do it, and be brief. I would not kill thy unprepared spirit. No, heaven forfend! I would not kill thy soul. Talk you of killing? Ay, i do. Then heaven have mercy on me. Amen, with all my heart. If you say so, i hope you will not kill me. Peace! And be still. I will so, and yet i fear you. Why i should fear i know not, since guiltiness i know not. But yet i feel i fear. That handkerchief! That handkerchief which i so loved and gave thee, thou gave it to cassio. No, by my life and soul! Send for the man and ask him. Sweet soul, take heed. Take heed of perjury, thou art on thy deathbed. - Lord have mercy on me. - I say amen. And have your mercy too. I never loved cassion in my life. I saw the handkerchief. He found it then, i never gave it to him. Send for him, let him confess the truth. He hath confessed. What, my lord? That he hath used thee. How? Unlawfully? Ay. He will not say so. No, his mouth is stopped. Honest lago hath taken order for it. What, is he dead? Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge had stomach for them all. Out, strumpet! Weep'st thou for him to my face? O, banish me, my lord, but kill me not! Down, strumpet! Kill me tomorrow, let me live tonight! It is too late. Now how dost thou look now? Cold, cold, my girl, even like thy chastity! O cursed, cursed slave! Whip me, ye devils, from the possession of this heavenly sight! Blow me about in winds! Roast me in sulphur! Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire! O desdemon! Dead desdemon! Dead, o! O! My lord! My lord! What, ho, my lord! My lord! I do beseech you that i may speak with you, my lord. What, ho, my lord! I had forgot thee. O my good lord, yonder..., alas, what cry is that? Yonder's murders done. It is the very error of the moon. She comes more nearer earth than she was wont and that makes men mad. Alas! That was my lady's voice. O! Sweet desdemona! Who hath done this deed? Nobody, i myself. Commend me to my kind lord. You heard her say herself. It was not i. She said so. I must needs report the truth. She's like a liar gone to burning hell! It was i that killed her. She turned to folly, and she was a whore! Liar! Cassio did top her. Ask thy husband else! That she was false to wedlock? Ay, with cassio. Had she been true, if heaven would make me such another world of one entire and perfect chrysolite, i'd not have sold her for it. My husband say she was false? Ay, it was he that told me on her first. An honest man he is, and hates the slime that sticks on filthy deeds. She was too fond of her most filthy bargain. Peace. - Do thy worst. - Peace. This deed of thine is no more worthy heaven than thou wast worthy her. Peace, you were best. O gull! O dolt! As ignorant as dirt! I'll make thee known though i lost twenty lives. Help! Help, ho, help! Murder! Help, ho! Disprove this villain, if thou be'st a man. He says thou told'st him that his wife was false. I know thou didst not. Speak, for my heart is full. I told him what i thought, and told no more than what he found himself was apt and true. But did you ever tell him she was false? I did. You told a lie, upon my soul, a lie! A wicked lie! Did you say with cassio? With cassio, mistress. Go to, charm your tongue. I will not charm my tongue. I am bound to speak. My mistress here lies murdered in her bed. Heaven forfend! Nay, stare not, masters. It is true indeed. Villainy, villainy, villainy! I think upon it, i think i smell it. O villainy! I thought so then. I'll kill myself for grief. What, are you mad? Good gentlemen! I'll charge you get your home. Let me have leave to speak. It is proper i obey him, but not now. Perchance, lago, i will never go home. Nay, lay thee down and roar, for thou hast killed the sweetest innocent that ever did lift up eye. O, she was foul! Lago knows that she with cassio hath the act of shame a thousand times committed. O heaven! Cassio confessed it, and she did gratify his amorous works with that handkerchief! Handkerchief! - 'Twill out, 'twill out! - Hold your peace. I peace? No! I will speak as liberal as the north! Be wise. Heaven! A man, devil did them all, all, all! I shame against me, yet i'll speak. Oh, thou dull moor, that handkerchief thou speaks of i found by fortune, and did give my husband she was chaste, she loved thee. She loved thee. Othello, did you and he consent in cassio's death? Ay. Dear general, i never gave you cause. Othello, your power and your command is taken off, and cassio rules in cyprus. Be not afraid though you do see me weaponed. Here is my journey's end. Here is my butt, the very seamark of my utmost sail. Will you, i pray, demand that demi-devil why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body? Demand me nothing. What you know, you know. Are there no stones in heaven but what serves for the thunder? I pray you, when you shall these unlucky deeds relate, speak of me as i am. Nothing extenuate, nor set down aught in malice. Then must you speak of one that loved not wisely, but too well. Of one not easily jealous, but being wrought, perplexed in the extreme, of one whose hand like the base indian, threw a pearl away richer than all his tribe. Set you down this.
