 

                        Trinity, instead of exploding first nuclear bomb in the world July 16, 1945. Alamogordo, New Mexico, USA, May 1945 May, 1945. The hot desert of New Mexico seems far from the ravages of the war in Europe. 100 tons of dynamite. A test... to measure and calibrate the power of a nuclear weapon ever tested. Two months later... Man releases the destructive power a demon imprisoned into the very fabric of matter, and plunge the world in the atomic age. Over the next 20 years, power tests nuclear bombs will maintain the fascination of the world for these events surrounded by secrecy. VENTS launched seven years earlier. TRUBULENCES IN EUROPE! Hitler invaded Austria! March 13, 1938. Hitler invaded Austria. 3rd Reich begins to deploy its military power. Later that year, German scientists discover fission of the uranium nucleus What brings the 3rd Reich a step the discovery of the secret of the atomic bomb. FEAR! Fear of German research stimulates activities to United States and England. The fear that German scientists could produce weapons high destructive power. In autumn 1939, Dr. Albert Einstein wrote his famous letter President Roosevelt, explaining the urgency of working in the fission of uranium. Roosevelt, a man of action, responded quickly, and creates an advisory committee of uranium. GERMANY INVADES POLAND! German forces invaded Poland dragging European nations in the second world war. ING DISTRICT NIEURIE OF MANHATTAN A new branch of the Corps of Engineers was created to oversee the work on military use of uranium. Major General L.R. Growe, the man in charge of the Pentagon, was appointed head project. December 2, 1942, the first reactor Autonomous chain reaction has been successfully exploited by Enrico Fermi. The success of Fermi generates great efforts the government and the private sector, leading to the creation of huge factories, for the separation of uranium in the town of Oakridge, Tennessee, and for the production of plutonium Hanford, Washington on the banks Columbia River. Through this effort was forged great the necessary hardware to create an atomic bomb. The first atomic bomb was built at Los Alamos, a secret laboratory New Mexico When Dr. Oppenheimer J.R. arrived to take command he surrounded himself with an incredible range stars of the scientific world. Los Alamos was born on design the bomb and resolution many theoretical problems. Many questions remain unanswered, however. What are the secrets of this new form of power and destruction? Knowledge and Information all aspects of this new weapon are essential, and can not be discovered that by further testing. I had a good friend, a Hungarian 10 years older than me, Leo Szilard. He had a very independent-minded and a large capacity foreshadow what would happen. He saw the years ahead the importance that the explosives Nuclear would take. He was a friend of mine, and I helped him. For example, I took it to an important interview with Einstein where Einstein wrote this famous letter to Roosevelt. The letter that started it all. I myself was interested in Theoretical Physics atoms, molecular vibrations, and knowledge of molarity. I did not want to do. But then... Hitler had not only swallowed half of Poland, he had also invaded the West. Two days later, there was an invitation to a Pan-American Congress in which Roosevelt, that I had never seen before, was to speak. He made a memorable speech, about how the world is really in danger because of Hitler. He said in part, to the point highlight of the speech: "You scientists, will be blamed for the arms to be used" but I tell you, "if you do not work on these weapons, world freedom will be lost." You know, I felt Roosevelt spoke to me. I was there when The letter was signed one that stirred up the interest in nuclear power He was convinced that was nuclear Of the 2,000 scientists who were there, I felt it spoke to me. Of course it was not that... But for this speech twenty minutes I made my decision. I continued to prefer work in science 'pure', but this must be done. Since this must be done and that I could contribute, I did, and I have never regretted to have done. The uranium bomb, called "Little Boy" had a simple design. And scientists were convinced fonctionnerai it without testing. "Fat Man", or the implosion bomb, was a more efficient design which used plutonium rather than uranium. In the center of the bomb, there was a detonator surrounded by a sphere of plutonium. This sphere was encapsulated in a series of lenses highly explosive placed symmetrically, creating an implosion compressing the sphere of plutonium on itself until it reaches critical mass. The explosion brought immediately temperature to 10 million degrees, releasing a force of one half million pounds of pressure vaporizing the tower and all desert living within 800m. The intensity of the light was sufficient to cause temporary blindness an observer at 16 km distance. With a score of 200 times more potent the test with 100 tons of TNT, the fireball created a crater about 800 m in diameter. And melted the desert sand green crystals in which always contain traces of radioactivity 50 years later. May 8, 1945, Germany surrendered to Allied forces, This puts an end to the war in Europe. intelligence sources as command of General Groves concluded that Germany had not developed the atomic bomb. However, the war continued in the Pacific... Pearl Harbor forced the entry the United States at war. For three years, gaining ground after each small victory, our forces conducted offensive against the Empire the Rising Sun. Gradually, island by island, mile after mile, and raids with more pressing, combined Allied forces land, sea and air, we reached the border of the empire. forcing them to retreat until the end of 1945, only the ramparts of the islands Japanese remain to be destroyed. the coming campaign most important of all: the invasion of Japanese territory, and face a desperate struggle. fanatical enemy will not abandon not until the last fighter has not been removed from its trench and killed. As experience has shown repeatedly. the Tinian - South Pacific has 2500 Km of Japan Operating Base for the mission of the 509th Squadron to launch the first bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic VICTORY! Japan surrenders The uranium bomb, called "Little Boy" exploded over Hiroshima at an altitude of 250 meters. The altitude to achieve maximum blast. Three days later, the implosion bomb "Fat Man" exploded over Nagasaki. In Hiroshima 70,000 people were killed or missing. On its 90,000 buildings, more than 60,000 were demolished. The implosion bomb dropped on Nagasaki took the lives of 42,000 people, and injured 40,000 others. It destroyed 39% of buildings in the city. With a yield of 20 kilotons, similar to that of Trinity, this weapon will be considered as a normal bomb, and serve as a model for future nuclear weapons. - 11 months later - But our main objectives are the warships. We try to first learn What types of ships, training tactical and strategic needs of our own naval forces who survive best an attack with nuclear weapons in case we need to cope. OPERATION CROSSROADS 11 months after the bombing Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the operation was conducted Crossroads on Bikini Atoll 4000km to the west of Hawaii. The aim of the operation was to test the effects of weapons nuclear using two devices similar in design to those Trinity and Nagasaki. Their code names: "Able" and "Baker". Able to be launched from a B-29, while Baker was detonated to 30 m below the water surface. The fleet consisted of target 185 Japanese ships German and American. From small amphibious craft to battleships and aircraft carriers. The bomb will not start a chain reaction in water, converting it all to gas and to ensure that all vessels, of all the oceans, fall to the bottom. It will not explode the bottom of the ocean and bring down all the water a hole in It will not destroy gravity. I am not an "Atomic Playboy" as one of my critics called me, that these bombs would explode to satisfy my personal whim. Animals, plants, and similar agents biological warfare were assembled to study the effects of heat, blast and radiation. The bomb missed its target of almost 750 meters The explosion sent five ships, including two destroyers, the lake bottom of Bikini. All vessels within 800m were severely damaged. But the damage was far from those caused by the underwater explosion that followed, called Baker. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, fire. Baker was an underwater explosion Navy of the same device, and caused much more damage the fleet to 70 vessels. For example, on the USS Saratoga the shockwave submarine tore the bottom of the hull of the boat. Saratoga sank still lies at the bottom of the sea from Bikini. I flew several times the site and on a clear, if the water is calm, you can still see the Saratoga. The area around the explosion of Baker had become highly radioactive, and could not be approached for some time. This effect was not expected, and led to the decision President Truman to cancel a third nuclear test deep called "Charlie." Here the city of Los Alamos, to 1500 meters. The Atomic City . is a modern city created by United States as a research center and development of nuclear weapons. We are talking about a region remote and primitive, men must leave their homes laboratories and their States, for a term which may reach for months. Since 1943, when Los Alamos was founded, these men left the continental limits of the United States to test weapons they have created. Two years after Operation Crossroads, President Truman authorized to conduct the operation Sandstone. While the goal of Crossroads was to test the effect nuclear weapons, Sandstone objective was to test design new weapons. Plans for these weapons were initiated several years earlier when researchers from Trinity have developed other models experimental atomic weapons, but were not sure of their success. A joint working group was created to go back into the peaceful, and obtain the island of Enewetak, 300 km west of Bikini, Crossroads which had taken place. In early November, the first Construction crews arrived to remove all the vegetation of the island, clean the area and dump tonnes of asphalt for roads. In six months, the team built temporary housing for many scientists and military necessary for the operation Sandstone. Perched on steel towers 60 meters high, the three devices used to Sandstone employed a new technology to double the explosive power of the bomb using the same amount of plutonium spent in Nagasaki. This technology meets the requirements Department of Defense create more effective bombs and increase the capacity of store nuclear weapons. Radio controlled tanks, guided by helicopter recovered samples fission near "ground zero", for measuring the intensity of neutrons and gamma rays. Radiochemical analysis pulverized coral sand revealed the secrets the nuclear reaction, and helped to determine the effectiveness of bombs of new design. The results of Sandstone affectrent the design of future nuclear weapons, making the components 'Mark-3', used for the production of Fat Man, obsolete. Designs 'Mark-4' and 'Mark-5' led to better performance and a lighter weight for nuclear weapons. The division of the laboratory Z Los Alamos National moved to the base has Sand, located in Albuquerque, New Mexico, near Kirtland Air Force Base. The main objective of the Sandia Base was the study and production of nuclear weapons "Mobile" designed at Los Alamos. in October 1949, Western Electric contracted with The Committee on Atomic Energy, agreement "no taxes, no profit" to form the Sandia Corporation who took control the basis of Los Alamos. Sandia has led to techniques production lines and mass production nuclear weapons, to increase the supply of arms tactical and strategic nation. After returning from Bikini, in public statements, interviews and published articles, Admiral Blandey made important recommendations on atomic bombs. It is essential that no other nation takes the ascendancy over the United States  in the development, manufacture and the use of tactical nuclear weapons. "TRUMAN SAYS RUSSIAN HAVE A BOMB" "THE L legislator TOLD OF SECRETS AMERICAN FLIGHT AID S S HAVE THE RUSSIANS" On 29 August 1949, the Russians did exploded their first atomic bomb. This event, which took place five years earlier than anyone in the west have been expected, was largely responsible a man, Klaus Fuchs. Fuchs, a physicist at Los Alamos, spent blueprints the design of Trinity to the Russians. With the emergence of the USSR as a nuclear rival in 1949, the United States were convinced have good reasons increase their programs nuclear testing. It was very expensive and it involved a lot of logistics perform operations in the Pacific. In this and in January 1951, the United States  inaugurated the test area of?? Nevada, we now call "The Nevada Test Site" which is located approximately 100 km north of Las Vegas. Before you can test the Weapons of Operation Greenhouse, the operation was performed Ranger during which five new types of nuclear weapons were launched on new test area. First explosion to United States from Trinity. With the confidence of having The new weapons in hand, Operation Greenhouse was conducted in Spring 1951. 4 launches took place Greenhouse during the operation. One of them, "Easy" a structural test was controlled by the Ministry of Defence. A nuclear device of 47 kilotonnes was placed on a tower, which blew many buildings, that had been built to test the survivability in a nuclear environment. Test structural effects. The fourth test of the operation Greenhouse testing was "Item". A trial approximately 45.5 kilotonnes in which tritium was burned in the center of the nuclear explosion. And this process, placing the center of tritium of nuclear weapons is called "Boosting". We increased the yield from 20 to 45.5 kilotonnes, more than double, through this process. A very important feature to increase the storage capacity nuclear weapons of United States at that time. First test of the principle "Boosting" Another event of Greenhouse was the event called "George." George was a huge weapon of 225 kilotons which was used to burn a capsule deuterium. This was the first experience with weapon Thermonuclear we conducted. HYDROGEN BOMB DO Several people have mentioned, we have discussed many times. the end of the war, most people wanted to stop, but not me. Because there was a more extensive knowledge in the key. And in uncertain times was to come, with dangerous men the world as Stalin and our incomplete knowledge, I thought it was necessary to learn more. Among all who knew along the hydrogen bomb, I was his only supporter. And that is why I given my contribution. Not that I invented, others have done, and others in a common Soviet did, but I was the person who has knowledge and the availability of such knowledge above all. And I must say that it has pleased Trueman, , and he made the right decision. "Truman approves the hydrogen bomb " Welcome aboard USS Estes. As you may know, Estes is the command ship the joint working group "1-42". We are just minutes the first explosion, "Mike" Operation Ivy. 59 minutes to be exact. We are here since dawn, and we talked all night wee hours of the morning. As you can imagine, emotions are very strong right now. And there are reasons for this. If all goes as planned, we shall see The most powerful explosion never caused on the surface of the earth. Island test "Mike" is located in the north of Enewetak Atoll. about 40 km of the islands Parry and Enewetak. The two islands at the base of this test area in the atolls. The three islands that make up the test site have been connected by bridges, constructed to facilitate the displacement of an island to each other, and to serve as a platform for some of the instruments. On the island "Mike" was the cab, or the building housing the device. The device "Mike" was called the "wet bomb" because he used liquid hydrogen isotopes to create the thermonuclear reaction. This made the device very impressive, it weighed 62 tons which made impractical as throwing weapon. A wood tube Zero was the island, along the road, to a detection station located on the farthest island, Cu tube was filled with helium, to allow radiation fatal to travel more rapidly to the detection station, before the island is consumed by the fireball. You have a seat in the grandstand for one of the most important moments in the history of science. In less than a minute you see the most powerful explosion ever seen by man. The explosion will appear on the horizon more or less there. And what is the importance of the moment: this is the first large trial a hydrogen weapon. If the reaction occurs, we entering the thermonuclear age. For the good of us all, and that of our country, I know you join me in This expedition is a success. 30 seconds until time zero Wear eye protection or look away. Do not remove the protection or do not watch the explosion for 10 seconds after the first light. Least 15 seconds. Less 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six five... First hydrogen bomb large-scale 2-6 approach "Ground Zero". I head Bogoni. station detection bogon seems to be in good condition. visual signals to indicate the tunnel wood All the islands of the test seem to have been swept away. Elugelab has completely disappeared. There is nothing more than water and what looks like a deep crater. THE BATTLEFIELD AREA NUCL  In the spring of 1953, Commission for Nuclear Energy and the Department of Defense has made 11 nuclear tests in Nevada under the code name "Upshot-Knothole." The Upshot-Knothole objective was to test new nuclear weapons, improve tactics of combat, and study the needs of defense civil case of Soviet attack. The first event, called "Encore", was a 27 kiloton weapon launched from an aircraft and landed at an altitude of approximately 850m over a wide line deflagration. The second explosion of the Ministry of Defense, called "Grable" exploded in the same region, and was launched by the new cannon artillery of the army. A 280mm projectile was launched and exploded in the same area with a power of about 15 kilotons, at an altitude of approximately 150 meters. The least powerful, 15 kilotons to 150 meters, produced a much greater destruction that the higher power device, Still, 27 kilotonnes of 850m. This is because less energy low-lying produces a shock wave abnormal we now call "Pre Crusher" that generates very violent wind dynamic generating for the target very serious damage. For example, a Jeep on the ground, had not damaged especially with Encore, but with Grable and effect "Pre Crusher" the same jeep was broken into pieces, and thrown out on a distance of 150 meters. There are many other features these two launches, but they opened a whole new view on how to use weapons nuclear in a combat situation. THE SAFETY S IS COMMON SENSE! Common sense tells them that it's dangerous and stupid. You would not want to risk your life in a stunt like this. Common sense tells us that to be pulled by a gun is a risky business. Common sense tells you not to distraction on an airfield with propellers and engines in reaction activity. handling dynamite seems too dangerous. But is routine daily for men because they observe the instructions safety based on common sense. But sometimes we forget that sometimes breaches of security can also be dangerous. If confidential information these test missions fall into enemy hands, the consequences would be disastrous for us all, individually and collectively as a nation. Safety is just common sense. Do not take chances! Avoid talking too much! Store safely confidential information Immediately report security breaches. Early intervention can prevent a minor incident becomes a serious problem. Avoid writing about confidential documents at home. Make sure your safety! Do not be careless! I hate careless people... THE GREATES Work on Cluster high-power hydrogen had increased since Operation Ivy, culminating in spring 1954 with the operation "Castle Bravo". The most powerful device detonated in the atmosphere by United States. Bravo was a hydrogen bomb that uses solid thermonuclear fuel, confirming the designs Edward Teller and Stan Ulam paving the way for bomb production Hydrogen transportable by air and more effective weapons. CAPACITY OF ATOMIC WEAPONS S MANUAL SUPER EFFECTS The more powerful engine Thermonuclear of the United States. Far exceeding the power provided 2.5 times, Castle Bravo, with a power 15 megatons of explosive completely shaved vegetation of the island, and took scientists by surprise. The huge explosion sent large amounts of radioactive waste into the atmosphere. This led to exposure and contamination of certain employees, of local populations and crew a Japanese fishing boat who had entered the area security without being detected. This incident clearly revealed to the public the dangers of fallout nuclear weapons. H BOMB EXPLOSION OF A RUSSIAN be clear, the threat of a war with bombs Hydrogen is the greatest danger that our nation has ever known. bombers loaded with weapons Nuclear can use various ways and drop bombs on main targets of United States. The threat of destruction has affected our lifestyle in every town and every village from coast to coast. These are the signs of our time. This is just a sham, a test, a training exercise. But tomorrow, the siren could mean something real. And if you hear it, when you drive your car, while sitting at your desk, or when working in your agency, wherever you are, what will you do? What will happen to you? Let hat on the back, so that we can well see, I ask for a very personal matter. How old are you? I'm 65 on my next anniversary. It's sad to say. This makes you the oldest, but also the youngest, observers of our trench Here at "Ground Zero". There is a lovely lady who stands behind you. I wonder if I can talk to her? I would also have a female response. This is Helen Leininger of the City of New York. Helen, how long did you wait? Oh, about eight days. - Eight... Nine days! - Nine days! if we calculate correctly. Okay, I think it's best back to Hill Media and see what happens, if we are close to the time H. Leroy the big story that we see here in the hill Media This is the story of Civil Defense, and force history Military armored vehicles, tanks and personnel transport. Leroy, I want to be on the air for all to see split screen we have here, using not only the cameras who are here at Hill Media but also those with you in the trenches. Come in split screen. In few seconds you me will take this position... what you see behind me. Look down in this position. I will protect my eyes against flying debris. I put the helmet on his head, to protect myself against falling rocks. All right. Good luck, Roy. Let me to explain something on the screen. The portion of the screen where I represents 1.6 km on your camera, the other party is 3.2 km We now turn to a another room, I leave you. Ten, nine, eight, seven, six five, four, three, two, one, zero. The shock wave reaches the area of checkpoint in about 30 seconds. 800 km off the coast San Diego, California Nearly nine years had passed since the cancellation of underwater tests Operation Crossroads. This test was finally realized, Operating under the name "Wigwam." At 800 km off the coast San Diego, California a 30 kiloton nuclear device was suspended from a cable to 600 meters deep as a manned barge. A towing cable 10 km long extends from the barge. Suspended from the cable, there were three submarines Unmanned called "squaws." Apparatus and instruments were placed in each submarine to record the effects of the nuclear explosion. The aim of the operation was to determine the kill zone for an enemy submarine in front of a nuclear firing in depth. 25 seconds until zero time. 20 seconds until zero time. 15 seconds until zero time. Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one... OPERATION REDWING The test area Pacific 17 nuclear tests. Operation Redwing was conducted the Pacific. Primarily for testing weapons thermonuclear high power. Seven months before Redwing, the Soviet Union has demonstrated the ability to drop thermonuclear weapons from strategic bombers, tipping the balance of power in their favor. The event will be the first Cherokee launch by a U.S. plane of a thermonuclear bomb. This weapon will explode with a power of 3.5 megatons. Nearly 200 times the power the Trinity bomb. Cherokee: First H-bomb dropped from an American plane Power: 3.8 Megatons. The craters explosions of high power began to affect test on the islands of the Pacific. The buildings of the test site Pacific disappeared and available land became scarce. The barges were increasingly used as a means of transportation cheap to deliver bombs thermonuclear detonation on the high seas. Many of these tests documenting a growing concern... THE EFFECTS OF RADIATION AND RETOMB ES A special phase of the study, is the amount of radiation which pass through the human body. This requires tools adequate in the stomach. A small capsule is designed with a series of films, alternating with spaces and dividers. fixed to a cord and covered with paraffin, the capsule is swallowed. end of the cord out of the mouth, for the capsule can be recovered after exposure and measuring radiation. Gamma rays can cause damage in two different ways, or both. First, they can directly destroy tissue, over time and eventually cause the development of cancer. The particles of interest in particular have a life ranging from a few years thousands of years. They can not cause damage, unless they are introduced in our body through food, or water or the air we breathe. examine the results of a powerful thermonuclear explosion area test of Pacific in the Marshall Islands, to 11 degrees north of the equator. huge cloud rises, through the troposphere, and finally disperses and stabilizes at an altitude of 23,000 meters, fully in the layer the stratosphere. This brings us to most discussed fission products, strontium-90. Chemically similar to calcium found in the soil, strontium-90 following calcium through regular cycles, in our plant foods and bones, meat and milk our grazing animals. After reaching the body, strontium-90, such as calcium, tends to concentrate in the bones, especially those of children who develop new bone. The removal of strontium-90 has a very limited scope in the body, it is not a threat to Genetics of reproductive cells. But it is a threat to bone marrow and bone in the form of leukemia or bone cancer. If this happens, it would be a tragedy for those involved, even if they are few. Whether a statistically minimal casualties may be warranted is a personal evaluation beyond the scope of the report. Each citizen must be its own assessment. There are those who cry out loud that there is absolutely no real threat to the free world and certainly nothing that can justify nuclear tests or nuclear weapons. Those who think otherwise say development of the nuclear force protection is absolutely necessary against the hostility of communism and the nuclear threat. In this perspective, victims nuclear fallout, if any, would be considered of the Unknowns the service of humanity. Anonymous soldiers in a war that would never have begun, and that our nuclear power can mean it will never happen. the fall of 1957, with a moratorium on tests looming on the horizon, 24 nuclear tests were conducted in the Nevada desert Operating under the name "Plumbbob". During Plumbob, the event "Hood" became the most powerful test ever made in the atmosphere of the continental United States . Hood, a 74 kiloton device, was suspended at 500 m above the desert floor in a ball. As new models of weapons continued to be tested, the Ministry of Defence tests used to accelerate the military training in the nuclear battlefield, while pursuing the study of effects of nuclear explosions. The 21st test conducted during the operation Plumbbob the event was "Rainier." It was the first explosion completely led underground by United States. The device exploded three kilotons 240m to under Mount Rainier, spraying of the powder of rock within 30 meters. This technology will be of great importance after the Treaty of restriction tests banning all nuclear tests, except underground and to hide future experiments from prying eyes. During Operation Hardtack, the United States  detonated 35 nuclear devices, as well as in all previous tests the Pacific. So far, nuclear testing were seen largely practice as intimidation, increasing international tensions that could lead a nuclear war. Against the increasing pressure, the U.S. Government believed although the weapons are essential, and they are the only counterweight to increasing the number of Soviet soldiers. The Russians, having developed and finalized a series of atmospheric tests, pretended to surrender tests, knowing full well the United States had undertaken a major operation. Operations were conducted Bikini and Enewetak in as before. And a new site was created Hardtrack for the operation, Johnston Island. During testing, one of the events significant event was the Cactus. It was a small device 18 kilotonnes of which produced a crater about 42m wide and 11m deep. Many years later, in 1980, all debris from the fission and radioactive materials that were in the Enewetak Atoll were collected and disposed in the crater of the bomb Cactus. Then we placed a concrete dome on the crater to maintain and stabilize radioactive materials. A year before Hardtack, the Soviets launched a small satellite named "Sputnik-1." Concerned about the superiority Soviet missiles, the United States have made their first two shots missiles at high altitudes, known under the names "Teac" and "Orange". Nuclear weapons from Teac and Orange were carried into space by a Redstone rocket, developed by Wernher Von Braun. Von Braun and his team have developed the V2 rocket for Germany during World War II. The Redstone was considered an extension of the technology the Second World War, and was limited in scope. Using liquid oxygen as fuel, Redstone propelled its nuclear charge in the upper atmosphere of Earth, and released for firing. Teac, with a power of 3.8 megatonnes exploded about 80 km of the surface of the Earth. The explosion created a violent disturbance magnetic in the atmosphere called EMP or electromagnetic pulse. This silenced the radios to nearly 8 hours, And damaged electrical circuits from Hawaii to New Zealand. Immediately after the events Teac Orange and the Pacific the United States led "Operation Argus". Three tests of missiles with warheads from 1 kiloton in the South Atlantic. The experiment sought Argus to create and explore the use of "traps" in radiation the Van Allen belt of the Earth. Firing at 480 km above the Earth, experiment sought to create a shield radioactive to prevent the execution of a Soviet missile attack. These images, expanded by 16 mm for your movie screen, are the first to show their hands levees that made history in Russia. As testimony to the approval Supreme Soviet ascension as prime Minister Nikita Khrushchev. power that was held earlier by Stalin. The free world expects diplomatic treaties obvious. The first just 4 days later. Russia announces that it suspends nuclear testing. A statement that the United States describe as propaganda exercise. the United States are preparing, unless the Soviet Union resume testing, Refer to other tests atomic and hydrogen bombs over a period of 1 year from the start of trading. IVAN (The Monstrous Bomb) 57 Megatons For two years, a moratorium difficult on nuclear testing remains between the United States  and the Soviet Union. In secret, the Soviets began to design new weapons of mass destruction. Including a hydrogen bomb of 57 megatons, the largest nuclear weapon ever created. This monstrous bomb was a smaller version a model of 100 megatons, and could be transported and launched from an aircraft. While we sit here, Khrushchev detonated his bomb giant cynically ignoring the Organization United Nations. Adlai Stevenson - Ambassador U.S. to the UN (1961 - 1965) By this act, the Soviet Union added insult to injury they broke the moratorium on nuclear weapons testing they raised the air pollution to new levels, they started a new race, for more deadly weapons. They ignored calls UN humanitarian and all peace-loving peoples. They have presented no justification to detonate the weapon monstrous is useless. They remained insensitive the dangers of radioactive fallout for the human race. The Delegation of the United States  deeply regrets contempt of this world opinion. And we think that following these discouraging events, other delegations should express their views on these new shocking and disturbing. Because today, Mr. President, the world has taken a big step backwards, into anarchy and disaster. The Russians had broken a voluntary moratorium. the United States responded quickly by a wide range of weapons testing in retaliation for a large scale. The tension rises when near 100 nuclear tests were conducted between the test area in Nevada and the Pacific Ocean, under the code names Nougat, Storax and Dominic. Testing the Polaris missile Power: [Confidential] The primary importance was uncertainty on weapon systems offensive and defensive installed but not proven, since the beginning of the voluntary moratorium. anti submarine weapon Power: [Confidential] Operations resumed on Johnston Island and Christmas Island during Operation Dominic. the United States negotiated the use Christmas Island with the British who used the island for their own thermonuclear tests. Multi megaton bombs were loaded on B-52 strategic bombers, sent from Hawaii, and release on the southern tip of Christmas Island. The Ministry of Defence continued its progress in space conducting five tests at high altitude over Johnston Island. Most of these bombs were transported Thor missiles by the U.S. Air Force, to continue research neutralization of warheads enemy at high altitude. The nuclear weapons tests had joined the space age. Kennedy signed the ban nuclear tests. This small step towards safety could be followed by other, longer and less limited but also more difficult to take. With our courage and understanding reinforced by this success, supporting research on the willingness man's essential for peace. As president of the United States and  with the advice and consent of the Senate, I now sign the instruments of ratification of this treaty. "Tightrope" was the last test atmospheric done by the United States. He was fired from Johnston Island a missile with "Nike-Hercules" air defense, and was detonated at high altitude, above Johnston Island. This put an end to the whole series atmospheric testing of United States, when in 1963 we have joined the treaty Nuclear Test Ban which prohibits any atmospheric testing. Between 1945 and 1962, the United States have  conducted 331 atmospheric nuclear tests. 100 countries approved the treaty Ban nuclear tests to end the threat radioactive pollution resulting from atmospheric testing However... ONE YEAR LATER
