 

                        Can we go off road? The car is stuck It's stuck? Are you working next week? Yes I'm tired. My feet are killing me But those boys were gorgeous Next week I want to get a new sari No, we only live up the road Ask him to sit at the front Don't worry. It'll be ok He doesn't understand Hindi His mother is English Let's go Has he never learnt Hindi? Now you're in India you'll learn I know some Marwari You know Marwari? You look very beautiful I want to say - You are beautiful Aren't you going to invite me for some tea? No my father is home Trishna get me some water! Who were those boys? In the taxi Just tourists from the hotel Wake up Wake up. You're going to be late Come on Trishna. Wake up Hello How's it going? Sort that out Move it along Put it there Put it down here They are taking their time Get a move on stop looking at me Not like that Dad Dad! Do you get a lot of pain? Relax your hand Lift it up slightly, that's right Dad? Are you ok? Forgive me Don't say that. Get some rest Stop the car How far to the airport? Quite far Is this Trishna's father's house? Pratiksha! What? What is it? Is this Trishna's father's house? Yes It's for Trishna Mum! Trishna! Trishna! What? There's a letter for you! Where from? Yes dad? Here. Read this to me What's it say? It is saying They're offering me a place at the hotel Samode Bagh in Jaipur Trishna where's Jaipur? Jaipur is very far Every week I will get 2500 rupees And 500 rupees for the journey I didn't think the boy would come back Can you go by yourself? Live all alone? It's 2500 rupees a week Go to school every day! Ok? Hello Hotel Samode Bagh My name is Trishna Where are you? I'm at the bus station in Jaipur Stay there and someone will pick you up Ok. Thank you At your command, sir You are most welcome At your command, sir Come Yes mum. It's the same. I'm fine The world has come alive And dances with joy Like my heart With your help With you by my side You make me happy When you look at me When you touch me You make me happy Hi devshri. How are you? Do you miss me? Come When I was at college I had so much fun We would finish lessons Go to the canteen, drink some tea, eat some food Then go and sit in the park We used to make fun of all the new girls Don't be scared, it won't hurt Knock on the door Say, 'room service' Then show the menu This is our dining tent where we serve breakfast I'll show you the kitchen A la carte and the buffet come from the same kitchen This is for the buffet Ok My plaster has come off Yeah. Really Who is this for? It's for you Chanchal Put the box over there Yes. It's good there Turn the volume down I wish he loved me In your dreams I'd have my own hotel I could do whatever I want We would go to Switzerland on holiday How many children will you have? I haven't decided yet Trishna what are you doing? Hurry up Ok we'll be going now Hello You take out the inside Hold it like this Where are you from? I'm from Ossian. Have you heard of it? No I don't think anything can happen staying here Why are you saying that? It's not so good here I have big dreams Be the manager of a big hotel I am thinking about moving country Solid planning Sir is in the bedroom This pair will match How do they look? It's me Trishna I'm not sure I think we are just passing the market This is my friend Chanchal Chanchal these are all my friends from college Hey guys! I was thinking it's nearly over here Should we go out somewhere? Some parties are long, some are short Casbah? How about it? Come on. We've already told the boss we'll be back by 9 Relax Ok I'm going on my own - You'll be ok right? - Yes Ok take care She worries too much Stop! Who are you calling? You can use my phone Leave me alone Don't touch me or I'll scream What's your problem? Look at you You haven't got any balls Where were you? Go to sleep Jay phoned me after you left He was looking for you I rang you Why didn't you answer? Did he find you? What happened? I'm fine. Go to sleep Devshri How are you? You ok? How are you Lakshman? Did you forget me? You have time off work? Who is it? Is it Trishna? How are you? Fine Don't make it too strong How is school going? No I've left school now Why? We don't have money for the fees What happened to the money I sent you? We owe money for the jeep How come you're here? I've left the hotel job What happened? I just had to leave Why? Dad I just had to How are we going to get by? I can work on uncle's farm Uncle? He can't pay 2500 rupees a week I know What's happened? You ok? Bring some water Drink this She's not had her period Not had her period? How many months has it been? Three Three months? Any other problems? I'm sick in the mornings Here You have to go to your uncle's and get work in the factory I don't want to leave home again Your aunt Gomti is ill Dad says you have to go and help out I don't want to go away again Dad says that you have to Ok If that's what you want Mum I'm going now Look after yourself I'm going grandma Bless you I'm going dad What is it? I'm coming with you Don't be silly You can't come with me Let me go Where is this address? It is just over there Uncle Bless you - How's everyone? - Ok How is your dad? Good Gomti, Trishna is here Be happy child How are you? I'm not well It's been 4 or 5 months I'm in so much pain My whole body hurts, I can't even stand up Your aunt needs food, you're late Yes almost done Trishna, someone's here for you What? There's someone to see you Sir, may I take five minutes? Ok Let's start with the pizzicato Can you play the track a little lower? Lower? Lower the track in the headphones I am devoted to you my love Your beauty makes me love you I'm devoted to you my love You mean like this With you by my side, my love You turn the night into day You've captured my heart You've cast a spell on me You make me blossom like a jasmine flower I want to be with you forever The world is beautiful when I am with you I am devoted to you I want to be with you forever Your love sets me on fire When we're together I have no rest You light up my desire Hi. Avit Trishna You dance really well I'm a dance coordinator I help organize the classes and the dancers for shoots That sort of thing Not for me thanks How long have you been here? In Bombay? Is she a friend of yours? Yes she is You didn't even introduce me You didn't give us a chance to I was just giving her some advice How much are the bananas? Thirty rupees Thirty? Do you think you will have to pay a high price for your mistakes? How are you? It's been ages You haven't called or anything Sorry So tell me What's happened? Nothing, I've just been at home Have you heard from jay? He hasn't called? No news at all? From the ten husbands in this competition The one who is strongest will survive Hello? I'm sorry I was assuming this flat would be vacant The lease is up So you have to vacate the flat When? This weekend? Is it ok if I have a quick look around? Yes go ahead Good morning, are you hungry? Yes I'll get you some breakfast - Aggie! - Yes? Come on Can I take your number? So this is what a shoot looks like Wow, look at all those lights! Yes, it's very different to rehearsals This is playback from 'a' camera They're good dancers You think so? Thousands have been destroyed! So many hunted! All the boys are keen to impress An endless queue, right and left They beg for love Oh there will be tension! It's good to come to shoots like that You can make good contacts People who can help your career One thing you need to do is get a cine dancer card It's very important I can help you get one - All dancers have them? - Yes all dancers It costs money Then after that once you start getting work you can pay off the rest in installments I don't have that kind of money Take the 30,000 from me Once you start working you can pay me off You'll take it? Promise? Just put it down Shall we go inside? Trishna? Yes? Do you know Jay Singh from before? Yes Where do you know him from? From another hotel Before this you were in Mumbai right? Which hotel in Mumbai? I was staying at a friend's house I see This is the truth The truth love has taught me My love, you showed me how the world really is You showed me a place where the storm never ends You showed me a world where the night never ends You took me to the realm of love With you by my side, I left this world behind Every moment I was filled with fear Every step I took made me more afraid My love, you turned my day into night My love, why did you do this to me? You showed me a place where the storm never ends You showed me a world where the night never ends You took me to the realm of love With you by my side, I left this world behind Every moment I was filled with fear Every step I took made me more afraid My love, you turned my day into night My love, why did you do this to me? Wow, you've got so big! And a new school uniform Lakshman, how are you? Good? Look Trishna, there's a new fridge and a new TV How are you mum? Pratiksha? Hey sis it's you God you've got tall! Step down, let me see you properly New school uniform? I'm back at school Good. Really good Dad How are you? Where did you go? Mumbai Pratiksha Get me some water When did she get here? Just now This is for you You can wear this to a wedding Maybe even your wedding Nice This is for you. Try it on Oh wow! You look like Shahrukh khan and rani Mukherjee! Come on let's eat Lakshman stop fighting and eat your food! So where's your husband? Who? Everybody knows that I'm living off you You should be happy You have a new jeep Anyone want more? It's my fantasy - Come and see Still doing homework? Haven't you finished yet? Have you brushed your teeth? Dirty girl Then pack your schoolbags Do all your homework No TV tonight Study well Lakshman You too devshri Off you go Attention Stand at ease Get ready for the prayer Our father In heaven Give us today Our daily bread And forgive us Our sins As we Forgive those Who sin Against us Do not bring us To the test But deliver us From evil Get ready for the pledge India is my country All Indians Are my Brothers and sisters I shall give my parents Teachers And all elders Respect And treat everyone With courtesy To my country And my people I pledge my devotion In their well-Being And prosperity Alone lies My happiness
