 

                        The tradition of our sisterhood at Phi Gamma Kappa goes back to the days when cotton was king. And just as it has been for generation after generation, the friendships you have so lovingly cultivated and nourished here will remain amongst the most treasured possessions of your lives. Through times of happiness and times of sadness, good fortune and tribulation, you will always remember this time together. You are at a crossroads, a junction in your lives. May the road you travel speed you towards your dreams and goals with no sudden curves or detours to divert you from your path. For those of you who are graduating, this is your farewell ball. Congratulations, girls! And God bless you! Now, ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure of presenting the queen of the Phi Gamma Kappa spring ball, Miss April Delongpre. And her fiance, Mr Chad Douglas Fairchild. President of our brother fraternity Alpha Lambda Chi. The next time we all will be dancing together will be at their wedding. This is a dream come true for me, baby. From the moment I first laid my eyes on you I knew that one day you'd be my wife. And this is just the beginning. I've got it all planned out. What I want is to make you happy. What I want is to give you everything your little heart desires. What I want is to run away to a tropical island somewhere and live in a grass hut. - Eat coconuts for the rest of our lives? - Coconuts and mangoes and papayas. Don't do this to me. You're driving me nuts. That's the idea, Chad. April. We got a present for you. Come on. - Your hair! - It's beautiful. Hello, darling. - Your hair looks great. - Outrageous. What are you girls up to? - It's for your wedding night. - We can't wait. Frederick's of Hollywood? What do my little sisters think I am? Good Lord, look out! Hey, what are you doing? OK, that does it. OK. You're in for it now. I'm going to get you. Get off my sister! That's a hell of a shot, son. If your dad and I weren't keen on you bein' a lawyer, I'd sponsor you on the Pro Tour. Senator, I like things to work. I like 'em nice and neat. One of these days you'll hook a shot and get stuck in the rough. That's gonna give you character. I mean that with all best intentions. Come on, April. One more time. Please, we really should go home. Just one more time. It's so much fun. I'll get 'em off for you. I used to be an elephant tamer. Kyle, leave 'em be. This one's on the house. How about you, princess? Wanna take a spin? - I'm not a princess. - I knew a real one once. She was from the Sudan. Her daddy was king for a day. You better do what he says. If you don't, he'll hold your kinfolk hostage. - I'd really rather not. - Come on, April, one more time. You'll love it. I've known a May and a June, but never an April. I wish I could persuade you to get on that ride. Wipe the seat off for the princess. It'll make her feel better. If not for him, then for me. My blood pressure's high, my days are numbered, there's only so much more a man my age can take. Come on, we're going home now. - Could you please let them out? - Cut 'em loose, Speed. You tried hard, but you can't win 'em all. Round one goes to the princess. He must like you, girls. He usually doesn't back down so easy. Is there a Miss Delongpre in the crowd? April? Darling, I'm talkin' to you. I found this on the ground. - Thank you. - How do I know who you are, princess? How do I know you're the real April Delongpre? And who's this good-looking devil? Your husband? - Not yet. - Two more weeks. Choo-Choo. What kind of name is that? His real name's Chad. She just calls him Choo-Choo. - May I have my wallet back, please? - You bet, April. Anything you say. Hey, Choo-Choo. I wanna wish you the best. You say hello to your mommy and daddy for me. Tell your daddy I'm looking forward to a special dance with him at the wedding. Come on, let's go for a ride. Get a motel room. Whaddya say? We'll have the rest of our lives to be together. You drive me crazy. You do. I'm never sure about ya. I never know what you want. - Bye-bye. - It won't be long now, sugar. - April. - Mrs Chad Douglas Fairchild. Ready for the wedding? Oh, Chad, you drive me crazy. Does your mama know where you are? Huh? - Can anybody identify you? - Her name's Kay. - How well do you know her? - Since kindergarten. What's she got on her mind? Why are you following me? What you got down there? How's it doin'? Wanna come with me? Which one of you girls wanna come with me? You better use it while you got it, cos it won't last forever. Smiley, Buck, you cheap sons of bitches. One day this carnival will come down around you, if you don't start puttin' some money back into it. - You gotta spend money to make money. - Fuck you, Perry. That's good, Smiley. "Fuck you" covers just about everything. - I paid for that beer. - Don't be so goddamned stingy. What goes around comes around. The more you give, the more you get. Reality's all in how you perceive it. Isn't that right? Everything you say is right, Perry. If you ain't the most beautiful old bastard I ever seen, I don't know who is. I love you. You got it all, kid. You're an angel, a saint, a cowboy, an Indian. You're the devil sent here to keep us all honest. Are you in or are you out? He's in. Definitely in. You talk too much. I'm coming. I'm coming. I know you love me. I love you, too. Yeah, yeah. If you didn't bite everybody, I wouldn't have to keep you cooped up in here. And you're so fucking tough. Good-looking and so tough. Remember me? The man who returned your wallet? Aren't you gonna talk to me? You know the first thing I thought when I saw you here? I really did think that - no, hope's a better word for it - that you were out here lookin' for me. Are you? I couldn't sleep. I know you've got a lotta things on your mind right now with the wedding comin' up, and everything. Yeah. I can understand that. So... I'll be saying good night. Good night. Good night. Let's go, young 'uns. You sure you don't want to come along? I'd rather not, Dad. I have so much to do yet before the wedding. - You take it easy. - Maybe I'll take a swim at the club. That's a good idea. Bye. If Jessie calls, give him our number at the lake. Don't worry. Have a good time. - Bye. - Bye. Be good. Bye, April. - We'll be going now. - Thanks, Jimmy. Looking forward to the big day. Those gardenias I planted are for your bouquet. They're lovely. Take some home for yourself. - Thank you, Miss April. Goodbye. - Bye-bye. I want you to get out of my house. - Do you hear me? - Yes, ma'am. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to inconvenience you. I just needed a hot shower. - This sure is nice-smellin' soap. - I'm warning you. No wonder women smell so good. What is it? Essence of lilac? I want you to leave immediately or I'll call the police. I don't think you will. Our meeting last night clued me into you. Is this extra dry? My hair's awful sensitive. I don't care about your hair. Just get your dog and go! How can I do that, when it says, "Wait three minutes after conditioning or your hair will be unmanageable"? If you've got any ideas about going near that phone, I might walk out on the lawn. Naked. Bare-ass naked. You wouldn't want that, would you? It's a beautiful day. Isn't it? You had your chance, but you didn't run away, did you? No, I didn't. And you didn't call the police either. No, I didn't. Why not, do you suppose? I hope you don't mind, but I helped myself to a bottle of champagne. I try not to drink during the day, but, this bein' a special occasion, I figured what the hell? You frighten me. I understand. I'm sorry I had to come into your house like this, but since I'm only gonna be in town a day or so that doesn't give us much time. And... I knew you wouldn't mind. Let's go over there, sit on the couch. And get to know one another. You're the cockiest son of a bitch I've ever met. I'm not really. I just like to hear myself talk. And I like beautiful things. And a woman like you comes along only once in a lifetime. - Bullshit. - I swear. When I leave... I'd like you to give me a bottle of your perfume. And as I'm driving from town to town, I'll put a little on my hand, right there, I'll bring it up to my nose and every time I smell it I'll remember you and how beautiful you are. You got a mole on your shoulder. Looks like a little kiss. Help me if you don't have beautiful skin. You smell so good. I can't keep my hands off of you. I was gonna come and just have a shower and a nice, hot cup of coffee, but... you excite me so much I can't help myself. Nothing like this has ever happened to me before. Oh, boy. There it is. I went to a store in the Mojave, out in California. A man there taught me how to use one of these. Thought for sure I was gonna buy one. Told me he shot a video of his wife playin' with herself. Can you imagine that? A total stranger tellin' me something like that? Look, there you are on TV. How about a little smile? You don't feel like smiling? I can understand that. But, April, darlin'... I didn't just show up here by mistake. You invited me. You might not know it, but you did. It's all right there in your eyes. April? It's me, baby. I just spoke to the real-estate agent in Tuscaloosa. The condo's ours. Congratulations. I'm gonna stay a few more days to make sure everything's perfect when we arrive. I love you, baby. Big kiss. Bye. April, honey. Let me look at you. You'll be the prettiest bride since your grandma walked down that staircase on her daddy's arms. We got that photograph of you and that handsome beau of yours just dancing away at the sorority ball. Wait a minute. Belle, got a surprise for you. - Look who come to visit. - I can see. April, honey, how wonderful of you to come out all this way just to see us. Are those flowers for me? Do I smell freesias? My favourite. I picked them fresh on the way over. - How thoughtful of you. - I watched you drive in. I see your daddy bought you a new car for graduation. It's for graduation and the wedding. Chad's parents bought him a red one. I can still see that Lincoln convertible that Belle's daddy bought for her graduation. It was white, and it had the softest tan-leather upholstery you ever laid your eyes on. April, you turned out to be a beautiful young woman. Belle and I are so proud of you. Thank you. Come here and tell me, child. Have you tamed Chad yet? And don't you do it, either. Just keep him wild as long as you can. You're incorrigible, Grandma. Don't you Grandma me, April. You know very well what I'm talking about. I've been watching you at parties and with boys ever since you were a little girl, and I might say you come by it naturally. I know I seem so sure of myself. But sometimes... I get this feeling inside, Belle, and I'm so scared. I really find that hard to believe, April. When I was your age, I was expecting a baby. That was the year my father died and everything fell on my shoulders. And your grandfather, rest his soul, he wasn't much help to me. But he was the most handsome and virile man in the county. And every woman that set her eyes on him wanted him. So I disciplined myself to play the cards that life dealt me. And you never had second thoughts? Second thoughts are a luxury I've never afforded myself. And neither should you. It's just everything's moving so fast. I feel that I haven't had enough time for me. Delilah, if my mom or anyone else calls, could you tell them I'm here, but that I'm out taking a walk? I just don't feel like goin' home just yet. April. I don't know if your father told you, but I'm arranging for you to have this house after I'm gone. This house and the property from here to Two Moon Junction. I don't know what to say. Well, there'll be a trust to take care of the taxes and general maintenance. All I need you to do is to make sure that when your time comes, you see that it stays in the family. Can you do that for me, April? Of course. And I also wanna say how proud I am that you've chosen to wear my wedding dress. You deserve it, honey. You deserve it. Earl? It's Belle. Belle, how are you, sugar? I'd like you to do a little somethin' for me. No problem. I'll keep an eye on her. Remember, save me a dance at that weddin'. Excuse me. You from Welcome Wagon? - I'm looking for the other man. - What other man? I'm the only man. The last one left. The rest are gone. If I find me a good woman, I'm goin', too. The other man. Perry. D'you know where he is? Oh, him. Do you know he got run over by a train, lost both his legs? He died this morning. Bye. Any liquor in your purse? No. You got some money. Go get me some. Go with her. Bourbon. Get me some bourbon. Go on. Don't pay any attention to him. He's just drunk. Maybe she's right. Maybe I should come back when you're feeling better. Bourbon. Get me some bourbon. You fucking asshole. What the hell am I doing here? He does have a certain charm about him when he's not like this. What are you gonna do? Let's just go get the son of a bitch some liquor. Come on, keep me company. Come on, Tom, get in the back. Ever been in one of these before? - No, never. - You're gonna like it. It's a little bumpy. I can't stand them when they get drunk. You never want to mess with them when they get that way. You just gotta ride it out. But if they ain't drunk, they're dull. I'm glad you came along. He was driving me crazy. Got a cigarette? I left mine in my purse. - I don't smoke. - Fuck you, dickhead! I wish I had your discipline. I tried to quit once and I thought "I'll die soon anyway." - What'd you say your name was? April? - Yes! I knew it. You're the one that's about to be married. Perry told me all about you when we met. I'm Patti Jean. Hang on. Did that son of a bitch make you take an AIDS test before he fucked you? I didn't think so. He said it wasn't cos he was afraid of dying. He just didn't wanna spread the disease indiscriminately. I think he just didn't wanna die having people think he was gay. He's pretty enough to give that impression. Kind of humiliated me. Wanna talk about humiliating? I know a girl who flies with Savannah and she said when people die on aeroplanes, they lock 'em in the fuckin' bathroom until they land. Now I ask you, if that ain't the ultimate humiliation, what is? Ending up your life on a toilet seat Hang on. We're here. Shit. Hey! What kind o' liquor did he say he wanted? Bourbon, right. Hey, you got a bathroom? I'm gonna pee in my fuckin' pants. Get the liquor. I gotta go to the bathroom bad! Now you know my secret. I put a little rouge on it. Makes it easier to see through my blouse. It's a real '60s thing to do, but it's cute. Boys'd howl when I wore angora sweaters in junior high. I love angora. You ever put yours in the refrigerator? - No. - Makes it real fuzzy. I bet you got great tits. I can tell. - But you shouldn't be ashamed of 'em. - I'm not. And your hair'd look sexier if you'd wet it and slick it back. I'm a hairdresser - I know what I'm talking about. I do 30 makeovers a week. And that top would look so much better if you weren't wearing a bra. - Wanna let me try it on? - What? I'll shut the door. - Come on, let me try it on. - OK. That's nice. Wanna try mine? I designed it myself. It'll look so cute on you. You've got the perfect figure for it. Come on, don't be shy. Just put it on and say goodbye princess. Sorry. I know it would look good on you. I'm not gonna take no for an answer. Come on. Perry'll love it. Looks good, doesn't it? Let's see. It's at moments like this I can see why guys like women so much. And this damn bull, it kept working around in the undergrowth. - Help! - Oh, holy shit! Oh, damn it! I can't... Speed, where the hell are you? Hey, Rube! Someone's gonna die! You all right? See that? Those kids could have been killed! People put their lives in your hands. You've got a responsibility to them. - Fuck you! - Fuck you. Everything is "Fuck you". Everything boils down to fuckin' money. - Money. You want money? Here, take it. - Money! That's what I like. Stand back. What you got there, Buck? Got a gun? Go get 'em, Perry. Take the whole French foreign legion to take my Perry. I gotta tell you - he got me so hot the first time. I thought I'd go through the ceiling. Even better than my second husband, and he was from Pittsburgh. Come on, boy! Holy shit. Hang on. Argh! Fucker! Jerk! Scumbag! Cocksucker! Thanks. No! Get back! Get back! Stand back! Easy, man. Take it easy. - Get off him! - Yeah, let him alone. I'm gonna... Get your fucking dog and your fucking girls and get outta here. Now! Want some? The lady's got a secret. Don't you? I ain't got no secret. I ain't got nothin', except a bike, a truck, and a post-office box in Clearwater, Florida. - So, what colour's your living room? - White. - But it's not my house. It's my parents'. - Is your bedroom white, too? It's beige and floral print. My place is wood panel. I never lived in anything else but. Except when I lived in Vegas. I was married to this guy in the Air Force. And they put us up in this place. It was great. A prefab with a balcony. - You wanna dance? - No. Come on, we're here. Let's have fun. This is my favourite song. And you're gonna dance with me now. Go to him. Ask him to take you for a ride on his bike. Nothing but the sound of the engine and the clouds in the sky. Don't worry about me. I'm takin' a bus outta here in the morning. I don't know where I'm goin', but I can't wait to get there. - Hello? - Delilah? It's me, April. - April, honey? - Did my mom or anyone else call for me? - Why, nobody. - If they do, could you tell them I'm on my way home? - Of course. - Thanks. Bye. - Ay, perdone, regresamos mas tarde. - No, no, no, no. It's OK. You can stay. - Where are you from? - Puerto Rico. Is that your sister? - No, no. - Cousin? - No, es amiga. - Amiga. Can you ask your friend why she's not wearing any underwear? Que quiere saber que por que no tienes pataletas puestas. She washed them last night. They're not dry enough to wear this morning. She only got one pair? Parece que si. You son of a bitch. Bed's barely cold, you're trying to get someone else in it? What the hell. As long as the room's paid for, I might as well get my money's worth. Parece que estan juntos, vamonos. You hollow, manipulative piece of shit. Everything you are is between your legs. Then why don't you come over here and give me a kiss good mornin'? - I don't know what the hell I'm doing here. - It's called lust, baby. Yep, there's no mistaking it. What's happened to April is she's come face to face with her libido. Fuck you. I don't have to take this shit. I bet you didn't think I knew what that word meant! Libido! Unchecked desire. Who do you think you are? You come to my house... It's not your house. It's your mommy and daddy's house. And you invited me. I don't recall giving you my address! - You came cos you wanted to come. - You can believe anything you want. You're so far gone there's no hope. You're psychotic. You know what that means? Fundamental mental derangement. - You are beyond social redemption. - Better than being hysterical. You lose, mister. You're all alone. You don't care about anybody and nobody gives a shit about you. That's right, baby. I'm the phantom of the night. - Asshole. - Princess. - Motherfucker. - Sweet pea. Cocksucker. Scumbag. - Precious. - Pig shit. - Dumpling. - Scumbag. You already said that. - You bastard. - Better be careful what you say. People might think we like each other. You can rot in hell for all I care. I'm sorry for the disturbance, folks. But you got to admit, that's one special wacko chick. I'm gonna buy you breakfast, asshole. You know, I have a grandmother that I'm sure was about the hottest thing on the planet. There was a time, every Saturday night, and they'd dress up in tuxedos and gowns and go down to our pavilion at Two Moon Junction and dance all night. - Two Moon Junction? - Yeah. That's my favourite place in all the world. My great-great-granddaddy was a pirate, you know. - No. - Really. Yeah, he and Lafitte and some others got very pissed off at the slave traders and started raiding their ships and setting all the slaves free in South America. My grandmother says they had a dream of America being the last bastion of freedom. But then they realised the problem was too big and they could do nothing about it, so they settled on the land and raised cotton. And put the slaves to work on the plantation. My grandmother says he did it because he came to understand there would never be heaven on earth. There's always going to be corruption. Nothing was ever going to be perfect. What you mean to say is there was more money in cotton than in being a hero. - Somethin' like that. - You're gonna make a hell of a lawyer. I expect to live a double life. Maybe even a triple one if I get lucky. And here I thought you were just another tight-ass princess. You look like a princess. You talk like a princess. And you definitely have a tight ass. Darlin'. Don't ever take this southern woman for granted. Excuse me, son. Is that your rig parked over there at Malcolm's place? There they be, son. Jonah and Jonah Junior. They're so old they can't remember who's pappy and who's son. They're weird and full of superstition. Burying a dead animal on their land could cause the cows to give bloody milk, or bring on a swarm o' locusts. Jonah, Jonah Junior, I told this boy if he'd dig up his animal, I might be able to persuade you to drop the charges against him. You see, it was dark and he wanted a nice place to put his animal to rest. He didn't know he was trespassing and he's sorry. Do yourself a favour, son. I loved my dog. The song they're singing goes way back. It's a kind of prayer. So, where'd you say you were hailed from, son? The east. Anywhere near Cambridge, Massachusetts? No, sir. My grandson's going up there this fall, to Harvard Law School. I wish him luck. We're talking about $32,000 a year tuition, room and board. But it ain't gonna cost me a penny, no, sirree, because, thank the Lord, we got people round here who recognise and support outstanding achievement. You know who Little Richard is, don't ya? Sure. I remember he used to ride around here in his Cadillac always raisin' billy hell. Got so bad, the judge had to throw his black ass out of the county and told him never to come back. What I'm trying to say, son, is that not much goes on in this county that I don't know about. Savvy? Did you get your manicure? It's perfect. You look absolutely beautiful. You have done a wonderful job on the dresses. Thank you so much. They look great. You know, Alice in Wonderland has always been my favourite story. I always dreamed of having a storybook wedding, and now I am. Shoes and hats. It's perfect. Wow. Pretty exciting, isn't it? I just love these dresses. They make us all look so good. Makes your tits look bigger this way. I'm planning on using these kind of dresses for my wedding. If I ever get married, which I probably won't. But if I do, these types of dresses would be nice. You're welcome to it. I won't be needing it after tomorrow. Besides, next time I get married, I'm gonna run off to Las Vegas. April, bite your tongue! Carolee, honey, could you give us a moment alone? This is gonna be a wonderful weddin'. I can't wait. Honey, there's so little time. And I thought... well, I thought since you and Chad are still going to school, you're not countin' on havin' a family right away. So I took the liberty of putting together this little... care package for you. I don't know. There's a lot of things here. There's so much and I don't know what you would use. But, what do you think? Honey, I know that you know. You never really talked. Oh, April. I'm happy. Sorry, Mrs Delongpre, but, April, you have to see this. Come on. # You are so beautiful to me # You are so beautiful to me # Can't you see? # Everything I dreamed of # You're everything I want, baby Mm-mm. He's one gorgeous hunk of a man. # Can't you see? Isn't he the one at the carnival? The one that found your wallet? Till tomorrow, April. I don't recall. Oh, shit. Thank you. - What's goin' on here? - I have no idea. - Good afternoon, Belle. - Good morning. Yeah! - Hi, Grandma. - You beautiful girls. You're getting more beautiful every time I see you. Aren't they turning into lovely young ladies? Yes, they certainly are. Is that any way for the future Mrs Chad Douglas Fairchild to be dressed the day before her wedding? - We've been having fittings all day. - You poor thing. - What is that monstrosity? - It's a tent, Belle. I can see that. Whatever does your mother have in mind? - It's for the buffet. - It looks more like a circus to me. Girls, would you take these cold drinks out to those hardworking boys out there? - You look beautiful, Belle. - Thank you, dear. - What about me? - That goes without saying, Delilah. - It's him. I told you it was him. - It is him. It is him. He said we were the cutest girls he'd seen all month. He's really gorgeous. It used to be that I knew the Christian name of every day worker in the county. Nowadays you just open the Yellow Pages and take your chances with the riffraff. Delilah and I are contemplating carrying pistols in our pocketbooks. Ain't that the truth? Not only is that tent an eyesore, it's a potential hazard. Young man! Young man, can't you do something about those guy lines? Somebody's bound to trip on that and break their neck. I think this will solve your problem, ma'am. By the way, that's a beautiful outfit you're wearing. The finest of silk pongee, the likes of which I haven't seen since Mademoiselle ran that layout on Princess Di's trousseau. - You're pushing your luck, aren't you? - I'm just tryin' to earn a livin'. Minimum wage. $3.35 an hour. It's not much, but I can make it work. - You know, there's a line... - Of course. That's what holds up the tent. That's not the line I'm referring to. The line I'm talking about is the line between good manners and bad manners, order and chaos. Cross that line... If you're talkin' about the state line, princess, I've already seen it. They're place settings for 36, April, taken from the court of King George and handed down from eldest daughter to eldest daughter, every other generation, from the time our forefathers decided to legitimise themselves, and join the civilised society. Since that time, the Delongpre family can claim three governors, two US senators, three electives of the House of Representatives, a Supreme Court justice, and an ambassador to Chile. And at our table we've had the likes of General Patton, President Woodrow Wilson, Jimmy Carter, Lyndon Johnson, the actress, Tallulah Bankhead, and Truman Capote and that film star, Grace Kelly, before she married her prince. And Betty Ford, after her rehabilitation. Come election time, where do our Yankee brothers come a-courtin' but here? For where the south goes, so goes the presidency. And why is that? Cos we here in the south take care of our own. Always have, always will. Perry? Perry. Perry, come out. I don't have much time. I said to myself "If she comes here wearing high-heeled shoes, then she's come cos she wanted to come." There's almost $5,000 here. Please take it and go away. I saw your fiance today. I love that song he was singing. He showed good taste there. I bet his friends are giving him a stag party tonight. If you don't want the money, give it to charity. Keep your money. How come you aren't wearing any panties, April, darling? What kind of a way is that to come see somebody you don't wanna see? I know. Don't tell me. You washed them out before you went to bed and they're not dry yet. You're a real son of a bitch. At first you excited me. Now you repulse me. You've got no mystery. - Everything you are... - Is between my legs. It's crazy. I've run a million miles and who should I fall in love with? The very girl I was running away from. You're lying. You lie about everything. Am I? Come here. I wanna show you something. To the merging of two great southern families. Good luck to you, Chad. May God bless you. - Hear! Hear! - I'll drink to that. His name's Max. I was gonna call him Tom II, but I figured he needed his own identity. He's beautiful. I wanted to give you one for your wedding, but then I figured it would be kinda hard for you to explain. My cousins and I used to come here all the time when we were kids. It was our place. We did everything together. In the summer we used to sneak around at night and watch our parents making love. Then we'd come in here, strip down and touch each other all over. One night, after a party, they both got crazy drunk, took their father's Lincoln Continental and crashed it into a telephone pole. Timothy, the one who was driving, lived. But Charles died. Two months later, Timmy put a gun to his head and shot himself out of despair. You remind me of them. We used to play this game, my cousins and I. They'd blindfold me, and I'd try to guess which one of them I was with. I'm not your cousins. What cousins? What do you want? What time's your wedding? Noon. Yeah. Well... I'll wait around till then. See what happens. Everybody, they're here! Come on, they're here! Come on, they're here. OK. Come on, big fella. Looks like she's not coming. Come on, kiddo. We're on. Darlin', is something wrong? - What's the matter? - I need a minute. - Sugar, are you all right? - Yes. No. Belle, I think you should go back and see what's happening. Good God. Darling, you look so beautiful. We're so proud of you. Belle, I don't know if I can do this. But we love you, and we only want what's best for you. - What's goin' on? - You may be about to get some character. - She's got cold feet? - No. Just a little holdup. I'll handle it. If y'all just hold on a minute, the bride's got a wrinkle in her dress. You know how these things are. Now, don't anybody go away. I won't let you throw your life away on a passing fancy. Passion fades. Believe me, I know. What are you talking about? I was afraid this would happen. He will never interfere with your life again. Belle, what did you do? Belle? He asked me for money. I gave it to him. That's not true. He would never take money. - Everyone has his price. - Not him. April, my beautiful, courageous child, have I ever lied to you? Now... I'm sorry. I didn't mean to inconvenience you. It's just that I was in the neighbourhood and I needed a nice, hot shower. Sure is nice-smellin' soap.
