 

                        Climb! Yes, sir! (pants) Hibito We need to conduct an in-depth investigation I hear and Obey, Big Brother An older brother must always walk in front his little brother July 9, 10.01pm Discovered a Japanese tree frog in the grass behind the bamboo shoots near the Metro Big Brother Big Brother! Big Brother! What are you doing?! Big Brother, Over there! What? Hurry up! What is it? That, That! What is that?! I don't Know It's flying to the moon! Hey, big brother I... I've made up my mind. Im going to be become an astronaut and fly to the moon. Say again? Big brother, how about you? I... I... I Think I'll This fall, mission CES-51 will leave for the moon Our mission is to establish a habitable environment We'll make longer stays, on the moon, as possible As you know The necessary modules and equipment has already been transported We are now ready to take the first real steps towards terraforming the moon With the ability to stay there for an extended period of time The chances of alien encounter is sure to increase too Wouldn't you say Captain? That kind of question really should go to him. He's the expert. Who? me? Well... You are right, I saw a UFO when I was a boy Please. Don't hold the microphone Sorry That was just like the sound the UFO use to communicate No worries Anyway, of course the UFO I saw, when I was a boy is one of the reasons I am here today But, on the moon, I will be focused on our mission. That's certain I would like to ask Mr. Hibito Namba, on Japan's National Day What would you say about becoming the first Japanese to land on the Moon? Yes The Japanese are particularly reverent about the moon On behalf of my province, I am very proud However, When I land on the moon, then I'll Find the words to tell you. Now is not the time. Apologies. This model is completely overturned. Im baffled. What's really the reason for this? The performance and specifications of the design are optimal This is rotten, we have our hands tied compared to Namba's predecessors Namba's predecessors spent a whole five years on this design. Well gentleman, do not pity me I was born on the cursed day known as the tragedy of 'dora bora' The curse even entends to having a boss of limited flexiblity and imagination He's vindictive and as old and uncompromising as a rusty shutter gate The United States gives you head space to innovate... The astronauts are so young these days. You don't know? About Namba? Although it's a secret. The fact is that No Way! They're nothing alike! What's the gossip? What? The hell is this? What is this? The Aerospace industry is simply a waste of the national budget reads like a hippie propaganda piece Look at their idiotic smiles. While they're playing Rocket man, Japan's international competitiveness has stagnated. Is it really necessary to go to the Moon? This is the result Of ill thought out plans from such a degenerate Era. These astronauts serve us better by being fireworks. Director! You're fired! What's your problem. Get the hell out! My ass hurts jeez, it's killing me Ah crap...Im stuck in between the butt crack of a black hole. I used to work in a concept car design company As a project team leader I'll be there in 5 minutes The design philosophy is contained in the Tk11 The crappy boss slandered my name to the entire industry making it difficult to find employment. Being too creative can be quite detrimental. What's with the funny afro? It also doesn't help when Ive inherited mum's quirks. Thanks. Hear from you soon. Happy Birthday to me Happy Birthday to me Happy Birthday to me Happy Birthday to me Where's Mutta? Upstairs In the end... What am I doing with my life? Mutta What? What are you doing? I brought you cake. Hey The acute angle is a little too narrow The eldest son should work harder than the father. I'll find work soon You've got to try harder! Mutta, the unemployed Ah, you've got mail JAXA Why would JAXA send me a letter? hello he-llo Ah, Mutta, long time no see. So how goes it? I've got nothing. ah, could it be that they've screened your material? Congratulation Just in time. Perfect. Man, after five years, they just fired you. That sucks. You're better than them, brother. So it really was you, out of the blue. Your destined for better things Why, ahh Say again, i can't hear you I said, why this extra thing? I know Im a vagrant at the moment. But being accepted to undergo Astronaut exams is not funny Who's being funny? hey so... Im into vehicle development I've been doing it for almost ten years. you know what I mean? Cut the bullshit All in All Floating in the sky for work is your specialty My feet are firmly grounded You don't have to worry about me. You've totally forgotten Our promise promise? Well, all right. Do me a favour and listen to the tape July 9, 2006. Huh? Bye Hey, wait let's go Really, telling me to do stuff out of the blue. At 10:01 on July 9 Discovered a Japanese tree frog in the grass behind the bamboo shoots near the Metro Mutta, there. There! What's the matter with the recording? Could it be? Coincidence? Hey, Big brother I... I've made up my mind. Im going to be become an astronaut and fly to the moon. huh? Mutta, how about you? I... I... I think... If youre going to the moon Than I would definitely have to go further! I'm going to mars! Amazingly ambitious, Mutta! There has to be a day When the two of us become astronauts and Explore the universe together! An excellent Idea, Big Brother! I use to want to become astronaut We use to go to lectures every day and fill our heads with the universe But one day, I realised Only a small number of exceptionally talented people could be accepted. Being completely ordinary It's practically impossible for me This realisation made me run straight back I made peace with myself and decided to strive for something a little more realistic. Hurry, let's go! We have to photograph the UFO Yeah! UFO! UFO! But UFO UFO But I actually Regretted not pursuing my dream Everybody Thank you for participating in JAXA's Junior Tour. Thank you All Ha, that's including our big sister up there. Firstly, how about we start off with a little history JAXA's space centre The Tsukuba Space Centre covers an area of 530,000 square meters That's equivalent to an area covering 12 Tokyo Domes In addition, JAXA also has pilot training facilities in the International Space Station (ISS) Japan plays a significant role in commanding and maintaining many cabins and facilities in the ISS. What's with the commentary? Hey, who's the afro kid and spiky kid? They come all the time. Next Please watch the history of space travel developed by VTR great, please take over Hey, you are not allowed to record in here! But big sister, we want to be good knowledgeable adults Perhaps, one day, we could even help JAXA Please oblige OK, Just this one time. Don't tell anyone. Score! Yuri Gagarin Assist JAXA? What a joke. With their attitudes, Im certain they can become astronauts. yes I think that one must be physically and mentally resilient to become an astronaut. Im fit and learn quickly. If selected, I will give my all For JAXA I stand corrected; for the world and the National Space Development Agency. Good. Times almost up. If there are no other questions Forgive me, I have one more question I don't mean to be the bad guy but Hibitos your brother. He's considered extremely talented and charismatic It seems that you're trying to catch up How do you this playing out in the media? In this regard Im certain people would ask me so I spent three days and nights thinking for an answer I wrote my answer down If it pleases you, may I read? Sadly, time escapes us. Allow me to recommend a more efficient way of doing this that's a tad harsh, no? The answers a bit it goes against Japanese values He's filled with a sense of inferiority compared to his brother? hmm... Seems to be that he's running out of patience. Wait The facts The bolt on the chair is tight again. Want me to explain? In the morning I loosened the screw I pulled a little NASA prank I assumed this would go unnoticed by the participants. During the interview, He was fiddling with the screw hmm, short attention span. Or you could interpret it as An excellent instinct for machinery Wouldn't you agree? I tip my hat to you Aerospace research and development institutions Commonly known as JAXA After a lapse of five years, They placed an ad for recruitment. They managed to attract a total of 789 people; me included. Through interviewing the applicants, they culled the numbers down to 45 people. Now, we're into the second round of exams. Good. Stop calculating. Next, please wear the oxygen mask excuse me that's, ah Im sorry, Im a little nervous no problem Twenty-seven thousand feet above sea level Twenty-eight thousand feet above sea level My Name is Mutta Excuse me How can I help? umm... Mr Habito Yes Is your brother Hibito Nanba the astronaut? He's the brother of Hibito?! You don't know? He's a very well-known candidate I see I see, indeed. being the brother of the first Japanese going to the Moon is a big deal. It's no big deal. Must be nice to have an advantage. You must of had some really handy tips on the exam content. Your brother could probably influence the examiners He would do no such thing. How naive do you think we are? This conversation is a bit rude In addition, I don't think these exams are easy. You should play your games elsewhere. Hello Mr. Hibito My name is Makabe Kenji. 31yrs old. we're the same age, please to meet you. call me Mutta Do you think that at this stage the best scores Belong to the two impertinent youngsters? No, I think it's the lady Good call Serika Itou's her name Her physical fitness and English speech was ranked highly I think the examiners hold her in high regards Impressive Anyway After the little breathing exercise, I suspect only 6-7 participants are left. Talk about brutal Hey, Kenji Yeah? how did you answer 'that' question? Which one? The second interview 'Tell us something new you've discovered about yourself'? A tricky one It's like coming across a book Ive never read A simple fictional storybook And when you read it with your two year old daughter You feel an opportunity to create something wonderful Regardless of the story, you really start to get into it In short, as long as you're reading without prejudice The story and the task will bring new stimulation, perspective and experience A found the selection process to be very similar to this. Mutta, How did you answer it? Well It was quite tricky 'something new you've discovered about yourself' That using shampoo significantly reduces the itch on the scalp I was then excused. It's like being rejected by a girl Farewell JAXA Speak of the devil Hello Hello Mutta, how goes the second round? I think it's making my scalp itch How do you mean? Im sure you did well well... ah... If I fall, I shall rise again to fight twice as hard admirable words Big Brother hey, do you want to come to NASA? NASA? Yeah, NASA So this must be famous Apo Yes A spiritual place Welcome to the sacred grounds You're living quite well Well I'm only renting, so it many not feel the same as Our home in Japan. what's up? nothing Was Apo's name taken from the Apollo missions? Hey Pup It must be nice To grow up with such little stress A life untouched by the hands of a tragedian let's hope so Apo the adorable Hey The curtains are unhooked Twilight drops her curtain down, and pins it with a star. What's this? On the plus side, your saving on the water bill. hey, the price tag is still on this All fixed. Very observant of you to instantly detect the defects. hmm You're too sloppy (grunts) unbelievable, this guy is going to the moon in week and yet neglects his chores Mutta Heads up Impressive It's beautiful out here. All you need now is a blond bombshell of a girlfriend Love to but Ive got no time to spare. Such is life. How many years has it been since when we last observed the skies I can't remember What are you doing? Imitating Tom Hanks He did it in Apollo 13 Oh yeah. Yeah! Three hundred eighty-four thousand kilometres from the Earth it's not a walk to the corner shop. I can't believe my little brother is actually going It must be an incredible feeling. You sound as if you didn't do too well in the exams. hmm... To tell you the truth Im predicting the demise of my space career. In hindsight, there were things I could have done better As of late, I predict the probability of my going to the moon To be less than 1/384,000 You may not realise But my space travel ambitions diverted years ago Im beginning to suspect my fate has further distance itself from the moon. Big Brother, enough bull shit Let me find the words hmm... You're strong But you don't seem to realise how strong you really are. As a child What are you talking about The topics we had as kids are not the same as now. just listen You know, Im here now because of you You've been pushing me for 19 years The two of us observing the night sky I know You're asking for a beating My classmates have been saying that you've seen a UFO He said you were bragging out loud with your afro swinging back and forth. It's lies, right? Hurry up and answer I was... Say it already Was it not my friend who was talking about the UFO? i think there was a miscommunication... big brother, you coming out? Not today But Mutta, we've got to take a photo of the UFO to prove it to our classmates. There's a chance our classmates will still not believe. A photo doesn't lie. Listen, on Japans national day We undoubtedly saw a UFO I concur Hold this belief, tightly, in your heart, ok? yeah! The depressurised environment is stable. Get ready to work. We have a vacuum A vacuum is formed. ok, Hibito, buddy let's start the oxygen scarcity simulation Copy Checking EMU operation conditions Main tank: empty Back up tank: 2 minutes worth of oxygen remaining. Attempting connections between EMU Connect it from blue to red Damn it! What's this? This is.. Although I am reluctant NASA has advised us to complete our will as part of protocol I want to tell my big brother one thing It took me 19yrs to reach my goal I am certain that you'll fly, too. Unfortunately, It's seems I've died before you get this message Big Brother Even in death I'll be waiting in space for your arrival So that we can see the stars together again. Hibito Today, we're about to witness a true leap for man kind as everybody knows on the surface of the moon There is no air or water And certainly no chance of survival The challenge of building any kind of moon base is probably the most ambitious project in the history of science In this mission All our eyes are on Hibito Nanba The samurai boy will be the youngest person ever to walk on the moon And Japans first On this beautiful day in Florida we are now together the people here, in Japan and all over the world Excuse me, excuse me. Mutta! Mutta!Mutta!Mutta! Hey Hey, he told me to tell you That this spot is the best for the interview Isn't that great, honey! Hibito Hibito! Hibito! Hibito! Hibito Hibito Thank you Sorry, apologies. Hibito Hibito I'll be back soon guys. You're going to be 11 stones on the moon! eat well! Don't forget please look after Apo Apo's a good dog. Your embarrassing us, dad Big Brother, Don't forget huh? forget? Of course I won't forget So Im just giving you a head start. I'll see you in space. believe it! Don't chip your tooth whilst on the ride! My brother Right. Apo Dad, where's Apo? Apo, Apo! Apo! my dog! Hibito! Hibito, we'll take of everything Apo! Apo! Wait for me Apo what are you doing? Apo Wait, Apo! Give me a break What's with the sudden walk! Hey, you come up here broccoli Don't just stand there. You want to see the lift off, right? climb up the ladder, there What the hell. Mister old man I'm very sorry I don't have time to hang out with you just a minute You know we live one life you can't play around with two you following me, broccoli now look at what you can see amazing! This use to be the control tower way back, before the Apollo missions. in the beginning; it was just small unmanned rockets. You just made a choice you'll never regret My little brother is in there. but I...I have so many different feelings I just don't know how I should look up at that rocket I've been feeling everything, looking at that guy. So kid, tell me, that big rocket over there. You know what powers it? what lifts it up? The heart of the people. that's real power It's the courage of the astronauts Every rocket on every single mission so full of passion and determination. And then, all the tireless people on the ground Every single one of them, an expert So proud. So full of knowledge Then think of all of those people out there watching Full of hope and prayer. Respect. That's what ignites. That's what catches fire inside and then explodes. and lifts that 2000 tonnes of metal into space So that thing that's bothering you. it's stirring inside. That confusion Well it's just helping lift that rocket a little higher feel better I don't know Thanks, I guess. So who are you? Im just an old man who took a stroll on the moon a long long time ago. Enough of that, it's about to lift off we have lift off! Go Go Go! Go! Congratulations Hibito ok guys, are you ready? This is it alright, let's do it! welcome to space Hibito Into outer space Out of this world. okay everybody, let's go to the moon Tadashi, we are trying to come to a consensus Sawaki seems to have 2 more votes than Mutta. Majority rule isn't always right It's just two votes. The candidates should be discussed further. two additional votes is still a majority. Our data also highlights the strength and weaknesses of each candidate Values processed by the computer doesn't guarantee the better candidate. After all, a program is limited by what it cannot measure. Are you suggesting the programs we have used are all for naught? Why are you so obsessed with Mutta? it's something I can't clearly articulate But it's almost destiny that it should happen. Imagine: two brothers in Space pardon the intrusion But I must attest for him From my experience, Mutta Hibito's passion for space is insurmountable As a child; he and Namba would attend all of JAXA's presentation. Also, imagine The world's first space brothers Exploring the moon together; I vote for Mutta! All the way! Hey sadly, She's not apart of this committee Indeed. Ms Yuan does not have the right to vote. ok Hibito, it's rolling. you ready? This is going all over Japan You better look cool coming down that ladder This is a step for man But a giant step for mankind Neil Armstrong proclaimed those famous words. When he was on the moon 56 years ago. Since ancient times, the moon has held great reverence to the Japanese I can't believe it unbelievable I've got to tell him the good news. Oh Apo seems optimistic about the news You can use it as it is. Image reception is still good Copy Right yeah! look at him go! wait. wait. wait. Hell of an entrance. Yeah! Hibito's first step is well received On the day of the first Japan to land on the moon his entrance could be described as energetic and youthful A bold entrance! What was that? Our very own lunar rabbit is hopping around Excellent. Excellent! incredible! Please enter immaculate hey, check it out It's obviously a sealed environment but there are windows A nice touch We're now floating in space Yes, where there's a lack of oxygen and gravity You sound like a talkative fellow. And you wear your heart on your sleeve, too. Furuya's the name We should be cautious of what we say This is an exam Our actions will be monitored by the command centre. That includes what we say. The test has begun Please Let's give them the first challenge. I concur Your attention please Please observe the screen This cabin is self sufficient and is design for long term space travel. You will spend ten days in here And undergo numerous tasks. A careful note: the air pressure in this cabin is set at 0.8atm Please pay attention to any abnormal physical conditions. The wrist bracelet you are wearing must never be removed Consider it a lucky charm imbued with the power to guarantee your safety It's recording our physiology and allows them insight into our psychology Lastly, You will vote for the top three candidates at the end of this exercise Only three will be able to pass. During your stay you will be given free time feel free to spend it any way you like We're being observed like chimps Guess that's the instructions what shall we do first? Let's formally introduce ourselves good idea An exceptional idea By understanding each other, we can function better as a team Let's start with Mizoguchi It doesn't matter Makebe To summarise I'm not here to play games and make friends. I thought we all had an opportunity to win He has a point Do I look a little pale? tasty What's up? thanks for the meal A friendly reminder You have 15 minutes to complete breakfast at 0730 please be prepared to receive instructions on today's task. end of announcement. A day in the confined capsule of M8 directives are being issued every 15 minutes. Talk about micro management. Dude, it's all white! This puzzle is sadistic Logical thinking Spatial cognition reasoning analysis They're all being tested! Eat. Sleep. Work. It seems we're all keeping to ourselves What a dreary state of affair. it seems the rules and tasks are intended to foster competition. Our results for each task were also recorded. It's taxing my eyes I know what you mean. Oh crap, I lost my position Shit on a stick! The most unbearable task is the log at the end of the day. Good night Good night I'll turn off the lights. much obliged Let's see. Log column I suspect the most intense moment will be when we have to collate the scores A group battle? Group A, please to work with you Please to work with you Likewise let's work hard together Pleased to be working with you Pleasure's all mine. Try your best! hmm.. What surprises are installed for us this time? What's inside Open it and see Yes. let's! What the? Hey, what's this? Model kits? There are heaps Looks like fun Today's task is as follows As a group, design a 2035 lunar surface facility. Please draw on technical experience and imagination The facility is designed to last over ten years In addition, write an instruction manual of your design. Be prepared to dedicate 1-4hours a day on this task. On the last day, you will be asked to give a speech on the designs Firstly let's have a look at our inventory hmm. We'll leave the box on the side of this table. good A lunar surface facility, they say... Im a little excited by this assignment agreed Let's work together and make the best lunar surface facility! agreed yes Houston, Houston, this is Hibito KU activated, the cables are exchanged. Now complete. Roger that. Hibito always at full throttle it's just that I really enjoy this I've spent five years training for this moment I hear you The whole time we did emergency simulations You know, I hope we get lost in space or something That way, I can really test my skills come on buddy. bad joke Yeah, of course it's a bad joke The gravity up here makes it a real possibility Yes You've got to come and see the scenery Fukuda's meditating It's been a week The physiological readings are showing differences bit by bit. Must be tough to live with strangers for 24/7 Let's not forget living through a heavily regimented routine. Stress was likely to build up Communication is the key component It was no mistake I was unsuccessful in my attempt Strange how we change Age and experience brings control regardless of the circumstances Im going to sleep well tonight with a clear conscious The basic requirements for an astronaut cannot be measured with absolute certainty using test papers. Good to see an elevated level of stress in the capsule Who's going to crack first? From studying the six candidates I'm getting a sense on who would work well in teams we're almost out of time Time to play the green cards Today, the diagnostic ends Good night Thank you Just a moment Mutta I was just monitoring your stats yes There's a question a want you to answer Rest assured, Everyone will eventually be asked to do this Feel free to cut loose and state what is on your mind Who do you think is suitable to become an astronaut Answer with your gut instinct The most suitable person is Makebe Kenji and Itou, Sarika Two? A combination of both would be perfect Makebe conducts himself with impeccable excellence His weakness resides in respecting the views of others too much His has a natural ability to lead Extremely trust worthy As for the next Miss itou; her beauty aside She has a ravenous appetite but knows how to get people to act Despite being the only female She doesn't feel out of place nor is she easily irritated, if at all. The group Gels well together because of her cheerful disposition The little guy hmm.. No.. One moment how to put this. Furuya It would appear in my opinion each person has their own charm Mr Fukuda May look a little frail But he is, in fact, in good health After all, he did not come last in the squat exercises. As for Mizoguchi The first impression he gave was rather frosty If you look at his t-shirts, you'd realise he's a Gundam fan Perhaps he's putting up a front like a character from the show Furuya he's interesting He may appear to be very opinionated probably because he comes from Kansai However, he is extremely meticulous Very clean by nature Thanks to him, the cabin is spotless. Guess there's a lot of positive traits to consider In the end Everyone has something that'll make them a suitable astronaut Wonderful This may be slightly embarrassing But what everyone here has in common is a strong desire to go to space That's just my opinion. most appreciated Allow me to give you a personal message Mutta Hibito You will receive a green card. What the hell! Who would do this? Im wondering that, myself Could it be one of the crew members? undoubtedly, it was from someone standing here. There are six members Most likely, it was someone from group B Are suspecting me? I can assure you, Im innocent It's certainly not me and it's extremely unlikely it's Fukuda What are your thoughts? How quick group B are to defend each other. Don't joke around If you're going to accuse us You should, at least, show some evidence Evidence? Only our group's work was irrevocably damaged But group B's project remained miraculously safe. A rather interesting point to consider, don't you think Hell, even I child could figure this one out. Despite that, you're still mistaken. There's only so much bullshit I can take. relax relax Let's cease this futile arguement Guys, you've got to cool down I'm calm Furuya, let's just cool off first Itou is good to speak A week's worth of work; completely trampled Hey, why don't you pipe up. well I guess There's no point crying over spilled milk Our only option is to rebuild Funny how exam conditions makes everyone so wholesome. Like Disney. hey I'll never forgive the scumbag who would stoop so low. That's the only consolation I have. Why put me in such a compromised position? Morning. Youre up early. Only as early as you thanks Today's the end hey, Mutta Do you think it's someone who undermined their own project? No idea Absolutely no idea. is that so? perhaps if the underminers should meet they should shake hands group B's project is vandalised merciless. Utterly merciless. How is this so? based on yesterday's logic It must be retaliation from group A No doubt, Furuya What did you say? Don't deny it Venting your anger. Vengeance is yours, right! I see One has to explore all the possibilities. are you that bitter and self-centred that you had to do this? You're calling me self-centred, hypocrite Let's stop this guys It's even be possible that the true culprit may not be from A or B There are six of us in this team Stepping in to play hero again, Makabe? Whether playing team leader or judge, you just want power. I never agreed that you were the head of our group I I never realised You keep to yourself and become a lone rebel. Your too immature to become an astronaut Right back at you, Shorty. Doesn't matter how many times I see this It's amazing Could we see similar things on Earth if there were no air? Like this. sure. But my eyes are getting pretty tired The mountains over there, they are so clear If your eyes are tired I'll wake you up with my UFO story Maybe Im tired of hearing Hibito's UFO story, too. I know. But people say my UFO sounds better on the moon alright, alright. I'll listen to it. But once we've found the missing module, ok? Ok I'll look for the probe using the manual. Where is it? It's in the box under your seat. Thank you Damian Stop! What! Hibito, please report to the video phone room. Mutta yes Please remain calm and listen While on a lunar rover assignment Your brother may have had an accident We've lost contact with him and his partner. NASA and JAXA are pulling their resources together to find them. The intelligence is scant. we are currently reviewing our satellites to get more detail about the situation That's the emergency My apologies for interrupting your exam If you pull out of the exam, your results will not be affected. The choice to stay in the capsule or not is yours. Do not think of the worst If it's any comfort JAXA is well prepared for dealing with this type of scenario Mutta I don't know what to say I can imagine we'll be working closely with Houston on this the suits they're wearing should keep them alive for 3 nights, at least. I'll stay on Are you sure? Positive I'll complete this exam presently Even If I leave There is nothing I can do I'm powerless to do anything As it stands I can't even get into space, yet I understand and respect your choice. This matter must not be revealed to the other candidates We will continue with the capsule test Understood? yes Are you okay Mr. Fukuda? Im just a little dizzy Hang in there, the exams almost finished. Break it now and blame it on your condition After all, you cannot present work that's accidently broken Don't let Mr. Fukuda rest. Now's not the time Mizoguchi Oh look, the team leader has now become the teacher Knock it off guys Im fine You should rest It's okay time's up group A will give the first presentation Done! Mutta, it's finished. Hey, can't you hear me? Enough it's concluded we're done I have something to say I Mutta must say something What is it? Nothing, Kenji It's kind of bleak To let it end this way Don't say it Mutta Don't mention anything about the green card or your screwed. Everyone in fact, I Shut up! I When I came out of the video conference I was just recalling I once saw a UFO UFO It was on Japans national day that I saw it with my little brother How can I describe it It was round like this and flew ultra-fast. Kind of like a fire fly on steroids It then flew to the moon and disappeared. What are you ranting about this time? After that, I fell in love with space I would often go to JAXA with my brother to watch the ISS As long as we looked up, we could probably see it again but a short time after When I started talking about UFO with my classmates my classmates branded me a liar my point is I guess I really enjoyed this exam It was hard But it was nice to share this experience with people who have a similar passion people who are enthusiastic about astronomy We gel well through our love for space Im sorry you know I also grew up being heralded as Frankenstein by my classmates As a kid, I use to observe the ISS with my dad I always hoped to come across aliens, too. Good memories That's a nice story yeah in fact, I came here With the intention of becoming an astronaut As I wish to conduct medical research on the ISS Some drugs are easier to produce in space due to weightlessness. Who knows, the drugs produced may even save many people. Unfortunately, it was too late for my dad. I see I want to go to Mars Why? A whole lot of reasons The challenge, the discoveries, the adventure. mainly, it's because the place fascinates me Mars is smaller than Earth yet when we get their we would see how mount Olympus is 3 time taller than Everest In addition, Valles Marineris would make the Grand Canyon comparable to a crack on the road. A landscape of red hues I've got to see it in this life time. I understand this simple mood of course, we can't just ignore our desires and give up Unlike everyone else, Ive attempted becoming an astronaut twice. It was probably 20 years and 5 years ago That I also participated in the Astronaut selection test I've never made it this far before. but really I've always wanted to go to space A dream Ive harboured since I was a child I use to work so hard, Id neglect my family Eventually, my family just got up and left. Now Im 54yrs old. Even facing death, I will not renounce my desire. 98 you still have a chance 98 John Glenn was 77yrs old when he went to space 98 Mizoguchi thank you We understand, Mutta You're here because you saw some stupid UFO as a kid You fluffy hair bastard Hendrix called. he wants his hair back. Despite going through his own personal adversity. he can do this? Perhaps it's the adversity that's the motivating him. Think what you want This guy is incredible Please keep on moving forward Mutta Houston, Houston, this is Habito Houston, Houston! Shit on a stick News from Houston they've detected flair lights from within a canyon Get the maps up and send it to the main display Are you here? The deepest part of the crater? Not good Hopefully, the thermoregulation on their suits is ok being at the bottom of the crater is not good In about an hours time, it's going to be -60 degrees Celsius Estimated time to reach the destination; approximately 50minutes They're at the bottom of the crater and no sun. we've got to keep going. Buddy, stay cool. we've got to focus, ok? we're doing everything we can. Damian Damian Damian I can do it We're going back Damian wow, it's dazzling congrats Excellent. next is the final interview before that though. Please enjoy the sun. applause for the candidates You soldiered on well congrats must be hell being so far You did well. Very good It was hard please be seated sure Mutta must of been thanks In the final interview We are only prepared to through with it, if youre ok Yes We don't want to place any unnecessary stress on you I am ready All astronauts have to confront this challenge Mutta Are you prepared to die? Big brother I'm sorry I understand is that all? Very much so that's it excuse me Forgive my troubling you I lied In fact, I don't want to die I don't regarding your question on life and death I would try to live every last second Until the very end I would try to live I shall replace your answer at the conclusion of this test I... Thank you Let me conclude this test by showing my gratitude for my brother and I Hibito You've watched over us since we were kids but I've been a hopeless big brother I have kept a promise to my brother I've seen the test to the end. Really Thank you Its dj vu five years ago I assessed your brother, too You guys really are brothers yes please follow me to the control room sure Mutta bastard bastard so Passing this can't save your life Hibito You're not going to be a tragic story You're not allowed to die! Hibito Hibito, hey Hibito, there's a UFO Where? where? Just kidding What the hell big brother, I thought it finally appeared. How'd you sleep Hibito? I was just resting my eyes Well, Im glad you're awake again yeah! Space quiz! gorgeous big brother If I don't try I'll die The next space question is as follows What was the biggest space news in 1961? well Gagarin makes it to space Correct what about 1969 that's Apollo 11 landing on the moon Hey Big brother, give me an easier one What happened in 1993? No idea, how about a clue the Doha tragedy When you were born? correct!! When was the future astronaut Hibito Nanba born? in 1996! Next one When did the brother promise to become astronauts. national day! Hibito Sorry to keep you waiting No problems It's time for space They're going to launch in 2 minutes! Mutta, quick, look at that
