 

                        Daiei Co Ltd presents FLOATING WEEDS Producer: Masaichi Nagata Planning: Hideo Matsuyama Screenplay: Kogo Noda and Yasujiro Ozu Photographer: Kazuo Miyagaw Art Director: Tomowo Shimogawara Music: Takanobu Saito Color Consultant: Shozo Tanaka Cast Ganjiro Nakamura - Machiko Kyo Hiroshi Kawaguchi - Ayako Wakao Haruko Sugimura - Hitomi Nozoe Chishu Ryu Directed by Yasujiro Ozu SOMEWHERE IN THE SOUTH OF JAPAN Hello. Hot day, eh? Good morning Terribly hot, isn't it? What are they going to show next? Look. Kabuki plays Sword fighting plays? I liked that strip show last month Remember that plump girl in pink? The new show isn't like that It's a grand kabuki show Really? This troupe is coming all the way... ...via Okazaki, Kariya and Cape Chita Really? Give me a free pass as usual, will you? I remember I saw this troupe years ago, during the war It was at Yamada Town I saw this Komajuro How was it? He played very well, too He played Chuya Marubashi "A pint here and a quart there "Quite a lot that I'm aware" Really? Will the boat be late again? Not that I've heard. She'll come on the dot Once in a blue moon, eh? Indeed It's going to be very hot today - It's overdue, eh? - No, not much... Master Darling At last? Kayo, you take care of that Don't bother Was it yours, Sugiyama? Don't leave anything Ready, Roku? Yes - You too? - Sorry? Don't forget anything Don't forget me. dean Till from me you hear KOMAJURO ARASHI'S TROUPE PLAYING AT THE AIOI ZA KOMAJURO ARASHI AND HIS TROUPE Give me one Give me one Give me plenty, miser Say, do you have a sister? - No - I do Then... - How old is she? - Twelve Fool Afternoon Good afternoon Hang this on the wall, sir Aioi Za, eh? Do come to see us Hey, Brother. Does it start tonight? - Yes - I see Hello there I'll come tonight I'll be expecting you Master, your wife is here Master Good business, eh? Can I have a match? Tell me What's your name? Kinnosuke Kinnosuke? Kin-chan Kidder You big kidder! - Another sake, Master - All right Afternoon I'll be expecting you Let's go together, Okatsu Who'll take care of the customers? Do come tonight - Goodbye - Goodbye I'll be seeing you I'm sure he has an open hand He's an Osaka actor, then? And an old-timer around here He once played in our town, too They say he used to play at the big Kado Za in Osaka Is that so? That means... Don't move or you'll get cut My gosh. Don't you cut me, Aiko Hello Hey, go away - Please - Thank you What a hot day It's terrible Is it your daughter? Very pretty Hello. Are you helping your dad? Great of you. Admirable You can rest assured, eh? Aiko Ogawa? Cute name Listen, Aiko Are you the only child? The apple of his eye? Great help to your dad Will you marry a barber, too? Marry someone who's good-looking. A man like me Good and kind What a cute little thing you are! Very lovely Give me a cup of tea Certainly - Good afternoon - We're back You must be tired We're back - Hello. - You must be tired Hello It's hot. It's terribly hot Hey... ...bring me my kimono Why? I have to visit a patron - Welcome - Oh, welcome Good afternoon, sir - I brought this for you - Oh, thank you very much The owner's here, Master Come right in Thanks for earlier, sir. Please sit down Please It's been a long time Yes, it has indeed Yes. It feels great to be back here again When was the last time? Was it immediately after the surrender? It was It's already twelve years since then That many years? Time flies I see several new faces With the changing times, you know My leading lady, Sumiko, sir I'm pleased to meet you Nice to meet you What happened to the man who played "Bat" Yasu? You mean Tatsunosuke? He died at Fukuchiyama Died? What happened? It was a stroke Such a good player. I'm so sorry And this is his daughter, who was just a kid then Grown up into a fine young woman She used to be just like a Chinese nut What's a Chinese nut? A peanut What do you want, Kimura? I'm leaving now. Anything else? Do your stuff Flat rate, as you said? That'll be fine Next stand? Yes. Shingu Town, Kii I see So long, Master Mr. Marudai's present, Master In witness of it... ...give us your hands Once more Once more Congratulations Is that the leading man? He seems pretty old Afternoon Good afternoon Afternoon Give me a sake Sure - I'll put money here - Thank you I knew you'd come. I saw the parade How have you been? All right? Come right in. It's much cooler in here Thanks. Thank you very much I'm glad to see that you're fine - You too - Thanks Twelve years have passed It must have been so hard. So many years You had sore shoulders last time All right now? Had I? You told me the pains were killing you Did I? It's OK now It's very breezy here Sorry to bother you Not at all Thanks. Thank you very much How is Koyoshi? All right? Sure. Finished high school last year You wrote that to me Did I? He's working now - Where? - Post Office To save money He's keen to study electronics at school Great But then I'll be all alone here And you'll be lonely - But he's saving up for schooling - Is he? I'd hate to discourage him I know Tell me What does he know? I mean... about me Does he think that his father is dead? And that I'm only your brother? Pretty flowers Don't you feel sort of lonely? About what? About Kiyoshi I can't help it I'm not worth my salt However... Let's not talk about it But... Forget it. Let it remain that way I'm sorry for you, though. Forget it - Have a drink - Thank you Forget it That's Kiyoshi Welcome home Oh, hello, Uncle I should have come home sooner - Are you working? - Studying with the postmaster How you've grown up! He's of conscription age A first-grade conscript, no doubt He sure has grown up No wonder we're getting old It's years since we last met How long are you staying? As long as my show draws. A year, maybe It can't draw that long It will - Is this your work? - Yes - What's this? - Don't tamper with it I'll go and see your show. What do you play? Forget it. It's not meant for you Who is it for? The audience - I'm one of them - I know It's nothing sophisticated. Forget it Why put on such plays? Do something better But I can't Why not? Today's audiences don't understand good plays So you shan't come to see it Last time we went fishing together - What fish bite now? - Well... - It doesn't matter. Let's go again - It's hot I don't mind. Let's go, shall we? How about tomorrow? A Sunday? - Shall we? - Sure. Let's go Is it a date? He sure has grown up - Is it warm enough? - Yes Very logical. He argued me down Really? What did you argue about? He's becoming very wise Very brainy Welcome! Welcome, two good patrons Welcome Welcome! - Tetsu - Yes? - Sadahachi - Well. Boss? "This is our last night in Mt Akagi "I'm leaving my home village of Kunisada... "... and my territory "I have to leave you, too, my loyal men "This is the last of my Kunisada group "To think of it... "... the breeze sounds lonely "A flock of geese... "... flying to the south "The moon is setting behind the western hills "Where shall I go now? "Where my legs will carry me... "I'll be roaming aimlessly to the end of the world "Boss! "That's Brother Enzo "Stout-hearted as he is... "... he must feel lonesome to leave home "You, noted sword... "... thoroughly tempered by the famous Yoshikane of Kaga... "... and cleansed in the brook from the perpetual snow "You, at least, my right will guard "Though all the world betrays me, you'll be with me, faithful one "The geese are flying away "The crow must lament for me" Great performance Look! The barber's daughter Which one? Do you see an old dame with a towel on her head? Behind her. Munching on a bun now What a big mouth she has! Which one is your find? Is she here? She's out there. That one The one who's smoking now She's cute A real find, too. And mine? Your girl isn't here She's cuter, mind. Not my taste, though Really? I can't wait... Watch out They may see you They liked it, eh? Full house? Not very... ...for an opening It'll work. I'm sure Do you think so? Yes. Remember the last stand? Why are you so pessimistic these days? Don't you worry And mark my words I'm sure Where do you go after that scene? I climb down the mountain And after climbing down? Don't you see? I come straight to you No kidding I'm not kidding at all Here he comes Welcome - Hello - Come in here It's hot, eh? It's sticky Where's my girl? Don't worry. She'll come Come to see the Master? He's gone out Let's have a drink Hurry Yae, your man's impatient Hello, darling. How's the big boy? - This one? - Your taste Just joking No good? - Stop joking - What are you talking about? Look at me I'm freezing to death Have a drink, then You're awfully reliable, Kichi Nice man How? You son of a... I'm on the spot. Am I sad? - Why so sad? - Shut up - My mama's dead - Really? I'm catching a chill Get warmed up - Welcome - Hi Doing your stuff? Hi, come in What's your name? Katsuko Cute name A real find, Senta. Have a good time I'll be seeing you - So long - So long Do come again Senta Hey, Senta. Brace up "Though all the world betrays me" Give me sake. Hurry! Oh, you big hunk More sake sold, Master All right Afternoon - Hello - Where's your dad? He's out now Out? It's hot, eh? Did you come to see him? Well, not exactly I came to see you Cad! I'm serious Just feel how my heart is thumping Mama! Mama! What is it? What happened? What do you want? I wonder if I can have my face shaved Aiko, go inside Come over here OK I'm afraid I haven't much beard yet I may not need a shaving I think not Sit down Thank you They don't bite at all, Uncle Be patient. Take your time You'll get sunstroke. Put this on your head I'm OK I think you overdid it I'm afraid your performance was too hammy Nonsense It was all right But that character is unrealistic, isn't it? What's that? It's too unreal Don't be silly He's a man of old times You don't understand. A fossil What are you talking about, wise guy? My audience likes my performance... ...whether it's hammy or not You lack progressive spirit Stop talking about the theatre Look... ...I've lost my bait again I hear you want to go to college? Yes Nothing better than studying But your mother will be lonely Doesn't matter It does. Imagine how she'd feel Think of her She approves of it... ...so it doesn't matter Yes, it does Don't make her cry. She's a good mother Aren't you clumsy? Is the bath hot enough? It was. I'm done now Fetch some water I feel so refreshed - Master isn't back yet? - No Where did he go? - He went fishing - Fishing? Yes. I was having my face shaved at the barber's I saw him pass with a young man A young man? Didn't you know? A mail clerk, I saw him in the mirror What happened to your face? I got cut at the barber's Take a bath, Kayo, as the Master is late Well... then... Eat, folks. Supper's ready Get up Grandpa, and eat You're back Where have you been? I was with the boys Good catch? Fish Did you catch many, Kichi? Sure And he caught a swellfish. A great big puffer, too - A good catch - We enjoyed it, eh? See you later - Were you really together? - With whom? - With the boys - Yeah - Where did you go? - Fishing I see. Who was the young man with you? One of my patron's sons A mail clerk? Who told you that? Never mind I don't Who told you? You seem worried - Why? It's strange - What is? Are you feeling guilty? About what? Ah, I see. You're jealous Stop it, silly, stop it Why should I fool around when I have you? I'm an old man, silly I'm not young any longer. You know me. Don't you? You old sinner You must know something Why don't you tell me? I won't quote you... ...to anyone What do you know? Speak up Watch out, Masa! You've known the Master for years You ought to know You came here with him before my time So tell me. I'm begging you. Please I can't help it Can't help what? What can't be helped? And why? He's bound to see... ...his old flame Really? Just what I thought Who is she? What is she? What kind of girl? What does she look like? Better ask Robusaburo He knows her too? I see And Roku knows about it too? - Can you stand this, Master? - Stand what? Such an empty house Why did we have to come here? What is it, Roku? She's out there I see - Where? - That one In front of that pillar back there With a fan Thanks, Roku. I'll buy you a drink What an insult! What's up? It's terrible What are you grumbling about so tediously? You can't help en empty house, when it's empty Rain? Is that rain? Yes It's raining, Master Gosh, misfortunes never come alone Swift is Heaven's vengeance! What are you hinting at? Stop complaining You're tedious I have enough of a headache already Serves you right. I knew this would happen Hey! Behave yourself! Wait a minute Again? Let me see Here - Are you sure? - Yes Check Wait a sec. What shall I do? Wait a sec No, I can't Whoa, whoa I have a dilemma Suppose I dodge You'll come... No good, either Hurry up, will you? Whoa Hurry up Hold your jaw Here Good afternoon Give me a sake Certainly - Tell me... - Yes? Is Master Komajuro from my troupe here? Yes, he is I'm anxious to see him Certainly Listen What? A visitor Who? Wait here, as I'll defeat you this time I don't mind fixing a game for you What are you saying? I was pleasing you, mind Don't mess with the men What do you want? What is it? I can't come here? What? So the proprietress here was your important patron? Where are you going? I must thank your patron Don't stop me I must thank you for your attentions to him Thanks so much Don't fake ignorance Go away! Get going! Hey, you. Are you her son? Hey. Stop it Who's your father? What is he? Why are you so flustered? A nice son you have Eh, Madame? I must tell them something! Let me go! Let go! You fool! Prize fool! Let me go! Let go! Be sensible, you fool! Sensible, no way! How dare you interfere! You meddler! You have no say in their affairs! What's wrong with me seeing my son? My own son! Any objection? Say so, if you have any! You can certainly dish it out, can't you? Shut up, you lousy...! How dare you! You ungrateful... What? Forget about Okaya? Who got you out of the hole? And at Toyokawa, too! Each time you were stranded, you begged me! What? Where would you be without me? Each time I had to appeal to the impresario on all fours! - Remember all that! - What! You impudent, ungrateful brute! What? Shut up! Who are you? Remember who you were! You were a common whore! You fell for me and came to me a-begging! Who trained you into an actress, remember? You ungrateful wretch... ...lower than an animal! You big fool, you! I can get along all by myself... ...without any help from you! Don't make me laugh, fool! Fool, you say? You took the word out of my mouth! How dare you! I talk! So what? All right! I'm through with you! I forbid you to come into that house! My son is different from you, mind! He belongs to a higher race! Don't forget that! You lousy...! What are you talking about? You fool! Fool! You fool! Silence! Stop making noises samurai! What's the matter? It's practically empty A miserable failure We'll be stranded Buddha help us Listen, Kayo I want you to do me a favor Like what? A young man is working for the Post Office here A good-looking boy named Kiyoshi Yes? And what about him? Here - What's this? - Keep it Why? Go and see this boy... ...try to come on to him To him? He'll fall for you, I'm sure. Do that for me I'm sorry, I can't I'm being serious, Kayo But I don't even know him Very well All right. If you feel that way But, you know... Forget it! I don't know if I could succeed You can I know you can I have yet to find a man... ...who wouldn't say "yes" to you You really think I can? I might fail You won't Tell me... Why? Just try To see how good you are Keep the money OK. Thanks a lot Tomorrow, then I'll try, then POST OFFICE A telegraph blank, please Sure - And a pencil - Here's a pencil I can't write with a pen. Please I saw you on stage You did? Your name is Kiyoshi, isn't it? How do you know? A little bird told me Here, dispatch it "Come outside to see me" "Come outside to see me" - To whom? - To you Take over here a moment OK Come to the theatre after the show tonight I'll be expecting you I'll be back soon Where you going? To the Post Office Give me a bowl of noodles Certainly I'm glad you came I thought you couldn't come You're trembling, aren't you? Me too See? The sky's as blue as a tragedy Don't be silly I want to eat a big cutlet I'm so hungry Oh, for a fried lobster and a bottle of cold beer With an electric fan turning Many are actually eating some now That girl at Handa, remember? She wrote me a letter I got one, too The one with a mole? I got one myself So we're three brothers, eh? My gosh I saw that barber's daughter Stop it, will you? She's no good Forget her By the way, why is the Master so easy-going? Where does he go every day? I see him stepping out every day I don't know. No wonder Miss Sumiko's worried What became of the manager? No news from him yet No news is bad news Terrible I fear he's run away... ...or else he'd be back by now What if he fails to come back? We'll be stranded again Look at that plane Come over here and drop us a dozen bottles of beer Can we afford to see each other every day like this? What about your work? I'm on leave. And you? The show's ended Why did it flop like that? We'll have to part for good soon What will we be doing this time next year? Stop talking like that You'll be married, I believe Of course not! Why not? What about you? What do you think? Please. Don't Why not? Nobody's looking at us You mustn't But why not? I'm not such a good girl I'm not good enough for you Don't be silly At first... ...I was going to seduce you I knew nothing about you Miss Sumiko asked me to see you I was anxious to make you fall for me It doesn't matter how it began It doesn't matter at all You love me, don't you, like I love you? Please. I tell you You mustn't You mustn't care for me What became of the manager? It's terrible We mustn't avail us too much of the impresario's kindness It's awful Indeed It's good when it's good But when we get stranded... ...a terrible profession Isn't Kiyoshi late? Why is he coming home this late? He must be with the postmaster He's been late a couple of nights He can't help it, then I'll have to go away soon So I want to see him while I can What a lot! You'll be lonely again Is the next stand Shingu? According to my schedule, yes I'm not sure now I've always wanted to visit Shingu again But no relative of yours lives there now, I fear? Even the Tsukinoya Inn is run by someone else, I hear Nothing's constant under the sun It's the way of the world Tell me, who is that woman? Who? That woman who came here Oh, that one. She's no good Forgive me My error I should have known much better. But by mere chance... - Darling - What? Do you think I'm jealous? I know better than that I know you're a fast worker Ouch. Do you mean it? Forgive me By the way, don't you think she might talk to Kiyoshi? About what? That you're his father I don't think so She shan't come here again But she might see him That would be terrible, yes But I don't think she will You mean... ...you want to remain as his uncle? That's right He mustn't know, or he'd be unhappy However... Forget it I'll remain his uncle for life Wait a minute Where have you been? Come with me! Come this way Tell me... ...who were you seeing? Who was he? Speak up! When did you first see him? Speak up, wench! Are you deaf? Never mind who I was seeing. Leave me alone What? What are you trying to do to him? Swindle him? You think so, Master? Don't change the subject! I know what someone like you would try! Do you have an excuse? Speak up, if you have one! It's only natural... ...that you should think so What? Even Miss Sumiko at first... ...paid me to persuade me What? What did she persuade you to do? Tell me what she told you to do! Forget it. It doesn't matter now Speak up! Or else! Or I'll break your arm! She asked me if I'd come on to that young man Sumiko asked you to do that? She did? Do you mean it? Are you sure? Is it true? All right! Bring her here at once Hurry up! Bring her here! Right away! You wanted me? Come over here! What is it? What are you doing? You filthy...! You want to ruin my son? I told you to lay off, didn't I? I didn't do anything A great boy he is. Having an actress for a mistress Don't call him names, you! Like father, like son! Are you angry now? Serves you right The world is a wheel You can't always be lucky I want you to remember that! What? Remember it yourself! You slut! You fool! I don't want to see you again! Go away! - Wait a second - What! Let go! Do you hate me as much as that? What? Don't you see why I had to? You kept the truth about that woman from me Feel for me! Now we're even Let bygones be bygones and come round Let's be friends again We're stranded. Let's not quarrel now Shut up. There's no point After all you did! I'm through with you! Master! Wait! The fool! The slut! Why are you so quiet tonight? What is it? It's terrible Pull yourselves together Get me another drink - Do you have money? - No problem Eh, Sister? - Me too, then - Me too - Do you have? - What? Money You know I don't. Don't make me blush Do you agree? Terrible guy Don't paw me like that, you terrible man What? I'm not doing anything What are you talking about? Terrible Let's get out of here Where are our drinks? No money, no drinks Listen... ...why is the Master lingering on like this? That manager will never come back I know. That's why I've been thinking - About what? - Forget it What's on your mind? Tell me Have you ever done that before? Yes, once. With Ohmi & Company I see. Me too - And you? - What? Not so loud Let's go before it's too late We can use the money in the Master's purse I won't Listen. Why must we be loyal to him endlessly? I disagree with you! Yes, sir! Though I won't stop you Not so loud, please I have a penetrating voice! Though I won't tell on you Shall we drop the idea? Maybe we should Yes, of course Why trifle with the Master? After owing him so much! A man who is ungrateful... ...is not a human being at all You guys disgust me! I never realized... ...that you two were such bad boys After being together for years I'll really be mad! I know how you feel It was ungrateful of us to think of it Yes, I guess it was Naturally! Now, Kichi. We've changed our minds So come round Drop your silly ideas... ...and try to live like human beings Very well. I'm sorry Let's drink Give us three drinks, will you? Do you have it? Don't worry Preparing for the worst, I'd put this aside So you have a nest egg? Is that all? A paper charm against pickpockets too Get us three drinks Here she is Get me a drink Make it hot Here's an angel Evening, Miss Sumiko So you've been here, boys No news from the manager yet? No, nothing Chances are he won't come back anymore What a bad fellow he is! Where are our drinks? What about this? What do you think? What do you say? Is that all you can do? This is the best we can do That's the very best, mind you I see Only that much Can't help it Enough for railway fares Very well Let's do it again Was the camera all you were robbed of? And a lighter Kichi owes me lots of money Too bad for the Master. He had his purse stolen What a terrible fellow. I'll kill him if I see him I got sort of suspicious of him He'd never been straight, either That's right He even stole my charm against pickpockets! He stole all I had. Terrible fellow! Tell me, Sensho What is your plan for the future? What is to become of us? Your cup is empty, Yatazo Thank you, sir How about you? I must ask your forgiveness... ...for this situation But every cloud has a silver lining I'll inform you when I make a new start I want you to join me, if you're free then Where are you planning to work, Kamenosuke? My brother-in-law is running a pickle shop at Hamamatsu I see And you? I'll go and see my former employer He may hire me again Good A bath-house owner, isn't he? Yes, he is Those who can quit the stage had better do so You say you'll go to school again? Yes, sir... ...as a working student if possible We're going to be broken up... ...but I want you to remember me sometimes We've had hard times... ...but we've had good times, too Master Let's go merrily. This isn't a wake Good idea. Yes, let's Why don't you join us, Miss Sumiko? This is a farewell party - Please, Miss - Come here Please sit here - What happened to Kayo? - What happened? Play merrily, auntie Master... ...why can't you be nice to Miss Sumiko? Well, old Sensho... ...and you, Roku We've been together for a long, long time, haven't we? Yes, sir He's speaking to you We've been through thick and thin I'm afraid I was rather strict with you sometimes We've been together for many years Forgive me... ...if I was Grandpa Grandpa What happened, Grandpa? We're in a mess What happened? We've broken up My goodness. Really? The impresario tried to help me up... ...but it was in vain He's been very kind to me Why don't you come in? Where is Kiyoshi? Weren't you with him? No, I wasn't A young person came for him with your message - A young person? - A girl And he went out? Yes, with her What's the matter? This is terrible What is it? Kiyoshi... ...he's ruined, I'm afraid What happened? What did he do? This is horrible What in the world did Kiyoshi do? Tell me! TAMARUYA INN A penny for your thoughts Are you sorry? Of course not. I brought you here - But... - But what? It was my fault We shouldn't have come Why? You must never have dealt with a girl like me I'm not good enough for you The Master must be angry Why do you say that? My uncle has nothing to do with it You told me you wanted to go to college and study, didn't you? Good idea Do so by all means... ...or else you'll be sorry afterwards Then you're sorry? I needn't go to college I think I'll take you to Mother She'll consent to our plan - Even if she won't, I'll... - Please Drop that idea Go home like a good boy. Go home to your mother Do so by all means What for? Why? We're to part. To break up for good What will become of you? The troupe's been broken up Forget it. Forget about a girl like me I can get by, some way or other Don't be silly! Go home, for mercy's sake I beg you to Please Please go home... Please... Where did he go, anyway? Like father, like son Fast worker I didn't know that I thought he was better than me at all points I'm afraid... ...I was too optimistic about the whole thing I'm beaten hollow this time All my plans have gone to pieces Listen, darling You're imagining too much Look here... ...what can you expect when he eloped... ...with a girl like this? I mean it. I'm disappointed in him But, darling... ...I'm sure he'll come back He's not a bad boy He'll come back Think so? You think he'll come home? What if he won't? I know, yes... ...I know But young people today are so rash and reckless He'll come back He's bound to come Listen When he comes home, why don't you settle down? Darling, tell Kiyoshi the truth He's old enough to understand He'll find out one day He's bound to find out in the end Had we told him before, this wouldn't have happened Please. Tell him everything I beg you to. Tell him And make this place my home? I wish you would - Shall we? - Will you? Thank you. Very much! He'll be delighted But... ...where can he be now? Do you want a drink? - Why not? - I'll make it hot Here he is! Where have you been? Answer her I want you to meet someone What is it? Why, you! How dare you show up here? You fool! I'm sorry, Master I'm the one who's sorry. You slut! Don't, Uncle She's apologizing What? How dare you worry Mother like this? Don't scold him so Shut up! They're gluttons for punishment! - Slut! - Stop, Uncle Don't! Please! Stop! - What? - What! Do you know who this is? He's your father. Your real father Apologize to him! I see. Just... ...as I thought Mother... ...you told me my father had died when I was a baby I believed it. I still believe it I don't want a father at all Not in my life Listen... ...he didn't want you to know... ...that you were an itinerant player's son How come? Why? He wanted you to study hard... ...and become somebody So he worked hard... ...and remitted your schooling expenses That's enough - Stop it - But... Say, Uncle... ...why show up all of a sudden? Mother. Tell me that now? You two are selfish I don't want a father Go away Out with you! Get going! Forgive me I knew nothing about it I'm afraid he's right Very natural, too One can't suddenly show up out of nowhere... ...and exert parental authority But, darling... ...why talk like that? On second thought, I decided not to settle down It would be better... ...much better for us all But Kiyoshi isn't mad at you any longer You see... ...I'm going to turn a new leaf Let me part tonight as his uncle, as before Next time I come back here... ...I'll be a good actor he can be proud of Let me look forward to such a day Yes, such a day will come But, darling... Then celebrate my success and rejoice for me Master Take me with you I'll work hard to help you I can't part with you like this! Please Master, I'm begging you... ...take me with you Please! Did you hear her? Very pathetic of her Be good enough to look after her as well I'm sorry I scolded you Forgive me Help Kiyoshi to make good I'm counting on you You understand? Oblige me Kiyoshi! Kiyoshi! Kiyoshi! Kiyoshi! The Master! Go see him! Hurry up! See him! Hurry up! Will you hurry! Where's Uncle? Where is he? What's happened to Uncle? Your father? He's left for the road Kiyoshi! Don't stop him Leave him alone Each time Father came to this town... ...since you were a baby... ...he left this place with such a sentiment It's all right... ...only if you can become somebody in life Where are you going, Master? Give me a light Tell me... ...where are you going? I'm at a loss where to go now Do you have a plan? You do? Tell me Where are you going? Kuwana Town Which impresario? Mr. Kaneyoshi may give me a chance, I think Good! Can I go with you? I happen to know Mr. Kaneyoshi very well You don't want me to go with you? I'm taking a chance Shall we try? Yes, let's try. Good idea Shall we? Sure. Yes, let's try Very good! Two tickets to Kuwana Don't forget your baggage How do you like it? Here THE END
