 

                        A HEART IN WINTER Maxime and I had known each other so long, we didn't need words We work together, but he's the boss In this family business... ... Maxime maintains tradition, musicians are at ease with him He knows their repertoire, invites them to lunch He listens, he calms their fears No, you did play it with the Vienna Philharmonic They entrust us with their most precious possession, their violin You hear the lack of clarity? Yes, a lack of brilliance on the E Maxime sees them more as patients than clients For more extensive treatment, Maxime steps aside Is it just unglued, or more serious? Perhaps I should hear you Maxime preferred musicians At concert he shared in their emotions... ... and shared in the applause, genuinely moved Maxime needs to expend himself He is at one with his body. He so loves to win... ... that losing for me becomes a pleasure He has appetites, but no qualms, ; life hangs lightly on him If he has to lie, he does it effortlessly I'm a willing alibi for his nocturnal pastimes I no longer go along, buthe tells me everything the next day Work done, each of us lives his own life Maxime never asks where I go or who I see when we aren't together... ... which is fine by me Your table will be ready in two minutes See you later, after coffee? - Do you know who I was talking to? - Rgine Oblet No, the other one. Know her? You've heard her... Camille Kessler The Debussy recital; a bit dry, you said No, it was good She's coming as a customer A Guarneri is to be sold in Geneva Magnificent, but a ruin, much broken You'll have a ball - Don't you want to go? - Me? What an idea - Go somewhere for once - No Something has happened to me... ...something important But if you smile like that... It's gone I've met someone You're facing her When was this? Two months ago And you didn't tell me? That was her She was afraid... I didn't want to rush her How did it happen? I was following her concerts I went to see her after one she was displeased with I mentioned a dry patch she played with a lot of emotion I must have hit the spot. We had dinner And you saw her home? She's not like that Besides, she lives with Rgine, so it's not easy So you came between them? It's not like that. She's not just her agent... ...but her mother's best friend And her career comes first One night, meeting me here, she was late I felt ill and nearly left, but she arrived looking anxious, lost Seeing her like that... ...I realize it can happen, loving someone And your wife? There was a difficult moment But it had long been over You don't spend your life with a pal It's better for her, too You don't leave her much choice Someone always suffers And now what? We'll live together. I've rented a studio I think you're awaited See you later Can you believe that guy? Wants to buy the bookshop for a boutique Lermontov... he's like you, dry as a whip The guy was propositioning me. Are you listening? Look at a man touched by grace Say, she's... Wonderful Come and see this marvel, Madame I had the harpsichord and cello, only this missing Magnificent. Was it you? Maxime... he found it in Hungary He repaired the mechanism. Were bits missing? Two. I had fun making them Are you staying to dinner? I'm afraid I've work that's overdue You work a lot? Never tire of it? You're lucky Is Vincent Madame Amet's nephew? How old is he? Five, I think Camille Kessler... was she your pupil? Years ago. I heard her play at Aix last summer - We're to have her as a customer - Maxime told me I remember a hard, polished little girl who kept you at a distance But a real temperament, you felt No, in here! Isn't Vincent here? Do you hear that G, how rough it is? - You've had it how long? - Three years It's a Villaume, sounded superb then We have recordings coming up The playing must have soul The bridge is slightly warped Can you change it quickly? Checking the fret may take a few days - But we've a rehearsal - You said that I could lend you another I've got a spare You are to record...? The two Ravel sonatas and the trio I'll try for the day after tomorrow We're counting on you We're already late for the Lambertis You can go, Brice Sorry, Christophe. Again I'm not with it at all I thought it was good. Let's go on It's me, not you I don't agree I'm no use today Is it the violin? Water, please, Rgine Maybe a little more work on it? No, it's exactly right; it's me I have to go Will you hand them up? I think she's starting to hate me - Which gives you a certain pleasure? - It's an interesting development Odd that three-quarters of these books are about love Airport novel, masterpiece, cookery book... ...always the same vocabulary, a deluge - You find it obscene? - No, as written it's often beautiful Yes, Maxime, we're ready; be right down What are you doing? - No good, is it? - It's fine. Hurry, Maxime's waiting Let him wait I'm not ready. Half-an-hour looking for that score I didn't ask you to But you let me hunt, then said Christophe took it Stop it... we have to go Well, I'm not going! That's ridiculous You'll be with Maxime, you don't need me I hate playing chaperone All right, don't go Do you realize what you're doing to me? I put myself out so that you can play at your best... ...and you don't give a damn Forgive me No, Vincent, knives to the right, not left Are you sleeping here tonight? Nasty... really? I remember the exact words "Your bow scratches like a pummice- stone rubbed on a parquet floor" If I said that, it's what I thought - You were that cruel? - Aren't you ashamed? Saying it to a mediocre pupil would be cruel I never said it to Maxime, the idler True, I did little, and have no regrets Regret is always an illusion What about Stphane? Stphane... that's something else again Not emotion, that's suspect; it's hard work that impresses me - I know, I read your book - So you've one reader at least, Daniel What upsets me, as I wrote, is that on the pretext that it's all culture... ...some rate a pop video alongside a Claudel play, a Piero Della Francesca... ...or a Ravel sonata and Madame Amet's apple pie Would you prefer fresh fruit? No, but it's all lumped together, pell-mell People can still choose Yes, but with everything meriting equal attention... ...consensus of opinion becomes a woolly horror I believe in a certain mental vigilance. Is that pompous? No, we're listening to the voice of tradition - Severe - But courageous Tradition! So I'm a reactionary No, you speak for an anxious lite in a world threatened by democratic excess I've fought litism all my life. There's too much bleating today There's confusion, I agree If culture is still a privilege... ...it isn't reserved for quite so few It's worse, all these clueless clodhoppers in the museums But if a clodhopper's life is changed by a work of art, isn't that something? It's always been so I don't think so You almost agree For you, too, there's the sensitive individual in the blind masses I didn't say that No, you said there's a natural selection of people destined... Not at all You said some things that others don't That's what you said Yes, but... I exclude no one Neither do I You have no opinion? None? He's above debate I hear arguments, all valid If we cancel each other out, we can't talk A tempting prospect I don't share your goodwill Fine, we'll respect your silence Speaking, one risks sounding stupid Not speaking, one may appear intelligent Maybe one is simply afraid Afraid of what? Of yourself, perhaps That must be it You worry me Don't discourage such revelations. I think you're becoming complacent - He's trying to move us - Some attempt Mission impossible I withdraw what I said: Madame Amet's apple pie is a work of art Delicacy of flaking pastry - A touch of... - Cinnamon Is it long since Lachaume taught? Seven or eight years He has an odd relationship with Stphane We'd never met socially... he's so disagreeable You have to know him; it's all a game he's playing You'd have to defend your friend I'm not trying to; I accept him as he is And you? No, you're not disturbing me She's asleep You think so? Maybe. All right, I'll tell her That was Stphane What did he want? To talk to you On relection, he thinks he can do better by the violin He'll come to your rehearsal Why? The violin's perfect He knows what he's doing. Trust him It's a small thing, but... if you don't mind Yes, it's different... better, isn't it? Purer It didn't strike you before? Yes, but... it takes time to... It didn't seem the right moment to mention it, then later... All right? Yes, but... Weren't you playing a bit fast? You want to check the pacing? Yes, if you don't... It's lovely You're going already? Have you others to see? No, but I must let you work Odd how the oldest varnish has kept its colour If you effect a sale, will I owe you? No commission, just my appraisal fee I think I have a buyer for you Will you excuse me a moment? Did you say Kornfeld wanted a Gagliano? - Has he found one? - I don't think so I can still catch him - Isn't that too tight? - It usually is; you must enlarge it Two little restorations, otherwise perfect Can you come to Amsterdam? Not the day after tomorrow. Friday, if you like All right, Friday That was the price, Monsieur Kornfeld Hold on, please Give me five minutes We'll be with you by eleven a.m. Perfect - Now what do you do? - Adjust the heel - I think it's... - That's good Very good, in fact You did it, didn't you? Tomorrow we'll glue it Maxime's busy, so... You were there? You should have spoken I didn't want to disturb you. Is he your apprentice? And this violin? He's making it; his first instrument - How long does it take? - A month or so; eighty pieces A drink? Yes, I'd like that While we wait for Maxime Please sit down - Fruit juice? Whisky? - Whisky - With water? - No, neat I needed that; I've had a rather difficult day - Rehearsals? - No, they're going well No, it's not that Not Maxime, is it? No, not Maxime I quarrelled with Rgine Horrible things were said About what? I don't want to say It got to me, though I thought she knew me better than that - How long have you known her? - Ten years Without her, I'd never have achieved what I have She stopped me from giving up in despair. I owe her everything Maybe you resent that She's protection for you Which I needed... ...but it's become a sort of dependence Which you can no longer accept Yes, that's it, exactly It seems simple, but it's hard to accept But you already knew this Yes, but I've never spoken of it before Oppportunity Am I in the way? Quite the contrary - When are you recording? - On Monday Couldn't get away from my Dutchman A bit austere, isn't he? Sorry, we're late; see you tomorrow So, not just conversation, but real intimacy? She came to me But it's what you expected Let's say, what I hoped for Are you in love with her? I know you bristle at the word No, it disorientates me. Let me think No, I don't think I am Anyhow, it's Maxime she loves At one point I did get the impression that she'd rather have dinner with me An impression Could you be jealous of Maxime? I never have been, and doubt I could be You win. I'm playing well, too - You can have your revenge - No, my flight's in two hours I'll leave you drunk with victory - Will you be back tonight? - Yes, the nine o'clock flight I'm glad you two are getting on; I was a bit worried And you're relieved? Yes, selfishly I prefer it that way I wonder if we shouldn't have got better musicians to back her I think they're fine The cellist? Christophe? No, he understands her; they complement each other perfectly - What bothers me is, he loves her - Don't say you're worried No, it's her, fending him off but trying not to hurt him. Energy wasted I've never before admired someone I love So I'm forced into greater rigours... ...excising lazy habits - You manage it rather well - It's exhausting A healthy exhaustion She's guarded if you question her, not for coquettish reasons In fact she reveals herself only in her playing - Does that bother you? - On the contrary - Time's tight, but want a lift? - No, I'll walk a bit Very, very good Shall we take a break? You were here? You heard? - Yes, the end - And what did you think? - Excellent - Really? I was floundering earlier, though Have you time for a drink? It's a short break, but... We can go to the caf - I think... - Let's go - Did Maxime ask you to come? - No - It seems less heavy - Shall we run for it? - Won't you freeze? - No, I'll be fine - How about something to eat? - A sandwich? No, your cheese plate and a half of beer How are things with Rgine? Better. She has 'flu, a raging fever, so I'm busily mothering her My fingertips are stinging Why did you give up at the Conservatoire? Not gifted Didn't like my sounds - Too much the critic? - That must be it - It's a quality - That's debatable There's a table for you You said you were at Versailles. Where were you really? You're always lying! You're crazy! - Have you always lived alone? - Yes, mostly You enjoy solitude? I'm a thwarted Ioner, but enjoy the company of men - And of women, too - That's not the same thing I face up to things as they are But you're a rotten coward. Don't do that! I fear for their future I think he's crying Haven't you ever been in love? I must have been Maxime spoke of Hlne. What is she to you? Someone I appreciate; we get on well You don't like talking about yourself? Not much It doesn't serve any real purpose It depends who you're with I can stay silent for days, then suddenly let go if it seems right Like with Rgine, we'd slave away... ...then maybe talk all night In Rome once we had decided to... I can feel your attention slipping I'm listening... seeing... I love to watch you talk - Will you come again? - Of course I'm glad you came I'm sorry, I couldn't... Today I don't think... Pass me the honey, please I must try to get up this afternoon You're looking well - When do you start today? - Ten o'clock - What's the matter? - Nothing I wonder if he really likes what I do What are you talking about? He didn't turn up, seemed put out when I called - But you told him to stay away - I'm not talking about Maxime I'm talking about Stphane I don't understand. When he's there, he's there Then suddenly it's as if I didn't exist I'm going to be late Again Funny, it's really so easy I think I've seen it. Never mind, I've forgotten the end Not seeing her? Are you proud of yourself? You want me to push things? Playing dead just makes it worse for her You overestimate my powers of attraction No, I don't; nor do you When a woman gets that far, she's unlikely to retreat - She hasn't called again - Which means nothing He's usually punctual - Who? - Franois. I said he was coming - The lawyer? - Yes. Do you mind? You never know with jealousy - What about Maxime? - He's fine, brimming with life Has she talked to him? Maybe; I doubt it Sorry, parking problems Hlne has told me a lot about you It's intimidating; I know she values your opinion It was a bargain. I can decorate as I like, so I jumped at it Everything all right? - What do you think? - It's a nice room You're seeing to everything? Camille hasn't time with a tour coming up The bedroom Bathroom there... the music room That's nothing; maybe for Rgine if she's unhappy The kitchen will be bigger with the partition gone Neither of us can cook, but there you are She has to feel comfortable here I must call her... let her set her seal on it At the apartment with Stphane You want to speak... Yes, it's coming on They're painting The recording's fine. I heard the first mix See you tonight. I love you Is something wrong? Can I have some water? It must be the smell of paint Is this it? - Like a bag? - No, thanks. What do I owe you? Have you Chekhov's stories in paperback? I know it wasn't easy. Thank you, you've restored its youth My taxi's here. Time for me to leave my friends Stphane is marvellous Landron's madly happy Can you get me this London number? I forgot to call. I may have to go there I can go if you like - This is new - Yes, you convinced me If you want to, it would help me - You must be hungry - A bit Is it too late to eat... something cold? They've been working since eight Your call, Maxime - When do you finish? - Tomorrow, in theory Maxime said you were quite pleased I think so... I'm not sure any more Are you all right? Why are you avoiding me? I'm not avoiding you Was it something I said or did? Not at all; I've been very busy I thought you cared about my work Is it because of Maxime? You might have scruples as he's your friend There's no friendship between us No friendship? We've been partners for years; we complement each other It's to our mutual interest, that's all He thinks of you as a friend I can't prevent that - I don't believe you - Why? Because it's not something one admits to. It's true. Are you shocked? No, saddened Misusing words is sad You devalue them, and everything else What are you protecting yourself from? I seem to be laying myself open You aren't like that; nobody is It's a pose Do you want me to invent reasons, traumas? Unhappy childhood, sexual frustration, career nipped in the bud? No, I don't see it My brothers and sisters did find me naturally sly and secretive I admit it freely Offering this unpleasant image of yourself is a bit facile, isn't it? A bit. I'm sorry You act as if emotions didn't exist Yet you love music Music is the stuff of dreams Sorry, they don't want you. They prefer someone they know Too bad; it's their loss I'm off. See you later Your table's ready, Maxime I'm feeling low It has nothing to do with the sonatas I've never lied to you, and don't want to start now What's happened? Nothing He's attracted to you I sense it, I see it I know him... ...better than he thinks He's always hanging around the musicians At the apartment that day, it was as though his mind blanked out Like a malaise What about you? It's like... ...a pressure It's there I try to... ...but I do think about it... ...all the time It crossed my mind, but I wouldn't believe it Beating him up isn't on I need air. Like to come for a walk? Not gone yet? Just boarding. I'll miss Camille's last day of recording. Can you go? I'm counting on you - You have a car? - Yes - It's long since I've been so moved - Thanks, but it's thanks to him You were right; I'm so pleased Will you take my violin? I'm going with Stphane But we're all having dinner I know, but no - What shall I tell them? - I'll leave it to you Are you sure you... Yes, everything's all right Recording with Barbizet, we weren't allowed to retake sections I'd never played it like that Yesterday was good, but flat. Today, I felt inspired - Right through to the end - It seemed so easy How about a drink? - Any idea where? - Some hotel, maybe I played for you I spoke to Maxime About us It was hard He heard me out I told him what happened I want you It's not like me, but I had to tell you I don't think I can give you what you're looking for You want it, too. I know you and accept you as you are I don't mind about this closed world you built round yourself long ago I'm here for you. Look at me You can't go on living like that; you must see that you're changing You're beautiful, you're going to be a great musician You have almost a surfeit of gifts So, since I'm perfect... But you insist on seeing me as you imagined me I'm not that person Don't deceive yourself; it's so simple I must tell you the truth I'd decided to seduce you, without loving you... ...probably to get at Maxime One doesn't "decide" You don't understand You talk of feelings to which I have no access I don't love you Don't talk, please Don't look at me You make me sick! It's my life! I've made an appointment and you're going No, I won't go! What can he say that I don't already know? Don't smoke, don't drink, don't fuck! All right, don't go; see if I care - Here's your book - Don't bother, I'm sick of it So let yourself go completely, don't make any effort You're into everything... ...nosing about like a bulldozer with your big boobs Don't be coarse You always have to change the subject It's for your own sake To hell with you! I'm going out for some air Did you hurt yourself? - Don't stay out here, it's cold - Leave me alone! You hardly slept last night I don't sleep if you can't We aren't tied together I could go, if you want, leave you alone I never said that. Don't go on When I got back, she'd collapsed there; she'd been drinking I had to carry her and she was sick Now she's shut up in her room He said something that humiliated her I'm to blame, too I should have paid more attention, talked to her or to you But it seemed to me... - Is she asleep? - I don't think so No, I can hear her - What's your pleasure? - Nothing I went to your place, thought you might be here Would you like some? Who is this man, what is he? An "ear" A genius with his hands, as his friend Maxime says Friend if it suits the interests of both Friendship doesn't come into it This is good wine... not that I'd know They're nice, these little diners Afterwards you go home... or not, depending I haven't heard you play, but Stphane says you've been recording. It seems... What is she talking about? I'll leave you I can't... I can't take it We can't just leave it like this Say something I told you the truth You know you didn't At the studio that day it rained, I didn't imagine your attentiveness That's my job Don't tell me I was just any musician - Your way of looking at me... - I was sincere Everything we said to each other... But we didn't say anything Or was it I who... no, it's not possible But why? I told you why But if it was to get at your friend, you should have fucked me Sordid, but at least it's life Stop this It's nothing! You're nothing! Embarrassed? Let them have their fun Old strait-lace... ...wishes he were elsewhere It seems he loves music... ...because "it's the stuff of dreams" and nothing to do with life You know nothing of dreams. You have no imagination, no heart, no balls You've nothing in there! I'm sorry, but I think... What's happened to me? What am I doing? Don't worry, I'm going I'm ashamed That's it, finished I told your mother seven o'clock Don't forget the ladder Is Stphane sleeping here? Can he mend my truck? What had you in mind? Disrupting things... ...the pleasure of demystification? But one can't demistify feelings No one can boast that sort of pride Maybe you felt unworthy of her Calm down, my pet It will soon pass You'd lost your book, is that it? I'll help you cool down a bit You frightened me, you know You should have called me You want to get up? I feel better now Easy does it; lean on me I thought I'd had it - Has Vincent left already? - School's at eight I'm hungry Did you sleep well? You weren't cold? It hasn't rained as they said it would. The wind's changed If the agency calls, remember to confirm Is Camille in? Do you really think... I'd like to talk to her The Lambertis at six, then I'm sorting things before going on tour I'm not here with excuses; I wanted to see you You're seeing me Will you be away long? About three months. Japan, no Germany first. Rgine has the schedule Can you forget the things I said? They were true I know I'm not nothing; I'm good at what I do. But you were right Something in me isn't alive I can never manage... I've been too late for so long I failed you and I lost Maxime It's myself, I destroy No use telling myself... ...I had to tell you You have, and now I'm the empty one She isn't in... later this afternoon I'll be seeing her, so I'll tell her I must get ready - What are you going to do? - I don't know Good luck Brice, the clamp, please - Did they come about the shelves? - Tomorrow You I can tell... it was through a personal ad He's great; full of humour, just macho enough, reads a lot I'm sure he has faults, but I don't see them - What does he do? - Vineyards in the south-west I'll still see you; I won't get buried in vines I listened to Camille's record. It's good Do you think of her often? Must finish the inventory - You've sold up? - No, got a manager, but who knows? Let's have dinner before you go At Carlo's... time heals all... or my place The pegs are a bit tight; we'll polish them if you leave it For late this afternoon You're well set up here, nice and light I came to see how you pinch our customers Landron said he was going with you But don't worry, I'm doing fine That's nice - How long has it been, eight months? - And a half Camille's fine. Of course there was a while... Now she's back to normal, working hard She comes and goes You know how violinists are You sleep here? Perhaps we could merge, as partners not friends this time No, you're right; better not I went to see Lachaume He's not well He's suffering, doesn't talk any more He wants to die You know he's getting married? - How old are you? - Twenty-two - So young - How should I take that? As a compliment. He'll stand witness? I hope he's up to it Your tickets, Brice A good competition this year Did you see the fourteen-year-old yesterday? So you have a workshop now? Still looking after Camille? We see less of each other. She has Maxime You know she's off to Paris? You should go and see her How are things with you? I'm getting old Do it fast I'll send you some customers He's been asking for three days But I can't... I can't He was so hard on himself... ...but when he laughed, it was... Where's she playing tonight? In Brussels, at the Monnaie I'll get the car You loved him? The only person I did, I've long thought And you... are you all right? I think so, yes Maxime, too? - You're playing in Paris next week? - Will you come to hear me? I'm glad I've seen you again Me, too Eng subs ripped by ..::McLane::..
