 

                        "The Unbelievable" has been broadcasting for 12 years Our crew has visited over many countries in search of bizarre cases and races Human beholds, ghosts be exterminated You still proceed even you heard noises In fact, over the years There are a lot of classified cases that can"t be shown on TV due to censorship so that the crew can"t look into the cases any further I hear voices! Burn spell first! That"s fine! Sammie, I am frighten! These cases are finally revealed! L"m scared! It touched my back It went in there from the stairs! Lt"s growing in numbers Something just came out from the lift again Don"t move! Is this a human head? Master! I can feel something spying on us Gain me strength The tsunami on 26 Dec 2004 took away lives and destroyed families Our crew... went to Phuket to help a woman searching for the remains of her dead son I call upon The Dragon God Prince Follow the Chinese tradition, Son, go home a watermelon was thrown into the sea Believe it of not, the corpse was found 3 days later We contacted a Thai organization It"s called The Pohtecktung Foundation The Pohtecktung Foundation is a charity founded by a Thai Chinese to assist accident... scene cleanup Most members are volunteers They must go through trainings before they are allowed to operation It was said that seven day after people"s death, the souls will return to the sites of death According to the Chinese Tradition, this is called returning soul This "soul" is what we called "spirit" This time... we are going to work with the foundation and see corpses first-hand We wanted to capture the "spirit" on film Master, regarding our main purpose, what exactly is a "spirit"? There are a lot of explanations about "spirit" To put it simply, when a person dies in an accident In the first 7 days of his death, he does not know that he was dead and is still wandering around the human world This is what we called "spirits" If we want to film the spirit, when should we capture its appearance? If we chance upon an accident today, at the particular moment of a person"s death, the spirit leaves the body So that is when we could film a spirit? Possibly, that"s why we come so eagerly to witness those dying of fatal accidents Let"s go in and greet them This is the moment When we had reached Pohtecktung Foundation at 6 p. m. I could see a lot of photos... taken at death scenes on the desk I kept my sight away from the victims on the pictures Until a staff... came to explain every individual case Call Rin come to see it The uniform of Pohtecktung Foundation is the only key to access all trauma scenes We are in the front line today which means we"ll be the first to arrive at accident scenes ahead of even the ambulance and the police As soon as we are ready we will be assigned a pitch stop in Bangkok to await orders A member from the foundation told us, We were stationed near a highway, a traffic accident black spot in Bangkok New case! Everyone gets in the car It is too crowded here, it"s dangerous! Let"s get out of here or we will in their way Save him first! Still alive! Save him first! I am fine but I am still shaking Other than handling corpses, the foundation is also responsible for front line rescue Whenever accidents occur, the Police will receive calls at once, as well as foundation The foundation will be the first... carry out preliminary investigation If the death is found unnatural, the polices will further investigate Otherwise, the victims... will be sent to the hospital for rescuing or body identification As this is a charity organization, free volunteers... are always welcomed They have to go through specific training before being officially assigned duties According to the organization, thousands of uncertain death cases or unclaimed dead bodies cases occur in Thailand every year Part of the donations to the foundation is spent on handling these corpses He was hit and is now... foaming in coma Let"s go, another case again! Hold tight! Inside the house, follow me! Calm down! Inside this house, we do not know what has happened but it"s stinks Check upstairs It"s here Do you have any torches? There"s another room Only this room? But it"s locked Look out! Calm down! Whole pants got wet! Why don"t we just cut it! Be careful, it"s falling off It can"t be! Lt"s unbearable. Let me out Be careful! Slow down! Come to help! Hold him! Anyone help to hold her up? Hold her up! See if Rachel"s okay - Sorry - Okay? Look, Master! See if Rachel"s okay Bring her out first Let"s Master to settle Wait for car now Wait to send him back now That dead body was taken away but Master thought that spirit might still lingering inside the room Four days later, we went back to the scene We will call upon the spirit shortly Rachel and Rin are females and possess negative field, it is easier for them to attract spirits I"m not asking you... to communicate with them but to attract them to appear. Understand? We set for the ceremony here After that, you go upstairs and follow my instructions When I sense their existence, I will ask you to leave It is believed the spirit of a person who hung himself will sink downwards It takes over 10 hours for the soul to leave the body The spirit of those who died with strong antagonism will look purplish As they have unfinished business in this world, they will linger around the site of death Our aim tonight... is to locate them Are we going back to that room? Yes, the previous one where we saw the corpse Rachel, sit down You have to sit... facing where the man died near the window, got it? Got it! Rachel, tell Rin to sit... facing to the mirror You sit here and face to the mirror Sit down, Rachel Face to where the man hung himself Got it! - Wait - Don"t move, sit down I dropped my microphone Wait... Sorry Light up the candles Okay! Light up the candles Yes, every single one Don"t separate. If you"re scared, catch my hand, okay? How about the incenses? Yes, put them inside that bottle in front of you After done, let me know Sorry, we are here for work only Please forgive us. Apologies Burn the paper money after that Where to? In front of you Here? Burn them one by one? Yes, yes. Rachel, read the spell and burn them I call upon Heaven and Earth Spirits of all corners come forth and take your positions Return to and show yourself... at your site of death! Lot of lights are coming out I tell you there are more than one here There should be more than one - It"s gone - Yes, disappeared It"s a circular light There"s anything Yes, there are three or more We might have a chance to film them. Wait and see... maybe we can see other spirits Does she have cite the spells? Cite the spells I call upon Heaven and Earth Spirits of all corners come forth and take your positions Return to and show yourself at your site of death! Lt"s cat The cats are moaning This way, part of it disappeared! It just flashed through Right here! Rachel, stop burning the paper money now Take the black cloth Tell Rin to cover your eyes, this is a very important step... must be followed Something"s happening Rin, stop burning the paper money We have to cover our eyes Remember to put it inside the cloth covering your eyes First of all, wrap it Something strange happened on the left, but don"t worry Cover your eyes Okay, it"s done! Okay, cite the spells! I call upon Heaven and Earth Spirits of all corners come forth and take your positions Return to and show yourself at your site of death! Show yourself! Show yourself! Don"t be scare, Master is here looking after you! Something"s walked through How"s it? Tell me! Keep quiet, both of you sit down back to back Rin Don"t be scare, now say "Goddess of Mercy" (Guanyin)! Something"s there in your left hand side Don"t move! Don"t take off the black cloth Leave the room only when I tell you to do so Now take off the black cloth, you two leave the room slowly Don"t look, don"t look around The door is locked! Leave once you open the door. What are you doing? I can"t open the door! Step back! Step back! I can"t open the door Step back! We will break in! Step back! We will break in! As Rin from the Thai Crew got too frightened, the ceremony was terminated Each year, we receive thousands of emails of bizarre and unexplicable stories Most of them are even seeking help We received... an email from a Thai called Fa His mother was under a curse and hoped that Master Szeto could cure her Is Fa living somewhere here? I don"t know The address is correct. We are now in the right district Not even the local knows where it is Let"s ask the taxi driver Okay The driver said, "Just follow this path. " His car can"t go through There is no one called Fa here Let"s keep searching He said he will take us there Okay They are crew from Hong Kong, they want to find Fa Do you know him? I do He knows where it is Let"s get on the boat, okay? As the emails are coming from all over the world, the information provided may come from deserted areas that are hard to locate We are not familiar with the route and often end up in the wrong place or even got lost, that"s why... we always come across many unbelievable situations Fa Is there anyone here? I doubt it! Fa? There"s not even a phone, how could Fa send the email? Ben, someone"s coming! What are you doing here? Is Fa here? Nobody called Fa is living here and around The landlord here is a shaman He is not Fa, nor a woman Maybe this shaman helped Fa"s mom? Please ask her if Fa has come here to find the shaman No This is the wrong place What should we do now? - Leave - Leave Don"t shoot here The landlord isn"t here She"s telling us not to shoot Is she the landlord? No, she"s just a neighbor Well, if she"s not the landlord, we will wait here till he gets back Please wait outside Can we wait here? She said it"s our call but waiting inside here is not an option Then we go out and wait Don"t shoot here Though we"d found the wrong place We felt that we might find something new Our crew decided to stay finally After four hours, the landlord returned Be careful, someone"s coming back! The landlord? Did Fa find you? What is he doing? - Can you show us? - Sure He said he will show us What is he holding? Don"t touch, It"s a "tamed ghost" I"ll bring you for the dinner He said he will take him downstairs for dinner Don"t touch those things He said this is good thing Good thing for him It stinks! Son, eat it Just feed him like this? He"s using blood to feed him, better stay away It is said that Shanman usually use Fruits or aroma to feed the baby "tamed ghost" When the "ghost" ages older, the subtle shaman will use blood or raw animal to feed the "ghost" since it is believed to extend the power of it Isn"t he going to eat it raw? - Disgusting! - Master, let"s stop him Wait a minute Master, let"s stop him Doesn"t he feed this way? That"s enough! Stop him! Crazy It seems he is tearing out the chicken"s heart What is he looking for? Watch out the blood Is he crazy? Are we done? Is it done? Let"s go. Let"s go Master! Ben, settle it! Lt"s disgusting! Tell him to let me go, please! Calm down, calm! Go! Calm down, calm! Lt"s amazing Sorry, we are going to look for somebody else - Let"s Go! - Go! Go! - Hurry! - Let"s go! Don"t wait for the boat, leave! One by one... hey, stop that Save him! Come and give us a hand! Stop shooting! Come over and help him Let"s go! Go! Go! Leave first! According to folklore, "wug" is a kind of Chinese voodoo most commonly used in the Yunnan Miaojiang district Those under its curse must obey the wizard who utter the curse and will require special medication to stay alive The wizard is the only one who could rid the spell We got the wrong address last time This time, we asked for help from the right person and finally reached our destination This is Master Szeto, he comes here to help you My mum"s upstairs She is here, we found her Her mum is here We are crew from Hong Kong, we want to shoot your ceremony Keep some distance, he is holding a ritual The curse will come out from here Can someone pass me a tissue? Don"t let it land on you Look! Lt"s on the camera! Those are "wugs" Ben, let him know we are leaving, we will interview him later Tell him yourself He is still eating Can you ask him why does he eat those worms? He said the worms should be taken in The worms will... demolish inside his stomach otherwise... it will multiply quickly and soon become a large quantity So he is using his power to eliminate the voodoo How did... Fa"s mother become this way? He said it"s not necessary for us to know! Most of the time, they don"t want to reveal too much Master, how can we help his mother? I believe it should take 2 more ceremonies but we should not interfere According to the famous Chinese Medicinal Doctrine, the most venomous of "wugs" is the Golden Silkworm They have extreme defense power No fear of water or fire If they enter someone"s body, they will tuck in all the organs If one falls under its curse, death is certain unless you sought for his help Hearsay that shaman uses blood... to increase luck in Thailand He is the one we"re looking for Master, can blood really increase luck? Lt"s common for a shaman to make use of blood but using it to increase luck is another story There are rumors that many artists and Hong Kong people visit him Are they expecting us? In fact, as usual we only have the address but without reservation nor permission Therefore when we get inside we have to hide our equipment Start filming after we told them our purpose or else they won"t agree - Let"s go and have a look - Is comes up first. Let"s have a short meeting like before Be Careful! Let"s go to the second floor Don"t let them spot your camera Is Master Ming here? Is Master Ming here? Who? Hi, we are crew from Hong Kong, we want to see Master Ming Master Ming is not here What did he say? He said Master Ming is not here - Ask him again - Sure he"s here Is Master Ming here? We are crew from Hong Kong I said he"s not here Why don"t you understand? Sorry, we are crew from Hong Kong Let them in! Let them in! Let them in! We are crew from Hong Kong, this is Master Szeto She is a Hong Kong star, she comes here for filming Okay We are having ceremony, you can come in but keep quiet Don"t let too many people in, enough! - He said - Fetch me chicken They said they"re having a ceremony and keep quiet Can we shoot? Don"t ask! They need to get the chicken blood for offering What is he trying to get? Grab it Stay back! Stay Back! Lt"s a lizard Master, what he uses are all very evil It"s for making venom This look so vicious, will there be any side effect? I can"t tell now, let"s see what he"s going to do - What is this? - Is that a toad or a frog? - He"s making a venomous frog - Frog They"re extracting poisons to make a potion Making poisonous potions To exorcize bad luck? I doubt it Let"s them have a look on the fortune thing Head! Lizard"s head! Something good This is limited Want some? No need! This is good thing, ask me if you want some Fetch me a cup Calm down! Sit down and talk - Stay Back! - Crazy! Leave first! He said it"s worth 500,000 Baht we have to pay them 100,000 Baht If we don"t believe it, we can verify with Master Szeto He asks for money? Yes, he wants 100,000 Baht He"s crazy, of course we won"t pay! Let"s Go! Go, leave first, go Sit, sit down first! Call an ambulance Somebody get some medicine to dress the wound Ben, you"re seriously injured I got hit I"m alright, the sunglasses lens cut me Stop shooting, hold me After the confrontation, some of our crew members were injured As Master Szeto got injured his wounded leg, he had to rest at the hotel but the time was running out, Wah, a student of Master Szeto, was invited to assist us Thai people do not fear of death They believe death is only leading them to another world Coffin is not a taboo as well Our crew followed a Thai production team to leave Bangkok and head north to a place called "Ho Lan Fu" We visited a famous ancient haunted mortuary Old mortuary looked like this Corpses are just placed here? These bodies are unclaimed Most of them don"t have families, and ain"t cared by anybody When it is filled up, the monks will cremate the bodies and place them at the back It"s believed if the man died less than the spirit will be summoned from the hell Especially those "Yin" young females Their negative field is a lot stronger This time we planned to open a coffin We arranged a girl to do this with me Though Wah opposed this plan, the crew insisted on... validating the legend According to Wah"s explanations, if the spirits are successfully... summoned from the hell, may refuse to leave or even follow the one who summons it For precaution, Wah set up the Eight Diagrams for the ritual to hinder the summoned spirit Stand by, everybody Rachel, we"ve placed a cameraman... near you If you are too panic, look for the cameraman, okay? Stand by now Sorry, please forgive me, we"re just filming Sorry to bother you Let"s start! Let me explain the procedure There is a crowbar in front of you First, remove the top nails with the crowbar Then, open the coffin slowly Look inside when it"s opened half Will see the name inside... when the cover is fully opened Holding the mirror and call out the corpse"s name Mirror the back of you... and unpack the corpse Loosen the wrapping cloth and unwrap it Okay Sorry to bother you The nails are all removed Go on Open it now? Sit down first, then unveil it Rachel, sit down. Sit down... Rachel, sit down. Now, call out his name which is written on the paper I can"t read Thai words Show the paper to the camera Rachel, his name is "Dai" Mirror the back... and call his name Is it "Dai"? Yes, "Dai" Rachel, it may appears in the mirror Dai... Dai... never put down your mirror Dai... Okay, Rachel, stand by Put down the mirror, and stand next to the corpse Rachel In case you breathe in, don"t panic, keep on covering your mouth and nose Don"t intake the corpse air, understand? Rachel, loosen the wrapping cloth... and unveil it Rachel, are you ok? Pardon? Copy? I afraid it will break apart if I loosen it. The knot is tight Don"t think too much, open it and cover your mouth and nose Slowly, OK? Rachel, just get ready and open it slowly Really I can"t open it, I"m not lying It can hardly lossen, it"s tight, and sticky Slowly, try your best Give him a breath Hurry up! What are you guys doing? You are sick! Do you know it can be fatal? Come back, don"t go Don"t be scare, I"m going to save you Kin, chase up Don"t be afraid, I am here! This way Go with her! She passed out it doesn"t matter Too heavy! Just stay here I call upon Heaven and Earth It"s fine Why don"t you tell me if you want to perform such thing? If such thing happens at the wrong moment, it kills Okay, let"s stop right now Seal the coffin first Seal them now put it back to original place Seal the hell passage and open the path... for the living for all I guess it is because of either the frightening experience or the evil things, I suddenly felt sick Just let her take some rest first Should we go back to the hotel or send her to the hospital? My stomach hurts, I wanna throw up I feel really uncomfortable Get in. Ben, help with the registration One, Two, Three, Up Ben, what did the doctor say about her? It is preliminary classified as digestive system infection A further diagnosis report will tell us the details I did warn you before Opening coffins is really dangerous It can be disastrous if you are tainted with spirits Scientifically saying, if you open a long sealed coffin, there are a lot of bacteria and germs Are we still filming in the afternoon? Wait for her feel better Can we shoot in two hours? Let her take some rest We"re going to resume the jobs on hand Shaman is very popular in Thailand Lots of artist, businessmen, prostitutes visit these powerful shaman to enhance their luck or charisma According to information provided from the audiences, there is an experienced shaman in Bangkok claiming that he can invite the "God of Penis" to help people enhance their charisma Let"s go inside The shaman is inside This is Master Szeto from Hong Kong They are having a ceremony now He told us, the customer is performing the mating ritual ceremony As usual, this shaman... welcomes interviews but he reminded us that his customers may refuse the interview We understood that artistes or businessmen... don"t want to be shot So we called several customers We finally got consent from a lady Her name is Yam Yam is a prostitute At first Yam refused to be shot, but she finally agreed on condition that we pay for the cost of 200,000 Baht Put off the clothes Stick you tongue out Stand up Turn about Sit down I"ll help you, I"ll help you It"s a male Lie down, I"ll help you go over there, please That shaman is transferring the power to his/her body of whom you call a shemale Using the hermaphroditic for the ritual She/he will control the power? It will only come upon the body of a hermaphrodite but is controlled by the shaman Most people may think, merely for enhancing charisma, to be naked in front of others, as well as be a subject... to such strange mating rituals is kind of absurd but there are always something new under the sun There were lots of women... waiting for the ceremony Master, is this really mating ritual? Yes In fact a lot of people uses pubes, blood... for rituals I think he is legitimate For the matter of mating, why not believe in our fate! You looked a lot better today For you had contacted the evil, I better perform a ritual on you to drive away the evil thing Offer the incense Don"t be scared, he is just compelling the evil thing - The middle founder looks like - Look up! - Bow three times - Bow three times Stand up Drink it! You"ll feel better after that seal her up Human beholds, ghosts is exterminated Nothing can harm this body Bless her with indestructible power Stretch yourself Palms together After Master Szeto performing the ritual, our crew kept on the production schedule We received information from a Malaysian newspaper, they claimed Ipoh had a lot of haunted places that we could film After discussion, we decided to head to Ipoh and continue our mission in searching the spirits Ipoh, Malaysia There is an abandoned village A century ago, this village was rich and crowded but once misled by a shaman They dug out all the remains of their ancestors, And put them under the sun that greatly disrupted Feng Shui Strange things then happened to the village Rumors of ghosts started spreading out just then Our crew along with a Malaysian reporter invited a teenage girl who claims to have spiritual eyes We searched for spirits with Ka Ka I saw a white thing over there It"s too fast, I can"t see it clearly It is just stand beside the door Light up that upper part Look at the ceiling It seems collapsing Come back? There isn"t anybody inside It was there a while ago, really! It disappeared as soon as we came in Watch out! Watch out! Come to see Does that thing look like a human? It seems like some spells for me Not this one, the one next to the bed... looks like a pair of eyes I am scared it is gonna fall Tat, you better come out first Let"s go! Let"s go! It can"t stand anymore Which one? - This one - Yes you sure this one you can feel it? I can feel, the spirits are inside this house. There were 4 people living here, including an old a lady who died while delivering and her husband who died in a foreign country while whose spirit came back after death and a child Stop provoking it! Lt"s angry now! Just leave him! Get out first! Ka Ka finally found this house most haunted After discussion, we decided to play the Ouija board With limited time, we gave it a try I am not encouraging you to play with the Ouija board but for shooting, we"ve no choice I have to explain clearly: The spirits you invite might not be from this house or they have been here for a long time Who? Are you sure no one is pushing? No, not me! Okay, understood! How many are there in this house in total? Lt"s really going to the numbers! Shit! Seven... Were there only four here? Master said there may few families had moved into this house Sorry for disturbance We are trying to... film spirits, can you show yourself among us? Keep your hands on the plate! Don"t... don"t frighten me Hurry! Any more questions? What did she said? L"ll tell you later Firstly, it pointed at the word "hang" Stop! Stop it. Spirits! Spirits! Have you shown yourself yet? Master! Ka Ka passed out! What? What do you want? Piss off! What? What? You happy now that I show myself? Get the camera down! What do you want? Master, come out first! Do other thing right now! Are you the one who asked me those question? Catch her She"s crazy! Catch her Hold on to her! Are you ok? Master is injured! What"s going on? Write a spell to restrain the spirit and spray water onto her body Give her a chair. Hold on to her! What? Are you awake? What do you want from me? Still possessed What"s the matter? Say it! Say it! What"s the matter? What do you want from me? Brother Wah! Brother Wah! You all had a lot of fun just now? You asked me to show myself and now you want me to leave? What do you want from me? Say it! Is it gone? Everything is fine now! Ka Ka, are you alright? Do you know what just happened? A lot of people asked me if ghosts really exist I don"t know either In the past years, I have exorcized for many people For sure they are were terrified However, scarcely the spirits were seen Most of the "seen" spirits are illusion, they are only made up by human"s dismay Those illusion of spirits can undoubtedly Be disillusioned by human"s courage Get inside! Right here! It looks near but in fact Our crew went on the long haul shooting trip Get downstairs... Yes! Okay So we will wait for here tonight Okay! - Camera ready? - Almost - your camera ready? - Ready Better stay where we are This castle is too huge. Just for our safety Something happened... mysteriously and incomprehensibly Hey! This way! What"s up? Our preset camera felt down unexpectedly Shit! The camera fell! Hold on, looks like someone is here Don"t you said it was mounted securely? It was! Did you double check? Let"s rewind the tape and have a look I can"t open it! Lt"s a trash now! It doesn"t seem to have any wind here Play the tape Not now, it has to go for maintenance! We found "this" on the tape...
