 

                        Based on the true event Hold on. It's coming out now Malee has a little kitten, little kitten, little kitten Malee has a little kitten... uh... And? I've heard this song since you were 2, now you're 5 Always the same song. Nothing new, sweetie? Kid... We're home. Come on Let's get inside Yaimai Daddy... Mommy... Let's wait for that kid No other kid's around here I'll ride you gals to school All right And then I'll go to work Come on. I'm gonna be late for teaching OU OU Hurry Come on. Come on. Get in Hop up on my lap Ready to go? Yes Let's go! Daddy, Mommy. Please take that kid with us What are you talking about? You don't have a sibling. You want one? She might wanna have a younger one We shouldn't I'm not ready Only Yaimai is good enough. Is that right? Why are you being here alone? Bom... Do you love me? Yes I'm pregnant What will happen if my parents know? What about my future? Forget it then, Bom That's what I thought. You couldn't help me I'll fix it my own way Peerawit... why don't you get to class? Is there any problem between you two? No, teacher Hello, Aye? What? All my acting jobs have been cancelled? And how am I gonna paying my dues? What about your boyfriend? Don't talk about him. He won't support me anyhow How did she die? She had an abortion And the abortionist got away Look how cruel she was, leaving a body here Let me through. I'm a reporter How is it? See it for yourself Women nowsaday have done it in a careless way They didn't use protection and got pregnant Whenever the trouble came, men have gone I'm sick of it. Please take it from here I'm done What's wrong, bro? Hey? You all right? Let's go Okay, bro. Hey you sure you're all right? Step aside and let us through Let us through... Two fried crispy mussels and one Pad Thai I got it Kid... Yaimai Yaimai? Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai! Come here! Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai, sweetie Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Where are you, Yaimai? Yaimai? I ordered pills from website. It doesn't work You must help me, Kam I was in shit like you before I know how you feel What you want me to do? You used to do it, right? Will you take me to that clinic? What about your parents? And Bom? Bom doesn't want you to get an abortion He doesn't want me to but he couldn't be responsible for me either Should I let it be like this? Lf the school found out, I'd be expelled You should know My mother... lives in Chiangrai. She wouldn't know anything Mean you really wanna do it? How about the other bear? No? You can't have it This one is my favorite Then we'll play it together Hello... My name is Teddy Bear I'm your fluffy baby bear You wanna play with me? Yaimai... It's sleep time now Don't wait up. Daddy'll be home late tonight Little one wanna wait for Daddy too Little one? Why're you talking about some kid often lately? You wanna have a brother? I've already had. I took him home Where is he now? Yaimai! What's going on here? Whose is it? Little one I brought it from the temple Just an old toy, Pim Hey you! What are you doing here? Just took pictures Why? Took them for what? We don't allow to take pictures around here lt looks like a child's face Child? Yes I think it's all right. Might be a flare Don't think too much There is Bom I don't want him to know about it You go now. I'll call you later, okay? Yeah, yeah. I'm leaving then I gotta go now. Bye-bye What is she doing here? Nothing serious What will you do about it? You won't do just like her, will you? I told you I'd handle it myself Nai... Why is Kam here today? I don't know. I don't even know she was here Let me ask you... Do you know where Kam got an abortion? Why do you bring this up? Don't be afraid. She's good. It's safe I'm scared lt's all right. I used to do it before Don't be scared You go wait outside I'm in the front door Hold on Give me the money. Hope you understand Please take care of my friend How old are you? Sixteen How many months pregnant? I'm not sure But my period missing for 3 months Because of your carelessness... ...your problem drops on my shoulders lt's good that I've got paid Don't worry lt'll be done before you know it Relax. Just take it easy lt won't be long Why are you so stubborn? Come out! Come out! You can't stay, your mother doesn't need you! Be patient. It nearly come off Come out! Kam... Where's Kwan? Where's she now? In the last room Kwan? Kwan? Kwan? Kwan? Kwan Bom Be careful Easy... sit down You all right? Here Just count and destroy it all. Where is the payment of this lot? I'll pay you next time Hurry up, sweetie. Daddy is waiting for a while That's all right. I'm not in a hurry I'll go straight to the office don't have any fieldworks today Oh... you forgot your backpack. I'll get it Yaimai, you shouldn't play with my photo frame lf it fell, a broken glass might cut your hand I didn't do it Then who did? Little one Who is this little one? Are you lying again? Have I told you? When you do something wrong, you should admit it Besides, you don't have any siblings I didn't do it, really Again? That's it, Pim Let's go What the doctor say? I'm pregnant Umm... good work. It's pretty Keep writing. I'll be right back Yes, Mom Yaimai? Yaimai Mommy... l'm scared Daddy... Mommy - I'm scared -Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai, are you all right? Yaimai Are you hurt? Do you think she's acting strange, Tri? That she has been talking about some kid? Yes I'm getting scared Don't overthink lt's typical for kid at this age to make believe... Moreover, we both haven't got time for her Spending more time with her, things will get better Kwan? Kwan Bom Hello, teacher Hello Why didn't Peerawit and Kwankaw go to school? I don't know I'm sure you know Are they having a problem? Bom Kwan Bom What's wrong? Pain in my stomach Don't be afraid, sweetie Go to the hospital? No... I'm afraid Kwankaw Kwankaw Kwankaw Kwankaw Kwankaw Your parents know about this? How could you do it? Lt's too dangerous Peerawit... Take a good care of her Call me if you need anything Kwankaw... I'll be back to visit you later Today... 12 bags Tri... I heard something at Yaimai's door Pim! She's not in her room! Yaimai? Not here too Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yiamia! Sweetie! Yaimai Yaimai. Stay there! Yaimail Yaimai Yaimai What are you doing down there? He wanted me to play with Yaimai Stay still Be careful, Tri Yaimai... Stay still Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Are you all right? Bom... do you know... about Kam? What's it? She died. Be quiet How? With her boyfriend the other night and drove his car off the express way They said their bodies ripped in half, guts spilt around Really? Yeah Teacher's here Good afternoon Hi How is Kwankaw? Getting better now? Yes, Miss Your parents are informed about this, you know? I had to tell them All right And do you know about Kam? She's gone Yes, we know Den! I'm gonna send news photo to you right now Will you process it for me? Okay, bro. Send it away Your kid really stuck to you What kid? My kid is going out with her mom. And whom you with? I see him standing behind you No, man! Don't shitting me like this I'm freaking out I still see your kid standing behind you What's wrong with my laptop? I'm home Why you come back so late? My students are in trouble What's up? Why you look startled? Nothing happens. I'm fine Where you keep another camera recorder? Camera recorder? In the drawer as usual Yaimai... Let's clean up and then we'll have dinner Yes What are you doing? Lt's nothing She's sleeping now? Yes Good night What's it, Tri? Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Little brother... Bye-bye Yaimai Yaimai Why were you sitting on a ledge? Little brother, Mom Again? You can't go out there. It's too dangerous Little brother's down there, Mom He called me to be with him He doesn't exist Aren't you love him, Daddy? He told me that you don't love him Oh Yaimai You can't keep saying that I'll tell you lt's full of water Hungry, little one? I have a lot of snacks I'll give you some Would you like cake or cookie? Let's drink this A cup of milk Just a minute. I'm baking a cake Yaimai Yes? Let's go home Yes Doesn't Daddy pick us up? He will meet us at home Let's go Serve you right... you dropped it How was she today? Still be the same What should we do? Keep an eye on her for a while Why it doesn't work? What's wrong with it? There are so many bags today Most are my clients Some sent from somewhere else Get rid all of them Meanwhile a crematory is broken I have to stock them up in mortuary lt's kind of weird lately Why? Are you chickening out? Even you wouldn't do it, many people would Those women are in trouble. They count on me They do it because they have no choice They ask for help and we help them as we can Count it Correct? Get rid of them properly Daddy... Little brother is coming Little brother Pim... What happens to you? Pim... Pim Brother... don't hurt Mommy! Don't hurt Mommy What? No! Pim! Pim! Pim! Go away! No! Go away! Go away! I didn't wanna kill you lt's your mother who killed you lt's not my fault! Not me! Why don't you get your rage at your parents? No! Kiddo... Kiddo... Just think about it. I've helped you You would be born again in new life In a new family that love you and glad to bring you up No... Pim! Where are you, Pim? Yaimai Where are you, Pim? Pim! Yaimai! Where are you, Pim? Pim! Pim! Yaimai! Pim Yaimai Pim Yaimai Pim Yaimai Pim Yaimai! Pim Yaimai! Yaimai... where are you? I'm right here, Mom Yaimai! Mommy Yaimai Mommy I'm right here Yaimai? Help me! Help! - Help me please -Pim - Help me please -Pim Pim Help me Help me! Help! Help me Help me Help me Pim Come on, Pim Daddy - Tri... Yaimai? - Mommy - Yaimai - Mommy Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Yaimai Do you love Yaimai, Daddy? Yes, I do But why don't you love me? Tri! Tri! How long have you been an undertaker? Several years, sir Only you keep all keys? Yes Can open every box? Yes How many keys? All keys are here as you see - You sure? - Yes Open box 7 Here Nothing in there. All boxes are empty. Close it Open 3 Yes, sir Bodies had been kept here but we don't use it anymore Old smell still remains Close it now! Lt's all empty. Don't use it anymore Why the smell so strong from here? Try this box A key for 9? You said you have it all Some keys were missing, given time Try open it No. 9 is lost Get a cutting-lock machine Come on I got it Open it What the hell? Do you really recognize her? Yes Sure? Yes Which one? Do you know you're charged as illegal abortionist Yes Where did you learn it from? I was a nurse aide Who are you in the temple? Undertaker Where do you do it? At my house Are there others involve? Noone Is anyone in your family an undertaker? Yes, my father How long will you do illegal abortion, Toi? Don't you forget... With these money, our mother could raised us Answer! My mother What is in the warehouse? Fetuses... Fetuses and placentas How much you got paid? ...6,000 Most pregnant-months you gave an abortion? Some case... almost 9 months That was a baby Ready for a deliver birth I help the suffering Do you know what you did is wrong? Yes, I know lt's a serious sin I don't care I've never seen a sin. What does it look like? Why have you still done it? For money I want money After the abortion, every baby was dead? Lf it doesn't die, leave it out for dying Babies... If they're still alive, I raise them What relationship between you and them? My kids Be good Behave Take care of them Don't worry about me Mom Remember how many abortions had you done? No, I don't Do you know how many fetuses they found? Yes, I know No How many? They're so cruel More than cruel They're monsters. How could you kill your baby? I'm sorry to say that she won't be able to conceive again Kwan I'm sorry lf I had got some protection You would't suffer like this How is he, doctor? His physical is stable He can sense everything but can't speak out What's wrong with his eyes? Due to concussion of the brain... ...it takes time to heal after a coma All right - May I excuse? - Yes Let me check the monitor Yaimai... What happened to her? Her symptom is like your husband's Unfortunately, it happened while she's pregnant I just hope the baby will be all right Let's go, sweetie All right? Tri... Yaimai and I gotta go now I'll see you tomorrow Try to get some rest Yaimai... say goodbye to your dad I'm going now, Daddy Come on Just wait a sec, Mommy I gotta go now Do you miss me? Yes How much? Much Let me kiss you That much? Tri... I'm pregnant Get rid of it Hold on. It's coming out now What the doctor say? He makes me pregnant again Is it possible if I won't do it? I'm scared I have my wife and kid, Sa Isn't this one your kid? Tri... He's coming back He wanna be with us This film is dedicated to all baby souls in the world And hope there will be no more losses The recent statistics show that Thai teenagers rank in world top three for having high number of abortions About 300,000 live births per year or 1000 per day This movie is one campaign to reduce illegal abortions of teenagers obtained in Thailand
