 

                        Usagi drop Usagi drop Ah! What? Excuse me Ah, daikichi! Dad! Gimme a hand You can see his face if you like Long time no see Daikichi Mom ... That little girl? An illegitimate child of your Grandpa Ah, sorry, they look alike Excuse me So, Mom, this kid is your sister? She's my aunt Don't be stupid, help me instead Sorry, I am late Tell me Mom, what's this about? It's fine Indeed! So much alike! Incredible, such a surprise! Scary! The spitting image A dead ringer for Grandpa Aaaah such a striking likeness Oh, you look like him! What what what, what's the fuss about? Wow! You look so much like him Enough already So, what about the illegitimate child? Her father just died, what is she doing? Did you know about her? Since when? When do you stop? Behave now Really, what kind of child is that? You're a kindergarten educator, right? I don't wanna come back home to more work And now we are proceeding to the farewell ceremony It is time to bid your farewell What is it? Bluebells, Grandpa used to like them Careful He's not waking up this time Not this time This is bad, this is waaaaay bad So old, making a child Unbelievable Who's the woman? Who cares! It's sad, she's 6 ... 6 You chieh How could you ignore it close as you were I have enough on my plate already How did he dare? He was visiting her once every several months At that time he was on his own He was hiding it No need for secrets Indeed, why no tell it He thought he would meet disapproval Bad, waaaaay bad So indecent ... He even joined the neighborhood council The neighborhood council position is mine That kid doesn't talk Ena! Although she's my age It's embarrassing, it's strange She's not strange, she can talk Adults are talking now, take a cookie and go Strange cookie What kind of kid is that Still, the mother, who is that woman? If we knew ... But now what comes next? Who's gonna take care of the child? Not us, we're busy enough with the shop If she was a little older we'd accommodate her And she's a bit weird If she was a little more endearing How did Grandpa raise her? How about your place Sachiko? No way, she is so small Mom, you stay home you could take her in for a while Out of the question, I have no spare time Raise a kid by oneself is a hard job How many sacrifices I did nobody knows Poor kid is left stranded there Still, she is family If Grandpa is really the father In the meantime we could send her to an institution People should not know we need a remote institution Do I have to inquire? Who's gonna take care of it? Such a worthless place is not for kids Would you come home with me? Hold on, Daikichi! What's going on? Uncle I'm hungry What a fix! Idiot, did I have to show off like that!? Would you come home with me? Did I have to say such a blunder More? There's rice left but no more veggies There Onigiri (rice balls)? Thanks Let's see now Delicious! What did you say your name was? Rin Rin Me it's Daikichi Daikichi Safer if we hold hands Even for a little while raising a kid is hard work Still the hardest is for her Her luggage, this is all she has here Her health handbook her documents That's it? Really Born: Nov.10, 2003 Mother: Yoshii Masako Name: rin kaga Miss Masako Rin? You made your choice? Sorry, I'm not good at this What? They're only pants I can't were a skirt at nursery school Is that right Nursery school?! Damn! Nursery school How do I get you registered there? Yep Serves you well to show off Tough situation, where are you now? Gimme a break, what do you call for? You're stuck now Daikichi, i'll get this one I'm fine Really Hey Kazumi, how does she enter a nursery school? See you're in trouble How about your kindergarten? How many hours commuting do you want? Ah, gimme a break What? What's this One close to home Nursery school or kindergarten what's the difference? I have no idea I can't wait any longer Together we can overcome this I think what you're doing is good But I can't be that kid's mother Three options One ayame school A nursing school Close to your place, but closes at 6 TWO - Chuuou Primrose nursing school Close to your working place, closes at 7 Three - cradle nursing school Rather far from your work but works 24hours Which one is best? No idea What's this? I like the way you live It is not possible I couldn't forget you But you make me uncomfortable Comfort kills love, discomfort is love Arousing desire Splendid! Du fhrst dein Rad am Straenrand You ride your bike on the roadside "Wir Sind Helden:Die Konkurrenz" Begehrst nicht andrer Weib noch Land You don't wish for another girl or country Begehren ist dir einerlei Du pfeifst und singst und fhlst dich frei You don't care about desire you whistle and sing and you feel free Alright Careful! Come here I can see it, Cradle Nursing School Here we are Good morning I may be late on our schedule It's alright That's it, thanks for all Damn, I am late Don't make that face It's impossible I'll come to get you, I promise "yubi kiri genman" if I tell a lie I drink a thousand needles And cut my little finger You got the song wrong Alright then, see you tonight, Rin Good morning You're late Kawachi My bad Oh, you're rarely late So sorry Mr. Kawachi, take this The pics samples for the catalog Take it for the noon review Don't have time enough Alright Kawachi, someone for you on line 4 Yes Kawachi speaking Yes i'll inquire right away Yes, my pleasure Thank you Yes Kawachi speaking Yes, absolutely I think we don't have it I am so sorry The older item has to come front The newer one behind One more pointer She had a regular meal Surely she's not among delinquents What's she doing now? I need to arrive fast It's so far that Cradle Nursing School Now with the bag, the shoes Daikichi, how about this? It's tiny Tiny? How about this? It's showy This? One more time Really? Let's get them all You want this? We arrive soon Hang on! Hang on! Good morning This is the next schedule for shop clerk training A makeup artist is coming from China on that day Could we make it a little earlier? Alright Sorry, going thru Good morning In case it is not in store Then you do like this Daikichi! We are both ... Exhausted Ouch! Alright, alright Who is it ... Mom How is it going? What now? Emergency nursing So, what? Three more days You idiot, I told you What can I do? Listen... Daikichi You should do something What? How many sacrifices I did nobody knows What are you saying? You are serious Please transfer me in a section with no extra time Thank you for your understanding I see ... This is what happened I thought about it My working place right now I'm raising a child, it's becoming impossible Actually, on my floor There is no one raising a child Is that a fact In our company, when the child is about to come, the lady resigns But personally, i think it's a waste I can't accept this We were so busy last month Without you ... Mr. Hidaka, please say something Kawachi made up his mind, he thought this thru In this predicament he drops us suddenly, it is bad May be sudden but... If you leave, it's unbearable An order for immediate transfer It happens very often Just forget about it Even if that kid is a close relative What should YOU be affected? The nursing school works late hours And you could be helped by relatives There HAS to be other options Hey Kawachi, you look cheerful as usual Mrs. Gotoh Mrs. Gotoh, I think you live with your son "Live with" ... He is not that big yet My son is just 2 It may sound abrupt but I have just been entrusted with the custody of a 6 year old girl How are you surviving it? When you arrived in this department I had the same opinion as the other guys Lately they made a daycare place for kids in the company But here what kind of country is this Even with a day care place Bringing a kid everyday in the train is impossible Absolutely Mrs. Gotoh, do you think having a kid adversely affected your life? This is a tough one I am not sure I am up to people's expectations Still ... The time spent with him is my "quality time" What? Did I say something weird? Sure ... You did! Is it ready? Wait ... Rin? It alright for the meal? Alright then Your things in the bag? Towel Lunchbox Coat Toothbrush Cup Ok? Your name's written here Let's go now Daikichi, quick, quick! Run I don't know exactly what Rin wants of me But the first time when I met That sad and lonely little girl When I hold her hand like this nothing else matters Is there anything more to life? Today we have a new friend her name is Rin Kaga From an early age they have English classes and ample teaching material You had your kid join to such English class? Am telling you, my wife is so keen on it I wanted to enlist my kid with an actor agent My daughter is just so cute She's so cute My daughter's cuter Check mine So cute If you don't wear your hat you'll get in trouble The string is not in set right My father says ... A man can be careless Daikichi is careless too Daikichi? Yep daikichi It's great Your name? Rin What .... ? Could this be ....? I am fine ... It's not me It's sweat! Alrighty then ... sweat it is ... help me change the sheet now Rin? It's fine if you wake me up It's alright, just sweat Sweat or ... Whatever please wake me up So? Bed wetting She was fine ... What happened now? Mine is still only 2 So I can't help you there Maybe it her way of affirming her independence Changing her clothes on her own she's embarrassed in front of you I can see this The kids, careful with their words say things in unexpected ways They are refined in their expression I remember a kid, thought he was confused He could not find the right words But in his emotions he was very articulate You can't trust appearances What do you mean by that? Rin, you went to the bathroom? Yes, I did So good night Good night It's exactly as I left it before Rin, you haven't been Really, women are such liars I thought she was just a kid Rin, in fact you haven't been to the bathroom What? ... You're scared? Make sure you go before bedtime Please go What if I wet the bed anyway? Don't you mind that You're still little no need to be concerned I did it until I was 6 Really? Yeah like, peeeee, peeeee! A puddle that big! Way up to here, aaaaaaall over here! You too will die? You too will end up dead? I won't die Ever? When, I don't know but it will be far from now When you become a woman when you become a lady Then I become an old lady and I die? You don't need to worry about such matters It's alright, for the time being we don't die We'll be fine you don't need to worry Rin ... Grandpa What do you remember of him? Quite a lot Grandpa would wake up and half-naked start rubbing his body And then he would sit like this cave in his belly and do that .. Do like that and then take a pose, this pose Like this? Another one, he would hate opening the wrapping of an onigiri Although you have the little arrows showing how to unwrap it And so he would have to eat little pieces of plastic with his onigiri Another one, with the caramel wrapping he would make a boat Then we put them on water and blowing fuuuuu, his boat would go far And inside the house he would run like this Inside the house? And while he was running he would break winds like pttt, pttt Run and run and ptt-ptt run and run and ptt-ptt Grandpa, where is he now? In his grave ... And ... Here As long as you remember him Grandpa will stay a loooong time with you He looks at you with care I hope I remember You won't forget Run and run and ptt-ptt run and run and ptt-ptt Should we water the bluebell? What does Grandpa say about it? He said "fine" Daikichi, ... Here What if I made a grave for Grandpa a private one for me? It would be yours and mine Alright Grandpa It's getting cold time to go I am switching off I hate the dark You'll be fine open your eyes It's beautiful With them you can't be scared Nighty night Good night Thank you Finished This is Daikichi and this Daddy Daddy and Daikichi are the same person Not at all It's alright when a man can't cook Why? Daddy said so Rin, are you ready? Hey? Sorry kouki Hey, wouldn't you be Miss Rin? You ... You ... Shake my hand, you are the first friend of Kouki's Shake my hand You are a model in magazines Gimme a minute Fever, she has a fever You, wait ... You know a doctor? No Come with me Quick Open your mouth wide, aaaahhh Excellent Aaaaahhh, a little longer It was not the flue I am relieved How do you feel, Rin? We always go to that doctor Walk on your own legs Alright I didn't notice Rin had such a fever Maybe she already had it in the morning Your being flustered doesn't help In such situation the parent should be reassuring Tell her everything will be alright Be strong Daikichi Hey, mr. Daikichi! Daikichi! Good morning You are OK? Rin did not even drink water Rin, are you hot? You are hot? When the fever stops rising better not warm her up I am sorry, Rin There Ice cube Good? Feels good You are alright? Don't come here you'll catch it Tss! Thank you very much I had no idea what to do, your help is precious The fact is, I am not her father or anything I am only family To be correct, I am kinda her nephew Earlier, Rin was holding on to you Kids know who is good to them To Rin, you are that person you are Daikichi! For now, to her, as long as you are around, all is fine Excuse me for a while Sorry, I have to take the day off Yes, it's alright I am sorry Good morning Rin, he came to get you Alright Sorry I kept you waiting Kouki I missed you - Paper - stone - scissor Let's run, let's run Rin! Kouki Let's run Daikichi help me Who's the wolf now? .... It's you! Don't run in the stairs Be careful Wait, it's dangerous Wait! Rin Hey, daikichi! Ah, Uncle, hi! Ah, isn't it incredible I just met someone by chance In any case it's incredible I'll tell you in detail at Grandpa's Tomorrow, right after noon, i'll be waiting You wanna spin more? Sorry Don't run Hey there, it's dangerous Aaaah! Daikichi Daikichi you are on time Mrs. Sugiyama, come This is Mrs. Yumiko Sugiyama Hello! Hello! I am Mrs. Sugiyama I met her by chance You can tell her anything Talk with her even in details about the kid The address, all kinds of data Your having problems I have no problems at all Surely you do The foster child, the nursing school Young folks, they can't do things right It's not that easy to deal with a kid What are you doing? You can tell me anything As I said we are fine Daikichi don't take it so seriously We are fine thank you Daikichi! Whatever happens you can call me So then, i'll be on my way Could you walk me to the station? Thank you very much Daily life must be hard Not at all You stopped your work She is going to nursing school At that age she needs care Rin is a good kid So, she is probably taken care of You have a girlfriend? Handsome as you are! For now you're fine but when a girlfriend comes When you go on a first date with a kid on your arms Even with a 6yo girl the girlfriend would get jealous You'll think of Rin as a burden What are you leading to? I am telling you it's not easy you don't improvise fatherhood There will occasions for rebellion disease, lies, hurting you After all someone would take your place You just decided to pick up a responsibility dropped by someone else You are seriously up to it? How long you think you can keep up that kind of care I have no idea but what is your business? When she becomes a burden Don't be ashamed bring her to us We'll take good care of her A modem? Daikichi What? I'd like to dress my hair to look like a rabbit Like a rabbit? They don't have hair on their head Part it on the side? I'd like to look like a rabbit Rin? At Grandpa's place ... there was a computer? You know what a computer is? Yes, I do There was one and he was using it The maid mostly used it So he had a maid Masako the maid Tell me What kind of person was Masako? She didn't like me She was scaring me always mad at me I am telling you I don't like Masako I see OK, what do you think? What is that? What is it? What kind of dance? We'll have a performance it's a private rehearsal What, a performance? That's why you can't see it Health handbook, child's growth record What's that? Maron Seienji, Manga author real name: Masako Yoshii Dam, find her in such a place Masako I am gonna send her a mail You'll have it I have Rin Kaga's in legal custody My name is Daikichi Kawachi Are you Masako Yoshii Rin's mother? Done! Of all places! I am, but then again ... So what? You're getting on my nerves Don't mess with me you bitch! We need to talk Of course, I'm not bringing you Rin I need to write my phone number Such cheek! Hi, Kawachi speaking Pleased to meet you If you tell me where i'll give you a visit Yes ... Yes ... I got it I got it ... 4pm ... Sorry for the inconvenience I'm so mad There's so much grass growing, see? What could it be, growing so thick Hi there! Rin ... Welcome Hi! Rin, why are you hiding Hello! Wow! That train was packed with parents and kids Daikichi what are you doing here? Hi ... How about greeting people? Give her a break Kazumi! What a bother I won't be long i'll back for you in no time Be nice with your family Kazumi, I count on you Whatever She'll be alright Masako bitch I'm coming for you So you're a Manga artist? Did you leave Rin because of your job? I don't consider myself her mother simply I got pregnant I couldn't sell my art I worked as a maid there I met Mr. Souichi At last when I got a good job I realized I was pregnant I thought I couldn't raise a child The pregnancy in fact was so hard When Rin was born I found her unbelievably cute and adorable "Unbelievably"? I told myself I can't be a mother But I tried to harmonize both aspects of my life But it is so hard to lead one's life I also have to get out evenings for business meetings It is practically unfeasible Well... You have no problem at all with me taking care of Rin? None Exactly, how do you feel toward Rin? She's doesn't seem important to you? Here is your coffee Thank you I don't know Now this is serious, I'm really her guardian She's messing with me! No motherly feeling, no sense of guilt, that bitch! Excuse me! I want to ask you something It's better if she used your family name My family name? If she bears a different name she'll be bothered Please What's she thinking of ... Rin is so sad ... Smiling face One, two, one, two, one, two, Daikichi you're back! Rin's performance ... Shhhhh! It's better if Daikichi doesn't know Blissful ignorance Ah Rin, your hair Rin said she wants to look like a rabbit Wow! Where did you get this? It was Aunt Kazumi's What do you think of this Rin? a woven fabric It's cute Isn't this exactly your size? I was worried at first but it all went fine Ain't that right Tell me Daikichi, you got transferred because of Rin? Yep Your mother was worried You're still thinking of what your mother said? How many sacrifices I did nobody knows You are so sharp in unexpected ways There's too many unexpected problems If I had the guts like you I wouldn't have left your mother in such a fix When you were born your mother kept her job Mom was working? She was dedicated to her job At that time in a private business Taking up the challenge of pregnancy and birth giving Then she got pregnant with Kazumi still she kept her job She exhausted her strength had to be hospitalized She healed and got back to work Someone else had taken her place Her mind and body didn't take it too well Kazumi as a baby, unlike you was soooo puny When I remember it that one who took days off Would come back home soon was always your mother You're fantastic! So then, what happened with Kazumi? In every possible way she gave her importance and priority So that she became that arrogant brat you know Doing like thaaaaat, and thiiiiiiis looking better like this Exactly, you look good that way Dad? What if I adopted Rin? Is that what the other one said For school and else it would look better if she had my name To offer her Kawachi family name An adoption How does that look like? Her feelings are what matters most Did it ... Did it! So how was it, Rin? Say something Is it OK if I visit again? We'll be waiting for you anytime Rin? Would you become Rin "Kawachi"? Rin Kaga or Rin Kawachi? What does that mean? I would then become your father Hmmm, I don't think so I'd rather be Rin Kaga Really You're fine as "Daikichi" Mr. Daikichi good morning! Let's go Good morning ... Something's the matter? I'm fine Good morning At your drawings You seem to have fun with this With my Mom and my Dad I went to the bowling It was fun? Yes it was Draw both your father and your mother When you're finished you show me Until what time did you talk? Until 2 Until 2? So much time Mrs. Gotoh, over here What is it? What are you doing on the phone? I going right now Rin has run out! He says Rin ran out Rin ... Rin Rin I got it I'm looking for a lost kid A girl, 6 years old hair on the shoulder She's wearing a T-shirt and short pants Rin Is this the meeting place? Maybe here, or over there I thought it would be close to here Hi! What's wrong? What rin? Where is she? How should I know check her mother's place Damn! From here it's straight ahead Fine Rin is not with you? Sorry, I'm working now maybe in 2 hours Rin, what are you? Daikichi just go back to your place Rin could go back there What can I do? What do I do if he dies? He's alright you'll be fine My father died You said he was working far away This is what my mother says but I know he's dead Mom comes here sometime she laughs, but in fact she cries I know it Dead people are put in graves May father too is in a grave Your father is Daikichi No, my father was an older man So this is where my father lies He won't wake up anymore He won't wake up I won't meet him We say goodbye Daddy, daddy, daddy! Daddy I miss you so much, Daddy! Daddy, daddy! Grandpa! - Daddy! - grandpa! I miss you Daddy Rin! Kouki, where have you been? On my father's grave I said goodbye to Daddy Kouki, Kouki, I'm sorry I'm so sorry Kouki, it's beautiful what you did I'm sorry Rin, I was worried Everybody was looking for you They're both safe they came back They're both safe they came back safe Kouki Please don't wake him Sorry for what happened today Kouki lead Rin away Really, if something had happened They're safe They sleep tight They're growing so fast It's true Ah, sorry about that They're both growing so fast body and mind I can't keep up with his pace While we were both waiting I remembered When his father died how Kouki was I was upset all day, scolding him stunned all day, not uttering a word I couldn't wake up we were late at the nursing school I was so miserable Kouki ended up hating me that's why he ran away I was scolding him about trifles then feeling so bad about myself Kouki has no one else but me So distressed I was becoming useless I was scared out of my wits When I heard she's run my knees were trembling I thought, as I become a parent I'd get tougher But it's not the case i've turned into a coward I asked my work mates I called my father I realized for the first time I couldn't cope on my own Mustering one's own strength still it won't be enough Feeling so small and powerless naturally you're upset Look at me offering wisdom Not at all, it strikes home Yet, I completely lost my self-confidence There is no reason for that you raised a beautiful child And so did you Prince Kamakiri thank you for your help Are we there yet? It's so dark it's creepy The storm is coming Lightning! I'm tired let's go back Am the one holding the scythe of the magician You must split the Akabana rock or the forest will wither Beware of that cliff! Surely, there is a risk that it will crumble No way, if you don't help me Aren't you scared? In fact, I'm scared So let's go back But sometimes a man has to overcome his fears Courage is not for oneself but for everyone Let's all gather our strength and take courage Left, right, left, right, left, right ... I'm Prince Kamakiri I came for the rescue Thank you Your courage saved the forest This is great all come now! Daikichi! Ouch! Ouch! Kouki stop this! Prince kamakiri Thank you for the other day You're most welcome What does she mean? It's private, right? What does she mean? It's private, right? We'll play again What does she mean? Kids are great how about getting married? What are you blabbering about?! Good morning Good morning What's for breakfast? I don't know if Rin's heart has healed But certainly Rin healed me Ok then Have a good day Every morning I see Rin happy, running away from me That extra day is here offered to us When she sleeps by my side I'm grateful she's safely home Since that day she ran away with Kouki and came back She stopped wetting her bed Good morning Daikichi Good morning At some point we all grow fall in love Get married, give birth and become parents And kids in their turn become parents from this angle As far as I can see the world is all fathers and mothers Isn't it like big waves of love You're weird, how old is Shiroko Here too we have doting parents Daikichi what do you think which one is cuter? Ain't that a good thing Kenichi matsuyama Onna no kotte yowai ne Dakedo tokidoki women are weak, that's why sometimes Tsuyoi ne Kimi ga ite kurete, HAPPY!
