 

                        1 'King of Utopia' ''Which is the way to Uppin?'' ''Southward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to South?'' ''Northward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to Uppin?'' ''Southward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to South?'' ''Northward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to North?'' ''Eastward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to East?'' ''Westward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to west?'' ''Go straight and then upwards'' ''How to go upwards?'' ''Go to top and come down!'' ''Oh God!'' ''Ah Master! Which is the way to Utopia?'' ''Via Puthupalli, Poonjar and Pala'' ''How?.'' ''Board at Pinarai Alight at Kodiyeri'' ''Then...'' ''After Tiruvanchoor lt is Chennithala'' ''That is funny'' ''Perunna, Palakad Karichankulankara'' ''Kulangara... Kulangaraa...'' ''From there it is Aruvikara'' ''Then will we reach Utopia?'' ''After reaching Mars...'' ''Proceed...proceed'' ''Take a turnaround'' ''How many?'' ''After reaching Mars'' ''Take a turnaround'' ''Jump over moon and sun'' ''Fall from the top of lndrapuri'' ''Oh God!'' ''On seeing a cop at heaven'' ''You got scared your beard caught fire'' ''Ran away opened up earth and on reaching the hellfire'' ''You see the guy on the buffalo'' ''You curled your tail and swooped'' ''With a head spin you falter and fall'' ''Then...'' ''Which is the way to Uppin?'' ''Southward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to Uppin?'' ''Southward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to South?'' ''Northward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to North?'' ''Eastward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to East?'' ''Westward of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to west?'' ''Go straight and then upwards!'' ''How to go upwards?'' ''Which is the way?'' ''Go to top and come down'' ''So you don't know where is Utopia!'' Don't tremble my boy! Why are you so scared? We have a long association Thumaru Thumaru...get some snacks Don't crave...l wouldn't give Every one is starved Aren't you living in Kerala? Don't you know about these guys just pardon them! What master? Get some snacks man l have some clay ls that ok? Give it to your dad! You agreed to make a statue for my dad... ...when you are free Don't forget about it! You need a person forthat Without a model how a statue can be made? One day one of these statues would kill you They have endured you so much Why do you get enamoured seeing my Madonna? l've been watching you for some days Master don't suspect me l consider her as my own sister! ls it? Murari Praise the Lord! Keep the praise with you man! l have told you umpteen times... This is Lord Jesus and it is his idol! But whom have you carved? What happened father? Are you asking us? Come here Look there! Why there is a scorn in Lord's face? Does Jesus stand like this... ...with his mouth wide open and smiling? Your idol depicts as if the Lord... ...is asking his devotees who come to pray ...if they have nothing else to do? When sponsors came to see the idol did you not disappear? For many years the Jesus idol... ...is stereotyped l wanted to give a variety Jesus also needs a change! Who does not support change? For a change you keep the idol here But before the Sunday Prayers... ...you don't return the money Few valiant youth would descend this place Then you may have to bear a cross bigger than one carried by the lord Come...come and take out the idol! Master pastors are right! Jesus has a scorn in face! Some small parish people will come for a second hand idol l would then give this to them Forthe time being let Jesus be here! Which is this place? Have l again reached Bethlehem? This is God's own country As far as l know every country is God's own country After giving this country to God did thieves take away remaining? We Malayali's are like that! God does not wish certain things to happen But we would call a place where all those things happen... ...as God's own country Kerala When you hear the name Kerala... ...your blood should boil and should get pumped up Who are you? Are you a pope? Have you heard about Gandhiji? Who is he? Just imagine he is a person like you! We lndians call him Mahatma! Mahatma Gandhi l am one of his followers Chempakaseri Parameswaran Pilla 2 years ago on my centenary year my countrymen made my statue and placed me here From that day l was living under suffocation in this place Anyway it is good you have come Jesus! Atleast l have a companion now! You arejust a statue No one has crucified you! Lord...this is also a kind of crucification ln lndia there are thousands of Gandhi statues ...Sufficient enough for crows droppings ...a place for lovers to romance underneath ...and a place for anti social elements to unleash violence Sad...our Mahatma is exposed to hot sun and rain for many years Your plight is also similar! One must be a celeb to become a statue How did you become a celeb? Before you learn about me You must know about this country This place is Kokrankara This is Kokrangara Panchayat office For many years... l was the President of this Panchayat (Crowd shouts slogan against Corruption) voice:By getting bribes incessantly... you've made this place a bribery paradise We would not allow you to present this budget You raise false allegations and want to bring me down from the chair lt will not happen Markandeya Until l breathe last l will be the President ...and will present the budget too Now he is the Panchayat President He is my nephew Soman Thampi What is this guy doing? ls this in good order? There are umpteen similar orders in this country! They are hitting me Hitting me Leave me l say leave me Don't bite me Read...read Read out man 2014-2015 Kokrangara Panchayat's budget l Present before you... Budget is presented Budget is presented! What is he doing? Like zoo and Museum... ...there is one more place of attraction at Thiruvanthapuram That is Kerala legislature lt all started from there Now this has also become a good order! Not a defeat No defeat! Not a defeat for Soman Thampi This is a school founded by me at my place ...named after Mahatma After my demise Soman Thampi Changed the name of the school Boss! Just look at this! Mahatama Thampi Vilasam memorial school - How is the board? - Memorial for me? One day or other that would happen boss! At that time we need not make a new board! Make a memorial foryour dad! Just make it Mahatma Thampi vilasam school That would do 'Mahatma Thampi Vilasam school' This is 'Chempakaseri Bavanam' Afamed home for generations House looks grand! On August 15th, 1947... ...at midnight when lndia got independence ...at the front yard me and other youngsters ...celebrated bursting crackers My dad a British sympathiser was sleeping inside the house The defeating cracker sounds and he died by heart attack Popped off what is it! lt is a Malayali habit We would use archaicjargons at proper and improper places Birth is referred to as arrival on earth And death as departure to heaven Thus after death of Jesus on 1947 August 15th... ...became an unforgettable day in my life too Why do you mention my name in this? Did l? -You said Jesus! - Do you mean that? World over the era is calculated from the time of your birth ln other words... ...you were born 2015 years ago Has so many years passed? l didn't realise that! Looks like everything happened yesterday ''Lord Rama, chief of the House of Raghu'' ''Oh divine couple Sita and Rama'' - This is my Charka - Chakka? (pun-Jack fruit) This one is a good jack fruit Last time did not get even one jack fruit That wretched Thampi brought a guy and took away everything Let him come this time! l'll show him who we are! Who are these people? l don't know these people They have come here after my death How did you die? Beforel talk about that l have to mention... ...about an important period in my life Come! Hereafter Kunjunni need not complain... ...about looking after uncle and also his property Hereafter Sarada will look after uncle Two months ago he had a fall He has two different palsies Rest of his life he would be bedridden like this What do you say Kunjunni? Uncle...good things will happen soon! This uncle is a dirty old guy! ln fact if the land donated to school and Panchayat were available... Can you imagine my status Baskara? Even otherwise there are many acres of land! All of them would become yours Then why are you so greedy? None of these belong to your mom! So l would be greedy! Here is the document for the 5 acres land at lllathumpuzha Got it? This one is Kolothumparath document You did not say anything about me Let me first settle mine, advocate Sarada, you may go inside Uncle...hope you get food and medicines on time My uncle should not lack anything lt is difficult for me to manage all these wealth Give me your hand! Exert some force Come on That's it smart guy! l am your nephew lt is not going to Britishers! Uncle, take rest Good news will come soon! That was a determination Adetermination to get back to life Uncle! Uncle, what am l hearing? There's a rumour you're going to marry her Not a rumour lt is a fact! Aren't you ashamed uncle? At this age marrying a girl not suitable for our status! Her status is better than yours Uncle, l remain a bachelor Not because l have no desire! lt is out of my love foryou! lf a woman enters my life... ...l may not be able to shower my affection for you This is a great betrayal Soma! Come here What uncle? Get out You have no place in Chempakaseri Get lost Swathanthran Nothing more to add Now every property is in son's name! We have tojust make a declaration This should go to his possession only when he becomes a major Now l don't believe any one l entrust everything to Tirumunpu l am not sure how long l will live You talk as if you would die tomorrow Uncle! Uncle is no more! Uncle, am l not your only nephew! Stop wailing! You have left not saying anything Don't cry Will you not get up again oh my dear uncle! Who is sobbing there? No one is sobbing When some celeb dies this is how All lndia radio mourns (Gun salute commands) This looks funny Why should some one shoot a dead body? Guard of honour This is an honour given by the nation Gun shots fired in honour of the departed All shots are fired upwards You said Gandhiji was shot dead Was it a thanks giving for getting you independence! We are like that Lord! lf one decides to kill he would first kill his dad 'Praise the Lord' Greet you Parameswaran Pilla sir Who are you? l am the crow's son which was killed... ...by the guard of honour gun shots on that day What is that you want? Crows are like saints and know 3 periods They are pals of the souls With your permission l am intervening in the discussion Parameswaran sir is dead He may not know What happened later l would narrate the rest With in one year of Pilla sirs death... ...his wife also died due to Jaundice What will you do to this boy? He is the sole inheritor of all this property Advocate! The will document given by uncle to you may be handed over to me Which will document are you talking about? He never made such a document! And no such thing was given to me You need not take troubles Kunjunni has said everything to me Until the boy completes 18 years of age the document will be under my custody When he completes 18 l would give it to him You need not take the trouble advocate l will give you the document! But what do l get in return? lf you give the document l would make you a celebrity Soman Thampi, l know about you For every birth day of the child come to me with a packet For the 18th birthday come with a big packet lf l feel the packet is fairly big Then l will hand over the document to you Thus for every birthday of the boy Soman Thambi would visit Tirumunpu's house And religiously gave one packet Advocate He asked me to give the packet to you What about the document? Advocate My document He is my brother For the 18th birthday also Thampi arrived My document! She is my sister Advocate taught his people to behave rightly... ...with the people who visit his house So Thampi stopped coming to advocates house May l leave? lt is quite some time Since you started narrating stories about your dad and some ghosts Nowtell me about the story of the son l mean the story of Parameswaran pilla's son Do you want stories from his childhood? That is not required Present one at 2015 AD Where is this son? Champakaseri Parameswaran pilla's son C.P.Swathanthran Champakaseri Parameswaran pilla's son C.P.Swathanthran Where is your client? Has he not come today also? lf he is not available l have to call the next case Where has CP gone? Last time also when his case was called He did not turn up lf you are evicted from the house where you stay Then don't come to me My assistant who went to bring the witness is also not to be seen Please move aside What is this man? Get in to the box Greet you sir Last time you did not appear forthe case Why did you not appear? l am asking you Can't you hear me? On that day the temple elephant went berserk What has it got to do with the case? When the elephant ran amuck every one started running l also ran and climbed a tree Your honour What has this case got to do with that? He is not answering the question l am answering the question lt was evening the elephant was controlled l got from tree in the evening Then how could l come to the court? You may go Has your newly included witness come? Your honour He has come Who is he? Your honour He was Parameswaran pilla's advocate l would submit only the truth before the court l would submit only the truth before the court Your name l would submit only the truth before the court ls your name Tirumunpu? l would submit only the truth before the court Do you know Parameswaran pilla? l did not have tea Did you not amend Paramaeswaran pilla's will document? No, l did not have tea (Mobile rings) Wait man, l'm at the court Mr, don't you know mobiles shouldn't be used in court? No it was an urgent Until the court disperse for lunch stand there l have an urgent work to do -Judge brother -What? lt was a mistake by C.P Please pardon him judge -Who are you? - l am C.P's friend (Mobile rings) So a group of people have come with mobile phones You also stand until lunch time Move to that side This case is adjourned to 25th of next month What is wrong with your dad? He has Alzheimers disease since last 5 years Didn't you feel he has some problem till he reached here? Until we reached the court he was in sound sleep He did not utter a word Fro bringing him l have spent Rs 10,000 Along with advocate fees l will include that also lnform this to C.P Come on man Now we know about the former advocate Why not we ransack his house for the old will document? Why should we do it? He has memory loss God is with me You stupid lawyer Start the carfool (Mobile rings) Where has C.P gone? For 3 hours l have been waiting here lnstead l could have been in prison His mobile phone is switched off He would come now When will he come? l am hungry Just a while ago you had sumptuous food lt is all already digested lf l shave off my beard l would be hungry l was maintaining the beard for 3 decades You have made me shave it off l will compensate forthat too Mere promise will not help You must give Why is he taking my photo? l am an award winning photographer So what? Damn photographer Seems the magistrate has hanged C.P -Will they hang me? - l didn't mean you lf that is the case l have not negotiated for that - Call him brother - lt's switched off Then get something to eat l am hungry Oh! So he is not hanged Come on man Has he come? My dear C.P where were you? l waited long enough to become old Magistrate made me stand there All because of your phone call He is the person Doesn't he have the looks of a serene father? No Did you bring me to make a pastor? You made me shave off my 30 year long beard! Bear that in mind Doesn't he resemble a thief? C.P with great difficulty l managed to get him l have arranged to flash the news in papers tomorrow Don't mess it up Brother, so your 25000 rupees is lost Take it out You went to buy gold foryour daughter's marriage When you alighted from bus you found your money was missing l have understood the incident You narrate the rest - He gets your money -Ah He locates you and due to his kindness... ...he returns the money to you at police station Poorfellow Then all of us take a photo Swathanthran becomes a role model by returning the lost money found by him... ...would be the caption and the photo would come in paper tomorrow - So this is the incident -Yes, this is the incident Look at him l would tell you when to take photo Come When you come out of the station return the money to me When you come out l would give you Rs 2000 Then what about my 30 year old beard? l will pay separately for that Pindani seems this will require lots of money l do this foryour good To defeat Thampi What we need is a good image How to interrogate them? Must be very careful while interrogating a terrorist! Are you Melinda's fiance? Sir he is in jail now! - Then what's your name? -What's my name? Gopalakrishnan Ramakarishnan Dasappan -Just tell one name - Dasappan - So you lost your money! -Yes -And it was found by him -Yes sir - Both were traveling in the same bus -Yes sir -Where were you going? - Ernakulam -What about you? - Malapuram Malapuram? One guy to Ernakulam And the other guy to Malapuram Both are in different directions Then how come you both travel in the same bus? What was the amount? Thirty thousand... Twenty five thousand Thirty thousand twenty five thousand? Funny! No, twenty five thousand What was the money meant for? To buy gold for my daughter's marriage! Do you have a daughter at marriageable age? No, it was for his sister's marriage! l did not ask you Did l not tell you l am young! - lt fell down from my armpit - Take it man - l asked you to take it man - Oh God! -What is this? - That... Remove your dhoti man l said remove your dhoti Remove! Take it out Take it man Take this From where did you steal this? Don't hit there l would pee Even this money is stolen by him ls it? He steals from many people Now l can't say whose money it is lt has gone You may go lf required, l would call you He would never call us Get on to the bike C.P Wretched fellow l told you not to do this 25000 Rupees gone! l had to tell all kinds of lies to the Receiver to get the amount Money for 3 days expenses is lost True! You agreed to this due to my compulsion But now there is a twist in the story Tomorrow we will give a news to the papers lnter state robber daringly caught and handed over to police By whom? lt is you C.P Pindani, don't act smart Don't think l am a fool You will give only impossible ideas lt will happen Tomorrow this news will be flashed in paper with photo People would shudder l am telling you At thejunction tomorrow we will keep a billboard New synonym for adventure is C.P.Swathanthran Swathanthran...Swathanthran This is not a good place for photo Some green scenery for backdrop is required Come out Mister We would take the snap outside My photo should have my dad's photo on background lf you can take the snap here do it Smile please - Please smile - This smile is enough l can take photo only if you smile C.P. just smile Like this Just smile Don't try to scare Why should he smile? For billboards serious look is the style needed Haven't you seen our leaders? We revolutionaries don't smile at all They only make others laugh l can take the snap only if you smile From where did you get him? lmpudent fellow He need not take my photo l have received state award for photography Damn with your award - Get lost man - Don't push me l am holding the camera l have taken even the photo of a Rhino For the first time l am seeing a guy like him You may take those photos - What about the billboards C.P? -What billboards? Photo in newspapers is enough Soman Thampi's billboards are there everywhere in our panchayat Should we also not equate with him? lf you have any old photo bring that For the time bing we will adjust with that Will all of you be present for dinner? Why should you ask about it? lt is a routine Anyway your photo will be published in papers Because that would make Soman Thampi furious l am happy Get some pond fish and 2 Kg's of buffalo meat And some grocery items Don't forget This is the list That... What? Money Yesterday Kunjunni gave you forthis month expenses - Don't drag me in to this - Looks like something is wrong Since receiver has not signed Kunjunni said he would give money for expenses after a couple of days - ls it not Pindani? -Yes -Are you there at back? - No, l have gone C.P we are nicely caught! Coconut plucking is going on at the grove Thought l would come here with Satish He said he has some work here Please sign here for Rs 25000 l gave you yesterday l have to show this to the receiver That is right So you lied to me Rs 25000 is 3 to 4 months expenses amount For what purpose did you get this amount? You ask him about the story Anyway that amount is gone! -Where? - To Sl's pocket For next 3 months live with what you have No money for expenses l have understood So for sometime it would be porridge for meal - ls that right? -Yes He has myriads of assets Yet for expenses he has to wait forthe pitttance... ...from the government appointed receiver Even that amount would be used to settle debts Others have to starve here lf l am hungry l would jump in to some river Signature C.P l came to talk about the billboard ls it 6 feet or 12 feet? Oh God! Forthe time being this blow is sufficient lf you would tell me the reason forthe blow, l will go l said l would send you the photo and the board measurement l had hit you for coming here with this old man ls it? Don't waste time, go Signature? - Billboard? -Any way we would do that Once C.P decides it is irreversible -You may go - Okay ''Mangalayan Thanthunane'' Janamma - lt's broken (Potti) - lt would Your activities are set to burst (pun-Pottum) And you have an apt name Saritha When l heard CP ettan's voice it fell from my hand What a manly voice? What? When l heard CP Ettan's voice When you see him dont' give your bewtiching stance Who broke this? Swathantra Etta, l... Swathantra Ettan l have told you not to call me like that Get up and go woman! - Glass pieces! - l would pick them l asked who broke this photo? ls it also broken? My Goodness! l know that You did this l can't keep anything in this house lf you enter my room without my permission l would be furious This is my house Court would soon decide whose house it is Until then you can be haughty No murmurs Say directly whatever you want to say All of you think l am an unworthy guy Tomorrows paper would prove you all wrong lnterstate robber nabbed daringly An accused in over 30 robbery cases... ...lnterstate robber called Danger Dasappan ...was nabbed after a long confrontation. By Sub lnspector Purushothaman - Man read this - Where is it? l look good in this photo Please be composed C.P May be something better than this is on the offing Before billboards were invented were there no celebs? Pindani, if l kick you will fly out of this place Control yourself C.P One day the entire Kokrangara would respect you An oncoming revolution will not halt enroute Sporting a beard you always blab Comrade Thikkoi! One can find all funny names only here Pindani, Thikkoi, C.P.Swathanthran C.P Boss C.P.Boss come here Call them also ls he not that thief? l have come out on bail Are you wondering how? lf one becomes famous it will all happen There are people to take you out on bail l am grateful to you C.P.boss After seeing the news in paper My estranged wife called me That she is coming back And during next week our association 'Old Kerala Tasker Sangam' ls giving me a reception This is all because of you C.P.boss l would remember this even if l die C.P.boss you need not feel bad l would ensure your photo also comes in newspaper Danger Dasappan is telling you Bye then Your photo would come in newspaper But it would be in the obituary column Take it from me This man and C.P has an inseparable bond Without narrating that we cannot proceed further - C.P - Come on take it! We need to be equipped... ...not only legally but physically too Come on lift it - Fast - Lift it Lift, lift - Lift - Lift it Yes, lift That's it Kokrankara get down Get down Get down fast Narration was going fluently Who is this girl? All stories need a heroine She is the heroine of this story C.P, see who is coming! ls she not late Nambeesan Master's daughter? So what? Heard she is with terrorists ls that right? lt is true, she has buried some rifles and land mines nearby She has come to recover them C.P failed in 4th grade twice When he moved to 5th grade Umajoined the school in 1st grade Following that in each grade Studied for 2 years and when C.P reached 9th grade Uma also reached 9th grade and was in his adjacent class room Next year as though it was destined C.P and Uma studied in the same class Without Uma knowing about it C.P nurtured his love for Uma ln his heart for many years Since everything was passive After many years C.P decided to take some initiative Along with his friends he went to Uma's house with a marriage proposal Let's see, how did it culminate? Our comrade Theekoi wants the marriage... ...to be held before the ensuing party meet Because all of us would be busy with party activities - ls it not comrade? -Yes, yes When did C.P become a party member? Not like that There are no Kins for C.P other than us Who said so? There are lots of kins for C.P Besides l am there Mom, tell them Krishna, please come here l would be back What's it? She has something to tell them Let hertalk to him lt's a routine l don't want to talk to him l want to talk to others Uma, what is in your mind? Mind you he is Chempakaseri Paramaeswara pilla's son Amarriage proposal from them is itself great Whatever it is l want to talk to them She has come l agree forthe marriage But l have few conditions Go ahead Not to you To these people Hope you know l am an activist We are all communists As a wife l will not confine myself to kitchen Chempakaseri is palacious Need not confine yourself to kitchen Because l am a social worker l may have to travel day and night Mostly l return home late night l have lots of relationships from both genders When you said you would return at late night l understood about it Don't expect me to deliver a baby soon after the marriage No one delivers a baby immediately after marriage Who is this man? l am Vikraman Velayuthan C.P's friend C.P. is ready to agree to your conditions - ls it? - ls it not C.P? Do you have any reservations C.P? Yes, there are reservations These can't be accepted l have no reservations There is one last condition Oh God! One more condition? The groom should have passed minimum 10th grade l am particular about that The day C.P comes with 10th grade passed certificate We can get married Had it been this year l would have passed 10th grade Oh my God! Hold on, dear C.P.Etta C.P.Etta, don't you remember me? l am Sunanda Long ago you came to see me with a marriage proposal -Are you married now?. - No l am a divorcee Now l stay in my own house Hope you know the way to my house At times come to my house My mom is bedridden l would not insist that you should pass 10th grade Even otherwise l hate the word 10th grade Shall l make a move? Come children Hold on, dear! Would you like to consider her? ln her case she has experience You will also get 2 or 3 children as freebie Dad died while he was in Service You may know about it When l completed my B.ed l got thatjob When l joined Thampi did not tell me anything about money - Mom, don't you know Shyamala? -Why not? She was my college mate Shyamala's dad was my teacher He is Shyamala's hubby Venu Mom, some people would come to meet me now Not with marriage proposals They are lake protection committee people They would be with us for lunch When did Thampi give the termination notice? Last week They are now considering Chandran sir's wife forthat post Heard they have given Rs 5 lakhs What happened? C.P scooter will not move As usual When we are in front of her house your scooter would conk off Now l would make it right Brother! -Where are you going? - To meet Uma devi Looks like another marriage proposal Mostly the mobile guy would be the groom He doesn't look like a 10th grade passed fellow The moment l got the termination notice l decided to meet you Only you can do something Be brave You would get back yourjob l am with you Master get inside l would be back now She would have surely thought we are here to look at her You need not look at her - Start quickly man - lt will start now Have you come again to seek a bride? Have you passed 10th grade? Did l fail you in 10th grade? Want ground nut sauce -What about Puttu? - No issues What did you say about the coconut grove? Fixed barbed fences in between You are asking this forthe nth time Barbed fencing! Who did it? My dad Gopan Nair Why did your dad do that in his land? lt is contempt of court lt would become a police case May have to go behind the bars - Tell your dad - Not possible Why is it not possible! As long as l am the receiverfor this dispute l would not permit all these Where is your dad? l want to meet him lf you go now there is a bus Start quickly lf you meet him lnform us too We can go in my jeep Where is he? Not sure if he is in heaven or hell? Barbed fence was put up by Thampi sir Before the case is decided How can he put up walls or fence is C.P's contention Why should court continue to keep you as receiver is C.P's 2nd question You can't ask that! Because court has full trust in me l'm the Poornachandran Nair is appointed as the receiver ls this an yield from your plantain tree? No, it sprouted What sir? Did l forget to take something l have a doubt You cannot lift that You may leave sir Anyway l am going to the camp! ls there anything that can be kept behind thejeep? There are two plantain clusters (kola) Do you want that? No issues This way a murder (kola-pun) would happen here -What? - l meant yours Start the vehicle man Why is the bonnet raised man? Because of potholes it has raised sir Why is it raising intermittently? Some old vehicles behave this way l can't have vision of the road too Stop the car and close the bonnet man To stop the car brake is needed ls there no brake? You need not be scared This happens often lt would become alright now When Thampi sir is near me l have no fright l am scared Press the brake pedal Keep quiet man Else l would stomp you out -What man? - Can't you see The car is stopped? l know that Get down and check After seeing the billboard at thejunction... ...Thangamani and this man has to go to Thiruvananthapuram - May have to push... - Should l? The car can't push itself Let's push Thampi sir Get down! But l am the Panchayat President! So what are we not going to push together - ls it? - Get down Then it is ok What Thomaru is this a new statue? No, it is our master lnebriated he would fall on roadside regularly Will you please push the car? - Then what to do with the master? -Just place him there Let's keep him here Stay here How is the board? ls this not Chandran master of Thampi's school... - She is the 'Good wife' - ls she Chandran's wife or Thampi's ...? Did Thampi marry again? Semi finalists of the 'Good wife' reality show Chandran master and Thangamani teacher... ...are congratulated by Panchayat President Thampi Thangamani when we took this photo This guy was not there How come this guys hands are on your shoulders President is like that Chandran master He will lay hands on required and unwanted places This is why l say you are stupid This is a photographer's trick Satish come here What? Move aside My boss is calling me The board gives the impression, l have some relationship with Thangamani teacher Don't you have l thought! You don't imagine anything When did l put my hands on her shoulder Anyway after sometime you would do that So to make it interesting l did Photoshop work on it Please let time go l'll whack you They are my school teachers They would bring the prize offered flat from Thiruvananthapuram Will they bring it through parcel? They would parcel it down under and bring You wait inside the car l would come now You have failed to pay the rent for last 2 months l have come to remind you about that When you suddenly increase rent from 500 to 2000 How will we pay? Should you not consult us before rent is increased? How can you do on your own accord? We can discuss and come to a decision -Will it not be right? - l have decided l am going to demolish this building of Britisher's period This building is under dispute During pendency of suit, how can you demolish? Besides C.P should also agree to this To demolish a 50 year old lime mortar building no court would object Who wants C.P's consent? This is in my name! l want to get its worth Vacating the place would be good foryou Damn with your caroms Defeating me no one need to go to Olympics Then admit you have lost Who lost? Tell me who lost? l deliberately lost the game lt is notjust a defeat lt's an ingenious defeat l win or lose That is my discretion Males should be smart and astute Because you lack that all l sundries have a say over you Do you want to see my smartness and astuteness? l would show you l would show you who is C.P So he is here l have been enduring her for a long time Should have some gratitude She has mistaken my lenience l deserve this For brooking you so long l deserve this ln which game C.P lost today? Carrams So that is the reason lf you don't want me leave me at my house But l have some rights and authority On what grounds On what grounds l should give you rights? l could not marry at the right time l could not beget children l need compensation for all these There is time left for marriage and begetting children Januamma You need not have regrets We ae all here You play caroms and have a nice time Thampi is going to demolish the building at the junction That would leave us in lurch That would be the real loss for C.P Who would demolish the building? You mean Thampi! That would not happen He has planned to demolish He will do some guile and execute it lf the building is demolished it would be a shame for you Have you heard him? Have you heard his authority? lf you are smart defeat Thampi But don'tjump on me for losing in caroms Physical strength will not matter What is required is intelligence l have a new plan to combat Thampi What is that plan? Foes do combat each other With and without weapons Against Britan our weapon was... Non violence and Non cooperation But they are going to use a different weapon All of them are coming here What is going to happen here? Pindani would have some plans Let us watch Pindani! Ghost, sorcery etc are capitalist thoughts We and our party are against these Like few others One need not try to find out from diary... ...to which party they owe allegiance now Our party is against these superstitions Switching party loyalty often is my wish Keep quiet man Else l will set fire to your beard Look there! ls this a statue with movements? Murari brother has arranged him He has been brought straight from Wayanad forests What is he going to do? This guy would curse He would go before Soman Thampi's house... ...and curse him giving blows to his own head lf he curses before some one's house... ...the effects can be seen imminently forthe house owner Politicians, businessmen film personalities whoever has... ...animosity with some one he would be there before their house Thereafterthey would be doomed This guy is in great demand in Andhra and Tamil Nadu This trend is picking up in Kerala right now He will curse Thampi and he may not raise You will see the effects C.P Sir, my life is in danger l need police protection Has this guy come out ripping the earth? -Are you not C.P.Swathanthran? -Yes sir lf l come to know that you are involved in this... ...l would use third degree methods to extract information from you - Do you know about that? - l don't know Don't stay here No sir Can't you undress and make them stand in lock up? Police lock up is not meant for people to take rest Then what about my police protection? Don't you have many idle cops! l just asked for 2 of them Let them stand on my either side You may go President So you will not give protection l would not Don't you go for a morning stroll with your wife? So what? Tipper lorries without brake race criss cross in this nation At least l know few of them The tipper lorry may not knowthat you are an Sl Thampi Vilasam What is it Sl sir? You wanted protection on either side This is for the left side Next time l will give for the right side Go! You... What should we do with him sir? They said he is a great curser That guy is still in service How about cursing the magistrate? Here this side Stay here Her dad died while in service Shayamala has a right to claim thejob She was appointed on that basis After one and half years without any reason... ...the management has terminated her service ln Shayamala's place Thampi filled the vacant post with his favourite lady Shyamala was terminated prematurely Until the school management l declare this strike would continue With this l end my speech ls she leading the strike? Look at her pomp Let me talk to her No Thangamani She's Nambeesan master's daughter So what? l don't fear anyone The money we paid is ours lf it backfires we would lose 5 lakhs - Come with me - Leave me Render Justice Reinstate Shyamala teacher Reinstate Shyamala teacher Strike Soman Thampi do justice Management do justice Soman Thampi do justice Down down Soman Thampi Tell me if you need any help like Lemon juice or soft drinks lt's very hot here Buttermilk with salt would be better Continue (Slogan shouting continues) Let's see now Come on C.P Why are you shying away? Should we do this Pindani? Old memories make me feel bad Foe's foe is your friend You have forgotten the past Likewise she would have also forgotten Now we need Uma devi (Slogan shouting continues) Greet you all Please get up brother Get up Sit down -What are you doing? - He is C.P l know that What do you want now?. C.P. has come to express his solidarity wth your struggle Give it Soman Thampi down down We would face you Soman Thampi down down We would face you What is your idea? Nothing Ayoung lady like you Especially a beautiful lady suffer hardships leading a strike... ...should not a kind person like me express solidarity with you Behind every woman's success is a man Amidst his buys schedules C.P has come here So you must oblige him appropriately What do you mean? - l mean your co-operation -What do you mean? Should l hug and kiss him? C.P.doesn't like that - Do you C.P? - No Should we not make this a grand one? We can call any media person Mathruboomi or Manorama lf required we can spend some money... ...and make this news get a bigger coverage ln such a way that C.P also gets a promo You are big hearted Don't make him feel bad ls it over? Then leave the place You... lf your idea is to get coverage in news... ...there are umpteen ways Either rob a bank or kill some one lf you want to feature permanently with photo Sexual harassment case would be better All of you have a look of this man He would be the newsmaker of this year Do you always exhibit good behaviour like this? Throw it What is this? Stop it guys - Now l would set it right - l know about it Exactly in from of this house your vehicle would conk off How many times it has happened! You took me to a drab film at midnight Because he is a super star... can he fight 50 men alone? That would not happen You push your scooter l am going - Pindani, why is it stinking? - Hey it is not me - C.P...? - l would thrash you Hello! What are you doing? This is a paid job New type ofjob! Throwing waste matter Have you heard about it? Please leave this place The entire place would stink - This would stop her strike - Don't behave like a rogue Then take this Come - C.P -What? Vehicle has started C.P vehicle has started Get on l will come now C.P if you stay here you would stink You move forward lf l switch off, can not start again Stop Use this straw to rub Are you bathing a buffalo? l would bathe you But stay out of house for a week l would not let you enterthe house ln my revolutionist life l have never endured such a stink Comrade was your revolution at toilets? l can't tolerate him Being made to stink at the striking people's houes for no reason Why do you bother? l can endure it Wretched Pindani, lf l see him... C.P.etta! C.P. etta, shall l rub your back? l will take care of that You burn some incense She wants to see a bathing scene This is Thampi vilasam Bungalow - Have this -Will you not give tea today also? Drink this, then only it will have some effect man This will be of no use for what you have in mind Because you had lots of money... ...my dad got me married to you old man Though your uncle married at an old age He had a son you're not good for anything What can l do Mandakini? The moment l see the cot l feel like sleeping Thampi Vilas! Thampi Vilasam! What sir? Are you fine sir? Take it out man How is this? - ls it fine? -Yes, it is - Extend your hands - Hello After coming to Kokrangara l have not hand cuffed any one What is the matter sir? Nothing special lt is boring to sit alone in station Let's play cards there - Come -Where? Leave me sir lt would be bad to take you this way Are you not the Panchayat President? Get him a Kurta Mandakini get me the laced brief too l am very happy This is the best scene l have seen in my life l hear such things only in church Don't know if he had been thrashed! Have a good look guys Move, l am little late Have you come? - l have something to tell you - Send those photos to me C.P did you see him getting blows? What happened C.P? From morning l was feeling bad ls it? This was for leaving me in lurch yesterday night l got tired bathing for hours What happened here? What man? - How is it? - Not good as yesterday's We will keep it with ourselves Acompromise He did the wrong We don't gain anything by making a compromise Getting reinstated is Shyamala's right For throwing waste matter at my house... ...he must be punished That is my right too As an Sl don't l have any rights? l am just asking for a compromise That will not be right sir l just want to be reinstated l don't want anything else Shyamala, we did not come here for that l am sorry Uma For me my job is important Then you may go for a compromise Let's go Krishna uncle That is right Are you sitting here hugging your wife? Thangamani! You promised a job and took 5 lakhs from me Now you say l will not get thejob l had no other go but to reinstate Shyamala Not that, what you have shown to me is unethical Why don't you keep quite Thangamani? You need not talk lf you don't return my money within 24 hours l would launch a sit in strike Not before your school like the other woman l would sit before your bungalow Come man What is this case? ls it a dispute over property or a case for the statue? Your honour this case is about the statue l ask you this out of ignorance For some time it was a property dispute ln between you filed a case for a statue Do you want property or statue? l want both l have understood about the property dispute Which statue are they talking about? l am the statue They are referring to me being kept here Take away your When l went for my piles operation l made you temporary president for a month So... During that period you brought in reforms... ...and a statue for Parameswaran Pilla Take it from me Markandeya This statue will not be erected anywhere in this panchayat And you will not get a penny out of this lf l had ordered for making the statue it would be erected and you would see it Take it from me You liar President! You should be in party for that to happen From this moment you are expelled from the party Who wants your crummy party? Look l have with me lots of your secrets Tomorrow l would reveal them Sukumara, come on Sukumara, don't go Your president is telling you...Don't go No one else should leave No more l would sit in the opposition Since the Panchayat has not allotted funds... ...to complete the statue making we should collect funds Fearing Thampi we shouldn't retreat lt would not fructify Already we have done 3 to 4 collection drives lf we again go on a collection drive on this score... ...public would show their fists to us Without all these this can be achieved But C.P must agree For the next 4 months the amount given by receiver... ...should be transferred to statue making fund Forthose months you have to show your valour - But Januamma -What Januamma? ls your dad not important than all these? For the happiness of dad Me and C.P Not me C.P alone would show his valour Thus for 2 months... ...C.P had to live on porridge three times a day When he was raging with anger He would even bite the chilli l remain as a statue for the last 2 years Thus few iron rods and cement were wasted C.P's porridge oatmeal were also a waste lf it had been human beings, it is ok But how can l intervene in the case of a statue Now comes the turning point of the story Otherwise called 'twist' - Greet you - Plantain cluster Tuber and Colocasia his farm yields And some organic vegetables lt is all from C.P's land How much do you want for all these things? This is not for sale We brought this to give it you free of cost C.P give it to her What is this? Your victory over Thampi is not insignificant For making the corrupt Thampi fall on his knees This is an appreciation from us Please accept it Proceed From tomorrow C.P.leads the demonstration forthe statue Our special thanks for agreeing to participate in it What statue? What demonstration? Who agreed? What are you guys talking? Statue is C.P's father Parameswaran Pilla's Without even basic amenities... ...that statue is living in a godown What do you mean by basic amenities? Food, Clothing and shelter... (Roti kapada aur Makan) Haven't you heard about We must erect his statue before the panchayat We are organising a protest forthat You must lead us lmmediately behind you C.P.would be there What would be the age? Statue should be 102 years old l asked about your age Excluding Saturdays and Sundays This September comrade would complete 70 years Shouldn't old people like you be enlightened? Will erection of this statue... ...reestablish justice and equity in our country ln addition will it eradicate poverty and make democracy flourish! Will it bring in prosperous days Strike is not an amusement lt is not your cup of tea l have lots of works to do Don't waste my time lf this is for sale l would accept Otherwise you may take them back C.P if a woman can talk so much... why should we males remain silent? Flare up C.P You stay there You talk as if you and your dad got independence for lndia When was 10th grade invented? ln this country there are many great people... ...who have not passed 10th grade Because they did not indulge in malpractices they did not pass So am l lf you are a woman live like a woman Don't glue the mustache of a male on face l would show you what is a demonstration And you would come to see that Else we would make you come Deliver a punch dialogue too Come on! lf you play with males you would deliver babies without interval You reveled C.P, bouquet...? When she comes to meet us she should have something with her Let it be there Stop it! - What happened? - C.P has not come yet You start C.P.would come - Start! - Dear Countrymen To erect Parameswaran Pilla's statue we start the demonstrations here today Parameswaran Pilla's son and the darling of the town C.P.Swathanthran leads the demonstration We welcome you all Today... Today from 10Am to 5 PM Like a statue without winking an eyelid without any movements ...a different kind of protest would be started by him ...this kind of protest would be the first of its kind in history C.P. has come Beat the drums (Slogans shouted exhorting C.P) Get down C.P All are waiting for you Get down Get down Statue of the father of this man.. There are many kinds of protests in world l can't stand like a statue from morning to evening Should l not have some food? Should l not drink water to quench thirst? How about peeing? You need to pee Only if you drink water! Come C.P There had been many strikes in our country Standing strike Sit in strike and... ...lying and running strikes Similarly - Kissing strike too -Yes! But this strike is different from all of them C.P invented this novel strike C.P would stand firm like a statue from today... ...and our C.P will find a place in history l say this loudly and declare the commencement of the strike Start C.P Beat the drums Then why should they erect your statue C.P can stand like this before the school What happened? Again brake and clutch have failed All of you move away Brake has failed Move away Nothing more can be done with a car... ...which even thejunk yard guy doesn't want Do something and stop the car To stop the car l am not Rajnikant l should dash somewhere and stop the car lt's Panchayat office Turn that side Move away Run guys Move aside Oh God! C.P. move away Brake has let me down Oh God! C.P is knocked down C.P Lift him Get a vehicle ls there no ambulance? Get him in to the auto Move away Hello! C.P Hello, what happened to..C.P? What happened to C.P? C.P.etta! They say he is taken to the town hospital Sasi's granny is admitted there Call him Hello! - What happened? -What more should happen? Have you seen him? His body is covered with a white cloth lt is all gone - What happened? - Tell us He has died ls he dead? ls he dead? C.P, you have left us! How could you... Are you not our darling? He was everything for us Now he has left us Put it down there You need not cut down the full branch lt is sufficient for cremating one person The remaining would sprout again lt is a quality mango tree So from today my work will be over Since C.P is no more You work will also come to a halt To tell you precisely... Since C.P.Swathanthran is dead There is no more any dispute with regard to the property My favorite dishes Kunjunni, once the funeral is over immediately l would shift to this place Henceforth both houses would be yours As per the document soon after uncle's death l could have checked him out Since l showed some compassion on that day l could not enter this place Hereafter in the courtyard of Chempakaseri house l can relax in this easy chair of my uncle Seems the body has come Will they bring the body in auto rickshaw?. We heard C.P is dead He is cutting logs for cremation Satish is the guy who spread the rumour l will also leave this place l can not run After all l am the Panchayat President That was great Can you run now?. l can run now You need not You can crawl C.P, he is going Catch him C.P don't break my hands - l have to climb coconut trees - Did you see his hands? That is for making me stand like a statue and taking me to hospital This is for spreading the rumourthat l am dead All these things can't defeat C.P And we should never stop what we had started We would find new ways to continue the strike Now l have a different idea Not before this panchayat At a different place Where is it? What strike would they do henceforth? They stood like a statue! What else will they do? Right now there are many variations available lf required they can stand in one leg Or they can stand on head with 2 legs pointing upwards ls C.P going to stand on his head? Might be before Thampi's house Never, C.P's strike will shift to another place where everything is centralised an important place -Where is at? -At the capital To erect a statue here Why should we demonstrate at Thiruvananthapuram before the secretariat? l don't understand about it C.P, demanding an airport at Kannur... ...people don't demonstrate at Kannur Demonstrations are held at secretariat To withhold an airport at Aranmula... ...demonstrations are held at Thiruvananthapuram Similarly for the Mullaperiyar issue also... ...the demonstrations were before the secretariat Should not the entire country know about... ...Pilla sir's statue issue? Along with that every one should know about C.P Everything should be grand and Thampi should feel bad The entire country is with you C.P From now on our demonstrations Would be in front of secretariat at Thiruvananthapuram ''Which is the way to Uppin?'' ''Southwardss of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to South?'' ''Northwards of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to Uppin?'' ''Southwards of Utopia?'' ''Which is the way to south?'' ''Northwards of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to North?'' ''Eastwards of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to East?'' ''Westwards of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to west?'' ''Go straight and then upwards'' ''How to go upwards?'' ''Go to top and come down'' ''Oh God...'' This is not sufficient Damodara To get people for demonstration we need more You agreed to give Rs 250 per head - Nadar, this is unfair - That is all outside the compound lnside the compound money is required Take it out Take it So you don't want thejob You only want your money You took money one and half years ago That money was meant for starting a shop When l ask about the job you merely dragged on day after day But nothing happened You entire money is returned l did not tell you because l didn't want to give you a shock Minister told me you would get the appointment order next week - ls it? - But you want your money back Then let it take its course Are you telling the truth brother? l am a devotee of Padmanabhan l would not tell lies lt was a mistake on my part Brother you may keep the amount Even if you require more just give me a call l would give you Brother please accept it why do you hesitate? Brother, l take leave of you Thank God! Because l keep a betel packet it helps at times Have a good look C.P This is the secretariat lf you get in to this building by god's grace anything can... Nothing can happen, is it not? You move forward - lsn't the legislature nearby -Yes, on the other side After meeting Nadar can we go there? Why not? lf you want to have a hearty laugh can't we go for some comedy movie Stop your untimely comedy This is Thiruvananthapuram and not your Kokrangara - Hello -What Kokrangara? Yes, l have understood Where are you now?. Don't stand outside Come to the south block Ok C.P do you know?. Here even if minister wants to pee Nadar's presence is required lt's all in his hands - Disgusting - Dirty fellow, he didn't mean that l see How can l forget you? On the swearing in day you took Rs 2000 and disappeared Later you surfaced only after the ministry fell Brother you were very fair Why do you look so tired? Don't you know entire Kerala was burned by the solar scam? l also had to face the brunt - How are things? - So the statue is yours Statue is not mine it is my fathers lf the statue could perform some miracles lt would have helped For example bleeding from eyes milk oozing out of hands... ...water coming out of head and things like that lf it had such powers it is through right now You can't say there were no tears But that wasn't from the eyes of the statue lt was from C.P's eyes Who is this guy? He is my friend Pindani -What 'ani'? - Pindani! C.P he is P.P He has all evidences against all leaders Call the channel people He is the guy who abuses the public in TV at 9 PM Yes l would come now Just a minute Where is he going so hurriedly? He is going to meet the CM Since he was expelled from party... ...he has threatened he would join another party - Party has expelled me too - ls it? Then do one thing Go after him Soon your leader would join some party Then you can also follow him That's right You may go ahead l would meet him and return Minister is calling you This is all organic vegetables Let me ask you one thing lf you want all cases to be investigated by CBl... ...local police will have no work at all Local police investigation says Chinnan has committed suicide But Chinnan would never commit suicide sir Who said this to you? Did the deceased tell you? First time a student from our place has come to study medicine He has meet with this tragic end He was a ray of hope to many poor people Justice is denied to him because he is a tribal Chinnan has already made a complaint... ...regarding harassment by seniors lt is a Medical college Minor ragging would have taken place But that doesn't mean jumping from terrace... ...can be termed as a murder by college mates They are all Chinnan's friends There are many eye witnesses to the incident All of you are good looking and handsome Demonstrations would tan your skin Would affect your marriage prospects So all of you get back to your homes We will investigate -Where has the leader gone? - l am also looking for him He has escaped, l am sure Home minister wants to end the investigation We can't agree to this We are sure Chinnan's death was a murder Local police who investigated the case destroyed all evidences With a demand to transfer the case to CBl From tomorrow we will go on fasting before the secretariat gate Until the government accedes to our request Our protest would continue C.P. look there Hello, we did not come to Thirvanthapuram Because you are at Thiruvananthapuram Because we are at Thiruvananthapuram... ...you also did not come to Thirvananthapuram Because both of us came to Thiruvananthapuram Both of us are at Thiruvnanthapuram lt is not like as you imagine -Are you staying here...? -What if...? We did not come to stay here because you are staying here Because we are staying here you did not come to stay here Because both of us came to stay here We both are staying here This guy has no other work Fearing the bandicoot if the mountain goes or... ...fearing the mountain if the bandiccot goes finally both would end in ocean There is no such proverb There is a proverb like that Come Brother! Why did Maharaja of Travancore Britisher Burton and... ...Diwan Madhava Rayar build an officer here? -Why? - So that jobs would get done What is that Pilla want now?. Do you want me to say your dad was this country's prime minister? What we need is just a paper with a government seal l don't need all those l want to erect my father's statue before Panchayat Then the school founded by father and... ...and the shops in market must be restored to me from Thampi People should know Parameswaran pilla has a son like him After his assasination Ourfather of the nation... ...Mahatma Gandhi had a second birth Do you know about that? - When did that happen? - ln the currencies lf he is with us ln this country you can achieve anything At Thiruvanthapuram you should only talk lies Why is it like that? lf you talk the truth they would abuse your mother Come on make a drink Pilla for everything a change is needed Your name is not right Swathanthran, who gave you this name? - My father! -Jeez! What if we change this name? There was an attempt earlier to change this name Entire Kokrangara was shaken by that incident Yet changing a name would be C.P. take for instance the names of few places Didn't Bombay become Mumbai? Madras became Chennai And Calcutta became Kolkatta That's right, but there are people who don't read newspapers Then l may have to explain to all of them - That will be a big trouble -What trouble? We take the responsibility for giving publicity for the new name But what would be the new name? Even if the name is changed the person will remain same Look at the many names l have... Jesus, Christ, Lord and Messiah Whatever you call the person is one and the same lt was my desire to name my son as Swathanthran l never knewthis name would be outdated Along with new name a new human being is also born So l would suggest a name Theekoi Karl Max, Stalin Lenin then Cheruguvera Say Che Guevara Yes, if these are the names keep it with you Then l would suggest a name - Shammi kapoor - That sounds better Then we can change the name of Pilla sir too Parameswaran Pilla Kapoor Get lost man C.P. your father is a national leader When you change the name his name should also be considered Then we can name him as Rabindranath Tagore He would get a Nobel price also Don't crack jokes man Any way we have decided to change the name Then let it be a powerful name Then can it be Sakthiman? At the same time it should not be new also Name should not be familiar - Neelakanatan -What Kantan? Chempakaseri Neelakanatan Nice lnstead of Mangalaseri, it is Chempakaseri This is neither old nor new And is familiar to every one l...Chempakaseri Paramaeswaran Pilla's son Swathanthran from this day when this notice is made Has changed my name as Chempakaseri Neelakantan l appeal to the public kins and friends... ...to consider this as an announcement Why so early in the morning C.P? Open the pack and take out a paper! Will l not give it to your house? Where is the news? lt is there lt is a great photo Are you not reading it C.P? You may read l...Chempkaseri Parameswaran pilla's son Swathanthran from this day when this notice is made Has changed my name as Chempakaseri Neela... Neela Neelaku... Neelakundan lt is a small error ka has come as ku lnstead of kandan it is ku.. You will get one ku... What do you think is the meaning of Kundan? lt means youth youngster and smart Even Lord Vishnu has that name... - ls it? -Vaikundan Haven't you heard about it? So Neela kundan means Blue youth, blue youngster, isn't it? Neelakunda etta Neelakunda etta Have tea ls he dead? Nadar Everything needs a change What does he mean? That is it People seeing you should say you are intelligent l'll tell you ln they way you walk sit or laugh there should be some difference So l would give you some degrees lf any one asks just say yes - How did yourfather die? - He was ailing and aged That would not work out Death due to dengue or an accident have no value at all Minimum he should have had one bullet injury When he says bullet injury it shouldn't be an lndian bullet Britisher's bullet will have greater value That's right Since we have taken some initiatives Give me 5000 rupees Dearfriends, not merely land and forests... ...even rights of citizens and education ...were denied to these sons of the soil Chinnan's murder is just a continuation of that Medical college ragging and Chinnan's death... ...can't be viewed in isolation and as an one off incident Govenrment do justice Order CBl inquiry in to Constable Hameed's disappearnce Where is my children's dad? Shout kids Especially the prime suspects have... ...close connections with higher ups of the ruling party l give my whole hearted support to this relay fasting... ...and declare this fasting inagurated officially This demonstration is led by tribal protest leader Mrs.Kanjana l invite herto lead the demonstration Arrest Chinnan's killers Do justice to tribals Order CBl inquiry for Chinnan's murder Order CBl inquiry for Constable Hameed's disppearance Where is my children's dad Children...shout slogan l can't, l am hungry For 10 minutes shout slogans along with mom Then l would get you milk, fruits and biscuits Shout! Government do justice Government do justice Saira, you need not shriek early morning There are no channel or press people here Who do you think would hearyour shouts? New demonstrators have come Press and channel people would come now Then only they would realise we are here Media people may not evince einterest in that demonstration There is neither ministers norfilm artists for glamour Dojustice to tribal Government do justice Vasudevan pilla seems you have new neighbours Have you started to enter my shed? Go out, go out Did you eat anything? - Take this... - l don't want This banana is the prasad of Pazhavangadi Ganapthi temple lt is not any alms lf you want take it lf l want something l would get it on my own l don't want anyones magnanimity Because you didn't have food l offered You find fault even with that You are fighting over 15 to 20 years You are few yards away from grave lf you get pension now your sons... ...who don't take care of you would fight for that money That is your destiny Order CBl probe for constable Hameed's disappearance Come here kids Where is my children's dad? You shout at the top of your voice... ...and make the kids also suffer Even god would not pardon you You need not tell me this daily thrice l will do as l wish with my kids You may... Your pregnancy is in advanced month One more baby would come soon lnclude the baby too in your slogan shouting ls yours an evil tongue? l was also thinking on those lines l want to deliver a baby here Then the CM might show some mercy on me C.P look there She is here This is god's game Government do justice Sinner goes to hellfire CP goes to devil's den - How's it? - Don't try to crack jokes One more thing Don't exhibit we know each other We have no acquaintance And we haven't met her before Understood? Chinnans murder... Order CBl probe for Chinnan's murder CP has not come to find a bride He has come to protest l told you not to behave like ajoker Nadar said he would come here - Where has he gone? - l am here Tell me, where do you want to sit? With vasudevan sir or Comrade Narayani? Or with Saira Banu? Or do you want to be with No, they may not be right for you Or is it enough if you sit on the other side? Have you again started inserting people in between? l would not come to you Vasudevan sir Where is my children's dad? lf you shout like this You would deliver right now Are you so scared? Then stay there and aid my delivery Tell me Shall l fix a place here? What is your idea? Same as yours demonstration Sir wants to have a protest demonstration There is no place Comrade Narayani can you please move aside a little? Do you want me to move aside? l can't do it Already our patience is tested Take him to the other side, go There is no place on that side Do me a help Sit with that woman Please adjust and sit there Then he would manage in this place He is from a good family lineage l can't make him sit anywhere That's right, he looks aristocratic Hope he has sufficient funds Ask him to sit An unclean and untidy place How will one sleep in such a noisy place? l would fit an AC and arrange a silk bed for you lf you want get in to this place You must adjust with what is available Ok One more thing You must give rent, floor rent Will you give rent forthis 'floor'? - Tell her we would give - They would give When you come back get a stamp paper Why? He should sign and agree whenever l require he would vacate the place Do you agree? - He would give - Ok - One more thing - What is it? She is an expectant mother Don't know when she would get labour pains So whenever required he should provide a place inside this... ...for herto deliver a baby CP is a generous person lf required CP would show his palms for this lady to deliver a baby Big talk Bring your palm l would give you a kick You keep quiet man So we can start tomorrow itself lnform people whoever you want to be present l will inform the press and channel people l will prepare the list forthe money to be disbursed to them We may need sufficient money Relish, relish Eat...get back to your place Else your entire life will be wasted here - Eat... - Take it out man Have you picked his pocket sir? Get lost man You guys can extract money only from the poor ln front of persons who get bribes in crores You guys would tremble Look...l collected interest for the amount l loaned to him Great...so you lend money for interest Listen sir lends money for interest What is wrong with this old lady? Take this and swallow That's the way Come to terms like that -Wretched lady - Should l not earn a living? This is surely a lick by a poor dog Dear people, greet you all Leader of public speech Kattaparam Kuttappan is with us We can be proud he is inaugurating the statue demonstration His last wish is to die during a speech hoding a microphone l pray to Padamnabhasamy to fulfill his last wish soon... ...and invite him to inaugurate the demonstration Come sir Come Do you decide my last wish? No lf his last wish is fulfilled here will it not be setback for us Forthe triumph of the demonstration... lt is betterto have a sacrifice C.P Forthis speech did l charge Rs 1500? l need Rs 3000 Move this side After this meeting he has to address 10 to 15 meetings Taxi is waiting From here he heads straight to Balabavan To make a speech on Gandhiji Greet you 'Start' Hello Brother, drink this and start eloquently Just see how he speaks This one speech will make your demonstration hit headlines Dear children Oh king yourface resembles like a moon Similarto that who is this great person before you? Does any one of you know children? Oh God! Doesn't this guy know me? He knows lt's a figurative usage He has used a metaphor His father is a well known personality Dear children, his father was called as 'Mahatma' ...by Rabindranatha Tagore Lord Mountbatter called him as 'Half naked fakir' No one has called my father like that Not one or two lt is three His father has participated in 3 round table conferences Not round table Statue...statue Yes, statue though in nooks and corners of lndia his statues are there in his own town... ...the town where this son was born ...a statue could not be erected Not only for him For all of us lt is a matter of sorrow So until this statue is erected ...this son would continue his indefinite fasting ...dear children Stop it man Whose statue are you talking about? Gandhiji or my father,s statue? Sorry there was a mix up between Balabavan speech and this speech Allah Seems labour pain has started forthis woman Quickly get a vehicle C.P looks like there will be a clash between Speech and delivery Cop...get a vehicle Don't bring any vehicle l would deliver the baby only here Some one go and bring the CM ls CM going to attend to your delivery? l would not deliver until the CM comes here lf CM is to come here one must apply to the 'Meet the CM' program Will you wait until then? Did l not wait so long? Move away l would not deliver until the CM comes here Some one go and bring the CM He was working in secretariat At the fag end of his service he was suspended Now he is struggling here ln the dam construction the minister was involved in some corruption When it was leaked out... Government appointed a commission of inquiry When the report was out all big guns escaped Afterthe death of minister and all others involved... ...the truth came out Yet brother Vasudevan could not get salary and pension May be l would get everything when l go to the grave Brother, he doesn't have a penny with him But he is an excellent cook Get him all materials he would prepare excellent food C.P's plight is pathetic lf he misses a meal... he would behave like a frenzied elephant Today he might demolish the makeshift tents at the secretariat One must do sacrifices Then only ones goals will succeed is't not? Long ago l was also on indefinite fasting Finally when my condition was critical police admitted me in hospital Thereafter l changed the fasting protest to non violent protest Let us see if this guy would see the dawn tomorrow What are you doing at night? ls this a festival place? The moment she reached the hospital She delivered the baby lf there was a little delay... ...all of us should have attended to her delivery here Her god fortune her dad has come from Kozhikode So l have come back From morning l did not have any food My stomach is burning due to hunger Any way you are on fasting Don't look here lt is C.P What happened? Are you not getting sleep? Any mosquito problem! What are you doing there? C.P.Thiruvanthapuram is not like as we imagined Parotta and beef fry are very tasty chicken leg piece is also crispy l am reeling under hunger here Are you relishing chicken leg piece? To become a leader one must do sacrifices Must do hunger strike must do protests must get blows must spent time in jail Do you know how much l feel about not able to become a leader But you are capable of that A person like me can never become a leader Where are you rushing like an injured pig? You... My god...leg piece has flown somewhere l have stopped the hunger strike Damn with fasting There are great leaders who had bellyful food l would become one of them Take this Move Poor guy He must be terribly hungry ls this building also part of the dispute ...between Soman Thampi and C.P? As long as it is not settled... ...how will court pass orders on this hurriedly? A petition is filed that the building is in peril Court would accept any petition and has passed an evacuation order, that's all What can l do? lf the building collapses l would be held responsible Comrade, will this not be a better option? From the days of Parameswaran pilla sir we are doing business here Don't think we would vacate for nothing Did any one ask you to vacate for nothing? Thampi sir would give a reasonable compensation - ls it not sir? -Yes...yes Your late father Kothappan Nair would give the compensation Without getting a reasonable compensation ...don't think we would vacate Yes, l would give reasonable compensation Panachayat office is for you Village office is for Abubaker Comrade Thekoi should get something bigger Block office Chachappan would get entire roads of this panchayat Anyway C.P.Swathanthran has gone to Tiruvananthapuram ...to bring the secretariat Let him take that Learn this also l filed the proxy petition about the dilapidated building The evacuation order in the name of each one of you ...was also received and acknowledged by me - President -Yes, l am the president Not a mere president l am the Panchayat President ln other words, l am the father of the village ln that sense l am like your father l would stab and take out your intestine Should l tell you to start the car? Oh God...has this fellow swallowed one full banana cluster? ls his stomach like the panchayat well? Seems it's too hot Sir do you want ground nut or papppad? l want both This puttu has a special taste May be because Thampi himself does the cultivation No one cultivates puttu Don't try to do any cultivation here The two clusters you gave last time were bad l mean the banana clusters l need gingertoo How is the tuber ls it ripe? Not fit for harvest yet You get paddy banana and coconuts ln addition l give cash wheneveryou ask ls this fair sir? You need not teach me about ethics As an officer l followjustice l could have very well sided with CP l did not do that because truth was on your side Yes... Brother, did PP come here? Did hejoin the front? PP said he would come... - Eh...? - PP...PP What? l asked if your wife's delivery is over! District committee only decides about it l don't do it alone Comrade, what should l do now?. He would ask me to come to secratariat l would go He would not be there He would ask me to come to guest house l would go He would not be there Today he asked me to come here He has not yet come Whom are you talking about? PP...he said he would come here tojoin the front l would also join with him l am also expelled from the party For all sundries to join is this a chit company? Go man Comrade l would be an asset foryour party Move away man That woman is coming Comrade Ramakrishnan Why are you going in wrong direction? - l saw you - l am in a hurry Party conference is going to be held l am busy on that work Seems you haven't gone to the native place l have also not gone comrade l am around this place only before the secretariat Comrade you may not remember lt was about 10 years ago He is from my place He came to protest along with me at Thiruvanantapuram Comrade Narayani are you still protesting? Do you know what is a demonstration? Do you know about the assaults of cops? My comrade died due to police assaults You would have forgotten him ls it not, man? When the place where comrade protested ...was shattered to pieces you and your proteges were very emotional Where are you guys now?. Not like that comrade Amidst many people's issues Which people's issues...? Tell me Otherthan me and poor people like me... ...whose issues are you guys solving? Comrade you may please go now Which capitalists money is this? Give this money to my dog When l am hungry l seek alms lf you had you brought it it would be on secretariat steps This is enough for me Come on guys Are you not in party? l am also expelled from my party No point in waiting for PP What if all of us start a third front? These girls have no other work l had to sell everything in the attic to come here Why did you bring me here? ls it to see their photos in papers daily! Can't find even Markandeyan ls he dead? C.P.we havejust started the demonstration For everything there is... l have also seen all these Don't try to gibber Look there Video shoot is on for a long time lt is many days since we came here Has any one paid attention to us? That did not happen Nadar earned some money out of us You tell me My dear CP protest for statue means... Don't open your mouth! My father became a statue after his death You would make me a statue while l am alive Dad you may go lf you go now you have a train - Dear - Tell mom Until l get info about Hamidkka me and children would not return You have a new born baby in your hands Two other children are also with you Can't you guys advise her not to trouble the kids like this? Dad...let my children face some hardships and misery You go now You go peacefully We are all here You may go Children... You sit here and breast feed the baby Why are you staring man? Turn that side Loathful guy Can't a woman feed her baby? l am presently standing before Thiruvananthapuram secretariat (Media men brief about Saira Banu's protest) What's happening here? Move away Madam, when did you deliverthe baby? Are you going to continue the struggle with the baby in arms? What else can l do? Else l would have gone to my house l will intensify and continue the struggle Move away Can't you hear her please You are asked to move away brother Don't play with media men You get down man Who are you to ask me to move aside? What will you do if l don't... CP, they are from the channels Any way he is not lndia's President Because they have a mike and camera... ...they think entire world is at theirfeet Mister talk courteously Who are you to teach me courtesy? Who are you? You may not know me You have time only to intervene in unwanted places l am also doing a protest demonstration Damn with your channel ls my face not photogenic for TV? One day all of you would come to me Then my dog would show its teeth before you Loony guy Loony guy is your... Get lost man Damn with channel people My dear CP please sit down This is not Kokranagara This is Thiruvananthapuram lf you get in to arguemnts with them we are the losers l am going to stop everything from today There should be some benefit forfasting Please don't talk like that This is the protest tent Get down woman For quite some time you were troubling me Would not give any peace of mind Early morning these people come to trouble us Take this Oh my dear... Why did you come here now?. ls it because you can't live there? Oh dear... Can't you hear me? why did you come here now?. Have you come to bother me? Now l am relieved l didn't sleep for many days Without hearing your abuses or without serving you food ...how will l get sleep? You may say whatever you want... Whateveryou say there's no question of me going from here This jack fruit is from our southside field ls fasting done this way now a days? This is a good arrangement When hungry have food when not hungry it is fasting Let not the channel people see this They would not see These wretched ministers would not see what they should see My wait before the gate has gone as a waste ls this a fasting tent? This is not for CP This is for us l can understand from pilla sir's face he did not eat anything today Take whatever you want and eat She is a great cook Januamma CP's chempakaseri prime minister Give thejack fruit Others need not crave forthis l brought it for my dear Making my dear one starve others need not relish Get up...l say get up Leave the place Return by the next bus Let me stay here for 2 days This is a hot place You go Go...go You have no affection for me When you didn't see me for 4 days l am not required How is she here? So that is the reason! So there are people here foryou to converse conveniently l could not talk on that day Having come here let me at least fulfill this desire of mine Lady on cot... Who do you think you are...? Do you want to lie close to the place where my boy is put up What is your idea? Will a decent girl come and lie on road? So what you have in mind is something else lt would not succeed with my boy You come this side Don't put me to shame During this season she would be loony Come My dear CP Nadar has managed to pacify the channel guys He said the expenses forthis would be around 10000 What for? Did you not abuse them! For pacifying them Should he not make them happy? Who would send money My father is in heavens! After 2 days l need not fast l can remain hungry l have spent all money l had C.P! Added to it this woman has also come Where did you leave her? l left her at the bus stand She would go on her own Who is it now? Have you missed the bus? - Then why did you not go? - How can l go like that? When l went back to the demonstration tent... ...no one was there That girl brought me here Which girl? Ah! lt is this girl Are you a human being to send back an old lady alone She came here alone So she can return alone You may not have any issues l have no issues with herthough she defamed and abused me A person like Januamma can only behave like that She did not come to stage a protest She did not come for sightseeing also Becasue she couldn't see you for a few days She has come carrying food for you out of her love foryou To understand all these you should have a mind... ...that would distinguish human beings lt is sad to see a great man's son as a clown ls erecting a statue such a big issue? May be for the first time in world... ...a person is staging a demonstration for such an issue On that score you staying so close to us... ...is a shame for us lf you had protested for some good cause l would have respected you Just think about the ideals for whichh your dad lived Then keep your eyes and ears open Then you will realise the life you lived all these years were hollow CP did you understand anything what she talked? She was saying why should you do all these? And it is better to stop this Anyway you have spent all the money you had Why not we stop this? You and yourfriends stirred him up Now until he gets a response to his demand... ...there is no question of him leaving this place ln case you decide to leave this place l would go and sit there to stage the protest Mind you man You are not home minister due to factionalism lt is because of the vote by our community Social media has taken up the tribal issue lf it goes unchecked like this lt would spread to the entire nation What is this man? lf l ask you something you try to stare me down He was killed due to ragging lt would take some time to divert the issue So have you become an idealistic hero! You may... They are the children of both of us We know howto get out of this mess unscathed But you will be in soup Do you want me to resign? l have in possession few phone conversation CD's lt is between two persons who gave and accepted bribe You know about me lf you don't decide... ...today evening l would divulge it to channels Talking about CD's dont try to frighten me Like you scare the CM Right now you have lost position and red beacon car Go once again with what is in your possession You would lose your MLAseat too Without taking a decision on this l would not return to Malaouram Put it down man Tell me sir What are you going to do now?. Hey Call our boys And organise a PSU march To express solidarity with the tribal l will take care of the rest PSU zindabad PSU zindabad PSU zindabad Arrest Chinnan's killer Arrest Chinnan's killer Want CBl probe for Chinnan's murder PSU zindabad Arrest Chinnan's killer Arrest Chinnan's killer Why do you hit us? Move aside - Come here - Leave me Get in to thejeep Why do you force her? They arejust staging a protest Get in man - l just... - Get in Move away Release detained people End police atrocities Sir, why have you detained us? - Can we go? - Stay there They may send us after some time End police highhandedness Release detainees End police atrocities End police connivance Release detained people Ask him Sir, for statue we were... -What? - Sir can we go? - Where to? - Sirto pee... We would make you pee Move that side man We know when to arrest whom and when to release whom We wear uniform after learning all these Similarly this attire also has some rights Tell me under what sections you have arrested them? Advocate you need not teach me sections and law You may go Station cannot release them on bail When we present them at the court... ...move for a bail application at your convenience l want to know the reasons We have taken to custody those who threaten internal security l have not understood Did they bomb the secretariat? They would You know Maoists would do that So that is the presumption Yes precisely You may go There is evidence fortheir detention l would take care of the rest End police connivance End police connivance What's your name? Sir we did not disturb any one We led a peaceful demonstration People not connected with this protest indulged in stone throwing Baring them you arrested us lt would help us if you can tell the reason So you want to know the reason! l would tell you ln the last 2 months why did you visit... ...Wayanad Tribal colony thrice? What classes were you taking for them? l would tell You taught them to make guns, bombs and deadly weapons - Malleswari -Yes sir Make a detailed investigation - Don't leave out anything - Ok sir Move away Who is supplying you weapons? From Kerala or overseas? Can't you hear me? Did you not hear me? Will you not tell? Come on tell me l would make you come out Take her for interrogation You come here Who are all behind you Come out Oh God! Where have you hidden guns and bombs? Tell me Oh God! l would... Take her Come here Stop it What are you doing? Can you beat a woman like this? Leave me! You son of a dog! C.P! You Will you assault the police? Come CP is innocent sir Go inside - Sir don't hit him - Go away Hit him Sir, don't hit me One way this is good The protests have attracted more media attention But it brings an issue in its wake Your opponents would become more strong They would leave no stone unturned to dismiss the case This is a conditional bail Should sign every day at the cantonment station Sir, what about CP? He has got bail Once the formalities are over he would come Ok Assaulting the police is the charge on you That too a woman police You may have to visit courts often to see an end to this case l had paid your bail fee on Uma's care of address You may settle the accounts between you Any way it is good that you reacted A person becomes popular when he reacts at the right time Your demonstration is not of any use to any one There are umpteen statues for crows to defecate Should you dedicate your fathers head also for that? Finally have you started attacking us too? Are you playing with me? ''Moonlight has fallen'' ''Ornate words have vanished'' ''Beat the drum'' ''Wildfire scorch the forest'' ''Beneath the blazing... tree stands the granny'' ''Give a melody for our song Give a rhythm for our foot'' ''Anklet sound tinkles the forest Give us red silk'' ''Moonlight has fallen'' ''Ornate words have vanished'' ''The black soil heart dreams and the heart leaks'' ''Could not spot the boy who sings while herding'' ''At a time when rain water cools the trees'' ''Heart aches and pain surfaces due to parch'' ''Eyes become wide and relationship snaps'' ''Heart gets heavier like a muddy pond'' ''Eyes look at a distance and dreams are teary'' ''Moonlight has fallen'' ''Ornate words have vanished'' ''Winter fog has shrouded you Mango tree blooms have withered'' ''Winter fog has shrouded you Mango tree blooms have withered'' ''Will the period that went down the hills return'' ''Blooming season had bid adieu Grass blades are burned out'' ''Dreams were ridden with weeds Darkness spread'' ''Where have gone those pleasantries?'' ''Heart broke suddenly'' ''Eyes look at a distance and dreams are teary'' ''Moonlight has fallen'' ''Ornate words have vanished'' ''Beat the drum'' ''Wildfire scorch the forest'' ''Beneath the blazing tree stands the granny'' ''Give a melody for our song Give a rhythm for our foot'' ''Anklet sound tinkles the forest Give us red silk'' ''Moonlight has fallen'' ''Ornate words have vanished'' lf she is so obdurate this baby would die Can't you all counsel her? Saira...listen to us Feed the baby You don't make us react lf you don't breast feed the baby we may have to use force You may go Even President of lndia... ...can't breast feed a baby forcefully l would file an harassment case What kind of a struggle is this? Dear...don't be obstinate! We may have to arrest you and shift you to the hospital Whatever you do l would not budge The baby is mine and the breast milk is mine lt is not yours lt is mine Don't try to scare me lt is better foryou to comply l would not lf l my baby does not breast feed... Will the secretariat fall? Or will the CM resign? Let him resign l want to know whereabouts of my husband l want to know what crime he did He did not get even a rupee as bribe He was so honest l want to know where he is Or is he dead? Tell me Then give his body for my kids to see She knows he is not anywhere in this world But she would not admit that She wants to make me her kids and everyone... ...in this world believe he is alive My God...who would help me? Woman...feed the baby l say...feed the baby lf you don't feed the baby l will throw your baby to the road Do it woman All males move away Move away sir Come on start feeding - Come -Where? l said come - Where to? - To hell Come on Where are you taking me? -Where are you going? - To meet the minister - Do you have appointment? - No - Move away sir - Stay there l asked you to stay there lf the police would drive away everyone You need not see or hear anything, is it not sir? We have not come to trouble you sir Sir...tell them to leave me When things go out of hand it would be free for all Then one would not wait for protocols people would gate-crash Might some times carry spear or guns Wait...wait Let me talk to him Why does officials and police occupy the secretariat building? ls it to help us or trouble us? To get things done one has to pay bribe Otherwise one should visit this place until one dies For 20 years this guy is in front of this building exposed to sun and rain to get his pension Going in a car with a flag... ...perhaps you may not have noticed him sir So we have come to protest at a place...you would notice Sit there Henceforth this man would sit here Sit there What are you doing? Sir...people like us don't do anything lt is all done by you people You can rule us the way you like Even if we don't like it we must endure it What changes did your rule bring about sir? For years you guys prepared many cards Movement card, Distribution card and even a card for identity To kill and die no card is required sir Right now he is 80 years old Even if you give pension how long will you give? Let that pension help him to at least to get medicines during his last days Give it as though you give alms Keep this in your hand What is this? -What is this? - This is a bag - This is a mattress - We know that What is that you want? Are you the authorised person to give what we want? With no one to support... lf she dies before the secretariat gate... ...the civic body guys would bury her like a dog That should not happen She is in this plight because of you So from today she would stay here lf she dies here at least a party flag would cover her body -Who are you? -Afool Afool who smeared his fingers to vote foryou But this finger is not merely for smearing ink This can do finger pointing too l say this to all of you lf anything happens to this lady Then you will understand about me Sister, you may lie down Move away man For the last one week her mother is in hospital At this old age how can l attend to her? She is the only daughter for her Comrade Narayani who was her companion has also left the place At this stage should she continue like this? How long can you people take care of her? ln this hot sun if you trouble your kids and your old father No one would bring your husband Get up l shouldn't see you here Take her l said get up lf your husband is alive he would come Otherwise think he is dead l would not go even if you kill me l am patient because you have a baby in arms Otherwise l would have kicked you Stop your protest Get up You bring the CM lf he comes l would go CM will not respond to your beck and call He has other works to do Without seeing the CM l would not move a foot CP l also tried to meet the CM l am also around CP Did you get this for some protest? PP's guys did this To tell you the truth l did not eat anything for last 4 days All of them are dirty fellows No matter if they are from ruling or opposition party So l have decided to go on a political hibernation l need some money for expenses Keep this foryou You have got it Not that l don't know to give one like this to you l desist because you are a woman Get up woman l said get up Take her baggage Okay...go l should not see you anywhere in Thiruvnanthapuram Get in CM would come to Kozhikode too l would meet him there Driver move fast lt may not help if l stay here any longer CP what are you doing? lf l continue this buffoonery any longer ...it would not be befitting to my dad's life You guys brought me here After coming to this place l have understood one thing The statue should not be of dad l should become a statue l led my life like a statue Not concerned about the soil we walk on and the air we breathe l ignored people around me and stood like a statue That fools role comes to an end today Have you stopped slogan shouting? Come on shout Shout until your throat bleeds Do fasting and die Otherwise go to lock up and die due to police blows lt is of no use Even if the statues on road open their eyes... ...those who matter would never open their eyes l would also join your protests Not for slogan shouting Not for fasting You guys have seen yourfriend being... ...pushed down from terrace on the guise of ragging lf you are smart catch the culprits Where are you? Do you know how many times l called you? Ok...ok Did you get the thing? No...no you stay there l would come there Don't get caught by the warden Ok - We got it - ls it? Take it out - Take it out, fast - He is the guy Lift him Who are you guys? Stop there Did you see it? Look at his grab on him He might die for sure What would police achieve with lathis Order them to fire My dear Nair... They are not terrorists They are students So what? At appropriate places shooting is required You have opened fire in many places in the past You keep quiet Police knows what to do They would act appropriately (Slogan shouting) We would not release the killers Move lt is better to release the detained students l would not sir You should have done this Now we have done it Even if you use force or shoot at us This hold will not be loosened (Shouting continues) Chempakaseri Parameswaran pilla's son C.P.Swathanthran Has your client not appeared today also? Your honour CP is now in another court At the capital Even though the charge is for taking law in to hands... ...is excess the intervention of Mr.C.P.Swathanthran ...alone has brought the real culprits behind ...the murder of the Adivasi youth Chinnan to light You did not submit this will document so long From where did you get this now? Your honour lt happened accidentally Even before dad is taken to the grave have they started? They are insolent affectionate children Give it to me l got it Chempakaseri Parameswaran Pillai's will What is this document? Oh god...that is the document Pilla sir's will document made in favour of his son lt is proved truth will prevail even if one dies Oh god l would surely go to hell Chempakaseri Parameswarn pilla's will... ...executed in favour of CP Swathanthran ...is not erroneous and the real one The court is convinced of this fact Therefore as per the Hindu Succession Act ...nephew Soman Thampi's petition is untenable The movable and immovable properties that were... ...and he is the sole owner of all these properties ...underthe custody of Soman Thampi ...belongs to Shri C.P.Swathanthran ...is the decree of this court The receiver appointed by this court for this dispute stands cancelled Though Soman Thampi deserves punishment for... ...cheating the court considering his old age ...this court releases him for his good conduct Taking in to consideration the good intention behind this... ...the court declares all the accused in this case Set free from all charges Sir...have you gone to sleep? We have reached home Get down Don't slant Slowly...Hold me Walk Move forward Even this house belongs to your uncle's property So you would sleep on shop porches l can't do that Because you had properties... ...my dad arranged my marriage with this old man Now he has lost everything And he is not fit for any otherjob l am going Have a good look now After taking this from here... ...don't come here to make complaints Not at all...it is a small church in high ranges We don't have much revenue For the time being my Jesus would require only a small sum Okay lt is sufficient if the devotees are not frightened l just said even if the church is small Jesus must be taken care of Don't blabber man l would use you to make a statue of Judas So you are also making a move Bidding adieu like this would be first of its kind in world Normally during farewell people would say 'See you' But we can't do like that They would fix me with cement inside the church Thereafter many fools would come and pray They would say they don't have this orthat They would ask me to provide this or that From where will l get them all these? l am very sad about parting ways with you Because l am a statue l can't show any expressions on face Wherever l am l would remember you Your hard days would vanish and you will have a good time Every statue has its day Shall l leave? l crave to see you more l cannot come to your church to see you Because l am a crow Come brother Let's have two pegs l am also around (Slogan shouting) 'Has he reached' Felicitations to CP 'ls this Kokrangara?' Congratulations to CP CP sir should excuse me All his property's are here l can work here That is my right Swami... Swami Thampi Chaitanya Please come out Slowly...raise yourfoot keep it on land ...with folded hands He would not do anything Don't be frightened Lean on this He is leaving for Kasi President's service at Kokrangara is over Now his last wish is to submit everything to Gangadevi l would push him to some Kasi bound train and come back soon Hereafter l am your driver Wherever Parameswaran pilla sir's car is there l would be there Turn sir Move forward sir Get in Slowly Lift your leg and get in lt would be nice if he doesn't reach Samadhi stage After leaving him... l have to author Thampi Ramayanam CP, dad is not there Statue of your dad is not there Thought he would have gone with Jesus l called them He has not gone there too Statue...Pilla sir's statue Have you gone without uttering a word to me? What wrong did l do? You did not lack anything You were more glamorous than when you were alive Why are you all staring with your mouth wide open? You people would not understand my emotions! ''Which is the way to Uppin?'' ''Southwards of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to South?'' You have escaped ls it not? ''Which is the way to uppin?'' ''Southwards of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to South?'' ''Northwards of Utopia'' ''Which is the way to North?'' ''East wards of Utopia'' l have brought the story up to this level Don't tell anyone where Parameswaran Pilla's statue has gone This is a special instruction to me from the script writer and director There fore you may hazard a guess Because l am a three period saint l will predict CP's future too Uma devi will relax her condition for 10th grade pass ...and marry CP Since CP is a generous guy Umadevi would beget 5 kids CP would become a phenomenon at Kokrangara He would venture in to politics He would become a minister He would become corrupt and resign He would become a minister again Meanwhile Kerala would become a corrupt state in all aspects He would finally shift loyalties to another party ...become exhausted and breathe last at his 90th age There would be a guard of honour on that day also Hit by a guard of honour gun shot Like my father l would also be killed Good bye
