 

                        1 "Have you fallen in love for a single kiss?" "Oh sensuous flower, are you attracted?" "Have you fallen in love for a single kiss?" "Oh sensuous flower, are you attracted?" "Fallen in love for my eyes and voice?" "Is it a soulful love or neck deep love?" "Your single kiss is enough to get lured" "In neck deep love, my Casanova" "None can conquer you in bed" "Your shadow is enough to be lured" "You're an irresistible magnet" "Even a stone can stick to you" "No peak is untouched by you" "I melted in love at seeing you" "Your single kiss is enough to get lured" "In neck deep love, my Casanova" "Our nights never end" "Hands become wings" "Forget your sleep" "Is this called love?" "Your single kiss is enough to get lured" "In neck deep love, my Casanova" "You're the master of kisses" "None to beat you in kissing" "Kissing is the origin to ecstasy" "You're exploring me like a scheming hunter" "Will capture and topple you" "Have you fallen in love for a single kiss?" "Oh sensuous flower, are you attracted?" "Fallen in love for my eyes and voice?" "Is it a soulful love or neck deep love?" Welcome... He's almost here Your...our...hero - Invite the producer first - Oh ok But first I'd like to call up on the dais ...the godfather of film producers Mr.Manoranjan's father-in-law Mr.Poornachandra Rao - Hey Mano...look at grandpa! - I've seen my grandpa mom Ok, keep it! Give it to him after the movie Ma - A sip of this, my dear? - Bad for health grandma God! It won't kill you to act your age But that drink might Your arrogance is the only thing in common with your Dad Atleast he is a film star How dare you...? - What do you say to that applause? - That's just sound Maybe for you... but it's their love Where are you off to? Hey! He's got the phone! Let him go Hey...sound guy... Turn the volume down It's hurting my head Why're you guys cheering at that? The film hasn't given you a headache, right? - Chokku - Sir? - My head is aching - Would you like a tablet? - Where is my hip flask? - Oh no! They did give it to me I forgot it at home I'm the actor You're the manager Don't act with me I can't slip anything by you I know this is nectar but... I know...it'll kill me Only in excess Turn around... It's medicine in the right doses I know I don't have to remind you about the party...if you're discreet... Hey...take sir to the washroom on the first floor Don't let anyone bother him there or click selfies with him See another guy here don't click the photo I swear Indira I love you... My mom forced me to attend this stupid premiere The first floor toilet is closed send everybody to the one upstairs - Where did he go? - Sent him upstairs sir Sir... You can go The echo? I'm in the loo here Yeah yeah...Dad's new film Don't ask! It's disgusting! He's done a wheelie with the heroine in front Isn't he supposed to gas up the bike? I don't know they're saying it's a hit What crap people are watching! But can I sacrifice the truth for a few hairs? Ok forget about all that We have a room in the hotel and there's the garden also - Welcome doctor - Good evening Why so late? The first song is over Had clinic today How's our hero today? Complaining of frequent headaches After drinking to celebrate? Why's he drinking everyday now? He says that's the only thing helping his headaches You're his supplier shouldn't you advise him? When does he listen to me? It's my job to listen to him you're his doctor...he'll listen to you Oh yes! As if... Special guest! Let her through Doctor, I think there's a problem Don't go and sit down watch the movie from here Do you have your bag? - Not this one your medical bag - What happened? Is he ok? I'll check and come - Where is he? - Here sir Bloody hell! Is this how you guard a body? Come here... Listen...nobody...nobody should enter inside the bathroom Say it's out of order Lock it - Sorry sir! Not possible - Why? There's only 1 toilet to a floor and it's 5 minutes to interval This is ridiculous - Grab his legs - What sir? Grab his legs My name is Chokkalinga chettiyar Won't you do if I don't tell my name? Go grab his legs Oh heavenly goddess! Turn him...turn him Come on...come on... Set him down Oh God!... Come sir Hey Singh...lift - Spit? - Yes Why're you spitting instead of lifting? - Me...up...lift - Lift you? Why didn't you say so! Lift up Little more...little more Don't let go Let me down - Move your head - Yes sir God! Don't shake! Can't you just say yes? Oh heavenly goddess! Singh...if anyone asks You did this correctly Idiot Chokku...wait We're going to the hotel Tell your boss to come there directly He can change there itself What is wrong with you? - Just 5 minutes...Toilet emergency - Upset stomach? Ok, leave it How dare he leave when I'm still talking? Come here! Always on that blessed phone - Go get the car ready - Here, have some Anything on 4 wheels As long as it doesn't backchat like you Such a chatterbox Mr.Manohar Where is the party? The party? At the Sheraton Take some more, my dear Enough popcorn, Ma We have to eat dinner right So will this film also collect 100 crores, sir? A - that's not for me to say the audience will decide B - First day collections ...record break But sir, Mr. Manoranjan's guru Mr. Maragadarisi says ...he is so talented that all he needs ...is a good script not a huge budget - That's his opinion - Exactly! Chokku, I can't go into the men's washroom! How will you manage this? Me? How will 'we' manage... What! Sir...sir... What are you shooting there? Sir? Did Chokku give you a bottle that he refilled? Yes sir Give it... Not in front of the fans! Use your head! Stop acting Is it really hurting? Yes...I swear... It's not the alcohol it's your torch light Your career needs the lights ...not the alcohol Agreed, then I need good medicines Yours don't work Ok...take your shirt off We have time for all this? - What about the party? - Aren't you here for your headache? Yes Then what is this? Treatment...for my headache kiss it away Wait...my phone must be Dr.DS - Have you seen the MRI report? - Yeah I'm bringing it - You're bringing it? - Yeah Why...hey! Hello Dr. DS, M.D. How are you, buddy? Hey, aren't you her senior? M.D. Neurosurgery She's just a GP and she's hassling me What's she saying? Tell me...is it wrong to drink? - It is wrong - It is injurious to health Injurious to health any fool knows that Will I die immediately? No, right? - It's not rat poison - Of course not, buddy Right on! You're not just an M.D...much greater - Let me get a word in - To say what? Need to tell you something - Tell me at the party - At least give her the phone You can see her at the party too Hey...don't... Why did you hang up? I needed to talk to him! We need to know the MRI result Do you need an MRI to see into my brain? Look into my eyes - Move - Why? This is a clinic That was also a clinic...where you kissed me 5 seconds ago That was just a peck Left to you you'd kiss me till I'm breathless What? Your wife's expecting you at the party - Yes...she'll kill me - Exactly My secret lover, get going Ok...see you at the party What is this and since when? Ok come to the party "Have you fallen in love for a single kiss?" You're sure they can't see us? Oh God! Are they clapping for us? "Fallen in love for my eyes and voice?" Come...please come Please have dinner Who are you looking at? Who is he? What did he want? I think he wants to blackmail me for money With what? - He says I have a girl - Girl means... With whom? How would he know Yamini? - It's impossible - Are you sure? Which of the two? Definitely not He's lying Then inform the commissioner and get him arrested You have only one son Then get this fellow locked up and keep my name out of it - Our next film is 'Adi Sankara' - How are you? Here he is! We were just talking about you & your film Carry on...carry on... that's how it grows, right? - Have you eaten? - We shall... - So...not yet? - When have we eaten before you? - Then come...let's eat - Go ahead...I have to meet some friends He will fulfill his duty first Please...let her go She'll be right here Ganesh...let go Manohar! You're a man now! Just yesterday you were a cute baby... - I want a copy of that - Girish, give it to her Where's dad? Dad? Last saw him upstairs I like your hair by the way...very nice - Who is this? - Oh! Girlfriend You're really a big man now! Enjoy... Do you really like her hair? I actually like short hair Shall I cut my hair then? Our doctor...drinks? Not usually... - You handle this...I'll check on them - Where're you going? - Why close the curtain, uncle? - That's what it's meant for, right? What were you doing behind the video screen? Touche? Much worse if your mother finds out For whom? The both of you What the hell! Margadarisi is badmouthing your film Have you heard? A - we can't discuss it when it's sub-judice Sit down man sit...sit B - Mr.Margadarisi has earned Mr. Manoranjan many awards But what use are they? To scrape his tongue? Yes, they're useless - But his star status...that... - Was because of you Oh Lord! No...no I'm just a... what do you call it? He is Telugu I'll tell you...an instrument Yes only an instrument...like a jeweler But my son-in-law...he is gold! Hello Dr...why so late? - I've been here awhile...I met Chokku - Yes he did Mr. Manoranjan has a headache I've given him a sedative He's resting now - Oh no! - Nothing to worry - How's your BP? - Co-existing! Side-by-side We can't treat you separately Those sweets are for someone else, right? Dr! Let her be...it's just one day poor baby...you eat, my dear I'm a neurosurgeon This is not my area of expertise What does your lady Dr.friend say about this? I don't pay attention to all that, if I did ...I would have died of frustration a year ago Forget about that...your friend has gone to bed on an empty stomach That's ok It's just one day Absolutely...he has to be fresh for tomorrow By the way, where's Dr Arpana? She was with you... She has an early day too Gone to bed Her also? In the same hotel? Are you insane? She's gone home - Come on...I need a drink - Of course! I'll get you a large one Pour...pour... What is it? Does she want to marry my boss? Oh god! Is she pregnant? She's a doctor, can't she have an abortion? Stop your vulgar blabbing You don't know anything Yes but when the shit hits the fan I have to clean it That's my worry You'll have much bigger things to worry about Welcome sir - Cam 1...sir's close up - Have you told her to focus on the next film Sir told us not to speak of the 'Adi sankara' film Why? He must have been distracted He's in a great mood...We gave him a coffee for his headache - His friend is also here - Who? There...the one in the second row with the coat This fellow! He's a Malayali gave me his card - I have one too - Yes...Jacob Zachariah Hey Anu! Stop drooling and begin Sir...we all have our favourite scenes from your movies Like that, what is the most exciting moment in your life? This But, what is so special in this moment? What are you thinking so deeply, sir? This applause itself is special, right? But you've heard this applause so many times... Perhaps but... An artiste is always unsure whether he will be applauded again So...I have that insecurity too Cam - 3 cover the audience See...your longing is satisfied Let's rewind a bit when Manoranjan is 24 yrs old You've made 5 classic films all with Mr. Margadarisi But your 6th film...mega budget made you a huge star Produced by your now father-in-law That was also when you got married Tell me honestly, was that young Mano... ...entranced by cinema or Miss Varalakshmi? She knew that you loved cinema over all else But your betrayal broke her heart Your father-in-law gave her a lot of money to leave you alone But she didn't touch a penny of it even though she desperately needed it She didn't take the money didn't have an abortion either If she had, I wouldn't have my daughter Manonmani Yamini named her We have another daughter too You are a great man Everyone lied to me Even Chokku Let that go! They did what they thought was best for you You know, my career was in Poonachandra Rao's hands I was a kid with big dreams In that conflict...my life We are Catholics you know but when I told my mother She did not forbid it I've known 2 great ladies in this world My mother and Yamini But both are gone now Yamini...she's no more now She's gone I'm here for my wife's sake now It was her last wish that Manonmani meet her biological father I'm not asking for anything else I have never refused her anything that's why... - Does my daughter...sorry your daughter - They're both the same sir Does she know this? She does...But we told her a bit late After her degree Time flies by, right Mano? Would you like to see Mano's photo? When she was in school That's during her degree Is this something a sane person would do? Don't forget your next film is 'Adi Sankara' The press will have a field day One photo of you as a saint and the next one of you as a 'Married Bachelor' Manoranjan's Love Tales The film will stop halfway and then the producer will come to me Where are you walking off to? - Return the advance of that film - Which? Why? I don't have the time to do it Say's who? I've given them a block of 90 days - I have some other work at that time - All 90 days? What work is that? - Another film - With whom? My guru, Mr. Margadarisi Which fellow is producing it? I am Ok Have you told your father-in-law? And then? Do you work for me? Or for him? - That's not what I asked - Answer my question I work for you Then get an appointment with Mr. Margadarisi asap But at his convenience Can you or can't you? Of course...but if you asked our lawyer I just asked that's all Here he is... Get out of the way Open the gate...he's here Close the gate I can't let you in just like that Why does a gathering of journalists turn into a shouting match? I being the PRO man, knew just 20 minutes ago You'll know as soon as the meeting is over How can your Mano sir leave without answering us? Didn't I promise you an interview afterwards? So stop shouting! Do I look like a fool? Why ask us that? Don't you have a mirror at home? Aishu darling! So funny! Move your hand before it gets crushed Lakshmana, are they doing a film together after 14 years? Why? I've already made so many with you Reached you to the absolute peak That's true sir but I want one film now And whatever you want you must get...at any price But all your money can't buy this Margadarisi Don't say that, sir just one film... so people don't forget us don't forget me sir Nobody will forget you, my boy! You have your father-in-law to remind them Sir, I'm no king! I'm an actor You made me one I don't know how to make films for big stars I must have a story And a story is not a platform ticket available at your whim and fancy I must find it convincing I don't have one like that Do you? No sir So simple! It's impossible Please go - Sir, Dr. Arpana is here - Who? I asked her to join us, sir with your permission, may I...? No need! Did I ask for it? Ok sir take it back...go down - Shall I return when you're done? - No...no I'm done talking Done Please don't say that sir Be kind sir...please Kindness won't cut it here You need a story big enough to fit the halo around your head We can catch hold of that sir Are you going fishing? Ok go, catch one...let's see Sir...give me 1 minute to tell you my story please 1 minute? An arrogant man like me Who thinks tomorrow is far in the future His world is one day shattered by two things Suddenly he has no time to say 'I love you', 'Thank you', 'I'm sorry' Doctors say he has a brain tumor What? Cancer? Get out of here I thought you'd say something new Tamil cinema has done it to death That was my first film You yourself have done several Every story needs a rhyme and reason Sir this...this is the reason What? We have to find the story now I don't understand! I can't explain the technicalities of it That's why I've brought the doctor along Don't fool around like this! Is this true? You gave me a great time in the industry But now the time is running out I want my last film to be with you sir Sir sir...please don't refuse sir I'm not refusing! What is this? Doctor is this true? What abomination is this? I'm 83 He's just a boy How is this possible? What Dr...what is this? Oh Lord! It's manageable if it was in the frontal lobe It's at the back Can't you operate? We could... But... In his case... He has some complications - She's asking for the bathroom - Over there Come...come here Sit down - Sir, I'll sit there - No, sit down here Sorry sir I'm a bit...I'm usually stronger than this Me too, my dear But in Mano's case I love this rascal Me too, sir Who doesn't love this boy? Everybody loves him, everybody Okay I'll make your film as you like, happy? How much time will you give me? Don't have much of it to give, sir My God! My God! I shouldn't have asked Okay, tell me what kind of film you want to make? I'm ready Okay, sir No one else knows about this, sir Alright Let's keep this to ourselves I want the audience to exit the theatre laughing Let's make a comedy film, sir Go home laughing? Laughing? Okay, my boy we'll make a comedy Uttama Villain! Who will finance it when both the partners are fighting in court? We've withdrawn the case with mutual understanding and submitted in writing Why didn't you write this house over to him? You ask me for everything food, drink, bath water, your scotch Didn't you think to ask me about this? Why should I? Why should you... Not needed, Mr. Manoranjan I'm not needed here anymore Now you have the great Mr. Margadarisi to advice you It's best that I fade out Leaving me alone, Daddy? Nobody has to leave anybody and go! Family, my foot! Family doesn't learn of your decisions on the TV That's your audience... Not me Daddy, admit me in the hospital or take me home I want to come too, Ma What, is this a joke? Selfish to the core Just like your father Look at him sitting there Don't you have anything to say? There's plenty But if you react like this to a small thing Calm down I'll tell you later Oh! So you have bigger secrets? Come daddy, let's go home Don't sit like a statue say something I will when your BP comes down That will come down when there's good news Okay, I won't tell you Daddy, I'm going to pack, let's go Atleast say bye See? This is it Hey Arumugam, have you forgotten? Who you are? A good for nothing orphan I picked you up off the streets and married you to a goddess Is this your gratitude? Varalakshmi is my life My world If anything happens to her you'll die by my hand Oh! You'll murder me? If necessary This Poornachandra Rao does not lie Well, if your threat is real A - it would be the biggest favor you could ever do me B - You'll go to jail and I won't be there to see it I'm leaving now Wait! This house is mine, right? Or does your daughter, Varalakshmi Thank you I will leave - You will regret this - I will not - Let's see - Let's see Namaste - Chokku - Sir? Namaste Yes sir...yes sir...definitely sir If we place the Akela here Don't do it he'll get worked up Sir please, must I wear this crown? It's very heavy, sir Yes sir, it is a bit heavy As it is actors are big headed Imagine them playing royalty Anyway, listen to the story first Okay, sir Long long ago... I mean... Oh no! Don't be afraid this is what folklore is Characters are in black and white but we shoot in color Hero's name is 'Uttaman' the film is called 'Uttama Villain' But 'Villain' is an English word! Won't you lose the Tamil Nadu tax benefit because of an English title? Oh wow! She seems to be a smart girl A very smart girl Who said 'Villain' isn't a Tamil word? One who fights with a 'Mallu' is a 'Mallan' and one who fights with a 'Villu' is a 'Villain' Arjun is a 'Villain' & Sivan is the greatest of them all - Hey...hey...hey...cut cut cut - The 'Kurinji' has a song that- Uttaman is a street actor in the kingdom of 'Muthuvala Nadu' He's playing Arjuna in the scene where he asks for the bow from Lord Siva We're using a fusion of Villupattu & Kerala's 'Theyyam' The song is the narrator the dance brings it alive Are you ready, sir? This is the great Subbu... Subbu Arumugam He is a legend The authority on 'Villupattu' Let's hear the opening "Bless us, O Goddess As we begin our song in verse" "Bless us as we sing with music and instrument in rhythm..." "...enacted in the great theatre forms of the Pandian and Cheran kingdoms" "...to tell the tale of Arjuna's plea for Lord Shiva's weapon" "...in a Grand performance" "Betwixt the sky above and the earth below stands the Great Archer" "...and his story will now be told by this painted actor" "Please narrate to the world, O Wise One!" "I have beheld a Miracle akin to a truthful politician!" "With great tenacity I have achieved mastery over many battle skills" "Is it the fruit of my penance to lord Shiva" "...that the world trembles at the sound of Arjuna's name?" "The Lord's Weapon is now Arjuna's" "Eternally Victorious! The world's greatest Artiste" "Lord Shiva! I bow to you" "The bounty of Shiva's blessing is all- pervasive!" "O Shiva! Beloved of your Consort O Cosmic Dancer!" "The Lord, who dances unpaid in the temple" "King Arjuna, who performs on his own strength" "Why do you dance on one leg? Are you giddy dancing on both?" "Ganga on your head Drum in your hand..." "Woman by your side O merciful mother!" Hey! This is a snake! You'll die if it bites you, get away A snake? Just wait and see No no...don't do that It's a snake...a snake! It's on the stick... Snake! Snake! Snake! Oh no! My snake...my snake... Climb the tree everyone There's danger on the ground Ow! Who is it? Who pinched me? Who bit me? Where did it go? Oh no! 4 people are dead Our man is in agony! Suck the poison out! So what if he's one of us I can't put my mouth there - The 5th one is dead too - Oh no! It's my snake or what! You were a snake charmer without knowing that? Oh no! Don't kill it! Not my snake...no not my snake Five people are dead! Water...water...! - You want water now, useless fellow? - I didn't say anything Then was it the voice of God? Put that rice in the orphan corpse's mouth Ghost! Ghost! Oh no...! Oh Lord...! Ghost! Ghost! "Ghost...ghost ghost...ghost" "The voice of Uttaman was not understood by the people" "Oh! They screamed those with ghosts within them" "Ghost! Ghost! Ghost! Ghost!" "The villagers ran their heels slapping the nape of their necks" "Those with dancing ghosts within Accused Uttaman the dancer as ghost" "How did Uttaman rise magically from the pyre?" "Having bitten 4 the snake on the 5th bite ran out of poison" "Uttaman survived the teeth of the venom less snake" "A rational mind would have understood" "Alas! None of that kind lived in that village" "Ghost! Ghost! Ghost!" "The village tried to appease Uttaman's soul" "...by stuffing themselves with a feast in his honor" "Relentless and tireless they ate through the storm and rain" "Cursing his fate of attending his own funeral lunch" "Uttaman was the last to be fed" Worthless when he was alive but look at his funeral feast May his actor's soul rest in peace I would die every day for such a feast! Some more please May my soul rest in peace Huh! Is it you? Please don't shout let me finish eating Ghost! Ghost! - No! No! - Ghost! Ghost! No one panic! Someone check for both his feet - But he's sitting cross legged - Nonsense! Can you see his feet? I see them! Ghost has stuffed my mouth Sir! I have two Here's one Oh languishing spirit! What do you want? 2 vadai, 2 sweet pancakes a little sambar...give me Give it It's asking, isn't it? Yes...please give me Give! Is the ghost dead? Is it dead? That's how one becomes a ghost! "Uttaman strapped tightly to the funeral plank" "They walked again to the cremation ground" Water Water 'Uttaman's thirst for life was quenched by the rising river' 'The water entered the town' 'The bamboo plank became Uttaman's float' 'While others drowned' 'The river gargled and spat out Uttaman granting him immortality' 'The dam breaching mud coloured deluge' Water as far as the eye can see but not a drop to drink Oh Lord! Give me some water! That's enough that's enough Amazing! I truly am a great man I'm in heaven! This nightingale is great too it has also entered heaven Bird droppings? Bird droppings mean this must not cannot...is not...heaven! Ah! The traipsing deer The dancing peacock The grazing rabbit Lord! Please send me something to eat Aah! Crocodile! I asked for something to eat and you send something to eat me! Lord! Release your discus and kill the beast! Oh no! Oh no! Oh no! Oh no! But wait...it pulls me too Lord! I don't want to die I won't die! I won't die - He didn't die of the snakebite - He didn't die - He didn't die of the blow - He didn't die Know why? Because he chanted the names of Lord Narayana The name of your Lord makes him immortal? Atrocious! - Immortal meaning? - One who has conquered death Hah! No one has ever survived this waterfall He would have reached Kailash by now - Why not Vaikuntha? - Vaikuntha or Kailash We'll decide when the corpse washes up Aah! A miracle He is alive! Where? Where? Where? - Look! Uttaman is alive - Praise the Lord - Aah! - Aah! - He is immortal Hail, Immortal one! I'm okay with the last scene - You, DP? - Okay by me, sir Sure? I know you won't be satisfied till the end - I'll be back in a minute - Go ahead Yeah...yeah, come in Hey...come in one minute Come Please dear, come Come in, sit down No...one minute... my car is in front of this van To move the van I have to move my... You look exactly like... No! Fortunately I look nothing like you I'm exactly like my mother That's what I was going to say I didn't know your mother was pregnant I know My mother has told me this story many times - She told you? - Yes But I didn't believe it But that's irrelevant now My father I'm here for his sake only Can you do me a favour? Only if possible You have to lie to my father that I was polite to you That's not a lie Jacob Zachariah is my father It's the truth and it's what makes me happy so Happy...that's okay But the truth? It's my truth The one I believe You are the lie here He's my hero you are Well, that's in your story In mine, I'm trying to be the hero Can you do me this favour or not? - Sir! - No Parthi, wait outside Inform only Chokku. No one else Get the car ready We were just talking he just fell down We shall...we shall just give me a minute Would you help me? Hold both hands We have to lift him onto the sofa...grab his legs Is it life threatening? Actually this is a stage 4 brain tumor Doctors say it is incurable To tell the truth he is sinking Have you informed his wife and Mr. Rao? No sir...they're not together now What? Not in the house? Or in his life? Is he alone then? They were angry at both of you working together Mano didn't want me to tell you Whatever he said, how can they leave him at a time like this? He hasn't told them about the tumour - Not even his wife? - No I've been a faithful dog for 27 years He didn't tell me either Only because I know some Malayalam I could understand their conversation Or I'd have also read it in the papers But you know now why are you angry? Not angry, I'm hurt because he chose not to tell me And I know why he made that choice Why? That...is between us What's the matter with him? Feeling tired, buddy? Sir! Please come in Stay...stay I've canceled the shoot Rest a bit, don't get up No sir, we're on a tight schedule I'm good to go, sir You're good to go but I'm old, I need rest, okay? What can I say to that, sir? You're the youngest old man I know Correct, I'm the youngest old man You're the oldest young man "While this story pauses here" "We are about to tell you a story from another place" "The King Sadayavarman ruled Muthuvala Nadu" "He ruled justly his spectre glowing" "All was ruined due to avarice and treachery by his relative" Long live the King Sadayavarman Here she comes a painting that walks The light of the dynasty her Highness Princess Karpagavalli Long live princess The King's wife's brother Decided to kill his brother-in-law ...by loosening some bricks of the royal balcony Welcome King! Long live the King! Long live the King! Greetings to the King of Kings Behold the torrent of your subjects! Here...here Please lean over and see Hold on tight Let me go...let me go Alas! What is this horror! Oh Mother Earth, accept me too! Don't let go No, my King, there is none else to safeguard the kingdom - Besides, my hands are paining - That's also correct Alas! Duty calls Majesty! Your Majesty Alas! How can I bear this? How can I bear this? A month after putting the King below the earth Mutharasan sent his sister to keep royal company Go, my little birdie So! She seeks the aid of our neighboring King! You! Have you caged the Princess's tiger? It is done, your Majesty See there Who has caged my child? - It was I - Why? That child has 4 legs I can give you a 2 legged child That neighboring King Senguttuvan is not fit for it - Your Majesty! - Get out! She is enough for today The Villain tried to rape his own sister's daughter. The Princess in a mad rage chewed his ear and spat it out Oh no! She's bitten my ear off and spat it out Alas! You didn't hear my warning I did! I do! Even after she bit my ear off ...I can still hear First conceal your ear No! Not that! It should not become known that the King doesn't have a ear It's a deficit in necessary Kingly qualities Yes! We can cover it with a turban No eye should see your ear and no ear should hear this news What are you blabbering? We can change your hairstyle to a bun on that side First get some medicine and then kill the demon who bit my ear No My King! Continuous deaths are not good for the monarchy First let us imprison her and let the madness subside So that she can bite my other ear off too? No, your Majesty, so we can have a wedding... ...to your Majesty Don't they say marriage cures madness? That is an old saying We want not old but everything new ...that is our aim Imprison her! Ah! I can hear! Minister, we must stitch my ear and... - Oh no! Where is my ear? - Here, it was here Where? Oh no! It had a gold earring too Keep quiet! Correct, what does it matter when the ear is gone? - It was a good ear - But we have the right ear It can never be equal to the left Big...ministers you are! The dictator's reign brought peace to none Including the guilty Mutharasan The superstitious Mutharasan was warned of dark times 'May you have a horrible death' His death was confirmed by the sacred texts and... ...shook him to the core As he sat terrified word came of Uttaman ...who'd cheated death five times Mutharasan commanded he be brought to court Go and get him - Hey! Are really immortal? - Nothing of the sort - Can't you be stoned to death? - I most definitely can Lets try and see 10 stones for a coin! 10 stones for a coin! Take it Brother! What kind of business is this? "Stones for sale Stones for sale" "Stones for sale" He who has cheated death! You have immortality? Give me some Oh God, woman! Would I keep it to myself? Your Highness, someone has started a rumour... ...that this fellow is immortal - What is your name? - Some Uttama - Some Uttama... - No! Just Uttama - He has two names? - Uttaman! Do you know why you have been summoned? Don't you think that you have been bound in chains... ...and brought here for the sheer fun of it? What is this? I expected a witty response... ...but he just stands there This is the Immortal One? Not at all That is what... I'm dead No, Your Highness he is died But that is what he too says - No, your Highness, he denies it - Just answer the question No, your Highness It was this snake charmer who hit him on my order Yes, I hit him and he died Before that he died of a snakebite Wait! He was also bitten by a snake? Yes Then why did you spare the snake and hit him? - The dead snake was mine - Then this fellow? He also dead Majesty...! - First was the snake bite... - No, this is the Princess's bite Your Highness! This is meant for the right ear Should not political secrets be kept secrets? - They must! What did you advice? - Let us test him & verify! Good idea Go, sit down I have an idea These two accepted their crime, correct? Yes your Highness Therefore, the murders will be killed! - Your Highness - Your Highness May the people be told that my weapon of justice before the law - Play now you fools - Fools play Stop...stop I say Hold still or you'll lose your life instead of your hair Honorable ministers, is this mustache sufficient? Enough...enough Sudalaimuthu, do you see how we have fallen? Kaakapusunadar, we erred in allowing the king to test him This fellow has bound hand & foot now Why don't we test him ourselves? - How? - Like this! Immortal! He's Immortal Bring the crane back around This shot was good, shall we go? Give him a towel first! Fantastic my boy wonderful The next shot we can take on the front of original river What's that in your nose? Looks like a rose petal - Looks like blood, sir - What! Blood? - It's bleeding - Will you shut up? Sir, please come with me Please, go that side Please, come What is it? What is happening? Nothing to fuss about it sir, this is normal - How can this be normal? - It's normal for this illness But I find it abnormal Lets go to the doctor No no need for that I called the doctor for here - So you won't listen to me? - Sir, they will be here any minute What do you want me to do now? Call for a short break I'll clean up & will be right back Hey you! Do you know this chant? I swear I don't If he doesn't even know the immortality spell... ...how could he be immortal? Your Majesty! An idea, that is... Why don't we test him to prove it? O holy Ones... Yes, majesty Don't you grease this sword once in a while? It never comes out when I need it Your Highness...pearls... There... Your Highness? Some more pearls Get out Your Highness! This kingdom of pearls is aptly named There...one more pearl What is wrong with them? Uh...it is proven that they are not immortal It's a marvel he hasn't lost his head Could he be immortal? Your Highness, this is just blind luck! Blind or deaf luck is luck - Hold this - Uttama What use immortality for a commoner like you? Give it to your King Your Majesty, how can we beg this fellow? You...scum... Sir - Get back - That's right I will prove that you're not immortal An artiste lives, dies and is born everyday people might have mistaken that for immortality Me and immortal? But these unimaginable riches, this palace... A beautiful statue... who is it? Princess Karpagavalli's You have such a beautiful daughter? Rubbish! She is my betrothed Oh! When is the wedding? I'm waiting for the madness to settle Doesn't appear so Your Highness, may I say something? In your ear... Keeping a pet crow... listening to these ministers... if you cease these the madness will surely settle Whose madness? Hey! You... I will chop you up into crows food! - Your Highness, permit me! - No no! It's just eaten 4 whole ears Don't overfeed it! Give me your ear - My ear? Your Highness! - I need to tell you a secret - Your Highness, me? - Everybody come and listen But first we must safeguard ourselves, come! - You stay there - As you command Begin! Hurry up! Rat! Tiger! A charging rat and a cringing tiger This truly is a mad kingdom What are you? A rat... or a tiger? I am scared I feel I've seen you somewhere That snake bite was an omen Now every animal & human wants a bite Oh! Are you the one the snake bit? So you think you can bite me too? Please don't mistake me Are you also mad? You also...meaning? I'll explain, I just saw a very big headed King downstairs He has one pet crow and 2 ministers Are you an enemy of the king's? - He is my enemy - That is good An enemy who does not even have the courage of this rat How did he set my tiger free? He went in the cage and let the tiger out I knew it Is that statue outside any relation to you? It's identical but for the hair - It is I - I knew it Run away with me! What manner of place is this They imprison a woman and free a tiger Do not fret, Uttama! Why fear when I am here You are here but I'm afraid I will cease to be What need of laughter now? I can hear the tiger nearby Can't you smell his stink? Somewhere here Ah! It slapped me! Oh it was you What is your weight? I'm light but the palace food has added to it Why do you ask? Your weight is breaking my waist Forgive me! I dangled on you like a jackfruit on a creeper That's alright atleast you got down Thank you for that It obeys you Is it your pet? What's his name? Oh! His name is also Uttaman? The tiger's name is Puliyeru This man's name is Uttaman How do you know my name? The whole kingdom speaks ...of you Saying what? That you are the king's newest boot licker That you are immortal and will teach the spell to the king Nothing like that! I don't know even one blessed spell Then he will surely take your head I know that now but not how to escape It's the skill of an actor act your way out of it Of course act as what? One who has conquered death That is what I'm not and even if I do how'd I convince them? It is possible You mustn't bite Do you have the courage to save your country? What use is courage? What can a mere actor do? Plenty. But will you? I will but I fear your tiger will devour me in your absence Swear you will save your country and the tiger will become a cat Alright...I swear Henceforth my tiger is your pussycat Spread your legs like this - But these are hands - Your legs A little more Close your eyes Ah! Your eyes Uttama, obey! Open your eyes without fear The tiger's gone thank the lord It's between my legs - Just stand there - I am I'm talking to my tiger Oh! Please carry on Rise, my dear rise Aah! Oh god oh god oh god I'm dead...I'm dead I'm dead... Is this how the Immortal One speaks? Our savior's voice must not tremble Must not Now hold the neck Ah! The tiger's neck He will turn as you pull him Pull! Oh god...oh god the tiger has turned Do you wish to walk like a horse? Nudge his flanks with your heels - Can't reach - The tiger's flanks! Courage is the spell of immortality...courage Courage... Nudge him with your heels Courage! Oh...father! Not your father! Call upon the Lord - Courage - Immortal One! - He truly is immortal, isn't he? - Yes Sir...yes Look at that tuft on his head! Swaying in its majestic beauty - He truly is immortal - Yes yes The tiger was a pussycat in my hands That's the magic of cinema Right, Mano? He's asleep Don't disturb him Let's leave - Sir, about the DI - We'll check it on the table He gets tired very easily now Yes and we've started chemo too, sir - This is luck? - Yes sir, in a way Some patients have a lot of pain He has none Some have memory loss - They don't know their family - Oh God! But he's fine with dialogue & all, sir Even so, people near him can see It's wrong that he still hasn't told his family I don't have any of this ego nonsense I'll do it myself Go that godforsaken Raoji's house... ...and fall at his feet What is this, sir? Go inside! You need to be there when he awakens What is it? - What? - Nothing Come here! I'll get a crick in my neck I've been faithful to you all these years Even my lies were for your own good Okay so what? That is... I'm leaving But this letter... it belongs to you I kept it hidden all these years ...even that was for your own good What letter is that? 25 years back... Yamini wrote you It was a mistake... my mistake Mistake? Ok...it was a crime a sin Don't look at me like that I'm your Chokku We've no blood ties but you've been my brother all these years - Let me go sir, I'll leave - Shut up! Leaving...do you know what it really means? Stop shouting at me Even an ant has pride don't you think I have too? I have it too sit down Sit down! - Read the letter - Is this my punishment? Penance! Yours and mine Read it Read it I can go... May 5th, 19... Even though we know each other's thoughts ...love can make us deaf & mute Therefore I write this letter with love I trust your vows but my heart is anxious I got my pregnancy test result...Positive I can wait for you but our baby can't I will not have another abortion If you fear this will hurt your 'Dream Lover' image ...or destroy your career as Mr.Poornachandra Rao has threatened ...I will definitely not be the reason for it I leave for Kerala tomorrow at least call me before that If I don't hear from you in a week I'll understand your silence As I wrote, your father-in-law to be & your manager Read ...Chokku came here They first threatened & then tried to buy me off They said you knew of this If you do know, my waiting is stupidity I had to throw them out rudely If possible, please try to see us soon As we decided, our son will be called Manoharan Our daughter... Manonmani If you are not with us... ...don't I need another to lovingly call Mano? With faith that we shall be together, Yamini Didn't you give her my letter? If I did, your father-in-law threatened suicide What should I have done? No punishment will suffice Whatever...I will accept it Please don't look at me like that Dismiss me I'll leave I can't fire you now You have work for another 9 months, hmm? If you're done earlier... someone else will inform you But you'll be paid for the 9 months Stop crying It doesn't suit you Get to work Arpana...Dr come Good morning, sir Enter - Madam...he's arrived - Yes, a while ago Not our sir...hero sir has come along with that director I must confess, I've abused you a lot...sorry So have I Naturally! How is your BP? Better than my daughter's BP What did you want to discuss? Mano...tell him What is it? That... I won't be around much longer Alive - Can't take this more! - Give me the ball No! Give it to me You've had it now Please granny it won't happen again You'll feel your grandfather's slipper What is this? Let me fall at your feet...forgive me What are you doing? This bloody rheumatism... I can't even bend Please stop this Sit down...sit Don't say that no one is a villain Not you me or Zachariah Just fathers taking care of their daughters I'm only worried about telling Varu Are you leaving mom for another woman? - No - Go away - Get lost - Uncle... - Get out! - I'll talk to him! You tell amma Manohar, come - What is it? - Sit...sit down Playing with a cricket ball? Isn't it dangerous? Am I a kid? Easy easy... I'm a kid It's obvious Are you leaving mom? I'm going to die Liver cirrhosis...from too much drinking? You won't die if you stop My liver is fine...the problem is Glioblastoma multiforme Another name for it is Grade IV astrocytoma ...in Tamil, a growth in the brain Cancer? Wait...wait... I'll get it - Can you do all this? - What? Playing in the sun? How can a Dr dictate? I'm with my son Want to go inside? Or we could keep playing here Not that! What do you want to do in college? As a kid you wanted to be a lawyer - You remember that? - Of course...how could I forget? You were 3 years old when you said that Is that still your goal? Why ask now? Should have asked... Making up for things I didn't do Instead of saying sorry Ok, what do you want to do in college? Shall I say it? A good writing program in the UK or Columbia Writing...hmm what will you write? Screen...screenplay? Why suddenly? Not sudden...I've been thinking for a while I must write a good screenplay ...and show this Kodambakkam crowd who you really are By the time you're done with your course you might find another good actor here... or you could find one in Columbia itself, right? Perhaps...but they won't be my dad Please this is my private time Please go away...please Go away...please This happens to everyone Oh god! My baby's heart will break No, we'll take care of her Dhanam, let son-in-law come in He'll handle it That's right! Varalakshmi can't hear it from anyone else - Mano must tell her - Correct sir, you're correct I must be strong for my son I can't just lie around and weep the whole day Oh lord... It's heartening to see you so brave I was shattered on hearing the news That godforsaken disease has united this family I confessed I hid Yamini's and his letters and...he forgave me You told him? Why? What difference does it make now? When he himself is leaving us Couldn't that godforsaken tumour be in my brain? Who has a brain tumour? He...Oh god! Mr.Margadarisi and your father were discussing it, so I thought... I didn't know that you don't know what they know...I'll be downstairs - Stop right there - I've stopped Who has a tumour in the brain? If mom finds out Stop that! Arpana is here and I've called for an ambulance It'll be fine Then why an ambulance? My baby can't bear this Silly woman! What do you mean 'baby'? She must know I'll tell her Manohar and I will We have to tell her What? What is it dear? Why didn't you tell... My baby! I told you... "Is there anything sadder than immortality? My lord" "Will an endless tale have takers (listeners)? My lord" "According to astronomers the world it seems a round ball" "Others globules going around like it would also die" "The allegedly deathless sun in another eon will also turn to ember" "The embers will burn and burst and later" "There will be life sprouting out of lava again" "Like the banana tree that springs dies" "...and springs has a seed in its every death" "Sow another life like yours and you will" "understand the life in my poems" "For your dynasty to live and for you to serve it as you live" "You need a love that rhymes with your inner poem" "Inner poem" "A thousand stories abound of men who got everything" "They wished for and then finally and died" "My lord! Oh My lord!" Stop the spinning! They have, your Highness But the earth is still spinning Stop that But that... Ah! I understand Wisdom reveals the true form (nakedness) I have been mistaken about you! A great wisdom is slumbering in you Has it been awakened? It's arisen, alight and I have realized Have you realized impermanence, my King? What? Impermanance...? I have realized love Love? You've latched onto my last 2 sentences? Is not the best saved for last? My tongue has been hardened with talk of blood & gore I want to soften it Practice on the riverbank with a mouthful of pebbles to... I want to feel love! Feel love...you? I have felt it now she must too Give us a spell for that Immortal One! - A spell for this... - Say that you will! Say As good as said! How's this? Abra ca dabra Abra Karpagavalli Oh no! your Majesty! - Karpu (Chastity) - Why do we need that, your Majesty? What is the secret of your tuft? Fear Verily you are a good actor Why do you say that? You act well as a frightened man But I truly am a timid man And I have heard of how that timidity has made a puppet of Mutharasan - Congratulations! - Thank you Your proximity is the first step to our victory Why do you grimace? The thought of his proximity to me makes my flesh crawl But he wants to be with you and demands my help But would it be real? It's just an act, O actor! I am a man first only then an actor What are you saying Immortal One? If I do explain it... I fear it will be proven by your hand that I am not immortal And yet you say it That needs bravery Can one have love without bravery? You do not seem to be of a timid nature Mutharasan's prisoner Karpagavalli-mad Immortal street player Uttaman-a coward Calm down, Uttama! The minister is our man Oh! Has he swung sides then? This gorilla doesn't know how to swing ...till there is breath in this body - Will you learn now? - Justice for my King's murder ...and crowning my Princess these are the goals of my life That is alright then What happened? A new blade It pinched my hip And this is the one that helps you plot Princess, it's time for our loyal guards to change shifts It is inadvisable for you to be here after that Please return to your prison We can resume plotting tomorrow Uttama, we shall meet again Calm down! It is our neighbouring King's spy Princess! Why are you here? The spy is almost here Please go inside Who the hell is whistling? It is I, get down with no more whistling Having the same signal for both Kingdoms is a nuisance Couldn't you just change it? - We did - To what A cough What happened to the cough? Just then, our erstwhile King had a bad congestion He coughed the whole day long ...and every secret entry in the palace opened and closed ...till everyone knew of them including Mutharasan You've finally arrived Minister! I bring my King's word your problems will soon be solved We asked your King's help not his astrological predictions And also you've been saying this for 8 months What does your Sengoottuvan say now? He is our man Fear not You! Stand back - That is all - That is all? Did you shove me for this? Did you hang from that rope just for this? Our princess is so worried Should you not have asked your King about a better reply for her? This is the most I've spoken before my King May be so but we don't need him our Uttama's plan... But it's none of your business Right Uttama? - Absolutely not! - What are you...? Go tell your King we will manage...go! These neighbouring spies are polite Seems he's too lazy to climb Is there an another way out? That path straight ahead will take you up Thank you, my lord! We're exhausted lifting this fatso Uttama, I must go too You forgot your tuft However, I praise your acting talent It is my duty to reward it Your spell will soon make me fall in love ...with Mutharasan Go tell him What is this? It's the scene you asked me to show, sir Yes, but in the hospital? Sorry sir No no It is I who asked him They're running all these tests and I was a bit tense God is taking from me what I took from Yamini I'll be left only with what is meant to be mine - I can wait outside - No Dr You are like family You must be here when I beg his forgiveness He loved Yamini so deeply, you know? But I threw a tantrum like a brat and got my father to marry us Honestly, don't you still love Yamini? Atleast let her soul hear it - Souls don't have ears, ok? - But I do! So, still you love her? - Rest now - How? What dear? How can you still love me after I've destroyed it? I married you because of anger toward Yamini ...out of that grew affection You are a nice person so affection turned into love Now I know Yamini did no wrong... - You're angry with me - No no no no I'm not angry with you You're the mother of my child You're a child yourself A beautiful child Stop trying to pacify me with lies No Varu I was very beautiful when I was younger, isn't it? I ate my beauty away My heart is heavy when I weigh myself That is an extra weight I was petrified he'd leave me for a beautiful girl like Yamini But fear isn't enough I've to watch my mouth also Lazy glutton! Worthless creature! I've given you a sedative No Dr, please don't I want to keep looking at him Give me something to stay awake I will...I will Please rest now Please Varu I don't want anything else Shut up...will you listen to me? Atleast now, you mean? Oh God! We realize the value of things only when we lose them ...for fools like me so tired... I felt scalded by Varu's words Thiruna is a loyal man Completely trustworthy Thank you, sir I swear I've never breathed a word to madam at home I know, Thiruna That's what I said I'd give my life for him, sir No need for that You have a good future and I've gotten you a good job My friend Wasim in Dubai I've told him you're my greatest treasure and he must look after you well What's this! Ok, pull over and let me drive No sir, I'll drive You said I'm your treasure That's all I need Thank you, sir Am I your treasure or trouble? What do you want, my love? She must live with good health and I, without embarrassment So the 3 men in this car must swear to keep this secret I swear on my child, madam Please... They might ask in heaven But I can always lie my way through I am an actor, right? "At the altar of God called love" "In the temple called eyes" "The thirst of the body is worship" "At the altar of God called love" "In the temple called eyes" "The thirst of the body is worship" This game is yours! You've done some magic Your Highness! Your Highness! Come Your Highness! There- What? The Princess was calling your name in her sleep And then? I ignored it thinking it a nightmare - What? - But in the morning - And in the morning? - She was all decked up - Decked up and? - Oozing sensuality - Sensuality and? - Lost in yearning - Yearning and? - She is singing! Singing what? "At the alter of God called love" "In the temple called eyes" "The thirst of the body is worsh-" Your yearning itself is stealing my heart Sandal paste...quickly! Is my breath stinking? It's the fragrance of arrack and dry fish, your Highness Cloves! Bring me cloves! Your Highness! It's more eat reduce your libido - Cloves reduce what? - Your libido, your Highness Uthama Now check Get me gold jewels, silk dhoti and... No no, pearls and normal clothes will do ...it takes too long to remove Why do you weep? Won't I weep if you blow cloves in my eyes, your Highness? "At the alter of God called love" "In the temple called eyes" "This is the boat to ride the rapids of lust" "This is the boat that comes with sails of want" "While wandering in search of shores" "Life shall melt like wax" "Like those fingers that play the harp I am plucked and strummed to please" "At the alter of God called love" "In the temple called eyes" "The thirst of the body is worship" "Do reuniting lovers need to converse?" "Would words ever come in the way of expressing amour?" "Like the rhythm that sets the timing for music come mingle with me" "Come reach me to the very peak of ecstasy" "...and whisper endearments in my ear" "At the alter of God called love" "In the temple called eyes" "The thirst of the body is worship" Immortal One, I make you Minister as reward for this miracle Why a third Minister when you already have 2? Not 3! 2 as always 1 Minister...will go - Oh no! Who will go? - We'll decide with a roll of the dice Fear not! I'll sacrifice my post for our friendship - You're a true friend...promise? - On your life! Your Highness...Highness Here! Here! - Your Highness! - What Don't worry! Kaakapusundar is ready to relinquish his post I and Uttama will be your confidantes Is this the time to discuss it? Get out - Me too? - Then what? Out! Now its me and my Karpagam I can't wait any longer, Karpu Did you say something? It says I can't wait any longer I'll just be back! - Shall I go too? - I have to go! What happened? Your Highness, could ride the palanquin ...without anxiety or spillage That's right No! Not to the entrance Go to the toilets Hurry up! Stop! Why do you blow every time I point? Yes! The King is in a rush and you keep sputtering... Uttama...you too? - Why have you stopped? - It was your command Your King needs to go Move! - No jolting! No jiggling! - No jolting! No jiggling! Uttama! I'm exhausted running between toilet and bath And my dream girl Karpagam, awaits me My love is all back-to-front Oh God! I'm dying You have tested me enough Uttama! Come Impart to me the secret of immortality - Ah! She keeps jolting me... - Your Highness - This spell you ask for... - Physician, stop it! Stop! ...is not a mystery but must be understood with wisdom You seek to teach a fish to swim? I am the wisest! Proceed It's very simple There are three methods One-is to be the wisest among the wise A sage who comprehends the three dimensions of time and motion Oh! I loosely understood the theory of time and motion I've just calmed down Tell me a shortcut You must compose an immortal epic - My handwriting isn't very good - It could be oral! Aren't my troubles enough already? That's why he refuses 1 and 2 Shut up! Highness...what is the third option? - There is a third...there is - What is it? What? Another way is to be a great and unforgettable artiste Understood! You've saved the best idea for last Nowadays it's the easiest thing to become an actor Suggest a good drama as soon as my stomach settles down Your Highness! Drama is below our dignity Why, haven't the great emperors been playwrights? Well said! Our King's touch makes anything respectable No no. Ignore him Keep scratching I've a good idea for a play - What about 'Ballad of Hiranyan'? - Let's do it! I know only of 'Ballad of Prahalada' This is his father's tale Oh no! But doesn't he oppose Lord Narayana? For heaven's sake! Only he who dares to oppose all, can become immortal - Fear is the (root) of death - I've neither (roots) nor (shoots) To prove I am fearless we stage 'Ballad of Hiranyan'! As your Highness said your pulse is racing Oh God! And I thought it was easy to be an actor Forget that, there are 5 demons, my King Not four? That's the scriptures Demons are 5! Tell them to reduce a bit Scriptures or Demons? The dialog! It's endless Shouldn't we talk less and say more? Which part has less dialog? Which? This one...Prahalad That's true but he's a young boy It wouldn't suit your Highness - There he is! - Your Highness! - What? - What about Narasimhan? The dialog isn't too much, right? None at all Just roars A little stronger than that - Your lion's roar - This costume is a nuisance as well Minister, the poison will work, won't it? Narasimhan's nails are soaked in poison and well dried It will kill us if the poison touches us Hence the drummer's finger-shields I ordered for you So that you may be successful Karpagavalli is my shield I'll rip him apart So that you steal the applause? Impossible! Dasarath...uh Hiraniyan has all the dialog - And that is the problem - All the glory falls on Narasimhan But Narasimhan is half god and half animal Hiraniyan is all king Who is greater? Narasimhan! It is the union of half god- half animal that will last in people's hearts Correct! We will exchange roles You are Hiraniyan and I, Narasimhan But...your audience is waiting It is I they are awaiting Announce to them that their King is changing his makeup Cut it Come Super, my boy! Brilliant! Fantastic! Now lunch and then dress change Return in the Hiraniyan costume The climax and song are almost done We just have to complete the lead We'll finish it Once that's done the film is complete We'll do that today, sir - Are you tired? - Everything alright? I know you, but ok, hurry back - The scene is good, isn't it? - Wonderful! But how are you? Really? - Really - Really - Was it good? - Whatever you do is good Amazing From whom? Well, it isn't exactly for you It's a letter I wrote your mother It never reached her I want you to read it Take the children to the room I'll bring our lunch there You sure? Yamini I know the news we await is tidings of great joy Fortune has smiled twice on this poor man One was, the first time I saw you The other, when people acknowledged my stardom Mr. Poornachanra Rao threatens me Varalakshmi too She is steadfast in her delusion that her infatuation for me will turn into my love for her When I told her it's impossible she slit her wrists and is lying in the hospital I told him I couldn't marry his daughter because I love you Do you know what he said? That he can wash away love with money In my anger, I lied to him that you're pregnant The man was stunned And then suggested that abortion is a solution This lie I told about your pregnancy...we must make it true And if that happens As we've decided Manohar if it's a boy and Manonmani if it's a girl Who knows, it could even be twins I am ready to leave everything behind for you Will you wait for me? That... That's my photo - Did dad give it to you? - Yes What is this? A collage of everyone I know The surgery might wipe out my memory So it's like reminder notes to myself In-laws, my teacher Shall I call your dad... I mean Mr. Zachariah? I thought Manohar would be alone Don't jump to conclusions And what? She's your sister? She is my sister Dad, please tell her! But this is my sister! And after I've cut off my hair for you... - His own sister? - Yes. From another mother See for yourself I didn't mean you Please come in and tell her, sir please sir The seed of my blood The flesh of my flesh How'll I bear him addressing another as God Bringforth Prahalada! I shall cognize by querying him My son worships another after the world has proclaimed me God? Repent for your sin And chant your father's name thus I messed it up I said 'This' instead of 'Thus' No no, it's fine by me I'll intercut footage from both cameras Come and see if you want I said 'This' instead of 'Thus' - Is that ok, sir? - That's fine let it go Repent for your sin And chant your father's name thus One minute, look at me Oh God! Oh God! Hey! what happen to sir? It's nothing...it's nothing What is this? He's bald It's because of the chemo, sir It's not important now - Sir - What? Sir, let me try it just one more... I know...you can do better But go to the hospital now I'll come and show you the edited footage Listen to me atleast this once Come, sister! Manonmani! Yes, you Close the door Uncle, the surgery is underway Is it? He's done this brilliant shot Fantastic! No one else can do it Come, show it to them - Sir, shall I play it on the tv? - Is that possible? - Possible sir - Show it But keep the volume low This is a hospital Rao ji...he's my disciple ...and your son-in-law Slowly and gently... Do revive me Don't forget The seed of my blood The flesh of my flesh How'll I bear him addressing another as God Bringforth Prahalada! I shall cognize by querying him "Me with God to guard salute you Sire, with none to guard" "Come, my son, come!" "With your little fingers, twirl the hair on my magnificent chest!" "Come, my son, come!" "Our elders declare as atheist; the name that you chant" "When the world acknowledges Hiraniyan as God" "How can his son worship another?" "Right your sin Chant your father's name thus" "O Immortal One! Hail!" "Know you the prayer to chant? Behold!" "Hail O Hiranya!" "Yes...say it" "Hail O! Narayana" "Who be this Narayana?" "When I am worshipped to the 8 directions" "My son worships another? I dare any to say there in my equal!" "An object of the 5 senses? A form of the 4 seriptures?" "Night & day, Outside & In Nowhere can I die!" "This is my boon of immortality" "Know this, Know this Know this...you" "I am an epic without end" "O Immortal One! Hail!" "Born ignorant mortals We wander, meander" "We realized the chant 'Hari Om' We attained ascent as human" "You have listened to demented yarns You are wilted and spoilt" "You are chanting the name of that villain You nothing! You fool!" "No gender, transgender Nor snake, tiger, fox nor dog" "None of these life forms can kill me Know this! Know this!" "Yes I do know Nevertheless Hari Om!" "Your voice is also that of Hari" "I've been blessed with the boon of immortality" "And of unending life" "If you walk your path unheeding the right path" "Chant 'Hari' blasphemy" "You'll repent with your life" "I want not the life where I cannot chant His name" "He claims to be a fish, a tortoise and shamelessly, a pig too!" "All pervasive is 'Hari'" "He resides in everything" "If anyone and anything can be God" "Come! Show me where your 'Hari' is!" "The tyrant is dead Killing himself instead" "Behold the cost of murder!" Behold! We have completed the task without your King's help But it was our King who saved you in the guise of Uttaman "Is there anything sadder than immortality?" "Will there be listeners for an endless tale?" "Unchanging is art and poetry" "Undying is intellect and love" Is there anything sadder than immortality? Will there be listeners for an endless tale?
