 

                        'We know the story of our Independence how we got' 'But the story of our slavery? Let us know of it' "This nation of ours once fell in the hands of foreigners" "They came, they conquered and it all started from the shores of Madras!" "Our culture and customs changed" "The foreigners spread all over, tricked us and robbed us" "The true sorrows are yet to be told" "Road and rail transport were introduced" "Electricity became a reality" "We acquired a lot" "Their flag raised over all our flags and we lost all our kingdoms" "We lost our warriors" "We lost our treasures" "We suffered a lot" "Our land, our country has turned into a mere business" "Politics became our pride and forte" "They treated us like the downtrodden" "They treated us like slaves" "A race that served are now being severed" "We toil hard and sweat ourselves here..." "...and it's worth is enjoyed elsewhere" "The west grew on the sacrifices made by the east" "How did ever the wolves overpower the lions?" "How did such a small group ever rule the land of millions?" "A land that donated generously is now yearning for generosity" "We merely made use of the sea to catch fishes" "But they captured the sea and the shore" "They laid trap and tricked us into it" "They slowly transformed Chennai into Madras city" "Will my country see the light any sooner?" "Will the damage incurred be erased permanently?" "Will the rivers flow pure and fresh like they used to?" "Or will the rivers of tears continue to flow?" "A country ruled by ourselves will it come back to life of its own?" "With every changing governments" "The corruption keeps raising to new levels" "A country ruled by ourselves will it have a better future?" "Let dishonesty and lies flee our land" "Let sincerity and glory rule our land" "Let's wish the whole world will one day appreciate and envy us" "Let our national anthem be heard everywhere" "Let the voice of the people be the ultimate" "Let our history be re-written" "Let those who once ruled us speak about our glory" "Hail India! Hail India!" 'Every human should have the rights to voice against injustice' 'That is the real freedom' 'The Sinless Verdict' 'Swaminathan was brutally killed And the murderer was caught' 'Devakiammal, mother of Velan, was arrested by the police today' 'She has been remanded into custody for 15 days for further investigation' 'She refused to answer any of the questions put to her by the police' 'She has been ignorant towards the police and the law' 'In this country...pardon me, in this forest ruled by the wolves...' '...all the living beings will be hunted down' 'Nothing will remain Not even a feather' 'In order to survive here you must kill' 'And if you can't then you'll perish' 'Devakiammal will be produced at the court today for a hearing' 'Only if she speaks, a final verdict can be made' 'It is expected that if she opens up...' '...the motive behind the murder and others involved will be exposed' 'Signing off for Thanthi News channel...' '...along with cameraman Rasamathi, journalist Janakardas' Hang Devakiammal! Hang Devakiammal! An eye for an eye! Die for die! Hang Devakiammal! Hang Devakiammal! An eye for an eye! Die for die! '3 months before' He was a very nice person, so sad that Mr Murthy... ...who was against violence, is shot dead An incident that has put our nation to shame Many desperate youths have turned into contracted killers What else do we expect? He must be hanged If he is not hanged to death Then I'll myself finish him off and surrender Why do they even bother pressing charges and take it to the court? He is caught red handed They should have just shot him dead on the spot Tell me your name Velan Your identification marks? A scar over here And... A scar here What is the charge pressed against you? Murder Any last wishes? I wish to be hanged using my mother's saree "The whole world will envy you..." "The whole world will envy you..." "when they look at you" "Oh dear son!" "Oh my dear son!" "It's a privilege that you have given me" "I was just a lonesome soul" "And now we are two lonesome souls" "I am now born as a mother" "Thank you lord for the gift of motherhood" "It's you..." "It's only you..." "That drives me to live this life" "Oh my dear son you give me courage" "Oh my dear son you are the epitome of a life full of happiness" "You are my pride" "You are my pride" "I had sown the seed of happiness..." "...little did I know that it'll grow out into sorrows" "All my dreams are shattered" "I have lost all the faith" "A mother's lullaby" "Has now turned into a lamenting" "I am a mother who is now barren" "It's my fate to be performing the last rites of my son" "It's my fate" Since this a planned political murder I request you sentence her with the same punishment as her son That's all my lord Your silence will go against you I'm postponing the verdict for couple of hours 'After independence, the law has never sentenced a woman to be hanged' 'However, in this case, looks like the convict must be hanged' 'A critical dilemma that has made this case the most important one in the country' 'Hence, I am going to make an verdict based on a jury's decision' 'This might sound new' 'Until 1952 this law was in practice in our country' 'The trial is done as far as the court is concerned' 'But as far as the verdict goes the trial has just begun' 'In this trial, they are the advocate' 'They are the judge' 'or for that matter they are the law!' 'These 12 of them should discuss, debate and...' '...not only eradicate the myth but also should stamp their assurance on the truth!' 'They should come up with cent percent of truth' 'This debate should be touted as the best trial' 'A decision should be made in two hours' 'And the decision should be unanimous' 'He is Siddarthan, a philosopher' 'A pass out from the famous Gurukulam' 'He was taken into Gurukulam for his sharp brains and wits' 'A person who has read the autobiography of all the great leaders of the world' 'Believes questioning the truth is always the best' 'General Dheena Dayalan' 'It was under his leadership India won the Kargil war' 'A person with a great sense of dressing' 'Short tempered' 'Hates convicts and drown trodden' 'Strongly believes that a mistake that shouldn't be forgiven is...' '...forgiving itself' 'Dr Benny Quick, heart specialist' 'A person with very large sense of humour' 'He will tease and mock everyone out there' 'But none has ever succeeded in doing the same to him' 'Such is his valour!' 'Ms Janavi, a pilot' 'A pilot who averted two major plane accidents with her wits' 'Calm and composed' 'Studies her rivals by putting herself in their shoes' 'Mr Thirumaran, IPS' 'He was qualified for IAS but still he opted for IPS' 'An encounter specialist' 'So far he has done 99 successful encounters' 'He is waiting for that one more encounter' 'Along with him is the government waiting to reward him' 'Ms Narayani, a multi millionaire' 'Prestige isn't so prestigious when hunger strikes' 'She cannot withstand hunger for a minute, well, a second for that matter' 'The sad part being that she is here for the meeting without having her breakfast' 'Mr Manibharathi, a writer and an actor' 'A timid person' 'Refused to act in movies even when called up by well established directors' 'Rose, IAS' 'Thirunelveli district' 'A proud transgender' 'A human activist who fights for the complete human rights' 'Shri Thuyavan (The glorified one) a Tamil pandit' 'He came to India as a tourist' 'Everyone votes for the convict in English as either 'guilty' or 'not guilty' 'But he speaks and votes only in Tamil' 'Indeed a glorified man' 'Mr Gopikrishna, a Psychiatrist' 'A master in psychology literature' 'He different from the normal human He never gets nervous' 'He is that calm and composed' 'Mr Namo Narayanan, Charity commissioner' 'He is from the slums' 'Well versed in mantras' 'A core hater of the VIP treatment' 'Ms Chinmayi' 'A women with high regards for self' 'She single handedly organized a farewell for the Indian military' 'The only common thing between these 12' 'Each of them has either risked their lives...' '...or taken lives for the goodwill of the society' Attention please As you all know Our verdict is going to be final There shall be no appeal thereafter You guys may put forward your suggestions There are no conditions But we have to arrive at a verdict within the allotted time So, are we going to discuss? Or are we going to vote? I guess we all know the verdict Then why discuss and waste time Let's cast our votes and make a call Only then everyone can leave I can go home and eat I just said what I felt You don't feel anything but hunger - Now stop laughing - Come on sir Okay, so is everyone ready to vote Yeah So let see who all are voting the convict as 'guilty' Seven, eight, nine, ten and eleven 11 people Where are all you off to? - There are more formalities - Is it? Tell me about it Anyone voting the convict as 'Not guilty' ? Not guilty Oh no! Come on now! See now that's why we shouldn't have youngsters in here Well you can't avoid them Avoiding him and avoiding his vote are entirely two different things A vote has claimed governments A vote has also seen fall of governments That doesn't matter Majority is what matters Our debate is disharmony in harmony... But while deciding our harmony is in disharmony We got to follow the rules The decision should be unanimous Excuse me sir Why opt for the messed up 'Not guilty' option rather that the easy 'Guilty'? Oh lord Narayana! So do you really believe the convict is innocent? I don't know I might believe it I might not believe it So looks like he made a mistake Then why did you vote 'Not guilty'? Because... 11 for that 1 against What do you mean? What do you mean by 'against'? I am against punishing her If I too had voted 'Guilty', the count would be 12 What then? Verdict is done and we'll all set off to our homes Isn't that what judge wanted us to do? Phew! Things are happening to fast Don't you see? Too quick What do you mean? We sat throughout her trial We spent 3 months on this ie 90 days You say that is too fast? If everyone decides unanimously then it's over If we all vote against her, she'll be hanged What next? She is gone Forever Don't you understand? Never do this One word can take a life Indeed! A life will be lost So let be it Why should she live? To murder another advocate of nonviolence? Forgiving a murderer is same as committing two murders I'm sure you know it Let me assure this I am nervous What if my decision leads to further damage in the future? How can you drive if you think you'll meet with an accident? How will you use current appliances if you fear of getting electrocuted? How will we discuss if this building falls down and kills everyone? 'What ifs', 'suppose', 'ifs' and 'buts' will let you do nothing You can't even commit a mistake So tell me, arent you living you life even though after all these doubts? Aren't you? So decide! Go What a shot! Blinded but yet right on target! Excellent! Well today is full of shocking events Now that's some achievement! We are privileged to have lived during your era Dr Benny 'Too much of accolades I better be careful!' Alright Fine Let's vote once again If still I am the one who votes 'Not guilty' Then I shall change my decision And so let it seal her fate At least... I will be satisfied that I tried fighting for her Now check this out You'll change your decision to 'guilty' like everybody Yet still to be proved yourself as uncorrupted Right? Well assume all you want This time around let's vote in secrecy - It's my request - But why? You didn't question the death sentence Why would you question this? You know why? Because everyone will have to take a pen, write down their vote They'll have it pass it on At least that little time will help them to think and understand We all are used to blindly vote along with the majority In secrecy or in openness, the result is going to be the same No problem Go ahead Look at her playing games at this hour! - She'll lose it - She'll win it - Wanna bet? - Bet! It's on She won So come on She might have won this But in life she'll fail She will be hanged for sure - Wanna bet? - Bet! - This time 1000 bucks - Sure, it's on! Sir, this is malpractice This is illegal Well, I wasn't copying I was just supporting you Why are you against yourself? Sorry sir Here, go ahead Isn't it illegal now? Sir, come on now I've already copied it Why are you crying? These are not tears of sorrow These are tears of joy I've never ever voted in my life Until now this is the first time Someone has been deceiving and voting on my behalf for the past six times Six times? That means for 30 years I haven't voted I am not an Indian citizen! But today I've voted! I am now an Indian citizen! To all of you who made it possible my greeting, my thanks and my welcome! Now come on everybody Here Pass it on One Guilty Two Guilty Three Guilty Four Guilty Five Guilty Six Guilty Seven Guilty Eight Guilty Nine Guilty Ten Guilty And one Not guilty Not one But two When did you reach the top? Now come down! Ten for guilty Two for not guilty No chance it could be so Here, let me check it Won't be required It was me who voted for 'Not guilty' Five minutes ago you said she was guilty Now you say she is not guilty? Here, this man! When you questioned if he was confident he said he had no idea Even after he had voted her as not guilty I saw some truth in it He patriotically believed in his decision He waited to see if any one of us would acknowledge it I voted on purpose As I found his gesture noble I salute him for that! He took responsibility for his own decision So I felt there was something right about it Hence... I voted for 'Not guilty' So something struck you that didn't strike all of us Indeed sir I'm sure that I've made a better decision than you all Why do you look concerned? It's ten of you Against two of us It's us, who should be worried Yet, I am concerned Too much worried This concern and worry is for sure going to get us into a mess! A woman's trick is trying to manipulate this case If you like him, impress him Or may be propose him But keep it outside this room Don't you change your vote based on your emotions Well done You have attracted an attractive woman on to your side First you were advising about saving a life Now go ahead Both of you advise on how to create life It could be theoretical or practical At least we shall learn from it Oh my god! Oh my god! - Janavi hold on - Come again! What did you take me for? Leave me! Listen to me for a moment Janavi Is this how you talk? How dare you? Mind your words! Remember I am a pilot! You are making it even more complex! Do you expect me to be quite to all the tantrums you throw? - I said leave me! - Please! Just leave me! No Janavi, listen to me There is a limit for everything Relax! Calm down! Instead of asking me to calm down, you should be furious We'll become weak if we get furious That's what he wants If you want to stand by some one... ...you should be prepared to get embarrassed Sir, people who live with pride... ...won't talk ill of others Fine! Let me come to the topic Leave the topic Come to the point My point The convict has had nothing but misery throughout her life She started working as a labour at the age of six She got married at the age of ten and became a mother at the age of twelve Finally at the age of 13 she was widowed Thirteen is just the beginning of teenage Fate of her life was sealed even before it could start But it didn't stop there In the name of sharing wealth her house too was sold off After all the sacrifices She made her way to the city in search of a new life She came here with a baby in her hands She bought the baby up for twenty years These twenty years she again worked as a labour So in her 45 years of life She hasn't committed any crime She was an honest human being I trust her You may believe she is innocent But why are you trying to make us all believe it? I know about down trodden people better than you I've been with such people for a long time You can never trust them or their words Such people lie right from their childhood Only a fool will believe you So you mean all the rich people carry an initial called 'Truth'? It's all an analysis Go check it out yourself 90% of the prisoners are downtrodden people You've got it wrong Cent person of the prisoners are downtrodden! Do you know why? The rich will escape but the downtrodden can't That's the law! All your laws, discipline, prison and punishments are for the down trodden All the punishments are implied just for the downtrodden! Sir Rice, television, even gold is offered for free But justice? Only money can buy justice! I'm reconsidering my decision 'Not guilty' But why? Because of the advocate What about the advocate? During the whole trial only once did he had objection And he forfeited it The advocate never fought the case for the convict Well, correct There was no point in him fighting this case See? Why was there no point? Because she couldn't afford him The advocate was neither bothered to fail... ...nor bothered that she will be hanged Someone has to support the weak Isn't all these for that? At least the weak should support the weak I support her She is not guilty Me too I too support She is not guilty When one of us changed her mind there was huge spat! Now two more have changed minds Today hell will be raised! Oh Narayana! Why are you calling him? It's a deity's name Oh is it? Yes! What's happening here? Can someone explain it to me? You guys keep talking as you wish And change your minds accordingly She changed her mind because she likes him He changed his mind because he hates the advocate - And him... - Sir, well... Shut up and sit down! Oh my god! Oh lord Narayana! So all of you like hearing stories? He'll say stories and you all will relish it Now I'll tell you all a story! Not a story from the past A story from the future Hello! Come here Me? I said come here! Sir, that's a wheel chair So what? Just come here! Sit down! Let's do a small experiment Close your eyes and imagine whatever I'm going to tell That's a walk in the park for me You reach home late I don't have to imagine that That's a fact Shut up! As you park your vehicle you notice that your house looks dark from inside You think it's a power outrage But there's power in the neighbourhood Okay You and your family go to sleep only after you've reached Noticing that it's unusual, you proceed to go and ring the door bell It doesn't work You feel something is fishy You knock on the door but there is no response You yell out to your wife but all you hear in response is dead silence Then you get tensed... ...and start kicking the door Still no response and only dead silence That's when you realise you have a spare key with you You take it out... ...and open the door It's dark everywhere You turn on your cell phone's torch and start searching Your wife and kids are abducted and tied up No! That's when, from behind, some one strikes you right on your head You lay half conscious as they slit your wife and kids right in front of you No...No All these just for the sake of some money and jewellery! Now tell me! Are such people 'Guilty' or 'Not guilty? Guilty Guilty Guilty...Guilty Guilty...Guilty Fair! He has blurted out the truth Note it down 'Guilty' Sir, do you need some water? Sorry Give me two minutes He is psychologically arresting everyone's mind! His mind too shall be arrested! I am writer Hence I took it a bit personally and reacted That was one hell of a story to change my thinking You are very smart Well I don't know much about your tricks I say now with a clear mind My vote... 'Not guilty' Why did you laugh at me? No! No! Not like that Sir, hold that thought I'll be right back with you Why do you keep laughing at me often? No Have we met earlier? No Have we traveled together or partied anytime? No, no So did I tell a joke? - Do I look like a joker? - Not like that I've been noticing since we arrived you have been laughing at me Answer me! Please! Please Please...Please Laughing is all you do for everything and anything Laughing is all you do everywhere So everything is a joke to you? Right? When a literate is unemployed you laugh! When thousands of them lose their job you laugh! You laugh at murders and bombings! You laugh at private sectors for running schools You also laugh if the government runs the beverage industry! 0.5 million lives... ...a whole race was murdered and lost Even then you laughed! This laughter has widened you lips from ear to ear! Do you know what's hidden behind this laughter? The fear to take too much of seriousness That's the reason I swear... You ain't insulting us by laughing at us You are actually insulting yourself So laugh as much as you can sir Go ahead...Laugh Sir, how do you say that she is guilty? Set aside the police reports Set aside the opponent advocate's points Also set aside the story published by the media You tell me One proof! Your own independent proof! That proves that she is guilty Until then, even your vote is like one in a million A fake one! I like you! He had a point if it's a wrong decision it must be an own one That's my point too But in a more positive sense My parents... ...had four sons before me I was the fifth one My dad wished for a daughter My mom prayed for it to all the gods When I was born... ...they were disappointed knowing it was a boy At the age of 12... ...when I told them I was a girl ...they couldn't digest that fact They... ...saw me as an insult Finally they lied that They adopted me They chased me away from home The same night... I decided to commit suicide I got into an electric train I was afraid to jump from it Not that I was afraid of death Everyone thought that I was the usual freak That's when a kid... ...pointed at me and asked it's mom If I was mad The mother replied No She is in agony That is why she is behaving so She accepted me for what I am She adopted me and took care of me as her daughter She made an IAS officer Are you done? Not yet There's some more That day a mother... ...looked upon a daughter with care Today the daughter... ...has to look upon a mother with care Please make a note She is... Not guilty You are guilty! Now start! First it was me Then him So now her? You are best at insulting others Just because you achieved in one field Don't make that you have achieved in all the segments Is this how head all the meetings? Is this how you even managed to become an officer in military? So I guess, that's how you must have even won the war? Sir... We shouldn't take anything personally Moreover we shouldnt get too personal with anybody Be careful Take care I am getting furious! Why this carnage? That cat eyed lady is bothering me! You mean Menagha? Yes! Even you? Planning to finish her off? Yes! She keeps drinking some juice and she is doing on purpose to tempt me! Sir, I can't bear hunger Moreover, in a hurry to reach here I skipped my breakfast Skipping a meal drives a woman like me crazy! Proverbs are fine As long as you don't spoil it! If not us then no one should get it! Why the 'us'? I meant generally Nice intentions Preach it and our country will prosper! If something is in favour of the people... ...that can never be termed wrong! This one too People who commit crime looks to be good at philosophy! (Song from 'Petra Maganai Vitra Annai') I would like to change my decision She is not guilty I think so because... Even if human fail to perform their duties Even if the seeds aren't sown Even if the lands aren't furrowed; Even if the lands aren't irrigated; The sky will still shower our land with water We are gifted by the nature with trees, plants and food We have nothing to fear Dear, do not cling on to a religion and struggle Don't put your body through tortures The nature will feed you Your only duty here is to preach love Everyone here applauded you for speaking Tamil Except me You spoke Tamil without the English accent That is what I applauded you for Those who claim to be a Tamilan are surviving because of Tamil But none of them has ensured the survival of Tamil You are an English and you had made Tamil proud You are indeed a Tamilan! Here after if anyone claims to be a true raw Tamilan... I was just making a point 'You are listening to Suryan FM 93.5' 'The open talk topic is Verdict for Devakiammal' 'The jury meeting seems to be heated up and there is no solid decision made yet' There has been lot of changes in opinion Let's find out the current stand Let's vote again Let's do it in order Just like we voted the first time Guilty Not guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Not guilty Not guilty Not guilty Not guilty Not guilty Guilty Guilty Guilty Six votes Not guilty Six votes Six Six Equal strength I confess I'm involved in this murder Hang me to death! There, one more proof! Would that suffice? Or do you need more? This is not an interval This is the end See you guys Sir please Sir, please...please No matter what you do, I'm not going to change my stand You didn't pay heed to any one here Nor did you even try to understand what I had to say Now the convict herself has confessed So what else will it take to convince you? I'll believe anyone and everyone... ...but only if it's the truth! Now stop repeating yourself! You have be going over the same thing again and again and again I am not for it! Oh gosh! That wasn't a mistake It was on purpose I am back! Here is a flashback I would have been killed even before I was born It was my mom who saved me from the doctors The doctors claimed I had a hole in the heart And said that I won't live much even I had born My mother refused to accept what the doctors had to say She believed in God They also said another thing If I had to live long... ...it would be with a defect So life is very precious and I had to hold on to it I did hold on to it I take injections everyday I take medicines everyday I have gone past the half way mark I'm confident that I'll make it to the finish line I'm a heart patient Yet, I've saved thousands of life as a heart surgeon Dr Benny, the best heart specialist in India You all have achieved a lot in your life For me living this life itself is an achievement That is why I am here today So what is the truth after all? It's trust! I trust that woman I am not guilty To all present here, I am changing my vote Dear, now start The meeting is on, baby "Oh dear deity earth" "Let me bid you goodbye" "As I begin my final journey, let me bid you goodbye" "Dear death your are going to live on as I die" "So let me bless you a long life" "Dear soul less life you will continue to wander after I die" "So let me bless you too a long life" "My soul has already been burned down to ashes" "All my desires have died inside me" "So will I be burnt down?" "Or will I be buried?" "My lonely life is wandering in between worlds" "This life of mine has become meaningless" "Oh dear immortal god, you may have my soul" "Now let me rest, let me rest in peace" "What the meaning of this life" "When I am left with nothing?" "Death is ultimate" "Only death completes the life" The charges against Devakiammal and her son Velan are same So immediately Get me all the details about Velan Sir that's too much of risk The foundation for safety is laid by taking risks Go, get it The jury will soon prove the reason why I've let this case to them for a verdict Hence I'll have to provide them with Velan's case evidences I'll answer to everything It is my responsibility Placing a wet cloth on your stomach to beat hunger? You cannot control your hunger! Now how did you find it out? Everyone knows it by now Oh! Oh! I wonder how people go on hunger strikes After having a meal - In between meals - Really? Behind all the hunger strike hides a mobile food van You spoke like a leader Now what are you upto? This is my favorite attire My uniform Within an hour I should be on duty with this uniform I got the intimation I would request you all to let me be in this uniform This uniform makes me realise there are lives I'll be responsible for So... ...I'll be very careful Well now that's your last hour as pilot Here fly this plane! Is she house keeping? Ask her to clean thoroughly This place has turned filthy! Excuse me, sir Sorry Well at the hour of need nothing's wrong! Watch out! Do not consume the vessel! Oh lord Narayana Sorry...sorry, sir I'm sorry I didn't even bother asking you all - I hope you guys won't curse me - No curse will ever affect you Sir, I had read recently It seems the gruel is a good source of Vitamin A Does it stop with A or goes on till Z? I've been wanting to have it for a long time It was very delicious Sir, having gruel is also an interpretation about equality Now your stomach is filled so you have turned into a philosopher Look here The rich sharing their gruel with the downtrodden is equality But the rich sharing the gruel from a hungry... ...it's arrogance So it's fine if the rich don't share... But do not snatch from the down trodden Here the rich and the politicians don't even spare the gruel for the poor You too do the same and let there be scarcity for food all over! Oh! Oh! Sir - Sir - What is it? Why is she leaving the money? And that is why they are downtrodden Velan's case has come Hereafter it will be volcano Please come with me one moment What's all this? Does the images make the story true? Is it true that there were two guns? Mr.Gopi Are you alright? - Well nothing - What do you mean? What was that? No one is special here All are equal We should speak mutually Follow the rules! Tell us what did you guys discussed in person? Come on tell us! Tell them So, the problem is... That no one has ever got the correct understanding of this assassination One who indulges in a political murder... ...will never get caught Why would one shoot from a point where he can't escape? Why would he still stay and get caught from the exact point where he shoots? All this was a plan to trick and create evidence This plan was executed by that individual Who is that? The real killer His works as a contracted killer to kill leaders He doesn't use more than a single bullet to kill one The perfect killer He can't be traced by his looks He can only be caught by his modus operandi "He changes forms and shapes in lightning speed" "He sneaks and escapes from places like wind" "His perspectives and vision are third eyed" "His rehearsals are for real" "No matter what the sky and the earth demands..." "...he keeps roaring and soaring like the sea" "When the intentions are unshakable..." "...he screeches away as fierce as the tiger" 'All the departments are spread out corruption for political corruption' 'Against corruption for honest and talents are goes backwards...' '...hunger strike was conducted by Swaminathan in Tamil Nadu' 'A corruption heads was allocated...' '...a Top Class Killer against freedom fights' "If the diamond has to be cut..." "...it can only be done using diamonds" "Evil can only be put to an end..." "...by the pure evil within it" "Say his name and lighting strikes" "You'll never see him coming, he is just like the wind" "He is the one who doesn't believe in theories..." "His life is all about reality" "He can turn the seasons and time in his favour..." "He is a sun that shines during the night" "A king of disguise" "A faceless hero" "A bow may stutter and it's arrow may miss" "His target is always spot on and will never miss" "Just like the wild fire catches on..." "His anger spreads He is unstoppable" "Only the banks will know where the river is flowing to" "Where is our fate headed to..." "...will anyone ever know?" "He is like the serpent that hides underneath the soil" "He'll pass by just like an illusion" "No matter what the sky and the earth demands..." "He keeps roaring and soaring like the sea" "When the intentions are unshakable" "He screeches away as fierce as the tiger" When the hunger strike was set to happen by the Anna flyover The killer started his observation In order to set the target he chose incomplete building right opposite to it He chose it based on its height and the angle On the same day... Velan got the approval for the carpentry contract of that building In order to celebrate it... Velan bought his mom to show the building Now that's fate Their life goes further down when they try climbing up His mother was happy that her son had reached heights But little did she knew... That danger was right above them Firing isn't easy Even more difficult is to escape from the place after the murder Because the embassy was right opposite... The killer needed a plan to escape from the building and from the city Killer laid down a trap for Velan Provoking is all you need to turn the good into evil He dragged Velan into his trap with ease Velan caught by police Killer escaped with the people Based on the details it looks like you might be the one who did it Not only you... Everyone else here will feel the same That is the strength of the killer He takes various forms for each and every murder he does In reality and in imagination Since none of us know him... We assume our own imagination to visualize him Just like how Janavi has visualized me... ...the police had visualized Velan as the murderer The gun that was used to prove that Velan was the murderer... ...is the same gun I'll use now to prove Velan's innocence Hey! You are handing over the gun to a person from the military If he shoot out to all Go ahead shoot Shoot me Come on, sir You are a military man Shoot me I said shoot me! It won't fire no matter who pulls the trigger The gun is dummy Because... ...the bullet fired was different ...and the gun got at the spot was different And so the person who shot was different Please pass it on to everybody Give it What the hell is this, sir? She is avoiding me deliberately Whatever Nine, ten, eleven... Oops! I am so sorry Didn't I hand you one? Here You having it is the same as you not having it You charge heavy for petty works In here there is not pay at all So, do you intend to do any work? Relax They must have chose someone else from a different field Else at least a different candidate from the same field as yours See... You must be knowing more about yourself than me So think I'm very sorry to have missed handing you the file Idiot! Thank you I'm yet to help you So tell me what can I do? I need one more vote I need my tab now Get it! Hello, sir I am Chinmayi Need to discuss an important matter Please pick up my call I am also one of the jury among the 12 juries in Devakiammal verdict The statement given by you confirmed that Velan was the criminal Please tell me whether Devakiammal is an accuse or innocent We need your immediate answer in this regard Thank you Okay This is it I'm Thyagu... Superintendent of police The convicts, in order to murder some revolutionary individual... ...take more than a year's time to plan and execute it But, to crack that case the time given to us, the police... ...is merely 24 hours Later even if there is a delay of an hour media starts questioning us The ministers bombard us with calls The public rallies out in the form of protests and riots Under the pressure, our department... ...is forced to point finger at someone else Such are the circumstances... ...where our doubts baits an innocent ...and traps them Even at that point... Without any changes to the words or even letters for that matter We have to record exactly what the prisoner says, as per the rules But due to the pressure we face... We aren't able to implement that Velan, who was arrested under the charges... ...of murdering an advocate of non-violence ...in his statement to me, claimed that ...it was true that I was there at the murder spot But... I wasn't aware of the murder that took place He claimed that he was lying unconscious But I wrote it as... 'It was true that I was there at the murder spot' and left the rest Since this case is regarding a political murder... ...and since like me, everyone associated to this were under pressure ...press, media, lawyer judge and everyone else ...misread the statement and instead Confirmed that he was the murderer Hence Everyone's negligence resulted in... Someone else committing the crime and claimed... No... Everyone's negligence resulted in death of another Let me tell you when I realized all this You see it is very necessary I make it clear to you all Every time when his mother pleaded that her son was not guilty... I thought after all it's a mother crying for her son But after Velan was hanged... She came and confessed She said Yes my son did commit the murder I was too a part of it Only when she was arrested... I realized that there is some other angle to this case I felt it strongly I started observing her The murder... ...and the means to commit it was given by her in a statement I looked into that witnesses Only then... I realized all she had mentioned was her own assumption Even after all this her pain never faded away Just like how her son was hanged... she knew she too will be hanged So she took a decision The statement she gave the police... ...along with all the false proofs with clean explanation ...was mailed to the media by her The law and the misuse of the law... by people like us must be exposed to the public and that... ...should result in getting us ashamed, was her target But again... Velan who passed away His soul... ...is trying to save his mother from all this Hence it has resulted in and come to This unique practice that was never used earlier All 12 of you have been chosen... ...to bring the case to light and to the open All I'm requesting you all is this... Law and justice are like a scepter With Velan's verdict it has been deformed So save his mother and set the scepter back to its form That's when... The whole world will realise Velan's innocence And that is what will console his mother and let her be in peace I just have one regret I was the reason behind Velan's execution To repay his mom... There is only one way That is myself That's the only compensation Justice denied cannot be treated as faith... ...but as fate Oh crap! Those who saw it, were they liars? Was it a lie what I heard? Those who claimed, were they liars? Was the whole investigation a big lie? What about the truth?! No! I'll cast two votes One for that woman One for her son Both of them are not guilty Not guilty Not guilty Not guilty Sir... Please Sir, please I'm sorry for my behaviour Thanks for your courtesy It's ok, sir So how about voting for the final time? Not guilty Not guilty Not guilty Not guilty Not guilty Not guilty 3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10 I haven't voted yet I cast my vote now She is guilty Now come on stop troubling us! The moderator should solve problems But here? The moderator himself is the problem Sir, aren't you hungry? Fine If you accept that her son is guilty... I'll vote for his mother as not guilty I know... Where you are getting at So do I know... Where you are getting at, since the beginning She is taking some risks not for saving herself, sir Only she acts to prove her son is innocent to this world How can we refuse that? Just for an individual We cannot give up on law That individual should have right to live It is for the right to live law was invented Instead, the right is snatched away and the law itself executes the human The right to take life... ...belongs only to God Correct All Gods kills the evil to save the holy The law too does exactly the same But how? By executing people it saves the people, is it? Which means...in order to save 51 people... the law will execute 49 people? Answer me correctly Does the law execute people? Else does it save people? It saves the people by executing the murderers So you accept it? So, you believe in punishments? Not in fellow humans? You sound clever So you need jobs after education That too you'll prefer a good salaried job You'll commit crimes but shouldn't be punished? Murder cannot be a punishment Punishment cannot be justice Know this... Unauthorized justice can never be strong Unjust authority is dictatorship How can you gain without some pain? How can this disease be cured? The treatment for this disease is worse than the disease itself The treatment is correct But it has to be expanded Just like in the past all the convicts should be... ...hanged in front of everyone When only that function will be effectively Under what act can you take life when you won't be able to give it back? Not only the evil but the good ones too will be killed It'll be like a lottery Hang till death is a punishment that is against the law Fine, let's say hang to death is unnecessary How can crimes be stopped? How will the convict be warned? How about pleading 'Please, I request you don't commit crimes, don't kill' ? Do you think people will obey? Isn't that why you have rehabilitation centers? Show mercy to everyone Sir, all good people have a past... ...and all criminals have a future If the law is powerful then it should... ...forgive and change the convict for good We cannot rule the law... ...instead the law will rule us Everything is below law Including justice? After all what is law? A written book? A decorated court? The black robe? Or is it the blinded statue? It's all a right to live Right to live I speak on behalf of that lady... This shouldn't happen to any other mother This shouldn't happen to any downtrodden This shouldn't happen to any other innocent That is all Now it's your call The law is here to prevent one from danger Hence it's foundation should be mercy So I vote now... He is not guilty 12 votes Wow! Unanimous Now let go off my hand! Based on the jury's debate and proofs provided... ...the real killer has been arrested Judgement group is one of the best thing for in these different case I hope the whole world now knows... ...that Velan is innocent I had bought him up the right way So... What's your name? Velan
