 

                        I feel an anxious desire of love Love means possession, possession means blood... ... and blood means death Because death to me... ... is the logical result of the act of love I'm waiting for you, my lovely prey Who are you? What do you want? No, please! Who's there? How much is this? -Three dollars - Ah, okay -Have you seen this shirt? -Oh, yes, it's nice -Do you like it, don't you? -Yes, but how do you know? -Because it was made specially for you Who was created first? The chaser... ... or the innocent prey The beast... ... or the depraved human being The beast or the depraved human being What nook of a distant nowhere come I from? Why thirst and madness... ... become suddenly the same feeling? Our truth will survive... ... in spite of the Judeo-Masonic conspiracy Come here! Take clothes off! Sit down - Thank you -Anything to drink? -A Scotch, please - Thank you You... ... you are an architect An architect in Ankara, your name is Turcun And you have a beautiful future -Your scotch, madam -Thank you I'm seeing love, today is your wedding anniversary The twenty-fifth Oh, congratulations! Those, those eyes, those beautiful eyes... I can read terrible secrets You are Rachel Crosby, aren't you? -Yes, how do you know? -You came here to have some days of relax and fun You come from... ... you come from Network, New Jersey -Oh, fantastic! -And now... ... you are very much in troubles -How do you know? -You don't remember me? -No, no -I do know you. I came ... ... sometimes into your dreams Don't you remember me? -No, I swear you -You don't remember me? You have a powerful enemy trying to destroy... ... your youth... ... your life - Are you kidding? -I can see it, it's a woman, a dead woman, a monster Oh, poor child! You are sweet and powerless But I can help you Rachel... ... Rachel, Rachel, look at me into the eyes. Relax... ... relax... ... relax... You are... ... in a beautiful landscape, it's springtime, you can smell the perfume of the flowers You are no more in danger, no more in danger You, vampire, vampire... You awful vampire! Maga... ... will destroy you Relax, Rachel Don't worry, relax Relax, Rachel ''Virus venerandum'' ''Cuionibus rupestre'' ''Clitoris medieptun''... I order you, awful vampire, to become material You will be as a toy... ... in my hands A toy in my hands Amen -Get dressed - What for? -We must go to see Irina Pulurnaud -No, I don't want, why? -You have to be free from this awful monster -No, no -Come -Oh, the children of the night, What a beautiful music they play! Stay there, don't be afraid! Irina Pulurnaud! Irina Pulurnaud! Irina Pulurnaud! Irina, you bitch! -Who's there? -Your friend Maga wants to see you -Come in, darling You are welcome The blond girl is with you, right? Bring her to me, Maga We are already good friends She wants to see you too But you have to be careful with her, she's an innocent child Come, come... I feel an anxious desire of love Love means possession, possession means blood, blood means death Death! Come, come... Come! Go to hell! You, son of a bitch! Maga is the winner Oh, my God, no! No!
