 

                        ABSA Pictures Presents THE VAMPIRE Written by Produced by Directed by From Bakonia, Hungary Contents. Earth To M. Duval, Sierra Negra, Mexico Good afternoon And to you, young lady Anyone here from the Sycamores? The Sycamores...? You must be Marta Gonzales. Emilio's niece I thought he'd be here He was here He left when we heard about the landslide Will he be back? No. I don't think so, miss With the landslide on the tracks... ... we thought they'd stop the trains But they managed to clear it Could I get a lift to the Sycamores? That won't be easy People round here don't like to be out after dark What can I do? You'll have to wait here See that gentleman? He has the same problem It's hopeless We just have to accept it My aunt is very sick. I have to get to the Sycamores I tried a hard luck story too. But it didn't work Come on. We might as well sit down This is an odd place It seems no-one round here goes out after dark I was planning to walk But he wouldn't let me go! Someone's coming A strange man! Not a pretty sight, I agree That crate... Here's the papers Yes... go on then A crate of earth all the way from Hungary! What's wrong with this earth? The quirks of the rich It's a man called Duval who's lived here 10 years or so I think he's crazy Only a madman walks about at night He wears a long cloak. Like that guy Hang on - I've got an idea Excuse me, sir! That young lady's looking for a lift She'd be good company for you Not tonight But she has to get to the Sycamores Where did you say? The Sycamores All right - bring her here Great! He's going there Quickly! You're coming? Where you go, I follow Sycamores, here we come! OK, mate! Just a moment... I want to see her one last time May I keep this, sir? Rest in peace, dear sister She'd have said the same for you, Sir God grant her rest and peace through all eternity This is our land. The Sycamores can belong to no other Anselmo! Look! What's this? End of the line This isn't the Sycamores I turn off here. You must go that way - Look, if it's about money... - It's not! Down! OK! OK! Charming! So much for manners You know where we are? The crossroads. The Sycamores is that way Is it far? - About an hour - An hour! It's a long walk through this fog... ... so we'd better get acquainted - I'm Enrique - I'm Marta Now, a few facts about myself You should know that I have a birthmark here I hate the country with all my heart Because I think the country is for cows And I'm a salesman I work in a small shop... My Uncle Emilio wrote me two days ago He said I must get here tonight without fail - He's married to your Aunt? - He's her brother My other aunt also lives at the Sycamores They are both single Are you sure this is the right way? I get the feeling we're lost No - it's fine I'm worried about Aunt's health She was like a mother to me after mine died Why didn't they marry? Are they ugly? No - far from it They were very pretty girls Of course, they're older now They lived out here all these years... ... time just passed them by And your uncle? That's another story He left many years ago and only returned recently I still remember the patio carpeted with flowers The sun's rays spilling through the arch The fountain... My happiest childhood memories... ... are connected with this place I recognise this tree! The house is just around that bend What is it? I'm not really sure I got a strange feeling as we came up the path Like what? Like someone following us! We didn't see anyone I know. But I did feel a breeze Who's there? It's Marta. They're expecting me Of course, child! Let me unlock the door Please come in Hello Anselmo My child I'll take your bags, sir Why is the house so run down? Things have changed a lot since you were here No-one wants to work here now And Black Mountain has become like a ghost town now Come in, please. Your uncle is waiting It's Marta, sir. With a young man Little Marta! Uncle! I expected you tomorrow Yes, I know! Marta! No kisses for me? It's your aunt - Eloise Don't you recognise me? That's the sick one? Auntie! You don't look a day older The years have been kind No, you look incredible! And Maria Teresa. Where is she? Tell me She died yesterday. We just buried her Don't cry, my dear. Your tears are useless Come along Excuse me, sir. May I have my suitcase? - Your suitcase? - I'm going - Now? - I must Marta! The young man is leaving Forgive me This gentleman accompanied me here from the station Why not stay here tonight? Where else could you go? To a hotel A hotel? The last one closed years ago Stay here... This is a big house. You'd be most welcome My condolences for your sad loss Sad... Yes, indeed But it was all for the best How come? She suffered so much in the last few months Isn't that so? Yes. She lived in terror I hope she's found peace now What caused it? A heart attack But she'd been acting strangely for many years Strangely? Yes. She swore she was in danger From what? Vampires Vampires? Yes. Silly ideas she picked up from the peasants They are ignorant and superstitious She believed that in the dark places of this house ... a vampire was lying in wait to suck her blood It was worse when night fell Fear overtook her The poor woman would lock herself in her room Surrounded by crosses and mirrors Why did she do that? Because of those foolish legends Yes... They say that vampires... ... are repelled by the cross And that they give no reflection in a mirror I heard about that Because they have no souls? So the story goes Marta - you must be tired. And such talk will upset you Yes, let's go Excuse us Of course You collect old books? No. They've been here for many years Some are connected with the mine up at Black Mountain Seems I came too late What? ... . Doctor...! I did as you asked No-one knows who I am Please keep this a secret, I beg of you If anyone else found out you were here... Open it! Just earth? To give new life to my brother Count Karol of Lavud Our enemies stole his immortality This earth is from our cemetery in Baconia In two moons we will take it to his tomb He still has power And will return to life when the time is right... ... a hundred years since his death Soon shall I stand again at my dear brother's side Stand at his side and know such joy as in centuries past We will go forth into this new country... ... and once again impose the rule of the Lavuds Hook up the horses. We leave at once! Do you intend to stay here now? I don't think so Maria Teresa left part of the estate to you in her will She was always so good to me You now own an equal share of the Sycamores with us But the Sycamores has changed so much I know someone who would like to buy it Sell the Sycamores? Yes I want to. Only Emilio is against it The rules say we must cast a vote to decide The majority wins So it all rests on my decision? Yes Let's talk about it later Right now I'm still in a state of shock Please think about it. The house is in ruins There's no-one to bring in the harvest But they laid her to rest here What is it? Nothing. We have a guest Take carel There is a stranger in the house I know. You must watch him very closely Our neighbour is an important person Come and say hello I can't face it right now Another time maybe I'm really too tired to face anyone Very well I'll receive him Sleep well Good night Mr Duval - our nearest neighbour Duval - Duval? Of course! The Hungarian earth importer! - I beg your pardon? - You exaggerate young man You must mean that large crate I had delivered You must think I do that all the time That was only a sample If that's a sample your shipments must be huge I don't understand It has to do with a very old tradition I bet it's cemetery earth No - it's nothing like that It's soil from the forests of Baconia My homeland, as you might say That's all What was that? A book fell down How did that happen? An accident This book looks very interesting. All handwritten 100 years old They're all from that period Official declaration on the execution of Count Karol of Lavud Founder of the Sycamores Originally from Baconia in Hungary Fancy that! He was your countryman So it seems But... Isn't it Lavud who's buried down in the crypt? I think so This says he was buried over a century ago That nameplate does look older than the rest He'll be dust by now - The guest room is ready - Thank you, Maria May I borrow this book tonight? I'd like to finish reading it - Of course - Thank you Goodnight, Mr Duval Show him up, Maria! This way you, please - What's your name? - Maria Maria... Maria what? San Antonio An interesting young man Why's he here? I don't know I think he's a salesman He met Marta at the station tonight She doesn't really know him He's leaving tomorrow So your niece is here? Yes - but we won't see her tonight She's very tired Does she know I want to buy the Sycamores? Don't get your hopes up Marta just adores this place I think she'll vote with me not to sell Be a pity if she does reject my offer She might regret it Your room sir No - don't go yet Maria I'd like to speak to you Who looked after the dead woman? That was my job sir And these nervous spells... Did they happen at night or in the day? Oh no, sir - only in the night And it was not nerves, sir. She was quite normal But she was superstitious No, sir She knew many things, sir. True things But it's ridiculous to believe in vampires Vampires do exist despite what you say Have you ever seen one? No - God preserve me My grandfather was killed by one 100 years ago in an old mine near here Many others died at that time Their bodies drained of blood So people stopped working in the mines It was too dangerous The men in the village killed the monster How? There's only one way to kill a vampire Knives and ordinary weapons don't work So what do you do? Sink a long stake into them, just about here While they're asleep But this vampire's been dead for 100 years... No, sir That one lies in the crypt below Now there's another The evil has returned History is repeating itself More corpses have been found... With small holes in their necks The blood drained from their bodies No-one round here dares go out at night Even wild animals flee in terror from this creature This is nonsense What I am telling you is true Vampires do exist They sleep by day and by night they hunt fresh blood That's what they crave I'll pray to God to protect you, sir So they won't turn you into a vampire as well If they suck your blood twice Your soul will become immortal and you'll live on as a wandering spirit It's a horrible and cruel destiny I bid you goodnight, sir Thank you! Once more, my deepest sympathy Sleep now... Sleep now... Shut your eyes and dream, dear While I sit and scheme here That's right Go on Keep crying For as long as you can You know, crying preserves a woman's beauty Despite what the experts say And crying's good for the health Didn't you know that? It's true Look at me I cry every day at dawn. For at least an hour Try it Try it. You'll see I'm right You joke about everything Anyway, this view isn't exactly worth losing sleep over You need a distraction Like me I was reading about a great crime That's a crime... Seeing this beautiful place in ruins My Aunt's death wasn't enough suffering I had to see this too You mean because the house and grounds are in a state? Why does that surprise you? Underneath it's still the same You just miss the pretty flowers lts nothing new... For example You're very pretty It's true And you seem prettier every second Suppose they took your beauty away and left the skeleton... I'd be back at that station in a shot With that fat man You're crazy But it's true Look at the world through coloured glass Things look the way you want them to And you'll be happier Maybe Not maybe You know it's true Our dreams are important to us. You can prove it! How? Go to sleep now Why not try it? You'll wake up feeling fine Thank you... Goodnight Goodnight Hey - don't forget to lock your door! Why? I walk in my sleep! He's a doctor. He's keeping it secret Don't worry Probably just coincidence He came to see the sick woman He won't stay now she's dead Be careful, master If he doesn't leave tomorrow... ...we'll know he's lying He'll be dead before he sees another dawn And Marta? Marta - soon she will join us When I suck her blood a second time She'll become a vampire too On an endless quest for blood Each night slaking her thirst, destined never to quench it But still she'll hunt... For all eternity... I bring this gift to the world That all may join us... Here on this strange bridge... ...that links the end of life with the beginning of death Good morning! Good morning You're off? I want to catch the next train How are you? Better? Not really... I had a nightmare that kept me awake Tell me about it I saw a tall man in a long cloak He had huge staring eyes He was standing by my bed What did he want from me? He's waiting behind that door to give you a kiss But it interests you Maybe you should open it I'm afraid to I slept there as a child My Aunt promised to keep my things there for me And now... I'm afraid to go in Don't be. Come on! I prefer to dream, like you said I heard my first lullaby in that room My Aunt Maria composed it She'd sing it when I was in bed at night It was our secret It went like this Sleep now Sleep now Shut your eyes and dream dear While I sit and scheme dear... But I know this song. You sang it last night This is the first time I've sung it I've heard it. I heard it last night That's impossible! Only my aunt and I know it She's dead. Maybe it was a voice from beyond It must have been But ghosts don't sing! Anyway, I'm always hearing things Come on, let's look Please don't! Could have been shut for 1000 years All dust and spiders There's a doll's crib Is it yours? Yes Go and have a look You might as well Go on! It's her! I saw her! Who? My Aunt Maria's in there! What's wrong? My Aunt's in there! She was wearing a black dress and holding a crucifix like this Eyes wide open and hair down to her shoulders Here. Try to calm her down Come on, child. It's all right What is it, doctor? There's nothing here It was an illusion But, doctor, she described my sister... ...exactly as we buried her! Really? Yes, doctor Really? I'm off! No, I beg you - don't go Please stay She needs you. She's scared Now, Emilio, let's get this straight... You ask me here to decide if your sister... ...who sees vampires, is really mad Yes or no? I arrive to find her dead Now your niece sees her as clearly as I see you Please, doctor... All right I'll stay a few hours But at 8 I'll be on that train This place disturbs me Where's Marta? In her room Let's go There now dear Get ready Forget about it Go talk to the young man Don't stay alone with your thoughts Think of the living Forget the dead Marta... Duval will be here soon Yes, auntie Go and prepare everything Certainly, Ma'am Try to look your best Duval really wants to meet you He wants to buy the Sycamores He's coming just to meet you You need jewelry Try this That'll be him Marta was looking for my reflection It's bad Use the ring Good evening Mr Duval Please come in Marta is coming Good evening Nice to meet you again, Mr Duval Don Emilio... It's time You have to go? The train's due Here's your book. Thank you. Here comes my niece, Mr Duval How are you? - Something's happened - What? Later Mr Duval - Marta How pretty I'm delighted to meet you at last It's a real pleasure I'll get my hat Please stay! It's late Surely you can take a drink with us, sir? Well - maybe a quick one It's one of our best wines I'm sure Mr Duval, you really ought to read this book It's very interesting About that countryman of yours who lived here years ago He was staked through the heart What for? Vampirism Your drinks That's in this book? That's right - For you, Marta - No, thanks Come on, Marta. It's good for you This book you read... - Who wrote it? - No-one It's a transcript of the trial of those who killed the vampire But... why did they bury him downstairs? For safety It would stop more vampires coming Or so they believed According to the legend... ...if the vampire is not buried where he dies... ...someone from that vampires' family comes to take vengeance So that the dead vampire can rest easy in his grave Strange stuff You believe in vampires? Me? No, of course not! Excuse me, sir Take it away! Marta - Marta - what's wrong? Don Emilio - my bag! Bring my bag! My niece's illness has spoiled a pleasant evening Don't worry about it I can wait Anselmo - show Mr Duval to the gate Goodnight There's a smaller bag inside What is it, doctor? Tell me! What is it? She's dead! She just moved, sir What? She moved I was watching It was her little finger lmpossible Anselmo is no liar, sir What if she wakes up in the tomb! Her pupils are contracted My bag, please! She's breathing! Remove these Take her upstairs She needs a shot Gently She should come round soon The symptoms are always the same Am I right doctor? Yes - usually Suppose this is what happened to Maria Teresa ...and when she woke up and opened her eyes! Stop this! It's all over now No, doctor. Come with me, please! I must know! Just for my own peace of mind Come with us Anselmo Go on Empty! What is this? I don't know, sir Tell them Anselmo We can't keep it secret any more What? We found this note Hurry - I'm not dead Open the casket and take my body to the tunnel behind the cross And so we did, sir She's still there Open it up, quick! Go on Who's there? Maria Teresa! He's a doctor - a friend You bought a doctor to see if I was crazy No Don't lie to me! Look what they did to me Those two - they tried to murder me! Thought I was dead They'd got away with it They gave me a powerful drug so I'd seem dead... ...and wake up in the tomb! They wanted me to die of terror inside the coffin I found out just in time I know their secret now They can't fool me I heard them talking out there And one day, they caught me Tried to kill me Vampires! Both of them That monster in the cloak has come to open this tomb To set him free We must stop them Kill them in their sleep Drive stakes through their hearts Listen to me! Do it - before it's too late I'm not mad I'm not mad! She'll be safe here Until tomorrow Now you know why you had to come secretly If she isn't crazy, then what she says is true...! Don Emilio! What? The same name What? Look in the mirror Duval! Gone! Where? They went this way. Must be a secret door I'll get a lamp Don Emilio! Anselmo - he's hurt What is it? Marta! Well - this is it But first, let me say this... ...with all my heart Goodbye... Your bag! THE END Made in Mexico
