 

                        - How did they escape? - Don't know When did they escape? - They were last seen was at 4PM, right? - Yes We're thinking they escaped thru the milkman. Who is this girl? Sir, hold on tight. Fernandez Kurian, was a professor at Rama Varma Engineering College in Banglore. Sir, why was he in jail for? He escaped while serving a jail sentence for a rape case. Afterwards, we didn't have any information on him for six months. Then, last week we caught him trying to assassinate Bangalore MB Mr. Ramakrishnan at a political convention. He escaped again while we were inquiring about that situation. Who is the inmate that escaped with him? Raghu, he's an orphan and he knows how to drive. So the girl in the photograph might be Raghu's girlfriend or someone of the professor's. What ever it may be, you two (names) must go to Bangalore to inquire about the professor. - I'm scared that your going to Bangalore. - Why mother? The people there have scary names. There names may sound scary, but they are nice people. Astronomically your time is bad now, so make sure you go to the temple to pray daily. If they have one, I will definitly go and pray. When you get back, I will find you a beautiful bride. - I will try to find one there - No, I wont let a girl who don't speak our language in the house - Okay, then I wont - Make sure you find time to eat on your busy schedule. Dont worry mother, I'll take care of my self. Now, shall I go. - Say, u'll go and come back - Okay, I shall go and come back I've got some information on this girl in the photograph She is the professor's daughter. She works at an advertising agency. She lives as a paying guest at an apartment nearby. They came to investigate this case from Kerala. This is Mr Unnikrishnan and K.P. Nayar. This is Inspector Peter Kallayikkal. We should start watching the girl and her apartment as soon as possible. - Do you speak Kannada? - No, Sir Then, wont the investigation be difficult if you don't know the language? It wont be difficult for smart people, Sir. If you whipe your tongue and speak, then its Malayalam. Otherwise, its Kannada. Peter is the only Malayalee Inspector that will be helping you out. I don't require to have a Malayalee partner... In that case, I will arrange an officer from here to assist you. Peter and Unnikrishnan will be in charge of the night shift and Nayar the day shift. Call the control room if you get any information or need assistance. Kalayika...Hey, Kalaykia Damn, You recognize me? - Your an SI? - Your an SI too? - What, you don't like it? - You don't like that I'm an SI too? - Its been a long time - You wont leave me alone here either? I cant believe this, this was very unexpected. Just like unexpected death Your an SI here in Bangalore and I'm one in Kerala due to our courage. No, thats due to our personality differences. They send you here because you were bad there. - Stop joking around man -l don't think this is funny This is why I said I don't want any Malayalee to help me,cause they stab each other in the back. These people don't have that problem What did you say sir - What did he say? - Did you understand -Yes What does it mean in Malayalam? - Say it with out whiping your tongue, then you'll understand. -l asked him, What did he say? Malayalee's stab each other in back, you should ask him yourself. ???? Your friend is just like you an -222 Sir, don't think anything else, I'm asking due to my struggles. Can you give me a small increase in pay. I don't see you as a model or a copyrighter, Gadha. After hearing your story, I helped you due to you being a malayalee. I make Rs. 300 here monthly, In which I pay Rs. 1 SO for rent. How could I get by with the rest this day in age? The house owner is always yelling at me to increase the rent. I sold everything I had to start this. Plus I have bank loans. I'm just barely surviving, I'm not even getting enough to finish my loan. If I don't get a stable client, then I will have to close this company. If I get a good project, I will definitely increase your Pay- Until then, I cant help you out. Look at the grandma drinking at her old age She's drinking another glass She drank the whole thing straight - Gadha is here, she's hot - And they send him to do this investigation She paid the auto driver and now going upstairs Looks like she went shopping She's ringing the bell and the door is being opened She said something to the land lady as she went into her room Now she's in her bedroom and just turned on the lights Now she's putting her bags away Now she's... Now she's? - OPEN IT -Now she's? Let me have a look - Cant really see anything - Let me have a look - I told you, you cant see clearly - Let me look What is this? Bullying? - She closed it, are you happy now? - Yes You were just like this back then too What did you see? - No way, you cant see her full naked on the first day - I promise, I did. Finally, your here - Make sure you watch her - Dont try to teach me, I already know - Where did you get this monkey? - They both match, right? Dont open your mouth, I could smell the liquor. You came to investigate Alcohol? I will report this. Oh please don't report me. Get lost man. I cant be like you, because I'm decent... I'll bet that I will solve this case, otherwise you can name your dog after me. The dog has to agree to it too, right? If I name my dog K. P. Nayar, it will kill me. You've been on my case since the first time we met. Dont mess with me, okay! - Don't point at me - What are you going to do about it? Calm down - We work together, we shouldn't be fighting - What did he say? Decent fellas like us shouldn't talk to people like him Its a nice place...How can you afford this on your SI salary? Must take bribes. - It's a gift from my father in-law - Dowry? - Its a wedding gift - Like I said, dowry. Why are you letting me stay at your guest house, when you have your own place here? My wife's parents are there, so I thought it might be a uncomfortable for you. That's okay with me We'll have lunch at my house tomorrow... - You look tired, go take rest - Okay You want me to come in to have a drink? - Your in-laws are home - That's okay I'll bring some when I come to your house for lunch - Hey... - Lets go drink huh Nothing! Damn...it didn't connect Do you know what time it is now? I don't have my watch, let me find out and come back Yes there is, I know..Just ask her - Does the phone need any repair? - Yes it does, I know, thats why I came How'd you know theres a problem with our phone? I told you so, where's the phone? How do you know there is a problem with our phone? To increase our efficiency we installed a computer yesterday... Where ever there is a problem with a phone, it will inform us... So you are our first customer informed by the computer... So your lucky, by the way, What is your name? I came here with my husband when he found a job - Because he wanted to go back to England -Poor guy That's my wish too...l want to die in England Don't worry, God will help you with that... By the way, My name is Unnikrishnan. People close to me call me Unni, so please call me that. I have a good name in the Telephone Department. Who is this? Your daughter? She looks smart - No, she's my paying guest - Oh,What is your name? - Why are you eating snacks this late at night? - Why don't you go fix the telephone - Where's the phone? - Right there You don't have to follow me, I'll go fix it Please don't think anything else of me, I just came to fix the phone - I need a glass of water - To fix the telephone? No, to drink - Can you hear? - Yes - Hurry and finish up - Okay Drink - Good enough? - Yes - Did you call? - No, I'm on the phone - Are you done fixing it? - Its not the phone Its the Telephone post - Whats in your hands? - Nothing - You look like a robber - No, I'm very decent Did you take anything from here? Let me see your hands What did you buy? This is all I bought from pocket picking I should of just stayed in jail. Didnt have to worry about getting meals. If I want a meal now, I have to pocket pick If Police catch me now, they will beat me up and put me back in jail Damn, Why did I break out of jail I didn't think about all this when you offered me cash to help you Did you think you'll get the cash with out doing any hard work? Don't get me mad I told you that you'll get the money when we get to Bangalore, so stop asking. How do I know you have it when we get to Bangalore? I'm not moving from here until you talk to me about it You want me to tell you? You must know it Long live student's Union Did you sent a complaint to the governor? Yes, and I sent you a copy of it as well We could of solve this, there was no need to send a complaint to the governor. - When they investigate, just say you didn't send it -No way Because when your teachers helped some students cheat on tests, you didn't do anything about it. What is your problem? Just collect your pay and be quiet. Don't spoil this school. You people are spoiling it, not me You take government grands for the school and use it for your selves You take wealthy students over poor ones due to the donations you get from their families - Who are you to say all that? - I'm a teacher here A teacher's job is to teach students, not have them strike against us Your the ones who make them strike. I will give you a small example When his son tried to cheat on a test, a teacher named lakshmi tried to stop him, but he insulted her And nobody made a complaint about that Not only that, you made that poor teacher resign by threatening her When I received that answer sheet used by the student When you found out I had the answer sheet, you sent your henchmen and broke my table Since I knew you would try something like that, I put the sheet in my bank locker If you don't accept my demands, I will send copies of it to the governor Bullshit, get out here man - Fernandez, you threatening us? -Think what ever you want - Are you trying to embarrass me? - No, I'm doing what I feel is right - Then what your doing is right? - What did I do The whole college knows your irting with a girl student Watch your words He's got relationship with a girl named Mercy from this school She's like my daughter I will cut your tongue if you talk about her I will not keep you in this college after you beat me - Your not the one who could decide that - Yes - What if we wont allow it - Your not going to do anything about it If you fire Professor Fernandez, then we will destroy this campus - We will talk about this - Yes, please allow 3 months to do so - Until then you must agree to our demands - If its fair we will, now please leave Dont worry about what they said, we cant shut them up. Now come on. You must beat up that professor, no matter how much it costs He must not strike with his hands ever again What do you want me to do? Beat him up - I will explain to him sir - Go and do it Hope he doesn't beat up anyone else Not only do what father said, there are more to do as well and I will explain I want to prove I can do a good talent program here, I need your help to do so Of course I will help So, come to the auditorium after class for rehearsal I couldn't try to save you dear Lets not tell anyone and pretend none of this happened Because we're the only ones that will lose Who told you to do this, and why did you get involved? If I got insulted should I just stand still? Good way to settle the score If the public hear about this, then I'm ruined Your ying high because your the MB's son Here comes the next one Your son got my son involved in this Oh please, he's not a goodie tootsie - They got it from their father's - Maybe your son All three of them did this, so we all are going down if caught What ever happened, happened. Lets try to find a way out of this - That's why your my lawyer, so do something - I already got my handful with all your cases If your going to do a job, finish it fully You could of just killed the professor and get it over with Now who could this be Whats wrong That girl committed suicide Hey lawyer, get some ideas to get out of this - Did anyone see it besides the professor? - No Then there is a way - We should.. - Hurry up and say it - Change the story...Blame it on the professor - How? Just do as what I say...But you need to stay with us - I cant join your conspiracy -Then your son will get caught and so will you What do you say? - Tell me what to do? - Good I will take the rope from your neck and put it into the professor's - What happened? -Fernandez, I didn't think you were this kind Oh, poor thing. You don't know anything. Is this why you were hanging out with these kids You raped a girl in this school and she committed suicide do to embarrassment No, I'm not the one who did this It's too late to say no. They have evidences and are here to arrest you. Yes, there are witnesses that saw you do it last night - No, it wasn't me - YES Kannada???? Kannada???? NO, I DIDNT DO IT...l WILL COME BACK... I WILL COME BACK FOR ALL OF YOU When they wrongfully accused me, I told my self... I will take the law into my own hands That's why I broke out of jail When I was in jail, there was only Lakshmi there to comfort me. I gave her all my bank balances I will get your cash when I get to her in Bangalore. So stay on your own will Mother, your son is calling you. Come outside - Your not my son - Then who is Ivan Joseph Anthony? Keep hogging up all your money for your funeral I'm starving here and you just want to save your money to go to England If its like this, your not going to England or anywhere else Hey, its me. Look out to see if anyone is cumming and let me know - Your looking rig ht - Yes Hey man, that girl Gadha is here Sorry, that wasn't her. Keep searching. Hey man, what is this That old lady is coming man - Don't get mad, its not that old lady - Then who, your grandmother? - It's another old lady - Do your job right man - She's here man - Make sure its really her - This time its really her - This is too much - She's coming up stairs - She is Where'd she go with the door left opened I'm taking a shower, I'll be right out He (son) said he's going to kill me. lf i go off to London, how is he going to kill me I named him four names and now he's complaining about it Then he wanted to know his father's name, but I... Kids these days are too much Wait, how did he get here How beautiful Like a ???? - Who? - The beautiful girl next door - Did you see her like an angel from heaven - Yes Oh my God - Did you see her like a beautiful swan - Yes - Did you become a swan seeing her - Yes man - Did you see her coming to you like a green parrot - Yes, Yes... How do you understand my mind so well? Are you my mind keeper? You only remember these lines when you see girls - But, I kept these lines in my mind for years now - How Get up, get UP - You came to ruin my life again? - What's the matter You said the same lines to me in our college days for another girl I thought you were serious and when I gave her the letter you told me to give her... She gave the letter to the principal and I took the fall for that After I came back from my suspension, you were no where to be seen until now That was when we were kids I thought you would change being a Police Inspector, but I'm wrong I'm living a straight life now, so I'm begging you please don't ruin me again - Hear what I have to say - Don't say anything If you ever mention a girl's name here, I will kill you and then kill my self. - I swear that on Lolapan Kallayikkal - Who is that? You don't know huh... How beautiful??? - What Happened? - Can't yo see what happened Oh, the tire got at. I will help you. - No, thanks -That's Okay, I will bring it to the workshop. I have a helping mentality. - I said its okay -lf l don't help you I wont be able to sleep so I will help you out - So there is no more problems with the telephone, right - No,just don't make any Don't say that, we at the telephone department are nice people What is this, where are you going with bicycle? - What investigation? -lt's pa rt of the investigation, sir - Police? - Yes, he's the police commissioner - Then why did he call you inspector? - Who me? He called me that, I don't think so... Oh that's because I'm the phone inspector, he told me to fix his phone Its too sunny out, you should stay here. I"ll go and fix it. GET HIM - Who made you a police? - Don't ask about that I got an idea, we'll hire some henchmen to go get her and I will rescue her... - No, that's too cheap. Kind of like Hindi movies. - No, that's perfect for you I got a better idea, but I need your help to do it When shes walking alone, you just go and grab her necklace and run away - HEY -I'm not finished yet Then I will chase you, when no one's around you just give me the necklace and I will return it to her - I'm a Police Officer -That's why your the man to do it, and you are my good friend... - But... -Dont worry, I will explain everything to you MY NECKLACE THIEF, STOP THERE! Oh my God We got the best quality shoes in India For our new product, we need the best advertisement as well as the best captions Give me a sample of your work as well as a marketing strategy report... Please give me a week to do so - You are watching out for theirs right? - Yes, sir Do you know this man? He's a big multi-millionaire businessman If we get his work, I will increase your pay by 5 times... This will make my dreams come true and expand my company. Go and start on this project. - There is no problem with the phone here - I'm not here for that, this is a business matter Where's your Managing Director? - Where's your factory? -lts not around here, its far away... Lets talk about the marketing, call your copyrighter What is your product? His company's product is Gadha Gum Gad ha Jam, like your name I would like for her to come up with some captions for my Gadha Jam - Are you crazy, what is your problem? - We'll talk about business here, other stuff we can talk outside What is your point? - What fruit jam are you making -Jackfruit Can you tell me couple of captions for advertisement Come back in a few days, I will have it ready for you That's not good If your going to do your own captions, there was no need to come here Because I want to do the marketing and designing, that why I came here I will make all that. You can go now, I have some work to do. - I will stop by here and there - No,just come back in 10 days -lts not going to be done before that? - No - I can drop you off - No - We can talk about the stuff we couldn't talk about in your office -No, I don't want to hear anything What are you doing Just because we had a fight? I'm still your husband and the kids are waiting for you. Come on I don't have a husband or any kids, stop bothering me and get lost Okay, I'm not your husband. But what did the kid do? Oh God, your malayalees? Lets not argue in front of them I'll tell you what happened. She wanted a sari, but I didn't get it for her so she left and our baby is crying What is this dear, your husband is calling, so go with him No need to fight here,just go with him I will buy you all the sari's you need,just get in. Please tell her. Get in dear...Your fight will resolve if self when you get home - When I asked you nicely, you didn't come, see what happened -What is your problem? My mother told me to find myself a girl to get married to, so your the girl that I found Only you get to decide that? Gadha, I opened my heart to you I know you like me Why are you hesitant to say you love me Dont be afraid, open your heart and say you love me too - I don't mind saying it - Then? Your shy? - No -Then? - You never gave me a chance to say it - Oh okay... Okay, then say it I don't like you... Because you have to like a handsome, wonderful and who can offer a girl a happily married life guy like me - I don't understand - I will make you understand I know you like me, and I will make you say it At most, your going to bother me at work and at the best stand, right No, I will do more than that - You want to hear it - Yes - That's all? -No, there's more - That's all? -No, there's more - You want to know what else I can do? - Yes That's not all, I got more. So you decide what you want to do I'm not the type of girl you think I am I can't never be a wife of your dreams. You don't know how I am... I'm a real bad girl. My father's a murderer and mother a prostitute... I'm even willing to sell my self to get what I want So, is this the type of girl you want? Do you need a girl like me...? - What? -What? - Whats wrong with you -What is this I think he's crazy, wont allow me to sit in one place - What are you doing? - I'm just doing some exercise -if your tired, then I will look -Then come on I cant do it just like that, you keep looking - Whats the matter with you - Nothing's the matter with me - What's bothering you -I don't trust you - What Can I do about that. Keep looking There he goes with the bottle I always wanted to hang out with you, but never got the time to. Where's your renter? If you came to eat, then eat and go, don't ask anything else - Then - We'll drink one more - How is my caption coming alone - Come to the office to talk business Where were...What are you doing here? - Where else am I supposed to be - Why are you late -lts only 6 AM -lts 6:30 - Where your partner? - He left since your late, you didn't see him? - No... Dont play games with me, he don't come around here does he You must report it, I will report him and you for cumming late What ever the case, I will report this -lts morning, get up and leave - Oh God - What are you doing there - Nothing - Then -Then, nothing Still got a hang over from last night Where's aunty This must be the murderer, else why would he hide. I caught him, now I will get a promotion. - There no tea, you want coffee - Sure - My kitchen got dirty - My feet slipped How can I go to work in this...Do you have a dress aunty - My dress? -I just want something to hide my naked body Please give me a dress, I cant go to work in this Kaliyikka, its you? Your grandmother's investigation, get in Police should be looking for you instead of Fernandez, you been a pain for me for a while now Police should be looking for you instead of Fernandez, you been a pain for me for a while now Why don't you get into the driver's seat and I'll lay here so you can run me over I received a lot of complaints about you for vandalizing. Is this how you investigate? - Sir, I have some doubts - What doubts Sir, the person I was chasing kinda looked like him Sir, the person I was chasing kinda looked like him - Did you see his face - No, I saw every other body part - How could you say that if you didn't see the face - He's been acting foolish after getting hit on the head You should hear what he said in the morning, Peter tell him - He said the guy looked like you - No, I didn't say that You said it He's getting a little crazy, if it worsens will you fire him? He's getting a little crazy, if it worsens will you fire him? Sir, they're saying this out of envy because I solved this case - What did you solve? - Someone came into her house But the person escaped If it was us, then he would be in jail right now If it was us, then he would be in jail right now - Sir he is stupid" - Your father is stupid - He doesn't have manners - You don't either I gave you some freedom because your malayalees, don't try to take advantage of it I gave you some freedom because your malayalees, don't try to take advantage of it - Didn't you see someone last night at the house - No -Yes Then why am I spending money on all those equipment for you to solve this case They are not investigating, they are drinking there sir - I will... - You did this on purpose to throw me out - I will... - You did this on purpose to throw me out Don't believe him sir, we are honest police men Stop blaming each other. The professor must be here since someone was at her house last night Stop blaming each other. The professor must be here since someone was at her house last night Be more cautious, tell your partner too Act more professional from now on...if you see anyone there again, shoot him. I will take care of it Hey mother, if you don't give me your wealth and accept me as your son, I will jump If you jump, then I will say your my son If you jump, then I will say your my son You evil lady, I don't want you to enjoy me jumping - I got other ways - Get lost, Your not getting any of my money All of you wanting to see me jump, get lost. Because I'm not jumping All of you wanting to see me jump, get lost. Because I'm not jumping - How is this sir - Design is good, but not the caption - Please don't say that sir - But the caption has to be good Please select one of these, or my company will go out of business If I select one of them, my company will shut down How is my Jam caption cumming along How is my Jam caption cumming along - Must be working on my caption - I have a headache, leave me alone - What did you say - I'm not giving your caption right now - Your not going to give me my caption -No - Your not going to give me my caption -No Then why did you agree to do my Jam's publicity - I cant come here to hear your nonsense - Then get out If you treat me like this, I will tell other customer's and we will all take you to court If you treat me like this, I will tell other customer's and we will all take you to court Do what ever you want, I'm not giving your caption right now What kind of advertisement company is this What kind of advertisement company is this I'm not giving up. Where ever you go, I will be there What did you say? After working for low wages in Kerala, I sold everything I had to start this business After working for low wages in Kerala, I sold everything I had to start this business Please help me sir - There should be no sentiment in business - Please don't say that sir How Wonderful I will take this caption - Shall we sign the contract today - Definitely So this is what you do? Steal other people's captions? I wont allow this to happen. So this is what you do? Steal other people's captions? I wont allow this to happen. I beg you, please don't make a scene I will go and tell the MD that I will only allow the caption to be used for my product... - This wont go with your product - Oh no? - This wont go with your product - Oh no? Then, no one was to buy my jam, I will eat it. I'm not giving you my caption. I will do anything, please don't tell the MD Then say you "Love Me" - Not going to say? -I will - Otherwise, I could just to tell Say it like you mean it. Like this... Okay then, hug me and say you love me Okay then, hug me and say you love me - No don't -Then hug me and say it Just like mother's wish, I found a beautiful girl. I will tell you more in person. Come here as soon as you get this letter. Your loving son, Unni Come here as soon as you get this letter. Your loving son, Unni I heard that you can get good vegetable here in Bangalore, I want to get some when I go back - We'll get that later, first tell me about my marriage - That's for you to decide - You will like her no matter what ever she may be? -l will like what ever you like - You will like her no matter what ever she may be? -l will like what ever you like - What if she's real dark - Will still like her - Crooked eyes? -Still I like -if she's a mute? -Still I like -if she's a mute? -Still I like -if she's a christian? -Still I like - Dont change your mind -I wont Okay, she's a beautiful christian girl that will take care of you You may think she may not like me seeing her expression, thats the difference between Kerala and here You may think she may not like me seeing her expression, that's the difference between Kerala and here - What are you saying? -She's from the city, so she's different from girl's back home - I know your choice wont be a disappointment - That's all I want to hear Who's the grandmother - Whats wrong with your feet? - I banged it on the way out - Whats wrong with your feet? - I banged it on the way out Remember what I told you about girl's from Bangalore You can sit here Dont sit there, its not good to sit by the window when coming to see the girl. Lets go there. Gad ha is here This is my mother I like. Just as beautiful like the girl I wanted for my son He said you didn't have parents. From now on I will be your mother He said you didn't have parents. From now on I will be your mother So this was happening behind my back huh - We should celebrate - She means with sweats I will have a grand wedding for you I will have a grand wedding for you I will go back and get a nice date for the wedding to be held at our family temple - But mother -Don't say a thing My son couldn't have found a better girl You are coming too, right Of course, I'm the only one on the girl's side... - Shall we leave -Want to eat? - No, I'm in a hurry, have to buy some vegetable We can make an excuse to the parliament, but what are we going to tell the public? I need police protection for my house at any cost The papers are bashing the police department - Shall we question that old lady and the girl - Don't talk foolish If we arrest them, then the professor wont keep in contact with them and that is our only way I don't care how you do it, he killed my son, I just want to see that bastard's dead body Don't get emotional, sir He killed my son, so I will get my revenge on him no matter how cruel it may be. This is me, Kurian Fernandez. My war has started. Mine too, I lost my son and you are going to loose your daughter MD's son Jayachandran ordered this. Please give it to him. You escaped from me once. Tomorrow evening no matter where you are between 7:30 - 7:35 you will die If I don't kill you between that time, that means God is with you and I will leave you alone We move him early from the house so that when professor arrives to kill him we can capture him Jayachandran should be escorted with police in his car We should be careful between 7:30 -7:35 PM. There will also be an armed police bus in the back. That's stupidity. Even though the car is bullet proofed, what if the professor tries to hit it with a truck - He may not die though - No, but he could Mr. Unnikrishnan, I know what to do... - How is the advertisement coming along? - Good, I will bring it to your office Daughter, I want to say something All I have is money, no family. Ever since I saw you, I wished I had a daughter like you I need a secretary, if you don't mind you can come with me to keep me company Tell me after you think about it, I will be here for another 2 weeks - Why are you late - What - Look at the time - Dont you know how to look - Don't try to be over smart -Don't point at me - You could point at me though right - Don't get involved - What you going to do if he does Your not going to catch Fernandez Kurian like this I'm not your daddy... How did my dad became a cruel person like this They raped her in front of me and beat me up In the morning, that poor girl hugged me and cried I told her to forget it but she ended her life. Then, they accused me of it and put me in jail. Your dad died that day I'm reborn to payback All I have is revenge on my mind so I cant be your daddy anymore... What can I do to get my dad back There's nothing you can do, I just cant be your old dad anymore I couldn't do anything for you, I only can give you what I only have left Your a good girl, nothing will happen to you I heard you got a boyfriend. Whom ever you like is worthy of you, that I'm sure of. We want your blessing - What's his job? -Telephone company - Who said? -I know - How do you know -He told me You believed him, huh He's a police investigator pretending to like you to get to me - I don't understand what your saying - Hurry, you made a mistake your in a trap He's watching you from the apartment across the street You don't believe me, go and see it for yourself I don't see anyone else besides the grandmother Our investigation is not going anywhere and he's still out killing people. Only thing happened is that you made that girl fall in love with you - I havent seen her there yet - That's because... Why did you stop Here, see her drinking - You weren't expecting me here - No... Don't...Don't try to say anything. I understand everything now I believed you really loved me But now I realise you were after me to get my father You even made your mom come here to make me believe you - Listen to... -No, I don't want to hear You cant make me believe your lies now I hate you Gad ha, open the door Please open the door and listen to me Didn't you hear she didn't want to see you Don't make a scene here, if you want to tell her something tell her outside tomorrow - For What? -I'll tell you when we get to the station - What are you doing? - You must hear what I have to say I'm an inspector searching for a criminal and I met you during the investigation I followed you around and liked you because I was looking for your father I only did one mistake, I didn't tell you I was a cop because its a part of my duty I didn't come here to love, but it happened and if that's wrong I'm willing to try and forget everything I only have one thing to say. I really loved and cared for you... Believe me if you want, I followed you around to tell you this but you didn't want to hear it That's why I had to tell you like this - Writing a love letter? - No, I'm writing to mother Every time you write I get scared thinking about our college days - Why you writing your mother? - To fix a wedding date -Who's? Mines of course - Then what I heard is true, you left her? - Who left who? - No, I'm fixing our wedding date - She told me this morning is her wedding - When did she say that -Yesterday - Why didn't you tell me? -I forgot She said she's getting married because you don't like her anymore - Where is the wedding? - Some church on Church Road - You still like her? - Yes, I was only messing with her - This wedding must not happen, you must help me - Then lets go Nobody's here. Lets go check in that church. - Your telling the truth about this? -Yes, there's a lot of church's here but no wedding There's a wedding there, come on. Please don't allow this wedding to happen We had many dreams of living together and how could she do this to me? Is this right? Let her ask her heart if she still likes me... - What is this -This is her man, I don't want this wedding She must of have married already Just because I messed around with you a little, you didn't have to do this Unni,why didn't you show up when I said I'm getting married What did I do to make you hate me this much Ghada What did I do to make you hate me this much Unni No matter where you are or who your with, I will never hate you or forget you Even if you forget me, I will never hate you or forget you Death exactly at 4PM He will have heavy police protection in the hotel he's staying - But somehow, we got to get into his room -How? Your job is to stop the hotel electrician from coming to work Before that, we need to find out which electric company the hotel hired and you must get a room there You don't have nothing to worry about... Its only police and hotel staff on this oor, no outsiders are allowed in There are a few occupants, but they're not allowed to leave the room from 3-5 PM There are security outside as well as the lobby - He's a staff? -Yes I'm calling from attorney Summit's room, he got a minute to live. He will die at 4PM. Your father made a fool out of the police department and won This is the last time he wins. He's crazy... My dad was a poor man, they turned him into this That maybe, but you don't take the law into your own hands I came to tell you all this before I do something cruel to him I don't know what to say or do I know what to do, I'm going to catch him...Dead or alive I understand what your saying. My dad raised me after my mother passed away He never hurt a y, but when I saw his madness I was truely hurt He may have been a nice person. But now he's on a killing streak and we cant allow him to do that My father was wrongfully accused and committed suicide due to the shame it brought to my family Then my mother wanted me to become a police and when I did, she told me to follow and do what I think is right - Thats all I'm doing -No matter what people say about my father, I cant never hate him I'm not telling you to hate him. If you love your dad you must help me arrest him He's not a full edged criminal yet, you can get him back but you cant wait any longer We can still make him understand killing is not the way... A police cant show know sympathy. If my words hurt you You don't know where he is? Let me see if I can make you say it Don't get involved in this To get answers to solve a case you need to do this Nobody has the right to beat a girl. That's why we have courts and laws. I decide the law in here. I will also bring the professor's daughter in here. - For what...? -How do you know? Sir I told you that him and that girl are seeing each other. I have seen them. Yes, we are in love... So your on his side - You know who your talking to? -Yes You speech socialism and democracy to the people and once you get elected you screw them You should be called a social menace Your saying this to protect your girlfriend I would of helped her if I didn't wear or respect this police outfit - I don't think you respect this uniform now - I respect this more than you do Its not right to talk to a senior officer with this hat on Now I will talk to you as myself and not the police officer What crime did Fernandez do? Is it because he outspoke about him cheating the students and taking their money Or is it because he couldnt do anything when your people raped that poor girl who he looked at like a daughter Or is it because he was being harassed by the students that he loved for a crime he didn't do You never had to go thru that pain because you never had a daughter I don't know anything about that, but I had a son... If you were in his shoes you would be doing the same thing - Your standing up for someone who killed my son like a dog -You should of raised your son right When dogs get mad, they get killed. That's all Fernandez did, and I'm sorry that had to be your son No matter what you say, I will arrest that girl and her father will come looking for her If you touch her, I will expose all the corruption that is going on here You made me do it... You are discharged An officer like yourself send me here to find a criminal and if your not going to help me... Stop this death laugh What did you say I'm an orphan and joined you because you told me you want to revenge that poor orphan girl who got raped Now you have turned into a crazed killer and you are going to kill innocent people I will do whats needed to reach my goal, you have no right questing me But now you are crazy about killing I will kill who ever gets in the way of my goal I'm not going to allow you to kill anymore. lam going to report all this and your new plans to the police Don't come closer No one can stop me You thought you could win with out ever being captured? No matter where I am tomorrow afternoon at 6PM MB Ramadren will die - There may be some truth to what he's saying - Just because you caught him, you don't have to be right - Mother and son made up now? - Yes that was just a beauty fight - Are you planning to try to jump from the roof again -Only if mommy get mad at me Your not going to die, because its 10 or 20 stories you will only have broken bones Its 50 stories high, there are 49 steps to get there... - How do you go up to the north tower -Thru there Remove the bomb with out the people knowing, otherwise they will panic and it will be a pandemonium - Whats the problem? -Nothing... I'm a regular at this stadium, what is going on that I don't know Be quiet or the bomb upstairs will blow We need to defuse this fast They're saying its a complicated planting There are many bombs planted in this stadium, we need to defuse this remote control to stop it What are you saying? There are thousands of people here, you must defuse it fast What can we do now This remote is connected to the big clock when it hits 6 the bombs will explode Then stop the clock" That's why I said its a complicated planting, if we try to adjust the clock the bombs will explode - Then what can we do? - Remove the remote control's fuse -Then do it Say or do something fast. Otherwise I'll be responsible for thousands killed This is an extraordinary brain work Out of these two wires one is the right fuse the other false We are confused about which one of them is right fuse to pull to disarm the bomb - How can we tell? - Only the person who made it can We must bring the professor here ASAP There's a bomb here, RUN... - Say it -No, I wont This is not the place to get your revenge. Thousand's of people's life are in stake here I know your story, I know what you been thru But you are going to kill 1000's of innocent people trying to kill the MB All of them have families What are you going to accomplish by killing all these innocent people Please tell me which is the right fuse Please, there is only 5 minutes left. Dont kill all these innocent people There's only 3 minutes left, please Please tell me which is right fuse, I'm begging you Let everyone die, including his daughter Yes, I brought his daughter here, she's downstairs What do you say now, Your daughter will die in 90 seconds If you don't want that, then tell us which is the right fuse I'm ready for anything now Pull the red, its the fuse We're losing time Are you telling the truth Don't think you won. I still got your daughter, let me try to make your laugh into tears Don't bring him to the hospital, take him the place he was hiding I could only say to stop worrying about the things you lost I need you to hide from them, if they catch you the commissioner will take his revenge out on you Dont go home, they might be there so its not safe Its not for you to stay with me either, he can arrest you with a false warrant If you escape from here they cant do anything because your innocent. - Don't worry about me, I can manage tonight somehow -How I have a friend nearby that no one knows of I got ight tickets for tomorrow morning at 8:30 Where ever you are call me at 7:30 tomorrow morning Just tell me where you are calling from and I will come pick you up I will call at 7AM - May I use the phone -Sure What are you doing here Tell me You said you can give me a job I'm leaving here, are you able to come with me now Yes sir, I can come where ever Let's go
