 

                        Bad Hair Friday Hey, man Hey Tallinn Best place for a broken heart what broken heart, i have no broken heart Everything is fine Let it be Katri just wanted to take a time-out And this happend after you proposed to her? Dear Katri, would you marry me? She just wants to think about it a bit longer and rightly so, she needs time to think Anyway point is, that you have a time-out what point? Time-Out, Party, Sexy girls sure, sure, ok Party, Beer but no Sexy Girls ok, fine Damn i'm so happy to see you guys yeah, damn you too I think this will be the best day ever what you think not exactly the best day of your life it's painful damn it it will be more painful, when we break fingers on the other hand too one more time pay your debts, asshole it's only 50 euros with our service fee it will be 87 euros and 50 cent plus taxes and health insurance here is the bill and next time we meet we will count your toes as well next time fuck head Butcher is listening yes in the evening? ok we got a job tonight You are treating me like you are doing drugs do it once, do it twice and then you go partying with other girls which girls? Do you think i don't know about your partying and how you are fucking those chicks in the clubs what are you talking about? Is this what you think of me, a cheap and stupid woman? But you are not cheap Armani jeans, Gucci clothes, all your bills You can shove it up your ass, damn Gucci What do you want then I want you to quit puting your dick in every hole in the town. Oh shut up, what are you talking about? Oh they are calling already Pick it up then Yes old man Hey, what are you doing there? What are these? Fuck, you know that you don't need these. What are you doing? You wanted to keep these for tonight, yes? Go fuck how much you want You are really lucky When are you introducing him to me You have been together for 3 months already Soon, maybe - you have unread messages - What is it? - Don't bother to come back babe! - He sent me a poem I'll send him a kiss back So sweet - Go to hell - Matu is sending me poems all the time. I thought he is the only one who is so romantic Grandma i'm gonna go now Grandma Grandma Grandma Grandma Don't worry about me I will meet Liisi in town I will come back in the morning Liisi is a good girl Don't be late! - I won't True love is the most important thing in the world Grandma what are you doing? Grandma Your grandpa gave this to me Hold this Grandma Grandma Grandma Grandma Grandma Go already Go, Go I think we should go to the beach and start from there Start what? Beer, Sex and all the things men like Hey Katri, it's me Pick up if you can, please We are in town with the guys what, to the beach We are going to the beach I know we took a Time-Out and all that But i love you Go fuck yourself, you blind stupid walking dead moron asshole No not you, some idiot walking on the street What do you mean you are not giving me money I need 50 I am not partying too much but still i got expences you know hey i'm not a 10 year old boyscout who you send to play in the garden are you listening? Hello for fuck sake This is your third phone this month enough aleady whats going on it's fucked Old man is not giving me any money He says i party too much and the university stuff too I'm sick and tired of this shit someone should kill him with a dildo considering your father's business i wouldn't be surprised if it actually happens i'm not thinking about the dildo thing, just generally speaking you wish, old man is tougher than a cockroach you can put a nuclear bomb in his ass and he still wouldn't die Hey watch it man, it's a genuine Gucci replica You got something to say? Fuck off What are you looking at, huh? You need to work Where's the money? I got no money, Eva has all the money. Pay your debt You have to work, if you want to live Fucking whore Hey, what the fuck I thought i will go and get some Do you have any money? What are you talking about, it's our own girls. If you got no money then go fuck yourself, moron. Eva, it's allright We will find a solution and then we will leave those idiots behind. Which solution? For example, the horoscope said we are gonna win a lot of money Sounds like a plan Yes! -It's me What The accountant I will be late I don't want to see it here anymore Figure out something I will pick it up tomorrow until then. until then. Where is Tnis? I don't know Talking to his girlfriend maybe He is so screwed. Oh, leave him alone. He knows what he is doing Hey, monogamy is not normal. Women are like flowers and men are bees who fertilize them. What bees, what do they fertilize? Bees put it in trees, bushes, flowers and men put it in women. It's a big happy buzz. She is taking the Time-Out really seriously. Now she's not even picking up the phone. hey, maybe the problem is in your.... Stop it, it's a sensitive subject. As sensitive as with Piret? or with Katrin? or perhaps with Lenna? and her huge natural.....curls This time it's different, Katri know and accepts. my medical situation and there are no problems. We are only messing around, don't worry. It's an important decision, let her think about it. Ok, don't worry about it. Let's focus on the right things now, beer and the ...... Holy shi..... Hot, Hot, Hot Thats some Hot stuff. - Really hot. I mean, as a bystander. Hey boys. See you in the club later. Where is my brother? Brother? Yes, brother. Where is he? I don't know. Maybe they know. They know everything. We are going to town. Don't give him that shit. This stuff is too good for him anyway. He will take it as food. But this is only food for the soul. Whatever, and leave my brother's medicine alone. Specially him Hello - Hello Thanks for helping me out sooner. It's a shame to keep such a man in prison I won't forget about this, you can count on that. Yeah, we will count that with everything else. Your son. Yes Kids grow fast. Yeah. You are locked up for a few years and you don't even recognize them anymore. A bit of a mommy's boy, i need to teach him more. Boys are difficult. My son has totally gone to waste. What are you gonna do about your old man? He said he will take away my car, if i won't start studying He might as well just die. Makes no difference how many years i go to school. Wow, check it out. Crazy stuff. What if you just pay your teachers? I tried that already Old man tried it before me. Teacher didn't dare to look me in the eyes anymore They said i have to start studying. You are in really deep shit then. When are your exams? Next week. Maybe it's time to start studying then. If today's deal will go through. Then i don't care much. Old man can give the money to the cats if he wants But for todays deal, we need some money. I will ask my stepmom. Psychomom? Yep. What the fuck. Kitty, Kitty. Jesus christ, what a monster. Hey boys, see you in the club later. Oh well Not a bad view, huh? Not bad. Nietzsche once said, all good ideas come when you take a walk I don't think he was a smoker. My good ideas come when i'm taking a shower. I am not thinking of sick ideas. Sometimes i want to take a shit, particularly when it's nice warm water. You know when you really want to relax. In prison i wanted to smoke all the time. Even when i had plenty of cigarettes. Really? I was hungry for a fuck all the time I was hard all the time. Particularly in the shower. Remember the Crack, he looked wierdly at me. I knocked in his teeth. Everything that makes you stronger is good. The Opposite is bad. What? Nietzsche! The definition of Good and Bad. - Oh! What did he say about money? Nothing. He is a philosopher. Was What's happening in the evening? Do i get any money? I need to pay my bills. Inflation damn it Bread cost as much as a packet of weed already. Don't worry. Our money problems are over in the evening. 300 Euro 2 for me, 1 for you. Howcome 2 for you? For this job you need a sensitive artist hand, not a fist that is used to kick in teeth through the ass. Let's go there - Where? To the cinema? But we have no money to the casino Whats your lucky number? Whats wrong with you? I told you 20 I put on 30 Hey sweety - Hey Sorry i'm late i went shopping No problem Did you get something cool? No, we were just looking around Everything is so expensive But i did find one dress for today evening We are going out with the girls, we have free entrance Out? - Yeah Girls night out But i'm working in the evening Don't worry about it we are just chatting and having fun. yeah but Ok, anyway i have a surprise for you Surprise for me? Show me then Close your eyes - Ok No peeking. - I won't You can open your eyes. What is this? Origami Origami? - Yes I did this for you You did it yourself? For me ofcoors, it's not really.... Darling You are so lovely. I have never had any regrets about any of my decisions Not even my shitty marriage Some might say, that after you had beaten your wife it could be interpreted as that you DO regret it! Listen, the bitch deserved it same goes for that asshole who she cheated me with. Men want two things Excitement and play there for they want women because women are the most exciting toys Nietzsche What is she doing now? She's disabled. last i heard she went to Finland disabled people get better benefits there Women were mysterious even for Nietzsche Fuck of with your Nietzsche Look, this is a man. Give me your hand and this is a woman and this is how you fuck Hello lovebirds Damn But you were....... locked up there you go, sometimes the laws are useful The old man put his army of lawyers to work or something? Yeah he had his reasons. right, thats right thats how it should work Exactly What plans does the old man have for you? Just a few things. but in the long run I will take my son, and head for the palmtrees. I have had enough. Hang on, does Larissa allow you to take the son with you? It's not a multiple choice question exactly. Choose this or that. Hey Carmen Electra FHM 2007 edition 2007 4th edition Length 1.64 Weight 51kg measures 90-64-82 page numbers 16-17 prefers men who are positive and favourite color is favourite color is.... Ferrari red thats the girl who just walked by Beautiful girl Where is Risto? He is fucking in the toilet You know Sergei called Sergei? You still talk to him? He said he was sorry and that he misses me and that he is in Cyprus currently Eva do you still remember what he did to you? I remember very well I'm thinking about white sand on the beach. What happens to my brother then? You take your brother with you. We have money Ketas will kill us whens he finds out. We won't tell him anything We do as we planned We just go out and we are gone by tomorrow. together with your brother Maybe we get it from him? i don't know, last time we got shit from him. I felt wierd for two weeks Forget about that idiot. Whats happening here? Stop this immediately God damn thugs Leave the flower alone Damn fool What? What's your problem grandpa? God damn thugs these are the kind of people that i have to live with maybe you wanna look around huh, this is my area. Do you think i'm scared of you? I know your type Drug addicts and drunk people This is not your problem, i will deal with this. Stepmom - Don't call me that, call me mommy That sounds a bit strange In the beginning it always sounds strange But some things you just get used to Technically i'm your mom but what do you need this time? Money - Oh, money Mommy will help you. How much do you need? 50,000 Thats not a small sum. Candy money You have a sweet tooth I buy all my candies in advance But then you have to be a good boy for mommy Your father is not caring about me at all. He is so angry. We would be much better together. Only you and me. Seriously We would be better off, if he was not around anymore at all. What are you talking about? Let's talk about it later Right now there is another thing you can do for me What's that? Do you have a cigarette? Do you have a cigarette? asshole How did it go with the psycho-mom? I don't wanna talk about it Come on, what happend? I told you, not talking about it. Where is Risto? I don't know, probably fucking in the toilet already Already? Wow, look at this guys I also had something similar once Toycar Yellow color My dog ate it We had a huge dog, he ate everything Hang on, this is all part of the tactic What tactic? Getting girls tactic Go there Put your hand against the car like it's yours Don't give it a massage Stand still, don't move Smile as well Good, all good, let's go Lot of girls here Blondes for you, bruenettes for me. Which ones do you prefer? I'm fine i have a girl already. Let's see what you say after a few shots. 3 tequilas please 6 tequilas Let's not over do it, take it easy. Yeah, don't worry. - Let one of us be more sensible More for us then Hey don't scare away any girls with your virginity Nowadays a virgin is as extinct as a Penguin with fangs. Penguins have never had any fangs. - Thats my point Do you have a cigarette? Do you have a cigarette, asshole? Do you have a cigarette? I have no cigarettes I don't smoke Smoking is bad for your health Passive smoking can be even more dangerous What do you mean? Depends on the situation What situation am i in then? You know very well why we are here Asshole Why are you here then? You stole bosses money, moron What? What? Like my colleague just said You took something that doesn't belong to you I haven't taken anything I haven't taken anything Yeah sure there was some accounting errors, but i... no more lies Do you know what time is it now? Evening time It's evening, learn to read the time. Moron Close his mouth Like i said Enough with the lies Now it's time to learn How did it go? The deal is closed. The stuff is in the car. Some for the show Yeah, my old man will say the same soon. Write those words down on a paper for him It was nice of you to share your stuff - Fuck off, it was my stuff Thanks! Fuck off Don't get personal Let me loose now You will pee on yourself there At least i don't let some old man pee on my head Shut it Seriously guys let me go now my hands will die soon Dead hands Your sexlife will be finished Man with dead hands the horror Fuck you guys seriously let me loose now Where are the bitches? They went out i think Someway Fucking bitches They were suppose to bring money where are those bitches Let me loose - Shut up i'm thinking here I will put sandals in your mouth i will feed them to you If you won't shut up My hands will die soon - Yelling all the time They don't like you It's all quiet in space Listen, you know, that i know, that you know, that i know and thats how it is and he knows as well Know what? That she loves you You are such a good guy Yes, i love her, but she doesn't love me Yes she loves you, don't worry about that How do you know that? Because we all love you You are a good guy You are my best friend i would give my life for you Seriously Maybe it was a mistake to come to Tallinn Maybe Katri will take this the wrong way - No, no The entire point of this trip was to cheer you up Just like Kris loves you as well BUT not in a gay way, more like a friend Hey what are you doing now? Hey, stop it Put it away Maybe it's me Maybe it's because i'm not healthy Look there is a good looking blonde - No no no Think of yourself as the snake charmer Do it like Ott Lepland with a lawnmover - Who? Have you ever wondered that peeling an apple and peeling someones skin is not really different from eachother Do you see this? where the apple stem used to be It's quite difficult to peel there With humans it's exactly the same thing It's quite difficult to peel the skin around your asshole It's not a coincidence that we are here The fact that you got caught that was the first little decision that you made That you could someway be more clever than your destiny That you could take something that doesn't belong to you Nietzsche has a saying about this Whats happening? Hey ladies - Hey This is my friend, Lemps - Hey This is Eva and Kirke Don't fall down now You girls have no idea how rich this dude is He has 3 cars in the garage One in the garage, one is still unwrapped and one he is crusing around with But he has a good heart, he gave a real stuffed Panda to an orphanage The kids were so excited Where are the bitches? They better be here in the morning with money Are we there yet? There where? You wanna know where? Are we really there? You are all fucking idiots. Do you hear that? - What? This, this noise Which one of these? Bloody hell Let's go Where are you? I have been looking all over for you Only thing i can get is your voicemail Please i want to go home already All the guys here today are morons also i feel sick Please call me as soon as you get my message Wait, wait Ok guys The costumes are here Hey, what? Are you serious? Of course Can you imagine the girls there? Hey if you want you can come and look later No, i will wait here. Every man is a master of his own sexlife So cool Do you have a condom? Everything ok with you? You are healthy? - Of course. I'm going in then He is not coming, i'm telling you I don't see him coming. He is simply not coming. Not coming, he is not coming Shut up you fool, he will come. He is not coming, i'm telling you. He is not coming Not coming I think he is not coming I'm gonna hit you if you don't shut up now I told you that he is an asshole. I think i have found something more interesting for us Shut up bitch Shut up shut up Shut up, shut up Are we doing this or not? First we need to do something else let's go You got any money? Money? Yeah, for the Taxi You don't? This should be enough for you By the way, you were the best this evening. You crazy guy, celibacy breaker Business as usual Liisi Liisi The path of life is full of suffering To survive you have to understand suffering Today, i'm giving your life that understanding understanding that what doesn't kill you makes you stronger or it will make permanent damage Who is it? The lesson is over now we are gonna take a ride Asshole err, does he hear with that side? or do i have to walk on to the other side From a medical point of view, it makes no difference. Just the glases will not stand in place anymore and you can't put a cigarette behind the ear anymore. That was a good one. You know It feels so good being with you I was thinking if you want perhaps then tomorrow we could go to... I have a strange feeling I don't know I think i love you Who the hell are these? Get the hell out of here, you morons - We are leaving soon. We don't want any problems - Sure, quickly get out. This is not a hotel. Have they paid already? That was not the deal with these guys. Fucking bitches Your job is to bring in money, not to use your tools for free. These are mine Fuck you Keys keys, please Sorry, but it's an emergency you will get your car back Now that's fucked up that is fucked up Who were they? It's my bag My money damn it Now what? It seems, these assholes have enough money to pay rent for the car Shut up Hey, i need some help oh my god, blood, blood it hurts No, where is the nearest hospital? We can't go to the hospital god damn it We have to go to hospital - Please take me to the hospital i need help Thats fucked up What, whats wrong We can't go to the hospital, you shot everybody It was self-defence You shot the girls as well They were all just one gang makes no difference Tell me where is the hospital here I don't know where am i driving or what am i doing What am i gonna say to my mom if i die? - You are not diying Hey the bag is full of money Tonis, Leemet. - What bag, what money? Leemet, bloody hell! Leemet Leemet Leemet can you hear me? Leemet, Leemet Leemet look at me Leemet damn it Leemet Tonn, he is not breathing anymore What? Do something then What am i suppose to do, he is not breathing anymore Still warm You are here? Oh, hello Here you go Have you been here all this time? Yeah pretty much It wasn't that bad You have been drinking I took a little with the girls Darling Do you love me? Of course i love you Seriously? Seriously, seriously Everything is fucked up, so fucked up We will find a solution - What solution? What solution will we find, huh? Calm down - What calm down Do you feel calm? Leemet is dead Leemet is dead. Are you calm? huh Is that calm enough for you huh You know very well that i love you too Of course i know Matu I feel good being with you You are always here, next to me - Yeah waiting for you with a rose No, thats not what i mean. Come on I will show you something We can't go to the police We need to get rid of the car and the body, we need to get rid of the body body? call him Leemet, he is our friend you know There has to be a better solution for this This is like a nightmare Ok, listen We found the car and the body yes, body He seems dead to me blood all over him doesn't move, doesn't breathe mouth and eyes wide open, what do you think it is? a box of tomatos? Sounds bad We didn't plan to put him in the box so soon? Alright We will take care of your cold friend OK, see you there They found the car the accountant is dead Dead? Damn, we don't get paid then nope, we won't get paid - Fuck Wait was he sick or something? We didn't do anything to him, only the ear. Achilleus ear What? His weak spot An ear damn it Damn it Yes, it was me, i took the money It was a big mistake I don't wanna see it here anymore Don't kill me please Take it easy, nobody is killing anyone here Wait, what money? The money i stole from the Old Man The guys who did this to me - They work for the Boss yeah? Yeah, for the Boss And where does the Boss live? he has a house in Kakumae close to the sea, i can show you where it is Who are you anyway? We will help you out from here first I'm so confused right now New plan - What are you doing? Listen we gonna get our money back The money wasn't ours in the first place Just because you stole it from someone, doesn't mean money belongs to us now Our money, their money who cares There was about 100 or 150 bundles of money maybe even 200 bundles Every bundle about 10.000 Euro Thats about 2 million Euros thats about 30 million Kroon, so what? That would solve all our problems It doesn't solve any of our problems We will go to prison, or i will go to prison, you can walk home We are in this shit together Who is helping you right now? Katri doesn't pick up the phone, Lemps is dead, for fuck sake. We at least owe it to him, he didn't die for nothing then. I don't know, i don't know It all feels so wrong Listen Wrong doings are part of the past Do you know what time it is now? - No, what time is it? I wanted to say that that i wasn't in club with just girls You can open your eyes Quickly in and quickly out, just like agreed. We are so fucked right now Then we got nothing more to lose Wait One last time Fuck everything Freeze everybody. - Nobody move Nobody move - Freeze, stand still. Can i help you with something? I told you to shut up damn it Yeah, don't say a word, just shut up Hello, Katri No, it's not a bad time at all What? You want to marry me? Can you believe this, she says yes She wants to get married Congrats Listen, let's leave! What are you doing - Come on, let's go! We are very sorry It's all a mistake Morons We should put you in a box just for the sake of it. As a lesson, so next time you know what to expect Do you know what this is? Do you? It's a tracking device You fucking asshole, you don't fuck with me ever. This is quite a lot of money for Two people Shit loads of money I'm thinking it's even more money for One person Don't think so much Hey don't mess around what, for money? Dont mess around, we can reach an agreement You pulled this one off quite fast I didn't think it will be this bloody but fast Mommy is here now, don't worry Mommy will be here for you forever 67, 68, 69, 70 that is all that is left 7000 Euros It's for you Hey mom, it's me No, no all is fine Mom don't cry I wanted to say that i'm coming back home If i'm allowed I'm running our of credit but see you soon Do you know if Nietzsche has anything to say about this? Totally fucked up friday It's Saturday already Boo - What the hell? Actually it's quite the opposite I'm your guardian angel! Leemet You? - Sure Well that explains a few things At least you didn't die a virgin But i don't wanna be dead at all Well i can't do much about that Of course There are alternatives Which alternatives? Like reincarantion Oh I could go back then? - Sure In that case, you would have to start from a lower level How low? Petrus, shut it off! Well for example, Cockroach Thats a joke right?
