 

                        Different...he's different... Boss! How dare you cheat 'Liquor' Shankar! - Boss! You took the stock fifteen days ago and vanished. Are you enjoying weekend and night parties? Nothing like that, boss. - Then? That is... - Where's my money?- Boss... How do l look like to you? My mother had an open heart surgery, l spent the money for it. Boss, give me 2 days time. The business we do is to spoil others health, it's not for improving anyone's health. Give me 2 days time, l'll pay every penny. Please boss. Take him and safely drop him in hospital. Take him away. - Take him.- Thanks boss. Hey, leave him there and bring his wife. He'll remember well about the money he owes me. Boss! Babjee, take two months time also not just 2 days.- Boss! Boss, you supply fake liquor to people but drink foreign liquor. That's business and this is for health. How far our cases have come, Lawyer? Brother, l need to tell you something. - What? This August 15, Cherlapalli jail... - Should my boss hoist the flag? Brother please listen to me seriously. ls it enough? State Govt. is freeing 162 prisoners across the state. So what? Name of Durga Das of Cherlapalli jail is also in that list. Durga? He was sentenced with life term, how can he come out? For good behaviour. - He mustn't come out. Slap another case on him. Let him come out boss, l'll kill him right outside the jail. You can play with tiger in playful mood, but if you play with hungry tiger, it'll kill you. He's an hungry tiger! What if we bait the hungry tiger with a deer in a cage? Yes brother. Love is the only power that can overcome vengeance. Love? lf you want to cool his anger on you, catch the love hidden in his heart, only then your life is safe from him. Love? Boss! - Find Durga Das's daughter! Catch her alive before he comes out. l almost died in his hands, next time l'm sure to die. Catch her! l almost died in his hands, next time l'm sure to die. Catch her! Who is that? Who amongst you is Pandu? - l'm Pandu! Who the hell are you? Chiranjeevi for dance, NTR for dialogue delivery, Prabhas for action, and Katti Seenu to make you bite dust! Hey Doordarshan, l'm here with weapons. Let's fight it out, come on boys! He's different, it's danger to be here, escape! Why are you bashing us? lt seems you threatened to pour acid on college student Swapna in your colony. Did Swapna sent you? lf you pour acid on girls and stab with knives, and cut their throats, how can girls dare come to the road? Fearing guys like you, they're covering up and moving with parents, how can we date them? Youth is going mad. Do you know who am l? My brother is a goon, my father is an MLA, my grandpa is a Minister, if you deliver such dialogues, l'll beat you black and blue. Padmvathi Nagar, Tirupathi Lord, l don't want money, sarees, jewels, property or anything, my brother is creating trouble between me and my husband, he's bringing unnecessary trouble to home, Lord, please throw him out of my house! lf you do like that l'll walk to your seven hills abode seven times. Hey Seenu! Come out! What happened, brother? Good, you're calling me brother. Your brother calls me maternal uncle. Which relationship should l settle for? Please forgive me brother. - There's nothing to forgive. Call that rogue out. - Please don't take it serious. Have you called me, President? Why entire colony has descended on my house? For donation? Please give them Rs.10. Please put my name on the board. lf there's place, add my brother-in-law's name too. We're not here for donation but to kill your brother-in-law. What did he do? He gave a love letter to my daughter. Thank God, l was afraid how this innocent boy would survive in this world, he too has grown up, President. - ls he innocent? Any boy would write love letter to the girl, but he wrote a letter to me. - To you? Though gave birth very late, you've a beautiful daughter, he said give this letter to your daughter, uncle. He's always different. - Call him out! No brother. - No brother. Wait! Please settle for my relationship. Your daughter is very lucky. You got a good proposal very close. Let's fix their marriage on the hill in a mass marriage arranged there. Are you his brother-in-law or a pimp? Does your dirty brother-in-law deserves love? How dare you abuse my brother-in-law! l don't mind if you abuse my wife! You're dead today. To hell with you! l'll see your end. You'll not friendly lift of neighbourhood boys, but spend a fortune to send them in autos. How did l manage them? - Shameless man! Why are you abusing yourself? He dishonoured us in public. l raised him as he was motherless, what a pain he has become. Father has become like that and he has become like this, and you're like this. l'm telling you now, he'll not stay in house from this moment. lf this is your decision, then l and my brother-in-law will go to my parents' home.- Wait! Where are you going? Please come home. What about my brother-in-law? Both of you stay here only. Brother-in-law, sister is out of station, come, let's have a beer. No. - Did sister warn you? Watch is yourself. Hey you! l'll kill him, brother-in-law! Leave me, brother-in-law. - No, brother-in-law! lf you kill him and go to jail, l can't live. l thought it'll be good and told him to give the letter to his daughter, how dare he comes here with letter to fight! He'll die in my hands, brother-in-law! lsn't this over action for my sake? l'll kill him, brother-in-law! - No...no... Kill me before killing him. Brother-in-law! You know what did he say? Are you his brother-in-law or a pimp? But still l didn't feel bad for it. Does your dirty brother-in-law deserves love? l lost my honour! - What shall we do now? Will you do a small favour for my sake, brother-in-law? Tell me, what should l do, brother-in-law? You must love and marry a girl more beautiful than his daughter. The place where l lost my honour! The place where l was humiliated as the entire colony watched it. l must walk tall with head held high in the same colony before that president. Till then l'll not wear shirts with collars. Brother-in-law! How much risky it may be, go to Mumbai, love and marry Dev's daughter. lf l hit with the bottle, it'll open your skull, bloody fool! Will you do it for me or not, tell me brother-in-law? To see happiness in my brother-in-law's eyes, l'll do anything! Where's the girl? The girl l like... Nobody is free... Everyone's busy... l'm searching everywhere... l'm yet to find my girl... l don't like anyone... What's this trouble? You spend days talking over phone... Strange, you never care to see signals emanating from us... lnternet cafes, shopping centres, and pizza hut... Love...love...love... l'll steal your heart with my sweet words... l'll give my love to the most beautiful girl... l'll see happiness in the eyes... A girl would've been born and waiting for me... The girl goes away before l say after seeing, liking and smiling... l've seen many industries but nothing as competitive as this... How strange! Girls are in short supply in modern times... l'll strive hard and definitely find a girl... l come out with flying colours working hard... lt's waiting list for any train, Plane... There's no vacant place in the heart of any girl... Lord Venkateshwara! You've put me in fix... l'll search all the parks and movie theatres... l'll achieve by combing the universe with a lens... lf l can't find, l'll search on moon too... Look at the beautiful girls like fishes in an aquarium... Enticing us to touch but can't... Lit fire of desire in heart... why did you do it? l've a heart to love, but no girl to receive it... Girls have got the hype... They've been usurped like prime land by land sharks... Can't find a girl alone at all... l'll search all the colleges and campuses... l'll befriend all the teenage girls... Though hidden deep under the ground, l'll bait them out... Can't find a girl in entire city? l've given my word to brother-in-law. Are you brothers-in-law like Chiranjeevi and Allu Aravind to feel so much? We make many promises under the influence of liquor, can we keep them all? - We must!- How? Lord of Seven hills will find me a way! Please give me a soda with lots of loyalty. You mean salt! Just now l had the glimpse, dad. l'm in Lord Govindarajaswamy's temple. What dad? Marriage for me? No dad, l want to love and marry. Greetings. l've fallen in love with many girls but unable to express my love. Dad, please give me one opportunity, you told me to attend a marriage in Bhimavaram, many girls will be there, l'll select a girl, l'll love her, l'll marry and bring her home. Bad period in my life has elapsed yesterday. Planets are favourable on me. Luvkumar was born for love, without love he'll die. Bye daddy. Why are you beating him? - Sir, he loves a girl, but the girl hates him, but still l told her about his love and united them. You're also fantastic! But he wants to ditch the girl now. When did l say like that? - You did. You know how difficult it is now to get girls? How dare you ditch a girl you love! l made a mistake, l'll never do it again. That's better, fall in line like that. You settled the issue with one slap! You know what, you've made love succeed today. Luvkumar was born for love, without love he'll die. l'm Katti Seenu, l was for love and l unite lovers. Do you unite lovers? Show me a girl sir, l'll make her say l love you, arrange and conduct your marriage, bring you to Tirupathi and arrange for a glimpse of Lord, and after having offering there, it's my duty to take you home. Lord! Have you shown mercy on me so quickly! Will you please come to Bhimavaram and help me, Seenu? You tell me the program, we'll prepare ourselves. Come, let's go. Trapped him well, he's coming, l want l-phone! - l want Blackberry! Give me the bill and they must get the thrill. Pack these two. How far is Bhimavaram? - We'll be there in an hour, sir. Go fast. Bhimavaram 6 kms What? Should l come? Sir! - What's this? What are you eating? Food or grass? Whatever it is, its your left over only sir. Bloody! You're a socialist! Has a new model been introduced? Do one thing, stay away from business for 3 days, my daughter is getting married, right? You fool! Cut the line. Greetings sir. - Which family you belong to? l'm Eka Nooka's son, Eka Luvkumar. My father took loans and he's a defaulter, so unable to show his face here, he has sent me. He's fine, how come you've put on weight? l'm using fine rice. Can't you do? - No place in home. Like father like son in tongue lashing. He got it as hereditary. Who is he?- He's my friend. - Greetings sir. He's smart. Sir! Shall l kill him? - Kill me. He's my friend's son. He's here to attend the marriage. Take him and show our hospitality. l'll rock them sir! - Please come sir. Are you still holding the line? - Give me the bags. Who is he? Rudraraju Bangarraju! Great man! He lost 75% of his property by betting on cock fights. She's Susheelamma, wife of Bangarraju. Greetings. - Greetings. Who are you? l'm Eka Nookaiah's... - Please go away. Why is she shooing me away? They're Bangarraju's brothers. Fear of losing money to others, they play among themselves only. These two are their wives. There's an in-house son-in-law too! Are you from Palakollu? lf he meets anyone from Palakollu, he'll not stop the banter. He has a daughter. You are...? - Elephant, my companion! Eka Luvkumar was born for love, without love he'll die. Prema Kumari, l was born for love, awaiting for lover. Will you please move aside, l can't see the threshold. Please come in, this is Bangarraju's house! Wait! Abbairaju is coming. - Who is he? Playing with Abbairaju is like hunting the tiger. Who is he sir? He looks like a pig in dhothi. He's one and only son of Bangarraju. After their daughter, they expected a lucky son, but all they got was a bull of a son. Everyone is scared of him. How dare you wink at the girl of my home! l beg your pardon, sir. - Fire and blow his eye. Come. Abbairaju sir! - What happened? What if this pin pricks your feet? Take it, enjoy! Go...- Great offering. Who are they? Are they here to desilt the well? He's your father's friend's son. He's here for the marriage. What's your name? Remove Luv and use Kumar only. Okay? What do you do? Sell soaps. You showed soap because you sell soaps. No sir. He's having both, sir. - l suspect. By the way who are you? Do l've to ask you separately? - My name is Doordarshan. Allot them the outhouse. l prefer inner house with AC, sir. How dare you order me! Ask them to climb coconut tree and pluck coconuts. Please send us a couple of coconuts to us, sir. Pour phenol in his mouth and ask him to clean the toilets. l'll stay in outhouse! l'll stay in outhouse sir. - Outhouse? Remember it. Playing with me is like hunting tiger. Who is the cook? Can't find one girl too? Bride's friends are here sir. Come. Had a safe journey? - Fine aunty. Why are you coming so late for my marriage? She wanted to write exam and come, so we got late. ls exam more important to you than me? Told her exams can be written again but marriage is once in life affair. We're here, right? Leave it. Freshen up girls, you can have lunch. Come. ls she so beautiful? - Not just beautiful but great! Must plan well and trap her. - How will you trap her? With your co-operation. - Fool, can't do anything without me. Lord, ensure this sleep doesn't become eternal sleep. How dare! - What? How dare! - Please tell, why are you beating me? Will you spoil our sleep? Do you know what did he say sir? How can l know until you say? He said marriage in Raju's place will be grand but this is boring. When did l say that? What he said is also true, right? - When did l say that? How should marriage in Bhimavaram Raju's house be? Must rock the twin districts of Godavari- Yes indeed. How can it rock if you eat and sleep? What do you want me to do? Marriage in Raju's place may not have a canopy but there's must fanfare. Yes it must. Though no drinks, there must be dance. lt must rocking with songs and dances. - Yes, it must. Call all the guests. Marriage in Raju's place is not a joke! Wake up all the guests and bring them to the hall. Let's show them fanfare of Raju's house! Come. Hey look there! Brother-in-law, sister is beautiful! How good she's like a mango ripened in unseason! Welcome to everyone! Our Bangarraju's daughter... what's your name? On the occasion of Rajyalakshmi's marriage, we must rock the place with song and dance. First introductions. My name is Katti Seenu, care of Tirupathi. Since l'm sharp like knife, l'm called as Katti Seenu. Taking risk is my hobby. My name is Doordarshan, my father's name is Sudharshan. l'll work monthly once, the day my dad gets his pension. Just one day is enough to enjoy entire month. My name is Luvkumar, l was born for love, without love l'll die. He's a soap seller. - Did they ask you? l brought you here, don't overact. You can rinse anywhere, soaps! Keep it inside. Now....you! My name is Siri, we're all hostel mates in Hyderabad. Enough, you can go now. My name is Richa. My name is Kiran. Now...you! My name is Meghna. l've finished my degree from City College in Hyderabad. l'm staying in hostel there. l'm preparing seriously for civil exams. Brother-in-law, you got her CV easily. Watch, how l'll trap her now! l think she'll not fall for you. l'll cut your nerves, bloody. My name is Prema Kumari. l was born for love. l'm... - You carry on, l'll be back. What's up Luv? - l've selected a girl. Who is the lucky girl? How can you fix so quickly? Without knowing the girl's background. lf her background is faction, l'll bulldoze through them. lf her background is action, l'll take them head on. l'm ready to kill 10 people also for her. And ready to die for her too. Decide the second option. - You said something. What can l say? Since you've zeroed on her, l'll start the process by tomorrow morning. Be on the job. How will you manage Luvkumar? - To hell with Luv... Won't the fighter cocks be great with drinks? Fantastic! Let's have a ball. l need your co-operation now. - Co-operation? lt's all yours. Co-operation? Why are you beating him? Not just beat, l must kill him. - What happened? He wants to eat them. ls it mistake to be born as chicken? Those birds have been waking up mankind since time immemorial. How dare you want to eat them! Please tell him. At least you tell this devil that it's a sin. lf he eats, it's children would become orphans. You've grown like bull, do you want take lives of animals? Actually people like you must in jail for cruelty towards animals. Jail? O my mother! Please forgive me, l'll never do it again. Thank you very much. Do you know you saved a life today? Animals are happily living because ofpeople like you only. Come. Get up! Will you tell me the truth? You can't eat without chicken or meat, why did you give such a lecture for chicken? To catch the hen, lay bait with rooster. What if the hen has a rooster boy friend? She's not lost in thoughts or talking hours on phone, she's happily going around with friends, it means she has no lover yet. Brother-in-law, look there. lsn't it good? - Fine. This silk sari is much better. What are you doing here, Luv? Which of three versions is good? - Second version is good. Tell Meghna the second version of l love you on my behalf. Why are you rushing, Luv? My love and fragrance of flower can't be hidden for long. To walk you must first crawl. l'll run. - lf anything goes wrong, you're dead. lf you cut, flower blooms, if you kill, love blossoms. Take this flower and present it to that flower. Can't l avoid? - Why did l bring you here? What if she refuses? lf she agrees, it's another history, if she refuses, it's history of blood. He's watching only the flower and not the thorn down below. Aunty, coming. Look at that sari. What's this? Saris? - No, blankets. Excuse me, l've tell you something. - What's it? l'll kill you. She's allergic to love. She hates love! Those are not my words. - Then? The man in red dress, he told me to give the flower too. l hate love, will you tell me if some fool asks you to? He threatened to kill me if l refuse. He told me to give flower and ask you to come to penthouse. l'll... He's one of the million fools! Leave him. How can you spare him? How can you? lf you spare him now, he'll go overboard. Look at his dirty rotten face! lf you slap him tightly, he'll never dare go near any girl. Hey Seenu! How much trouble you're taking for me? Go! The girl is coming, clear out. What's this?- Flower! - Why?- Love. You've got lot of flab! How come she shocked me like this? Even diamond needs to be cut to shine! Next time, l'll plan, you go now. l'm no joke! Why did you do like that? - One shot two birds! l got Meghna's idea on love and Luv got the stick. Now l must make Mehgna to fall in love. This Raju's house, if anything goes wrong, we'll be in trouble. Bloody coward! Are you from Palakollu? - Are you also from Palakollu? No, he's from there. Let it be anyone between me and Meghna, l'll cut them. l must make her fall for me at any cost, that's all! How charming you're like a jasmine twig... My little heart is enchanted and following you like Hutch dog... O my darling, come my dear... l'm drowning in the flow of love... l'm floored by you, that's why l'm after you and seeking your hand... Love me...love me... Love me...try it for once... Don't go away or turn back on me... lt's not wrong, please accept... lf stylish girls like you stay away from love... What would become of this world? Men depend on you for everything... There's no life if you say no to them... lfnot now, when will you fall in love? How long will you spend life without a partner? lf you're hungry, you need food... lf you're thirsty, you need water... lf you're youth, you need love... lf you say no, it means you've some problem... lf you want to know how much l love you... Tell me what should l do to prove it to you... Shall l rip open my heart like Lord Hanuman and show you? l'm telling you, if you miss a boy like me... You'll feel terribly for it in future... People who say l hate love would fall in love suddenly some day... Women's words have different meanings... We know it's yes if you say no... What happened? - We couldn't find her, boss. l'll kill you if you say that. For safer side l had inquired in jail also. Anwar was meeting Das in jail regularly every month. Anwar? - Yes boss. Trap him, he's enough for us. The snake that will raise it's hood on us will be at our feet. l'll stamp it with my left leg, go. Are you Palakollu Seenu's son? What's this new scheme? We can enter the girl's heart when they're in happy mood. This is just another scheme. Watch now! l'll touch Meghna and create waves of love in her. l want your co-operation. - Co-operation? l don't want to play this game. Oh God! l'm hit by a speeding lorry! l caught the thief! - l'm Luvkumar not thief. l was born for love, if you don't leave me, l'll die. Luvkumar? She held me like a python holding a frog. Take me to a Govt. hospital immediately.- Why? l've a health insurance card. lt'll be helpful. Next thief is me! Will you please blindfold me, Meghna? My brother is coming. How dare! Only tigers must play in my home not people. Are you so proud to play games here? Playing a game where thief is hero. Thief is hero!? ls it? Tell me how it is played. Please you too join us, Raju. Give us an opportunity to play with tiger, please. Look at him! l'm not used to playing such games. But since you're requesting, okay. But remember one thing. Playing with me is like hunting a tiger. l'm the winner if l find the person who beats me, right? That's all. Start it. lsn't it you? - No sir, it was Seenu. lt was me, sir. This time l'll find. Hey Seenu, l know it was you again. No sir, it was your man. - Yes, l did it sir. Beat me now, l'll find out like a tiger. - Stop...stop... You...hello...hello...is it? l'm coming! How can you quit the game midway? l want to play with you, sir. l'm getting hit black and blue. Try to understand it, man! - What's this, Raju? Get her ready quickly, auspicious time is approaching fast. She's ready, your sister and brother-in-law haven't come yet. Hasn't the piles man not yet come? l'll call him on phone. Brother, younger brother-in-law is here. He has long life! Think of him and he's here. He's refusing to come in. - What happened? Asking me what has happened? l'm Nidadavole Nagaraju son of Nidadavole Narayanaraju. Younger son-in-law to this family. l don't mind if you don't invite me also. ls it the way to invite my father? What are you saying, brother-in-law? l and my wife came and invited him personally as the first guest. ls it enough if you both wife and husband come? Won't the others come? Won't other family members come to invite? What's this? - You shut up. Please come in, brother. Please come in brother-in-law, we'll lose our respect. l'm leaving your sister here not to lose the respect. Come immediately after the marriage, if not you'll stay here forever. We'll lose our honour if we come to such people's house. Yes sir, indeed we'll lose our honour if we come here. Who are you? - l'm Katti Seenu. l came for the marriage, they gave me a tiled house to stay, but still l didn't feel bad, but l'm terribly upset for humiliating you like this. That's it! Put some sense into them like that. lf we come to such people's places, we'll lose our honour and respect. Yes, leaving the fixed auspicious time, thinking that your arrival is more honourable, and entire family is standing here pleading you, if you come to such people's home, indeed you'll lose your honour. Bride who must cry while leaving home is crying now because of you. See, indeed this is also a dishonour to you. What are you saying? Are you mad? l'm not mad sir, they're mad on you sir. You're standing here because they didn't invite you properly, but they're standing here leaving the marriage arrangements too for you, honour isn't something you give and take, it's something you share, if you leave, they'll miss only you, but you'll miss an entire family's love. lf you don't love them, would you've come this far? Love and life once gone will never come back. Nagaraju, marriage must be a grand affair in your supervision. Watch how l'll rock you! Brother-in-law, leave it. l mean leave the arrangements on me, l'll take care ofit. Come. Thanks brother. - Brother? l always was little sad for not having a brother. But after meeting, l feel l've a brother now. Look, wherever the problem is, the solution would also be next to it. l just made him remember his love for you, that's all. You must be happy not cry like this, dear. You be happy. Seenu, you're indeed very smart! Tell me brother-in-law! - Good news for you, brother-in-law. Tell me. Meghna shook hands with me and said you're smart! Okay smart boy, you're super. l'll bring Meghna somehow to Tirupathi, brother-in-law. Bring her, l'll sell your sister's jewels to marry you off. l'll also start wearing collared shirts. Okay brother-in-law. Are you here with such a plan, Seenu? l'll break this news where it should be and fix you up! How dare! Didn't you send the invitation to Ravi Teja? When ever he come to Bhimavaram, he always meets me, we've a go at food when we visit shooting spot, you too enjoy it, right? lf we don't invite him to the marriage, won't he feel bad? Won't he feel bad? How dare! To spoil our friendship! What?- Seenu is not here to attend the marriage but... Really? - Sir, l swear on your sir. Take it. Where is he? One more joke please. - One more? An ant and a mosquito married. After marriage, it's first night, right? So, their friends arranged the first night with flowers,fruits and sweets. At night mosquito was roaming here and there outside the room. A friend asked him, what are you doing outside? Why don't you go in and enjoy happily? Hey, she's sleeping inside with a mosquito repellent. Watch out, he'll die today. - He's different. You shut up. lf you like my performance, type Katti Seenu, give a space, SMS to this number. ls it to know our phone numbers? Friends are there to spoil the scene. Do you know the Palakollu man? No sir, Palakollu was my grandma's place. Where is Seenu? Shall l call him? - Are you here for the girls? l'll rip you apart, come. Playing with tiger itself. l'll take you to task today. What's up? - Where is he? Are we here for the girls, sir? l know who is here on what purpose! l had tiger's milk after Lord Ayyappa, l'll take you to task. l've little work, let's meet tonight in mixed program. How am l to manage... Come here. Did l bring you here in an AC car to make them laugh with your jokes? What have you done about my love matter? l'm on your job only sir. Meghna is laughing, right? You too look at her and smile. lf l smile? - Smiles will sprout love. You smile, l'll make love to sprout out. You keep smiling. Time runs away if Seenu is around, right? l'm coming. Call Seenu, if not l'll kill you. l'm Katti Seenu here sir. Sir, you wanted a boy for bravery award, right? l've found a tiger named as Abbairaju, sir. Do you want me to tell about him, sir? He's not a boy but thunder! He's Subhash Chandra Bose in courage. Leader of Azad Hind Force... Another Shivaji of lndia... When he's striding, he's another brave forest warrior Seetharama Raju, sir. Look yonder! Here comes our firebrand Alluri with the breaking dawn... He's Kattabrahmanna who shook up the British empire, sir. Here comes the great warrior Brahmanna... Why should l pay tax? Did you seed the plants? Did you water the plants? Did you harvest or chaffed it? What sir? You want me to get ready his CV, sir? What? Will you get the award presented by the President? Brother-in-law! When did you come sir? When you were telling about me, dear. Did you hear everything? l wanted to surprize you. Would l get awarded by the President? He's delivery dialogues to get me an award, how dare you accuse him of coming here for the girl! Did he say l'm here for a girl? Please don't cry, my dear boy. l can't see you cry. Will you believe a man who betrays for money? Will you lie to me? Our junior boss must get this award, sir. l'm getting accused for another man's sin. Who is it? - Come.- Coming. Look there! Turn this side. Tell me now. Hey l'll beat you like a dog. You stay put here. Give me the gun. Move it. Are you ogling at girls in marriage? l'm not here for girls but for marriage. l'll kill you. From this moment, he's a servant to us. - Servant? Please don't call me like that, girls are here. No need, the earlier is better. - That's better. lf he crosses the boundary, kill him. Beware! l was scared you'd be caught, buddy. lt's not so easy to catch me. Central Jail, Cherlapalli lf you try to escape, you're dead. How is your boss doing, Anwar? Ask how is your death? Who said all Muslims are terrorists? lt's a wrong statement. Muslim means love, Muslim means trust! Muslim means loyalty! Mixing all this, he has been going to Cherlapalli jail for the last 14 years. Why are you taking so much trouble for Durga Das? Watch me how l am! The forest is under control till the lion is on forest. When it leaves, every animal with a tail will rule the forest. lf the lion comes back, it'll hunt down! lt'll search, find and hunt down. l know that my death is coming out from jail. To save my life, l've caught you. Tell me where's you boss' daughter? - l'll not tell you. Tell me, where's your boss' daughter? He'll bleed to death but will not say a word, boss. ls it any fairy tale to tell on asking, you've to use brain at times not brawn. Tell me the truth if not you'll die. l'll not die till l see you die. Take out the SlM and find the address, there must be an address where my life resides. Welcome to all of you! Song and dance program arranged by me for all of you. Would you like to hear a love story? lf you hear it'll be fun... She smiled gently and moonbeam filled my life... Hey, sing a fast beat song! l'll dance like lightning... l'll strike like thunder... lf you've guts, challenge me... Hey Yogi, bite me... Hey Yogi, chew me... Hey Yogi, smash me... Hey Yogi, make me yours... Take my heart...take my life... Are you Lord Rama who turned stone into a woman? Are you Lord Shiva carrying Ganges in his tresses? What am l to think of you? Neither you're stone nor Ganges... l'm not Lord Rama or Lord Shiva... ls it Benz, Prasad...l'm coming. Dance in ecstasy... O my darling... My heart is lost in ecstasy... We met at times... Let's sing and dance in ecstasy... Meghna who never cared about boys. Off late has stopped studying and spending more time with Seenu. He has changed her a lot. He's making her fall very intelligently. l'm just being friendly with him. lt starts with friendship and turns into love later. We've seen in many films. You know l hate love. He knows that, so he's making careful and smart moves. lf l'm so happy with him for few days, how happy l would be if he's with me all the life? He wants to create such an impression in you. You mean is he doing all this with that intention? lf not why is he after you only? You can't concentrate on studies now, go to sleep. l'm not sleepy, you go to sleep. Boys are like that they'll not sleep till we fall, once we fall, they'll not let us sleep. l said l'll not fall. People who say l'll not fall will be the first to fall. That is love. lt can do anything or make you do any thing. Go...bend...this side... This side...turn. Keep it down. Tie these garlands here. - No, l'll not. Shall l call Abbairaju? - No please. l said l'm busy with marriage, don't disturb me. What's it Polavaram Prasad... Who is this Polavaram Prasad? - Pimp! What? Calcutta car? lt would've used and may require new boring. No use. Hold on the line. What's it? - Tell him to try if there's a Swift. l've never ridden it. - Swift? Would you like to ride? Should l watch it? What happened? - l'm in for some real bad time. Getting stick in love is unavoidable. lt seems world will end in 2012, settle my matter quickly, Seenu. Meghna is coming. You're right. l'll settle it. - Do it.- Keep watching. You look great in half sari. Whats this sudden 'u'-turn? lt seems you're visiting temple, Meghna. Brother-in-law, good news for you. Has Meghna accepted your love? - No, she's avoiding me. You must feel sad if she avoids, why are you happy? You fool, l didn't express my love yet she has realised it. Watch now, l'll enter Meghna's heart, churn it and sprout out love in her. Foolish man! You were friendly till yesterday, why are you avoiding me now? l know your plan. l don't want to talk to you. Don't follow me. Please listen to me. Please listen. Don't talk, l hate love. Don't play such cheap tricks on me. That is... - lt was my mistake to talk to you. Meghna, l... - l said no. Don't say one more word. l think you're in bad mood, shall l come to your home and talk to your parents? What do you know about me? l don't have mother to feed me with affection. l don't have affectionate brothers to protect me. l'm an orphan. My ambition and my way are different. My aim is to study well and help the society. Please don't divert me from my aim. What's this? Girls smile when we make them smile, they'll dance if we make them dance, if we help them, they'll be happy, if we ask them to love, why do they talk about problems? Meghna will not fall for you, leave it. How can l leave her? She talked about her problems but didn't say dislikes me, right? Brother-in-law would be happy if l love a girl with problems. To hell with your brother-in-law, what do you want me to do now? l want to see Meghna now. Marriage is tomorrow morning, any trouble, we're dead. l want to see Meghna now, that's all. How? Who is calling me at this hour? Hello Luv! l'm Meghna here. - ls it you Meghna? Did l disturb you? Don't say like that, l'll feel hurt. You've passed in all my tests. l never passed any test in school. But l've passed your tests. l'll ask you a favour, will you do it for me? Lover's request is order, it can take you any far. Do you want my heart? No...no...please knock the door of my room. l'll keep open the doors to my heart. Luv, you say l love you. l've going through this hell to hear this, my dear. l'll be there before in a moment. l'm coming. l feel like flying in air... l feel like my heart is blown up... l feel like disturbing a honeycomb... l feel dizzy...l feel breathless... l feel like l've had a full bottle bottoms up... How dare you knock the door of girls! You need hands to knock the door, why do you need courage? How dare you argue with me! l'll kill you. Why is the trigger locked? What happened, Luv? He came for the marriage and knocked girl's door, bloody fool. Why? Why did you do like this Luv? Say this is lie, why did you hurt their hearts? l got a phone call to knock the door and say l love you. See, l got a call from this number. Can l see the number? - You can. What's this? Why did you destroy the evidence? Shut up! You dishonoured me for coming with you. And then lying about evidence too. lf l don't kill and make you chicken 65, my name... What's my name? My name isn't Abbairaju. Oh God! Why did you give such a friend? He came for you, to say l love you to you. But he knocked the wrong door. Save your love. You'll not get an opportunity again. l'll kill and roast you like chicken. l called him on phone. What are you saying? - We love each other. He came there on my invitation only. There's lot of difference between that phone and this phone. That voice was very sweet, this voice is like lorry horn. Trust me sir. l'll die if he refuses to marry me. lf l marry her, l'll die. Leave me, l'll go back to my place. Luv, listen to me, accept it. lf not Abbairaju will rip you apart. l'll die. - We're here till tomorrow only. Accept. - You say so?- That's all. l came after she called me sir. We both are...lovers! See, if it's so thrilling now! How would it be after we marry? You came for marriage and tease our girls here. l'll kill you. Brother-in-law, at last l found a free son-in-law, please don't harm him, l beg you. Please spare our son-in-law, brother. Go to hell, come son, you come. You're a trouble always. - You got saved. You're super! - He trapped me so easily! l'm in-house son-in-law to this house, and you're my in-house son-in-law. We both can settle down here. Come in, take bath in hot water. - Go away. Abbairaju, come here. - No need, you go, l'll follow you. People meet the bride in day time, my fate l had to meet at night. He arranged it. - Who? Katti Seenu. - What did he do? He trapped you with an elephant and flying away with the bird. Look there! l don't have any connection with him, Meghna. My love is gone... let it go who cares... My friend would've done it unwittingly, please forgive him. She's not at all responding. Let's have a discussion... Boss. - Tell me. l've information that she's in Bhimavaram. Go, get her. Love...love...it's all love... Love...love...it's in you and it's in me... This world will not stand without love... lf there's love in your heart, achieving your aim is easy... Trust me, love is a boon... Yes, don't worry my heart... You can't stop the light with your hand... lf you shut the door on me, l'll wait before your room... You need a partner to share your life... lf we stay alone, we'll be left with loneliness only... lf there's future or not... the present is right before us... Enjoy the bliss that's before you... Sending off with tears is not auspicious... lf you send them off happily, it's happiness and peace all the way... lf you consider love is sin, then nature itself is wrong... lf you think love is myth, we're not there... One day love will sprout in you... You'll not say no to it then... Heart is like a child. lt'll ask anything it sees. See another girl, she'll appear better than Meghna. A lover must have the power to forget also. l'll get the tickets. My brother-in-law told me to love a girl, so l came here. Sorry if l had troubled you. lf you come to Tirupathi, come to Padmavathi Nagar, ask for Katti Seenu, anyone would direct you. Laddu and glimpse is free. Bye. Seenu, somebody is taking away Meghna! Bash him! Come on you guys! Go! Be careful till boss comes. - Okay brother. Listen to me, forget what had happened there. She's in trouble. l must help her. Can't you hear me? She didn't cry for mother or father while they took her away, she called my name! l'll go. Why are you silent, brother-in-law? Tell him he'll die if he goes there. What's wrong if he dies? The moment you fall in love with a girl, you must be ready to die for her from the same moment. That is love! Do you know how those goons were, brother-in-law? lf they're powerful, they'll win. But he's a lover, he can achieve anything. Love is a powerful weapon. Anyone has to lose to it. Brother-in-law, go and come with her to Tirupathi. l'll be waiting for you. How are you doing dear? You've grown up! Did you scare the girl? Boss, that is... - l'll kill you. Forgive me dear, he did it unwittingly. Say sorry to her. Are you happy now, dear? Who are you? Why did you bring me here? l'm Shankar, by God's grace l do liquor business in Hyderabad, that's why l'm known as 'Liquor' Shankar. lt seems you're taking food. lt'll spoil your health. Have food. Why did you bring me here? Tell me. You'll know it first when the time comes. Bye madam. lt's not safe to keep her here. Make arrangements to send her to Salim in Dubai before Das is out ofjail. l'll tell you what to do after that. - Okay boss. Till then put up a fence around to stop her from escaping. Not even fly must enter! She used to get phone calls often, when asked, she said it was her paternal uncle. We don't know much about her. Okay brother, l'm coming. lf you like my performance... Send SMS to this number. Uncle Uncle! Uncle...uncle...get up! Uncle...uncle... Boss, he's the guy who tried to stop us in Bhimavaram station. Will you take her? Don't use informal address for her, l'll go mad. Do you know where you've dared to enter? You entered 'Liquor' Shankar's house. You'll die today. lf you're 'Liquor' Shankar, drink arrack, it'll taste good, have beer, it'll give energy, have whisky, it'll warm you, but if you drink spurious liquor, you'll die. l'm like that spurious liquor. Kill him boys! Where did you get so many bees, boss? Catch him! Who is Shankar? What's happening, uncle? l'll tell you later, come with me. No, if you don't tell me now, it's a promise on me. l'll tell you dear. l'll tell. Your father is Durga Das. He was a liquor baron in Hyderabad. l and Shankar used to work with your father. Shankar used to take care of the business. Even during the time of prohibition, your father's business was usual. lf anyone dared to go against him. Brother, he gave the information about the stock. Brother, l've made a mistake. l'll forgive if the mistake is done unwittingly. lf you commit mistake as habit, l'll kill you. No brother... - He's escaping, catch him. You were born after years of marriage, so he was very found of you. Your forgot about this world when he was with you. Next month we've local elections, get ready additional stock and keep it in Dhoolpet godown. Okay brother. l think those kids are hungry, give them some money. Children! Are you hungry? Take this money and buy food. We don't want money, sir. - Please take it.- We don't want. Brother is here, ask him what you want. Tell me dear, what do you want? - We want our father. Anwar, find their father... - Our father is dead. How? - He died after drinking spurious liquor. My mother died unable to bear the drinking habit of my father. My father died drinking to his death. We're orphans now, uncle. We love our father very much, uncle. We want our father back. We can't live without our father. Please little more dear... - l don't want... Look, how beautiful it is! - No, l want daddy. Have just one mouthful, dear. lf you don't eat, l'll get angry. Your father is here! Thank God, you've come back. Your daughter is refusing to eat without you. She's taking my life for you. We can't live without father, uncle. Why are you like that? My daughter is crying for missing me for few minutes, but the families losing fathers by drinking liquor is crying all their lives. Many lives are getting ruined because of this business. l'll stop this business, Lakshmi. - Stop it. The same day Shankar wanted to take his place as liquor king. To get rid of your father, he supplied fake liquor to all places. Many lost their lives drinking it. Your father who came to know this... You betrayer! The court believed your father was responsible for the deaths, and sentenced him with life imprisonment. Your mother died hearing this news. Some day l'll come out. l'll kill him. Get my daughter good education. Never tell her that l'm alive. You mean...father... - He's alive. Uncle, l want to meet father now. No dear, he wants to save his life using as a bait. You must be safe till your father comes out. Come. Uncle...l want to see him once... - Please listen to me. Meghna is safe with me than with you in this situation. You are...? - Seenu from Tirupathi. l met Meghna in a marriage. Thank you very much for helping us. Don't lose your life for our sake, go. Please listen, l'll keep her safely in my home till her dad comes. Can't you understand if l say? You don't know about him, please go away. l promise on Lord Venkateshwara, l'll not let anyone touch Meghna's shadow too. She's not a toy to hand it over to you hearing your bravados. My brother's life! Go! Come. Get down...catch them! You go that side... you go this side... Leave me. Come... Uncle...uncle...what happened? Come sir, they're coming. Come. l can't move. You leave the place with her. Please listen... - No uncle, come with us. Go, please listen to me dear. Nothing will happen to me. l'll meet you in Tirupathi after 15th. Till then take care of her. - No, l'll take you, come. Go! Go...go... Catch them. You again? - Are you here? You asked about my love, right? He's Luvkumar. Did she ask about me? You ran away from the marriage, right? She was missing you very much, so l brought her to Hyderabad. They're coming! Who is coming? - Family members to break your love. Leave the place with Meghna immediately.- How? How did Mahesh Babu take Bhumika in film 'Okkadu'? How did Allu Arjun take Hansika in film 'Deshamuduru'? You too take Meghna like that, Luv. Be careful, Luv. There's love in my heart and strength in body, you've a train to Tirupathi, let me see who will dare catch us, come. Stop! Stop! Come. Hail Goddess Mysamma! Got it free! Why did you beat him? There will be no interest in a chase without fight. Are the goons after us? Come on boys..there... - They've come near. Why are you still here? - Starting trouble.- Move. Did you switch on the ignition. - Then? Did you kick it? - Then? Get the girl on the pillion. - Then? Race it and go away. - ls it? Stop...stop... Stop...l'll kill you. Stop! What have you done to me, Seenu? Goons are here! Come on! Tired? - Yes. Stop smoking if not you'll die. Lakshmi Family Dhaba Modern youth are fad about love. Falling in love and then eloping to marry. Then splitting up after desires are satiated. This couple would also be like that only. Don't worry about them, truth is you both make a great couple. What would you like to have, sir? - l don't want anything. Get me two idlies. Long live Brother Udatha Bhaskar What's it uncle? - Come here for a moment.- Coming! What's it uncle? - What's this procession? Today is my boss Udatha Bhaskar's birthday. That's why this procession. lf we take care of him for a day, that fool will take care of us for a year. That's the matter. - Go. Okay uncle, bye. Come... Found an innocent man to cheat. - lnnocent? Hail Udatha Bhaskar! Hail Bhaskar! Move...move... Hail Brother Udatha! Hold it boys! Enough...stop it. Brother, you must live for 100 years and we must celebrate your birthday. Thank you my younger brothers. Though it cost us Rs.1 lakh, nobody in this vicinity can boast of birthday celebration like yours. Go inside and take Rs.2 lakhs. Hail! l'm throwing a grand party tonight. Wish you a happy birthday, brother! Who are you? - l'm Katti seenu from Tirupathi, l came all the way from Tirupathi for your birthday celebration. Who told you its my birthday in Tirupathi? Great men's birthdays are known just like that. Yes brother, next time l'll celebrate your birthday in Tirupathi. l'll weigh you with offerings, please don't say no, brother. Really? - l promise on you brother. He looks like a worse cheat than us. He's going to the hilt. l saw brother and fulfilled her wish. This is enough for this life, brother. Bye brother. Whose wish you fulfilled? Who is she? Lover? What was her wish? - What can l say? Any lover would wish to see Taj Mahal or Charminar, but my lover wanted to see Udatha Bhaskar's birthday celebrations. While coming to see your birthday celebration... What happened? Like every love story has a villain brother, my love story too has her brother as villain, he stopped me from taking her to your birthday celebrations. How dare he stops you coming to meet me, l'll see his end... Would l keep quiet? l broke his limbs and brought her. Well done brother. The story was fine till then, now he's after us with a gang of goons. He'll kill us if we don't get a place to hide. He's a horrible goon. A hooligan. You stay with her in my home, l'll conduct your marriage. Let me who will dare stop me! Brother! - Take them inside. Okay brother. - Thanks brother! Hail Brother Udatha Bhaskar! Where did you send them away? Sent them away? He took her away. l'll kill you. He'll not tell truth like this, lf we hand him over to Yugandhar of Mumbai, he'll start singing in minutes. Call him. Greetings brother! l'll make him come out with truth. You stay cool. My name is Yugandhar! l've come from Mumbai! People wet their pants on seeing me. lf you don't tell the truth, l'll cut your tongue. Whether you're from Mumbai or Dubai, how can l tell the truth if you cut my tongue? His name is Katti Seenu from Tirupathi. Take care of Meghna. What's your connection with him? People earn good deeds on visiting Tirupathi, but l picked up bad luck from there. Shall l kidnap someone from his family? That's what your logic says, right? Go, inquire and get them. - Okay. l've told you the truth, can l leave now? l need to sell the soaps. l would've freed you if you had lied to me. You told me the truth, how can l free you? You must be here till we find him. Brother! Don't let him go out, serve biryani and put him to sleep. No need of spending so much for a non-entity. l'll stay here only. - You're good in accountancy. lf her background is faction, l'll bulldoze through them. lf her background is action, l'll take them head on. l'm ready to kill 10 people also for her. And ready to die for her too. lf we don't keep two inch tongue in control, it'll affect six feet entire body. Thank you very much. You made a wish to see my birthday celebration. He's very lucky to get you as lover. Chicken is fantastic! l prepared it myself, have some more. When and where did your love start? What a beautiful house! - That is...- Nakhrekal teak wood! ls it? Who first said l love you between you both? Why did she leave now? She's afraid her brother may know about love if we tell anyone, we've decided not to tell anyone, brother. But when a God like you asked me, l couldn't stop myself. Not just her brother, let it be anyone, l'll conduct your marriage. l'll give her courage. lt's dangerous to stay here. Brother! lf you're doing so much for lovers, how much you'd do for people? For people? - You were born for people, brother! For people? - Yes brother. You must live amongst the people. You're a leader of new generation. Youth of the youth! You're the hope of poor and downtrodden. Brother, go out! Millions of problems are waiting for you. People are wishing for a leader like you. Build temples, install your idols in it. Get yourself praised. Solve those millions of problems. People are waiting for a leader, and you take that mantle! Go brother...go! With this one shot, all parties must merge with my party. He'll not trouble us any more. Please listen to me once. Why did you tell him that l'm your lover? People are thinking bad about us. l don't mind if they think bad about me, nobody must think bad about you. You've to take exams in a week, you can study here peacefully. So l lied to him that you're my lover. Please don't mistake me. Let's leave this place after you finish your exams. Till then please listen to me. Okay. l'm not a shadow but l'm always with you.... l've forgotten my love for the sake of love... l'm ready to wage any war for you... Now l know the reason for victory... Victory pleaded with me as it is alone... Go with her and stay with her... Shall l become a beautiful word in your love? Clouds dropped down as rain drops... lt spread cheer as smiles in the paddy fields... Don't know when this victory will turn into defeat and meet... May be it's facing to fulfill your dream... Like a dream on a dark night, it's taking over me.. lt's filling my life with desires... l've fenced me away from myself for you... This life is not enough to be with you... l'm living like a mirage in your form... l'm yearning to reach my love... Don't let your eyes shed tears... You ambition is your life, don't ever give it up... Though waves ma be high, it'll hit shore and turn back... lf you're the shore, my difficulty is the wave... l'm seeking your companionship with love and difficulty.. lt has added life to your lifespan... And killed my love... Where can he go? He has nowhere to go. Hey wait! Do you know Katti Seenu? Not just him, l know his house too. You know? Where is it? The last house on the right side. Bloody idiot! What happened brother? Do l look like a comedian? Do you know how gruesome villain my dad was? A very big villain Giri Babu! lt's pity that you were born as his son. What did you say now? - Nothing boss.- Bloody! What are you waiting for? Ask her. Madam! - l'm busy. We're not beggars. ls this Katti Seenu's home or not? Who the hell you are? This is my husband Krishna Bhagawan's house. How dare you ask if this is Katti Seenu's house! Got the stick? - Broken up! His name is getting angry reaction from neighbours and his own people too. lf l find that Seenu... - lf you utter his name again... l beg you sister. We're here to kill him, why are you killing us, sister? What did you say now, brother? - Yes, l brought them to beat Seenu. Really? My dear... - l brought them. My dear brother! Please come in. - We'll come. Goons! You too come in. Eat well. Have some more upma. Hospitality later, first tell me, where's Seenu? l too don't know where he is! He would've gone to my father. - Your father? Who is he? What does he do? Get down in Gudur. - Got down. Go to the centre. - Went. Ask anyone there about Pachipulusu Nageshwara Rao. Pachipulusu Nageshwara Rao? - Yes. Next item is 'Agniparvatham'. Coming before you as Superstar Krishna is Pachipulusu Nageshwara Rao. Put your hands on me Number One... l'm in you and you're in me, we're two-in-one... Smartness and swiftness, one plus one... l'll come for the evening rendezvous... l'll give myself to you... Now, a small felicitation for our Disco Star Pachipulusu. Hail Pachipulusu Nageshwara Rao! Hail Disco Star! Sir, somebody is here for you. Send if they're fans, if clients make them sit.- Okay. Where are you coming from? - l'm from Hyderabad. Which date you want? ls the sound and light yours or ours? How many girls you need? Chiranjeevi, Balakrishna, Nagarjuna, and Venkatesh are ready. You want them or shall l manage it myself? We came here for your son Seenu. That's what your son did. My son cheated me many a times. You're nothing. Get out. lf we don't take him with us, Shankaranna will kill us. What? You've to come to Hyderabad along with us to Shankaranna. Why should l come? ls he also a recording dancer like me? He plays villain with sentiments. lf we don't take you with us, he'll kill us. Shankaranna? Who the hell he is? He's King of liquor to Hyderabad! - Liquor? Brother, l've brought Seenu's father. Are you 'Liquor' Shankar? Bloody! Tell your son to come here with the girl. He's not 108 to come on getting a phone call. He's a crook! Won't he come if l threaten to kill you? He'll not come. l'm not in talking terms with him, l told him everything about us, he'll tell you after night drinks. Why should l hear it after drinks? Good must be heard after drinks and bad must be whispered in ears. Don't use silly proverbs. Okay...how to catch him now? Here's his photo. You want copies of it made and paste it in railway stations and bus stations? l thought just dress, are you also there only? Paste it near wine shops. Because more people visit wine shops now. Announce a half bottle free for anyone helping to catch him. They'll catch him where ever he may be hiding. Liquor is so powerful. Take a batch in Sumo, and load it with 3 cases of quarter bottles, let another batch go in another Sumo, and load it with 3 cases of quarter bottles, tell one Sumo to search in city, you search in outskirts, give them money separately. ls he giving plan to catch him or escape from here? l want urgently DVD's of Krishna, Okkadu, Varsham, Bhadra films. Why?- Villains of those films failed to catch the heroine. We mustn't fail in our story. Get those DVDs immediately. You got his father, can l leave now? Who is this empty cheap liquor bottle? l gave your son's address. Your name? - Luvkumar. -Come again? We need him for our investigation, keep him here. What are you saying? - Stay here. You have drink and sleep. lt's my responsibility to catch him and bring that girl to your feet. Show me a girl sir, l'll make her say l love you, arrange and conduct your marriage, bring you to Tirupathi and arrange for a glimpse of Lord, and after having offering there, it's my duty to take you home. Like father like son! Brother! - Follow his orders. Okay brother. Central Jail, Cherlapalli Phone for you. l'm Anwar here, brother. Why didn't you come this Sunday? - Brother, l couldn't come because... ...daughter... - What happened to my daughter? She's safe, brother. l trust him. Bye brother. l'll meet on 15th! Okay. l'm happy that you're getting released. Don't be so happy, l'll return here very soon. Go boys! You go in. - No Seenu.- You go! l'll not go. - Go l say! Brother, it's exam! l said don't go! Come on! Stop man! - Come here. You bashed up so many men, can't you beat me? You're their leader, right? Come on!- Go man! Boss, my grandma is not well, my uncle just now called me. She wants to see me. l'm going there, boss. l'm going, man. - Come! Did you write your exam well? Let's go, come. lt's not safe to stay here any more. Let's go to Tirupathi immediately. Are you here? We've to leave urgently, come. No Seenu, please leave me alone. - What happened? Why? Please leave me alone. lf not... - Nothing will happen to me. be patient for 2 more days, l'll hand over you to your dad and leave. No, l'm scared to think what had just happened. What if anything happens to you? l can't bear it. Please leave me. Come in! Seenu, leave the girl and go back to Tirupathi. You'll stay alive. You want the girl, right? l'll give her. But if sea gets angry, it'll create a Tsunami. lf earth gets angry, it'll create an earth quake. lf my brother Udatha Bhaskar gets angry, he'll become Samarasimha Reddy! Look Yugandhar! - l'm seeing you! Look only one side, don't try to see the other side, you'll die. lf the beard you're sporting is real, let's try pulling it out! lt's original. Brother will become Tagore now. The only thing l hate in any language is splitting lovers. Brother will become Lakshmi now! Let it be any centre or street or lane, it's me! Brother is now Ragada! Why are you overdoing things? l'll blow your back and bend your spine. Tell me what's the next? Udatha brother, bye. - Okay brother! What man? Are you Tagore? - No. Are you Simha? - No. No...please.. Long live public life! Get me another full. - Another full? ls it mouth or bore well? How much you drink man? l can run a shop with the stock. You know one thing, man and liquor came into existence at a time, man can live without liquor, but there's no liquor without man. l'm dying with tension and you're talking logic. lf villain get tensed, gang will get disturbed. You be cool, my plan never misses. We'll find him where ever he may be. Boss, just missed him from Udatha Bhaskar's house in Choutuppal. What a lousy plan? Missed him again. Sir, my aim is very great! Let him be in Anakapalle or America, l'll hunt him down and bring him to you. What shall we do now? l got it. Story has reached chasing from searching. Ask Yugandhar to chase him on by-pass road. We'll surely get him. He's that much only but giving me a lot of tension. Bore will be 3 feet only but depth will be 100 feet, we must see the depth not the bore. lf he's bore, l'm the depth. He'll surely get caught! Get caught! lf your plan misses this time, you drunkard... l'll force him to come out. My duty is to catch him for you. My duty is to bring the girl to you. My duty is to spend rest of my life in this liquor den. Let him be in air, water or ground, l'll catch him though l may drink umpteen number of full bottles. Till you get peace l'll see that no goon gets peace. Get me a full bottle for my peace. You've delivered a lengthy dialogue very well, short tiger. What a father and son team! Who could be your next victim? Banana Baba Ashram Liberation from sin How sexily she's dressed! Where the hell did l find you? Please bless me, Banana Baba! Swami, l got a twin banana. - You'll have twins. l had vasectomy. l know you're not the father but your wife will give birth. l must go home immediately. How did you get this name Banana Baba, Swami? Bananas...bananas... apples...bananas... Good question. Apple hangs down to ripen. Sweet lime hangs down to ripen. Grapes, orange, mango, all these fruits hang down to ripen. Only a banana faces up and ripens. That's why l'm Banana Baba! You fool! l'm married for 10 years now, Baba, but no children, please bless me with children. Don't worry. Hug a plantain tree like this and sleep with it for 3 nights, not just one, you'll have many children like bananas. What do you say? My desires are coming out after wearing these saffron clothes. He's escaping, catch him. Stop! l can't pedal this bicycle any more. Who is this man in the middle of the road? Stop...stop... l need to conduct a sacrifice urgently, please give me lift. Wait, a lady is sitting, how can l give you lift? l've a good idea. How is my idea? - Okay average. Why are you going slow? Bike not in condition? What's this man? Go slow! Stop man! You're dead today! Did l trouble a lady with this background? l wouldn't have sought help, get going. How can l let you go? Did you see this sickle? l gave just a banana, but he's showing a knife! Go carefully. Didn't you ever visit my ashram? You're finished! l've come from Mumbai to kill you. Does she have connections till Mumbai? You're finished this time. l made a mistake, please forgive me. l'll die. You can't escape death. Missed you earlier but not this time. l'm finished! Weren't they chasing me? Unnecessarily l asked them lift. Go faster! Go! l got him! He can't escape! l got you, bloody! Get down! Get down! Get down! See, he got scared of me and got her down. He's raising dust for fight, why are you guys watching fun? Bump him off! How shabbily l'm dying? l should've died in Bombay firing incident. l would've got publicity and ex-gratia too. l'm going... Don't drink too much, it may damage your liver. No...no... When l'm drinking, only your eyes and hands must work. if you defy and anything works, you'll not be there for my next peg. Bad time is for 7 years only, how long would it be if you father and son enter anyone's life? l'll drink, you keep watching me. lf not you'll get lynched. Order another quarter. - ls it enough? Mother promise, l'll have half bottle! What? Did he beat our men and escaped again? Not just beat, he blew up Sumo with a bike. Blew up Sumo with a bike? Do you've outgoing in your phone? - Sir, l do. - Give me. Take it, Nokia. Sir, l'm Pachipulusu here. Can we blow up Sumo with a bike? lt seems we can blow it up. Whom did you call now? - V V Vinayak. Can blow a Sumo with the snap of a finger, bike it too much. ls it necessary to call him in this tense scene? l know Vinayak very well, l gave many programs in his place Chagallu during festivals. lf l go crazy l'll blow you up in a Sumo. Tell me what's your next plan? Snake in the pit will drink milk and eat eggs offered to it, if we fumigate it, it'll come out. l know what should we do to bring him out in open! How will get him out? - l'll plan the climax. Come to Tirupathi with me. - Why should l come? Nobody knew about Ravana's power till he was in Lanka, once he stepped out of Lanka, people knew about his power. Matter will settle only if you enter the arena. Durga Das is coming out of jail tomorrow. We must catch him before he comes out. Okay, let's go to Tirupathi. - Let's go! Come! Now l know why villains die in climax. Hyderabad To Tirupathi. Get in. After the program in Tirupathi, l'll marry you in the temple. Your beauty is Araku valley, l'm lost in it, watch out! Your eyes are hot chilies, it's red hot and spicy... Come my dear, let's go to Palasa... l said yes, l've trust in you... Different...l'm different... not just but very different... Yet, l'm your companion and life partner... O my beauty, l'm flat over it... You've lit the fire of passion in me... The man l like and the man who took me heart... He stabbed me with his sharp eyes... Youth is enticing like the gushing river... Let's take a swim for fun... Hey Katti Seenu, you're a man of many talents... Come, let's take a ride in the flower chariot of love... Your lips are honeycombs, a fruit basket under cover... lt's enticing my youth... Close the distance between us, wipe out the boundaries... Take on me, why are you killing me? Once l start it, there won't be any break.. You're fire and l'm salt, if we join, it's a blast... What are you waiting for? Take a leap quickly.. Our eyes must ooze revenge not tears. Where is Shankar? This is Seenu's house. Who are you? How come he's here? - Father-in-law! You? He bleated like goat, why are you crying like a cat? Can you do that too? The girl Shankar wants is with Seenu, where is he? Has my Seenu come with a girl? Thank God he saved my collar. Tell me the truth, where is he? - l really don't know, sir. Lie...lying is human nature. Your heart is lying. - Lying is my nature. l'll get the truth from him. Get him into the car. When did you come father? l didn't expect l'll come to your house in this situation. What happened, father? l'm taking your husband to get truth from him about Seenu. Just a minute, father. Come father, l was always a good omen to you from my childhood. Father! - What's it dear? What if he refuses to tell the truth? What if he refuses? - Beat up and get the truth, father. Excellent! That's like my daughter! Got good stick! Take it. Twin bananas, l think she loves it. Take it, we'll find Seenu. Did that fat girl sent him to find me? Take it. - That too in my auto only! ls this Katti Seenu's house? You look like a bear escaped from zoo, who are you? Katti Seenu promised to get me bravery boy award, if brother is here, l'll take the award and go. l've brought CV too, tell me where's brother Seenu? Father-in-law, he's calling him as brother, did you have any affair with any actress while giving programs? You're too old for that. What's the meeting here? Put him also in the car. What are you doing here? My bad time has brought you into my life again.- What? Why is yours so small? - How big is yours? Mine is approximately this long! How can you carry so much weight? lt's heavy that's why l've a man to carry it. Gun. Shut up! Start the vehicle. There goes the girl, catch her! Come on! l got the girl! She's not the girl! l told you to get Durga Das's daughter, why did you bring this girl? We're new, how do we know, boss? - They gave us a slip. Escaped! Leave her and catch her. Catch her! He said award and made me run on roads. Uncle...stop...what's this confusion? Brother is going that side, you're running this side, l'm running around with a CV. lf l knew this was risky, l would've brought my gun. Why did you come here? - For award! Do one thing, run with girl, you'll get award and reward too. Reward? Who is this reward, uncle? Will Obama present it? You ask everything knowingly! Take her with you. Award and reward is mine! - Take her with you. Goons are coming to spoil my chance of getting award. Playing with me is like hunting tiger. They're coming, run! l can't run anymore. l'm going back to my place! Come here... My bladder is full, l can't hold on, l'll go to toilet, you run with her. l'm in fix for taking the original, he'll kill me if l run with a dupe. You've made my life into a hell. l'll take her. How dare you refuse me! Do you know who am l? l'm Abbairaju! What Raju? - Abbairaju! Abbairaju? Not 'Dil' Raju? l'll kill you, bloody... Don't tell anyone about this. Goons! l'm going back to Bhimavaram. Come...come... - l'll not come. Father, my Luv! God has answered our call. Come. Come... Lord, have you put me in fix for coming to your abode? Take her away, you idiot! This is Pachipulusu's drama. Where is Pachipulusu? - Here! How is my planning? Do you think l'll keep quiet if you threaten to kill my son? Politician will play politics. Scientist will experiment. Doctor will treat patients. But an artiste can do anything! Tell me, where have you hidden her? lt's beyond your capacity to catch her. Because she has been hidden by my brother-in-law Katti Seenu. Durga Das will here any moment. l'll tell you just before you die where the girl is! At least you'll die peacefully. She's at the feet of Lord Venkateshwara in his holy temple. Go...fast! Durga Das is here! Turn back! Wait... Beat that bastard! Don't leave that crook! Don't kill me. - Please don't kill him, daddy! Ever since l came to know you're alive, l'm very happy. Please don't go to jail again after killing him and leave me alone, dad. You left for me, so l'm asking you. Please leave him, dad....leave him. Don't leave him, kill him, brother. Okay, kill him. Kill me first and then kill him. l can't live without you, daddy. Your daughter is asking you, please spare him sir. Leave him, dad. Life and death are momentary and lifetime is too short, man forgets this and commits many mistakes in selfishness, we can win over an enemy with revenge, but we can win the world with love, Luvkumar who married Prema Kumari because of Seenu's trick, is living a life of hell unable to bear her over love, Abbairaju is still trying to win bravery award. Pachipulusu gave up recording dance and has become a DJ. Following Seenu's advice Udatha Bhaskar has become MLA of Kodad, and has come closer to people, Banana Baba gave up the ashram and saffron clothes, and started selling bananas again. Seenu has got a nephew now! He's also Seenu! After Meghna passed out with flying colours in Civil exams, he has come to visit the holy hills in this get up. lsn't he different?
