 

                        1 There's one thing that I have learnt from my dad We never choose life Life chooses us I didn't choose my profession as a police officer Through my father, Circle Inspector Sreenivasan, the profession chose me instead There will be a case in the life of any police officer that can never be forgotten I had one such case in my life too Melvin Philip... I heard that name for the first time through that case And I never thought that name was going to change my life After all... life is a hunt. And it is we who choose whether to hunt or to be hunted Grandpa is not giving my teddy Have your food, sweetie Why do you take her teddy bear all the time? Have food, dad. Grandpa has peed in his pants You know grandpa is ill, right? You have food. Get up, dad Mom, I'm really sorry What for? For making fun of grandpa Come on.. that's okay Why are you laughing, mom? I was thinking about an old story Long back, grandpa had a Fiat Padmini You know what he used to call it? "Pee vehicle" I was scared of speed then Whenever grandpa went fast, I used to pee! Thus Fiat Padmini became "Pee vehicle" Hello Good morning madam This is the spots The incident happened here The brake has been applied all on a sudden So it doesn't feel like a collision It could have been blocked purposely Seems to be" Who saw this first? Sanjeevan did, while patrolling Wham did you see? Madam, it was during the routine patrol that the car was found abandoned Since the valuables were found inside, it was evident that the motive wasn't theft On tracing the number, it could be found that... ...the car belonged to film star Uma Satyamoorthi I had informed the matter to the control room right then It was during a detailed search that we could find the mobile lying below the front seat A car is found abandoned in the main road during the night A well-known actress is missing from there No sign of attack or any struggle It's quite strange Ma'am, they had gone last to attend the get together function of their college mates Uma had reached Hotel White Clouds at 7. 30 in the evening driving herself She went back at 10. 30 in the night Check the CCTV at the hotel I want the details of all who came for the get together Sure Ma'am Did you trace the owner of the mobile that was found there? The connection is under the name of one Melvin Philip The outgoing calls from this phone has gone to a single number That too five times Which number? All the five calls have gone to Xylex sir's number What? Xylex, the person who died in your station could have been a convict... but he's a human being too Then what about the three kids sexually abused by him? Aren't they human beings? So? That justifies your wrongful act? Wham wrong did I do? I've already told you.. we got him from a completely provoked mob He was already beaten up by then (Phone beeps) Sorry That is the reason for his death as well You can check the autopsy report But that doesn't let you run away from your responsibilities Listen... I have already gone through a lot I am in a stage where I can't decide even on my personal issues Even regarding adopting a child I have never misused my uniform This is not just a profession for me" it's a passion Yes, it's the same number When was it? You still remember? Almost two weeks back On the day of that hearing At first I thought it was a prank call The connection has been taken under the name of a Melvin Philip It was taken recently The matter is different He has made only five outgoing calls from that number. The funny pan is that all the calls have been made to you. Now I can be blamed for kidnapping Uma Samyamoorthi. I am going through the best time! It's the case file. Just go through. Please spare me from this case Already I'm in trouble dealing with another! He is our prime suspect. It's important for this case to know why he called you And it's our responsibility I saw everybody's responsibility when a problem happened to me Give me the file Bala had called Hmm Why don't you take up this case? Anu, let's talk something else About what, Xylex? Is it about adoption? In this situation it's not going to work Then about the treatment... but the problem is not for me I didn't mean to hun you Just think" if you can prove this case, all the black marks in your career will be over You don't know when he went out? No sir Melvin has no friends here? No He is a peculiar kind... doesn't talk to anyone much Visitors? Visitors come to him occasionally When did he come yesterday night? He came late than usual. But I'm not sure about the time If he comes here you should inform us Okay sir Let's go Ma'am... All the visuals after Uma Satyamoorthi came to the get together has been checked Okay, let's go Ma'am.. Uma's car reached the parking at exactly 07: 12 Uma reached the party hall at 07:21 Now see this Ma'am Do you see the three persons who are with Uma while going to the hall? Just watch that guy The one standing near the other three... that's Melvin I have checked the list of guests who came for the get together He was her college mate This is the camera near the parking area of the hotel... Do you see the grey Santro that follows Uma's car? Rajeev, take him immediately Yes Ma'am Four years back... to be exact, Nov 13, 2011... That was when your daughter Angel went missing, right? Yes The missing of your daughter made your wife Sherin in... ...to a state of depression and she became a drug addict The effort was to bring her back to normal. But by then... Your honour, it has been proven beyond the doubt that this convict has done a cruel act As such the convict may be given the maximum possible punishment of life imprisonment Any further submissions? That's all your honour Excuse me, has someone named Sherin been admitted here? Are you Melvin? Please come Yes Jumped from the balcony. Death happened on the spot (Sobbing) Melvin.. your old college mate is a famous actress now Was it an infatuation during the college days or thejealousy seeing her current state? What was the reason? She's safe, Madam Where is she? I haven't troubled Uma in any way, sir. After all, she is a celebrity She shouldn't know about our shortcomings The life of celebrities is not like ours Everything is better for them Better food, better clothes everything is better So I gave her a better death Painless death mum did you say? I killed her Just one question to you, Melvin How much do you trust your wife? Did you go out today'? No Prakashan said he saw you at Kadavanthra That's why I asked you Oh I forgot to tell you. I had gone to Jayalakshmi with Sreya It's her engagement next week Hmm.. Okay Can you please give me the cheese? Okay... you saw them together So? What's wrong? There will be truth behind a series of lies Your statement to police says that every statement made by the convict is wrong Definitely. See I'm a psychologist. I can say whether a person is lying from his body language Can you explain that? Sure. If it is a lady, she will be hesitant to look into your face or... ...will hide her face with some object or will deliberately make it vague.. Err... I had forgotten... Err... I had gone with Sreya It's the direct flight to Dubai. He booked it. Sherin was sitting in the car then The greatest pain in the world is cheating There is only one punishment for that Death There is a starting point for every crime.. How it is utilized makes it perfect The starting point here was a fever that Sherin had To portray her as a drug addict, I injected drugs instead of medicines I was giving back what she had done to me There are three factors to determine a crime The time when it happened, the place and the reason for the death The time that I chose to call Sherin Hello... It's not clear Sherin, you come out to the balcony I chooses the narrow balcony as the place The perfect time, place and then, the perfect crime happens... ls there someone admitted here under the name Sherin? Are you Melvin? Yes Jumped from the balcony. The death happened on the spot Wham is Uma's role in this one? Ma'am, haven't you heard about the wrong person at the wrong time? Wham does that mean? Emil was my next target But by then he had gone abroad When there was no chance to meet again, this get together was made for me by Jesus I felt that all my plans are breaking in a second I was aware that if Emil goes back tommorow, I will lose him for ever I had only two options Either loose Emil for ever... or kill Uma too... I choose the second one Wham happened Melvin? In the film star Uma Satyamoorthi case, there is an important turnaround. Melvin Philip has confessed that he had abducted... ...and killed Uma and NRI businessman Emil Kurian The convict has been taken to procure evidence, as per Police Rajeev, after the bodies are recovered, the mob will be violent. So you should be very alert. Sure Ma'am (Media persons shouting) Ma'am, Melvin is totally confused. What do you mean, Rajeev? He can't identify the spot as they were buried during night So what to do, Ma'am People are getting violent, Rajeev. It's better we leave. SP and IG are asking for explanations That I can handle But there is another issue The hill where we had taken Melvin to for evidence, has a specialty There will be dense fog once in three months and it will continue for 21 days After twelve days, there will be fog again. We can't retrieve the body after that Suppose the story told by Melvin is true He is not sure where the body has been buried We will give him some more time If he can remember where the body is the issue will be solved But if the story is not true, we have to change our approach How about psychic lever? It's the method of getting close to a suspect during interrogation They should feel like we have believed their lies Yes for that we have to get closer to him He should reveal the spot even without him knowing about it Even the concept of an interrogation room should not be there But where? Until I reached there yesterday, everything was clear for me, sir But when I saw the mob, I couldn't recollect the right place It's okay, Melvin We can understand that Now you try to recollect any board or landmark that you saw that night I will remind you about what you told u; Melvin It was around 01: 30 in the night when your car reached there From there the bodies were dragged for some 300 metres Then you went back to the car to get the pickaxe With the same pickaxe, a six feet deep... Sir one thing On the way after burying the body, there was water flowing with great force As if some pipeline was broken... Rajeev, contact the irrigation department to check if there was something like that If there was one, search the area immediately There was no such leakage in the area that you mentioned, Melvin Bala, we will give him some more time Let him think (mumbles) What is the use of all these! Mum did you say? Nothing Just forget whatever happened. What is the next option? Sir we have only six days Once the fog starts, things will be real bad Within six days you have make him say where the spot is But there is another problem, sir The district jail is the hub of petty criminals and political goondas Problems are regularly reported from there How safe will Melvin be, there? If something happens to him that will affect our case So we have to ensure his safety by all means This is a high profile case, Bala Jail department will give you full support I will directly monitor all his security measures This is Rajeev, Ma'am.. There is an issue at the district jail When? There was a call from the jailor. Then? I think it's a conflict between the convicts Ma'am... Things are a bit out of control We need to take some action immediately Our team should reach there immediately If something happens to Melvin, we are done But how do we get permission to enter the jail premises? Don't worry. I will take care of it Okay Ma'am As per the latest information, a convict has been attacked inside the district jail It is not yet known on who is the convict or what his condition is Anyway there is tense situation inside the jail Pay me the money I have told you not to run around while going to the park Mm Do you know how much I was worried when I couldn't find you? Sorry, dad That is okay, sweetie As per our latest information an ex cop named Sainuddeen was attacked inside the jail He has been jailed under molestation charges and he had... ...entered into a scuffle with fellow jail mates recently The conflict is believed to be a result of this The conflict is believed to be a result of this Melvin, you were narrating the story of Emil and Sherin Now we will comeback to the missing link Uma Satyamoorthi Diya... Uma's daughter She is younger than Angel Losing someone is more painful than death, Melvin You know that pain more than anyone else You can't give back anything that she has lost But there is something that you can do You can tell us where the spot is This is the last chance for the child to see her mother You have gone wrong, Madam The greatest pain than death is not losing your loved one.. But when your loved one betrays you The best way to correct a mistake is to do a right thing Here they have erred By killing them what I did was the right thing We have a law prevailing here, Melvin There is only one law, sir. It has been written by the Lord I haven't done anything wrong in that court... but she did We will discuss that topic later No sir. We men should discuss that topic only Can you say for sure that your wife will never cheat you? No There is only one thing that a man doesn't know about in this world...! Woman! Madam, can you live with someone, after cheating on your husband? You won't believe anything now. But one day you will, for sure Wham the pain of being cheated is! Enough It's the jailor. A gang had targeted him His life is becoming riskier with every passing day Don't be tense. We will somehow get him to talk How? He is always repeating the same story. I think we are heading in the wrong direction Hey... come on Go and sit in the car. I will come soon. Take this sir... Did you withdraw Rs. 5 lakhs from the bank? There was a message on the mobile Daddy wanted some money for the renovation of the house This can be worn with all your dresses -ls this? - No.. this" Madam this is from the office. Can you please come urgently? There is a serious matter I will be back soon This was there in the file. Don't know who kept it there With every passing day, her lies were going up in number I watched her mannerisms, as the doctor said She had become a big bundle of lies I did it at last, when I had no other option Sir, do we need to continue this? He is saying the same thing for the past three hours Take him With every passing day, the number of lies that she was saying was going up Are you sure that your wife will never cheat you? It has been pretty long since you called up I was a bit busy. What about the renovation works of the house? It was over last month. How will you know? Both of you never call us Anu didn't call you? No... it has been a while since we talked That... Daddy wanted some money... for the renovation of the house" I will call you back I will be back after going to the washroom What happend? Why did you want to meet me? There is an issue It is confidential. Okay... I'm coming soon I will call you later A normal accident. I had imagined so. But the paper that I got... It's like someone is trying to say something When you say so... that phone call and the accident... Hello Manu I want a help from the cyber cell... This is the call details sir This is the log for incoming and out going calls. The maximum number of calls have come from which number? It's from this number, sir. The connection belongs to one Mr. Rony Sir, this is his id M m Xylex, you need not come. I will come back in the office cab. Ma'am, the details of the last call to the phone has been received. It was from one Xylex Abraham At that moment one thing was clear to me My dad's accident... it was planned And the pivotal role was played by my best friend Anjali, you have a letter New revelations in the film star Uma Satyamoorthi case The convict Melvin Philip had undergone psychiatric... ...treatment at a mental hospital as per our investigation It is now clear that the investigation of the concerned... ...officer Sreebala IPS wasn't on the right track The minister had called... They are transferring the case to CBCID Sir, we are almost there Then show me your findings until now They will take charge at sharp 02:30. After that they want to meet you Okay then" you can leave now Until they take charge, you are the deciding authority, right? So? All I am asking is just three hours. Trust me.. He will speak" Please Okay... But she has to say Bala. please... this is our last option Bala, Thank you so much If we can't prove it even now, I will be gone forever I owe you Xylex, I am asking out of curiosity Do you remember anything about the day when dad had that accident? I have already told that I have killed them What am I going to gain by not saying the place where they were buried? Melvin, you try to recollect things once again Time is up. They have taken charge They are on the way I will tell you where the place is Before that both of you should answer my question Tell me Madam If you learn that your best friend is cheating on you, how will you react? What will you do if your wife cheats on you, sir? It was a mistake to give so much time for a criminal like you. I know the language that suits you You want the answer? I will give Stop it. Open the door The discussion continues ACP Xylex Abraham was involved in a similar case even before, right? Yes In that circumstance, how does the commission take this attack on Melvin by ACP? The commission has decided to react strongly considering such a brutal act The commission has ordered to charge a case suo motu... Shall we go? Sainuddeen sir was behind everything I don't know for who it was or why it was done Actually I was waiting for you There is an urgent client meeting at Mumbai I have to leave tomorrow itself Are you going alone? Yeah And when will you return? I'll come back tomorrow evening itself You have to travel tomorrow. Go and sleep One thing that he said is right The greatest pain is when you are being cheated But there's a mistake in what he said... why should we kill them both? Isn't it enough if we kill one? It is so painful to lose your loved ones Xylex, what all are you saying? Enough. Go home now He should be killed... Hello Ajay... I need to leave immediately If there are any urgent files, you send it home Grandpa... give it back Jhanvi... Sir, I want to see you urgently I want to discuss an urgent matter Perfect timing Bala.. It was the call from Crime Branch Melvin is ready to show the spot But on one condition... He will reveal it to you and Xylex only Bala, there is no time to waste" We have to act immediately It's not safe to drive further Madam., There's fog and the visibility is minimal You do what I say... yes sir Bala, there is no point in prolonging this I strongly feel this is our last chance Please trust me How close the person who has to die will decide the perfection of the crime we do Don't worry. It could have been some animal... Nothing is to be seen there The court has been convinced that the convict has done the drama due to mental illness. He has been sentenced to one year of imprisonment, for this... ...act of insanity, to be spent in a government mental hospital. The court also congratulates Commissioner Sreebala IPS... ...and ACP Xylex Abraham for bringing out the truth I had seen Melvin for the first time on one such day... So many days... so many questions... but still there is one question that remains unanswered. Why did he do all these? But one thing I am sure All the answers were in Melvin's smile.. Shall we go sister? Okay. The papers will be ready within a week It's just that we haven't met like this before. But I know Xylex well It has been a long time since I have seen you this happy Did you sign the documents? Asha knows everything In fact, it was she and her husband who helped me the most I'm on the way to the airport... it's all because of you, Ma'am Hey...it's part of our job You should see everything as a nightmare only Even your relationship with Sherin Ma'am.. I didn't get you. Who's this Sherin? Is this some kind of a joke? I am talking about Sherin, Melvin's wife He did all this after knowing about your relationship Ma'am, who told you this? I have never seen this Sherin in my whole life And that guy Melvin.. I have seen him 12 years back" ...while in college and now, at this get together I am already late I have to rush. The flight is at 12 O'clock There were no features of chronic drug abuse in her body But at the time of death, drugs was found in a heavy dose We felt so during autopsy Likewise, the injuries when one falls on their own... ...and when someone else pushes to death are different The injuries on the victim was like she was deliberately pushed to death, from a height These were my findings, Madam But there was heavy pressure to write it off as an accident, from the higher authorities I tried my level best... but who cares? Okay. Thank you doctor Hello Rajeev Ma'am... Xylex is clean Ye; I know But someone is helping Melvin I have my own guesses about who it is Actually we didn't arrest Melvin He made us do that Why? The answer is there in your question I don't have to give you the answer Sherin didn't die as a result of an accident She had no relationship with Emil. That was not true Often lies are more powerful than the truth That is why every lie becomes a truth when it is said repeatedly How did you kill Sherin? What is the real story? See Melvin, Angel's performance in all the... ...assessment exams this year has been extremely poor So the board has decided not to continue her Please Madam... this won't happen again This is what you say all the time Let me talk to the board But this is your last chance Are you drinking milk, baby? Come" sit on my lap Revathy had called you How many times we have been insulted by the principal Give her some time, Melvin. Things will be fine I don't think so I don't want to go to the school... Don't cry... We didn't find the kid. We thought sir had picked her from the school Melvin, bring two packets of milk while coming Okay And tell her I'm cooking her favourite noodles To whom? To the baby Wham? She is not with me Sreekkuttan told me that you had gone and picked her from school What are you saying, Sherin? I just got out of office... How can I pick her then? Then where's she? Don't be tense I will check at her school Don't worry Don't shout... I'm coming What happened sir? My daughter hasn't reached home yet The kids have all gone home... there's none left here.. You may go now Just look again what if inside... School has closed at the right, kids might have gone for playing somwhere You leave sir... Wont allow to have 2 pegs peacefully... You searched everywhere? Okay... Thank you Neither the school authorities nor the police helped us Only we were there to search for her I got that book from her room later in the evening Who's that? What happened sir? Nothing There is a torturing method done to the kids with lesser marks by the principal Unfortunately Angel was their usual victim It was the day when the results of the exam had come out The principal punished Angel that day as well The principal left the school early as she had another programme that afternoon The kid fainted after not being able to drink water for long Even when the last staff member had gone from the school... ...no one remembered that my daughter was lying there I wasn't aware that the kid was there in the cage, sir The principal and the manager warned me that nothing should go out I didn't know sir... I can say this in any court Who were they? Madam you know the owner of the school He died in an accident recently... Roney Varghese I will kill you devil Melvin, listen to me They did everything to hide the truth from all The police also joined them The things have changed according to their order. Ma'am, listen to me" Their next target was Sherin When they made her a drug addict in her autopsy report... ...Sherin's death became just an accident From there, to the mental hospital for a while Nobody was ready to listen to me Except one It was your dad... Madam Sir, I haven't seen you before I don't know if you will save me But please listen to me, sir Hello Roney Sir... This is Sainuddeen here Things are going out of hand sir The principal and the manager warned me that nothing should go out Hello... ls everything ready, Roney sir? Okay, I will bring it there Shall I get you one more drink? Yes... Sir, I've to call home... Can you give me your phone? There's no balance in mine Why did you want to meet me urgently? There's a matter... it is confidential... One minute Sreeni Sir... This is Sainuddeen here Xylex sir wants to meet you Where is he? He is there at the station I will come soon Dad, do you know who is with him? She is Xylex Abraham's wife He did the wrong thing Why should I go to jail after killing such a person? What do you mean? Thus Emil came home to attend the get together; as per my plan I wanted Uma to be with Emil, while he is being kidnapped For than, there was another reason Every missing case becomes sensational, when the victim is a celebrity So I chose Uma I had left my phone in the car for two reasons One was to lead the police to me Secondly, to bring Xylex Abraham to the investigation team Dad, I'm going. Now... My dad entering Anu's life as a vicar, helping in the adoption matter, dealing things in a way to create doubt in Xylex's mind, everything was as per our plan Don't be tense about adopting I have told her everything Certain things will have to be done out of the way Let Xylex know about it all after everything is fixed Yes father... You will have to raise a good amount by next week I will let you know The easiest way to deceive a person is by creating a doubt in his mind Leaving the paper at your office was pan of that plan, Madam Then what I needed was some time I had to convince some with a few stories... to settle some scores He can't identify the spot as they were buried in the night The Lord pronounces the verdict directly for some sins happening here in this world Like Sainuddeen's death in the jail But for some other crimes, the Lord may not pronounce the sentence As they happen with the Lord's knowledge It was a God's messenger who killed Roney for my Angel Sir, have you seen a messenger of God? I have seen. I have touched Like this... You killed him for me Another person besides the two of us know about that secret You, Madam All the secrets are with you After doing all these, do you think you can get away? I definitely believe so... because, before the law, I am not the culprit It's you There are no evidences in any of the police files that I killed Roney But I have proof of you killing Roney... and Madam, for keeping mum after knowing about it Killing a person itself is a big crime. Even bigger a crime is when a police officer tries to suppress it So what about the principal? Melvin was a suspect who came to us with a fabricated story But when that story ends now, there were many things that Melvin help us earn TV NEW Impact: The chilling Angel murder case gets into headlines once again The body of the absconding main accused in the case" ...the Principal of the school, was found today It is assumed that she had reached the hills while hiding from the police The accident could have been caused due to fog, as per the primary assumption of the Police So what about the principal? How close the person who has to die will decide the perfection of the crime we do...
