 

                        You were saying that this time it will be done. This is a good business you have made. Since last two years I am taking treatment from you. Bhatia sir I understand your feelings. But didn't you only select the donor after checking... ...the photo and other details. I am just a doctor and not God. We tried, but it didn't work, what do I do? Doctor it's been 8 years since she's been keeping all fasts... and hasn't left out any temple... ...mosque or any saint and now your telling us "what to do". I will get it printed in the Times that you are cheating the people. Bhatia sir you cool down... have water. Don't take stress. If not today then tomorrow, she will definitely conceive. What is Dr. Chaddha sitting here for? Now look at this and understand. This is the female organ... See this is uterus here somewhere here is the egg. The sperm and the egg must meet. Here the sperm travels, travels and meets here... ...hits here and then baby is conceived. Some sperms penetrate, some bounce back. In your case this meeting is not happening Then make it meet. If we don't have a child, my brother will takeaway my business. He is a big idiot. Lets take god's name and try once more Well fine, as it is it's been 2 years, might as well try once again. But this time we need a good quality sperm. - Definitely. But this is the final try. Come on... he said he'll give us a good sperm Come on... Sir be prepared to put these locks permanently. The samples we have are good for nothing. Had even printed 3 ads in the newspaper... ...but not a single reply worth considering. Wretched sperm. Chaman pick up the phone. Dr. Chaddha's clinic. I need to talk to Dr. Chaddha He is in an emergency case. And will call back, the moment he is free. I wont spare that bas Tell that Dr. Chaddha of yours, not to lie to me. He has taken 30'/, advance from me... Even after promising, he hasn't given us a quality sperm. You tell that fer I'll hunt him down... Now, why you are staring at me. As if I have used the sample. Chaddha sir get me the sample of a cricketer. Not only will he play for the country but also mint money. And if we have a sweet girl then she can become a model Don't you worry about the money. We will load you with cash. We will take very good care sir. I get it. You want a Dhoni and you want an Aishwarya. Yes, sir. Then there's no worry what the child will be when he grows up. First decide his career and then give birth to the child. I will call you. Ok sir. Thank you. - Thank you. God bless. Aunty take 300 rupees. What's the matter Dolly aunty? This shade of lipstick is looking very nice... its suiting you I say. When it comes to good looks... all we can do is take care... ...though the truth is that with age we will lose it... ...anyways your mom's henna is due. I'll let her know. - Just clean it quickly. By the way did Vicky find a job or is he still as useless? He will find one, you needn't worry. - Okay. And listen didn't your engagement break sometime back? Aren't your folks looking for another guy? I will tell you later on. Okay... ...Ioud mouth. Oh god its already ten and Vicky is still sleeping My knees pain... I feel like a maid in my own house... take care of parlor... grand mom. Oh Vicky Vicky why don't you wake up. How long are you going to sleep now? Wonder why She doesn't let him sleep A theft has taken place. Where has the T. V gone. Vicky - What happened? Vicky they have taken the our T. V... All the clothes also taken. Were you sleeping like Kumbhkaran (sleeping giant)... ...or did you eat an entire pack of sleeping pills? Every morning you get possessed by some ghost or what? Move now... grand mom we have been destroyed. Bas have taken away everything Why are you abusing? There is nothing that you can do Shut up and what you are seeing from there like monkey. Let me see atleast, what are you doing? We have been ruined grand mom. ...good that they stole the TV coz if you had... ...to sell it to a trash picker... ...you wouldn't have got more than one thousand. Your all the old sarees could've been used for this only What are you smelling like a dog? Looks like it was the black underwear gang... just smell and see. Go and lodge an FIR and find out from the shop in Ambar Colony. They might have sold the T.V. There. Listen that Mr. Bhale is giving ...and whole night he whistles outside his house. Why don't you increase his fees? Don't you dare talk about the money to me. God knows how many kilos of detergent goes in washing yourjeans... ...and then who pays for your shopping and... ...club expenses with your friends? All I know is that if you want to stay in this house... ...pay 5000 rupees every month... and that's final. Let me get the job once then I will return all your money. For God sake now don't start the story of doing a job. See the entire history so far... no one has ever done job in the family of Arora. Here... take this Umm... I will not keep quiet. Why don't you take care of the business along with your uncle. You'll have to speak English in the job. And the expenses of the attire... I am not going to give you a penny more You are my mummy or my enemy. Now where you are going with the whisky. Won't you have tea. Get me phenyl instead I don't know anything. Now you come to house after earning money Vicky stop. Now suffer because of the pampering... Obviously there is no trend of 'good' morning in your father's house. A robbery was to happen, it happened... The whole life has gone by but I've never purchased... ...anything for my own self. My small parlor income can't take care of your expensive desires. Wants to buy a flat TV... What to do your destiny is only not good... listen, get me one more cup of tea. It's too cold. And as for TV, that I will buy anyways... that too Sony. What did you think that I am dog. You'll sleep and I'll guard you. I kept you for barking. Lazy bum. Listen. What is this. Sirji you do your work. What are you doing. This is my car. Your car. Then what. This is my car. You keep you car. This is my dog. You go with your dog. This is my dog and I am tying. What is your problem? If it is yours then take it some where else. - Why? Munjal sir what happened. Nareshji no one is understanding the matter. I was coming from the market in the morning and... ...from market I went in the park. I did exercise in the park. What are you doing this. You are just confusing us. Munjal sirjust clear the matter. You are not understanding. I am telling that I went in the market and did exercise in the park. When I came here then seen that this boy ...was tying his dog in front of my car. Oh god why you are taking so much time in explaining. - I'll tell you. This is your house. Ground floor is mine. Ground floor is yours and car is also yours. - This is my car. Is it your dog. This is not my dog. You understand this. - The same thing I am telling. This is not my dog. You understand this. This is a Labradog. See carefully it is Doberman. My experience says it is labradog. What is this nuisance in the morning. Now get lost from here. You listen to me. What are you doing? Isn't he cute? Listen... I was... - Excuse me. Isn't he cute? You like it? Yes, very much. - What the price? Sold the dog. Bye God he is a heartless sperm. Are you happy now? Come on, let's go. Some donor have come for interview. Shall I send them. Send Sit. I have 17 children. You won't be able to do it... You just give chance and see. Hi Baldev. Hi! - Hi! Speak Get me men's magazines please Sir, Abhishek. Can you do it. What sir. How much cash do you think I will make out of this. I stay in Noida... can do updown. I can sing I won't get money? Latha. - Yes sir. Latha give me a crocin. Okay, sir. Chaman. - Yes. Lined up all the world's losers for me. Henceforth filter and then send. Yes sir. From tomorrow onwards you start coming on my shop at Rajori. You will learn the work in 5 - 6 months and... ...hen start your own work in South Delhi. - That's right. Yes How long will you be wandering aimlessly here and there. What's the problem? You are the biggest problem. All you do is sell clothes and you will make Vicky also do the same. What grand mom you are also always cursing him. What is wrong in his work. - Again you started. You always taunt him about his work... Uncle I won't sell your polka dot clothes. I want to do a job. There is respect in that. And respect is what sets apart business class from officer class. I won't lift your shop shutter up and down... Vicky this is no way to talk to elders. Mummy I want respect. Oh ya as if I have no respect... We are irrespectable people... for last 50 years I am running 4 shops in Delhi Brother... please - And two are on rental. Brother cool down. He's a kid... - From where have you bought these useless apples. Oh - Hey you listen to me. I can hire and sack fifty salesmen like you... Vicky my son listen. Grand mom its been fifty years since I am working... why don't you sometime give some respect to me... If you deserve then I will give respect to you. Grand mom when you give only then I'll deserve. No first you deserve and then take. You are strange... You will make me sell clothes. Hey Vicky... listen... You look handsome. Please introduce to me also to... What intro Introduce me to that girl in the parlour. If mom comes to know she'll give us a thrashing... Vicky... c'mon... don't I always help aunty with her parlor things... Get me and intro please. - Please... Bloody despot... Okay fine... Iooks like you'll not help your friends... Selfish creature... Go away. Come... have a seat Speak. - Yes. Yes this is the bill for the fees and auto charges. Give these duplicate bills later... First tell the matter. His name is Vicky Arora wow you have won one crore rupees... you F, I only told you that... I am telling you. This is the bill for the snacks that I ate. He did B. Com. From Bhagat Singh 53'/... ...Ioves loitering around with his friends. Mother runs a parlour. He himself knows all the work... ...of parlour like manicure... pedicure etc... Father is dead but it seems he has left a lot of money behind. Status on Face book is 'complicated' but on Orkut it shows 'single'. And the watchman was saying that... ...he probably has an affair with Sweta, his neighbour... His job application has been rejected from 4-5 places... ...and is a beloved of his grandma... Listen my mood is off so If there is something interesting then tell me. Now should I make it up or what. I told you the facts. Yes his grand father had 19 children. Come again... four twins and 11 singles. Last child took birth in the age of 78 years. At what age? Did you cross check? There is record in corporation. What is address. Address is 6/124, Lajpat Nagar - 4, New Delhi. Dolly today it's not effecting. Have you added more water? Uhh you are drinking slowly. But even I am not high yet. Umm. Dolly I'll tell you something... I respect you a lot. Grand mom let it be. By morning you will forget all this respect... ...and be back to cursing me and my destiny. Don't feel bad as I speak anything in the hangover. But I didn't get a single penny in your dowry... ...this hurts me till date... ...that's why I speak like that... ...grand mom this is wrong. You know I have given my whole life... ...and my beauty parlour income to you. I never served my own mother as much as I have served you. And you speak like this... I know it. And only you can take my tantrums... ...that's why I respect you... but only if you had got something for me from... ...your home when you got married... it would have been nice... when Vicky wife will get nothing for you... then you'll know how much it hurts Uhh grand mom I told you several times... ...not to take the Vicky's name while drinking... ...I loose the high. I don't know what he will do in his life. He is a good boy and one day he will make our ARORA family famous. Prepare one more. Yes. First finish this one. - No. Hey you... blowing empty whistles. - Yes sir. How did the theft happen when you were there? Sir one round takes 15 minutes. I am the watchman and not the superman. Yes sir what is the matter. You are chasing me since morning. I will dial the number 100 Please don't misunderstand me. I am law abiding citizen. I have to talk something private. Talk. Its private only. No not here. My car is there. You are searching the in law. Stop the car here. Whatever you wish to speak, speak fast. Just I asked this casually. Now you tell me about your hobbies. Hobbies... nothing. After seeing you I understand that you are correct man. Oh for what. For some work. Sirji I mean what you want from me. Well what is your opinion about the sex. As much as I get is less. I saw you and understood that Ok ask me further. Except this what do you do? Sir what I am doing and what I am not doing... ...where I am going, what is your problem. Stop the car here in the side. I am feeling uncomfortable. For every small thing tell me to stop the car. Anyway am Dr. Baldev Chaddha, M.D. Infertility specialist. Shake hand to me. I had a small infertility clinic in Dariaganj... ...for the treatment of the married couple who don't have any issue. Side by side I am running a bank also. For that I need a special donor. Sperm donor. What happen. What so funny? Sir this is the thing for donation. What so funny about it? Stop. Why are you laughing? Thank you sir for dropping me home in the cold. What's so funny about it? Think about it... I will pay you well. Let it be thank you. If he wasn't my neighbor, I would have hit him with my sandal... You beat him and see. I will cut your water pipeline. Then we'll see how you wash your henna. ...Indian Idol wannabe... No grand mom you don't be angry. I was justjoking. Here Vicky have this... I said thank you Pepsi aunty. Hello Dolly Beauty Parlour. Yes just hold on. I am calling. Vicky your phone. - Coming mummy. Come quickly. - Yes. Yes hello Vicky here. You... this is the limit... you've like entered my house... No thank you sir. Now next time don't try to call me again. Wrong number. Nowadays too wrong number phones are coming for you. Vicky listen. Yes what? This is parlour's money, go and deposit it in the cooperative bank. No mummy No ya mom... your bank is dated... it has no reputation... not even an ATM... Don't fuss around... we've had an account in the bank since partition. I am going... but to open a new account. Vicky please don't create a new problem. Sure. Sure. Yeah, just give me like one hour. Okay? Excuse me. Ma'am I want to open an account. And here is the money. Have you come for the first time in the bank? Yes. Well, sir that's not how the accounts are opened. Fill up the form and take a token from that counter. You can come back as your number comes. But Ma'am there is no one in the queue. Sir these are bank rules. Please. Weird rules I say. Sir your money. Thank you, Thank you so much. Ashima lunch Come on, let's go. Ma'am you are going half day. I got the token also and we will fill up the form also. Its lunch hour sir. I have to go. Till then you sign on the bottom. some one to introduce you. Why others. I can introduce myself... Myself Vicky Arora and you are Ashima Roy. Oh you are a Bengali? Yes I am not Punjabi. You bring some one else who has an account in this bank... ...and can introduce you. Okay. Shall we? Ashima, he is Varun's friend. - What? Sir. Now what? Fifth? The clinic is suffering losses and you are producing one after another... I have already offered you but you always say no. Shut up. There is something called the family back ground of sperm. Duffer sperm! Cancel all my appointments. Madam how is it fault if I have had a fifth child? Here, you have... I thought you'd be a decent guy since you're a doctor. By God you really have a dirty mind. Very awkward. What is dirty in that? You are asking youngsters to do such type of cheap work... Do you even know what you are talking about? I have good respect and my patients worship me It makes no difference to me. Keep your respect at home... doesn't matter to me... I hate kids But why? Have you ever smelled them? There is so much foul smell. Of urine... of potty... and when they vomit doing wuack... I don't want to have kids... Who is telling you to give birth to a child? When it is my sperm then won't the child be mine? Only your sperm will be used. Talk softly... the shop owner knows me... Sorry, sorry. Ya ya I've got it all packed... now please keep the phone... Now what I was saying was that... only the sperm will be yours ...but the responsibility of the children will not be yours... Neither the susu nor the potty... In any case it is going waste. Become a donor, at least some one will be benefited. No how do you know that it is going waste. And as it is it gets wasted only... Shall I store it in a syntax tank overhead or what Don't store in the tank but store with me. I will give you money also for that. Sir why are you getting me trapped into... I am trapping you? The real trapping is what the people in cities face these days. This infertility is the cancer of modern life. I don't want to listen. My dear this is the problem of insecure and highly ambitious people. See the routine life. Sitting late in the office then fighting the traffic return home... ...taking drink and again working on the laptop. And finally telling your wife that darling I am too tired. There married life becomes hell... One's left unable to do the real work... On the other hand are our villagers... their touch is enough to make a woman conceive Do you know the root cause of this problem... ask me what what... - Stress What? Stress. - Stress. The sperm count becomes low as the stress goes higher. You and the village... same to same... copy... ditto lucky... happy... and stress free... highly fertile... ...help me please you've come back to your purpose... I don't want to do this social service. Okay, I agree to you. But what is the guarantee that there will be child. No there is no guarantee... No guarantee. But this will be known... ...whether you are capable to give birth to a child or not. Stop the car. - Yes. I said stop the car. - One minute what happened? Stop the car. What happened? Hello! How could you say it... that I am not fit for that... I cannot give birth to a child? Don't misunderstand me. Misunderstanding... my foot... Now dare you call me ever again... Listen to me. Who are you to talk such crap about me? Don't misunderstand me. Sorry dear I'm telling you... I can give birth to as many kids... That is exactly why I came to you. Heights of being a pile on ya... Now what are you doing here? Drinking affects the strength of the sperm... Uhhhhh... I haven't said yes to you as yet... But you haven't said no either... Understand my problem. Will you have cold coffee? Can I drop you somewhere? See Vicky I am not pressurizing you. But please understand my situation... Can we talk in the evening. Ok. Shall I wait. What time, what time in the evening? There is one link. My cousin's brother in law works with the RBI. Sorry sir, not possible. I think I'll now have to find a source in the ministry Not even then sir There must be some way out. I don't know anyone who has an account with your bank ...does that mean I can't get my account opened? Sir I have already told you I do not have the authority. You could speak to the Branch Manager. I spoke to him By the way Ashima, your account is with this bank right? Obviously Lets, you and me become friends... ...and you give me a NOC... my works done... Sir I don't know you. Care for some coffee I'll get some connection... see you... Dr. Chaddha I really gave it a serious thought I am unemployed, sort of good for nothing... that doesn't mean I'd do such kind of silly work... So my final decision is a NO! Do you believe in God. Almost Then, for god's sake say yes See if I don't get a donor like you, my clinic will get ruined... the competition is very tough... ...everything will get ruined... Listen don't do this emotional talk. Please go ahead and catch some other party. Thank you. What are you saying? Here... things are getting ruined and you're saying... ...I should speak to someone else... It won't be that easy to get someone else So what do I care... sit on the seat... Is there only one guy in the whole of Delhi. ...neither does he belong to the Tatas or Birlas... You're just wasting your time behind him... for no reason... There is... There is... something in the boy This one is of our south trip. That time Vicky was 8 years old. And this one... is when I was young You don't look old now either. Thank you. Well... - By the way I'm not that old... ...but when faced with increasing responsibilities at a young age... ...the stress does come out on the body and face. - Yes yes. And this one is my husband's. He died after this trip. This is his last photo. Doesn't he look a lot like Obama. Yes yes... same to same... just 2 shades fairer... Whenever that chap comes on TV, I leave all my work and sit... It feels as if he has taken a rebirth in America. Oh Vicky you've come. You didn't tell me that you are starting a business with Chaddha sir. You got quite late. You were quite a naughty boy... have come to know of your entire history... But I didn't reveal that thing, promise... Oh no man, by god, mom's swear, you have crossed the limit Relax, mummy will hear it Please, don't touch me. Do you know what a big pile on you are? See if you don't want to do it, then don't. But don't call me a pile on. It hurts. You only tell me... Sir I am a common man. I live in Lajpat Nagar's refugee colony... My mother is a widow. If she, Pepsi aunty, Sharma's, Bhalla's, Chopra's... if they come to know that I do such... meaning such kind of work... ...then I'll lose all my respect... you'll get me thrown out of the colony. See what I am trying to say is that I am a certified MBBS doctor... ...and this work is legal. Not from today but since the times of the Mahabharata. I can stand at India Gate and announce that... ...its an ancient science... when women couldn't have children, they used to call Rishis... Rishis used to give their blessings... 'tatha asthu'... ...and there... done... it's a very ancient science... what's wrong in it And if you look at it from a business point of view... ...then you can make money, I can make money... ...my clinic will get saved... rest is upto you... Should I leave? Good night. - Good night. Yes. Yes, Dr. Chaddha had come in the morning, he's very jocular by nature Whiskey has come back... don't know from where Dr. Chaddha got him from Okay, mom. The baby has to be matching with us. We are very classy people... ...we want our baby to be like us... refined... you know. Absolutely aristocratic... Not a problem. Just fill up your requirements in the form. Next week John Abraham is coming to Delhi. If he agrees, then we'll make a deal with him. Don'tjoke, Baldev. Madam you are the one joking. See it is my guarantee to give you a healthy sperm... ...with a good hit rate. But whether the baby will be well behaved or naughty how I can tell? You have a nice day. - Thank you very much, Dr. Baldev. Next Sir! Don't you think it is a little bit funny? Yeah, that's okay. Its alright. Listen to me clearly. Tell me. I am doing this only for pocket money. There has been no change of heart Okay. I still hate children. Got it. Got it. Go there. Latha. - Yes sir... Take his details. Okay sir. Name? Vicky Arora. Sex? Male. Age? - 25. Height? - 5'10 Come. - You're coming with me? Yes, sir. Come sir There is the wash basin, and here is the tissue paper... ...and here is the container. In this, you may throw it and store it... Okay sir. Done sir. What happened? Wouldn't happen like this... No problem. This is called performance pressure in medical terms. Everyone goes through it... even cricketers before a game... Don't get tensed. Come with me. Come come... inside here... Lata! Yes sir. Thank you. Sit... sit Don't take stress. We have a solution for everything. Here, take this this Oh Boi... Double X boys... Excite boys... Triple X... and this is wild ones... right... All the best. Play the DVD and put on the headphones... all the best Done? Done sir. Congratulations. Your first payment. Balance will be paid to you after completing the procedure. Balance payment. What I mean is that for the next five to six months... ...this sample will be tested in the lab... ...and if there is a meeting with the egg then we shall pay you the balance. As it is we have a done deal right You just enjoy! The spark plug is jammed My destiny is doomed My destiny is doomed Sharma's, Rowde's, Bhalla's, all victims Part of the guilty army Part of the guilty army No more prayers, no more medicines I am changing my style Let all men take a hike I have found the potent Chaddha Chasing... Chasing... Chaddha is on the pursuit Chaddha is on the pursuit Chaddha is on the pursuit Chaddha is on the pursuit Vicky you... now what... You had told me that you will meet me when I get myself a job. So I came here first Yeah? Oh you are working now Marketing? - Yuck... I am a sperm donor Only sick people like you can do this kind of work. Next time don't show me your face... Get lost. He's modern's world's handyman Going all around with his sticky hands Ashima. Hello Ashima Ashima - Ashima Ashima - Ashima Ashima - Ashima Heck! Ashima - Hello ...Is she your relative? Brother I was helping you. Keep your help with yourself, and get out of here. Seriously, the world just does not appreciate decency... And why should I go that way, I'll go this way... Get lost. I am a sperm donor - What? Chaddha is on the pursuit Chaddha is on the pursuit Chaddha is on the pursuit Chaddha is on the pursuit Couldn't you knock before entering Why you are feeling shy? Mummy papa have gone for a wedding. I.T.O. So you've come parading yourself, to celebrate your honeymoon... F you! Now even if you call me, I won't come... ...you know that Sunny and Bunty, they're always running after me... ...and that Pitampura guy, he's even bought a car... I've got everyone hanging just for you... Who are you showing attitude to... I've never stopped you... Fine, I'm just warning you... ...that there's a whole cue of boys waiting for me out there... so don't be in this illusion that you're the only one... Shut the door... I've to change my shirt Ya ya no one's watching you... bloody loser! She thinks she is too smart. I am coming, mother! - Just go. Hey Vicky... listen up brother... Just go off to sleep man... always butting in from behind Listen Dimpy, from the parlour, was giving me the look... getting it ya... You went to the parlour. - Yes Mum will take my case... don't ever do that again. Sorry, see you always get the action bro... ...here I have a genuine problem right... Alright, listen, listen, Don't introduce me, that's alright. Get me from somewhere else then... Who am I Get me some action ya bro - Here take mine... You are forgetting your promise. The love goddess will never forgive you... Oh Vicky! Congratulations. We met at the bank. - Really Get my account opened How are you? - Very good. Hey... what's up Hi! Looking sweet. Different... kind of cute Thank you. So, you're single. How would you know? Otherwise your boyfriend would be sniffing around like a dog... ...guarding you... - Excuse me. I am an independent working girl and not like other girls I know. Therefore don't even try. Why, working girls don't have affairs? May be, but they definitely don't need a boyfriend sniffing around them... ...atleast I don't Madam see... that depends... ...if you trap a simple, decent dog... I mean boyfriend like me... then he is bound to sniff around... I am trapping you... don't forget you came here to speak to me... don't forget... Look... standing here alone... , all dressed up... ...these are the beginnings of setting the trap... I didn't know that I'd meet you here... And if you would have known, you wouldn't have come dressed up? I wouldn't have come! Hi. You are back!! No, am still stuck in traffic. Didn't sleep yet... Your dad would snore all night, let out gas repeatedly... I would fight that you are not letting me sleep... I would then come to your room and sleep... ...and no sooner would I catch a wink than he'd come & call me... ...would hold my hand all night long... ...how do I suppose I'd feel sleepy now all alone? Shall I prepare a drink. No, I'll go in just five minutes and sleep down By the way hundred percent we share some higher connection between... we keep bumping into each other... first at the market, then on the road... ...then at the sangeet... quite unbelievable. Remove the life out of the computer... what're you so busy with... ...that you can't even spare a minute to respond... ...there's this dude sitting in front of you talking crap... ...atleast respond... Sir this is not my drawing room. That I should entertain you... it's a bank... Give me your address, drawing room, bedroom... we could chat anywhere. Even I am quite uncomfortable here Sorry. Was telling you... to be seated quietly... now you've broken it... ...give you one tight one... Sir is that your son... ...yes he is my son. No just think and be sure that he is your son. Yes he is my son. Does anyone get his son to the bank for an outing... ...its the worlds most boring place... ...listen kid you carry on playing He's come here so many times. I know he is an over the top guy, but he's cute. Come on your single enjoy it. Don't be a bore Enjoy What bore... ...why do you people feel that I don't want to be in a relationship. No listen. I have to be sure first. Yes but atleast meet him once & as it is... ...who is asking you to have sex with him. Look at these marriage photos... both of you are looking so cute together. See this one. Dr. Trehan any problem. Ok let me call you back. Whose sample is this? Is everything ok. Ok. More than ok. I say unbelievable. His sperm count is 100 million and motility rate is very strong. Outstanding. Who is this? Well, he's a foreigner... So finally you found your Alexander Dr. Trehan why are you joking with me. Hello Chaman give an appointment to Bhatia. Vicky! - Yes Some Chaman had come by in the morning... ...and gave this sweet box... ...was saying there's some good news. When did he come. He had come early in the morning So how does it feel. You've conceived for the first time... that too twins... I am darn sacred... I am darn sacred... Meaning why the hell did you send the laddoos home... ...henceforth am not telling anyone that I am a sperm donor... ...the women are slapping me while your making me eat laddoos You know... women they're just wired differently... ...god hasn't made such a woman who can understand a man... ...but you don't feel disappointed... it'll affect... ...and with such women... neither waste your time nor your sperm... ...seriously your sperm count is outstanding... first time in my career... lets give it another shot... No sir the world is very mean. If everyone comes to know... doing nothing, am becoming a father... And if your clients spread the word... ...then mom will throw me out of the house... Why would the clients spread the news. There is confidentiality clause in the contract Sir may I say something, I did this just once just to keep your word... ...now I don't want to make a habit out of it... No no make it a habit. Idiotic. Yes mummy. Did you purchase a TV What TV Yes they've brought this LCD LCD? Yes. Why aren't you speaking? Where did you get the money from? Ya... ya ya mom it's yours keep it. Keep it inside please Long live my Vicky. Look Vicky if you've touched my bank account... ...I am telling you... don't increase my BP... Ya mom I'll explain later TV. LCD! LCD... and this is just the beginning... Bhatia has sent the LCD in celebration of his twins. Now you wait and watch what all you'll get both... ...in cash and in kind... ...there is much to enjoy for a sperm like you What would be the cost of LCD Fifty to sixty thousand. Sir why don't you understand. Technically I have become a father... ...and it feels really strange What feeling my dear Just do what you feel like doing... eat well, sleep well, and dress well... ...don't take stress... it'll affect your sperms All the time sperm sperm. Cant you ever think of anything else... Listen listen... I get like over a thousand biodatas everyday... ...with people applying to be sperm donors... ...ask Chaman if you wish to... If you had so much choice why did you select me. Listen... sit... sit... ...call it 20 years experience or 6th sense... I can tell a good sperm just by looking at a man's face... You're taking my case... See your report, its brilliant. Such DNA belong only to the true Aryans... your a pure Aryan... you're the son of an Aryan you bloody... ...you're the son of an Aryan you bloody... Confused sperm. Listen Have you ever heard the name of Alexander. Your DNA belongs to his family. What are you talking. Listen listen Look... whets written here... Map - Map What's written here... The conquest of Alexander the Great Look this is Macedonia, Alexander's country... from here he takes off... continues continues... reaches here Asia Minor meaning Turkey... from Turkey he takes off straight, then left then again left and... ...then a right and reaches Persia... ...after crossing Persia... and via Hindukush he entered into INDIA... ...but before he reached INDIA... he had many marriages... ...post marriage left his soldiers behind... Alexander's soldiers and local women had sex... ...and married each other... and had their children... understood... ...and you guys came here only after the partition right? And Lajpat nagar Is full of refugees... ...you also are a refugee right... so all this happened right there... what I am trying to say is that you are a pure Aryan race! Don't believe me do you... Iook this is history and this is science... they both go along together... parallel I am a man of science We can not go on together... parallel... ...just drop me home please Listen... the sperm count of an Aryan is best in the world. I get all types of demands from overseas... ...sperm samples of Brad Pitt, Shahrukh Khan, Lady Gaga, Beckham. Clients demand the sperm samples of such celebrities... Now you please tell me where am I to get their samples from... ...but since there is a demand we would have to meet it How? You are there na... You play cricket so you are my Dhoni... ...handsome you already are, so there is my Beckham... you dance, sing well... there you go - Lady Gaga... and drama is inborn in us Indians... so you become my Shahrukh... ...consumer is happy and so is the manufacturer... Sir increase my rate then... Idiot. Greedy sperm... When this little flower bud blooms into a plant It blooms into a bud. Hey, iPhone has come. This is a 16GB one. Dear, I had asked for a 32 GB one. Cheers. It blooms into a bud And so does the demand for this... ...that and just about everything that money can buy Dolly Arora... Didn't you say Rs.5,000 per month? This is 5,000... From where did you get this money? We want the best quality sperm Don't worry about the money We're getting demand from foreign countries... Give me cash. - Cash. - Cash. I need a good quality Indian sperm donor. Cash. Give me cash. Cash. Mrs. Bhatia breathe... Take a deep breath... When this little plant turns into a big tree Turns into a big tree The feeling takes over to live big, in style and live free And so does the demand for this... ...that and just about everything that money can buy As the wants are unlimited and even bigger than the sky I am late. I will try and make it as soon as I can. Auto. What are you doing madam. Delhi is not safe in night. Come. First CR park please So, how's work at the bank going... ...but you have quite an interesting job... ...just sit back and count others' cash... Don't you get bored... Meaning there isn't a single guy in the bank whom you could check out... I go there for work, not to check out guy As I told you, I am not interested. That's the problem... just chill... ...take life lightly... else you'll be frustrated all life long Well, am I the frustrated one or you... You. ...who was checking out those useless magazines. O.K. So I did see those magazines... but didn't buy a single one... check if you wish to... Please Take left in the street. Here's your Bengali colony Ashima... ...no bye... no thanks... Am not that bad... Good night. Sir by the way you could have done much. Just take it to Lajpat Nagar You're a smart chap... Don't talk crap... lets go This way. Hi! Hi I am sorry I got late... too much traffic... uhh should we order for lunch? Obviously but I thought you would not come. Now that night you dropped me at home safely ...didn't even take the money for auto also, so one lunch is O.K. I was going home in the auto anyways. Anyway where do you work. What. Where do you work. I am looking for a job and for time being I am in export import. Of what? Handicrafts - Really! Really my dad was working in Handicraft Emporium. I mean he is retired now What happened, what so funny... What happened, what's so funny... so are you single You want to confirm before having an affair No I am just asking you. I hardly know you. I don't want have an affair with you. Then how come you've come for a date. I just came. It is not a date. O.K. Leave it. Have I held you as yet You always talk like this. I talk like that also. Ma'am, your order please. There is a reason - Bye. For this restlessness I like you this I agree to There is a reason for this restlessness I like you this I agree to There was once some disinterest Hello. Now I have found peace, limitless Bye. Let me be lost - I am getting late. Today no bank Why... I never bunked There is always a first day. But why? Yeah, tomorrow... She is having a burger. Call later. Daily bunk for one or two hours... it'll help It's time to love you Let me be lost Let me lose myself Let me be lost Let me lose myself It's not the weather, it's the heart You are unique, the rest is useless You are unique, the rest is useless You are unique, the rest is useless You are unique Let me be lost Let me lose myself Let me be lost Panditji what happened? Vicky Pepsi aunty was asking me what you do. I told her to ask you herself. Whatever you all are planning, send it out of boundary. See my dear there is no hurry. But one thing let me tell you... ...that I really think you and Sweta look really sweet together See son now you have started earning, so get married. Today your telling me to get married... ...tomorrow you'll tell me to have kids... Right. If its only about kids, then I can have them today itself... Vicky. Why did you kiss me and all of that? That night I was drunk, after that have I ever touched you... ...put on your dupatta Put on my dupatta... Why're you ignoring me. You were drunk just that one night... ...what about the other nights. What other nights. I never touched you. Did I ever stop you. See the door is open, somebody could see us... what are you doing... get away from me Look if you don't want to do marriage now then O.K. I will convince to mummy, but don't break our relationship in this way... What relationship... I have already told you that we are just childhood friends don't raise false hopes... So you do all that with a friend that one should do with a girlfriend. Aren't you feeling anything... ...just troubling me aren't you... or you've found somebody else... There's no one else... ...and even If there is why should I tell you... bloody pile on... Hooo... when that you've done everything with me... ...I've become a pile on I even given you all my pocket money... now you give me back all my money There... shown your real self... Bloody typical C block mentality... here take this... ...here here take all your money... haven't even counted it I will take my money and now you see... what I do... I will tell everything to aunty... open up all your secrets What you will tell. Yes I know everything about you and the doctor... I know all that's going on between the two of you... What do you know. That you're getting your treatment done Treatment... hahahah... Go, go, tell everyone... Yes I will tell to the entire colony and you go to hell. You go to hell. You take your money. Now I'll show you when you come to me... And one more thing... One day or other all this will come out in the open. I've become habituated to earning quick money thanks to you... What is wrong in this? As it is what does a boyfriend and girl friend do with each other... Why? Eating burgers at Wimpy's. Some kisses... some touching... ...now they aren't going to have kids right... all wastage of sperm... Listen now you be away from all these. All the time You land up connecting such diverse topics with each other... If I listen to you... I'll land up dying a bachelor Come on yourjob. Me, hi I'm on the treadmill... ...what are you doing in parlour? Hadn't you refused me? Are you out of your mind? You hang in there, am coming. Stay there. Okay bye. What are you doing here? Extremely sorry sir, not today please next time double Just give a little bit. Give some atleast... Hey have called for some sweets from Tiwaris... Send them home... Ma'am, your driver is waiting... Leave that. Mom... here's the money... Thank you aunty I will be back. Bye. O stranger from distant lands Your home is across the seas... O, dear foreigner I could not understand anything... but you sing beautifully... This was mom's favourite song... ...5 year's back she died, since then... Sir tea In the house there's only myself, dad and Peeshi One thing's for sure... ...your children will become singers Meaning Genes, after all they will have an effect. Well do you love children. You love kids. I'm ok I love kids You love kids - I love them. I am also a kid only. Unsaid things get colored You start calling a person your very own Sir its coming switched off. Yes. Suddenly how come you made a plan to meet? I want to tell you something. Tell me. I am a divorcee I knew it. I knew there had to be something... ...that you're forever cranky... What's the story? an arranged marriage. The boy was from DU. A Banker. Oh would be earning well. Sorry then what happened. Nothing, on our first night of marriage, I came to know that... ...he loved somebody else and married me only under family pressure. I don't know why he kept it a secret. Should have told me. They are sissies... Bengalis I am not like that. What happened after that? Nothing, caught an auto in the middle of the night... ...and came back to my house. He did not even find it necessary to drop me home. Ha, that's not a marriage there, you didn't even have sex... Besides you had to spend on the bridals... Giving back to Mother is a 50'/, Well when you meet mom, avoid the divorce matter. Why. - We're Punjabis... conservative... not modern like you'll And you. Everything is cool for me. Do you have a secret... No. And this is the profile picture All details are totally correct. You can check it whenever... Why are we here... ...what do you want from me. Don't know Ashima... But since I've met you... I feel I can't live without... It's like you've become a habit... first when I met you at the bank... I was like what kind of girl is she... then I was like... ...no however she is... she's just fine... ...to make you smile sort of became my responsibility... ...after dropping you at home in the evening... ...and then picking you up in the morning... ...and the time in between... bloody just doesn't pass... ...but why've you asking me all this... Because even I have fallen for you. I want to marry you. I want kids a family... ...but that's ok... it's not necessary... ...for you to have similar feelings... Maybe you don't want to settle down... So you can let me know Come, let's go to your Kaalibadi and get married. I am serious Vicky. I am also serious. Listen... this 'Peeshi' in your house... Is she your cat or dog... Peeshi means aunt. Do you drink The purity of water The purity of water It's nice... a little blue though Sit comfortably I like it... Really? Brings a tear to my eyes Brings a tear to my eyes My beloved didn't show up My beloved didn't show up My love didn't show up My beloved didn't show up My beloved didn't show up My love didn't show up You know what a drunken bengalan looks... Take a look at yourself in the mirror. You are drunk Father's at home... Peeshi? So do we play ludo sitting here? Your absence has made me go crazy Come back, my beloved Your absence has made me go crazy Come back, my beloved Seasons have come and gone You still haven't come, my love O intro... get out of here... You still haven't come, my love When I saw your divine eyes When I saw your divine eyes A tear came to my eye A tear came to my eye A tear came to my eye On the terrace when we would meet I will call you. - Ok. Correct... Bye - Bye I'm crazy about you. I love you You won't find anyone like me Forego the world and come back to me Forego the world and come back to me Brings a tear to my eyes A tear came to my eye A tear came to my eye A tear came to my eye A tear came to my eye What is all this going on in your life. Nothing. Lying doesn't suit you Who is this Ashima. We are getting married Listen... dating and shating is fine... ...chilling out, going out Is fine... but marriage. Listen understand the importance of bachelorhood... In bachelorhood you can eat when you want, drink when you want... ...the toothpaste cap will remain wherever you left it... ...but after marriage you'll lose this freedom. And from the client's point of view the value of bachelor's sperm is... Every time you just talk about sperm... sperm... sperm It's been four years... my mind has gotten rusted... Rise above the sperm there is a heart also. Chaddha sir what about love? Bye. Your dad's never going to accept this... Why Peeshi ma? Why... you know don't talk like as if you don't understand... North Indian... aethe uthey kithey... oh god... ssss... cant even think about it... you know they don't even take off the price tags from their clothes... and then they'll say 'Oh I made a mistake... ' Ok just meet him once No this match is NOT possible at all Showed you so many girls... and finally you chose to find yourself a Bengali... Ashima Roy... have you lost it? Her name itself is so bitter, what'll she be like... do you know how dominating these girls are... and why do I have to adjust everytime... I am not going to adjust this time, I will not... ...first get dominated by in laws then by this Bengali bride... ...listen carefully, only a Punjabi bride will enter this house... ...and that too a fair & pretty one... else go get married all by yourself! Even if no one goes, I will definitely go to your marriage... and that too wearing a suit by Ritu Kumar Grandmom, you don't interfere... please don't... I have only one son... and he'll get a Bengali bride? Listen they are really big misers... I challenge you, show me one such Bengali in the whole world... ...who lives like us... with a big heart... ...and their food... FISH... bitter oil... morning evening night fish fish fish... god, a man would just faint... I will not... Mom please ya... atleast meet herjust once I am not going to meet that Bengali woman She is not typical. Everytime something good happens... ...she has to spread sadness... that's her habit Your grandfather, wanted to make you a sardar... I was the one who opposed it... ...and now this Bengali woman, she's going to make you a monkey... ...will make you wear a monkey cap and rubber chappals... then don't come to me crying... momma save me... save me, help help help Ignore all that... you tell me... does she look like Moon Moon Sen? Better than that... Ya... - Yes Show me a photo... It is in the phone see. Show me... Here Oh dear god, looks so pretty... like a princess... touchwood... ...can I give you a surprise? I am going to sponsor your honeymoon trip... Oye why did you stop this... continue. What is this you are doing? You know I hate North Indians... I mean you're an independent, modern, smart, Bengali woman... and he ARORA, Punjabi! We have our culture, literature, music... ...this just won't match, no match at all... bloody money minded business class (Making fun) balley balley... and you want to do that monkey dance ...that's right baba... that's exactly what I want to do... ...and what culture are you talking about? About that son-in-law of yours who didn't have the guts... ...to speak the truth that he already loved somebody else... ...he was your cultured, well read Bengali... right? Vicky's not like that... he genuinely cares for me baba... That's because he has some personal agenda... they are selfish people Ya he does have an agenda baba... he wants to marry me Where does he work? Own business. What? No no this marriage cannot happen... ...your uncle's son-in-law, can't you find a boy like him... I don't care papa... That is why I told you not to settle in Delhi. You keep quiet... your also responsible... ...what do you mean by you don't care... I am the owner of this house I decide here Here have this fish Fish... a man's character can be known from the way he buys his fish... ...he has to pass the fish test first. He does not eat fish. Couldn't you find a Bengali boy to fall in love with? Best of the Bengali boys wants to marry you... doctor, engineer... They are good looking... smart... well behaved... they are good lovers... too... yes... what... what... what do you think... ...what do you think, they are not good in bed. What're you saying... I'm saying the right thing... they are good in sex also I was... if your mom was alive... she would have told you... when I used to hug her tight... she would ummm feel shy... ...and ask me to loosen up... ...and don't tell me Punjabis are better than us. When do you want to meet him? What will I do visiting those bengalis... ...sorry but I can't come... No no I wasn't telling you... ya ya I'm coming... Pack me 4 portions of chole-puri with extra choley... ...ya I'm coming you keep the phone... Sorry friend sorry. Sir, you tell me not to get married While you yourself have a wife... No no she's not my wife... ...she's my maid servant since 32 years... ...now she behaves like a wife inspite of a being a maid... ...so as good as a wife... Sorry dear Fine don't come... but never try calling me ever again... I hate Punjabis. I can understand. ...our nature is different... and further more they are Aroras... ...didn't I tell you these Bengalis don't like us Punjabis I hate Delhi also. Sir, which means you haven't seen Delhi well enough... I am happy in my CR Park my Bengali colony. By the way... that too is Delhi sir Are you his uncle? No no business partner professional uncle you can say. What is your business. Trading Trading... no investments... only profits Sir... you didn't tell us why you hate Punjabis Because we believe in simplicity... Not like Punjabis who are only show offs. I agree with you madam... Our cultures just don't match... I was explaining him this only that there will be a problem... See understanding Sir understanding is very important sir... If the two of us have an understanding all problems will get solved... ...and I know a little bit about Bengalis I see what do you know about Bengalis. They love fish... Sir, they're intelligent... jana gana mana adhinayak... ...our national anthem was written by gurudev Rabindra Nath Tagore... and sir Mohan... football Football Mohan Bagan Sir, that guy plays brilliant football Guy... it's a team, it's a football team... He made a team... and your 'elder sister' sir elder sister... elder sister Mamata Ya... that very same elder sister is the 11th chief minister of Bengal Sorry, sir. Tuna. Yes Baba Bring the tea I'll bring the starters Mrs. Arora I hope Vicky has informed you that Ashima is a divorcee Divorcee? Vicky you didn't... This is too much. Oh such a fine girl... you don't look like it at all... anyways all for good... that fellow's loss and Vicky's gain... Now whatever grandmom decides would be the final word Listen you don't have any children do you... O grandmom, what's the difference, we either say yes or no... whichever way lets decide fast... what's the big deal! For me she's absolutely Ok... Dolly for me she's absolutely fine... You know Dolly... Vicky's mother... Vicky's father Gurmeet passed away very young... ...and she became a widow at a very young age... if it was upto me I would have gotten her remarried... why spend your whole life sad & alone? I appreciate your progressive thinking. Thank you. If Vicky's fine, then even we don't have any problem... after all we're also modern people... right... congratulations dear... Your husband didn't come ma'am Oh I never married... ummm... I didn't find the right man Oh... you should have told me... I would have lined up right men for you... Mr. Rai there must be tremendous pressure on you Why? Daughter is a divorcee and sister bachelor And you widow. You... How old must you be Excuse me, can we talk about the wedding See, we don't want a loud marriage... not loud at all... and the marriage should follow the Bengali traditions No no no no... the marriage will be done by Punjabi traditions... ...after all it's our son's first marriage... so many known people... they're all waiting to be invited... and please do invite a DJ DJ... No no no what is she saying Listen dear... you keep quiet... ...you now belong to the Arora family... ...let these bongs speak what they wish to... uh anything else See... all this drinking and all that goes on in your Punjabi marriages... I personally feel that all that should not happen in a marriage ceremony Our family really does not like that. Where are the beer bottles Look through the window of your eyes Measure it on the balance scale of your heart Look through the window of your eyes Measure it on the balance scale of your heart You will not find someone like me no matter... ...where in the world you search... search... search search... search You people open da door I manna burn da floor What is this. He's become a loser Get mixed in our lives and its colour Could not she find a better Bengali boy. Look how they're dancing, like monkeys. Oye pigs, stop this, the ceremony is about to begin. Get mixed in our lives and its colour Why're they taking her round and round Hope she doesn't fell giddy... Hello Mr. Chaddha everything is fine. Great... enjoy This is all a wastage of money, wastage of sperm. Search... search search... search You people open da door I manna burn da floor You people open da door I manna burn da floor Yes, yes, I am coming. Bunty bring on the liquor bottles from the car... I never wanted Tuna to get married in a Punjabi family... ...but now I think she has made the right choice. Both are looking so cute. Peeshima what is this. This is very simple. There would be bulb in your house... so remove the bulb... and put it down... We are happy and we keep everyone happy. Come with me. Where where Mrs. Arora And wear their untamed hearts on their sleeves You will not find someone like me no matter... ...where in the world you search... search... search search... search Your dad's gone balle balle Mrs. Arora chicken curry was out of the world. Thank you thank you. What I was saying was that... ...the terrace room is not big enough for the two of you ...why don't we take a two bedroom flat some where nearby. No mummy we will manage. Why Vicky. Mrs. Arora listen I am shifting to Kolkata... ...and the entire house will be empty. They can easily shift there. No no but they will be away from us. Whose phone is it? See... Dr. Chaddha you're really strange I've... ...just been married... don't you have any patience... See this is a politician family and I am under pressure. Don't refuse, this is a big deal and I have already made a commitment. If you refuse, I'll be in big trouble... And What about the problem that'II... Vicky relax... think with cool mind. On a later day, if this child becomes tomorrow's Prime Minister... ...then you can proudly say Vicky Arora's son is the Prime Minister. Who are you explaining to? Listen stop giving me this crap... The risk has increased... you will cause a break up in my marriage. Complicated sperm. Hurry up. Two minutes. Okay, I will get it. Have some shame... and tell that Dr. Chaddha never again... Go now... Come on Who? - No one. Ready Come on Who was that man? No one... Moments... these moments... These moments of mine... This is our exotic honeymoon destination. Yes yes absolutely O.K. Bye People go to Bangkok and we've come to Kolkata So how do we like it. Feels good... just place a bed here... in the open air Ok. This mosquito net, reminds me of cricket's net practice I will die without you I will die without you I will die without you I will die without you This was just net practice... ...lets play again... I will die without you Mummy drinks After dad's death she became very Ionely... so gets relaxed taking one or two pegs... feels good... That's true cool ya You know I wish to change my profession, start something new Why? Its enough. Don't feel interested... But there is money in your account. I've seen it Any way whatever makes you happy... ...meanwhile drop me to the bank and in the evening pick me up... Just like that Vicky has flown away... ...gone out of our hands... How much more would you use him... ...now get used to being without him... look for someone else... if we can get 5-6 months more with him, be grateful... I won't be coming tomorrow... Pain in the sperm. Doctor will be available tomorrow morning. Excuse me where does Dr. Shobha sit Third row from left. Ashima are you fine? Are you fine? Why are you crying... tell me what did the doctor say? Ashima has tubal blockage. I have read her reports... ...she would never conceive in the natural process Doctor she's still quite young... ...there must be some treatment or way-out. I understand your point Mr. Arora... ...but some times the body is just not well equipped for the pregnancy. I would not like to give you any false hopes... ...but right now you need to support Ashima... ...emotional and psychologically... Vicky don'tjoke with me. Never. What happened. Tuna can not have baby. Is she alright. Ashima say something... What do I say... ...the entire world can have kids except me Don't think like this. Its destiny. Destiny? This is my destiny. You're speaking as if I haven't tried hard enough... We'll consult some other doctor. Haven't a child is not everything is it... But for me it is. Our child... ...half punjabi, half Bengali... ...half Delhi, half Kolkata... ...half Vicky and half Ashima... If you keep crying like this... even I feel really bad... to divert the mind... ...let's go out some where... let's sit there and discuss... Okay? Such things happen in today's life style. What can we do... Listen adopt. Grandmom our blood is our own after all... See I am the head of family, rest is upto Ashima... Grandmom there are only two things modern in Delhi... ...one is Metro and other you. You know I don't know about this adoption and all. I have not thought about it. I don't know whether we will be able to give so much love... ...to another's child I don't know. Anyways I'm feeling sleepy... Vicky this is only my report, not yours. Where are your reports? We did your tests right. No. What? No. Why not. What problem would I have? I am fine. How can you be so sure? Every one will think that I have a problem... What if there is some problem with you... Fine, we'll do it tomorrow. Don't get stressed No one minute... the question is not that we'll do it tomorrow... ...the question is why didn't you get you're your tests done. Why? Because... earlier I was used to donate sperm... I was a sperm donor... I was a sperm donor... It was before marriage. So what about those... handicrafts... Trading business. Oh now I get it... Why didn't not tell me... I am a divorcee... still I told you right. It was a marriage of only a few hours still I told you... ...because I wanted you to know everything about my life. How could you hide such a big thing from me... Why is it so important for you men to hide things. Look at me when I am talking to you. What would I have told you... No you think now I will understand. What would I have told you... that I donate sperm. I used to get myself tested for pregnancy... It would come out negative... I used to cry for hours... And you used to, very calmly console me... now I know why... you were already had children They are not my children only my sperm was used. Did it because of that Dr. Chaddha... and later... first it was for money Sorry, you did it for money. Oh God. Its disgusting Vicky. Why didn't you tell me. Look now I made a mistake... now what do I do... I am not interested just tell me why didn't you tell me. What would I have told you. Did you do it after marriage also? Didn't go to the clinic but Dr. Chaddha's man... ...used to come home to collect the sample... Move move... Now, what's the point in sleeping separately. Husband wife have such problems. And trust if that itself does not remain. I can not sleep with you any more. I can not sleep with a man who shags for money. I feel so stupid... You kept doing all this... ...just didn't come to know. Earlier I did it for money but later O.K. Fine when you felt that you were doing it for social service... ...then you could have told me... ...may be I could have understood... And where are your children. I want to meet them... now. How you can just meet them... it's... It's a contract. What contract... I am your wife. You're my husband... ...they are your children and I can meet them. I want to meet them now. I don't know... I don't care just now. What are you searching for. Boroline. Why. What's it to you... I want it. Not going to the bank. Move... Ashima. Ashima. The purity of water The purity of water Yes mummy. Police is here, they are saying that you have black money... ...and they have come to take that. This is only a beauty parlour... ...or some other facility is also available. Excuse me, how're you speaking with the lady... Are you Vicky. Mummy you go inside Just tell me where did all this come from. I have purchased it, don't people give gifts... It is gift. - Yes These 25 lakhs is also a gift. Good thing the parcel went to the wrong address... To Pepsi Ballad and she reported it to us. Listen. Where are you taking him... Mummy you go inside... I will come in sometime... just inform Ashima My beloved didn't show up My beloved didn't show up My beloved didn't show up My beloved didn't show up I am sorry my dear. My love didn't show up My beloved didn't show up When I saw your divine eyes When I saw your divine eyes Hey hero come outside. Now you tell me that when a person gets such good news after years... ...who's become a father for the first time... ...and if he happens to be a rich man... Wouldn't he like to share his happiness? ...he'd like to give a gift... in cash or kind... ...besides this one came from the minister's house... ...now if I take his name then both of us will be in trouble... Is there a business like this also? Yes ofcourse sir, and its legal. Sperm donation. Dr. Chaddha now I don't want to have anything to do with you seriously... What happened. It makes no difference to you... ...if the some one's life is destroyed does it. Just tell me what happened Sir Ashima can not be pregnant. We can not have a child. Me, a sperm donor, used to brag about it... ...and now I myself can't have a child... Oh no. She has tubal blockage. I am so sorry. Forget this sorry sir... it's like this only now, life has taken my case. Just listen... Where is Ashima? Don't you feel ashamed of yourself doing this dirty business? The inspector suspected me of running a brothel... You have ruined our family's name... ...and you ask me where Ashima is... She has left for Calcutta... ...and if I was in her place, I would have done the same. Now get lost from here. The purity of water The purity of water. Tuna have you fought with him and come here. No dad. Then what's wrong. Nothing. Vicky you have really insulted us and your Dr. Chaddha... ...bloody villain, I'll catch him soon... Sperm donor ohm... so what's the problem. What are you saying dad? How can you support him? Darling you are a modern woman, well read... ...well traveled and you are talking like this rubbish. Rubbish... your calling it rubbish... Your son-in-law already has children... ...and you expect me to have a modern outlook? He should have told me... So... what... These are today's so called modern women ...shameless - who can give birth to a child with anybody... Grand mom you call yourself modern. Are modern people like this. Atleast I understood one thing. - Bread also got burnt. Those who couldn't have kids, have kids today because of Vicky Mom it's all science. Listen... to hell with your science and arts... ...because of this our entire family's name is ruined... This is science... Memories Your memories Your thoughts Smolder my life Nights Dark, Ionesome nights Frighten me, hound me My love, without you I shall die Dolly let it be, am not in a good mood today without you I shall die Even I am not in the mood Thank you. Vicky how are you brother? Are you happy now? - Brother if your there won't I be happy? Vicky dear you've come alone? Dolly aunty and Ashima didn't come? No they didn't come. - Congratulations. They haunt And tear me apart Your memories Your thoughts My love, without you I shall die My love, without you I shall die Oye Vicky I heard that Ashima has left... listen am your uncle if you have anything to say feel free. You didn't even call... where are you going. To donate sperm. You want to come along? They haunt And tear me apart Vicky dear at my shop, look, this is the ladies section... ...and that is gents section. Poppy write the bills... - Yes, father. Vicky Dolly had called me, told me that you've done something wrong... ...really you've done something very inappropriate... What wrong... what wrong have I done. Uncle I was a sperm donor. Is sperm donation wrong work. If it is yes then what you will do. You will stop me from coming in the shop. Go to hell with your shop. What have you done all your whole life except giving birth to this Poppy. If you were a sperm donor like me... ...then could have had a chance of giving birth to better samples. My love, without you I shall die My love, without you I shall die My love, without you I shall die Hello, you didn't call me even once Say something atleast What. Just ask me how I am Come back my dear... ...promise will never make you cry again. I need some more time Vicky. Memories Your memories How are you. Let it be... how I could be without you... Nights Dark, Ionesome nights Frighten me, hound me My love, without you I shall die Hello Vicky How you dare to call here. You got only my son in the entire world for this. No - See I also know to do business... ...but I never play with the emotions of people. See you are misunderstanding me. We have trusted on you and you have used us. You have made our house into pieces, made partition of it. What type of doctor are you? Let it be now. Shut up and see I am giving you warning that... ...if you came in front of my eyes... ...and if you tried to meet or contact to me or Vicky... ...in future then I will cut you into pieces. Meet me once, please. Please Dr. Chaddha it's Ok It makes no difference. All these things happened and you did not tell me anything. Sir the reality is that you have taken his advantage... ...you have purchased car, farm house and house. First it is important to take out Vicky from this situation... ...otherwise the acidity which is in me will never be healed up. Dolly is the first lady who read me correctly. It is called grip on life... that she has. She was shouting in anger on phone but there was pain in the voice. Great lady. Sir I understand Dolly ma'am... ...but now what to do further that we have must think. Oh, God. So, what you are thinking sir. I don't understand how it will happen so soon. You don't give me tension. Sir you don't take tension and go. Just leave that key and lap top here. Chaman! Chaman what is going on. Sir good morning sir Good morning. Sir What is this. Sir this is the file of Vicky Donor and all the details are in this. Oh you are very unpredictable sperm. Sir you don't think now and take the name of God... ...and dial the first number. You are right. Hello yes... Mr. Bhatia speaking? Mr. Bhatia greetings, . Dr. Baldev from Chaddha Infertility clinic... O.K. Ma'am... Ahuja with Mrs. Ahuja next Saturday 25th Anniversary. Am I talking to Mrs. Grewal. Hello, Dr. Chaddha. Oh my God you recognized my voice. You know what my in-laws say that he is a ghost of Ambani. Yes I have sent silver anniversary card by courier. But it was my duty to invite you personally. Mrs. Mehta has done another one! I am so sorry Mr. Mehta... ...by the way Mr. Mehta can you give the number... ...of new husband of Mrs. Mehta. He cut it Can I talk to Mrs. Mirchandani please. Next baby, cooler sperm... After two building. Madam is not there... he is in the bedroom with someone else. Yes Mr. Lee Silver Jubilee Kapoor or this is just a gentle reminder. We will definitely come. Tuna so what's your plan. Bank wants to know when you are joining back. I don't know. What you are doing is not good for you Tuna. Whatever is in your heart you must discuss with Vicky, it is necessary. It is necessary. Did he feel necessary to tell me? I don't know You are so shameless! Always keep coming here! Every one commits a mistake. You forget the past. Again you are back on the same topic. Don't say topic... ...since the last two months four... ...cases have been lodged by clients against me. You ask why because their children have not even learnt to say... ...mummy papa and they have started to abuse. The party says that the family back ground of the donor was not good. Shake hands at least! Well tried Chaddha sir, please get out. Please. See I can understand your frustration but I realized. How can you understand the frustration? This house is not a house without Ashima. The silence is haunting... One iron lady your mother told me correctly... ...that I have spoiled your family life. I did it. I have to correct it now. Dolly says that Ashima should come back home. I also think that Ashima should come back. Ashima has to understand that you were not wrong. This is not possible. Once you bring her to my clinic for one hour on next Saturday. Next Saturday is the 25th anniversary of the clinic. See this, 25th silver jubilee anniversary. Do you think that she will come? Brother... I told you I need some more time. I can not come now. Just see, it is only a matter of one day. Even after that if you feel that what I did was wrong then... ...we will sort out according to you. You want separation or divorce? Divorce? Did I hear divorce... no no. Not again you will go with him. Dad you are again taking his side. Yes I am... ...because you are only thinking about yourself. But she is right papa, meaning I have not told her. It is my mistake. Question yourself Tuna. You are hurt because he was donor or he has not informed you or... ...you can not get pregnant while he can become a father. He loves you... ...even after knowing that because of you he can not give birth to a child. He loves you... he wants to be with you... it's not that easy darling. For once, just think from his side. It's ok. If you don't want to come then don't come. Why are you crying? See I have come to your city Kolkata for the second time. Show me your city. Show me Kaalibadi... ...a match of Mohan Bagan... Make me meet Mamata didi But don't cry. Welcome. Come, come. Grace of God, welcome... come... please come. Ashima. Whatever Vicky has done or I got it done from him was right or wrong... I really don't know... Call me a businessman or a doctor or my helplessness... Nor do I wish to give any explanation... But I would like to ask you one question. Just stand here and tell me how you are feeling to see... ...these kids playing in the park. What kind of a question is this? All I know is among these... ...kids even my child could have been there. All are happy, enjoying. Everyone's family is complete but... ...why not mine. Just like you are feeling now... ...few years back parents of these children were also feeling the same. Before Vicky donor came into their life. The reason for their happiness is Vicky. Because these children are from his sperm. Come with me. Look, look. Which among them are mine? Each & everyone is yours... All of them are mine? - 53 Total 53 Vicky... Can I meet them? - Sure. Yes but don't ask for details. When this little flower bud blooms into a plant Bud blooms into a plant The pot of wants blooms with it The pot of wants blooms with it And so does the demand for this... ...that and just about everything that money can buy As the wants are unlimited and even bigger than the sky Hello. Its so magical. Here, here's you gift. There he stands, and another one stands Asking for money, and much more money When this little plant turns into a big tree Very good. Enjoy yourself. When a bud turns into a tree He is quiet fit. You get the urge to live You get the urge to live Sit down, sit down. Mix this and mix that... It's the colour of life... Whatever you mix, it will be less... the need is as much as the sky... Its a great couple That boy there in black... ...his hair is like yours... That little foreigner girl's... ...nose is like yours... ...that little ching chong... ...his eyes are like yours. Baba was right and I was insecure. I can not do the same which you did... never... I am sorry. I am sorry. I am sorry. There is one more child... ...and I want you to meet with him. Myself and Chaman were inviting the... ...clients by going door to door for the anniversary. I came to know that one couple among them... ...died in a car accident near Chandigarh few years back. After death of the son they came to know... ...that their grand daughter is a donor baby. They tried hard to find out but could not succeed. Due to the old age and since there was no one after them to take care... ...they put her in this orphanage house. Thank you Dr. Chaddha for doing this, you saved a soul... ...and Mr. And Mrs. Arora the name of the child is Diya... ...and she's been here with us for last six months... Shall we go and meet her. Sure sure... Let's go home. Thank you ma'am I am sure you are going to keep Diya happy. Thanks ma'am Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks. - Come. Come. Thank you. God bless. You did all this for me. Chaddha sir you are unbelievable... What did I do? I have not done anything. You did all this and this is your wonder. The wonder of your sperm This entire world is a sperm. God bless you. Bye. Chaddha sir... Listen there is a demand from one more party. What are you talking? I am a family man now. Just do it for the last time. Shall I say yes? I will get it picked up from any where you say. Ok. Ok. Bye!!! "The one with beautiful eyes, open the window and see." "Weigh it in your heart and see." "The one with beautiful eyes, open the window and see." "Weigh it in your heart and see." "You will not find a young man like me." "You may search in the whole world." "Search, search. Search, search." "You people go for the door. I want to be on the floor." "Mix it with our colours." "Go over it with red flowers." "You will not find a young man like me." "You may search in the whole world." "Search, search. Search, search." "You people go for the door. I want to be on the floor." "You people go for the door. I want to be on the floor." "For the sake of love." "Will open my heart before you." "You will not find a young man like me." "You may search in the whole world." "Search, search. Search, search." "My shoes are sequenced." "The moustache is starched, and the turban is colourful." "You will not find a young man like me." "You may search in the whole world." "Search, search. Search, search."
