 

                        A mighty city has stood proud in England for over 2,000 years. It has withstood wars, plagues and fire, but remained unbowed. This city has ruled a global empire on which the sun never set while celebrating tradition and royalty in equal measure. And so, we come to this city, this magical city that is London. What's this phony ceremony, hanging around? We got to get down, lock it out From this shaky ground, come on and Spit it out, your hearty party mood everywhere Let's see you people laughing, people punching out in the air Get down to the hip-hop a be-bop-a-loo-a You hear the sound, it's all coming to ya I wanna get ya, I wanna tease ya, I'm gonna get this beat to hit ya Get down to the big time illusion Life or the rest Come on and tough it, jump it, funk that feeling Give all your best She stood there bright as the sun On that California coast He was a Midwestern boy on his own She looked at him with those soft eyes So innocent and blue He knew right then he was too far from home And those Hollywood nights In those Hollywood Hills She was looking so right In her diamonds and frills All those big city nights In those high-rolling hills About all the lights She had all of the skills Come on and drive on, drive on Drive on into night You got that burning power, midnight hour Flashing your light It's just a love game of heart and pain that we're giving out That's what the 21st century is all about You gotta... You gotta... Well, you're dirty and sweet Clad in black, don't look back And I love you You're dirty and sweet, oh, yeah Well, you're slim and you're weak You've got the teeth of the hydra upon you You're dirty sweet and you're my girl Get it on Bang a gong, get it on Get it on Bang a gong Get it on Get it on Get it on, get it on Get it on, get it on, get it on, get it on Get it on And those Hollywood nights In those Hollywood hills She was looking so right It was giving him chills In those big city nights In those high rolling hills Above all the lights With a passion that kills I don't want your money, honey I want your love I don't want your car, baby I want your ahhh I don't want your money I want your love I don't want you car I want your ahhh I want your love I want your love I want your love I don't want your money, honey I want your love I don't want your money, honey I want your love I don't want your money, honey I want your love I don't want your money, honey I want your love... Let's go, guys. Let's go, let's go, let's go. Sorry, oh, my God. I almost had... We should go right now. We're so excited to be in London and all be together on the plane, in the hotel, on the bus. It's like school. It's the day! My dad is British, so I grew up in London, and I feel very English in my roots, so it feels like I'm going home. Everything is changing... Victoria's Secret Angels have landed in London. We're at the Victoria's Secret store in London, and it's been crazy. There are, like, so many photographers and fans, and we weren't expecting all this. I haven't seen the venue; we're going after this, and we're gonna have the rehearsal. Then I'm definitely gonna get into the mood, because we're gonna wear our wings, and we're gonna hear the music, and it's finally here. Oh, my God, look at the floor. This is wild. The floors are all these incredible LED lights. It's like, lit up as you're walking. It's just so beautiful. There are more models than ever. There's 47 models. There are more outfits than ever. This is my first time. And now I see this, it's like a dream come true. It's beautiful to see all the ideas come together, and then see their appreciation of them. It's always the best part. Just noise... Hi, Dad! I'm so excited it's in London, because my dad's here, my siblings are in the crowd, my nephews. This year I'm opening the segment, "Dream Girls." It's my first time opening a segment, and one of my best friends is performing during it, Taylor Swift, so it's gonna be really fun, and I am so excited I get to open this part. Send the talent now. Send the talent now. Ladies and gentlemen, "Dream Girls," featuring Taylor Swift. Nice to meet you Where you been? I could show incredible things Magic, madness Heaven, sin Saw you there, and I thought Oh, my God, look at that face You look like my next mistake Love's a game Wanna play-ay? New money, suit and tie I can read you like a magazine Ain't it funny, rumors fly And I know you heard about me So hey, let's be friends I'm dying to see how this one ends Grab your passport and my hand I can make the bad guys good for a weekend So it's gonna be forever Or it's gonna go down in flames You can tell me when it's over If the high was worth the pain Got a long list of ex-lovers They'll tell you I'm insane 'Cause you know I love the players And you love the game 'Cause we're young and we're reckless We'll take this way too far It'll leave you breathless Or with a nasty scar Got a long list of ex-lovers They'll tell you I'm insane But I've got a blank space, baby And I'll write your name Cherry lips, crystal skies I could show you incredible things Stolen kisses, pretty lies You're the king, baby, I'm your queen Find out what you want Be that girl for a month Wait, the worst is yet to come Oh, no Screaming, crying, perfect storm I can make all the tables turn Rose garden filled with thorns Keep you second guessing Like, oh, my God, who is she? I get drunk on jealousy But you'll come back each time you leave 'Cause, darling, I'm a nightmare Dressed like a daydream So it's gonna be forever Or it's gonna go down in flames You can tell me when it's over If the high was worth the pain Got a long list of ex-lovers They'll tell you I'm insane 'Cause you know I love the players And you love the game 'Cause we're young and we're reckless - # Oooh # - # We'll take this way too far # It'll leave you breathless Or with a nasty scar Got a long list of ex-lovers They'll tell you I'm insane But I've got a blank space, baby And I'll write your name Boys only want love If it's torture Don't say I didn't say I didn't warn ya Boys only want love If it's torture Don't say I didn't say - # I didn't warn ya # - # So it's gonna be forever # Or it's gonna go down in flames - # You can tell me when it's over # - # Over # If the high was worth the pain Got a long list of ex-lovers They'll tell you I'm insane 'Cause you know I love the players And you love the game So it's gonna be forever Or it's gonna go down in flames You can tell me when it's over If the high was worth the pain Got a long list of ex-lovers They'll tell you I'm insane 'Cause you know I love the players And you love the game - # Yeah # - # 'Cause we're young and reckless # We'll take this way too far - # Ooh # - # It'll leave you breathless # - # Leave a nasty scar # - # Or with a nasty scar # Got a long list of ex-lovers They'll tell you I'm insane But I got a blank space, baby And I'll write your name. Boarding the ship to "Exotic Traveler." - Starting to Ed Sheeran in next. - Standing by. Coming up after the break... 'Sup? And later, Ariana Grande, Hozier, and more from Taylor Swift, only CBS. - Hi, London. - Hi, London. - Hi, London. - Oh! I think with Adriana and Alessandra, we've been lucky enough to work with two of the greatest models in the history of the world. They are the quintessential Victoria's Secret Angels. They are sexy and beautiful and voluptuous and curvy, and they really, truly are great friends. We know each other from Brazil, from when we started. So we were, like, both 15. In Brazil, we have this magazine for teenagers, and she always did the covers. I would see her, and I thought she was beautiful. I'm like, "This girl is amazing." When I first did the Show Cannes, that's, I think, when we bonded. Warm weather, hot girls. - We had a lot of fun. - Oh, my God, yes. We're both Angels, but we can be little devilish girls, too, sometimes. - Ooh! - No? I'm just glad that I always had a friend and a companion to share this amazing experience - we had, yeah. - Career. Life. We're, like, same age. We both have two kids, so we're very similar that way, and we get to hang out with each other and have a great time. The Fantasy Bra, every year, is such a major event. It's a huge, huge, huge honor for any of the model to get the Fantasy Bra. This year, we decided to do two separate Fantasy Bras. I can't imagine what Victoria's Secret would've been without these girls. The contributions that they've made are incalculable. It was just time to say "Thank you." It's gonna be... very special. You know, it's not even dream come true. It's more than that. It's more, it's more, you know? It's like it's always gonna be in my heart. I can't wait to see it myself. I haven't seen yet. - Yeah, we haven't even seen - I can't wait to see. the Fantasy Bra. Like, we're just like everybody else, you know? We're like... We can't wait to put our hands in our Fantasy Bra right now. We're like kids. - Our hands? - Yeah. Our... Bye. Ladies and gentlemen, "Exotic Traveler," featuring Ed Sheeran. When your legs don't work like they used to before And I can't sweep you up off your feet Will your mouth still remember the taste of my love? Will your eyes still smile from your cheeks? And, darling, I Will be loving you Till we're 70 Baby, my Heart could still fall As hard at 23 And I'm thinking about how People fall in love in mysterious ways Maybe just the touch of a hand Well, me, I fall in love with you Every single day And I just want to tell you I am So, honey now Take me into your loving arms Kiss me under the light of a thousand stars Place your head on my beating heart I'm thinking out loud That maybe we found love right where we are When my hair's all but gone and my memory fades And the crowds won't remember my name When my hands don't play The string the same way Mmm, I know you will still love me the same 'Cause, honey, your soul Could never grow old It's evergreen And, baby, your smile's Forever in my mind And memory Ooh And I'm thinking about how People fall in love in mysterious ways Maybe it's all part of a plan Na, na Well, I'll continue making the same mistakes Hoping that you'll understand But, baby, now take me into your loving arms Kiss me under the light of a thousand stars Place your head on my beating heart I'm thinking out loud That maybe we found love Right where we are Ooh Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh La, la, la, la, la, la La, la, la, la, la, la, la Mmm-mm So, baby, now Take me into your loving arms Kiss me under the light of a thousand stars Oh, darling Place your head on my beating heart Thinking out loud That maybe we found love Right where we are O baby, we found love Right where we are And we found love Right where we are. Send the models now, please. - Free the runway line. - Guys, make way! Make way! - Standby models out. - Killed it! Yes! - # Boom, boom, boom, clap. # - Walking onstage for the Victoria's Secret runway is like being a rock star. The adrenaline rush you get is just indescribable. The moment they put you in the lineup, that's kind of when the nerves set in. - Now we need to start the lineup! - I'm like... Your heart is like, boom, boom, boom, boom. 20 second till curtain. Looking good. Before I walk on, it's like total pandemonium going on. Like, hyperventilating. We need Candice on this cross. The first year I did the show, the producer on the side had to, like, push me out, like, to get me to start walking, because my legs just felt like bricks. Go time. Go! Boom, clap, the sound my heart The beat goes on and on and on and na na na na Once you walk out there, all you can think about is don't fall, or don't trip... don't screw this up. But I have to, like, force every step. My legs feel like jelly, and I'm like, come on, next leg. Come on to me, come on to me now When you get at the end of the runway, and it's your moment to shine, that's you wanna give everything you have. Good job, Alessandra! Nailing the end of the runway pose is like... - scoring a touchdown. - # Uh # - It's very important. - Getting that right move the right wink, the right I mean, it's everything. Come on to me, come on to me now, boom, clap It's such an extraordinary experience. Boom, clap - It's a walk to remember. - # Come on to me now # When the show's done, you're like, - "What? No, let's do it again." - # Come on to me now. # Whoo! Amazing! Next up, Pink! While I'm singing, can I, like, interact with you guys? - Yes, please. - Yeah! I do want... I want to, like, spank a booty. Why am I so nervous this year? I need to pink... We're standing by for Elsa. - Come on, quickly, quickly! - We have lineup. - Elsa's standing by. - It's happening! Ladies and gentlemen, "University of Pink" featuring Ariana Grande. Tell me something I need to know Then take my breath And never let it go If you just let me Invade your space I'll take the pleasure Take it with the pain And if in that moment I bite my lip Baby, in that moment You know this is something bigger than us And beyond bliss Give me a reason to believe it 'Cause if you want to keep me You gotta, gotta, gotta, gotta Got to love me harder I love you, love you, love you And if you really need me You gotta, gotta, gotta, gotta Got to love me harder Oh, baby Oh, yeah Love me, love me, love me, baby Harder, harder, harder, baby... Come on, Victoria's Secret! Let's put your hands together. She might've let you hold her hand in school But I'm gonna show you how to graduate, hey No, I don't need to hear you talk the talk Just come and show me what your mama gave Oh, babe Your love gotta be, baby - # Shhh # - # Love but don't say a thing # See anybody could be good to you You need a bad girl to blow your mind, hey Bang, bang, into the room I know you want it Bang, bang, all over you I'll let you have it Wait a minute, let me take you there Wait a minute, tell you ooh Bang, bang, there goes your heart I know you want it Back, backseat of my car I'll let you have it Wait a minute, let me take you there Wait a minute, tell you Ah, B to the A to the N - # Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang # - # To the G to the uh # - # Ooh, yeah # - # B to the A to the N to the G to the hey # See, anybody could be good to you You need a bad girl to blow your mind Okay Bang, bang, into the room I know you want it Bang, bang, all over you I'll let you have it Bang bang, bang, bang bang bang Bang, bang, bang, bang Bang, bang, bang Bang, bang, there goes your heart I know you want it Back, backseat of my car - # I'll let you have it # - # Oh, wait a minute # - # Let me take you there # - # I'll let you have it # Wait a minute, tell you ooh Hey. If you want it Take it I should've said it before Tried to hide it Fake it Baby, I can't pretend anymore I only wanna die alive Never by the hands of a broken heart Don't wanna hear you lie tonight Now that I've become who I really are This is The part when I say I don't want ya I'm stronger than I've been before This is the part When I break free 'Cause I can't resist it no more This is The part when I tell ya I don't want ya I'm stronger than I've been before This is The part when I break free 'Cause I can't resist it no more, babe. Oh, baby, even though I hate you I want to love you I want you And even though I can't forgive you - # I really want to, baby # - # I want you # Tell me, tell me, baby Why can't you leave me? 'Cause even though I shouldn't want it I gotta have it - # Baby # - # I want you # Head in the clouds Got no weight on my shoulders I should be wiser And realize that I've got... Let's go, y'all. One less problem without you I got one less problem without you I got one less problem without you I got one less, one less problem One less problem without you - # I got one less problem without you # - Whoo! Let's go! One less problem without you I got one less, one less problem - # Oh # - # One less problem without you # - # Hey, whoo! # - # I got one less problem without you # Hey! One less problem, hey, hey Problem I got one less problem Hey... Thank you. Coming up, the fairy tale continues with Hozier, and Taylor Swift's world premiere of "Style." Only CBS. Still to come on the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, the world's most beautiful angels and the mesmerizing Taylor Swift. Yes! The wings are truly a major part of the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. They've become so iconic over the years. They're these amazing, gorgeous props. They're very expensive, and they take a lot of time to put together. One of the artisans makes the frame, another artisan might do the crystals. Another one will make the feathers. So, seeing them come to life is just a wonderful creative process. - Oh, my God. So pretty. - Isn't it beautiful? So beautiful. The "Gilded Angels" section is probably the most opulent section that we've ever done. the wings are goddess-like and golden and just what you think about when think - of a Victoria's Secret Angel. - She looks amazing. It takes a year to make all these outfits. You know, all the little details and little sparkles and feathers, and it's so much work. It's incredible. The "Fairy Tale" section is very much this beautiful dream in the woods. There's hand painting on very thin, veil-like gossamer fabric. It's really what you think about when you think about a beautiful fairy tale. I'm in love with these wings. It's almost like a childhood fantasy coming true, 'cause I always wanted to be a fairy, so... Now I am one. Going into "Fairy Tale" next. Candice and Behati, where are they? Yay! Fairies! Candice standing by. - Are you all right? - Three, two, one. Ladies and gentlemen, "Fairy Tale," featuring Hozier. My lover's got humor She's the giggle at a funeral Knows everybody's disapproval I should have worshipped her sooner If the heavens ever did speak She's the last true mouth-piece Every Sunday's getting more bleak A fresh poison each week We were born sick You heard them say it My church offers no absolutes She tells me, "Worship in the bedroom" The only heaven I'll be sent to Is when I'm alone with you I was born sick But I love it Command me to be well Amen Amen Amen Amen Take me to church I'll worship like a dog At the shrine of your lies I'll tell you my sins and you can sharpen your knife Offer me that deathless death Good God Let me give you my life Take me to church I'll worship like a dog at the shrine of your lies I'll tell you my sins and you can sharpen your knife Offer me that deathless death Good God, let me give you my life If I'm a pagan of the good times My lover's the sunlight To keep the goddess on my side She demands a sacrifice Drain the whole sea Get something shiny Something meaty for the main course That's a fine looking high horse What you got in the stable? We've a lot of starving faithful That looks tasty That looks plenty his is hungry work Take me to church I'll worship like a dog at the shrine of your lies I'll tell you my sins and you can sharpen your knife Offer me that deathless death, good God Let me give you my life Take me to church I'll worship like a dog at the shrine of your lies I'll tell you my sins and you can sharpen your knife Offer me that deathless death Good God, let me give you my life No masters or kings When the ritual begins There is no sweeter innocence Than our gentle sin in the madness and soil Of that sad earthly scene Only then I am human Only then I am clean Oh, amen Amen Amen Take me to church I'll worship like a dog at the shrine of your lies I'll tell you my sins and you can sharpen your knife Offer me that deathless death Good God Let me give you my life Take me to church I'll worship like a dog at the shrine of your lies I'll tell you my sins and you can sharpen your knife Offer me that deathless death Good God, let me give you my life. Gorgeous there. Gorgeous. I've been working for Victoria's Secret for 18 years. Beautiful! And it's probably impossible to say how lucky and blessed and fortunate I feel. Part of the Victoria's Secret experience is getting to do that shoot with Russell James. Beautiful. He is a genius. Let's do this thing. That's gorgeous. Shooting with Russell James... - Oh, my God! - ...is definitely different than other photographers. Come have a look. He's like a monkey on the set. - Keep filming! - He's jumping around. Sometimes that's how it is. He's like an extreme photographer. He likes to shoot in difficult situations and push us a little bit. Be careful, wave, wave. Beautiful! No risk. There's always some joke being played on somebody. Gorgeous, that's beautiful. Keep going. When you're shooting lingerie, you need someone that's making you feel safe and comfortable, and having a laugh while you're doing it. Russell does that. It's so easy to let go when you're shooting with him. He photographs women in a way that truly captures them, their power, their strength. Beautiful there. Can you follow it here? That's gorgeous. Beautiful. I'm really excited to be a part of Russell James' book, Angels. I could fill your cup... His pictures are very tasteful. They're classic, they're inspiring. So, you know, I'm very proud of him. Safe and sound We're safe and sound... Over the years, one of the great things is not just to get to know all those amazing people as models, but we've become, I'd say, something, a family. And that is something that means a lot to me. We're safe and sound... I would drop anything to shoot with Russell, because he's so good to me, and he's so good to the girls, - and we really are family, - and I love Russell very much. - That's a wrap. - Whooo! - # Safe and sound. # Confirming Taylor Swift ready with Karlie. Next, a television exclusive as Taylor Swift finishes the show with "Style." - Unbelievable. - Only CBS. Ballet is definitely one of the biggest passions in my life. I think because it was introduced to me at such an early age, and I fell in love with it. I lived, breathed, dreamed ballet. Of being the prima ballerina and being lifted in the air by the handsome principle dancer. I've had countless dreams like that. Ballet is passion. It's art in the most beautiful human form. There's so much emotion that you can express without a single word. Being a model, you're doing the same thing. You're seen and not heard, but there's a story to tell, a character to tell that you're portraying through movement. It taught me so much that I use today. I owe my career to my background in ballet. Confirming Taylor Swift ready with Karlie. Sending Taylor and Karlie in three, two, one, go. Midnight You come and pick me up No headlights A long drive Could end in burning flames or paradise Fade into view, oh It's been a while since I have even heard from you Heard from you I should just tell you to leave 'cause I Know exactly where it leads, but I Watch us go 'round and 'round each time You got that James Dean daydream Look in your eye And I got that red lip Classic thing that you like And when we go crashing down We come back every time 'Cause we never go out of style We never go out of style You got that long hair slicked back White T-shirt And I got that good girl faith And a tight little skirt And when we go crashing down We come back every time We never go out of style We never go out of style So it goes He can't keep his wild eyes on the road Ooh, yeah Takes me home Lights are off He's taking off his coat I say I heard Oh, that you've been out and about With some other girl Some other girl He says, what you heard is true But I can't stop thinking about you and I I said I've been there, too, a few times You got that James Dean daydream Look in your eye And I got that red lip classic Thing that you like And when we go crashing down We come back every time 'Cause we never go out of style We never go out of style You got that long hair Slicked back White T-shirt And I got that good girl faith And a tight little skirt And when we go crashing down, we come back every time - We never go - 'Cause we never go out of style - We never go - We never go out of style Take me home Just take me home Yeah Just take me home Oh, oh Oh, ah Oh Out of style You got that James Dean daydream Look in your eye And I got that red lip Classic thing that you live And when we go crashing down We come back every time 'Cause we never go out of style We never go out of style You got that long hair Slicked back White T-shirt And I got that good girl faith And a tight little skirt And when we go crashing down We come back every time 'Cause we never go out of style We never go out of style You got that James Dean daydream Look in your eye And I got that red lip classic Thing that you like And when we go crashing down We come back every time 'Cause we never go out of style We never go out of style. Stand by for the exit, all. - Come on, girl! - All right, gang, at the end of this, we'll head towards finale. Are we taking those wings off? - That was so fun. - Yes! We're good to go. All right, let's do it. - Go models, go models. - Stand by for models. I'm cueing them now. Models have been cued. Turn off the lights Let go for tonight, baby Let love in your life and be shown Let go for tonight, baby Who needs sleep tonight? Let go for tonight, baby Let love in your life and be shown Let go for tonight, baby Who needs sleep tonight? I need to let go, let go Let go, let go Turn off the lights Let love in your life, baby Who needs sleep tonight? - Awesome! - Aaah! We did it! Look out, please. Look out. Beautiful. Gorgeous there. You're looking pretty good there, Ed. I have to say. One, two, three!
