 

                        What seems to be the problem? My ex, will be released I see 5 years have passed The divorce was never final and I feel strange So allow yourself to show your feelings Katarina, you're a beautiful woman Why keep in those horrible emotions? Then theres my brother He's so distant The closer I try to get to him, the more he wants to be away He doesn't give me a chance You know what I mean doctor? Doctor? maybe we could go out together later on tonight if you don't have anything better to do How is dad? Busy He still calls? Well. Does he? How have you been? Good My interview is this morning Everything is well The mask please Its more than we agreed on. Now give me the mask. Grandiose So if I put in a musical note, this device will try to suggest the next note? Amazing a little big but it can help me with the Molcik piece You can keep it No. How could i repay it? Keep it I'm worried about you and hope you find a steady job Maybe at my school It's an honest job I have an honest job Anyway Thank you little brother I don't want you to come here anymore I hate music We can listen to it digitally at home I'll take out the parts you don't like But please don't send any of your strange guys ok? I'm done working with you. I want to find an honest job Don't ruin her like you did the rest I know you're worried about your return Shouldn't I be? Don't worry Don't worry? He won't come back, he's healthy now Hanna is improving fast I think she would be a great help on my Molcik project I've never seen a 13 year old learn Mozart, even surpassing Mozart Miss M, surely you aren't comparing my daughter to Mozart? She has a lot of talent but she needs to be trained and looked after Hanna just finished her mid-term Yeah? I choose the music of the planets based on the works of Pythagoras. He discovered those musical tones, math and astronomy went together How well did you know the girl downstairs? She was a sexy girl? Nice body? Hangin around here? Yes, and what a waste that she died so young Everybody would want to fuck and now she'll be making necro-porn There's no offer registered for you. Why did you lie to me? I never lied to you Bitch You're the dog - Go to your room girl - Go to hell asshole So then why? Most people can control their obsession, but not with him. I'm worried Has he contacted us? No. Well thats divorce. It's never good when children are involved No kids are involved But you want some, right? I like them, I work with them and that's it You didn't answer my question I haven't thought of it. I love my job, I love music So you want you own kids That's not the topic You don't find it unusual? Not at all Katarina, this is your final treatment It seems strange not to be seated in the office This is a very special treatment What are you doing? I'm trying to fix this old phonogram leave it alone you idiot get out, get out Follow my movements with precision Put your left foot down Step up with the right and turn around Turn Katarina M. , at this moment you have been suspended Your school needs passionate teachers like me To teach the children no matter who they are We can't let our culture go down the drain She knows nothing of children I hope she gets infected with STDs You ruined it, you suck too many nasty dicks But I'm Slovakian just like you You aren't a Slovak, go eat your romanian garbage You've dishonored our kids here Now suck my balls All the musical notes should have a place in the numbers. Almost done I'll be with you drink, drink Katarina, don't give up don't let the concert win I've trained you You can win I'm in your mind. Dig deep and remember Be strong I'm sorry I'm so sorry B and C. Try B and then D. A and G. No C and B. No. A sharp and B minor Katarina, follow me Katarina, go to the fire Don't forget the teachings Remember the notes and unblock the code It's inside you This sequence of notes can't be correct Do you have the mini-Lecter device? I gave it to Hanna. Do you still have it? Move the sharp chords in the 2nd movement. A C D B CE That's it Move the sharp notes now C B E A D And this? Correct Great Katarina, you're close, don't ruin it I'm your damn father and mother all in one Unblock the code and be free I'm the life that enters your mouth, so you can breathe and live I'm the life that enters your mouth, so you can breathe and live My sperm is sprayed in your general direction The liberation is here DR. SOBESLAV, psiquiatra.
