 

                        Stay still, you dirty whore! - No! Grab her legs! - No! Will you stay still! Now you're going to enjoy this! Watch, watch! Because it's the last thing you're going to see! It's my turn! - No! Don't cry! Don't let them hear you. Vanina, don't let them hear you! Let's get out of here! Move it! We won't have to worry about her anymore. [Narrator] After losing a battle, the emperors... ...covered their faces with their cloaks... Putting themselves at the mercy of their victors... Not knowing if they would be killed or made a slave. I'd like to feel at the mercy of a victor. Like an imprisoned queen, like those from Oriental legends. To be taken with force, to be raped. It' the only way which I feel a man would be able to do it with me. Listen, if I stay here for another five minutes... I'll get one of those epic sunburns. The sun really burns today! What time is it? It's almost midday. Come on! What are you doing there, stretched out like a cat! Come on, wake up, Juliette! It's late! There's no one else left on the beach! Go on! ln the water! Oh, I was so comfortable! Us mediterraneans aren't like those crazy English or Norwegians... ...who can't stand the sun! But they stay there anyway and then they get burnt! What's that? What on earth is that? Can't you see? It's a little lion! I got it for you at the bazaar this morning... It's your zodiac sign. You were born on the 5th August, right? It's so sweet, Juliette. It's so hot! Like fire, eh? You're tough, Juliette! I'm not afraid when you're near me. If need be, you'll save me right? Of course! - Then let's go! The seabed is way below me. You can barely see it now. Faster, towards the horizon! Faster! Faster! I feel at ease with Juliette. I trust her completely. The thought vanishes, disappears. I don't feel anything anymore. Only the water that caresses my belly. Vanina! We're too far out! The current will stop us from turning back! Far out, in the wide open sea. The current.. And without moving they stayed side by side... Like trawlers that had stopped their motors... And allowed themselves to drift after a day of fishing. It's strange, we should feel like we're cut in two... Half warm, half cold. But I don't feel so cold, it must be the sun that warms it up. Of course! Even in winter, when we go skiing at school... It doesn't feel cold in the sun. Did I tell you he bought me an ice cream? - Who? The headmistress's husband. It was the snow that reminded me. I could do with one now! An ice cream cone as tall as Mont Blanc! Between me and you, you needed one. Yes, but they failed me anyway! And it was the third time! - I don't know why you're laughing... For me... It's not the same thing. So what happened? What do you think? He kissed my hand. Is Rudy also happy to kiss your hand? Rudy? More than just my hand! The sun is shining on us with the violence of a bull. Hide, Juliette, Your red costume is attracting it. Yes, let's hide underwater. I can't see them anymore. You're right! Oh God, they might have drowned! No. There they are. They swim like fish! [Narrator] In the low water, they seemed almost free... Pushing forward with their feet. They abandoned themselves in a type of transparent pleasure. Thanks. She felt like she was being pushed by a mysterious force... Drawing her closer into the unknown. This afternoon at three, in the pine forest behind the village. Let's go. It's time to head back. I'm so comfortable! A little longer. No, I'm hungry! Strange, the other one hadn't noticed anything... She didn't even see me. What does he say? Nothing. Happy birthday. He likes the villa so much he sent it to me! It's like I don't know him. And he didn't regret letting you come here with me? He didn't say, but he won't be too pleased... He's only happy when I'm in college... He would like it if there weren't any holidays. Well, he's your guardian, you should understand him. The Count is resting! So? I'd like to ask you something, uncle? - Yes? What is it? Can I go to Sardinia with Juliette for a fortnight? I imagine you'll also want some money? I don't need much. Sardinia isn't expensive. Do you need the 500 now? Ah, I understand. You want to borrow it. Okay, I'll use one of the others. But don't drive too fast. - Even if I wanted to, I couldn't. Write to me often. -Thank you. Thank you, uncle. But why Sardinia? Where the hell did you get this idea? I don't know. Blame it on this map... Seeing it there all the time, it made me want to go there! Or perhaps it was because of these strange earrings the local women wear. When they killed my mother, of all the jewellery... This was all she had left. Do you look like your mother? My uncle says I have large eyes, like her... But hers were like black wells. They went to Sardinia for their honeymoon... C'mon, c'mon, forward, that's it... A bit more, like this.. Now go straight ahead. Careful on the gangway. Straight. Careful, careful! I told you to turn right! What are you doing to me today! - Shut up! Fill it up, please. So, have you come to visit the family? - No. - No? Have you got accomodation? If you haven't booked you won't find a place anywhere. What's it to him? It's all full here. You won't find a bed in Sardinia. If you want, I can find you a room? What does it matter to him? The poor guy's worried you won't be able to find a bed! Yesterday I also came across some others that hadn't booked... And they had to leave! Listen to me or you'll regret it! Don't worry if you come back late... I was born in America! When I was older I came back and I married him... It was destiny! Are you all fishermen? Yes, it's the only way to make a living around here... You're either a shepherd or a fisherman like me. We were born on the sea. You see the seagulls? When someone's about to die they always circle around the room. They also fly around the bedroom when a couple gets married. How come? - They're souls! - Legends.. - How creepy! - Tormented souls searching for a body! Personally, I would like it if my soul... ...went to a seagull instead of a hungry dog! Sometimes you can see a dog on the streets at night... It takes your hand in its mouth, and it feels smooth... Like that of a newborn. And it means there's a tormented soul inside. This village is different... Francesco saw a ghost ship once! Grant them eternal rest, O Lord. Shine your perpetual light... And let them see your holy face. There are moray eels. Very large moray eels! - Eels? - Appears so. And when it's midday, and the sun is beating down... They leave the water, to be with the snakes above the rocks... Then they mate with them. Strange marriage, eh? The swim has exhausted me. I'm going to have a nap. Vanina felt attached to that dingy room... Bringing some luxuries with her, it mader her feel... ...like she was decorating a desert. The adventure of little Countess Vanina begins in Santa Lucia, Siniscola... When she enters the pine forest behind the village for the first time. She felt like she was entering a world that wasn't real. Why am I going there? Yet nothing would be able to make her turn back. The village was completely deserted in those early hours of the afternoon. This bold green, these colours are so violent... I'll never get used to them. -I hate these flies! -I thought they'd all gone. They came with those little aeroplanes... They created such a fog, like it was raining! And the village was as clean as glass! Not even a fly! But then, little by little, they all came back. You know, I don't like it here, but I love Francesco. If not, I'd have been long gone... to America, where I was born. This place is beautiful but there's something mysterious about it... that frightens me. Despite the stench that was emanating from them she felt a tenderness inside that she couldn't explain. The pines seemed to grow on the surface like a large, dry web. The forest attracted her with an irresistible force. She knew that she was running a risk, but something compelled her to continue. Something ancestral, inescapable. A mixture of curiousity and expectation. Something which seemed to come from deep down inside of her that excluded any reasoned consideration. He didn't come and he will not come! He'll be with his friends and they'll be laughing about me. I was a fool! Or was he a hallucination, a mirage?! When she found herself lost among the trees... Her fear of the unknown overcame her. I can feel myself going mad! I can feel myself going mad! An evil force inside of me driving me mad! I'm going mad! I'm going mad! I'm glad you came. You're so beautiful! I'm speechless. Come on, I saw a place while I was coming that I really like. It was an extraordinarily new place... Fresh, as if it had just been created. I will give myself to this man. But why him? I've never seen him before! Why must I question myself? I know I can only be his. You're surprised by this meeting, right? No, don't be angry, please. There's no reason to be. I'm not leading you on. Sit down, I've so much to tell you! I will be yours but I don't want to be yours in just a moment of passion. I want to be yours completely. Following instinct but knowing very well what I'm doing. And I can't do this yet. I need to carefully consider all that will happen between... me and you... ..the man that I chose. I'm not ashamed to say that to you, you know? Tomorrow at midnight, wait for me on the beach. The other side of the little dock... that connects the fishing port to the sea. Don't laugh. I've never had a date with a man... ...before you. It's the truth. I don't know how to take love as a game. Yes, keep looking at me like that. I like your serious stare, your silence. I detest stolen kisses, and vague carresses. My consent will be without limits. But I need you to respect my conditions. I offer myself to you like a queen that chose slavery but only on a whim. Tomorrow night when I come to meet you on the beach you must take me with force because I know that I'll resist. It's something inside of me that I can't overcome. Do you believe me when I tell you this? But then I'll give you the pleasure of the most complete abandon. That which perhaps no woman has ever given you, even if you've known many of them. I've never spoken like this to a man before. And I'm ashamed of myself for what I'm saying. But I must tell you! You'll have to tie my hands behind my back with something. And you must take me, even if I try to stop you. Eventually, I'll give up. At that moment, I will belong to you completely. But I won't let you do anything before tomorrow night. You're not even allowed to try and kiss me! Because, I have to tell you this... I'm a virgin. - Yes, I thought so! You see? There's no need for you to even tell me your name! To me you are the young man from the beach and the forest. And tonight... But after eleven... You'll come to the fisherman's cabin without making a sound. My window is the only one facing the sea. You'll only have to open the shutters and you'll see me. But you mustn't enter the room. Don't move! My name is Vanina! Vanina! Vanina! Vanina... Vanina... He obeyed me! Now I need to try and identify myself... ...with the girl who said all of those things. But I am someone else. I've become someone else! The person who, tomorrow night... Yes, that's right! Now I'm beginning to understand! Who I was before is about to die, and another Vanina is about to be born. They were on the ship. He didn't have a Sardinian accent. He must have come here on vacation. Who cares? I don't even want to know who he is. He never even asked me what my name was! Oh, look! They're girls from the village! People used to go swimming like that, in cotton dresses! But it's as if they're naked! They don't have any shame because they're pure. The thin material stuck to their bodies... And made them look as if they were completely naked. Their breasts with hard nipples, and toned bellies on firm thighs.. Revealed a genuine humanity in them. Now I understand why I want to be taken by force. Tied up like my father! Raped like my mother! Maybe Juliette understood? No, she hadn't understood. But she couldn't also help but feel... The ancestral energies that seemed to emanate from everything. Will you stop stroking that ring? -It's magic! You'll have to give it back, anyway. Come on, let's go. Do you want to see the church treasure, ladies? Treasure? Treasure! Come on, Vanina. Come on. It's like a church rosette. It belongs to the Virgin Mary. But the Virgin allows me to lend it to the poor in our parish. This ring protects whoever wears it. A small donation, lady. Whatever you want. It will help to feed someone who doesn't have anything to eat. You are lucky, ladies. The ring has just returned. - Just returned? Let's take it! Did you hear? It protects! Yes, but when your holiday in Sardinia is almost over... You'll bring it back, okay? Thank you. - Come on. And if the Virgin Mary appears to you in your dreams... It means she has to protect someone else, so you'll have to bring it back right away! Otherwise the Virgin Mary will suffer. Are you sure you didn't dream of the Virgin Mary? No Vanina! Besides, why does it matter? You shouldn't believe those stories. Well, I don't like it as an idea. I'd rather give it back. Okay, we'll give it back to him before we leave. How nice it is in Sardinia! Always sunny and hot. Do you smell that? They're water lilies! Come on! What a fresh scent! - And at the same time penetrating! - They remind me of narcisus. - And at night they smell even stronger! It's a violent smell, it gives off a sense of haziness. It's a pity that they taste salty. It's the foam brought in from the sea when the storm swept away the ships! I haven't prepared anything to eat for the ladies. No-one has caught anything today. Same for my husband. We ate hard bread and cheese. Francesco fell asleep. He was so tired. Ok, we'll go and eat at the pub. - This table is reserved. - How is it reserved? It's reserved, would you kindly come inside? - I'm hungry tonight! Aren't you? - No! Two catches today! Lobster! I'm so pleased to be in Sardinia! Me too! In fact, perhaps I should even say happy. This sauce is amazing! I'd like to ask them how they make it. I'm not hungry tonight, you can eat mine too. But I am thirsty! - What's wrong? - Nothing, I like your greediness! Watching you abandon your instincts! I don't know if I should feel offended, or not? But tonight I'm happy and I forgive you! You've really decided not to sleep tonight! Juliette, your pharmacist's arrived! No! I would have danced willingly, But no one else has the right to touch my body, except for him. Why do you always refuse to come and take a ride in my car? Why don't you want to? Come on, tell me? Because my mother wouldn't allow it! Your mother? But she won't see us! Let's go to the mountains, there's a cave no-one knows about... It's my little hideout. Think how nice it will be! Beautiful! I understand, it's your friend that doesn't want to. Don't let her come because she'll get jealous. Ok! There's enough of me for the two of you! Goodnight! What are you doing? Aren't we spending the night here? No, I'm tired I want to head back. We can stay as long as you want tomorrow. She offered herself completely naked to the gaze of the man that she had chosen as a lover. She thought of how he looked through the window and tried to imagine her naked body on the bed in a poor Sardinian fisherman's cabin. These thoughts gave her sensations that she'd never experienced before. And there, stretched-out and alone, reaching orgasm for the first time in her life. No! No... Tomorrow! Go now! But why has this stranger become so important in my life, in just a few hours? What is this nervousness that possesses me? The blood that I feel pulsing under my skin... Flowing through my hands, my breasts, my lips... This overwhelming desire, coming from my belly. But it's strange, up until now, he's just a face to me. Yet it's like he knows my body already! He's already my lover because he has possessed me with his eyes. Tomorrow I want to give him as much pleasure as possible. But I don't have any experience. I never wanted a man to touch me. It will be a huge disappointment for him. Sure, if I had the experience... Then my gift wouldn't be so wonderful! How should I dress? This thought made her calmer... Like all girls that prepare themselves for a date... She gave a lot of importance to what dress she should wear: perhaps the black one. The colour of the women from the village, the colour of submission. That way no-one will see me in the dark. And the sensation of doing something forbidden, mysterious... Will be stronger. Vanina? The tea is ready, it's late! What a smell! Are you crazy? Sleeping with all these flowers in the room? Vanina! Vanina wake up! - Wake up! - Stop it! Can't you see I'm already awake? Vanina, don't you know you can die from asphyxiation like this? With all those holes? You might be wise but you do things even a child wouldn't do! Who knows what a headache you'll have now! A bit... And I'm really thirsty. Could you bring me some tea, please? You're sleeping naked as well now? No, not always. I always do, I'd even get rid of the sheets if there weren't so many flies about. I hadn't noticed that you were made up like that last night. You never notice anything! You've got the look of someone who's had dirty dreams! There is some truth in that! The lilies! They're going out the window now! Leave them! They're not doing anything now! The scent has already gone. Why did you close the window? I don't want to die! They don't smell during the day. A new fear gripped her... Thinking of the encounter that lay ahead... Going to him without any experience... Appearing ridiculous in the eyes of her man. And so, with great seriousness... She asked her friend to tell her everything one needed to do... When a man kisses a girl on the mouth... As she surely knew how. It's a favour you have to do for me, Juliette. And don't tell me that you don't know! But these are things that you learn with practice. We don't even have a textbook here! Don't make fun of me. You have to teach me everything about how to kiss on the mouth That you've learned from other men. Pleasure! It's ridiculous to start whining! I won't do that! I'll even watch my breathing... So he won't think I'm faking it. - That's enough, let's go to the beach now! - Selfish! It's much later than the other days! Oh, ladies.. The sea is very bad today! It's the Sirocco (Mediterranean wind). Best to go to another area, behind the pine trees, to swim. - Ok. - Good day. Natale! What have you done to the car? If you don't want a beating come to mummy at once! How gross! But why did you squash it? - I'm preparing a meal for the souls. - But it's disgusting! - How horrid! - And when we go, they'll have their feast! - I don't want to go in the water. - It's not cold, you know? The nice weather is over. No, I don't think so. You'll see, the wind will clean the air... And it'll be nice again tonight. I'm cold! Let's go back. Come on, darling, eat your food. No? Okay, then I'll eat it instead of you. Good morning, Miss. But your friend didn't eat? Either she's still asleep or she wants to be alone. Or she'll have gone for a walk. Mmm..it's good! Take it! It's still windy. Fishing will be even worse than yesterday. My poor Francesco! How will we go on? The wind is a fisherman's enemy. Take it if you like. They say that it brings good luck. Thanks. Dad'll be back even later today because the sea is bad. And we ate alone, you know? But tonight when he returns he'll bring us loads of good food. Even if it's hard work for him. She had been motionless trying to keep herself calm without touching nor caressing her body. As if it had already ceased to belong to her. When the sun came over the horizon, A strange shadow took on the distinct form of a cat's paw... Above which she caught a glimpse of the head and mane of a lion... His sign seemed to want to be remembered. What's new in the papers today? I don't know, I'll have a look now. I know it by heart! I can read it upside-down! It hasn't changed for the last four days! I'm ready. How come you look so pretty tonight? The guys will all be looking at you! Wait, I'll make myself beautiful as well then! If not, we'll look like the princess and the beggar! As long as the wool doesn't irritate my sunburn. There, I'm ready! - How do I look then, good? - Great, let's go! When does the meat arrive? - Tomorrow from Olbia. - Yeah, yesterday too.. ..and instead it's prawns as usual! Say, are you sick? It's almost two days that you haven't eaten. No, but I would have prefered a bit of meat today. We've not eaten anything other fish since we arrived. - Roasted, stewed, fried... - And not even in any marinade! I bet that tomorrow... tomorrow... I think is further away than America or than China. There's the pharmacist's sister. She's afraid that you'll steal her brother! Coffee! And here. Thanks. In the sky the moon, already high, had revealed the profile of the menacing mountain. I'll find them again. I want to walk barefoot to my lover. They felt like suction pads under soles of my feet. She felt like nothing in the world... ...would have been able to make her turn back. And she walked in the water without even bothering to lift up her skirt. The moment has come. This is a bandit... He'll kill me like my mother. Then he also felt hunted, like me! I can't take it anymore.. Now I'll sit down here in the shelter of these bushes. I'd like to disappear into thin air until daylight. I don't want to exist anymore! I don't want to exist anymore! Stop letting your imagination run away with you. You're no longer in control of what's going on anymore. Anything can happen to you now. Now, I'm going back home. Look at me! He was surprised to see that I kept my promise. Now's the time. No! Don't touch me! I don't want to! You're mine! You belong to me and no one will take you from my arms! Here's the moment that she had both feared and desired. She had imagined trees hanging over her to witness an ancestral human sacrifice. No! I don't want to! Let me go! No! No! There's nothing more wonderful than love! It started again... And they could only be one thing... An infinite goodness that projected out of itself. She needed to talk, to communicate. Now I know you. Like only a lover can know. I was yours, but it's not only tonight that I belong to you. And for the first time I'm able to say this. One night, many years ago, a group of murderers... Broke into our villa, near Bergamo... Before killing an old servant, they searched for money, my mother gave them all her jewelry. But they took her and my father to the bottom of the garden where I had been playing all afternoon. And they raped her beside the pool in front of my father, who they had tied to a post. Then they killed the both of them mercilessly with a gunshot to the back of the head. I saw everything. I was already old enough to remember. They lay in silence. Then the passion seized control of their bodies again. - Shall I come with you? - No! Please, go away. I have to rest alone now. I need to rest on my own. I still don't believe it. Could it have been a dream? Juliette! Wake up! - Why? It's early.. - You're leaving, get your suitcase ready! What? Today? Are you crazy? As soon as you're ready. Come on, before it gets too hot. Did you think of spending the whole holiday here? There are other things to see in Sardinia. Go on! No! Come on! Go on! What a shame. I'm going, and I don't even know his name... Love doesn't need a name. Bubikoglu Huge thanks to Jurgen565!
