 

                        Romen Avinian Lala Sarkissian Ivan Franek Lusana zark (Song on the funeral) Title: Vodka Lemon (sub by oldman & sam) Directed by Hiner Saleem My dear, I am living well, so is our son. Guje is living in Malgandar. Kamo is in Alfevelli, France. He said he was living well there. Anyway, everything is just ok. The kids misses you very much, so do I. Dilovan is well, too. His wife always tells him not to drink, which makes him a little angry. Except this, everything is just ok. You have a rest. Don't worry about us. (telephone ringing) Hello? Romic? It's Robert. Can you hear me? Hello! Hello! We will call Hamo at noon. You tell him. At noon. Hello? Hello? It's Illeva calling for Hamo. His son wrote him a letter from Paris. Asa, call Hamo to come. Hamo Hamo --Avail! --Hamo. Avail Go quickly, they are looking for your grandpa. Grandpa! Hamo Hamo My father isn't here, he's gone to the graveyard. (telephone ringing) Isn't the telephone working well? There is sound of electric current. --Good morning! --Good morning! How is the business going? Well. Yes, well. Better and better. What really is Kamo doing? Kamo? His is in Alfevelli, France. (telephone ring) - Hello, hello, hello! - Is that Hamo? Hello, hello, hello! Hello, good day. This is Robert. I am calling from Illeva, I have a message from your son. Oh, Robert, it's you! Can you hear me? I have a message from your son. He came back from Paris? No, he just mailed back something. Oh, Kamo is coming back from Paris. No, no, he mailed you something. You must take it back yourself. I see. What's up? My son sent me something from Paris. I have to take it back myself. (Motorcycle flame out) We are not sack of anything, leading by the USSR. No even freedom? We don't have freedom, but we have anything else. The USSR pretends doing things for us. We do a lot things for them too, but we lost freedom. Don't you feel good to be lead by USSR? I hope my son could marry a village girl. We will not live along well, if he married a USSR girl. That makes sense, brother. (motorcycle start up) What are you? I am an Armenia. And you? What are you? I am Jess. This is for you. Help yourself. Nothing else? Nothing else. Papa, Lend me some money. I don't have money. Doesn't Kamo, my brother, send back money? Just a letter, nothing else. (Knocking at the door. ) No money? How could it be? Is it a letter? (car horn) (car horn.) My dear, I am living well. You sons are well, too. Kamo is in love with a French girl. He wrote a letter to me. Listen. Dear Papa, I miss you all. Miss you, my brother, mom, and sister in law. Miss my hometown. Papa, you should go to see mom, Telling her I am good, living happily. I don't have vacation, due to the work. But I have a lovely baby girl. You should show mom her photo. And this is the photo. I will never forget you, never. Your son kamo, from Paris. Did you see? He is fine, very happy But he is a ungrateful kid. He knows there is no job here. It's pity, I didn't receive the 10 dollars I was hoping for. He didn't send a penny. But you don't have to be worried. He is my son. I love him all the same. I will pay next time. Can I get on the car? Music in the radio: it's snowing. (French ) it's snowing. You didn't come tonight. It's snowing. My heart is veiled by black. The scarves Keeps the white tear. Even birds on the tree, Also feel it pity You didn't come tonight. I'm deeply in despair. It's snowing. I wander aimlessly. (Sound of glass broken) What did you break? I am sorry. It slipped from my hand. You should wipe your hand. What are you waiting for? Clean up, hurry. I have warped your clothes up. They are in the brown case. You don't have to worry about me. I will clean everything in the bedroom. Forgive me, my dear wife. I leave too little time for you. Good morning. Good morning. Is it heavy? A little. Buy or sale ? Sale. How much? 30 dollars. He will be married in 20 days. I bought it when I was married. How about it? 10 dollars. Ok. It's very good wardrobe. It will give fortune to your son. Deal. Thank you. It's a mistake to buy this wardrobe. You are always right. But it's too late. Will you be more polite? Don't make me hate you. It's you to make me buy it. Do you make you hate me ? You will only bring me misfortune. Maybe I should leave you here cold to death. But I am too kind. Be seated. (Sound of engine) Can you unload the wardrobe? No, I can't, I don't have a porter. We can. Put it in the back. We will pay a lot of money. Anybody help, help me! Ok. Wait, our purse in there. Wait. Where are you going. Wait. Altode, why do you leave Jejja? Altode, why do you leave Jejja? Altode, why do you leave Jejja? May I pay next time? Thanks My daughter is no longer a virgin My son will be back soon It's not enough he comes back, he wants to marry her Your daughter likes him, doesn't she? Your son likes her,too,doesn't he? Any problem? Here is your daughter, your son will be back soon All are arranged well Romic, my daughter isn't a prostitute A bottle of Vodka Please Miss, why isn't it marked as "Vodka"? Do you mistake it? It's Armenian Do you remember the night when we were together? Children are still young. How many movies have we watched? Everything needs money now Gas fee, electric fee, water... No Soviet Union any longer You won't be together with me either Forgive me, honey I need to sell the TV Is it really useable? Yes, of course How much? 150 US dollars No! Too Expensive. 100 US dollars No Just this Good morning again Good morning Is the TV really useable? Yes, I've told you I will pay 100 US dollars 120 dollars then Ok, 100 dollars No How do you think of it? Do you like it? Yes No, not higher than 80 dollars Then 90 No, I only offer 80 If it's not ok, we won't buy Ok Sound of opening door Anything wrong? Seems no Would you please have a cup of this? Miss, you first brouhaha I come back for you Good morning Can you help me to find a job in Moscow? I don't live in Moscow any longer, I live in Noworthbuk Do you live in Noworthbuk? I have a friend over there, hum, also brother I have different job over there No problem Will you pay this time? Come, come up, Miss? Isn't the Miss here today? What should I do? How much? 5 US dollars Electric fee 5 dollars Gas fee 5 dollars Yes A piece of candy yes Hold this Mom My daughter, don't buy anything for me No, it's from a boy who is pursuing me How are you? Fine All are paid By the gentleman Hold this, it's for you Thanks Radio "It's snowing (French) "You didn't come tonight" "I'm deeply in despair" "It's snowing" "I wander aimlessly" Thanks No, let me do it, you take a seat (Singing) When did he die? -1994 I have two daughters, the elder is married she is in Kazakstan Zina is younger. She lives with me She is an artist Does she have job? She plays piano in a restautant But no salary Income is not fixed, only some tips She engages herself to a boy The boy loved her so much But after he met an american one day He left My wife passed away not long ago I have three sons, Guje lives in Samarkand Kamo lives in Alfevelli, france And Dilovan lives here, but no job (Music) I'm glad to stay here, I'm happy in your home, but I have to go Will you still want to go? I see you off with a friend's car No, thanks. It's ok I go by myself Come on, it's my granddaughter's wedding (French) "It's snowing, you didn't come tonight" "It's snowing" "My heart is veiled by black" "the scarves" "keeps the white tears" "Even birds on the tree" "feel it pity" "You didn't come tonight" "I'm deeply in despair" "It's snowing" "I wander aimlessly" Good morning -Good morning, how is the business going? Well -How many bottles do you sell today? 17, Really? it's very good Do you know, Nina, it's too little profit here I have to close the restaurant What? I have to close it, I'm very sorry Yes, good Hello, we are waiting for you How is it? What? The money you promised to me Can you pay me a bit more? You promised to give me 200 US dollars, and job in Noworthbuk I know I did You go tomorrow You must give me more time Lunch is ready soon Do they come? They are chatting Ask them to come here Cheers! Cheers Lunch is ready, come here If you feel bad, you take her back then Dear daughter, you go in first, close the door (Shouting) Good morning Good morning, how is your business going? Well, How much is it? The uniform? Just 20 US dollars No, no, it's too expensive, how about 8 US dollars Do you like it? No, It's brand new, no repairment 10 dollars, Ok, No, let me have a look Try it, try it (Telephone Ringing) Hello? It's Robert, hello It's for Amo How are you? Is this Amo? Is this Robert? You must come by yourself, If only one letter I won't go, It's very important A large envelope Are you sure it's very important? No, my god! How could he ask money from me (Singing)Lenin, together with you Lenin, together with you Why 10 dollars? How much do you want it for? I said twice, at least 40 I treat you dinner and chocolate And other money for buying, didn't you count them in? Gas, Car, Clothes Even your underwear is from me Come here! Don't you think you are lucky? You are not the only prostitute in the market Prostitute! Damn it Good luck, my daughter Goodbye, grandpa Goodbye Write to me, grandpa Bye I spare the room to repaint it I want you to help me Good morning, Good morning, good morning Buy or sell? How? Brother, we won't sell it, So? Goodbye The end
