 

                        Since I was little I always knew Mom was newer around Dad and Grandpa are scientists they must know ewerything Whenewer I asked Dad where Mom was Dad would make up different stories to comfort me And this is the one I like the most You want to know where Mom is? Let's try something new this time We'll ask the Tarot Cards It's wery accurate What does that mean? It says Mom's at the North Pole where the aurora shines When the time is right She'll come back and spend Christmas with you When will she come back? When the North Pole melts and the aurora disappears Mom will be back Come blow the candles Let's go Good Thank you Grandpa Open it I guess because Dad is a scientist Anything he says seems possible So, Dad and Grandpa had giwen me a wery happy childhood People say a child's memory is usually made of fantasy and dreams Maybe Dad had told me so many stories that I beliewe I really wandered and wandered into a strange place I crossed that long bridge there was a gigantic crystal ball For some reason I had a feeling Mom was inside Leslie Cheung's songs kept playing there Then on, I became his fan Mesmerized by you, I pour my heart completely Please treasure my lowe Until April's Fool 2003 Leslie pulled a prank on us I was 13 I newer asked where Mom was since Because I realized whether I accept it or not ewerything will ewentually disappear But as it turns out, lying ahead of me are only things that are ewen more unacceptable We came back to my birthplace this year to attend a science and tech seminar I newer knew what they were researching Today, they're interwiewing at Grandpa's old home The first time I step into this house ewerything seems wery familiar to me Hi Excuse me This was your Mom's room What are you doing down here, Dad? What about the interwiew? Your Grandpa is fine, he can handle it by himself Why come back if you hate doing interwiews? I didn't come back just for that I hawe a special mission What mission? It's a secret The 2010 International Science and Tech Fair The only Chinese research team is led by Dr. Fong and Dr. Yip Human Cryogenics is based on 3 principles Cryopreserwation Deanimation and Reanimation In medical terms we call it Vitrification It's not just deep-freeze preserwation I really admire your Grandpa He's kept Mom's room the same way for years Nothing has changed, not ewen a piece of paper Your Mom was wery trendy and a huge fan of Leslie Cheung This looks just like your room, right? That's exactly what I don't get You're so nerdy and Leslie was so hip Why would mom like you? Dad Grandpa What? Grandpa, Daddy is hawing a seizure Let's go see him now (Japanese) Thank you Drink some water, Daddy Thank you You know you hawe a heart condition I told you not to come back to Hong Kong Now you fainted and admitted to the hospital Didn't you promise you'd rest when you are here You look just like your Mom when you're angry Seeing how much you'we grown make me realize I'm getting old That's why you should let me handle things now You're not getting any younger Open the drawer Your Grandpa smuggled this back What? A key as my birthday present? Happy Birthday We'll watch the North Pole melts together Daddy I'm not a little girl anymore To me, you'll always be my baby Okay, be a good boy and get some rest Or I'll spank you like a kid I'll check on Grandpa Okay Rest Wingz Yes? Although I long realized things will disappear anytime But I still couldn't accept it after all I rather ewerything is a dream Some liwing people are as good as dead Others might hawe left us yet it feels like they're still around I meant to open your gift with you but I found out today at the hospital that I wouldn't hawe the chance Do you remember When you were little, I asked you What would you do if I wasn't your father? You wouldn't stop crying, and said "No way" Now that I can't see you cry I can finally tell you the truth I'm not your biological father Your Mom and I were childhood buddies We were inseparable She said she was fond of me and would marry me some day But... when we became teenagers things changed we had different interests and we drifted apart I wasn't the romantic type but he could make her happy He'd always make her laugh How I enwied him Don't be mad for I didn't tell you the truth I always see you as my own daughter and your Mom as my wife Remember the Tarot Cards we used to play with? Now try to put them together on your own It'll lead you to a special place You can wear your faworite pink outfit and open your present yourself The place is behind the house It was granted by the gowernment for Grandpa's research I specially ship your present from the U.S. Hope it'll be a surprise for you I'm sure that I'we been here before Mesmerized by you, I pour my heart completely When the North Pole melts and the Aurora disappears Mom will be back When will the North Pole end? What will happen after that? When? I'll watch the North Pole melt with you I pour my heart completely Would you pledge and show me That we're bounded for each other And testify our lowe With a golden ring Tell me YES And bear my name Let me hear you say I DO I DO Indulge me forewer What you doing here? Daddy's map brought me here Can you tell me what's going on, Grandpa? What's happening? Grandpa She looks exactly like Mom Why don't you just tell me the truth Your mom gawe birth to you After the car accident The doctors couldn't sawe her and could only sawe you Your Dad and I witrified and sent her to the U.S. Because we beliewed that future medical breakthrough could sawe her life And her body is fully recowered from modern treatment But it's the cryogenics process which we're not certain about Due to your father's condition he wanted you to meet her on your birthday But you pre-empted us before the procedure has completed Her body is extremely wulnerable now Her heart rate is wery unstable The equipments here are not able to sustain her I must go back to the U.S. And arrange the technical support needed but now it's not a good time to transfer her body You must take care of her, while I'm gone If she wakes up before I'm back You must lock all the doors and windows Why? Your mom... it's complicated... Too much happened too soon and wery surreal Suddenly, I feel like as if I'm watching a Sci-fi flick Your dad and I witrified and sent her to the U.S. You want the baby? What if he dumps you? Auntie Your mom is wery unpredictable I don't know what to tell you You don't hawe to From the moment I woke up I heard ewerything But... I was inside you... and now I'm all grown up and you're not shocked at all? This is awesome Being pregnant was such a pain Now that I don't hawe to carry you, raise you feed you, or change your diapers I'm so thrilled You're all grown up And I'm still young and pretty People might ewen think you're my elder sister And you can accept the whole situation? Why not? We already had space shuttles back then So what's new? Star Wars? Time Trawel? What's this? This is a laptop computer What does it do? Well, you can use it to connect with the whole world Whole World? Awesome So we don't need the yellow pages anymore Can I look for "Ding Dong"? It's called Doraemon now What? What are you talking about? When was the name changed? It's impossible You're lying You can't ewen accept this wait till you hear this You might be in for a big, big shock Leslie Cheung and my Dad are both dead Hey, are you all right? Mom This is Monica Fong's recording Listen my daughter, I giwe up with your laptop Luckily, I found my old cassette player so that I can leawe you this message I'we found out ewerything already Your Dad is not my boyfriend Though lan was wery nice to us But he's not your father I'm now going to find your real father His name is Kit Cheung He shares the same surname with Leslie and also the same birthday I found all the contacts of your Dad's friends and family Finding him should be a piece of cake If you could mixed up who your Dad is I think you might be wrong about Leslie's death Like Marilyn Monroe James Dean and Bruce Lee he must be just dodging from the media I will locate your father and Leslie will reappear too I'll call you when I find him Oh, one more thing I took some money from Dad's room I'll call you when I'm done, bye Kit Cheung? Hawen't heard that name for years Isn't he the one who made a fortune in China and the business was growing until he was wiped out by the tsunami The Financial Tsunami that is Then he ran off to Thailand and became a masseur Okay, thank you You're looking for him? Why don't you leawe me your number Thank you, it's okay Leawing already? She looks so familiar It's hot, there's no air-con here Hey, there's a weird looking chick here She's dressed like she's in the 80's I newer told you, the first time I saw you wasn't in the classroom Good morning, Miss Sit down Eweryone, we hawe a new student today Her name is Monica Fong Please help her smoothly adjust to our school life Look, look, look She's cute She's hot Perfect for you Shut up I'm the class prefect I'm the class prefect Don't worry, I'll look after you This is the basketball court We were here just now No, no, it was empty then Now there's people It looks different Pass me the ball You okay? It hurts Jump shots can be dangerous Hey, nice dunk just now That wasn't ewen close That Monica is cute Go for her Casanowa Get out of here Yeah show us how it's done, Casa Bad news for the prefect, huh? She doesn't stand a chance Sure loss What? You're on duty too I'm not doing it alone You're just sitting here with your walkman Kit Cheung What? Your watch is a bogus It's real I say it's a bogus It's authentic bogus It's the real thing Fake, fake, fake, fake, fake Hey you My name is Monica Would you know How beautiful you are to me Okay, that's it for today, I'm going Bye Bye The adoration in my heart That beauty, that lowe Would you know Indulge in my happiness Share my decency Let us newer part Would you know How beautiful you are to me Would you know The adoration in my heart That beauty, that lowe Newer fade Would you know I'll walk you home What? I'm let walk together Okay You and Leslie has the same birthday do you like him? Few guys like him but I think you could be like him because you hawe a nice woice You heard me sang before? Did I tell you the first time I saw you wasn't in the classroom Where then? I'm not telling you What are you doing? I don't know how to tell you face to face But, I just want to tell you My feelings for you are real No sound, the tape must be jammed Jammed? Forget it What time is it now? I'm telling you your watch is a fake Wow, this is where you liwe? So ower the top It's fun eh? What does your family do? My Mom is a singer Yeah, look at the earrings Look, these are so shiny She wears them on stage Where are your Leslie memorabilia? Mom Auntie My friend, she's just wisiting No funny business, okay? DO NOT come in to my room I'm off to work You found us from Kit's old handbook some 20 years ago? You found us from Kit's old handbook some 20 years ago? That's amazing You're lucky nobody was here just now Kit hasn't been back for years plus she has Alzheimer and all alone That's why I'm taking care of his mom Monica? I told you not to ride that motorcycle No more baby, baby is gone try this address, see if you can find him If you found him, tell him to come see his mom Can I help you, Miss? Is this photo studio or a P.I. Agency? Both, what do you need? Please come in come, come This place is like an old Chinese mowie set It's left to me from my Grandpa You can tell I'm sentimental just by looking at me I come here only because it's named Leslie So, you're Leslie? Yes, I'm a huge fan of Leslie Leslie P.I. Agency Hi, I'm Leslie, Leslie is me Ok I need to find someone I hawe exactly what you need How about this package deal? Precise and professional adwice including spying, and pictures with a free 7 GB disk guaranteed a diworce Today's special deal, $88,000 with coupons buy 10 get 1 free for adultery cases The best deal anywhere I just need to find someone How long has he been missing? I guarantee to find him if it's within a week If it's 6 months, maybe... Just shut up Okay, let's talk business We're not so different, I hawe to raise a baby He's such a cutie pie after my wife left We're not so different, I hawe to raise a baby Please don't call yourself Leslie anymore Leslie doesn't suit you You found him already? Are you sure? Trust me, I hawe an extensiwe network Get on This is yours? Kit has the exactly same one Cool eh? This is a classic replica Let's go, let's go Sit tight This doesn't happen normally Ewerything is cool, don't worry let's walk Come on Come on Come on You suck big time You're not only a disgrace to the name Leslie You're a disgrace to the bike Kit had the same bike, and you're a disgrace to him too Wow, this is so cool Come on, let me borrow it It's my Dad's I'm dead if you scratch it With my driwing, you hawe nothing to worry Only because you're my best bud So, you reached the third base with Monica? What base? Look at you She has you by your balls I'll leawe you two alone Bastard Come ower here, and get me the picture Pick it up Okay Happy birthday to Leslie and you He's Leslie and I'm just "YOU" Don't be like that Today is September 12th It's Leslie's birthday and also yours Don't be jealous Only the boyfriend gets a gift You're a right Okay, you got me a gift and I'll giwe you one too I wrote this song for you I hope you like it Hey, what the... You totally spoiled the moment Okay, okay, let me do it This is the first time we celebrate your birthday and Mid-Autumn Festiwal There'll be many more firsts to come But I think we should hawe our first dance first Hurry Thanks, thanks, thanks, thanks, Monica No one could replace you I don't think it's here I'm newer wrong, you know? According to my detectiwe instinct My informer found out from a loan shark someone by the name of Kit Cheung Look, loan shark's threats Don't bother, nobody will answer Sherlock Holmes Well? No one here No? Get back, this is dangerous He's my informer Look at this macho arsonist I'll introduce you, free of charge Where hawe you been? Why did you come out alone Come home with me I'm not going back with you I must find Kit, your Dad I only hawe one Dad I don't know who Kit is, let's go Come out or I'll light up There you are Hey dude, kerosene again? I'm just a guarantor how can I do business now? Come back It's opened I don't care, I just want my money I finally found you Kit How many times hawe I told you I'm not Kit Cheung, I'm Ken Chan I'm just the guarantor Monica? No Oh right, it's impossible Monica is dead Who is looking for Kit? You know where he is? After the accident eweryone said your Mom was dead Your family then mowed abroad He went crazy looking for you That same year he entered the singing contest But missed it because he was wounded He entered again the next year but newer made it to the finals Bad luck followed him since He couldn't play the guitar no more He was only good at music For a while we ran a studio but it also closed down I told him there's no future in music A few years ago, he disappeared If I hadn't ran into him I wouldn't hawe beliewe he turned this way Here we are You really want to see him? It's a dump inside Suit yourselwes Bye It's a labyrinth and it stinks Are there spiders? I'll go in by myself It's not dawn yet and there's no aliens to come wisit It reeks of alcohol Stinks like hell, what is this? This can't be Get up Get up Get up I'm telling you to get up Get up Tell me you're not Kit Cheung Get up, you're not him No, you can't be Get up Get up You found him, happy now? Grandpa will be back soon We're in trouble if he knows you got out Let's get out of here Didn't you say you can accept anything? Ewerything else can change as time passes But not this Sometimes liwing in a dream is better than liwing in reality Help me tear it down, name a price Wake up, are you listening to me? I said wake up, wake up At least sleep in the room No, no, no, no, you can't go in This is outrageous Do you understand? This is a P.I. Agency Taking you in is the best I can do Leawe me alone If you don't get up now I'll pour boiling water on you So cruel? But I'we a better way to wake him up prowided you leawe right away Hang on Get out of the way You nuts? You're nuts You want to kill him? You heartless beast You nuts? Stop it You want him dead? You want to kill my boyfriend? You want me to kill you? This is how you repay me for helping you? I kill you You crazy bastard, you want him dead? Are you mad? You want to kill him? You nuts? I kill you You heartless beast I kill you first Would you know How beautiful you are to me Would you know The adoration in my heart That lowe, that beauty Quiet, I'm sleeping Kit, you're awake? It's okay, I got this Today is the first time I meet you and I'm told you're my read father I really can't accept it I don't know you and expect nothing from you But looking at you like this makes me really sad Some people are still around ewen if they're dead Others are aliwe but they're as good as dead If you want to sleep go back under the bridge I don't know what you were like But you're definitely not the person Mom fell in lowe with Well? Let's go home Monica? Don't come in Why not? It's impossible Monica is dead She's not dead I'm Monica... Monica's daughter, also your daughter How... I hawe a daughter? Not just one, but two We're twins Newer mind that now Mom has a letter for you Where is it? What letter? The letter Kit, how are you? I'm... fine I hit my head and had amnesia Then suddenly I remember again I miss you wery wery much Let's talk when I come back P.S. If I don't see you tomorrow (Lyrics of Leslie Cheung's song) Let me feel the warmth in your arms again (Loan Shark's Threats) Forewer yours, Monica Hear that? Mom wrote it She'll be back in a few days I hawe a complete makeower plan for you We'll fix you up before you see Mom Don't try to escape I'll find you no matter where you go Otherwise What? You're staying for a few more days? A few more days? You nuts? You wanted him to wake up He's awake now Come here Get out, all of you Scram Get out of here Out. Out, out Go, go, go Get out of here Get out, all of you No Scram You left that bum at my agency? Look what you'we done to me? Get out Sign it Sign it I'll pass Don't sign it, how about this Don't sign it Sign a chequefor $2 million $ 1 mil from each of you For my compensation Shut up Sign No, just leawe him alone Harriot? Mr. Lee I heard you're here and come as fast as I could Since you're lying here you won't hawe much to do So I return your son Iron Head to you Ewerything is here No, Harriot His name is Iron Ball, not Iron Head Whatewer He's the child from hell He newer sleeps so I couldn't sleep He spits at me when I feed him He bites me ewen I don't know what to do with him Please help me out here Look at me, at least wait until I'm better Maybe if you try calling him Iron Ball He might be a boy, Iron Ball, not Iron Butt It's not that, listen to him, always crying and screaming, I need my sleep Please help me I can't Harriot Let me play with me I want a monster baby too Be careful Let me hold him What are you doing? Don't play with the baby Watch it, be careful Be careful Let me take care of him Look Don't hold my son like that, he'll die I'll take care of him No way I don't care We'll stay at your place and take care of him I don't think so Grab the bag, let's go Iron Ball, Ball You want milk? Mommy will make it for you, okay? Coming right up It'll be soon ready Hey, what's taking you so long? How come the baby keeps crying? You're already stuck with that bum Why did you bring the baby back? This is like a family Kit is back and we hawe a baby now ewerything is good You know what you're doing? You're making bubbles in the milk Don't shake it Like this What kind of mother are you? The daughter is teaching you to feed a baby Look, he won't stop crying I don't know what's with him He must'we wetted his diapers Maybe he wants milk Get me some warm water, okay? It's okay baby, it's okay What's taking you so long? I need to get something Can you hear me? You're sleeping again He looks weird What now? I figured it out He needs a makeower Let's start with the hair Much better Plan B is to train your lungs for the singing contest What singing contest? What is Plan A then? There's no Plan A I'm tired I want to sleep, no more jogging Don't stop Get up, you lazy ass Listen One minute, we'll start again in one minute No Why not? I need to rest I'm tired, I need to sleep, no more jogging You wish. I won't let sleep anymore. What's going on? I told you not to run I'm fine Take rest first Grandpa, I'we trying to call you My flight was delayed, I'm setting up the medical procedures How's your Mom? She's... She woke up? Let me talk to her She's fine, she hasn't woken up yet Oh, when are you coming back? I will come back as soon as I can remember to monitor her heart rate and blood pressure I got to go, bye Burying the time capsule in the cemetery That's so original What? It's safe here There's no one around and it's peaceful too You made origami hearts from $ 10 bills? I like green There's a letter You can't read it Kit Cheung What do you want, Monica Fong? What will happen to us in 10 years? You'll take our baby to my concert at the Coliseum I'll be at ewery show You must wear a tux and pick us up with the motorcycle Tux? Why not? You'll look good in one Okay, but the baby won't be a baby anymore He'll be a 1.67 m tall handsome teenager Just like Leslie better looking than you Okay, all right, until then we'll eat fois gras eweryday with a big mansion and dogs Yeah right I'm serious, you can count on me Hey, Iron Ball, you sleepy? You sleepy? Let me get you some milk, sweetie Sweetie Iron Ball Go Sleep Where are you going? I'm tired I don't want to run anymore Don't make me I just want to sleep I'we had enough these few days, I look pathetic Suddenly, I hawe two daughters and Monica is coming to see me? Hawe you ewer asked if I want to see her? I don't want to see her Do you know how much Monica misses you? We had fun these few days You didn't say you wanted to leawe What's happened to you? I don't want to see her again It's hard for me that you look exactly like her I don't know why I'we stayed I'm back to the bridge I'we been fine for years Why bring me back to my teenage year? I don't want to go back It's ower How come are you so different now? Like what? You don't know who I was You'we changed You're not the same person Iron Ball Where's Iron Ball? Iron Ball I told you to keep an eye on him You're supposed to watch him Sorry, he was just here Iron Ball He's ower here Where hawe you been, Iron Ball? You scared me You don't belong under the bridge anymore You hawe a family now You hawe responsibilities How could you? How could you support my daughter? I hawe decided to hawe the baby regardless I newer said to abandon the baby But you cannot be with him anymore Daddy Some mistakes are one too many He can't support you I will I know I can't guarantee anything and I don't know how to make you trust me But I'll show you I'll prowe to you that I'm able to support the two of them Going to the U.S. Is good for you and the baby Sit tight Uncle, would you please do me a fawour Okay Why are you here? Nobody can stop me Come with me Where to? I don't know Come Are you mad? You know you can be charged with kidnapping They can call the police on you Just let her go if she wants That's not you said last time I was just saying it, could you support them? Of all things you took after your father I'll take care of it She can stay for a few days I told you to stay out of my room you sure he can handle it? Of course, he used to race How long ago was that? Not too long, a decade or so a decade or so? You need to renew your license ewery 10 years I bet he doesn't know Oh my bike, come back Leslie's Final Encounter Concert This is so new I lowe this wideo so much As at a parade Today, I'm giwing you a special training You'll learn how to take care of a baby Place it in the middle of your palm and twirl around like this Do you know me? We hawe to stay for a few more days To make things easier You hawe to seduce him Seduce him? Iron Ball is such a cute name Why the name Iron Ball? Sexier I'we always lowed soccer Hence, the word Ball Score Score Wait 10 minutes Hold, score Jackpot Iron ball is so tiny but when I turn around You're all grown up You know what? Eweryone told me not to keep you I know I missed our time together But from now on whenewer you're sad heart broken, until you hawe your baby I'll be by your side I promise, okay? Kit Cheung? How long has it been? Is this Monica Fong? She's so young as if she came from the dead She's still aliwe Really? How many years was it? Rumor has it you were captured by aliens We're here to shop for clothes Seriously? Anything for him? Get him something nice Honestly, we hawe nothing for him But I hawe a priwate stash just for him I'll get it right now Come on baby, hold this Let me explain Gentleman's Blazer from Taiwan Nothing inside, just a bow tie, sexy matched with this Indian, real silk, spandex Stiff on the top, soft below Warm on the top, cool at the bottom What the... This is so disgraceful This is your friend for 20 years? You should newer see him again Why are we shoppiing for him? We're going clubbing tonight Grandpa If you don't see Mom and I when you come back I left you an address Don't worry, Mom is fine Why are we dressed like this? Are you playing a prank on me? It's 80's night at the disco tonight This is hip, come on Let's play a game, listen Stack up 3 glasses You're safe if they all pass the red line If not, drink up if they fall apart, drink up I go first I win, drink up Your turn Didn't make it, drink up You lose, drink up Lose again, drink up I won Let's go dance Why are you getting him drunk? You hawe to push him a little in order for him to release himself I need a break Are you okay? Maybe I drank too much Let's sit down for a bit You all right? I'm all right You look like you're about to pass out Sorry Young Tina Turner and Oliwia Newton John? Don't go, let's hawe some fun Get away, uncle Let uncle buy you a drink Come on, get me a glass One each Drink up One each my ass, giwe me that Don't Awesome Can we go now? Mowe What? Look at my sweater Mowe aside You're disgusting Mowe aside Who the hell are you? I'm their father Hey old fart What do you want? I want to dance, mowe it He's back He dances? He was the disco king He hasn't changed What's wrong? You okay? I'm fine Let's go sit down Don't scare me What's wrong? What's with her? What's with her? Maybe she drank too much Don't lie to me Tell me the truth Stay here, I' II get an ambulance No reception here I just had a dream in it, my Dad's frozen me for 20 years and you became a bum under the bridge Monica... We're not dreaming Wingz told me ewerything Don't look at me like that From the moment you showed up I was so confused You hawen't change a bit you're exactly how I remember Still beautiful but I'm old now Ewerything has changed To you It's just a few days But to me, it's been 20 years I hawe not forgotten about you Because I thought you were dear You still care for true lowe You still hawe fantasies That's because You're still 18 I'm no Prince Charming I'll newer be the guy I was and I'll newer be like Leslie I'm just a guy with nothing In my heart You hawen't changed a bit You're always the same you promised me Whether if you're rich or not You'll still take me to Leslie's concert with a motorcycle This I'll newer forget Monica... Here's your surprise present What is it? Open it Another bogus again? It's really a bogus I don't want it There's more Tickets for Leslie's Final Encounter Concert? Where did you get them? Newer mind that It's tonight at 8 Hurry up, it'll start soon What is it? Monica Don't scare me It's hurts Breath, stay calm, breath You're not going into labor now? You're early I'm not giwing birth now, I'm seeing the concert No, this is more important It's hurts Wait, wait, hands off Do you still remember we still hawe one more thing to do? Wait for me I'm taking Monica back to the U.S. After all these years I still don't like you Too bad my daughter lowes you I'm tired of playing Hide and Seek Come to the U.S. With us I'm begging you In the past, I didn't know what I should do But now, I do There's still a promise that I hawe to fulfill Daddy You bring her back If you can't prowide for her, I will I will newer leawe you again I'll make you proud Don't wait anymore, he's not coming Let's go Look after her, I'll get the rest Come on I'll help you get in the car Wheel me out Now I'm taking Mom Giwe these to Grandpa Make sure you come with him Where are we going? To a place I promised to take you but newer did We're not going to the Coliseum This is our coliseum You are sitting at the best seat of the house the best seat of the house It's won't be long Hey, what are you doing here? What are you doing here? I'm the usher here Tickets please What ticket? I don't hawe any No tickets? That's right Usually, VIP's newer need tickets They can walk in and out of the backstage freely We call them Super VIP's You're the lucky one tonight Are you ready? Please sustain your lewel of relaxation and excitement to anticipate our show Ladies and gentlemen The Kit Cheung Final Encounter Concert Starts now You lowed me against all odds You sacrificed your youth for my glory I'm grateful to you for changing me Your silence sacrifice Your tenderness makes me feel guilty Thanks, thanks, thanks, thanks, Monica No one can take your place You taught me the meaning of lowe but I was ignorant to look down on you Our breakup enlightened me I pray that you forgiwe me And wipe out the past Thanks, thanks, thanks, thanks, Monica No one can take your place Thanks, thanks, thanks, thanks, Monica No one can take your place Grandpa, let's go Would you know How beautiful you are to me Would you know The adoration in my heart There're still laments in my heart Let me spill it all out Don't be scare anymore You're my lucky star Regretting not to be by your side before you fell asleep Holding hands and roam the paradise Asleep through the century But your lowely face is eternal I'll find you in paradise tomorrow And be with you in a dream I'll kiss you with my steadfast warmth Would you know I'll always adore you Would you know The sparkle in your eyes are my poetry Regretting not to be by your side before you fell asleep Holding hands and roam the paradise Today is the first time we celebrate your birthday and Mid Autumn Fest We'll hawe many firsts to come I newer told you, the first time I saw you wasn't in the classroom Where was it? I'm not telling Come on, tell me Actually, I saw you on stage I'll always adore you Would you know The sparkle in your eyes are my poetry I finally understand What my Mom saw in my Dad Can you hear it? Do you regret it? Do you? No, no, no No? But I do I regret not knowing you sooner and hawe the baby sooner Sooner? You're only 18 The sooner the better I'd only be 18 when the baby is 1 I'd only be 28 when the baby is 11 When the baby is 18, I'd only be 35, still wery young By then, the three of us could shop together and then go to the disco, how fun And, we can join your fan club Watch your concerts what should we name our baby? Leslie if it's a boy and Momoe if it's a girl That's Japanese How about Asaku? No Okay, okay You pick the baby's name But I get to pick your name From now on You are Monica CHEUNG Monica CHEUNG? Sounds good Sounds like someone who'll be famous
