 

                        In 1853, a small group of Americans journeyed to Sonora, Mexico. Their mission was to free that country from a corrupt dictatorship. Their leader's name was William Walker. Walker's forces will never fall back. His men would rather die first. Fight! They're only Mexicans! You must make sacrifices for freedom, for justice, for religious conviction! Stand up and fight, fight you pigheaded bastards! Fight! What is this? Get back, you sons of bitches. Shit. Oh, fuck! Brigade, attention! Men of the 1st lndependence Battalion, we came to Sonora with bold hearts and lofty intentions. But I will not dissemble with you. Reinforcements have failed to arrive. We are without food or water. We're trapped. Only an act of God can save us now. Crocker, prepare for departure. We're going home. - Yes, sir! This is a magnificent moment for me. It is a privilege to be at your side. Even if we are defeated. We will live on in history. Mon frre! Don't be so silly, man. Walker led his men to the American border. Unjustly accused of violating Mexico's neutrality, he was put on trial. Quiet! I demand quiet! Does Mr. Walker wish to make a statement before the jury decides on a verdict? - Yes, Your Honor. Unless a man believes that there is something great to do, he can do nothing great. A great idea springs up from a man's soul, agitates his entire being, transports him from the ignorant present and makes him feel the future in a moment. It is the Americans' God-given right to dominate the Western hemisphere. It is our moral duty to protect our neighbors from exploitation. It is the fate of America to go ahead. That is her Manifest Destiny. - Hear! Hear! Your Honor, we find the defendant, William Walker... Not guilty. - Not guilty. Where to next, Colonel? We must move southward. Only by expanding can we hope to avoid a civil war and save those institutions we hold most dear. I assume you are including slavery, are you not, Mr. Squier? I most certainly am, sir. We must not be sentimental if we hope to preserve that which is most precious to us. My sentiments entirely, Mr. Squier. - Thank you, Mr. Moby. How absolutely right we both are. Pardon me? - Miss Martin says that perhaps they not all worth saving. Well, perhaps not. But I'm sure the little lady agrees that we must preserve our way of life at any cost. Or the barbarians will surely storm the gates. And then what? - Well said. Pardon? Miss Martin is of a different view. She is for change rather than cultural preservation. - lnteresting. Ellen. Please, Ellen! I'm afraid she's not herself. She's been at my recent trial, plus our approaching marriage... Excuse me. Doctor, please take care of our guests. - Yes. The renowned Walker has prepared a statement in the form of a quote from President Buchanan: "Expansion is the future of our country. Only cowards fear and oppose it." Mr. Cole, will the colonel be returning to Mexico? He has no immediate plans, except to pursue his private affairs in peace. Ellen. Ellen, you know I despise, I despise slavery. Walker! Walker! In the flurry of excitement following his acquittal, Walker was invited to visit that captain of industry, Cornelius Vanderbilt, considered by some the richest and most powerful man in the world. Colonel Walker, pleased to see you. The Commodore will be so happy. - Give him some water, please. He's been asking about you every day. - Is my horse safe with him? - Yes. You've been very much on his mind. Central America, Colonel, there's land, and all there for the taking. Think of it, sir. From ocean to ocean. This way. And the women, Colonel! My God, the women! Bare-breasted beauties under trees laden with fruit. Think of it, seven to every man. If you please. By the way, have you read my book on Nicaragua? - No, I have not. I will give you a signed first edition when next we meet. I understand you were educated in Edinburgh and Paris. - Correct. Good. The Commodore likes an educated man. There he is, the most powerful man on earth. Don't be nervous, Colonel. Just remember three things: Don't sit unless invited to. Always address him as Commodore. And under no circumstances ask him for any personal favors. Commodore Vanderbilt, Colonel William Walker. - Colonel of what? The American Phalange in Northern Mexico. - You stirred things up. Our government didn't help or we would have been successful. You fucked up, Walker. Next time pick on a country your own size. Are you entitled to wear that uniform? I'm entitled to do anything I want! Mr. Vanderbilt, I came here on your invitation. I did not come here to be insulted. If you'll excuse me. Sit down! Please, Colonel, please. Sit down. Does Nicaragua mean anything to you? - Nothing at all. It's a fucked up little country somewhere south of here. This worthless piece of land controls the overland route to the Pacific. I now control all transportation in Nicaragua. But to continue doing so, I need stability. What's this got to do with me? Nicaragua is a divided country, sir. It's in the midst of a civil war. I need a man to go down there and take over. I want that country stable. I want it done now. They tell me you're a clever man. Doctor, lawyer, surgeon... all that renaissance rubbish. Can you handle the job? That's not the issue. I plan to get married... start a newspaper. Then you would be wasting one of life's golden moments, sir. Not every man is offered the chance to have a country of his own. My goals involve a higher purpose than the vulgar pursuit of power. Do you prize democracy, Walker? Universal suffrage? The principles of our Founding Fathers? Yes. More than my own life. Nicaragua needs democracy. They need a canal, as well. I'm interested in Nicaragua, Walker, and so are you. Whether you know it or not. I'm sorry but I cannot oblige you. Good day. - Walker... I like him. Get him a new hat. It was the cholera. Holy Mary, mother of God, prey for us sinners, now and at the hour of our death. Amen. She's with God now, my son. - Don't talk to me about God! What do you know about God! Get out! All of you out! Get out, now! How? I can't... I don't... God, you bitch! Walker determined not to look back, but to face only the future. He accepted VanderbiIt's proposal and set sail for Nicaragua. With him were 58 men, whom the popular press saw fit to call "Walker's lmmortals". - Captain Siegfried Henningson, I fought in Corsica and the Balkans. I'm well-schooled in military matters and have learned from the best. Please accept my services. I will provide for myself and require no financial assistance. What is your name, sir? Lieutenant... Captain Siegfried Henningson, at your command, sir. You are now Major Henningson. - Sir. - Cast off then. Never have I seen such brave men assembled under one banner. God bless them all. The American phalange was met in Realejo by distinguished representatives of the Nicaraguan Liberal Party. My brother, William Walker. - How do you do, sir? These natives were to be our guides. Start drumming, Mr. Turley. From the day the Americans landed at Realejo dates a new era, not only for Nicaragua, but for all Central America. What are you doing? Move it! You're on my shit-list, Washburn! We paused at the small, unregenerated hamlet of Realejo to await the arrival of the leaders of the Liberal Party, Generals Munoz and Castellon. Proverbs, chapter 11, verse 3: "The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them." Soldiers, we are now embarked on a glorious destiny. Nothing short of the entire regeneration of this republic. Ours is a sacred trust. Any man who betrays that trust by creating an act of transgression against the Nicaraguan people will be judged and dealt with. No excessive drinking, no seducing, no swearing in public. Can we swear in private? - Quiet, the colonel is talking. Gentlemen, we are honored guests here. We will act according to the moral dictates of God, science, and hygiene. Hear! Hear! - That is all, Captain. Dismissed! What hygiene? Sanders, I know what you're thinking, but even you can do better than that. You just stay out of this. The colonel said this is a democracy. Walker realized that he would need to keep a firm hand on the men. Men, as of this moment, we do hereby under God become citizens of Nicaragua. If there is any man who would say no to this great privilege, Iet him step forward. Our job is to introduce a new sister to the family of enlightened nations. Helping us in our just cause are two of Nicaragua's Liberal Party and defenders of democracy, Generals, Generals... Damn. ... Castellon and Munoz. Three cheers for the Generals! Three cheers for democracy! We march for Rivas. As God is on our side, victory will be ours. You chaps do trudge about a bit. Lost your way? We're marching to Rivas. - Really? What on earth for? We're bringing them democracy. Very peculiar. You must be Americans. - Not no more, we're Nicaraguans. Did you draw that? - Yes. What do you think, Captain? - I think... What do you think of these new guns? - I like them. Six shots, and good looking too. The firing squad could've used 'em. We attack from the south and from behind the church. We will go straight in. - Right, Colonel. Don't give them a chance. But the generals assured us that we will be met with no resistance. Castellon is an indecisive old man. Munoz is a conceited troublemaker. William, they are our allies. - At any rate, we will go in hard with our eyes open. The first impression is very important. - Forgive me, this is idiotic. I prefer the last impression. - First and last are often the same. I didn't know you were a pedant. History never smiles on pedants. Excuse me, gentlemen. Lieutenant, may I speak to you? That pig. I have studied military strategy... Colonel, may I speak to you alone, sir? - Certainly. What seems to be the problem? - None, I just wanted to ask if I could be excused tomorrow from being the drum major. Whenever I see pictures of battlefield scenes, I always see the drummer boy lying dead next to his drum. If it's all the same to you, I'd like to trade my rifle... I mean, my drum for a rifle. As long as you are under my command, no harm will come to you. Lieutenant! Straighten up! You wanted to see me, sir? Some men abandon all reason before going into battle. They become so afraid, that the battle is lost before it's begun. I know that this will not happen with you, Timothy. Thank you for your confidence. Sir, l... The men are really confused about what we are fighting for here. We know that the liberals are our friends and the conservatives are our enemies. But to tell you the truth, sir, I can't tell them apart. That is no concern of yours, Timothy, nor of the men. All you have to remember is that our cause is a righteous one. I know that, sir. I hope you do. I sincerely hope you do. Get some sleep. Thank you, sir. Let's go, boys. We went over it last week. Colonel, what are you doing? The only thing I know how to, advance. - You dumb shit! There's no reason to talk to me that way. I'm sorry, sir. But you're going to get killed, and everyone else too. Then we'll be together again. We must get into a house, Colonel. - Why? For our own protection. Yes, yes. Good idea, Major. - Come, please. Dr. Jones, how is your day going? - Fine, William. How about yourself? - Now that we have a plan, I'm sure we'll be successful. Splendid, William! After you. - No, after you. No, please. - Let's go in together. - Very well. Colonel, there's a room back here. - Is there a piano? - Yes, sir. Get out, Washburn! Why don't you say it in English: Follow me! What's with the damn music? Get him out of here. Move it. We need supper! It's not even right... We don't have time. We have to charge them bastards. - Nonsense. We've got rifles, they've only got muskets. We don't stand a chance. - We're soldiers. Killing is our job. The colonel is leaving. Move out. Men! We must leave immediately. - What about the wounded? They'll have to take their chances. - Go out the back after the explosion! You are not in command here! We need another diversion. Charge through after the blast. - The blast is enough. That is not my opinion, Major. You men! You! You! After the blast, charge though the hole! Everyone else, out the back. We'll meet outside the tower. Fuck you, Colonel! Benito's not going through no wall! Major. Open the door! Suffering a setback and wishing to protect his men at all costs, Walker decided to withdraw to the seaport of San Juan del Sur. As always, his men's spirits remained high. Dr. Jones, when you were a little boy, did you ever have a moment when you were sitting on the lawn and you took a blade of grass or a beetle and just looked at it? And it was whole, perfect, and totally outside of time? Colonel, sir. You're late, Cole. You were supposed to come by sea. I've brought new recruits. Prussian troops from Ecuador. Magnificent tactics. I commend you, General. What "tactics"? Who is this man? Victoire, mon gnral. I'm Bruno von Nazmer, at your service. I greet you. You will invade Granada, I assume? - You don't know? Know what? You inflicted such heavy causalities on the enemy, he abandoned Rivas. His troops are wracked with dysentery and cholera. You broke their spirit. You are victorious. You have won. - We've won! Now the hour of my destiny has arrived. I cannot lose. Determined to end the civil war and reconcile the divided nation, we marched upon Granada, a bastion of conservative power. The American phalange entered the capital at dawn as liberators. Captain Hornsby. Immortals, charge! Captain Hornsby, I must protest... You horrible foreigners, listen up. The colonel is about to speak. Citizens of Nicaragua, today, Granada and all of Nicaragua have been liberated. It is our sacred duty to unify this great nation. But today is a day of celebration. Tomorrow we must... Shoot the prisoners! Kill them! It is not my time to die. It is not his time to die. The assassin's bullet has struck correspondence from the great patriot, General Castellon. It is he who has saved my life. As it is I who shall save the life of this country. Colonel Walker, we thank you from the deepest of our heart... The ending of our civil war... ... and bringing us the precious gift of freedom. - Hear! Hear! What are we doing here? What are your intentions for the office of the presidency? Turn it down and offer it to Corral. You'll own him. Tell them you will take commander-in-chief of the army. I am deeply grateful for being offered such an exalted position. However, I must regretfully decline. It would be better for the country if I protected the democratic process as commander-in-chief of the army. I would like to nominate as president, a great hero and patriot, General Ponciano Corral. Your country is primitive. But it's full of possibilities for democratic advancement. We must establish agrarian reforms before we equalize the social classes. Above all... We must separate church and state. Yes. English must be the first language, to end discrimination against Americans who underwent conscription. Release the natives from the army to re-supply the labor force. The American phalange... ... takes care of national security. And free elections within six months. If you think that's possible. You must be patient with me, Doa Yrena. I'm a shy man in these matters. Walker's "lmmortals" initiated various cultural and civic reforms, including building a theater in the traditional European style. I went up to that shanty you call a house to give the girls a bath, but there was no water. Also no toilet paper, no beer. This is Managua? - No, this is Granada. Look, they're flogging those kids. - Come on! Walker, seeking literacy above all gods save hygiene, started a newspaper, "El Nicaraguense". I know that guy. He owes me 7 bucks. Next they'll be instituting slavery. It's the same racist macho shit that we turned our backs on. It has no feel of victory in it. It should be glorious and proud like the French Revolution. - Yeah. But that's how is was. - No matter. - Well? Shall I send a copy to the Commodore? - Yes absolutely. Ask him for more money. - James, come on. Billy, my man! Top gringo and heavyweight generalissimo! We're his brothers. - I didn't know he had any brothers. He does, ok? - We came as soon as we heard. Everyone's talking about you. You're famous. - Yes, James, that's all relative. Excuse me, I have work to do. Wait just a minute. We've been on the road for months, coming down to help you out. All you can say is "l have to work"? - Yes, that's all I can say. If you'll excuse me. Come on. Maybe when you get some time? Good to see you, James. One must act with severity, or perish. Put that down. What are you, a hick? Don't give me that look. I brought you down to the Paris of Central America and you behave like you're still in some hamlet in the woods. That's power for you. The man doesn't even recognize his own brother. And Honduras and Costa Rica? Don't they need democracy too? Try to pay attention to... - Hey! Who do you think you are, Willy? I'm your goddamn brother. You throw me a bone! Don't ever talk to me like that. You're welcome only if you contribute. I have many brothers here and they are all equal. - Bullshit! I don't believe in equality and neither do you. You make me an officer and give me some money or I'll stink up the place. You and James will be lieutenants. Nothing more until you earn it. What about the money, Willy? Give me the treasury! Outta my way! Boys, he made me a general. You're a corporal. Walker realized that he could no longer trust his former allies. In particular, he determined to keep watch on president Corral. I've an interesting letter here, sir. "Lost is Nicaragua, Honduras, Salvador and Guatemala. Unless we all unite against the gringo..." I want you to arrest Corral. Of course, sir. Assure him he'll receive a fair trial. - We'll take care of him. William, Should I go too? You'd better hurry, James. Execution souvenirs, medallions... Corral was found guilty of treason and sentenced to die. The whole country rejoiced at this news. There was no doubt that justice had been served. William... General Walker, Corral is like a father to these people. A tyrannical father who would betray his children. He was calling on foreign troops to start an insurrection. Treason must be punished. I have no choice. Doa Yrena says it is a terrible mistake to kill Corral. A mistake, General. In this case I entirely agree with her. Morally and politically you will lose everything you have gained up to now. She said something else. She called me a name. What did she call me? She called you a dog's asshole. You know they are right. Everyone will hate you. I cannot help that. Sometimes a leader must listen to a higher law. What you say may be true, but it's not important in the end. - But listen... Never speak of this matter again! If you want my opinion... - Shut up! General Corral shall not be executed today at noon. He shall be executed at two o'clock. Take aim! Fire! That son of a bitch has taken Costa Rica. And we need to find a way to get it back. Do you know what it's like there? - I may not know that, but we're in trouble without a president. - If you want my view... I don't, and neither does anyone else. Don't get a wild hair up your ass, Mr. Cole, it was only a suggestion. Gentlemen, gentlemen. Perhaps the time has come for an election. There has already been an election. I won. "WALKER ELECTED PRESlDENT. NlCARAGUANS REJOlCE." The morning paper. - Thank you, Mr. Roger. - Yes, sir. Congratulations Mr. President. What has he done to my newspaper? You're quite a hero back in the United States. Do you have any plans to go back? - Nicaragua is my country. As long as I'm needed, I'll not leave. - Your country is in chaos. Guerilla wars are taking place. Yet you refuse to engage the enemy. Why? A long war against scattered guerilla groups would be disheartening and too exhausting for our American troops. Do you have anything to say to the American people? - Yes. Climb aboard one of VanderbiIt's ships and come on down. The truth is, Cornelius Vanderbilt is taking advantage of you. His company, which guarantees overland passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, isn't paying you what they should. To put it bluntly, he's exploiting you and the country. - Shame, shame. Why are you telling me this? We propose to start a new company and make you an even better offer. But first you must revoke VanderbiIt's license and grant us one. Vanderbilt has not been paying me what he owes me? - Absolutely. That is inexcusable. - No doubt. But we mustn't forget that without him we wouldn't be here today. True. Whatever good fortune we have, we owe it to him. Not only that, but he would be a terrible man to cross. I hardly think, gentlemen, that Commodore Vanderbilt is responsible for my... our great victories in the field. May I have a word with you, William? I mean, Mr. President? Certainly, Byron. Anything you wish to say, you may say here. Walker doesn't resort to whispers and subterfuge. Our great victories notwithstanding, William, we're utterly dependent on Vanderbilt. His ships provide us with money, munitions, medicine, and men. We cannot risk incurring his displeasure. Traitor, traitor! Gentlemen, as granted by our constitution, I have the authority and autonomy to do whatever I want. Don't l? Don't l? - Yes, Mr. President. - Don't l? Don't l? Yes, you do. I will not be betrayed by a man as vulgar and insidious as Vanderbilt. I will, therefore, revoke his permit. I will commandeer his vessels. They are now the property of the Republic of Nicaragua. You cannot be serious. - D'you wanna bet? - President Walker, it might be better to use more diplomacy instead of force. For you, perhaps, but not for me. Excuse me. I have work. Forgive me, but your work is here. Sir, come back here! I've had it with you foreign weasels. You have the nerve to come here, barely speaking the language, taking our jobs and women. Take that! I can't help noticing, sir, during the time I've spent with you, that you've betrayed your principles, all the men who supported you... May I ask why? No, you may not. I'm still not clear on what exactly are your aims? The ends justify the means. - What are the ends? I can't remember. You two scumbags went behind my back and cut into my action. Nobody does that! Do you understand? Nobody fucks with Vanderbilt! We can surely reach an acommodation. We are all civilized men. Civilized men? From now on, you'll be shoveling shit. And if your mouths aren't too full, you'll thank me for the privilege. That's how civilized I think you are. You've not only betrayed the Commodore, you've betrayed yourselves, by putting faith in that extremist Walker. You've upset the Commodore. What were you thinking of? Did you think this madman was in charge? Of course not. - Get out of here. Both of you. What about Walker? No one will remember Walker. No one will remember men who lose. Look at that fat cat Walker. Strutting about as if he was a king. One thing he didn't know: it's Vanderbilt running the show. If he ever pulls the plug, we'll be up to our necks in shit. What have I got, Doctor? It's cholera. "What means this shouting? I fear the people choose Caesar as their king." Why man... That's mine. "Another general shout." "l do believe that these are for some new honors heaped on Caesar ". - "Why, he doth bestride the narrow world like a Colossus." - Get the donkey! "And we petty men walk under his huge legs and peep about to find ourselves..." Where are you going? We are in crisis. We must talk. - Can't you wait until intermission? The men are going mad, defacing the cathedral, stealing artifacts. The priests must take their chances. It's war. - The men are the future. No, they are not. - Are you alright, sir? Vanderbilt has diverted his ships for Panama, cut off our supplies. We have no new recruits, no money... You have lost control of every major Nicaraguan town. Rubbish! It's nonsense. Pure, unadulterated horseshit! Food! - Booze! Money! - Justice! Food, booze, money, justice! What? - You are a disgrace! - I am? All this is a disgrace, Your Worship! - You are stripped of your rank. Stay as a private, or leave. Hey, private this, Willie! Anderson. Give me his medals. I want them. Mother never liked you anyway. He thinks too much. Such men are dangerous. Men, I have a solution to our problems. Slavery. Yes! What do you mean? We don't need no slaves. - Only money and weapons. And medicine. - Silence! We will introduce slavery here. The South will rally to our cause. There were rumors that neighboring countries had invaded Nicaragua. Walker sent out agents to see if this was true. None of the agents returned. "The lndian of Nicaragua, being faithful, docile, capable of labor, approaches the Negroes of the U.S. The lndian is more submissive towards the ruling race then the American Negro to his master. The benefits of slavery in Nicaragua would therefore be two-fold: it will furnish certain labor for agriculture, and the racial separation will destroy disorder caused by the half-castes." "The battle of Rivas, June 29th, 1855. Not more than a dozen went out to drive away upward 100. Their charge swept the enemy completely away. There was no thought of rank. Each one went forth with his revolver, acting like a true man in the fray. Never have I seen such brave men assembled under one banner. God bless them all." I have studied with the best and you want to teach me tactics? Bruno and the Germans, they have a vision. Always be a straight-shooter, James. I like the sound of that. I must speak with you. I don't understand. - No time. - You speak... I have spoken to you in many ways, but you have not heard me. But now, you must, William. Everything depends on it. Did you see this? I beg you, please. If we have a lot of death, we will have a revolution. We must not have that if we are to survive. We are both aristocrats. I am not an aristocrat, I'm a social democrat. What's with you? I only want what's best for Nicaragua. I'm surprised at you. Leave me, I've important work to do. - Are you sure of that? Absolutely. And shut the door on your way out. - Okay. Yrena, what are you doing? Bruno! Instruct the men to burn the town. You men, remove the colonel's brother's body. Mr. President. It's been a long time, Doctor. - It doesn't seem like it. Granada has been put to the torch. How many have we lost? - Nearly all, sir. We must leave immediately. I will speak to my men one last time. - lmmediately! - I insist, Major. Immortals, attention! Unless man believes there's something great to do, he can do nothing great. A great idea springs up in his soul, agitates his entire being, transports him from the present and lets him feel the future. Reduced to our present position, by the cowardice of some, the incapacity of others, and the treachery of many, we are writing a page in history that cannot be forgotten or erased. You might think that there will be a day when America will leave Nicaragua alone. But I am here to tell you flat out that that day will never happen. Because it is our destiny to be here. It is our destiny to control you people. No matter now much you fight, or what you think, we'll be back. Time and again. By the bones of our American dead in Rivas and Granada, I swear that we will never abandon Nicaragua. Let it occupy your every waking and sleeping thought. From the future, if not the present, we may expect just judgment. What about the prisoners? - Shoot them. - You heard him! Shoot the prisoners! I have been instructed the U.S. State Department to return all American citizens to their homeland. I'm an American. Yes, sorry only U.S. citizens. Get your fucking hands off of me. Shoot him. What is your nationality? - William Walker. President of Nicaragua. I'm sorry, sir. Colonel! To anyone thinking about Vietnam: There is no thought of sending American troops to Central America. Maneuvers are being conducted 10 miles from Honduras's border with Nicaragua. Nicaragua considers it an act of agression. The US says it is purely defensive. We're helping Honduras defend itself. It doesn't envisage any involvement of US ground forces. The exercises are being done for the sake of peace and self-defense. The political aspect of their presence was not lost on some of the troops. We showed it to Nicaragua. Yeah, we're sending them a message.
