 

                        Catch him! Stop! Over there! That way! Catch him! Stop! Father Wake up, Nam-yi! Are you afraid? I'm asking, are you afraid?! Yes, father That fearful heart, look squarely in the eye of it that's how you come out of it Father! Don't forget, it's Kim Mu-seon in Gyeseong Got it? ...I want to stay with you, father... You're now Ja-in's father You must take care of your sister 'til you die Do you understand?! - Yes - Get up Father! Get out of here, Nam-yi! Capture the traitor! Father! Father! Father! I have to go back to father! Didn't you hear father? Father is still fighting! I have to take the bow to him, so he can win! Stupid! Father told us to take it Do you even know what that implies? I'm gonna go! Brother, let's go back Let's give him the bow, please We've captured the traitor! Now, find his children! Hwal ("bow") Did you witness your father's end? Are you Ja-in? So, did your father leave any last words? People ignorant of foreign affairs support the King... ...so there will surely be a war. The country and the safety of people are... ...like a lamp before a storm Aye, what can be done? I entrust the bow to you until the child grows up "Push like pushing a mountain... ...and pull like holding a tiger's tail" Gap-yong, please ask my wife to get them new dresses first Yes, sir Go ahead and change Don't be going outside without caution If someone asks you who you are... ...don't answer until an elder of this house answers first You got that? Father.. father.. father.. "You're now Ja-in's father You must take care of your sister 'til you die" Do you understand? [13 years later] .. This way! This way! .. That way! That way! Ugh.. darn it! It's hit! It's hit! It's dead! Wa.. wa.. wait! Why? What is this place? This is just.. Isn't this tiger trap? Let's hurry and carry it out Wa.. wait.. Th.. that is.. I heard it It.. tiger! Tiger! Tiger! Tiger! Tiger! ? Tiger, tiger, ? my tiger at Mt. Dongak ? I'll give you a rice cake ? So fetch me a bride There's this place in Gyeseong where all beautiful girls are I went there and they were all just looked homely Really? So the most beautiful girl in Songak... ..is our lady Miss Ja-in If only things had gone better for her... ...distinguished guys would be standing in a line mile long for her Now 'nuff with banter and have some drink Speaking of which, I think Madam is so harsh... ...seriously, isn't Miss Ja-in out of Master Seo-gun's league? Can any imperfection be found with Miss Ja-in? And what about her womanly figure? She beats an angel from heaven any day What has Young Master done? Did he pass the civil service exam? You're right I said that's enough! Brother, did I say something wrong? C'mon, enough already, you know the whole story It's because I know the story and it suffocates me! I told you to stop already! /Idiot!/ Hey, jerk, I even got on your side... Hey! You just cuss'd at me, didn't you? You cuss'd at me, didn't you?! You bastard, you disrespect me... ...because you've played around somewhat, eh?! I'll rip your mouth wide today.. ...and fix your bad habit for good! You jerk! Kang-du, please stop! I came to have some drink but it's a big mess here Master, glad to see you Eh.. Does it help with digestion if you drink like this? What made you have a fun fight like this? What made you come out at this time of night? Come here I'll pour you a drink Brother, this is no way to have a drink tastefully How about if we move to a real nice place? A nerd like you know of any place to drink? Well.. ...you'll find out once you get there Whoa, there's surely a lot of rare beauties for a drinking bar Yes, this place is well known for drinks The drink does taste different here - The sword.. - Wait! - I'll pour one - What's with this? Nothing at all I just want to serve one Serve one? Please, receive one Now.. I'm treated properly as an older brother finally! So.. I have... ...something I'd like to tell you Brother, I'd like to marry Ja-in What did you say?! Please approve, Brother You're her guardian, aren't you? Does your mother know about this? And your father? I only need to persuade them, and that's all Brother... ...I'm really.. desperate Brother Please approve for me You and I are... ...brothers.. closer than regular friends Who says you and I are closer than regular friends? It's like that 'cuz I said so Are you insane or something? How can family members living under the same roof.. .. no.. that isn't it.. .. you want to marry a traitor's daughter who's in hiding? Are you trying to ruin your own life? I know exactly what you're worrying about My parents.. .. I will persuade them over Brother.. we lived together in the same house all that time.. .. they surely wouldn't They surely suffered from a lot of anxieties 'cause they lived with traitor's children in their bosoms And you want to put that yoke back on your parents for life?! - Brother - And ! .. .. how do you think Ja-in would be under such mother-in-law? Whatever anyone else say I will not be detered And .. .. I can do anything and everything for Ja-in You can do anything and everything.. Sure - I'll make an offer then - ? Brother! - What offer .. - Is anyone here? If you cut me... ...I'll give you Ja-in But if you can't I will cut you... ...and I'll leave this town with Ja-in today You got that? Brother! What kind of offer .. Brother! Look at this weakling How dare you covet my sister?! I'm a son of a warrior too! I'm being easy on you, Brother!! I will never give my sister to a dimwit nerd like you I'd rather give her to a butcher .. A butcher would be a lot better choice This is enough Sorry for my rudeness Sit down! Drinking, and even fighting! Is life so easy for you?! Yes, sir My heart is at peace, and the world seems laughable like a flea to me It's been 13 years since you came to this house You abandoned desk study and you stopped martial arts training... ...you wander outside all day What are you going to do with your life?! Can I take a civil service exam by memorizing words? ... Or can I plunder a country by training in martial arts? I'm nothing but a traitor's child I shall live through today and I'll probably die tomorrow How dare you?!?! You really don't know what an honest man your father was?! - Yes I know - And ?! And .. I did indeed see the final end of such father! I sure did! What good is a diligent life? You stick yourself out to do... ..something great and you will only get cut down by a sword You're here like this because you fear that too, isn't it? Why you !@#$ If you have nothing more to say then I'd like to go... ...and have one more cup before I sober up You know... ...I named Ja-in when she was born And Seo-gun was named by your father I approve of his marriage to Ja-in This way please How have you been? What are you doing here? The guardian should be sitting in his place "Bow .. to .. groom .. first" "Bow .. once .. in .. reply" Master, it's your turn What are you waiting for? Are you all right? How would you go through the first night with such stupidity? "Bow .. twice .. in .. reply" .. be quiet will ya! Get in position! Close the gate! Close the gate! Quickly, get ready! Attack! [Year 1636, the second Manchu invasion of Korea] Get out of here! Run away! Kang-du! Kang-du! Escort the Prince! Ja-in! No, you bastards! She's my daughter! My dear wife! Young Master! Father .. My child .. Father! Where are they taking us? It's a war Don't be sad My cousin Our Mangudai siege strategy... ...he broke through with a bow. I've never seen someone shoot arrows like that in Joseon 'til now It happened because of our small number I thought it's only a weak arrow from a weak bow.. Their bow comes from the same root as ours It's short and thin, but great for distance and mobility We must never underestimate Jushinta! Wanhan! We now have more captives than ourselves It's all because of your works, uncles Have a safe trip back, Prince. They're ready for you now Come back quickly I have much to plan with you For our Manchu! For our Manchu! General, we are ready to move Keep Prince safe, Hu-man Yes, General! I entrust the envoys too Yes, sir! Ja-in! Ja-in! Ja-in! Ja-in! [King Injo escaped to Fort Namhan.. ..ultimately surrendered after a painful fight] [500,000..] [Many people, with no regard to gender or age...] [...were captured as prisoners and hostages] [Much abuse and harsh march...] [...had killed countless people] Who will give the sacrificial rite for my deceased father? Father! Please spare me! There's a blue dragon on the brown flag Where is he now? Please! I will decide after I hear your answer To north.. everyone's headed north.. I don't know any thing more He was killed immediately after the arrow went through the neck They all did We better hurry It looks like enemy soldiers' work Take this girl! General, there is something you have to see It happened all too quickly He would appear for a moment and then disappear again And an arrow came at me once again It was from a place where he ought to have stood He speaks our tongue And he's pursuing our King Flag? He clearly asked me about it Did he use red arrows? How did you know? I don't know who this is... ...but he's clearly pursuing the Royal guard unit By the way.. ...he said something strange Why aren't you killing me? Killing is not the purpose of my bow He said killing is not the purpose of his bow.. Stop hunting, and the elite unit shall follow me immediately Brothers! We now go back to our motherland! Interpreter! Now.. ..listen to me carefully! /If you cross this river... ...you'll never be able to go back home/ You all know this right? If you run away crossing this Aprok river... ...you become a traitor!! /I'll let go of whoever wants to run away, so have them run/ Now.. We .. He says to run away right now if you want to! Run away, run! /It's your last chance Don't you miss home?/ You know that you shouldn't run away just because he tells you to! /I will count to five/ /Go now if you want to go back/ Just wait out the five count! You should survive this anyhow! - /One!/ - One! - /Two!/ - Two! - /Three!/ - Three! - /Four!/ /This is the last count!/ What's going on? Don't you move It's useless Wuri! Father! See you later! Wuri, no! Don't! /Joseon people!/ /You can go back home/ /However!/ /You can't go back alive!/ /Go!/ You see that? He's just trying to tame us Those damn savages! Wuri! I should step out If even only one can survive and get out of here... ...then people can keep the hope alive, to run away alive Master, you'll die if you step out! Come here if you dare! You have to overcome me first before you cross here! Anyone from our brothers... ...is a true warrior?! You bastard! Come crawl towards me like your own king! Else, I will pierce through your heart! Kill him! You !@#$! Why you.. Let's fight them together! Ja-in.. Don't be too harsh on me for not being able to protect her... ...didn't I give you my word before? I said that I can do anything and everything for Ja-in Ja-in is probably perservering well .. Anyway, do you think it'd be all right? Even though you have their map, if you cross the river... ...and come back, you become a traitor... ...and you'll have to answer to the king King, who has forsaken the country and his people, is already a great sinner Wash her and bring her to me You've brought an interesting gal today Please forgive me Just take her clothes off I am already married Please don't let me live this way! Wait When did you learn our tongue? When I was a child, when my father was based in northern territory Then you must have learned of the greatness of our Great Qing Please, don't let me live in shame Even your king has submitted and you think this is shameful? How can a true warrior keep persecuting the people... ...just because one achieves a victory? This is a tiger skin My bravest uncle, Jushinta has given it to me as a gift It keeps me safe from cold, hot, rain, and even fire Even this soft leather was hard as a stone at first The owner has to tame it well to make it into a good leather Taming a leather is very interesting Tie her to a pole outside until she cries for her life Only the strategy map that has our movements has disappeared We must hurry to pursue him We'll leave the bodies of our brothers to the oncoming unit We shall obey We have followed the right path Those damned !@#$ savages! Th.. that's Miss Ja-in.. Wait until the nightfall What? Are we going to have some special plan afterwards? Even so, I don't think charging like a bull is a good idea, sir Just take a look, there is just too many of them We'll capture the captain and exchange him with Ja-in There's no other way You think that's going to work? Then.. how are we going to get out? After we get Ja-in, we'll cross Aprok and then meet at this hut By tomorrow noon, got it? Yes, Brother Nam-yi, but how are we capturing the captain? We don't have any plan yet! Kang-du, I have something you two need to do No fun at all Men don't have spirit, and women don't have constancy I'm curious What made you break down so easily? Thirst? Hunger? Or despair? Ka-in, my father said it's best to rule man or beast with food Seeing you, I think those words weren't wrong My father said hunger makes your vision blurry So he said to eat well before the fight Are you a soldier or something? I am a daughter of a warrior I don't live just to live or die just to die! You impudent !@#$! This is fun, yes, fun indeed! Try it again! C'mon, don't give up now Who are they?! Catch them! Prisoners are escaping! Prince, outside .. Don't interfere, you'll be executed if you disobey! Get out! That way! Catch them! This way! Come this way! That way! That way! You! Who are you?! For our Manchu!! Now I see How foolish and stubborn Joseon girl is All you have to depend on is a skewer Our plan worked! All we have to do now is just run away! Sorry, but you two need to help me here Master.. Master.. Master! It's them! Catch them! What are you? Are you all right? Dear brother .. I'm sorry ... for getting here late Let the Prince go! Else this girl will die! Dear wife! Who the heck are you people?! Wh.. what are you doing?! Make a way! Just shoot! - Get out of here - What about you brother? You remember what I said? We'll meet at noon tomorrow! We'll wait for you there, Brother! No, Brother! We have to leave together! You want all of us to die! Get going now! If we don't leave together then we will die together 'stead You want me to part like this again .. Let's go, dear wife, we can't possibly leave together right now Go and wait, I will live through this and be there! You think you can live after doing something like this? If I had thought of living through this I wouldn't have done this You say you came expecting death, and yet are you afraid now? The wood has turned into ash, and the fire is dying out Thank you, for enduring this far Where is the Prince? He was murdered General, he's over that way!! Soldiers are pursuing him! Nam-yi! Glad to see you again! So you're still alive! What happened to Miss Ja-in, and Master Seo-gun? They should be ahead of us now That's a good news indeed! But we must hurry to follow them They're probably pursuing them too Wh.. what are those blokes? There is a white one and red ones too Half-pounders What? Half-pounders? Only the arrows weigh a half-pound They are more powerful than even mechnical crossbows Let's go back into the woods Execute the Mangudai strategy! We shouldn't go that way Let's go this way! We have to go around this way! C'mon, let's go! I think Kang-du is right! Let's go! It's a dead end, so I think we got 'em Catch 'em live They have to die in pain Hurry, hurry Kang-du! Be careful! We must hurry! Kang-du! .. Kang-du! It's already a miracle that we made this far So just leave me here now Hurry now Go now! Leave now! - Cut with your sword! - I can't move my limbs! Get moving! It's a tiger trap .. you fools It's the same way here I am old, and I don't think I can go any further Gap-yong .. - Gap-yong .. - Get going now! Keep Missy and Master safe! All right, I shall depart after I kill you Shoot! It's him How surprising it is to see him still alive .. We cross over Hurry and cross over! Adai, hurry! Let me go.. Go get him.. You can live.. He's farther away We speed up now I'll do it Let me Your foot is all swollen But .. I heard that you get arrested if you cross Aprok river again Surely the same Joseon people wouldn't treat us that way It's just a nonsense to keep people from running away Dear husband .. uh, that .. That shoe.. I'll hold onto it And .. .. I'll get us some drinking water Get back inside! Dear wife! Dear wife .. Keep him cornered! Got him! Keep him cornered! He's going back I'll ask you one question At the cliff .. Why didn't you shoot me? Was it .. .. out of contempt for me?! He must die in pain Cut off his limbs Dodge! Which direction? I'm not sure But there's only one path... ...so we can go after him There is only one path? We're near Aprok river We pursue him immediately Back to your senses, Hurau! The mountain is haunted, General Is this all there is to the spirit of Manchu? Hurau! You lead us! One Two Three It's a baby arrow You mean that secret weapon used to attack our brothers... ...at the Namhan fortress? But I've never seen one that damaging It's just missing a tip... He merely broke one off to make it But a baby arrow is only a baby arrow! Brother! Don't come near! Stop!! Ja-in.. Dear wife! Brother! Finally.. is she the reason why you've been so tenacious? Are you calculating for the wind? I already saw your bow But what good would your consideration of wind do?! Were you afraid because of your girl?! Even if you're good with curving arrows... ...your fear has killed you and your girl Now feel for yourself... ...the death of a beloved Brother, don't! You'll die if you pull that arrow out! You lost Brother .. no !! Are you going to sacrifice this girl?! Even the wind isn't helping you Fear is .. something you look squarely in the eye to rid of Wind is.. not something you calculate but overcome Why.. you.. Brother! Here.. I have one too So you knew .. 'course I knew .. 'cause they were too big How come you don't even know your sister's shoe size? So they were too big.. too big.. I thought you're fully grown already You still have more to grow Ja-in Ja-in Let's go to our house in Hanyang Let's go there and .. .. wear your flower shoes dandy and .. Look That's the land we must return to [1637, there were no efforts to repatriate after the invasion of Manchu] [Only a small number of people returned on their own efforts] Translation and timecoding Feel free to drop me a note if you enjoyed the translation! Support the artists and writers by purchasing the DVD!
