 

                        1 All right, then, son, why don't you tell me your name? - You already know my name. - I'd like you to tell me what it is anyway. - Why? - It's for their benefit. - Who's "they"? - Whoever's listening. - My name is Harvey Miller. - What's your date of birth, Harvey? April 19th, 1989. You're 22. That's a good age. Wish I were 22. - I wish I were a lot of things. - What do you wish you were, Harvey? - Somewhere else. - Fair play. - Harvey, I want you to do something for me. - What? I want you to tell me what you're doing sat in front of me, bleeding and under arrest. Where shall I start? I do hope you don't miss out the bit where a mutual acquaintance of ours finds himself being wheeled into an intensive care unit. - What makes you think I know him? - Statements of about 30 eye witnesses. I knew I should have been a little less conspicuous. You can joke about it if you like, Harvey. But this is a serious situation. Now, I can tell by the state of your face that you didn't launch a surprise attack on Mr Roper. At least, if you did, it wasn't very successful. Given his track record, you may well have acted in self-defence, but he's the one in hospital. And if he doesn't wake up, you're gonna be in a lot of trouble. And if he does wake up and he's more convincing than you, you're still gonna be in a lot of trouble. You've only been out a matter of weeks, Harvey. You're not gonna be the golden boy in any court in England. There'll be no probation with 12 months off for good behaviour this time round. So if I consider you to be soliciting lies or acting in an uncooperative manner, it will be construed as a violation of your probation and I'll return you to prison tonight. Do you understand what I'm telling you, Harvey? - Yeah. - Right. Be sure not to leave anything out, then, won't you? If you really want a full picture, we're gonna be here a while. You have my undivided attention for the rest of the night. Demps, it's Harvey. I'm out. Got my papers last night, didn't get chance to phone. Listen, mate, I need a lift. I ain't got enough money for the train. I'll go to the station, wait outside till three. If you haven't... Oh, for fuck's sake. Shite haircut, dated clothes and a nervous stare. You've either been let out of prison or kicked out the army. You all right, Demps? Not bad, Harvey, not bad. Look at you. You've... not changed a bit. - Can't believe it's been six months. - It's been a year. - That right? - Yeah. - Can't have missed you very much, then. - Cheeky bastard. I know. Twelve months, three days this morning. Didn't think I'd recognise you seeing as you gave us all the fuck off. Nothing for a year, then a phone call asking for a lift. You know how it is, Demps. I didn't want you to see me... I know how it is. Come on. - You look good, mate. - Thanks. How was it? A lot of reading. A lot of waste of time. Came through it, though. You're a harder man than me. - Like that were ever in question. - Do you wanna walk home? Probably safer. What happened to the van? Impounded by customs for exceeding tobacco limit. - Temp replacement. - Nought to 60? If you push it down a big hill. Get in. Good-looking lad like you, 12 months inside, must hurt to sit down. Twat. You weren't, though, you know...? Just drive, you dickhead. Fucking thank Christ. Charlie didn't know it were Dodd's bird. Dodd had been keeping her well away from us out of fear she'd realise he was the least interesting and ugliest out of his mates, which he is, but he should have known none of his mates would have shagged her had they known it were his bird. Now, I'm not taking sides here, but if you're Charlie, you're in a nightclub, there's a decent bird hanging round your neck practically begging you for a length, you don't stop to say "Sorry, sweetheart, I would shag you six ways from Sunday, "but a mate of mine's got this bird who I haven't even met yet "and for all I know it could be you." Fucking daft. You try explaining that to Dodd when he walks in on Charlie banging her from behind and slapping her arse on Sunday morning. Poor bastard was so destroyed he passed out there and then. He only popped round to see if Charlie fancied having his dinner round theirs and found the door unlocked, terrible business. Say, Harvey. Harvey! I took the scenic route 'cause I know you like the countryside. Didn't expect to be talking to myself, ignorant bastard. Sorry, mate. What were you saying? I were telling you about Dodd catching Charlie doing his bird and how they've been at each other's throats since. Oh, yeah, I got a letter from Charlie. You've gotta laugh, haven't you? Talking about letters, have you heard anything from your mum yet? - No. - Fair enough. Staying with me, then, eh? - Ey up, lads. - Nice one, Dodd. Keep 'em coming. At 3.20 a pint? Fuck off. Must've broke your heart handing that 20 across the bar. Can I have me change by the way? Must make a nice change from that antifreeze you've been sucking out of condoms. You can't really appreciate a drink you don't risk your arse out for. - Where's mine? - At the bar, you fucking prick. Fuck it, Dodd. How many times? - I didn't know it was your fucking bird. - Yeah, well, you didn't ask. Fucking dick. It wasn't even worth the fuck anyway. Say it any louder, I'll swallow you, you scrawny little twat. - You two pack it in, yeah? - We're meant to be celebrating. Sorry, Harvey. - Cheers. - Cheers. So I hear it's true, Harvey, prison does do things to a man. You what? - I were worried, had to tell them. - Tell them what? Despite the fact it's been a year since you've even seen a bird, you haven't once mentioned the need to get your knob felt. Sex, Harvey, by a woman. I must've slowed down to three mile per hour going past the massage parlour on Sheffield Road, trying to drop the hint. - Nothing. - Have you ever been in that place? - Those Thai girls aren't girls. - Are you fucking serious? Look at his fucking face. He loves a fucking Thai lady boy, though, that one. Yeah, don't worry. I'll make a move soon. So it's not because you're saving yourself for anyone in particular. No, that's well over, Demps. We were just wondering whether you were gonna try for a reconciliation. No, too much time's passed. Don't even know her any more. She knows the me she don't like. See, the reason I ask is that she's sat on the edge of the dance floor, alone. And to the best of my knowledge, she's not a regular here. - Where? - She's right there. - Fucking hell. - Looking good, isn't she, mate? - She always looked good. - Too good for you. - What you waiting for? - I'm not gonna talk to her. - Why not? - What would I say? - I'd rather a "hello"? - Realistically. A million things. It's not like there's no history there. - No, there's too much. - History, Harvey, is just oils on a canvas. You own the paint, so you get to change your own picture. Where the fuck did you get that? Dear Deirdre. Doesn't mean it's not true. The worst thing about history, Harvey, is that people only tend to look at it through the tearful eyes of regret. - Oh, God, stop now, you sleazy bastard. - Oh, you are so full of shit. Go and talk to her. - Give her one from me, pal. - "Give her one from me"? How profound. - Fuck off, Charlie. - Budge up. Look at the sleaze go past. Oh, it's all over me trousers. It's good to have you back, mate. Here, that's the key to our flat. I suggest that if you do have a little sleepover with the lady, you do it at her gaff, because you're in the sitting room. - Shut the fuck up. - Your problem is your bird. You need to get it right. She came on to me knowing. Because you're not talking to me. I told you, you speak again, I'm gonna knock you out. You're not talking to me 'cause a bird is getting in between our relationship. Must be further than it looks. Seemed to take you forever to make it over here. Yeah, I think I look good too. Thanks for mentioning it. - Can I buy you a drink? - I'm sure you can. "Will I drink it?" is the question you should be asking. - Would you? - No. But maybe that's 'cause I just bought this one. If you bought me another, it'd go flat and the ice would melt before I'd had a chance to take a sip. Or maybe it's 'cause I hate the very sight of you. - Do you? - Maybe. Can I sit down and wait till your glass is empty, see how the theory pads out? - That depends. - On? - What you want. - Just wanna sit down. Don't you wanna have sex with me? Well, it's been over a year, Harvey, and like you wanted to say, I do look good. Or do you just wanna talk about your feelings? I'm sure it's been a while since you've been able to open up emotionally. Or are you going to apologise for being the absolute prick that broke my heart? How about all three? Come back to bed. I won't be able to walk around the ward. - No, to sleep. - My shift starts in half an hour. Made you a cup of tea, though. It's the middle of the night, for Christ's sake. Can't you call in sick? It's 7:30, and, no, I can't. It'll take half the day to walk back to the estate. Trust you to inconvenience matters by moving. Too many people I don't wanna see on that estate. I know the feeling. I left you my number with that cup of tea. I've really gotta go. - Hello. - Hi. Dempsey? She's gone, mate. What time do you call this? - You've got all my stuff. - I know. Thought Mum chucked it all in the skip before she left. We saw her do it, so me and Charlie got it all back and fetched it here. You never told me. I wanted it to be a surprise, see the smile on your little face. If I'd known you'd be banging round in the middle of the night, I'd have thought twice. - Thanks, mate. - Say it with tea. Lots of tea. With lots and lots of sugar in it. Hang your stuff up there, mate. - Where you off to? - For a shit. - What time is it? - Half nine. Kitchen's there. See you at ten. - Why are you not talking still? - Don't you fucking start. You fucker. Shut up, you dickhead, and read the pap... - Ey up, Harvey. - You two lovebirds still bickering? - All right? - Come and sit next to me, pal. Pretty face like yours, 12 months inside, oh, it must hurt to sit. Already had this one from Dempsey. You thieving little bastard. You know that's my joke. - You should've picked him up in your car. - I don't have a car. - My fault, is it? - Fuck off. So, the engagement's back on, then? The way she ran out this morning, I wouldn't bet your pension on it. - Cold shoulder? - No. I don't know. Doesn't matter. I won't be around long enough to make a go of it anyway. Where are you going? Well, that's what I wanted to talk to you all about. Out with it. Right, basically, I'm considering a business proposition that were put to me by a lad on the inside. Yeah, admit it, you already think I'm a dickhead. The lad's a Dutch kid called Dirk. Dirk? He'd already been inside seven months when I got there and eleven left. - What were he in for? - Possession. He'd been running club nights in Holland since he were 17, decided to come here and try his luck at the same thing. Why? Misguided romantic notions of England being the home of dance music. His problem was, he didn't realise that Leeds isn't Amsterdam. Too fucking right. When the local police sussed his club was so popular because the foreign manager were flooding the dance floor with cut-price Dutch Es, they had a stroll down. - Oh, dear. - That's what his dad said. His dad's a High Court barrister, so he were bound to be a bit upset at the embarrassment. However, he ain't disowned the boy. He's offered to help him get started in a business, knowing how an ex-con is shafted for career prospects. - That's nice of him. - Dutch people are laid back, Dodd. His terms are Dirk goes back to Holland, promises to stop being a twat and finds a way to match his dad's investment, show him he's serious. What's the business? Coffee shop, in the tourist centre ofAmsterdam, solid reputation, managing to maintain a good profit even now. How much is it? He's accepted Dirk's offer of 110 grand, English. - Bargain. - Offer's good for a month. - Where do you come into it? - He's asked me to come in with him. - With money? - Yeah, Dodd, with money. - What does he think your parents do? - He knows I ain't got 55 grand. He knows I can't get it on my own. He's happy for me to bring my three best mates into the deal. - Oh, that's good of him. - There's still a problem. - What? - We haven't got 50-odd grand either. No. But Steven Roper does. I don't think he's gonna give you a loan if I'm honest with you. I don't give a fuck what he won't give me. He owes me for a fucking year and he'll pay me for that year. You were never an idiot, Harvey, so I'm gonna assume there's some logic here. Yeah, there is. Maybe I should give you a little background. Are you aware of the details of my case? You were released from prison six weeks ago, having served half of a two-year sentence for possession of heroin with intent to supply. First offence of any kind. I can tell you with a straight face, I've never supplied anything to anyone. I've only seen heroin once in my entire life. What do you know about Steven Roper? He's not a very nice man. He's done time for assault and robbery, but that was some time ago, because he is now a legitimate businessman running an industrial security firm out of the Rise Estate. However, it has been speculated that he's involved in drug trafficking. Speculated? We haven't been able to build a solid enough case against him. Why do you think that is? Maybe he's a lot smarter than we like to give a two-bob thug credit for. Steven Roper employs a well-considered set of diversionary tactics. - You can't seem to counter 'em. - Diversionary tactics? There's a lofty title. Nothing like giving it credence. The money's coming in and you can't seem to counter it. All right, I'm listening. Why don't you tell me about Steven Roper's diversionary tactics? You're a detective inspector. I'm sure you're familiar with them. I'm old, forgetful. Why don't you jog me memory? OK. Step 1. The controlling influence of fear. If you have built a consortium of commission-based contraband vendors, you run the risk of being name-dropped to the police if those in your charge be faced with incarceration. Also there are those who may wish to make money on your behalf and then forget to pay their dues, of which examples must be made. While there are guns, their use brings unwanted police attention. This being the case, the sensible criminal maintains a fearsome reputation with good old-fashioned hard graft. Step 2. Evading detection. Though the clandestine art of surveillance exemplified by the police owes little to the techniques employed by government agents in acts of espionage, their constant presence stills requires creative vigilance. The trick is to keep the gear moving from place to place so that even if the law tracks its whereabouts, it's long gone before they can do anything about it. Of course, police incompetence can't take all the blame. The drug squad must be short-staffed, what with all the traffic violations requiring the manpower. Step 3. Building a case for citizen harassment. You lot like nothing more than to have someone else do your job for you, which is why you are such big fans of the telephone tip-off. If the drug squad receive a call from a concerned citizen giving details of a drug cache at a residence in a problem area, they will generally act on the information. Police! Of course, the trick is to make the anonymous phone call yourself after you have made sure there is nothing even resembling an aspirin on the property, so you can laugh as you watch the boys in blue sweat as they tear apart your house to no avail. Where's your fucking warrant? It's fucking bollocks. When they finally call off the search, your house will be in such a state as to warrant a generous compensation payment from the taxpayer, amid claims that your reputation has been unfairly tainted. Repeat this procedure four times over a 12-month period and rest assured even the fire brigade wouldn't dare enter your property if the whole fucking street were ablaze. Step 4. Throw the dog a bone. This is where I come in. The drug squad needs to fill a certain quota of arrests and seized quantities to prove it's keeping the streets of England as clean as the Armitage Shanks in Buckingham Palace. By the same token, the criminal needs the drug squad to have the inclination to continue helping them perpetrate Step 3, so every now and then a big chimp will stitch up a little monkey. I'm the monkey. Steven Roper was the big chimp. In this particular example of the successful execution of Step 4, I came home from a night on the piss to find my flat had been broken into. A quick look round told me two things. One, there were no burglars in the flat. Two, the stupid fuckers hadn't stolen anything even when they had been. I didn't see what were coming. In my defence, I were fucking rat-arsed. It being January, I was also cold, so I closed the door. Police! Put the phone down! Acting on an anonymous tip-off, your boys came flying into the house armed with a search warrant. It took them about 30 seconds to find the 200g of heroin I had so cleverly hidden underneath the TV guide on the desk. It took the jury even less time to find me guilty of the charge, as the only evidence to back up my claim that someone had broken into the flat and planted the drugs had been destroyed by the police battering ram. No further interest were taken into my plight. Well, there is certainly authenticity to what you're saying. If you're familiar with the methods, why don't you do something? Because they work, like you said. I've got to wonder how a decent, upstanding citizen like yourself understands the intricacies of small-time drug trafficking. - It's not rocket science. - No, it's easy money. That's why you do it. I'm not getting the year back either way. Just trying to paint a better picture. Fair enough. Go on. Where was I? I don't give a fuck what he won't give me. He owes me for a fucking year and he'll pay me for that year. You were never an idiot, Harvey, so I'll assume there's some logic here. Yeah, there is. Got their heads up their arse, mate, so they can stay low on the radar. I never had much to say to any other inmates. That doesn't mean my ear wasn't constantly bent on the favourite of prison pastimes. Believe me, if these clowns knew the half of it, I'd be doing 20 easy. Giving it the big I am. Their problem is, they forget who you are. They think you're old, think you're a joke. In prison, it's all you hear night and day. It gets so you have to learn to block it out. Soon stopped smiling when he saw the fucking sawn-off. Soon lost his heart as well. Although I don't think they care if you're listening anyway. I drop off all over the north, and even the biggest twats from the smallest two-rip town would have a wedge the size of your mother's arse. This one guy from this filthy nowhere estate over yonder, the Rise, I think they call it. Of course, you prick up your ears when you get wind of something interesting. I'd drop a key off to this twat called Steve first Monday of every month. Flash bastard would open this big green safe and he'd take the cash from a pile that high like it was pocket change, pass it over with a wink and a "fuck you" smile. Now, he always had a four-strong team around him, but you pull the right tool at the right time and you can liberate the cunt of the safe's belongings, smart as you like. Great. Roper keeps his money in a safe. He lives in that office since he got into security. He'd notice us popping in trying to hacksaw it open. Safe can't be in his office. The Scouser said he used a meat delivery van as his cover, so he'd only drop at suitable places, restaurants or big pubs that serve food. Now, the only place round here that fits this description is the Rise Club. OK, well, the club makes sense as a dropping point, but why would Roper leave his money in there, not in his own office? - He doesn't own the club. - Albert's in his pocket. And it puts some distance between him and his money in case he ever gets his collar felt. I suppose his firm looks after the club, so he thinks it's safe there as in his own office. Even more so. According to this bloke, the safe's in a basement office with no windows, one entrance and the door's secured like a bank vault. - How much are we talking there? - At least 60 grand. Tiger Woods without the birds. Fuck off. How do you know the Scouser isn't just talking out of his arse? Good guess if he just made it all up. - But you don't know for sure? - No, we'll find out. - How? - First Monday of March next week. If the meat van makes a delivery to the pub, we'll know it's sound. - We can stake out the pub from the flat. - No, we need more than that. If the van turns up, all it'll prove is he used to be a meat delivery man. We need to get in that office, see if there's a green safe there. If there is, we'll know he wasn't lying, it'll be ours for the taking. Jesus Christ. Are you lot taking the piss? Look, Harvey. I know Roper fucked you right up the arse, but, for Christ's sake, drug money, safe cracking? - Fuck off. - Why dismiss it straight off? 'Cause we're not safe-crackers or cat burglars, are we? Or coffee shop owners for that matter. Harvey's not a smack dealer, but he did time for it. Listen, somebody does this stuff, so it can be done. Why can't we be the ones to do it? We wouldn't know where to fucking start. It's not the type of thing you wanna fuck up, is it? - Come on, Charlie, we're just talking here. - No, we're not. I'm serious. Pack up and piss off abroad just like that? - Yeah. - And you're not taking the piss? - You can come back and visit. - Come on, Harvey. This is our home, mate. I know. Look, I'll understand if you don't wanna do it. But if we do, we've got a share in a proper business. All in it together. It'll mean a new start for everyone. But on the upside, it'll mean a new start for everyone. Fucking hell, Dempsey. An hour ago you were of sound mind and content with life. Now you're talking about pulling off some crackpot robbery and escaping round the world? Content my arse. What have I got here? Skint old birds knocking on the door at the crack of dawn looking for cheap fags and a fortnightly trip down to the joke shop. Lovely. I think I'll take another 10 years, please. Bollocks. But what? You're so in love with stacking crates in that freezer two nights a week on agency pay, not willing to consider your options. That's just temporary, you fucking prick. I'm a qualified fucking welder and when it picks back up and the factory's re-opened... Every machine's turning in there before your factory's re-opened. Go fuck yourself, Demps. At least I've got a fucking trade. And turn your nose up at me? I've worked hard for what I've got. And what is it you got? A CSCS card, a broken promise and a chip on your fucking shoulder. Such a fucking prick. Can't even start about you, you fucking ponce. All I'm saying is, wouldn't you rather pack it all in and go and sit in a nice warm cafe, watching the world go by, chatting to tourists? Fuck off. It's a bit of a pipe dream, in all fairness, Harvey. It's not a pipe dream. What if the money is in that safe? It's our chance to have something of our own. I'm not saying it's not worth a look. - And if it looks good? - I don't know. - I'll think about doing it. - Charlie? You lot are off your fucking heads. Hey! Hey, come on, Charlie. Leave him, mate. He's gotta make up his own mind. So, what do we do now? Wait till Monday. Harvey, not gonna say hello? I'm not going anywhere, so you may as well look at me. Still handsome. Thought maybe you'd have a few scars now. - Only the kind you can't see. - How are you, Steve? Steven. Been worse. Yourself? Not too bad. Well, it's been fun catching up. I don't wanna have to worry about you, Harvey. - Your concern moves me. - Don't get fucking smart. I get the impression you blame me for that spot of bother you got yourself into last year. That's fine. You believe what you like. Bear in mind, I don't react well when I feel threatened. Is that why you're always such an arsehole? You can have that one. Stay where you are. Tell me, is it hard living in a constant state of fear? You're fucking flying if you think I'm scared of you. No, you're not scared of me. You're scared that if you loosen your grip on what's yours for even a second, someone's gonna come along and take it all away. - That right? - Yeah, and you know what? What? You fucking should be. Come on. Oh! Oh, fuck! I'll have you. It's not much fun for me listening to you playing on that thing, mate. - Put the comedy channel on. - When I'm on sentry, you do what you like. - When's that, then? - 23 minutes. For fuck's sake. - Any sign? - Not yet. But it's still early doors. - Go on, mate. - I'll have him. - Right, I'll get the kettle on. - Cheers, pal. Don't shout. Oh, shit! Fucking wanker. Excellent, but there is a small chip on the back, unfortunately. Oh, no. I must have done that. It's a plate with a big chip in it. - Who's gonna buy that for 70 quid? - You'd be surprised, mate. If Winston Churchill ate off it, it'd be worth a hundred times that. It's a Princess Di commemorative plate, Dempsey. I'm just saying. Ey up, lads, we've got a live one. Mikey's Meat. It's Mickey's Meat. - What's the difference? - The C. Ah. Is that how butchers dress these days? Well, hello, soldier. Look who it is, Harvey, it's your best mate. Want to go down to say hello? It's the first Monday in March. Got a meat delivery man who looks fuck all like a meat delivery man and super Steven Roper heading up his welcome wagon. It's beginning to look a bit like Christmas. A lot like Christmas, Dodd. Come on, man! - We're on. - Fucking a lot like Christmas. What's the difference, dickhead? - I've missed this. - Missed what? You walking me to work. Two buses and an eight-minute walk from the estate just for the privilege. I'm glad it's appreciated. I'm sure I can find a way of saying thank you. Oh, yeah? - The flat could do with a clean. - No. What's your plan? - What plan? - Your life plan. Oh. You've adjusted to normal life. You have restarted a relationship. So now you've just gotta decide where you're gonna take your life. I haven't given it much thought. You're lying. I know how hard it's going to be, but... you don't have to do it alone. I know. I know. I just... I just need a little time. Yeah, I know. Don't take too long, eh? See you later, mate. Ah, fuck. Lads! What's Harvey planning? Your mate, Harvey. What's he planning to do to get back at me? I don't know what you're talking about. If someone stuck me behind bars for a year, I'd make it my life's work to track 'em down and watch 'em bleed out through a hole in the face. I've only seen him once since he got out and he hasn't said anything. I'm gonna give you a message to give to Harvey. Now, you tell him that prison might have been a nightmare, but me, I am fucking horrendous. - I'll tell him. - I know you will. No! Let me out! - What's up? - Is Albert here? Yeah, let's see if he's still here. It was a theme she had on a scheme he had Told in a foreign land To take life on earth to the second birth And the man was in command... Don't push too far Your dreams are china in your hand Don't wish too hard Because they may come true And you can't help them You don't know what you might have Set upon yourself China in your hand - Can I have a bit more pina colada? - Yeah, yeah, no problem. Come from greed Never born of the seed Took life from a barren hand... - Who is it? - Stan. You've got a visitor. Sit down. Thanks, Stan. Is that an original? What are you after, Harvey? Let's not piss about. I'm a busy man. - I just wanted a chat. - What do you want to chat about? - My membership. - You don't have a membership. But I used to. I'd like to again. Now, why would I want to give a convicted drug dealer membership to my club, or even the privilege of drinking in it? I'm not a dealer, Albert, and if I had been, I've paid for it. - I just want things to get back to normal. - I can understand that, I really can. OK, so do you need time to think about it or...? No, I'll be quick and I'll be honest. I wouldn't give a bollock if the queen walked through that door and gave you a full pardon right now. Your membership's staying in the bin. The only reason you ever had it in the first place was 'cause it was grand-fathered in and the committee wouldn't refuse you. I don't like you, Harvey. I don't really know why, I just don't. I never liked your little mates either. Smug little bastards, the lot of you. Now, you can call me all the twats under the sun if you like, but that's the way it is. Albert... The past is the past. If I acted in a certain way, I apologise. All I want is the chance to wipe the slate clean... That probably didn't help my case, did it? - It's time for you to leave. - That were an accident. - I weren't being petty. - Yeah? Maybe that's your problem, Harvey. You rub the wrong people up the wrong way even when you're having a day off. Cost you dear in the past. Cost you even more in the future, lad. - So you're saying there's no chance, then? - Not a sniff. And now, if you'll excuse me, I have to take a piss. Only went five minutes ago. It must be the sound of running water. Shame you wasted your time, Harvey. No, it were a pleasure. I couldn't wait to tell the lads I'd seen the safe. I don't think I'd been that excited by a sense of discovery since I were 11, realised an erection wasn't just for pissing over high walls. Didn't last long. Where's Charlie? He's through there. We can't go in. There's doctors all over him. Sit down. How bad is it? - He's all right. - He's all right? Obviously he's a bit fucked or he wouldn't be here. Listen. He's conscious. The nurses said his burns aren't as bad as we first thought. But he's on a respirator because his lungs are fucked from all the smoke. - Harvey, he's gonna be all right. - What happened? Police told the nurse he were dragged out of a burning lockup. He'd been locked in and he'd taken a hiding. - Have they arrested Roper? - Charlie wouldn't talk to 'em. We'll fucking talk. We know who did it. We can guess. There's no witnesses. What are they gonna do? - This is attempted murder, mate. - No. It's some dickhead who couldn't give a fuck about smoke on his chest and his mouth shut. They're not gonna put a task force on it, Harvey. Bollocks to the police, then. We know where Roper's gonna be. If we go now, he won't even see us coming. All right, Dodd, we're all upset here, but let's not be fucking stupid. I was thinking about Charlie, lying in there, shitting himself at what's just happened to him. Where's your mind, eh? Fuck off, Dodd. I'm thinking about Charlie as well. - So we aren't gonna do nothing? - No. Look, right now, we've gotta wait here, make sure Charlie's all right. Fuck that. There's a few quids' worth of kit here. Starting to see where all my money goes. How are you, mate? Never better. I'm serious. They've given me morphine. Smackheads aren't as big a set of twats as you might think. I'm so sorry, Charlie. - It's not your fault. - It is. Roper's an arsehole. He did this to get back at you. What did you ever do to him but get engaged to a bird who knocked him back? It's not your fault he's an arsehole. It's not your fault that we're mates. If I'd just kept my mouth shut when I saw him the other day... Fuck off, Harvey. You're not having that one. If anyone's gonna feel sorry for themselves, it's me, all right? So, brave little soldier all wounded. You must be getting a bit of attention from the ladies. Oh, yeah. It's been like the Playboy Mansion in here. - What are your nurses like? - Fat, foreign and fucking ugly. - Your missus on the wards today? - Yeah, she's on nights. - She'll be here somewhere. - Fuck off and find her. - Leave me to my painkillers. - Is it really bad? No. I just like them. Now go home. It's the middle of the fucking night. I'll... I'll be back tomorrow. Did you get a snoop around in the office? - Yeah. - Safe there? - Yeah. - So are we on or what? - We, Charlie? - I'll be out in less than a week. A trio of twats like you, you're gonna need all the help you can get. We'll be waiting for you. The job were a goer. Roper trying to kill one of us put any wavering thoughts we had straight to bed. Which is the opposite of what he intended. If Roper was willing to attempt murder to make a point, wouldn't your failure to visibly appease him illicit recourse? We never gave his name to the police. We may not have packed up and left, but he had no reason to believe we weren't quietly capitulating. But you weren't quietly capitulating. - What were you doing? - Quietly planning. We've gotta be ready to go on the eighth. Two weeks Sunday. - Why then? - Easter weekend. Fuck! The members' excursion. - The what? - Rise Club trip. Club trip to them. 35 coachloads of people in a convoy to Blackpool to us. That's half the estate. Lot less people to stumble on what we're doing. Pigging hell! As it's a religious holiday, not only will the estate be a ghost town, the club'll be closed by 10, locked up at 11. Yeah, but the coach will be back soon after, always before midnight. Never before 11, closer to half past. Gives us a window. A fucking small window. Which means we've gotta get it right. No room for mistakes, none. Roper won't be heading off on the trip, though. No, you can be sure of that. Is that Martin? It fucking is. That robbing bastard. What's that about? He gave him 80 quid for a knock-off PS3 a couple of weeks ago. Turns out it was an empty display shell stuffed with lead shot. Remember that PlayStation you sold me, do you? He's imaginative, I'll give him that. Shall we give him an hand? No, he looks fine. - You coming up the hospital? - Yeah. - Taking Nicola out after. - Oh. Going anywhere nice? He'll be out in a couple of days. I tell you, tough lad. He's a lucky one. Depends which way you look at it. Harvey, promise me you won't do anything stupid. I won't do anything stupid. Look at me. I won't do anything stupid, OK? I swear on your life. On my life? That is chivalrous. You can't swear on your own. It's gotta be the ones you care most about. Have you told your parents you've been seeing me since I got out? Yeah, I told my mum. Your dad wouldn't approve. Since when have you worried about my mum and dad? Seven months we were together and you still refused to meet 'em. - Never felt like the right time. - On my 18th birthday party? See, that's more of a family affair. - My mum loved you. - It wasn't your mum I were worried about. But you're right, my dad never approved of you, so why do you care now? Now I can't change his mind. Has your mum got in touch yet? No. She won't. I know she hurt you, but not everyone will do the same. The things I said before I went inside, I know you and Roper never... Yeah, I know. - It don't matter. - It does. Let's just forget about it. Can you? Yeah, I can try. I still love you. This isn't just some fucking bird, pal. This is Nicola. Are you telling me you can just walk away without a word? I don't have a choice. What's it gonna do to her if you just disappear? Remember how I told you they were gonna put me through management training at Weyland? Worked your way from bottom floor to office, so I'm proud of you. It were a good job. Good money too. I were gonna get a flat in town for me and Nicola. Don't do this, Harvey. Don't dwell on it. We're moving forward. What I didn't tell you was that Mr Stewart, the MD, he said if I topped out the course, he'd put me through on the HE scheme and on full-time management pay I could work toward an LLB. When I finished that, he said he'd move me to legal to do an LPC and even my articles. I don't know what any of that means, mate. It means before I went inside, I were five paid years away from being a qualified solicitor. Me. I told Nicola and she was so proud of me. A week later I were arrested and all that were left were an embarrassed look on Mr Stewart's face. Poor fucker humiliated in front of everyone for thinking I could be anything more than the loser they'd all said I must be. Roper fucked you, there's no denying it. But Nicola hasn't run away. - She knows who you are. - She knows I'm back at the bottom. I can't be her charity case. That's why I pushed her away before I went inside. - I said some fucking nasty things. - She came back. Right now she's pleased to see me. Thankfully I'll be gone before the shine wears off. I'm not saying you should back out of the job if she asks you to. I'm just saying you should tell her. Oh. Third night in a row. Why don't we just steal the gear and sell it ourselves? - Who to? - Kids. Get 'em hooked on a free trial and laugh all the way to the bank. We went over different scenarios, made lists, eventually came up with a plan. Considering they're not the most dynamic bunch, the effort they put in were pretty bloody impressive. Here we go, pal. There you are. At the fucking board, not me, you prick! What are you doing here? What's all this stuff, Harvey? - She surprised me at the door. - And you let her in? - She just barged past. I couldn't... - So a year in prison weren't enough? And you think it's worth going back, for what? Robbing a fucking working men's club? It's not like that, OK? No one's going to prison. We've got this all worked out. Break into the club, steal Steven Roper's money. And then what? Sail away into the sunset? No, look, it's not how it sounds. You swore on my life you were gonna leave this alone. I swore on your life I wouldn't do anything stupid. This isn't stupid. You don't know the facts. Let's see if I do. If your plan goes wrong, you go back to prison. Worse if it isn't the police that catch you. If it all goes right, you disappear to another country without a word. Either way you were going to leave me again. I were gonna phone you when it was all over and explain. I wanted you to come out with me. It's true. You're so sweet. How am I supposed to know when you're telling me the truth? - I've never lied to you. - You never trusted me either. - That's not true. - That is the truth. I really thought it was just an excuse at the time, that you were going to prison and you thought it'd be easier if you didn't have someone waiting for you, but it weren't. - You actually believed the things you said. - No. Yeah. You didn't trust me then and you don't trust me now. - Of course I do. - No. If you did, you would have told me. How could I put you at risk like that? If you loved me, you'd have asked me to come with you. - I couldn't. - Why not? Because I didn't wanna hear you say no. You're right. You're right, I would have said no. I would have asked you to forget about all this and stay here with me, because this is fucking stupid, Harvey, and dangerous, and I promise you that if you go ahead with this, I will not answer that phone call. It's your choice. See, I don't have a choice. I hope you see sense, Harvey, and if you don't, I hope you see the morning after. What do you want me to fucking do, just take it on the fucking chin? I've got no job, no future. Am I supposed to just fucking swallow it? No problem, Harvey, mate. Bad luck. Worse things happen at fucking sea. Am I supposed to be a fucking saint or something? I'm sorry. I'm sorry, mate. She thought it were a smash and grab. She thought you were a fucking idiot. It's come round fast, hasn't it? The sooner the better. Just think, in 48 hours we'll be away from here. - Good, isn't it? - Is it? - What are you saying? - Nothing. Just... we won't be here any more. We'll be... somewhere else. Different language, different money. We won't even know anyone. Everybody speaks English, the euro's worth 90 pence and all three of your best mates are coming with you. - I know, but... - But what? - You're not having doubts? - Not exactly. - So you are, then? - What if we don't like it? - What if we do? - It's a long way to go to find out, Demps. - It's a fucking ferry ride away, mate. - No, this is our home. - I don't know anything else. - Bricks and concrete, same anywhere. It's the people, not the place. It's a lot to think about. You should've thought of that before we put weeks of work into it. I'm just saying. Charlie, you've got a face like a slapped arse. Are you having doubts as well? Have I said anything? You look like you're going to, so get it out of the way. You're worried about your mum, don't think she'll be able to look after herself. Will she be able to stay off the piss long enough to get the shopping in? Why don't you fuck yourself and shut up about my fucking mam? I'm not trying to slag off your mother. But if it's a worry, I wanna know now, not tomorrow when we're halfway into the job and we're left standing with our cocks in our hands. It's not about my fucking mum. - But I am fucking worried. - What about? - About fucking the whole thing up. - Christ. Even if we did, the police have their heads stuck so far up their arse they'd find Shergar before it dawns on 'em what we're up to. Bollocks to the police. I'm talking about Roper. - I'm not worried about that arsehole. - You're not, but you fucking should be. He's a fucking psychopath and don't think for one second if he tipples us he won't do us. Together. What's he gonna do? Well, I don't know, but it'll fucking hurt and it'll fucking last. - So you're backing out. - Did I say that? Look, it's the day before the job and I'm having some doubts and I'm fucking entitled to. All right. So how about you, then, our fearless leader? You're awfully quiet. - You're saying it all for me. - Yeah, I am. You're supposed to be the one rallying the troops. What's up? Nicola's ultimatum struck a chord? Fancy a couple of years of domestic bliss instead of following up what you started? - Fuck off, Demps. - No, man. You fuck off! I've handed in me notice on me flat, I've sold the last of me CDs, I've sold all me stuff. I've put a lot of hours into this job and I want that coffee shop. I fucking deserve it. I'm not gonna try and talk anyone into anything 'cause as far as I'm concerned, we've already made a deal. I'm going home, and anyone who hasn't lost their bottle can follow. I'll see you tonight or I'll see you around. Might see him today. Don't know. See him much? Only see him when he wants something. Mum? Mum. I'm going now. I would've told you sooner, but I didn't know how you'd take it. Me and the lads have set something up abroad, our own business, working for nobody. And when we're up and running, I'll have you over for a visit and you can see what your son's made of himself. It's gonna be something. You're gonna have to take care of yourself for a while. I know you can do it. I hope things... I love you, Mum. Take care. Nicola? At the last minute, when it becomes real, you're gonna have doubts. The line between planning and actually doing it, between fantasy and reality, it's a hell of a line to cross. But you crossed it? They all kept their word. I kept mine. That night we went over the plans, the smallest detail. We had it locked. Everybody set to 10:23 in... five, four, three, two, now. - I still think we should've used mobiles. - Mobiles could have a delay. Time is immovable. Isn't that right, Harvey? - Come on, pal, this is your mantra. - What? Yeah. - Just stick to the schedule, we'll walk it. - Are you all right, Harvey? Yeah, I'm fine. You sure? There ain't nothing you want to say? Yeah, there is. Let's fucking smash it. Come on! Good night, girls. See you. 10:45 we moved to our first positions, ready to go when the clock struck 11. We expected the first coaches home in under 30 minutes. It all had to move like clockwork. The alarm system has an exterior bus network by the telephone exchange. This isn't the same as an alarm control box, which are housed inside the building, for obvious reasons, so we couldn't shut it down. The best we could do was to try and suspend the individual exterior alarm sensors one at a time and delay the transmission of the signal. One of us had to take care of it. He had eight minutes. Another had to initiate the actual break-in of the club. His job was to pave the way forward for the third member of our team. He had seven minutes to do it. The third member had the unenviable task of cracking the safe, but his job wouldn't begin until the others had completed theirs. And me, I had to make sure the job were carried through to the very finish. You know what they say about best laid plans. Charlie, I need you to do something for me. What, now? You can't account for issues like the weather or nerves or human error. If the tiniest element misaligns, the rest will follow. Come on, come on, come on. - Fuck it! - And that's when we panic. Don't take the piss. Get your stuff together so we don't have to keep the driver hanging about all night. Come on. For fuck's sake. And panic inevitably leads to mistakes. That's when confusion takes over. And before you know what's happened, you're left standing alone and it all comes crashing down around you. Fancy meeting you here. I'm gonna fucking enjoy this. Not too late, am I? And all you've got left is your instinct for self-preservation. Come on, shift your arses or you'll all end up in the garage with the bus. Come on, everybody, off now. Call the fucking police. When I heard the alarm, I should've made a run for it. When Roper showed up 30 seconds later, I should've run away. But I just... I couldn't... Maybe there's a few things I shouldn't have done. That's quite a story, Harvey. Quite a story. Now, I'm gonna have to ask you a few questions, Harvey, straighten out a couple of details, understood? You say the alarm sounded and 30 seconds later you were stood in front of Roper outside the club. Yeah, yeah, that's about right. Right, now, when the alarm is triggered in a place like the Rise Club, it sends a message to the security firm that covers it, in this case, Steven Roper Securities. The alarm was triggered at approximately 11:15. Emergency services received a call from a local resident at 11:16 stating that the alarm at the club was active and had been for about a minute. Our first officer arrived at the scene at 11:19, by which time the altercation between yourself and Mr Roper had taken place. - Now, do you see what I'm getting at? - No. Right. Now, if Steven Roper was in his office on the other side of the estate, monitoring the security terminal that indicated the break-in at the club, he would've had four minutes to get across the estate, on foot, confront you, slap you around a bit, get knocked unconscious and wait for the police. It's not really possible, is it? No. No, I suppose it's not. So how long had you been with Roper before the police arrived? A few minutes. I turned up at the door. It had already been busted. Roper showed up, we had an altercation. He would've killed me. - All right. - My fucking face. - He would've fucking killed me. - All right, we'll get to that later. But what I want to know is what Roper was doing at the club before the alarm was triggered, when it was closed for business and you were trying to rob it. - Is it coincidence? - Yeah, maybe. - I don't believe in coincidence. - Maybe he were trying to rob it. Why would he do that if he owns the firm that protects the place? An insurance job? I don't know. Maybe him and Albert had the same idea as us. The three friends of yours, you need to give me their names. - No, I can't do that. - Why not? They can't be very good friends if they were gonna leave you there twisting in the wind. They're not criminals. I shouldn't have got them involved. You're probably right given the coincidence we were talking about. Now, I'd assume a smart lad like you wouldn't have announced your intentions to rob Steven Roper all over town, so I also assume the only people who knew about this were you, your three friends and your estranged other half. Now, you've got to be asking yourself, Harvey, you've got to be... ...which one sold you out? - No one sold me out - You really believe it was coincidence? Yeah. It's easier than believing it wasn't. Right, well, let's stick with that pretence, but if I could speak to them, they might be able to get you out of at least some of the mess that you're in. I'm not giving you their names. You're gonna make life very difficult for yourself if you don't, Harvey. The Rise Club suffered a break-in tonight. We're gonna have to charge you with breaking and entering, theft, ABH and possibly even worse. You've spent the entire night incriminating yourself... Incriminating myself as what? Eh? I didn't steal anything. Roper was at the club. Instead of taking his money, disappearing into the night, I got the shit kicked out of me, got dragged down here and my mates ran away. DI West, can I have a quick word? Right, for the benefit of the tape, Sergeant Kendon has just entered the room. I am pausing the interview at 1:30 hours. Excuse me. So, what you got? I took Albert Redford round the club in order to take a full account of any damages or missing effects. So what's the verdict? Tills on all the bars have been broken into and emptied of a decent amount of cash, but nothing else was taken, not even a bottle of Grouse from the shelves. What about the offices? Anything taken from the offices? No. Albert was keen to take a look, but nothing doing. Bolted shut like a bomb shelter. A few quid from the tills. Not exactly Brink's Mat, is it? Right, well, I guess that's that, then. Not quite. You haven't heard the interesting part yet. We found the money. Is there anything else you'd like to tell me? No. I've told you everything. Now, you've noticed that the tape is switched off. Off the record, just between the three of us, anything else you'd like to say? No, I've told you everything. Are you gonna charge me or...? - It appears it's your lucky night. - My lucky night? The Rise Club was broken into tonight, as you already know. Money within the region of 1,200 was stolen from the tills in the bar, which you don't know. Officers have recovered the money from the premises of Steven Roper Securities. What? Steve Roper's fingerprints were found on several of the notes, and alongside the money officers found something else. A cellophane package containing a powder, brown in colour, which our friends in the relevant department tell me is heroin. Five perfect fingerprints have been recovered from that package, also belonging to Steven Roper. We've also heard from the hospital. He's still unconscious, his face is a mess, but he's stable. Now, charges will follow for you, Harvey. A decent prosecutor will have a lot of questions about the force you used against Roper. But for now I am content to state for the record that I believe self-defence is what your actions constituted. Being that the evidence is painting the picture that we're currently seeing, I also believe it would not suit the interests of the CPS to pursue any further charges against you concerning the Rise Club break-in. Where does that leave us? Well, that leaves us with conspiracy to commit a crime. - Conspiracy? - Well, conspiracy's a funny thing. Some might call it jailing people for thought crime. And you? I think prosecuting a young man for ballsing up breaking into a working man's club would be an embarrassment to the court's time. So where does that leave us? - Well, for now you're free to go. - Right now? Yes, yes, just gotta process a few forms and you'll be on your way. Is it two or four? Or five? I forget. Sunday league quarter finals, there was a lad who looked a lot like you put two away against Everton in the second half. - We lost that game, though. - Yeah. It was a good effort, though. A pity he was let down by his team. All right, thank you. I'll follow you. When Roper wakes up and we charge him, his brief will push for bail. They'll set it high, but he will have the money. Understand? Yeah. Won't be long. Right, then, Mr Miller, you are free to go. PC Nixon will escort you to the desk sergeant and get you signed out. - It's been fun. - It's been interesting. Steve Roper sent me to prison, destroyed my life and tried to murder my friend, and he was gonna kill... I didn't lie. Well, maybe a little, but only by omission. I had the... I had the shit kicked out of me, got dragged down here and my mates ran away. DI West, can I have a quick word? Right, for the benefit of the tape, Sergeant Kendon has just entered the room. I am pausing the interview at 1:30 hours. Hello, DI West. I take it you saw the tape were recording and decided to investigate a little. Now, you could go running down the corridor screaming for a blue light, bring me in so we can talk more about charges and evidence, but what's the point in doing that when you can sit down, listen and not have to break a sweat? Go on, sit down. Comfortable? Good. Now, I feel I short-changed you earlier. You sat and listened patiently to a detailed account of the last few weeks and I built it up, but, well, I didn't deliver. I didn't lie. Well, maybe a little, but only by omission. I had my reasons. But now I'd like to try that last bit again, and this time I'll be sure not to leave anything out. At 10:30 we left the flat for our first positions. One of us in the steel yard to the east of the club. Another behind the wall to the west. And me and the third on the wasteland at the back. We each waited for our time to move. - Night, Tom. - Good night, girls. See you. See you later. No one goes near the front of the club until it is time. It'll be lit and visible by the flats and houses. Dodd, you'll be here, on the east side. Make your way from the compound to the east wall of the club. The exterior bus network box and telephone exchange is at the top of the building. - You'll have eight minutes starting at...? - 11 . It'll be tight but I'll do it. Charlie, I need you to do something for me. What, now? Fuck! Dempsey, you'll be here on the southwest wasteland. You leave at 11:08. You've got a lot to do. We need it done by 11:15. Piece of piss. For fuck's sake. For fuck's sake, come on. OK. OK. That's enough. Go, go. Dempsey, you need to be on the way out the lounge by 12 minutes past. Dodd, that's when you cue Roper. Four, three, two, one. - That's the club. - Do you want me to deal with it? Your man's coming round to buy weight any time now and I don't wanna deal with him. If I don't call in 10 minutes, you know the drill. Come on, Charlie, for fuck's sake. Dodd, you rip out the wires at 11:14. Rip from below the concrete so they can't turn it off without shutting down the grid. Yeah, I know, Harvey, I know. Dempsey, you need to be finished with the door by then. Then I want both of you gone. - I don't like this bit, Harvey. - Me neither. - It's how it is or it all goes tits up. - Don't know, mate. It's how it is. What the fuck? They didn't panic, they didn't make mistakes and they certainly didn't sell me out. They had done more than could have been asked of them. The next part were mine. Fancy meeting you here. I'm gonna fucking enjoy this. Not too late, am I? No, Steve. You're right on time. I'm not gonna use this. It'd be like wearing a condom to fuck a girl you really like. One step and you'll swallow this crow bar. As if you had the balls. Won't cost you to find out. Go on, take a swing, see if it works out. What are you waiting for? Come on. Have a go. You've got two choices, Harvey. You can either run away now and maybe you'll get far enough I'll never find you, or you take a swing. But if you do, you'd better swing hard, 'cause if I get back up, my face as I bury yours into the ground will be the last thing you ever see. You're out of your fucking league! I fucked you, Harvey. I fucked you and I fucked your little mate and there's nothing you can do about it. That's not exactly true, though, is it? Well, what are you gonna do? Rip off the club? It's not mine. Threaten me with a crow bar? You think I'm scared, Harvey? You think I'm gonna apologise? Beg for your forgiveness? - I don't want your fucking apology. - Well, what do you want? To watch you die. You've not got it, to kill a man. - Have I not? - Go on, then. If you've got the bollocks, have a go! I'm gonna take you for everything you've got. I'm gonna put you down and I'm gonna smile while I do it. And I'm just gonna let you? It's already done. Oh, what a shame, a bus load of people. Kind of takes the arse out your plans, doesn't it? Not at all. You're standing in front of a business with a busted door holding a crow bar. You're fucked, Harvey. Don't fuck yourself harder. Walk away now. How can I? I haven't put you down yet. And you won't. You might be a prick, but you're not a stupid prick. On the other hand, I'm just a hero, acting in self-defence! Call the fucking police. Then the police came and I were arrested. Then I met you. Steven Roper sent me to prison, destroyed my life and tried to murder my friend, and he was gonna kill me. I hope you believe I were justified. Now, I'm sure you're wondering about the money. After all, wasn't that the point? As you said earlier, it's a shame it hadn't worked out, and you were right, it hadn't worked out, not yet, anyway, so here's the fun part. How do you get into the room of a building to break into a locked safe when the building is teaming with police, the room is in the basement, the basement has no windows and the door is as secure as a vault? Like every good schoolboy knows, you have to do your homework. Charlie, get back to your first position as quickly as possible and get down there and wait. It's fucking awful down there. You can give me a crash course in steelwork if you think we've got the time. Can someone shut that fucking alarm off? Cabling's knackered. We're gonna have to power down the grid. Just get it done. - Everything in order? - Yeah, looks to be fine. As you know, Detective, everything has a weakness. You just have to find it. - So you're saying there's no chance, then? - Not a sniff. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to take a piss. Only went five minutes ago. Must be the sound of running water. Shame you wasted your time, though. No... For Christ's sake. I had them cut the power. Come on, let's get back up. Funny that while I were chatting to you and Roper was sinking further into the shit, the safe in the Rise Club were being emptied of all his ill-earned money. There's a couple of reasons why I'm telling you this. Being a smart arse is just one of them. Another is that you seem genuinely concerned for my wellbeing, so I thought I'd put your mind at ease. But mainly it's because I need you to restore my faith in humanity. You have a choice, DI West. You could pretend you never heard this tape and let a man you know deserves it go down and let us walk away. Or you could alert the police at the port and have us brought in. I suppose I won't know till we get there. Ey up. - Fucking hell! - You all right? - All right? - Fucking hell. You took your time. I thought you'd been taken to the big house. Fucking drive before they change their mind. Everyone all right? - Better than all right, mate. - We've only gone and done it. It's soaking wet. You would be if I dragged you 20 foot through a flooded storm drain. - How much is there? - 75,000. - Bang! - Fucking hell! That's a coffee shop and four grand each pocket money. - It's all down to you, mate. - Bollocks. It were all of us. Well, that's true, but all the same... Your maths is on its arse, by the way. 20 grand four ways is five grand each. - I think Nicola deserves her cut, pal. - What are you on about? You think you just talked your way out of police custody, no extra boost? Was the money and heroin in Roper's office the only thing tying him to the drugs and the robbery? - His fingerprints were on 'em. - And how did they get there? - Steven. - What? Can I have a word? In private. - What's that? - I'm paying you to leave Harvey alone. There's a grand there. I'm giving it to you for Harvey's protection. Don't want your money. - Work out another line of credit, though. - Please, Roper, just take that money. No. And if I were you, I wouldn't give a bucket of piss for Harvey's future. I'll drive you home. That's a lot of money and it's a rough area, and I'm a gentleman. I took the notes with Roper's prints, stamped them at the club and added them to the rest. I used the print-covered cellophane to rewrap the gear we stole from Roper before we planted it in his office. Clever, eh? You're not the only one with bright ideas. You let Nicola go to see him? Hold your horses. When I said other people have bright ideas, I meant her. - Why didn't you tell me? - She wanted to keep you out ofjail. But she didn't want you to think she'd changed her mind about seeing you again. Why are we portioning her some of the money, then? Because I think she's full of shit. I spoke to her for five minutes when we went to pick up pizza last night. Apart from the prints, two things came out of the conversation. One, she thinks you saw her get out of Roper's car two nights ago. - Did you? - Yeah. I knew we'd call it off if I told you. I didn't know what she were doing, but I knew she wouldn't stab us in the back. It's good you trust her, because the other thing that came out of the conversation is that she's still got it bad for you. What did she say? With a bird, pal, it's not so much what they say, it's how they say it. - How did she say it? - Want a fucking impression? Just phone her, you fucking ponce. Thought you said you wouldn't answer. Well, I suppose I'm a good liar. You should watch out for that. For a while there, I thought we were never gonna see that shit-eating grin again. What can I tell you? Looks like it's gonna be a beautiful day.
