 

                        Title: "Please do me a slave." Gao Qi: what's up? what`s up? Xiao yang, I did not kick around you. - To that - said early All fell into the shoes on You suddenly say with me to do it Well, I go back to the - Little green with their predecessors, they drink bar - why? - Tomorrow, the first day of a new job to work - I told you to go back Well anyway, go out together on a matter of five minutes will be suspect! Well Little Green I love you Good ... Little Green she okay? Drunk a lot - I go and see? - Nothing like the rest Come on! Technology is good Powerful ... In a very prospective Junko predecessors have long known, right? College in a community Junko You for me to throw Yes Wait a minute to go around it? Where to? Where? Junko lecherous ah Climax! To orgasm Obviously you take the initiative to come No. - Is not it? - Not - Comfortable - the climax! So comfortable Where more comfortable? Belly belly good comfortable inside Good morning breakfast Good Morning ... You're here You sit here Asked her work - I know - Come - Pleased to meet you - Pleased to meet you Predecessors do not know I have a lot of things trouble explain Oh give me Several dazzling ah Is it true? those things.. This is the timetable for this worksheet ... Here are very detailed bit complicated - Are you listening? - Yes Here to see the last Okay, I know Good to know ask me again - Good - good ... In fact, whatever you want to edit it assigned us a bit stuck here, right? How can something anything can start from the basis Well - Just comments excellent entry wanted it? - Not ah Do you have a favorite author? Speaking of writers I think Edward Wally Who I do not know This feeling This - What is it? - I do not know But I can be drawn those things.. - Chennai you like what writers? - How suddenly ask them to name it? Do not do that oh Sasaki and unfamiliar Words can not say The Ganay husband what kind of person do? You ask too sudden - Former boss - boss? - Now in Osaka branch - shame myself Words engaged in long distance relationships? - Your husband live? - You ask too much - Certainly in the company - of course - What is it? - Take a look at it Do not look Why so paint into the company to work? Most people will be into the company. Why? Do painters do not you? Like a painter? Put it simply, - Tomorrow I go home - go? We kiss time gone? Certainly this Kind of desire to attack This kind of lifeless feeling I think that in turn This color is deep very depressed And gives a very sad feeling But this will not be too adult-oriented point of it? This is the north wind and the sun on it I think this is communicated not intention But every time say that is not the point, right? - Shinji - is How do you see? You ask me? I support the views of Chennai For example, the sun gives the impression I liked Sasaki said that Your hairstyle Very suitable for you This is Chennai your interest in it? Or your husband? You taste so good Na Are you good at work? I'm sorry. Chennai you live near the park, right? Enough new When I used to work there often skip work More than the rest Near is not a lot of strange stalker? I said that people do not want to hear She say how? So be it Chennai home after a home will not feel lonely? I looked very lonely? I said straight So you like to curry favor with another woman? This makes me very fast This time I had wanted to select North Wind and the Sun It is I'm sorry Sanada - Go to dinner? - Good go - Go together - go Tired ah - Do you go? - I stay up - Go - go [Love together tonight!] those things.. You just sent a text message to me? Did not send the wrong person? What's happening? Eat a meal? Go to Kakuda Hotel Production: video game people DWR Would you use it? Shoot down my face with this Shoot! That ... filmed doing? Keep after masturbation see Photographed Come - Are shot it? - Yes Good Properly shoot Comfortable? Bring there is a camera I'm sorry. Chennai Not give me a chance? I was a little nervous Is a sudden And that day my stomach hurts Tension overdone This is not my excuse Chennai thou At that time I will tell you Hello Feed me pure sub- Gao Qi: what's up? what`s up? Xiao yang, I did not kick around you. What with what? Can not you hear my message phone? I hit many phone calls to you Recent work very busy ah Why you want to escape it? I've been thinking about you Really too heavy [Now I can come to your house.] [Tell me the address I give you oral sex] Come Camera Properly shoot To be shot Shoot! Chennai me ... To be shot So comfortable Be comfortable I so comfortable there Be comfortable There so comfortable Climax orgasm ... You want something to eat? Not Your husband at home? I see you face is not very good Chennai Chennai? Chennai ... How do you now? Today do not have to go to the business? Chennai like what? This is also your husband's interest in it? Or say? You tell me to do things with her husband can not do? Saturday come to my house Your birthday, right? Do you remember? I'm going to give you a gift Come in. Good Now I'm going to Osaka I'll come back at night to be willing to stay here Then why did you call me? How. I stay here I wait for you to come back Yes Chennai I love you I command you. I'm sorry. I obviously command you. Too intense Let me let me Open points Front side open point Yes I see the following Be Yes He wanted to Say Teacher I Chennai See the look of my site slaves Feel it? Be To lick this Yes To orgasm Fast climax Raised his head and looked at his climax Chennai climax of the ... To climax the ... You're a dissolute woman Debauchery woman Recently the company a lot of gossip Talk to the man sex Shot with this camera down to me Properly shoot Chennai To be shot So comfortable Be comfortable ... There so comfortable So comfortable, so comfortable There so comfortable What happened to you? Little Green Do it What happened to you? Gao Qi: what's up? what`s up? Xiao yang, I did not kick around you. Stop Do not Stop Your heart is not I do not Recently been along with another woman, right? Whom you have sex that I do not care You told me when I forbid you want another woman Byebye. [See tonight] Good evening To the usual one Good wait Do not watered Please accept - Not watered probably what proportion? - So? In this way Really do not want watered! Not in very good shape it? Or not drink good wine No matter how much ability that some things Bachibuzhu Prefer not to say my body to die You That was quick Your self-esteem hurt? Dear Sir/Madam: This old man playing with a woman lost in a fog Do not joke What do you want to know? Why Chennai became my slave? Why I came to see you? Why your life has become meaningless things? You guys I hate it the most Call you first met this guy No matter where you go, you all know you do not belong here This is because you have a bigger dream But you can not seriously do So you feel very afraid I'm talking about, right? Change to do a year ago, I then I can make a woman a week to show the most beautiful side You are nothing domineering ah You can not simply point to it? Boss is the most annoying is not simply people remember This is often said that? Education of the side effects? Japan's education can be considered downhill What are you going to do about it? Bye Hurry up. I Many people call a teacher I like a teacher, like to give you homework. Looked at me and how to do it I told her to do what she was doing In the end what is in the driven Texted you, I did not, right? A week ago Sitting at the counter over depressed woman Let him look at your breasts Yes Deep enough. You first come to the hotel to wait for me I know the master So. I'll give you the job done? Not yet Really useless I do not give you a demonstration over it? Well What do you want to know? Chennai things Tell me more This project with three months Finally, so no I stayed up so overnight for what ah? - Is that really too much - is Why should I into the company to go to work? Very good thing to find a good husband Sasaki Words can not say It can be said I heard You is not enough adventure This is not enough adventure I did not risk Why? Was married and still playing I am not this type You feel is not suitable for this, right? This is too degrading Work for me the first Even husband but also on the work yes, indeed I was kind of very cool people on it Yes ah I see. And You're such a boring woman I even spent one hour talking to you Obviously always indulge in boring sex I - Have not thought about - why are you not trying to change? Are you ready to live like this after all this? You waited a long time is not it? Change their opportunity How. A proper answer to me I waited for a long time Want to become beautiful? Want to become beautiful I want to become beautiful All off All off The so inferior underwear not necessary wearing Let me see Let me see All Absolute master and slave relationship This is the United States The affectionate relationship only ugly Beautiful things will go beyond the ugly Hey teacher Chennai I'm home Was about to come in from the bag and took out the keys to find the house lights on Realized that this is the reality This is my state of mind Is as it should Men outside with her husband and first met This is the first time Feel to have to be boring woman feel very unwilling Although no previous experience But also used to As you can see, as my little sexual experience And everyone was really in a relationship Honestly I feel that way will not do But the thought that I will feel inexplicably happy First people say that it is easy to feel easily wet I do not know I am so or teacher's ability I feel almost a Hey teacher Chennai To the end of my husband at home, however may be able to find a place to see a face So take a break! Hey teacher I was Chennai I'm really sorry, please let me talk to you a five-minute phone I've been playing I want to hear your voice Dear Sir/Madam: I was Chennai I told the man had made love Imagine teacher I want to drink the urine of teacher the teacher of my ass My mind only My panties wet Legs open Then open a little How are you going to explain to your husband? I don't know. I'm sorry. But, The teacher is good comfortable I want to Stand up You dial the phone temporarily no answer, please leave a message after the P sound Hey teacher I was Chennai Did not see the teacher's day I became very disturbed More than once remembered the day to get the climax of the teacher Slaves Koana immediately wet I would like to quickly see the teacher I broke the generally Playing tricks on me! Dear Sir/Madam: Do not the words of I will not be forced Can I want to insert teacher My slaves Koana to Insert the vibrating rod Ass up Highs again Not to mention her husband Even the lovers are not men Treat you feel okay? I deserve Do not hate it? Dear Sir/Madam: Dear Sir/Madam: I was Chennai Did not see a teacher Now a very lonely Expect teachers to do things Say The thought here I could not help but I told the man in the company doing the love I do love him Having sex with him is to obey the teacher's command Not only that I thought so that we can meet with the teacher I've been waiting for you Come Forgive me. Forgive me. Dear Sir/Madam: Look at me To save me. Dear Sir/Madam: Teacher ... teacher Teacher Teacher Said a little bit of the truth of the words Let's go then Zhou, when many slaves may tend to be busy to take care of I would like to thank the hospitality Like I said, as doing his own thing I think you'll like Two people See a face alone okay? Chennai I want to Chennai Can you meet me? I do not know just want my Chennai are willing to do anything What does that mean? Chennai I like you Open Off! I call you to let go Open Want to do it? It shot down I do not I told you to shoot down Chennai Off! Open Open Chennai Open Listen I ah Not shoot if not I also want to escape Do not make me No! Stop - Do not come in - you Stop Should not be so Back, etc. I Contacts You dial the phone temporarily no answer, please leave a message after the P sound Let me see Chennai? The job is complete it? Liberation from your place my order for Chennai Came to see you You are a good student Well done Even without me you can maintain a relationship with Chennai This is liberation Chennai reason? Not too simple? I have a question Do you like Chennai it? Yes Really? Yes It here to prove to me that In front of me Hug Chennai Chennai Sore sore Teacher Teacher Dear Sir/Madam: Teacher Teacher Dear Sir/Madam: Dear Sir/Madam: Dear Sir/Madam: Dear Sir/Madam: Chennai she Is a special woman How do you say, maybe I Chennai she is more suitable Chennai she go on like this Not going anywhere Miss you very much too Change the United States do? Becomes beautiful Heartfelt thanks. To acquire happiness Would you like to taste like the perfume? Like whiskey? Or like beer? You like whiskey Do you like the night You like to play You do not like the taste of protein From now on I will let you like Can we do that? Teacher I have a requirement to be able to do? Say it! Please turn me into a teacher's slaves Thank you. You still like me? "What? I obviously have a husband Others slaves Even so "What? This I still like it? Yes I have you there OK? Yes Your little brother has been established yet Yes So. My slave Thank you for viewing.
