 

                        1 Whoo-hoo! Geronimo! Cannonball! Come on, Timmy. Hurry up! I can't... I can't do it. Ah, Timmy, don't be such a weenie. Yeah, what a weenie. I blew it. Oh. Hey there, Timmy. Why so sad? Hey, Mr. Mayor. They called me a weenie. Why, you're acting like that's a bad thing. Isn't it? Oh, Timmy. Now, some may say that "weenie" Is a bad thing to be called When they hear someone say it They are terribly appalled But I'm of the opinion One hundred percent That being called a weenie Is the greatest compliment 'Cause every one of us is a weenie A weenie! A weenie is an awesome thing to be Some of us are big some are teeny Teeny! If you're feeling flustered Just add a little mustard Oh, yeah! You can call us hot dogs Or you can call us franks You can call us anything As long as you give thanks That every one of us is a weenie A weenie is an awesome thing to be Wait a minute, so you mean... Every one of us is a weenie That's right! A weenie is an awesome thing to be What about the girl in the bikini? Ooh. You may think I'm jestin' But her skin is pig intestine Weenies can be broiled or fried Or if you're really brave Wow! You could spend a couple minutes In a microwave Too long? Every one of us is a weenie A weenie! A weenie is an awesome thing to be Oh, sure, maybe some of us are kosher The British have their bangers Hello! The Germans have their brats ALL: Prost! The Poles have their kielbasa Always boiling in their pots The Spanish have chorizo Ol! The ltalians have salami Ciao! But where do we all come from? Ask your daddy or your mommy Every one of us is a weenie A weenie! A weenie is an awesome thing to be This one over here is a genie I can grant your wishes Because I'm so delicious Each of us is different It doesn't really matter If we're sliced up in a can Or on a stick and dipped in batter Every one of us is a weenie A weenie! A weenie is an awesome thing to be Yeah! It's a thrill on a grill So much fun in a bun When you're a weenie you are number one Yes, every one of us is a weenie A weenie! A weenie is an awesome thing to be Is that Timmy? Whoo-hoo! I'm a weenie!
