 

                        1 Shit. This is the worst. This is the worst. Doing a documentary on my scandal. Hi. I don't know. I guess the the punch line is... is true about me. I did the things. Um, but I did a lot of other things too. Mr. Speaker, I yield one minute to the distinguished gentleman from New York, Mr. Weiner. Gentleman's... - Great courage to wait until all members have already spoken and then stand up and wrap your arms around procedure. You vote yes if you believe yes! You vote in favor of something if you believe it's the right thing. If you believe it's the wrong thing, you vote no. We are following a procedure. I will not yield to the gentleman and the gentleman will observe regular order. The gentleman will observe regular order. Not in order. It's Republicans wrapping their arms around Republicans rather than doing the right thing on behalf of the heroes. It is a shame! A shame! If you believe this is a bad idea to provide healthcare then vote no! But don't give me the cowardly view that, "Oh, if it was a different procedure." The gentleman will observe regular order and sit down! I will not. It's about damn time. It was an absolute pleasure to see a Democrat not cowering. Is it not the rules of the house that under clause 10A of rule 21 what the speaker articulated in this sentence is in the fact the rule? The gentleman is untimely. Engrossment and third reading of the bill. Those in favor will signify by saying, aye. No question the guy knows how to fight. He's scrappy, he's combative he's always been a great fighter on behalf of the people. He never backed down from anybody. You should urge them to vote yes something the gentleman has not done! You're scaring the hell out of people in the right. That's the sum and substance of ObamaCare. That's your idea. Why don't you like it, now that we wrote the law? I got 94 percent of my college. What percent did you get? How did that whip organization go? How's that crackerjack Peter King whip organization working out? Stop whining and get the bill passed. Boy, that was passionate. I... I'm glad somebody's finally put their foot down and says, "We're not taking it anymore." Weiner is a rising star in Congress. Married to one of Hillary Clinton's closest advisors. Bill Clinton officiated their wedding. Ladies and gentlemen, the honorable Anthony Weiner. We turn now to Washington where trouble is brewing for a high-profile New York Congressman. It all started Friday night at 11:30 p.m. A photo of an anonymous man's bulging underwear... - Was Tweeted from Congressman Weiner's account. Tell me definitely, is that a photograph of you? I'm reluctant to say to you definitively anything about this. So it's possible it is you. We're trying to get to the bottom of what it's of and who it's of. Have you ever taken a picture like this of yourself? I have photographs. I don't know what photographs are out there in the world of me. I don't know what things have been manipulated and doctored. You would know if Th... this is your underpants. At an emergency press conference, the truth came out. Like a.. ...like a dolphin wiggling free of a blanket. To be clear, the picture was of me and I sent it. Please welcome Congressman Weiner's underwear. Now, I'm not happy about it but anytime a new Weiner photo comes out as a television host, I am constitutionally obliged to show them to you. I took an oath. He first and foremost apologizes to his wife Huma. She's pregnant with their first child. I am deeply regretting what I have done and I am not resigning. If it was me, I would resign. Today I'm announcing my resignation from Congress. Yeah! Bye... bye, pervert! Okay. Okay. Okay. Ready? Here... Ready? Get on here, and Daddy's gonna pick you up. Whoa! Whoa. And... down. Was there a moment when you realized "I have to lie about this?" Oh, almost immediately, I was like, I gotta, I mean, yes. I was in a, yeah, of... I mean, if... So, I mean, yes. But yeah, I... I knew instantly it was... it was pretty bad. What was Huma's reaction when you told her? Her, told her the truth? Told her what happened, yeah. Told her the truth or told her you know, something's going down here? Well, walk me through it. So... - I don't remember. I... I think that... I mean, there was a period of time that I mean, I lied to her. I mean, I lied to her too. I didn't like, fess up to her and then lie to the world. I was try... The primary person, I was trying to protect finding out about this was Huma. And so, I think I was hacked. I think, you know, whatever it is, I don't... I don't I mean, the same stories I was telling, I was... It started out as my... my telling her. Did Huma want you to get back into politics? Well, she did. Uh, she did. She was very eager to get her life... back that I had taken from her. To clean up the mess that I had made. Running for mayor was the straightest line to do it. Former Congressman Anthony Weiner made it official. He is going to run for mayor. He made his announcement on the web. Every day starts right here. Honey, I gotta go. And it's the best part of my day. Last time Anthony Weiner made waves on the internet it ended his career in Congress. This morning, he's out with a highly choreographed video announcing he will be a candidate for the 2013 mayor's race here in New York. Look, I've made some big mistakes and I know I let a lot of people down. But I've also learned some tough lessons. I'm running for mayor 'cause I've been fighting for the middle class and those struggling to make it my entire life. And I hope I get a second chance to work for you. New York City should be the middle class capital of the world and I've got some ideas on how to do it. Sixty four of them, right on my website. Take a look, tell me what you think. We love this city and no one will work harder to make it better than Anthony. I will fight for you every single day. Thank you for watching. Why are they filming you? I can't... I don't know. Most of the time I don't know why they're filming me. Are you somebody I'm supposed to know? Believe me, no. He's Anthony Weiner. Oh yeah. It is, isn't it? Is it Anthony Weiner? Why do you think you deserve this second chance? Okay, it's up, in the final analysis it's up to the voters to make that determination. And all I'm saying is here's some ideas that I have and at the end of the day, it's not up to me, it's not up to you it's up to the voters, and that's all I'm asking. Former member of Congress Anthony Weiner has decided he will be a candidate for the 2013 mayor's race. Welcome back, Anthony Weiner! I think people ought to show shame in public life. When they do something really wrong like this they should get out of action for a while. We don't want perverts elected in New York City. No perverts. Please step back, please. Weiner's staffers had to do crowd control with the press. A problem the other candidates dream of having at their news conferences. He's not a likeable guy, and I think the question is do New Yorkers want a punch line as mayor? If we elect this loser to any office from mayor to dog catcher then we get the government we deserve. Man, they all full of shit. Weiner, you got my vote, brother! Um, just so you know, I turned down Andrea Peyser. Siphen asked if she could sit in and I said no. Well, I... I... Well, why? Because I don't think that she's a real reporter. Let her get it out of her system. Okay. Hi, Andrea. - Hey, how are ya? - Good, thank you. So, first question I'm gonna ask you is what was your favorite "Post" headline? I... I don't read the "New York Post." You don't? Alright, um, so how many women were involved in the sexting, the, uh, texting? You know, I did some very regrettable things over an extended period of time with more than one person. You did some very what? I'm sorry, I couldn't hear you. Very, very regrettable things that I have apologized for and I'm gonna be spending a lot of time, I think on the campaign trail apologizing for. Okay, so why... why are you hiding today? I... I'm having conversations on the telephone. What do you mean hiding, Andrea? Hi, Michael, it's Barbara Morgan. Hi, Andrew, it's Barbara Morgan. Hi, Azzi, it's Barbara Morgan. I'm gonna put you on speaker now, okay? Hi, Michael. Hi, Jill. Hi, Jennifer, how are you? How do we know that this behavior is over? You put Huma and Jordan in the video. Why was that decision made? Your brother said that your father never hugged you. Huma and I looked at one and another and said "You know, we don't wanna be living in a defensive crouch anymore." Families get through things. I don't begrudge citizens wanting to ask me about the mistakes that I've made but what I'm gonna try to talk about is the issues facing New York City the middle class and people struggling to make it. Every dollar available for salaries is being eaten up by healthcare costs. There are good bike lanes and there are bad bike lanes. The controversy over Stop-and-Frisk has been over how it's been used. - I don't think anyone... - Wait, wait, wait. Uh... are more women going to come forward? Do we have more to look forward to? There was some talk of going away to a rehab program... What does what happened there say about your fitness to run New York City? "The saga of, of the transgressions of Anthony Weiner "former youngest ever member of the City Council "former seven-term Congressman from Brooklyn and Queens "preening self promoter "who never met a camera, television or smart phone "he didn't glam on to. "And at this writing, current candidate "for the Democratic nomination for mayor of New York City "is remarkable for many reasons. "Chief among them is what the protagonist of the tale "did not, as far as we know, do. "He did not commit adultery. "He did not break up a marriage "his own or anyone else's. "He didn't employ the services of a prostitute. "He did not stalk. He did not misuse public funds. "He did not grope or talk dirty to subordinates or anyone else. "He did not have any inappropriate contact "or any physical contact with any person. "He and his partners in sin have never been in the same room at the same time." Vacant space. All of our offices are vacant space. - Hi. - This is actually kinda nice. Yeah. We are in the market for, um, office space. Many years since I was here Good afternoon, Weiner for mayor. On the street I was passin' my time away To the left and to the right Buildings towering to the sky It's outta sight In the dead of night Here I am again in this city With a fistful of dollars And baby you'd better believe I'm back Back in the New York groove I'm back Back in the New York groove.. Rahad, can you take this? Yeah. I'll be down in one second. Where... where are you guys going? - To rally for Anthony. - Whoo. - Weiner! - Louder! - Weiner! - Louder! In the back of my Cadillac.. Anyone have a voter? Be poised and ready to talk to voters. Gotcha. This is Anthony Weiner calling. Yes, I'm that Anthony Weiner, the one running for mayor. Well, thank you very much. I appreciate it. And if I win by one, I know who to thank. Alright, bye-bye. She knows two Anthony Weiners. So baby you'd better believe I'm back Back in the New York groove My name is Fran Weiner. I'm Anthony Weiner's mom. How are you today? Back in the New York Groove I'm back Back in the New York Groove Look, you've had a billionaire mayor. Now you're gonna have a thousandaire who has millionaire friends, so we're gonna be fine. We're gonna be fine. Alright, let me get Huma up here. I wanna get her started. No, I really enjoyed it. I really enjoyed it. Those of you who know me are probably surprised to see me standing up here. I'm usually back in the room far away from the microphone as possible. I'm doing it because I love my city and I believe in my husband. Launching this campaign was not an easy decision for my family to make. People say a lot of things about my husband. Some nice, some not so nice. Putting yourself out there is hard. Our challenges, what we went through it's nothing compared to what so many families in this city face every day. No one fights harder on behalf of people. And no one will make New York safer, stronger, more secure... ...than my husband, Anthony. Oh! Oh my god, that.. ...that was remarkable. I feel what people must have felt like.. ...seeing Charlie Chaplain in the talkies for the first time. Like, "That's what she sounds like." This is kind of our first campaign together. The city is getting to know her a bit and one thing is clear if she were the candidate, I'd be getting crushed. Yeah. I mean, man, if there was ever anyone like, if you in fact actually just closed your eyes and just imagined what would be the ideal first lady for the City of New York? Someone who's graceful, someone's who's interesting someone who's got ideas, someone who's got experience. You know, someone who's glamorous someone who's an amazing mom you know, someone who's just amazing. She's the right hand woman of Hillary Clinton known by just one name in Washington, Huma. She was by Clinton's side during her years in the Senate on the Presidential campaign trail and at the State Department. At a pre-wedding celebration for Abedin and Weiner Clinton said "I have one daughter but if I had a second daughter, it would be Huma." She really stayed quiet during the scandal. Why does she wanna be out in the spotlight now? She wants to see her husband no longer be a social pariah. And she brings a tremendous amount of influence. We've actually talked to folks campaign staff who don't really much necessarily wanna work for Anthony Weiner but they're very intrigued about the proximity to Huma Abedin given that she's likely to be an influential figure in an upcoming Presidential campaign. Oh, for of course Hillary Rodham Clinton if she runs. Have a great Fourth, give my love to Jen and I'll talk to you soon. And thanks for the advice. Alright, take care. Bye-bye. Okay. He does not feel comfortable writing you a check because he's on John Lius' finance committee. This is your A-list? I'm not gonna do these if you're gonna make this so unpleasant, okay? I hate asking people for things. I'm asking people, okay? Okay. Why don't you do this. "Tony, I got my husband here... It's Arnie." Arnie, I got my husband here who... who's raising money for... for mayor. "Can I put him on with you?" - No. - And then you're off. No, I think you get him and then say Huma she wants to talk to you. Done. Done and done. Here, give me that. I'll... I'll close the deal. It's Huma. How could you tell my voice? I didn't talk to you in a year. How was the engagement? I want all the details. Aw. What a perfect engagement. Well, that's... Well, congratulations. Well, he's working very hard. Okay, I'll talk to you soon. Have a nice, have a nice weekend. Bye-bye. Alright, he'll max. His wife is gonna max out. And he'll try to raise another five. He's like, "You know, I've never given or raised once in my life." - And... - No kidding? Hey, Joe, it's Anthony Weiner calling. - It's Huma. - Anthony Weiner calling. - Hello, Joe? - How are you, my brother? That's true. We have a long history together. How's things at the shop? How's the family? Oh, really? Hey, Mike, I was wondering if... - If you call your friends and they're you know, they're willing to write checks... - I haven't asked you for two years. I've given you a nice long break. You're the leader in the community so they're gonna listen to you. Four thousand nine hundred and fifty per person and 9,900 per couple. That's nice of you to say. Now, are you is the 20 gonna be in on Monday when you... you're gonna bring it with you? It makes me feel very awkward about this one too, but... - Are you married? - You're a good friend. - Good to hear your voice. - Two hundred and fifty. Five thousand in five minutes. That's not bad. You did well. Bye, bye, bye. See ya. Thanks for everything. Thanks, guys. Happy Fourth. Hey, Marie. Thanks for everything, guys. Is he gonna get on the ballot? He's going to get on the ballot. - Yes? - Yes. Do we need to worry about this? Are we okay? Hold this, babe. Oh, this is pretty exciting. It is. I'm a signer. Huma is that the first petition you've ever signed? - I, yeah, it is. - Yes. Ever. It's pretty cool, huh? I need a book. Like a prep book. Just something, I need... I need some I need, like, I have nothing. Just like a novel or something that you could... - No, but just something. Don't you remember in my event last week, the woman was like "What's his position?" I'm like, "I don't know what the hell his position is on X. Ask him." There's a campaign going on all around you. I mean, you heard me on Brian Lehrer this morning. No I didn't. I didn't know you were on, actually. Okay, look. - I will see you on Monday. - Thank you. I'm not crazy about those pants. Yeah, we all have our... things to bear. Do you like 'em? They're lightweight. I need lightweight trousers. Yes you do. Have you guys gotten any, like, flack for working for Weiner from people who don't like him? What's the worst thing that anyone ever said to you on the phone? "Fuck you", really. That's pretty much it. How can you work for him? Like, you're a woman. You should be... you should be, you know. And I'd be like, "Well, you know what?" "He's fought for my community "for a very long time and "you know, if Huma can forgive Anthony then why can't a voter forgive Anthony?" My mom at first was actually really opposed to it. She said, "Oh, no, you can't work for him." "You can't work for him. That's awful. It's awful what he did." I tried making the reference to like Bill Clinton. And then she said, "No, Bill's different." I believe in Anthony and.. ...some people don't, but a lot of people do. I really love his stances on education his single parent healthcare system and and I was really, really upset when he resigned. When he talks, when he, you know, when he's out there when he's talking about his plan and his ideas he's just so much better. Do you think the Bill Fairy pays for that? We all pay for that in higher taxes. Providing Medicare for all Americans for all New Yorkers for all people in this country, saves us money and it's the humane, decent thing to do. George McDonald. I want to say one thing about American values. I would contrast my values with Anthony Weiner's values any day of the week! Seven days a week! Oh, what? You can boo. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen ladies and gentlemen, the... Look, look, listen, listen... Okay, you don't wanna allow me to talk that's just more time for this glib narcissist. Let's hear it for Gay Pride! God bless America! People are less likely to go to a cop with a tip if they think they're gonna be frisked when they do it. I want him to win so bad. He's the best. This does not need a new government agency. This needs a change of policy at the top. Alright, let's go! Weiner! Weiner! Weiner! Weiner! Weiner! Tony Weiner lied. He lied about his texting scandal on CNN. Whatever you think... You can rest assured that at night... I certainly will not be taking pictures of myself. Thank you very much. I said keep your hands to yourself. I heard what you said. Don't put your hands on me ever again. Really? And what's gonna happen if I do? - You're a tough guy now? - Yeah. - Oh, are you now? - I am. I can defend myself. You can? You can? Okay, good. Maybe get your anger issues under control. I don't have any anger issues. I think you do, grandpa. Let's do this again. Let's do this again. Before you go can you assure us that you're gonna stay in the race? That even if the going gets really, really tough which it will be nationally, possibly internationally. I don't want to support someone who's going to later drop out. I'm not gonna stop doing it because I wanna make sure that my son grows up in this great city and be able to stand on a street corner and yell at his future mayor. Thank you very much. If you mean that. That's a good man, a good politician. - Thank you. - I support Anthony Weiner. - Yes, we do. - Yes, we do. Give 'em hell! Keep talking issues. - Good luck, Mr. Weiner. - Great speech. Thank you. I appreciate it. - I think you can do it. - Thank you. Not bad, huh, bro? Huh, I might have successfully whistled past the graveyard here. And I'm back to doing what I wanted to do. And I always thought I'd be a good candidate and I always thought I'd make a good mayor. I remember once saying to Huma, you know, it looks like you know, that we're back. We're back. It's back. You know? How... how much, how much sodium? Six hundred and fifty eight milligrams. This is 340. Hold on a second. Saturated fat? - Point seven. - Five. Okay. Italian chopped tomatoes. Imported Italian tomatoes. Next? - Olive oil. - Imported olive oil. Next? Sugar. Well, you went on and on about having no sugar in this. Sugar. We don't have any sugar in here. And we're back to being treated like candidates, you know? I went through that bad thing and now I'm, and now I'm back. Not, I mean, with a completely different identity. And I'm getting all this attention which wasn't, again wasn't a terribly comfortable place, but yeah. I thought it was going pretty well. Are we going to see more of you on the campaign trail? I'm trying to figure out... I'm a mom. I've got my own life. And I've got my husband. I'm very proud of what he's doing. So yeah, I want to help him. How's your first day on the campaign trail with Huma? Well, she doesn't consider it a date. Alright, there you go. - This is my wife, Huma. - I know Huma too. I wanna thank you for your loyal service to Hillary. 2016. We went out campaigning a couple times. She had a ball doing it. We had kinda been living in this defensive crouch for a very long time.. ...and getting out of that felt right, felt good. Que viva Colombia! Huma! Huma! Thank you for supporting him! Forget about everybody else! Bullshit everybody else! Don't worry about it! Good for you! Breaking news just into our newsroom in New York City. The New York Mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner sent additional explicit photos and texts to a woman online. The new lewd correspondence posted... - Good afternoon, Weiner for mayor. This is Michael speaking. They led people to believe he had put all the sexting behind him... - "The Dirty" just published screen grabs of what they allege are sexually explicit... - And that's exactly what happened. But the key question is whether he engaged in his behavior? How does Huma Abedin react? When he vowed to be a changed man. Now the website, as we mentioned, is called "Dirty." I under, I understand. The photos did take place after he left Congress July of 2012 about a year ago. Okay. I really appreciate it. Thank you very much. Okay, bye-bye. What...? Are we going to be going nuclear? "This is absolutely not true and this is fucking ridiculous?" Or is that not our strategy? That is not going to be the strategy. Not gonna be the strategy. When in fact, he is actually going to have a press conference in about 20 minutes to discuss this, we presume, and some other things. Uh, but that is really the key issue. Of course he resigned from Congress June of 2011 Alright. I've been told that Anthony Weiner is on his way upstairs at the moment. We'll be hearing from him very soon. Uh, could you move forward a little bit? If I do that, I'm gonna lose my spot, so I'm not gonna.. He will arrive at this press conference with his wife, Huma Abedin... ...who he has said has forgiven him. Newly revealed messages are by far the most explicit ones we've seen. Some people are wondering whether she might show up today. The big question is whether the allegations are true and.. Can you find Huma for me? In this same window of time there was one other person. I said it was over an extended period of time. I never said it started here and ended here. Fuck! Fuck me. What number can they dial on? You want me to dial it in? No. Could you get Huma back in please? And then close the door and stay on the other side of it for a while. I just, I don't mean disrespectful, but please leave me alone for a little while. Do you know what the timing of any of this is? No, I don't. - Not at all? - I mean.. It's when we were talking about the... ...about separating. So where are you on the statement? I... I can't get through to them on the telephone. We keep getting interrupted. Okay. They think this is not gonna work. They think this is, whatever. I... I don't know. I'm like very anxious about you and I being apart today. Someone's gonna find you. - Yeah. - Unless we get someone on the f'ing phone. Campaign office. No, no, no, no. Okay, Anthony's just trying to get you on. - Okay. - Hi. Well, you're, you're saying that the timeline is the problem with, again. By the way, Huma's on the line also. Okay, so go ahead. Obviously. Look, this is a continuum of challenges in our marriage that ended at a certain point and we decided to move forward with our lives and that's, that... that was a problem and now it's behind us. And as we said, other things would come out. No. Getting obviously, you know, we're getting deluged. Well, my head is at try to sell this as something that people already know. - Hello? - You guys still there? Motherfuck.. Can we just have the room for a second, you two guys. Uh, good, uh, good afternoon. My name is Anthony Weiner, Democratic candidate for mayor of the City of New York. Um, I have said that other texts and photos were likely to come out and today they have. Perhaps I'm surprised that more things didn't come out sooner. Some of these things happened before my resignation. Some of them happened after, but the fact is that that was also the time that my wife and I were working through some things in our marriage. But I'm pleased and blessed that she has given me a second chance. Huma has been out there with me and she had a few words that she wanted to say, so.. Um, my amazing wife Huma Abedin. Hi, good evening. This is the first time I've spoken at a press conference and um, you'll have to bear with me 'cause I'm very nervous. And I wrote down what I wanted to say. When we faced this publicly two years ago it took a lot of work.. ...and a whole lot of therapy.. ...to get to a place where I could forgive Anthony. But I made the decision that it was worth staying in this marriage. Anthony's made some horrible mistakes.. ...both before he resigned from Congress and after. But I do very strongly believe that that is between us and on our marriage. So really what I want to say is, I love him. I have forgiven him. I believe in him. And as we have said from the beginning we are moving forward. Thank you very much. Thank you. Why should we trust your judgment? Why? Why should we trust your judgment? Weiner is admitting that new sexually explicit online chat have surfaced.. On the nightlife site.. - "The Dirty." - "The Dirty." Thedirty.com Looks, looks a little bit like he got it caught in a waffle iron. Like a series a series of, series of paint swatches. I believe that last color is called public humiliation. It was not just sexting or text messages. They spoke on the phone too? Multiple times daily. The timeline here is absolutely crucial. Uh, very crucial. He resigned from Congress in June of 2011. A little more than two years ago. So, when yesterday, this emerged.. ...It was a problem. He did this big sweet spread with his wife and his newborn son the same month that he told the world "I really feel like a different person." Turns out, it was true he was a different person because he sent these penis shots under the screen name.. Carlos Danger. - Danger. - Danger. Carlos Danger. I assume it was to avoid using a ridiculous name like Anthony Weiner. Can we get that clip up of Huma standing alongside.. There is a victim of spousal abuse. Spousal abuse. It is sickening to watch this. She looked completely despondent. Her face was looking away. She was shifting on her feet. He's humiliated her over and over again. Uh, what does it say about a husband who lets his wife do that? Power, lust, personal gain and that's all the two of them want. They don't care about anything else. There was clearly a calculation made that Huma being there was going to be crucial to how people saw him, saw it, saw their marriage. If Anthony Weiner's mayoral campaign is gonna be saved tonight, it's gonna be saved by his wife Huma Abedin. Ah, not great. Not great. You know. Javier at the Times tried to nail me down on that question... I don't really know the answer to which is... "When did it cut off?" You know? But she... This girl has this narrative... has this timeline that I don't have any way to check with or know. Shit! Okay. Alright, well, call, call me when you have a chance. Alright, bye-bye. I need to follow up with him. I just want to look at the questions... ...and talk to you about how you wanna answer those. So the answer to, "Were people in the campaign other than Huma aware?" - Okay. - No? Then.. "Had there been multiple online exchanges with multiple people..." "...or was it just this one?" Can I just say multiple people? Or is it just this one? I think you've got to, I mean, there was more than one. So, I think, I think we've got to answer the question. Uh, okay. Problem was that, that series of interviews that I did when I got in the race were after this. And people asked me is the number still the same. I think I said to, six to Dominic and then I cleaned it up in subsequent interviews 'cause I knew that was a problem. Now, the question is, do we answer it or not? I think we have to answer these questions. I think we have to answer it because if somebody else comes out and we don't... - So, okay. So then you'll give them an answer. So I'm going to say... - Yes. Um.. ...It was more than one. "Do you believe you're suffering from any sort of addiction?" Um.. ...I was asked that question during the.. We gotta get all of my interviews and he's gonna ask, uh-uh-uh-uh.. He said now. He's answered this question before. I think I answered in the New York Times magazine's story. I did. I did. I answered. Yeah, you said no. I think you can say, "I think, I think Anthony "touched upon this in the, in the "New York Times" magazine profile." You don't have to answer right at this moment, so... No, I'm giving you the answer. You showed me a thing with the question. And I'm trying to give you an answer. Why do you keep saying... - I thought, I thought you were thinking about it. I thought you were trying... No, I'm talking words. "What's the strategy moving forward?" is his other one. Um, it's whatever the answer was when I got in the race. I think it's, it's something that.. I don't know. What's the strategy going forward...? Um.. It sounds stupid to say this but yeah, these are people you know, you're friends with, you know, your, you know.. ...you're in the... you know, you're tonight you're like pen pals with. And, um, it was connecting on such a.. ...superficial level, it was almost as if.. ...It's almost as if I was, you know, playing, you know had a... a, I'm playing a video game, you know? Um, you know, people would reach out to me and we'd start just chatting and then, you know sending e-mails back and forth, or Facebook, whatever or something that goes in a different direction. Someone says you're amazing and sending me a naked picture and I respond to it. I had a blind spot about it and that blind spot was a pretty big one. Now, I want to stress, this is verbatim. This is exactly what went back and forth between Congressman Weiner and the blackjack dealer from Las Vegas, Lisa. And if you'll start us off with Lisa's first line. "Are you as passionate in the sack as you are about politics?" "Baby, you'd be crawling for the door to prevent me from fucking you silly." "Nice! Just what I'm looking for. I wanna bang the future mayor of New York City." "Making me hard." Parsing language is clearly not the right way to go. And that was a mistake on my part. The level of guilt and pain and.. That I feel, you know, I'm very sorry I put everyone in this position. It's gonna continue a little while.. Hi. It's gonna continue a little while longer. But I, you know, generally think scandals you cry and crisis management has a 72 hour window. After the 72 hours, it's not on the lead of Drudge anymore. We're gonna try to look normal, like we're holding together as a group. It's gonna be rough for a little while. Where we really are is back to where we were on day one. All that being said I want to give you a chance to, to, to either vent or to ask me questions. I think that my team is in a better place than I'm in. I'm in a very bad place to be very frank. I'm extremely frustrated at your lack of clarity with me in the innumerable conversations that we had leading up to me joining the campaign. Um, I have not made any decisions about what I'm doing or what I'm not doing. As of this moment, I am here. I'm in this room and I'm in this campaign. - Okay. - I think we can continue this conversation. Okay. We'll continue it. Amit. You guys should talk directly, the two of you. What are you, the referee over there? Okay. No, I'm just saying, I mean, it's Amit. He's like family. No, I know, but I just wanted to see if there might be things that other people might want to say like "Yeah, I'm... I'm there too and.." I'm, I feel um, and I think some of us have been frustrated with feeling like we're left in the dark, not even about you know, the actual... situation but more like, how it's being handled. My whole team, Barbara's team like, they really want an apology. - Right. Got it. I understand. - But that, that was.. I would like to flag for everybody that stuff like this, people are reporting back to the "New York Post." And it becomes something where, I'm walking down the street and getting berated by a New York Post reporter. - Well, look.. - It's fi, you guys, it's fine. It was horrific to watch today the way they were treating you in the street. "Yeah, we were walking and they were badgering her, and they were like... If you don't answer our questions, we're going to write that you're having an affair!" And it was bad. Just a quick optics thing as Barbara's really leaving. I assume those photographers are still outside. So, you will look happy? Yes. I'm saying this for you. I don't want it be, "The press secretary walked out very upset at 6:30." Everyone has to exhale a little bit, okay? This has been a brutally difficult few days. Take a deep breath, have a drink. This isn't life and death. No one's.. - No one died. - No one died. The entire world knows about this campaign, warts and all. There's a lot of intensity and I know I brought it upon you but I don't want it to make you crazy, so.. Joining me now to discuss her online relationship with Anthony Weiner, Sydney Leathers. How did all this happen? How did, how did this begin? Um, in 2011, I messaged him on Facebook chastising him for his behavior with the first scandal. He said that he was sorry that he let me down then started to compliment me on my appearance on my political views, my writing. I mean, just anything you can think of. He's laying it on thick. So you would have phone sex with him and how often would he call you? Uh, the most he ever called me was about five times in a day, which is a lot. - For phone sex? - Yeah. Good morning, my name is Anthony Weiner Democratic candidate for mayor of the City of New York. Today we're focusing on creating a nonprofit czar to be a liaison with nonprofit organizations. And I'll be glad to take any on-topic questions that you might have. Any on-topic? Yes, sir? Off topic, is that okay? Sure, certainly, sir. I'm sorry, ma'am? How many women were there? Can you remember? Six to ten, I suppose. But I... I can't tell you absolutely what someone else is gonna consider inappropriate or not. Were they sexual, how many conversations did you have with women after you resigned that were sexual in nature? I don't believe I had any more than three. Why don't you just, right now tell everybody everything that you could possibly remember about this so that we all get it out of the way and then you can go back to the real campaign. I basically have. I mean, the only thing you haven't learned you want names of people, right? I'm not gonna do that. If someone wants to bring themselves out why should I drag them into this? The point is they're behind me. It's a year ago, at least. You keep saying that this is behind you but you've said that before, last Summer. You told "People" magazine that this was over. How can voters trust now? How can they be a hundred percent confident.. There's a phoniness on that side of the debate about how outrageous my behavior is. They love stoking it. They love talking about it. They love building me up, having me on their show so they can excoriate me and everything else. There's a phoniness to it, but let's.. I'm gonna make this very clear. I mean, I did the thing though. So when I, and I'm as, you know, I... I wouldn't have told you I was, you know, that I understood politics and I understand the rhythm of the press and everything else. I did the thing, so it's not their fault that they played their role. They just were doing, you know it's the, it's the frog and the, and the scorpion. Yeah, I mean, did you take any of it personally? It's hard, uh... uh, I mean I... I think the same constitutional, the same constitution that I have that made me do the dumb thing.. ...made it possible for me to to weather the stuff without it gutting me. I think I've pretty much said what I have to say about that. Now, what I would like to talk about is housing in the Bronx. Any questions about that? Well, questions about, question about housing in the Bronx. Who cares about his issues? We want to know what he's going to do for us. We don't care about that personal garbage. We're from the Bronx. We don't care about his personal garbage. Where is Lawrence tonight? He's in D.C. His voice will play in the earpiece, not in the studio. Joining me now is Anthony Weiner. Thank.. It's my pleasure, Lawrence. How are you? For me it just comes down to this, which is.. "...What is wrong with you?" I don't understand the question, what is wrong with me that I care so much about the issues that I fight for everyday that I have, my entire career? No. Are you, are you saying that, uh because I have things in my personal life that are embarrassing I shouldn't run for office? Okay, that's, that's a fair position to have. Some people have it. Well, you're not being clear, Lawrence. So, so, so let's, let's work a little harder at that. It does not seem to be a fully healthy pursuit for your life. I know there are a lot of people, there are a lot of people who talk. Look, there are a lot of people who talked about.. ...the totality of your life, Anthony do you think you've spent your time well... - Ah, first off, that's not, uh... uh... uh.. Anthony, I think there is something wrong with you. I know. You just said that. You just said that. Repeating it doesn't make it more interesting. I'm looking at your life. Well, I appreciate it. You are relentless about some, about certain things.. That is not, that's not true. That's not true. That's not true. What I'm trying to get at, Anthony, is what drives you? Okay, tell, in that case, ask me that question. You don't like things that you know about me. You want to make fun of me on television. Join the club! Frankly, bigger guys than you have been trying to knock me down. I mean it from a psychiatric level. Dude, dude, I don't really need your psychiatric questions. All you can focus on is, "What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you?" That's not it, it's to debate either. I don't plan on losing. Maybe I'll come on, maybe I'll come on this show and kick your ass every night, like I'm doing tonight. You'll get the last word online if you want it, Anthony. Good night, Lawrence. Part of what animates me is I hate bullies. It is pretty easy to beat me up. It's not that hard and I just don't respect it all that much. Bigger guys than you have tried to knock me down and I'm still here. And honestly, I'm an easy target for you to say, "What's wrong with you?" "I don't know something in your private life that's embarrassing." Congratulations. You can get on the list. But I ultimately don't care what you think about that. I have never once criticized you for your texting. I think your photography is just perfectly a standard American photography that's floating around the internet now. I've never said anything about that. You just believe that I shouldn't run once that happened. Even if I think I'm the better candidate with the better ideas, don't run. I don't have a problem, but don't run. You know, Anthony, that you are a gravely damaged candidate. I said so.. Pretty crazy. Who do you think looks better though, me or him? Do you want to see the online version... where we continued? Why are you laughing? This is crazy. It's terribly crazy, but what else was I supposed to do? I mean, tell me what I was supposed to do. This is where it continued. - No, no, no, no. - No? Focus on your speech.. This just makes me feel better. This makes me get more fight in me and less emotional. - Oh, really? - A little bit. And it got better here because he realized how badly it went, I think. How bad was it? It's bad. For me? What was I supposed to do? Sorry, I can't. What's wrong with you? No, what's wrong with you? That every night you have to be on television. You need a lot of attention. What are you craving? What do you got to prove? You know, that's a good question? Whatever the opposite of that is, it's what Huma is. She must like that about you right? No, I think she might... ...like me in spite of that. Huma Abedin, what is the simple explanation for why she decided to get out there in front of this? I fall back to the... the Blaise Pascal the philosopher who said "The heart has its reasons of which reason knows nothing." In other words, I don't think this is simply a strategic, uh, decision for her. I think Huma loves this guy. She thinks he'd be a good mayor. What you saw at that press conference was the real Huma. Blaise Pascal, you say. I counter that with Shakespeare "Has she eaten on the insane route that devours intellect and takes reason prisoner?" Do you think she's feeling regret? What about? - The whole thing? - Yeah. It's... it's.. It's not fair. She shouldn't, but she does. You mean fair to you? No, it's unfair to her. I mean she's not... I created this problem. Whatever acquiescence she gave is secondary to the things that I did. These things that I created for us. Do you think it's been worse than she thought? Yeah. How are you feeling today? It's like living a nightmare. Carlos Danger is now trailing by nine points. Twenty-five to sixteen percent. Fifty three percent of likely New York City voters think Anthony Weiner should pull out. The most unpopular political figure on record. An unfavorability rating of eighty percent. I think that we can't afford to leave the playing field for too many days is my concern. Got it. Alright. So she's trying to sell her story. - Oh, really? - That's what he heard. Rodney does this... Rodney does this joke. I was in a very rough neighborhood. The other day I asked a cop, "Where's the nearest subway?" He says, "I don't know. No one's ever made it." The other day on the way home, some guy's running naked down the street. I says, "Hey, what happened?" He says, "You came home early." My doc said, "'Cause you're crazy." I said, "I want a second opinion." He says, "Okay, you're ugly too." The Rodney jokes are easy to remember. Like they're just, you know.. 'Cause they're stupid. Oh, Rodney, no. He's a classic, Rodney. What are you talking about? "Oh, boy, so nowadays for, I am, I need two women so when I fall asleep they have someone to talk to. Oh, boy." "My sex life ain't what it used to be." Oh, boy. Anthony Weiner's sexting partner Sydney Leathers has got a sex tape now. TMZ's reporting Leathers has already jumped into bed with Vivid Entertainment less than two weeks after the scandal broke. Vivid, of course, brought you the sex tapes from Kim Kardashian and most recently, "Teen mom Farrah Abraham." He ended up running for mayor of New York City which he's still currently in the race for. He was actually number one in the polls before the scandal broke and then I ruined that for him. So, sorry. Except I'm not. I had him on this pedestal and I thought he was this great guy and I felt like we had similar views but you know it really is true that you shouldn't meet your heroes because you find out how human they really are and how flawed they really are and it really ruins your perception of the person, so.. Don't meet your heroes. Hello. Hello. Hello. I made mistakes that embarrassed myself, hurt my family and for that I am profoundly, profoundly sorry. And for that I am profoundly sorry. For that I am profoundly sorry. But at the end of the day, this campaign is not about me or really anyone else on this stage. Welcome. This service provided by free conference.. Hi. Good morning. It's Anthony and got Camille here. Love your spots. You were great. This thing isn't turning on its own. We think we have to do something different and so.. Anthony, we've done 350 interviews. We now have Quinn ahead. Thompson second. We have 27, 21, 16, 10. You're at 10. Half of your previous base went elsewhere. Everybody else is basically saying enough already. They've closed that door. You polled in the middle of a time when we weren't doing anything at all to define our own narrative. No, I understand that. I don't think you've ever done a snapshot for a candidate who is going through a worse week than I am. That's a fair statement. So maybe we use it to tee up you know, I don't know some kind of a Bulworth kind of karma that we just like "look," you know? Let me just be brutally honest here. There's no chance to win anymore. Winning is now defined as if Anthony wants to continue here... keeping his head high and saying something that matters. And getting some, at least grudging, respect back. For your sake, you want to keep going with this... that may be the best and liberating way to proceed. I don't think there's a path anymore to get to a runoff. You know, let's, let's remember something we... we've just been pummeled in this week. Just pummeled.. Just, just everywhere. I mean, we basically not really mounted much of a defense at all. So why don't we do this, why don't we slap a version of that "I ain't quitting" thing on the website. Why don't I call around to... I'll call around to the-the TVs give them all a one-on-one tomorrow. If you sort of go frontal with that again... people are going to have an instant negative reaction. I don't want to hear that anymore. So this is a solo flight. Okay, thank you very much, guys. I appreciate it. - Thank you. - Take care. Seriously, like fuck those guys. But you dropped 10 points in a week. What's to say you can't go back up ten points in a week? I have one more thing on the public schedule, or two? I think it's two - I think it's the City Island hit. I'm getting crushed there. Just crushed. Do you still want to go to City Island? Yes, ah-ah, am I getting any reports from City... Yes, um, Andrew, I-I've got no choice. It's on the public schedule. I have to go. So right now we have another speaker, Mr. Weiner. Oh, thank you very much for reminding me... Go home! You know, I've had a little bit of a rough week I had committed to coming here and I didn't want to miss it. Communities like City Island kinda reflect everything that is good about this city and also what has kind of gone wrong recently. You the residents of this community had a 160% increase in property taxes. That's what the math is. So sooner or later, something has to give. I'm prepared to fight for the people of this city and I'd love to hear your questions, thank you very much. I'm gonna address the 900 pound gorilla in the room... You lied to the people of New York and you asked for forgiveness. The people of City Island, the people of New York, Americans are very forgiving. And then you go ahead and you do it again, so the question is... is there someone better qualified than you to do this job and when do you say enough is enough if you do at all? It's a betrayal of trust. My... my personal issues are very public. If you believe it's on the same level as committing a crime if that's what you believe that's your right. A betrayal... of trust. But I... no, let me just finish the answer. Let me... let me finish the answer. Yes, sir, you're exactly right. I violated trust to my wife. I did that. That was wrong. That was my... I was wrong. I was wrong. And people have every right in the world to say that it disqualifies me. But I'm not gonna quit. Do you think it was easy? Do you think I just... "Okay, let's go to-to City Island." "Let's talk to these good people." "Let's bring 50 cameras," knowing that I'd get this question? The reason I did that is because I'm trying to communicate something here. I'm trying to say, "Yes, you know some things about me" more than any candidate than you'll ever know maybe in your life, maybe way more than you'd want. Certainly way more than I want. But all I can do is this. These are my ideas. I care about them. I knew when I got in this race that this kitchen was gonna get pretty hot. And at a certain point, you've got to say, "Look, I don't quit. New Yorkers don't quit." I'm not gonna go into the corner and curl up because someone found out something embarrassing about me. You did something we don't like. Camera's in your face. Change your mind. Back down. Quit. That's not the kind of mayor I'm gonna be. Sir, I say to you with all due respect do not vote for me, but don't deny these people the right to vote for me that might want to. Thank you very much. I'm done, guys, I am done. I'm off my fucking heels. That posture of like sitting back and letting people punch me, I'm done with it. At the end of the day, turn some issues and ideas. Alright. How you doing, my friend? Nice to see you. All the secrets? That guy's running for mayor. You say, "Hey Mr. Dude, tell him to vote for me." Hello! How's business today, ladies? You should get a little discount for that. How you doing my friend? I'm Anthony Weiner. I'm running for mayor. Be well. Have a sweet year. You're a real scumbag, Anthony. Wow, very nice, in front of kids. Charming. Yeah, it takes one to know one, jackass. Don't lose your temper. What's that? What's that? What's that? You wait till I walk out till say anything. That's courage. We'll have a discussion. Come back in here. I'm not afraid of you. You did disgusting things. You have the nerve to walk around in public. And... and you're... and you're a perfect person? You're my judge? You're my judge? What rabbi told you that? I didn't do what you did. What rabbi taught you that you're my judge? You're fine, you talk to God and you work out your problems but stay out of the public eye. That's the difference. I'm-I'm not gonna stay with- That's not for you to judge, my friend. I don't take my judgment for you and I don't judge you. You're a bad example for the people. That's your judgment? - No, that's obvious. - Okay. That's why we have elections. That's why we have elections. And you're perfect. You're gonna judge me. I'm not running for office. You know who judges me? You know who judges me? You know who judges me? Go visit with your rabbi. Go visit with your rabbi. Shows you how much you know. Think about your wife. Friend, how could you take the person you most closest to you and trusts you... Why didn't he just walk away? Why did we need that? It was going nicely. You know who judges me? You have shown no sign you're superior to me and you are not my god. You know nothing. You know nothing. Your ignorance is being shown to the entire world. Anthony Weiner in an epic war of words. Anthony Weiner had a meltdown on the campaign trail. Weiner got in a shouting match with a voter. You know who judges me? You know who judges me? The voters of New York City? I've seen that tape either online or on television, you know a 100 times and it's not even about sex. Why exactly is this such big news? Terrible shot, I got like, right at the back of my... Bald spot? It does not look great. Weiner begins to leave the bakery, but then, listen closely. This man, Saul Kessler, makes a racial slur about Weiner's wife, Huma Abedin. Oh! Well, then yeah, that guy. I didn't know that. What do you think? I don't know, I... - You regret it? This is a nasty jackass. Has anyone ever told you it's hard to get you to talk about your feelings? Let me ask you something. Are there any... There must be some specie of fly that stays on the wall and talks. But I've never heard of one. Usually, is... is the fly on the wall technique, isn't that have to do a little bit with the notion of not being seen or heard? You just kinda pick up what goes on around you? Wait a minute. Wait a minute. DJ Anthony Weiner on this phat ride all night long. I thought my political career was dead. And I was somewhat liberated as well but liberation in a very Death Row kinda way to it. Anybody here from Granada? Anybody here from Barbados? Anybody here from Jamaica? Thanks for coming out. Thanks for coming out. It's hot and humid, and Anthony's crazy. Boy like me Weiner! Weiner! Weiner! Weiner! Boy like me Boy like me Whoa oh oh I'll come A boy like me a boy like me Ugly boy like me If a never fi the pretty Benz key Never quit! Never quit! Never will. Never will. Never will, man. Thank you. Go. Go. Go. Go. If a never fi the house pon the sea Oh Shi would a never waan see Si mi golden wagon Well, she became the poster woman for standing by your man back in the 90s, but is Hillary Clinton now changing her tune a little bit? Rumor has it the likely presidential contender's demanding her top aide Huma Abedin drop her own lying cheating husband Anthony Weiner. PIX 11's Mary Murphy caught up with Anthony Weiner this afternoon. Hey, Mary. Hi, Tamsen and Scott. New York Magazine is suggesting that Weiner's wife is being asked to make a choice Hillary for president, or Weiner as husband. We tried race walking with mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner to get a direct answer. Do you think that your wife will choose to stay with you over helping Hillary Clinton get elected president? Look, I know there's been a lot of damage done collateral damage because of the decisions I've made in my private life... - You're not answering the question. And I'm gonna do the very best I can. Do you think your wife will choose you? - Can I get my answer here? - I'm sorry. But as far as Huma goes, she's one of the most talented people I've ever known in... in public life And I think anyone who's ever worked with her knows that. Do you think they should ask her to make that kind of a choice? I really gotta go. Huma, are you joining this campaign stop? I have to leave soon. You are joining. No? I have to get on with Philippe. - Okay, you have to telephone. - Yeah. - You know that? - Yeah. You know telephones work all around nowadays. Be out in the car. I don't know if it's a good idea or not. Like let me talk to Philippe. I don't have any like, I have no prep. - He's gonna be a no. - But I don't have any prep. For what? To whom? The press. Is the press gonna be there? I'll give you... I'll give you some prep. I'll give you some prep in the car. You don't know anything. Well, I would say you act like a normal campaign candidate's wife. I think Anthony's doing an amazing job. It's great to be out here. I said I would. Do my personal relationships suffer because of the superficial and transactional nature of my political relationships or is it the other way around? Do you go into politics because it's... you're not connecting on that other level and... and did the technology that undid me allow me to be in touch with people and have kind of more superficial relationships? You know, I don't... I don't... I don't know. I mean, look, it gets back to the very premise, you know politicians probably are wired in some way that needs... needs attention, but I don't, uh, you know I'm not... I'm not blaming that for sure. Um, but I don't... I think it is... it is hard to have, uh it is... it is hard to have normal relationships. I've waged a campaign focused like a laser beam on fighting for the middle class and those struggling to make it. I've published two books of new ideas. A 125 of them, in fact, on everything from restoring discipline in our schools to creating a single payer health plan for our city. Are you gonna do this? Oh, I thought you were. I'm not in this ad. Really? Do I look like... do I look like I'm camera ready? If you are absolutely not gonna do anything more for the campaign, then yeah, then... then there's then... then start now. You should... you want me to start, start now. But if... if there's a chance you're... you're gonna want to at some point do it, then let's go ahead and take that. And it's gonna take 10 minutes. We could have been done by now. It will cause a firestorm, but this like the first ad it gets out and I'm in it and then it's a story and then we gotta deal with it and Forget it. Forget it. Let's just drop it. Like, why is that worth it? Ah, let's go. I just think it's a huge risk. Alright, ladies, thank you. Anthony. And action. I've waged a campaign that's focused like a laser beam on fighting for the middle class and those struggling to make it. Powerful voices made it clear from the very beginning that they didn't want me to get to... to... to... It's really apocalyptic right now. I'm not really sure if the sun's gonna continue to rotate around the earth. Hello, my name's Anthony Weiner. Want a chicken? Every pot. Powerful voices have made it clear from the very beginning they didn't want me to win. But this isn't about what they want. They've gotten their way for far too long. If you give me the chance, I will fight for you and your family every single day. Good? Cut. Okay. Honey, I'm gonna leave. Leave a few minutes after I leave before you leave. 'Cause someone might think you're married to me. Don't worry. Do you think Huma will come out on the campaign trail between now and election day? Will she be by your side on election night? I don't know. I mean, you know, I'm... I'm walking a fine line. You know, you have, as a reporter, you have an appetite for the Huma side of the story. I want to talk about issues important to the middle class and the issues that citizens care about. Fair enough, but Huma was a key part of your roll out. She spoke on your behalf quite passionately the moment the second wave of scandal. The media didn't put Huma into this. You and Huma put Huma... - I know, you're asking, where she'll be in the future. And I answered your question. Did you want to come with or not? Yeah, I'm... I'm on the way now but it's on the day books for 9:30. He... he's saying... he's saying don't? Philippe said that? Okay. Alright. See you soon. Here, let me handle this one alone. I gotta go upstairs alone. I'll... I'll... I'll come back down. It's my last race. Running finally, y'know... It's my dream to run for mayor, and... I also want him to see us together. We'll do it later. We'll... we'll... I... it'll be fine. Alright, give me a kiss. iPad? Alright, Jordan do you want to get in the stroller or you wanna walk? Stroller? It's all wet. Did you say all wet? You wanna push? Okay. Hey, I've got a fairly brilliant idea. What if I say this? You know, they... they lost my name in the... in the books. They can't find it, so we've been running around trying to figure out how to fix it. What if I just say at 9:30 work on Huma's schedule unfortunately she has a work conflict now and she couldn't do it, once we had this de-delay, you know we had this delay because of the problems at the Board of Elections? What about that? Okay. Uh, it's a... it's... it sounds like a duck. Hi. Alright, I'll talk to you later. Beep, beep, coming through. Beep, beep, coming through. Josh, you're killing me, buddy. Josh, get out of the shot. Josh, get out of the shot. Anthony, you seemed pretty upset at the NBC interview about your wife's absence. Does it say anything to us? What absence? Her absence and not being here today or recently. Oh, no, this was... this happened because of the same thing every... when we had it at 9:30 it was around her schedule. When it became 10:30 it became problematic for her schedule. She's gonna be voting. I'm pretty sure she's gonna vote for me too. Alright, guys, we gotta go. Um, we're gonna go that way. Is that okay? Sorry, buddy. Can we just do the one question? We'll all get out of your way. 1 question? I've just done... I've done 40 questions and now you're dealing with a 20 month old. Get your wife's absence, you seem pretty agitated. You seemed upset by it. No, no, it's just... it's just 7 or 8 or 9 questions on the same subject. After a certain point, I think, well a question being asked again and again, you know, so. Her absence, does it say anything? Alright, thumbs up. Thumbs... Thumbs up. The craziest part of the whole Anthony Weiner thing is the guy never met you face to face. No. He never met me. Had more contact with him already. Are you angry with him? I think I am a little bit angry angry with him. What pissed me off was him on the campaign trail saying "Oh, I've changed." And trying to act like he has this perfect marriage now and everything's just peachy. - The hypocrisy got to you? - Yeah. I was like, bullshit. I am proof that you have not changed. You know what I... I fantasize about actually. If you did go to confront him. I... I think we should. Let's do it. I'd be like Carlos Danger. - Meet Mrs. Danger. - Meet Mrs. Danger. Yeah, that would be perfect. - I'm ready to do it. - I'm ready to do it. Sorry to bother you right now, but this requires your immediate attention. Pineapple is at the office. Sydney Leathers is in front of the office. - Alone? - No. With media and signs. With how many media? I don't know how many media. I'm giving you the tick-tock of my plan right now. We'll drive on 48th... - What media is there? I... I... Camille just called me. I don't have any update. I literally just ran here to give you the tick-tock of my plan. My... my plan... This is the tick-tock for my plan... I'm not going, I shouldn't go. You don't want...? Well, the phone bank... Just avoid the scene. The phone bank is at the office. Yeah, well, what's... well... avoid the scene. Why... why try to play it cute? Okay, but if you do want to go to the office, I do have a whole entire plan ready for you. - Andrew. - Hold on... hold on, hold on. Bo... Bo... Boss wants to talk to me. Just hold on the line. Okay, you know what I would do? I would get phone bankers with signs. If there's any press attention to her at all surround her and chant the shit out of her. Okay. But that's only if there is... only if there is attention. If she's not getting any attention, then just let it go. But if she starts to then circle her and just chant the shit. No physical contact and I'd chant the shit out of her. - Jordan. - Alright, thank you. Alright, Bye-bye. Can you tell me what's going on? Pineapple's in front of the office. Who's... can you... - Syd... Sydney Leathers is in front... Oh, shit. I shouldn't have said that on the camera. - Why not? - I'm sorry. 'Cause that's our code word. - Oh. - But... Sydney Leathers is outside of 597 Fifth Avenue right now. Uh, we are staying calm and managing the situation right now. I have two contingency plans in place if A... Anthony absolutely needs to get to the office. But I also need to develop a... a backup plan. It's my job to make sure she fucking fails at life today. I gotta wonder... if I had more time, could I rebound again. Even when things we thought were going pretty well we still were dealing with puns and the nastiness and like the outrage of the editorial pages. Why do you think that is? I lied to them. I've got a funny name. And, uh... They don't... They don't do nuance. Headline writers and editorial pages - they're the opposite of nuance. They all like to say that the lying was sort of the big thing. You think that's true? I've had this conversation with myself recently where I'm... I need to visualize... ...how different it would've been. Not very. They've... They've got the comfort of being able to... Righteously vilify you. The results have not yet been certified but Bill de Blasio appears to have 40% of the vote. Second place finisher Bill Thompson has 26%. Anthony Weiner with 4.93% of the vote in the Democratic primary for Mayor. So it's over. This is Anthony Weiner. How are you, my friend? Congratulations. You ran a great campaign. Somebody just emailed me to tell me that this woman's actually inside the party? She's downstairs. Yeah. We have a security detail on her. Sydney, what are you going to say if Anthony Weiner walks through this door about 10 feet away from you? Well, I guess you'll see with your eyes. - Fuck. - Yeah, she's downstairs. We can sneak you in through McDonalds and into the staircase upstairs. She'll never know. - Okay. - We discreetly pull up. I'm... I'm budgeting 12 seconds from car to door. Okay. Okay. Everyone... can everyone leave except for Huma? And Huma, come in. This woman is in the bar. I'm not going to face the indignity of being accosted by this woman. She's not in the venue. You think that's how anyone's going to cover it? What do you want to do? Can we get a picture with you? Is that alright? Can somebody take a... Are you okay? Sure? Josh, come on. You do have to move quickly when we get out of the car. We can't linger around. Where's Pineapple now? We're executing the McDonald's plan. Like, he cannot be that afraid of me. Like seriously. What is he so afraid of? Turn the lights off, Anthony. We'll be there in 45 seconds. Huma. Huma. Don't come. Go home. Here we go. No, you can't call me back in 5 minutes. Now. Now, now, now, now, now, now, now. Are you serious? Hey, guys, welcome to New York. Where am I going? Are you serious? Ow, ow, ow, ow, my god. Hold on, hold on, hold on. Have we lost her? Seriously? All to avoid a 23 year old, really? We might have come up a little short in this campaign. But we are all unified in that fight. If you keep fighting, I'm gonna keep fighting. Because we're gonna keep New York the capital of the middle class for years to come. Thank you very much and God bless you. What's the plan for tomorrow? What's the plan for tomorrow, Anthony? Don't push me! Oh my God! As he rushed into a car Weiner's security team scuffled with reporters. The candidate's response? A raised middle finger through the car window. I can't believe I gave the press the finger. I still have this virtually unlimited ability to fuck up things day by day. Why have you let me film this? - I, Bill de Blasio... - I, Bill de Blasio... - do solemnly swear... - do solemnly swear... - that I will support the constitution of the state of New York... - that I will support the constitution of the state of New York... - and the charter of the city of New York. - and the charter of the city of New York. - That I will faithfully discharge... - That I will faithfully discharge... - the duties of the office of the mayor of the city of New York. - the duties of the office of the mayor of the city of New York. - So help me God. - So help me God. The scandal has been reduced ad absurdum. The laws of entertainment gravity are gonna suck the.. ...the documentary into the same vortex. What do you mean? The same things that people want and were intrigued by and fascinated by and titillated by, it's as much as you may want to tell a story it's still gonna be the same frame of the same.. ...thing, but... I don't know, I don't... I don't regret letting you follow me around and kinda documenting some of it. Um.. ...I guess 'cause I just think that it... I mean, I would hope that it's more than just a punch line kind of thing. I wanted just to viewed as the... as the full person that I was. And I can't believe my entire.. ...everything is being engulfed by this... by this thing. And maybe that's what happens. You know, I mean.. ...It's kind of like, you know, besides that Mrs. Lincoln that was the show. You know, maybe, that was naive too. You know there's a tendency, and we do it for a living guys like us, to try to figure out like what the meta viewpoint we're all supposed to have of this. So hold on a sec, hold on a second. Hold on a second. Hold on a second. Hold on. The only... the only point I'm making, Herman I'm trying to make a nuanced point about a complicated situation that you and your party are trying to over simplify by saying the President is doing nothing. - Nothing. - 1600... The next generation of politicians act differently because their entire lives will be documented on some sort of online platform. I think that's already, I think we all... I mean, after... - Oh, look at the time. I gotta get going. - Oh my... - Hey, buddy. Oh, my God. Hey, can I get a picture with you? Sure, let me just finish with this guy. Head this way. That's it. Hold it right there. Good. Mom, mom, mom guess who I am standing in front of? Anthony Weiner, right across from my school. Mom, I'm... Mom, you're right. Yeah, I want to see your Wikipedia. Please don't. I would encourage you not to, actually. What? What is that supposed to mean? The written word is dead. - Oh, my God. - You got it, champ? - Yeah. Oh, my God. - Very nice to meet you. Okay. Oh, my God!
