 

                        Scream more, No matter how many patients will escape from this hospital, just because you're screaming, I'll merge their bill in your account. This is Dr. Ghunghroo. A huge hospital belongs to him, But still today he can't cure of his neck. Exactly, It is his sickness, Automatically his neck's turning around, like it changes its meaning. Look at this, Good Morning, Sir! Good Morning, I came here for your personal secretary' job. Bastard! She is such a strange and stupid girl. Not stupid, she is a decent girl. Ghunghroo, Whenever some girl slaps you, then you must she belongs to a good and decent family. Shall we go, now! Dr. Ghunghroo is going to meet a girl for his nephew name Rajeev. Even, until today he rejects more then 500 proposals, Because he's looking for a nice and decent family. And how much that family is decent, He have his own style to know this truth. Look, It doesn't matter that you want to be our relatives but... I can't deceive a good people like you, Actually, I am a doctor but I'm involved in bad business too, and my nephew is such a bad guy. Drinking, Gambling, Racing, Drugs, Truly we're not able for your family. Are you shocked? Just to show you some decency, I wear a Jodhpuri coat, I can't breathe just because of this coat. And what you talking about bad business, We had done more than enough. There is not another bad guy better than us. Amazing, Pandit Jee. That is not enough. My father is in jail since last 5-6 years. That Minister's son, What's his name? Whatever, He supplied him drugs. Mr. Harilal, you recognize us very fine. Wow, It's a real talk, Tell him. Amazing, Pandit Jee. You found us a good family. And if you're talking about parties, My girl is always on Page 3. I like that. Nowadays, It is the culture. Mr. Ghunghroo. If some girl don't have a boyfriend, then people don't call her HOT. You're right, but she doesn't look HOT. Don't Insult me like this Uncle Jee, You wanna see? See! Did you see? She is hot, isn't it? Mother! Why you slap the pandit? Because we that family which... members haven't seen prison nor a police station's face. He needs a family who didn't have a single black spot on their character. That's why his nephew (Rajeev) Is still virgin. OK, OK. Try it again, Try it. Very nice, baby. Very nice. You did well, I was trying since last 2 hours. And you done in 2 minutes. A girl who marry with him, She will live a happily married life. He's roaming to carrying a bat, But he didn't find a baller yet. He found a lot of ballers, But his Uncle Dr. Ghunghroo... He's such a strange empire, Every ball is no ball, dead ball... Why you're embarrassing Rajeev? Come over here, It's time to cut a cake. Come on. Lets go, Lets go. Son, This rocket isn't straight, It could enter anywhere, Let it fly straight, Uncle, It's my rocket, If I will fly it curve shape, then it will fly straight. Look, If you will keep it straight, It will go straight, All right, Keep fixing them. Get back Gopi. Uncle! Uncle, What you've done? You burn them all. Save her, What happened? Somebody is inside? Our friend, Sanjana, Please help her. Uncle, you go inside, It's happening because of you. I am going, I am going, It's too late, Why she didn't come yet? Sanjana, what happen? Poor guy, Come on, Lets go. Why so much smile on uncle face? What happened inside? Fire! What? Fire! Fire! Come Aunt! I'm watching you since two days you are thinking of that girl. You are in love. Yes! I feel first time in my life when I saw a girl that she just made for me. When I close my eyes, I only see her, When I open them, I only see her, I feel, I just thinking about her. Aunt, Just prey for me, that I meet her again, just once. She will definitely meet you, But we have to prey that her family don't have a black spot. Bhai, everything is clear, Just come. This is Uday Shetty, Brother of Sanjana, He wants to be an Actor, But he became a Gangster. But when he saw in the mirror His inside actor woke up. He have only one dream. His sister should marry in a decent family. But why any decent girl would marry a Don's sister? That's why to talk with decent people, He have his own style, Look, We have everything, A god has given us. We have money, fame, and respect. I have a kind of respect, If I wants to relate any family who could not deny me. I need only a good family, I need a decent guy. But Pandit Jee couldn't tell us about your business briefly. You didn't tell them about business. What should I? Sanjana Airbase? Yes! Yes! Sanjana Airlines, Sanjana Textiles, Sanjana Textiles, We have a large business. It's establish, now it's all running on phone. Sir! I bring you a very good news. Not a single but two news, If you hear them, you must be happy Sir, It a very big good news. Your only one phone call works, That Dhansukh's murder case was running on you, that's finish. Witness knows that, If he will give vouch against you then you will finish his entire family. And builder took his police complain back. He wants settlement. He gave 2 crores and he will pay you remaining 3 crores in court. Who were those people? Who walk away. Go and ask them, They bring the proposal for Sanjana, But where they came from? We call them from Mumbai, Also force you lie them. Now which decent family remains in this city... ...who beg us to deny, Sorry! Sorry! Sir, I was in excitement... What you mean excitement? Where I am sited? From whom I'm talking to? What I'm talking? Don't understand... Control, Control Uday. Hey Ballu, tell him, What I do when I get angered, My one leg is fake, I was the great player of hockey, Uday Bhai get angered on me, then he broke my leg with my hockey, but he is a good guy, he took me at hospital for operation, fixed me a new leg, gave me this stick, gave some money and... Enough, that's enough, Tell me What should I do with you. I thought if I gave you two news then you will appreciate me, Sir, Please forgive me, Control, Control. Hey! Stop, Come outside, What happen? Nobody will move, Come outside, Freeze! Freeze! What happen? Nobody will move from his side, Freeze! Brother! What's going on? Don't you see Brother is making a picture, Bhai? Is this the way to make painting? Who's your mad Bhai? He's the Majnu Bhai! Who Majnu? He's a Don. You are so lucky, If I carry a brush some day, Didn't carry a gun, Otherwise you should dead, I was saying that... You don't need to make this accident. Even painting is a work of Imagination. They must be a stupid Painters, I am painting directly, live. If you call it in English, Live Painting, Last week, He was asking to people on the bridge that did they know how to swim, Whoever say Yes, he threw him from the bridge, He wants to make painting a swimming man. Hey, Don't count, Otherwise It will be less, If you didn't make it well then your family member would cry, He don't have a family. He didn't marry yet, Is he wants to marry or not? This is limit, He turns decent people into cartoon, Don't move, I am slipping, Sleeping? Not sleeping, I am slipping, I need a Kundli of decent guy, immediately, Sir! Please, Please forgive me, now. I can't run anymore, Uday Bhai, I am calling you from a long time, and You turn Umbani off, Today, I finish F.M. Hussain's game, What? Bhai! Look at there, I think, India's party has also gone, Bhai! Yes! May I ask you a question? Go on, Sanjana is your real sister? More than real, Yes, but, Is she real? I'm so black and she's white, That's why you're asking, Shankar Shetty married twice, My father (Shankar Shetty). Yes He married two times, But... our sanjana's can't marry once, What do you mean once? We wants to marry her once, But that's not happening, But It would happen now, Your problem's solve in that painting of mine, Do you see that guy? Where is the guy? That guy sits on the bonnet, Where is the bonnet? Under the guy, Yes! He is such a decent guy, These decent guys are so bad, They don't understand decency, For that reason, I'll solve this matter by myself, I'll get his Kundli tomorrow and I'll talk to his family in my style, And you don't interfere, Then marriage must happen, Go. Since you start the boutique, you didn't show me the accounts, I'm going to beauty parlour, Go, when I'm talking about account, you start missing your parlour, Waste my money, Hello! Ghunghroo, how's your work? Business is going well and there is raining of money, And you don't want to fall some drops on us, I need 4 khokha (crores) Listen, this is boutique and we sell ladies dresses not khokha, You idiot, Khokha means Crore, Oh! Crore and you want 4, Did your father left them here or your Mother? Heh! Diwali's cracker, I'll burn you up now, Do you know, who you are talking to? Majnu Bhai, Have you heard my name? Sure, you told me twice, Majnu Bhai speaking, Majnu Bhai, What should I do? Are you insane? I think, I have to finish you, I'm asking you extortion money, In English, Protection money, Oh! So you need protection? Do one thing, you bring me 4 crore and I'll give you protection, And if you want 4 shoes to eat then call me again, If I didn't turn you Laila from Majnu then I'm not Ghunghroo anymore, Put the phone down, He's abusing me, Hey! Come outside, Shop is closed from today, Get away, What's going on? You will turn our Majnu Bhai into Laila, Get Ghaghra from there, you get that chunri, Now you looks like Laila, Black, Blue, Yellow, Take him, Majnu Bhai, Majnu Bhai, It was a mistake, I thought someone's making me fool, If I knew that you're on phone, Should I say that? Then what would you say? What's this? What do you think, who am I? Bhai! You are all right, It's my problem, It's not just yours, Lot of people have this problem, Also the quantity of people like you is going much more, Listen, A mobile without signal, I am listening, keep saying, I need 5 crores till tomorrow, Understand, Bhai, you demand 4 crores on phone, That was on phone, Now, Bhai came here in car and who'll pay for petrol expense, All right, All right, It's good that Bhai didn't eat breakfast on the way, Otherwise they must be 6 Crores, They will be 6 Crores, If you didn't send me 5 crores before tomorrow evening at 5:00 p.m. Your three family will be change in six, Explain him, Yes! Explain me, how it will be 6 from 3, There are 3 family members, and if you cut them from centre, they will be six, Another murder for the reason, of non-payment of extortion money, Today morning, in the market, to the front of people, famous builder Sham Agarwal has killed by three men, We inform you first that Majnu is involved in this murder, He killed a lot of people since his childhood including, children, youngsters, oldsters, and crippled. They earn a lot, They have to pay these poor guys, Now what they will do with that money? You wants to kill me? No I'm not but you wants to, You're screaming like Majnu Bhai gave you a thread, He did, In my shop, I think he must kill me till tomorrow, Majnu Bhai! Our Majnu Bhai! Means he threatened you, He's like my child, Do you recognize him? He's like my child, You should use my name at the front of him, He should give you something, I don't want it, neither want to take some, You are such a nice guy, Get prepare and come with me, You should watch, He regards me a lot, Why are you saying only Majnu? Are you insane? You fix some guys marriages, You think you're my father, Our wives are ran away, He fixed our marriages with those girls, You earned much money to fixing these stupid marriages, You should arrange 1 Khokha till evening, And you? Yes! Old fellow of Government Hospital. Now not 5 but you will give me 6 crores, Understand. Now, you start your game. You brought me on a wrong place, Me, You brought me here, Because of you, I have to pay 1 more, You get me here, I also have to pay 1, Salaam, Salaam, Salaam, Salaam, Salaam, Salaam, Is he doing Salaam, or selling salaam? He's the watchman of Bhai, He didn't salam to Bhai once, Bhai punished him to say salaam everybody for six months, It's a private jail of Bhai, And they all are prisoners, What about him? He used less balloons in in Bhai's birthday, Said, I have to problem to fill air. Gave him a work to fill balloons on next birthday. What will happen to him? He's a doctor, Bhai will make his dispensary here, Where he's a doctor and patient too, Give him knife and scissor and say him that operate your own self, I couldn't escape, But you guys have still time, Go to Uday Shetty Bhai, He's the only Angel, who can solve your problem, Uday Shetty? He's the richest man of city, Everyone respects him, Majnu Bhai too, In every meeting he added a 1 khokha and he calls it Hafta (weekly) It's a worth of lifetime, Please save me from them, I am in big trouble, Get up, Get up, Don't cry, Yes! Shetty, you call me here, Majnu, what are you doing? Calls anybody, Ask anything, Ghunghroo Jee! Jee? Please don't call me Jee, Don't say a word, Nowadays biscuit calls Parley Jee, And you are a doctor, You know, I attend poor people without any charges, that's why my hospital is going in loss, Look at him, He's a nice doctor and you... Shetty, I didn't know that he's your guy, He's my friend, Then he's like my elder, That was my mistake, What's going on here? Your work has done, you go. Sir, should I give him a slap, I want to, I'll never forget your debt, No, It's not like that, Yes, It is, You are such an angel. Decency is still in this world, No, I am nothing, But, If you think I am, then do me a favour, I have a sister, Yes, She is pretty, Yes, In the age of marriage, Yes, Now, I understand, I have everything, We have money, fame, and respect. I have a kind of respect, If I wants to relate any family who could not deny me. I need a decent guy. Who must be decent, nice and belongs to a good family, Who could... Mr. Shetty! You are asking to right person, My own Nephew, He's decent, nice and belongs to a good family, Amazing, But we are not rich like you, Pandit Jee, We will think about Mahurat later, first I want to to know his wish, I am agreed, You're agreed, Then, I am also agree, Look, you gave me a word I won't take them back, We are respected people, And we mean it. Mr. Ghunghroo, Listen to me, I want to tell you about Mr. Shetty, What you would tell me? I've seen him, He's not human but Bhagwan. Come on Pandit, Today is the lucky day, I am telling you, It's not your lucky day. What happen Uncle? You are smiling today, I fixed your marriage in a nice people, If you heard them you will loose your senses, Tell him Pandit Jee, Truly, He is such a decent man, He's not a decent but a murderer, His morning starts with the bullets, And Until If he didn't kill 10-12 people his night did not over, What rubbish? I Swear, Shetty is a Don, Don? Majnu and Shetty traps you together, you don't understand, I have a bad luck, You broke the steering, Don't look at them like that, These all people came here to enjoy, to play, to laugh, But not like us to think how to get rid of those bad guys, Blame to me, You also blame to me, If you were there, May be we should finish or your marriage was happened on gun point, You didn't think about before, Now what? You can't judge people, You are absolutely right, If I do, Should I marry her, Stop it, I am dying and you guys start fighting, Just think, what will happen to me, How? I can't think to the front of her, I have go away from here, My money is wasting? And my mind is not working, These half naked people, Rajeev! I got an Idea, and they can't do nothing of us, I met a girl, whom I was looking for a long time, You found a new trouble for me, She is not trouble, she is the solution of trouble, Do one thing, Just try to make her falls in love with you then marry her, Then I'll excuse to Shetty, I want my nephew to marry with your sister but... He was a scoundrel, He married 3 months before without my permission. Now no matter what, He is the big Don, Will he marry his sister with someone who's already married, Look at the girl, Uncle, I don't wanna see, You know why I don't want to Please explain him, How do I? I don't want to listen anything, And one of the big reason is that she belongs to good family, Majnu Bhai! If Sanjana will see this picture then your character would be naked like this, Don't think about her, I came here for change, We got a news that some terrorists had planted a bomb here, Stop, stop, please don't move, We really don't know that where is the bomb, May be under that table, maybe inside that ball, and it will blast because of your panic, Look, We make you April fool very easily, Ladies and Gentleman, Frank fin world's no.1 air hostess institute has announced Frank fin Smart Woman Contest A girl who make any guy April Fool twice, she will get $50,000 from Frank fin and this trophy, Sanjana, I think you didn't recognize me, Why not? You are the same guy who save me from the fire, Even you save me, I was unconscious and carry me. It's not my fault, Any body can go out of mind to see you, What's a date today? Are you making me April fool? No, I am not, May I help you, My height is larger than you, I'll help you, Whenever I go near to her, Don't know where this air come from, It's girl's scarf, you can't get it so easily. Now I didn't get relief until I got this scarf. It's nothing, Sanjana, Dropati's Saree's here, Enough... You're just... You're nephew can't set a girl. And this Udhay Shakti is calling constantly. I don't understand. What should I do? What else can we do? Besides praying to God. Oh Lord help me. What kind of help is this? Where did he go? Listen. What a place. Right? Udhay Brother. Yes Majnu. Everything alright? Upstairs death angel and downstairs too. That Ghungroo is missing. I've been looking everywhere. And he's not answering his phone. I tensed. You come back quick. How can I come Udhay Brother? Who is going to take care of Sanjana Madam? Don't worry about Sanjana. She has her friends with her. They'll take care of her. You come back quick. That Ghungroo Saith... You had this shoe... Who is it? Hey fruit without a tree. If you want to suicide. Then fall straight. Or shall I make you fall? Are you measuring the length by throwing a shoe? Why are you holding it? Through it in the water. Where? Oh behind me! Not the April fool again. Oh blind folded... I'll sneak out. Got you! Oh You... Actually we were playing. It's okay. Are you upset with me? No... Not at all. I think I can see it on your face. Why wouldn't you be upset? Because we made April fool. No... It's nothing like that. I also like pranks. I can also prank you. But I didn't do it. Then we'll get along fine. Come... Let's have coffee. No... Coffee with you! No. You made me April fool already. I can't come. Where is your necklace? Where did it go? It was on my neck just now. Was it expensive? It must be at least 3 million. Find it. Look over there. Look over there. Sanjana, Look there's your necklace. Thank God. I found it. I'll get it. Where did he go? Did he drown? What are you looking for? You! Did you lose the necklace again? Okay Uncle. I'm leaving. You're going out! Do you want me dead? Why? What happened? Nobody should know that we've come back. Stay in. Uncle I'm going to meet Sanjana's brother. You said it yourself that engagement should happen quick. Sanjana's friends were telling me that... ...her brother is a big man of this city. And if once... We're in relation with them. Then her brother will handle Majnu and Shetty. Why should we handle them? Go on son. Go from there. God has given me everything. I have money, fame... Respect. I just wanted a decent guy. Today that search is over too. I like you very much. Your family likes Sanjana. What could be more happier than this? Sanjana's birthday is on 13th. I was thinking that... ...lf engagement on same day. How could we prepare so fast? What about preparations? Just need to print 4 cards... Need to invite 4 people and two rings. That's it. I think you're in hurry, more than me. If there's a problem... There's no problem. Now there can't be a problem at all. Today I have brought you Tell your good new later. First meet him. He's Sanjana's going to be Fianc. Greetings. Greetings. Come see me before you leave. Understood? Understood. What happened? It's strange... In our time family would do the talking. But... But it's alright. Whenever you say I'll bring my family to meet you. My new hotel is opening after two days. It's a small party. Bring them. Sure, I'll bring them. Because of business. If something bad comes at you. Then they'll... They'll give there life for me. They'll also take life. Why are you asking? Nothing serious. Actually a man... Actually he's not one man. They're two. They've bothered me so much. Who are they? They're from the higher level. Tell me. I'll bring them to right level. Now we're related. Your problem is my problem. God willing nobody can bother us in this city. Tell me. Who is it? It's enough that you said this much. I'll talk to them myself. Okay talk to them. Or let them talk to me. I'll handle it on the phone. Okay. You're 2 seconds late. The guy just left. Which guy? The one Sanjana loves. I've fixed the engagement on 13th. Then what about my painter guy? Take him out of the painting. Make a building there. What are you saying Udhay Bhai? I worked so hard to get him inside. Now you're saying, Make a building. You've worked hard that doesn't mean that... ...I should give my sister's hand to anyone. You don't understand Udhay Bhai. I couldn't paint his decency right in hurry. Look Sanjana loves this guy. And his family also likes Sanjana very much. It's fixed itself. Let go of your guy. Sir I can't control my excitement. I don't want to ask but I can't be, without asking. That's alright too. I don't understand that... ...who are you selecting and who are you rejecting? Come, I'll tell you. What happened? Did I do something wrong? Doctor GHUNGROO. Relationship cancel. What are you saying!? What are you saying? Relationship cancel. You disappeared after meeting, hugging and fixing relationship... ...with my Udhay brother. No, I went to prepare for engagement and wedding so... ...I got a little late. Too late. Now our sister is in love with someone else. Sorry from Udhay brother. What sorry!? My nephew will die. Can I ask, Why did you bring my uncle here like this? People who don't pickup our calls, we pick them up like this. What do you think? They've canceled the relationship. They brought me here to tell me that. Cancel? Try to understand. But still uncle they could've done this politely. Hey let him speak. He was bothered. Speak. It's good that you've canceled the relationship otherwise... ...we were going to cancel it. Because I love someone else. And soon I'll be engaged. One minute uncle. Do you know who are those people? Who are they? They're very big people. They can buy you and your... What's his name? Shetty? Yes Mr. Shetty. ...10 people just like that. Do you understand? Mr. Majnu Bhai. That's why we disappeared. To think about how to get rid of thugs like you? If the brother is like that. What would his sister be? And their parents... I don't know. I never would've made this relation even if I die. Majnu Bhai! You pick up whoever you like... ...remember that someone can pick you up too. Hey enough of you. Nobody can touch our brother. Not even touch him!? Here I touched him. If someone tries to even touch me, you can't even imagine... ...what could happen to you? Here, I touched him again. What are you going to do? Hey who's behind you? You want to know. Do you want to talk to him? Take this phone. Shall I dial it for you? Would you like to talk? Can you handle it? What happened? You're quiet suddenly. Hey look here. I touched him third time. Rajiv, Don't touch him. You'll create a problem. Here I'm touching again. Seems like he's got a very big hand behind him. But who could be bigger than Majnu Bhai and Udhay Bhai? Only one man. George Bush. Right. How are you Mr. Mayor? Mr. Shetty you've build a very nice hotel. Just because of your prayers. Brother I see all decent people in the party. Only White Collar people are invited. So Me and Udhay Bhai could also look decent among them. You think you look decent after shaving your beard! I received the invitation but where's Rajiv and his family? They must be on their way. See uncle... Do you see the crowd? I'm laughing on the guy who is in love with Shetty's sister. Uncle it's not nice. You shouldn't laugh like this on someone's ruins. But I feel sorry for his family. They'll have to cry all their life. You're right. They're the ones whom proposal we rejected. What are you doing in this party? The person who owns this hotel and threw this party... ...my nephew's engagement is fixed with his sister. Mr. Ghungroo. It's amazing. You've found a very decent family. Absolutely. By the way if you wanted to make relation with them. Then what was wrong with our family? Come on. What did he say? What? Brother, Rajiv's family has arrived. Bhai Saheb, This is my Uncle and... And Uncle this is my brother. Aunty, Why isn't he getting conscious? I don't know son. What shall I do? What shall I do after getting conscious? The proposal we were running from... How could I knew that the same proposal is running after us. Sanjana is the sister of Don Udhay Shetty. Again? Doctor, please check. and 1 Ghungroo will be born. He had to get unconscious. Do you know what he said when I called him to cancel. I never would've made this relation even if I die. If the brother is like that. What would his sister be? And their parents... What would they be? That's why we disappeared. To think about how to get rid of thugs like you? He ran off to get rid of the criminal family. I'll grant his wish. Bring the car. Come on. Don't forget that it's about our sister's life. She loves that guy. If you kill his uncle, so there will be no wedding. She's not marrying the Uncle. You don't understand what you're saying in anger. It'll be a family relation. You're going to be In-Laws. Who am I? No one. I can do anything. Anything. Yes you can do anything. Go, do anything. But make him understand that who's Udhay Shetty. And what's his reality. And what will he do if he's out of his mind. Here take this. Shoot right near his ear like this. I have the weapon. I'll shoot so right that... ...He'll himself will bring his nephew to us for the wedding. You don't worry. I'm going to handle it. Majnu's not a less of a swine. He'll make everything alright. Hey genius. Come on get up. Give me the piece. Hold the coat. Look I'm telling you for the last time. Get up or you'll be sent up forever. I didn't get unconscious to get conscious. You won't get up!? Where's the ammo? Other pocket. And the piece in the other pocket! Have you taken my bounty or what? If something happens someday then you'll be filling the gun... ...and someone will shoot me down. Understood? Bhai, Who could shoot you down? But if I put the gun and ammo in the same pocket... ...I don't how many people you'll shoot then. Here's the ammo. Bhai has filled the gun. There's still time. Get up Ghungroo or... Bhai, He's not responding at all. But we have the responsibility to get him up. Take his pants off. Naked. Everybody gets naked in front of the doctor. So the doctor himself today. Bhai, He's already very nude man. Bhai, Let go of the middle one. Let's speak to the main party. We're thugs, don... So what? Our sisters and daughter can't get married. You love our Sanjana. Right? Are you going to leave her hanging? Look genius. Invitations are out. Whole city knows. If this engagement doesn't go as planed. What'll happen to Udhay Bhai's image? Tell me. Now are you going to wake up your uncle or shall I? Look you make him sniff cocaine, heroine whatever... Just bring him to the engagement. Or I'll kill your whole family. You'll kill us! How can you? Look up. You, your uncle and your aunty. All of you will be like those pigeons. What am I hearing? Hey Hungry. You shot at his uncle! What was I suppose to do? He was acting unconscious. Old man. Calling him old man. He don't have manners. You'll call his uncle old man! Don't forget that the old man is my going to be relative. I'm asking. Why did you have to shoot? I thought it'll bring his conscious back. Ask him. What if a bullet would have gone through him? I made a mistake. Sorry. How long will I bare your mistakes? Did I tell you to go shoot? Did I? No. Right? Why did you shoot? And Bhai Saheb that thing I told about waking uncle up. And those ugly hand signs. What does he mean? How were you waking him up? Swine, How hard was it to make this relation? We have found such a decent and intelligent guy. You're trying to mess up the relationship. Swine, I'll kill you. Kill me. But whoever gives you tension I wont spear that person. What shall I do of him? I can't even kill him. Because he loves me. Ballu tell him... What did he do? Did you hear that? He's not bad at heart. He can't see me in tension. Why do you worry so much? Sanjana's engagement will be on 13th. Rajiv's very understanding. He'll bring his uncle to his mind. Don't you worry? Then ask him yourself. Will he bring his uncle to engagement or Shall I? Now you bring him. Mr. Majnu. My uncle is like my parents. I can't bare If someone disrespects my parent. I love your sister very much. And I will always. But I won't get married over guns. I'm leaving. If you want to stop me. Shoot me in the back. I'll apologize on his behalf. What are you doing? Today a brother is begging for his sister's happiness. I apologize for what I've done. Being in the bad business I forgot the value of people. Now only you can stop what's coming. Our brother has flew from Italy to be in the engagement. Who's that new brother? Our elder brother. I've brought this gift for both of my lions. Not half. He's full crack. Hey go with Lucky. After all your sister's marriage is fixed. Your tension is over. Means my tension is over. There will be dance in party today. But there's arrangement for that, Sir. I'm still alive. Stop I'm ruined. I'm destroyed. I'm asking. What did I do to you? That you did this to me. Such a big scandal. Hey sister. Please don't Swine, I'm not your sister. I'm your wife. I don't even know you. When did we get married? And by the way we got married while Uncle is around. So uncle. What did you promise in front of the whole village? That, Girl once you grow up. We'll come to get you. I grew that old while waiting for you. How more old should I get? Ishika! Is she telling the truth? What will this lair tell you? I have brought the truth and evidence both with me. Me, That's my husband and that's the uncle. Bhai It's no mistake of mine. My sister got them married. I didn't know that she would come here after all these years. I think that God also wants this be. Did God came down to say that? Or did God called you up there? Down here it's our territory And we make the decisions here. Is there someone to bring me justice? Only they can bring you justice. They're the biggest here. I don't have a choice. Stop. There will be justice. I'll do the justice. Bhai justice has already been decided. We have to through her out. Don't forget that I'm still alive. On one side is your sister and her happiness. And on the other side is this girls tears. Majnu, My father used to take me temple in my childhood. There was something written on temple wall. A person has to bare what he's done wrong in the same lifetime. Everything is blurred from my childhood accept that thing on the wall. I think what I did wrong is coming in my sister's way. You're not just his sister in law. You're also a good friend of Rajiv. What did you do? Sister, I was told that this relationship was building by force. Brother in law lied to me. I'm compelled. It's not a drama. I promised you mother. My sister made one mistake. She married in a criminal family. And she bared that all her life. She told me when she handed you to me. That brother, don't even let the shadow of crime on my son. I don't have any objection with this relationship. I have objection with relatives. What if Sanjana's brother leave the criminal life and become wise. If that happens. Then I'll happily accept Sanjana as your bride. And I'll dance in your wedding. But if you couldn't change him. Then the girl you choose for Rajiv, I'll give Rajiv's hand... ...in her hand with my own hand. I'll dance in his wedding. Are you mad? I won't be the film director. I have small kids. You want my wife to be an orphan. Sir please say something. I won't become the producer either. Underworld Don Udhay Shetty. Hero! Fake film shooting. If he finds out bullets will real. Uncle I'll try my best not let it come to this. Try! Try mean guarantee. And sir all preparations have been made. Sunil Shetty has also agreed. Sunil Shetty! Yes. Mr. Sunil Shetty. Staying in the same hotel. But you're married in Udhay's knowledge. What will you do about that? I'll explain it to him that it was Rajiv's uncles game. Sunil Shetty? Yes, He's the lead. Rajiv, tell your director friend to ask Sunil Shetty to Udhay. No Sir, You're a genius, a great director. From tomorrow you're shooting with me or else your out of the film. Okay Sir. As you wish. You think if you won't work with me, I'll come to streets. Now film we'll be shot without you. What have you done? What's a film without the star. I'll bring someone from the street and make him a star. I found him sir. What are you doing? He can't work. Why? He doesn't know acting. He just runs his bussiness... These aren't eyes, it's a camera and it has recognized the talent in you. Udhay always wanted to work in the movies. You can't bare this person. Why? He's mad. They way he was talking to Mr. Sunil Shetty. But not with me... I'll bare a bit. Do you have the time for all this? There's always time for this. Who's Udday among you? Hello Mr. Udday! Pappu! Municipal Officer of this area, New one! Don't you guys know that this house is illegal But don't you know whose this house is? RDX and who that is, I also know! Isn't anything namely, Law? No don't worry! I'm just horrible by looks, instead I'm a good guy! I just work under Law! If you guys have any valuable things put that out! I'm going to break this house! Go help him break the house! Ok brother! Common guys! Quite good Udday Bhai, Was it a complex by film star? Ballu! Tell him! I have one fake leg, and I'm a star of Hockey!! Not this! Tell him what happened at Mahurat! Oho!! It was fantastic! They take Bhai as hero, while take Sunil sheety out of the film! He said to take anyone from roadside, no no, he said I'm not taking anyone from roadside, while I'm taking a big actor in this film he's quite a big director, and Majnu Bhai, see there picture on the newspaper! Give me! What's news written with this picture, donkey will also participate in horse race! What's burning! Is something yours burning? But I'm smelling! Hey Majnu, stand up, and turn around! Hey look smoke coming out from your back! I just told you that this house is illegal, Not myself! Then why did you broke me? Common get up! Take out Potatoes! Take out Potatoes! Take out Potatoes! Just notice this thing! I'm giving quite big actor, to this world today! Keep it up! Let's get ready for next shot! That was great, you are quite talented! Amazing! Sanjana, won't you say anything? I was thinking, It was much difficult, for you but you done it well quite easily! I have written a fantastic dialogue, Please tell me! Not a single potatoes sold out out till this morning! Nor a half Kandha! Till morning, not a single potatoes sold out, nor sold out a half Kandha! In which line you are in now? It's film line! You are just only for acting! Till morning, not a single potatoes sold out, Madam wants to meet you! Who Madam? Actress of this film! She is Miss Esha! Mind blowing! Fantastic! No one can think, that this is your first film and this is first day of your shooting! I'm glad to meet you Udday! Same here! I hope you don't mind me calling you Udday! No! Madam your shot is ready! She's coming, wait! Udday please don't mind, I was here to sign out this film, Because as I come to know, that director has changed the actor, I wasn't very comfortable you know! But when I see your acting, Oh my God! The way you said that dialogue! Take out Potato, take out Kanda! You made me your fan I just tried to act, keeping actors in mind, I want your autograph! Oh yes! Welcome! It'll be now much fun to do work together! Bye! Brother! What? Seems this actress have fallen for your love! Shut up! I love your daughter very much! Now nothing can make us separated! What a look brother! Looking nice? Very much! What are you doing on my shooting? Brother! Yes today meeting is fixed with D'Silva! I also called Samuel from Singapore! It's quite necessary for you to come! This is the last shot, just going to Pack up! Than we'll go meet them, if agreed than ok otherwise we'll kill him! Looks like we two can't get married! Rajeev! As the Shot here ends, there Brother's crime scene will start! Sanjana once you told me, your brother is afraid of horses! Yes why? Why these horses here for? Because director changed the shot! First you were coming, on legs, to ask girl's hand from her father, but now you'll come with 25 men on horses! On horses! How can he ask for her hand, he don't know how to ride the horse! We can ride our horse, but these horses are difficult to ride! Brother, just sit on the horse, it'll go by itself! But first shot was good, I came walking and ask for hand! Brother you know, if I go to make him understand, he could pack up this movie, do you want to close this picture? No than! Tell me which horse you want to ride! Give me anyone you like! Cut Cut! What are you doing! Father of Girl is here! Aren't you seeing such big man? You have to stop the horse here, then walk towards him and ask for hand! It's quite simple! It don't stop, what can I do? Horse don't stop itself, you have to stop it! You have to pull his belt Let's try it one more time Sound, Take 32 Action! Come! Why are you going before me! Where you are? Cut it! Where are you? I'm here! What are you doing in the middle? The girl's father is here! Horse is not doing as I want, what can I do? So what we should do? Should we pack up? Take away the horses! We are coming, I told you, we are coming in half hour! Why are you bothering? Now look, how their meeting will cancel Udday Bhai, still stuck in the shooting! Why you let D'Silva go? Can't you make him wait for half hour? Who is this Non-sense shouting here? Director Sir, Relax!! What Relax!! Our Shot is stuck, and they are talking non-sense over phone! You please just keep quiet! Action! Hey!! I'm here to ask your daughter's hand! Cut it! Cut it! What are you doing? What, I was perfect, walked on my knees, this way you are going to ask for her hand! By falling here and there, will he give you her daughter, in such way? Not on us, but at least have some mercy on horses! Please please one shot! Oh common! What actor have I signed for my film! Poor horse must be thinking, which donkey is riding me? Non sense Donkey! Hey whom you say Donkey! You Said Udday a donkey? Shut it down this all shooting drama! You are going to make Udday brother beg? People beg in front of Udday brother! What if Udday's horse go front or left behind, can't he come towards Udday brother! Where's that oldie? Majnu Bhai! What are you doing? Who has done all this? Majnu Bhai did this! He beat up director, he beat up producer he broke someone's nose, he broke someone's jaw look there, he broke everything! He also broke your dream of being an actor! Say something, Director Sir! Pack up! Picture Closed! Pack up! Pack up! He's jealous of me, Majnu! Nothing matter, how much you wash charcoal! With surf, Nirma, Vim etc, it will always remain black! Same as these can't never change! Sanjana, I like these all five girls, now whose is capable for Rajeev, I leave it on you to decide! Once my brother could be good, but this Majnu just... Sanjana, these guys are just like crabs! If one wants to be good, the other, let him down by pulling his leg, maybe this is our fate! No Sanajana! Now Majnu Bhai won't decide for our luck! But we'll decide his luck now! You name is false Majnu Ji! While your name must begin with "S" well yes my real name is Saagar! Saagar Ji, please bring some scars on your forehead! You have an affair with a girl when you were 18! Don't be shy, look up! Make it deep! That girl name begin with "l" you remember? Iravati! Iravati! Sanjana! The girl he fall in love with, Once her brother broke down his hands and legs, Am I right? They just broke my hands, my Leg broke while falling in the drain! That's honesty! Because of Iravati, you came into crime world! Yes! Because her father, told him to make fame, money! You murdered someone for sake of money! And you are here, keep running from than! But this all are old talkies Rajeev! What will happen afterward? That love will came back to your life, but what become of children? What children? She has four kids! If she comes in my life! What will become of her children? Children will remain with her, and Iravati is not coming in your life again, A girl like Iravati will come in your life! Whose name will begin with "l" once bring bring some scars! Don't make me scare, a bit less scars! She must have come by now! Oh! Now I get it! These paintings etc, why you keep them prisoned at your home let them out! There rains a lot outside, the paintings could get wet I don't mean outside by out! I meant like out in Exhibition, or auctions! Besides, I'm here to help! I'll help you! I can help you, to auction all this! And maybe possible that, because of this art you can... Meet that "l" name girl! Alright! And now I present the painting of a new artist Mr. Saagar! This painting is called "Rocking Horse" we start the bid at 10,000 dollars! well 25000 one! Two! Fifty thousand dollars! Anybody goes there! Sold! And this lovely painting is sold to Miss Ishiqa! Aah! Ishiqa Ji! What you looked in this painting? What these guys didn't see! Love! I can say by looking to this painting, that this artist is a lovable person! He has so much love in his heart! Look how cute message he delivered through his painting! Sure! When an animal can bear weight of another animal, and can love this much, than where love go out from our lives? You have said very well! I wish he was here! I wish I could meet him, Ishiqa Ji! You wish has come true! That great artist is between us right now, Mr. Saagar Pande! Hey you guys come with me! Saagar Ji! Ishiqa Ji! Superb! Fantastic! I mean Mind blowing Painting! Hope you won't mind me calling you Saagar! No, it's good! Why would he mind? I have bought many painting of several big artists, It's my passion you know! But looking to your painting, I'm your fan now! Thank you! I want your autograph! Hey do you have pen? Sorry I forget it today brother! Looking to this painting, I thought this painting is of some matured artist, but you are quite young guy! Bye! Seems she fall in love with you! This is quite good painting by you! Just remaining is to get married! Hello! Yes yes! I'm talking! I'm good! And you? I'm not quite well! Your this painting is not letting me sleep! I don't care if you call me shameless! But I think I fall in love with you! And if you don't believe me, you can hear my heartbeats! Same going on in here! I'm awake just making painting for you! I'm also in love with you! Liar, let me hear your heartbeats! Saagar, you are so sweet! Tomorrow, is my birthday! Why don't we spend evening together, just you and me! Ishiqa! What's happening, you start dancing from now! At least let yourself in Italy tomorrow! Italy? Yes! Udday and your meeting is fixed with RDX what happened? Aren't you happy? Is there any tension? There is a big tension! Tomorrow is Ishiqa's birthday! We have planned to spend evening together so matter is this much hot, and I don't even know, everything is going on very quietly! Very Good! Hey Rajeev do me a favor! Look to Udday's hand and tell him that your meeting is cancel, no, tell him his life is in danger! Sagar Ji, please don't mind, tell you what, I can not lie! By the way, this problem is created by your own self! Shooting was going quite smoothly, you beat that director for no reason If shooting was still going, Udday Bhai won't ever cancel this shooting! Would he ever go to Italy? No no way! Rajeev Bhai, but that director is your friend! Please begin that shooting again, you remember you slapped him, besides he's so stubborn, he won't agree, how won't he agree, I'll see him, this is the thing I don't like about you, why you go over families on such small talks! Why you get ready to fight every time! You can say this by love Rajeev Bhai, you just don't get mad, you want me to make him understand, very politely! Besides, this love is quite lovely thing! Sanjana weds Rajeev! I can't believe yet, how this impossible can be possible! But I have total faith in you, that to get your love, you definitely, will win this fight! Lucky Please! Get up! Lucky! What do you think of yourself? How dare you to change path of Majnu and Udday? Lucky listen to me! Please! Lucky Sorry Sorry! You beat me! Son of RDX I'm going to kill you! Sanjana you get aside! I'm going to finish you! Sanjana you get aside! You'll close down our business! No lucky! You are rotting our people! Lucky leave Rajeev! What will you do?? I'll shoot you will shoot me! You'll shoot me! Go on shoot me! I won't leave him! Lucky stop it! I was just firing upside! This bullet is shot from me, I killed Lucky! Did you hear me? Let's go! He's still alive! Brother!! Hey!! Don't worry I'm here! Where's the party? Rajeev Bhai, don't worry, I'll make everything fine! Sorry! Sorry!!! To whom you shot at? Bhaiya! I'm telling... I'm telling... you keep quiet! It was a mistake by me! I made a mistake! Control! Udday Bhai, we all can get killed, how can we tell RDX sir, Sir you don't worry about RDX sir! I have solved that problem! I told him that his son is shot and he's in hospital here! What was the need to tell him that! What was the need? Why did you tell him? I'll kill you bastard! He's saying me bastard, and kill you! What do you mean? Means that he's not going to last much! He can be dead anytime! Mean RDX sir couldn't get the chance to talk to his son, and we can tell him any fake story! Whatever you say Udday Bhai, but the girl is quite intelligent! Thank you! But Doctor, are you sure he'll be dead? I can guarantee! So should I call to graveyard, and ask for his reservation? Dad! Let my dad come! Udday and Majnu, don't ever your eyes tell me how is lucky? Not is... say was! No! No! This can't be happened! Sir! Sir, you too left us in this world? I'm not going anywhere! I'm alive! Come, take me to Lucky! RDX can come in any minute, everything is ready? Uncle! Uncle! Everything Okay? Yeah! Lucky finished? Completely! I'm still alive you scoundrels! I'm not dead yet! I'll kill each and everyone of you! I'm a hockey player, my leg is fake, he can run uncle! You also run! You were one legged! How you recover? Udday Bhai, made me kind of Visiting card of whole gang! Whomever he want to scare, he make me stand and say speak Ballu! Now run Ballu! Why are you running taking these woods, wherever I find him, I'll burn him right there! Lucky can kill anyone! Someone can kill lucky, he can never commit suicide! Stop lucky! Sir, will we lie to you? Sir you don't believe us!! Why Lucky committed suicide? This thing only one person know, whose Lucky himself! Lucky run away from graveyard! Run away!! Who run away? The Pandit run away, as he come to knew you name Get that bastard! You hearted what's Sir saying... Get that bastard! Get that bastard... Okay! Daddy... Daddy! Daddy! How come he's your daddy? Not mine, he's Lucky's Daddy! He's going over there! Dad! I'm here! Dad, I'm in here dad! I told him thousand times, why is he still bringing RDX to graveyard! Rajeev Bhai, now what should we do? Come let's go to graveyard! Common let's go! Who says Lucky is not here! Huh! But I can't see him! Where is he? He's standing right in front of me! No no! I don't want to be caught in this! I could have lay besides you, but RDX's son is dead, not daughter, his father will cry and fall on his chest, no no! Not me! This has to happen! He was connected to underworld! But where is Rajeev and Mami! Maybe they didn't even know yet! Ghungroo Mama! Is not anymore with us! Lucky! Lucky! Lucky talk to me! Lucky! Talk to me! Lucky please talk to me! What was missing in our love? Lucky my son! Uncle! You can't see him! Why can't I see him? Because this was Lucky's last wish! Last wish! But why he said like that? Sir I tell you, only a person can answer this question, who was lucky himself! Sir can we lie to you? Sir don't you believe us? He's here! You uncle is very great! He took all our troubles to himself! Look there! Uncle! Uncle! Control! Why is he calling my son Uncle? No he's calling you Uncle! And why is he crying this much? Because he became a (Biru)good friend of Lucky Biru? You can call it Best friends! I just make him understand! I just make him understand! Rajeev! No no! He's alive! Who's alive? Lucky is alive! Lucky is alive in our hearts! You uncle is alive! Lucky!! Where is he? He's hiding somewhere here! Who? Lucky! Uddday!! Yes sir! Why is this logs falling? Now the wood is asking for dead body! Hey Ram! Control! Side please! Mami please careful! Don't you feel ashamed? You were going to perform his funeral, without even telling me! At least today let me cry! My life got ruined! Why is she breaking her bangles? Who is she? She is the wife of dead body! Wife of dead body! But when did Lucky got married? And why didn't he tell me! Maybe this secret also gone away with Lucky! But I think Rajeev must know about this! Rajeev now you tell him, what should I tell him? What should I tell... what should I tell... that... this girl is from good background! And lucky and her both got married, and the girl's parent asked for one condition, that the boys' father, means you have to leave, job for the underworld, or else they both can't meet after the marriage too, what more good I can say? Alright that's good! Come let's go, yes Sir! Where are you taking me? Uncle Ji, out fast, when you came? I was the first one came here! You were crying, over my chest, over your chest! No one can remember, in grief, that whose crying over whose chest? He's alive! Look Ishiqa! He's alive! It's called true love! She gone mad, in Lucky's love! Who Lucky? Uncle Ji! Uncle Ji! Please lighten up the fire, Lucky! How this all occurred? Lucky what happened? Its' a long story! Dad, please save me! The all are dogs! First they shot me, than also tried to burn me, they tried to burn you son, Dad! Lucky! Welcome! Welcome my friend! Welcome! RDX Ranveer Dhanraj Xaka! Second name for terror and death! You tried to burn my son alive! Sir we didn't knew, that your son is hiding in the woods, is that a place to hide? Sir would we lie to you? Sir don't you believe in us? Don't you even take out the words, believe and faith from your mouth... this all happened due to me, and my love, I'm the one to be punished! They don't deserve that! Punish is already decided, you guys played a game with us, now we are going to play game with you, Passing the parcel, One have to sing a song on which hands the parcel is ...being held after music is off. Isn't it the same game? Yes... same... same... same... Err! RDX brother me and your Bhabhi... Oh! Sorry... Sorry... - Say Namaste to him. - Namsete. - You are an expert. - But we aren't. - A rule has been changed in it. - Have to dance along with the song. - We know the variation. - When the music goes off Whoever hold this parcel he'll be drop off in this 1000 miles deep trench. Sir, your man sir. Your man black panther. Who told you to play this game? - This monk. - No... No... Shut up. - Sorry... Sorry sir. - Rules are Rules my friend. I can't give my words. You'll have you give up your life. Err! According to your information nobody had been here. But party is on over here. Sir now what can we do? - We'll do for what we are here? - But sir there are so many people up there. Err! All of them are criminals and rewards is on everybody. Do one thing push this house in the trench. Then we'll see how much reward we'll win. - Sir. - Lucky. Are you crazy? He wasn't passing it over to save his love that's why I snatch it from his hand. But you switch off the music at the same time Dad. This isn't not fare. Ghungroo-Ji now what RDX-Saab will do? No what else he would do? He said that rules are rules? - Isn't it. - Yes... Yes... Yes... Correct Ghungroo-saith. RDX-Saab is known in all over the underworld just because of his justice. The justice has been done then done. Do you know that RDX-Saab never changed his words till today. He wouldn't change even today. But consider that changed because of the child then ...how much disgrace would be faced in the underworld? Any world brother but all the life has been passed to earn the name. But a instance is enough to lose the name. And the parcel which is in Lucky's hand, this is the same instance. Parcel... Parcel... Parcel... Sir if you want to change your decision then change ...it, we can understand he's your son. He's your blood. Bhai nobody will tell anything to anybody. Don't tell, means? No... No... Nobody tell or don't tell, such like that ...cheating is being started in the game so I'll not play. - I'm leaving. - Justice will be done. I'll do the justice. I know if I'll forgive the life of my son then I'll be disgraced very badly in underworld. But infamy would then occur, when a person will live among you people? How do you cut it? It's half collapse. - It'll collapse. - If it'll not then? - Err! Run. - Err! Run... Run... - Babloo. - Help. Help. Help me. Help. Err! That side. Go that side. Oh God! - Hemeash. - What is this? Leave my hand. Leave my hand. Leave my hand. It's collapsing towards this side. Err! Don't run here and there you people will collapse the house. Brother thank you, take care of your Bhabhi. Don't worry. Err! Come in the center. Being bitten. This side... This side... Come to my arms. - Majnoo take care of your Bhabhi. - Yes... Yes... Yes... Come here, I'll do something. I'll hit. I'll hit you. - Majnoo. - I was just breaking the bowl sir. - I'll kill you if you touch her. - Come in to the center. All of you come in to the center. In the center. Lucky I'm coming. Mamaji don't go back, come in the center. Sanjana that side, go towards that side. - I'm unable to move. - Stop. Take care of your head. Dad, he rips my head off. All stand in the center. All stand in the center. What are you doing you idiot? Are you gonna be mad? Are you mad? Oh my God. Found it, I found to kill the bees. Spray on me too. Here, here, here. Oh God. I can't see, I'm blind. What you spray on me? My eyes are burning. Wear this. Wear this then you will feel good. If you cover your eyes then how you will see him? Uday Bro. Listen to me, destroy this RDX or throw it in valley. If he gets saved then we will not. Who is speaking? I'm Bajro Bahi speaking. You are lying. Sir, your Bajro is here, here. What is happening here? No one will survive. We all are ruined - Sanjna, let's go, hurry up. - But Rajiv you. You don't worry about me. Just let's go. Go forward. Nephew. I'm your blood relative. When will be my number? Sanjna slowly. Where are you? - In matter of Ishika, we all will die. If everyone dies, okay with me but... Kill everyone. Does my number will come? After falling of the house? Get aside. Easy. Easy. Daddy. Daddy save me daddy. Somebody save my son. - Somebody save my brother please. - Someone Please save my son. Rajiv? Rajiv. Stop. Rajiv, come back. - Rajiv? - Stop him. Rajiv. Rajiv, don't do the madness. You have everything from God like, money and fame. Rajiv stop. Help me dad. Daddy. If he will get punish of my sins then I'll never forgive myself. What you mean? I shoot the bullet for him. But he took this crime on his head. So I'll not face any problem. Towards the door. No, no Sanjna no. I want to die. Sanjna. Rajiv you cheated me. - Sanjna You betrayed me. - Sanjna. I never believe you and I'll never forgive you. What Happen? Sanjna, why you hit me? Rajiv, Evil is always small in front of good. You win the heart of RDX. Ask, what you want? You also leave this world of crime. Their is nothing in it. World need love. Not hate. Decorate this whole city like bride. For what? For this that I'll arrange the marriage of Rajiv and Sanjna. Is your leg okay sir? - Do the same for us. - We lost in love. That's ok but first introduce your brides with me. What? Buy one and get one free. Hey, lover. Why you are holding the hand of your Bhabhi. I don't like this kind of jokes Uday Bahi. Leave the hand of your Bhabhi. What? I'm bullshitting. - You are holding hand of your Bhabhi. - She is my Ishika. She is my Ishika. Hey Ishika, tell him. Ishika, tell me? - You tell me. - I'm telling you. Rajiv, tell them. Actually what ever happen... wait a minute. These both sir... Sanjan run, Sanjna run from here. Why they run away? I'll come back. Uday Bahi, why they are running? Such big game. With us. I'm now a good person but I'll not forgive Rajiv. If you forgive him then I'll not forgive you. You have everything from God like, money, respect and fame. Rajiv...
