 

                        (typing and scribbling) (ambient chord) (phone ringing) - [Voiceover] 911 emergency. - [Voiceover] 74th Street and Oak, there's just an explosion off of Holly and a fire. - [Voiceover] And a fire. - [Voiceover] You bet. Big fire. - [Voiceover] Can you see it? - [Voiceover] Big fire. You bet I can see it. Some house just exploded and ignited on fire. - [Voiceover] Okay. Big fire explosion. Okay, I'm gonna go ahead and send the paramedics. If you see anything else, give me a call, okay? - [Voiceover] You bet. Bye. - [Voiceover] Thank you. Bye-bye. (phone ringing) - [Voiceover] Fire and big explosion. - [Voiceover] Hello, Judy. - [Voiceover] Hi, I got a fire and a big explosion. - [Voiceover] What's the, uh, location? - [Voiceover] There's still a general area of 7400 Oak, 74th Street and Oak. - [Voiceover] 74th and Oak. Okay. Alright, we're on the way. - [Voiceover] 911 emergency. - [Voiceover] Yes, I just heard like an explosion or something. - [Voiceover] Okay, around 74th and Oak? - [Voiceover] Yes. - [Voiceover] Okay, we do have the Fire Department-- - [Voiceover] 2240, right behind 2240 North 74th Way. - [Voiceover] Okay, what's going on there? - [Voiceover] It's a big fire. It's a really big fire. It just like blew up. - [Voiceover] Okay, what's on fire? - [Voiceover] The whole house. - [Voiceover] The whole house? - [Voiceover] The whole house is burning up. (dial tone ringing) - [Voiceover] Hello? - [Voiceover] Hi, I'm calling about the fire on 74th-- - [Voiceover] Yes! Is somebody on the way? - [Voiceover] Okay, we have the whole world on the way. I'm just calling to make sure you guys are okay. - [Voiceover] Make sure they come in on Holly. They get lost every damn time there's a fire. They've gotta come in on Holly. - [Voiceover] Okay, thank you. - [Voiceover] Is this around 74th and Oak, where there's a fire? - [Voiceover] Yes it is. There are people in there in this whole house exploding. - [Voiceover] Okay, we do have police and fire on the way. Were there people inside the house? - [Voiceover] Yes there are. They're probably dead. And the guy's house next door's gonna catch on fire, too. - [Voiceover] Okay, I'm telling the officers right now that people are inside the house. Do you know how many people, sir? - [Voiceover] I don't know how many people. (siren blaring) - I remember the day that it happened. 8:45 in the morning, April 10th, 2001 there was an explosion that was heard for miles. And then a fire followed. (dark ambient music) - If you had a TV, and you were in the habit of watching local news in the morning, it was one of those kind of things that everybody sat back and watched together. Whole community watched this live on TV that terrible overcast morning. - [Voiceover] The flames just jumped out of the home just before nine o'clock this morning. Here's what it looked like from NewsHawk Five. Soon after it started, the house burned to the ground in minutes. Firefighters say they heard explosions even after they got here. Police tell us they heard popping sounds on their way here or when they got to the scene. And there may have been explosives and ammunition inside the home. But they can't confirm that or how the fire started. - We just heard this tremendous explosion. And the cat, well, the cats went up about five feet in the air. It just shook the whole house. And I ran out the front. And I friend ran out the back. And I saw smoke coming up. - It was defensive immediately. I mean, we got on scene and, there was no, you could not have gone into the house to fight the fire because it was the whole, except for the garage area, the whole other part was just fully engulfed in flames. - The first firefighter that pulled up on the scene, he said he knew right away there were people inside. He said that smell, the smell of burning bodies, you don't quickly forget that. - Homes burn. They don't just blow up. And this thing was so fully engulfed from the get-go. As the firefighters and the emergency responders were just getting into the smoldering ash, there just seemed to be sort of a palpable sense that there was gonna be more to this story, and of course, there was. - Police found the bodies of a woman and two children in a Scottsdale home this morning after a fire. It happened in South Scottsdale near Scottsdale Road and McDowell. John Brodsky has spent the day at the scene, and John, do investigators have any idea what specifically happened here? - Cary, they really don't have too many answers this evening. They do know that there are three people. There were three people in the home. The found them dead this morning. And they're trying to find the husband, who also lived in the home. Robert and Mary Fisher are the parents. 12-year-old Brittany and 10-year-old Bobby, the kids. Robert and one of the family's vehicles are still missing. Loved ones and police still have a lot of questions after this fire. They don't know how it started. They don't know where Robert Fisher is, or if the father even had any idea what happened. They tell us that he works at Mayo Hospital. Police say he left there about five o'clock last night. (camera clicking) (dark eerie music) - What I remember most is Johnny and I walking to the backyard of the Fisher residence. (dark eerie music) And going, and the walls were blown out, so we were able to see over the walls of each bedroom and seeing the children lying in bed. (camera clicking) And Mary, of course, we didn't know it was Mary at that time. (dark eerie music) Realizing that we've got a problem here. And Johnny and I just kind of looked at each other and says, "We've got a triple here." (dark eerie music) In an incident like that, somebody's gonna make a move. If a house explodes, somebody's gonna wake up, somebody might step and maybe be a couple of feet away from the bed. But these people look like they were comfortable in bed. If it was a slow burning fire where smoke might've knocked them out, but this wasn't a slow burning fire. - We were over it in our helicopter that morning. And it wasn't just a normal fire. It was a conflagration. The whole house was going up. And of course later we find out that there were accelerants used. (camera clicks) (dark eerie music) (camera clicks) (camera clicks) - The accelerants were used down the hallway. A candle was deliberately put in the middle of the hallway to ignite the gas that had been broken off from the furnace. - [Voiceover] Flames destroyed the home quickly yesterday morning. Robert Fisher and the family's SUV were nowhere to be found. Their pastor says he was at church Monday night for a hunting safety course. - We have absolutely no reason to believe that there was any issues taking place in that family. They have been solid, pillar members of our church for years. - [Voiceover] On the ground, ATF agents carrying guns out of the home of man police say was an avid hunter. They're also looking through evidence at the fire scene. Husband and father Robert Fisher has been missing for more than a day. - I will say that we have done everything that we possibly can at this point. We have detectives still out. They've been out all night, following up leads to where they believe he might be. (dark eerie music) - We know that they were involved in a fight at around 10pm that night. At 10:42, Robert Fisher is seen taking $280 out of an ATM. Directly south of his house, less than half a mile a way, the nearest ATM. And he's never seen again. - Once again, I wanna stress that he's not a suspect at this point, but he's certainly a vital piece to this puzzle and what happened here. - In a case like that, most times your information is gonna be, we just wanna find Robert, make sure he's okay. And that's why I went the Mayo where he supposedly worked. And then of course he never showed up for work. So we realized that he's outstanding. Of course the information went out that he was outstanding. - [Voiceover] Robert Fisher, he is six-feet tall and weighs 190 pounds, and is 40 years old. Investigators believed Fisher was driving a silver 2000 Toyota 4-Runner. And what John and I were hoping on is that no information about the murders would go out. What we were hoping for is that he would come back and say, "Oh my God, I saw this on the news. "What happened to my family?" But information leaked out about the murders. Details about the murders. - Our other top story tonight within the past hour. Police announced they are now investing a fire in Scottsdale as a triple homicide. - This is a homicide. And we have not labeled a suspect at this point. Mr. Fisher is still outstanding. And as we have said from the beginning, he is a very vital part of this investigation. But we have not labeled him as a suspect nor have we requested an arrest warrant be issued for his arrest. - Somebody there working. It could've been anybody. It wasn't our unit. But we had solid guys working that case. (disturbing music) - [Voiceover] Robert Fisher has been missing since the family's home was rocked by an explosion early Tuesday morning. Police say Mary, Brittany and Bobby Fisher were all murdered. - Hope that finally we can get some answers on why this could happen to a family like that. - [Voiceover] By all accounts, family life was fine. The Fisher's pastor counseled the couple. But he said he saw no red flags. - We've talked about how to be a good parent. We've talked about how to be a good spouse, a good husband. - Pastor Gregg Contelmo now tries to help the children of his church cope. It's been hardest on them. - Me and Brock really, really miss Bobby. - [Voiceover] 11-year-old Tyler Adair spent the night at the Fisher home last weekend. - We'll be buds forever. Bobby was taking a hunter safety class. And his dad was showing off Bobby's talents to me about his hunters, and he was asking Bobby all these questions like, "What do you call the front of an arrow?" - [Voiceover] As the memorial for the family grows, so does speculation as to what happened. Friends say they don't want to think the worst, but as time goes on, it gets harder not to. - I can still remember being at the scene and I saw Mary Fisher's elderly father walking up on his two canes. Keeping his heart, his good heart open to his missing son-in-law. - There's one thing that came across very clearly, was Brittany's fantastic, strong faith. And I've known that all the time. I've just known it since she accepted Jesus as her personal Savior. She was such a testimony for her Lord. And she got that from her mommy and her daddy. Because she watched them live. And Brittany was invited and was inducted into the National Junior Honor Society here at Supai on Monday night. And her mother had another meeting at church with Bobby. And so Robert, my son-in-law, who I love deeply, was with her, nobody's ever reported that. He was here with her. And I just, can I right now just say this? Robert, we love you, wherever you are, Robert. Please, we love you. Just come home. Please, Robert. And I know what's going on. We don't know anything for sure. But we'd like to hear from you. Please, Robert. - The man missing after his family's bodies were found at a house is now being called a suspect in their deaths. - Police agencies from the around the state have been notified that Robert Fisher is a murder suspect. And they have been told that if he is found, to arrest him on sight. - 'Cause that was out of our control. Somehow some information got out to the media, and it was reported that he was a murder suspect. Earlier than we were wanting to do so. He could've came back in a couple of days. And then said, "Hey, what the hell happened here? "I was up north camping." - [Voiceover] TV Five News learned how the Fisher family died. Wife Mary was shot in the head. 13-year-old Brittany and 10-year-old Bobby had their throats slashed. Robert Fisher is still missing tonight. There are friends and relatives who think he's been kidnapped or framed. They said he was a model citizen and a faithful Christian who was a very active in his church. But Doug Dirren of the Scottsdale Police Department says all the evidence points to Robert Fisher as a suspect. None of it suggests that anyone else was involved. (camera clicks) - Everything points to one man and one man only. And that's Robert Fisher. - It was a crime committed in the dark of night, but the aftermath was so very public. - This was a father that shot his wife in the back of the head, and slit the throat of his 10-year-old son and 12-year-old daughter. It's unimaginable to most people. - I believe the kids went first and then Mary. Mary was stronger, and she would've put up a fight. So he went and got the kids first, and this way, when he goes with Mary, if there's a struggle, he's not gonna wake the kids. (dark eerie music) - [Voiceover] The presence of accelerants in the home points to a clear attempt to burn evidence. Theoretically, something like gasoline was used to make sure the house caught fire and burned quickly. Then a natural gas line was uncoupled to trigger an explosion. - And he knew exactly what he was gonna get. And he tried to eliminate as much of that crime scene as he could. (dark eerie music) - He's biding time. More time to leave the city. To get rid of evidence, yeah, of course he is. He doesn't want to see how they were murdered, unfortunately put a bullet in Mary's brain. That's not gonna go anywhere. - Now police believe Robert Fisher is on the run tonight and that he may be dangerous. When they went through the charred remains of the home, they found a number of weapons. But one they didn't find was a .357 Magnum, the gun that police said Robert Fisher carried with him at all times. So they're considering him armed and dangerous. - That bullet that they found in the back of her head, was that linked to any of the weapons in the house that was-- - No, no. Nope, none of the weapons that we found in the house were linked to that bullet. It's a specific caliber of bullet. So, more than likely took it with him. - Literally, the whole valley was watching. There was that sort of shared initial introduction to this story, that made sort of everybody involved. - There was a huge public interest in this case. Very rarely is there such an appetite for a story from the public that continues year after year after year. But this was one of them. - It's one of the great unanswered stories in Arizona history. What happened to that family? Why did he do it? Where is he? We just don't know. (dark ambient music) (lullaby music) - [Voiceover] Yeah, Bobby, new toy, huh? Oh, he's smiling. Oh, it's so fun. (lullaby music) Bobby. Bobby, where's your new toy? - [Voiceover] It's there. It's there. There, Mom. - [Voiceover] Mm. (haunting lullaby music) Look up at your dad. There. (eerie lullaby music) (dark eerie music) - [Voiceover] This is by far the worst crime that's every occurred in Scottsdale. (dark electronic music) - Scottsdale is the Beverly Hills of Phoenix. A very calm community, quiet community, called many times one of the safest and most desirable cities to live in. (pulsating ambient music) Crimes like this you don't see happen here at all. (pulsating ambient music) This was an incident that absolutely shocked the community, shocked Scottsdale. (dark ambient music) - Mary was our friend and coworker. Her children were our children's friends. We consider ourselves to have been double blessed, to have called her friend and had the benefit of her contributions at work. - Mary was a good friend of mine before Robert and Mary got married when they were dating. (dark ambient music) Robert was in California, and Mary was still in Arizona, so I spent a lot of time with her. And I was pregnant with our first child at that point so she'd take me to doctor's appointments and things like that, and she was a fun person. When she had kids she was very much involved with her children. She loved her kids, and that became her number one priority in life. - From the interviews and things that I did, Mary was a very dedicated wife. - A very loving person. Very dedicated to the church. And wanted her children to have that same upbringing. (eerie ambient music) Happy birthday dear Brittany Happy birthday to you - Brittany, she was an awesome little girl. (dark ambient music) She really loved the Lord, and she wasn't afraid to tell people about her relationship with Christ. - Back to that bat today. I'm going to SeaWorld tomorrow, I'm going. (dark ambient music) - My youngest son, Brock, and Bobby were good buddies. And Brock invited Bobby to come home with us one Sunday afternoon a couple of weeks ago. And they played in the afternoon, and it came time to get them back to church for bell choir. And I said, well, boys, we're in luck, we've got the convertible. And Bobby was just so excited, and he said, "We've got to ride with the top down." And I said, are you guys sure? As we're getting on the freeway, I said, are you sure, it's gonna be really windy. "Go, go, go, it's okay." And I'm not kidding, the whole way down the 101 until we exited on Thomas those two had their hands up in the air, they were waving at people, and they laughed the whole way. - The last time we saw Bobby, before they had visited us in Cheyenne, when we were living in Cheyenne, and he tried to, him and his dad tried to take one of our cats and steal it to take it home with them. - Hey! (baby yelping) - [Robert's Sister] He was a cute little kid. (kids chattering) - [Voiceover] Can't do it without the tractor, Britt. There you go. Little wheelbarrow. - [Voiceover] There's no wheelbarrow. (baby chatters) Oh He holds the future And life is worth livin' Lives, and then one day - You've heard a lot of things. And you wanna say, "Well, how's that Scottsdale Baptist Church gonna get along without them? But you see, God has a plan. He has a timing for our lives. And you've heard today that this was not something that was yanked from Mary and Brittany and Bobby. God has a plan. We don't know what it is. But I know some day we're going to know. (dark ambient music) You wanna know about my Robert? He was the greatest dad. He was the greatest husband. I miss him. I miss him terribly. I miss him almost as much as I miss my daughter, because they were one. Robert was what I call the good old-fashioned Dad. There was structure. He never beat his kid, he never touched his kids in that way. And I can only tell you that Robert loved his kids, he loved his Mary and he loved us. And I'm glad I'm not her bawling my eyes out for ya. - He was kind of hoodwinked with who Robert was, he's marrying his daughter and grandchildren thinking, you know, he's the perfect family man. (dark ambient music) - You have to listen to your mommy, number one, okay? - Okay. - Whatever she says. Number two, gotta brush your teeth, okay? - Okay. - Okay? Number three, you gotta take your vitamins, okay? Okay, what else. Number four, you gotta say your prayers, okay? (Brittany mumbles) Okay. - He couldn't believe what occurred. (dark ambient music) But as time went on, he realized that Robert did do this. (eerie ambient music) - A total, total shock to the family that this could even possibly happen to them. He wanted answers as well. And unfortunately he passed away before we could get 'em for him. (eerie ambient music) - At first glance, Robert Fisher was a good husband, an adoring father, a church-going man, a wonderful employee, but when you look a little bit further, you see that none of that is true. - My impression of the Fisher marriage was something that was good in public and probably average or bad in private. (pulsating ambient music) I think that when they went out, they went out, they put a good face on. Everyone until the end said that they had a happy marriage. That everything seemed to be going right. (pulsating ambient music) - He moved back in the mid to late '80s next door to my parents' house. He definitely was a different sort of man. (pulsating eerie music) He was a nurse, he worked for the Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale. He was obviously a smart man, and he knew what he was doing. But he wasn't a quick man. Talking to him was like talking to a person who was analyzing every word that you said, and thinking long and hard about it. He was the type of guy you could see his gears working. - He was a fireman in California for a while. He was in the Navy. He was a cardiac technician, a respiratory technician. That was his, kind of where he began developing his career after. He couldn't be a fireman anymore from his injuries. (camera clicks) - He needed back surgery, because he had injured himself while working as a firefighter in San Diego. And he took years to plan for that back surgery. He was worried that after the back surgery he might to be able to work. And so he got his financial affairs in order, he paid off one of their cars, he planned on paying off their house. (camera clicks) - He was a very controlling person. He was a very difficult person to get along with. To the point where his wife was having difficulty getting along with him. Anything that was put on the walls in the house had to have his okay. She couldn't decorate the house. It was okay to put a deer head up on the wall that he shot, but not kid's artwork or whatever. - What you taking pictures of? Turn that thing off. You. - [Voiceover] This is to show our boy's two months old. - So what? Leave him alone. - [Voiceover] It's also his first Thanksgiving. - "Big deal," he says. - [Voiceover] Robert. - Let's get on with the food. - [Voiceover] Will it work with the window open? Hey, Bobby. - Oh! - [Voiceover] That hurt him? - Say hi. Hi, people. Hi, people. (mumbling) Brittany's looking sharp today. - [Voiceover] I see. - Show 'em your dress. Turn around. Turn around again. Smile. Smile pretty. Okay, now scream. (fake screams) (laughs) - Aah! Stop! - See, I know you could scream. - [Voiceover] There's Porcupine Dad. (baby yelps) - Okay, kill the camera. - [Voiceover] Okay, just a minute. Can you say bye, Brittany? - Bye! - [Voiceover] Now to find the button. Don't, there's some medicine on it. (ominous music) - One of the the things that I was tasked with during the investigation is to go out and interview anybody who had every known or had contact with Robert Fisher. One of the troubling things that I realized right away from some of the initial interviews we did is he truly enjoyed hunting but not as a sportsman. He took it to the next level to where he seemed to enjoy killing. - Friends started disassociating themselves with him. They wouldn't go hunting with him anymore because it got unsafe. - There were a couple of stories that were really interesting. They went hunting. And they got an elk, and they were gutting it. And the guy turns around and looks, and Robert's smearing the blood all over him. - [Bobby] (mumbles) Yay! (Brittany chanting) - [Robert] Better dead than red. Better dead than red. (Bobby yelling) Let's go get the commies. (Brittany chattering) - Okay, at ease. At ease, recruits. Cut. Cut! (explosion booms) - He seems like an angry guy who is sort of controls with tough guy antics, even towards his children, towards, I guess it's his wife running that camera. And he'd tell 'em to cut, then points something at her like it's a gun. It's again, easy to armchair quarterback something like that and look at him, imply sinister motives. But there seems to be sort of a sinister underpinning to that clip of video. No doubt about it. (dark ambient music) - On the Monday night Robert took his daughter to her Junior National Honor Society induction ceremony at the school. Then Mary that night took Bobby to his hunting class. They came home that night, and the neighbors overheard an argument. - There was a loud argument. Then I believe that after his wife and the children went to bed, that he stayed up and he made a decision that he'd had enough. - They're asleep, and he literally slices their throats to where they're almost beheaded. (dark thumping music) He cut her throat and then put a bullet in her head. I believe that's the fuck you shot, you're not going anywhere. - [Charlie] By him blowing up the house, do you think he felt that you guys would discover nothing? - Hey, he could've believed that. Absolutely. He could've believed that everything would've been disintegrated. (dark ambient music) We got a photograph of Robert Fisher at a bank actually down, just a mile down the street extracting money. (dark ambient music) - [Charlie] We don't know if that was before he did it or after, correct? - Well, no, we don't. But we have information on timelines of arguments that were heard by neighbors. So we're figuring he's extracting money. And he's probably taking off because her vehicle's in the background. And her vehicle's not at the house when we're there that morning. So he's probably, (fingers snap), he's gone. (dark ambient music) - He took his dog, which his sister told police he loved more than his family, went to an ATM and got few hundred dollars. - A curious amount to withdraw, um-- - [Charlie] Beause he had more in there, right? - Yeah. - He had lots of assets. IRAs, he had money market accounts, he had Bobby and Brittany's savings. But you gotta remember back then, it gave you a max of, and some accounts are still that way with, you can only take out x amount of dollars in a 24-hour period. He took out the max amount of money, and then that was it. He never came back and tried to liquidate any more of his assets. - I think he was planning it. I always thought he had planned it. Did he plan it for that night? Who knows? - There's very little evidence of premeditation. There's no evidence that he was stockpiling funds prior to this. There's no evidence of a secret account. He had changed the oil in his own vehicle the day of the homicide. And then fled in his wife's. That, to me, is a puzzle. - He had actually a good 10-hour jump on us. There's information that he was driving back and forth on the Mogollon Rim, which is north of Payson, Northeast Arizona area. This woman calls me and says her and her husband are up there on the Young Road. It's a forest road. They're driving south and the woman is the passenger. And they see a gentleman walking out. And she looks right at him as he walks by their car. Right away, they believe that looks like Robert Fisher. Unfortunately they called us after the fact. Which happens a lot. People always get this in their mind, "Well, no, that can't be him. "No, that can't be him." I've spoken to a tow truck driver that probably pulled him out of a ditch. - We don't know who that guys was who helped pull him out. So that's one of the things that we're trying to track down, too, is who that guy was that helped pull him out. For all we know, he could've helped, gave him a ride. If you leave Phoenix and you wanna go to Payson, there's only one way to go. So you're driving up Highway 87. You hit Rye, which is a small little tiny town before you get to Payson. - There was a bartender at the Rye diner. She said a couple came into the bar. A gentleman walked in. A woman that came in with him immediately went to the restroom. He came up and ordered a drink. Once he orders this drink, he steps away from the bar and stands by, what's a, there's a fireplace across from the bar. She says this man stood and kept his face hidden from everybody in the bar. The woman came out of the restroom, and it seemed like they were kind of arguing. What was real interesting is, I believe it was the next night, we get a call from somebody that lives in Rye. Their doorbell is ringing. It's a female that says her boyfriend just, they had an argument, and he just dumped her. And she needed to call for a cab. So they let her in. Her description kinda matched the Rye diner woman. And see, and that's where all this information came out with Fisher having an affair. - At one point in their relationship, we heard that he had an affair. He confided in his church. They told him that he needed to confide in his wife. They separated for a while. They reconciled. - About a year prior to the murders, he had gone to a masseuse and allegedly contracted a urinary tract disease from the masseuse. As their relationship started going on, she found out that he might be having another affair. Now how that affair she found out, I'm not exactly sure. But it almost appeared to us like he was kinda throwing it in her face. - There's information that he had told Mary, "I had an affair." - One of the things that investigators originally believed was that there was a girlfriend and that this woman was someone who helped him get away. They were never able to confirm that. Nobody in the workplace was ever able to confirm that there was some sort of a workplace romance going on. - No one has any idea who this person might be. And then we go back to, when we analyze who Robert Fisher was. Cocky, arrogant, conceited, liked to talk about himself. It's a very good likelihood that maybe he just concocted it. - I know that my brother was unfaithful one time in their marriage. He had a back injury, and he went to have a massage and he fell into temptation. Mary was gone at the time. She came back, and my brother confessed it to her. And that's when they started going through counseling. The rumors that he was unfaithful in other ways, they're just rumors as far as I'm concerned. Their marriage suffered greatly after that. And I don't know if Mary ever forgave my brother after that. - As the years went by, him and his wife fought. And they fought a lot. Now, to his credit, he never really ever raised his voice or screamed at his wife. It was always his wife doing the screaming and yelling. Calling him worthless, saying she could've done better. Now this happened almost on a daily basis for over a decade. When him and his wife would have an epic or just a gigantic blowout, he'd disappear for a week or two or take a long weekend off work and just go camping. And he'd go out there alone a lot of times. He'd just take his dog. - [Voiceover] Hello. - [Robert] See you, Mom. Be back Sunday morning. - [Voiceover] Okay. - [Robert] Here you go. - [Brittany] Love you, Mom. - [Voiceover] Love you, Mom. I love you, Britt. Hold my hand. We'll take a picture of Daddy drive away? - [Brittany] Yeah. - [Voiceover] Okay. - The truck's gonna be at Horse Pasture. I'm gonna be fishing at the Salt River arm of the lake. - [Brittany] Oh. - [Voiceover] Oh. - [Brittany] Okay. - [Voiceover] Okay. - [Brittany] Bye, Dad. - [Voiceover] Bye-bye. - [Brittany] Love Daddy (mumbles). Bye! - Mary was a very good-hearted person. But Mary wouldn't also put up with a lot either. We got information that she was outspoken. - Mary Fisher was complaining to Robert's mother by phone that he was sort of this tough love husband, and it was hard to please him, and everything had to be his way. His mother told her that it was the same way when she was married to Robert's father. And it's just something that you gotta deal with, and you gotta be firm with him. (dark ambient music) - I think Mary finally said, "Hey, enough! We're done!" And I don't think he could deal with it. - His general attitude changed a lot over the years. I mean he was a very proud, sort of arrogant, very confident person. Years later in their relationship, when you'd see him on the street or talk to him next door, he was tired. I mean, there was definitely something different about him, like he had a heavy weight on his shoulder. (eerie ambient music) - When my parents divorced, I was in sixth grade, my brother was in high school, and my older sister was out of the house in college. And yes, it affected all of us. - With open hearts He just delights in, you should bring your little children to Him, and that you, his parents, should come to Him as little children. We bring them in order that He might bless them. I think the primary way is through mom and dad, and through that, God plans to bless your children. Thus, to dedicate your children, it seems proper that you should choose then, first of all, to dedicate yourselves as well. "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." (eerie ambient music) - When his parents divorced when he was young, he went and grew up with his father. His father remarried a woman who was very hard on him. (eerie ambient music) So in his eyes, he would never do that to his kids. And maybe it was, rather than get divorced and have his kids raised by somebody else, if his wife remarried, he wanted to start all over. - [Voiceover] Let's get a shot of Dad in that suit. - [Robert] Okay, Bobby. (whistling) I put a suit on today for you, boy. - [Voiceover] Look at Dad. - [Robert] The next time I'll put a suit is at your high school graduation. Do you hear me all you people out there? - Divorce affects everybody in all situations. Whether or not you can blame a murder on a parent's divorce, I don't think that's fair. It did affect my brother differently than it affected me. He always took marriage very seriously. If I was dating the wrong type of person, he would let me know it, and say, "Why are you dating that person if "it's not a person you didn't intend on marrying?" The divorce hurt me because my parents were no longer together. And I did think twice about getting married because of it. (camera clicks) But I would've never thought that divorce isn't an option like my brother thought. - [Robert] What'd Bobby do today, Brittany? - Big church. - [Robert] Why was he in big church? (Brittany mumbles) - Dedication. (Britanny mumbles) - [Robert] Dedication, good. That's for that squirt right there. That little booger right there. (eerie ambient music) (rhythmic sinister music) - There was a guy that was camping up in the Northern Arizona, near Young, Arizona. He had said that he observed a car door open that matched Fisher's vehicle. He went up to a gas station up in Heber, Arizona, called somebody that he knows down in Mesa, who relayed that to the Police Department. Our investigators then utilized DPS and a Ranger helicopter did a fly over. (rhythmic sinister music) - [Voiceover] We believe it was sitting there for two or three days. It could've been sitting there for five. (rhythmic sinister music) - [Charlie] Do you think Robert Fisher was trying to frame his wife by taking her car after the murders? - No. Him taking Mary's car, it's a way of we can't identify the bodies, so is it Mary in there or is it Robert, you know? So that now that takes a couple of more hours to confirm who's that other person in the fire. Also, it might've been easier to get around in her vehicle than his vehicle. - Robert Fisher had a large diesel truck. If you're going camping and probably trying to get away from everyone in a remote part of Northern Arizona, it's probably a better idea to take the 4-Runner, even if her 4-Runner was two-wheel drive. - So now we have fugitive, committed a crime, and where's he gonna go? He's gonna go to the areas he knows the best. He knew he hunted that area, he knew it like the back of his hand. (rhythmic sinister music) - When they spotted his car ten days later in Young, Arizona, hopped in the car and went up there. There was no motels because everybody was up there. It was almost like a giant campout. (rhythmic sinister music) - You've got fairly thick vegetation. A lot of caves. And if the person knows what they're doing, it's just fairly easy to hide. So it's not gonna be easy. - You had just hundreds of detectives and law enforcement from all over the state. And essentially for three days, they staked out that area. And they combed over it. (rhythmic sinister music) - [Voiceover] We do have a search warrant for that vehicle. There's no problem with-- - [Voiceover] You know that they've got a homicide suspect here. - [Voiceover] Yeah, I heard about it. - Okay, yeah. Probably shouldn't wanna, you don't wanna pick up any hitchhikers or, where you been's cutting wood? - [Voiceover] Yeah. - [Voiceover] Okay. Alright, do you have an ID? Where you headed through to here? - I'm going back down to Payson. - [Voiceover] Okay, alright. Thank you. - Where his car was found, there were three caves within just a short distance. And they thought that he was in one of the caves. It was actually called Cave 41. And so they brought in spelunkers, they brought in cadaver dogs, and they brought in cameras to try and search this cave. And they had SWAT team members crawling in. They knew Robert Fisher was military. He was trained, he had numerous weapons. So it was a slow, painstaking search. So you the operator of this? - [Voiceover] Yes, ma'am. - [Tammy] Can you explain to me just real briefly how it works, sir? - It's got a computer monitor in here. And this is the camera here. It'll light up, and it'll give us a picture on the inside. - [Tammy] Is it like a black and white picture? - Yes, ma'am. - [Tammy] And you can see it through anything? Through water? - Water, anything. It's kinda hard to see through water, but it does a real nice job. - This camera's designed to go into sewers and take pictures. They sent that into the cave where we thought Robert Fisher may be. And it determined that there was nobody in there. We, of course, confirmed that by physically going into the cave. - He could've easily been in another cave nearby that was not searched. I hiked around and personally saw at least six different caves within a short walk from this existing cave. Aside from that, they told me there were at least 30 caves within a quarter mile of the cave the police searched. In the caves I think it's definitely possible that he could have, if he wanted to commit suicide, could have done that successfully without anyone really knowing about it. You don't have to go very far in that cave before you realize that any kind of sound, such as a gunshot, if he were to kill himself down there, you're not gonna hear that above ground. - The conditions were horrible. It was raining, it was snowing. That was eventually why they had to call off the search. (eerie ambient music) - He's not there. None of his guns are up there. No knife that he used to kill his kids. The car, when we found it, was clean as a whistle. - We didn't find anything in the car. (camera clicking) Our crime scene specialist went through that car. (camera clicking) The only thing that we could find was DNA on a hat and one fingerprint off of a coffee cup. That was Robert Fisher's fingerprint. Not that that links him to a murder, but it puts him in that car. - There was human feces near the door of the 4-Runner. Maybe a final sort of, take that, sort of a statement to his previous life. That he went to the bathroom right by her car. (eerie ambient music) - TJ talks about this witness, this lady that saw a guy that looked like Robert Fisher walking up the road with a backpack. I don't necessarily think that that occurred. Because I believe the dog would've followed. - Why didn't he take the dog with him? He left the dog by the car. That dog was not tied up to the car. But the dog made a bed underneath the car. - If a dog is trained and you tell him to stay, he will stay. But dogs also tend to run if you take 'em out in the forest or out in an open area. They tend to explore. And that dog may very well have been out chasing a squirrel or something when he decided to leave. Because I believe that if he was going to walk away, he could've easily just tied the dog up. And so it wouldn't follow him. But the dog was loose. The other issue with the dog is, why would he bring the dog in the first place? There's been thought that perhaps the dog could be useful to him to alert him in case anyone was approaching. However, when you think that, I think the dog would be more of a detriment in that regard. The dog could bark at any number of things. And the dog could just as easily cause his detection as help him avoid detection. I think he brought the dog, because I loved the dog more than his family. - I think he led us right where he wanted to lead us. To a dead end near Payson with his dog there and his Raiders cap in the truck, to make us think he went out in the wilderness and shot himself, but we never found the body. - Very likely he committed suicide. He hung around probably expecting the police to show up at any moment. They didn't, and he finally was ready to go. - We tend to always find the body. - [Charlie] Maybe animals got to him or maybe the wolves? - Even then you'll find a skull. Something will remain. You usually find it. My feeling is, second vehicle, or a way to get out of there. Or to hike somewhere to hit a road and hitchhike out. (eerie ambient music) (dark ambient music) - Whee! - [Robert] Hey, young boy. - Hey, young Bobby. Whee! Whee! - [Mary] Oh my God. Santa brought you a good surprise, huh, Britt? - Yeah. - Brittany, one more thing that goes over here, hooks onto here, it's a carriage where four people, you and three of your friends can sit on and swing, but it's not put together yet. - After everything's been said in the media for the last 10 plus years, and how the media has told the story, it's completely understandable how people react and how my brother's name is known to be a monster now. But the marriage I saw was just like any other marriage. Good times, bad times. All of us have negative things in our lives. And all those negative things can be exaggerated into untruths and made into truth by people repeating 'em so many times. Like my brother being an avid hunter. They have pictures of him out there with stuff on his face and in his camos. And a lot of hunters do that when they're hunting, and they've made that picture into Robert being warped. - Santa woke me up last night and he goes, "Hey! "Hey, Bob, come on out here and help me put the slide on." So I had to come out here. He says that it's his reindeer are parked in the backyard. And I had to stinkin' put the slide on with him. He was running behind 'cause he had other kids (mumbles). - Huh? Huh? - [Mary] Say more push. - I'm hoping there's another story out there that the FBI just hasn't concentrated on yet, and that there might be another answer to this. He was presumed guilty from three days after this tragedy. No other situations had been looked at since then. I'm hoping that it's not Robert. - [Charlie] What are the chances that Fisher didn't do this? (dark eerie music) My mind as an investigator, my first response to that is, why is he hiding then? Why did he take off? Why did he take all of his clothing? When he took most of his stuff from the house and took off and ran. - The only way I can explain Robert and Mary's marriage is based on what I knew and what I saw. Not by rumors, not by what the media has said. I know that my brother was a very controlling person. He was controlling in everything he did because he was compassionate about things that he believed in. He was very compassionate with all parts of his life. (eerie ambient music) (Robert mumbling) (ambient music) - [Charlie] Do you think he's alive? - I don't know if he's alive or not, but if he is, I hope he calls me 'cause I'd like to meet him at a bar some night. And I've said this before, I'll buy the beer. - The Scottsdale Police and the FBI have been operating under the theory all these years, that what Robert Fisher did was he abandoned Mary's sport utility vehicle there in the Tonto National Forest and then got out, either by his own means or through the means of a friend who has yet to be discovered. I don't agree that that is what happened. To disappear one's self, to take on a false identity, either in this country or in a foreign nation, takes money, it takes planning. - He's not gonna take $280 out to go off to an area in the woods and kill himself. Logical explanation is, is somebody gave him a ride, or he had some sort of transportation out of the area. - You need to know how to get a false Social Security number, you need a method of disguising one's self. There's just a lot of bases to cover. I don't think Robert Fisher was able to cover those bases. His attempts to cover up the homicide were quickly discovered. I'm convinced that he was following the news very closely, he was going into Payson, reading newspaper headlines, listening to the radio. I think he perceived that his end was near. (pulsating dark music) My feeling is that he disappeared into Canyon Creek or the Hellsgate Wilderness area to a peaceful spot and there took his own life. (dark ambient music) - He's not the kind of guy to go out there and kill himself. He's cocky, he's arrogant, he's all about himself. He took off with a determination of getting away and starting off a new life. (dark ambient music) - There weren't any clothes of his found in the burned-out house. So, for someone to take all their clothes out suggests there's not a suicide mission afoot. (dark ambient music) - Is there a chance then and now that he is out there in the forest near Payson dead or alive, and investigators didn't find him, since it's impossible to comb such a large area? - Well, it's definitely possible that he's still living in that area. I mean, he, the investigation showed that he claimed to wanna be, live on his own and be a survivalist and live off the land. - A great majority of the interviews that we did with people who are close to him, they described him as a excellent outdoorsman. What they were referring to is someone who could survive on very little resources. They can live off the land, and he would challenge himself to do that. He always would strive to see how far he can push it. (pulsating ambient music) - There's been a lot made of him being able to survive. He was an avid hunter, fisherman. That he could survive out in the wilderness. My sense is that that would wear thin. It's one thing to go out on a weekend or a week at a time. It's been 10 years. - There are people that live up there that know that countryside. I truly believe by now, somebody would've came forward and said, "Look, I got a house here in the country. "Once a month I'm getting food stolen." - He was not a terribly accomplished outdoorsman. This is some of the mythology of Robert Fisher that I think got blown out of proportion. - He's a talker. And-- (camera clicks) He's probably telling people what a great outdoorsman he was. But at the same time, he wasn't like an expert outdoorsman where he can survive and live off the fat of the land. I seriously doubt that. - Another piece of mythology around this case is that the woods in the Tonto National Forest were thoroughly searched for any sign of Robert Fisher. And the fact is that they weren't. This was the Scottsdale SWAT team. And these guys are trained for urban situations, for barricaded suspects inside homes. They're not trained to do wilderness searches. And so only, approximately a square mile around Robert Fisher's wife's truck was actually searched. A human body in the wilderness is quickly taken apart by animals. There are plenty of coyotes up there. I think that the only trace of Robert Fisher that we may ever see would be the rusting remains of his handgun, sadly. - Since 2001 there's probably close to at least 10,000 leads that have come in. (dark eerie music) - [Charlie] Out of those 10,000 leads, how many would you consider to be strong leads? - 10 to 20. (dark eerie music) - [Charlie] And how many leads do you get today? - Four to five a day sometimes, of people calling in. (dark eerie music) This case has generated a life of its own. He has a very average look. He doesn't stand out in a crowd. He blends in very well. And that's what's made this case so challenging. We put the information out, and we appreciate all the calls we get. People know about this guy. And we know they do, 'cause they're calling us every time they see him. But a lot of these people that are getting called in on are very good look-alikes. - Fisher is, you know, his look is average. In all honesty. But there is another aspect of him, that he has very sharp features on his nose, his brows. He has a unique walk. (dark ambient music) - He had back surgery on his lower back, and he has a bad back, and it's very sore. And he walks with a very erect posture, chest sticking out, kinda like how you walk if you had a sore back. He's got a gold tooth in his upper left bicuspid tooth. Now he may still have that gold tooth or he may not. (eerie ambient music) Tourists were in Guatemala at a market, and they were taking photos of the market and captured an individual in the background. Well, the individual didn't like the idea that he was in the background in some of the pictures and approached the tourists. - Take. "You taking my photograph? "Give me your camera." (eerie ambient music) I think he made some remark about committing crime. - [Charlie] Yeah, "I've killed before and I'll kill again." - Exactly. So, to me, it's interesting. - It looks similar to him. And we went out and attempted to identify who that individual was. There are times when we are able to find the person people call in on. And other times there's just not enough information, and that's what happened in Guatemala. So that's kinda still sittin' out there. So we're kinda watching that area. We have a number of sightings that in the United States as well. In Grand Isle, Louisiana, before the hurricane hit down there, we were getting sightings of him down there. We've had a number of people call that didn't know each other called in on. When we were out looking for the person, but we have not been able to find who that guy was. (dark ambient music) The caller basically called the tip line a week after it was aired and said, "Hey, this is Robert Fisher. "I'm glad I killed the bitch, you'll never find me," and hung up. Investigation there was negative. They tried and they printed the phone, interviewed witnesses, and we weren't able to determine if that was actually him or not. - [Charlie] Do you think Robert made that call? - I don't. Why would he give us an edge and lead us to where he might possibly be where the phone call came from? So I can't see him doing that. (dark eerie music) - We worked a lot of stories together. I had a lot of respect for him as a detective. He really became tied into his cases. It was very emotional for him. I know he would take it home. Just like sometimes we take it home as journalists. - What really plagued him was the fact that we couldn't find him. And he thought about it day and night where could Robert Fisher be, where could he have gone? Often I would get a call from him at 11 o'clock at night with an idea, and my phone would ring, "Hey, I just thought of this. "We gotta talk about this tomorrow." It couldn't wait 'til tomorrow, we needed to talk about it right now, and then we'd spend the next two hours on the phone. - He could not wait 'til the day we found him. And he could sit down and look at him across the table and interview him and try and determine just what happened. - All he wanted to do was sit in a room and look at Robert Fisher. And ask him one question, why? - He never said if, he said when. And he really thought Fisher would talk to him. Because John was convinced as well, more that he was so narcissistic that he would like to tell his story. (eerie ambient music) (camera clicks) - He had evidence that led him to believe Robert Fisher was living south of the border. To me, that seems the most plausible thing. One of the things that struck me about Fisher after kinda studying his life and his lifestyle, he didn't strike me as a particularly technologically savvy guy. He left the birth certificate behind. He hated debt, he always paid cash. And so if you think about, what are one of the places you could go where you could pay cash for everything, pretty much disappear? The rules don't really apply or they're not well-enforced. And I think he's in a touristy area of Mexico. That's my personal opinion. (camera clicks) - They've had him down in Mexico, other Latin American countries, Brazil, (camera clicks) at one point there was a doctor who used to work with Robert who thought he saw him in Brazil and just caught a glimpse of the guy as he was sitting in his car in the car next to him and that car took off, and thought he had seen him. But that's again, it's a common look. And we didn't even enough to go on that lead. That occurs almost daily on this case. (dark eerie music) - He had been missing, the case had gone a little cold, and somebody had reported him up in Canada up in a little area called White Rock. - It was someone who looked like Fisher. Someone saw the wanted poster. They called it in to the Canadian authorities. - And I remember when they thought that they had found Fisher in Canada. John Kirkham called me, it was late at night, and he said, "Tammy, this is it. "We think we got him, we think we got him." - We started out going though the roller-coaster again of what we would do if it is Robert, how we would help him through the jail situation. The same thought processes go through your head every time there's something else on the news about it. - Well, I was living in Seattle, not too far and I said, well, I'm not doing anything, I could go up. See if it's really him, I'm kinda curious how this works out. So I went up to Canada. They basically pretended to book me in the jail, so that they could get me and Bob into the same room. So that I could look at him face-to-face, and hear him talk, see him walk and hopefully identify this guy. And so what they did was, by pretending to book me, there was a hallway, he came walking out of that hall. When he came out, he walked down the hall, he's standing with his lawyer. And he's standing with his girlfriend. He looked up, and he scanned the room like anybody does when they walk into a strange place. Well, when he looked at me and I heard his voice, I knew it was him. And he stopped. And he did that little look around the room, and he scanned, and he came back to me, and he just sort of got this instant look on his face like, "What the hell are you doing here?" And I was looking at him going, oh my God. And inside just, that's him, that's my old neighbor. I see this guy recognized me. I know he recognized me. He stared at me for a good 30 seconds before his lawyer had to interrupt him and get his attention off of me. They took me out after I gave him the signal and said, well, what do you think, what do you think? I'm like, that's him, that's him! Don't let him go. I got in my car, I went back home. I called my parents, and I said, yup, they got him. (eerie ambient music) - He had a similar scar in his back that Fisher has. He had a missing left bicuspid tooth that Fisher had a gold tooth there, but maybe it was gone. - He has the same tooth gap. He has the same exact build. He has the same body language. He had the same mannerisms. He had the exact same voice. That was Bob Fisher. - So we knew there were a lot of different traits. His nose, his facial features were very similar to Robert. But his fingerprints didn't match. - Well, we found out a few days later they had let him go. Saw it in the news like the next day or the day after. - I saw his picture. And that was not Robert Fisher. He did have the same scar in the lower back, which is a common surgery. - I didn't believe that it was my brother from the get-go because, what would he be doing in Canada? My brother doesn't like to travel. I couldn't come up with a reason why or how he got to Canada. - He did his research. He was a nurse. I think he knew how to get away with changing his fingerprints. (dark eerie music) - To this day, Wade swears that those fingerprints were altered. Do you buy that? - I don't know. That's a pretty out-there theory. And not being there, not having looked him in the face, I don't know if I buy that. But you know, it's one person's theory, and there is a lot of theories on this case. - [Charlie] Can fingerprints be altered? - Sure. Fingerprints can be altered. We've heard of that happening. Is it easy, no. But has it happened, yeah. (dark eerie music) - Fingerprints don't lie. I mean, people cannot alter their fingerprints. And if they do try to alter them, they leave behind traces and evidence that show that they have altered them. I think that's so CIA-ish and think that, I just, that's so far-fetched in my mind that it doesn't occur. - This individual was fingerprinted, was identified in Canada as having a criminal history. They knew who he was. And he was absolutely was not Robert Fisher. - They brought his mother in, and his mother identified him, saying, "This is my son." It was not Robert Fisher. (dark ambient music) - He may try and change his appearance. But the characteristics and the things that he likes to do will not change. He likes to chew tobacco. He likes to fish, he likes to hunt. And he's a control freak. If he's involved in a relationship with somebody, someone may have a friend. Their friend's got a new boyfriend or a husband that they never met, he doesn't like to come out. He's very recluse. But he's a total control freak. Those are the things we wanna look at now. Because the photos we have out there now, that's what he looked like then. It's 10 years later, he's gonna look older. He may not be as physically fit. (dark ambient music) That's why we wanna look at the characteristics of what he's doing. I stress to people, if you see someone and you really think it's him, call your local police department right away. - Whether it's him or not, we need to get called. 'Cause the more leads we get, the better chance we have of catching him. - [Charlie] The public's gonna solve this case, correct? - Yeah. Yes. - There's gonna be some woman sitting with him, and she's gonna see this film. She's gonna see America's Most Wanted. She's probably looked at it and thought, "Boy, he looks like Harry. "Nah, it can't be Harry, he's too good to my kids." Well, he was good to his original kids. - Robert Fisher was a good-looking man, he was educated, he had a military background. So has he taken up with somebody else in a new relationship? Sure, it's possible. I think Robert Fisher is living somewhere in the country. He's living in a small community laying low, trying not to slip up. But I think eventually he will slip up. Everybody makes a mistake. - All these guys are the same. Wherever these guys commit crimes, they take off, but they get to an environment that doesn't work for them. And most guys that get caught, get caught in the same type of environment. - This person needs to answer for his crimes. He can't be living a life and enjoying life when his daughter and his son and his wife aren't anymore. - Mama. - [Mary] Just walking home from the bus stop. (eerie music) - [Voiceover] If Robert ever contacted his family, would you, your sister and/or your mom immediately contact the police? - Yeah, I've thought about that a lot. And in our different places we've lived since the tragedy, I have always made sure that Bob called while the FBI guy, his number is on my cell phone everywhere I go, and on my home phone number so I can just hit a button. - What's that? What's that, Mom? (eerie music) What's that, Mama? - [Mary] What is what, Bobby? - No, you're bad, let go of me. - [Mary] Do you like going picking up sister at the bus stop? Huh? - I've thought about how I'd greet my brother if he showed up at our door. I've looked for him on the streets no matter where we've lived. I know I would greet him and hug him. And I'd probably bawl him out. But then I would do the right thing and contact the police as soon as I could. And I know my mom and my sister would absolutely do the same thing. - [Mary] Where are you going? - Cubbies! - Cubbies. - Bobby's going in Cubbies and me join in Sparks. - [Mary] You're going to Sparks? And where are you going, Bobby? - Cubbies. - [Mary] You're gonna be a Cubbie? - Mm-hmm. - [Mary] No way. - Yes. - [Mary] Yes? How about your Cubbies motto? - Jesus likes me. - [Mary] Jesus likes me, good. Do you know what your motto is? - A friends of Christ? - [Mary] Close, my friend for Christ. - My friend for Christ. - [Mary] Good job. (harmonica music) (dog howls) (harmonica music) (dog howls) (kids laughing) (harmonica music) (dog howling) (harmonica music) - As a child, you expect your father to protect you from the boogieman. You don't expect your father to be the boogieman. And that's what real sick about this. (eerie ambient music) Who knows what he's doing? Who knows if he's out there making money, or he's out there having a beer. He doesn't deserve that. - I didn't have family then when it happened. But I do now. And the crime becomes even more despicable and unthinkable now that I've got kids of my own. To think that somebody could do that to their family. - Parts of me, because I love my brother, hopes he's alive. But then other parts, if he's alive, that means he did this crime. So I hope he has passed away. (eerie ambient music) Because I love my brother, and I'm hoping there's another story that solves this. If there's anybody out there that knows anything, whether or not they were involved with my brother or not, there's a lot of people hurting. And a lot of people who need answers. So if you know my brother, if he's alive and you know him, please call one of us or call the police and turn him in. - You want resolution. And we've got nothing. The end of the story seemed to begin at the end of the road up in Payson. (dark eerie music) - What I do is I'm actually empathing each one of the people. So what I'm doing is I'm first tuning into Robert. The first thing I saw looked like a beach community. In my head, I was trying to figure out the geography, I think it's the Bahamas. I didn't know till after that he has a connection to Florida. So I definitely feel it's in that part of the world. A small community, a beach town. I did see the beach, I lived, feel he lives on or near the beach. It didn't feel like a heavy touristy area. I think he would be recognized that way. I did see a house, and I don't know if it's where he lives, works. I saw what looked like a residential structure that was two-story, had a couple of stairs leading up to it. It's wood rather than stucco. And it's painted in either like a gray or a pale blue-gray color. And I saw a wrap-around porch. Then I saw him in a kitchen with a woman who, I don't know if her name is Terry, I heard the name Terry. And her hair is about shoulder-length, maybe a little bit longer. It has natural wave, and she's a brunette. And I saw a three to five-year-old son, so he may have another child with this person. Around November, I was seeing three big black guys that looked like bouncers. I don't know if he's in some sort of business with them, but I felt like there was this, with them there was a struggle. It felt like it went on November, December and January. And then I felt shortly after, he takes off from this woman and that area. Within a couple of months, he hooks up with a woman. This is in 2012, I know, way out there. She has straight dark hair. Black hair or dark brown hair. It's about this length. And he's with her for about two months. And then at the end of next year, I felt he was apprehended. I saw him in a courtroom in December, and then I feel him extradited back to Arizona in January of 2013. So he will get caught. - [Charlie] Do you believe he's gonna get caught? - Absolutely. Absolutely. (dark eerie music) - After all the research and the interviews conducted, it's my belief that Robert Fisher is alive. For three main reasons. The first one being that he took out $280 from his bank account. That certainly doesn't sound like someone who's about to kill himself. The second reason is that he packed his clothes. And the final reason being, that inside that car found at the forest, his wife's SUV, it was spotless. That leads me to believe that he had an accomplice. And whoever he was with that was helping him get away certainly didn't wanna be guilty of anything, so that person's fingerprints were cleaned. Whoever that was, Fisher's friend, accomplice, whatever, a mistress, girlfriend, whatever the case may be, the fact that the car was found that spotless leads me to believe that he had some help. If Robert Fisher did kill himself, I believe it was an afterthought. He had a change of heart. He got his wits together and said, "Oh my God, I can't believe I did this. "I'm never gonna be able to get away with it." (dark eerie music) This case has been looked at by some of the most diligent investigators. The Scottsdale Police Department, the FBI, and everything you heard them is the most they can reveal. They can't tell the public everything. And I get that. Unfortunately, most of the leads that they've gotten have not been strong as you've heard. The Canada lead was the strongest one they had. And that was in 2004. So it's my hope that, tonight someone watching will step forward and have the courage to supply law enforcement with the necessary information. So we can finally answer the question, where is Robert Fisher? (dark ambient music) - This is a case that is absolutely chilling. And the person at the center of this case remains a mystery. We don't know really who Robert Fisher was. He hid the secret life that he had from nearly everyone. (eerie ambient music) And so you have this tremendous mystery, where the center of that mystery is gone. Where is he? We don't know. (eerie ambient music) It's part of the reason why this case, I think lingers in the imagination of Arizona. (lullaby music) - [Mary] Look up at your toy. There. - [Brittany] Up! (mumbles) (lullaby music) (baby cooes) (lullaby music) (rhythmic sinister music) (upbeat rock music) Where we roam no one knows Killed his wife and kids So the story goes And he burned down their home Ever since that day he's been on the run Far beyond The city lights We can't forget The dreadful sound Robert Fisher, how do you sleep at night Is he dead or alive Living off the land, but can he survive Had he said of this life Will we ever know where Robert Fisher hides Far beyond The city lights We can't forget The awful sight Behind the mask, beyond the walls Did we ever know Robert Fisher
