 

                        And it is not marvel, because the same Satan you it disguises as angel of light. They look for the first-aid kit David There I go he/she suckles Whisper Sid. bienvenido hears to the new world They come you verify yourself this. You know something Max... I have to be honest with you Do you want to buy this place? I would not dare to steal of this place He/she goes to be all mine Of us Us Not think that because you work in the kitchen inside is the only option Not Sidney max is a businessman, we already have the menus. You know that. I also have a plan of businesses. And he/she doesn't have to do with anything with caps of paper, napkins and menus Already finish with that shit Sid. Look. I have a sweet business with a type Jones We grab the rich one tiny he/she pays very well and we all win Don't pay him/her attention You know que. esto it is good idea, but tweet him/her well him max, you don't have money you don't have guarantee any bank he/she goes you to help. I go to make this Sid. I am for sure you will achieve it. I call you in a couple of weeks for the meeting Release you of here Here he/she says that he/she has worked in the one service of food. Work small orders in Quincy, Austin and even of places in Newport You believe that you can resuscitate the restaurant of the street you do Make him/her with a loan of $50,000? It is a corner business in one busy intersection with a lot of pedestrians If Mister Trumont already revises that, it is not anything but neither it is great thing. As it was you? Did they give it to you? Not there is Sitco I will take that work Roxy. Not I have for where to go OK. sweetness goes and get ready for your party. Cloe will finish here. But I like as you you make it Is the party of the sanborne? Shazam! Truth that was brilliant boys? This beautiful one not? Not will treat this in their homes. Are they clever? We will see if we can make the biggest thing. Santa! Happy navidad for all! Not fight Abracazzam! That you want for the navidadeses David? That what you want is Santa? OK. we will leave the cake. Cloe. where this David? No. I am not sure. David! My God [We have your son] [Not you call the police or we will kill him] I missed you Sidney I like the new cutting This according one that you returned? That he/she makes "yoko ono" here? I am good with children Vince Do I have 2 that you want? Does he/she look. that carajo this is? One left Don't tell me Not it cares. I arrive the boy That well I suppose that I grab the correct one Sidney Soft calmly Hold All this very small ones? If. we run out of gasoline This well. we have a little one Bobby where carajo these? I have two empty tires in 128 o'clock Bobby. that happens you answer me Help me That you dressed? I believe that anything Here not Max goes up you to the they go. we leave Well I believe that I don't go anything Do you want me to get up? Your never goes you to he/she got up Mrs. Sanborne. I am the detective Witley Mrs. as I told him/her for telephone we are pursuing all the tracks In fact all llaman. siempre makes it. Mrs. sanborne is the detective Thousands. me you that this happening for a while difficult but I will need. Can thousands speak with you? With permission I have this. so he/she observes and take notes so that he/she sees like the things are made. I thought that this was a summer camp. As you got this? I am taking care of it for a while. The other thing doesn't work. All have had better times. Vamos. squenlo of there... it is cold. All this frozen one Well... I will put on this so that ascend inside where this hot one. It is nada. solo the wind Outside of here! Alone Que. es a dog That god blesses the fifth amendment Not be afraid I have to go to the bathroom You have your own bathroom inside Inside where? Where I am? Don't worry for that reason now Alone you cooperate. he/she thinks that it is alone a game Will they injure? No. reljate friend Now I do bring you ice cream. would you like that? Well Inside you go You can take off the bandage David Oh, now you are good mother! Vince Sidney. si warns me in advance I bring the complete team, more channels were. Me you that I don't have to notice it to you, but don't become fond a lot with the boy. I have this For the next one I keep them. Wi wi poo poo that it is this foreign shit? We are near the frontier Frontier that frica? Good here we are, now that that we need it is a pizza for the great night. Does Mother hear, done see the directory? Hang it... they can rake Us Hello mother is in camp, I will have a good time a lot. Everything goes to be well, I won't let him to happen him/her anything. I want that this finishes. Already soon I Found you esto. es for the cold Because these using that? It is so that you don't see who am Is it about sleeping OK a little? Leave I inconvenience, I won't look at you if you decide to take off it. Bien. Pero goes to make our secret OK... I promise It i Half night in the oasis where the camels sleep /i Do you love me max? Maybe. We will have the money to get ready that, you that you hate it. You cannot remove. it is a deep scar My love. do you believe that we are bad people? The kidnapping is not so bad But we are stealing Not it is lent robando. es. The mother pays to Jones and David returns tomorrow Who this Jones is? Not it cares who es. Sidney knows it. If we all win We all win That I happen? Anything was a nightmare These well Listen voices See to see the boy If I don't like this house Shit I thought that it was in the bed Because this open one my window, Max? That they don't hear you the other ones to say my name. Forgive me. but sometimes one listens thing that he/she doesn't want Vamonos. a the bed Damned it is! I broke the unfortunate one the insulin Calm down. It was in the trunk of the car, I believe that he/she is stopped above He didn't make it on purpose Relax you friend. when it is the next dose? In the mornings... Right now, give me the keys should see a pharmacy here. There is one in the town but they don't know you, he/she will bring us problems. Then I will go to Portsmith.! Give me the keys! Not we have time. I have to meet with Jones at 5pm o'clock. I told them that a single vehicle was bad idea. The bad only idea was bringing to you. Cuidado. calmate Max accompanies him to Portsmith. Do you have receta. todo what you need? If This bien. vallase. Come here damned! No He/she saw our faces Allow me to think a moment Max, you assured the door when you dressed him last night? That she said? That you made? him hablastes or something? I swear that the tranque Are you better than that. do you know that this means? Perhaps he/she knows our names A little bit ms. OK there, stay there OK well. are you hungry? We have to return Sidney won't believe that we take a long time so little time We go to drain even of hours to cover OK [Because they sowed wind, and vortex will reap] If? Boy you these behaving bad Am I in problems? Not the se. todo depends on you You believe that you can forget of our faces, voices, names? Because? Because. I go you to make a story Some years behind I made a bank work. everything went well until the cashier worked the alarm And I noticed him/her that he/she doesn't play it... But anyway he/she made it My partner was forced to shoot him/her in the head The bullet crossed him/her the head. Bang, there you have it Anybody likes informers Pretty. that is? The cashier's necklace. it broke and the drops were watered in the floor As it is that that knows? Me you many things And me you that your partner that I kill her was not And that was what you counted to the police, he/she has told the same story so many times that now until your you believe it And me you another thing That what you know is? You that this about to a heart attack These being about getting scared? That bad that the car not this. I held That was the plan, a car. less complications It seems that you will die Sidney here In this cabin. in the disgusting floor Sidney Sidney I sit down it I mistook of I number The boys arrived soon No. we cannot leave them to know where we are Max is Sidney. their heart, I sit down it a lot of Max David this in the room. taenia fear to be alone I sit down it for Mr. Braverman There are many spiders, I thought that in the winter they hid. Where the nest will be? The land this very hard one to bury him We go him to leave here even of days then we take it with us. The portion is bigger This boy is bad luck That we make now? We have two options. we leave it in the highway Then all this was for anything and do we return to the poverty? For anything! Or I speak with Jones and I finish the work I assure that all this well and that he/she will pay us If. and the portions are but big Vince swears that if it was other. The part of Sidney is for the niece of the one. OK bien. ni way Then you spoke with jones. Espera. pens that this was for voting, I choose us to allow it to go. I have bad premonition with all this Max? He/she takes this... for protection That?. the goblins? [Small kidnapped boy] [Son of the family Beacon hill taken during their birthday] Where this Sidney? This muerto. muri A heart attack That unfortunate.?does the boy continue I live? Of course I have a picture just in case the mother he/she wants tests That carajo? I go to have to take out him/her another Forget it. these preparation to communicate with the mother? Si. esta night Do you have all that you need? If an encrypted telephone and an expert in electronic. He/she is a professional We will be in the art show of Boston tomorrow to the half-day. I will give them the money and the details. don't trust nobody Is this all the images? With permission Detective that good that arrived The boy has the late clock That model type is? It is an American big car And that of Van? Without rakes. when this in the station we will register it well. Then we have anything Not necessarily. we have two different prints, they should be in the registration. Bien. muy well We will give a turn Where go We have a couple of things that to make, before returning you to house But I am having a good time here I don't want to leave Friend that hablas. claro that you want Vamonos We should return It is very late for that Maintain it hidden It excuses my love You can look now at David Well. telephone, clever mezcladora. estamos Not they will be able to rake us I am calling your mother David That well Clever todos. no still takes it Now Mrs. Sanborne? We have their son. I want tests that this alive one OK well David David you are? We go friend you tell him/her something Make him to say something Speak! Tell him/her hello We go David he/she is not afraid He/she should be afraid. he/she should be very afraid, you know what I can make you. This well love... Alone you speak to him/her Give him/her. curse tells him/her something It is already enough That these making? Vince leaves it. She said my name That this happening? She said my name Because you made that? Short the call That these making? We lost them Could they rake the call? No I set it that you had to listen that David this alive one? It could not combine the voice, neither the location This dead one? Did they kill him? Non sabemos. no has idea That they want to make hour? I would like to eat up an ice cream OK... that is everything Don't play it This well Not this well That these making Max? Something that should have made a while ago. And he/she stops to use my name. or you want to be a dead boy Will I be first the? Taken care Max! That carajo that was? Did they see that? Max? Not you can sleep? Nightmares Do I accompany you? Non thank you. I go out for while Please forgive me Vince? Vince? Vince these there below? It is your play Who let you leave? Nobody Where this Max? He/she left to speak with Jones I am happy that he/she stays a day Where this Roxane? Because? Escchame. despus of that of last night you should be in the basement with Sid. You are not able to me matar. no this in you Do you want to play? Good morning love Because he/she is not your girlfriend? It seems that he likes you And like it is that you know those things? Last night I heard it through the walls praying He/she was asking for forgiveness to god For a secret. a secret that neither Max knows it That I secrete? "The body of a 17 year-old girl was found in an abandoned" automobile My God! Not return to make that Did you hear that? No Perhaps it is anything That princess happens? It is Sidney. poda to save him/her the life Espera. no was your blame Not it was your blame Thank You Vince At some time you have missed? No I sometimes miss you Cretin You swore that you didn't go to say anything A treatment is a treatment But your these keeping secrets Which secrets? That of our bebe. yo you what you have made As? I didn't say it to anybody Si. pero had said it to me Vince was an error This well. alone I want to be once again with you. Roxy. if Max discovers what you have made Do you believe he/she would see you like a good mother? Our secret Our secret The call was a disaster Him you. we had problems with the boy I didn't request you a complete report Obviously we don't go him to make today Some reason for which travels 5 hours? If you could provide the test of life we would not be in this problem Do you see that that this in front? Do you see the square? That was inspired by the death And that he/she has to see that He/she has to see everything. hour there is alone an option, kill the boy The plan went to kidnap the boy not to kill him The call was not well. we will call another time The mother pagar. cualquier mother would pay Not we have finished, until you pay me, you understand. No. entindeme to my Max, you go to make what I tell you get ready to come undone of the cadaver Taenias that conciente of that possibility to be I won't kill anybody and less one 8 year-old boy Obviously you don't know with the one who these trying Jones looks I care a carajo who you are. I don't go him to make Better I cut him/her the ear and he/she sent it to the mother. That is less effective of that than you think It returns the telephone and we will be tomorrow for it finishes time in your restaurant Which the treatment is Jones? Jones? Not I am Jones, not you of what you speak And that carajo this is? Not I am Jones. no I know any Jones Then who my name is? Somebody pays myself to take and to bring the telephone Describe me the one that paid you Because you made it? Do you remind yourself? That mono. regrsemela I leave it to give to Max when he/she tells him/her Do tell him/her that? Of you and Roxane Check Do you like the games?. me you of one He/she walks toward there David? Where we go? To play my juego. quiero to become trained something Hold here Do you see the trees? I don't like this game That you will cry? I thought that he/she went him to need No Do you have something more than to say? Please you don't kill me You the dije. no this in you David returns here David? David! David? It is your moved Vince Very ingenious Bien. te goes to wait here You see, him more than he/she makes me wait. Did you finish running? Well very well Because I will break the legs David Do you want to scream for Max?. maybe the he/she can help you But who goes to help you? Me these threatening? Jess! No. non Jess Checkmate David! He/she fell I have you If It Is Marla. the database of FDA has tracks on a Vicente Demayo it left Welshin two days ago If, I will make my work, Where? Pharmacy Regie 227 of the street Maine, Welshin Maine will call to Whitney No. you don't make it, I will tell it to him See you later boy Your lids are heavy They are the nightmares David If. but Vince is no longer That was very horrible Didn't you feel a little happy? Happy? You believe that what I pass Vince does he/she make me happy? I see it in your eyes You that the eyes are the soul windows David! Allow us even of minutes Not there is problem Max Apologize that it was not Not see Jones tomorrow I have to look for the money No. cada time that you leave raisin something bad We go to return to David tonight Rox needs the money That is what passes with "all we win", your friends are dead Not you what we have but me insomnia and I hear things at night Calm my love. you look at me, almost we achieve it Where this your ring? I am cleaning it Something walks not well here We leave tomorrow I promise it Are you looking for this? Because it was your ring in the bed of Vince, Rox? Your non entiendes. te will explain He made me Did he/she make that? Max. you were not for 3 years and non taenia to anybody And I made an error. Vince left it to say Max Can I go with you max? Max please allows to explain to me My love where you go? To the meeting At this hour? I will arrive early You cannot leave me alone Does Roxane know that you will kill me? Curse Mrs. he/she doesn't move Are how many? I asked you a question I am alone Shake hands me Mr. official you found me I thought that they won't be Everything goes David to be well Sabes. la life is as a story There is a beginning a mean and an end The history is here Mister official Do you want to know like he/she finishes? [Police suspects that the boy this dead] Because he/she has not told him/her of the cadavers in the basement? Not invent Not there is he/she swims there below To who you believe him/her? Neither an it happened more Open the door You go to be contained by a lot of time Mrs. he/she opens the door! Better than you make something Roxane In prison one cannot have a he/she drinks. It is your oportunidad. abre finishes the door! Last opportunity! Take away from m. yo that man it kills Roxane didn't have remedy Not he/she wanted him to die. Of course that not He/she left I have had that all my life That you are David? I am an angel The voices in your dreams. that tell you? They tell me that they kill Max but me. Their soul Roxane. he/she leaves to the hell No. the hell doesn't exist It is something that the parents use to scare to their children. The hell doesn't exist This sure one I sighted it Roxane The evil ones in eternal condemnation God will punish Max to be evil Max is not evil Still no. pero their intention is to kill me The murder of an angel Not never. Eternal condemnation Roxane Please David will make any thing Would you kill for the one? To save him/her the soul? Would you kill him to the one for the one? While you decide you help me with the fire I am very small to play with matches. Sam. aljate of there Our business this arriving at their end You that me these watching over I will no longer play this game He/she looks. this is a treatment of businesses and you go her to to fulfill a shot in the head That is not the business that I did As you dare to hang. have you had 4 bad days with David, Max? And that of the 8 my years? Are you Jones? Is it enough for an initial payment, don't you believe? Not I will kill a boy That is the last that is Do you believe that it is human? We have something in common your and me. we have allowed to enter a wolf to our home When I adopt it the he/she gave me the life that I wanted But he/she doesn't have neither he/she devises of what the one is able to make Or in the different ways in that it can control you. I will give everything to come undone of the one He is put in the head and he/she murmurs bad thoughts and he/she paints visions of those that you won't be able to escape. Their force this growing Max. and I don't have idea that he/she goes to make in one year, one week or right now and he/she doesn't leave to stop until we all are dead. Who him this taking care now? It killed their father and it killed their nanny don't you believe that the mat to her? Listen to me you the ruego. mtelo please You chose the mistaken man Not please. Apologize Apologize Do you hear it Roxane? I hear that love The bad man comes closer Rox? Rox! That you go him/her to make to David? Anything Max. dime that you forgive me Of course I forgive you Hide David! Loose the rifle Roxane We can leave of here and to forget everything Your David! No! Max! Allow it to go max! David comes toward me! Salt of here Rox! Good I throw Max My God Rox Rox cannot leave me Don't listen to it Rox forgives me Rox! OH not! Rox! Not not not I am beginning now Poor Roxane thought that I was an angel Not you can kill an angel A demon if Ah... a demon is a fallen angel As you you will fall Max Because you are so sad murderer? These in the winning team, without commandments, without blame. They sent me for those that are desperate I come to them when they are weak When they don't have hopes When those that love the it rejects I go where them and I whisper to the hearing and I convince them. Because David? Because all this? Fishing souls Max It is it I make And me? That that is do I make? You are as weak as the other ones So put on the gun in the head Make it Or you will hear me every day of your life It was a good one I play Max Good I play Max but it has not still finished If finished David. ha Rox? Not you can kill an angel Max They will always be with you Max Always Happy navidad! God blesses you... Happy navidad
