 

                        Never thought I'd join the jiangwu I don't like violence and killings It is most stupid "If you lose, you die" "If you win, revenge will come" And my face might be scarred I only plan to have fun with hubby "I, Phoenix Black never dreamt" I've to work before I find a hubby By catching criminals using force Did you play that tune just now? Enchanting. Why stop? "You're"Chicken Feathers"?" Freeze! Why? You want to play it again? I'm here to catch you Why do you all want to catch me? They all deserve to die! You're the killer. You deserve it! Who are you? "I'm White Dragon Jr., the chivalry" You'll lose to me. Go now ""C.F."kills with eyes closed" No wonder. Because he is blind You want to annoy me? Too bad... you did it Hey... I don't wanna die "Please, don't scar my face, Mister" Too bad he's blind "If he sees me, he'll fall for me" And comes after me My story started 7 days ago I was still an average student then I'm good at choosing friends "Tweetie, look at her" "Daisy, see how fat she is" Mandy looks okay beside her eyes "Hanging out with them, I get more attention" "Daddy always makes these, boring" You can have it "Slimy birds nest again? No, thanks" Auntie You can have it This is Sweetened fresh birds nest It's all saliva! And fresh too Thanks! "You're welcome, I'm going to school" I don't know you have a kind heart "Okay, quickly... Good morning, Mr. Principal" "Wait not, youth. You'll regret" Time has come... "Kid, is this book yours?" Yes I know you can do it. Work hard Must improve communication skills "Good morning, Mr. Principal" It's very important Where are your schoolbags? They're here "Are you okay, Mr. Principal?" "Proud in class, fail in exams" My dream man... Must be a poet Poet? They are poor "Poets always lie, be careful..." "Lie about your looks, wisdom..." Lie about your perfect figure How about yours? Mine? Simple... he must be powerful Then problems become no problem Only man worthy to be my husband... "Is Second Prince, Tian Yang" Dunno you dream to be a princess "Phoenix, I think you're smart and..." Very sexy You're sick! Me sick? Compared to her? "Look at Daisy, that's sick..." They say Second Prince will watch our show I'm excited though he's not here yet I entered with you watching the guards Why do you think I jump right then? Second Prince "Sorry, I have come late" You are Miss Phoenix Black? I missed your performance Can Miss come to the palace And perform for me again? Thanks for being interested I am pleasured to perform for you Superb! We will meet in the palace Let me down. Something scary happened in the dorm Why is there endless rubbish Let me... have some birds nest ""Chicken Feathers"?" Principal Wong You're looking for Principal Wong? He's in his room Go and find him yourself I'm not learned but don't fool me It is right for you to study here Our school has excellent teachers Violence doesn't exist here Interested? Come back in the morning Why pretend to be calm? You're afraid? Why does your heart beat so fast? I can't hear it Listen to your heartbeat... I know it. You're Principal Wong Then pretend you don't see me Sorry I can't see "Hero, let me go! Hero..." Read it out to me Then I don't have to die? Read! Read... now "I, Honest Wong, took advantage of..." Female students to massage for me I even further abused them... By fondling them I even want it again and again... I remember one day... a girl stayed behind on punishment "I tore her clothes off, and her skirt" Her legs were exposed Then I used a strong and thick... Enough! How dare you! ""C.F.", you've killed many" When... do you plan to stop? All those I've killed are justified You've tried so long to get me When do you plan to stop? Stubborn old fool! "Auntie, let me get the doctor" What do you want? It's fate... for me to meet you here... Before I die... Okay Let me pass to you... All my powers What did you say? I said again Okay Let me pass to you... All my powers I hope you'll put it to good use And help the needy Prepare to receive! "After that night, I can't find her" It is too strange. I'm afraid Most frightening is my acne "Heat removing tea, good" Look at your acne I wonder why I have this big acne How can I go to see Second Prince? "Phoenix, you've violated the rule" To go to your date with an acne He will run away when he sees you "That's right, Phoenix" That's what Mr. Lee did when I had an acne It looks like there is pus inside Enough. I was not angry before Now I am very angry Don't be angry... I'll take you to JaJa "To buy Whitening & Moisturizing Serum G2, okay?" G2? You don't know G2? Generation Two! Cu-Ilagen has been added Kill what? Cu-Ilagen It'll cure not only your acnes It can even cure hemorrhoids Really? Insider's secret... "Gene again, this sissy" I think he's a brother of one of us "Last night, Principal was..." No way! Do you know who did it? Who? Who? There were chicken feathers all over It's "Chicken Feathers" Chicken feathers? ""C.F."is a first class killer" Since he's around I made a habit these few years To collect feathers I've a big collection of feathers "Sun chicken, pearl chicken" fired chicken... I'll be the chicken feather expert Why kill the Principal? He's kind Yes Kind? He's kinky! "Look at this, what is it?" Underwear? You're sick! "Not me, it's the Principal" This was found in his office "Tweetie, did he touch you?" Of course not. Nonsense! "Me neither, how about you? Me neither" I don't wear them Thank god Linda is not as lucky as you gals How do you know it is Linda? My mom told me before If a stranger wants our virginity Remember to cry That bitch... Nice figure You call this nice? "Phoenix, you bitch!" You told everybody about me and him I didn't You didn't? Why are you showing my underwear? Gene gave it to me I don't care! I have proof now. Nothing to say? Ruined my name took my music award Today I've to get it back! You've guts. You want revenge? You have friends and so do I I mean... We're friends... we can talk it out Talk it out? "She can fly, run..." Hey... "Hey, here!" Why are you up there? Don't ask. Get a ladder for me Come down the way you went up No I can't. I'm frightened Let's get a ladder for her Go now... Such a big acne. Power? What's the use You'll leave a scar if you break it "Weren't you dead, Auntie?" "Luckily, I'm not" I can still help the weak and needy Why are you the cleaning lady here? As a cover up "I'm here to catch"C.F."" I was defeated by him the other day I thought I'd die Luckily I often eat your birds' nests So I can keep on living now I see Do you want to remove the acne? "Yes, you can help me?" It'll go away if I d/I your power Why is it different from last time? Last time I used broadband Last time I used broadband It's not so dangerous It's not so dangerous for me "Not you, it's me" Auntie "This isn't d/I, it's called hit me" I didn't want to. I didn't know... It's my body's virus from the injury I don't think I can d/I power now No. I want you to d/I it now I don't want it. I want my looks... I have another solution What? Helping others will bring happiness A kind heart stimulates blood flow "Blood flows well, acne disappears" Then what should I do? Rob I don't do evil deeds Rob the rich and help the poor Just do it with a kind heart Why worry so much? We are both women Don't you know all women care is their looks? What are you doing? "My savior, what's your name?" Are you White Dragon? "No, I'm White Dragon Jr." Freeze! Robbery... "Son, sounds like a robbery" Helping the poor really work "Thank you, my savior!" Your Majesty the Prince Miss Black The dress of Miss... shows character with elegance "Thank you, Your Majesty" You look wonderful yourself Thank you This is my brother Brother "Brother, let me introduce to you" This is Miss Phoenix Black "Miss Black, my brother" "Phoenix wishes you well, Your Majesty" "My brother, not bad" "Your Majesty, you are very good" You like it? "My brother, practise with me" She said she likes it "Brother, we leave you to practise" "Then... I'll leave you to your girl, goodbye" "Goodbye, Your Majesty" That's how my brother is "Don't mind him, Miss Black" How would I? Is His Majesty biting on a slice of orange? Why is that? If you do it when you practise... It can protect your teeth That's why "Sorry, Your Majesty" I'm okay... "I wrote a book, want to read it?" Chicken Feathers? Feathers doesn't mean anything Maybe a chicken will run in here Or maybe someone is making a duster They are probably mistaken Chicken Feathers are never wasted You are the Second Prince It is the palace here. He dare not No. He is really daring I have been assassinated before Look Although Father always tell me... Don't be afraid if you want to be somebody "Buds fall when seasons go by, who will see the new buds open?" I only know... When fate ties two strangers together their love is firm as heaven & earth "Tian Yang, I won't let you die" Phoenix Tian Yang Let's go to West Lake next week "Auntie told me"C.F."likes flute" I'll play it and he will come out Again! Stop if you don't want to die "Okay, then let's fight again later" If you play your flute for me that's fine That's no big deal I'll appear when I hear your flute Sicko We must think of a solution Why this sudden interest to get C.F.? You have bad breath and phlegm Stick out your tongue You have so many flaws "Eyes not working, tongue so short" Stick it out more "I know, for love. Am I right?" Is it worth it? Yes Then we will have to outwit them My fighting skills are excellent Fighting is different from sleeping Then am I going to die? "No, don't worry" "Use tian ma, citrus peel, tu fu ling" Cook it in water until thick "If it is bitter, add 2 tsp sugar" Make it once only Take it in two days. You'll be fine How much? How much? "No, I mean my pay" Here's for killing Principal Wong. Check! 2 and a half tael missing That's my share You've increased your rates? A good man has his weak points Weak points? You are saving money for your eyes? Even I can't heal them Because that's you "With money, I have hope" Is it that important to see again? You want to try being blind? No thanks Do you want a new case? Does he deserve to be killed? "Oh yes, very much" "If he does and is rich, I'll do it" This guy's special. Be careful "Just find the weak spot of"C.F."" Stab at it straight ""C.F." will be "T.F.", tears on face" This time you are dead meat! Nothing else to stab? It's broken Your leg You... "That's right, you got my strongest" Don't move You can't beat me Your leg is broken And the slap. You are injured Where do you live? I'll bring you Don't touch me! I can't. How can I look so ugly? Are you beautiful? None of your business. Can you see? Where's the W.C.? Over at the water wheel "So horrible, how can I go there?" How? I can help you What's wrong? Get lost! How? With you watching? Just like this "Get out, out!" Why do I have to get out? How can I go with you watching? I can't see! Why do I have to go out? "I can't see, why do I have to?" The house is mine "I can't see, why do I have to go?" Crazy How can I go? You haven't eaten all day "Have a bun, I made it" I don't want to! You're hurt. You have to eat "After you eat, you'll be strong!" Leave me alone! Shut up! I'm sleeping Go! "I can't see, can't talk, and have to go" Which bed is mine? Where do I sleep? Help "Brother, your turn" Which one should I choose? This one This one? I'm afraid it might tumble Don't be. We can start again "Hurray, I've won again!" "Brother, you've lost again!" Youngsters never worry You can't start again in everything We've just begun I really don't want to let it go I wonder what Phoenix is doing now Awakened? Do you know I'm staring at you now? "If you don't tell me, I don't know" I'm starving! Have a bun It's hard as rock. Order delivery! "Too far, no one is willing to" Then go buy it yourself! Play your flute for me No! I don't want to go "Buy candle, paper, pen, ink, pigeon" Then you have to play another one No! I'm only getting food Quick What's that? MacD's MacD's? I told you no buns. Are you blind or deaf? I thought mine were too hard So I bought some soft ones for you MacD's buns are known to be soft I get a free gift too - Chickie Go away! You've got problem! Chickie?! Idiot Have you finished with it? You've been playing all day long Tian Yang we are on a music charity tour I can't see you for some days Please postpone trip to West Lake We can travel after I come back Waiting for your reply. Phoenix "He thought I'm playing, he'll know" "You're dying, Blindie!" What is it? Have you fallen down? Did you drop the flute in the water? Are you okay? Let me... I don't need your help! His weak point should be on his back Leave it there. It's so late Tidy up tomorrow "To me, it is night time anytime" Blindie... Blindie... Here are two coins I've picked up Thanks. I'm in debt to your kindness Eat some I really don't want to eat buns This has fillings. It's not a bun Try one Is it good? Better than buns It's my creation Do you know what I call them? White Dragon Dumplings Do you know why? Cause they are made for you - White Dragon Jr. "Eat more if you like them, I'll make more" White Dragon Jr... Likes to eat White Dragon Dumplings Why is it not White Dragon Jr. Dumplings? Because they were not made by you Blindie! What are you fishing for? I'm fishing for your flute! Fishing for my flute? "Then take your time, aim well" Yes! White Dragon Jr.! White Dragon Jr.! You've fished my flute? What bait did you use? "Blindie, where's your Chickie?" I've had enough of it. Too noisy You don't like it noisy What's your real name? Chicken No wonder you like Chickie How come you are blind? I like stars when I was small I always lie down to watch stars That night I was watching stars "Suddenly, a torrent came pouring" "I kept watching, wishing for the rain to stop" But it didn't I kept staring at the sky... it became darker and darker Stars never came back out "At the end, it was so dark..." I can't even see my own hands My body was wet and cold I remember mama hugged me tight Screaming to ask if I can see her "Then, I knew I can't see anymore" Where are your parents? "One day, they brought me to market" "Very noisy, sounds like a market" "I was holding their hands, then..." Papa... Mama... Papa... Mama... "Pa, where are you?" Ma... where are you? "Papa, Mama, where are you?" I remember I was so frightened "I kept yelling, but nobody reply" They won't reply You've had a difficult childhood "Want more, come and get it" come and get it Give them back to me! Here Eat! He is eating shit! Taspe good? "Blindie, remember me!" I'm Eagle. Remember this eagle! Let's play elsewhere "If you can, what d'you want to see?" "Stars, the ocean, the earth..." You Let me bring you to see something Want to watch stars? "Yes, I want to" Look at the sky Is it pretty? So many stars This is for you Chickie I thought you like it very much? If you give something out... It should be something you like For you "Blindie, let's go play" "Blindie, weather is nice today" The sun is very strong We need to buy suntan I want to try becoming tanned "You are, you just can't see it" "Be careful, the road is slanting" "Blindie, you're really something" "You can make wheelchair, cane" And make White Dragon Dumplings Thank you... What else do you know? I can fix this and that... "And you can speak, but blind..." Or else girls will fall for you Why? Why will girls fall for me You're quite handsome "Big eyes, striking nose, white teeth" I am that handsome? I don't know I'm actually good-Iooking! I'm handsome! What I mean is you're not ugly "Not ugly, quite handsome" Quite handsome is not ugly How about you? I... Are you quite pretty? I am... very pretty! I am... very pretty! Very pretty is... beautiful! Very pretty means beautiful Quite handsome is not ugly Very pretty means beautiful Quite handsome is not ugly Men need to be praised "Butter up thick, he can never tell" Let him pay while he is enjoying it Today we must shop till we drop! You said you are window shopping I'm not you - buy when you can't see I'll buy the minute I see it Let's go You try it on... let go You've to pay for hurting my leg You pay for everything I buy today I'll lend you but you've to repay "Okay, no problem" I have nothing but money Quick... Okay! Stop... New Season! "Blindie, you can't give me an eye" "Have a walk, just come back to pay" Deer Tailt... Can you do me a favor? What favor? Where to? Describe that girl to me Which one? The one with bamboo tied on her leg The crippling one So? What? I'm looking She has eyes like olives Nose like a pear Mouth like a red date Face in the shape of a raisin Her hair is silky like angel hair Look at it yourself These two are like her... "No, hers are nothing like that" These are my drinks. Want some? Just take a sip No thanks Please read this letter to me Sure She wrote this? Please read Yang We had the first rehearsal today A new member liked my flute "And made these "White Dragon Dumplings"..." Always like to use inverted commas For me to taste They are delicious Though I'm not good at something art What something art? C-u-l-i-n-a-r-y I want to make you proud in both kitchen and living room Full stop. From Phoenix Looks like our gourmet has a lover You really like her? Mess it... You don't need to know that Neither does she Don't think so much Do your work. Client wants it done Why don't you cure your eyes? Furry edition is here. Wrap it up Sorry. That lady has reserved it Then get me another one There's only one for limited editions I know Get it for her. Wrap this for me I can't. She saw it first. Sorry Do you know who I am? "Miss Miss Phoenix Black, I'm sorry" Do you know how often I shop here... I know... I'm really sorry "White Dragon Jr., what are you doing?" That bitch... took what I wanted The furry checkered limited edition She took it Don't worry Let's come again next time I must get what I want! Come over here! Does this color go with you? "Whatever, I can't see it anyway" It's the same whatever I wear "Clothes are for others to see, not for ourselves" Don't you know the joy of shopping? Salesperson Wrap this up in all your colors "Yes, Miss Phoenix Black" "Manager, going to storeroom!" Feels so good after shopping! Is your real name Phoenix? What's wrong? Let's shop again Everybody get out Come over here They're only here to shop. Let them Yes... Where are you going? No... nothing "He's blind, can't see. You can continue" Continue for what? Lucky draw What are the prizes? Second Prince Don't be crazy Men's section outside I know It is for Miss Phoenix Black Let's go elsewhere Yes Can you not kill Second Prince? Can you not love him? My weak point... is here at my back Before you eradicate my power I want to see something Play it for me You don't have to kill him! Play! Play! I don't want to look at stars! And not the ocean! Then what do you want to see? I want to see you! Play! No... No This is not you! I can't see! Not like this! Again! I give up! I give up... I can't! You're eradicating my power! Eradicate it? You can see me? You've eradicated my power... You can see me? You're blind! You can see me? Eradicate it? You can see me? I like... you "If you can, what d'you want to see?" "Stars, the ocean, the earth..." You Why? Why? I quit my job as an assassin You've to pay seven times to compensate "Take all these, should be enough" That's not a problem. Rethink it I've decided This involves a lot Deer Tail "Let me tell you, my power is gone" I can't kill anymore Wait For what? Take your money with you No How can you live? But this... I'll take care of it "Deer Tail, I've known you for so long..." Without knowing how you look like It is simple I've big eyes... Pointed noise... olive shaped face Many female patients like me Imagine it for yourself Stop feeling me Imagination is the prettiest I know roughly how you are "Master, Second Prince is here" He wants to see Miss "Master, Second Prince is here to see Miss" Your Majesty "Uncle Black, you're excused" "Thank you, Your Majesty" may I ask the purpose for your visit? His Majesty is proposing for marriage Proposing for marriage? Isn't that a hurry? "No, not at all" The faster the better! I 've always thought life is easy Until I see two ants in the garden Their feelers touched and they parted "I knew then, to be able to meet you..." is not easy at all "Also, letters delivered by pigeons..." make me so happy I can't sleep "That too, is not easy at all" If I'm to exchange for your heart I can sacrifice anything "I believe, what I treasure most..." is you "If you say yes, I'll be the luckiest..." and the most blessed men on earth Is it safe? Safe Look over there "Sorry, you can't see" Let's go over there. It's pretty What are your hard buns good for? Go! Walk faster! Out! "Run, faster!" Run? Come out! Go... Stand over there... properly! Stand properly! I know someone here... "is the"Chicken Feathers"" I'm not... "Deer Tail, tell me or I'll kill again!" I tell! ""Chicken Feathers"...that's him" Don't die... don't die... Fooling me? Stop! "I am"Chicken Feathers"!" "Don't kill them, they are innocent!" ""C.F.", you have killed many" You tell me not to kill? Nonsense Don't waste time. I lost my power Do what you want to me Lost your power? Take him! "He's ruined, no use at all" "Your Majesty, Eunuch Chan is here" So what? "If we do it now, he'll tell His Majesty" That you over exercised your power Listen up "Escort"C.F."back" "Listen up. Escort"C.F."back" Take him with you! Yes! "Tian Yang, can you let"C.F."go?" Why would you help a criminal? He has lost his powers. He can't harm you But he is a criminal. I can't "I don't want him killed, like I don't want you hurt" "Go, go, go!" Why hasn't he been executed? "Your Majesty, time has not come yet" I am the time. I say it is time Execute! White Dragon Jr.? "I eradicated"C.F."'s powers" "When I knew that he'll kill you, I tried to go near him" To crack his weak point so he can harm you So why are you begging for him? I don't know. I just know he needs me more "Tian Yang, the wedding is cancelled" Sorry Phoenix... You will help him? Don't execute! ""C.F." Has committed serious crimes" He has to be executed now! Why execute him in a haste? What do you mean by that? You think you are the Emperor? "If you won't execute, I will!" Phoenix You are helping him escape? "Let me take care of you, White Dragon Jr.!" "I'm here to help him escape, so?" "White Dragon Jr., soft suppresses hard" Like a chicken feather "Bastard, scar my face? Watch Out!" Who do you think you are! Father? "Sheng, you did this for my throne" "You want so much to execute"C.F."" Because you paid to kill Yang I didn't Gene "Hello, there are two suspicions" "First, the chicken feathers found..." have been analyzed and proved to... come from the Royal Chicken which... only the Royal family can consume Second is a security issue Who can someone enter the Palace? ""C.F."can't place the feathers" We can deduce it's an insider's job But you can't say it is me To catch the real culprit I've developed a quick blood test "Thank you, papa" If you haven't touched that kind of chicken feathers Your blood test will be negative Which means you are innocent And vice versa While you were drank the wine I've tested your blood sample And the results are... positive Positive... You are the person behind it! The throne should be mine. It's unfair! Shut up! "Guards, lock him up in jail first" "I'm the real Emperor, I am..." Nobody but me! What are you doing? Let go! I am the Emperor! "Blindie, didn't you lose your power" I don't have any weak points No weak points? To know you is my weak point What are you looking at? Can you see me? "Father, they..." You can choose from the throne and the beauty ""C.F.", though your crimes are serious" But you've also did well this time I have decided not to execute you "Thank you, Your Majesty" But you must promise never to use your powers "Your Majesty,"C.F."has died" He does not exist in this world Good. About your eyes... The Palace Doctors will cure you "Thank you, Your Majesty" "Phoenix, come forward" "I am crowning you Chivalry, White Dragon Jr." To look after people's living in the Capital You can report directly to me "Remember, don't rob! Report!" Phoenix wishes Your Majesty With the help of everybody Become a kind Emperor So? I can't see I've seen you once already You are always so beauful "If anything happens, I have my rod" "Phoenix, give me my rod" I'll be your rod "You don't let go, I won't let go"
