 

                        # Sad are the eyes # Yet no tears, # The flight of the wild geese # Brings a new hope # Rescued from all this... # old friends # And those newly found, # What chance to make it last? # When there's danger all around # And reason just ups and disappears # Time is running out # So much to be done # Tell me what more... # tell me what more # What more can we do? # There were promises made # Plans firmly laid # Now madness prevails # And lies fill the air # What more... what more # What more can we do? # What chance to make it last? # What more... # What more can we do? Colonel Faulkner - You're late - Sorry We thought it better for you to come into the country without going through immigration Took a bit of doing I assume you're keen I am. I'm also cold and tired. Could we move rather rapidly on? This way, sir Colonel Faulkner, I'm Thomas Balfour How do you do You'll be meeting Sir Edward Matherson Matherson the merchant banker? That's correct Faulkner... What do I call you? "SIR Edward"? You do You drink whiskey, I take it, soda or water? Large and straight, thank you Good of you to come at such short notice That depends on your definition of good A first-class air ticket and an unsigned cheque for 2,000 are persuasive I assume that's for my time and my trouble And a rather rough meal on the plane Would you be good enough to sign? Thank you Another, please Please, feel free with my whisky I will Thanks I'm dry when I work So I've heard There's a special clause in my contracts that says that my liver is to be buried separately, with honours I'm not a very humorous man So I've noticed Tell me what happened with your contract with Julius Limbani You know very well what happened You didn't pick my name out of a hat It was a disastrous failure But not my failure. He didn't arrive Don't move Mr Limbani, sorry to interrupt your nap We are going to divert the plane. An old friend of yours is waiting for you Just sit quietly That was two years ago I've got your autograph Sir Edward. Why? - Copper. - Copper? Now let's see if I can put all of the pieces together just for the exercise General Ndofa was the most corrupt dictator in Africa, deposing Limbani as head of state Do you mind if I cut through all of this? Uganda agreed to hold Limbani for them then they refused to give him back They announced that he died of a heart attack, then they set him free The dogs Ndofa can't stand the chance of Limbani reincarnated taking over his country So he's offered some of our copper concessions in return for the secret delivery of Limbani into his hands And you want me to intercept him and deliver him to you Correct Where do I find him? He'll be moved across the border and taken to an army barracks at Zembala Now Ndofa leaves Gurundi the same day and personally execute Limbani and scatter his ashes Any questions? For the moment, just two First when can we confirm the exact date of arrival of Limbani at Zembala? 7 days in advance - guaranteed - Good And two, can you hold General Ndofa in Gurundi while I'm grabbing Limbani? That can be done Excellent. That's all for now Don't you wish to discuss your fees and expenses? Well first of all I have to determine if the project is feasible If it is, I'll send you my account I don't discuss fees, I get what I want I realise you get paid for risking your life I do hope it's not going to be too valuable. Goodbye Faulkner We shan't be seeing each other again, it's been a great pleasure Here we are Here? This is it? You're too well known to stay in a first class hotel Now in here is a passport, driving licence all the usual papers and a 'phone number where I can always be reached You're to deal directly with me It's my job to provide you with everything you need I've got some jobs for you immediately I want a detailed map of the area around Zembala, a scale model of the barracks plus all the details you can get me on the garrison strength - It will be delivered by hand. - Good Now I want you to find me two men First Rafer Janders. If he's alive, he's here in London Rafer Janders... Fair-haired, cigarette-holder, wears glasses? That's the man. This is going to be a tough assignment No Rafer Janders, no contract I'll call you about him within an hour. And the other one? Shawn Fynn Very good looking I know the name Shawn Fynn I'll do my best but he's a problem Find him - same goes for him No Shawn - no deal Sit down Randy, you don't come in here! We got a problem, Mr Martinelli I'm really sorry Go Go on. Go on. I'll be out in a minute Close the door So? Go ahead. What is it? You should've told me I was carrying heroin I said: "No drugs" What did you think the delivery was for? Hershey bars? I thought it was cash? I don't push drugs, ever. It's against my religion You're telling me what you do or don't do for me? More or less Randy, break any two items you like on this man and throw him out If I ever see your face again, you're dead Put your hands on your head. You, move over with him! On your head Shawn, take it easy, he's just a snot-nosed kid His old man is something very special - back in the States - Have you finished? Here Open it Open it! I poured all the envelopes into one bag, it's more convenient Here I am just starting to work for you two "beauties" And I make my first contact It was a young girl She was alone on a bed, dying And that's when I opened the package You boys are pushing bad stuff So what I'd like you to do is each eat half of it You're crazy! She was barely 19. Now on your knees and eat! You too Oh God Please... I hope you've got a big appetite son. Because it's all yours Please Her words exactly Now, eat it Now do it! All of it! Pour it down You look like you need a good stomach pump That had strychnine in it But still, a little suffering is good for the soul You have another 20 minutes Have fun Corner of Riverdale and Hampstead Emile, why don't we leave the dishes until later? Great! That was pretty good What do you mean Emile? That was one of the best meals I've ever cooked Cold lobster? I had to unwrap it didn't I? Come here You promised me you would right after dinner I haven't had my coffee yet You don't drink coffee That's true Are you ready? Sure? OK - Now when do the school Xmas holidays start? - 12th December, you know that - And when do you go back? - 9th January, come on, Dad! Now isn't that a fantastic coincidence! You know, this isn't a bad little wine really Why? Dad, please! OK. This is how it goes December 13th you, me and some suitcases, are jumping on board an aeroplane - Where are we going? - Wait a minute That same plane brings us back January 3rd Skiing! - You got it! - In Switzerland? The very same! Oh boy, that's fantastic! Oh yes... Just the two of us? Who else? We'll be staying in a beautiful little inn I'm so excited, I don't know what to do Why don't you try screaming? The neighbours are deaf anyway Oh! Not all of the neighbours are deaf Allen! Hey stop it, you're breaking my wallet Come on in - It's good to see you. - Good to see you too What was all that screaming about? Emile was expressing mild satisfaction. Emile, come here. This is Mr Faulkner - This is my son, Emile. - How are you? Pleased to meet you, sir A by-product of an expensive education What a pity they don't export it Excuse me, sir - I hope to see you later, sir - So do I What a pleasant child I'll tell you about him later Now pour me a drink, sit down, let's talk It's been 9 years Ten, in fact. Where did they all go? We'll drink to something Right? Let's drink to... the years that came before the 10 To the next ten weeks What does that mean? To you, Rafer, my old friend OK. To me - Disgusting - Yes, isn't it? What do you mean, "the next 10 weeks"? Come on, Rafer, let's talk No, Allen I'm not available I'm trying to go old and grey I'm searching to see if I can find my God I'm trying to learn how to appreciate life And practise the art of inner peace Now you believe all that is a crock of shit - I do. - You're right All except the "I'm not available". I'm not Alright, I guess I can understand that Well now, tell me, how did you find me? I asked Tell me, how's that 19 yr old French beauty? That 19 year old beauty is 29 and she lives in Paris - She left you? - Yes She's Emile's mother She sees him once or twice a year I haven't see her since he was two He goes to boarding school in Kent What would I do with him full-time? I love him. He's a wonderful boy Weekends and holidays are my greatest moments of my life I'm taking him skiing for Christmas 3 weeks, leaving December 13th - December 13th... - I can't wait Anyway, enough about me! How's Jenny? She died - 3 years ago. - How? Some kind of bone cancer, in a month she was dead - I'm sorry. - So am I. She was a good woman - She was great Allen... - The subject is closed OK What's done is done Come on, tell me, how are the kids? They're alright. Grown up Don't see them much any more I think they're not too happy with me These are beautiful Yes, they are, aren't they? I buy them, sell them... I'm getting pretty good at it They earn about 15,000 a year - Julius Limbani is alive. - I don't care Yes you do If there's one African leader you do care about, it's Julius Limbani Now I'm telling you, Allen I'm finished with all of that I'm getting too old. By the way, so are you You know, apart from your charming personality and the fact that you're the finest planner I've ever known What I've always admired about you, Rafer, is your idealism Bollocks The money wasn't important to you It was the bad guys against the good guys And you were never with the bad guys Now me, I'd work for anybody, as long as they paid me It's an ineradicable flaw in my life And that's why you've always impressed me, Rafer, always I'm glad to hear you say that Do you know how many times I've been wrong? Out there somewhere singing "Hallelujah!" fighting and killing for some god-damn saviour who as soon as he's got in power gets to steal his own treasure? I don't know who the good guys are any more You know Limbani You know he's the best there is I have a contract to steal Limbani from General Ndofa If I don't do it, he dies If I do, well, perhaps he's running the country again I need you, Rafer The answer's still no Now, we don't start training in Africa until January 15th So I can spare you your holiday with your child There's a very big pay-cheque, tax-free It's really been great seeing you again, don't spoil it Alright Can you do me a favour? Alright Show me... clear that stuff away Show me how you'd get in and out of this place Limbani will be here, somewhere in that barracks - I've got Rafer Janders. - Good You haven't got Shawn Fynn What do you mean? He's either dead by now, or he will be the second he shows his face in London What happened? It boils down... He removed two of the family's men earlier this evening one of whom happened to be the nephew of the local godfather There's already a contract out on Fynn. The biggest London's ever seen - Get it cancelled. - Impossible Edward Matherson and his banks have more power than the Mafia That's not even a question You want Limbani? Cancel the contract What's so special about him? This afternoon, he was a courier for a 25 year old hoodlum If you'd ever seen him operate, you'd know what was so special about him Also he can fly any plane you'd care to name and he's my friend. I don't have too many left He's no. 3 on this deal or there's no deal It would be a real moral crisis for kindly Sir Edward He would have to have me and Rafer killed Don't you think? You get the details of Shawn's last year over to my unspeakable hotel as soon as you can Rafer and I are going after him Now wait a minute, this isn't your territory. You stay out You're not even meant to be in this country, remember? Ask for a doggy bag after you've paid the bill I'll be waiting for you in my room Number 23a There it is Keep driving, keep driving! - How many is that? - Five With a welcoming committee in each one. Boy, what efficiency - How many are left? - Four Good old Shawn! Living with nine women in the same year... possibly at the same time Quite a feat but not beyond him... Heather Courtney... Baronet Club, Denby Road No home address, probably sleeps on the craps tables. We can but try You buy the chips here, Charlie OK In two stacks Thank you very much I'm going to get me some chips, and I'm going to break the bank - Heather? - Black 20 Heather's at the first Blackjack table over there Oh yes, I can see her now. How comes you're wearing her breasts? - What did you say? - I said she's got Heather's chest! Hey brother! How you doing is this table hot? How are you? Now you just tell me how much you got there in genuine money? What's the limit? - Twenty. - Then give us some, Heather, baby! If you don't behave you'll have to leave OOOOOOOOH! How do you know my name? How do we know your name, little Heather? Don't stop, keep dealing and listen very carefully We need your help Where's Shawn Fynn? Who? I don't know any Shawn Fynn Yes, you do Hey, I got a genuine Blackjack! I got a genuine Blackjack, hotter than a fox! He's in great trouble, if you know where he is, tell us The Mafia have a contract out on him, if they get him before us, they'll kill him We're down to the last minute We are his close friends Check with him and tell him that Rafer Janders and Allen Faulkner are here Describe us, and be sure, and do it now or he's a dead man OK, I believe you. He's right here in this building Behind the men's loo, there's a stairway Top floor, first room on the left Shawn, it's Allen Not even a hearty hand-shake or a "Shawn, my boy how are you?" - Clown "Clown"? At least that's a start Do you mind telling me what you're doing here, thank God? If we live, I'll tell you why. Idiot Clown and idiot... you always were a flatterer You never change, do you Shawn? A whole army out there and you're still making jokes - Let's get out of here. - Now you're making jokes. Where to? Don't worry Allen, open up A car just pulled up at the back door - Rafer, what are you doing here? - Cycling a bike! - Maniac. - Everybody's calling me names Another car in front. We'd better do a little praying - Somebody's trying to lift this contract. - What contract? - Who? Would somebody tell me what's going on? - Rafer, what you carrying? This... and this Sort of balances me up Mr Martin, I do appreciate you coming at such short notice It's 4 o'clock in the morning, I should imagine you would And I want to get home to bed and go to sleep What do you want? I want you to lift the contract on Shawn Fynn He killed my brother's son From what I've learned, your brother's better off without that son You tell him that. He's grieving He'll get over it. Let's get down to facts Now, I control a number of newspapers I guarantee you, the day after Shawn Fynn dies, you and your family will be amongst the most written-about and photographed men in England Wrong room Frankie! Get out, the contract's lifted I'll be damned! These gents should've waited 3 minutes Let's get out of here, before the police arrive You're right - Very gentle, the circles you move in. - Heather, I'm sorry She's the one who told them the wrong room Get a doctor You know nothing, right? I will pay you back, I swear You run along, love It was a pleasure helping you out, if I still have my teeth Thanks. Well thank her, you clowns - Thanks, you're a good girl. - Kiss her and come on Isn't he a love? I don't wish to appear rude, Thomas, but exactly who the devil is he? Let's just say he's a military adviser Where's he from? A government dept who has as much interest in Limbani as we... - Which dept? - And that is all you get to know Now he's going to say "yea" or "nay" to your plan His decision is final, so you might as well start your briefing There's no need to be hostile, Colonel Faulkner We'd very much like this to succeed So do we Rafer... Alright, from the top... we use 50 men 4 officers, 4 NCO's, 40 enlisted men, 1 medic and one sergeant major who'll be in charge of training and discipline Who's the fourth officer? - Mr Fynn has someone in mind Pieter... - Coetzee He's a South African He served on border security and knows the bush as good as anyone He'll be good, I can guarantee it And we're interviewing him when you proceed to sign We'll recruit in London, group and train in Swaziland. I assume you can arrange that We fly from Swaziland here and we drop from a Hercules cargo 'plane that's on a scheduled flight to Rwanda You're going to parachute in? No, we will be free-falling from 25,000 feet You'll be using oxygen? Could you allow him to pause? Thanks, Allen Oxygen, no The cabin will be pressurised and then de-pressurised 3 mins before the jump Parachutes open at 1,500ft. They won't hear the plane or see us land The plane will continue, re-fuel, come back, pick us up We'll be on the ground for exactly 3 hours You're doing beautifully, continue There's a plateau, here, 7 miles from Zembala, here We drop and split into two groups. The first group, led by Allen, will take the barracks, which will be 4 miles from the drop zone here. The second group, led by Shawn, will take the airport here, which is 3 miles from the barracks The first group will take Limbani out and go to the airport With proper timing, the plane should land 10-15 minutes later, and pick us up And your plan of the barracks? These barracks were designed to hold 200 men, if my information is correct It is, I corroborate 25 of you are going to take Limbani out from 200 men, how? While they're asleep. We'll dispose of the guards, here... here... here Cut the wires, enter here, proceed to the barracks here, here and here With gas masks + cyanide gas canisters, they really won't know what hit them My God, you mean to say that you intend to kill them all Can you think of a better way? The UN will go mad Not if we get Limbani out General Ndofa won't say a word, otherwise he'll have too much explaining to do to his own people. You see he's told them that Limbani is dead And our objective is to get Limbani out Quite right Your plan is approved, gentlemen - Well done, Rafer - Thank you Oh, there's one small change. We received some updated info this morning The operation's been moved forward 3 weeks I assume you can handle that Excellent. Goodbye gentlemen If his back was any straighter his spine would snap Here's the signed contract Read it "Open-ended check-in account on a Swiss bank. All expenses for weapons, and equipment etc to be itemised One third of all wages to be paid in advance Fair enough 100,000 for you? 50,000 for Janders 30,000 for each of the other officers 20,000 for NCO's and the RSM 10,000 for the enlisted men And one half of all amounts if the mission fails That's absolutely outrageous! My sentiments exactly Sign here And here Here's your copy. You can go and scream in the corridor Shawn, would you be good enough to show Mr Balfour out? Yes of course - I had no idea. - I know There'll be other holidays Allen, I'd like your approval on this equipment request Excuse me, would you know of someone called Sandy Young? Colonel Faulkner, sir! How are you, Sandy? Couldn't be better, sir! Yourself? Not bad I can't say what a pleasure it is to see you sir It brings back memories I never thought I'd hidden Let me invite you in, sir - Is your wife at home? - Yes, she'll be delighted I don't think so. I think we'd better talk out here How's your retirement? It has its points, sir Such as? The fucking rose bushes are whipping into shape sir, and that's about it How do you fancy whipping 50 men into shape for me? - You're serious? I need a sergeant-major and you're the best - I'm not too old? - What do you think? Sir, where do I report and when? - Tea's ready - Look who's here, love Good afternoon Yes, I see I hoped I'd never see him again That's no way to treat an old friend, Marjorie He's not my friend Tea's on the table You're not welcome here, Mr Faulkner My apologies, sir I understand She'll be crying now, won't she? A good deal of it, but she'll get over it. She's a lovely girl Yes, she is Well, you go in... and call me at this number tonight - Sandy. - Sir Excuse me Can I get you another one? - Shawn... - Shawn Fynn How's it going, Pieter? That's a good question if you have a few hours - What are you doing round here? - Looking for you Yes sir? 2 of these please How did you find me? Your landlady By the way, she asked me to tell you you should pack and get out by the morning Rent? That's a joke I haven't even got the money to buy you one back Why would you be looking for me? I might have a job for you Thanks, I've been in jail once, I didn't like it Thank you I now have to prove to you that crime is only a hobby of mine - It's not that kind of job. - No? All I want out of life right now is to get back to South Africa I don't know why I came here in the first place One more week and I'll explode It's funny you should talk about explosives Because explosives could very well be a part of this job What does that mean? It's also in Africa You must be joking You're serious? 30,000 how's that for serious - Right, Tosh. - Sir Come in State clearly your name, age, previous military experience and rank Donaldson, sir. Born 1932. 12 years with the paras, 3 tours with you. Rank of Sergeant, sir - How have the years treated you? - Not so good, sir I'm a plumber now, it's not my line - Married? - Yes sir - Your wife know you're here? - No sir, she'd do her nut If I'm accepted, sir, I'll leave her a note Sir, you won't regret it I'm as good a man as I was at 20, sir Why do you want to come with us? It's what I do best, sir I love it Blake, Jesse, Colonel Faulkner, sir Age: within the acceptable range. Experience: you name it, I've had it Financial status: wipe-out Cannot afford a haircut, sir Jesse, I'm glad you got my wire So am I, sir... it was my breakfast How do you feel about working in Africa? - I don't care where it is, sir, except Switzerland Neatness scares the shit out of me. And since I see Mr Janders sitting there I know we're not going up against any sweet and kindly group Thank you So I'm ready, available and hungry You're hired Colonel, you've made my day. Would it be possible for you to advance me 20? The man has hunger I have this lady barber who charges by the inch, sir McTaggart, aged 42, sir 12 years in the Black Watch, rank of Sergeant Undefeated regimental middleweight champion 6 years running, sir What year were you born? 193... Come on now, Jock. You can do better than that - Yes, sir. - How old are you? - 47, sir. - You look like you could do with some exercise It will take 4 weeks to get down to fighting weight - You've been hit a few times? - Yes sir A lot of the hitters are still hearing bells sir I just like to fight, with weapons or without Witty, Arthur. Age: 43. Medical Orderly You don't need to go over your qualifications. How are you? Good, sir - You look fit. - Thank you sir I spend my time cranking up hospital beds Patients lying around the wards, that sort of thing Keeps me fit Why do you want to come with us? Colonel Faulkner, two years of sorting gall-stones at St Vincent's hospital have hardened my heart. And softened more important parts I want to reverse the process It could be a bloody one Aren't they all. I like to keep fit Alright, you've got the job Thank you, sir Do I have time to get a divorce? 36 hours Thank you, sir I can't wait to see his face! Well-played, Emile - You played a good game? - I didn't know you were coming! It's a surprise. What's the score? We're winning 4-0. It's just a knockabout at half-time But why? It just has to be It's Christmas, we were going to have 3 more weeks together I know what I said, but sometimes these things just can't be helped Anyway, you'll be with the Headmaster's family. It'll be nice No it won't, I want to be with you - I want to be with you too. - Then don't go Please. It's only business I have to go I don't even know where, what it's about, or anything One day I'll tell you. That's a promise Let's sit down for a bit, have some fun Look I raided Hamley's It's called "Xmas whenever you want" Don't really want them now I understand I'll give them to the headmaster. He'll give them to you for Christmas My mother was here last week with some Frenchman One of the older boys said she looked like a whore I didn't know what that was so I laughed And then someone told me Listen You listen to me now Don't pay any attention to what they say. 'Cos you know and I know she's the kindest and finest woman there is I want you to remember that - I've got to get back to the game. - I love you I love you too Company! Attention! Some of you know me already Those of you who don't are in for a great big fucking surprise Those of you who do are in for an infinitely more horrible time than they care to remember Any man here steps out of line and I will kill him stone-dead It will not worry me in the slightest There are no Queen's Regulations here When I say "Jump!", you ask "How high?" Do I make myself clear? "I WANT TO HEAR I DO I MAKE MYSELF CLEAR?!" Good On the command "Right and left turn", A and B squads turn to the right, C and D squads turn to the left SQUADS! Right and left TURN! Right! Let's try for our first heart attack shall we?! On the command "double march" You will double in clockwise and anti- clockwise directions within the confines of the parade ground 20 paces at the double, 20 paces at a sprint, fall flat on your bellies, get up and do it again until I tell you to halt At the double, double march! Come on, move it! Faster than that! Get up, you lazy bunch of bastards! Get up sir, before I kick your head in Move it you dozy lot! Come on, get up! Witty you screaming faggot Move it before I sew up your arsehole! The Lord in his infinite wisdom would never ordain that Captain Janders Get up and run or I will string you up by the balls Do I make myself understood? Get up! I can't, Sir Get on your feet, you fucking abortion! I've tried, sir. I'm dead Next time you move it, get out of my sight now Come on, move it! Move it you fucking bastards! If anyone tried to convince me I was still alive, I would hardly believe it Me too, I'm as much of a wreck as anyone Alright gentlemen, let's get down to business We have a problem to solve The camp sentries Look here Pieter Look at this There's one here, one here and one here And all around, open country We can't make any noise They must be killed instantly and silently And there's no cover for 100 yards? I'd use a crossbow Who do you think you are, William Tell? The one I have in mind will kill at 300 yards At 120 yards, the bolt goes straight through a man - Where do we find such a thing? - Somebody I know in Durban I use hardwood quarrels, with vials of cyanide attached The quarrel will shatter inside the man, and if that doesn't kill him instantly, the cyanide takes effect in less than one second. So there is no sound Get the weapon, I'll take care of the sentries OK. You have it Anything else, sir? No Good night then Pieter, is something wrong? In South Africa, we call the blacks "kaffir", like you call them "niggers" I don't particularly like them, but I don't like killing them I'm sure you've hunted black terrorists in your own country Those terrorists hunted me General Ndofa's army killed more innocent people in one day Than your terrorists did in a year Maybe, but that is in Ndofa's country, not in mine Our mission is to save the life of Limbani and get him out. He's a special man I'm no good at politics I don't know Limbani, or the people that back him I only know that I don't like killing people I've nothing to do with Then what the hell are you doing here, Pieter? You know why This is my ticket home My money to buy a farm Nothing more So I'll be killing for me and I'll live with it later And you'll be killing to impose your ideas on the future of mankind on others whether they're right or wrong I wonder how we stack up against each other morally Is that all, sir? Morals amongst mercenaries... Who'd thought we'd ever see the day We'll have to watch him, can't afford any risks If he's not with us, he's dead I know from your records, you're all perfect Don't forget to bend your knees when you hit, to take the shock out of it and roll over Esposito, what the fuck are you waiting for? A push? Go! Next man, move it You have one jump to make, it better be perfect, or you get left where you fall. Go! Very good That was LUDICROUS, sir You're jumping from an aeroplane, not a whorehouse window. Do it again Sir Keep the rhythm up, not too quick Get out of the car I've got an urgent message for Colonel Faulkner Get in Up! Come in Gentlemen, sit down We're going in tomorrow night You're kidding Tomorrow's Christmas We'll celebrate on the 26th How did this happen? We were guaranteed a seven day notice According to this message, a crazy old lady relative of Limbani had a vision that he'd risen from the dead and it spread through the tribe like... the mumps Made Ndofa very nervous. He wants to get this thing over with fast Now Limbani's being delivered tomorrow night. We'll be there 4 hours later Splendid. The best news I've had since I threw up my lunch Well, be prepared to throw up dinner Instead of taking a small bodyguard, Ndofa's taking the Simbas with him That's his own regiment And they're good, as we know We won't come across them. We'll have Limbani out before they get close If all goes well Alright gentlemen, now to business Rafer, see that the men make their wills Shawn, take the men into town They can kiss their money goodbye if they're not back by 0400 Drunk, laid and parleyed They deserve it. That's all Sandy Sit down I just wanted to have this private moment with you, old friend, to thank you. You're the best of the best You've earned your money five times over I appreciate that sir, but I'm not quite sure what it means It means that I'd like you and your wife to spend your money in good health You trying to tell me I'm not coming along? Yes Sir, with respect, you can stick your money up your arse - Sandy! - I love what I do And believe it or not, I also love those grubby thick-headed men I trained you most of all I expect to be with them and with you. Because I'm needed And if you want to see a REAL revolution, try and stop me How about that! Who are you leaving your money to, Queenie? Well, if it's any of your business, To the dearest, kindest proctologist in the whole wide world What's that? "Bum-doctor" to you, chubby cheeks Come along auntie! We'll find you a lovely bit of tail No thanks dear You enjoy yourselves I'll be waiting up for you, with bandages and penicillin Have your bums ready! I never think about dying I've got my death all planned Blind drunk, lying on the pavement, roll off, fracture my skull... out I think about it - That has no purpose. - Your children are grown-up That's true Allen, I want you to do something for me If I buy it, I'd like you to see that my son's alright Me? - I mean you put me into this pit. - Don't you have any decent friends? Well, I've just made you his Godfather Look, if his mother doesn't take care of him, I'd like you to take him away from her That's absolutely crazy You must have an IQ of 2 When I'm not employed killing perfect strangers, I'm an out-of-work drunk Bit of responsibility would do you good I want your hand on it You're not going to die, Rafer I know it, you know it, but it's the guy up there who decides Well, I'll ask him Come on, move it Come on, move it up, right down What's the hold-up? Come on All in, sir Service is a bit slow For President Limbani Yes, sir. He'll need these We've got 3 mins left. We're de-pressurising now Red light on Alright. Get them on their feet, Sergeant-Major On your feet! I suppose a transfer to the cavalry is out of the question, sergeant-major? - Check equipment. - CHECK YOUR EQUIPMENT! - Stations. - Get in position for the jump Jump! Shawn, how goes it? Oh fine, fine thanks. I tell you, Jock, that's it My heels are where my balls used to be I don't believe it! 2 out of 3 asleep! Pieter? Take the one who's awake first. You have 3 minutes for the other 2 Rafer? Get inside the fence there. Stay there When we've passed, bring your men Cut it Hello Stay right where you are. Don't move Not a sound We'd like your keys Whoever has them, just hand them over Esposito, start with him first Try the Cuban I'll go round the other side Mr Limbani, I'm Faulkner. Just lie there Come on Pieter, quickly Witty? - Everybody OK? - Yes Keith, find Captain Janders - Tell him to send Lt Fynn to take the airport. - Sir! Alright? Yes, sir I've got some lovely pills from London for your heart You just relax now Here Drink a bit of this, come on - That's good. - How is he? I live, Mr Faulkner That's the plan, sir Pieter, you're responsible for him From now on, he never leaves your sight Alright, let's go Esposito! Well then, kaffir On your feet Here we go, love That's fine Up Come on The keys Here you are Shawn... - Come in, Shawn. - I receive you We have it. Go ahead Good luck ZEMBALA AIRPOR He's all yours, Jock Come on! Excellent... excellent This is Rushton Put Charlie 1 into effect immediately That's right, immediately. What's so surprising about that? Well, route it through any embassy you need. That's your job, do it It'll be difficult, but we'll make it Get Mr Limbani out first and be careful with him Take him to the foot of the control tower Well done, Sandy Allen, let's go and see Shawn Mister Limbani, the 'plane should be here any minute Alright, let's move out to the runway. Follow me at the double, come on Put him down there Iron Man, Iron Man. Wild Goose, Wild Goose Well done, Shawn. Are they on their way in? The radio's Russian, the dials work backwards Iron Man, Iron Man Wild Goose, Wild Goose. Do you read, over? "Iron Man", "Wild Goose"... sounds like a finger up a tin man's backside, doesn't it? Wild Goose, this is Iron Man. I receive you God bless us, each and every one. Iron Man, get yourself in here. We're waiting - Well Allen, we're just 12 mins behind schedule. - Make you feel good? If Limbani's heart holds out, I'll feel bloody marvellous We've heard the plane sir Iron Man, we hear your engines Sounds like you're South-East of us I have you in sight. We're commencing descent There it is! No, no. Don't move Right on the money Let's hope we've got a couple of stewardesses on board We need three 30,000 Let's go and meet them Iron Man, this is Charlie 1 The message is: pass them by I repeat, Iron Man Pass them by Christ, those poor bastards Charlie 1, message received, wilco Iron Man, Iron Man, what's going on, over? Get him up Get yourselves back here Sorry, orders. Good luck to you Orders? Orders? We're stuffed... who's Charlie 1, Allen? I'm going to speak to the men Men, we have been double-crossed But we will plan a way out of here - Jock - Sir? We need more trucks, find them I want everybody loaded on and ready to roll, now - And find all the spare ammunition and weapons you can. - Sir I thought we had this in the bag There's a man called Matherson who has a lot to answer for Sir Edward Matherson? - Yes. - He's Charlie 1? Yes, Sir Edward Matherson. He's the money What's happened then? I'm guessing he's made a new deal with Ndofa. He doesn't need Limbani any more He could've done that yesterday and aborted the mission then? This way he saves $500,000, the rest of our money I'd like to meet him one day Rafer, my friend, one day we will Alright Rafer, how do we get out of here? And where do we go, Allen? Within hours, we'll have the whole of Ndofa's army down on us like a ton of bricks You'd prefer to surrender? I'd rather have Witty treat my haemorrhoids Rafer, you have 10 mins. You're the planner Allen, I've got something to say to you I'll give it to you emotionally first, then rationally - This man, Matherson? - Yes He's given us the royal screwing of all time Now my first instinct is to give it back to him, and worse - Me too, but that's for another time. - Ah! We came to get Limbani, we've got him, so we use him Show him to his tribe, they'll think he's been re-incarnated They're about ready for a civil war Let's start it, maybe we could even win it Stop, right there. Now you listen to me, Rafer I've got 50 good men down there and their lives are my responsibility. I'm not going on a bloody crusade. I don't want to debate with you Rafer, at least not now So just get on with it and get us out of here! OK. Now I'll give it to you rationally - The North is out of the question. - Why? What if we got hold of a ferry to Burundi? I wouldn't cross that lake even on a destroyer, Ndofa's men will pick us off like ducks They wouldn't let us into Burundi anyway, nor Rwanda Zambia's too far East? 600 miles of jungle, totally impassable That still leaves the South Exactly, the South Limbani country. I know it well There's a dry river and an old stone bridge If we cross that bridge, we're on our way to Kalima What's in Kalima? Limbani was born there. We can walk it - Rafer... - For God's sakes it's our only way of accomplishing something from this whole fucking mess! 50 men in the valley of the shadow, and he wants to take over an entire country! There's no bloody place to run to! So why not stand and fight? And for the cause. For two causes One: Limbani. He's the best there is, words from your own lips And two... Matherson You know Rafer, sometimes it's almost a pleasure knowing you Alright, let's do it Let's do it? I'm in the hands of maniacs Have a good trip. Goodbye Good Call me back when you get confirmation Well, here's to General Ndofa Difficult bastards to negotiate with, but it's a good deal Cheers - Let's hope Ndofa continues to honour it. - Oh he will He's got brand new finances, and we've got the mines We're back in the copper business - They don't build bridges like this now. - It would go off with a hell of a bang - We haven't got any stuff. - Pity We haven't got time anyway. Let's go Go Come on, man It won't start Well keep trying What's happened? Got a problem? - Rafer! Take cover! - Tosh! Back the Jeep up Take cover! Quick, get out of there Jock, get the men across the bridge Take cover! Take cover! Come on, get out! Jesus Not even Jesus could get through that You alright, sir? They'll be back with more planes before we can get through that fire Well get moving Decoy them away from us We'll cross with Limbani lower down. Meet you at Kalima village Alright. Come on men, move out - A write-off? - A complete write-off West, Smith and Robertson, sir Look after Mr Limbani Can't leave them for the Simbas No, we can't. You volunteering? Suppose I'll do it We'll keep going for about another hour Then we'll hole up somewhere for a while How many men have we got left, Sandy? Counting the colonel's group, 32 including 6 walking wounded, sir That's a hell of a formidable unit I wouldn't like to be up against us, sir Let's rest here That's what's good for him sir, if we want to keep him alive What happened? We're going to carry him We'll carry on until noon, then we'll rest I'll take him You alright? I'll take point - Let me carry him. - No way Just hang on, kaffir My blood is red, just like yours. Don't call me kaffir Take that hand off my face, kaffir - Where do you come from? Rhodesia? - South Africa South Africa? I knew Jan Smuts a long time He was a good man I don't get to meet prime ministers now shut up! Whatever you say What do you want? Just talk Talk? You're a politician for sure I've not had anyone to talk to for two years Just prison guards I entertained myself trying to provoke them to kill me No point trying with me Go to sleep man! "Man"?... That's an improvement over kaffir - What did you do in South Africa? - I fought black cops Who were you fighting against, cops? If you're asking me if I understand the politics of my country, the answer's "no" At least we have an equal opportunity to neglect our education What do blacks do there? They want to take over my home That's all saving your life means to me A chance to live my own life, a free man in the country I love That's good enough Only one thing to remember about Africa Today, freedom is only a word for a new oppressor Black or White, North or South, if you want to live here, you've got to think about tomorrow - That's Kalima - Picturesque - Sandy? - Sir? - Post guards, send a patrol into the village - Tosh, come on. - Sir This will do for now If your white friends in South Africa could see you now... Oh, kaffir, if you think you can ride me through the bush like a mule and laugh at me, you can bloody well crawl We've carried you people on our backs ever since we came to this country It's the other way round I believe Is it? You need me to save your miserable black life right now I do. And you need me to save yours We need each other, white man and that's the way it should be. We've got the whole world using us, setting group against group, destroying Africa For me, "freedom" is just a another label for the upgrade of slavery and the final bloodbath is coming, between blacks and whites, and then between black and black when you whites have left Africa without support Man, we have built your countries and now you are kicking us out of almost all of them You're living on foreign aid, robbing your own people blind You're crying about outside oppression while killing each other in great big batches Now once you have something better to offer You come and see us in the white South Africa We both have something better to offer Listen to me. Because the white south will be next unless they learn You're joking. The whites were born here, we're just as African as you are And don't make any mistake. We're going to stay I'm glad to hear that You need to join us for a better future Join you? We've got to learn to care for each other or they'll be nothing left of our Africa except battlefields You have a point there. But do you have an answer? I have the will to look for one We must forgive you for the past and you must forgive us for the present If we have no future together, then we have no future That's what I believe in, and that's what I'm going to die for You're beginning to sound good to me Maybe we need you, maybe you are just the man Alright Let's get moving Maybe I'm a bloody fool, but I'm going to take you there Let's see if you are lying Just hang on tight, bloke Heavenly Father, what's going on? What's going on? Get out of my village You heathens! You Godless heathens! Why did you come to my church? I've got women and children, waiting to be slaughtered Tosh, why those shots? It was nothing, sir. It was just a pig Father Geoghagen... good God... I thought you were dead... long ago Looking at you and your guns... I am We need your help To kill your brothers? I hope not Always the same, but I'm glad to see you I hate the sight of you. I want you out of my village Let's talk about it over there Come on, let's go - Witty, over here. - Get your lovely arses out of here Witty's holding the fort! Stay down! Come on, my pretties. Show yourselves Witty! Pieter... come here Come on my dears! Where are you? Well look at you, you big bastards What a shame we can't be friends - Leave him to me. - You're welcome Don't worry. We'll make it Come on, Colonel Faulkner Leave me you will go faster Oh no, kaffir I have to bring you back Don't die Please don't die Let's go Spread out Mr Limbani Please You can leave him now Mr President. He's dead - How do you feel? - As you would say, Mr Faulkner, I'm just hanging on Tell me if I'm wrong You want my people to rise up and fight I'd like your country to be yours, sir - Yes, so would I. But I think spears against machine guns was not a plan If you started it, there'd be something to back us up It's happened before Copper can be powerfully persuasive I've been through all of it with him, and God knows we've got enough commitment but we have no chance I've heard all that before I'll tell you now, the Simbas have got a whole battalion out there About an hour ago, there's more following What the devil are we doing here then? Possibly saving a good man for a better day With 30 men? What are we meant to do, walk out of Africa? We could probably try running Allen, believe me, these people have got nothing to fight for There's nowhere to run God in heaven, it's true. I didn't truly believe the rumour We're a little pressed for time, Father - You're Faulkner. - That's right Don't call me "Father", you murdering pig I have no time to discuss my finer qualities with you now Get those elders to have a look at him I'd like to talk to my people alone I believe you want to start a civil war here, Faulkner You'd be responsible for slaughter and starvation the likes of which you've never seen You'll be up to your eyes in blood... and you'll die, Faulkner. And all of us I'm against you. And God's against you And if you'll excuse the blasphemy, we're both tough sons of bitches That sort of talk could get back to the Vatican, Father You shut your mouth! I will turn these people against you, in spite of Limbani, I curse you from every hill Alright, that's enough! The decision's being made in there Alright I offer you a bargain, Faulkner About 3 miles from here, through the bush There's a mine airstrip, with an old Dakota just sitting on the side You said what? A Dakota. It's alright, I've flown in it And there's nothing between it and us, but a deserted village I'll lead you there myself You've still got time to take Limbani and leave us in peace Well, Mr President They say if they fight now, they'll die, and they know it They were willing, but I can't do that, Mr Faulkner I can't, do you understand? I told them to bear their spears and wait and be ready for Limbani's return They agreed - Without understanding why. - Alright You rest here. We're going to get you out - We've got Limbani. - Praise God Praise Limbani. Now show us where that aeroplane is Shawn, take 4 men, check it out and let me know - We'll be following. - Alright Allen Sandy, get the men out and ready to move We can't take the dead Sir! Right, come on, at the double You made the right decision, Allen Limbani made it, I didn't If he can't save his country from here, the question is, what'll we do with him once we get him out? We knows? We may be back again to do another contract You never quit, do you? If I did, I wouldn't have a future would I? Also... don't laugh, but, er... - that man in there... - I know, he got to you, right? Yes There you are, boys There she is, over there Good afternoon - Are you gonna fly this thing, or am I? - What? Keep going We were lucky, Colonel Yes, they could be anywhere. We'll have to go ahead Rafer, you're the rear-guard. Take 3 men, stick close to us Jesse, take point and go like hell - Sandy, look after Mr Limbani. - Yes sir - When there's no-one else about you can call me Allen. - Yes sir I think we've been spotted, don't call back and don't start up until we get there. I want it quiet. Out Father, I think you should get on your ass and vacate the premises You're likely to get your sainthood shot off I'll do that Good luck, you Godless murderers That's one of the most moving benedictions I ever heard Merry Christmas to you, Father What's left of it Sandy, there's your killing ground Take Tosh and 4 other men and set up a field of fire Rafer & I will go deep around & take them in the flank We're losing light. I wouldn't want to take this wreck up in the dark We could try and find them, sir, and lead them in We don't know where they're coming from Derek, you stay with me. Jock, take the Vickers and set it up this end Quincy, help me move this out of here Come on, move Set it up here We're dead Esposito, you're not dead until I TELL you you're dead, understand? Wait Wait Wait Fire fire fire fire! Forward! Keep going! Let's go! Hold it! They're ours, too Put Mr Limbani on the 'plane first. The other 4 will cover We have to wait for Sandy and the group Rafer, Jock, set up cover on the edge of the airstrip, move - Mr Limbani alright, Daniel? - Yes, he is Move! Come on, Allen! Move your bloody arses! Hurry up and get on - It's moving! - Stay down! They're getting closer Hit them with the bazooka! Ready! Let's go! Get on board, fast. Come on Sandy, go! Cover us halfway. When you hear the guns, start running, we'll cover you We won't wait for you, we're running out of ammo ALLEN! Sandy!... Sandy! - Leave him, he's dead. - Yes sir Come on Rafer! Come on! Come on! Come on, Rafer! Shawn, stop the plane I can't, if we don't get off on the first run, we've had it Go! Rafer, come on! Hang on, Rafer - Hold on. - Allen! Allen, shoot me! For God's sakes, shoot me! No, I can't! No! Stop the plane Emile! Where are we heading? South Rhodesia That's 800 miles, we don't have the fuel We better have it, there's no other place to go Shawn... I killed Rafer The Simbas would've chopped him into small pieces Allen, go and see how the men are There's 13 of us left Tell them to jettison everything that's not nailed down Everything! Do it Mr Limbani's getting worse, sir It was a very good try, Mr Faulkner It's not over, just hang on. Don't give up now About Mr Janders... There was nothing else you could do - How's Jock? - He's dead, sir Why? What was it for, sir? I don't know Alright We have to get rid of everything on board That includes old Jock. I'll leave it with you, Sergeant Yes, sir Gennaro, get his legs How much fuel do we have left? Bad... we're on the auxiliary tanks Salisbury control, 9 Quebec November X-Ray Alpha on 6603 Do you read? Over? 9 Quebec November X-Ray Alpha This is Salisbury. State your destination, over Mercenary unit, departing Kalima. 7 wounded on board Urgently request permission to land, Kariba If they refuse, keep on talking X-Ray Alpha, stand-by We're going to need positive proof that you're on board Write this down Got a pen? X-ray Alpha, this is Salisbury Control, come in Allen! Reading you at strength 4, over Permission to land denied. Do not cross our borders For Christ's sakes man, we have wounded on board, we can sort it out later, over I repeat, do not cross our borders Our air force has been alerted Give that to me We would be forced to shoot you down Salisbury... X-ray Alpha Now you listen to me. Julius Limbani is on board and he's alive Note this down and pass it to the highest authority you can find Allen, look at the starboard fuel gauge Mr Limbani said there was a secret meeting in July of 1960 on the now Zambian-Zaire border concerning federal intervention in the Congo crisis Present at the meeting were the following: Julius Limbani... Brace yourselves, we've only got one engine The man is dead, Mr Faulkner Now only the spirit remains November X-ray Alpha, this is Salisbury. Authorisation to land at Kariba We will turn the lights on You'll see it just before the lake. Good luck Thank you. Allen... I heard Limbani's dead OK, thanks Goodbye, bon voyage Will there be anything else this evening, sir? No, thanks Good night, sir Yes, what is it, Andrew? There will be something more tonight, Sir Edward Go ahead and make your move That would be mate in two. I'd like to see you get out of that That's for another time There are 6 servants in this house I saw at least ten. How did you count? What do you want, Faulkner? You're a very bad conversationalist! You'll have to excuse me, I've had a very tiring evening I heard, I was in the drawing room I know you're dying to tell me. How did you get in? I did a crash course in how to trip alarms You're not very well protected And I guess you're dying to know how I got back to England? Yes, indeed Well, if I went into details, we'd be here all night Let's just say it wasn't easy I'm sure it wasn't You're a remarkable man, Faulkner I have contracts to kill you world-wide When I have time I'll grow a moustache and buy a pair of dark glasses In the meantime, I have my own contract to carry out - On me? - That's why I'm here Perhaps we can make an arrangement Yes, we can You owe me a great deal of money Also there are 11 men still alive And I haven't even counted the women and orphans yet Let's have a look at your safe After you. Very slowly I've turned off the alarm already. Open it All the money in the case - I see you came prepared. - Yes Dollars, very good Very good, thousand dollar bills I wager the US treasury wonders where they went Now tell me about the arrangement Now 500,000 dollars Half of what I owe you I lift all the contracts on your head and pay the other half in cash, wherever you choose - And I trust you? - Yes And naturally, I don't kill you? Correct Do you know, I had a speech prepared I'd been rehearsing it for 3 months. It was pretty good All about betrayal and lost friends. A sort of passionate requiem And naturally, what a filthy cold-blooded monster you are That part was very eloquent It even went into the philosophical implications of the relationship between a mercenary and his employer You'd have been impressed But right now, face to face with you I don't want to go through all that See, I don't mind taking money from you But having you offer me money for the lives of all those bodies littering Africa is actually degrading So I turn down your arrangement I see... Well, then I suppose you'd better kill me You're a remarkable man too, Sir Edward So I suppose I better had Now just wait a minute! Wait... Can I ask how it went? No I thought so Send the ball back, Emile Let's talk about your Father
