 

                        Wild Game AKA Jail Bait A Film by Rainer Werner Fassbinder After the play 'Wildwechsel' by Franz Xaver Kroetz -It's tenderness -Early in the morning It's saturday, and the kid's still asleep Ten years ago I had no wrinkles at all; not even five years ago I can't see them -But when you look close? -You look as you always did Skinny women do have more wrinkles That is a fact Chubby women like me stay younger longer You are right To slim down a bit wouldn't hurt -Did you submit the lottery tickets? -Yes, on thursday One doesn't win anyway All peeping at the telly... and nothing tip top... -Hannie, get up! -I am up already I am going back to bed for a moment ... are you coming? She must be packed off to school, and we must go shopping in town One doesn't go before nine, though -Are you coming yes or no? -Whenever you want Hurry up. You'd better wash first; Your cocoa is too hot now Dad must bring me Let him sleep! He can only sleep in on saturdays. We also must go into town He can drop me at school We're not going yet But, I'll ask him, anyway He is reading the newspaper Take me dad, or I'll be late -Don't you say good morning anymore? -Good morning! Will you take me to school? -We must go into town -Get up now and you can bring me If you really want it Hurry up! Then we won't be late He is taking me though Come have breakfast Soon I don't want anything to eat I've done a roll Because I am getting too fat You don't understand it anyway -Are you taking her? -I am up anyway She twists her father round her finger If one is eating in a hurry, that's no good either Besides, she would be late for the third time if I don't take her -That's right, no? -When you insist on it -Can you make me a coffee? -I must see to her first They want to pay us every two weeks now They do with us what they like I'll have to make the money last Long-distance transport is better -You bring it back on again -It would make a change -You can't switch over at forty-five -Others worse than me do it You won't be home anymore, not for one single evening You don't want me to do long-distance transport? Absolutely not! It would make a change They earn over a thousand For just one hundred Mark extra... and goodbye to family life Always on about long-distance; you stay where you are We won't let you do it, so that's that I only mentioned it We are allright as it is Are you ready? Let us leave now... It's almost quarter to -I am ready -You got everything? Leave some lunch for her She can do it herself at her age; there's plenty in the fridge Hurry up -It's allright Take care -Goodbye He wouldn't have done it for me Whistle! Now you can't escape Ever had a French kiss? -You know how it's done? -I'm not stupid Come on, then I don't want anyone to see it He's only a foreign worker How old are you? Sixteen? I look older, but I'm fourteen You look older I'm fourteen How old are you? Me? I am nineteen You're five years older than me then Where are you off to? We must go where no one sees us I know a nice place Is it far? -Ten minutes -That's not far -Sure you're not a virgin still? -What's it to you? -What's your name? -Franz Bermeier I'm Hanni Schneider Do they call you Franzl? -You like Franzl? -I prefer Franz Call me Franz then Whatever you like Have you had a boy before? Tell me They've asked often enough I don't; I'm different Somebody must be the first -It's great -It did hurt Then you shouldn't have come with me You get dressed again? No one is coming Why not? What else can we do? -Ever smoked? -Often Let's have a cigarette before we go I want to jump down, too No one's stopping you I daren't Stay there, then You're no virgin anymore now I had no idea this morning Are you sorry? It had to happen, and now it happened It doesn't matter -Do you like me? -I wouldn't have done it, otherwise I don't know... I think I like you That's her -What do you like to drink? -A coke Aren't you working today? The freezer's out of order, so we can't slaughter the chickens It's my first break since I got here We have two weeks off I wish they'd pay me off What do you do on your holiday? Having a holiday In the paper I saw an ad for a holiday on the Costa del Sol Journey and stay all in for 275 Mark Where's that? The seaside You'd get a lovely tan The sun's always shining there I'd like to go there Why not? I'd like to go there With an Italian, a papagallo, or whatever they're called With you You want to go to the Costa del Sol? We'll go then We got to go there The water is so salty, you daren't open your mouth I don't mind the salt A holiday is important We just rot away in this place Go to the Costa del Sol No one's stopping you -What should I do there? -If you don't like it here... -You don't want me to go -Why not? You think I'll go? When you want you hair cut, let him do it, he's a hairdresser -Are you? -Not me, him Actually, yes Why aren't you working as one? I've got a temporary job He was sacked because he's a bad hairdresser Better than you If he's learnt how to do it... Keep your hands off my head, anyway, it's too risky One morning I woke up bald; he's practicing on me Watch out, or I'll cut something off you That's her -She's young -Still at school -Fifteen? -No, fourteen She's under age; if you're caught, they will jail you They won't get me Did she had a period yet? I didn't ask Take care when you screw her When you don't know eachother too long, it doesn't really matter Was she a virgin? What do you think? She's got breasts She's not bad When she's eighteen, she'll be everyone's A right whore then Not the worst, then -The toilet is a pigsty -Men's toilets too You ordered my Coke? You've got a telly too You like it? -We don't have one -We've had ours since ages We've known each other for a while now, but haven't slept together in a bed yet Now's our chance Before the telly, they often went to the cinema, would've been better for us Now, they rarely go to the cinema What are you staring? The last show finishes just after ten You must be gone by then Do you long for me? Why not? We meet every day, it's getting like a habit -Wouldn't you like another? -I've got you Those dolls I'll throw them out -Have a favorite? -I do -Which one? -Nevermind, come on Switch off the light Where? You don't know my place? The cord Very modern We'd like a word with Herr Grtz He's in the next room Could we speak with Herr Grtz, please Herr Grtz, customers Are you employing Franz Bermeier? Why? It's a police matter -None of your concern -Private matter -Where is he? -At work, where else Follow me Are you Franz Bermeier? Why? I'm a police officer I've got a warrant for you -Why? -Let's speak in private You may speak out, he's a friend Besides, it must be a mistake; I've done nothing wrong Come along quietly Haven't I any rights? Come on, it's in your own interest You might be able to give us some information Is it because of a girl? Why? Do you know something? We tell each other, we're colleagues Give me his address? -I got nothing to do with this -We can believe that -Pig -Foreign worker I can't believe it It's all in the evidence It's good you weren't here They came by car and rang the bell "Is your daughter in?", they asked, "come to the station, then" "It's some unpleasant business", they said Did you see that lad? They showed me his picture He's in custody in town And she's still sleeping with her dolls Where is she, anyway? At choir practice for sunday's service I let her go without going on at her We must sort this out Did the neighbours notice? I don't think so, it was an ordinary car They said nothing until they were in the living room Read the evidence, it's all in there I've read it You'll need to go there in the morning I'm not going alone I'll come with you You always come with me to the tax office You know I can't get on with officials I'll come with you Children are so precocious now; the police said it happens often What's that to do with me? I've only got one daughter The man seduced her They should condemn him to death He ought to be hanged Death penalty has been abolished They should reintroduce it, for child-seducers Or I'll kill him with my own hands Couldn't he have picked another? Did he have to interfere with precisely our child? You know what Hanni told them? He didn't seduce her She told the police they both wanted it She's protecting him I don't believe this of my child; it's a lie He didn't rape her, that's for sure He didn't have to rape her He knows his tricks It was mental seduction, and she was defenseless; that's how it went What are we to do with her? Nothing, we do nothing with her She's been punished already It wasn't her fault, or else she's no longer my daughter That's why its not her fault Won't you speak to her about it? I'll kill her, if it happens again before she turns twenty Tell her that from me That's all I've got to say It's too late for talking We should have taken precautions Are you holding me responsible? When I'm on the road I can't know where my daughter is So now it's my fault? You couldn't have known she would do such a thing You would've put a stop to it if we had known... or? I don't feel guilty, because I did all I could. She never lied before If she said she was going to see a friend, how could I know she was going to a man Of course you couldn't No one can expect that from us It's ridiculous But we can do anything about the fact that she's been seduced Is it you? Who else did you expect? No one Father won't be in yet You're late! I stopped to look at an accident, a cyclist got hit by a car -Dead? -No, only injured at face and shoulder See how easy it happens, be careful when you ride a bike Why not put the lights on? It's out of order, I'll go to the electrician tomorrow Dad will fix it It can't be the bulb, because I've put a new one in I expect it's the switch or the wires, so we need the electrician It's very dark Well, when the light's broken Where are the candles? I'll buy some tomorrow If it weren't for the street lamps, it would be really dark, you're unable to cook Stop jawing and lay the table Ordinary or soup plates? Ordinary... It's liver and potatoes, no spoons Surprised? I thought I had come to take you Where have you come from? See you in town Put it over there They released me yesterday morning -Nine months already? -Still seventy days to go They released me for good conduct... yesterday I hung around town Today I am here They released you just like that -First I had to promise I wouldn't see you -They must be stupid They let me go because they thought I'd keep away from you At first I wanted to stay away, but... now I am simply here We can't go to the old place, it's too dangerous If we're seen together, they'll send me back Nevermind Let's go somewhere else We'll find something now we're together again You haven't forgotten me? Stupid question See you tomorrow Two beers please That's a lovely coat Shall I buy it for you? Dad would never buy me a coat like that But I will buy it What does your father earn? Nine hundred, I think... I don't get that much, but I'll buy it for you, anyway Nine hundred is quite a lot -I'll earn it one day -And now? About six hundred -That's quite a lot, too -Others earn more You can have the coat if you want it I heard you are seeing your old friend again Why? Who told you that? Nevermind It's a slender, a dirty slender... we haven't met at all Tasty? I told you we haven't met! You saw him yesterday, under the bridge Whoever told you that is a liar You were seen What if we met by chance? Why don't you tell me when I ask you Because you're always on at me Did he wait for you? You just have to tell me Then I'll slowly get up, and go straight to the police Then he'll serve out the rest of his time and perhaps a bit more... But it wasn't like that We really did meet by chance You should have walked on... without a glance back Well, when you haven't seen each other for months... You're shameless It was nothing He said: "Do I see you again?" I said: "You've seen me now" We didn't stop longer than a minute Then we said goodbye for ever Like ordinary people You aren't ordinary I didn't know that Now you know Anyway, just because we met, doesn't mean we are seeing each other Keep it that way If I hear of such a thing again, I'll report him straight to the police... and you'll get to know me What did you cook for him? What you said, but he didn't eat much because he was angry Why? Somebody told him I'd seen Franz Is it true? -You didn't tell me -What was there to tell? What did father say? I told him we met by chance He believed that? Yes, but if we meet again he'll turn Franz in Have you been intimate? What do you think? I love him I'm sorry we decided to have a child We could have had a nice life You should have thought of that earlier Hold your tongue That's gratitude after all that's been done to you If father said he'll turn him in, he'll do it Do you want Franz to suffer? You know what he gets when you get caught... years You won't see him before you're twenty It would be for the best anyway But dad believed me I don't see what he has against Franz He ought to keep his hands off, and not interfere with you He doesn't interfere, I love him At your age there's no love, except for your parents But, I'm still love him Wait for two or three years, til school is finished -What's it to do with school? -You're still a child Time passes quickly, if you're patient You'd think differently if you had parents like mine When I was young, well, about seventeen... I bought silk stockings with my own money Twenty-two Mark they cost I wore them on a sunday... and my father clothed me and ripped them to bits I wouldn't have stood for that Things were different then, he would have taught you What a business It would've been allright if no one had seen it But what's done is done So why worry? -Your parents worry -But I can't live without Franz I won't give him up because of father I'd rather kill myself That would be the limit, involving us in all that Well, it's true What have we done to deserve this? Other people's children are different For heaven's sake don't get pregnant, that's most important We're careful You won't tell father what I've said, will you If you do, I won't trust you and I won't tell you anything I don't want to know another thing He's not going to like it, everything is beginning all over again I want a simple family life, like other people Father is neglecting things, he shouldn't have to worry about you so much He should be putting his mind to other things Mama, why are you crying? Why shouldn't I cry? If they pick Bermeier up... ...then we'll have peace Why did they release him before his time was up? Every lout gets parole today Under Hitler he would have had a lesson in a concentration camp Why do you go on about the Nazis? He was released for good conduct Because there are no women in prison They should be castrated, cut it away And that's that But now we haven't a regime, we have a government They can't even protect children The Nazis had their faults too They gassed the Jews, that was wrong... but rather 100,000 gassed Jews, than pig mugging about with my daughter We needn't blame ourselves Johansser has three sons and a daughter, how do they manage? Compared with them Hanni lives like a princess Yet, they are decent Don't get worked up, it's no use Our own flesh and blood ruining us She's got no decent morals Well, I am expecting It may be late I told you I've had a test, I am pregnant It costs ten Mark -We'll get an abortion -By whom? We'll find a doctor, just take a morning off school I'd have to take a note It's that or a child Have you got a thousand Mark? Why thousand? I heard it costs a thousand Six hundred I can raise that The trouble is, you're so young I look older You don't... You look fourteen You said yourself that I looked older A doctor can tell how old you are He'll have you taken home by the police -Shut up then, if it's impossible -We needn't argue over it Something must happen before its noticeable When father sees, he'll kill us I know We must think of something -Undressing? -Why not, it doesn't matter now We must make the most of our time I will think of something Don't throw my coat on the floor! That coat will have to be returned It's not yours A gift is a gift It's Herr Bermeier's We don't need his presents Because you envy me That coat is whore's pay Such language before the child! I don't want that coat here Keep it, and it's all you leave with! You own nothing here You're behaving badly Hanni She made her bed, and she must lie in it -I pay for everything here -But not the coat -That's mean! Go to your room, it's time to go to sleep I won't get rid of the coat She's still a child It's not my idea of a child That's your upbringing Why didn't you take it away from her? What a bloody mess We need somewhere to live Come down to earth Forget it I can't do a thing, because of my parents and the child I'm edgy It's no wonder This is no way to live No, because the child will arrive before long How long has it been? Can't you count up to three? It doesn't show Just be patient But it autumn, you'll be back in prison Shut up about that And you are stupid If I would have a revolver, or a rifle... I'd go up to him and say: "Stop interfering with our love, or else..." Would you say that? He would agree, then go straight around to the police Then you'll see what they do when they've got you trapped I haven't a gun anyway That's no problem, you can buy one You need a licence Not always -You need to be twenty-one -You needn't Nonsense I promise, I get you a gun You won't manage it Do you know what he is? An unskilled worker His father cuts peat for a farmer, at Dachau Just as I thought He hasn't got a room of his own, he sleeps in lodgings I haven't invested fourteen years of money in the kid for that If it was a decent young man from a family like ours... I'd say: "Hanni is still a child, but the future is to come" We were young ourselves once... but without money there's no love and without a trade, there is no wive Especially when it's my daughter We have bad luck First, he does time Then, when he comes out, he acted though nothing had happened That's fanaticism, he must be doing it deliberately Or he is sick I don't understand it I couldn't do such a thing That's the youth of today And what were we? We had no youth They called us up in '39 On my birthday we were in retreat Nothing to eat, no proper clothes... A couple of lousy anti-tank weapons, 20 degrees of frost... At night we hurdled up in "winter-aid" blankets ...but shivered as though we were naked We weren't youths, we were soldiers Are you asleep? Yes, but I'm listening Better go to sleep Those times were different, there's no comparison Still, we are decent civilians Times have changed According to the papers, they print all sorts of glums on... All you need is money, and I haven't got it If Hanni goes on like this, the future looks black to me It would be no problem for a film star But an unskilled workman can't cope with it on his money That's how it is I always think; times have changed, when I can't make things out But we won't live to see different times Neither will Hanni We must think things out Hanni won't grow up like other people In five years she'll blame us for everything... ...that she has no normal future At the moment she's not interested in a thing But that'll change Do you think she'll stick to him? It is not love, it's nothing but sexuality We have to bridle it, and see its kept in proportion Where did you get it? I bought it You stole it Bought it, I said Give it to me What will you do with it? Nothing That's not why I bought it -What did you buy it for? -Nothing Give it, when your father finds it he'll hit you, like over the coat He'll never find it, I hide it What's it for? To shoot a dog? Why a dog? No dog is hurting me -What then? -Nobody What are you on about then? What did I say? You talk nonsense, give it to me Take it Look at it, or are you afraid? I want you to screw me With my parents in the next room, I'm longing for it You know what my mom said my father had said? "You should be castrated, cut it away and that's that" Bastard Just cut it away, then you'd be like I am Then it would be all over between us What use would you be to me, none Frankly... He is no man for our Hanni A jailbird Someone who takes whatever comes his way I've had two women in my life... after the war... and then you You'll turn him in? Should I wait 'til they're caught in the park? We'll be ruined She'll be expelled from school And I'll turn to long-distance driving, to keep away from her We couldn't stay in this town, anyway Right, tomorrow I'll turn him in You ought to sleep on it That wouldn't change the facts I am dead tired Growing children mean growing troubles That's what my mother always said -That's the place -It's padlocked I can break it open I don't know, suppose it goes wrong Then, don't do it No one can force you Where are you going? I'm going home You won't take advice, will you? Do you think I care? If you want to get rid of me... -I won't stop you -I didn't say that It's all because of you, they'll find out that I'm pregnant It's not that I'm not worried about it, but... I don't want to lose you I must think it over Not too long, they'll soon find out, they are not blind I need some time I can do it myself... ...but if I do I don't want to see you again Allright, I'll do it I'm the men here It's men's business I knew you'd protect me when you did give me a child -It has to be done -It's him or me He has to go He has to go, because we need room I want to tell you something Leave me alone, all you ever tell me are things I don't want to know Franz wants you to know something Have you met again? I'll kill you if you have He just wants to apologize He said: "Tell your father I'm working in the woods again... ...and I'll wait for him there" "I want to shake hands with him, and apologize" "Because I reckon I ought to, to put things right" He has a bad conscience You can't refuse someone for that What does he know about conscience? We haven't met since I promised you it was all over Now he dares to look you in the face, is that a bad sign? I know his trouble, he's afraid I'll turn him in He admits he was in the wrong, he won't go against you again Because I can break him Don't refuse to do it, he really is in earnest Then, let him come to me Then people will see us together Over there is nobody Besides, you've got a car I'm not wasting petrol on him See him after work today at half past four Allright, face to face then, that's what I've always wanted Maybe it's well if he sees me When he lies to my very face, I'll tell him that next time... ...I won't go to the police... I'll kill him with my bare hands That'll sort him out It really is for the last time Better not tell mother, she'll only get worked up I don't need your mother for this, it's between him and me -It's men's business -I think so too Cold Do you want my coat? -Then you'll get cold -No, I'm too hot Put it around me, if you're cold I give it back I'm not cold Why is he taking so long? We'll get cold when it takes too long Put it on properly, then you won't feel cold It's ok Did you bring any cigarettes? They are in the left pocket -There aren't any matches -Maybe in the other pocket Nothing I've got matches in my purse But that's at home They'll have some at the Kiosk, shall I go there? No, it's not that important, we just won't smoke He'll be here soon, then we'll get some on the way home It won't be long -What if he doesn't come? -He will -It was stupid to forget the matches -You can smoke two at a time, soon We can go to the Kiosk when we get home Then the girl will know that we've been here Nobody knows us here Nevertheless Still you can't be sure Waiting is boring We could go to the cinema tonight, shall we? -What's on? -There's always something He's coming See him? I told you he would come I expect he was held up He must be nearer, or you'll miss -How near then? -I don't know how close You should try Going the wrong way, I told him to come here, he never listens Try a shot now You got him, but not properly He fell down, but he's still alive Shoot again Now you've got him! He's dead! Can't you sleep? I'm waiting for father, go to bed Where can he be? Engine trouble, I expect I hope nothing has happened -An accident? -Maybe But he has driven for twenty years without an accident Can I do anything for you? I had some coffee Go back to bed You must sleep too I'm not tired yet He'll be back soon I'm going to the toilet, then to bed There's no end to our troubles He'll be here soon, you will see Just wait for a while That's right He is found -My husband? -Yes How do you know it's really my husband? Officer Strecke identified him, he knows him He was an acquaintance Why didn't he tell me, then? Because he is dead? You only believe things if they are in writing You want to identify him? It's true enough, he's been shot An entire magazine, eight shots Why then? Pistols usually have eight shots I didn't know that Women needn't know about weapons; at least, they're supposed not to know May we come in? Why? We've just done the house work -Doesn't matter -Is your daughter in? Leave it to me to tell my daughter We must ask her some questions Ask me My husband is my concern Let's go in, then we'll talk Go to your room, this is not for children -Is this your daughter? -Who else I'll call you when you are needed What is it? Have they got father? Where is he? She'll have to know someday Daddy passed away Now get out, or I'll box your ears It's no place for children It's sad, very sad. They found him in the woods, shot He was found by some passers-by Dead? I told you he was dead Where is he now? In the morgue It's a case for the coroner What's he to do with it? You must be prepared for the worst after four weeks We would like to ask you a few questions Perhaps we can start with you miss... You don't seem to be very upset Because I already suspected something Otherwise he would have come home, or written If dad knew you weren't crying he'd killed you Grief also can be inside Exactly -Everything's fine -I haven't any pain How do you feel in yourself? With a belly like that I've lost my figure I look a real sight, just like a frog It'll all be over in a month -I got red streaks on my feet -That's normal in pregnancy But it's ugly You get a child as reward Are you glad about it? If it wasn't for the kid I wouldn't be in prison It's your own doing Maybe? The stupid kid is the cause of everything The child is not to blame You must understand that -What is it? -Nothing Why? Because it's dead It died two minutes after it was born Died? It wasn't right, it was deformed A boy or a girl? It would have been a boy -Dreadful weather today, is it -You can say that It died Two minutes after it was born Did you see it? Tell me A glimpse, after it died. All deformed, you couldn't make a head or tail of it The doctor said it was caused by the business about father In your belly? Where else? The accused are strictly forbidden to conversate Leave them be, they're just some poor devils I'm not stopping them, but it is strictly forbidden If we'd known before that it would die... If the thing with father hadn't happened... ...then it probably wouldn't have died, the doctor said Now they are both dead -That's fate -Stupid it is Now nothing's left between us It's over It wasn't real love... It was purely physical... That's what I told the court I agree, it wasn't real love Come on in, it's about to start Did you had a name for the boy? I thought of Michael That would have been nice Cashier
