 

                        It's a time for hot chocolate and gingerbread cookies by the roaring fire. The blanket of snow covering the countryside truly makes everything look like a winter wonderland. You can feel the cold chill in the air, but we can dress warmly and go outside to sled and skate and play all day. Lights sparkle in the windows and on the trees. Together, let's explore this magical celebration of family, friends, traditions, imagination and fantasy. We'll share songs and laughter, stories and fun, with old familiar friends and new ones, too. ...and sing a sleighing song tonight Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way Oh, what fun it is to ride in a one-horse open sleigh Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way Oh, what fun it is to ride In a one-horse open sleigh Deck the halls with boughs of holly 'Tis the season to be jolly Don we now our gay apparel Troll the ancient Yuletide carol We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas and a happy New Year Good tidings we bring to you and your kin We wish you a merry Christmas and a happy New Year We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas We wish you a merry Christmas and a happy New... Deck the halls with boughs of holly Jingle, jingle bells The shops along Main Street certainly look beautiful. But it's a perfect day for a sleigh ride in the country where we'll see that romance can blossom even on a cold and snowy day. Don't you kind of love December When the merry snowbells chime? We're together Once upon a wintertime Every single snowflake falling Plays a jingle down your spine Lovely weather Once upon a wintertime On the frozen pond, folks are swaying Sweetheart, who cares? We'll have more fun sleighing Behind two chestnut mares When we say, "Goodbye, December" Merry bells no longer chime We'll remember Once upon a wintertime Don't you kind of love December When the merry snowbells chime? We're together Once upon a wintertime Every single snowflake falling Plays a jingle down your spine Here we are together, Lovely, lovely weather Once upon a wintertime Jingle bells, jingle all the way On the frozen pond, folks are swaying Sweetheart, who cares? We'll have more fun sleighing Behind two chestnut mares When we say, "Goodbye, December" Merry bells no longer chime We'll remember once upon a wintertime Remember December Once upon a wintertime On the frozen pond, folks are swaying Sweetheart, who cares? We'll have more fun sleighing Behind two chestnut mares When we say, "Goodbye, December" Merry bells no longer chime We'll remember Once upon a wintertime Do you remember the first time you ever saw snow? Let's go and visit our friend Bambi to relive the magic of his first winter and the thrill of seeing snow and ice for the very first time. Hiya, Bambi! Watch what I can do. Come on, it's alright. Look! The water's stiff. Some fun, Bambi? Come on, get up, like this. No. Kinda wobbly, aren't you? You gotta watch both ends at the same time. I guess you better unwind it. Not everyone lives where the seasons bring the winter surprises of ice and snow. Pablo the Penguin lives in a land of eternal snow. But he dreams of finding a place where the weather better suits his personality. This story takes us way down to the South Pole. Rather than have you stand on your heads, let's turn the theatre over. There, that's better. Two things you will find most of down here are ice and penguins. It's amazing that anybody would want to live here. But most penguins wouldn't live anywhere else. You couldn't find better weather for fishing... ...skiing, tobogganing or swimming. There is nothing the average penguin likes better than a day at the beach. But come on, let's meet Pablo. He lives down at the end of Main Street. Let's go in and see what's cooking. Pablo could never remember having been warm enough. And so his closest companion was Smoky Joe, his little stove. Between chills, Pablo had one burning desire. To spend the rest of his life on some tropical shore. So we see him bravely set forth to the isle of his dreams. The other penguins turned out to give him a big sendoff. But when he gets just so far away from his stove... ...see what happens? Too bad. Perhaps he'll give up this wild idea. But, no, he's off to another start. This time, he's bringing a friend. Anyway, it was a hot idea. Well, maybe he'll be content to stay at home this time. But, no, there he goes, hotfooting it to the land of the sun. By now, the farewell committee has been reduced to two. Discouraging, isn't it? Suddenly, Pablo got one of those ideas that change a person's life. A boat. But where would he get a boat? Just watch. "Where there's a will, there's a way, " they say. And now, the official launching. Day after day, the south wind carried him north. One day, a blanket of fog rolled in. And it was so thick... Must be near Cape Horn. As the fog lifted, he found himself headed straight for the Straits of Magellan And northward along Chile's rocky coast. One day, a storm cloud came up. Just a little bitty old storm cloud. It just tried awful hard to have its first storm. Didn't amount to much, though. One day, on lookout, Pablo had a bit of a shock. A waterspout off the port bow. But it proved to be the Juan Fernandez Islands where Robinson Crusoe once lived. And still does, apparently. Four bells and all's well. According to Pablo's chart, he should be nearing Via del Mar. And strangely enough, that's just where he is. He sailed past Lima, the capital of Peru, hugging the coastline with a tenacity of purpose seldom found in a penguin. One day, his telescope picked out a city high up on top of a mountain. The map said it was Quito. And it was right smack on the equator. It wasn't as easy to cross, but with a little help from Neptune, he made it. Making a left turn, he followed the equator, headed for the Galapagos Islands. Ah, that good old sun! Pablo felt he'd never get enough of it. He hadn't counted on this. Things looked pretty bad. Help! Man the pumps! She's sprung a leak. Pipe all hands on deck! Do things! Get going! Take to the lifeboats! Abandon ship! Unruffle the mizzenmast and man the poops. Don't just stand there. Get going! Swab the decks and... Heavens! Look. What's that? Just what he's been looking for. Pablo has finally reached the isle of his dreams. And, so as the warm tropical sun sinks slowly in the west, we leave little Pablo, a bird in paradise, a picture of health in his new coat of tan. He should be the happiest penguin in the world. Only, sometimes, he gets to thinking... Christmas is a special time when miraculous things can happen. It was that way for a little boy named Arthur whom everybody called Wart. Legend tells us that it was during the Christmas season that something happened to him that would change his life forever. Let's go far back in time to merry old England when knighthood was in flower and miraculous things did happen. Here's to victory in London for my son, Kay. Sir Kay. I've been knighted, don't forget. Of course, son, of course. Here's to Sir Kay. And, who knows, the future king of all England. Watch it, will you? Kay, the king? What a dreadful thought. Sir Ector! Hobbs has come down with the mumps. He's all puffed up like a toad. Then Kay will need another squire, hang it all. - Wart, you're it. - I'm what, sir? - Kay's squire. You're off to London. - Sir Ector. For the crown of all England, let the tournament begin. Kay! Now it's up to the swords. Swords? Oh, no! - Kay? - What? I forgot your sword. Forgot my sword? I left it back at the inn. Why, you bumbling little fool. I... You'd better get it or don't you dare come back. Let me in. Let me in. Somebody, please. Please, let me in. It's no use, boy. They've all gone to the tournament. What'll I do? Kay's got to have a sword. Well, boy, look. There, in the churchyard. A sword. Archimedes, a sword. You're going to have a time pulling it out. Watch it, boy. Leave it alone. But Kay's got to have a sword. Now, come on, quick. Let's get out of here. I believe you're up next, son. Better get ready. Kay. Here's a sword. This is not my sword. Hold on, Kay. Wait a minute. "Who so pulleth out this sword..." It's the sword in the stone. The sword in the stone. It can't be. - But, look. It is. - It's the marvellous sword. Hold everything. Someone's pulled the sword from the stone. Where did you get it, Wart? I pulled it out of an anvil that was on a stone in a churchyard. - Funny. - The lad's a young Samson. You're making a fool of us, boy. Now, tell the truth. But I did, sir. Then, come on. Prove it. To the stone with you. - Yes. Prove it. - Come on. Prove it. Alright, boy. Let's have the miracle. Now, wait a minute. Anyone can pull it once it's been pulled. Go to it, Kay. Give it all you've got. Put your back into it. Push him, I say. - Hold on. That's not fair. - I say we let the boy try it. That's what I say. Give the boy a chance. Go ahead, son. It's a miracle. Ordained by heaven. This boy is our king. Well, by Jove. What's the lad's name? Wart. I mean, Arthur. Hail, King Arthur. Hail, King Arthur. Long live the king. Now, let's travel high over the mountains to the castle nestled in its peaks to visit our dear friend, Belle. No matter what time of year it is, she's always filled with joy and the Christmas spirit. There is more to this time of year Than sleigh bells and holly, mistletoe and snow Those things come and go much deeper than snow Stronger than the strongest love we'll know We'll ever know As long as there's Christmas I truly believe That hope is the greatest of the gifts we'll receive As long as there's Christmas, we'll all be just fine A star shines above us, lighting your way and mine Just as long as there's Christmas, there will be Christmas pud Tons of turkey And cranberry sauce, and mince pies, if we're good Lots of logs on the fire Lots of gifts on the tree, all wrapped up in red ribbons Wonder if there's one for me We're due for a party, where on earth do we start? I may wear my tiara you bought me in Montmartre - All the silver will sparkle - And the china will gleam And we'll all be as shiny as a brand-new centime After dinner, we'll play games Till the morning breaks through Then we'll meet in the garden, this is what we shall do We will build a snowman that will reach to the sky It will stay up until July What are you doing? Stop! Put me down. Put me down. This is ridiculous. Everyone knows that the lights go on first. I don't want to go all the way up there on the top. As long as there's Christmas, I truly believe That hope is the greatest of the gifts we'll receive As long as there's Christmas, we'll all be just fine There'll always be Christmas So there always will be a time When the world is filled with peace And love We're going to have the greatest Christmas ever. I hope so, Chip. Come here, son. Listen. The good book says the Lord provides. There's food on every tree. I see no reason to worry and work. No, sir. Not me. The world owes us a living You shouldn't soil your Sunday pants, like those other foolish ants. Come on, let's play and sing and dance. Hi, Queenie. You'll change that tune when winter comes and the ground is covered with snow. Wintertime's a long way off. You dance? Let's go. The world owes us a living You shouldn't soil your Sunday pants, like those other foolish ants. Come on, let's play and sing and dance. Food. Food. O Madam Queen, wisest of ants, don't throw me out. Please give me a chance. With ants, just those who work may stay. So take your fiddle... ...and play. I owe the world a living I owe the world a living I've been a fool the whole year long And now I'm singing a different song You were right, I was wrong Well, well, Pluto. Who's your friend? Nice little kitty-kitty. Hungry? Don't let that bug bustle in. Who's it going to be? You or him? Don't take that devil's bad advice. Be a good dog. Treat him nice. Ah, that guy talks in riddles. Look, he's stealing your grub. Now he's stealing your bed. Ain't I told you that three is a mob? You gotta get him out of here, see? OK, stupid. Get a load of this. Lay off the sentiment. Lay off. Now, give him the works. Nice going, sap. He'll take the rap. Stupid, scram! Bianca, who did it? Pluto. Get out and stay out. You can't blame me. How did I know that sardine was going to turn stool pigeon? Save him, Pluto. Save the poor little kitty. Be kind. Be merciful. Be... Let it drown. He got you kicked out, didn't he? - You must save him. - Nah, don't be a sap. - Yes. - No. - Yes! - No! Yes! Pipe down. You make me sick. He's a pushover. Now save that kitty. How did you get out here? Pluto, old boy. Kindness to animals, my friend, will be rewarded in the end.
