 

                        Foul demons of the earth and air From this their wonted haunt exiled Shall flee before thy presence fair. We bow us to our lot of care Beneath thy guidance reconciled Hear for a maid a maiden's prayer And for a father hear a child! Father! Father! Father! We have to get help. Father has fallen down by the Gloria rock. Help! Help! I confess to almighty God and to you my brothers and sisters... ...that I have failed to do good, and have done wrong. I have sinned in my thoughts, my words and my deeds. My thoughts, my words and my deeds. My thoughts, my thoughts, my words and my deeds. Through my fault, through my fault... ...through my most grievous fault. I confess to almighty God and to you, my brothers and sisters... ...that I have failed to do good, and have done wrong. I have sinned in my thoughts, my words and my deeds. My thoughts, my words and my deeds. My thoughts, my thoughts, my words and my deeds. Through my fault, through my fault... ...through my most grievous fault. I took her dancing at the fair And there tumbled from her hair A rose so red. I picked it up and gave her this and asked for just a little kiss. But no, oh no, she said I never kiss, I never kiss. When the dance had come to an end She gave me both her hands For me to hold. In my arms she lay, so sweet My heart did e'er so warmly beat But no, oh no, she said I never kiss, I never kiss. But when the hour had come to part She spoke directly from the heart These lovely words: You may, oh worthy cavalier Steal now my virgin kisses dear. Never let the memory fade Of Marotshka, the Polish maid, the Polish maid. To Polish regions I did ride To fetch Marotshka as my bride I found her not. I did look here, I did look there But did not see her anywhere. I ne'er discovered where she stayed The Polish maid, the Polish maid. Until I near an oak tree found Her lifeless body on the ground Oh heavy load. And in her hand a note she had With just some written lines that said: In all my life I kissed once merely And paid so dearly, paid so dearly. Ave Maria maiden mild listen to a maiden's prayer thou canst hear though from the wild thou canst save amid despair the murky cavern's heavy air shall breathe of balm if thou hast smiled then, Maiden hear a maiden's prayer Mother, listen a suppliant child Ave Maria Hail Mary, full of grace... ...the Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb... ...Jesus, your child conceived by the Holy Spirit. Pray for us sinners now... ...and at the hour of our death. Amen. Please, don't... No mother, please, don't. No, please, no!
