 

                        1 We interrupt this program for a special bulletin now with Sandy Hill. Seismologists at Caltec, now report at least three separate seismic events Tonight. Each in the Northern Hemisphere with Earth tremors of magnitude 8.5 and above. And the first location is believed to be in the Thunder Basin area of Wyoming. That's about 200 miles East of Casper. So far we have no reports of casualties. The other two sites in Europe and Asia have not been identified. Stay tuned in to 11-o-Clock news, For further details. We now resume our regularly scheduled program. We interrupt this program for a special report, from Evening World News in Washington. Here now is chief National affairs correspondent Sander Vanocur. Good Evening...A Meteor shower which appears at this time every year. Erupted into a massive Cosmic event tonight. As pieces of an enormous Asteroid, plunged to Earth. Reports are just coming in. But it appears that at 8:24 pm, Eastern time. The near..Earth Asteroid known as 6645 Ventori. Hurled in from space, and broke apart. Striking the Earth, at three separate points around the globe. Aftershocks were felt from Contrepta island In the Aleutians. To santiago in Chile. In all three. The meteorites hit deserted world areas. Leaving wide impact zones. Scientists say if any one of them had struck near an urban..centre. The results would have been catastrophic. We begin our coverage with correspondent Pamela Barnes. Outside Mount Palomar observatory in the mountains East of San Diego Sandy, as this story first broke, The report suggested that three. Massive Earthquakes struck World..wide. The initial shock waves registered within minutes of each other at Caltec. The best image we have right now, is this, infra-red shot. From a KH11 Reconnaissance Satellite. The crater is 2.4 kilometres wide. More than a mile and a half across. The red you see around the rim is a section of scorched earth. From a wild-fire, that set the grassland ablaze, at the moment of impact. Correspondent Bree Walker was vacationing in Wyoming, when the Meteor hit. She came in with the first Fire-Crews, And we go to her. Above the crater, I'm told were having trouble with the feed from Wyoming. So we'll bring Bree Walkers report to you as soon as possible. In the meantime we go to Barry Steinbrenner of affiliate KTML in Casper Wyoming. The fires from the Meteor crater raging out of control. Units from the third Air National Guard Wing, were quickly called in, to extinguish the flames. More than 10,000 people living west of Thunder Basin are being evacuated. By national Guardsmen amid fears the fires may spread. And there are numerous reports of power outages, both North and East Of Cheyenne. This is Barry Steinbrenner, KTML Action News. Casper Wyoming I'm told we've now contacted correspondent Bree Walker. She now brings us pictures, of what is being called impact site Alpha Located 60 miles North of Grover? Mill, Wyoming Bree, can you Hear us? Sandy, as you well know I've covered my share of disasters. The L.A Riots, Hurricane Andrew, Last years floods in the Mississippi. Even Mount St Helen? , when she blew. But nothing I've ever encountered. Could have prepared me for this. Lets give you a look from the choppers camera, mounted below. What you are looking at now, is the crater itself, A massive inferno. The only way you can describe this. Is that what the fire fighters are Temperatures 1200 degrees Fahrenheit and above. Any Human Being within miles of this impact, would have been incinerated in seconds. As we get into the smoke on the edge of the craters rim, the scene of devastation below is unbelievable. The Guardsmen and State Troopers, And National Guardsmen surrounding the impact site. When I asked her if yet ?? A massive fire-storm, that destroyed much of Thunder Basin. We're told that chopper you see down below, is flying a team of specialists. From the department of energy. We expect that they'll be checking for Radiation, or any potentially deadly chemicals. That might be spilled. And Sandy, Sandy we're just getting word that there may have been some survivors. Along the thunder Bay National grab land, we're gonna go over there now, for a look. The two other pieces of this gigantic Meteorite came down, came down first in the Gobi Desert of China. Along the southern edge of Mongolia. Minutes later in a mountainous ares of the Pyrenees, about 20 miles, south or Lourdes. In southern France. Now tentatively known as impact site Bravo. Lourdes was the site in 1858, of the fabled visitation by the Virgin Mary. Its been a Mecca for religious pilgrims ever since. But tonight as correspondent Paul Whitaker reports. The mood there is one of fear. The churches are full here tonight. With religious pilgrims giving thanks. But not because they came to this Holy site, because they're alive. In the hours before the Asteroid fell, in the mountains to the south, hundreds of people were still on the snow capped peaks. After a long day of recreational skiing. Just as the earth started to shake, he and his friends looked up to the sky. And saw a huge fireball streaking across the sky. This woman Sylvie Chounard also survived, but when she got down, She discovered her husband Jean Paul was missing I came down in a cable car, and err Jean sat here, he wanted to sit down, For the last one of the day. And he never got back. Ironically today was their third anniversary French rescue trams are combing the mountain side for skier Jean Paul Chounard. A bitter twist to an already frightening turn of events. The French have an expression. "The more things change" "The more they stay the same" But tonight as the lucky ones celebrate happy to be alive... .One senses these people will never be the same again Paul Whitaker reporting from Lourdes, France. Little is known tonight about the third impact site, in China. But as correspondent Denise Wong reports from beijing, the communist government has put the country on a state of alert Sandy. Its just after 10:15 in the morning here in Beijing. The Chinese news agency has reported, that the third Asteroid hit at 9:29 am, Beijing time. It struck at 105 degrees east, 45 degrees north. Along China's border with Mongolia. While little more has come from the government here. Reuters has just released this aerial photo taken. By the French satellite agency SP02. From 12 miles above the Earth. The crater is almost a mile and a half across Denise!! That's almost identical, I repeat, Identical! To the Wyoming impact site. What do you know about casualties? Well Sandy Too Fong Is in a remote area. Of the Gobi Desert, with no rail lines, on two highways. In or out. As a result, it may be days, before the full damage from this crash site can be assessed. We'll be back to Denise as soon as there's more Thank you!! We switch now to the Johnson Space Center where Matt Jensen, is standing by Sandy!! The NASA scientists who track these enormous Asteroids. Sometimes refer to them, as Killer Rocks!! As such one of the first questions we asked, was how ?? How could an Asteroid of this magnitude have been so close to Earth. And not be detected till impact. In July, the Comet Shoemaker Levy 9 struck the planet Jupiter, in a series. Of massive impacts, equal in force to 2 million Hydrogen bombs. These events were monitored World wide. Through the enormous eye of the Hubble space telescope, orbiting the Earth. Scientist had known for months That these events on Jupiter were about To take place. In fact, they actually able to predict the precise moments of impact. Dr Kurt Martin was one of the NASA Scientists Tracking Shoemaker Levy. Well, what about it Doctor, why the surprise this time ??? Well first of all, there are at present, some 25 hundred near earth Asteroids. OF magnitude of one mile and above, that could intercept with the Earth. We've only identified about 10 per cent of them. Until tonight. Yes !! well you see if an Asteroid is coming directly towards the earth. Its very difficult to see it until its literally on top of us. Doctor Martin..This is Sander Vanocur in Washington. Do I understand you to say the Earth is at risk. From more of these Asteroids. Well I don't want to sound alarmist. But if one of those...Rocks came down in a big city. Well!! ... ??? Well what Doctor. Lets just say it would make the Russians seem like. Thank..You. That was Doctor Kurt Martin of the Johnson space center. In a moment we'll be joined by Doctor Jaffe, Evening World news science editor. But first some rather startling developments from correspondent Bree Walker Sandy!!..We're told now that at least three men have perished in the fire storm. Touched off by the impact of the Meteorite believed to be Sheep ranchers who were. Leafing grazing land, from the nearby Thunder Basin National grasslands. The scene is live..And Its like... Lush green grazing land. Now......Ash.....Charred. You can see there the bodies of dead animals scattered everywhere Bree!!!.. You should know you should know your signals breaking up. Wait a bit something new. What !!..WHAT!! Down there to the left I'll get a closer look. All I know is the helicopter is over Thunder Basin National Grasslands. You have the picture. My god its a human being I've no idea how anyone could have survived this. If that is a human being it appears to be... ....A Child Its a Child!!!! We're moving in...Lets just see Bree Walker and Cameraman Billy Dunne I hope you will They're moving in. There they are..That's Bree moving in On what appears to be a survivor. Moving !!!....Moving towards the child. She's moving towards the child There she is OK!! Cameraman William Dunne behind her. It was definitely a child. Ok. It looks like it was a little girl. It was a little Girl I cannot tell you what she is saying. As you can see, she appears badly burned how she survived I'll never know. Apparently we've lost our signal. Its just extraordinary to think that anyone could have survived so close to that fire zone. It appears the child was trying to say something, something incomprehensible. She obviously was in shock. We try to get back with correspondent Walker, to learn more about that little. Girls condition....I the meantime, we give our affiliates. A chance to break. This is Sander Vanocur in Washington. Here once again is Sander Vanocur. If you're just tuning in, all of us witnessed a remarkable rescue tonight. After three fragments from a giant Asteroid, fell to Earth causing untold damage World ...wide. An evening World News Crew, was flying over one of the impact sites. When they saw something moving, correspondent Bree Walker and cameraman, William Dunne. And Found a survivor. A little girl, we still don't know who she is, or what she was saying. At this moment our Helicopter is flying her to the mercy medical center in Casper Wyoming, and we'll get word to you on her condition, just as soon as we have it. Joining me now is our Science editor. Doctor Carolyn Jaffe Sandy !!....In the grip of a story like this, It's a reporters job, to hold back. Remain dispassionate, and yet. When you look in the eyes of that child. You can't help but be moved I understand you, prepared a report, on just how powerful. These Meteors can be. That's right Sandy, the philosopher George Santayana, once said that. "He who forgets history"... "Is destined to repeat it" Now the three asteroid fragments that rained down on the earth tonight. Ahh, , Weren't the first, And most likely won't be the last. The crater at Winslow Arizona, more than Half a mile across. An enormous hole caused by an Iron Asteroid just 60 mt rs wide. More than 50,000 years ago. In 1908 an object the same size exploded a few miles above the ground at Tunguska river in Siberia. The shock wave with the force of 15 Hydrogen Bombs. Incinerated more than in acres in an impact area. That would have spread from Maine to The Carolina's, if it had hit the North East. The gulf of these were just BB shots compared to the big one. Known now as the KT event, Scientists now believe and object. In the order of 7-10 Kilometres wide, impacted 65 million years ago. Along the Mexican Yucatan Peninsula. A month after impact the debris from the giant crater covered the Earth. In a dust like cloud that blocked out virtually all sunlight. Billions of life forms were killed within weeks, and ultimately THE DINOSAURS. That had ruled the World for 140 million Years perished. And Sandy!!...if an Asteroid even one half that size were to hit the Earth today, the death rate could easily match. That of of the Black Plague, that wiped out half the population. Of Europe during the Middle Ages. Well the question I've got to put to you, is how real is the. To the Earth today I'm afraid its quite real. Two years ago NASA Scientists calculated that the odds of a person dying. Through a near Earth Asteroid were about 1 in 20,000. About the same as being killed in an airline crash. And that's what they assumed ?? Until tonight. You see the danger is increasing. Why ??...ls that. Astronomers announced at JPR, say there is a 20% likely-hood, that because of the meteor. Shower tonight we can expect more of these Earthbound Asteroids.. Forgive me !!....I apologize, but they're ready now for that report from NASA. And then we go to the johnson Space Center where correspondent Matthew Jensen. Is standing by...Matt !!! Sandy the men and women who track these giant near Earth. Objects, have been working Non stop to analyse the data ever since the first impact. At 7:24 Central time....We were inside the operation center, where we regularly. Follow the Shuttle flights, then just moments ago, some data came in from Nasa. Big radio Telescope at Gold stone in the Mojave Desert. And all reporters were asked to move behind this wall of glass. They say a statement is imminent but right now, we're watching and waiting. We'll be back to you Matt, but first for an insight on what may be happening. We go to correspondent Ron Olney at Gold-stone......Ron ?? Sandy ... this enormous 70mtr steerable antenna, is part of NASA? s. Deep Space Network, here to track spacecraft, when a Comet or Asteroid. Is identified by one of field telescopes like the one at Mount Palomar. The data is fed here and the space debris as they call these killer rocks. Is then tracked with precision. Now the scientists who work here are normal rather cool understated people. But about an hour ago when the data on 7645 Ventori was fully analysed. This marine Helicopter made an unscheduled landing, a pair of MP? S, raced inside. Minutes later with one of the scientists here, they rushed him aboard, the chopper. Now word yet on the scientists name or his position with NASA. But sources say he was flown to nearby Edwards Air force base. For a trip by Jet to the Space Center in Houston Roy!, what could have so important that they couldn't have linked up with Houston by phone. Or a Tele- Conference. Well they're big questions with no answer form here, Sandy, once here. It says that the scientists involved may have something to do with the Asteroids. Trajectory, , both before and after it broke up. Thank you!!, very much. We just received an update from Denise Wong in Beijing. There are no known casualties near the third impact site designated "Charlie" However the impact is said to have damaged the Tingshin Hydro-Electric dam 40 kilometres to the south, power outages have been reported throughout most of LANGSHAN province. The Chinese government is requesting emergency. Generating equipment, and Red Cross assistance, for the estimated 7.5 million. People, now without electricity or running water. Doctor we've just got word on the condition of that little girl found wandering near the Wyoming. Impact site. We go now to Evening World News correspondent Bree Walker, standing by at mercy. Medical Center in Casper. The little girl we found at the scene was badly burned. She's in intensive care now being treated for exposure and second degree burns. Doctors have sedated her, and they say she's resting comfortably. Meanwhile Makoma County Sheriff department has set up a special hotline to try to find out who the little girl is. If you can help here? S the number Bree Walker, Evening World News, Casper Wyoming. There? S more now on the fate of another victim, French Skier Jean Paul Chounard after combing the area near the second Asteroid impact site French rescue workers, came upon Jean Paul Chounard, holed in a snow cave near the base. Of Mount Dimen. We'll have an update soon, from correspondent Paul Whitaker in France Sandy in this era of home video where people seem to shoot everything I guess this was inevitable. We just received tape from KWBF. Our affiliate in Newcastle Wyoming, some 80 miles from the impact site. It purports to show Asteroid fragment Alpha, streaking across the sky. As it roars towards Thunder Basin, I'm told it was shot by Chris O neil. The father of three from Newcastle, the voice you're hearing is Mr O Neal. C-mon out, its freezing....Ohh Kylie, that? S great Joshua. Trick or treat. Look at that!!!! The tape was analysed by the FAA, and apparently that was the Alpha fragment. From 6645 Ventori, we're gonna watch it once more as it come into the-cameras lens Sandy we're happy to report that no one was hurt and the children went on to. Trick or treat with one incredible story to tell. Well thank goodness for that. There? S new information on that scientist, rushed to Houston to confer with NASA. Officials, he is Doctor Avram Mandel. An Astro Physicist, at Nasa 's Jet propulsion Lab Sandy!!!..Sources say Doctor Mandel, visits the Space Center here at Houston. At least once a month. But this is far from a routine trip. In fact we've just learned that he's flown here, not on a conventional carrier. But in the jump seat of a Air Force F16. With a maximum airspeed of more than 1400 miles per hour. The flight time from Edwards to Houston, should put Doctor Mandel on the ground. Some 22 minutes from now Sandy!! correspondent Robert Roveno, has just flown in from Denver. And he is at the edge of impact site Alpha. Apparently the police there have just changed the ground rules Robert!! All the news crews here have been asked to pull back from the immediate edge. Of the crater. The official reason is safety, State police saying there. Have been after shocks, as with the impact. But none of the press here on the ground has felt anything. And there's been, activity at the crater by Nasa Scientists. We shot this video only moments ago Sandy !! as you can see dozens of investigators from Nasa and the pentagon. Have been flown in to the site which is now beginning to resemble a civil air base. Ahh you can see a chopper from Olney landing, carrying additional Troops. Armed with assault weapons, Why ? The government would need fire-power like that. At the site of a Meteor impact, is anyone? S guess ??? Ahh...We're told among the personnel being moved to this site is a team of mapmakers. From the US Geological survey. In addition the FAA now established a no fly zone immediately over the crater. They have made it quite clear anyone violating this restriction, would be fired upon. So these are the last picture you'll likely to see for a while. Ahh Sandy!!!, At impact site.....We're going to have to cut away. A statement is imminent from, from the press room, at the Johnson Space Center. We go now to correspondent Matt Jensen. After a virtual blackout since the first impact Dale Powers...Nasa director of Community relations. Is about to speak now. Mr Director....Can you....Here we have a short statement. There'll be no questions at this time. Let me just say...Ahh for now, except that what we're about to show you. Is based of findings that are preliminary, at best... The findings, are not, I repeat NO definitive. Data just analysed by the Space Centres computer suggest that the Asteroid.... 6645 Ventori, was approaching the Earth on a precise trajectory, for impact at 90 degrees North Latitude when it broke up over the Polar Ice Cap. The three debris segments that split apart Landed at the following impact points. Ah ... 0 degrees longitude, France. The other two sites, were at 105 degrees west. In Wyoming, and the same at longitude East in Mongolia. At Here and here. All three sites were located at 45 degrees North latitude. That is all we have, , at this point. You're saying it broke up over the North pole and came down in a perfect pattern. That is correct. We've made no conclusions at this point. But what are the chances, that a random Asteroid would hit and break up and fall. With such precision what about The fact that Doctor Avram Mandel is being flow here. In an Air Force Fighter Jet.... What about it ??? Well you couldn't have got him down here any faster if you shot him from a cannon. Well What?s your point??? Well according to his Bio, he is a founding member of S.E.T.I. Does that mean that Extra Terrestrials are involved. Like I said at the beginning, There are NO Questions. There you have it, Sandy!! in fact during Watergate they would have called that A non denial tonight. This isn't like NASA ever since the Challenger disaster. They've been one of the most open agencies in the government. That's right Sandy...But as soon as I mentioned S.E.T.I. Well Paul just shut right down. S.E.T.I WAS ORIGINALLY a NASA program. Yes but!!, just last year their funding was cut. Most of the scientists here are members of S.E.T.I. And As you know Sandy S.E.T.I is an acronym it stands for Search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence. And these are scientists, who are dedicate to the belief that. There is life on other Planets. Our continuing coverage "Asteroid fire from the sky", , will resume after this. World News continues its coverage, with doctor Carolyn Jaffee, and Sander Vanocur. For those of you just joining us, we're tracking the story of a large, near Earth Asteroid. That broke up over the North Pole tonight, and collided with the Earth at three sites in. The United States, Europe, and Asia. We'll have more on the damage in a moment. But first news on two of the survivors. Correspondent Paul Whitaker begins with this live report, from Lourdes. In southern France Sandy !! rescuers are bringing skier Jean Paul Chounard down to the mountain. Where he's been stranded since the Asteroid hit, earlier this evening. We've been getting reports, that his condition is critical He's semi comatose, and suffering from Frost Bite, and third degree burns. Getting him down of this mountain, has been an incredible task. As you can well imagine. And his wife Sylvia, is thoroughly relieved, that he's been found alive. She's going to accompany him, to the burn center in Nice. We'll follow this story, and will get back to you as soon as we know more. This is Paul Whitaker AP World News, reporting from Lourdes. We switch now to Mercy Medical Center in Casper ... Wyoming where. Correspondent Bree Walker is standing by Bree Sandy...A woman called here to the hot..line, just moments ago and said, the little girl is her DAUGHTER. She gave few other details, but did issue a statement, confirming the identity of the little girl. As 8 years old Kimberly Hastings of Cordales in Mexico. Apparently she had been missing since last Friday. No one knows yet how she got this far North. Corales is almost 400 miles, from where the Asteroid hit. Doctors say she is still in a critical condition tonight. Yet she is one lucky, little girl. With the mystery over little Kimberly's identity cleared up. We shift now to a larger question. How is it ??? that an Asteroid can break up and fall to Earth. With an almost Geometric precision. My Colleague, Science editor, Doctor Carolyn Jaffee. Has found one Astronomer who believes he has the answer. We were looking at the Sea of Tranquillity, and that? S a stretch of craters. Created over the Centuries, when Asteroids pock... marked the Lunar surface. This shot of the Moon, was taken through a 158 inch, reflector telescope. And operating it is Doctor Robert Pearlman. A Caltec PH.D.. and Astronomer, who has personally identified, a half dozen, major Comets. Doctor Pearlman !! What's ?? the significance of tonight? S events??? Well you see, in the Astronomical term, coming so close to Shoemaker Levy Nine. Is really unique in recorded history. We understand, that you actually have photograph, of 6645 Ventori. Taken just before it broke up. Um. This was taken, at an elevation, 12,500 miles, above the pole. Now four months later, when we attempted to take another plate. The Asteroid is ??? Doctor Pearlman...Sander Vanocur. Hi Mr Vanocur I understand..You're the Co-Chair with Doctor Avram Mandel of S.E.T.I. The search for extra terrestrial intelligence I am !!! Well Doctor..What do you make of the announcement by NASA. That the Asteroid fragments struck, in precise order. Well it just confirms what we've been saying for years I mean with 200 billion star systems, in the Milky way Galaxy alone. The existence of intelligent life beyond Earth is undeniable. Right!!..But why??...jump to that conclusion in this case, just because the Asteroid fragments hit at the same latitude. Ha ha ha, but that? S a very very good question, let me see this. Yes, yes !!...Can you see this. Yes !! We can. Alright...Er-mm.. 6645 Ventori, Approached the Earth. On a dead center trajectory, for the North Pole. The angles of the three impact sites A.B.and C are Exactly 45 degrees. So...The odds against that happening in nature are something like ohh....... 10 to the 58th power. Soooo...What are you saying ?? I'm saying that what we've seen tonight is unnatural. Could it happen at random ?? Not a chance. Ohh thank you doctor. That was Astronomer Robert Pearlman, executive director of the American observatory In Chips peak Arizona. We need to point out for our viewers, the danger of speculation. At this point. Because, of the breaking events tonight, we're bringing new information that's live. And unedited. That's right Sandy..And viewers should keep that in mind, as they watch this next report Barry Steinbrenner at KTML in Casper Wyoming. A 39 year old Crop-Duster Pilot identified as Thomas Aspell, was questioned by local Law enforcement. And Air Force officials, and later released, after reporting a UFO. The alleged incident occurred as he was landing his plane some 40 miles. West of crash site Alpha, near Benson Wyoming. Why were you in there so long???? Since Casper refuses to talk, We've taped this interview with Sheriff's deputy. Anson Peters. The first official to speak with Aspell. He told me, that he was just coming down at around ahh 6:45 after dusting, that day. Anyway Askell was shaken..I mean the man was terrified. He said he was just coming in when, this uh THING. Appeared on his right inside, and it followed him a few hundred feet, as he landed. And then it, streaked across his windshield, then took off straight up like a shot. At this point the, the pilot Askell is in seclusion. We checked with the FAA to see if there was anything unusual on Radar. And they have no comment. This is Barry Steinbrenner KTML action news Wyoming. Well we've just learned that mr Askel, has sold his story to the National Enquirer. Though he denies it, the full purchase price is believed to be upwards of 100,000 Dollars. Well !! Was there really something up there tonight??? We took our camera's outside, just moments ago, to get reaction. Do I believe in UFOs I don't know I like the aliens...I like the theory I have no doubt, there is a UFO I definitely, definitely don't think its UFO;s. But That to me is just arrogance to think that everything can be explained. With scientific data and information, I mean, for years we've always assumed. That there's no life on other Planets, but why wouldn't it be there I'm not surprised I don't know..I don't think so I really don't I don't believe in aliens. Alright. Do you know the White House has been noticeably silent, in all this. Because in the time of the country at the G7 economic summit. For him that may be a blessing. But !! there's a least one segment of the administration willing to comment on the alleged UFO incident. We go now to National security correspondent Mark Manetti at the Pentagon. Here with me tonight is the deputy under secretary of defence for advanced technologies. Doctor...Norbert Hazelton. So Doctor..With NASA's announcement, of how the Asteroid fragments came in I suppose that talk of UFOs was inevitable. Absolutely!....They all come out of the woodwork, at times like this. Granted the reporting s have to be confirmed. But what about the findings of Doctor Robert Pearlman. Would you respect the scientist. No! There's an irresponsible segment of the scientific community. That seems bent, on proving the existence of little green men. And that's fine.. The problem is that the US has been trying to establish contact for decades. To no avail 7 separate unmanned probes have been launched towards the edge of the Galaxy. Beaming messages from Earth. There have been more than a thousand US space shots alone. Since the 1960's..Another 24 hundred by the Russians 12 men landed on the Moon. And returned, without sightings. We wanted to find them, there was nothing. What about the Geometric patterns of the crashes. How can something so precise, simply be attributed as a natural phenomena well I've got just one answer for you. Snowflakes. Hundreds of trillions of them fall to earth every year. Each with an intricate geometric pattern, and no two alike. Nature is precise in its randomness, and that is the fascination of it. Thank you Doctor. Back to you Sandy with these allegations of UFO involvement, we shouldn't forget the real story here. That the more than 2,000 near Earth Asteroids, still uncharted by NASA. Represent a significant threat to the Earth. Two years ago during a Football game in New York. Fans observed this Meteorite streak through the sky. Where it almost destroyed a residential neighbourhood. In 1972 an alert photographer in the National Park, caught this object as it streaked across the sky at 33,000 miles an hour. With an estimated weight of one million pounds. It narrowly missed the camp grounds of thousands of people. And in 1989, an Asteroid half a mile wide, narrowly missed the planet. The Earth had been directly in line with that giant rock only six hours earlier. You're saying that we were only six hours away from catastrophe. That's right, ahh in fact after that near miss, a congressional report concluded. Quote.. Had the Asteroid struck the Earth, it would have caused a disaster. Unprecedented, in human history. Doctor as you know, Government officials continue to insist that tonight? S Asteroid hits were Natural origin, there? S a growing segment of the population who sense. Something more. And joining us now is Terence Freeman, author of the recent best seller. Messengers from beyond. Mr Freeman, You're welcome. Glad to be here Sir. Ah Mr Freeman, you've warned that a proponent of the theory. That intelligent life, has visited Earth before..Correct? Ah there's no question, there are ancient cave drawings showing figures in space helmets... Ah .The Pyramid's, the enormous figures on Easter Island. Even the circle at Stonehenge, were all built at a time before we had the technical skills to create them I'm sorry Mr Freeman, But! You, You seem to be denying all of human achievement. No!..On the contrary. Men and Women accomplished these things. But they were guided by forces on high. Its humanic, you can trace the bench marks throughout history. THEY..Come every few hundred years, and we are long overdue. Well there are plenty of responsible scientists, who would argue that. These Asteroids are long overdue. You Know ! There is a dictum that scientists are taught to follow. It says that when you are faced with an enigma. Ahh the best ...Explanation is usually the simplest and most logical one. In this case Asteroids. Not Aliens I gotta interrupt you both. We've just received, a disturbing report from correspondent Robert Marino He's now on the ground near impact site Alpha in Wyoming Robert Sandy...Two events in the last ten minutes have put the Asteroid impact in a chilling New light. First our News chopper and about a half a dozen aircraft, were forced to land. When an intense radio signal began to interfere with our navigational systems. Then after we hit the grass, we began to hear that noise in the background. A pulsating hum coming from the direction of the meteor crater. The decibels have increased minute by minute, to the point where you have to scream to be heard Bob can you get any closer to the rim of the crater. Can you get any closer to the rim of the crater...........Right. RIGHT..Ahh you hear sound as we move towards the crater. Its eerie, it doesn't sound like anything I've ever heard before. And it..it ...pow. In fact....it's painful. In fact...its Happening. Its like... The AP..ls reporting that State police units as far away as Casper Wyoming. Have been picking up that same loud hum, on their Radio's. And there's this statement just in from NASA's Jet propulsion Laboratory. Quote....A persistent audio signal of unknown origin, on the edge of the FM band is being emitted. From the crater.....Un quote. In other words, that apparently benign piece of space rock is charged electronically. And sending out some sort of signal Matt Jensen has more from Houston. Officials here at the Jensen Space Center, have confirmed that similar radio signals have now been detected. Emanating from the Bravo and Charlie impact sites. In southern France and in the Gobi Desert of Mongolia. There's no official word from NASA.. But.. sources here say that the signals could be natural in origin. From the result of ..What is being described as ..Q quote...The pulsating charged lon field. Which developed during the parent Asteroid? S flight through the atmosphere. We repeat at this juncture, the word is that the signal's are of Natural origin. Back to you. There's some activity at the FAA air traffic system command in Washington DC. We go there now with correspondent Mike Curtis Caroline..I'm standing in the aviation command center. Where authorities have now confirmed. That signals emanating from the Asteroid site have begun to disrupt. Commercial air traffic. With me now is Facility manager David Case, David! Are you able to shed any light on this situation. For us...Air traffic is being disrupted across the country, but as you can see, on the screen behind me. Ahh the problem is most acute at O Hare in Chicago, Wayne county Airport in Detroit, and the three New York city. New York, JFK, and La Guardia. Mr Case...This is Caroline Jaffee 45 degrees north is the very same parallel, where the Asteroid fragments struck. Yes Mam. Do You want any comment on that. No!..I'm afraid I have nothing to say about that, at this time. If you'll excuse me, I have to get back to work. This is Mike Curtis reporting live, back to you Caroline. Thanks Mike. In a moment we hope to have more on those mysterious radio signals. We stress again, we don't yet know the full significance, of all this... But one thing is clear. An event that began some 95 minutes ago, with huge human casualties. Has now grown into an International air crisis, affecting thousands. Our continuing coverage... Asteroid Fire From the sky. Will return in a moment. Now once again with Doctor Caroline Jaffee and Sander Vanocur. For those of you just joining us now. We are following, an ever widening crisis, touched off by the impact tonight of a massive Meteor. That broke up, and fell to Earth. Radio signals from the three impact sites. Are affecting Air traffic World-Wide, and FAA officials are recommending people fly tonight. Only if its absolutely necessary. We go now to one of the cities hardest hit. Correspondent Ernie Anastos is in New York. They come here to Times Square, as they always do, when the World is in trouble. The Cuban Missile crisis, The Kennedy assassination, the war in the gulf... All recorded up on that sign. When you want to take a pulse feel of the Planet. Few places can give you a reading like New York. Ever since the Meteor shower started, several hours ago. Things we take for granted have been affected. Officials at New York Airport are reporting, delays of up to 3 hours. The situation is worse at La Guardia, and the two runways at JFK, have been completely shut down. All New York Valley Air traffic was diverted to boston, and Hartford. As interference form the three impact sites continues to scramble Radar. The only planes moving at La Guardia, were outgoing flights. The resulting gridlock at airports, has produced massive traffic jams. This is the Holland tunnel tonight, and as you can see, traffic backed up. With thousands leaving the city by car. Others abandoned their vehicles and rushed into the tunnel. Trying to get out of the city on foot. New York city 911 emergency center is overloaded now, and running on backup generators at this hour. The Police and fire departments have called in all off duty personnel, during the crisis. And finally, hundreds of people of all denominations, jammed St Patricks Tonight. For a prayer vigil conducted by Terence O Connel. So Sandy...Here we are at the foot of the tower, where the ball drops every new Years eve. And if we had still been here last December 31st. Looking ahead to 1994 I assure that no one would have predicted this Ernie Anastos..Evening World News New York. As money markets open now in Asia, there are reports that trading has been suspended. On the Hong Kong and Tokyo markets. Scattered power outages have been reported ,throughout europe and Asia. But for the most part, people are staying calm. Just watching and waiting to see if the unthinkable is possible. Could intelligent life exist elsewhere, out side our solar system. And if so, do they have the capability of visiting Earth. Doctor Sandy, , you know America is a country that thrives on conspiracy... The very word cover-up, is part of our national lexicon and For close to five decades now. Ten's of thousands of Americans, have been convinced of two things. That there is something out there and the Government doesn't want us to know. The UFO era began in 1947 when a Sheep Rancher in Roswell..l New Mexico.... Found fragments of what he said was a flying disc. Later..The Air Force called it a weather balloon, but a secret government report made public years later. Describe the recovery of four tiny bodies, from the Roswell crash site... And ever since then, there have been hundreds of reported sightings..... However the Air Force shut down project Blue Book concluding..... Quote....No evidence has been found, that any of the UFO reports reflected a threat to our National security. Well...There? S science fact..And there? S science fiction. To help separate the two we go, we go now to a man who has spent years studying the threat. From these massive Meteors Arthur C Clarke..The noted author of 2001 and dozens of other books. Was recently nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. He joins us now live from his home in Colombo, Sri Lanka. Doctor Clarke...Thanks for being with us..My pleasure. Doctor Clarke ..as far back as 1973..In your book Rendezvous with Rama, , you wrote about the threat.. From near Earth Asteroids..I isn't that right?? That's correct. There are those who believe, tonight? S impacts have some connection to extra terrestrials. What's you view.....Well I believe there's plenty of intelligent life out there in space. That troubles the Earth.....Very unlikely despite the claim by the UFO enthusiasts. Why? Is that... We've been sending out Radio.Radar. Signals for 50 years a volume of space 100 light years across. And we haven't had any reply. UFO advocates would take it..You have had a reply, but the government just isn't telling. Nonsense..I'd give any social date. About 24 hours from ??? And apart from being broadcast transmissions, NASA has made attempts to send messages to any possible civilizations in space. Using the Voyager Space Probe I understand you have a copy there of the disk, they sent out on Voyager two. Yes a record like this..carrying .Pictures and messages. From the peoples of Earth, and from the United Nations .... Well if they're out there and we sent them a beacon.. So to speak. Why wouldn't they answer??? I'm afraid its a function of time and space. The distance between advanced civilizations may be thousands of light years. So even if they were travelling at the speed of light it might take them several millennia to get there. But just for the sake of argument, say it was possible. All right.. but then the question is, why bother to come here.... For the Earth to be chosen, we must assume, we are special.... But looking at the primitive state of our civilization I think that? S very conceited. So what are you saying ??? Well.. There? S a much bigger issue at stake. We need to protect ourselves against rogue Asteroids. Which are very real. And pose a much bigger threat, to Earth. Thank you...Doctor Clarke. That was Scientist and author, Arthur C Clarke. Speaking to us from Sri Lanka. We go to lourdes France where correspondent Paul Whitaker. Has an update on the condition. Of Jean Paul Chounard..The French Skier who survived the second impact I'm here at Toulon Airport near Lourdes France, where just moments ago... Doctors, Airlifted Jean Paul Chounard to the burn center in Nice. We spoke to Chounards wife Sylvie, just moments before they departed. What is your husbands condition Please. Err, um he ah, he was trying to tell me I don't know maybe, how he survived I just don't know. But ...Jean Paul is strong and he will not give up. In the meantime, Air France has suspended all flights in and out of Rome. Where these bizarre radio signals threaten to paralyse one of Europe? S busiest Airports. This is Paul Whitaker Evening World News ?? Airport Near Lourdes, France Wyoming Police, have widened the area of evacuation, to 200 miles around impact site Alpha. We're about to go live, to correspondent Robert Moreno.....Near... Well I'm sorry we're not going there ...W we?re not, We've just received word. Of an unscheduled briefing at the White House, correspondent Mike Curtis is standing by Mike !!! Sandy..A formal briefing had been scheduled for 11 pm tonight, to coincide with local news broadcast. But moments ago the White House press corp... was summoned here, for what has been described as a high priority briefing. Press secretary Barbara Schiller, ,er.that must be her now. BARBARA !! Uhhm..Earlier tonight following the impact of three Meteor fragments. President Clinton directed NASA to begin a round the clock monitoring, of all near Earth Asteroids, ,, ,, , ,, with a potential of penetrating the atmosphere. At approximately 9:17 pm. The Air Forces, Geo Tracking Station, at Sacola New Mexico, Hawaii, and diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. Ah, detected the presence of what, appears to be a second Asteroid...... At 65mtrs, ,, 200 feet in length, it is on a trajectory, almost identical to the path of 6645 ....Ventori. The Radio telescope at Arecebo Puerto Rico, locked on, and they confirm. That the object is heading towards the Earth, at an airspeed of 33.000 miles per hour. The expected impact, in the area of the polar ice cap is 5 minutes from now. At 9:52 pm Eastern time, the President and joint Chiefs of Staff ordered units of the 388 Fighter Wing. From Hill Air Force base Utah to full alert, ,A pair of F16 Fighters from the 18th space surveillance squadron. Were ordered into the air, under defence condition, two standards. The planes are armed with Hawk optically Guided Missiles, capable of destroying the Asteroid before impact. Ahh...These missiles are tipped with 2 kiloton, low yield Nuclear warheads. The f16's are expected to be in target range, at approximately 10:16..Which is 4 minutes from now. Yeah Barbara..How can the President possibly justify the use of Nuclear Weapons. Ahhh...Well a panel from the National Academy of Sciences, met Tonight. And.. Their conclusion was, that if the Asteroid penetrated the Ice Cap. Then the consequences for the Earth?s ecological balance, could be absolute catastrophic. What about the radio signals, jamming air traffic, how will that affect the F16's launch. Ahh it is our understanding, the traffic is only affected, along the 45th Parallel yet. Does the President consult congress. Ahh... the President did speak with leaders of both houses, earlier. And what ?..About other World leaders Russian President Boris Yeltsin, and Chinese Premier Deng Xiaoping, have been informed. Both leaders have expressed their concern, as has, the chairman of the UN Security Council let me just tell you, one other thing, and that is, the military hardware, that is to be used. Is identical to that which was deployed so successfully, in the Gulf War....... That? S all. There's word just in, that the E vac will be monitored live at the Johnson Space Center. They're deciding whether or not, to give the media, access to the feed......... But NASA, which has been quite quiet throughout much of this crisis. Now...Seems to be opening up.. Matt Jensen's live in Houston. Why ? The sudden turn around? Sandy ... no one here wants to openly break ranks with the White House or the Pentagon. But there are a number of Scientists, who are unsure, about the use of Nuclear Weapons.... Among them...Doctor Kurt Walden. Who I spoke with earlier. Doctor ..What is your concern ?? Its this...With an incoming projectile moving at 50 times, the speed of sound. A close quarters air engagement, will be quite ineffective. No Sir. The prospect of a Nuclear burst over the Ice Cap, may produce consequences, even more dire for the Earth ... For the Earth?s ecology I'll be monitoring US strategic command, off an Ai Force base,... Omaha, Nebraska. We will be listening to the voice of Air force Ones, control officer, Major Scotty Powell....... -You will.-be allowed to stay.. That was Dale Powell. The director of community relations here for NASA... He's has just told the press, that we will be allowed to stay here. In the operation center. Where they will be monitoring the F16's. ...... So... We'll be back, when the missiles are ready to be launched...... Doctor there? S late word from New York. Where the United Nations Security Council has gone in a special session. Correspondent Ernie Anastos, is outside UN Headquarters. Excuse me !! Could you tell me why ? You're here tonight. So that the World Leaders know that if we are being visited..t he Asteroids represent some kind of contact...... - And the World should respond in peace. Ambassador... what action will the council take? In the event of the unthinkable, and these are indeed extra terrestrials. We'll try formulate an agenda, for the sake of it. Personally... I don't care if its Asteroids or Aliens. The most important thing is the keep our family? S safe, keep our homes safe... If they come to Brooklyn, we'll know what to do ... I come down here with my boys, from st kotch, figure maybe we could find us, some Aliens. Smash some heads... Why so hostile.. You Kiddin... I got a brother flies for the airlines. These things are messing with aircraft... we got to stop them. The two fighters that took of from Hill Air force base, in Utah. Will be designated interceptor One, and interceptor two. We go back now to mission control, at the johnson Space center Sandy... We're at T-minus 52 seconds, and counting here. You'll be seeing three, pictures up on that active Matrix display... On the furthest screen, is a feed from the tracking station at Sacora, New Mexico....... Showing the incoming Asteroid... The middle screen will be a graphic showing the two F16's. And the Asteroid, in relation to the North Pole...... And the image on the far left is from a camera mounted in the cockpit of interceptor one. T minus 30 seconds. That's Major Scotty Powers, the... Air Force launch control officer. Confirm... -Lock on guidance. Prepare to fire 3-2-1. Engage. Come on home boys. What the hells that ??? 6-5 ..We're losing video on india one ..... It seems like we have a direct hit on the Asteroid. There's some concern here, that we've lost the image of the cockpit. People are watching here India one... India two. Shut down. At 10:16 pm, some 4 seconds before the Asteroid was destroyed, the transponder signals from the the two F16'S. Went off the Radar screens, at the same time as sounds we've been hearing from the craters, were heard at extra speed transmissions... the two fliers...... Both of Hill Air Force Base, are missing and presumed dead. The Nuclear Submarine USS Houston, which surfaced at the Polar Ice Cap. Has reported seeing debris, consistent with the afterburner of an F16. Search teams are racing to the scene from Gander in Newfoundland. Now to the Pentagon where the Air Force is about to conduct a briefing on what they're calling. Defensive engagement with the Meteor deputy under secretary of defence Norbert Hazelton and General Lucian Alexander. US Air Force GM staff. Let me say at the outset that we are deeply grieved....... Over the loss of two outstanding Air Force Pilots. But they gave their lives so that we can stand here tonight and report. On their perfect mission profile. ...... I want to stress, that the Warheads loads were extremely low yield .. Any trace radiation should be spread in the atmosphere within a matter of days. The Radio signals from wyoming, ,France, , and Mongolia, ,have ceased. There's every reason to believe that what the people of the Earth experienced was a natural phenomenon......... General Alexander...GENERAL ALEXANDER. How ..How can you attribute this to natural phenomenon, when we all saw the glow inside the cockpit...... Just a lens flare...With air speeds like that and the light conditions, over the Pole. The cockpit awry. What about the trajectory. Hey come on 6645 Ventori and the same Asteroid, the latest one. They were all on an identical path. Not surprising, its not surprising. Its quite possible they were both part of the same source Asteroid. Look the pieces simply split in deep space, and came in on line. Tell you one thing Ladies and Gentlemen. IF there was ever an argument for jump starting the anti missile defence shield, , this is it. We were lucky tonight. Good shooting, great hardware. The Next time it might be a different story. Next time. That Anti Missile Shield, the general was talking about of course is the Star Wars....... System ...The favourite of President Reagan's. Put on the shelf when President Clinton came into power Sandy... The Air Force F16 jet carrying Avram Mandel, has touched down in Houston He's about to arrive in the Johnson Space Center, in Houston. And Matt Jensen's there live Caroline, Any minute now that door behind me will open and the man, who has become something of an enigma, in all this. Will arrive, and speak, with us. The action of the Pentagon is frankly unforgivable...... There is a force behind these Asteroids that is clearly intelligent fact that they chose to land first in unpopulated areas. demonstrates clearly that they meant us no harm. The Radio signal was acting merely as a sort of transponder, they have steered the second vehicle in. The entire notion, of a flying saucer is a fiction...its a fiction............ It took the form that they wanted to take, they came in the way that they chose to come...... In peace of course !!!!... What I'm saying is that we have made a pre emptive strike...people. We have just declared war. Its clear that Doctor mandel, is quite emotional. And as soon as we have details of his meeting here. We'll be back. This is Matt Jensen Evening World News at the Johnson Space Center. An Evening World News Telephone Poll, suggests that more than two third of the public. Now believes that the Asteroids are connected, to alien life form. It has been a night filled with charges and counter charges. But we would be remiss as journalists if we didn't separate fact from allegation. To the best of anyone's knowledge, at this point. The giant Meteors that came to Earth tonight were of natural origin. All right hmm... -With the radio signals now silent Robert Moreno is live from Faith. A Wyoming town less than 50 miles from the impact site Alpha Robert......... I'm here in Faith an old religious community dating back to the mid 19th century. The town is well outside the evacuation zone, there are no reported casualties or incidents. After the nearby impact Then ---after the meteor explosion at the North Pole Wyoming Edison detected an unusual power surge, here They sent a repair crew out to inspect, when they got here, this ,, is what they found Sandy --- the streets are deserted, everybody has vanished Men Women Children, cats and Dogs. Cars are left in the middle of the streets. And except for the National Guardsmen , there isn't a soul here --- The town is completely empty --- Frozen in time --- The side walks are streaming with Trick or treat bags, as if the Children simply dropped them as they left ------ I don't know what else to say --- Its eerie International guards Sergeant...Leroy Diggs, told us he was a forward re-con in Desert Storm That he never saw anything like this ---- Its like they got swallowed up ---- We did a full house to house, checked for radiation, Toxic emissions, we got Nothing ---- I'm telling ya there's no way to explain this, The rescuer workers are even using motion detectors, set to pick up the smallest movement But there's nothing In a town where 3,000 people lived, work, and go to School....Everyone is simply gone As soon as we have any word on what happened here...We'll be back But for now...This is a ghost town ----- This is Robert Moreno... Faith , Wyoming A rather sad note from france, Paul Whitaker reports from outside the Colombiere burn center in Nice, where its now morning... It's 6:43 am Greenwich time here -- Sandy --And Doctors have just sent word That Jean Paul Chounard the french skier they took off the mountain has died He regained consciousness briefly before succumbing to injuries sustained, when the Asteroid hit And Doctors ere able to get a recording of his last words here Hearing that it would be exploited by the Tabloid press his widow Sylvie has requested that it be released on the networks Jean Paul Evening World news continuing coverage will resume in a moment ------- Continuing our coverage on the aftermath of three enormous Meteors fragments that struck the Earth tonight We go first to correspondent Mike Curtis at the FAA's air traffic system command in Washington DC Radio signals from the three impact sites may have stopped, ----- but Aviation authorities, report ticket counters jammed, at Airports Nationwide This is Baltimore Washington International Most Airlines report delays of up up three hours As dozens of flights are being diverted here Sandy --- This is a Continental lite market - and fortunately,,the people at this end of the terminal Are able to get out, because these flights are still taking off ---- Authorities say it may be morning before traffic returns no normal This is Mike Curtis at the Aviation command center,,Washington DC Meanwhile correspondent Ron Olney, has news on the final words of Jean Paul Chounard He's outside Nasa's Goldstone facility in the Mojave Desert Warren Caroline in this breaking story, that seem to take a different turn every minute We've just learned that the last words of Jean Paul Chounard Are being analysed here, by Nasa's computers They're checking for any similarities between Chounards incomprehensible speech pattern And that of 8 year old Kimberly Hastings who of course was found more than 6.000 miles away We'll have more on this when we get it --- Now back to you We have an update now on little Kimberly Hastings, the 8 year old girl found wandering near impact site alpha Bree Walker is at Mercy Medical centre, in Casper Wyoming -----Bree Finally some good news to report, as little Kimberly's condition is upgraded from critical to stable Doctors are still not able to get through to her verbally, but there's no way to know, what if anything she remembers When the Asteroid crashed As to how she got to the impact site. When Donna Hastings, her mother arrived at the hospital, just moments ago She was mobbed by the Media, wanting to know news How did Kimberly get to Wyoming They took her from me We're going to Canada Sandy ---Doctor Robert Pearlman, the Astronomer we interviewed earlier, has done a computer analysis of the first Three impact sites, he's joining us now live from his Lab from the American observatory Kitt Peak, Arizona.-- Doctor Pearlman can you hear me. Yes Mam ?? This is a 3D Model of 6645 Veturi, as it came to earth The break up occurred some 65 hundred miles above 90 degrees north latitude, Which is the true North Pole You can see the three fragments falling to their impact sites Designated Alpha, Bravo, Charlie As I connect the trajectories , you will see what looks like a Diamond shaped Pyramid With its apex above the Pole The angles on impact are exactly 45 degrees Forgive me Doctor Pearlman, but that looks remarkably like the line drawing you showed us earlier Whats on you, about this model Well it will become relevant, when I show you this !!! --- Now this is an exact reproduction, of a pixellated message, that was sent out in 1973, on Pioneer 11 Here you will see symbols for MAN, The Solar System, the DNA Double Helix Which is the basic molecule of life And a figure representing the Pioneer Spacecraft itself You will note the upside down pyramid Now watch Its unmistakeable The Asteroid fragments represented a symbol They were using the descent vector to send us a message Thats an intriguing theory Doctor Pearlman, but i'm sure you'll agree, its subject to debate Of Course We've invited Doctor Norbert Hazelton to join us, He's Deputy under secretary for defence, and if you don't mind He has some questions Not at all Fire away Doctor Hazelton Doctor Pearlman If I understand you correctly You're saying Aliens visited Earth tonight No, no, I said it was possible Come come.. You brought in Pioneer, you've matched a couple of triangles, what are you saying ?? Well if you put it like that, quite frank it sounds improbable But consider what happened tonight The pattern of the impact sites, the radio signals, survivors speaking-in in tongues, an entire town missing ..... Forgive me Doctor, this isn't some trekkie convention..There are millions of people in the World right now ----- Panicking needlessly Yes and I would like to know how much that has to do with the hair trigger response of the Pentagon If you can show me aliens in those triangles , I'll give you the second gunman on the grassy Knoll Listen you know as well as I do, the scientific community is divided on this, But you people You people see this as an opportunity to hot-wire Star Wars, and it shouldn't come down to that... There's is much more at stake here You're damn right there is Gentlemen I'm sorry but we've run out of time You've just heard from Astronomer Robert Pearlman, and deputy under secretary of defence, Norbert Hazelton And Now to recap. The Earth was rocked tonight by three separate fragments from an enormous meteor That landed in the United States, Europe, and Asia A second Meteor on a direct path with the first one was shot down by US planes Using Nuclear Weapons, over the North Pole The two Pilots, in that mission perished --- After radio signals from the three meteor fragments began jamming, Air traffic World wide There's some speculating that the Asteroids may have a connection to Extra Terrestrials That issue has fractured the scientific community While the sole survivor of the Asteroid impact in Wyoming, and 8 year old girl remains Hospitalised Unable to speak President Clinton in new jetting back to Washington aboard Air Force One He's scheduled an address to the nation, when he lands at Andrews air base At 11;16 pm Eastern time Excuse me Sandy, but Doctor Avram Mandel, the second scientist rushed to the Johnson Space Centre, has just emerged from The meeting with NASA officials He's talking with reporters right now, and we pick up his comments, in progress NO no no, i'm way past that, well why do this here Because, I'm no longer speaking as a stat scientist at NASA Affective at 9:32 pm central time, I resigned my position as a concerned Astronomer, and most importantly, as a human being I can no longer associate myself with the governments handling of this ongoing crisis We were given a gift tonight People!! We had a visitation --- They came in peace and we answered them with 2,000 tons of TNT at he end of a Nuclear Warhead What if this had been Jesus, or Buddha, or Mohammed Or a prophet of old I mean, haven't we learned anything from history We all know that we have the most violent planet in the Galaxy In gods name why did we have to take it to that ?? Doctor you're upset Couldn't we do this in the right way No I want to do this in the right way, that's why I flew out here I tried to plead with these people, and it didn't do any good Doctor Mandel. You mentioned before that this is an ongoing crisis, what did you mean by that You don't know No !!! You mean they haven't told you anything Look the Doctors clearly disturbed Avvy,, don't you do this.. THIS IS NO RESPONSIBLE I'm being responsible to myself now I'm so sorry I'm so so sorry At approximately 10:32 pm Eastern time The Radio Telescope at umm At Goldstone Mojave, received a signal The Air Force tracking stations, locked on as well -- There are three Asteroids of a magnitude of two miles each and above that are on a trajectory With Earth They are headed directly towards three of the Earth's most populace cities, Beijing in The Peoples Republic of China Moscow, as well as Washington DC Are those Cities ??? I don't know, I can only guess and that is they are the Capitols of the only three nations on this Planet, who have a first strike Nuclear threat The Asteroids are expected to hit sometime, around 10:52 pm Eastern time And That's nine minutes from now We declared War against them People We did it And now they've just decided to respond So may god have mercy on us all Our coverage of this continuing crisis will resume after this From now on we'll stay on the air continuously, until this crisis is over As we count down now to the moment of impact --- The Mayors of the nations ten largest Cities, have all imposed curfews Looting is widespread, amid fears of food shortages, as the crisis deepens Meanwhile the Radio signals, at all three impact sites, have resumed This time they're affecting not only commercial air traffic But Radio and TV signals across the globe In many countries telephone service is out The reaction in this country has been panic Mostly everythings gonna be OK, but I just don't know what I'm gonna do when it happens Well! as of right now I'm not worried. I haven't seen them, they haven't really come after me but If they star coming after me I'm gonna be scared I gotta get outa here My familys waiting for --- I'm not a religious person --- I haven't been to Mass in years But I came tonight Sandy there are reports of panic World wide, as fears begin tonight, as you can see here the The french police are having no success in trying to calm the people who are rioting Crowds in Washington, and other Cities around the World The fear has been disrupting candle light vigils, and other peaceful gatherings No one seems to know what to do, or where to go No place is safe, as we hear out the magnitude of this crisis People take to the streets in different ways,, but one thing is clear Racial, and National boundary's are disappearing As the World reacts to a greater danger The Best advice anyone can give, at this point, is to get inside a building Move to the basement and stay there .. In the event broadcast stations lose power, tune to the emergency broadcast network At AM 640...At FM 102.4 We begin with a series of reports from Evening World News Correspondents This is Paul Collingwood in Moscow Its 6:40 in the morning here and Red Square is completely deserted Even during the darkest days of the Cold War when the US Nuclear Arsenal was aimed at this city You never felt such palpable fear This is not a religious country, but this morning the Churches, and synagogues are filled This is Michael Curtis reporting from Washington A city normally associated with great power But tonight all anybody really feels is powerless Some people have gone home to be with their family's Some are in transit trying to get out of this city, but ---- A group of people have gathered here To be together at the feet of a great man, who once saved this union ... Perhaps in the hope that he might somehow, do it again .... What would you do, if you were told you only had seven minutes to live ... Or maybe its a strange attraction we have for witnessing natural disasters Tidal waves, great fires, or this .... Asteroids falling to Earth Whatever the reason is, all we can really do is wait, and watch, and pray This is Denise Wong reporting in Beijing, where an eerie calm has set in after hours fierce fighting Between riot Police and angry student demonstrators Now people simply want to be with their familys, and we can understand why .... All services are reported shut down Hospitals are overflowing And theres word of a massive fire raging through Shanghai With no apparatus of fire-fighters to stop it .... If this is your last day on Earth you want to spend it with the people you love Denise Wong....Evening World News in Beijing You know. At a time like this, you cant help but feel for our correspondents elsewhere You know Denise Wong has got a husband And two children, up in San Francisco is imminent to the citys we've just mentioned But if the Asteroids hit Earth, as feared, the entire Planet will be impacted Matt Jensen is standing by as he has been all night, at the johnson Space Centre Matthew Caroline, as you can see behind me,many of the scientists here at the operation centre have gone home To be with their familys, of the few that remain. Doctor Kurt Lowden .... Doctor we've been told that if even one of these Asteroids impacts as expected The effect World Wide could be apocalyptic, could you elaborate ... Yeah just like the KT event, 65 million years ago If an Asteroid one mile or larger strikes on land ..... It'll throw up enough debris to create what amounts to a Nuclear Winter If we can see the screens behind us you can see the three Asteroids as they proceed on target They are now some 11,000 miles from Earth, but closing fast With 5 minutes, and counting, until the Asteroids break the Earths atmosphere Late word from the Pentagon That there's a plan in place, to meet them ,head on General Lucian Alexander, is briefing the Reporters .... Air Force Space Command, and the US Navy, are preparing to counter the threat With Nuclear Weapons Directed by the most advanced guidance system ... Each carrying 10 independently target-able re-entry vehicles They'll be launched from the Trident Submarine USS Ohio in the North Sea And from Matthew Warren air Force base in Cheyenne Wyoming The Soviets and the Chinese, have agreed not to respond, for fear of an all out Nuclear exchange The Peacekeepers and Trident B5 devices, will hit their target and take them out With surgical precision, and minimum collateral damage Can nuclear missiles be used against UFOs We still have no definitive proof of Alien Life-forms Theres every likelihood that these Asteroids are the result of a Meteor shower, of massive proportions The point is, either we cut and run or we stand and fight We're now at defcon 1 ,,T minus 5 minutes, and counting You know Caroline, in the midst of a story like this .. And you talk about millions of lives being affected I cant help but think of one Kimberly Hastings, in Wyoming We go now to Bree Walker in Mercy Medical Centre, in Wyoming ..... With all the hope in this room, just moments ago I don't quite know how to say this ... Shortly after we spoke to you .. Little Kimberly Hastings collapsed And went into Cardiac arrest The crash team rushed in, but they ... At 8:51 pm Little Kimberly Hastings,, passed away And whatever it is she knew about that Asteroid,, went with her ... We are now less than 3 minutes from the first impact in the Peoples Republic Uhhm ..I'd just want to say something To all of Linzy ....My little girl She's six . She had ..She had a tooth out last week The Tooth Fairy brought her a Silver Dollar Honey !!! I want you to know that Mommy loves you very much I want you and Daddy -- -You hold each real real tight You know how much I love you both I'm just gonna finish up here and we're all gonna be together real soon Caroline you don't have to stay here ...You Don't Lets go..Lets just hear it through Sure ??? --- We're now less than two minutes, before the Air Force launches its peacekeeper Missiles We'll be live via Satellites with correspondent Denise Wong in Beijing Paul Collingwood in Moscow And Mike Curtis here in the Nations capitol And now for the launch phase, we go to Matt Jensen at the Johnson Space Centre Sandy-- the Radio signals, that you hear, and that is coming through our headsets Are coming off the feed from impact site Alpha The sound is ear piercing Its OK Matt, we can hear you now. The Asteroids have now been designated X-Ray : Yankee : and Zulu X.Y.Z -- In a few seconds you'll be able to see them, moving down towards Earth At 4-5 thousand miles an hour The missile exchange will be monitored by tracking stations in Maui, Sacora, and in Diego Garcia all stations Status green alert That voice you're hearing is the leader Scotty Powell, the launch controller Execute launch command on my mark Mark --- in ten seconds His voice is from the US Strategic command Orford Air force base in Omaha Nebraska 5.4.3.2.1 launcher closure over...Missile away Denise Wong Beijing is Target one Impact destruction in 40 seconds from now Uhhmm - the radio interference is too strong Do you see anything at all Ahhm .. You're breaking up Sandy I'm going to have to take this headset off But I Think you were asking if I saw anything the answer is nothing Yet ???? I can tell you I'm scared Impact over China at T minus We've lost the audio, but I assume, thats a picture of her husband Greg and her two children They all live in San Francisco Denise !!! hold on as long as you can Launch We've lost contact with Denise Wong in Beijing Matt Jensen can you tell us, the status, from where you are Well by the cheering behind me , I'm sure you can tell we've had total assimilation on x-ray But its far from over yet We believe the first Asteroid, has been destroyed We go now to Paul Collingwood in Moscow Paul whats it look like, where you are Nothing so far, This ear piercing signal in my headset Sandy for the record...I'm a 4 year correspondent.... We're all proud of you Paul, and your column And tomorrow would have been my 28th birthday 12.11.10.9.8....I love you Mom and Dad 6.5.4.3.2.1 -Sandy !! What happened ?? It should have impacted by now Paul...It looks like we 've destroyed two out of three now Mike Curtis has the lead been destroyed Well Sandy its really ...It's impossible to see anything tonight,,its so overcast All night long... Impact over Washington in 15 seconds -- ohh my god, now I see it... Its so bright,,and its coming in fast Its getting to too close Why aren't they shooting at this thing now 3.2.1 How does it feel out there...? It feels fine...Its like the day the World went down Birthday Paul... Happy birthday Paul Aww ..Thank you Sandy.Thank you Denise We're gonna go home I'd say you've earned it,thanks for a job well done..Thank you very much Have a very good day..Have a good day Reaction from around the World is typical of this live footage...We're seeing right now Well before we sign off Correspondent Ron Olney has some information for us, from Goldstone Sandy the scientists here have deciphered the speech pattern, of Kimberly Hastings and Jean Paul Chounard Heres the feed now A hundred and forty seven member states Wait a minute Thats the recorded message we sent up in Voyager two Sandy theres a report from Johnson Space Centre And Matt Jensen's there ..With a ... Coming to us live Matt Caroline as you can see, the elation in the room behind me, as stopped People were cheering and celebrating, Now its as if their balloons burst Quiet from the end of the room and nobody seems to be giving any indication why ? Matt what is it ??? MATT what do you see?? Tell us what you're seeing Matt Whats the cameraman seeing I'm told his name is Parfitt Move the camera to the screen Show us what, you're seeing on the screen Parfitt Track trajectories Well there's too many, there's too many we can't do it Obviously..We'll stay on as long as we can And we'll keep feeding you the signal from the Johnson Space centre As long as possible With all the Missiles, and all the Power I can only leave you with this thought from Shakespeare The fault give with us, Not in our stalls, -- But in ourselves Washington,,WASHINGTON Washington do you read me Washington this is Houston control, Please come in Come in Washington, this is Houston Control. Washington, come in Wash-------
