 

                        Back! Get back! Spray! Hurry! Run! Okay. Pull him up! Pull him up! Come on Get this to the lab. And hurry! South Africa Move! Let's go and you check with the team Yes, sir Get ready Target is approaching! Here. Get down there! What's this stuff? Can't Move! Come on, move it! Let's go Keep moving! OK. You get up here Attention! What's your name? Don't know, sir! Where are you from? Don't know, sir! Good. No names, no background But highly disciplined Mission is over, go have some fun Thank you, sir OK. Dispose your weapons, dispose your equipment Yes Go! Collect. Go! To the main helicopter. Go! Go! Move it, go! OK. Dismiss Sorry, sir ao mi je, ali moram ovo uiniti. ao mi je, vojnici, ali imamo samo dva padobrana. Sta se desava? Prijatan let! Zdravo! Pusti me! Zato si nam smestio? Reci. Tako nam je nareeno. Hajde. Jackie Chan, one of our best agents in Hong Kong is also missing in the African action The three men they hijacked are the scientists responsible for the comet research project recently launched by the African state Lights! We have a serious situation on our hands The operation was carried out with clinical precision using United States Air Force helicopters They seized the meteorite fragments along with the three scientists and untill now their whereabouts are unknown If they knew the transport schedule someone must have leaked the information How many C.I.A. Staff knew about this project? I know where you're heading with this, Norman, and I don't like it How can you be so sure it wasn't one of your own people? Why the hell would my guys break into a hangar they already have access to and steal their own aircraft? Because it's a perfect cover and no one would suspect them And remember, General The C.I.A. Pulled out of South Africa over a year ago Only the essential staff remain Right now, our first concern should be the retrieval of the scientists and the fragments Agreed. There could be serious military ramifications if the wrong people get a hold of this formula We've got to find out who's behind this pulling the strings Agent Morgan Yes, sir You used to head up our South African operation You know the terrain, you know the locals Take 3 agents and hop the next flight over there I want to see positive results. And fast Consider it done, sir Thank you, Terry Bye General Sharman Hello, Norman I hear you're retiring a few days Yes, I am Congratulations on your retirement, General Sharman Thank you I bet you're going to miss being in the middle of all the action Norman, I'm going to take that fat pension check of mine and head for my favorite fishing hole I want a Black Op assigned to this case Are you saying we can't trust our own people? Better safe than sorry Shall I select them from Washington or from one of the outside branches? Outside Sir, Mr. White is here Thank you. Send him in And tell them to report to me directly Yes, sir Your plan worked, mission completed What's wrong with him? Do you think he can still walk? My friend! You gave us quite a scare We're happy you've woken up. Welcome to our land Where am I? How did I get here? These men found you in the mountains Now, I want to know, where do you come from and how did you get here? I don't know your language. Does anybody speak English? I am the chief. Me. The chief And who are you? What is your name? Who am I? Who am I? His name is "Who Am l" Who am I? Your name is "Who Am l"? Who am I? Who Am I Who is he? Hello Hey! Looks like you're getting better, my man I knew he would What are you doing on this search, sir? Langley must be serious about finding these guys They're traitors. They've stolen a discovery which could keep our nation on top, in the 21st century Yes, sir Yvirorich, Russian Jakol, Isreal Hans, German Thailand Tachi, Japan Korea Who Am I, come quickly! Come! A light! I can go! I can go! Yes! I can go! When we found you, you were wearing the same clothes. Am I right? Yes. We wear the same clothes Eleven done one too many Baba. Never play with dead people's belongings I know this is bad luck for your culture I'll go on alone. Thank you Go well! Baba Can I borrow your compass? Can I take it? I bring back, I promise I promise Please come back soon I will miss you Be careful Take care, my friend You will succeed! Somebody! Help us! Hey! Look! Don't you see us? Help! Come back! Somebody! Help! Are you okay? We're over here! Help! Look! Somebody! Help us! Oh, my god! Get away from him! Stop eating my brother, you animal! Leave us alone! Leave us alone! Don't move! Don't move! You know this? This is a gun! You know, I can bang bang you! You know, I can shoot you! I can bang bang you, you know? I know karate! Karate! Medicine! It's medicine! My brother! Your brother? You're helping my brother! You understand English? Say something Those medicine make my mouth numb You speak French? I understand a little, do you? Oh, I'm sorry, I don't understand your language But, is my brother okay? Is he all right? Amazing! You navigate, and work the G.P.S., OK? You want to drive? But do you know how to drive? I think I better, you know Nine o'clock. Turn this way! Okay. Just go straight ahead Aiji, how are you feeling? Feeling better. I.V. Is helping Good! Please help us! We need a doctor! Look! Here's the driver! Back a little bit! Back! He's very lucky The natural herbs on his leg neutralized the poison and that coconut I. V... The only people that use it are elite military units Who applied it? Here That's him over there Amazing. Very talented native! Say again? What? Give us a story! Where are you going? What? What's he on about? Oh, it's okay. Speak to him. He understands English One of them is still alive What? He's all over the local paper I want to know if any of the others survived I want every one of them liquidated Including this one That's a bit difficult with these, C.I.A. Boys scout on my tail That's not your problem, Morgan. We've other people to take care of that You just find him Who Am I? Yes I'm Christine Spaak I work for the South African Tribune I saw you on T. V... What a great story! That was! I want to do an in-depth article on you Huh? I want to do an article on you Oh, I'm sorry. I'm very busy right now. Maybe some other day But you don't understand! You're a hero! Everybody wants to know who you are! They do? So do I Who Am I Excuse me Wait! The article. Wait! Wait, wait! Hi, Who Am I Don't you want to be a hero? Everybody wants to know what happened in the rally Christine. Reporter How's your brother? Oh, he's going to be fine. And the doctor's ready to see you I think she wants to interview you Oh? So you're the journalist? Yeah? You know my name? My name is Yuki. It's Y-U-K-I Our x-rays show that you experienced a severe blow in this area It's very sensitive It controls your reason, logic and memory That's why you're feeling confused I'm not mixed up! But if I am, is there any cure? That's what they all want. There is no immediate cure Why don't you contact the police? Perhaps Missing Persons will have some information that will jog your memory So where are you going now? I'm going to the police station The police station? Yes - Okay - I'll see you later then Yeah. Bye Did it work? Do you remember anything? - No! - No? - Miss - Yes? What do you think you're doing? This is a hospital! I was just helping my patient. I'm sorry Excuse me, sir Agent Lee, C.I.A. C.I.A.? Our superior would like to speak with you, just a moment - Me? - Right Nothing serious. Just a quick chat. Would you mind coming with us? Thank you Feel free to use this room. It's all yours Are you looking for me? Yes, I am Who are you? Have we met before? Not that I recall Morgan, C.I.A. Chief operative, Southern Africa. Pleased to meet you Have I done something wrong? Do you know about my past? Yes, I do I know you came out of the desert. I know you lost your memory And I believe you can help us with a highly classified investigation Me? Are you sure you saw eight graves? Yes, I'm sure And a skeleton hanging from a tree? Yes. From a parachute Good. This information could be highly valuable to us Of course we'll have to verify it And remember, this is top secret Not a word to anyone. I mean, no one Yes, of course Mr. Morgan, if you find out anything else about me Plese let me know Sure. I'll be in touch Thank you Very soon Mean anything to you? What? Good. Keep well Close, but no cigar It's not him? No. Striking resemblance though Mr. Morgan, wait If I remember anything, how can I contact you? You have a business card? I'm sorry. I don't Here. You can use mine No! Use this. It's better The C.I.A. Will put you through immediately It's a phone card. You can use it anywhere in the world Thank you The poor guy can't remember a thing So put him out of his misery I'll make sure he doesn't enjoy the African sun. Leave it to me Move it along! We're at a very delicate stage of testing The process should be gradual I can't guarantee... And I can't guarantee your family's safety Now get it started! Work! Activate the accelerator! All set! How can a tiny fragment power up a whole city? You don't understand the power of this fragment! You! Keep working! Initiating bombardment! Watch the leve! What's the flow rate? Forty thousand joules and climbing! It's working! It's working! Yeah! Go! Check it out! What's going on? The voltage is too high! Abort! Abort! Don't abort! Keep going! We told you it was too soon! The core's expanding! Come on! Move it! Quick! Let's go Oh, my god! Move it! What was that? I don't know. Let's take a look Officer! Officer! Officer! Sergeant actually! Sergeant. What about my case? I've been waiting two hours I'll get to you when I can. Everybody is waiting! The power station has just blown up, and it's chaos everywhere! What are you doing standing in front of me? If you're a missing person, what are you doing here? Have you seen a doctor yet? I've already seen the doctor, officer Sergeant! Look, have a seat As soon as we have sorted out the problem with computers, you'll be first on my list Okay? Yes, sir More coffee? No, thank you. Five is enough I insist Thank you What am I waiting for? Computers Thanks for popping in. I've been dying to meet you What's going on? Internal Security! I've got a couple of questions, I want to ask you Go! You two stay. The rest of you come with me We have the suspect. Keep guard Get me the stuff Have a seat spent the night in this deserted exhibition hall On the 29th, your friends disappeared On 30 March, 3 very important scientists from my country were kidnapped and their whereabouts is still a mystery Where have you taken them? Now listen, my friend We witnessed five guys and the scientists at the power station Then, mysteriously it blew up Now if you're not a terroist, why the hell did you blow it up? Who are you working for? I don't know Now on the day that our scientists were kidnapped We discovered extremely high-tech, lethal weaponry The likes of which we've never been seen in Africa Now only a first world country has got the money and the technology to make something like that So, I want to know from you, my friend, who are you working for? The Japanese, the Chinese, or the Americans? Or maybe somebody else? And tellEleven done one too many. ta to znai? I don't know who saved my life But I thank you Yvirorich, Russian Jakol, Isreal Hans, German And you, what's your name? I'm Paul, France Muhamad, I'm Malaysian Yubicha, Thai Tachi, Japan Dick Sing, Korea My name is... Gentlemen, what a great combination we've got here Who are you? You want to know who I am? I want to know who I am We found 54 different passports That makes 6 for each of you. Why? Where are your friends? Who are your friends? Well, there's no point trying to cover for your friends And don't you think you're in deep trouble now, you ain't smelt nothing yet? Talk to me. Now! They're all dead Quite a tough guy! We know about your special training But we've got special ways to make tough guys like you crack I'm waiting I told you, it's no use I lost all my memory With this attitude, you're going to lose more than just your memory Get my drift? Book him. On terrorism, espionage and attempted murder If any of his friends arrive, I'd like to have a little chat with them Let's go, smart ass! What's happening in here? You idiots! He was handcuffed! That way! Go around the back! How did he do this? Don't just stand there. We're losing him! Thank you, I'll be back He's on his way in Room 1954 - Certainly, sir - Thank you Who Am I, Christine, South African Tribune. Remember me? Here, take one of my cards I finally found you! It's amazing how hard it is to track you down My editor's been asking... Excuse me. Could you do me a favor? My taxi's waiting outside. Can you pay for it? Then the interview. Okay? OK, no problem. But remember the deal The interview as soon as I get back. I trust you Check her out Thank you Police, step aside, please Police? I didn't even see your I.D.! He's gone that way! What did you give him? My card. I told you I'm a reporter I'm doing a story on him Sure. Story. Right Come in, come in What's going on? What? Go! Go! Go! Stop! Start the car! How? I'll shift the gears! What? What's going on? Come in! Wait! Are you crazy? Slow down, come on! I'm not in yet! Come on, move it, get on! Third, fourth gear Which gear you run? I don't know Look out! Watch out! Be careful! You stop messing the gear! Find a better road! Let me Go! Go! Go! Oh, no! We can't move! Do you know how to drive? What do you expect? I only have one arm Move, I drive We're stuck! Don't worry, I can figure out Do something. They're right behind! Back to the car Car 54, in pursuit Hey! Watch out! I'm driving The police! We're saved! Good! No! Even the police are after me! Why? What have you done? Just keep going! You're great! Piece of cake They're back there! It's a dead end! Not again! What was that? Nothing, just sit tight! Next time warn us about seat belts! Sorry! Sorry? Christine, are you okay? I'm all right, but they're right behind us! Get us out of here! Push me up Let me show you what I'v got They're behind us! Come on, let's go, that way! We're gonna go over! Lean to the right! We gotta help them! OK Come out! Hurry up! Thank you Don't thank him! Grab him! Sorry You've gotta trust me Will this work? Yes. Good! So why are those guys after you? Everybody's after me C.I.A., Secret Police, even you You must be hiding something Hiding what? You must have stolen something from them. Where is it? Where is what? I don't know! Try to remember How did you do that so quick? All I remember is I've got 6 passports But this is not you. Who is this? I got it from the dead body Dead body? What a great story! Christine It's not a story! Eleven done one too many. What does this mean? - It's a puzzle. - Eleven done one too many You remember something, don't you? Tell me! I used to be good at that Someone bring my memory back What are you doing? I'm trying to help him! Don't you remember? The doctor said it would help I told you! Never do that again! OK Who am I? We ran into a slight snag. We lost him I suggest you find him. Quickly! He's lost his memory. What harm can he do us? You ever heard of short term amnesia, you idiot? What do you want me to do? What you were supposed to do in the first place. Kill him! Right Africa's a bit bigger than Washington Are you sure you want a piece? Very juicy Guys! I've broken the code! It's a phone number. A company in Rotterdam! Rotterdam? Yeah! How do you know? Eleven dEleven done one too many. The letters stand for numbers on a phone key pad The first number is the international code, zero eleven then the country and city codes. Don't you see? Done is d-one, right? So look, d is three and one is one Okay The company's name is Heinex Holdings But all I got was their answering machine Sounds great! But I still don't get it Where did you learn to break codes like that? Spy novels. I'm addicted to them They could know my past. I have to go there You mean we have to go there? You promised me a story, remember? Besides, the newspaper will pay our expenses Okay. But you go at your own risk It sounds so exciting. I wish I could come with you Hey, let's take a picture for my African scrapbook No! What's wrong? Something wrong? I tried to scare him, just like you did That was a good one! I got you Did it work? Anyway, this one's out of film. Let's try the other one Forget it. Yuki, thank you very much. We'll keep in touch Say goodbye to your brother Let's go Where are you headed? Airport You're going to walk? I'll drive! Good idea What's wrong with my driving? Rotterdam, Holland This is the place The encoded phone number belongs to that building over there Did you talk to anybody? - Yes - Who? The operator Then what? I just hung up You hung up? Who am I supposed to talk to? There must be over a hundred companies in there The number is right The matches from the dead body are also from this restaurant He must have been here That's obvious. So what do we do now? Shall we just walk in and take a look? I don't think so. The place is heavily guarded Even the police would have a hard time getting in there Where are you going? I've got to make a phone call Here. Use mine No. I'll use the pay phone. Reception's better Mr. Morgan Hello? Who's that? It's Who Am I. Remember me? Yes, of course. How could I forget? I found out something very important Yeah? WhA ta to? Are you Jesi li tu? A building. Maybe their headquarters Whose heiji tab? The people trying to kill me I'm at the coffee shop across the street And whereabouts in South Africa is this building? No. I'm in Rotterdam! He's across the road What? Hello? AHalo? Jeste li tu? Yeah. I'm here OK, don't do anything Give me 30 minutes to arrange back up for you, then call me I need mTreba mi vie informacija. OK And remember, don't trust anyone. Got it? Hey, areSlua li me ti? Yes What's going on? Our native friend's in the coffee shop across the street Take your men and finish him off Who? Our African friend What do you mean? The coffee sho... And don't blow it this time OK! Go! Peter, wait! Don't kill him! Bring him back here Yes, sir I need to find out what he knows Yeah, I'Da, tu sam. U redu, da ne inim nita. Give me Daj mi 30 minuta da ti obezbedim podrku, a zatim me nazovi. I need mTreba mi vie informacija. And remeI zapamti. Ne veruj nikome. Listen to me! Why are you tapping my phone calls? I'm a reporter, remember? What kind of reporter uses this? The best! I'll do anything to get the story! Anything? Yes. Anything Quick! Look, I'm sorry. I shouldn't have done that. I crossed the line But I'm not the one you should be worrying about Maybe your friend on the phone is lying to you No. He's C.I.A. Every organization has people on the take Look, I didn't mean to offend you Here. You can have the tape Let me explain! This is a gun! You're not a reporter! Now I know how you broke the code so easily And opened the handcuffs! Who are you? What do you want? Listen to me! Who are you? All right I haven't been totally honest with you, but it was for your own protection I'm with the C.I.A. Now you're C.I.A. Yes, but I'm on your side! Nobody's on my side! You call anybody in the bathroom? Who were you calling? What are you talking about? You set me up! You, round the back! I've got him! Come here to help! Think you can get away? Excuse me Hey, what do you think you're doing? What's going on here? Mind your own business! Hey, you can't do that! Feels good? Get him! Stop! Don't move! Don't shoot! Here, Sweetie Donation, Save The Children Fund Mr. Morgan? Who Am I? You're right. Someone's after me My men couldn't find you at the coffee shop What happened? I had to leave. Where are you? I'm on my way to Rotterdam You stay put. Where are you? How long till you get here? I'll commandeer a military jet Where are you? I'll call you then So why don't we just kill him? Because we still don't know what he's found out The buyer's coming this afternoon When the transaction's complete, we'll have nothing to fear from him You take care of the three Einsteins upstairs When the deal's history, so are they I want that lab pristine And no evidence left in the building It's being dealt with Hey, Mr. Armano Hey, nice joint you got here I'm getting to like Rotterdam I see the General's got security nice and tight Yeah. And he's been expecting you Oh, sorry! Over here. This entry point. And here I want 24 hours surveillance. Effective immediately Yes, madam What are you doing? So that happened to the power station That rock is really something Now that's what I call quality advertising Can you imagine the amount of energy produced by these fragments? My client prefers reality to imagination That's why we're not giving you all the money up front But I would say that half a billion dollars is more than enough motivation for you to deliver a quality product Mr. Nelson is not giving charity Believe me, he's getting a bargain He's only paid one third of the cost of the research project in South Africa and he's getting a complete product They're bringing the scientists and the merchandise right up Bring in another pot of hot coffee So you take 20% on the deal, Armano? Frank, I'm just a poor boy trying to make a living This disc contains the only remaining information about the formula The rest of the research files have been completely deleted And keep in mind that we still do not have all the knowledge to control the energy expansion completely Yes, sir. That's a problem We need more time to solve this problem Once we solve it the energy could be used for a positive purpose He's right That's very considerate, gentlemen but we had something a little bit different in mind Can you imagine, an ordinary machine gun with the destructive force of a ballistic missile? You promise us that you should not use the formula for destruction We've already spoken about your daughter, Manfred! Wait a minute! And now, you sell it to arms dealers. Yes. That's it! Take these gentlemen away Seems they've overexerted themselves This Mr. Nelson of yours is not only a very astute man but he's also going to be very rich because everybody's going top want this weaponry Can you believe this little piece of plastic costs billions of dollars? Champagne is ready outside, sir Why don't you take our friend here with you and show him our hospitality Yes, sir It's so hard to find a good help you can trust these days Yes Six, seven, eight zeros Don't make a mistake. One zero makes a hell of a lot of difference I don't play around when it comes to money You know when I press this enter, all that money's going to be yours Let me Your request is being processed. Please wait. Look at this. They call this swift banking and I still got to wait Come on! Calm down! You waited this long, what's a few minutes? I need a drink I'm the one who should be worried about this General I still think there's too many people that know about this What do you think? Relax! The commandos involved in the mission all met with a tragic accident Oh yeah? Well according to my sources, there was one survivor He doesn't even know who he is And by tomorrow, he won't exist And our three learned gentlemen will be disposed of along with their lab Well, why wait? We got the disc. Why not do it right now? Yung, take care of the three gentlemen Yes, sir Your statement worries me a little What? Am I going to be the next to go? That's right. You did send me the five hundred million dollars, didn't you? I'm joking. I was kidding. We're friends, Armano Now look! Friendship! Friendship! Save The Children Fund Coffee? Yes, coffee Coffee, coffee How's it going? We have a dress code. Tidy up Congratulations, General All in good time Transaction aborted. What's the matter? Not enough zeros? That's funny. It's not on my screen What are you talking about? I just forwarded it from our account Here, take a look The name of my account is Heinex Holdings So what? It's not in Heinex Holdings It's in Save The Children Fund! Donation received. Thank you very much. No! Somebody's been messing with my computer! Someone sneaked in! Knocked out one of our guys! It's him! Seal off the building! Floor to floor search! Find him! Kill him! He's in the building! Who's in the building? What? He's in the building? That's it! This is a set up You guys are trying to set me up, aren't you? Yes, sir That's the man! Right there! That's the man! When you were pouring the coffee you were messing with my computer, weren't you? No! It was your own man! My man? Shut up! Where is he? Just outside! Go down. Search the kitchen! Dont worry Don't worry I'll find him The scientists! We can't kill them now! Stop them! Save the children. I hate children I want this building secure from top to bottom. Seal off all the escape routes And check the ventilation system Groups of three Stay alert. He's a special operative A million dollars to the team that kills him Now get going Yes, sir I'm depending on you two Yes, sir Right. Before this goes any further, I want my disc back Are you still trying to pull something on me? You think I'm some little punk, you can just push around? What's the matter? Are you getting senile before your time? Don't you remember? I gave you the disc. Like this You gave me the disc? Well, I gave you the disc back. Just like this You have it on you. Don't you? Get your greasy hands off me! That's the guy who was pouring me coffee! It's him! Him who? Get out of my way! Get the men here! Boss, what's the matter? Can you repeat? You missed! What an idiot! And you shortstuff. You got my disc! Is this what you want? You got a fraction of a second to give that disc back to it's rightful owner or I'm going to break your little... Don't talk! Kill him! You shut up! I got it under control What's the matter with your mind? Because of this? You stole and kidnapped, and killed nine good men! All for this? Why do you want to destroy life? When you can make it better? What do you want? Nothing I want my life back! He's over here! Get the disc and kill him! The children thank you General, are you okay? Call an ambulance! Get that disc! Come on. Yes, sir He's down there! Don't move! Who Am I? Morgan! It's you! Of course, it's me! I've been trying to find you! You've come to kill me! You're one of them! What are you talking about? I've come to get you out You're lying. What are you doing here? I'm working undercover It's taken me two years to get into Sharman's organization I'm this close to nailing him! Yeah. I guess you saw me in the conference room Once the money goes through, he's mine I sent the money to the children's fund You what? You know what you've done? You've blown a two year investigation! The disc! You must have had access to the disc Have you got it? Yes Good. It's crucial evidence. You keep it Now, let's get you out of here Wait a minute. Your men found me at the coffee shop I never told you where I was Of course they found you. Remember the calling card I gave you? It's got a microchip in it It gives your location every time you use it They tried to kill me! They weren't my men By the time my men got there, you were gone Sharman must be tapping my phone! Look, if I'd wanted to kill you I could have done that in South Africa Sharman must have sent the hit men after you in Johannesburg But don't worry, we'll take care of them Look, I know you're confused You don't know who to trust Like I said before, don't trust anyone You've got the disc. You keep it Now, let's get you out of here I might not get out. You keep it Let's go You'll never know who you are I might have an amnesia. But I'm not stupid! Don't trust anyone! Remember? Get your hands off me! Go get him! The disc! He's got the disc! You've got two choices Give us the disc, and jump off Or no. 2, we take the disc and throw you off I like the third choice I keep the disc and I throw you both off! Good! How long? Go and again Behind you! Take it easy, we've got plenty of time Come on Come on Time's up! Shut up! Game's over! Let's finish him! What are you fighting for? Where is the disc? It fell at the carpark! Finish up, quickly! The black bag in the carpark, pick it up You want more fight? Don't hit me! He's up there! Which side he's going off? I don't know You bunch of bums! I can't believe you're still in one piece! You've got no choice, come on They gotta be kidding! We won't catch him in this! It's under control Execute Plan B That's Plan B? No! Plan A! What's plan B? You'll see! Go! Think you can trust me now? Sorry. You're just so young to be C.I.A. Young? We've got people who are eighteen! What is this? I'm one of you! NS1 Special Ops! We know who you are Then you know I'm undercover! Yes. I know You're a disgrace to the C.I.A. Get him out of my sight! All units! Search for the disc Nice kick! Thank you. We couldn't have done this without you Anybody would do it One thing I never forget my father told me Always do the right thing and stop the people who don't I wish everyone taught their children that And don't worry, our headquarters are sending through the information about your identity Thank you One last thing. Have you got the disc? He also told me, respect nature I dropped it somewhere I know Where are you going? Africa
