 

                        Weekend Weekend in Paradise congratulations on your promotion congratulations on your promotion, Upper Inspector very funny all the files for Executive Councilor Dittchen but again, it wasn't enough for a promotion everybody except myself after all that toiling, again I didn't make it to Upper Executive Councilor everybody except myself - Executive Councilor - Get out! closing time, Executive Councilor one works oneself to death to death to death adieu, Wuttke Executive Councilor good day Madame has called from Wiesbaden she'll be back tomorrow and she'd like to know if Monsieur has been promoted I'd like to ask, may I go out tonight? my fianc got promoted and we... [I don't understand] what they have against me, Hedwig I do all the work and the others have a career Hallo This is Mller. Will you be coming to our bowling game tonight, Dittchen? we want to "douse" your promotion Promotion? wrong number! "douse" my promotion a douse! in fact, that's the only thing to do here you are your mail, Ministerial Director here you are Ministerial Councilor Dr. Grimmeisen has been promoted to Ministerial Director say... where's some entertainment around here? where can one have a bit of fun around here? for the "weekend" I recommend the Schnaken lake you don't understand, I'm a bachelor - I see - I want to have some fun tonight why don't you go over to the "Merry Cockatoo"? The Merry Cockatoo Cabaret # little uncle, you're so sympathetic to me # little uncle, I love you fanatically # in your eyes lies a sunbeam of happiness # that's why one yearns for you, for your sweet baby glance # little uncle, you're so sympathetic to me # little uncle, I love you fanatically # and if there are thousands of men to chose from... # then, little uncle, I chose only you! # try one's luck, that's understandable # the longing stays eternally in the heart, so # everybody wants to feel love a bit for once # and often one says to a nice gentleman: # little uncle, you're so sympathetic to me # little uncle, I love you fanatically # in your eyes lies a sunbeam of happiness # that's why one yearns for you, for your sweet baby glance # little uncle, you're so sympathetic to me # little uncle, I love you fanatically # and if there are thousands of men to chose from... # little uncle, then I only chose you! may I sit down? my sister too? sure, they're all here kids, I want to become "Upper", Upper Executive Councilor, but that's none of your business ladies and gentlemen, all my life, all my life... all my life is... oh well - can my sister join us? - your sister? sure cheers, Lola there seem to be a lot of siblings in your family - good bye - good bye come on kids, little Lola, ah, there you are... why did you keep me waiting for so long, mousie another glass, waiter! ["Ober" = upper] I want to be "upper" too what do you want to be? I want to be Upper Executive Councilor I see, Upper Executive Councilor you'll become it soon - yes you will - I won't, they're all against me little uncle, don't drink any more but you're all soaked up like a bathing sponge like a bathing sponge? cheers, my darling ain't I sitting pretty here cheers, my darling what's going on there? somebody hit me or something - where? - I don't know you! I won't tolerate this! I forbid you to... forbid... forbid Excuse me, I was mistaken once I'm Upper Executive Councilor then everything'll be alright then I'll... ouch, right in the eye into the pupilla... where is the... there he is you see the guy over there, looking like a cockatoo he hit me, right into the pupillas I'll give the boy a good dressing down I'll give the boy a good dressing down you!... excuse me you! how dare you act like that! - are you referring to me? - of course I am what do you want? - I forbid you such behaviour! - you have nothing forbid in here gentlemen, I... gentlemen, I... that lout has continuously taken shots at me - but this is absurd - you've taken a shot at me three times how dare you... what did you mean by this? # that's why one yearns for you, your sweet baby glance # little uncle, you're so sympathetic to me I want to be "upper" I want to be "upper" I want to be "upper" sure you will, of course you will, fatty here you go - I want to be "upper" - you will - here you are - I want to be "upper" as soon as a husband is a grass widower he get's himself sloshed he even told me his real name what an amateur Dr. Breitenbach Ministerial Councilor telephone B717 a generous reward to the finder morning, Executive Councilor morning, Executive Councilor - hey! - quarter past 9 but this has never happened before! I only hope he hasn't done himself some harm since they again omitted him at the promotions no way! good morning, Assessor good morning, Miss Lore - today is Saturday, how about a little weekend trip? - out of the question when I want to take you out you're always engaged otherwise I must confess I'm a bit afraid of you is that so? you see, I'm just a small steno-typist and I can bring to my future husband nothing by myself that's all the dowry I have Lore? in fact, you're a swell girl what a pity when I think of my motorcycle behind me there's a nice empty seat at every curve, you press yourself against me and I... I know a road... that consists of nothing but curves all right, reserve the seat for me I want to file a complaint you do hear! where can I do this? how can I do this? when can I do this? come back in an hour in an hour? very well morning, Upper Executive Councilor morning Executive Councilor Dittchen hasn't arrived at the office yet he behaved so strangely yesterday maybe one should inform the Emergency Aid Force thank you so I'll send for you later morning good morning, Herr von Giersdorf belated congratulations on your promotion, Upper Executive Councilor thank you, thank you, thank you he's smelling a rat? I think I know what it is of course, evil tongues will say: "just patronage, his uncle the Minister" but that's ridiculous I'm telling you: a real talent will always assert itself the modern state demands brains intelligence - here you are - excuse me hallo! pass it on to the resort Dittchen lots of work [I plan to leave] punctually for the weekend alone? or with? alone with... I beg your pardon, I was right something must have happened at Dittchen's Frau Dittchen is on the phone she can't get into her apartment excuse me a moment Hallo this is Upper Executive Councilor von Giersdorf forgive me, but I don't have the keys to my apartment maybe Madame can trouble herself and come over here thank you very much, Upper Executive Councilor I'll be in the office in an hour my deepest regards, Madame, even though we haven't met yet I only hope he hasn't done himself some harm stop those gloomy prophecies, Wuttke I won't be convinced otherwise I can even picture him our good late Executive Councilor climbing up the stairway to Heaven and on top there stands St. Peter opens the gates of Heaven for him and the good Dittchen enters and says: excuse me, I'm late God be praised and thanked what's the matter? I already saw you floating to the netherworld as a gas balloon I've heard to my consternation that you've been omitted again at the promotions dear colleague well, you've been promoted instead dear colleague I know I'm no "bright church light" at most a little stump of stearin If I may say so, my dear Dittchen, you're a very industrious civil servant but you're lacking... initiative you must get people to notice you you must attract the general attention is that so? I see I'll make a note of the bit about initiative whom did you want to see? Dittchen Herr Executive Councilor Dittchen! your name? just tell him, Tutti's here Tutti? Executive Councilor Tutti is here morning, fatty the keys to your apartment how on earth did you get my... how, Madame, how? but I tucked you into bed last night you tucked me into bed? I hope I haven't molested you on the contrary, you behaved like a... like a gentleman God, must I have been soused and how! you got into a lot of trouble too I got into trouble? that's right with the cockatoo yes, there were even slaps in the face involved I know myself, where I hit, not a blade of grass remains no, he slapped your face he slapped my face? so that's why say, why do you always address me as "Du"? but we drank Brderschaft God, must I have been soused! you've poured out your little heart to me I felt so sorry for you you know, my husband is a civil servant too and then you talked about a certain von Giersdorf all the time you said he was such a fop that's right. And now he's even become an upper-fop but please, you must leave me now, I'm in office, you know and my wife may be here any moment I'd like to see Executive Councilor Dittchen I regret the Executive Councilor is in an important meeting just announce me, I'm Frau Dittchen oh oh please I'll... of course at once I humbly ask you to be patient for a moment Executive Councilor what's the matter? won't you show me out? - no! - but where to? what's the matter? easy! Madame how did you get in here? that's unimportant, you'd better tell me how to get out of here, will you Madame, you surely came to see the Upper Executive Councilor if you please Madame allow me von Giersdorf so you're the upper-fop! eh? but child, you know the rules of the house no wives are allowed in here here are the apartment keys, and now leave, my child I've been away for two weeks and you don't even kiss me? what? ah yes, of course here you are now get out, will you please and you've nothing else to tell me? no. ah, yes, that's right, our maid, Anna, she left we noticed that she got rounder and rounder she claimed it was a wandering kidney not a word of truth it was a wandering fellow what are you talking about! have you been promoted? yes or no? the Ministerial Councilor called for me? inform all departments that I'm back from my official journey I've been at Dittchen's because of the apartment keys I'm already informed, Madame I'll take the liberty to call on you very soon if Monsieur your husband permits it that old sleeping bag eh? couldn't we two meet again... without Monsieur your husband? why not perhaps even today? that's feasible too so? then at 2 o'clock at the Zoo station done, sweetie I'll be awaiting you, filled with hot longings what a savage! the promotions depend on Ministerial Councilor Breitenbach is that so? on Breitenbach? he's the head of the personnel dept. I think I could put in a word with him don't start such monkey business and now go, will you I'll be home late today, I have my hands full with work I must see one of the gentlemen now! it's an urgent matter come back in an hour Ministerial Councilor Dr. A. Breitenbach come in ah, Madame, so you did come after all please have a seat thank you may I return your property? thank you but first my finder's reward since when do crooks get a reward? thank you may I at least know, with whom do I have the pleasure? no, you may not may I at least see you again? perhaps even today? perhaps I still have your phone no. I've a date with my girl for the "weekend" my wife is already out at out cabin, I hope I won't miss the train Good Heavens! the Haubenschildt woman! Ministerial Councilor, Congresswoman Haubenschildt is on her way God Almighty, she's the last person we needed I'm honoured, Madame good day please have a seat, Madame thank you what can I do for you, Madame? you know, I've made it my life's calling to stamp out the immorality that has been spreading among the people of our nation by all means certainly the administration must put a stop to this increasing shamelessness of course unfortunately I have an appointment with the Minister right now but it'll be a pleasure for Upper Executive Councilor von Giersdorf if you please, Madame what a surprise, Madame if you please I'd like to read to you a little complaint, Herr von Giersdorf affairs are in such a scandalous state I'm getting a heaps of petitions daily something must be done! yes mum even something extreme must be done! we'll assign this task to Assessor Winkler good day, Congresswoman good day Madame has an urgent complaint a complaint? nobody else can deal with it but Executive Councilor Dittchen if you please if you please if you please, Madame oh, excuse me Congresswoman, what's the reason for this honour? the Congresswoman has a complaint oh! please sit down I'd like to draw your attention to the so-called "weekend movement" under the pretenses to exercise the spirit and the body the youth of both sexes sets forth into nature and for what purpose? to chase after illicit pleasures this gathering of half-naked people is shameless! just imagine, I myself, only dressed the thinnest of bathing suits horrible! - here, and these are just samples [Auslese] - well, by the time I've read them through [auslesen] thousands of young people drowning in the swamps of sin! and I am to pull them all out? yessir, that's your duty! good-bye, gentlemen foggy old crow I want to speak to one of the gentlemen now! for hours, I've been waiting to speak to one of the gentlemen gentlemen, I wish you an agreeable weekend propos, Monday morning the new Ministerial Director Dr. Grimmeisen will arrive I ask you to be here on time, he's said to be a disagreeable gentleman - enjoy your lunch - enjoy your lunch enjoy our lunch my name's Badrian owner of a villa on the Schnaken Lake unfortunately I'm in a hurry, perhaps you can address yourself to Herr von Giersdorf excuse me, sir, I want to file a complaint opposite my quiet villa a "weekend" hotel has been opened this hotel is nothing but a sleazy doss-house - is that so? - yes! what's the name of the hotel, eh? "The Paradise" on the Schnaken Lake on the Schnaken Lake I thank you - excuse me, sir - yes? I have to tell you... the "Weekend" hotel on the Schnaken Lake is nothing but a swamp! you'll have to address yourself to the Building Inspection Dept. Thunder and lighting! if you too want to get rid of me... but what do you want of me? my name's Badrian I'm in such a rage! but Herr "Baldrian" [valerian] the name's Badrian! I know I know I just wanted to calm you down opposite my villa a hotel has been opened, they way the guests are behaving! every weekend fishy things are going on there cavaliers with their "Sunday brides" a scandalous state of affairs you ought to have shut the place down long ago but the gentlemen "of the green desk" [the Ministry] they have no courage, no initiative! that's where you're wrong! tell the citizens of Schnaken Lake this Archangel Gabriel, with his sword [dialog missing] in fact, where is is that Schnaken Lake of yours? on the Zossen road your phone call has made me very happy, Madame #... is the weekend, the weekend, the weekend # 'cause each boy who loves his girl runs out into nature with her # there every woman can do it, there you can kiss each other # the way it's done on a weekend # the most beautiful thing of the week is the weekend, the weekend, yessir # when I drive out on a Saturday, below a fine sunbeam # that's better than stay at home # the clean spring air, the sweet smell of flowers # are our happiness and everybody calls out in enthusiasm: # the most beautiful thing of the week is the weekend, the weekend, yessir # yessir yessir yessir # yessir coachman, coachman couldn't you drive faster? I could, but the horse can't 1 minute till Hotel Paradise the motor's broken down how fortunate that this happened right next to a hotel Private Property Hotel Paradise dogs are not allowed # my heart only beats for you # your heart only beats for me # I am in love, you are in love # can there be anything more beautiful? # I am happy with you # you are happy with me # no heart, my child, loves you like mine # that's why I imagine: # when you're dancing this sweet little tango # think of me # and when you dance with another girl # think of me # because during this music I asked you # whether you loved me, and you said yes the shameless goings-on in the "Weekend" hotels require the authorities' interference. Investigations have already been started... that Haubenschildt woman, with all her yakking, will set the police on our necks let that old she-goat bleak our joint is packed full, that's the main thing - that's the main thing - right leave your place to the gentleman you're snoring like a chainsaw they attached to me an alert civil servant indeed when I'm on duty during the day I sleep at night and when I'm on duty at night I have to sleep during the day then one can congratulate your wife I rarely see her she has a job she's a singer listen, Constable the state of affairs at Schnaken Lake are like a slap in the face of public morals got it? of course somebody has slapped your face who told you? Schnaken-Lake everybody leave the train we've arrived, come on, come on they made that sleeping bag a constable! - good day, innkeeper - good day, Madame and Monsieur - can we have a room? - of course. same as last week lots of action today? any dancing? the 5 o'clock tea starts already at 4 the keys! if you please, Herr Schmidt good day, Herr Schulze you see, we called ourselves Schulze last time so what - what an old chatterbox you are - why? don't address the people with their names! they have different names each time cigarettes yes? cigarettes yes get going, put on your cigarette tray you're sitting pretty, acting the boss in here but I'm taller than you # the most beautiful thing of the week is the weekend, the weekend, the weekend # 'cause each boy who loves his girl runs out into nature with her # there every woman can do it there you can kiss each other they way it's done on a weekend # the most beautiful thing of the week is the weekend, the weekend, yessir please take this suitcase to the baggage room done cuckoo phooey, Professor pardon me, but there was a mosquito here was one too did the gentleman molest you? - come along - incredible! who are you anyway? I? Lehmann old nutcracker I'll overhear that - Herr von Hannomack - why? that's right and wife? # the most beautiful thing of the week is the weekend you here, my dear? the cockatoo! this is what I call luck that was really strong stuff, the way you behaved last night you know, when I take a fancy to a beautiful woman this arouses my wild nature then I must make a dash for her but today you can spare me some time? my good man, I'm married! that doesn't bother me just send him packing how dare you! who are you anyway? I'm Lehmann if you don't move on at once... my bad luck again today this is outrageous pardon, my dear all the changing cabins already taken but I was lucky, I got us a nice little room then I can get changed can't I be of assistance, huh? you're a little philanderer, Herr von Giersdorf why don't you call me by my first name? what is it? Emmerich Emmerich you'll stay down here, like a good boy count till 1000, that will calm you down adieu, Emmerich my dear, allow me to keep you company thank you, no too kind I'll accept your friendly offer leave me alone, I'm a married woman everybody says so nowadays I won't be fooled anymore don't get fresh what's going on here? how dare you! - I hope I'm at least permitted to... - no you're not! then I'm not halt! your name? I'm Lehmann and your address? I'm in the directory you see to what situations you're exposing me by the way, you arranged that very cleverly, with the break-down of your car but dear Madame, you don't believe that I... this suspicion is downright insulting I beg your pardon, but the double room you've reserved by phone is already taken - all right, all right - here's the key, no. 9 all right, all right I see reserved by phone I wish you a nice stay, Herr Dittchen why does he use that name? I registered here under the name Dittchen that's the name of a slightly dumb Executive Councilor at our office so now you're Frau Dittchen don't you forget! I won't, I am Frau Dittchen the name is very familiar to me by the way, the gentleman is a distant relative of mine couldn't you do something for him? I see with pleasure, Madame, as a favour to you but you'll devote this evening to me very well, because of Dittchen this place seems to be a bustling business I'll go over to the hotel now and you'll make careful observations around here yessir, I'll be most attentive # when you dance your sweet little tango # think of me # and even if you dance it with another man # think of me Hey! you here? smart isn't it? please close shop again do you know who I'm with? with your superior Herr von Giersdorf really? and do you know who he takes me for? [text missing] even your wife will occasionally make a "wrong bounce" my wife has never made a wrong bounce in her life you, I have a grand idea you just keep on being my wife look who's here ah, dear colleague what a splendid sample of human species you are dear colleague protect me, Emmerich dear colleague, I am at your disposition so you want a duel? no way! with a target like this no my dear, I'd rather let the lady take a shot Dittchen, beloved husband, you're shirking? allow me, Executive Councilor to explain the matter in private as you wish Madame, I'm happy to find you alone at last still solo? you or no one what if my husband came along now we womanizers aren't afraid of husbands well, I gave him a good dressing-down I'm really out of luck today the cockatoo! I've been looking for you I heard today that you slapped me last night - but gentlemen... - an eye for an eye a slap for a slap - what do you want of me - you've slapped my face - I have slapped your face? - don't you know who I am? - how dare you slap my face - excuse me but you're still wearing your gym shoes - that's none of your - just a small fat gentleman... - do you imagine that I... - no idea what you mean... I must ask you stand still - don't run away, for the last time - I won't think of it - that's none of your business - get down from there why don't you get up please get down please, you get up here you get down why should I get down, I'm as near to you as you to me I'm telling you to get down be my guest I don't want to be your guest, you've been so impertinent as to - with that lady - all right, I abdicate I'll get you yet he who rises high makes a deep fall silly boys, I'll call for the police the Executive Councilor! the entire Ministry the lady and the gentleman won't be back from the beach for an hour meanwhile, you can change in here thank you I'll give you my clothes presently, have them ironed but wait here, you see, I'm all wet sir this is my little wicker chair here you are please have them ironed I'll wait, 10 minutes have you taken a room here? no way by the way, let me give you a piece of advice since you're a married woman get lost at once I'm here on official duty got it? I see, trouble brewing got it. I'm getting lost may I come in, Madame? the Ministerial Councilor what a pleasant surprise to see you here I suppose you're here with Madame your wife no way! not ten horses could drag my wife to such a locality I beg your pardon, I've reserved the cozy corner table for your supper all right, all right allow me, Herr Dittchen what's your name in here? Dittchen? well, you see, one can't very well... at this place... under one's real name so you borrowed mine? indeed that's great then give my love to "Frau Dittchen" this is strong stuff what are you doing here? - I'm getting away from here right now - Me too come in allow me, my luggage... go ahead, Emmerich how unfortunate that you're a relative of that Dittchen, of all people because he's just arrived Good Heavens! what's the matter? but he's my husband Golly! the entire Ministry well, they'll be surprised at the initiative I'll be unfolding now # the most beautiful thing of the week is the weekend # the weekend, the weekend - help! - excuse me, but the innkeeper... the insolence! you lecher I'm not a lecher, you're mistaking me... you! it's time you felt another man's fist in your face one moment, let me explain the innkeeper told me I could... - I'll kick you out - I forbid you to use that tone with me I'm Executive Councilor Dittchen even if you were the Chinese Emperor - one moment - I'll kick you... I can't stand that, I'm vertiginous - out! - ouch! never in my life... look Paul, the Haubenschildt everybody naked! the Executive Councilor? Madame, as you can see, I'm investigating on location what a sink of iniquity! a pretty state of affairs around here I'll enter everything into my report I'll expose the whole business I'll get the Constable now what an efficient civil servant look, the Haubenschildt I know how to handle her go up to her well, pretty lady all alone? don't you want to have some nice company too? don't misunderstand me I've already given satisfaction to several ladies no thank you but I'd like a room where I can freshen up we don't have any rooms left but there's a small chamber, if you care to have a look yes please this way I'm deeply distressed, Madame my husband won't understand this at all I'd be happy if I could pull a trick on that old she-goat, the Haubenschildt you think she's spying? you can bet on it when does the next train leave? the gentleman wants to leave already? but the air here is just splendid, splendid go away! one reads all those big advertisements, one wants to have a bit of fun, one comes here and... I think I have just what you're looking for really? a single lady? yessir young? well she's no longer a teenager excellent, you know, I'm more into riper women ripe? that she certainly is you can say this aloud marvelous, excellent I don't like women who throw themselves at you straight away she must show a bit of resistance this lady will show resistance if you please I'll phone my parents now occupied for half an hour the phone's occupied that's a pretty state of affairs a pretty state of affairs indeed, isn't it so, Innkeeper? what do you want? are you a guest? you snoop I? a guest? in such a dump? get out, or I'll wring your neck miserable dwarf Executive Councilor, protect me are you the innkeeper? - all extras included - I'm Executive Councilor Dittchen the state of affairs in your hotel demands for an administrative interference Criminal Investigators are already on the premises why? they haven't booked a room I'll now call the gendarmerie yessir, the eye of the law is watchful out! on duty you sleuth help! a fine house Criminal investigation force help! follow me help! this is my most beautiful day help! help! open up! air! air! air! a brute has attacked me Executive Councilor where is the guy? the cockatoo! you'll pay for this, attacking decent women come on, we'll inspect all the rooms that's just what we need, on top of it what a civil servant! - who stays here? - Herr Schulze let's proceed don't tremble like a pudding my husband won't be here who stays here? Herr von Hannomack and wife what is this? - the Upper Executive Councilor? - Criminal investigation force is there a lady in your room? are you discreet? the lady is married I'm on duty, even if it were my own wife... Tutti! my wife now he's getting alert well, this is quite embarrassing, Constable to catch one's own wife but let's proceed I only wish I hadn't agreed to this car outing the Ministerial Councilor! I know the gentleman I'm very sorry but please ask your lady to step outside don't do it, I'm warning you I regret infinitely we're about to see some shady dame but that's my wife you see him of all people he needed some calming down anyway morning, Executive Councilor morning, morning has the new Ministerial Director arrived yet? not yet everybody has already been inquiring after him they all seem to be terribly afraid of the new Ministerial Director Wuttke, call for Miss Lore and otherwise I'm not to be disturbed I have to work on an important report Miss, you'll ask for your discharge on the 1st but why? you'll be at the station today at 3:10 and you'll go to Luckenwalde with me where my old man, estate owner Winkler, will await us at the station are you serious? my parents want to meet their future daughter-in-law is this really true? you can have it in writing no, I'd prefer orally at 3:10 at the... at 3:10 at 3:10 at 3:10 Miss Lore, Executive Councilor Dittchen wants you at 3:10 - 3:10? - when can I see the Minister? at 3:10 you'll copy the report, then you can leave a 1 o'clock for all I care - 80 pages - yes, it contains quite a bit the new Ministerial Director too should have some amusement when will the new chief be here? the new Ministerial Director will arrive at 11 o'clock, Assessor we'd better make some preparations you'll find yourself before the divorce court in no time if you kick up a row about this harmless affair - but my wife wasn't allowed to... - let other people too speak up please, Herr Emmerich, what were you going to say? Madame your wife only used the excursion to inform me about your efficiency I've seen to it that my uncle, the Minister in acknowledgment of your merits appoints you inspector you see, now you're entitled to a higher class of pension now you can go on sleeping why haven't you come home tonight, Leo? Madame, you seem to forget that you "forgot yourself" but I only made a little car excursion in order to help you really? in order to please me you checked into a hotel with him Leo, you know that you can "put your hands into the fire" for me Madame, the sheets on our bed have been cut in two come in good day pardon, Executive Councilor I'm only returning the wallet you left last night in my wife's room good day good day my dear... one moment... listen to me... that was a mistake... the thing about the wallet child, you don't imagine that I'm lying to you my dear, listen to me, Hedwig Hedwig! Hedwig! sir, the sheets on our bed have been cut in two but Hedwig, let's sow them together again Hedwig! - Executive Councilor... - what is again you want of me? the matter will run its official course, we'll shut down the joint Good Heavens, no, on the contrary! you'll do nothing of the sort I've come to an agreement with the innkeeper we've joined as partners in the business this is the limit, this is downright impertinent please don't bother me any further clear off, I don't want to see you anymore leave me in peace! I'll file a complaint against you you understand? what did you say? complaint! you'll get to know me! Executive Councilor I've come to declare that Madame your wife, during our short excursion, has preserved a distance at all times she only accepted my invitation to help your advance in office this is exactly what women are like they imagine one could get promoted through patronage a man like you doesn't need patronage I was just talking to the Minister about you and I'm here to congratulate you on your belated promotion Herr Upper Executive Councilor You see! And without patronage by the way, dear colleague you've written a report about the affair on the Schnaken Lake couldn't you... my name... the parts referring to Ministerial Councilor Breitenbach will be left out and now you'll rewrite the stuff rewrite it? I want to file a complaint against an Executive Councilor where can I do this? with the Upper Executive Councilor up the stairs, corridor 3, room 109 all right all right Upper Executive Councilor, excuse me what is it you want of me again? I don't want anything of you I want to see the Upper Executive Councilor that's me what? you? since when? since 5 minutes. and now leave me in peace I forbid you to use this tone I'll complain about you, Herr... oh, what an honour dear colleague change of office, Herr Upper Executive Councilor? lots of things are being changed around here Herr von Hannomack why? ah, I see well the laugh is always on the... on the loser I hope you'll remove my name from your report I wouldn't dream of it but you're my smash hit in the interest of my career it is absolutely essential and in the interest of my career it is imperative that it stays in my uncle the Minister thinks that a man of your talents ought to be promoted faster and I think I can congratulate you even now Herr Ministerial Councilor I've always found you rather unsympathetic, my dear Giersdorf but this makes up for a lot here's the rewritten report excellent only the part about Giersdorf that goes out change it again? not at all! just a rewrite I want to file a complaint against an Upper Executive Councilor to whom must I address myself? to the Ministerial Councilor where is he? first three flights of stairs what do you want again? you? you're a Ministerial Councilor? yessir since 5 minutes but that's not possible! it is now that I've started to advance I'm not going to stop very soon and now get out! you'll get to know me you! Ministerial Councilor, the Ministerial Director has arrived Herr Ministerial Director Dr. Grimmeisen if you please thank you haven't we met somewhere before? I don't remember, Ministerial Director is that so? would you be so kind and announce me to the Minister presently # the most beautiful thing of the week is the weekend the Lehmann! Lehmann, get out of here, quick! if my fianc finds you here... calm yourself, Miss, you seem to mistake me for somebody else I'm the Ministerial Director Dr. Grimmeisen oh! of course excuse me, Ministerial Director you're welcome I see you're a clever girl you insolent fellow! you're running after the girl right up to this place? - please, you're mistaken, I am... - Get out! or I forget who I am! Herr Assessor! how dare you! you must excuse him, Ministerial Director dear colleague, a slight misunderstanding this young man takes me for a certain Lehmann excuse me excuse me unheard of - have a seat - thank you this is a disagreeable situation you should know that I am really Lehmann I know really? my congratulations, Ministerial Councilor by the way, I heard you've mentioned me in your report couldn't one... of course, one moment Report on the state of things at Lake Schnaken - May I leave now, Ministerial Councilor? - of course - did you retain a copy? - yessir excellent then throw it into the wastepaper basket and for all this I've missed my train Herr Ministerial Director Congresswoman Haubenschildt let her come in Madame, the Ministerial Director will see you now thank you you! you, Madame! don't come near me! you lecher but let me explain be silent! I'll go to the Minister at once, I'll go to the Minister the cockatoo! the guy was just what I needed! I can believe that do you know who's standing before you? Ministerial Councilor Dittchen and do you know who's sitting before you? Ministerial Director Dr. Grimmeisen good day, gentlemen good day, Minister gentlemen, you know that in my ministry, patronage doesn't exist I only acknowledge industriousness and efficiency the new Ministerial Director Dr. Grimmeisen asked today, for reasons of health, for his... one ticket, 2nd class and I've been looking forward to it so much that's why I appoint the most efficient of my civil servants to the Ministerial Director that's where you must go if you want to complain against the Ministerial Councilor how many stairs? come in no! no! I don't want you I don't want you I want, for Heaven's sake, to see the Ministerial Director that's me now... I give up.
