 

                        Leng Feng Male Rank Sergeant Role Sniper. Because of his unauthorized action during a mission, the person above shall be given a penalty of confinement, in accordance with discipline regulations. 7th August 2008. According to a tip-off, a criminal gang near the southern border is running a massive operation smuggling drugs inside carriers' bodies. Their means are cruel and this is badly effecting the population. The authorities decided to sent a special force to co-operate with the local anti-drug police. In tracking down the criminal gang. Operational preparations complete. Ready to attack. Action. Attack with frontal assault. Brother. Help me, brother. Help me. You are surrounded. All people in the building, drop your weapons now. Don't shoot. Don't shoot. Don't shoot. I'm coming out now. I'm coming out. It's nothing to do with me. Don't shoot. Ar! Get me a car! I want a car now! Back off! This building was built in the 60s. It was used to keep hazardous materials. The whole building has been specially reinforced. The walls are made of ferroconcrete. Its Mohs hardness scale is 8. The weapons of ours cannot penetrate it. It would be a massacre if we use heavy calibre anti-materiel weapons in an urban anti-terrorist mission, so we didn't carry. Cease fire. Everyone stop attacking. Go back! Why did you shoot without authorization? Sir, comrades were down. Cannot wait. Your request is negotiable. First, release the hostage. You are trying to win more time, aren't you? I want a car. If it happens again, will you do the same? What was that? Who did that? Who? Sniper, Don't shoot without order. Don't shoot without order. I can shoot his head, right now. Calm down. Calm down. Calm down. What was your feeling? I'm the hostage. Why did you fucking shoot me again? Accident, accident. It was really an accident. I can shoot his fucking head right now! Calm down. Leng Feng, wait for your confinement! I wasn't thinking about killing people, but saving people, saving my comrades. It felt good. Were you feeling good? Yes. Killing enemies in battle is my duty. How confident were you with your shooting? 50%. What about the other 50%? There was no other 50% in my case. I won. OK. You can go back now. Excuse me, Sir! Yes. Am I going back to my old troop? What old troop? Confinement room. "Somewhere Southeast Asia." Min Deng, you are under arrest. For drug trafficking, human trafficking weapon smuggling and aiding terrorist activities. You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. Brother, Finally, I did something big for you. Come back. Now! Brother, come on. I was always so sure that I can help you. Wu Ji, run! You may have already been surrounded by the Chinese Police. Brother, don't try to scare me. What Chinese Police? Police! Where? Police! Police is here! Brother, help me! Brother! Help me. Who did the shooting? I'm the hostage. Who did the shooting? How could you shoot at the hostage? My brother was just a child could never grew up. So eager to prove himself so he rashly ran into China, trying to prove himself to me. He never thought that he would die in China. A Chinese guy? Don't look down upon China. When you meet them, you will know what you are up against. China. That is the red zone of you mercenaries. When they meet me, they will know what they are up against. Some people think. A soldier could never disobeys his order, other wise he should take off his uniform and go home. Some others think that you should be promoted exceptionally and make you an elite in the army. I think you have 50% chance to be kick out of the army, I think I have 50% chance to stay in the army. There is no other 50% in my case. Ever heard of wolf warrior detachment. Yes. It is the blue force in the Special Forces of PLA. And? Walf warrior detachment is formed by the elite of the PLA Special Forces. They are equipped with the best weapons, simulate tactics of foreign special forces and constantly challenge our elite troops. They do whatever they can to smash them and temper them. They are the special force in special forces. Report! Drinking is not allowed in the army. Do you think you are still a soldier now? Am I if I drink? Maybe. May I ask who you are? I'm Long Xiaoyun, the current commander of Warwolf Company. Why choose the army? Choosing the army, I have regretted for two years, but I would regret my whole life if I didn't. Truth? Truth! Drink more. More. Are you trying to make me drunk and tell you the truth? Will you tell the truth? Yes. Good. What do you want to know? I want to know what you will be like when you get drunk. I've never been drunk. I started drinking when I was three. At 5,made two boys six years older than me drunk before I do. At 12, I peeped at girls in showers with some Dutch courage. At 17, What happened when you were 17? Has your father disciplined you? Before I was born, my father left our current home. My mum wanted a baby, so she invited my father over for a drink. Dad got drunk, and here I am. Stop laughing. Leng Feng, How could you fight with others again? Platoon Commander, take the intelligence and go. Don't come over any more. Platoon Commander, send the intelligence back! Platoon Commander. Do your brother a favour. Make it quick. Shoot me. That is a tough one. Everyone in Wolf detachment is tough. We don't want weak ones. Well. See you tomorrow. See you, Sir. Ar! My name is Shao Bing, the Deputy Commander of Wolf Warrior detahment. My honor to see you, sir. I don't like you. Do you know why we are called Wolf warrior? Wolves are social animals. One wolf cannot defeat a lion or a tiger, but a wolf pack can be invincible. We need teamwork not lone wolf. Or showing off individual abilities. Yes, sir. Speaking of individual abilities, my commander told me that she found a marvelous sniper, but I really can't see what so marvelous about you. What have you seen? If we were on the battlefield, you would have been surrounded. If you don't have such alertness, how can you be a sniper? If this is the real battlefield, what would be your last words? Sir! That won't happened to me. Why? Here is a barrier-free open isolation zone, with armoured cars and tanks. With such a defence, if dozens of special soldiers from the enemy could have successfully dug trenches and conceal themselves, and I just landed in the middle of the enemy's ambush trap, there could only be one reason, which is you have committed treason with all your men. To traitors, we usually damn all their ancestors. This is a tough one, like our style. So close to his face, they either begin to flight or begin to kiss. What do you want to say, sir? Yu Fei. Yes, sir. He is all yours now. Yes, Sir. I'm your Squad Commander. My name is Yu Fei. Hello, Commander. I like you. Welcome to Wolves. How is this? The welcome ceremony into Wolves. Is awesome, isn't it? Do you know why? Why? We are the fucking best. Tell this new guy what the motto of our detachment is. Be humble! I really didn't see. How is everything going now? All goes well. Shi, you gave up your operation room to that girl, Long Xiaoyun and running around with us in the van. Shi, you have been working hard. Four old fellows have been knocked out by her raid. I don't want to be the fifth. I need to make my headquarters mobile. I want to see that there is no Achilles heel, how Long Xiaoyun can make her deadly blow. Leng Feng, tell us your three-shoots story. Be careful with your words. Shit Rubberneck, you just can't leave things alone. I'm Shi Rubberneck, not Shit Rubberneck. That idiot, on the very first day he came. Questioned in front of everyone. "Why is such a tough troop" "led by a broad?" He had been tricked for more than 17 times, then he behaved. Be careful with your words. Commander Long is a woman. A woman is a broad. Am I wrong? What's the big deal being? Can't a woman be a commander? In my opinion, there will be no wolves without Commander Long, right? Yes, Rubberneck is right. Eh? You should have already been taught a lesson. In my opinion, what this kind of woman needs is to be conquered by a man. By which kind of man? A man like me. How? How? Ah, ah! Ma'am. We are running into anti-aircraft fire. Return to base! Drop the bait. Parachute. Opening altitude 300 metres. Be careful. New man just joined in. Run him in as soon as possible. Yes, Ma'am. Sir! Find massive air-drop of enemy paratroopers. Commander, this is a tactic used by large formations during World War II. They are obviously bait. If there are high-explosive bombs and drop on our position, we will have serious casualties. If we fire back, our anti-aircraft fire will be exposed. Then expose all to them. Command the anti-aircraft force to fire all weapons. Yes, Sir. Sir! We got the command authority of the blue force. Ma'am The red force has penetrated our operational command system. And? We have lost the command authority to the combat troops. Contact the artillery regiment now. Yes, Sir. Wait. When we were trying to penetrate the system, and set up a temporary virtual communication with the enemy, Long Xiaoyun used the same method and sent commands to the artillery regiment. One of our mechanised infantry regiments has been destroyed by our own artillery regiment. Interesting. Yun, well done. What's more interesting is that this girl also has installed a virus in our operational command system. If we made the call just now, we would be bombed within three minutes. The game has just begun. Shi, you can directly command the blue force now. Copy the operation mode of foreign special forces. I have been studying how to deal with foreign forces for the last twenty years. Ma'am. Find a military unit the same size as a regiment. Ma'am. Find another two military units the same size as regiments. Fake. Ma'am. We lost contact with the Deputy Commander. Commander Long, please reply if you hear this. Please reply if you hear this. It looks really fake. They want us to think this is a fake one, so they left the real one here. Let's check it out. Attention, all units. Move fast. When your missions is done, muster at the assigned place. Yes, Sir. Wait. What if they want us to think they would put the real one in the fake one? Are you doubting Commander Long's order? I know the red force's commander. I think it's probably a trap. Follow the orders. Eh, if this is a fake one, The wolf will be lost. The wolf never loses. I had just begun to like you, but now I'm really disappointed with you. Follow the orders, soldier. Leng Feng has just come over from the red force. He must be more familiar with the way they fight than us. Shall I take Leng Feng and Rubberneck and support from the perimeter? Eh. When the exercise finishes, you better leave the Wolf. We are so over. I told you it's fake. Armoured cars, tanks. Dozens of soldiers from our special force have successfully sneaked into the centre of enemy's ambush trap. Commander Shao, you are taking your men to die for our country together. He is good. Make him one of us. He is the Deputy Commander of Wolf warrior detachment. You must get him for me. Withdraw the exploring birds. Yes, Sir. We won't be a thing to them even if we rush down now. It seems like the wolf will lose this time. Shit. Is this a fake one too? Let's check it out. Three, two, one. Arrive. All gone. Keep watching. Brigade Commander, Hello, Sir. Brigade Commander. Don't ask me. I'm already dead. Report! The exercise umpire team has judged that the red force's commander has been shot to death by our sniper. Li Zhijun. Yes, sir. Find them out. Yes, Sir. Guard Company, follow me. Yes, Sir. Switch on the video. Cut off the line. I want Long Xiaoyun to see her men disappear one by one. Yes, Sir. Report! The video communication with the operating force is back on, but cannot send instructions. Leng Feng, let me interview you. What did you feel when you defeated your old commander? Will you do the same thing to us? The old commander said exercises are actual combats. Yo, tell the truth, No one is listening now. We won't trick you again. Exercises are actual combats. Bull shit. Do actual combats fire empty bombs? The reason I joined the army is to fight, What we fight over and over, as through we are playing a game. Why fight? Nothing is better than staying with family at home. This is my little princess. Beautiful? Not again. Don't show my fiancme's photo to others. My girl is only two. Leave her alone. Call me dad. Dad. You little bastard. Commander Shao is coming. What's happened? Wolves, wolves are coming. Where are the others? All dead. Yo, it's just a few wolves. Call the nearest helicopter. All the helicopters are controlled by the red force. Our force is engaging with the red force. Use the public channel to call the red force's commander immediately. Combat-ready helicopters have taken off and will arrive within thirty minutes. Li Zhijun. Li Zhijun. Support the wolf detachment immediately. They are in big trouble. Ready to fight. Fix bayonets. Listen up, We found the target. Yeah. However, he is surrounded by the entire army of the PLA. Every Wolf warrior wants a wife, but we don't have enough girls. You can get a Long Xiaoyun with discipline. You can have a Shi Qingsong with misbehare. Their commander has been shot to death. Why are they still chasing us? Is it fair? Isn't it a revenge for personal reasons? That's not right. I'm going to report this to the officer. You shot your old commander right after you left your old troop. If I were your Company Commander, I would kill you. The old commander said exercises are actual combats. Feng, you bad ass. Guys, Let's move faster. I feel strange. My old Company Commander is really black handed. Watch out! Live shell! This is not an exercise. Call the headquarters. Freeze. Inform the force to be at combat readiness. Foreign force crossed the border. Request for armed helicopters. Live shell support needed. Fall back. Their reinforcement is coming. My little princess. Beautiful? They are back. Mount up. Let's roll. So. How was he? He's as faulty as his weapon. Ha ha ha ha. That was easy. I'm sure their sewer will kill me before they actually do. Do not underestimate them. Remember, they are unarmed. A simple snatch and grab, man. You should've just killed him. Now we just kicked the hornets' nest. Exactly what I want it. Monkey, How is E&E looking? Everything is good to go, man. Report to No. 1. Eagle spots the target. This is the territory of the People's Republic of China. You are trespassing. I am ordering you stop the vehicle and surrender immediately. Things about to get real. Is this a part of your plan, too? Gentlemen, the show is about to begin. That was interesting. Let's go. Let's go. You have invaded the territory of the People's Republic of China. Stop the vehicle and give up resistance. This is the territory of the People's Republic of China. You are trespassing. I am ordering you stop the vehicle and give up resistance. This is your last warning. Last warning. Move. Let's move. Let's move. Report! All the devices and instruments in the helicopter are down, all down. This is a well-plotted and targeted armed invasion started by foreign mercenaries. We are commanded to stop the exercise and turn to actual combat, co-operating with the armed police force to completely block the border. Comrade Long Xiaoyun, you are taking a part of this mission. Yes, Sir. We captured a piece of a call from a satellite phone proves that foreign mercenaries have invaded. The mastermind behind is very likely to be an international broker called Min Deng. Min Deng. He is the brother of Wu Ji, who was shot to death by Leng Feng. What's strange is according to the signal we captured, he has already crossed the border and was not far from the border. Where is Tomcat? Where is he? Tomcat is busy. I was told he would be the escort himself in this mission. What is he doing? Tomcat is busy getting to know each other with the mouse. Tomcat, Former Seal member. He has been in the Gulf War and in Afghanistan twice. After his retirement, he has joint in an international mercenary organisation and is the most expensive one at the moment. He never failed before. All his members are also retired soldiers from special forces of different countries. "Chinese Boy Scouts." Min Deng sent such elite mercenaries here just because he wants to revenge his brother, just because he wants a Chinese soldier. Min Deng is a businessman. He came across the border himself and show up at the same time with Tomcat. This is not as simple as that. Hurry up! Faster Move. Stretcher. Move. Be careful More careful Report! This is a circuit board that the plot risked his life for. Graphite powder. They added massive amounts of graphite powder into the rocket bomb. This kind of thing is only a thousandth of a millimetre big. Once the bomb explodes, the powder will get into the electric instruments. And make them short circuit, even cause arc burning. It won't be disappeared in the air in a short time, so aircraft cannot enter the area. Notify the relevant department. Make artificial rain in the forest. Use heavy rain to wash out all the graphite powder within one hour. Yes, Sir. As we surmised, Tomcat killed one of our soldiers. He should know that we are going to block the border, so the only way he could escape is just this one. This forest was a mine field in former battles, and is still covered with landmines, unexploded ordnance and anti-paratrooper hooks. To avoid casualties from our side, I suggest that we use carpet bombing. Comrades, look at the comrade who died in front of you and tell me, what is this? This is a letter of challenge. The provocation to Chinese soldiers. Six hours later, the enemies will possibly cross the border and escape from China. Now, I am giving you the order to take our lost honour back. If you cannot complete your mission within the time, I will call for air support and carpet bomb the whole area. The place we are going to protect is always desolate and uninhabited. If this battle had not happened, we might never come here in our life. There is no pretty views here, and there is no treasures here, but in our soldiers' eyes, here is the most beautiful place, because it is the border of the People's Republic of China, It is the place that we must fight for with our lives and blood. Now, let's make a vow for the honour of our soldiers. Those who challenge China's resolve will have no safe place to hide Salute! Spread into three teams, Alpha, hold one. Bravo, bound back. Stop! Mine field. Back off. Change route. You got eyes on the brass? Put him down, just wound him. They have snipers. Fire suppression. Lie down. One o'clock. The enemy is out of fire range. Sniper. Where is our sniper? Here. Come back. Don't come again. This is the order. Commander, no! Commander. Company commander. No. Company commander, no! What are you doing? Who told you to come over? Haven't you heard my order? Stop coming. Have you heard me? Brothers. I beg you. Do your brother a favour. Make it quick. Platoon Commander. Help your little brother. Please. Make it quick. Shoot me. Thank you. Thank you. Stop! Leng Feng, You. Confine me if you can come back alive. How about him? Won't die. Continue to outflank I will take care him. What is he doing? A good sniper need 2.5 seconds at least. Only 2.3 seconds for me. Are you sure you are going to do this? Report! Action request! Action! Change position. Move to high ground. Go! Target, ten o'clock, moving fast. Take him! Take him out! Now. Arrived. Arrived. Arrived. Leng Feng, Leng Feng, Are you OK? Fuck. Missed my head. Shot my clothes. Arrived. Arrived. Arrived. Ar. What do you look like when you are drunk? Come back alive first. Shit! Go! Go! Move! Shit Rubberneck! Are you really dead? Wake up! Rubberneck! I will be dead if you keep shaking. Blame your rubbish marksmanship. It hurts. It hurts. Don't you feel hurt? I can hold. Police sent photos of Min Deng. He was meeting with the head of a bio-pharmaceutical company. Bio-pharmaceutical? One month ago, one of our disease prevention and control centres was broken by commercial spies. They successfully stole a huge number of blood samples of volunteers, and genetic data of variant viruses. If these samples and data finished up at this so called international bio-pharmaceutical company, They would make disease with Chinese genes that can only infect Chinese people. Or even increase the malformation rate of new-borns by over ten thousand times. Genetic weapon. This is from Tomcat. The border deployment map of China Military. He said the border has been completely blocked, and let us think of a way out ourselves to do what we really want to do. This is the MD-82-B Antipersonnel Mine. Burst direction 180, explosion area 30 cubic metres, probability of kill 98%, with 100 steel shots inside the mine. Successful manual disarming rate is very low. The changing pressure cannot exceed 0.5 kilograms if.... Quiet! Leng Feng, Listen to me. Be careful. You must be very careful. I'll wait for you back to buy me a drink. Leng Feng, Leng Feng. Leng Feng. Answer me. Leng Feng, are you OK? Leng Feng, Leng Feng. Yeah. Yeah. That's hurt. Long Xiaoyun, do you have a boyfriend? He is asking you if you have a boyfriend. No. What? What, what? She said she doesn't have one. Shit Rubberneck! I would have long killed that big guy without you. I'm Shi Rubberneck, Not Shit Rubberneck. Ar. Comrade, you have to find Leng Feng. Don't worry. I will find him. Freeze. Are you kicking legs with me? You know I'll go admit you may not be the smartest soldier I have ever seen, but you are the bravest. Can you son of a bitch speak Chinese? What? Fuck! You call yourself the mercenary red zone. You are not but a bunch of boy scouts. Listen, don't even think of going back when you break into China. Look at you. You are willing to die for your country, but I got news for you, bucko. Doesn't make a difference. Doesn't make a difference. Wanna know what I fight for? Money. You are fucking... You want to die for your country. Leng Feng, Hold on. Kill! Kill! Come. Now what. What. Take away. Every beautiful place has stories. Those who challenge China's resolve will have no safe place to hide. Leng Feng asked me to give you this. He met the same situation as you did. He went ahead and saved his comrade. He wants me to tell you it is easy to get killed. But living with the guilt and the responsibility is hard. Platoon Commander, I beg you. Do your brother a favour. Make it quick. Thanks. Commander, hard work for you. Serve the people. I have met your father. Happy? I'll be more handsome when I get old. How did you clear the mine you were on? I can't remember. How about you buy my some drink. Wait for your confinement. "Chinese Boy Scouts"
