 

                        - Is that recording? - Yeah, it's recording. - So look... - - No it isn't. Yes, it is. It says recording? Um, OK, so this is the thing is that I'm actually trying to find out do you think women are funny? I've never met an unfunny woman. Absolutely. I love when you meet a girl out and she tells you she's got a best friend who's like the funniest person ever. She's got great stories and then you meet her and, oh my God, these stories, like, I'm fucking listening to this all night. I don't wanna shoot myself in the head. or fucking hang myself from the nearest tree. Do you think women are funny, women comics are funny? - Do I think women comics are funny? - - Yes. Actually, do I think alternative women comics are funny. You think alternative women comics are funny? I don't think women comics are funny. I don't want any women in the movie. Women aren't funny. OK, get back. First of all, you're asking the right person because I think a lot of guys are not that fucking funny, either. You know what I mean? When people go, "Well, a lot of women aren't funny." It's like, "Are you that funny too, shithead?" I feel like I am the exception to the rule in the sense that most women aren't funny and then... I am. You should be talking to, like, a sociologist, 'cause I'm just a fuckin' drunk. What am I signing, in turquoise? - Is it... - It's the... - Oh, what a fuckin'... - - It's a girls documentary. I love how we make her sit way in the corner, - by the way. - No, that's cool. I get it. You know. Now, Bonnie, what is this that you're filming? We're making a cocumentary. - A cocumentary? - Yeah. Never heard the word documentary butchered like that. - Oh, I have. - It's a comedy documentary. - Yes. - - Why do you call it that? It's so dumb. It sounds dumb, it's a documentary. - Cocumentary? - Well, it's a comedy. - I think it works on two levels. - Right there it's not funny. Like, it's a comedy documentary. So it's kind of a funny name. And then you're in it. So what exactly is this? It's about... what is the documentary about? I'm on a quest to find out if women are really funny or not. - You know? - All right. Kind of like the last say in it. Sum that up in about three frames... No. This is exactly why I am making this cocumentary. Why are people still so reluctant to admit there are any funny women? So women have this, like, bad reputation not being funny. Where do you think it comes from? It's weird. Women are soaring ahead in other areas but in comedy, the attitudes remain totally prehistoric. - People think women are not funny? - - Yes. A lot of comedians actually think there are a lot of... that there aren't funny female comedians. Yeah. Take this guy, - What's your name? - Jerry Lewis. He may be famous for portraying a dumb-dumb, but he's infamous for admitting publicly that he doesn't think any women are funny. If he doesn't think a woman is funny, why does he dress up and masquerade as a woman and think it's so damn funny? What were you saying? This hot button issue encourages many of our greatest thinkers to weigh in. I just think it's a lot harder for women to do anything in society because they have brains a third the size of ours. I just think the whole thing, like, are you interviewing Hitchens, that guy? That Christopher Hitchens guy or whatever. ...Hitchens why women aren't funny. - Christopher Hitchens. - In 2007, renowned author Christopher Hitchens wrote a biting article for Vanity Fair magazine titled "Why Women Aren't Funny." It's doubly hurtful because Hitchens usually saves his vitriol for more deserving subjects, like Henry Kissinger, Mother Teresa, and God. For Vanity Fair, Hitchens wrote, "Why are women, who have the whole male world at their mercy, not funny? Please do not pretend not to know what I'm talking about. I read it. I didn't dwell on it. Women are... some women are funny. Next. Hitchens blows my mind. I mean, I just think, like, can you imagine if someone was like, um, "Are black people smart?" for Vanity Fair? Like, fuck you. You're getting screwed all over the place. It's just... you get screwed. I don't know, whenever people are sexist towards women I just get super racist towards black people. You know, for a brilliant guy, he says some really stupid things - and that's one of them. - - This unrelenting and aggressive attack against funny women has left some female comedians afraid to talk candidly for our film. This woman has agreed to talk to us only if we obscure her image. ...but I didn't realize it would get so volatile or make such big news. We'll call her Ro. But we find no shortage of male comedians who are willing to go on record with their opinions. They're not funny. They're not fucking funny. There's more funny guys that I went to high school with who are like, mechanics than funny female comedians. But, yeah, I don't find a lot of women funny. - Do you? - I'll ask the questions. Everybody's funny. It doesn't matter if you're a guy or a girl. It wasn't till I got in the clubs that I was like, "Wow, there's a lot of shitty female comedians." I think there is certainly that stereotype that exists in the culture. And I don't know if it's just our culture, American culture, or if that is true throughout the world, you know? I've done very little research on the topic. This is your documentary, you should... What? I'm busy. - A binky. - Chocolate. A binky. - Graham crackers, cookies. - Who are you talking to? In addition to this project, I am a wife, a mother and probably most importantly, a professional female standup comedian. Full disclosure, I am an extremely well credited opening act for my husband. Give 'em the plug. Yes, my husband is also a comedian. And no, it's not always a laugh riot. - One, he's annoying. - See that foot? See how my toe's open? Look at this one. I can't get my pinky toe to open. With the unwavering support of my husband, I am able to add journalist to my list of accreditations. I am determined to find out once and for all, are women as funny as men? I'm female comedian Bonnie McFarlane. I've heard "women aren't funny" almost as often as "you're not funny." But is it true? - The debate is as old... - This is stupid. - What? - Come on, let's go. This is stupid. - I'm trying to do something, - OK? It's stupid. Looks like you're doing a butter commercial - or something. - No, it's like I'm an investigative reporter. - It's like a 20/20 sort of... - It's not funny. - No one gets this. - It is funny. I'm not wearing any pants. You're gonna get ticks, that's what's gonna happen. Oh... Where'd you get that from? That's funny. Now that's funny. - Do this. - And since I am participating as a subject, to maintain some journalistic integrity, I will now speak about myself only in the somewhat annoying, omnipresent third person. It's what journalists do. I don't know what to do. It's Spanish. I'm getting a message in Spanish. Maybe you dialed the wrong number. No... Yeah, I dialed it. No, through like AT&T. It just came out, the first thing was Spanish. Oh, my goodness. We're in the wrong country. - Daddy. - What? While Bonnie and Rich are waiting to perform at the local comedy club in Philly, Bonnie receives a tip that Christopher Hitchens is at a speaking engagement just a few blocks away. Bonnie decides to pursue the tip in hopes of getting an interview. - Can I press? - Right here, ground, G. - G like grandma. - Grandma's button. Rich decides to tag along to see if he's recognized. Oh, look, he recognized me. He is. - Really? - Did you just recognize him? - Yeah, yeah. - A lot. The Asian guy did recognize me 'cause he took a double take. - Yeah, yeah. - Did you just recognize him? Yeah, yeah. From Last Comic Standing, right? Oh, my God, yes. Do you recognize me? No. And we have a camera crew with us right now. All right. OK, bye. - Thank you. - Did they say no? Yeah, they said he wants to send a letter. I saw you when you were walking up, I was like, "Hey, I love this guy." Did you guys recognize me? I'll be honest with you, no, I didn't. Must be the hat. There you go. Help me. - I've helped you through, listen... - I know you have. When I found you, you were reading a piece of paper on a stool at M Bar. You knew her before Last Comic Standing? No. That's where I met her when I was doing Last Comic... When I coulda fucking been tagging anybody around the country. So you met her when she was doing a network TV show? - No. - But you're gonna claim that she - was a nobody. - No. Well, that's what I'm asking. Did you guys meet before Last Comic Standing? On my season. We met on a TV show, Last Comic Standing. Please welcome Ms. Bonnie McFarlane She was a contestant and I was a judge. If by any chance you didn't make it into the house, would you like to spend some time at my house? I'd rather be homeless. Two nights later I was eating her fucking box in a car. Is that true, Bonnie? For a second. I didn't let it go on that long. You're hanging out with the boys today, Bonnie. Girls normally aren't as funny as just a bunch of guys hanging out. That's OK. You guys just be funny and I'll laugh. It's just something you learn. You learn to be like, laugh at them, and don't compete with them. I went into a deep depression in my twenties because of that. Because I was squashing that whole part of myself. Well, because when they're little girls, if I may get serious in this comedy thing, they're not the showoffs. All right, how about in school? Like, all people in the back of the bus, always know back of the bus funny. In the back of the bus was all the funny people. But it's just like that back of the bus was nothing but a bunch of funny dudes - in the back. - - I was chauffeured to school. Well, Bonnie was chauffeured. How about the back of the limousine? We're at the back of the bus right now. This is the back of the bus of women being funny. Let's go. Let's do it. - All right. - Don't be uncomfortable 'cause there's black people around. Just be funny. This is the back of the bus funny. This is where you can prove women comedians are funny. OK. Exactly. Turn it back around I gave y'all every opportunity - and nothing happened. - I am not being a comedian. I need you to think of me as an investigative journalist right now. So I feel like if I were to out-funny, outshine these two, which I easily could, obviously... You saw what I saw. Um... that wouldn't be fair. Less women try standup. Less women go into it. So you get less women out at the top. You know, at the higher end. Each year there seems to be fewer... fewer females, instead of more. It never really caught on. Ten female comics working the country and that's it. And thousands of male comics. It's like... you know, we're like... - the beta cam. - And it turns out at least one of these ten working female comedians is not a woman at all... but a squirrel in a tartan skirt. A male squirrel. Isn't it funny that the only time your race or gender is questioned is when you're not a white man? In fact, I think white men, they get upset, they get nervous if like a minority or another race gets a little power. It makes them nervous. 'Cause they scared that that race is gonna do to them what they did to that race. They get nervous. So they start screaming "Reverse racism! This is reverse racism." Wait a minute, ain't reverse racism, isn't that when a racist is nice to somebody else? To other people? The number of guys who are doing comedy and the number of women doing comedy, there's way more guys doing it, right? If you take the 20%... say it's 20% of the guys who aren't funny and then 20% of women who aren't funny, you know, just our population just looks like it's... it's bigger. It looks like a bigger... It's grossly disproportionate. It's probably 95% men and 5% women. Because they only represent, not all ten percent, they represent being ten percent of the ten percent. So when you only have the one woman on the show... So... that's what I'm trying to say. My math is off. I'm doing Fox News math right now. If eight million men do comedy, and five percent of them are funny, It's a larger number because there's a larger amount - of men doing comedy. - It's a terrible ratio. If there were more funny females out there, we would book them. Twenty percent of the... I'm no mathe-magician. But... And if I was a woman comedian, I'd say... At the end of everything, no matter how you say it, no matter what you say, no matter what people say and how articulate they think they are, like I think I'm being, the facts are there's more unfunny men then there are women. Right? Did anyone point that out yet? Yeah, I think that's what it is. When you have a bunch of guys on the show, maybe four, three of them aren't funny but you just have one woman, if she's not funny then everybody go, "Women aren't funny." Maybe we should just go get rid of all the women who aren't funny. Making us look bad. - Hello? - Hey, Kate. - Hey. - It's Bonnie McFarlane calling, how are you? Oh, good. How are you, Bonnie? I'm good. I've started trying to get this thing together. It's a coalition, BLC. Better Lady Comics. And we're trying to get people who aren't so great to quit doing standup so that the good female comics are more visible. That's a great idea. Yeah, isn't it? Yeah. Um, I was wondering if it would be cool if you stopped doing standup. - Fuck you. - No, you know, I mean, you know in your heart of hearts that you're not good and you're never gonna be good. Are you... I kill all the time. Just because it's not your brand of comedy doesn't mean it's not good, Bonnie. Jesus. Well, you don't know what it feels like so you think doing, like, just getting a couple of laughs is killing for you. Well, you know, everything's relative. Um, so I'm gonna put you down for yes, you're gonna quit? Kate? She hung up on me. Kate? She did. Fuck her. You have any identification? Well, I have a little birthmark but I'm certainly not gonna... The truth is, funny women who do break through leave an indelible impression on the public consciousness. And this is just a tiny example of the women from our past who are synonymous with comedy. There are so many more. Laugh a little louder, Mum can't here you up there. To prove this point, Bonnie asks her interviewees to list their top five funny women of all time, living or dead, or animated, or anyone. Anyone at all. Any girl name you can think of, just say somebody's name. ...Kirkland. And... Maria Bamford, who I knew before and she's been doing it the longest. She's super funny. I'm actually reading for this list. Mary Lynn... How do you say her last name? - Rajskub. - Rajskub. If you forget, you go, "I can't think of any funny female comics." When you go to do the documentary, go have 10-15 women comedians to rattle off, 'cause they're gonna go, "Well, name some." And I wanted to go boom, boom. I didn't do it and I can't do it, and you might think, "Well, you're not even supporting what you're saying." It's... Yes, I am. I stand my ground. It took a little research, but this journalist was able to locate the only know archive of funny women. The site is the brainchild of female comedian Maria Bamford. - Did you interview Maria? - No, we're going to. She's so fucking funny. She's amazing. She's diligently spent the past six years compiling the extensive list which boasts over 78 names. - ...then Mo'Nique. - How did she get my name misspelled? - Wait... - I'm not on the list? That's a nice little coffee pot. - Want some coffee? - No. But you think women are really funny - on your website, right? - Yes, yes, yes. I have a list of funny women, and I know there's even more than that. And if you have any more, tell me 'cause I wanna put 'em on the list. Well, I'd feel weird making that list - 'cause I'd be scared that I'd forget somebody. - I know, I know. Um... I did, when I looked at it, I noticed you did forget somebody. Did I not put your... Oh, my Jesus Christ. I haven't updated it in like six years. No, it was around six years ago. No, I know. - Um, how do you respond to that? - What's happening? - Oh. Honey... - No, that's cool. I don't need for everyone to think I'm funny, that's not what this is about. This documentary's not a vanity project. ...they think I'm funny. Funny. You're super funny. But you're a super funny comedian. Every time I think of you guys, I was just like, that's like my dream come true. - No, but seriously. - Why? The super strong, two super strong comedians together. I didn't say it, you have to look at him. I bet his name's on it. What's Rich's part in the documentary? I'm not like, a filmer, but these... - A filmer? - What the hell's a filmer? A guy that does the filming. - Is that in the shot? - Yeah. That's in the shot. I mean, it's so annoying. He's just himself. He's, you know... Does he ever offer his opinion when you just kind of - are not really interested in hearing it? - Yeah, absolutely. Questions, questions, 80's. Talk about the 80's, OK? You have to be more funny. F-U-N-N-Y. The appetizer. Some soup. Salad, then the main course. You see what I'm saying? You don't get what I'm saying, do you? Yeah, so it's not about me. We're doing a dumb documentary on how funny women are. Don't know how to sell it, dumb documentary. - Way to go, Rich. - He truly has no concept, after all these years in the business - how it's supposed to go. - No, I know. He's just trying to get on camera. - Sad. - Nothing. You can't worry so much about how you look because you're... what do you call it? An interviewer. 'Cause it's all about looks. That's why every person in this room, work on yourselves, work on yourselves, work on yourselves. I spit on education No man will ever put his hand up your dress looking for a library card. - And it's stupid. - Stupid. Not... well, I'm a good housewife. Not one of you is made love to 'cause you did the linoleum. The floor's immaculate! Lie down you hot bitch. It doesn't happen! Every show should be the best. I don't wanna hear, "I was tired tonight." Every show, they've gotta walk out saying, "She's the funniest thing I've ever seen." - You go on the road? - Oh yeah. I was on the road for years. Stayed in all the places, yeah. With the one light bulb and spaghetti stains on the walls, yeah. There couldn't be a worse environment I could imagine a woman to be in, like, comedy clubs on the road. The fucking just... human sloths that run those comedy clubs. Open mic, my favorite night. No one gets paid but me. The disgusting managers, just like The club owner picked me up at the airport and said, "You're the third female comic we had and if you're not funny, we're never booking another one." I was like, wow, the responsibility of my entire gender is on one weekend performance, you know? Females are my favorite comedians. I love females. Females make me laugh. Um... you've got your book open. - OK. - Let's just do this right now. Who do you... What females do you have coming up? Let's see, February? No one. March, no one. Let's see. Mary Ocanto... It is harder approaching a comedy club outside of New York when they don't know you as a female, sure. If you're being introduced by a man, a male comic, there's a look, like, you know... So who's sleeping with her? I remember Silver Friedman said to me one time, she used to run the improv, and I'd say, "Look, can I get a ten o'clock spot instead of one in the morning with three drunks from exit 14 in New Jersey?" And she'd say, "Look, Joy, it's not about your talent, it's about hanging out here. You don't hang out enough." I said, "Look, I have a child, OK? - And I have a job." - But I also have a job to pay my rent, pay my bills, feed my children, put clothes on their feet. - So I have a difficult job. - "Clothes on their feet"? Shoes on their feet. Thank you. - It took me years to get spots. - I never headlined you? No. You promised me a headline weekend. - I can't headline you. - - Will you headline me on... Well, let's talk about the dynamic of headlining. People have to put butts in the seats. The question is, if your room is 75% full, would it have been 100% full if it was a man? Who makes the decisions, do you think to come to the comedy club, generally? Women. I know that for a fact because I know who calls to make the reservations. But if women are the ones making the phone calls why aren't they demanding more women on the lineup? Operator, Chuckle Hut, please. You know who kinda scares me now? The group is really empowered women, sort of freak me out a little. You know the ones that are like, "We're the number one gender and chicks rule!" And it kinda makes me cringe because if you really are superior, you don't go around saying you're superior. Unless you're Jewish. Yeah. Look how that turned out. Nobody likes them. So... Let's learn from their mistakes, that's all I'm saying. Women a lot of times don't like female standups. It's just strange when you realize how many times you hear a female saying, "I hate female comics." Don't you think women are as funny as men? Mostly, no. I think men are funnier. I don't know. I'm having a war of selves. Females... What was her name? In general, I probably found more funny men. I think people are warming up to the idea. I think a lot of women are quite dull, actually. - Why are you so upset? - I'm not upset. I'm just, like, I don't know why, after all these interviews and stuff and no one likes female comics, it seems like, what am I doing? Why... I don't know. I never thought about it before. I never thought, "Oh, they don't wanna see a woman out there." Now I think about it. Maybe... Maybe they don't wanna see a woman, I don't know. Am I forcing myself on these people? Who's left to support the women of comedy? Oh, my God. I love female comics. See how much the faggots love me? Yes. You've heard of the horse whisperer, I am the fag whisperer. When I know a woman connects with a gay following, I know that she's going to be very successful. But were women really funny? Or were they merely becoming a burden on the gay community, who felt they had to support these clitoral clowns? Is it clitoral clowns or clitoral...? Why would you even ask that? It's the most obvious thing I've ever heard, isn't it? I don't know what the answer is. What do women and gays have in common? 'Cause gay guys aren't funny. They go, "Whooo." Men talk about men things, women talk about women things and a lot of gay guys can relate to women things. We used to count how many women, when you talk about their period, we would have a checklist. You, check, check, check. Can you imagine, like, if guys bled out of their dicks how much period jokes there would be in comedy? And how completely beloved period jokes would be? Guys are like, "I am bleeding out of my dick but I'm not gonna talk about it onstage." I hear more men do period jokes than I do women. Yep. I actually have a PMS joke. In fact, 100% of the male comedians we observe do jokes about that time of the month. There's a lot of lists in my mind of things that I shouldn't talk about. Keep it clean, that's all. It can be a little dirty, but not... You know, it's not bikers. - Whatever. - ...go on the stage. A lot of people think a woman shouldn't be dirty and it's OK for guys. Um, which, it's not very fair but you know, it pretty much is what it is. My name is Joan Rivers and I put out. And that was my closing line. And in those days it was just... shocking. I was licking jelly off of my boyfriend's penis and all of the sudden... all of the sudden I'm thinking, "Oh, my God. I'm turning into my mother." You know, it's like... Those clues, you know that we're becoming our parents. It's scary. So scary. There's so many female comics who are like, "Yeah, my vagina." OK, I get it. Well, now everybody's kinda dirty. Like male and female, they're all too dirty. - It's too easy. - I don't give a. I get mad even thinking about this right now because I'm like, everybody acts like that's comedy. - It drives me crazy. - The MC would be like, "And then I was jerking off while I was taking a shit... our next act is so incredible. She has..." And I'm just like, how do you follow "I was jerking off while I was taking a shit"? - "Hi, I'm a woman"? - If you're a guy comic - and... - Rich! Jesus Christ, I been trying to fight it. It was like insane. I didn't know you could hear it all the way over there. - You can't eat chips. - Why? It's loud! Oh, I thought 'cause of health reasons. This is part of the disrespect I'm talking about. You see this? This is what's going on. - Look at him. - Oh, I'm eating. That's disrespect. You're making a lot of noise during the interview. - My hearing's different than yours. - Oh, he's got male hearing. Now you guys are being nitpickers. We had a fight that night and she said, "Everybody hates you." That was when we were making up. I was trying to say I'm not the only person who thinks you're an asshole. That's your character. Everyone I ever meet is like, "Oh, God, he's an asshole." Like, it's funny. Richard would always say fucked up shit but it was always funny, first of all, so you'd almost kinda laugh. But then he'd go, "You know I didn't mean that, right?" Like... with his fucking lisp. And by the way, that lisp, very humanizing. That's what make people love him because he shows a little imperfection there. Comedy is not an art form based in kindness, right? There's a certain kind of guy humor that's like roasts. Women would never have invented roasts - because that's a guy type of humor. - - We would, we just wouldn't invite the person of honor. I tip so goddamn much because I'm so mean to people. I try to limit it to the stage, but then I'm like, "Really? Stack the bags like I want them fucking stacked." Then I feel bad 'cause they're gonna talk about me or website me and shit. And blog that I'm a cunt. So I have to give them all a $20. By the time I get to my room, I've spent sixty fucking dollars. I had this persona, this image that had been sold as this nice... It made it almost impossible to do standup. If you wanna stay in it, you know how it is. It's got a real brutal thing about it that it's harder for most women. What I love about comedy is that you can do whatever you want and there's no director, nobody tells you what to do and even if they try to tell you what to do, you can run out. 'Cause it's a club and there's a door and you can get out and get in your car, take a taxi and you just run away from the criticism. Never have to face anyone. You don't have to face anyone. I bring a lot of clothing, but I only bring like two in-room shirts. They're indoor shirts. In the room shirts, to be comfortable. What if you were gonna go downstairs to the bar or something? Could you wear that? Could you leave the room with it? I could leave the room with this but I might have to wear slippers so they know I'm not going out. I might have to tell people. "Don't kidnap me, this shirt is not supposed to leave the hotel." You would never see me with this shirt, that would never happen out in public. What would people make of me? ...everyday. Let me know when we're ready. I'm trying to find her. Do you trust her? - Why, what do you know? - Do you trust her? - You're paranoid. - Every guy's paranoid. I trust you as my wife, but as a woman... You can't trust any woman in life. - You are crazy. - You think you can trust any woman? Most women aren't honest. And so much about comedy is honesty. Wait a minute, the premise being that men are honest? Where are they? I would love to start dating some of them. Tell the truth, that's the basic rule of comedy. Tell the truth. Right, but, on the other side there's a lot of guys, Steve Martin wasn't honest on stage. There wasn't an honesty on stage, it wasn't even attempted to be done 40 years ago. It wasn't like they tried it but didn't do it. It wasn't even what they wanted to do. You made up, "Oh, my girlfriend, Rosie is a real humdinger." It was always, "Or my wife, I'll tell you..." But it wasn't really anything you had a problem with your wife. So honesty is... Does that make any sense? The ones that start really breaking out are the ones that get brutally honest. How many people go, "Yeah, my husband sucks or my girlfriend sucks..."? Do they really suck or is it a bit? - Well, mine does. - I know yours does. - Yours is awful. - Thank you. Check this out. I got bumped up. - See that? - Just you? 2B, I got bumped up. No, but did... Serena and I...? You guys got your own seat in the back. Listen... I don't wanna go to first class. I'd rather be back there with her, but what am I gonna do? Are you kidding? I even get like," I hate to go on the road all the time by myself." But female comics do it, they're dealing with all this other stuff. My thing was always about my safety that I would be concerned. You going, "Shit, what if this car breaks down out here?" You know, in the middle of the night. There's some parts of the country I'm not going. I'm not going to Uncle Darkies. - I'm there next week. - Of course you're there. You're the house MC. Uncle Darkies. More women on the road would equal more women in the clubs. It's an intriguing idea, but a logistical nightmare. I can't believe that I used to share condos with disgusting guy comics on coke. - Get out of here. - I remember chicks that would, we'd have to share a comedy condo. What douchebags we would be to them. What is a comedy condo? It's a rape buffet. Are you kidding me? What you're looking at is footage obtained illegally by WAF of a typical comedy condo. It is a flop house purchase usually in a foreclosure sale by a comedy club to house their touring comedians. The headliner, the feature, and the opening act and the MC would all stay at the condo. It was like doing prison time. I was like no. It's just nastiness, I'm not getting in that shower. I'd rather stand out in the yard and hose myself off. Nobody came in to change the sheets. Guys think it's funny. "I'm gonna rub my ass on the pillow... for the next person." I'm like, "Why?" Why I gotta lay my head on your nasty ass? No. I think people drawn to standup are drawn to a transient lifestyle where they're on the road, they can be like, drinking, they can be doing drugs, they can be hooking up with different girls all the time and I think it's like a choice that people make. Well, it's time to talk about how you and I dated. We fucked around. While a sense of humor is something most women look for in a partner, it seems to be less important to men. No, I don't wanna fuck a funny girl. It's much farther down on their list of desirable attributes - in a woman. - Funny is actually a deterrent - to sexy, I think. - There is definitely a sex appeal about a funny guy that a funny women doesn't have. "Now you're funny in bed?" A lot of men would say that. I ain't fucking no fat funny bitches. You know what I'm saying? But women will fuck a fat funny motherfucker. Or a short funny motherfucker. Or a bald funny motherfucker. I'm not physically attractive and I'm not athletic but I'm funny so I'm gonna work on that as a way to get chicks. - Get laid... - And it works? Yeah, fuck yeah. Yeah, it worked real well. Honey? For women though, there are consequences to getting busy. - Mommy. - Luckily, it's possible to be one funny mother. For example, this is Heather. And, if we're to take her at her word, this is her baby. Although a wildly funny comedian, she was able to get impregnated by a member of the male species. Now Heather shares how she manages being funny and being Mommy. I was doing standup probably until I was like four months pregnant. Then I just couldn't... I just felt like I had a big secret and I was afraid of how I was gonna tell everybody. Everybody's like, "I bet you have a ton of funny material now that you're... now that you have a baby. And to me it's just not very funny. It's really difficult to be any professional woman and have children. So I wanted to know if you like female comics. The woman always has the larger share - of the child rear. - I'm trying to do something right now. That's just the way it is. And so I chose to stop. People always ask things like, "What are you working on these days? What's your current project? What's on your plate? What's on the next page? What are you working on?" Oh, I'm done. Yeah. I finished early. I'm actually living in a gravy boat... filled with teste gravy. What do you want in your coffee? I got my coffee. Um... We got Christopher Hitchens. Whoo! - Rich. Did you hear me? - Yes. You and your face when you go, "Whoo!" There it is. Hey, it's Bonnie, we're waiting for you. Call me... It's Bonnie. Christopher Hitchens is a no show. But he does have a good excuse. Clearly he is willing to go to any length to avoid a sit-down with our camera. You don't wanna cry? - Nope. - One, two... Daddy's a Jew. Three, four, Mommy's a... - Richard! - I didn't say it. The great big hug Kiss from me to you Won't you say you love me too It's time to talk about how you and I dated. ...how you and I dated. ...how you and I dated. - We fucked around. - We fucked around. We fucked around. We fucked around. What do you want me to say? I mean... You did fuck Dane Cook so... Of course he thinks it. Dane Cook's a movie star. Male comedians do make the move to movies, whereas female comedians don't. Is there sexism in the comedy business? Yeah, the whole world is sexist. The world is run by men. Yeah, of course there is. For heterosexual guys, I can't talk for fruits, I don't know what goes on there. ...and it's so hard for us to think of women other than something to fuck. - An object? - One time in New York some construction workers whistled at me when I first moved there and I turned around like, "" And they go, "Not you!" If you're gorgeous, you're not gonna be funny. So it just doesn't work. It just doesn't work. Looks... Like I was never considered pretty, which is why I can be funny. You don't expect the really pretty woman to be funny. But... You don't expect a very handsome man to be funny either. I knew a guy with a port wine stain on him. Am I gonna fucking look at that shit? The problem is extremely complex. Only ugly women can be funny. But ugly women are not allowed on American television. It's not a win-win situation. It's that other thing. The not win-win situation. A no-win situation. Many, many female comedians deserve to be on television who aren't on sitcoms because when they go to pick a funny woman they will always go to a gorgeous woman. All one has to do is look at the cast members of The View to see how true this is. ...year I had twelve comics, two of them were women. Um, last year I had 25 comics, I think I only had... I had two women last year. Paula Poundstone and Wendy Liebman last year. - Just always two women? - No, I... No. - Isn't that true, Eddie? - Yeah, it's true. I rest my case. Comedy Central rejected me. I have no idea why. But I think it's because in their mind, I was not their demographic. I was too old, I was too female, I was too Jew-y, I was too whatever it was. - I don't know. - Most of the people in power at the Letterman Show are women. The executive producers are women. The associate producer is a woman. His right-hand person is a woman. The woman who books the whole show is a woman because she's the woman who books the show. The meetings you go into where you get introduced to, "This is Tammy, she's the head of comedy development." She's got overalls on, just out of UCLA and she's got an Asian assistant with a yellow pad and he's writing something... And these are the head of comedy development. How the fuck do you get that job? What are your qualifications? How does anyone deem this broad the head of comedy development? She wouldn't make you laugh unless she accidentally hit her head on a pipe, then you go, "Wow, that's good." You know how we said five percent of standups are good? That's our team. Five percent of the industry's good. Five percent of the industry, they're brilliant. Like with standup, comedy movies feature a lot less women. Usually, there's only one gal to every six guys. And that's a gang bang. - Up here. - Yeah. And yet film critic Ben Lyons feels it's the men in comedies who are being shortchanged. Men are depicted as accessories and thrown to the side. And it's women who are dealing with all the story points of the movie. His solution, no women at all. It's like a man's movie. There's really not movies that are so much written as comedy vehicles for women. Which I feel like is annoying. I just don't wanna be in a comedy and not be funny and the female lead of a comedy is this, "Get a job!" "I can' do this anymore." "Are you gonna get your life together?" Women who are just made miserable or mortified by there boyfriend or husband's hilarious behavior. I don't wanna do that. There are so many great actresses - Richard. - Pretty actresses... - Richard! - What? I'm throwing this out. - She's on a great sound-bite. - Oh, sorry. Sorry. - I thought... - Guess what that was. A male comic. You have to be careful. You can become the thing you hate the most. Oh, my God! That's incredible. I just was what I was... Aren't we all what we hate? - Really? - I just brought that up. - You guys... - I don't wanna be the bitchy girlfriend. I don't wanna be the complaining person. Richard, please! Richard. Harlem has actually changed. You guys, you can go. There are white people in Harlem. And you can tell, 'cause we got three Starbucks, salad. White people bring salad. That's nice. The first time I saw a ripe tomato I was like, "Ooh. They coming." Welcome to the Funny Feud. We surveyed 100 people. Top five answers are on the board. What kind of chicks make you chuckle? The funniest kind of woman is fat. Are black women funnier than white women? Yeah. Ten times funnier. Women that are funny are lesbians a lot. There's some South Koreans veer towards humor. Joan Rivers cracks me up. She's a white Jewish woman. She's a Jew. Now don't get carried away. - You got one. - - I was grouping white and Jewish separately. - OK, separate. - I put them together. No. You can't put them together, they always wanna do that. That's not the same. 'Cause they're not white. Is the funniest woman in the world a black lesbian? Bitches! Wait your turn. You just better pray I don't fuck it up for the rest of y'all. - Oh yeah. - Yeah. For women, it's a demoralizing, discriminatory, rejection filled thankless job of making people laugh who don't think they're funny. So why do they do it? I don't know why you do it. I guess it's what you know, an unpleasant feeling your whole life. And then, you seek more ways to magnify that. The crazier you are, probably the funnier you'll be. You... And I told some comedian one day, "I know sometimes it bothers me, 'cause I think does me being normal hurt my comedy, will it?" He does, "Oh. You think you're normal?" And I was like, "You don't?" He goes, "You're fucking not normal, Todd." I go, "Oh, my God! Thank God!" I think this theory that hardship in ones life translates into standup comedy genius later on is horse shit and it's not supported by the numbers. And it's one of these clichs. Everybody wants to believe it. It has very Freudian undertones and I think it's largely been discredited. I'll tell you why I'm a comedian. My parents got divorced. A, number one. Two, very hairy. A lot of unwanted hair in a town... seemingly hairless town. Jew. Jew among no Jews. It's like three sitcoms in a row, Fish Out of Water, classic. Bedwetter. Bedwetter well into my teens. Brutal. Sent to sleepover summer camp since I was six. Just humiliating summer after humiliating summer. My shrink when I was 13, went to the second session, waited in the waiting room a very long time, he had hung himself. He had braces. You'd think he would wait until the braces came off. Aren't braces a sign of hope in a way? If you're lucky enough to have a great sense of humor and to be able to make people laugh then you can use that as a defense and then you say, "Hey, this is working." How am I broken? I'm a fucking asshole who just wants to belong and be loved and have people care about me. - And nobody... - - But nobody does care about you. Nobody. Nobody. Is he an affectionate guy? He... no. - That is almost not funny. - Why, Rich? He touches you but it's like a toddler or a monster that doesn't... ...hasn't figured out how to caress. - It's just... - A monster? Just like this kind of... No. Oh, my God. A toddler or a monster? - Is he a good kisser? - He is a good... - We haven't kissed in years. - Touch Bonnie. Like, touch your wife. Make her feel good. Like, maybe it's earlier in the day and you think, "Well, I wanna have sex later tonight." Oh, God. Oh, Jesus Christ. And honestly, it gets to this so quickly. The feeling up of the boob? Look. - That's how somebody... - Look at you. That's like a plantation owner used to inspect a slave - he was gonna buy. - Is that really how you touch her? Grabbed her arm a little, rubbed it and then... That's really how you touch her? - Look, look. - One time I was crying and he went to console me and he was like this... OK, OK. Immediately went for the boob. Yeah. Tears coming down. "Suck my cock." "OK, Rich." Oh, shit. If I had been in a concentration camp, I woulda been doing jokes all the time. I just think... One joke I woulda said, "Is it just me, or do I smell gas?" - And... - There's the part of us that's genuine, then there's the silly part. Yeah, if you don't have... To have a serious... question about child molestation, I can have it. And obviously, it breaks your heart to see the most precious creature in the world somebody would take advantage of. As long as you have that part of you, yes, there are twisted jokes to be made. We don't talk about crib deaths as a topic. Not everything is funny, OK, Bonnie? Everything's funny. Since the dawn of civilization, women have had to fight... I don't know what the rest of it is. It doesn't matter. Because it's gonna go to voiceover. Women in comedy have to fight many stereotypes, including one first brought to our attention by comedian Jim Breuer. He believes all female comedians have been molested. This is some dark stuff with Uncle Lenny going on. - I was not molested. - No. Something happened to her. Something definitely happened to her. My father, my uncle, none of them found me attractive. For me, I can see, she's definitely hiding something. I think maybe, it's not that they didn't find me attractive enough to molest me, I think that it was more like I was unapproachable. You know what I mean? Could there be any truth to Jim's theorem? Were any female comedians molested? - I was. I was. - I can't say by who. - What? - The thought that women become comedians because they were molested has never, ever occurred to me. That thought has never entered my mind. Maybe because I molest so many women and don't like to think that, "Gee, am I... doing something to them?" Why are we molested and he's not? Whoa, whoa! Bonnie has never been molested, but she has had her fair share of awkward sexual exchanges. I'm going to the bathroom to screw on my dick. So I just celebrated my second year wedding anniversary. Oh. You guys that's sweet but don't, it's not working out. It's hard, you know. "Keep it spicy." That's what everybody says. Keep it spicy but I hate porn. I just... Don't get me wrong, the money was great. Well, it's time to talk about how you and I dated. We fucked around. I know you slept with Dane. I know you did. Are you... are you kidding me right now? - Oh, really? Why would he say that? - He was joking around. Oh, he was joking? Why didn't you say that? - In two years... - Say what? Dane, he slept with you. And in two years... In the interview he was joking. This guy's getting off I think. A lot of times people... The truth comes out in joke form. He was joking. You know he was joking Your brain is playing some kind of weird trick on you. You laughed at the time. - Now it's seeping in that... - Do I look fat here? Fucking put your brain to rest and we don't have to have this conversation again. We especially... Is he getting off? We especially don't have to have this conversation right before I'm about to fucking go on stage. You get me riled up and then I gotta go... Hey! Are you joking with me? - Are you joking with me? - No, I just... - I can't tell. - It doesn't matter. Go do your show so we can go on... Now I have to not know if you're joking around? Do you really think it? - Whatever. - It's not true. Leave me alone. Stupid asshole. My husband is also a comedian and... No, we don't sit around laughing. We don't like to bring our work home with us. Female comedians are expected to keep up with their male counterparts comedically. But many of them also shoulder the added responsibility of having a husband. I don't know how you do it, honey. I can't date a guy... Comic, I can't. I always have to be the funniest one. I just have to. And I have... Rich Vos, national headlining. - Go on. - Is it in fact just easier being a man? No, that's not how you take it off. Are you stupid? - Right there. - Where? Right here? - God. You're stupid. - This? The only real way to understand someone else's experience is to walk a mile in their boxer briefs. Can you make me look something like that? - OK. - Let's do this. My plan was to get a sex change operation but I decided to do this first. I'm gonna fucking kill as a man. I can feel it already. ...because if you ever became a man, I'd be gone. This is how I'm gonna keep you. Are you kidding? I'd be gone. You're... You're too Jewy for me. And I'm a Jew. Watch this. Watch this. I'm a guy. - I'm Barney Mac, nice to meet you. - What is it? I have a Comedy Central half hour special, and I'm also the voice of Lenny on the Cartoon Network - Joycab. - Let me write all this down. OK. - Thanks, bro. - Can I get some change for that? Do what you do. Quit picking pussy hairs out of your tongue. I can't help it. I fucking eat pussy before every show. Please welcome Barney Mac, ladies and gentlemen. I love animals. I would never buy any... I would never buy any product that had been tested on animals. Never. 'Cause I like to do that myself at home. Make sure the control group is isolated. You don't know what they're doing in these labs. Very loose guidelines. This lady wants me. You can totally tell. I know I'm weird. I'm a weird dude. I used to always carry a man-purse, a murse. You ever carry one of those? A murse. I love it. I loved that murse. But I was losing it. I'd lose it everywhere. I was always leaving my murse around. I kept losing my murse. I just started carrying everything on my person, my pants. I only lost my pants a couple of times. So that's really working out. All right, thank you very much, everyone. Good night. Barney Mac, ladies and gentlemen. I'm telling you, it was great. One, none of them understood you, they were all foreigners, so you got some laughs, right? That's your first time on stage as a guy. It's like you were new and you got laughs. I know but I felt like I was... I just thought... I'm telling you, it was great. It was good. It was, I'm telling you. It was good. Didn't you see me laughing? I know but I felt like you were laughing at me. I wasn't laughing at you. I was laughing at your jokes and your hair, that was good. I'm telling you that was good. That was good. Don't be upset. - I just can't be a comic. - No. - Listen... - Because I can't do it as a man and I can't do it as a woman. You were great. You were great. You're great as a woman - You're better as a woman. - Somebody's gonna come out here and see some dude fucking crying his eyes out. No, I'm telling you, you were great. Listen to me, I'm serious. - I was... - I don't even care about this stupid documentary. - I'm telling you... - I don't care if people think women are funny. - I just don't even care anymore. - I'm telling you... - I just think... - You are one of... Everybody says how funny you are as a woman. I don't care if everyone thinks I'm funny as a woman. 'Cause I only care if you think I'm funny. - I think you're hilarious. I was laughing. - No, you don't. I wanted you back as a lady. I wanted you back as a woman up there. The girl I love... Why do you think I love you? It's 'cause you're funny - and you're good looking. - I don't want the camera's on. I can't... I don't even see you as a woman or as a man. You're just great. I'm telling you, you were great. Come here. You... you were great. I'm telling you. You were great, you were good. - I'll be back in a second. - - No, keep the beard on. It is at this point Bonnie is forced to contemplate the title of her cocumentary. Perhaps it shouldn't be Women Aren't Funny but Bonnie Aren't Funny. But, as Oprah likes to say, "Bite off more than you can chew, then chew it." I like to go in... But Bonnie can no longer chew it all. Something is going to have to give. Really funny, then one time he told me he had AIDS. That was very scary. That went on for two years. You guys have been so fun, thank you very much. For now, standup will have to sit down. Let's hear it for Bonnie, everybody. Chicks love it. Without the stresses of standup and going on the road, Bonnie is finally able to experience some of the simple everyday pleasures of being a stay at home mom. Grocery shopping, hanging out with other mommies. You can't get homeowners insurance doing one of these. Even get your teeth cleaned. It really is the greatest, most rewarding job any woman can have. Mommy, Mommy. Mommy, Mommy. But enough is enough. Bonnie is ready to put standup back on it's feet. I have to believe that the impulse to make people laugh is just innate. It's a biological imperative. There's just no reason why women wouldn't have that. Of course they do. We have to do what we do creatively so, we can stay happy. - I still love it. Don't you love it? - Yeah. When I think of a new joke, I can't believe I thought of a new joke. - That's so exciting. - Once you say something, once you put jokes out there, material out there, it's for the person who's listening. - It's theirs. - The goal is to get your audience to come and see you. You know? And once that specific crowd comes to see you, it lightens the burden enormously. You don't have to prove. You walk out and they say, "Oh, I know her already." Bonnie is ready to find her audience. If it's out there. So female comedian headlining? Yeah, or just comedian headlining. - I mean... - I don't know. - What do you think? - I like that you're performing. I'd like for you to be in the mix. But that would be kinda key. I think things were working well when you were opening for Rich. Apparently, attitudes have not changed much during Bonnie's hiatus. There even appears to be a new hater in the media. - Oh, my God. - It's Adam Corolla, formerly of The Man Show and presently a podcast king, he tells the New York Post that men are far funnier than women. This sends the Twitterverse into a frenzy of angry counterattacks. Why would anyone wanna bring this kind of resentment against himself? This reporter makes it her mission to find out. - Hi, good to see you. - Hey, thanks for coming. My pleasure. You're on a slab, where are you gonna run? How are you gonna get all these wires... Right after he finishes talking about his podcast studio. - ...60 million downloads in a year. - - And his podcast. ...Guinness Book of World Records, which is nice. - And his inability to read. - I really couldn't read, and so I never did. I've read a comic book. A book, I just... I wouldn't read. He eventually gets to the New York Post article and how he was taken out of context. I guess I do know why, I think they try to bait you with stuff that gets them more ink or more press or more eyes or ears than they would've normally gotten. At a certain point, I think he just said, "Who's funnier, men or women?" Comedians... if you don't have an opinion, you're not doing your job. So I said men and then it got sort of ran with, sort of picked up and ran with this like, "Adam's says women aren't funny." You're in the business of sort of busting chops or even busting the occasional labia. That's where the comedy is. Why do you think women get so angry every time that it comes up? Obviously, they feel it's true to some degree or they wouldn't have an issue with it. Calling a skinny guy fat just makes him laugh. Calling someone that's 20 pounds overweight fat, gets 'em pissed. - Obviously, you strike a chord... - - Could Adam be right? Did it really come down to a disbelief in ourselves? Or is it possible women are angry because we're sick of the constant untrue stereotype? By the way, I've been talking my whole life, - no one's ever listened to me. - Good point. Perhaps women need to go back to that. - The not listening. - ...was "Shut up." My parents, "Take it outside." Every guy I ever worked with was like, "Yeah, who cares? Shut up." There are a few things Bonnie needs to do. First, she gets a new manager. - Oh, yes. - Bonnie is compelled to do something else as well. Bonnie heads to Boston. - Why are you doing this? - What are you doing? - I'm doing my voiceover. - Why are you using your own name? Why are you doing this? It's too creepy. It's third person, it's what journalists do. You're not a journalist, your a comic. Stop it. It's... Nobody likes it. And nobody likes you. - Oh, that's nice. - Just stop it. - Thank you. - It's ridiculous. Well, then. Good. A little positive reinforcement. Where was I? Bonnie arrives in... I. I arrive in Boston for the second annual Women in Comedy Festival starring Maria Bamford. I find her getting her material ready for show. And I ask her about that website. My name still isn't on it. But it is important to me. I'm logged and archived and on the list of funny women comedians. - So would you marry Bonnie all over again? - Yes! Yes. What do you mean, at this age? - Or if I was... - Right now. Would I... Yeah, of course. We could do another wedding. Why don't you look at her and say that? I would marry you a hundred times over. Look at me, Rich! I can't with that guy behind you. There's no one else on this planet I would rather be with. Oh, so you wanna leave the planet? What about... what about other planets? I think she's so fucking funny... Excuse me. As a comic... Is there cum on my chin? As a comic. You know, not a female. And off stage and everything. And I tell her that all the time. And she's a brilliant writer, I tell her she's just fucking brilliant. She really is. We're married, we have good times, we have bad. She's got her butt up in the air. Oh, you. How does this start, really? Oh. My glasses. Holy shit, Rich. I wanna be with somebody that you can just do bits all day with. But there are guys that love the fact that women do comedy. I saw it in a movie once. Hey, look, for anybody that says women comedians aren't funny, I got one thing to say, Rita fucking Rudner. Now I have to be funny. Hey, it's Vos. Can you do me favor? Look, I know you already rebooked me, but can you give Bonnie a weekend there? No, as a headliner. No, no, no. Really, she's a lot better now. Let's face it, Moms Mabley was the funniest. She was the funniest. - Ellen DeGeneres. - Cathy Ladman - and Wendy Liebman. - Lucille Ball. I know girls have a tough time in your club. Am I available when? Yeah, I'm open that weekend. Yeah. Hold on. - Phyllis Diller... - I'm thinking about Morgan Murphy. Sometime in the fall or winter. So do Christmas weekend, any of those. Or spring or the summer. I mean, Sheryl Underwood is funny. Gilda Radner. Paula Bel's funny. Phyllis Diller. Margaret Cho's a funny bitch. All right, yeah. Cool. Thanks, man. Your name's nowhere to be found. Awesome. - It's good. I'm very proud of you. - Yeah. This is... - Very proud. You're gonna do well. - Thank you. This is gonna be amazing. Amazing. I can't go on right now. - What am I doing? - Just do it. I can't. Why did I decide... They're expecting a headliner. You're gonna kill, you're a headliner. - You're gonna kill. - I know, but they're like, everybody says they don't wanna see female comics, what am I doing? I've never been molested. I'm not fat. I've only been fat a couple of times in my life. Like when I first started college and right after I was pregnant. - Is that enough? - You're gonna do all right. - Relax. You've gone on stage a million times. - I'm not a lesbian. I was a lesbian the exact same times I was fat, actually. Me and my mom have a weird relationship which is awkward 'cause I live in her basement apartment. The other day I actually called and I heard her walk over to the phone see it was me calling and then walk away. Thanks a lot, enjoy the rest of the show. Adrienne. A big hand for Adrienne. How many are ready for the main act tonight? She's had a long week, HBO special, she's been on the Letterman Show, Comedy Central. A big hand for Bonnie McFarlane. Thank you, everybody. Oh. That was is. I thought there was gonna be a lot more applause. I'll deal with it. I'll deal with it. Thank you. Thank you. Here's the thing, is that I realize that not everybody likes female comics, there's one right there. Um... - Are you having a good time? - Yeah. Oh, OK. Everyone shows it differently. That's cool. You wanna give the death stare to let me know you're having fun. Um... Thank you. I'm very happy to be here. This is a real treat... for you guys. I'm pretty... pretty good. I'm a pretty good comic. - No, I... - Aww. Where's the Puerto Rican table? Someone's lost a baby. Oh, you gotta be somewhere? Unbelievable. Why don't you do your rapper impression? That's good. That's good. Why don't you do your old lady? What was your other one that you had? That's the rapper. Don't you have another impression? Come on, we fucking talked about this. Did we work on this? All right, let's do this. Um... let's start the bidding. Um... Thank you very much, everybody. Good night. Yeah, it was funny. I was cracking up. Didn't you see me in the back laughing? - I didn't, no. - I was laughing. - I was too busy concentrating. - It was good. - Thank you. - Funny. Are women funny? It's probably something you can only answer for yourself. But if you don't think they're funny, you're probably an asshole. I asked you not to call me at this number. Mr. Hitchens, thank you so much for agreeing to take some time out and talk to us today. I have a lot of your books and I'm a big fan of your writing. Not as big a fan of this Vanity Fair article, "Why Women Aren't Funny". Um, what drove you to write this article? Simply because they're not funny. Rich, stop it! Who cares? What the fuck are you doing? Look at the size, would that be too big for our room? Rich, there's a time and a place. I know you're doing it 'cause you think that you're gonna get on the thing, but you're not, because we're already doing a fake thing. So if you start doing it, then it's not gonna work. Get on with it. Oh. OK. So if a man doesn't think somebody's funny, then they're just not funny? Are white men the gold standard for everything entertainment? I'm sorry... You lost me, I'm sorry. What? See, even in this interview here, I'm having a hard time listening to you. There's just no... visceral connection here, whatsoever. It's like, it's like... You remind me of one of those robots in the Hall of Fame Presidents ride at Disneyworld. I see you moving and speaking and I don't care 'cause there's no true human connection to anything you're saying. - No... - No. Engaging is engaging. And women are not engaged unless, of course, a man buys them a ring and puts it on their finger. If the male race could procreate and reproduce on it's own, the world would be a better place. There's unfortunately a hindrance, and a necessary one that we must plant our seeds in the belly of you nincompoops. So that... We take good with bad in this life. - Like, it's just brilliant... - Rich. - It's so fucking funny. - Oh, good. - Unbeliev... you gotta practice it. - All right, enough. What do you mean?
