 

                        As far back as I can remember, it has been raining Legends tell of vast continents and great cities before the catastrophe But it's all just faded glory of the past Our ancestors foresaw the catastrophe, escaped to Sisil Island in the Pacific and built another Noah's Arc, a self-growing city that feeds of pollution, called ECOBAN Refugee ships flooded in by the thousands But ECOBAN didn't allow the contaminated refugees into the city The workers' safety is at risk down there I request you stop work at once Who cares? They're just animals to be worked, not coddled! God damn it They're not even worth the food they eat! This is a waste of time We should burn it all to hell! Sir! Please, help us, quick! They're all going to be killed! You're ruining the equipment! Disconnect the deck! What? No! People are still down there! Don't remember asking for your opinion Flip the switch! Over my dead body! Your dead body, eh? Jay, give him what he wants - That's not my job, sir - What? Disconnect, hurry! Your first duty is to obey my orders! Return to ECOBAN immediately! Director Kim, Moon-syang What is the Adjutant thinking? Is he trying to provoke riots? Or is he really trying to slaughter the Marrians? He's just doing what he can to increase... pollution for our DELOS system But, it is true his methods are dangerous I'll ask the Governor to intercede It won't do any good To them, Marrians are little more then insects You've gone so soft, Jay! ECOBAN is in a crisis situation You know that mercy is forbidden... so as to preserve our pure ECOBAN Just relax! Let's go down and enjoy the centennial celebration Still brooding over that? I'm just tired Then I'll transfer you to domestic patrol Nothing is hard here on the inside What is it? Intruder alert in the Control Center! - What? - The security sensor was triggered Send a patrol to the Center I'm on my way Patrol 1 to the DELOS Center! There you are! The plate has been hacked, sir - No other plate? - No, sir He'll run for the side Turn the fans on in Area 3! Yes, that's right Alpha to 330, Bravo to 348! Charlie to 353! There! Target sighted in Zone 3 Alpha, move to 33! We lost his trail, sir Nothing here either, sir Control room, stop fan 31! Dr. Noah's work! Control, it's Jay. Show me the Time-Capsule Room What, now this rat's got wings? Jay, report your position I'm in the Time-Capsule Room. I think he's here Jay, acknowledge! Jay, are you okay? Yes What happened? Sorry, I almost got him How could he have got this far? We assumed our security impenetrable, But today the DELOS Center, of all places, was infiltrated and the man responsible escaped unscathed He knew the DELOS system like the back of his hand A few more minutes, and he'd have connected to the mainframe, allowing him to cause a DELOS energy release A DELOS energy release? That's correct Like the breach 10 years ago You mean he's alive? Dr. Noah? There's no reason to doubt otherwise The Marrian idiots could never puzzle out the system, even if we gave them the blueprints Dr. Noah knows of our situation DELOS energy levels are running so low... that ECOBAN has stopped its growth If we leave him alive, he'll just keep destroying our system We can no longer afford to postpone on a decision We must torch the oil fields and enlarge the polluted area That alone would give us enough energy for another 50 years We decided on this matter 10 years ago There is no reason to hold back our plans for Operation Marr any longer Torch the whole field to catch a few rats? One rat made it in, but he failed Our security is reliable They may be no more than animals, but animals we need for work Too much oppression will prompt a revolt More pollution for energy! That is our ultimate priority Yes, to get more energy, we must expand the polluted area but if we kill the Marrians then who'll do the work? And though it's unlikely, what if they were to revolt? The Marrians outnumber ECOBAN 10 to 1 You're as weak and undependable as your security With the pollution increased, we won't need oil fields or workers First, reinforce security in Marr and ECOBAN Then search for the intruder and find out his background The matter is important to us Adjutant Prepare for the operation. Just in case You can't do a simple thing without stirring up trouble? Then go do it yourself old man By setting off the alarm today, you doubled the security by now! Now it's impossible to get in and stop the DELOS system Just hand me the data! So, let's see... what's new in that ol' mountain of a city? The DELOS systems running low on fuel, I see The pollution is disappearing The system's on the verge of dying If DELOS system stops, what happens to ECOBAN? We'll see a blue sky Not the sky, I mean ECOBAN Well, they won't like it, but they'll have to use solar energy like in the 21 century ECOBAN will be a huge crap Then they'll have to work out in the sun, shoulder to shoulder with the Marrians Shoulder to shoulder? They'd kill us first Where the hell's Woody? Oh yeah, I met her there Who? An old friend Old friends are for living people You're a dead man! Forget about it! Just think on how to get in again to shut down the DELOS system And forget about your glider... way too dangerous Let him pass Pass it along! Cut the funeral music! How 'bout some party tunes! Woody, wanna drag? It's precious Too hot! Shua! What's the occasion? Woody, let's go Shua! I don't like him, that ECOBAN outcast! If not for Woody, I'd smash his head in Moe, you seen my propeller? This? Are you kidding? Nah, the small one You said you needed this? First you hang around with them and now you steal things? I didn't steal it. I found it You said you needed it for the glider Don't hang around with them It's too dangerous, got it? Give me the harmonica Shua! That's cool. What is it? A bracelet Where did you get it? None of your business, boy Who is it? Dr. Noah says the sky is blue That people used to say 'sky blue' And in Gibraltar, the sky and ocean are blue. Imagine! Come with me Where? It's off limits here Let's go back I'm scared Don't worry! Just close your eyes and hold my hand, I'll show you something wonderful Go ahead, open your eyes This is wonderful! But how'd you know about this? Dr. Noah told me! He said in Gibraltar, you can see this every day Jay, promise we'll go there together It was so beautiful it blinded your eyes We called it our Wonderful Day But it didn't last long That night it disappeared behind the clouds And I never saw him after that day Who's land is this? Who cultivated the land and built the town? Whose blood and sweat made our Marr? Was it Ecoban's? No! It was ours! Hey, it's getting rough! There's going to be riot Nuh-uh. Shua would have known, but my brother didn't say anything He's from ECOBAN, he can't be your brother? He's just some crazy mofo! He is too my brother! Wh-why's he crazy? Always rambling on about Gibraltar No such thing in the world You have to live here And I'll teach you to be a fighter Woody! Where you...? - Woody! - Hurry up! Now they're rioting in the morning Guess that means no business today Did you see Woody by any chance? Woody? Yeah I thought I saw him with that dwarf What is his name? Bring me that will you? One's coming! Get it at the crossroad! Woody, you crazy? What the hell are you doing? - Are you crazy? - W-Wait a sec What in the world... Hey! Hey! If you see Woody, tell him to go home Jay, there're riots in the plaza. Let's turn back Fuck you! Jay! Are you okay? Answer me! Shua? You're Shua aren't you! Listen. Outside ECOBAN is dangerous! I thought you were dead The Shua you know is dead You and I are enemies I don't think Marrians are my enemy Too bad the Marrians don't see it that way Damn it! Those pains in the ass! Hide in there Stairs should be wide and convenient! This is slope climbing! Oh hey, Shua! There you are The boss wants you Let's plan out our strategy for the big mission tomorrow This job's hot! We're gonna hit ECOBAN's post I'm so glad you're alive Shua! You don't know but I've missed you as much as you miss that blue sky of yours Go back, Jay. Don't come back Kill me now, Helen I'm about to explode Get real! She's twice your size! - Don't make me kick your ass! - What the...? Shut the hell up and listen! The ECOBANs are bringing in shipments by trucks every day They're some presents meant for us, I'm sure I just want Helen, that's all We should accept these gifts And show them our gratitude What're you talking about? Tomorrow, we'll hit the Ecoban post, take our presents and give them our thanks So? What kind of friends would we be not to invite you along for something as big as this? Friends? Friends of resistance! You're using resistance to justify what's little more then theft? Keep low if you know what's good for you Son of a! If you could stop thinking with your muscles you'd know what really needs doing Acting stupid and getting yourself killed is your business But don't drag Woody into it! If anything happens to him, I'll be sending you home in pieces! Hey! Who saved Woody today? You ungrateful little twat! I'm telling you, he's an ECOBAN at heart! Self-righteous prick! C'mon, hit the music! You want to live with them? Why? Are you m-mad at me? Yes. You ignored my warnings So you're leaving me behind? I'll follow you Who's going where? I know you'll fix the glider and leave me behind. Then I'll kill myself! Stop it! What kind of shit are they cramming into that head of yours And don't joke about dying Here Take it I don't need it But, it's from your girlfriend She's not And I'm not going anywhere Really? You're staying with me? Shua, don't leave me behind no matter what I'll think about it You're sure Jay did that? Yes, sir. Positive All right, that's be all Etha, let's keep this between us for now Yes, sir Our target is the suspect who infiltrated the DELOS system He's hiding in a wrecked tanker in Bay area no. 5 If he resists... then shoot to kill Alpha 1, no one here! Alpha 2, not a thing! Why didn't you tell me? He committed murder and ran from ECOBAN! Don't let memories weaken you into sympathy! There! That's it Where? Ah, I see it! Afternoon officer. Sorry I'm late Who the hell are you? Show me your pass Oh, the pass? I must've dropped it No pass? Out of the truck Oh, yes, that is... Where'd I put it? What are you doing? Get out! Right! The pass I'm out! Whatcha gonna do about it? Son of a bitch! Get on! Hurry! Wait! Stop your pursuit! Let's party! I'm told there was a robbery And what were you doing? While these vermin broke in and stole things? How could I protect something that I had no knowledge even existed? You are full of excuses and no results If I trusted you, I wouldn't be here The target changed course towards Bay Area 2 As soon as the destination is confirmed, I want you to clean out the whole place What's with the ruckus? I thought I told those Hot Dogs to keep quiet Perhaps they scored big today You're not thinking about the glider, are you? I'm just fixing it, that's all Flying that into ECOBAN is asking to get killed Don't worry. I like living ECOBAN is up to something They keep trucking something into Marr They're probably trying to torch all of Marr The DELOS system needs resources, so they'll burn and pollute the whole area You're sure you're not planning anything stupid? Are you saying there's another way? We need someone who can get to the DELOS center without raising suspicion You want to use Jay? Might as well wait until they torch Marr to the ground Then forget about it! There're more where it came from So you got something this time Wow, what is it? What the hell is it? What's this blinking? You idiots! - Freeze! - Throw down your weapons! - On the floor! - Hands on the back! Move Get away! Don't make a sound! No matter what, don't come out! Perfect time to run out of ammo! I'll cross first Watch and learn! Check this out! Moe! Easier said than done! Sons of bitches! Moe, I'm coming! Zed! Zed! W- Woody, it's freezing I'll go and get Shua Don't leave me. I'm scared Don't be scared - I'm cold - I'll be back soon Don't leave me Don't worry. I'll come back And don't sing, okay? Hush! Hands on the wall! One step back! Take them out, and comb the building! Yes, sir Where's Karen? Woody? Oh my... Let's go out I can't Woody told me to wait Why won't you die you little cockroach! Get up! I'll finish you off this time! You should be thanking me for taking the fall for you You should have died then for the sake of ECOBAN! You mean, so Jay won't know the truth That's right! Good for you Now you'll have to die again for Jay's sake, and mine! Shua... Woody! Woody! Move! Get out of the way! I thought it was me looking after him, but it was the other way around I wanted to show him the blue sky I'm Sorry, Zed I'm going to ECOBAN You don't have to come if you don't want to Thank you everyone First, we need Noah's help The Hot Dogs are now crushed, but, Dr. Noah and his agent remain at large They're conspiring to bring about ECOBAN's downfall Let's not blame security and waste any more time Operation Marr is ready With your approval, it can proceed immediately Expediency would be prudent We can no longer coexist with the Marrians And if energy levels fall any further, many ECOBAN systems will malfunction Making it much harder to suppress the Marrian riots Moreover, Dr. Noah and his agent are probably already preparing something We must eliminate the root of the problem It's our duty to protect ECOBAN The only thing endangering ECOBAN is ECOBAN itself I don't care anymore By tomorrow all of Marr will be gone, including Shua Even they have a right to protect themselves Where are you going? Jay! Jay! As long as we don't give up, he won't give up either I'm sick of this bleak desolate future I just want a sky filled with light Like that day so long ago Which is why I have to go I don't know where I'll be But know you're with me in my heart Take care of Woody All troops are assembled! All troops are to enforce internal security Man your posts, stay alert, and report any suspicious activity immediately! Who diverted the troops from Operation Marr? Commander Cade, sir I was ordered to reinforce security Where is he? He went to the DELOS Tower, sir What? Send the troops to Marr. That's an order! Yes, sir Battalion, on the truck! This war won't end until we shut down the DELOS system You must disconnect the power supply... before Shua puts the spics in the system That's your job There! See it? Ready! Fire! Governor, Operation Marr is now underway I wish you luck I'll do my best, sir That way! Hey, hey, aren't we going too fast? All the sooner that we get to pay them back! What's the? What happened? There's a gap! Shit! That old man... Hey! Stop! He said go full speed! Damn! I must be invincible to have survived that! I must have a guardian angel and the devil's own luck! Shua! Want a lift? Hurry! You guys are screwed once I cut the power! So you finally made it You deserve what you'll get This is for the good of both Marr and ECOBAN ECOBAN? You're ruining everyone's future! You're ruining my future with Jay! Why you? Why should only you have her? No! Jay, no! Don't make me do this to you Jay! Grandpa, I see something bright! That's right. That's right
