 

                        Word and the act. Documentary makers: Communists in Berlin. Versailles. Bourgeois. Electioneering in Germany. I have set myself a goal: to sweep the 30 parties out from Germany. Otto Barun speaks. Things wouldn't be normal, if the Prussian people, wouldn't see through the national socialists empty promises and hollow lies. To the farmers the national socialist promise to be free from dept and better profitability. But in the Boxheimer documents... Found by the government of Hessen. Are the orders for the violent revolution days. Theres said that all food will be expropriated. And that merchants and farmers have to give it away for free. And thus farmers who won't give their outcome of work away... will be shot! After the national socialists electoral victory. The first and deepest representative of the folk is... the part, who is feeding the people trough the soil... and through their fertility ensure the existence of their family and the nation. Blood and soil. Reich Labor Service - RAD. On this year begun work shall show the worth of our will, flesh and capabilities and decisiveness. German workers begin your work! Expenditures surfaced roads. The fuehrer himself as the great architect of the state... holds his protecting hand over the art... the noblest and most beautiful servant of the people. German Youth - DJ and Hitler Youth - HJ. In professional competitions will be... selected the fittest workers of our folk. They form... the elite of the creative German youth, the aristocracy of the new time. Winter Relief The important thing is that the broad masses of our people... get enough food so that they can powerfully work and create. And that fore I take responsibility! Extraction of lignite and coal. Approval of passenger and freight cars. Value of agricultural production. Steel Production. Production of cotton. House building. Works contracts of the shipyards. Value of industrial production. It is unique and the first time in the world... that a State is building to workers such a big and beautiful ship. We have created "Strength through joy" with the idea, that only the best is good enough... for our German worker. German navy - Kriegsmarine. German infantry - Heer. We national socialists and fascists... want peace and are always ready to... work for the peace - a really fruitful peace. Germany didn't go with the sanctions. And we will never forget it! The German troops marched into Vienna. Heil Hitler! Heil Hitler! I proclaim: For this land his new mission. It corresponds to the bid that once has the German settlers from all parts of the old Reich brought them here. The oldest Ostmark of the German folk, shall from now on be the newest bulwark of the German nation... and with that the German Reich. As fuehrer and chancellor of the German nation and the Reich... I now register for the history of Germany the entry of my homeland into the German Reich. Heil!
