 

                        Medicine. Hurry up! Medicine! Master For all these years, I've been trying to save myself Now I think I can't make it Yang De You've been studying for 3 years. You know I'm the head of the Five Venoms House Yes It is a well known enemy of the martial arts world We live here quietly Over here we may talk about the House openly But when you enter the boxer's world A mere mention of the name of the House ...is likely to put you in great danger Why? We didn't do anything wrong Did we? You don't understand Before you came here, the House had accepted 5 students at different times I have 5 seniors? What are their names? Where are they? When our student leaves here, the first thing to do is to have a new name They must keep... their backgrounds as secret as possible These 5 students of mine some of them didn't know each other You learned part of the... martial arts as they had learned here But your skills aren't sophisticated enough I won't live any longer After you learn their skills I want you to do something for me First I will let you know in detail ...the skills I've taught them These are the art of the House It used to be the training room You have five seniors I will start with the eldest one He's Zhang Yiaotian He's practicing the Centipede Style His nickname is "Thousand Hands" He is well-known for his quick moves It's like he's having thousands of hands The second one is called Qi Dong He's practicing the Snake style He's nicknamed, "Snake Spirit Dude" The right is the head of the snake, on the left the tail He's famous for his responsive moves, fast just like a snake The third one is called Gao Ji He's practicing the Scorpion style In this style, the hand moves like a cutter the feet like a scorpion's tail I accepted him later than them The eldest and the second didn't know each other Before them, I took in your fourth and fifth seniors The fourth one is called Meng Tianxia He's older than the second and third one He's learning the Gecko style He's trained to have a light body and strong legs So he could crawl with ease He also made use of the rebound force ...to enhance his own power Your fifth senior Liang Shen He's practicing the Toad style Meng and Liang didn't meet the other seniors as well The Toad Work at its full strength can resist the attack of swords and spears It can break hard objects too You came here for a very short time I made a mistake to teach you all these skills As such, you're not good at any one of them If you were to fight against any of your seniors You're no match for them I don't have time left to teach you further You've got to combine your own skills ...with any work of the House Then you may take on any of them Our Five Venoms House has done many bad things I don't know if your seniors behave themselves ...in the boxer's world outside It's my decision to abort the Five Venoms House Now the responsibility is yours Master, I... You're to finish them for me You'll leave here tomorrow ...to locate the 5 of them and keep an eye on their behavior You may leave, the one who... behaves well, alone and take on the one who doesn't Master It's a big, big world outside of people They've changed their name already Besides, unless it reaches a very critical moment, we won't reveal our skills Master You must do it for me I promise you I'll I know it's a difficult task If they discover your background, you'll be in great danger Master My safety isn't important Where should I go? There's one more disciple of our House He happens to be my junior classmate But he had retired from the boxer's world He still possesses some precious treasures They're the ill-gotten gains of the House He leads a quiet life in a small town At present I just know the name of the town but not exactly his name or identity You find him and ask him... to donate the treasure for charity My intuition tells me the treasure is the source of disasters I think the 5 senior schoolmates of yours ...are trying to look for it How skillful is he as a boxer? He's no match for your seniors Mr. He Mr. He Yuanxin, you're a policeman You better behave yourself You shouldn't eat irresponsibly lt'll be greatly appreciated ...if you give me face I've always owed you many a favour Yuanxin, don't ruin your reputation because of petty gains Please spare me goodness next time when Mr. Ma isn't around Ma is a disciplined man I can't take advantage because of him No kidding, Mr. He What is it? The habitual gambler lost money to me Screw you Master Who were the two men? Well, they're Mr. He ...and Mr. Ma They're the officers of the court Mr. He is very kind and willing to help If I want to find someone I'm the right person to ask I've been living here for 60 years I know not only the people, but also the dogs and cats The person I'm looking for is about 60 years old He should be a wealthy man, a good fighter and... No idea, right? You're bluffing Wake up Who is the banker? I'm making a bet Yuanxin We're civil servants We ought to present good ideals Gambling isn't allowed. Let's have a drink Okay, He is the boss Bullshit What are you doing here? Go... I'm just looking outside, can't I? Damn you... Get lost Don't look down on him Come in. What do you want? He... Please I'm sorry I'm expecting someone Suit yourself Okay What do you want? I want this, this and this Mr. He It's you! Waiter Bring me nothing but a bottle of wine It's a good idea It's easier for a civil servant ...to look for someone There are more chances to find him It's been a year We've been making a thorough search for all the families There's still no clue Master could be wrong What about you? Do you know where the other 3 seniors are? I don't know If they know master's schoolmate is here, it's possible they would have come Very likely Because of this, master wanted us to find him first and ask him to donate the treasure so that the source of disaster can be wiped out You shouldn't be that mean and selfish The students of Five Venoms House dare not reveal their backgrounds Let's go Yes Senior Qidong, you are good If I hadn't heard the news... I'd have assumed that you've already ...taken the treasure So the news confirmed... he's living in this town Who? You'd never have imagined this. It's... Sir, still not going home? I've not finished my work So I have to try harder What takes you so long to open the door? Respected Sirs I'm just a poor scholar There's no money in my house Please leave me alone Uncle, stop pretending No one will expect you would work as a book-keeper in a government office You must be the Snake Usually you never used a sword Okay. You're the Thousand Hands You're no longer the member of the House Hand in the treasure We want only the treasure ...but not your life You can't fool me Did you ever let the victims stay alive? I know I'll surely be dead But at least you don't want to suffer Shit! I just bet on the wrong side The dices always give me a bad time You overdo it I'll tear down his house I'll find what I want Why are you laughing? It's because you're full of bullshit We're in a big county There is law and order You couldn't mess around like this Thanks to you the whole thing is ruined! What a joke! For all these years you haven't found a thing It all has to depend on me What are you up to? I'm the eldest senior. You're the second one Even if I did something wrong, it's none of your business You aren't the only one to find the treasure Don't forget there's also 3rd brother Gao Jin? The Scorpion? Yuan is getting worse and worse We've an emergency He should have been here to report Why are you staring at your superior? Do you know the rules? Sir, it's no good Yuan and all his family are dead Hurry up They all got killed We're going to investigate this Where's Yuanxin He? He's probably in the pub Get him back now Yes No. Don't go back to the office Go directly to Yuan's house Yes We're good fighters for nothing We dare not show our skills, hiding and shirking away like morons We're students of Five Venoms Clan What are you looking at? Haven't you seen anyone practice inner power? Brother He There's a serious case Yuan and his relatives were all killed Let's go Yuan, the bookkeeper? Who's he? You wait here I'll be right back Who is he? A friend I just met So the Yuan family was murdered Yes He isn't rich What could be the motive? Here... You beggar, you want to die? Menfa You're always so enthusiastic whenever you play the dice What happened? Nothing Nothing at all Mr. He I need to talk to you I'm busy It's important Talk to me later Do you believe I saw... the one who murdered the Yuan family? Stop daydreaming You'd be dead if you saw the murderer The murderer didn't notice me Yuan was a poor scholar Why'd someone be after his entire family? The murderer not only killed them, but also turned over his house as if it's hiding some great treasure Treasure? The skull of a male victim was broken The legs are broken off in the knees There're 8, 10, 12 broken ribs... How many ribs were broken exactly? Sir, all the ribs were broken It's an extremely serious case If I can't crack it, I'll lose my post as the head of the county I will do my best The killer was ruthless... probably not a local I've ordered my staff to keep an eye on the strangers for the last few days Yuanxin He You should be a standby at the office Where did you go? Sir I'm making an investigation Yinxin, what did you find? A boy's body. Broken bone in the neck Let's take a look What are you doing? Just having a look Whoever is making noise will be beaten with a stick Order from the governor Whoever is making noise will be beaten with a stick Go... Go So it's the Yuan murder case You've got to work on the case round the clock This case must be solved within 10 days With the passing of each day would be caned 10 times Ma, there's not any clue at all Probably it can't be tackled even in half a year We're policemen If we pass the due date... what can we do? I'll be punished with the beating as well What can we do? Stop it I've found out something What is it? I don't mean to look down on you guys You're not able to break this case I have to get some help Ma, I want to have a day off A day off at this moment? I'm not going to have fun ...but to work on the case I never expected... uncle to work in a government office No wonder we couldn't locate him Who did it? The skull and ribs were all broken It's the work of The Thousand Hands Broken organs and serious bleeding It's the work of The Snake The Eldest and second seniors? Master longed to get rid of them I must get them for whatever reasons Don't worry. I must... Let me go... Let go of me... Without a mask?! Why are you hiding outside? I need to see Mr. He What are you practicing? It hurts much worse than hitting a rock This is... Mind your words Someone said he'd seen the murderer Who? You? Not me. It's Menfa Okay. You may go on Oh god! What should I say? You want to tell me in the daytime. Right? Tell me who the murderer is The office didn't offer a reward I may give you 10 taels of silver Mr. He... I'll tell you. No need to scare me The murderer has grown a big beard I have seen him in Hong's house Wentong Hong? I'm scared I'll be in danger Don't worry You may stay in the prison for a few days Hong? I've met him a few times Is he the Thousand Hands ...or the Snake? No one knows now He's a wealthy businessman here I can't make a reckless move We've to wait till he leaves his house Who's the murderer? Thousand Hands, Snake or Scorpion? I don't care The underlings in the office are no match I'll take care of Hong You help me to arrest the murderer Okay Wentong Hong? Brother He, did you get it wrong? He's a good friend of the governor He's close to the officers in the province This is the difficult part Let's wait outside When the murderer is out, I'll try and detain Hong inside You guys do yourjob I know you can't arrest the murderer I've asked someone to help Who? A new friend: A very good boxer What? I've made contribution Can I go with you? You wait here It's better to hide somewhere further away I got it Mr. He... What brings you here? Something really poisonous What kind of poison then? It could be the poison of the centipede, snake or scorpion What's the riddle? I don't understand I don't care if or not you understand The truth will be revealed soon Here he is Buddy, he's the criminal What did I do? You murdered 11 people of the Yuan family I'm called Tao Li now What is your real name? The Toad style? Since you know me you've to show me your skills What kind of blade do you want? Pretending doesn't work You're the Thousand Hands, our eldest senior Thanks. Please go to the office with me No, thanks The eldest and fifth seniors appear I wonder the rest of the 3... Stop We got it We got the murderer The lord will hold a court session Mr. Hong, do you want to take a seat? It's nothing interesting to watch It is, but if the murderer... makes a statement of his accomplice lt'll be interesting Yuanxin He Yes, sir What can I do for you? Kneel down You lawless villain, confess now I did nothing wrong. I've nothing to confess Bring Menfa Bring Menfa The night the murder case happened did you see this man? It's him Get the punishment tools ready Hurry, get the tong sticks Yes It's a wrong accusation Shanhui Tan, you'll confess sooner or later You've no need to suffer Why should I confess? I just have to bear the torture this time Adjourn Sir How dare you, Yuanxin He? Third brother Fifth brother is coming If it's not because of him the eldest wouldn't be arrested You want to shift the blame on him Get rid of him or I won't have a good sleep Fifth brother practices the Toad style It's not easy to get rid of him We'll do it quietly You arrange the trap It seems that uncle didn't get the treasure It could be merely a rumor We spent years of effort for nothing What's the problem? In this small town, we're like kings Master What? Mr. Wang is here That quick? Bring him in Yes Please It's a pleasure to have you here, Mr. Wang Please sit Please The murderer in Yuan's case was arrested I know Here's a money order for 5000 tales silver This is a very big case I can't make a decision Don't worry. You'll lose your post I would if I couldn't catch the murderer You may find someone to be a scapegoat Don't worry. This man is... a well-known boxer We're not looking for people at random to do it It's like you're doing my work You're only looking for money So don't take it too seriously It doesn't matter who makes the decision One more thing You have to send Yuanxin He somewhere else I know You may have Guang Lin to do it Sir, what's the matter? This is Mr. Hong Yes. Mr. Hong I need you to do something Just listen to Mr. Hong's order Yes Mr. Hong Are you letting me go? I need to talk to Menfa Only two of us No problem This is the easiest way Right. Take your time Menfa, you're the prime witness of the case You're the only one who saw the murderer The murderer... I told them and the murderer was arrested Something is wrong. How did he look like? He's a fierce man with a big beard Not correct He's a young man, about 20 years old Strong and beardless No. He has a big beard Say it again How did the murderer look like? A man with a big beard No, a young man of 20 And? Strong and beardless It's clear this time Will you speak the same in court? I understand I'll say it clearly in court Bring Yuanxin He Sir Sir I need you to send an important letter to the province city. You leave now Sir, it's not my work Do you refuse my order? We must detain Tan carefully I know he has companions outside Enough. Stop it The letter is very important I need you to deliver it quickly I'll make my way day and night I'll come back very soon Leave now Yes Bring me duty constable Ma and Lin Yes Bring constable Ma and Lin The murderer still goes free You guys evaded your responsibility and arrested innocent people to take the blame The statement of Menfa... Can we count on his statement? He has revised his statement He stated the murderer is a man of 20, strong and beardless. He's now in the wine house on the south side of town Arrest him now He goes free and you'll be in big trouble Where is he? Where is Ma? He's out to carry out the orders Brother He, did Ma tell you? Shit! The lord asked me to send a letter suddenly I just want to tell Ma about it Which case is Ma working on? The case of Yuan We've arrested Shanhui Tan already It could be... Menfa revised his statement suddenly, saying the murderer wasn't Tan ...but a young man of 20 strong and beardless, always hanging around at the wine house in the south side of town Ma is going there with his guys What? Brother Ma Did the murderer make a statement? Not yet But What? Tao Li, are you resisting the arrest? Bullshit, what did I do? According to Menfa's statement, you're the suspect of Yuan's case What rubbish! I don't have time to mess with you Yuanxin He He's the prime suspect of the case What are you doing? I guarantee he is innocent He helped me to arrest Tan How could you be so stupid? The court will judge if he's innocent Your words carry no weight You don't let me arrest him That's a serious offence Yinxin, you better think carefully If Li has nothing to do with the case it won't harm him to stand in the court We won't give him a hard time too I'm not going... to see Tan and Men in court Better make it clear Then the lord can sentence Tan to jail We can'tjust believe Menfa's testimony You must go with us Yes, it's right No, Brother He I didn't experience the dirty tricks in the office, but I heard a lot We're friends after all What do you mean? Go. I guarantee your safety I'll see you here again after the court session You wait here for me Okay. I'll go just for your sake Please It's a coincidence The lord asked me... to deliver an urgent letter I need to go to the city now Please take care of Li for me He is a boxer He doesn't obey rules of the office Don't worry. You better go It's a serious offence if you fail I helped with the arrest of Tan He's the prime suspect in Yuan's case Did you arrest Tan at Yuan's house? No But... Did someone see him ...walking from the Yuan residence? Menfa Present here You must tell us honestly who was walking out from Yuan's house It's him Bastard, what are you talking about? How dare you yell in the court? Menfa, speak up I'll make the final decision It's him Bastard, who ordered you to say this? Arrest him Li, you should have respected the court You tried to frame him with this trap But I am no fool Sir, calm him down first. When he's locked up, I've a good idea to finish him Stop Li, I know you're somebody You won't be blamed for contempt of court I just want to know Did Menfa tell you Tan walked out from Yuan's house? You speak like a man Menfa did tell Yuanxin He, the chief constable of the county office It's not difficult to prove He's out of town on business He'll be back in a few days Detain all of the suspects Wait till He's back Yes Li, please hold on for a few days Everything will be fine when He's back You'll bring trouble upon He if you refuse Okay, I will listen to you Adjourn Sir, the murderer is from the House of Five Venoms He's practicing the Toad Style People practicing this style will have a weak point on their body You may swiftly make a coat of thousand needles You'll get the desired statement What's the coat of thousand needles? This is it It's thousands of sharp needles The body will be flooded by needles No matter where his weak point is, the needle may break it. When it's broken all needles will stab into the body According to the law, this punishment... You want to catch the murderer or obey the law? Okay. I'll hurry up with the coat Open it Inside Li, you suffered I've brought over the meal for you Please enjoy it Brother Ma, what a friend you are! He is my good friend I take you as my good friend too A civil servant... is hard to be trusted Li, I drink first to show my respect Brother Ma... Never mind. You've to be cautious Li, please Sorry I can't stay here long It's okay He's a good man Serve him properly Yes. Close the gate The coat is being produced swiftly lt'll be ready for tomorrow's court session But one thing He's very good at martial arts No one could stay close to him Before his inner power is torn down, chains and locks are useless How can we ask him to put this on? I've an idea Sir, we may... Mr. Li, Ma asked me to send you this Sorry to bother you Mr. Li, never mind Please enjoy it Though it's Ma's order... we can't do that in the prison Bring the suspect Yes Good idea The Coat can remove my inner power Who knows this trick? What a mean idea! But my body is without weak point You wasted your time It's the Brother Snake The coat must be your idea You think my weak point is in the head But you'll never find out Scorpion spearhead The Scorpion is in the room Who is it? Now I know where your weak point is Put the coat on him Sign and I'll let you go He has fainted Cuff and lock him up with the heaviest chain Adjourn Song's Law doesn't allow sentence without a statement What should we do? Sir, don't worry Everyone saw Li's rebellious action in court It's already a death sentence We couldn't exclude the Yuan's case Let's accuse him of this I think we've got to use this punishment again His inner power was torn down He can't take punishment anymore We've used the Thousand Needles Coat What else can we use? Should we use the Red Stomacher? Yes, we should Bring him here Yes Li, confess and we won't have to suffer You bastard, I'm not saying anything You can't keep me here forever Li, you should understand the situation better I understand it very much He is coming back soon Bring witness Menfa and Tang Yes Menfa, you said you saw the murderer Is it true? Yes, yes, yes The murderer is a man of about 20 strong and beardless Is he in the court? Him. It's him What about him? I didn't see him before I've never met a man with beard Tan can go free now The evidence is well-established Li is to be locked up and executed Ask the murderer to sign You may go now You need to be available on hand Why do you have to be so fierce? Your weak point was broken You should have thanked me I'll save your head to be chopped and keep your dead body complete Hang him Report it tomorrow morning saying that he committed suicide Okay Go in All fixed? Fixed Mr. Hong, how could you know? What do you think? Of course The guys inside are from my group No, we all belong to your group Right, we're from the same group I heard constables like you know... how to kill without leaving traces This is called a brain pin The pin goes straight inside the head You won't notice from outside Menfa has gone earlier He's been taken care of with a throat barb ...which slit his throat Can these be compared to yours? All fixed Shit The rack stick in the hall hurt me a lot I was tortured The treasure map still hasn't been found The efforts aren'tjustified I'm afraid the matter isn't over yet Those deserved to die were gone How could it not be over? The Toad is here The Scorpion is our guy No need to mention them Brother Gecko must be somewhere around But he hasn't shown up yet Don't ask me I've just met Brother Scorpion a few times But what the hell was he doing in the day? No idea That Brother Gecko Maybe he was dead I always feel that it's not over yet What does Brother Scorpion do? Do you know? Who knows! Maybe he's the one who squeezed you Sir. I'm back You may leave Sir, did Tan make his statement? None of your business. Leave Yes Yuanxin, you're back Take 2 days off Yuanxin, what's wrong? How's the Yuan case? Yuanxin, the case was over Over? They tell me Tan was set free Li was taken as the murderer Is that what you mean by 'over'? You tell me is it over? Yuanxin, Li made his statement, saying that he's from Five Venoms Clan You should know... the House is an evil organization Where are you going? I'm going to see Li Li committed suicide You just met him lately Why bother to get yourself involved? Are you old friends? Though I just recently met him We must be reasonable Menfa did see Tan Menfa revised his statement Where is Menfa? He died suddenly A neat work Things happened after you left Lin died suddenly too They were all murdered The examiner did thorough work on them The bodies had no wound or damage Wounds can be covered up by money Yuanxin We all did bad things You're the only decent one Menfa's body was just buried You don't believe it You may examine it again No more trouble A letter from my home... saying that my mother is very sick I'll resign soon I'll ask the lord to promote ...you as the captain Why bother to ruin your future... because of this trivial matter Trivial matter, eh! Trivial matter Mr. He Mr. He... Mr. He All of you get out of here I said, leave me alone Go, go, go Mr. He. I've no choice I didn't touch this 100 taels of silver Who gave you this? Guang Lin How did Li die? Tissues soaked with water suffocated him Bullshit! Li was a skillful boxer This stupid method can't suffocate him He suffered from punishment in the court His inner power was crushed The tool was produced swiftly I didn't see it before It's called the Thousand Needle Coat The Thousand Needle Coat How did the lord know... it could crush his inner strength? I heard it was Hong's idea When Lin came, the old constable was here too We were very drunk that night Old constable hung himself He always said that being a civil servant we don't drive out the rascals and... protect the people, but the other way around Mr. He I've seen the report Lin and Men died suddenly with no wound or damage It's true that there's no wound But I know the causes of their death What are they? Menfa was killed by a throat barb Lin was killed by a brain pin Mr. He If someone spread my words, I'll be surely dead You take this money and leave here immediately The farther the better Thanks, Mr. He How can a gecko resist scorpion, snake and centipede The Five Venoms are out and the world is settled Let's talk up there You're... How are you, fourth senior? I'm Yang De, the last student of the master Master had a last will before he died Please talk about this somewhere else Tell me here Explain to me how do you know there were scorpion, snake, centipede and I? I was watching fifth senior catching the Brother Centipede These few days I messed around with the petty officers ...gambling and drinking One day in the hall I heard him call Hong The Snake The Toad Power of fifth senior wasn't crushed by the coat but the Scorpion spearhead Then the Scorpion was there Apart from the Snake, Scorpion and Centipede there's Gecko as well Say, if you weren't the fourth senior, would you investigate the matter of fifth senior seriously? Master's last will was, asking me... He Yuanxin has been back for a few days He didn't make trouble Then he's not the Gecko You worried about this today and that tomorrow I think you're wasting your time The matter is over You're still mumbling all the time The Scorpion and you are like old folks The Centipede is useless He's worried he will be in trouble You want to... He's our eldest senior after all So what? Don't you mean the Toad isn't our schoolmate? Who the hell are you? Maybe I don't know Maybe I know But I won't ask this We only kill people ...and do bad things When should we stop? Starting with the Toad and then the Centipede Will I be the next one? Maybe we should find the Gecko first You don't have to worry about this You have found him... or have you already joined him? Hence you don't need the Centipede or my help If you're suspicious like this, I've nothing to say I'm a wealthy son of a influential family I don't really care about uncle's treasure It was just the fighting skills I was after and entered the House by mistake I've been controlled by you I do more and more bad things I kill more and more people Until the Brother Toad was dead, I realized how ruthless I had become But I've to kill to keep mouths sealed I had to kill Menfa and Lin You ask me when we can stop I may as well tell you now You will keep doing bad things once you start There's no end: Forever and ever This is the training ground of the Gecko You're the last student of master I think you've learned my skills Yes, I did Master said that I'm not powerful enough What I acquired... is no match for any of you But if I team up with one of you I can defeat the others I got it But we don't know who the Scorpion is Our enemy is hidden Did Brother Gecko find any clue? No Indeed the Scorpion is still in town The treasure uncle kept is probably ...in Scorpion's hands It wasn't in his house. There's probably a map showing the hiding spot If Scorpion has the map, he'll definitely go to the spot Though Scorpion will leave town ...there are many people here One less or one more How can we figure it out? Right Leave it alone. Let's practice first Master said the eldest senior has fast hands His nickname is the Thousand Hands I hope to tackle him with Gecko, who should attack from above to the below I will attack his lower part of body lt'll work this way Above Below Master also said the Snake is very quick in response The right is the head and the left the tail They'll protect themselves mutually I'll attack him with Gecko from both sides It may break his defense system The right The left Master said third senior... I've been awaiting you for a few days I know you'll come You want to stop me I know your temper well I'm here to give you a hand Ma, you're going to your motherland You don't have to get involved Stop saying this if you consider me as your friend Ma, I'm not looking down on you When we start fighting, it'll be very hard for you to step in Though I can't step in, I'll protect you from the attack of Hong's servants Is it okay? Ma, have you changed? I've resigned from my post Right, I'm not doing this anymore I don't expect 3 people coming Where's Tan? I'm right here Tan, you're the Thousand Hands Wentong Hong, you're the Snake. Stop pretending You are the Gecko You should have known earlier You're still looking on with arms folded? Private matter isn't a civil servant's duty Who are you? You can't fool me Why didn't you start? The Scorpion? The Scorpion? When did you know? When you stroked the spearhead ...in the hall, and crushed Toad's inner power Unbelievable! I just realized it lately You knew it You want to use me to kill the eldest and Snake Isn't that too obvious? I see The treasure is already in your hands? What do you think? Thousand Hands, you better make it clear we still have grounds for discussion But you too have risked your life with them He's our little junior He has master's order to clean up the dirt Finish the two of them I'll share the treasure evenly with you Split them Where's the treasure? Tell me Move Come on The governor also took part in killing fifth brother Birds of same feather Killing the governor is useless Another corrupt man will replace him How could we eradicate all of them? Let's complete master's last will Use the treasure for charity and... absolve Five Venoms House of the bad reputation There's no more Five Venoms Clan You're right
