 

                        Lion is the king of animals Its movement agile and the roar fierce It has a dignified character The kung fu school adopts its unique character of dignity to represent the spirit of the school Lift up the lion On particular occasion, different schools will adopt lion dancing to develop their friendship Every lion is trying its best No matter how spectacular they're dancing, they have rules to follow A lion should never ...smell others' butts Doing that will achieve nothing but provoke a fight When a lion is close to another, no blinking is permitted One can't approach the other lion with raised foot There are many other situations that will provoke a fight between kung fu schools Go Okay Chairman Zheng school's lion-dance... is getting better and better Of course Otherwise why'd I invite them... for "Picking the Green" every year! Give it to me... It's Mr. Wang Someone is robbing our Green! Stop... Step aside What's the matter? We aren't seizing them, just picking Picking the Green? Why did your lion eat... the leaves which our lion spat out? What a joke! The lion of our Lu Zhengfu School... is helping you... and grabbing the leaves for you Do you mean that the lion of our school... isn't good? Up Being a junior, you're too rude to... talk to me standing in a higher position Where's your master? He went to Huang Qiying's house They've business to discuss Does Zheng Tianshou think he's not good enough and needs advise from Huang Qiying No All Green in Tianlou Lane... are picked by us every year So my master feels at ease about it and has left it to me to do it Do you know the rules of lion dancing? I've learnt all the rules Good. When my lion passes through... your Green-picking territory, what should your lion do? My lion needs to greet yours and exchanges name card with you to show friendship Lift up the lion Lift up the lion Fight Fellow masters, master Lu, master Zheng... Come on Let's have a toast Come on... Master Zheng Master Lu Let's have a toast Come on Yinlin, toast to everyone Feihong Go Sit down... Sit down Up Stop... - Get away - Get away Master Huang It's no use for you to be a mediator Master Lu Master Huang Though the troubles can't be mediated, I'm not scared of you, master Lu Master Zheng, you... Good, Zheng Tianshou Just wait and see Master Lu, you... Shanhou, we leave now Master Lu This time I saw with my own eyes It's all your son's fault Yinlin toast the wine to him and he tapped Feihong, stand aside Coming here to stir up troubles again, you punk! Master Lu We both belong to the circle of Chinese martial art If there's anything wrong, we may discuss it over What else can we talk about? During a lion-dance, youth conflict does happen Why are you both taking it seriously? Was it my fault? Yes, it's your fault Yinlin Master Huang How dare he rob the Green of our school? We excel at lion-dancing How dare you say that! You didn't even abide by the rules What rules? When the lions met, why did you smell my rear? He treats you as a female lion Feihong It's the truth What does it mean by "blinking" when two lions met? It meant that you looked down on others Shut up Let me tell you Blinking meant that the lion is very energetic Shanhou Master Lu Master Huang, something more When their lion met, his lion stood up on single foot Dad, they mean to pick up a fight What fight? Master Lu Didn't you teach your student... all these rules? Zheng Tianshou Master Zheng We shouldn't blame Master Lu for this When youngsters perform lion dances and meet If they're in the height of the game, they may forget the rules Am I right, Master Lu? Master Lu... Please stop fighting Stop fighting Step back Stop, all of you Huang Qiying, see you later Lu Zhengfu is just unreasonable Yes, he's unreasonable... What are you arguing about? Master Zheng, please take a seat inside Stop Yinlin Our school goes to the temple on that day There's a "Seven Stars Green" over there It's pretty tough The day we pick the Under Bridge Green... is much more difficult We could make it by doing this Do you think it's as simple as that? There's a Water Snake Green We could pick it by holding the head of the lion and hooking a foot at the same time The people throughout the street clapped in rapture Feihong, we... Yinlin We are good friends, aren't we? Yes We've been practicing kung fu at your school for long More than 3 years More than 3 years? I want to tell you something Go ahead I doubt you could learn anything good at Zheng School What? Nothing good? Yes Why don't you come to my school? You may learn something good What? You ask me to practice in Wuben School? So do you mean that Zheng School sucks? You don't listen to my sincere advise Our school's kick skill is well-known in Guangzhou The fist of our school has already been well-known Look These two young men are good boxers Right, good... Wait My shoelace is almost missing My belt is loosened Good skills You're good too Yinlin We're good friends Anyone of us will get hurt if we go on Feihong, if we don't have a bout with each other, how can we know who is the better one? You insist on doing this? Yes Okay Wait. I won't fight with you If you don't, who will? I've a good idea We look for two skillful boxers and fight with them separately Let's see who is the faster one to win This idea is not bad It does no harm to our friendship How many hits should we make? Six hits Six hits? Okay Tomorrow at the playground of the bridge We look for two skillful boxers Look who is the faster one to win Good Go on The one I just told you Do you remember? Look for a big guy Who is the big guy? Look who is bigger Right Don't fool around. Go on practicing Feihong It's easy to hit the wrong person Oh! Let's use this coin for a mark If it moves a bit, I'll know "Wang Fook Herbal Wholesale" Dry it. This herb is very expensive Young man You know nothing about the stance Miss, you kick my stool away suddenly It's natural for me to fall I always tell you A boxer should always... Watch and listen around Show off What can one watch when out in the dark? The mud is dark in color in the night and the stone is white; Wherever there's water, there'll be reflection So you must remember Dark mud, white stone, water reflects What if I am attacked by someone? Then you've to count on your kung fu First you need to get close to your enemy so that he doesn't have the chance to throw darts Secondly, you need to tell if it's a man or woman Men usually moves widely while a slim figure is always a woman Sister We're just making fun Two of you should have stopped Dad, it's brother who started it first Dad, you saw it She is hitting me You're brother and sister But you always make troubles with each other I shouldn't have taught you kung fu We learn kung fu just for defense Really? Stop arguing Look. The men stop their work to watch you arguing Go back to your work Back to work. Pick the right herb. Hurry up Don't be lazy Sister You think my kung fu has progressed? Yes You are so good but yet no match to me It isn't you I look to defeat I just want to win over someone else Who is it? Huang Feihong Huang Feihong? Brother, why do you want to fight with him? Don't worry. I'm not going to fight with him I just want to compete with him with my kung fu I want to defeat someone else within six moves Brother, you... Brother, what are you doing? Sister Don't you want me to win? I... Surely you do? So what? Tomorrow you find me a big fellow Give him a dollar That much? What for? Brother, you... Sister, with my skills, I don't need to use a dollar to defeat him But it needs to be done faster than Feihong Well... Okay You guys don't know the person What kind of signal will you use? It's simple You tell the big guy... to blink his eyes as the signal Blinking as the signal? That's good Not enough? Oh yes A big guy Powerful He must be good You first or me? Of course me first. My punches are strong My kicks are strong, right? Kid, it's you? So what? Come on Right Why do both of you start it together? It should be one on one He is mine Do you take it wrong? A punch A kick I hit him twice Me too The sixth hit It's for you Money for medication Good kung fu We win... at the same moment We're about equal Yinlin, isn't it too much? Don't worry My master taught me this A knot of crepe silk On the left, it's 'wen' On the right, it's 'wu' In the middle, it's a head coach At the back, it's a fish seller Don't you take yourself as a head coach? Brother, how much money do you make? Two dollars Me too It's very hard to earn Very hard He is a head coach Right You're too young! So what? We... You want to try us? Come on You misunderstood me I said we're young But two of you are very good You're the master and being the head coach already Not a matter of who starts to learn first, but who achieves the goal first. Come on Right It doesn't matter when you start learning martial art If the master admits that you're qualified and you possess the moral of a boxer You can be a master And you...? I'm their master The knot is in the middle A master meets a head coach this time Oh, can you please tell me... where your schools are? Zheng School at North Street Wuben School at Zhangnan Street Wuben School and Zheng School? Right The head coach of Zheng School is Zheng Tianshou and that of Wuben is Huang Qiying Both of you are... Pretending? No... We've just qualified as a coach Impossible I am Zhou Tianlong Master Huang & Zheng meet with me quite often I'll know if they've a new head coach You're from countryside. No wonder you don't know Master Huang, we have a pressing matter Right. See you later Okay Stop What do you want? Both of you show me the way I'm busy Try them Yes Will you show my master the way? What should we do? What? Scared? No need; We just defeated the two big guys... with six hits only They're too small. It's a easy job Four hits will be enough How is it? I nearly kicked him to death How are you? My bridge arms is much better than his Ah Ming I hit him once Ah Chung Me too Your punch is too heavy. Let me do it Wait The master is coming Relax. You're the head coach as well Head coach. Right You got hit once You too One hit again The third hit Defeated at the fourth hit I'm sorry, Master Zhou Feihong I always remind you You're what you're It's no way to pretend Dad, I don't know he's really a master I thought... Shut up Remember the rules of martial art Left "wen", right "wu', the master in the middle When you're not qualified as a master, your knot must be tightened on the right If master Zhou didn't spare you, you'd have been seriously hurt already Apologize to master Zhou now C'mon, it's okay He doesn't want my apology Dad I was seriously hurt not because of him, but you You bastard Master Huang, forget it Master's strike was really powerful My dad is more or less the same It's all your fault Did you say that a fish seller put a knot at the back? Left "wen", right "wu', the master in the middle I really bump into a head coach! How could I know he's a real trainer? Did you think he's pretending? Yes Both of our heads... were seriously hit now Enough Did the fatty master Zhou go to your place? Yes He's talking to my dad Are they talking about teaching us a lesson again? No way The fatty admires the kung fu skills of my dad So he wants to have his student Chen Zhong... practicing kung fu in my school No wonder you haven't gone home yet Right Feihong, do you have any money? Yes Waiter, check Please wait Okay... Hey, I didn't mean you to foot the bill I'm only asking you how much you have If you've money, I'll bring you to see the lantern tonight Does watching the lantern cost money? What kind of lantern do you think? White lantern, red lantern... and the blue lantern for the dead You know nothing The lantern I talked about... come in different sizes and shapes There are a wide range of choice Right. They're the flower lanterns You still don't understand what I mean I'm talking about a brothel Brothel? Right Do you go there often? Yes You're bad We practice so hard in the daytime We should relax ourselves... in that kind of place at night How much do you have? Two dollars That's enough Waiter, check I paid already Mr. Wang is performing the hard Qigong He's really good Mei Ling, Mei Tsui, serve the clients Go... Don't go away. Watch me performing Yinlin, let them go Feihong I always do this when I come here Many people play with me No need to use this You... Folks, now I'll perform this for you Good... Mei Jiau, get up Why do you take my belt? For performing I'm not doing any performance Not you, it's me doing the performance I just borrow your belt for a while What do you want my belt for? Nothing Mei Fang, hold it Me? Yes Tie me up Tie up Hurry up... Tighter Got it Done Is it tight? Yes Mei Fang, do you believe... I can hold you in my arms in a minute? Hold me in your arms in a minute? I don't believe it He says he can hold me in his arms in a minute Do you believe me? Don't you really believe... I can hold her in my arms in a minute? No, go ahead Excellent. You're really good Sir, the water melon is so sweet Come on, try it Pal I've never tried such a big watermelon in the north You try Sir, you didn't pay yet Not bad One cent Thanks Pal You don't have to pay for my watermelon Here's a dollar. Please take it What for? It's no big deal A young man will ask you for a fight very soon You must lose to him You better let him beat you to the ground Then he will give you another dollar What are you talking about? I don't know... Down payment Pal Old jade It's not for sale Remember This jade is the mark This man is strange He paid for my watermelon... and gave me money The chicken is here Waiter Isn't it a chicken? Chick? Drunken Chicken No, it's a plain chicken I want this You want this Just a minute I did expect Drunken chick in the north Cantonese rice wine is nice too A chicken is enough Little lady You're quite strong One dollar For you For me? Yes My brother will come soon Then you fight with him, come You'll have another dollar This jade is the mark Little lady Remember Slip down It happens again. What a strange thing! The plain chick is coming Fighting on the bridge I've been practicing hard on this This is my close-fight technique and bridge hand I didn't lose to you Feihong, that's why we should have a duel... to see who is good Do you think I will lose the fight? Pick an opponent inside Enough? Waiter, Cantonese cuisine is really good Thank you He looks like an skillful boxer. Try him Don't go Pal, do you want to give me money too? Northerner Why should I give you money? Do you want to look at this? No You're strong. You must know some kung fu I want to play a fight with you Play? I got it You want to play this game again, don't you? Wrestling Okay? Duke, what do you mean? Brother, you want to try my kung fu Why don't you tell me earlier? Brother, you want to try it again? Yes You lay down first What? You lost Bullshit! Why did I lose? You said you lose or I lose You are not good. Let me handle it Are you alright? Are you alright? Cantonese people are strange You, don't go away Are you alright? Yinlin Which of you has got medicinal oil? Anyone has medicated oil? Yinlin I am sure you haven't practiced kung fu lately You're defeated with just a few hits Who has got medicine oil? Brother How are you? You're really cruel You hurt his throat with your tiger claw? No It's not done by me A northerner hurt him He wouldn't hurt him Why? I've already... Already what? Are you still denying that you've hurt my brother? I... Stop it Yinlin... Brother... Help him back home Why are you so unreasonable? Brother... Tiger claw Master With the skill learnt from you, he wouldn't be defeated by Huang Feihong He must have ambushed my brother Shut up It takes 5 fingers to perform a tiger claw Why were there only 3 finger marks? Juying, did you get it wrong? No I witnessed my brother seriously injured and can't move anymore Huang Feihong pressed him on the table and tried to hit him again Yinlin Did Huang Feihong ambush you? Where is Huang Feihong now? While sparring... I nearly defeated him But my brother passed out suddenly I needed to take care of my brother... and forgot to grab him back Huang Feihong must be in his boxing school Then it's fine Brothers, let's go for revenge Stop Huang Qiying and I are good friends If his son chooses to ignore the rules of boxer world I will go for it with Huang Qiying Don't make any reckless move Apply some medicine to Yinlin Hold your stance Higher Hold your stance Raise your foot Get lost. Don't stand in my way Let's start the lion dance The southern lion dancing is not bad It's different from the style of our northern one I'll show you our style No way Come on, I'll return it later Plunder our lion head What are you doing? I want to show you my style How dare you? Plunder the lion head of my school Plunder? You misunderstood me I'm just borrowing it Borrowing? Okay. I give it back to you Stop. My name is Shan Xiong Your name is stupid Master Shan Master Lu Stop Master Shan He's my son, Shanhou He's too naughty Yes Shanhou, greet master Shan Dad, he... Bullshit Everyone listen up I met master Shan a few years ago... at Jin Wu School in northern China Master Shan is very knowledgeable in martial arts Don't flatter me It's true I invited him to come here & mix with... the elites of the southern and northern martial art Master Shan, how are you? Fine Pay your respects to Master Shan now Huang Feihong Where's Huang Feihong? Why are you looking for him? I need to get even with him Are you going to bust our school? So what? Fight Feihong, someone wants to bust our school Take a look Okay It's you Everyone stop Get away Wang Juying Wuben School and your Tianshou School... has been getting along fine Getting along fine? You used tiger claw to hurt my brother You're mistaken They're good friends How could he ambush your brother? You think about it Everyone stop You accuse me of ambushing your brother Fine, I'll take the blame myself Feihong So what do you want? Brothers, please step aside Step back Good... Stop You always make troubles This time you almost damage the friendship... between master Huang and I It's nothing Master, I... Master Zheng It's all because he got hurt in the throat and couldn't speak That's why we misunderstood him Now... Now what? If you want to test your kung fu, you should do it in school with your classmates Fighting a stranger may provoke... conflict between boxing schools I got it, master This time I want to try my kung fu with a northerner who just came to Guangzhou I never expect... Yinlin Some northerners are excellent boxers Though their outlook is very common They've their skills hidden well If he didn't spare you, your throat would be broken Where's Juying? I don't know You apologize to Feihong for your sister No need Juying, it's alright Master Huang Your students practice very hard They even don't stop practicing... for the lunch Yinlin Who brought the students to make trouble here? Who brought them here? Stop... Aren't you spreading out? Stand aside Who asked you to fight? Quiet Who asked you to come here? Over there - Juying - Feihong Master, please help Yinlin Brother, why don't you hit him? It's not him What are you doing? He didn't hurt me Not him? Who then? A northerner who hurt me Oh, the one whom I gave a dollar? The rolling double Blade of Shan Xiong... is really good With him, our school in Guangzhou... will have more prestige His spear is unmatched and fast as an arrow Good spear skills It isn't that your dad's skills aren't good enough But I want the merger of marital art of southern and northern China to be handled by our school If any boxing school causes a hindrance... I'll wipe it out No, don't make it so obvious Or else Shan Xiong may find out that we're using him Dad, is it alright by doing it secretly? Would it work? Are you alright? He looks arrogant Chun Hwa, join us for jogging Coming Come on Feihong, are you alright? I'm okay Are you alright? Feihong, you are becoming quite robust Yes. He's excellent He's really good Come on. No more talking Let's go Okay, come on Morning... Feihong, you are jogging so early I think you didn't go there last night Excuse us I did. That's why I come to see you so early What's the matter? There are 2 new girls at Qun Fong brothel One is called Jiao and the other Miao They are quite shapely Yinlin, I won't go there anymore I need to strengthen the practice with my classmates You shouldn't go there as well... or your skills will be abandoned My skills will be abandoned? Chen, Chun, come to hit me Yinlin, you didn't change You just like to show off Feihong Who will know my skills if I don't show off? Give me a break Let's jog Go... Feihong, you are good You are so powerful Everyone come here Come here. Hurry up Look who can move my stance? Who wants to try? I do Come on Come to try Come on, try Feihong, I want to try Come on Harder Zhong, try harder Come on, push my legs apart You're powerful Good. Try harder Harder Dad Feihong, up Your standing pose is very firm now But you're not focused enough That's why I can part your feet so easily Dad I didn't expect that you'd replace Zhong That's why I didn't use force Feihong Feihong, remember Not a matter of who learns first, but who achieves It's not strange... if I lose to you You are right But... Shut up Feihong I haven't practiced standing pose with you for long Come on. Let me play with you No Not bad Dad Oh, yes Now you're concentrating Do you have the strength... to part my fingers? Try it You give it a try Harder Harder We don't want to play this What do you want me to do then? Let's see your kung fu Kung fu? Is the kung fu performed on the bed? Okay... I'll show you Here are two bowls Don't be afraid Don't you want to see kung fu? Watch out Don't be scared I broke the bowls only I didn't grab you It doesn't count I want you to play this Tie the hands It's too easy Let's play something else Come on Okay... Do you really want to play? Yes What will I get? If you can untie this belt... and hold anyone of us We'll spend the night with you for free Okay, deal Come on Is it tight? Yes You come over here Come on... Come over here What are you doing? What kind of a belt is it? Why don't you say something? What kind of belt is it? It's made of cow tendon Lu Shanhou, it's you You... Yes, I ask them... to hide the cow tendon inside the belt Why are you doing that? What this young master has is money! You're so mean Not if compared to you With your skill, you always go to the brothel to show off your kung fu You just want to take some advantage Well, it's your show time Come on Hold her. Come on Untie me Look He doesn't look spoilt now He doesn't look ignorant He even doesn't look like a boxer Get the weapon Hard Qigong What about your hard qigong? What a scumbag! Pour cold water on me? Stop hitting him or he'll die Stop hitting him... Who is it? Master, it's me Brother, you... Where did you go late in the night? Come to practice now Practice? What are you waiting? Why your hands are tied? Master, I... Brother... His legs are broken Broken Brother, why were your legs broken? Master - Brother... - Senior... I... Where did you go? Brothel You punk Your classmates are practicing here But you went to the brothel You want to ruin my reputation Did you have a fight with someone? No No? Why your legs are broken? It's... It's all my fault You're lying again Why were your hands tied? I wanted to break it with my qigong Brother, how could you break the cow tendons? Yinlin, you must have had a fight No. I didn't With whom? No one Brother, tell us I didn't Tell us If you don't tell us... I'll lock you in the room I'll release you when you tell us the truth Tell us I really didn't have a fight Lock him up Master, how's my brother? I've mended his bone But he will be a cripple for a while Brother I get your clothes to change What for? Master locked me up How could I go out? Brother, who hurt you? Didn't I tell you that I fell and got hurt? Did anyone see you falling? I did The clothes My back is sore Little lady, who are you looking for? Huang Feihong You look for me again? Yes Juying What, did I offend you again? You come over Wait Feihong, who hurt my brother? What? Yinlin is wounded Yes. His legs were broken Who did it? He didn't say no matter how hard master asked him You're his best friend. You should know I don't know You don't know? Don't you dare tell us? I really don't know Where are you going? To see Yinlin Wait Don't bother them Right Wang Yinlin You can't break even a belt How could you break such a big iron chain? It's you, Huang Feihong What do you know? Of course I don't know I don't know hard qigong What are you talking? A cow tendon was hidden in the belt You're trapped by those whores Didn't you know? How could they dare to trap me? Because you always show off... your kung fu in the brothel Cheating them to play with you But you never pay them So they decided to fool you around No That's the case It's Lu Shanhou With your kung fu skills, how could he possibly tie you up? He bought the whores Lu Shanhou, you're so mean Brother, I'll go to take revenge for you No. I'll do it myself Yinlin How could you do it like this now? Juying I'll go with you You don't go. Let me go You stay. I'll go by myself He said he knew hard qigong He won't be hurt by our fist Come on... And later the lady slept with me too Sure Brother Hou, Huang Feihong is here Huang Feihong Get the weapons Wait, I come here for Lu Shanhou For me? How many people did you bring? Are you scared? We've only two people Great. This time two of you come here Are you giving me a friendly visit? Or do you want to study kung fu in our school? You're the scumbag among the boxers How could I pay you a friendly visit? And the low-grade kung fu; You think it's worth learning? The Wang Yinlin of Zheng School... showing off his kung fu over at the brothel Wasn't it a cheap act as well? Lu Shanhou, you're no match for Yinlin Then you conspired with whores to ambush my brother Lady Wang Yinlin is your brother Did his broken legs get well? You... Stop Fellow classmates Watch out. Don't hurt the little lady Huang Feihong You Wuben people always like to make trouble? I'm not here to make trouble But you asked people to tie Yinlin's arms and broke his legs Regarding this... you should explain... to Zheng Tianshou School Explain what? He couldn't break the cow tendon Then his legs were broken by someone You can blame his skill wasn't good enough You're being unreasonable So what? Do you think... your people outnumber us? Fight Lady, do you want to get a weapon? Come on Come on Can't you get it? Be careful Lu Shanhou, so many people fight against two of us Do you know what the spirit of martial art is? Since you know that you've only two people How dare you come to challenge our school? Fellow classmates, break their legs Oh, that northerner He's hired by Lu Zhengfu What are you doing? So many people fight with these two fellows It's too much Master Shan He's trying to bust our school. Fight Stop If they come to bust the school, you should take on them one by one This is the rule of the boxer world Master Lu, do you agree with me? Right Dad, which side does master Shan stand for? Shanhou Master Shan I'm talking about rules Don't care about it. Fight Little lady... Little lady, stop Why are you coming to bust their school? Good skills. Good spear work Thank you Weapons against weapons. Fist to Fist Good manners Which school do you belong to? He's the son of Huang Qiying of Wuben School I'm Huang Feihong You have such good virtue at your young age How has master Lu offended you? His son played a prank... and broke my brother's leg over at the whorehouse Is it true? Shanhou No, he's just no match for me I think it's a misunderstanding Master Lu If this is a misunderstanding, you should take it up with Zheng school Huang Feihong No matter what happened ...it's better you go back first Otherwise the misunderstanding will become deeper It's too convenient for them to leave Beat them Feihong, don't be scared Fight... Stop, who asked you to come here? Shanhou All of you go inside Go Dad, they... Master Lu Go inside Master Huang, Master Zheng How are you? Master Lu, how are you? This wicked son of mine... had a trivial dispute with your student... in the brothel It took two of you to bring... such a lot of people to come here I feel sorry about it Master Zheng His son trapped Yinlin in the brothel... Feihong Making trouble in the brothel was already wrong Who asked you to come? I'm not here to make trouble We're here to sort the matter out I'll sort the matter out with master Zheng Permission is needed when visiting other schools Visiting other schools... without it will make people misunderstood Why don't you leave here? Since you're here, let me serve you some tea and discuss the matter later Masters, give face Master Lu, we've too many people here I'll visit you some other day I'm sorry If you've time, please come to Leshan Theater for the show Thanks... Let's go... What are you doing? This head coach from the north... has firm moves and quite a calm reaction I think his kung fu must be excellent What Lu Zhengfu did today was very considerable He's not moved seeing many of us I'm really sorry My kid Yinlin... is wrong by visiting the brothel And he also caused trouble in the brothel I really don't know what I should say Master Zheng, what's done is done We'd take good care of our students ...in order to avoid Lu's tricks Right I've locked Yinlin up Shanhou, why don't you practice your skills? Master Shan, We're talking about the new show... at Leshan Threat tomorrow The characters are excellent Will you come? I'm not going I don't know anything about Cantonese opera Dad Proceed as you planned Lu Shanhou invites us for the show What? Is it true? Did you get it wrong? No. He really does He said the actors are new What are you talking about? Brother Lu Shanhou invites us for an opera over at Leshan Yes, invited us for the opera show Strange. So nice of him? Sister, please put in some good words to master Please ask him to let me out of here So I can check on this secretly How would the master let you go? As long as your legs don't get better ...he wouldn't let you out Has Lu invited Feihong too? I don't know You go to find Feihong now Perhaps he'll figure something out It's very strange This Lu father-son duo; Would they be that nice to invite us for the show? Strange Could it be... Stop thinking about it He's scared of us It's nothing strange? Juying, did they invite you too? Of course I understand Lu Shanhou broke your brother's leg with tricks His father has started a martial arts school; If he continues having a grudge with other schools ...he'd find difficult to survive in Guangzhou So he acts so modest and... enhances the relationship by inviting us for the show Correct Juying, will you go? Of course not You might not but Feihong will go Aren't you going with him? She hits me Bravo... The flip is really nice Beautiful Bravo... Very nice Good skills Shanhou, did you report to the administration? I did Someone watching show without a ticket Good If someone is killed, it's none of our business That one performs good Yes, the one with yellow clothes is the best Yes Bravo... What's the matter? Quiet please Please stay calm We're just here to check on the tickets Please sit down Why are they checking the tickets? I hear some lawless fellows sneaked in... without tickets Please show me your ticket We don't have tickets Feihong Lu Shanhou invited us here Tickets? No, we don't have tickets We don't need a ticket How could it be? Lu Shanhou invited us for the show Isn't it true? I don't know So you didn't pay for the show Didn't pay? What are you doing? Gentlemen Mr. Lu assigned these two rows and invited us for the show Yes. How would we have the tickets? Senior They said... you assigned the seats and invited them to come Huang Feihong Did I invite you for the show? Didn't you? These two rows were bought by you ...as invitations to us for the show If I really invited you, I'll send you the tickets Then you could enter the theater Your man at the entrance said... you'd made arrangement When we came, we didn't need to buy tickets What a joke! No tickets! It means you didn't pay for the show Lu, don't make on us an unfounded attack No need to argue We'd buy the tickets now Right If everyone is like you, trying to buy the ticket afterwards; The order of the theater... will be a mess So what do you want? Gentlemen, I found out that... Huang Feihong and his men didn't buy the tickets According to the rule of the theater they'll be tied up and detained at yamen Tie them up! Lu Shanhou We'll go to yamen with you, but not tied No, tie them up Feihong, let's rush out Okay Feihong, the main door is locked You go to unlock it, hurry up They locked the main door What? What can we do? All the safety doors are sealed What should we do? Everyone gets weapon Break the lamp and when the light is out... go up to the stage, charge Don't let them break the lamp Master Lu Low character You guys How dare you watch the show without tickets? Feihong, make a way out Don't let them run away Hurry up Huang Feihong They didn't pay for the tickets Master Shan, hit him Master Shan, hit him now Master Shan, do it Master Shan, do it now Beat him Hold your senior Master Shan Not only did they make trouble here, ...but also wounded Shanhou Let's teach them a lesson Master Lu Stop Who didn't buy the tickets? They didn't They also wounded my son No They wanted to settle an old grudge... and set this up on us Right They also tried to attack us with their guys Stop arguing Bring them back to yamen Yes Wait Hold it Assistant Chief - Master Huang! - Dad Master Huang Qiying Assistant Chief They're from Wuben and Tianshou Schools Why didn't you kids go for practice but instead came to the theater? It's actually him to invite us for the show Shut up Master Huang, will your students... watch the show without buying the tickets? Shut up Assistant Chief This theater is run by master Lu Zhengfu And the theater is looked after by his students How could they let such a lot of people... sneak in without tickets? Your students are really violent We didn't let them enter the theater... and they threatened to make trouble If there's some trouble, it should happen at the entrance How come the main door is locked and the fighting took place on the stage? Do you mean... I set your students up on purpose? No, I don't mean that Maybe it's a misunderstanding Assistant Chief I give guarantee of the chief trainer of the militia Please release them first I'll bear the responsibility... if anything happens later Okay, if the theater claims for damage you'll be responsible Thanks You kids, why don't you leave now? Let's go Assistant Chief Stop it Submit your claim to yamen, let's go Master Shan Huang and his guys didn't pay for the tickets And they broke my leg too Why didn't you help us? Huang Qiying abused his post as a trainer of militia and solved the problem with the soldiers Master Lu You guys already out-numbered them If I helped you, how could I explain to... Jin Wu School? Master Shan Probably you're scared of Huang Qiying? What a joke! I came to Canton this time ...to meet friends of the boxer world I am not scared of anyone But I should... Don't worry Huang Qiying is one of the Five Tigers of Canton I'll try him sooner or later Okay, Dad Let's bust his school now No way I've a principle You need to apologize to him in person with me What? Apologize to him? Yes, I'll also invite him to come here... to accept the compensation from master Lu What? Compensate to them? Right Compensate them with cloth and rice What a joke! I'll have the arrangement myself Master Shan, you... If they're good enough to accept... the cloth and rice, I'll see them out myself Then I'll keep some people hiding outside No need Didn't you look down on me? No... Please... Masters, please stay No formalities Goodbye! I bid you farewell You two hold him tight You... Shanhou Thanks for your care Master Shan You brought Mr. Lu here to apologize You've already shown your respect There's no need to talk about the compensation Master Huang It's all Shanhou's fault If his apology can settle everything other boxers will laugh at me Unless both of you... Master Shan, you mean... You don't give face to me Okay. I'll come for sure... Okay, please Please... Master Huang Master Shan brought Lu Shanhou here to apologize But Lu Zhengfu didn't come It seems he is impolite to us It's obvious the northerner did that for him Dad Lu asked his son here to apologize You may also send your son to attend the meeting Then we will be in an equal position Right, master Please send me over No way You'll make trouble with your temper Right. Your legs too haven't yet recovered Master, just let me go You? I'd suggest to let Juying go and gain some experience Feihong, your idea is good But don't take it too simple It's obvious that they want to try our skills Dad, I understand Juying, I can let you go But you need to listen to Feihong If you did anything wrong, you'd make both schools lose face Master, don't worry I may keep an eye on them from a distance Isn't it a thorough plan? I'll lock you up Then I'm not going I think they don't dare to come No. They'll come Only two of you? Yes Our masters are busy and unable to come They sent us... to pay respects to master Lu on their behalf Are you qualified? We're just nothing Please kindly correct us Fine. It's the same with two of you here But can you represent... the Wuben and Tianshou Boxing Schools? As long as they sent us to come here, of course they want us to uphold their reputation Okay Shanhou, apologize to them first I did offend you before Please accept my apology Not at all Shanhou, at Leshan Theater, you damaged a lot of Huang's classmates' clothes I feel very apologetic about it So Master Lu has prepared come cloth... as compensation Master Lu the torn garments are nothing Most important is that... it wouldn't ruin the relation between us That means you aren't accepting? You dare to come, but why don't you have guts to take them? Why don't we dare to take them? Juying The clothes are more or less the same in color But... Please check it first to see... if they're strong enough Okay Juying They want to test our stances Keep clear of my way Good standing pose Thank you Master Lu, the clothes are very strong Please try again Master Lu, this roll of clothes are good too Master Lu, this roll is hard to tear I'm impressed, Huang Feihong You flatter me Master Lu, do you want to try anymore? No need No need, right? Lu Shanhou, please pack up the clothes What are you talking about? Shanhou Didn't you remember... there's something else for the compensation? Master Lu The clothes are already enough for us Not enough We've some rice as compensation too Huang Feihong Take as many as you can I'll take it for you Master Shan Master Shan The rice is very white in color Good. Take as much as you can Feihong It doesn't matter, I'm fine Don't take too much if you can't I don't need your help Take five bags of rice home if you're good enough Huang Feihong, show your Hong style Good... My pleasure Thanks for the rice and clothes Feihong, let's go It's not that easy Hit them Stop Do as I planned Let me send them out Please Feihong Dad This Zigzag Lane is very quiet, no one will know the result if we try our skills here Juying, you've to leave as well If the northerner lets you know... he was defeated He'll feel embarrassed Huang Feihong, you... You lose one move to me What? I lose... That's right Before the fight, you already lost control It's easy to become angry Feihong, you're good You leave first Master Shan, when you're angry, even if you have excellent kung fu The power will be diminished You lose one move again You're too cunning I'm not cunning But when you fight with someone, you should pay attention to everything he does Good kid You really knew how to bluff What else do you have? Our Hong style counts on fist and cudgel play I'll use wide form within six feet The wide movement of Hong style is unique Try mine Your Tiger claws is good You use the strength of 3 fingers You should belong to the Eagle Claw School Amongst Ten Hong's style, snake style is the wiliest Your Panther fist is good Dragon style is sometime soft and something hard No need to measure it It's about four feet Within this distance, I will lower my elbow and shoulder in the fight Within three feet, the kicking skill can be used smoothly It's really worth a try Your stance is like riding a horse And your bridge is strong too It's rare in Hong style The Iron Wire fist... depicts traditional Hong Boxing skills It's inherited from Abbess Wu Mei Iron wire fist is very good among Hong style Master Shan... Master Lu The boundaries of martial art... comprise of a boxer's morals & virtues This trip to Canton has broadened my horizon Master Huang You're the best among the first Five Tigers Huang Feihong is the best among the second group I'm truly grateful for your guidance
