 

                        Give me back my food! Little thief, stealing from the dead? I have been watching you for some time Give it back to me! Alive they were my father's soldiers Dead, my father's ghosts Steal from them and you steal from me! Give it back to me! I will give you the bread if you promise to be my slave Let me down and I will be your slave I don't believe you Let me down and you'll see Fine, if you promise Kneel and it's yours You are now my slave! What a beautiful helmet you have! May I touch it? Really? You think it's beautiful? Alright then. You can touch it Go ahead I trusted you! I shall never forget this! Don't cry, Qingcheng Do you know who I am? I am the Goddess Manshen Stretch out your hand Your food is still there, isn't it? Eat up I am saving this for my mother Your mother has passed away She will not need this anymore But Qingcheng must not die, she must go on living Do you always want to have to steal food from the dead? And you don't want to be a slave to others My child, the Eye of Infinity contains each individual's destiny every contour of their fate Their every smile, every tear Yours... is also included You can have the most delicious food the prettiest clothes and everyone will adore you All the riches of the world will be yours in return for a small sacrifice Every man you love, you will lose Any happiness they bring will be fleeting Are you willing to accept this? Yes I am Once you have agreed this will become your destiny for life It can never be changed Unless time flows backwards winter falls in the spring and the dead come back to life Remember, all the riches of the world will be yours in return for this promise... Commander Yeli, what was that noise? Barbarians Barbarians? Where? They are hiding from us How many are they? Twenty thousand Twenty thousand? Twenty thousand against three thousand? You should say three thousand against twenty thousand Be proud to be one of the three thousand Our enemies are the ones to quake in terror as they are about to face our Great General How many slaves have you brought? I'll take them all For this price you can't even buy dead bodies! I am buying dead bodies None of them will survive the battle But Commander you said... Here are 1330 pieces of silver. Count it! Thank you for the extra 10 There is no extra, 132 slaves plus you is 133 Tell them to stand up Sir, slaves do not know how to stand They only know how to kneel or crawl I shouldn't really give you this piece of meat I earned it, not you" The alarm! Where are we going? Into the valley, to lure the enemy towards us When they think they have destroyed our army We shall ride down and attack The left side, move forward! Archers, to be ready! What is it? Listen... Run! Flee? They have bought our lives. They'll kill us if we turn back! Remember, Kunlun I am still your master and you have to protect me with your life Yes, Master Kunlun, up the hill! Shoot These slaves have been ordered to deflect the first attack Don't let them escape! Great General Those stupid barbarians don't know that this valley is shaped like a horseshoe! That slave is overtaking them and guiding them straight back! Charge! To the death! Do not look back! Keep going! Look, one ofthem is still alive! It's our bull!! Run! Long live the General! Long live the General! Victory! Victory! General! He is long dead, Why did you bother to carry him all this way? He was my master What is your name? The Slave Kunlun Where are you from? I don't know Family? No family How long have you been a slave? For as long as I can remember I want you to be my slave? I want that too Why? If I serve you, I get to eat every day From now on, I am your master Yes, Master From today I don't want you to kneel I want you to run for me The Duke of the North, Wuhuan, has invaded the Imperial City Where is the King? He is trapped inside the Palace His Majesty commands you to come to his rescue at once! We shall go on ahead. Follow with the rest of the men There's that blasted tree again! We are lost Let's split up Whoever finds the way out will light a flare Yes, Master Don't be frightened General Guangming never kills the innocent You lie How did your slaves die? And you say you do not kill the innocent! If you killed me, who is going to show you the way? Who said I was going anywhere? lt is best if you are not lt would have been awasted journey Oh really? Listen! There is no battle I cannot win Nobody I cannot rescue I heard about what happened at Horseshoe Valley But without that slave, would you have had the same success? I am afraid you cannot win forever unless you accept a wager If you win this I shall grant you victory in every battle you shall ever fight What is the wager? Let us bet on the outcome of your race to save the King Then you have already lost The moment I show my face at the Imperial City that weakling Wuhuan will submit without question Let me show you what will happen to the King and his princess Qingcheng Would anyone like to know what I am wearing under this garment? You have shamed me, I shall kill you! You? Your Majesty! Are you saying I am going to kill the King? The King will be killed by the Master of the Crimson Armor That is his destiny, which nobody can change Say you are right and I lose the bet? What will you want from me? A bitter tear shed because of your broken heart Hadn't you better ask for something I possess? One day your heart will be shattered and bitter tears will be shed Remember When you find love... you will also find death And if I rescue the King and win the bet? You won't The Battle of Horseshoe Valley was your last success By the way the road to the Imperial City lies to the east My master, the Duke of the North, has commanded me to kill you. He also requests your armor. Take it off! Master! Master! I have found the way out! What happened to you? Who are you? Give me the helmet Don't give it to him! You move fast Did you once live in the Land of Snow? I will not kill you What lightning speed he had! You saved my life and served me well Kunlun, I want you to go to the Imperial city and rescue the King Wear my armor As long as you keep silent nobody will dare block your way How will I recognize the King? He will be the only one without a weapon Your Majesty! May I ask where Princess Qingcheng is? Wuhuan, I thought you wanted my throne But you only wanted my woman Need you have gone to such lengths? Gathering an entire army? Surrounding the Imperial City? All you had to do was ask! Wuhuan, you underestimate me Did you think I would choose a woman over my throne? It is no wonder that compared to General Guangming you are always second rate in the eyes of the people Don't you have anything new to say? Did I forget to tell you? The General is on his way and will be arriving any minute Someone told you Guangming is coming? If he were about to arrive would I still be sitting here exchanging pleasantries with you? I sacrificed my cherished desire to kill your favorite general myself and sent the swiftest assassin in the world Were you hoping to be rescued? The people's hero is a dead man as we speak! Let me through! Would anyone like to know what I am wearing underneath this garment? If so, put down your weapons It's working! Strip! Keep stripping! Would you like to know what is underneath this layer? If so, pick up your weapons again and aim them at that heartless man! What are you all doing? You betray me? My rescuer comes! My great General Guangming is here! You have shamed me, I shall kill you! I shall kill you! You? He has killed the King! Keep Going! General Guangming Don't think that because you saved my life I shall be obliged to stay with you From the moment the King turned against me My mind was made up I shall never again let a man possess me I have had enough If you take one more step I shall jump You must not die, you must go on living You must not die, you must go on living Great General, I do admire you It took me a year's planning to get to the Princess from the North Pole to the Palace. Yet you managed to abduct her in a matter of minutes! It never occurred to me to kill the King But you did it without batting an eyelid What imagination, Great General! The King's favorite becomes his murderer! You have always known how to reach for the stars You are utterly ruthless As long as you are alive I can only be second best not just on the battle field, but in the hearts of the people It's over. There is no way out for you. What will they think of you now. the King's assassin? Here's a proposal if you are willing to jump off the cliff I shall let Qingcheng live Not that you would ever die for another Because you... You are even more ruthless than I am Keep your word and I'll jump I, Wuhuan, am not usually a man of my word but I'll make an exception this once General! Remember Qingcheng, every man you ever love you will lose... Welcome! Welcome! How do you like my golden birdcage? Is this where we are going to spend the night? Did you think I brought you here to be my consort? You cannot seduce me No? I thought you would be grateful If it weren't for me you would never have tasted such true and exquisite love Pity it was only for an instant Where is your beloved now? Because of you, "He is dead! Put it on, my caged bird! Traitor! Assassin! Let's go! Hang him up, let him die here! Think you could hide from us in the forest? If you hadn't been our general We would have killed you ten times over! Leave him here to feed the wolves General In order to claim victory, you sacrificed 133 innocent slaves This, I understand But to kill the King for a woman? This, I cannot fathom Yeli, it wasn't me who killed the King You are the only man in the world who would dare do such a thing If this is your opinion just deliver me to Wuhuan? Go ahead! You have lost everything because of your recklessness Who says I have lost everything? I have lost nothing! You have lost your bet lt wasn't me who killed the King I never said it was you All I said was The Master of the Crimson Armor would kill the King I am the Master of the Crimson Armor Not anymore You don't have to believe me but your destiny will not be altered You are innocent yet you have been forced to bear the blame for the King's death Fate works in mysterious ways There are more losses to come and there is nothing you can do to stop them Soon you will lose even your cherished armor and be left with nothing There will be a new Master of the Crimson Armor He alone will be the authentic god of war And he alone will be loved by Qingcheng, beauty of beauties When the blossoms of the cherry tree all have fallen When sun and moon appear side by side Qingcheng's true love will come to her I want to have another wager with you I say I will retain my armor And win the love of this Qingcheng! General, I love your confidence Such a shame... Master, it was me who killed the King Why did you do it? I saw a man with a sword about to kill a woman Because of a woman You disobeyed my order? You deserve to die but not just yet Go find this Qingcheng and bring her to me I will find her, Master Give me back my armor Yes, Master Kunlun! What are you waiting for? Through that door and we'll be free! Who is he? I also want to know He must be from the Land of Snow... Wait! He is mad! Are you saying that Guangming deceived me with nothing more than a switch of armor? And the one who pretended to be him was his slave? And I was outwitted by this slave? So you are the true assassin! What is that in your hand? My Lord, please examine this The feather is mine! Yours? As a slave, even your life is not your own. They have stained my fan Take him away! You do understand why they had to die don't you? Now that they are gone Nobody will know who really killed the King Still, you had better deal with the slave as well When he is dead the people will condemn Guangming as the assassin You were the only one who could have killed the general But you failed me in that mission If now you refuse to kill your countryman I shall have to take back my cloak and you will simply vanish into thin air Yes, Master I managed to untie myself but there is no exit Will you help me find away out? Come back up here and I will show you the way You said I came from the Land of Snow You said you would not kill me If I don't kill you, I will be killed! Don't kill me. I'll help you escape Aren't you worried I'll try to kill you again? You won't You have great trust. You really are from the Land of Snow We found a piece of his cloak Where is he? He has disappeared with the slave Traitor! Why did you kill the King for me? Why did you jump off the cliff? Why are you so kind to me? Because I want you to fall in love with me I cannot fall in love with anybody But you already have, with me Who are you really? He is my slave Master, I am back He saved our lives He is my slave. That is his duty There? Kiss me Are you afraid I would push you away again? Sleep well Wait! Wait! You...Where do you think you are going? Where are you going? I must leave you Why? I tell you a secret It's my destiny to lose every man I love I cannot change it unless time flows backwards river reverses its flow and the dead comes back to life Let what's passed between us stay in our memory Let you, let me savor the fleeting kiss that we shared. You deceived me! Kunlun! Kill her! I cannot change my destiny, Kunlun But you can learn to make up your own mind When you know whether or not you should strike come and find me Go then! But I can promise you when the last of the cherry blossoms all have fallen that very day before the sun sets You will come back to my side Kunlun! Bring my horse! Yes, Master! My horse will speed your return to me! She won't come back, Master You have lost her Because of this woman, you have disobeyed me a second time I no longer want you with me! Master I have nowhere to go Go home, back to wherever you came from Kunlun, You are not born to be a slave It's time to take you home I'll take you there Where there was only light This is a place where there is mutual trust Where we can run and fly like the wind You will see the revered Land of Snow You are her child Mama? I saw my mother with a little girl Who was she? Was I dreaming? Where was that place? This was your home the Land of Snow I had to travel backwards in time to show you who you are The Land of Snow? Where is it now? You were only two years old when you were taken away as a slave The girl was your sister Five years ago it was destroyed by a cruel and heartless duke Who are you? The one who is cursed to wear the black cloak The only man who can run faster than time I want to see my mother and sister again Learn to run then! If you run with purpose you will be able to see them again I know how to run! That is not running That is fleeing To achieve real speed You must discover your heart's desire What does it mean - desire? That is something you must find for yourself This is as far as I can take you I have taught you everything I know Remember, real speed is imperceptible like the swell of a breeze, the gathering of clouds The sunset and the moonrise Just as you cannot tell when the leaves have turned or when the first tooth of a baby has emerged Just as you cannot tell when you have fallen in love Thank you, my friend The one who should return is not here... The one who shouldn't has arrived! Master, you have lost your bet with Qingcheng Huh? I certainly have not The sun has not set Master, I have learnt to run faster than time itself I have learnt that real speed cannot be perceived Who taught you this nonsense? Carry on! Real speed is like the swelling of a breeze, the gathering of clouds, the sunset, the moonrise or the leaves turning red Like a baby's first milk tooth Like you Dont know when you are in love The sun is setting! Master, let me take you back in time to the day she left! How dare you not return to me! I am not afraid to love anymore even if I lose you, I want to love you! With you, I feel that I can trust again Have I really got you now? I was yours a long time ago The moment you saved me from the King was the moment I fell in love with you When the last of the cherry blossoms all have fallen When the sun and the moon appear side by side Qingcheng's true love will come to her She is not mine yet but she will be Qingcheng, I have learned to make up my own mind I could never harm you Now I must go home... Do you remember what you said by the waterfalls? You said, you must not die, you must go on living I want to see my mother... my sister... It's useless What you see has already happened Your desire has carried you back five years I am going to kill Wuhuan right now! You cannot penetrate the wall of time you cannot save your family I am the Duke of the North, your conqueror Since I was a child, I had wanted to run like the wind, the way you do As your new ruler, I have brought you a special present A cloak with magical powers which will allow you to run faster than anyone, faster than time You will traverse heaven and earth in the blink of an eye My people, I am happy that one of you may receive this gift and have the honor of being my slave Who would like this privilege? Little girl Why don't your persuade one of your clan to come forward? What does he want with my little sister? We should go Leave me alone! Is there not a single person amongst you who will accept my offer? You are a cruel and heartless race, of no use to me! Mama! I will be your slave! Let me be your slave! Then let's see if you are a fast enough! Don't run! You'll fan the flames! Now I believe you are a native of the Land of Snow But one who is afraid of deat Still, only a man who fears death can be a good slave Put this on, and you will live But you have to wear it always If you ever remove it you will become a wisp of air vanished forever... From now on you will serve as my swiftest assassin When I'm ready, you will eliminate my greatest enemy You betrayed you own people! I never hurt anyone I did not betray anybody All I wanted was to live Do not go looking for Wuhuan Like me, you will not be able to kill him I am nothing like you Wait! Great General, we have captured Wuhuan He awaits your justice Weren't you ready to feed me to the wolves? Great General, we made a terrible mistake We gave our allegiance to Wuhuan but he is half the man you are Without you we are as children without a father We should never have turned our backs on you We have wronged you profoundly We have missed you I will not go My life is here Great General, I know that you too have missed us Commander Yeli The General you once knew is dead Take this armor and find it a new master He would never have parted from his armor, even for a second Our Great General...is truly no more Go ahead and cry Stop crying! Stand up! If you don't come with us I shall never stand up Why don't you come with me? Forget them! Being a warrior is behind you now! What if I really wished to go? Don't leave me! Don't! Then come with me! Let's go! Are you looking for the General? He is not here He's gone Kunlun! Wait! Find him and make sure he is safe I'll wait for him here Please enter I knew I could make you come back Such beautiful clothes you have! Did Qingcheng make them herself? I was told that the Great General Guangming was happily living with a woman without his armor and in domestic bliss Am I right? Arrest the assassin The Crimson Armor, MyLord Thank you, Yeli Move! You are an imposter! You think I don't know your secret? Qingcheng! Qingcheng! What a perfect pair Pity you are in love with the wrong man Stop! Do you think I took you to see her just so that you can break her heart? She is waiting for you You know where to find her Yes I do...She is in Wuhuan's cage We have to work together with snow wolf now You and I together. We must kill Wuhuan and rescue Qingcheng. I have no appetite to fight I have lost to Wuhuan He has waited, Then taken away my only happiness You should kill me the way you would kill a defeated soldier who refuses to die Have you forgotten? You are the mighty general who wiped out 20,000 invaders with 3,000 soldiers! The Great General Guangming is finished Where is the Crimson Armor? What do you want with it? You are no longer worthy of being its master I am going to put on the armor and confess my true identity to Qingcheng This has been my heart's dearest desire You will find the armor in Wuhuan's sanctuary Go and get it yourself At my trial tomorrow I shall have a chance to see Qingcheng again I shall wait for her here It's been a while my old friend Give me the armor! I imagine you have come on behalf of your countryman, the young slave You will have to forgive me I cannot give it to you It now belong to me I don't care what fresh flower helmet And God of war nonsensical speak But because it's a symbol of my power! Give it to me! Anyone can take anything from anybody as long as they are cunning enough Unfortunately... you are not Give me back my cloak! I have found someone far more satisfying to command. I gave you life to bring about Guangming's death Now that he is in my hands, I have no more use for you Give me the cloak! Out you come, you coward Otherwise hurry up and run It's over All I need to do is give this a little tug It's your choice Let Snow Wolf go and give me the armor... Or die Need you ask? Of course you may have it Wait! Snow Wolf, Return my cloak and I'll let your friend leave with the armor Otherwise...I shall have to kill you both Once, you betrayed your own people And now you are betraying me, your benefactor, who saved your life A traitor is always a traitor If you are no longer willing to kill for me you should return the cloak Give me back the cloak! I'll kill you! My Lord! Let go! Let go of me! Listen to me! Let go of me! Listen to me! You have not answered The armor, or the cloak Snow Wolf? I told you once that the day Wuhuan came and massacred our people I did not wrong anyone Nor did I betray anyone But now I realize I was mistaken I have wronged somebody, and betrayed somebody myself I have to thank Wuhuan for showing me the futility of a life without honor It makes me realize that death is not as terrifying as I had imagined This is for you, my friend Go and prove to Qingcheng that you are the one she should love Snow Wolf! You are free to go, Kunlun But you must stay with in the City walls Kunlun, you are here! Quickly, go and save the General! I cannot do that now Then he will die tomorrow! If you tell the court it was I who killed the King The General will be acquitted But you didn't kill the King You can tell them ... that night the General was seriously wounded and he asked me to put on his armor Guangming! Everything you possess was bestowed on you by the King And yet you murdered him -why? Because I fell in love with his Princess, Qingcheng there a better reason? I really don't want to see you throw your life away for a woman The assassin Guangming is sentenced to be beheaded in public Let the people see his true face! This is my final and most glorious victory You liar! He did not kill the King It was his slave who did it Who is this? I am the slave who killed the King Does anyone believe that a slave could kill the King? Never! I believe him! Why would a mere slave kill the King? Because I asked him to He is my lover Absurd! That night...the General was heavily wounded he asked me to put on his armor... The moment he killed the King, was the moment I fell in love with him I leapt onto his horse And we rode all the way to the waterfalls You took my hand, and you said If we must die, let us die together... That was not what I said I said -you must not die, You must go on living The King was truly killed by me Execute him! Execute him! What you just told the court is true Afterwards you leapt into the ravine for this woman Did I not tell you? You have been in love with the wrong man Wuhuan I am going to kill you! You have good reason to I made a terrible mistake Of course you would never have killed the King for a woman You are still my idol Thank you for clearing the Great General's name You are free to go Guangming, freedom is not for you all three? Tied them up! I have waited years to have the satisfaction of today but don't you ever assume That I shall kill you now You will have the pleasure of witnessing each other's death, one by one What use is your speed now, Kunlun? Here is food and drink But you cannot reach it Just like that you cannot reach your love When the last of the cherry blossoms have withered You too will cease to exist Like petals falling from a branch you too will return to the earth You were the first person in the world to lie to me Have you forgotten? let me down and I will be your slave You took the bread and ran away Fine, if you promise! You were the one Who first make me lose my trust in the world Even in myself Now look at me neither trusting nor to be trusted And always in the shadow of a greater man But you, beautiful Princess You have the adoration of everyone! You fool, you have lost everything I laugh at myself. I allowed a woman who is in love with somebody else to suffer for me I too am aliar Why are you crying? I find this very moving Why? Because you never give up! I have long dreamt of the day that the people's hero would put this on for me Should I give up this dream? Give me the cloak! Give me the cloak! Why should I believe you? You should believe that nobody wants to die Why don't you come down and try it on? Kill him! Before you can strangle me, she will be already dead Drop your dagger! You let go and I will drop the dagger! He's lying! Drop the dagger and I'll let go Since neither of us trusts the other... Why don't we both let go at the same time? Fine let us trust each other this once Your time has come! He's got another dagger! Neither of us is trustworthy Let them go Truly a man from the Land of Snow... They're dying... Go and say goodbye Love is forever out of your reach... Quick, go to him! He is waiting for you You must not die Let us go home together You must not die, You must go on living I want to give you another chance to choose Destiny can be changed, Qingcheng Time sometimes flows backwards Snow can fall in the Spring and even a frozen heart can come back to life...
