 

                        Ah, what the hell. Guys like me shouldn't dream anyway I'm alive And the world shines for me today I'm alive Suddenly I am here today Seems like forever from today Thought I could never feel this way Is this really me I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive And the dawn breaks across the sky I'm alive And the sun rises up so high Lost in another world far away Never another world from today But what can I say I'm alive I'm alive Suddenly came the dawn from the night Suddenly I was born unto light How can it be real I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive And the world shines for me today I'm alive Suddenly I am here today Seems like forever from today Thought I could never feel this way Is this really me I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive I'm alive What the... Hey, Sonny... Never thought we'd see you back here again I'm not exactly thrilled about it You said this place made you crazy I decided I'd rather be crazy than hungry "The calculation is sensitive to the time you plan to own your house The factor increases if you pay off your mortgage in five years" Five years? He'd be lucky if he paid off the movers Who could pay off a house in only five years? Rock stars don't even need that long. They pay cash A million dollars, man? See my manager. I'm busy, you know? - Last one in, first one home - Hey, it's Sonny It's Michelangelo Malone Michelangelo, the ceiling needs painting All right, that's enough The great Sonny Malone returns to AirFlo Records welcomed by cheering throngs of thousands Art world fails to suffer. News at 11:00 Cut it out. You know I wouldn't come back unless I had to - We were all really pulling for you - Yeah, like one of us breaking away Really doing it Yeah, no paint by numbers, no assembly line art. What happened? It's what didn't happen. No bread - I fought it, that's for sure - Don't worry I spend my whole life paintin' what other people want I paint his van... I paint somebody else's mural... I paint Simpson's album covers Then when I finally quit to freelance not only do I almost starve to death but I can't figure out what I wanna do - You can try again - You will, won't you? Ah, look who decided to drop in. Where's your white flag? You have a way with words, Simpson. You know that? Same old wiseass attitude. I thought we discussed this on the phone when I decided to take you back We did. But I have one question... Why the hell did you take me back? Simple. You're good. And you're the fastest painter around But this time no more artsy-craftsy Sonny Malone touches, huh? Just enlarge the album cover the way I give it to you Am I coming in loud and clear? - Yeah - Good. Here You're on your way to your next masterpiece. Get started That's great, isn't it? Picasso only gets to be called a genius I get to be called the fastest painter around Hey, Sonny, I have this terrific friend. You interested? Not right now. Hey Ooh, she's great lookin' I think that's this crazy girl. I just ran into - Yeah? - I was walkin' through the park She nearly ran over me. Then she kissed me Let's hear the X-rated version - What did you do? - Nothing. She took off She took off? Come on! Is this the same Sonny Malone that drives women crazy? I'm gonna find out who she is - You mean right now? - You're gonna be a successful artist - You're nuts! - Simpson's gonna kill him Listen, Sonny, I told ya. I don't know who she is She never filed a W-2 and she never got a cheque If I never paid her, she doesn't exist What do you mean? I'm lookin' at her. She's on the Nine Sisters' album Not if I didn't pay her she isn't! Down here at me. Now look to your right Yeah, that's good. Listen, Sonny, I don't know who she is How can you not know? You took the picture Listen, this sounds strange but there wasn't supposed to be a model on this cover I snapped maybe 100 shots In one of them this girl just jumped into frame The next time I saw her was on the contact sheets I liked it, so I used it. That's the whole story - She just appeared? - No, appeared then disappeared Don't go spreading this around. This is one of my best covers Why do you want to know who she is, anyway? I like her Hey, Lou... You seen her around here? No. Pretty Hey, you're single, right? Let me show you my daughters That's great. I'm gonna go look where. I saw her this morning Get a balloon Seventy-five cents - I'll meet you later - All right - Hi I'll take one, please - Hi - There you go - See ya All right, come on now Hey, mister. What are you doin' up there? Hope you don't mind a little noontime music, kid A little lunchtime serenade? I don't mind. It's kinda nice I'm just wondering where they laid out the body I mean, you got something a little more upbeat? Sure - Better? - At least it's faster - Here, give me a hand - Sure Boy, they sure don't make rocks like they used to - Want some popcorn? - Yeah, thanks - You work around here, kid? - Pretty near. I'm at AirFlo Records You in the music business? Are you a record producer? A sound engineer? No. I'm sort of a painter You, you paint at a record business? Not exactly. What I do is a... I duplicate record covers Why? I make album covers bigger so you can hang them outside of record stores Promotion. Sounds like an interesting job, huh? Yeah. Sounds like you should take real long lunch hours - You got it - I used to be in the music business Now I'm retired It's a refined name for "bum" I don't believe it Hey, wait a minute! - Hey, kid, wait up! Where are you goin'? Hey you! Come on! Hold on! I gotta borrow this. I'll bring it back - Sure - If you bring it back in person You got it Hey! Hey, wait a minute! Where are you going? Take that bike off the pier! Holy shit! Whoo! You're a real Errol Flynn, kid What other stunts do you do? Man, this whole thing is screwin' me up - What whole thing? - Ah, nothin' Come on, have a cup of coffee Sometimes the best person to tell something to is a stranger Go on. What's on your mind? Okay I run into this girl this morning. Never saw her before in my life She kisses me and disappears - So what's so weird about that? - What's weird about that is ten minutes later I see her on an album cover I'm supposed to paint I mean, that's crazy, right? If I said it sounded crazy, would you stop looking for her? - No - Then why ask? So I'll keep lookin' for her Okay, but take a tip from me What's that? Don't look underwater any more Thanks a lot - Hey, Al, where you goin'? - Sonny, - it's good to see you, man - How you doin'? How could I go wrong with the paint job you did on my van? And the chicks love it It's one of the finer examples of my work - It's beautiful, man - Where you headed? - Eas. Where you goin'? - West - I'll give you a ride - No, that's cool - Forget it. I owe you one - All right. Okay, hit it Relax and enjoy it. We're taking the scenic route Yeah, just don't forget I'm back here Hey, that's the place on the album cover! Slow down, I wanna get off here - Here? - Thanks for the ride Anytime, Sonny I've always been in your mind You know I will be kind I'll be guiding you Building your dream Has to start now There's no other road to take You won't make a mistake I'll be guiding you Wow We have to believe we are magic Nothin' can stand in our way We have to believe we are magic Don't let your aim ever stray And if all your hopes survive Destiny will arrive Bring all your dreams alive For you Bring all your dreams alive For you You Me Hey, I've been askin' about you all day You may not believe this, but I'm paintin' an album cover - and you're on it - Why shouldn't I believe it? Because before today, I never laid eyes on you Now I've seen you three times in one day - That's too coincidental - Sounds like you don't believe it With all that's happened to me today to tell you the truth, I don't believe it You're right. It's too coincidental. Someone must be setting us up What do you mean? Hey, wait a minute! I didn't have anything to do with this! - Really? - Yeah, really, I didn't Hey! Who said I was talking about you? You come here often? Yes. I can practise my skating and no one bothers me - You must live around here then - Sometimes - Say, you think we could, uh - See each other again? - Yeah. Would you like that? - Why? I don't know... I don't have a very good reason I'd just like to see you again Where are you? I don't know where I'm supposed to look Bring all your dreams alive For you We'll see each other again. Bye, Sonny How'd you know my name? Hey, wait a minute! I don't know your name Kira Kira - I was in big trouble - What did you do? - Nothing - Hi, Sonny What are you doin' here? It's early Yeah, it's really early I'm workin' - Well, that's wonderful - Oh, hello there Do you know you bear a strong resemblance to a fellow by the name of Sonny? He works here Always comes in late, though. Say, that's pretty damn good It is. It's too good. That's what's wrong with it It is supposed to look exactly like the album cover I gave you - Is that too difficult? - If you want me to work, I'll work If you want to argue, I can get into that too Don't be a wiseass, Malone What are you wasting all this time on a girl for? Because that's how she really looks I don't give a damn Just get it finished. When are you gonna have it done? Well, I'd say it probably will be done... when it's done But that's only an approximate guess Five minutes, my office. If it's six, keep walking Sonny, what did you do? Nobody likes it, but we all say "yes" and then forget it - It goes with the job - Four minutes What difference does it make? I'll say it's Tuesday, he'll say it's Wednesday Big deal. Tell him it's Wednesday. What does it cost? Oh, nothin'. Maybe just the truth Just go in there and agree with him. That's all he wants You want me to say Tuesday's Wednesday? - Uh-huh - Three and a half minutes All right! I'll be right back Sit down You think you're pretty special around here, don't ya? - I never said I was special - Well, you're not I mean, you didn't discover art. Who do you think did that? - I did. Surprises you, doesn't it? - No, not really Now I've got an office I make a lot of money. People respond when I call That's because I smartened up and I gave up art I think you made the right decision I want you to smarten up too. Start doing things the company way Sometimes I see more in these covers than what's really there That's art. Just paint what you're told to paint If you start making changes, then other people start making changes Before you know it, you got people doing what they want to do That's not a company. That's chaos Now, I want you to hang some of your precious covers Pick up the van and hustle your butt over to the Platinum Palace Tuesday's Wednesday Hey, clarinet. How you doin'? Hey, kid. What're you doin' up there? Trying to get down. Grab ahold of the ladder Sure We might as well introduce ourselves - Sonny Malone - Danny McGuire Malone and McGuire. Sounds like a vaudeville team - What you got there? - A real gem - I've been waiting months for it - Ah, Glenn Miller You wouldn't know about him. He was before your time So was Beethoven, but I know who he is You like Glenn Miller? - You like rock'n roll? - I love rock'n roll I love Glenn Miller This place is incredible It belonged to a silent movie star. They did things big in those days What do you do with all this space? Nothing really This room makes my records sound great I've only got one thing to say: Remember, I gave you some popcorn Okay. But you came here to listen to Glenn Miller All set up. There he goes Nothing like that sound. That sound was a miracle - Hey, Danny, that's you - Yeah This girl. Danny, there's this girl Shh, listen That's me Hey, that's all right. You got any more surprises? This is what I call my memorabilia room The story of Danny McGuire Tommy Dorsey, Benny Goodman... You really knew those guys? We used to hang out together After I toured with Miller I got my own band and my own club. West 51 st Street It was small and jam-packed Everybody in town would drop by Sometimes they'd sit in for a set or two Now it's a parking lot - Why did you give it up? - Oh, it was one of those turning points where you turn in the wrong direction - It was a girl - The girl in the album Yeah The singer with the band When she left, I figured she'd be back I wasn't about to run after her, right? Hmm! Boy, did I teach her a lesson Never saw her again After that, the heart went outta my music I went into the family construction business and became what they call "comfortable" Three cheers for comfort You ever think about going back into music? Oh, only about 20 or 30 times a day So, you gonna do it? Well, I can't play clarinet like I did in the old days But you know something? I'd love to open up another joint again Why don't you? I've had real estate agents looking for two years They can't find the right place If it's just a place you want, that seems pretty easy No, it's not easy. It's like falling in love You gotta feel a special attachment - Like you and your friend - Kira Kira Hey, why don't you help me look? Maybe you can come up with something - Me? - Sure. You've got a good eye - Stranger things have happened - Yeah, I guess they have - Listen, I gotta go - I understand - I'll let myself out? - Sure So long. See you around Now how'd that kid figure out about us? You made me feel so bad I guess it still shows on me You made me sigh for you I didn't wanna tell ya You're gettin' old, boy Didn't wanna tell ya I'm gettin' old, babe I want some love You wouldn't even know me now That's true Yes, I do, indeed I do But I'd know you You know I do Gimme, gimme Yes What I cry for I'd certainly know you You know you've got I remember The kind of kisses That I'd die for everything Oh-ho You know How I remember it You made me Love you No other face could take you off my mind You're so refined You're much too kind I have to warn you I'm never gonna set you free 'Cause I was born to Love you for eternity Whenever you're away from me Wherever you go You're never far away from me I want you to know I only have to close my eyes, dear And suddenly I'm where you are You better never stray 'Cause I'll never be far away On every breeze I seem to hear your name My heart's to blame I feel the same I'd fall apart, dear If you'd let the feelin' end Don't break a heart, dear Nobody else could mend Whenever you're away from me Wherever you go You're never far away from me I want you to know I only have to close my eyes, dear And suddenly I'm where you are You better never stray 'Cause I'll never be far away You better never stray 'Cause I'll never be far A way - Hello. Oh, I'm sorry - Hey! You scared the hell outta me I'm sorry if I disturbed you. I tried to be quiet - How long you been standin' there? - Just a few seconds - Should I go? - No, stay You paint beautifully This is the first time I've cared about what I've painted in a long time It's a shame. It must be frustrating to waste your talents on things - that don't really matter to you - Yeah I met a guy. He told me I should take long lunch hours - A guy? - Someone I met at the beach He's got this crazy idea to build a club He asked me if I'd help him find a place All the real estate agents in this town, he asks me That's not a crazy idea. You've got a good eye That's what he said If it's a place you want, what about this one? My place, where we met That? Forget it I think it has a very special aura about it It's a dump! You're supposed to be an artist. Use your imagination Thanks, I'm all out You know, I really think you believe that I've had enough for tonight - Come on, let's get out of here - Okay - What's this? - Shh, be quiet I thought we were going skating I wanna show you the special studio first Only the biggest groups get to record here - It's really kinda magic - Hmm? They flash all sorts of pictures on screens Really? Can we see it? Straight ahead But pictures in a recording studio? Why? - For inspiration - Oh, inspiration. Sounds perfect I've only watched them do this a couple of times before Let's see. Turn on that one. And this I don't know how to make the whole thing work - Press 'em all - I don't wanna break it - Press them carefully! - What the hell I didn't like the job anyway Let's see Now will we see the magic? Sure. Come on Careful She walks in And I'm suddenly a hero I'm taken in My hopes begin to rise Look at me Can't you tell I'd be so thrilled to see - The message in your eyes - You make it seem I'm so close to my dream And then suddenly it's all right Suddenly the wheels are in motion And I I'm ready to sail any ocean Suddenly I don't need the answers 'Cause I I'm ready to take all my chances with you And how can I Feel you're all that matters I'd rely on anything you say I'll take care That no illusions shatter If you dare say what you should say You make it seem I'm so close to my dream And then suddenly it's all right Suddenly the wheels are in motion And I I'm ready to sail any ocean Suddenly I don't need the answers 'Cause I I'm ready to take all my chances with you Why do I feel so alive When you're near There's no way any hurt Can get through Longin' to spend every moment of the day With you With you Suddenly the wheels are in motion And I I'm ready to sail any ocean Suddenly I don't need the answers 'Cause I I'm ready to take all my chances with you Ah-ah-ah-ah Hey! What the hell's goin' on in here? Malone! Is that you? Yes! No, it's not me. It's somebody else Do you have any idea how much this equipment costs? Huh? - Oh, shit! - That was great - You were great Our first dance together Followed by our first being-kicked-out together - Now I want to go somewhere else - Where? Find out more about you You know enough about me. I wanna know about you - I'm serious - So am I After all that, do you think you'd let your imagination roam a little? I won't even start in on that one What are you doin'? - What do you think you're doin'? - Oh, nothing Oh, ha. Well, well, well. What a coincidence Look where we just happened to end up - You think you're clever, don't you? I just didn't want you to close your eyes to any possibilities You really think this could work out for Danny? I think this place could be anything you want it to be See, it's simple. Your friend has a dream and you want to be involved in something you really believe in Maybe his dream is big enough for the both of you So here we are. Someone who believes that dreams come easy, and... Someone who doesn't know what they believe in So just think about it, okay? Just think about it You gotta be kidding. This place? They used to have wrestling here It's got a history of success It needs some fixin' up. It could look terrific So could the Titanic Kid, you don't need a builder. You need a demolition team I know it's a wreck now, but I can see it coming to life again Just check it out, Danny - What put you onto this? - A girl Oh, that explains everything Hey, Danny, don't you think there's a certain kind of... aura about this place? Well, if that's what you call it, it's got it all right Let's see the rest of it Course, it's not small and intimate like my club in New York But then again, that was back in 1945 and things are bigger now And this place. Whoo! Sure is big - Yeah, it is - Well, I don't know Naturally, I can't take all this too seriously But if I were going to do something. And I can't say I am I'm a builder and a builder has to take his time deciding these things If I were going to do something about it speaking hypothetically, it just might work - You think so? - Might. If I planned it right Let's see, uh. Stage over there Stairs there and there and back there - Can you imagine it? - Imagine what? A bandstand right over there in that corner And a big band, like in the '40s No. Bandstands went out with running boards. Over there A great rock 'n' roll band. This is the '80s Real smooth dancers... Wild trombone The band decked out in tuxedos Six guys wearin' electric orange... Synthesizer, heavy percussion, electric guitar... Lots of glamour. Everybody dressed in elegance and style Do it, Daddy, do it Anybody blue Anybody needin' someone too Anyone feelin' cold No one there you can hold Don't wait to get old and grey I'm gonna blow all the clouds away 'Cause there is nothing I would rather do Ooo-ooo-ooo Forget about the blues tonight. Sweet thing Forget about the rules tonight. Sweet thing I want to dance with you Until the sun comes creepin' through I want to dance with you I won't stop pleasin' you Ahh-ahh-ahh-ahh Honey, for a while Give a girl a chance to show some style If you've got no love to spare Tell me lies I don't care You better believe that I Know some moves that we've gotta try 'Cause there is nothing I would rather do Ooo-ooo-hey Forget about the blues tonight. Sweet thing Forget about the rules tonight. Sweet thing I want to dance with you Until the sun comes creepin' through I want to dance with you I won't stop pleasin' you Ahh-ahh-ahh-ahh Lover, I wanna let you know I won't take a backseat Ain't willin' to let you go I won't take a backseat Don't wanna hear what you want It's gotta be all my way And I'm makin' sure you stay to see I'm really a selfish man I gotta get right to it Lover, tonight I'm thinkin' of me Lover, I won't take a backseat tonight. Ooo-ooo-ooo Lover, gettin' on my two feet tonight. Ooo-ooo-ooo Got some dancin' to do Got some dancin' to do Got some dancin' to do Got some dancin' to do Can't let anyone dance with you I won't take a backseat Let me show you what I can do I won't take a backseat Ain't funny to fool with me I'll be a bad loser You're gettin' me mad. Usin' me Tried puttin' a spell on me 'Cause I had a strange feelin' You better get down to healin' me Lover, I won't take a backseat tonight. Ooo-ooo-ooo Lover, gettin' on my two feet tonight. Ooo-ooo-ooo Got some dancin' to do - Got some dancin' to do - Wha-aah! Got some dancin' to do Got some dancin' to do Ahh-ahh-ahh-ahh - Forget about the blues - Lover I won't take a backseat tonight - Forget about the blues - Lover Gettin' on my two feet tonight - I want to dance with you - Got some dancin' to do Until the sun comes creepin' through - I want to dance with you - Got some dancin' to do - I won't stop pleasin' you - Got some dancin' to do - Forget about the blues - Lover I won't take a backseat tonight - Forget about the blues - Lover Gettin' on my two feet tonight - I want to dance with you - Got some dancin' to do Until the sun comes creepin' through - I want to dance with you - Got some dancin' to do - I won't stop pleasin' you - Got some dancin' to do Ahh-ahh-ahh-ahh Hey I love it! I'll do it! Maybe I'm crazy, but what the hell! I haven't been crazy for over 35 years And, kid, I'm giving you half the place You're gonna be my partner I can't do that, Danny. I can't take that Why? I don't know the first thing about being a partner It's easy. We share the responsibilities and we argue a lot It's like being married without the good part - Come on, kid. Is it a deal? - Okay It's a deal - What do you know! I'm back in show business I can't wait. I gotta look over every inch of this place - I wish we could see better - I got a flashlight in the car - Will you get it? - Yeah Our first collaboration as partners Oh, partner? Partner, what'll we name the place? Yeah. What, what the hell to call it? "In Xanadu did Kubla Khan, a stately pleasure dome decree:" "Where Alph, the sacred river, ran through caverns measureless to man" "Down to a sunless sea" Yes, Xanadu - I'm Kira - Of course You're Kira - But, uh - But? I mean... don't I know you? I don't think so - Are you sure because... - Because? Well, I mean... I don't know. I was thinking that I ge... Oh, I'm sorry. Forget it So you're gonna do it? Yes, we-we're gonna do it - Total insanity - Only if you think so Well, even if it is, it's worth a try Xanadu... How do you think that'll look on a marquee? - Mmm, wonderful - Hey! - When did you get here? - Just a minute ago What'd I tell you, Danny? One minute she's here, the next minute, who knows? Guess what you own half of, partner What? Xanadu - Xanadu - Xanadu Hi, guys - Hey, Picasso - Hey How ya doin'? Let's see, what's first on the agenda? - Who are you calling? - Leave a dime on the counter - Hello, Simpson? Sonny Malone - I wanna see you right away - What's goin' on here? Who cares? Just get out before he gets here I'll fix everything up. I'll tell him it was a joke - Wait a minute. Relax - Are you loaded? When you sober up, you're gonna be sorry - He should be coming in about now - Malone, what the hell is goin' on? Simpson, I've worked like a dog tryin' to make Tuesday Wednesday I couldn't do it. I must be a failure Is he straight? You told me if I didn't do things right, I'd be fired - Well, you were right - Huh? I'm fired! Malone, I want you out of here in five minutes That's five minutes, Malone and if it's six, just keep walking. Got it? I'm doin' it I'm doin' it I'm doin' it! You know that dream of mine to get out of here? It's happening, and you're all invited Opening night, whatever you want it's on the house You know, I always wanted to say that line Shit Okay - To Xanadu - To dreams I couldn't have done it without you - How is it? - Heavenly You're the one that's heavenly No, don't What's the matter? Did I do something? No You know, I don't know anything about you Where you live, where you were born There's nothing to know - Where do you live? - With my sisters - Where? - In an apartment - Yeah, but where's the apartment? - On the second floor Look, I don't even know how to find you - Yeah, but you always do - Okay That's a dead end - What's your last name? - Same as my father's and mother's - Yeah, but what is it? - What? My father's or my mother's? - I don't care. Either one - Same as mine Okay, I get it. No questions - No questions, no lies - No questions, no truth either Listen, you know enough about me already Any more, you're gonna get a headache - Are you living with somebody? - Yes I'm living with my sisters. I told you already Yeah, I know, in an apartment on the second floor Why do I say Don't walk away You'll be the way you were before When you don't want me any more Don't turn around Don't ever leave A lonely room where empty days Are gathering to meet me When you're gone Gone How in the world will go on Don't walk away All you gotta do is stay Don't walk away All you gotta do is stay Don't walk away Don't walk away - Don't walk away - Don't say goodbye - Don't say goodbye - Don't turn around - Don't turn around - Don't let it die - Don't let it die - When shadows fall - When shadows fall - When day is done - When day is done - All through the night - All through the night - All of my life All of my life Don't walk away Don't walk away - Don't walk away - Don't say goodbye - Don't say goodbye - Don't turn around - Don't turn around - Don't let it die - Don't let it die - When shadows fall - When shadows fall - When day is done - When day is done - All through the night Come on, you guys, does anyone want some more? Gimme a break. It's only the end of the first week So what? We're gonna celebrate at the end of every week - I won't argue with that Cheers - Two cheers. Two cheers You know, when you guys told me you were buildin' a dream, - I thought you were crazy - Yeah? Most people want skyscrapers you put up in 20 minutes - It's gonna be beautiful in there - Thank you - See you guys next week - You bet Hey, Sonny, I thought we should haveone special toast just the two of us I've never had a partner before I've never watched a dream come true Hey, there's not much left. But, still vintage Only the best - T o Sonny Malone - Danny McGuire - And Glenn Miller - Hello - How's it all going? - So far so good Kira, I want you to promise me one thing Anything Opening night, I get the first dance - Okay - You're gonna dance? Oh, I've been known to twinkle a toe or two Listen, if you're gonna dance, you have to wear something Uh, that looks special - You need some, uh - Glitz - "Glitz"? - Something sharp looking You know, something with a bit of pizzazz to it - Hot - Oh - Well, if I need some Wha-Wha-Wha - Glitz Glitz, uh, then I gotta go get some. Where do you go to get it? - At a franchised glitz dealer - At a franchised glitz dealer Well, wherever it is you go, let's go Ooo-ooo-ooo Ooo-ooo-ooo Everybody all around the world Gotta tell you what I just heard That there's gonna be a party all over the world I got a message on the radio But where it came from I don't really know And I heard these voices callin' All over the world All over the world Everybody got the word Everybody, everywhere is gonna feel it tonight Tonight Everybody walkin' down the street Everybody movin' to the beat They gonna get hot down in the USA New York - Detroit, LA We gonna take a trip across the sea Everybody come along with me We're gonna hit the nights down in gay Paris See the Duke. Then we'll pick up the team All over the world Everybody got the word Everybody, everywhere is gonna feel it tonight All over the world London, Tampa, Hollywood New York, Hong Kong, Tokyo LA, New York, Amsterdam Monte Carlo, China and then All over the world Everybody got the word Everybody, everywhere is gonna feel it tonight Ooo-ooo-ooo Everybody all around the world Gotta tell you what I just heard Everybody walkin' down the street I know a place where we all can meet Everybody gonna have a good time Everybody will shine till the daylight All over the world Everybody got the word Everybody, everywhere is gonna feel it tonight Ooo-ooo-ooo All over the world Everybody got the word All over the world Everybody got the word, word word, word, word, word, word All over the world Everybody got the word Yeah, that's right. We're opening tomorrow night You can bring your TV cameras if you like, but we're not gonna do any of that celebrity stuff No, no, just, just people Anybody who shows up. Okay, we'll see you tomorrow. So long I wonder what would have happened if I got that al bum to paint? Don't worry. Your turn will come Everyone gets at least one chance at feeling like that - Mmm, yeah. That's what they say - That's what I say All right, what's next, boss? Well, we're down to little details. Fountains, yes The mirrors, yes. Uh, next, we need those new parking signs The signs are here. We haven't put them up yet Let's get' em up. I'll be right back. I wanna talk to you - about the sound system - Sure You've made the place look beautiful Just did what the kid said Oh, I see a little Danny McGuire here and there Oh, just here and there. Don't tell anybody, but... - I'm nervous - What about? Well, I haven't had an opening night since, uh, 1945 Wow! I guess I got the jitters Well, just pretend we're back in 1945 all over again I don't have to pretend It is 1945 all over again Well, that takes care of that Sonny, don't worry about that sound system I looked over it twice today and it's fine You kids go on home Bye, Danny You did it. Tomorrow's your big day. It's all gonna come true Tomorrow's gonna be the most beautiful day in the world Kira I love you I love you, Sonny - What's the matter? - All of it everything We can't go on pretending this is for real I know, it is hard to believe Oh, I can't have these kind of feelings It's beginning to hurt... Oh, this part of it was never supposed to happen I don't understand What do you mean, "hurt"? I know... I shouldn't but I do, and it's crazy Sonny, there's something I have to tell you about myself - I know all I need to know - I have to tell you. I have no choice All I was sent to do was to make Xanadu happen I don't get it Sonny, you have to believe me when I tell you that I never wanted to hurt you That was the last thing I wanted to happen I'm not as I appear to you Have you ever heard the expression, "Kissed by a muse"? That's what I am. I'm a muse I'm glad somebody's havin' a good time Please don't make a joke I'm serious I come from Mount Helicon I'm the daughter of Zeus I have eight sisters. My real name is T... Are you telling me that's not real? I'm trying to tell you the truth. Why don't you believe me? Look up the word "muse" in the dictionary. Go on - Page 728. Read it - Okay All right, I'll read it - "'Muse' Any of the nine sister" - Like the album cover? Hmm? "Any of the nine sister goddesses in Greek Mythology presiding over song and poetry and the arts and sciences And do you believe me now, Sonny?" How'd you do that? What's goin' on? The television Well, well, look who's here Who's chasing you this time, Vargas? The cops? - Or the mob? - Don't get smart with me, Nick I told you to stay away from Brenda Trent Ah, yes, you did tell me. What should I do, Sonny? Dive at him or, uh, make a martini? What? Who you talking to? Sonny Malone. He doesn't believe Kira's a muse How can you be talking to me? You're a movie I ain't got time for this, Malone Brenda's the only one that saw me at the racetrack Now if the lady says she's a muse she's a muse Who's that? Brenda! Kira Sonny I think he needs a drink It's okay I'll take care of it. Thanks Good luck on the opening of your joint, kid Wish I could be there Oh, wow! Oh, Sonny We've been painted by Michelangelo Shakespeare's written sonnets about us Beethoven's played music for us We're not supposed to feel emotion or show any feelings Muses are just supposed to inspire I fell in love You did? Well, what do you think happened to me? It was a mistake. I broke the rules Well, now what the hell do we do, huh? - Answer that, muse! - I don't know I'm sorry. It just never should have happened - Well, it did - I love you, Sonny Kira I'll love you forever I will I'll love you forever Kira! Wait! I'll love you forever Hey, painter! I've been lookin' for you. Where you been? - Here - Well, how do I look? Aren't you gonna say anything about my new threads? Hubba, hubba Well, uh we're gonna miss you tonight - It won't be any fun without you - I told you I can't go Xanadu doesn't matter any more What do you mean it doesn't matter? How can it not matter? This was our dream. Well, well, wasn't it? There's no Xanadu 'cause there's no Kira - She made it real - So find her! Bring her back! - Dreams die - No No, no, no. Not by themselves. We. We kill them Now, if you give up, you'll be sitting on that rock 30 years from now just like I was I know how you feel, kid. I felt the same way once I did I didn't know how important love is But let me tell you something Somehow, somewhere, there's a way to get her! If she got here, there's a way to get there Believe me, kid, it's up to you It's-It's up to you I see the early glow I hear you say hello I watch the shadows fall I don't see you at all - It's a lie - Don't believe it's so It's a lie I see the autumn rain Falling on my window pane I hear you say goodbye I see a tear in your eye - It's a lie - Don't believe it's so It's a lie Our love couldn't go wrong How could I know I was only dreaming And now... Now that you're gone I will go on really believing I'll take the fall I'll take the fall I see you in a dream You turn and start to go I call to you once more Guess that I'm takin' the fall - It's a lie - Don't believe it's so It's a lie Our love couldn't go wrong How could I know I was only dreaming And now now that you're gone I will go on really believing I'll take the fall Kira Sonny. How d id you get here? You didn't think I'd let you get away from me, did you? - You'll have to go back - Okay, I'm ready. Let's go I can't go with you But you have to get out before it's too late Too late for what? Oh, please, you took a big chance coming here What's going on here? I'm taking you back with me, Kira It can't be done. Nobody's ever taken anyone out of here Not in the whole history of the whole history I'll make 'em let you go. Hey, Zeus! - Zeus, you hear me? - Oh, God I wanna talk to you We don't use those old-fashioned names any more In any case, it's me you want to speak to I've come to get Kira She's not leaving! It's impossible! - That's what you think - That's what you think How'd you know I was gonna say that? I'm a good guesser What else do you know? - Everything - All right, then. You know this I'm sticking to this place till hell freezes over Sonny! You'll leave now and you'll leave without Kira! - Why? - Because other people have dreams So send another muse You got muses running around all over the place One dream, one muse Wait. Wait a minute. Just listen to me, okay? Kira and I love each other Now I don't know how often that happens in this kind of place but back on earth, it's pretty rare - We need to be together - All right, that's enough You're leaving Kira's staying. No more discussions Those are the rules and that's all there is to it On the other hand, dear, rules were made to be broken We'll talk about that later Which is later and earlier? - I keep forgetting - Just a minute! Isn't anyone interested in my feelings? What do you mean, "feelings"? Oh, you remember, pet. We learned about feelings - in our mortal history class - Yes, feelings I guess that's what you call 'em. I've never really had them before I've never felt this way about anyone before And I've never asked to leave here. Not ever Not once in the whole time. I've been here It's true, dear, she hasn't. Not in all these centuries Or is it minutes? I do keep mixing them up Please, can't we just have this one night? Just one night? No, no, it's just not possible. Goodbye, Sonny Malone - Hey, Kira? - Just one moment Goodbye, Sonny Kira! A child and a fool in one So sure I could need no one My heart always on the run to nowhere Now as you're holding me My heart is reminding me That now I could never be Without you But how can our love succeed A miracle is what we need And so I appeal to you To keep me suspended in time with you Don't let this moment die I get a feeling when I'm with you None of the rules apply But I know for certain goodbye is a crime So, love, if you need me suspend me in time Ahhh Wasted the time away Holding our love at bay Now I can't last a day Without you Your smile is a thrill to see Your eyes hold me tenderly They'll shine in my memory forever But how can our love succeed A miracle is what we need And so I appeal to you To keep me suspended in time with you Don't let this moment die I get a feeling when I'm with you None of the rules apply But I know for certain goodbye is a crime So, love, if you need me suspend me in time In time Maybe just one moment, darling Well, maybe just one moment or forever I keep getting them mixed up too All right, everybody, let's skate! Let's skate! Everybody! Come on! Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho! I don't even know yet U- U-Up! Hey! Xanadu! Xanadu! Xanadu! Xanadu! Xanadu! Xanadu! Ho! Ho! Ho! Ho! Ho! Ho! Ho! Ho! Xanadu! Xanadu! Xanadu! Xanadu! Xanadu! Xanadu! Ho! Ho! Ho! A place Where nobody dared to go The love that we came to know They call it Xanadu It takes your breath and it'll leave you blind And now Open your eyes and see What we have made is real We are in Xanadu A dream of it we offer you A million lights are dancing And there you are a shooting star An everlasting love And you're here with me eternally Xanadu Xanadu - Now we are here - In Xanadu Xanadu Xanadu - Now we are here - In Xanadu Xanadu Your neon lights will shine For you in Xanadu The love The echoes of long ago You needed the world to know They are in Xanadu With every breath you drift away The dream That came through a million years That lived on through all the tears It came to Xanadu The dream you dream Well, it will happen for you A million lights are dancing And there you are a shooting star An everlasting love And you're here with me eternally Xanadu Xanadu - Now we are here... Xanadu - In Xanadu Xanadu Xanadu Now we are here In Xanadu Xanadu, Xanadu Now that I'm here Now that you're near In Xanadu Now that I'm here Now that you're near In Xanadu Way to go! Fool Whatever you do you're reminded Fool Wherever you go you won't find it I'm really down on love so save all your smiles Ooo, I won't be needin' any love for a while I'm really down on love so save all your smiles Ooo, I won't be needin' any love for a while. Ooo-ooo - Ooo Ooo - Ooo-ooo Ooo Uh-uh O- o-oh wherever you go you're a loser Such a fool I want you to know you're a loser I'm really down on love so save all your smiles Ooo, I won't be needin' any love for a while I'm really down on love so save all your smiles Ooo, I won't be needin' any love for a while Fool Fool I'm sure I should pass a law laid down Yee-haw! Declare you will never wear Your face in a frown Obey or be on your way Get on the first stage out of this town There's me and my deputies to chase you down If you don't grin we will take you in So spread some sunshine around Obey or be on your way Get on the first stage out of this town Xanadu Xanadu - Now we are here - In Xanadu Xanadu Xanadu - Now we are here - In Xanadu Now that I'm here Now that you're near In Xanadu Now that I'm here Now that you're near In Xanadu Xanadu You have to believe we are magic Nothing can stand in our way You have to believe we are magic Don't let your aim ever stray And if all your hopes survive Your destiny will arrive I'll bring all your dreams alive - You doin' okay, kid? - Yeah, I'm all right, Danny Have a little somethin'. It'll cheer you up - Nah, no thanks - Uh, Miss, uh would you bring my friend a drink? Thanks - Wait a minute - Yes? I mean, I'd just like to talk to you A place Where nobody dared to go The love that we came to know They call it Xanadu It takes your breath and it'll leave you blind And now Open your eyes and see What we have made is real We are in Xanadu A dream of it we offer you A million lights are dancing And there you are a shooting star An everlasting love And you're here with me eternally Xanadu Xanadu - Now we are here - In Xanadu Xanadu Xanadu Xanadu - Now we are here - In Xanadu Xanadu, Xanadu Now that I'm here Now that you're near In Xanadu Now that I'm here Now that you're near In Xanadu
