 

                        "On Air" Dear listeners Let us continue with yesterday's story Jun Chu, with no means, broke Man Li's heart And he deeply regrets it After a few days of torment He finally decides to write her a letter Asking to meet her, with plans to Surprise her with a marriage proposal Sorry! Watch it! Thank you The car's on fire, run! It's going to explode! I made you some special dishes today I told you to let Rong Ma do the cooking Don't get it wrong My mother treats you like her daughter in law But to me You're no more than a guest in this house If it weren't for my mother's lie About her being seriously sick And forcing me into this marriage I wouldn't even have let you in the door I promised your mother I would take care of you Would you stop repeating that? Take care of me? Do you even know me? Oh, I blinked in this one! The others are very good You're very photogenic Someday When I become old and ugly Will you still love me? Jun Chu... Will you marry me? Fine, I know the answer... Jun Chu is really good with the camera Let's forget the past And start over... What do you say? Is this shot okay? This one? Jun Chu If someday We should be separated I hope that you will Listen to this recording once in awhile And always remember me Jun Chu! Jun Chu? What do you want? I heard strange sounds coming from here So I came up It's nothing The young master has given orders Other than him No one is permitted to enter this room Rong Ma who lived here before us? You've been here for awhile Who lived here before us? Mrs. Shen's distant relatives Lived here in the past But they moved out three years ago Since then, the house has been empty Mrs. Shen wanted to leave this house for her son and his wife His wife? Yes, and that's you This house is too big There are still a lot of places I've never been to Could you show me around? Is something wrong? What do you mean? Nothing... Nothing Rong Ma! If you have something to say, just say it We're of the same roots and upbringing Let's save the formalities between us I often hear strange sounds in this house It's as if someone's trying to speak to me You're already married into this household Take my advice Just live in peace Back where I come from Eating bats isn't out of the ordinary We even ate the leeches We would tie a calf In the pond And let the leeches crawl all over it After the leeches are done with their feast We then hack them off the calf Peel them open And squeeze out all the blood inside Then we'd stir them with a little sesame oil So delicious... That's enough Fine As for the past... Don't ask about it anymore Never mention it again The young master doesn't like to hear about it Understood? Who is that? Who's speaking? You are now listening to "Flirting with Jazz" Hello everyone This is your DJ, Man Li Dear listeners Let us continue with yesterday's story Jun Chu, with no means broke Man Li's heart And he deeply regrets it After a few days of torment He finally decides to write her a letter Expressing his true sentiments This is Shanghai's Osbourne Radio Station Who let you in here? My mother is here she is waiting downstairs I don't want to upset her So listen carefully... In the future if you dare to set foot in this room again I will make sure that you are out of this place forever! What do you actually do all day long? Didn't you say you weren't filming anymore? Where do you disappear off to all day? San San says she hardly sees you As for Rong Ma I don't know whether I should curse her or thank her She makes me go up to the temple with her Claiming I have an "ill fortune" to avoid I wouldn't be separated from you if it weren't for her But we have to be grateful If it weren't for her divination We wouldn't have the great addition of San San You... This is ridiculous! Really ridiculous! Take it easy, slow down How could something like that happen? She threw up all over me! Don't be so angry. It's so repulsing I'm really sorry I don't know what happened Is mother all right? She and Rong Ma went back to the temple Change your clothes And get some rest And you? You're not going to bed? I still have work to do Jun Chu My name is Man Li I was Jun Chu's lover We were engaged to be married But a year ago I died suddenly In a car accident Seeing him sleepless every night... It is more painful for me than it is for you When you love someone so dearly And yet you can't even come near him Do you know how that feels? It's pain... Endless pain... I know you truly love Jun Chu So I ask you now To replace me Help Jun Chu to forget about me and our past And lead a new life with him It's impossible It's possible As long as you try Like this evening, wasn't that easy? Jun Chu not only spoke to you He even handed your pyjamas to you What do you mean? I took over your body I possessed it So I could talk to Jun Chu To touch him... Even if it's just one touch... But... Every time I get close to him I make him very sick San San As long as you agree We can save Jun Chu together San San Go away! Jun Chu Mr. Shen came down with a cold And it has further turned into pneumonia It's rather serious Oh no... Doctor Is there any way we can save him? We'll do it at any cost Don't worry we'll do everything we can However, medicine can only alleviate the symptoms The patient's will to live Is the key to his recovery You should get some rest, Mrs. Shen I will come back later Thank you Come out! I know you're here! Come out! You said you could help Jun Chu I'm begging you Please come out I'm begging you... He's very sick... And only you can help him Only you can save him Please come out What happened to Jun Chu? He's very sick Please save him You said I'll do whatever you need me to do! I had forced myself into your body the last time So I could only stay for a very short while If you want me to stay in your body longer I need you to work with me I need you to hold your breath But if you want to hold it longer you cannot achieve that on your own So You must therefore do it underwater It's going to be tough and painful I am not afraid of pain If we didn't meet What would you look like now? I should thank you for taking me in, Master! I will follow you everywhere forever Does forever really exist? What I am trying to say is I like the way we are now But things can change so easily Everything can change But I will stay the same So tell me who is more powerful You or fate? Mrs. Shen, you're going to Room 208, right? It's here Man Li! Man Li! When you propose me that time I didn't response I thought I wasn't ready But I've thought it over I want to be with you forever I know It's all my fault... If I hadn't hesitated Nothing would have happened to you I've already bought you the wedding ring! Just get well By the time you recover I'll be back The car's going to explode run! Have a chat I'm going back to the temple Please stay Dinner is almost ready Don't worry about it Just stay here Go back Good bye, mother Why did you cut your hair? Nobody... I just felt like it... While you were sick I made an oath to the gods That they blessed your recovery And in return, I would cut my hair And you've recovered now You don't like it? It looks good After days of rest He's gotten better and regained his appetite He eats well Sleeps well too... Just like a child Yes, he really acts like a kid sometimes He used to Always fight me for fish eyes He likes eating fish eyes? I should cook him some fish then When he's in a good mood He also likes to have a drink at home But he only drinks Sherry Of course, his true passion is movies You should find time To go to the movies with him I envy you All that's left of me and him are memories But you two have a long future ahead of you No I envy you Although he's good to me now I know clearly It's entirely because of you He loves you, not me Can I ask you a question? Did you two... Sleep together? I'm sorry It's okay I just hadn't thought you'd ask me that Never mind. You don't need to answer I'll ask someone else Who else could respond you? My dear girl Don't tell me... You're still a... Well... I can teach you how Just lend me your body again Let me enter No That would be deceiving Jun Chu I can't It's my fault I am unable to let go I can only look at him from a distance everyday I can't touch him And he can't feel my presence It's the everlasting pain In which the gods have bestowed upon me I promised Jun Chu I'd make chicken soup today I haven't begun I have to go What's wrong? Eat I've forgotten... Where are you from originally? An Hui... Then I moved to Wu Town You stayed in Wu Town? You really don't remember anything? We met five years ago in Wu Town... For the very first time I move around all the time to shoot movies I've been to too many places It doesn't matter After I arrived Wu Town I worked in your uncle's embroidery shop That's where we first met Excuse me, I am here to pick up some clothes Are you here for Madam Shen? Yes You are... I'm her son I'm sorry, can you wait for awhile? We just got it two days ago, it's almost ready I will never forget That snowy evening For the rest of my life It's New Year's Eve Everyone has left, what about you? There's no one at home, pointless for me to go back It's almost ready No need to hurry It's snowing heavily outside It must be traffic jam to Shanghai I don't think I'll be able to make it home tonight Then you have to stay out there on the Eve I travel a lot due to my work I seldom spend the New Years at home I'm used to it now What happened? Nothing... Come Wrap it up I'm sorry about your handkerchief It's nothing You should take better care of your hands They're of great value Are you hungry? It's New Year's Eve All the restaurants are closed for the holidays Is there anything to drink here? Yes, I bought you Sherry Why you look so weird Have some with me Okay You still haven't told me How you came to Shanghai? The tailor shop later closed down Your uncle thought I had done a good job So he referred me to Shanghai And had your mother look after me That's also how I came to know your mother I'll go get her more tea Whenever I see you I'd pray to myself That someday I'd become your wife Your wife... I'm silly, aren't I? Jun Chu There's so much I want to say to you If someday We should be separated forever I hope You would still listen to this recording And remember me My loved one Is very shy But he's never afraid To hold me tight in his arms in public He always goes to bed later And gets up earlier than me He'd always open the soda bottles for me Even when I am down with the flu He'd still drink out of my glass When it's raining, he'd carry me on his back To walk over the potholes and tell me that "You should put on more weight" When he's with adults, he acts like a grown up When he's with children, he acts like a child When he's with dogs, he acts like a dog He smells really good But he doesn't know it himself When I'm with him I'm never afraid of anything Not even of dying Or growing old Good morning Good morning I am cleaning this place up Would you help me? What is that? It's a film I have been working on A piece of memory... But I won't be needing it for the time being You know about Man Li, don't you? After what happened I missed her terribly I moved all of her things into this room But I couldn't face them... So I covered them with sheets Didn't realize I could be this pathetic She's gone now... And no matter how much I suffer Or how much I miss her I'll never see her again in my life You can see her in your dreams In your memories I can't continue hurting people around me anymore Especially you Don't be nervous Just think of it as a free movie Let's go, we're gonna be late I've never been to a theater before How could I not be nervous? You'll be fine with me Master Shen, you came. Hello This is? We'll go up first Very well, I'll see you upstairs How have you been Long time no see you I haven't been feeling well You okay? Yeah This is my wife San San You got married? Pleasure meeting you, Mrs. Shen I am Du, a friend of Jun Chu's Pleased to meet you Mind if I have a few words with him? Good thing I bumped into you I'm starting a new movie next month I can't find a single suitable cinematographer Do you want to do it? Give me a couple days to think about it Think about it? Come on, you don't need to think about it! How are you? You don't need to worry about anything I see them together And they are getting closer and closer Really? How come nobody's home? Jun Chu? San San? They have gone out They've probably gone out for dinner Seems like they are finally making some progress Finally, I am relieved Rong Ma, maybe the "ill fortune" Your prediction isn't that accurate Mrs. Shen Why don't you rest for awhile? I'll get the stove working And make you a bowl of noodles Never mind Just go and pack your things I'd like to get back to the temple early We might still be able to catch dinner there Yes Rong Ma! I'm sorry Don't worry The movie is better when you're asleep Let's go What's wrong? I can't find my shoe Hey, close your eyes Just close them Someone's fainted Please make way Sorry, thank you Please make way Someone's fainted Thank you Please make way. Thank you I'm all worn out And you're laughing? Put me down Hey, you shouldn't walk barefooted on the street It's dangerous Carry me then Excuse me, where is Mrs. Shen? Thank you Mother... Mother... It's all my fault... What happened? Let me go! I'm so sorry It seems she's suffering from extreme fear She's been like this since she got here We're unable to determine what exactly happened Man Li... Man Li. Mother It's all my fault... Mother, what are you saying? Man Li has come back for me Mother... It's all my fault... Rong Ma. Doomed... Rong Ma What happened? Tell me! What happened? What are you doing? Come with me! Jun Chu! Get over here Have you gone out of your mind? You evil spirit... You don't even fear blessed water? Who's evil? You're evil! Don't try to fool me! If you are not possessed How come your tongue has turned black? You'd better tell me everything If not, we are all doomed Madam was attacked by something evil That's not possible... Man Li is a good "person" So you did befriend that evil thing Spirits are spirits There's no good nor bad They're like wild beasts No matter how long you keep them How much you care for them When they're hungry They will turn around and bite you Come and look at yourself Look at you It's slowly taking over you The spirit has not only possessed you It will ultimately replace you Have you not heard of reincarnation? That spirit is reincarnating itself within you! No, she told me Unless I allowed it She would not be able to stay in my body You... You don't think they would lie? They descend from human beings They are no different from us They will do anything and everything To get what they want Tell me What does that thing want? She... She wants Jun Chu I still remember When Man Li passed away The young master went crazy He brought back all her belongings And placed them in the attic Nobody could stop him... I had already sensed that something also came into the house along with the possessions But the young master wouldn't let Anyone even touch those objects He locked the room to himself Other than him No one was allowed in the attic I was worried something would happen But I had my hands tied... All I could do was place three charm boards Under the eaves and in the stairwell Holding down the evil spirit Preventing it from doing us any harm The charm board... Is it old and dirty And had strange characters on it? What, you've seen them? You must have smudged the incantation No wonder it couldn't restrain the spirit anymore Ill fate... You carry ill fate I have to go back to the temple for help When I go back The ghost will come back to you for sure Obey her as much as you can Don't let her suspect that you know any thing Or she will do to you what she has done to Madame Calm down You must stay calm Spirits usually attach themselves to an object You have to find it first I know where it is It's that radio When you go back Find an opportunity To place this charm on it It will keep the spirit at bay for one evening Keep things in control And wait for my return I beg of you Please let him go I'm begging you, please I am taking him with me No Please don't! I will do whatever you want me to do Please... Really? Anything I want? Give me your body I want to be with Jun Chu forever Fine, but... Can you give me a bit more time with Jun Chu? Ever since we got married Not once have I had a good meal with him Like a normal couple would usually do This is my last wish Dinner is ready You still have to tend to your mother later You should eat more Don't worry Mother will be fine Mother said, she saw Man Li She's in a delusional state You can't take her words too seriously Where is the radio? Where did you put it? I'd like to put some music on Oh, I put it in the bedroom closet I'll go and fetch it San San San San What's wrong? Why didn't you answer me? San San How can it be? How can it be? Won't you hold me in your arms? This is a dream... I'm in a dream... No, it's not a dream... It's really me All I could think about day and night was you But you were never there Till one day I finally convinced myself that You're really gone... You betrayed me I know you don't need me anymore I once said I would make a film about you To forever keep your beauty But you left so suddenly And it was too late... I looked for your pictures everywhere In your hometown Amongst your classmates Your colleagues I found your pictures one by one And then filmed them one by one After that I edited them together frame by frame Although you are not with me I wanted to keep you alive and close to me My feelings for you never changed I have been repeating this to myself everyday I, Shen Jun Chu Would take Xu Man Li as my wife From this day forward For better or for worse In sickness and in health I will love and cherish you forever... What say you? I... You said you would never change Then why are you with San San? You have no idea How painful it is for me To see you with someone else I'm sorry I thought you had left And she was good to me... I... Then tell me Between San San and me Whom do you want to be with now? I'd never let you leave me again Rong Ma... Rong Ma! What did you do to her? She's the one that harmed your mother Don't you get it? I have to destroy her Jun Chu! San San Don't be afraid I'm fine What did you do to San San? Do it! Stab the spike into her heart, now! You betrayed me I would never betray you I would rather go with you But let San San go She's innocent You are worried for her Jun Chu Man Li Having been on my own most of my life I will always remember How I felt that day An evening after dinner The husband is reading And the wife is tidying up... The home of my dreams And at that moment My dream came true Even if I know I am not in your heart How could you do this? The sorrowful spirit accepts her fate We don't know whether San San lives or dies Or how Jun Chu will stand through all of this If it were you What would you choose? Some people say this is a story About missed opportunities and regrets My dear listeners What do you think? The story of "The Matrimony" ends here Thank you for listening Man Li, there's mail for you Thank you Man Li, after you left "Will you marry me? Shen Jun Chu" Xiao Rong What happened at the end of the story that was aired on the radio show yesterday? The end? How would I know? I was with you the whole time I didn't catch the end either
