 

                        Amida Buddha Amida Buddha This one's alive Hang in there Hang in there Don't let him escape Kill them all Sir, eat it slowly Take this to eat Thank you Another 200 troops have arrived JingKong, winter is almost here Before the snow arrives, We should pitch more hutches MuLiao, there's no more grass What are we going to use? Then we offer our rooms for them to stay You're joking. I hate the cold The supply of ManTou dwindles every day So you needn't fear the cold Perhaps, by the time winter arrives You'd already starved to death Come out Move it, bring him out Don't move Move it Move it You can't enter Stop You can't enter Dismount Dismount Abbot, save me Dirty monks Commander Hou has ordered his death. Whoever gets in the way is a co-conspirator I don't care; you cannot do this in Shaolin Come on Hey. If you help him, I'll send you to see Buddha He's lost too much blood Quickly, bring me the clotting powder Yes, Master Commander Hou arrives They welcome you with Shaolin Kung-Fu And you reply with guns. That's very uncivilised Commander Hou Sir, please don't move Don't move He's almost dead You should help him on his way Amida Buddha sub duration: 1,267 He's here and even if he was on his last breath I still have to save him ? Please have compassion, ? And stop killing indiscriminately If he doesn't die, I won't be able to sleep If your heart is ?, your dreams will be troubled Let it go, and you will find peace Peace? Abbot, you've gone crazy from being here too long If I don't kill him, the war continues That is indiscriminant killing Where is the peace? HouJin I've lost DengFeng city is yours If you spare me I'll give you everything I own This, is the gold that I buried Take it If you spare me, I promise that I'll never come back Thank you Abbot Sir Sir sub duration: 0,300 JingNeng JingFeng, step back Come in good times and leave in bad Walk amongst mankind in between If he didn't come and didn't go There would be no happiness or sadness Amida Buddha Leave Big brother, we are meeting with the foreigners tomorrow Why? Now that we have money, We can buy better weapons And bring down JengZhou too But if you don't fire the weapon, its just as useless Tell me, back at Shaolin, why didn't you fire? Feel guilty? You must remember, when you are at an advantage And you stay your hand, letting your opponent recover The next person dying will be you. Next time, If I meet anyone who dares block your way, I promise to kill them all Well learnt SongFu's arrived Commander Song Commander Song Bastard, never saw him on the field But come to dividing the spoils, he's here right away Brother Fu, we've captured DengFeng city HuoLung is dead A little person like HuoLung Is worth this much of a commotion? I thought it was for your funeral We lost several hundred soldiers this time Is that so? ? You want to talk about that with me Don't think I was taking advantage of you by not being here If I hadn't injured my leg these past 2 days, I could have sorted him out myself Isn't that right, brother? Of course And even if we had to suffer some hardship, so what? It doesn't matter to me I know. What matters to you is DengFeng city Sister-in-law, it's been too long Big brother ShengNan, my good daughter-in-law Say hello to Uncle Song Hello, Uncle Song Hello, NanNan Sister, NanNan is growing up to be very polite And very pretty A girl like her, I can't let anyone steal away It's decided, I'll betroth her to WanWan Betrothed to WanWan? When was this decided? It doesn't matter, how about now? What is it? You don't agree? If you don't agree, then we'll settle it in battle Good Good gun This is a fully automatic weapon You can't buy it anywhere else We'll take 80 How much? I wont take a penny, if ... General Hou supports our railway into DengFeng city What did you say? I couldn't hear I said, I won't take a penny If you support the building of our railway I don't want the guns then General I don't want the guns Leave, we're going to ChenDong I believe General Song might be interested Mr Peter, please wait Brother, these guns are good If SongFu takes them Show them out Yes Please Next time you speak to me, think first I don't take orders from you Maybe when you're in my position, then we'll talk Do you understand? Am I being clear enough? He plans to use our countrymens lives to make money Agreeing to build their railway Is like opening the doors for them to take our land Our land is our own If foreigners extend their hand to snatch it away I will cut them all off I hope SongFu thinks that way too I don't think you've listened to what I've said In 20 years, he is the only one I've called my brother Do not say that he is no good And even if he is, it is not for you to say it I'm dizzy What are you doing? Eating biscuits Biscuits? I'm eating noodles now You've gone mad from hunger What do you know? This is ?reminiscing Reminiscing? That's it? You might be able to do that, But how about everyone else out there What can they do? At times of trouble in that past there was Judge Bao releasing the stores ? and masked avengers Now, all we have are murderous troops Why don't we be masked avengers? Masked avengers? Yes, we'll be avengers that save people Thats against the rules What are you afraid of? ? If the sky falls, 2nd Master here will hold it up You're the strongest right Of course Of course, of course Miss, don't run -Get up -JingNan Are you alright? What are you doing, didn't I tell you to look after her? -I'm sorry -Why didn't you watch her? -I'm sorry -You want to die? -I'm sorry -Daddy Daddy Daddy, I'm not hurt, don't be angry I'm sorry master, sorry Go out How are you? I'm not hurt Are you sure? Let daddy see I made a picture for you [My daddy likes fighting] Is this daddy? Here, give dad a hug A hug Is daddy this mean? Brother Take it. I want it back though I personally delivered the report to Commander Song He was very happy Tomorrow night at ZhongYue Restaurant Commander Song, his wife and son sub duration: 1,067 I want to ask you a question SongFu knows that I have HuoLung's gold So why doesn't he say anything? He wants it all Including DengFeng city The one who strikes first wins Then this is a good opportunity Correct Pick 30 men you can trust and setup at the restaurant If he doesn't die, then I can't sleep Big brother is wise You are thinking of killing Song? It would be better if you didn't know He is your brother Think carefully SongFu wants to take me down Do you have any other solution? It's not too late, tell me now Don't ask me, I don't know I only have one request Just don't let our daughter see it Alright? A mouse Are we going to steal the flour after we steal the rice? We're not stealing, we're 'taking' Then how much are we 'taking'? One bag, two bags We take as much as we take Hey JingHai As masked avengers, we should leave a calling card What shall we use? How about your shiny head? You! Rice Son, we have rice Brother, its rice The heavens are looking down on us Thank you, thank you We have rice Now, when I tap the table You take our daughter to the powder room Daddy, why would we go to the powder room when we are eating? Listen to daddy And daddy will listen to you. No more fighting Please Come in Big Brother Sister-in-law Brother, you're late again I'm sorry, I'm sorry Say hello Hello Uncle Song. Hello Auntie WanShan, say hello to Uncle and Auntie Uncle Auntie Good Very good For two sirs Song Familys young master is from the year of the rabbit And the young mistress of Hou family, is from the year of the goat They are very well matched sub duration: 4,070 sub duration: 2,968 A match made in heaven They will make both families rich and prosperous Be together till their hair turns grey And leave a legacy a hundred children, and a thousand grandchildren Good, good Actually, as Buddhists we talk about fate being the cause of things Without fate, things do not converge With their fate, I believe They would have come together sooner or later So what are we waiting for? Quick, exchange the notes What are you so anxious about? How can I be not? If I were to lose such a wonderful daughter-in-law, Where would I find another one? With the exchange of these two notes This betrothal is finalised Agreed Here Congratulations, congratulations I'll go and prepare the ? Brother, now that we are one family There's something I want to say directly Sure How are we going to split DengFeng city Between the two of us? You decide I thought we had already agreed on half a piece It's all yours From today, DengFeng city Will belong to one person only Then I will be happy What exactly do you mean? Brother, I am getting old I can't fight any more The leg is giving me trouble It's time for me to retire What's more, were family now Even if I give it to you In the future, it would become my son's anyway I've thought it through, I don't lose out This bottle I've kept for many years, But could never bring myself to open But today I will. Here, drink Drink up and it will agreed Commander, we've received a message Son, do you want to pee? No Listen to me, let mum to take you to the toilet Sister-in-law, you go with your daughter too Let's go RUN Lt. WangFu -Here Leave us Yes [General be careful, HouJin has ?] You bastard I've always treated you like a real brother We conquered the world together I never thought that today you would want to kill me Is this real? -Enough sub duration: 0,833 Mum Mum, come quickly Run for it Mum, help me Mum Mum, Mum Mum ShenNan, run away Mum -Run quickly ShenNan, run quickly Run away ShenNan, don't look back ShenNan General Daddy, Daddy ShenNan Stop Commander, run ShenNan ShenNan, don't be afraid Daddy, Daddy Daddy ShenNan Abbot Sir, Sir Please stop sub duration: 0,766 Help her, Abbot, help her Help her Save her, save her Quickly, save her Move, quick Silver needles, ?medicine, hot water Yes Quickly ShenNan, it'll be alright, it'll be alright Don't sleep ShenNan, wake up Madam Madam, you are not well yet, don't run Be careful ShenNan ShenNan, be good ShenNan Say something to daddy. Say something to daddy ShenNan, say something to daddy ShenNan, say something Why have you stopped, you can't stop You must save her Do you want me to beg? Then I'll beg. Save her, save her Daddy Don't shout at them And don't be angry Daddy's listening Daddy's listening, daddy's listening I beg of you ShenNan I beg of you -ShenNan Mum ShenNan She's alright Mum, I'm thinking of you -She's alright Mum, let's go home together ShenNan wake up Save her I'm begging you Only you can save her ShenNan, wake up Say something to me, ShenNan ShenNan ShenNan ShenNan She's alright Say something to daddy, say something to daddy She's fine -ShenNan She can't be dead ShenNan, ShenNan Please wake up, you can't die ShenNan cannot die Mother's right here, look at mum JingHai, receive the body Yes -She can't be dead I beg of you, save her I beg you sub duration: 0,233 I beg you, save her Save her, Abbot have compassion, save her If she can't be saved, let me tell you None of you will live I'll burn Shaolin to the ground Abbot, save her -Enough Amida Buddha Isn't heaven's punishment enough? It's you She's not dead I regret She can't be dead If it wasn't for you -She's alright How can my daughter be dead? She's not dead Look, she's dead She's not dead How can you not see? -She cannot be dead She can't be dead, you understand The one who should be dead is you ShenNan Mother is sorry She can't be dead She's not dead Save her You say compassion, but how can you just watch her die Fine, so be it I'll kill every single one of you I'll start with this old man Sir -I'll kill you all I'll kill you all Sir Kill you all Sir Lock him I'll kill you all I'm going to kill you all Leave Shaolin. Stay at Shaolin Leave Shaolin. Stay at Shaolin Leave Shaolin. Stay at Shaolin Leave Shaolin. Stay at Shaolin Leave Shaolin. Stay at Shaolin Leave Shaolin. This one doesn't count Leave Shaolin. Stay at Shaolin Leave Shaolin. Is anyone there? How did a trap for wild pigs catch a person? And covered with blood too I know you, you're Hou You still want to kill people? When a person's crazy, they're not even as good as a pig In your kind of situation, its best to have a rest Don't yell Take a rest. I'll be back later Amida Buddha Hey, something to eat Careful, it's hot Cool outside, hot inside Why is it like this? Why? Your wife has left Shaolin Your daughter's funeral has been left to you Burial or cremation? Abbot said to console you Burial, well, it's said that its so you can go visit them But who can really see them? I guess you can dig them out, but that's not easy either. I think cremation is more convenient You can see them anytime, and take them with you if you move To where ever you want I think cremation is better. How about you? If its cremation, Then after your bowl of noodles, we'll go light the fire Take all this and burn it So you'd rather die than surrender At least I'll meet our leader in heaven Fire You were on the run It was Big Brother who saved you I never thought That you would repay his kindness with hatred Kindness, what is that? He didn't save me, he used me I wanted him to know that he needed me In which battle did I not kill the most people? Which piece of land did I not conquer for him? So why do you think I betrayed Hou? Answer correctly and I wont kill you Because You are a dog Wrong answer I overthrew him, because he was afraid If he is afraid, then he will lose This outcome is what he deserved It is my time now You understand? It's all over the streets. They're looking all over for you Actually, its the same whoever captures you Whats more, I've given you a meal Might as well let me have this $5000 bounty Hey, when did it go up to $10,000? Just kidding Shaolin is about compassion, I wouldn't do that to you What are your plans? I don't want to leave You can't treat this place as your home What's this? Throwing a tantrum? ? There's a lot more rice in the kitchen How did this happen? A lot more rice? Oh, our prayers have been answered Amida Buddha, Amida Buddha, Amida Buddha Then you better ask Buddha Why at night there are shadow men jumping about on the rooftops Shadow men? Master, how can there be shadow men They came to steal the rice It's to bring 'back' the rice, not steal the rice Those involved, present to the training grounds after morning lessons for your punishment Yes, Master You again What are you doing? Amida Buddha Teacher Abbot, I want to stay at Shaolin That's not for you to decide You're on the wanted list You just want to say here to avoid capture I've decided to become a monk Shaolin is not your battlefield. The decision is not yours to make Return to whence you came Didn't Abbot say that in Buddhism, there are predestined people Who says we are fated Teacher You can take in his body, but not his heart His sins are deep, he was a General Teacher, a person like him will create chaos in Shaolin ? The Buddhist spirit is in all living things We should not discriminate sub duration: 2,135 In his heart there is hatred and revenge, it cannot receive Buddhist enlightenment You may be right But we also cannot close the doors of Buddhism to him Nor can we, if we tried sub duration: 3,369 sub duration: 2,869 I think we should let him stay for now The Abbot has dumped you back on me But being in Shaolin is alright Out there, it's a dog eat dog world Go outside Newly shaved head, wear this Off to work Amida Buddha -Morning ManTou is here, make way Make way, ManTou is here Line up, line up Thank you This hard? Not hard Don't rush, don't rush, plenty all round sub duration: 2,001 sub duration: 0,499 sub duration: 0,967 sub duration: 0,499 sub duration: 0,967 sub duration: 1,067 sub duration: 1,500 Hey Do you train in martial arts? What? Kung-Fu -Kung Fu The truth is when I was younger, I trained for 2 years But like you, my heart wasn't focused So I worked in the kitchen sub duration: 3,036 sub duration: 0,866 sub duration: 1,233 sub duration: 2,235 sub duration: 2,535 sub duration: 2,502 sub duration: 3,002 Join us sub duration: 0,233 sub duration: 1,134 sub duration: 1,234 sub duration: 1,266 sub duration: 0,233 sub duration: 0,866 sub duration: 0,866 sub duration: 0,867 sub duration: 0,867 sub duration: 0,866 sub duration: 1,067 sub duration: 3,336 sub duration: 0,867 Hold this meridian It'll be alright You go, you go Here It's cold, why aren't you back resting But that's exactly why I'm practicing Are you cold? A little Then practice with me OK Abbot, is he doing it well? sub duration: 3,402 sub duration: 1,067 Mediation through martial arts. In his heart, he is beyond the need for revenge or hatred now I don't know martial arts, I don't understand these things Martial arts is meditation, cooking is also meditation The theory is roughly the same WuDao, people need a lot of experiences and practice I've said it many times Leave Shaolin, and go see the world All I know is how to cook Out there, I'm of no use I'm not going A piece of gold, a pile of dirt Which one is useful? I pick the piece of gold And if I gave you a seed? Don't sell yourself short Everyone is useful in their own way CaoMan, you want us to help the foreigners build the railway But don't forget, Mang Mountain is the burial plot for our ancestors Disturbing the dirt will destroy the fengshui I will not agree If you are really going to do it, I have nothing to say I'm just worried that the foreigners are playing us and making deals under the table CaoMan, your betrayal of Hou, We don't care But he previously said that building the railway is just a cover With the intention to take our land OK, enough talking HeNan province's interests are not for one man to decide But looking at CaoMan's attitude, it seems he's already made an agreement with the foreigners There was no intention to hear us out Leave Listen well. Going against me has no advantage They are fortunate But their family members Will die much more horrible deaths Being my friend or my enemy is for you to decide Have a think, If there is money to be made, no-one loses out How come he still hasn't returned? Auntie, stop crying, OK? Crying wont bring him back any sooner What's happened? Our DaNiu has been missing for over 20 days now What should I do? CaoMen builds the railway We all rely on him Work quickly You hear? Quickly, quickly Commander Hou sub duration: 0,266 Why did you kill this many people? It was Commander Cao's orders Leave Leave Hou is alive, Hou is alive Leave CaoMan said build the railway Who knew he was really digging for artefacts for the foreigners Every one we found, we gave to them In exchange for rifles and cannons He was worried it might leak it out, so he killed all the witnesses CaoMen still has many workers locked up After work tomorrow, they're all going to be killed I'm sorry Why don't you go home? Quick, we're going Go have a look What is this? sub duration: 3,235 sub duration: 4,003 sub duration: 2,101 sub duration: 3,302 sub duration: 2,568 sub duration: 2,535 ShenNan sub duration: 2,001 How can my daughter be dead? sub duration: 3,135 Learning to let go of everything Will you understand how to face things sub duration: 3,669 sub duration: 1,600 sub duration: 1,601 sub duration: 1,767 From now, your Buddhist name is JingJue Amida Buddha Amida Buddha Abbot It's CaoMan; I'm going to stop him Come back sub duration: 0,299 Sit Be cool minded He's come at a good time In a while, I'll delay him After sunset, go to Cao Fort Rescue them You go It's suicide either way If I can exchange my life to save that many So what if I die JingJue, you must be careful Halt Amida Buddha Please put down your weapons sub duration: 3,136 That was from my daughter Amida Buddha Still my brother indeed I knew you wouldn't die that easily Brother, I think of you terribly Thinking of me? If I don't die, you can't sleep, right? Don't be ridiculous Nothing of the sort Don't pretend You're afraid I will take you down JingJue's actions are to buy us time So we can save lives Your impulsiveness will ruin the plan Understand? You taught me When you're at an advantage, and you stay your hand The person who dies is you I remember Tell your troops to back down, I'll go with you String the Abbot up Do anything rash, and I'll send him to heaven Its nothing. Stand down Come then You must deliver it before sunrise to ZhongZhou province Relax With Cao's troops, no one will dare block our way DangXin Move it, move it Get down, you Quickly Hurry up Brother, this is better than before right? Bringing me here wasn't just for me to praise you, was it? Of course not I was wrong. Please forgive me I hope that Brother can once again take me under his wing Conquer the world, and achieve great things Brother, look This was all for you This royal seat is yours These imperial robes are also yours Brother Is money and power that important to you? Listen Don't be like me False compassion I was messing with you Let see how you play I have something I want to give to you Bring her out I found your wife And kept her alive so you could be reunited You've suffered I used to think I was very impressive and able to care for you But I ended up doing you harm Ready Don't shoot sub duration: 0,233 Fire Fire Guards stay, the rest follow me Yes Save us, save us You men, go see what's happening out front Yes The artefacts are being stolen, chase them Get off Hou Let go of her Let go of her Brother You're crying Let her go Even your death won't satisfy me You watched your daughter die Now I want you to watch your wife die Then I can be happy Let her go you animal Let her go Auntie is so beautiful. What a shame You're a monk CaoMan, stop it Commander, the monks have stolen the artefacts and set free the workers You deceived me JingJue, go Go quickly Go Go Are you not listening to my orders now? Leave Let's go Go back Abbot Go back Little monk, don't force me I just want you to go back inside I don't want to kill children Sir, please open your compassion and let us save the Abbot You will gain wealth and happiness Sir, Abbot always says ? a brave man knows when to change Let it be. Go back home I'm sure your family is waiting for you What is this nonsense? You want to resist? Catch them Amida Buddha Don't fight, I don't know Kung Fu Amida Buddha No more fighting No ... more ... fighting I'll fight you with my life Abbott Are you OK? Uncle Master, treat him like you're cooking a meal Uncle Master, fight him with your noodle making skill Hurray Are you alright? Let's go back It's them Mum JingNeng's sacrifice was not in vain You must all remember Ladies and gentlemen, please ready and pack your things We are leaving Shaolin I know you are scared I am not Loved ones gone, families lost Who wouldn't be scared? These days I feel just like you Shaolin is a place of happiness And it is our home It is possible that Shaolin will end today But the spirit of Shaolin Every flower, grass brick and plate will stay in our hearts The spirit of Shaolin taught me perseverance and dignity I have something to ask of you What is it? For you to lead them out of here No no no I've never stepped out of Shaolin No no no, I'm scared You're scared Look at them They need you They are more scared than you You're serious? I'll go sub duration: 0,967 We must safely escort them to the mountains JingHai, you go first with the Abbot JingKong, you lead, I'll follow soon I'll give them my all Move quickly Go You fool, you want to destroy Shaolin? I'll destroy you CaoMan, wake up to yourself What you have far exceeds what you will ever need Let it go. Do not pursue this violent path We fight wars; it's always been like this Don't be like me Realizing my mistakes after they were done It's time to stop Can we not fight? What do you think? I yield Shaolin sub duration: 2,501 My god is compassionate Madam, you can't leave, it's dangerous Abbot, my child is missing My child is missing Mum Quick, quick Brother Brother Amida Buddha Brother I'll stay; you take them to a safe place Abbot It's time you woke up Don't let go Amida Buddha sub duration: 1,100 sub duration: 1,267 Why
