 

                        Hello Hello, Grandpa? Can I come stay with you in the mountains? When I was little I lived in the mountains with my grandparents Grandpa used to say Just look up at the starry sky and the whole world will seem so vast They're all modern French artists Come any time We have on-site commentators No problem, just call me I'll wait for you there No, it's really progressive Who buys old paintings these days? Modern art goes up in value Sure Next time there's an auction, we'll go Hello Hello, Grandpa Mei? Are you on the train? You went home? I'm home Mei Grandpa's wondering what gift to make for you? Oh An elephant A blue elephant OK. I'll bring it when I come visit Grandpa Come soon I really miss you Mom, what are you doing? Travel stuff I'm leaving in two days I'll be back before New Y ears Again? Haven't started? Waiting for me? Let's eat What do you think? It's silly You're wearing a hat at the dinner table? Mei Dad made sweet and sour pork your favorite Mei What's wrong? My trip to Paris is cancelled How come? Come on, tell me what's going on Can you just leave me alone? Come back and finish dinner first I need to be alone for a bit, please Please get out of my room Your room? When did it become 'your' room? When you put a bed in your study What's that supposed to mean? Let's not fight, OK? It's not that serious Yeah, it's never serious for you it's always me... Shall we finish the 'Starry Night' puzzle? Mei, go back to your room I'll be there in a bit All of us? Be a good girl Go back to your room Good girl Merry Christmas I don't know who you are But I want to tell you Merry Christmas G RAD E 7, CLASS 3 OK, everybody Settle down Come on, Back to your seats We have a new student Come on, come on in Introduce yourself My name is Jay He's a bit shy H is name is Jay His last name is Chou Jay Chou He's joining our class Let's all help him settle in Let's give him a round of applause You can sit there Open up your books Shawn What chapter are we on? I don't have my textbook You confiscated it last time... Through interacting with others We can better understand ourselves Discover our strengths and weaknesses And gain a sense of balance If we find our strengths we can use them Build our self-confidence And unlock our potential You there! We're in the middle of a lesson Where do you think you're going? The bathroom You didn't think to ask? May I go to the bathroom? He's so cocky Hurry back Everyone else Pay attention, let's continue Mei We're going for some crepes Want to come? I... Come on, let's go I have to be home early Next time, OK? Next time What are you doing? Studying Look what I bought you Hang it up for me No way! Naked women! Shawn! What are you doing? Let me see You can look and I can't? Check it what the new kid drew! Go away! Stop it! You guys, look! Look at the naked women! Look! Stop it guys! Hey, Shawn What are you doing? Looking at naked women Stop it! Class rep. What happened? He... Shawn What's that? Take a look yourself Whose is this? His Don't take someone Else's stuff! Jay I'm sorry None of your business Miss Chang Jay's... Jay's sketchbook How should I put it? It's not that the school doesn't value art It's just that, some of Jay's sketches Can lead to some wrong thoughts For the other students... You know schoolboys They're very immature They can't tell the difference Between art and pornography Just as long as you teachers can Jay won't bring that sketchbook to school anymore Right? You think you're cool? Not so cocky now! Kick him! You asked for it! Stop it! Let Jay go! Are you okay? I'll survive How many times have I told you It is never OK to hurt a girl M rs Chou Jay never hit me Some boys were bullying me Jay got hurt coming to help me Mom, let's go Is someone picking you up? Y es Thank you The two of them They were making out in an alley Totally shameless! No way! Shawn saw... Dad Help me with this You went to see Grandpa? Mei Grandpa's sick He's in the hospital This elephant was when I went to get Grandpa he said to give it to you Can I go see Grandpa? It's past your bed time Dad! Let Grandpa rest a bit I'll take you tomorrow You coming too? Come on Let's go We'll go see Grandpa together Grandpa Grandpa Mei Where's your Mom and Dad? You came by yourself? You can have the elephant I don't want it When you get better Make him a fourth leg, then I'll take him OK Dad! Mom! We're going out Be a good girl, stay home Mei We're leaving now You're really not coming? You don't want to say goodbye to Grandpa? Don't force her if she doesn't want to Hey, young lady! Excuse me! Mei You forgot to pay You forgot to pay Mei About... The... The classroom decoration contest Teacher asked me to do it I was wondering... Can you help me with it? I can't finish by myself OK Really? Morning Good morning I drew it out, just follow the steps So now I'm up to... Here This one A bit to the left Down a little Check it out Mei and Jay, they're at it again Over there, being all lovey U p a bit, over there That's good Shawn, what are you doing? This looks good! Can I have it? Looks good, just like me We match Thanks! Give it back There are so many animals Elephants, squirrels, sheep... Let me have this one. Thanks Don't mess with other people's stuff What! I can't have it? I'll take it if I want to! What? Knock it off! What? I dare you to hit me Too scared? Go on Give it back Shawn, stop it! Keep at it and I'll get the teacher Call him, I don't care I'm not scared of him Stop it, Shawn Shawn, listen to the class rep Here we go again He's always like this So childish Shawn Give it back Who wants these stupid things, anyway Mom Get changed and we'll go eat, OK? Mei, did you get a boyfriend? Huh? No You've been coming home late I told you, I'm busy with the competition Are you happy? Whatever you do It's important to be happy Mom... Are you happy? Right now, I'm... ...really happy Remember the dance I taught you when you were little? That step forward, step back clap your hands one? Dance with me What? Here? Sure! No! Come on! Ready... Jump! This is Monet's 'Woman with a Parasol' The woman is his wife, Camille The boy next to her is their son This is 'The Lovers' by Magritte This is Van Gogh's 'Sunflowers' This is... Renoir's 'Luncheon of the Boating Party' How do you know all this? My Mom studied art in Paris So starting from when I was little Every year my family did puzzles of famous paintings But lately it's just me, by myself Can I help you? I want to buy 'Starry Night' Starry Night We have it in 300, 500 Which one do you want? I have the 1 000 pieces But I lost a piece Can you sell me one piece? The center of the brightest star We don't sell individual pieces But, besides that Feel free to look around You know the origin of the jigsaw puzzle? No In 1 760 There was an English mapmaker He stuck one of his maps onto a wooden board Then cut around the borders of the towns And had his kids put it back together When they were done They knew where they lived, where home is And that's the world's first jigsaw puzzle How do you know this? It's over there Origin of the Puzzle You're silly! It's written on there And you memorized it? My memory's good Then... Say it again One day He stuck a map onto some wood And then He cut out the borders of the towns Piece by piece And his kids put them back together So The world's first jigsaw... Mom Mom You're not listening Mei If you're done eating, go to your room I need to talk to your father Let's go We'll know tomorrow if we win or not What's wrong? Do you think The love between two people can disappear? Y es What can be done? I don't know Stay with me a bit longer This one's quite good Yeah! nice colors This one... Not bad You like this one? No, no It's ugly I can't believe this one 'Roo' of Honor? Let's go see class 3 So many people Yeah, so many Shawn! Stop it! Get him off! Quickly! Stop it! Get out of the way! Go away! stop crowding! Mom We're moving again? He's come back Here, help mom with this We'll talk inside Mei, stop that Mei! Mom and Dad We... Mom and Dad are getting divorced Mom and Dad are getting divorced Mei, you're 1 3 You understand, right? Mei's 1 3, Mei understands We spent a long time Making this decision This is best for everyone This is best for everyone This is between Mom and Dad It's nothing to do with you Don't think it's your fault It's just that Mom and Dad Can't live together anymore We don't want to keep fighting It's not fair to Mei It's not fair to Mei After the divorce Mom will move out You're in middle school now You can decide who you want to live with You don't have to make a decision now And I won't move out right away There's still a lot of things to sort out We just thought We should let you know Mei No rush You can take your time What are you doing? So did you decide? If Grandpa were still alive They wouldn't be doing this When did you last see the stars? I don't remember Let's go look at the stars There's a truck! What's up? We're going to my Grandpa's house Can we hitch a ride? It's this way? Y es Hop on Ride as far as you like Thanks Careful Thank you Bye bye! When I was 6 My first day at school This really embarrassing thing happened Here I took my lunchbox And I went into the wrong classroom When I was 8 I saw this girl playing piano on the TV And I thought she was really beautiful On my 9th birthday I made my own birthday cake It was a big green tea cake When I finished, I thought it was ugly But I took it to school And my classmates ate it all I didn't get a single bite Last time I climbed this mountain Was summer vacation two years ago In this stream When I played with Grandpa... Am I talking too much? No You say something I don't have anything to say Impossible Everyone has stories from when they were little I don't Stingy I'm not You big stingy I'm not stingy Y es you are! Hey! I think it's this way Looks like the path on the right I think... No one's walked that path for a while But I remember it being on the left You're sure? Y es It must be here I remember these trees Ah! What's that! It's nothing Don't look, let's go What shall we do? Where are we? Look! There's a house! Anyone here? What? I want to change clothes too Didn't you bring any? I'll go outside Call me when you're done No, don't leave! I'm scared Don't turn round! OK You're still there? I'm... I'm still here Jay! Pervert Jay? Yeah Do you think, if we die Out here in the mountains When people find us They'll say we died for love? You're silly! I said 'if" We're not going to die But your Mom and Dad Must be really worried about you Who knows... Maybe they haven't even noticed I'm gone That's not possible One time, last year They had a huge fight And I wanted to come see Grandpa I went to the train station And sat there for ages Finally, I went home But when I got back They were just in their rooms With no idea I'd been gone When I was 9 My dad had an accident in his factory And lost his fingers He stayed home every day, drinking gambling He started to hit my mom He would grab her by the hair and keep on slapping her One day My dad was drunk He wanted me to drink with him I refused So he took all my awards And ripped them all up I couldn't help it, I started to cry Then he started to hit me He said I looked down on him I didn't look down on him I just wanted a normal dad Why did I have to get a dad like this? When my mom found out We ran away from home And moved far away But not long after, Dad found us So we kept on moving And moving And moving You're actually lucky Get up Come on Why? Come here Dance with me I... I'll teach you Same this side Kick, clap! What dance is this? I don't know My mom learnt it from an old movie OK Watch me first Three steps forward Turn! Same this side Kick...Clap... Kick...Clap... Three steps forward Then like this Good morning Morning Sleep well? Yeah Today we should follow the tracks They should lead to the road OK Jay Yeah? Thank you Huh, here again... Ladies first You first! No, you first! You first! I insist, you first Let's go! Almost there You can tell by smelling the leaves Trust me Look! Wait for me outside Is that OK? Sure Jay Come in OK This is Grandpa's workbench He made all of these I painted these when I was little This is my little desk Here it is When I was little I came with Grandpa to look at the stars Why won't the mist go away? Give it time I really hope... You can see the stars Mei For this short time I've been so happy I never knew I could be so happy Knowing you Now I know I can be lucky, too When I get home I have to move again My dad, he... Mei Mei! Your Grandpa's phone is cut off I brought a cell phone In my backpack Sorry I didn't mean to not tell you It's just If we used the cell phone Our journey would have come to an end Let's go home Jay Stay with me, OK? Jay! Jay! Jay Jay Dad! Mon! Grandpa Mei I have a mom and dad who love me Even though they don't love each other anymore I have classmates who care about me Even though they don't always understand me Looking at my classmates walking away I realized Their summer was just starting But my summer Was already over In my first year of high school My mom and dad got divorced A few years later Mom went abroad and re-married I chose to stay with Dad At 1 3 We're very fragile But at 1 3 We're also very tough So Before we have to face this cruel world Please be gentle with us We don't ask for much A glance A kind word A rainstorm A gust of wind or Just a nod of the head goodbye It's these little kindnesses That make us feel special But in the end I never got the goodbye I wanted After that I never saw Jay again The little rabbit never turned into a big rabbit The little elephant never turned into a big elephant The only thing that grew was me Everything passes But before letting go Hold on, as tight as you can Paris - Y ears later Mei! Merry Christmas! Are you happy? Yeah Let's take a walk! OK Happy at school? Yeah You've made friends? Yeah How many? Five Do you hear that? Y es So beautiful! It's Mommy Mommy, where are you? I'm with big sister She bought me lots of presents! OK See you soon Bye bye, Mommy Hi, Mom Everything's good Y es She's being good Mom, it's no problem Mom, it's snowing Did you pick up Dad? No need I'll see you guys at dinner What you looking at? Why is it missing a piece? Mom See you in a bit Y es Merry Christmas Can I help you? Do you still remember? That summer That most splendid Most lonely of starry nights
